The Cadets are flying again!
The U. S. Air Force now offers you the chance of a lifetime to start your career in aviation.
If you want to learn to fly, you have one of the finest opportunities ever offered in peacetime. Aviation Cadet pilot training has been reopened to qualified applicants presently serving enlistments in the Army, and to civilian young men who can meet the same high standards.
In order to be eligible, each applicant must be: a single male citizen, between 20 and 26V2 years old, of excellent character and physically fit. He must have completed at least one half the credits leading to a degree from an accredited college or university, or be able to pass a mental examination given by the USAF. He must now be living within the continental limits of the United States.
Upon successful completion of the training course, Cadets will be rated as pilots, commissioned Second Lieutenants, and assigned to flying duty.
Reactivation of Aviation Cadet pilot training is only one of the several choices open to outstanding men who want increased responsibility and advancement in the field of aviation. It is now possible for qualified men to apply for attendance at USAF Officer Candidate School — and thus be able to equip themselves for such important specialties as engineering, armament, administration and supply.
You have a real chance to make progress and build a sound career for yourself in today’s U. S. Air Force. Talk it over with the Recruiting Officer today at any U. S. Anny and Air Force Recruiting Station.
U. S. ARMY AND AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
a
THE NICE thing about coming back to school is the fact that you see so many new faces along with the ones you would like to forget. It was really easy to tell the profs from the students, though. The profs wore shirts. And when it comes to breaking down the social barriers, the mental-warehouses (colloquially called teachers) were quick to use their verbal ice picks. Both past and present pupils weregreeted with blood-tingling: “Whaddya know?” There were so many new teachers present that the first faculty meeting looked like rush week for Sigma Chi.
Notre Dame, the loved and dreaded, last week was the parade ground for America’s sport loving vagabonds. Her crown of spires and belfries, her dome of ungilded splendor looked down upon thousands of vacation-bent troubadours fresh from the society pages. It was as simple as flunking with Plunkett to distinguish the college to which each man belonged. The engineers could be seen oiling up their slide rules; the commerce men carried their Wilson golf clubs in one hand and a copy of the Wall Street Journal in the other; the history majors just crawled with their noses to the ground and the library on their backs; and, as usual, the AB men carried their customary blank looks.
THE ADMINISTRATION speeded up the registration process. Modeled after the Studebaker assembly line, the Navy Drill Hall became the short-cut to a college education. Some of the old timers who brought box lunches, sleeping bags, and old copies of Esquire were amazed to find that the line had not found its way to Niles. Nevertheless, it was the rogues’ gallery portrait booth, the concession bordered on three sides by Bren guns and on the fourth by Mr. Murray, that stopped nearly everyone dead in his Frank Leahy-endorsed Keds. There was some disagreement the first day over the identification system. One of the OSS men could not be convinced that the serial number of each student was not
4
to be branded cn his chest. However, the only objection to the identification pictures came from one of Father Lange’s cats. Next year the head office is going to speed up the process even more. Come ’48 all registrants will be shot from guns. Let’s all salute Progress! Sssssk Boooom!
The housing situation not only took a turn for the worse; it completely rolled over. They tell us the enrollment is up this semester—uj> in my room, of course. It is amazing, though, how they can quadruple these singles without changing the plumbing.
THAT NEW system of distributing milk in the dining halls is more than a goose step in the right direction. Not only does it save many hours of glass washing, but it gives the student with the parched palate a chance to get an extra glass of milk without playing puss-in-the-corner with Ziggy’s sandwich sleuths. George, the dining hall Pinkerton agent whose last name happens to be Beauchamp (French meaning “beautiful field”), says that some cf the boys have all but amputated the hand that feeds them. “Some of the fellas,” blurts George, “must be from tank towns if you consider the way they bring thermos bottles and gallon jugs for sec-- onds.”
Now that it’s a sausage-and-beans cinch that meals in the dining halls, due to the high cost of living, will not improve greatly, it’s time for a little mu-. sic with the meatballs. Records could be played over the PA systems -during lunch hours. For instance, to spice up a supper of mystery balls, Pop! Goes the Weasel; a Friday fricassee of St. Joe gudgeon with, Heartaches or after a helping of Boston bruised beans: Blues in the Night.
$
FAMOUS LAST WORDS: Note to the cafe: What this campus needs is a good nickel cup of coffee.
The Editor:
I am a Greek student of the University of Athens. I would like very much to
I
know about the student life and the 0 habits of the American students, also to |f, know more about your big country, which s I so much admire. The German occupa- J tion which came to my country, left her" footsteps on our University (it is enough ?^! for us that oui- buildings stand up). That.
is the reason that all the Greek studentsi || want so much to accomplish their studies in a university of your country whicti. ',|; have at their disposal many laboratories;1 J etc. I believe that you would like to -| know about our small country with her;^ always blue sky and her big magnifi-: ^, ciance. For this cause I write you witjj^ the hope that you will read my letter -j. with pleasure, but you must first excuse. 3' me for my mistakes, because, as you understand, it is not a long time sinceUf I learn English.	,U|
I send you my best friendly love.
(signed) JACK STANROPODIS ’
A distant student who wishes to be-: come a friend of yours.
P.S. If you want, write please at this address: Jack Stanropodis, 91 Aristelous. Street, Athens, GREECE.
I am waiting for your letter with big pleasure.
The Editor:
.... Notre Dame of Cotabato was the first Notre Dame in the entire Philippine^ Islands. We are proud of that. Today we have three more Notre Dames in this Province. All the schools are under t direction of the Oblate Fathers. Notf Dame of Cotabato opened shortly after the liberation of the Philippines under Father Frank McSorley, O.M.I., its first® Director. He built and nourished this little school away off in the southern tip of Mindanao Province upon the famous g Spirit of Notre Dame of Indiana. Under’ the guidance of Notre Dame it has grown | each year till today there are four Notre Dame’s under the direction of the Oblates in this vast Province. These are the only NOTRE DAMES in the Islands.
Each issue of The Notre Dame Scho-S lastic is read with interest and admiration by the boys. Through the Scholastic they have come to know what the real Notre Dame is and what it stands for. We are proud to have the Scholastic in our library for their use.
Although our small Notre Dame is only built of grass, as you can see fro the picture, we are mighty proud of i To us it has all the beauty and grandeu, of that beautiful Notre Dame of Indian
because within the grass walls of this little school is instilled into the hearts

and souls of its students the Spirit of NOTRE DAME. . . .
Joseph B. Billman, O.M.I.
Director
Notre Dame of Cotabato Cotabato, Philippines
(See picture on page 34.—Ed.)
The Editor:
We read your article (Scholastic, May 9) on daytime serials with considerable interest. But just to keep the record straight, we thought you should know that “Our Gal Sunday” and “Helen Trent” have not gone off the air. “Helen Trent” has been on CBS since October 30, 1933 and “Our Gal Sunday” has been ^.vith us since March 29, 1937. They are still going strong.
Cordially, WALTER MURPHY
Columbia Broadcasting Co.
One bright day last Spring I tuned in . South Bend’s WSBT at 11:30 A. M. The announcer was just breaking the sad neivs to his listeners that from that day forward, two creaking old soap operas, “Our Gal Sunday”, and “Helen Trent” would be heard no more. Over optimistic, I tolled their knell in a Scholastic editorial shortly thereafter.
Just after the summer session started, I received a letter from the Columbia Broadcasting System, responsible for the Sunday and Trent trails of tears, chiding me for counting out its serial dramas 9’soap operas) prematurely. I had mis-
taken WSBT’S action as that of the net-work. One program, it doesn’t matter which, has been weeping and gnashing its teeth over the air since 1933, and the othej- has been doing the same thing since 1937. Both will apparently continue until Gabriel pu,ts a stop to all such stuff. O.K., Columbia; my apologies for con- . ducting a wake over your stellar programs when the report of their deaths tvas grossly exaggerated by me.
Congratulations, hoivever, to WSBT, which with more feeling toward the commonweal than was possessed by its parent network, laid a couple of over-age turkeys by the heels and substituted a

!
half hour of very pleasant music. Corsages of skunk cabbage and poison ivy to Columbia, Helen, and Sunday.
What’s more, it’s my fondest hope that Sislen Trent fails to find love after forty, fifty, or sixty, and that Our Gal Sunday finds living with England’s most hand-
7 Campus Clubs
By BOB CASURELLA
HARDWOOD HAPPENINGS
There will be no loitering in the campus clubhouses this year. That is, not if the old clubkeeper can help it. Although the school year is still in the bookstore stage, many of the old club prexies have been around exercising their tonsils at the expense of the old keeper’s ears. The first pearl to fall from one of these fresh-water oysters is the idea of establishing an interclub bowling league. Not only does the idea ring a bell in the activities belfry, but it also cracks a note that is likely to ring throughout the fall and spring semesters. To the average club planner who finds winter activities as aggravating as a dose of malaria, the bowling league plan will be like coke on an oasis. If enough local alleys can be rented, or engaged, the clubs, divided into Eastern and Western divisions, could play a round-robin tournament with one match on tap each week. The Eastern clubs, for instance, could play their games on Tuesday nights, while the Western outfits could split their maples on Thursday evenings. As a tentative suggestion, each section winner would meet in March to decide the club championship. Should the plan meet with the approval of enough clubs, the league could well afford to put enough treasury notes on the line to purchase a trophy to be awarded the winner. Publicity, schedules, high games and individual mention could be supplied by this column.
Last semester about six campus clubs toyed with the same idea and found that a bowling league was a pleasant retreat from calculus and Thoreau. The six teams, representing mostly Eastern
some, richest lord perfectly unbearable.
Lest Columbia- think I am picking on it, my nomination for the worst program on the air is NBC’s unspeakably mawkish “Nana, Katie’s Daughter.”—Joe Wilcox, Feature Editor.
states, never received the publicity deserved but they did receive a bountiful supply of fun. Now that the new league is in the blueprint stage, these clubs might well serve as a nucleus around which the new club can form. When the call goes out foi- brain and brawn, it is hoped that those men who were instrumental in organizing the league will step out to the front and center.
❖
NOTE AND RE-NOTE
There is to be no secret about the purpose of this column. It is for the campus clubs; it is to billboard and formulate their events and ideas. Let’s not make it a vacuum by leaving all of the club news on the secretary’s blotter. Every club should appoint a reporter whose sole job it will be to keep us informed of his club’s activities. As soon as reorganizational meetings have been . completed among the clubs, a meeting will be held by your clubkeeper to air all gripes, grievances and gastricula-tions. For the time being, however, all club info should be forwarded either to the Scholastic office or to 251 Cavanaugh hall.
❖
SUMMER GATHERINGS
Jerry White, REBEL CLUB, informs us that those southern luminaries have a rip-roaring year in store for them. The first meeting of this resurgent outfit will be held as soon as the cotton crop is picked. As usual, the top feature on their entertainment docket is the annual Mardi Gras, to be held this year in March. . . . Bill Stockman, DETROIT CLUB scribe, reports that the Auto City boys were as quiet as the white mice in the Kremlin this summer. Their first meeting will be held within the month. . . . Jerry Phillips of the ROCKFORD CLUB said his lads toppled tradition by holding a cooperative dance this summer in conjunction with the MARQUETTE CLUB.
5
COLLEGE PARADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
sions of the school and here are some"! of the answers:	"
“You have to hunt and peck and walk like a fool to find out anything.”
“There are no girls in the art school.”
“Why aren’t the boys friendlier?” “There should be more bars around
Cheer, Cheer ...
Once more firmly entrenched in hallowed and aging Sorin, we begin another schoolyear, full of hopes, good intentions and promises.
One of our promises was to ye olde feature editor and the “inner sanctum” to stick strictly to news from other colleges after the first issue. Our underground agent informs us that the request for the promise is undoubtedly the result of a bit of pressure from the underground. Be that as it may, we were slightly tempted to call Mr. Wilcox a schnorrer, twice removed. But we suppressed our surging desires. After all, the guy is our boss. Don’t get us wrong, this Wilcox isn’t such a bad Jee, in fact he’s every other inch a gentleman . . . and we still don’t think he’s so low he could read by the light of a hot-foot. He’d probably need a step-ladder. All joking aside, it’s a good thing Wilcox never reads the Scholastic.
* * *
All in all, it was an enjoyable summer and we hated to leave . . . but the folks wouldn’t hear of our staying any longer. The train ride was interesting too; met a gent who had a couple of bottles of brew. We stood there with our mouths watering ... he was pretty nice about it though ... he gave us a blotter. Deciding to change our tactics, we piped up with, “Don’t you think you’re drinking a little too much ” But he just sneered and said, “Whatcha want me to do, wash my face with it?” Not caring for his hospitality, we left. A little later we met a man who claimed he was an economist . . . that’s a person with a Phi Beta Kappa key on one end of his watch chain and no watch on the other. This man had the healthiest mustache we’d seen since Buffalo Bill was doing the Borscht Circuit. His main ambition in life, he said, was to put the coffee pot makers out of business. Just as he was in the midst of an elaborate explanation of the intricacies of coffee-making without a coffee pot, we made the worthy suggestion that he put a coffee bean in his mustache and drink hot water. He left in a huff.
We finally arrived in South Bend (“jewel of St. Joe Valley” etc.) and the first thing we saw when we stepped off the train was a truck with a sign on it: This truck stops for all crossroads, railroad crossings, blondes, brunettes, and will back up twenty feet for a redhead.
We knew we had arrived. Notre Dame, we hail thee!
On Foreign Fields .. .
Heeding the warning of the editors, we’ll now let you have a bit of news from other schools. However, our mail box is as bare as Mother Hubbard’s you-know-what; most of the universities are just starting classes and haven’t as yet put out any papers. We did manage to snag an issue of The University News from St. Louis U. The roving reporter asked freshmen for their first impres-
.„AND SPALDING MADE THE FIRST FOOTBALL
EVER PRODUCED IN THE UNITED STATES
SPALDINGS , POPULAR. J5-V 1 IS ZK£ OFFICIAL FOOTBALL IN THE NATIONS LEADING GRUHRpN CLASSICSAND ANNUAL BOWL GAMES FROM ' COASTTO COAST I
— AND
SPORT •
FIRST
IN FOOTBALL
FIRST IN
every majoe


school.”
* * *
Then there’s the college down South that’s getting itself a pretty bad name. We don’t know for certain what the trouble is, but more men reported for football practice than were enrolled in school.
* * *
And there’s the student in Florida who stood in front of the Rec Hall with (Continued on Page 34)

More wanted than the next three makes combined

arker
#77 surveys in 29 countries confirm the Parker 51’s amazing popularity. At 20 leading American universities, senior men and women voted Parker more-wanted than the next three makes of pens combined. • This preference stems from the 51’s distinctive styling—its incomparable performance. Precision-made, it starts on the instant—glides with satin smoothness. And only the “51 ” is designed for satisfactory use with new Parker Superchrome—the super-brilliant, superpermanent ink that dries as it writes! • Choice of points... smart colors. $12.50; $15.00. Pencils, $5.00; $7.50. Sets, $17.50 to $80.00. Parker “V-S” Pens, $8.75. Pencils, $4.00. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis., and Toronto, Can.
7
TRY A PACK... TODAY
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1SG7 imiiiiiiiniiiiiitiiii tut unit mt iiimiit imiiiit uiiinimii ii!iiiiiiiiiiniiiiiit mm nun in 1111111:1 iniiir tit t
THE STAFF
FRANCIS J. KEENAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH WILCOX ...... PETER BROWN .... shaun McDermott ROBERT STOCK ... JAMES FERSTEL .. DONALD BIRREN .. "HAP" CORDESMAN _ ROBERT KOPF ...._ W JOHN CLARK .....
M. E. VARGA ...
JOHN S. BRENNAN ...
..  Associate	Editor . Associate Editor .._ Feature.Editor . Sports.Editor . News__Editor Associate News Editor ..... Photographic Editor ._____   Art_Editor ..____ Art.Editor .______ Circulation ._________ Circulation .. Advertising Manager . Faculty Moderator
inninntnnininntnnnnnmnninintinnitnntniiinin tiininnnnininnnninnnniinnnninnnnti
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
lit..ninnttniiniiiiinnnnnnnnnnntnnin.........1...inniniinntintninnttniiininnnnnm:
MEET THE EDITOR
Editing a college magazine of such quality and distin-B guished calibre as the Scholastic is a man-sized job. The editor draws fire from two directions; while students claw for his jugular and the administration’s breath may wilt his collar. He has to hound reporters for copy, ride herd on the typographers, and sweat over the pressmen. Once the magazine is out he fights off the complainingbody blows and starts the routine all over again.
The man at the helm of the Scholastic this semester is 23-year-old Frank Keenan, senior Political Science student from Dover, N. H. He’s been on the staff since his freshman days in ’41. He’s a retired Bengal Bouter, played interhall football and base-Vet’s Club, chairman of the
NFCCS, belongs to the Knights of Columbus, served in the Navy at Okinawa, China and the Philippines. Single, and a sharp looker, Frank is heading for the foreign service school at Georgetown after graduation.
Frank Keenan ball, been secretarv of the
CALENDAR
Friday HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL—Washington vs. Sept. 26 Mishawaka at School Field. John Adams vs.
Riley, Saturday night, same place. Starting time: 8 p. m.
Saturday FRESHMAN PICNIC at some leafy autumnal Sept. 27 glade. Trucks leave Farley Hall at one o’clock.
Freshmen only are invited. Small fee to cover cost of sweet pickles and potato salad. Truckloads of luscious females from St. Mary’s will be provided. Looks like they'll drink punch.
CO-HOP, Indiana Club; Orchestra and Girls, 75c, 7:30 p. m.
COLFAX, Miracle on -Uth St. (Pretty good show. Something about Santa Claus buying for everybody. Maureen O’Hara’s in it. Santa can bring that present around any time.)
PALACE, Brute Force. (Every tough egg in Hollywood is in this except Errol Flynn and Howard Hughes. A few lads try to take a week-end from the big house without signing cut. Silly, eh?)
GRANADA, The Egg and I, (By this time it’s hard-boiled. Was never up to the book. Colbert is about ready for granny roles.)
Sunday GOLF, University Open Golf Championship Sept. 28 Finals.
STATE, Blaze of Noon and It Happened in Brooklyn, (Neither of these films will win an award. Durante fans will like the latter.)
RIVER PARK, Arrowsmith and I’ll Be Yours (This is probably the best show in town. Helen Hayes and Ronald Colman do well in the Sinclair Lewis story, while Deanna Duibin chirps merrily in the latter.)
GYPSY PICNIC, in honor of Blackie, king of the local gypsies. To be held somewhere on Crumstown road. They’ll read tea-leaves and discuss the displaced person problem. Oh yeah! Wear your own ear-rings. Music by Mischa.
Tuesday RIVER PARK, Deception (Let’s face it. Bette Sept. 30 Davis runs through her entire repertoire of acting in an hour and a half, then lets Claude Rains steal the picture right out from under her great bulging eyes. Paul Henreid carries a cello around with him all during the film. The cello handles its role masterfully.)
Wednesday SOPHOMORE CLASS ELECTIONS. JUNIOR Oct. 1 CLASS NOMINATIONS. Democracy and ward politics at work on the N.D. campus.
Thursday JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, U. S.
Oct. 2 Marine Band whoops it up with everything from Victor Herbert to Sousa. No long hair stuff; mostly stirring schmaltz. You’ll have a chance to enlist at the door.
STATE, Shocking Miss Pilgrim, (Since this was released a year ago Grable has made two more pictures. This should have been her last.)
9
tke>	.
Raison d'Etre
Every organization or activity must, of logical necessity, have a reason for its existence. But to be worthy of this existence its end must contribute in some measure to the general welfare, or to some portion of the commonweal. Especially is this true in regard to journalistic publications, which, by their very nature, indiscriminately reach a wide and general audience. Though the Scholastic’s field of influence is limited primarily to the Notre Dame campus it is nevertheless indiscriminate in the sense that all within this area have access to the magazine.
Scholastic’s “raison d’etre,” therefore, must be one which is directed toward the benefit and welfare of the community that is Notre Dame. This may take several forms, however, such as providing interesting, enlightening and humorous features; presenting in one “community package” the news of the varied interests on the campus; serving as a permanent record of events at Notre Dame; and providing a medium for the expression of journalistic talent among students.
Over and above all this, in the view of the present editorial staff, is the function of Scholastic as both a medium and an instrument in the development of genuine student leadership, responsibility and initiative. To this end Scholastic opens its letters column to the expression of intelligent student opinion; it will report and take its stand in support and defense of reasoned attempts to assume real responsibility in student affairs, and to encourage student initiative in this field. And in particular Scholastic will work to defeat the general apathy so obviously entrenched among students, and will seek the means of revitalizing this student community • in preparation for its debut in the modern world.
The ultimate end, of course, is. clear. Insofar as the ■ Catholic student is prepared, and only insofar, will he succeed in playing his extremely important role as a Catholic member of society — aware of and accepting his heavy responsibilities. And as this world is inevitably a trial for the next, then “success” here must result in eternal success.
As a preliminary step in the right direction Scholastic enthusiastically refers students, faculty and administration to the splendid article by Martin McLaughlin, entitled “Catholic College Students Again,” which appears in the September 13th issue of America.
No Longer Forgotten
The long-forgotten freshmen have finally felt the spirit of Notre Dame friendship. As over 500 first-year men hit the campus last week, they were met by a rousing orientation program. In three evenings they saw movies about the university, met the administration and faculty, got acquainted with student leaders, and finally were introduced to one another at a mixer.
Two organizations were responsible for this most thoughtful program—the Blue Circle and the Young Christian Students. Unfortunately, both long have gone unnoticed in the helter skelter of campus life. Yet both groups have always been the first to pitch into any task, however large or small it might be. i
Take the Blue Circle, for example. Once a defunct honorary organization, it has grown by leaps and bounds during the first year of its re-birth. The student body owes all of
its football rallies, victory dance decorations and, most of all, the impetus to its school spirit to this organization. Its duties have embraced almost everything, yet a sorrowfully few students can profess more than scanty knowledge of it.
Every day in numerous ways, the Blue Circle and YCS act as beacon lights shining through the fog of apathy and general disinterest. Against often insurmountable odds, they continue to batter the walls of reaction in an attempt to fight off stagnation of extracurricular affairs.
These contingents of energetic, school-spirited men deserve the salute of the entire university.
Vets' Club — Yes or No?
What ever happened to the Vets’ Club? With the greater part of the Notre Dame student body veterans of this latest ^ world war one would think the Vets’ Club would be a driving - z force among student organizations.
But apparently that’s not the case. Vets’ problems are channelled through the various administration offices. There’s no need of a student vet organization for that purpose.
Socially the vet is no different from any other student. There is no need of a purely social organization, and that wouldn’t be reason enough to form one any way. Beer drinking clubs that get nothing done are time-leeches.
So it looks as if there is no good reason for having a Vets’ Club. Unless it could be that this University, as a beacon for all other Catholic colleges in the land, should maintain an active veterans’ organization in the spirit of these post-war times.
If this is reason enough, then by all means let’s shoot the old Vets’ Club in the arm with some benzedrine.
If not, if the old club can get nothing done either for the veteran or for the University, then better let the old dog die.
CLEARING THE PATH
Cartoon by Don Birren
10
a
’The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89. NO. 1
SEPTEMBER 26, 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
1947 Enrollment Rises to Record 5,000
College of Commerce Leads With 1,450 Men
r	By TOM MURRAY
0
All former enrollment records were broken this semester when close to 5,000 students, approximately 4,300 of whom are veterans, flooded Our Lady’s campus to help quench their thirst for knowledge. This figure is approximately 600 more than last year’s record-breaking number of 4,400.
Although the exact breakdown of enrollment figures for the various colleges in the University was not immediately available, estimates indicated enrollments of over 1,450 for the College of Commerce, ovei' 1,300 for the College of Arts and Letters, and a probable 1,150 for the College of Engineering. The College of Science has exactly 503, while the Graduate School has 310. About 220 are enrolled in the College of Law.
Normally this tremendous increase .would make already long registration I lines much longer, but thanks to the new simplified registration procedure the time required for this process was actually cut drastically.
WHILE THE maximum time spent for registration this year is reported as little more than an hour, many were the students who waited on lines for four hours or more in i*ecent years. This new procedure consisted of having almost everything taken care of, including being photographed prison style, in one rapidly moving line. The only things not obtainable in the line were athletic books, which won’t be distributed until October, and laundry cards.
Although the enrollment increase wasn’t evident in the registration line, it most certainly was evident in at least two other places; namely, the dining halls and the bookstore. Whereas there were once “dead periods” in the dining hhalls when you could eat without waiting on a long line, there is no such thing at the present.
N. D. Men Struggle Through Foul Weather To Attend First St. Mary's Tea Dance
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
Not even a whipping rain and the tail end of that disastrous southern hurricane could keep some Notre Dame men away from the inaugural tea-dance at St. Mary’s last Sunday. Drenched and wind-lashed, a mob of cologne-scented N. D. men braved northern Indiana’s humidity and the pelting rainfall to jam LeMans Hall for the season’s opening toe-crusher. They came in droves to look over the new crop of talent and to see if any old faces were back. They found a lot of new lovelies, and a lot of old faces.
Only the social lore experts know why they call them tea dances. They never serve tea, and a great many men don’t dance. Tradition seems to state that the greater part of the men should stand up along the wall and play hard to get. But this aloofness doesn’t last long. The girls are always eager to see that everybody has a gay time, and are not so backward as to wait for the boys to make the first move. In fact hostesses are provided to help mix the social concoction, making introductions around, and usually picking out the good-looking Notre Darners for- their girl friends.
AN EXCELLENT system has been started this year. For every man who saunters in the door, they trot out a charming young lady, and the introduction is made. In other words, the guy’s trapped.
But Notre Dame men seem to like it. Come Sunday afternoon and the lads put aside their comic sections and go look for equally colorful amusement: the kind
Bookstore lines hit an all-time high, and, by the way, simultaneously with the all-time high prices for books.
that breathes. They jerk on a few palmfuls of talc, hop into their best gabardines, snap on a bow tie, and strut over to St. Mary’s to give the shut-ins a chance to live.
Sometimes they get fooled. Sometimes they are not pounced on upon entering the grounds. Their syrupy lines fall on icy ears. They don’t impress anyone, and so they chuck the shindig for a coke downtown. This is the bitter type who shrugs, “Ah, I never go near the joint.”
BUT FOR MOST N. D. men who get the Sunday habit, the tea dance means pleasant hours of charming feminine companionship. To those who strike up friendly acquaintanceships it seems that later on the queens will reciprocate by inviting them to prominent St. Mary’s functions.
Outstanding feature of last Sunday’s session was the pall-like parade of new fall styles. Long black dresses slinked in and out of the babbling halls. Hose in all shades of black, smoke, gray and dusk, drew varied comment from N. D. observers. When the time came to break it up and head downtown the gents found that, as usual, most of the hats were atrocious.
In the waning hours of the afternoon, as is customary, the dance crowd thins out. Couples pile onto the Red Rocket and roar downtown 'for a soda. The record player grinds to a stop, and those N. D. men still in the stag line crunch down the cinderpath towards the highway, and back to their halls to wrestle with the idea of dialing 30567 or 30684 before the tea-dance rolls around.
11
President Inaugurates School Year ;
Cites Need for Christian Leadership
Strong Christian leadership is expected of Notre Dame men to combat certain foreign leaders who are “scheming to dedicate whole governments to the destruction of Christianity,” the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, declared last Sunday before the students and faculty, in a sermon which marked the formal opening of the 1947-48 school year.
Father Cavanaugh admonished the students to hold fast to their dreams of the future, but urged them to aim for a higher goal—a goal which is not ' earthbound. He told the students that Notre Dame fosters an educational program which looks beyond this world for ' its ultimate end. He said, “The University must give sound professional, scientific, and technical training. It must always seek means of providing . students with still more and still better facilities with which to prepare their chosen professions. But the University constantly will remember that God made man in His image, and that he is a man first, with rights and duties as such. After that, he is a scientist, an engineer, a teacher or a lawyer.”
STRESSING the fact that an education at Notre Dame entails certain obligations for its students and graduates to carry out, Father Cavanaugh stated, "‘Because of your background, because of the unusual opportunity that has been yours and that is being offered to you now, leadership will be expected of you.”
“Christ and Our Lady will do most for you and you must seek Them in prayer and the sacraments,” the President continued. “You must gradually become more and more able to do something about it. These days are challenging to the Christian leaders of world. Certain foreign leaders are, a- we gather here in this Church, scheming to dedicate whole governments to the destruction of Christianity, and within the borders of this our beloved America men in high positions are this morning trying to remove God and the precious postulates of American liberty from the theory and practice of the government under which we live. You know the workings of the principle of cause and effect. The rope woven yesterday and today may tomorrow toll the bells at the funeral of the American civilization.1”
SUMMING UP the opportunities that the University offers, Father Cavanaugh declared, “This, then, is what Notre Dame has to offer ybu. To use a phrase that you will be heating again and again, ‘Notre Dame teaches its students not
only how to make a living, but also how to live.’ Here you will not only learn how to use the tools of your profession, but you will be trained to know the truth. Here you will learn that truth and
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, c.s.c.
Aim Higher Than Mitty
morality are fixed and objective, the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. Here you will learn not only that the end of man is God, but also that the chief means by which man attains his end is the grace of God.”—Laivrence Connor
Council, Classes Choose 1947 Leaders
After a week of floor primaries, campaigns, and hall elections, the Student Council will meet for the first time tonight in the new council room in the basement of Farley Hall. At the meeting tonight officers will ce selected for the coming year in preparation for the regular weekly meetings which will begin next Monday at 6:30 p.m.
The week’s political activities started last Monday with the selection of candidates from each floor to enter the hall contests. Last night, after gathering in the halls during the week to acquaint the students with the candidates, the 13 hall representatives to the Student Council were elected. (Because of Scholastic deadline, names of winners will not appear until next week.)
Coinciding with the Student Council election was the nomination of candidates for the Sophomore class officers. Closing date for nominations was last Wednesday, with the election to be held on Oct. 1. Balloting will be in the base
ment of the Dining Hall between 11:30 a.m. and 5 p.m.
Within the next monLn officers of the Junior and Senior classes will also be selected. All prospective candidates are to enter their nomination, which may be single or on a ticket of four, with the Election Committee of the Student Council (253 Alumni or 346 Sorin). To be eligible, candidates must have a scholastic average of at least 80% and must not have been suspended from the University.
For Juniors, the closing date for nominations is Oct. 1, with the election on Oct. 15. The campaign period will be during Oct. 7-14. Seniors must have their nomination entered by Oct. 15, and, following a campaign between Oct. 21 and Oct. 28, the election will be held on Oct. 29.—Shaun McDermott
Vetville Sets New * Maternity Record
Last week while anxious students besieged the bookstore, a record unique in the history of Notre Dame was established in the flourishing community behind the Drill Hall.
On Friday September 19 a total of three new additions were numbered among Vetville’s juvenile population. Girls were born to Betty and Joe Lane and to Jean and John Zarante while the lone boy came to the home of Mary and Jim Rice. With the addition of these newcomers the number of children in Vetville has soared well over the hundred mark.
A special playground has been erected for their benefit with money collected from a raffle this summer, and some students are considering the erection of a grade school for their fast growing offspring.
NOT WISHING to lag behind the rest of the campus, the Vetvillers have announced the formation of a football team which, they hope, will compete in the interhall league. Some excellent games should be in the offing if the football team acquits itself as well as the baseball team did this summer. Other planned activities are a dramatic group, a bridge club and a lecture series.
A paper drive is currently under way to raise money for additional equipment for the playground. The Vetville Gazette, which was inaugurated last semester is once again on the job and the first issue is out today. It will continue to supplement the Scholastic with Vetville news.
An election soon to be held will determine the posts of mayor and councilmen, while Michael Hunt and Vincent Scully^^ will continue in the posts of deputy* sheriffs.—J. P. Reiner
12
Blue Circle Members Organize, Direct Revived Frosh Orientation Program
By PHIL SHEA
The Blue Circle, Notre Dame’s official tradition maintainer, led off the school year with its biggest project to date, the revival of the Freshman Orientation Program.
Here’s how it happened:
Circle members Buzz Wright and Herb Sampson reviewed records of similar programs in the pre-war past in which slightly-bewildered freshmen were welcomed into campus life and given a picture of Notre Dame’s traditions. Establishment of a frosh welcome program was approved for constitutional enclosure before a Blue Circle meeting last spring at their instigation. Vince O’Reilly was named chairman of the welcoming committee with the help of a Catholic Action group.
Last summer, when O’Reilly had his plan in black and white, it was submitted for approval to Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., Director of Students Activities and to Rev. Joseph E. Haley, C.S.C., Chaplain of Y.C.S. and coordina-
FROM THE STATE OF THE BEAN AND THE COD
George Sullivan, president of the Monogram Club, center, gets acquainted with the first year men from his home state of Massachusetts.
tor between Y.C.S. and the Blue Circle. The plan was immediately sanctioned and all that remained to do was the job itself.
EFFICIENT JERRY HEKKER headed the smoothly organized “Information and Guide Service Committee.” Arrangements were made by this organ of the program to have buses meet incoming trains at the Union Station. Guides to aid newcomers were located at Union Station, the Bus' Depot and the South Shore Station. On the campus this relay team system had information tables situated at the circle and other important junctions of student travel.
Walt Zenner, in charge of the Orientation Committee, assisted by Tom Greene, arranged the roster of speakers who addressed the 580 Freshmen in Washington Hall at 7:30 on Monday night, Sept. 15. Faculty Orientation presented an eight man platform led by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University, who gave the new students
MITE MEETS MIGHT
Notre Dame's dynamite on the gridiron. Coy McGee, left, shakes the hand of Joseph Bettencouit. "mightiest" member of the freshman class at the mixer held last week. Bettencouit. from Taunton. Mass., claims that he has never hoisted his massive frame atop a scales.
a sincere welcome to the school of Our Lady. Following in order were Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion speaking on the religious aspect of Notre Dame life; Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., speaking on student activities; Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., Registrar, gave the boys a welcome and let them know he has his eye on the class of ’51; Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, speaking on the Philosophy of Discipline; Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies speaking on “College Study;” Mr. Edmund A. Smith, A.M., Assistant Dean of the College of Commerce, speaking on “The Catholic Philosophy of Education;” and Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., speaking on Traditions.
On Tuesday evening, the Student Orientation talks were given. Bob Uhl gave a very thorough talk covering all available campus activities for the students. George Connor spoke on interhall athletics and Chuck Russ came to the fore on “Traditions.” After the talks the movie “Knute Rockne — All-American,” a tradition itself, was. shown along with a Grantland Rice Sport Short.
Dick Elliott and Tom Higgins of the Tour Committee met students as they came out of the Engineering Building Auditorium at the end of each showing of the movie, “Notre Dame, Past, Present and Future,” on Wednesday afternoon
(Continued on page 33)
‘13
Fifty Educators from Three Continents Bolster Enlarged Notre Dame Faculty
By TOM MURRAY
Distinguished educators from all parts of the United States, from Canada, South America, and Europe are included among the 50 new teachers who have been added to the faculty of the University for the 1947-48 schoolyear, it was announced by the Rev. Howard Kenna, Director of Studies. The increase was made necessary by the record enrollment of close to 5,000 students, about 1,500 above Notre Dame’s former enrollment.
Twenty-five of the total of 50 new faculty members have been added in the College of Arts and Letters, eight in the College of Engineering, six in the College of Science, four in the College of Commerce, three in the College of Law, three in the Army R.O.T.C. program, and one in Naval R.O.T.C. program.
The new Notre Dame faculty appointments are:
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS: Dr. Paul F. Bosco, of Detroit, a former major in the Military Intelligence, to be Associate Professor of Modern Languages; Dr. Ludivig Bieler, member of the Royal Irish Academy and Archivist of the National Library of Ireland in Dublin, Eire, to be Assistant Professor of Classical Languages; Dr. E. K. Francis, of Winnipeg, Canada, to be Assistant Professor of Sociology; Dr. John H. Hritzu, of the College of St. Theresa, Winona, Minn., to be Assistant Professor of Classical Languages.
Joseph A. James, of McMurray College, Jacksonville, Ill., to be Assistant Professor of Modern Languages; Dr. William A. Kozumplik, of Columbia University, to be Assistant Professor of Library Science and Assistant Librarian; Marshall T. Smelser, of St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn., to be Assistant Professor of History; Paul M. Stoner, of the National Housing Agency, to be Assistant Professor of Economics.
Russell O'Connor, of the South Bend College of Commerce, to be Instructor in Economics; Charles A. Biondo, of Mamaroneck, N. Y., to be Instructor in Music; Jack L. Whelan, of Toronto, Canada, to be Instructor in Modern Languages; Jean P. Gattichon, Associate Editor of “L’Epoque” in Paris, France, to be Lecturer in French Literature; Philip J. Driscoll, of Roxbury, Mass., to be Instructor in English.
Robert E. Hohman, of Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, to be part-time Instructor in English; Dr. Maurice L. Pettit, Head of the Department of Public Welfare, South Bend, to be Parttime Instructor in Sociology; Rev. Nicholas Horvath, of Budapest, Hungary, to be University Lecturer in Philosophy.
Andre Cote, to be Instructor in Philosophy; Kelly Cook, to be Instructor in English; Edtvard Fisher, to be Assistant Professor of Journalism; John T. Frederick, co-author of “Reading for Writing” and compiler of “34 Present Day Stories,” returning to be Professor of English; Francis Kunkle, to be Instructor in English; Hugh P. O’Brien, to be Director of the Curriculum in Correctional Administration; and Richard Ames, to be Instructor in English.
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING: Aladar and Viktor Olgay, twin brothers and noted architects from Budapest, Hungary, to be Lecturers in Architecture; George J. Thaler, of Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, to be Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering; Joseph B. Farrell, to be Instructor in Chemical Engineering; Melvin Gel-her, to be Instructor in Engineering Mechanics; Burton Rich Miller, to be Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering; and Michael Snider, to-be Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering.
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE: Dr. Albert L. Delisle, of the National University, Madellin, Colombia, S.A., to be Associate Professor of Biology and Curator of the Edward Lee Greene Herbarium; Dr. Paul Doty, of Columbia University and the Royal Institute, London, England, to be Assistant Professor of Chemistry; Dr. Ky Fan, of the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N. J., to be Assistant Professor of Mathematics; Dr. Raymond Gutschick, a geologist with the Aluminum Ore Co., Oklahoma City, to be Assistant Professor of Geology; Dr. Louis E. DeLanney, to be Assistant Professor of Biology; Dr. Edward C. Dodson, to be Instructor in Biology.
COLLEGE OF COMMERCE: Daniel L. Klein, of Ohio State University, to be Instructor in Accounting; George S. Wallace, of Rutgers (State) University (Jersey City Division), to be Assistant Professor of Finance; Raymond Pellis-sier, formerly with the Office of Price
Administration in Washington, D. C., to be Instructor in Finance; and Thomas P. Bergen, of St. Michael’s College, Winooski Park, Vt., to be Instructor in Accounting.
COLLEGE OF LAW: Alfred L. Scanlon, of the Federal Power Commission, Washington, D. C., to be Instructor in Law; John J. Broderick, of Yonkers, N. Y., to be Instructor in Law; and Robert E. Sullivan, of Fort Wayne, Ind., to be Instructor in Law.
ARMY R.O.T.C. PROGRAM: Lt. Col. Leonard W. Palmer; Major Arthur Small; and Captain Thomas J. Hardy.
NAVAL R.O.T.C. PROGRAM: Commander Bernard Francis McMahon, USN.
Dujarie Choir Records Religious Album for RCA *
Latest venture of the Dujarie Choir is an album of religious music recorded for the Victor Record Division of the Radio Corporation of America. The four twelve-inch records in the album contain eight polyphonic numbers by the masters of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Included in the group are Vittoria’s “Ave Maria” and “0 Vos Om-nes”; Greunder’s “Sanctus”, from the “Missa cum Jubilo”; Vogel’s “Ascendit Deus”; Remondi’s “Adoremus Te”; Grassi’s “Laudate Dominum”; Croce’s “In Monte Oliveti”, and Deis’s “Laeten-tur Coeli.”
Inspiration for the recording—due to be released late in September—came from students of Notre Dame who had heard the choir perform for various religious functions during the schoolyear. Gerard O’Brien (San Diego, Calif.) headed the student committee which made the necessary arrangements with the Victor Company.
American Conservatory of Music graduate Brother Arnold directed the choir' of 40 Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross now studying at the Dujarie Institute on the Dixie Highway side of the campus.
NO JANUARY GRADUATION
Ending campus-wide rumors on the subject, the Director of Studies announced this week that there will be no mid-year graduation at Notre Dame this year. The large number of seniors who will complete their studies in January will be graduated in June with the rest of the senior class. A similar plan was followed last year when the war-instituted semester graduations were abandoned.
14
>4? S+a+ue of Our Lady
Honored by Students
Thirty-Five Students, Led by Prof. Langford,
Enjoy Summer Session in Mexico City College
Notre Dame, the school of Our Lady, was honored last week by the presence of the miraculous statue of Our Lady of Cap de la Madeleine which is on a pilgrimage of western United States. A replica of the original statue, which is currently under repair, the statue came to Notre Dame from the great Marian congress at Ottawa this summer by way of Detroit, where it remained at St. Dominic’s Church.
MIRACULOUS STATUE
The statue of Our Lady of Cap de la Madeleine pictured during its visit to Sacred Heart Church last week. It is a replica of the original statue, credited with numerous miracles. The original is under repair.
Its arrival Friday was heralded by the ringing of all the church bells which summoned the students to adoration and Benediction. Before the service Father William Robinson, C.S.C., traced the origin of the devotion to the Lady of the Cape and cited several cures and miracles which are attributed to the intercession of the Mother of God.
A
Following the service a crowd of students-surged forward to kiss the toe of the statue as so many pilgrims had done before. During the entire night a vigil was maintained by students from different halls so that there was no.break in the watch.
On Saturday morning at 6:15- o’clock Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.s.c.,* officiated at a Solemn Mass as part of the 4 petition to Our Lady. Later in the morning the statue was moved in procession to St. Mary’s College under the
By JAMES M. DUKEHT
Summer school this year- meant a vacation in Mexico for 35 Notre Dame students, members of the first experimental group in a plan to teach the Spanish language and culture in its native environment.
Director of the trial class was Mr. Walter Langford, professor of Spanish at Notre Dame, who accompanied the men on the trip and also taught courses at Mexico City College, where the summer session was conducted.
Upon completion of the course, Mr. Langford was warm in his praise of the visit’s benefits.
’ “I’m certain that the students profited a great deal, from several standpoints, by the trip. Most of the boys lived and ate in the homes of Mexican families during their stay, and in this manner they received a firsthand view of the social and economic conditions as well as a working knowledge of Spanish.
“I sincerely hope and believe that the program will be incorporated as an annual summer feature, sponsored by the University.”
For years, many linguists have held that a foreign language can be learned easiest when one is forced to practice it with people who speak no English. Students who made the trip for the six to nine week course add a hearty “aye” to this school of thought.
“It improves by 500% your ability to learn,” insists one enthusiastic pupil.
Another incentive to swift mastery of Spanish under the new plan was voiced by soph Andy Lipnosky, who points out, “The fact that what you’re learning has an immediate practical value adds something that is necessarily lacking when a foreign tongue is studied in your own ’ country.”
On the other hand, it wasn’t all work and no play for the N.D. men south of the border. Many took advantage of specially conducted tours to spots of historical and scientific interest—such as the pyramids of San Juan Teotihuacan, the Basilica of Guadalupe, and the “infant” volcano, Paracutin. The trip to Paracutin, which is still active, is made
direction of Father La Fleur of the Oblate Fathers. Father La 'Fleur, custodian of the statue, will accompany it in this country.—J. P. Reiner.
by burro over hot lava rock; and one of the tourist-students boasts of lighting a cigarette by holding it to the ground underfoot.
Many of their odd notions about Mexico were given a jolt by the trip, according to the students. The majority were surprised to find that Mexico City, far from being made up of “adobe haciendas,” is a completely modern city, not unlike those in the United States. Sole disgruntling factor concerned the bus service.
“Bus drivers in Mexico are paid, not by the hour, but by the trip,” explains one of the travelers. “Consequently, they barely slow down at the corners, and you have to “make like a para-trooperi as you pass your stop.”
Despite its modem appearance, however, Mexico City preserves enough of its quaint customs to provide a tourist with an interesting experience. “After all,” the students query, “where else can you watch bull fights and jai-lai matches, and barter with street merchants over every purchase you make?”
Exotic types of food proved fascinating to George Frazier, who quipped: “I’ve heard of athletes eating and sleeping football, but this is the first time I’ve ever tried it literally. You see, a favorite Mexican dish is pig skin fried in oil . . . and what’s more, it’s good!”
Of their social activities in Latin America, all agreed that ball games, bull fights and occasional night club visits provided them with as much entertainment as they could obtain anywhere in the U. S. In fact, several ventured to term Mexico City the “Gay Paree” of the Western Hemisphere.
Finally, when, as the movie travelogue narrators put it, they “reluctantly bade farewell to that beautiful little bit of Paradise,” the students had acquired proficiency in Spanish, a knowledge of Latin-American culture and traditions, and a load of memories of a pleasant and profitable vacation.
IN MEMORIAM
Thomas G. Bombassei. former Navy veteran from Lock Haven. Pennsylvania. died of drowning on July 30 in his home city. He had just finished his Freshman year at Notre Dame, during which he studied electrical engineering.
15
INSIDE NOTRE DAME
By JOE WILCOX
It has been reported, apocryphally, that a certain freshman came to Notre Dame and left after one look. Notre Dame, he said, was nothing but a long line. The freshman of the tale left too soon; true, it may have taken him until the Ides of March, but eventually he would have learned that Notre Dame is more than a long line growing longer. It is more than an abnormal class schedule, more than clanging, discordant bells ringing matins at absurd hours, more than forbidding summonses to appear at the disciplinary office, more than seats behind the Cardiff Giant at football games. Notre Dame is more than a University; it is a city, sufficient unto itself.
Were South Bend, which we shall discuss in its turn, to disappear inexplicably next Thursday, life at Notre Dame would go on. The pants whereon one spilled ketchup could be cleaned; the shoe laces broken just before the zero hour of an eight o’clock class could be replaced; the shoes themselves could be reconditioned for another safari between the Rockne Memorial and the Biology Building. One could remove the paunch acquired by drinking a surfeit of malted milks in the rebuilt Huddle, the golf shop, or the caf, by a round of gymnastics in the heavy apparatus room of the Rockne memorial.
EVEN WERE South Bend not to disappear, inexplicably or otherwise, he who wished to exercise less violently could do so on the University golf course. This golf course is the only one in the world whose fairways expand when duffers stand upon the tees. In the golf shop, located in the Rockne Memorial, can be purchased all manner of golfing paraphernalia. A practice fairway and a putting green exist to iron out the losses of form which seem to afflict all golfers.
Two lakes, St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s, border the campus. Both abound with fish, which students may not attempt to catch without a permit from the Holy Cross Provincial, Father Steiner, whose office is in the Presbytery behind Sacred Heart Church. It is not necessary to pay tribute to Indiana’s tax collector to capture Notre Dame’s fish. A particularly clever bass in St. Mary’s lake has baffled anglers for years. In the Spring (O what is so rare as a decent Spring day at Notre^Dame), students are allowed to swim-in St. Joseph’s Lake. Usually, however? ^he less hardy
and wiser ones take to the calmer depths of the Rockne Memorial’s heated pool.
The student who wishes to ship the body of a decapitated professor to Nome in a trunk, and is not particular about the date of arrival, may do so via Railway Express. As everybody knows by now, as a result of futile expeditions in search of trunks which the express company wittily buried at Fort Knox, this organization has located itself in the Field House. Its former home, behind the Main Building, is now occupied by a shoe repair service. Western Union, on the first floor of the Administration Building, provides the usual telegraphic service.
A BARBER shop, on the first floor of Badin, will shear you for one dollar. In the same Hall, a watch repairman will put your shock-proof watch back in service after the strap has parted and the shock-proof watch has fallen three inches onto your rug. Badin Hall also handles the laundry and houses the University Bookstore, which sells not only books but gifts, radios, and othei' creature comforts including a miscellany of toilet articles.
The freshman who spent his youth in dissolution hanging around in the corner pool room may continue to dissolve for four years more. Named for an old barracks-like hall now occupied by offices, Brownson Rec, located under fussy, musty old Washington Hall offers pool and table tennis at a nominal fee. Upstairs, on Saturday nights, the same movies which visited the Hinterlands of Medicine Hat in 1940 flicker brokenly across Notre Dame’s own silver screen. Notre Dame students claim a long, if not honorable tradition of behaving like Sioux on the warpath at Saturday night movies.	.
DRILL HALL SCENE DURING REGISTRATION More than a long line growing longer
Notre Dame’s post office, a smallish, brick edifice at the end of Walsh Hall is equipped to handle all the mail that busy students have time to write. It seems at times unable to deliver any. Through those portals pass the prized but inadequate (thanks to a grateful Congress) G.I. subsistence checks which, like Mr. Hoover’s prosperity, are always just around the corner. This year, the crisp November morn will dawn ere the hall mailmen are burdened overmuch with Uncle’s largess.
THE RULE Book seems of the opinion that Notre Dame itself supplies all the -mortal needs of man; therefore, trips to • the town are unnecessary. Despite this fact, many students seem to feel it necessary to seek pleasure in the town. Therefore, a word about Notre Dame’s subburb, South Bend, would not be amiss.
South Bend, a mile or two to the south, is reached by a mediocre bus service which has grown less adequate in the last year. The city has a population of some 120,000, a history dating back to LaSalle, only two first-run theatres, a good symphony orchestra, and a Sunday dry ordinance. During the 20’s it had an undistinguished reputation as a center of K.K.K. activity. It fines jaywalking pedestrians two dollars. Wal-green’s corner is monopolized by N. D. students reviewing the local distaff population. Its citizens manufacture automobiles, farm equipment, washing machines and fishing tackle; they support Notre Dame’s football teams * vociferously but deprecate the antics of its gayer students. They have a girls’ baseball team, some crack high-school football, medium-high clothing prices, and must travel several miles to reach their first-class airport.
West of the Dixie highway, as all
16
oBand to Trade Outdated Uniforms For Something New and Snappy
Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of the Notre Dame marching band, was wearing a big smile last week as musicians were signing up for the coming season of the Band. It looked as if almost everything had finally come true in regard to the young maestro and his horn-blowing proteges.
For- years the Band had been content with the out-dated uniforms they were forced to wear, simply because a new wardrobe couldn’t be had. But this year an entire set (dark blue overcoats, hats, and suitcoats; light blue pants; gold spats and gloves) was available for the noted group.
“With some luck, we should be able to assemble two bands, a one-hundred-piece varsity band and a fifty-piece freshman band,” said Professor Hope. He added, “The boys will begin marching practice early, probably as soon as classes start. We’ll see . . . just how much fundamental work they need, give it to them, and start them on the formations for the opening home game, Oct. 18.”
DURING THE SUMMER, the Band’s brainchild staff gathered the formations they thought they would use for the next campaign. At last count, this collection had reached fifteen, which meant ten must be cut since only five displays are to be fielded — one at each home games, and one at the Navy battle in Cleveland. The outfit does not make the trip to Lafayette for Purdue’s en-counter, nor do they travel to Evanston to show off for the Northwestern crowd. This means that much attention can be given to the home occasions in order to produce an acceptable spectacle.
MANY MUSICIANS were returning to the fold due to the new award sys-
N. D. men eventually discover, there is another institution of higher learning. St. Mary’s College for Women, one mile west of Notre Dame, has high tuition rates, a fake lake in the front yard, strict disciplinary regulations, regular Sunday tea dances to which admission is by ticket, a poetic president, and some comely students. In order to be more comely still, the students doubtless contribute to the support of the myriad women’s clothing shops which clutter downtown South Bend. At one time it was fashionable for columnists to annoy their sister students weekly. This pastime is now frowned upon.
RING IN THE NEW
The band's new uniform, modeled by Gary Bolger, right, draws an admiring look from Jack Fitzpatrick, decked out in the old attire.
tern which was inaugurated last spring. Members with five semesters service in the Band were entitled to a sweater with a letter (the letter patterned after the new Band emblem) besides an award upon graduating. The award system is based on a series of demerits which each member is given for detrimental action. As one saxist put it, “If it means earning a letter sweater, my shoes will be polished for every game . . . even if I have to buy the polish myself.”
—Verne F. Kelley
New to Notre Dame and South Bend is Vetville, the housing project where live N. D.’s student vets and their better halves. In addition to the hundred odd families now living there, Vetville has a waiting list of some two hundred more. Vetvillians publish a weekly paper, known as the “Vetville’s Gazette,” which among other things, sees to the gargantuan task of recording Vetville’s leaping infant population. Enterprising single students hire out as baby sitters.
This, dear reader, is Notre Dame. .No need to go to South Bend, is there? Of course not. The Rule Book (DO NOT DESTROY) says so. f
Trustees Lay Plans For New Structures
With the mortar barely dry on Farley Hall, the Associate Board of Lay Trustees has announced an extensive building program for Notre Dame. Most novel feature on the schedule of seven buildings is a Student Union Hall, which will provide recreational facilities, meeting rooms, informal lounges, a ball room, soda and snack bar, and potential additional kitchen facilities.
In addition to the Student Union, plans call for a Liberal and Fine Arts Building, a War Memorial Chapel, a new library—the old building will house the various collections of the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery — a building for Chemistry and Physics, and a new gymnasium.
BIGGEST FACTORS confronting the University in the construction of the new buildings are, as expected, finance and the scarcity of new materials. The seven new buildings will cost more than $12,000,000. Father Cavanaugh, in releasing the information, said that, contrary to national belief, Notre Dame is not one of the wealthier schools. The University’s endowment ($3,654,210) is exceeded by those of 94 other institutions. The problem of financing the new buildings is indeed a major one.
Although the Graduate Residence Hall is slated to be started within the next year, all seven buildings probably will not be completed in less than 10 years.
—Joe Herrington
Dr. W. Nutting Urges New Catholic Rural Culture
A definite, vital and permanent “rural culture” based on the Catholic faith can do much to halt the trend which is taking American people away from the farms into the city, according to Dr. Willis D. Nutting, associate professor of History at the University of Notre Dame.
Dr. Nutting expressed this view in an article, “Looking to the Future,” which appears in the September issue of Land and Home, official publication of the National Catholic Rural Life Conference.
Dr. Nutting declared that in order to encourage people to return to rural life, we must create a way of living which (1) provides a way for many people to support themselves; (2) has a place for the intellectual; (3) makes plenty of room for the person who responds to the appeal of the beautiful; (4) has opportunity for plentiful recreation; and (5) gives opportunity for the fullest religious development of man.
17
NOTRE DAME'S THREE NSA DELEGATES
REPORT FROM MADISON
The most important national student congress in history was held from Aug, 30 to Sept. 7 in Madison, Wisconsin. Seeking to fulfill a need long felt by a disorganized student community, the NSA met to draw up an acceptable constitution and to plan a program of activities. All shades of political and social opinion were represented; red-hot issues, like the rare question, were aired in hostile sessions. 750 delegates from all over the United States debated for more than a week on the type of constitution that the NSA would have and the programs for which it would stand.
The three Notre Dame delegates were: Bill Braun, Martin McLaughlin and Jack Murphy. These three were chosen last spring at a general student election, after it had been decided by the student body that Notre Dame should be represented at this Congress. All three played leading roles in the Congress. Notre Dame’s recommendations for the Constitution of the National Association were remarkably close to the contents of the actual document which was realized after the session was over.
Right and Left
There was no lack of color, of clashes in temperament and ideology at Madison. Communists were forthright in wearing Party buttons. The factions were all there, from the most rabid Communist to the staunchest Roman Catholic. Each had his specific reason for being there, and before the convention had gone two days everyone knew that reason and was either violently upholding it or doing all in his power to oppose it.
Parliamentary law was strictly adhered to, and from the very start, all were made conscious of the aims of the NSA, and of the purpose of the convention, which was to give the students of the United States a constitution by which they could carry on all their business on a national scale. From start to finish, all proceedings were run at a fast politi.-cal pace, though NSA, once organized, will have no political affiliations.
THE COMMUNIST party members and all of these with leanings in that direction showed a strong belief that the student should have autonomy or nearly complete autonomy on the campus in the administration of student government, and that the faculty and administration were to be looked upon as employes of the students, as if they were pawns to be
moved around or exchanged on a chessboard.
There were also the Fascist-minded as well as the liberals. The Communists utilized the Fascist-Liberal split by leaving the listener in doubt as to which side of the issue he favored. Here the efforts of the Catholics were doubly valuable, and often lead a closely contested issue for the opposition. The Communist-Liberal-Catholic-Fascist split was not the only one present., Another that was equally as serious for the welfare of the conference was the racial discrimination issue, which was debated under the able leadership of Northern White Negro, and Southern White Leaders. This problem was ever before the eyes of the assembly, and for that reason was given much deep thought. It was finally settled by compromise.
ANOTHER ISSUE with a political caste was the question of allowing national college organizations, such as the NFCCS, AYD, SDA, and AIMSTE to affiliate and have voiced representation at the campus level, or under any other form of representation. This was finally voted down because of a belief that there would be a duplication of representation were it allowed.
Lastly, there was the International Activities question involving the feasibility of the NSA’s affiliating with international groups and organizations. Argumentation ran the full length of the convention, and was amicably settled only after all present were convinced that international affiliations were not only feasible but necessary.
Open Manifestation
The economic aspects of the convention made a nation-wide good impression on all of the delegates. There was little debate needed to show that a considerable amount of money would be necessary to finance the enormous enterprise of a National Students Association. Furthermore, after the National Affiliation arrangements had been settled, it was realized that even more money would be needed. On a proportional basis, Notre Dame will be assessed $177.00 if it intends to join the organization.
There was little religious flareup, and none was violent or radical. The only open manifestation of a religious assembly was a Convention Mass in the Catholic Chapel across from the campus. Here Bishop O’Connor spoke on the benefits of
NSA, but since this was part of the planned agenda prepared by the steering Committee, no critisism was made. All these who attended paid a high compliment to the ideas and ideals- of the Bishop. In spite of the suppression of the personal creeds of the delegates, there was little doubt as to what they actually believed.
Excellent Facilities
Although the least important item from a norganizational standpoint of the convention, the social aspect was£^ the most important from a psychological point of view. Without the relaxation afforded by the beautiful and completely adequate facilities of the University of Wisconsin, there would have been cases of mental or physical collapse.
The NSA Constitution follows the conventional pattern. The authority is located in the National Student Congress, which meets annually. Delegates are elected by the member student bodies according to a graduated scale of representation which allows a minimum of one delegate for schools having 1,000 students or less, and a maximum of seven for those with student bodies of over 10,000. Where there are separate student governments for colleges with several campuses and several discontinuous sessions, separate representation is allowed for each subdivision. (C.C.N.Y., University of California.) Organizations are excluded from membership and cannot send delegates to the National Congress. Dues are levied according to the number of delegates allowed—at approximately $45 per capita.
THE CONGRESS has a long list of enumerated powers among which the most notable are (a) to determine the annual budget, (b) to establish policies and programs, (it is the only policy making body), (c) to elect national officers, and (d) to review- activities of the Executive Committee.
THERE CAN be no real check and balance system in a voluntary organization such as this, since the Congress is in session for only a week; during that time it can do little more than approve the actions of the outgoing Executive Committee, make major policy decisions, and elect the new Executive Committee. For all practical purposes, therefore, the a Executive Committee (and specifically, the executive officers) operating on dele
18
g^gated authority, is supreme; it is plenipotentiary and ultimately irresponsible, since it can receive only a vote of censure after the damage is done. It is therefore imperative to have trustworthy officers. The present group is considered excellent.
Duties of Officers
The Executive Committee supervises the handling of funds, and the execution of policies and programs determined by the annual Congress. It also has emergency powers. The executive officers (also called the staff committee) include the president, secretary, treasurer, and a number of vice-presidents equal to the number of national commissions. At the present time this is a total of five,.who function on a full-time, paid basis. The president is the representative of NS A B on the national and international scene; he may delegate his powers. The vicepresidents are in charge of the respective national commissions; domestic affairs, and international affairs. The secretary is charged with maintenance of the national office, including files and correspondence. The treasurer makes up the budget, collects the dues, and keeps the accounts of the organization.
A GREAT DEAL of emphasis was laid on the principle of regional autonomy; it was recognized by all that the action of the NS A would be done locally and regionally; and that it could not be dictated from the central office. There are twenty-five geographical regions; the State of Indiana constitutes a complete region in itself. Regions are required to establish a Constitution, to hold regional assemblies, to elect a president, vicepresident, secretary, and treasurer, and * to set up whatever machinery is necess-sary on a regional basis to carry out the national commission programs. Beyond the stipulation that the regional activities must not conflict with the national program, there is no further interference.
Miscellaneous provisions of the Constitution include the following: (a) Impeachment process. (b) Requirements for membership (ratification of the Constitution and payment of dues); (c) structure of the nine-man “adult” advisory council; (d) Provisions for affiliation with outside organizations -(Must be ratified by a majority of the member colleges) (e) Amendment process; (f) ratification provisions (must be accomplished by a majority of the Madison-represented colleges within three months) (g) an enabling clause to permit the Executive Committee to proceed with the organization of NS A on a provisional basis.
THE BY-LAWS contain the comprom
ise statement of racial discrimination (that NS A will work for the eventual elimination of discrimination in educational systems) election procedures, names of the national commissions, location of the central offices (Madison) procedure for selecting the national editor of its publication, breakdown of the regions and the basis for the assessment of dues.
In all major points this Constitution agrees with the recommendations of the Notre Dame Student Council’s committee and the draft constitution, drawn up last May. It is a clear document and sets up a workable structure for NS A.
IN ORDER to facilitate matters the program was considered under three general headings: Student Government, Educational Opportunity, and International Activities. Roughly, one-third
N.S.A. PROCEEDINGS GET REHASHED
Notre Dame's three-man delegation to the N.S.A. Convention. lack Murphy. Martin McLaughlin, and Bill Braun (left to right), look over the results of the Madison sessions.
of the delegates sat in on the panel which discussed each of these general topics. As a result of the serious and industrious efforts the program adopted is about forty pages long. It is obvious to observers that the entire program cannot be actualized; it will be the job of the national officers to get the efforts of the entire organization concentrated on a few parts of the program, so that what is done will be well done.
The NS A is by no means a dictatorial organization. The national office will have to be primarily a storehouse of information to which member student bodies can come for facts and advice. Its power lies in its ability to publish the picture of a particular existing situation with a contrasting picture of what the situation should be. Since this is the nature of the organization, most of
(Continued on Page 31)
19
MADISON, WIS„ SUNDAY
NSA Officers, State Delegates Confer
•*#«» 1V*»4. VnbrrxHf cl W»h |
JohM W8BW1
up >.' th* Bruua»t AkKCUtf
O>e KIClOMt. riuinwa-
i^x empUnncm M i* I' the »’te«v
-cn’» fMr .ahi! ’> j
« »nrf p»rucip»tutc •>»♦ e>i in|«T'«au(>Ml I TBU lull ri mbH
«n'».bfc VSA adlftolta* with a ^'umi Sefttec Fund the TVS end *W’*rsJa-| t.n I. N. fMmmi &M.n Terr5
I Tttft DO&MM; tile W.;>1(» rrpr«Ki><inc I WWW Anwni^H
rrui*r i^Sicr*, of the S?A be <‘et*tC Srion-j; toe ra-
•t	«*.'>«<» M Ui«V
*mj ita re^'t “t th* TlAi
i ki*4 at O^r v*sd«s*ui tustorf LsHuda.	J
[ taa trails. Valrentfrj ri Tew (km *e’s«» wwtden. K«^it> AhSU? ItfLkeOile t£ CriC»<C*;
bvS4 Northern^ Southern
•	i
TTel.egales Clash Orerj
Negro Educational Issues
South !s Not Fori | An^ 'Ihasth? Cbast^e !nh ’ School System, Claim,f
Ct I'UUA tn tfa ritieet*»ak! “J
QJtCZTJO* p,roi
tuwtil actbttiea, I Tb« riMbrs On u„,o i>?r eattoeM «PFeri«tnirun pjmet uertf <»*er tbc rwvwweeAMiMit fe a«f
'rterr and toa *r*tn!eati&n of ft*, prrwri »rtUra ri r^r* and *f-JU ^Crorrttaa tn •U<tol«ritb*.Swth * [ ‘OCruras MlJctTtS.
J^cOmC te to* toordBas ri-«*nata| PMatyapb* ri tow tn««t«AK e®4
,Pft*«s*<j Th»r lb* XK.A n.^
«*<l Jake into n-o’tdro »ttaa th* Surin k “tTadjtii’ojF’. rt«sd on >»er»*»»on bouifawn .tv denis ota that Uw *Mtb*ro daie-F»?«s must r**e>(Bke ihat Uw
ow>«n* Wwwm m di> rrttn<^ttioa prubleuv uri r*»ea’» d terthAtn mcfldtind fa *», ts «* Souttomers » ptn^em #
The? i»wr ton tl^e awtoon <rf J*'**** n !«r •» or «irta4>c eharee la tow '
«*«ter errtrn ri scNHXinf
KSA rtrincVr* fee) thaj as te.
ropMble onm^roaif* m cuw-<«uir of fliautmlsuinn end wet*-
*•” k.	.
!NSA DiJegales Clash Over Negro Issues Norther n^SouthcrnVuii-a Disagree On Kcmohul
* of Rjciaf Barriere
। <vV «i 'turn wiffr t* hwSUr V<814> tiluitlMAx*! ri *'i
*» jnru >& ii* leih<l Uui do not pr>U it ettuai taatafr* and eituesiaBW
*«u*l Hilts atl(i cwniRuHtlcs rf
.¥5 I rfplegftles Urged to Enter Ptdilics. ^hink in tForld Terms'
’rtBdeM d*tes»*e» ,
\rhoob JIttst Pr^we
ror National Student nip's Affiliation with rid Collegiate Body
neflf* nj Pwoefd, Join USB nrn of. munisl influent
tKVfS iUJiftt.f «»wrt-'“*' ■---I-W «a» lH»ra»am'
BS£5XSK.^i
hi of Hut* Ixing
StwJwrt »swei«U«a-
. with tto Ato* AC ttew-shM ygy»^t c«thW
ae r, da*p>t"» ? ii >mk Con»to»t,»t ref'*' j
IffMded ft M «« e« } ‘tevlrt-lox'f e< tt erk! ’ ™ IVroorroW	'
mMviJMtf ri afflllM’es {
9OA*ATE$ AXP «»««!•» w.; J WO 0*» Atae-tr*" B». M »e»stcn» at * l« VBun the»»er lbw 1t**'
l Tne , *«• «rt* 'te»t *n<* • taM «d v*r«’tn«» •Ztto rtMJtori tocr aSiiMtiw *
,B,. WIW'O®' *KX‘
NSA Affiliation With World Union Favored
Opptmrirt* Proposal To Jott» It’S Wawt «f
‘ Onnmunift Influence1
frtutmwfl Peer 1‘ t
'stasUMat cwn»ett«o» «ie	i
Cauani «i btofleot Club* "
Cwawtukrt Patt? Amenr*» 5uutB I tot »em«r<»r>	<«a*r»|l»!lCO»'<
SlSde^l PeUoohip ^merKaa I iu-! un>a tie MM F™* Ftflee» Mien <f caflmlto OMear FinOe"* tV * **itc< «u»W F*d«»JiP» «b« \ a »jor • 1 i!tterAntK»*W»t «mS* ChrulUr Cu«>»i»» SttjdifU h>i
CoJen r
A FAAH. MB4»MMtrtT>
ueMr « l-UW te*m-a»n>O$ »« • aftd-auon whxrh ««mld Pto*
Ut-’OS •— • tl* rA*n !>v *he jnl*rn,u»e»ij
n tt« irrimiw^diiilun, ♦a*!*" nw«t pane! triad he t cl a > Irwd >m n Ibe *!»■* .
c»*’RS t»» ***tynt'r and urn* a« a mt*] th— rampm •ulfm.f1
aetsjiwi.
; *T¥e Uatd opjuwed to It'S asui*
•»tM« h.«*w>e ot the pmw5t < h»r»
First
jrigMttaUacn to datorudaa ewedk’
.rttbtt Btattorw etoflafert is toe mMfatta! coetrioti»n, ,	t
{ W the cOttti'Mfai tntri be »MW<4 >y eaeit ri the KiXjeclS ibriUw riMia'tsc *«ai KXA. It **»' JMtBt*d nut tin 'Denp *m»tb* -atheolr Wito rrfett aAdUtios *iQ» an araannauon adawatjnc wyiMMied ahntam st ~J,£ Crowism” to edewattoo
Of the two enmprornia* plan* She »*UM oiite thto the e-cminto-Ue® » prondM CtUT?««'S/ "ta P***«r»B aM nuucunn ecuah ttCbU" and the -crtriaai ri«,,>} J Mti« <« tn fonts ri dhmminj.l
Vteb br RMflftpti the duCunwrt •it ro*d rherr wr-p dojusuous. mterjoetraai straw rote, and mm-R p»rnsraentary debetc
Delegates Talk of 'Walking Out' |
Fr*d Martin ■»«<?«<! d*J»k*’e ?
1 tr<m to* £«>i Oroijn* t»u * T*» t */\ totlant Oroem!)!*, \ ( uot t6ds$ t»ut rtudt-iita turn
> Hl»Wl <4 l*« M-XJ fmm x’»lr» | 11*4 mfurmaljt i'ihui.^ (h*
1 p»tfa.ol< nf irnltou ibe %St '» i-noitouliun.! ♦«>«-• h m *♦, m* >
M*n>n iMr.6i ,i t *
‘ NM fwtt» ( -town i-.rflsu- f , tawul pfeoioun doftimirtutx ab.,.
1 hs»i> nf uMt*-Nrx1'u > ciccuun «n t'«l *£*♦ and «in<v*r\ltirk lUw*'r« a» nt ttj. Sunii Carolina iMc^im <«<■« <♦ th* T fata n»s "ivltrnR. and the *h.«ri “iraJi.tn’ vul w»s dimaii.it III »«”' »r toe tori baefl of « mrt^>nn>t on ‘Jim
. Oewivm Manin cmp!u<Ued < tiu! Ihu -Jmci t* put l,k*
■nmoias	-— »• *»’> to Jenn *
iandeyl xroop, Ue Aatfeoel Stodettl ttsociattM. Tbe 5SA tan the wiron** M«"ps» toriihl- Ab*»t t*t *w»a oi the .take part to ib* Itrtfnjl *rs»ai,»««» ri th* MJA *-*« la faxictiia. president Of Uw Lri«*f«U Stodept bwwfl »anr
Koteru Sank tasreaec eriWer dalrJMr. ishn ftitmaa O	----- ■wtn’W. C
Ifcaemsrr 1‘CtA defecate, Curtis Farrar Yale a«Jet»te. OH riifared M*!*r ICLA shJ«x»Jo; ’Don WUl»*r MmsM Mhmit* Raitottl w«rieni •? the atodeM* for tkmoeraito Artloa. Cesttr rixrbtr. Madlwn vcKenndo driro«e^ri'hn!>i ft 4»-*s H.-i M fP*
.Students From All Parts ^of Nation Here ior Con ro; » iTruman Sends Message,^.

Officers of~U~b~^~y ..Jr' ?• ^tud(
take up preliminary >]<m-u* bfeeierrmtid and jxi-j.
NSA Votes For ’EveutulaF End To Prcyudice CotnprotntM^ On Racial
Reached After* LoU£. Healed Debate* 'CtKtiKgrd e*9t f! ropri<as Ito* 1'KX MUL£ Din*' brought out • fadri! ’Mmteami* Sap.	t
J The eriRpromuwt *» winked «ril
^k II— ,nA. 4.1 «.,a	m!
♦tn there uetf MtThent delt jite* feed rieshefcOS Wcecwurre theXSA ■twUd take to >»hp «t»tr «awi eCucaticn*! r>cb««J t** Mt F"*r)e
As attopted tbw tooentotma*!
«utai that the R&A *«k, >cwr»Se wide ta*«rUCMMl anil |a»cBtfisS «t the proLicntS ri is* ,«<isattty whtrti kZUI UrME*>Ml 'tbe Vntiod fUtxta{i» 4rfl«r to •*-.eve U>esr eltauaatum**	,
wwted t« IMr ftX W «t ««? tiwts. lr I' <“-* fluty to **f> for mutual vrtarrolSDdiM u®3 Im!
di'urwiy in to* *ui»	.. }
*.«’:«■ natuar « ColstoWai wmirrM' linUred tbM **hge| there »'♦ Cm"««ii>u .b the It»4 wt v the I filed fcatf’ cannot «*i
SI**"
j~,i nmp^'Wia’Jr the »w«B foliict' M>tU ot these emmotos tboutn* *vO «tra&t • C<MaaWilM rrjwMut^i »m»
“AHi'irtinn cause st to K gotnut« m nut to**!® r>Uto*t v> pt.Iir-1-* to »to«* ” m««M ori Ut>ee».w «ut»«r»ibc“ „	.
James t »aaf2»tlt o* St Jn»-i e»U» <0ti»r*. PkUadrttikU. pr«*i < dew ri flu* Mtiwri^ederatmn tf .CaihriK CoH*ee	tMdtoe,
psn«l Jie	aflitortxm unoeri
eecsptthere'’'* enousu eoniht**"*' ta suarauto* JChM iKlcaf tRdependrva «&<* aJie*-j u« wbrieW»rt«t io-<Hwtrtx* o” mtoraaltoBal pro;K» ri • p««l?
FROM \OT« DAWK. Martin atodrot de«eM*to. fle-Cl%	i bke the political artM-
l^i o! toe JUS Mt Ibc Ptorr a^ L».t*« ri the nesaaiUttC” aMttid be iuJsvd «« their o*« «nt> I Wtiei* that XS-A »”dliticra »«h
ajtsijbte TTCts-xtutr. ,&* mo-' ♦wMittn apotoerd uB>«i»ou»ly a' imctaaunenaaUon UmI t the \SA' Saak raorewnunoa osphe Vsked iStUea cnmnliriae <Oe
.roaii'iiiaT acwauouc. acarauar MS, jcrisxat tfeamttoD* iirvrscot, ; Toda?, the e»ies»la t approved! itbe ptaitam os atodasur fn»r4m;
n^i. i«a-.rwliau r>OX mfri-' t _	z—,	' iBC* rt deteutr* It©« e*r»j «f the'
lent CTFAttn	ls> >**tan* ”* United maw
v ^‘vup	|Bl0 BCT, m^sunn,: 5>r
.	* ’at ptrorrv imwns, end mcx!» nn
nrlaut phusro at th* tn«-
s • *•» ’ I er*— wilf viibrun rtf->ri» tn«r >pM-*n«x JrviwtnnMidrLOas (at ran VroUm *<tojn.
I T!ir H’ Rey tel Item !• OC»«* ner. C»>hali” fawbop ri Manixpa v»t ta »ddro$» the drtctzro tror* 'it# Cbftrato cnltexr’ »nd umrom *atte» here far ihe romrri’<’n .st 9 fas tMHng nt bl Foul» Ur •; hermr itapeL Th* Jtc, lr At 1 ‘rt» KuttWrn wo* *“ ^_k—. ••-.
8 Hmpf ~Hoiur Glifrt! — Home I
End Racing Religions,
w/?***^	"*■ 'f ri She.
.KhA say p Ml! •ypnr-jtDl rhe tvsn>TM} puturfai»>n ry t •rose, and *ui	rtJJ.
*'«b aad wnwrJc fainm
Iprorm* ifamaandt itnm «is.ne a ■ruLede educatnm
L^F* MOHMkjrr tor «n
’cauirr Awnraft aJaeeot uroM»r«-J itttie, nlueh »m c&lmiute hei* io |toe adoption ri Lbe NSA eos»bti> IW. «« ste *Un lart war w The U,$ ttudoat tirlex»te» Uiu JOiersainuu] student smew
’£2? «»ri*»sed by the beV tCHnrri pengnmf t>( MUr Wloa-P«K^U!V^S-cU.^'.“”‘: s“'”‘'1
»»»ths advtMbdtty ri* [.Mmiag a aauongi	rrutto
AtacncpB «X ™ driewtw M tie rS®??.***1 Wtavrea ft? idea
• c“Uns**l»°«-rpi}
w^<J®SSy»«5>- '
,««> u,»r
as J"
$;S"«pS teSA*l“'**s«’'“M^St
t oY'”,lcy» campuses.
h Plea Io MA Dehgat^ CP- V«l far Pr„tUtnx - ~ ----------C Ueuar Brluratianai
PPortunit^ JorNegroes
v stu^tni iimaiuun |MC1
roltnni., dt’nfawrM^ 1„ •nd
‘Xr'7U”'' ■““» u » ri lh?M* i’^i “f	Relief
beturflj*-	* ‘ oo-er w<y
AJ/wnew u to »h-
«U«d -a tfee toil, ,&,£*
“I”’-«
^”“7 S
ninutbinete, of CtowA. Jaxl*’
«”3V Sea» * Tkl PbTAtowj* ?
22s««i^<»£.&,r
™»»«>. u.i
7—“——-	- • <-• •
l“- -“**?** »IWiolcJ hl
Cr u! ir 7 ?u<i:''a ~	rat f^.
^K-^'Ssd
*ate n( |*A^1
Joa\<io> Mg iit \j. JV *1 ntornma Lh«,
. t- ,*t	’,> r^reaw rapid*
r-rftoeBt ^imp
“I »»fb 1 far *"* ’’’““•’We
” *« 'JMent	rwaca
r«Ur\;^*:‘ ,*,*Uw* >*a «ri. £"^r' Med«.*» <alle«* v»to
Ve n«d me Uw4n{
’NSA Votes to Negotiate for. 1VS Provisional Affiliation
r*e*e*jrtes to tto tattana? jd>*t>on ahm wfadei th* pirn .«i«»n dent MnristlMi <*n»distlAh*i fast “na darwian of the MSwhieh^ tootmtaa bm SBBdsjr ariher* n»y tw »peeifietHy ropudUterf ?*d ‘hrir wroth* roouairer to.the N^A ahsU b*nd nr ,biH be b*SW sepotutfaAa tor »iniJUM'!p«b’i,hed st repreKBUns the. with the irftKMbnMt Velon rifapfaums uf Arne-wan stuteatr’' » StudrtU on s ww!w»! twit |	• • *	i
OsnettJ rm iMsr*Mp of toe \SA i TBT Drri!»K»Y to permit prp-s iu tb* world aMert uatap hew* vuionsl afC.vicn w» made be aj extf ran tint t» PfvwpJUSrd nn~ rote of ASP ta 3$. end *a« the *««! 13 approwd a^V** full XSA ro«* msjar «W-^x>n at Ost dste&stet jtm oext ouutepi. Asdranfled by .from the 3^© »riwel« at their '* {na>aiit*ef tbomantortril'Tn IweeWwj e*»r*fitian. Mett of tte 1 A rcmltri>«i We propotod *f t iCMnsuei mt par F. rob *i >
NSA to Work) ForProvisional IUS Affiliation —*	51
WcttllriTJnp 31 tl S t B©J n sdned Itui y>* VSA roue tr OKMbrUh^Xt fsMlwrexA.! * "vnwily pariien toe ^Art tilKe » A	«• “W«WW toe
- Kaunc© by Cnllrgcsjrutujtfti ta mocd the '	*	-	a si,e^ of ab lmsiipr sad bwJWwc.
j <CoiSbaarA font pepe ta 4 in-'xtinnm coctrory to ag om-Idelepetes frier&ad to tMr hi»M>| ♦!* wwp» *M program aM b* jSttoday ■fabi. BOdtossi and na-3pi*i’«r*d fur to»Mbte diSinitw* ?t>Mal Jfltt.edDtwp will roeUsoel aM d/roppohumepta*' Jie writM rm^tbe «fort>n%n camp J Th* tateraaUwuJ srlnYim pan*
in '*’* s,Vs^ **»cr foTp»t tiiat in' 'rM’’mtitw* _Nnmdin*. mor?
I rkuicncan Students Meet At Madi
—1———{By fhfaiUi Kefey in The Frocre^*} 1 ................  ■
ATHOt^A'CD AawncM atadent* trW'Wderik »?«Tl eMcpriurd >«oe tplr*
CrilMT-tot 00 to* Unlve*ty ri IkiMwi-itoyd Mtaber ri dri*nw* atd obtain* •in catapvi at ^Udiaca tri* **»k iar\»t* wqttaf r»'eo vf ottKv* A dmoo 1
■abut pnunfm to be U* auM r*pre»*R!M,«rX'*torifc were toe target ■ otudent emifereseo trer beta fa the t.’«iced't»W'»i»d»nt« pirirni «n>) lot tot tsB 1 States. A miiBoa «>U»x* ood uaurtrpily toe bUr«o of Um- uadi ri i dcote wilt be rottfwwried bv dHrtifs, rleried!1** Utpt AMhoJac itudMt 4<c£ratutli* 1 tTWO about ric casepoM* and entry roncetvto«*sn»is Orii	«Bd ttw S
1 ahta Mri ri rfufleri twx<BUaban lodu&adJWmtiaii ri Cribri* OfUate Mude»* 1 » B*tofa*ofle croup* art We *u b*b*if of iaMn!*eU«e p»rie>p«MA Hama ivtrivril tai 3 • •ttheste caaro* f world fedmlhm yrdrirt'1* he turirtiwori “ to* Catoohc «t«kB 1	Catbrilctam tMert trifijswnmwit.***** wppwimc the sDiVstfna ri the »
sMeUrodutu. jnoiMciof d«aoc*«cv, Z>oei4si.i*tuttom oesABCsifaii with to* lateral 'Cxaununhtc atri. mtaxipoJlUrioQ. wdl ofamUttM* ft btvderiK upon sjourones of rbt ptatidpalM.	.Pto* auUtapmy for ttw *XSA,“ at it tel
,	ffarpMe ri th* meeUfiS to fa set up rifiw»lfa,roD*t fa pritex*! i»Httrr»	* f
i	a nt* and «u4Gr!u«i*e nrifeoM *fMtM orcte I - — ,	. . .. «., . _ 1
1	MrifcM l* Iritt* th* i*t ri Itai	ywwt te fa* riDUotaM A
I BrtwtWuut mtfWtari «nd *durttaStali,<^*	?!?£** ^.‘1
I «j«w>rtMrifaAtbe •*<««»»» H	.1
j irtent iMrifuneBi an* ri tfud*ri*l*®ifr	rontutaiiewl cMeoistaw! wtet*
• (operetta*, th* betirttaeni ri riuderi Urine!15** “d* u^dwtdwtte b«4«ve dne ri toe J 1 Jeondtetaw ond Ux UcSitattan ri	c^rt-W. A ree«rt <«u-us ri wwl
I l>wta«ir»UriMd«*to«8<*. ' |fa* ritrieirt *r?anu»tloa» pjrtirtpsteait irte
» , *	;XbA unaniB**r*iy rerioruri BMlwiNila*
Tins n—• .ue—1 ■»>«»> r« O,	•• «»	«« CMMt >tw|
u« » »«« a v. s *««•<« i. m	J
non»« tan. u UM »> ««»• «wnl*W!S '»*	5» *”« .??
V..4 .noun u bacon. X»wl<-»>l'il’’“,"> •»,«•** mW*. «*o-«imS unhote ri far Xatotwatfaeal Urmw ri SUfa,*r d*d«t*K	, I
deal* rftiSi they had helped fans. Tbcj w [ Thw wjw opporo porUctoaMiM fa tor ■ OBiiod a ottoorterifed «adeni cmMoceherMiicjasl Vjupn ri ^udeota to 1 st Umi Cfitrtrwty «* Cfaiuto fat* DtnMtbri.UUeyed	vneta Us tofmeetta* w«
.where Mwersi faadred deJec»t** fra* croroHb* C.otocM<*fatari<pd»<Md rtTotfa FwUTri* < part ri th* A fated State* agreed fata a «troM>f todiacr*ae YextUtr *wd fat AeetraM ri 1 {prtvrat ocjraeftatfa* war ■ root need ri th»{eaMtitufaw» wbkh speak taotriy ri tfafae* lAfMtMA Muderi eoataturi^ nt faey.	wd wocWriba . . *evry*t>ri» 1
Th^»e*t« to tauta a.	fta* wwta” »m»«t ati*MriM« fa <tefi<
I Ttero was cwtotoabte Mrttot** taeM*t’t*rwa »r awtbode of acti*iL	1
now ta lever ri anaiauw xfasan <b« ftl
wsliff «I? &*****“• rontott way be	wifa-tiull
ri fw*<* rtwteMK tori CtawBwnm tel .yys^jy,,— ,n J^.	fe apt to Ptodoortiw fa any wriere*!
lyS^L^yj^gy	«awMS*ti<» ta ¥W! toe t!a«*d Sfate’l
,y *^s** wat •<***«• ted faM, tf Aarrttw MJtoiprl room* talas fa» d*Ur« eteuato fa far I Vteri to MaWteri.	*|«*n»e«A	■
nwdtfmiMrifWCiiMriStatnlttenW! '	*	•	•	■
I beta ftrraarrid Iteatete Aritta. wt* hriL ., - .
Wefa hw» elect* ri toe UeM^F*** *•*< j*a* ** atty riChfaaea ArierteeM Vimtim o— - J I
WO*ritapter>erireie'	*
TMtrirf *-
f »Kl.Er.AT»OSs rori«*«iB; 3«r 3d XbA raxiunt of Use V'ded Stales hillrlcl ul Columbia Atos--,i». PaHteHMrv aed }U«ai named; .ttiMrmea wtw» remami&t beer io WM’Khttb ItriiismB Weh&.M> -Xfonii pratadest, Cud Otter 0*> tonal o<iw> to sec Kp the be»S-
ipterlCft M0rr here.	‘
CevrCe -Cjpanll ri J^sUaviJle.
txtte trwnriT toll***, *» nuMd ebatrman ri th* VtemnUs driW-,ti«n Oihrt eflleers ri the Bribe* detejtiUcn 'tcrmwKiBjr t* Wt> cceria eoJltpet and tmiwtiitot are
• John KHUsn. ri lie coir*rfi«? ‘exletux* rmlzr >t MjFratikee, ttlro^irmderi fur'Jnlers»t»ri!al ri> fatrw Lyas K <•«** tinneOtty at WrSWBMla oo-ed iron MJlv» kee. Wee WeSSect foedomcriicaf* tUrr ,
Joan UaveriTril, BeMl colteto' tororiary; * ATaua, Sc^etaif 3r^ utrCNsre »Ute teirtieea cri^a utwnr. and Jeay Sleet* Mar-irnrtte snleeiyUy. KSA nctecal rddix
Th* rastoori oSken. pledged to rtMtpersie vith tt»te_ mnritrpaJ and tmirersKy crtxipe piaErdwif (ng Wbeotsm't tooth aarivemn of •xttftuod fa 1JM& * *	>
W^TK»KA1Te!HTO* and pron^ dentlsl WctQriive Mds »iQ ba »&“ houbee! trier
O'ttt ehairnMn vf tsijwrit drip* rattan* include-,	'
; ?«>»*—TtjTwap Bwaty Lssaa t *o!>st. Dttbcqoej Xritb sm ftouth ■ iMkria- Gloria Com !®»nk Da-koto State Mfrrojuaweotlesft; in* 'diaeAxDmsrt TrtwkiMd. ladiana «i»l» tci£b«n eri>?e VtU^Jin ^GMSUgtez. /sbiti Cnrnil Boiler*: 'Wacto—Ssa GdAm. Vmitritty . ri CbKMot	—• Kinrr
J WaUtasK VrivMrtiji ri MRlutan-rKasMa, XUKturL mid Nehfart*— rPatntte Brons, Ksryrilte «aUo*t.
St TmIs.
irteldctt fcTUBSMOU , ; Ahwm the armitriota
roffoadtac wauftUw
n» «luh prtsaaptee *ifa eecxrdi
te^rthcr with jwwl* who d’J ®x
ftwmetocrwtWsW torffroiriihorwyfas p»*fa>» >9 »<*«*
u<
■art tntasmataey fr».£dMt t^*MkuU ftwri cirirUwt luajOTiieari MMakty.fM3iri«ih*Hhn0t«ttrktlm,imt
rmMMUM ri toe Mated
the	auUwAtr to]
t~»± m M<enarr svillu* Mi ewtt}
bemt gMMtead. *«ad that tt Srt—M *fe* *0 Mdl m the 30 XSA LfWl writ* • «MTOe ri ««to* <M«y1» deabas inth iw itMM «t MCnCKtoE.
«Mmmb »t» ««
[IL’S A rort iMjgniy Caused ri$ en-tioth *tfa !Wrw» mtriettre tsafaceara* mA nesi-rriiMt ’ | The WS-*fa»t teriM. mA ane
ttv BSWMB	Be PtWSM
!«uu nstoa riawm «m »«». hl ■baB W the PoUe? ri th* CtdieaL , Stale* Xatosol bnatan aaaociaUss;
IMcteOteteB *M*d
lomtod
• “Iha i_________	_
enrefoe b» tutt i>gBU a* • eAtees is Mrtriaf nd partfewUSf »» Joed. stfiMat ri tstwritwial or* far IMeUMual ro-hpav«;aoei*L>otaieat crjecon^nwe pupaaet. and to pvMtsbi and dia-wiWe toew t»»w ’
The MsA aiLrd eotiefifr to oflopi i mor* u&ni prtr; ,«> erwiat n-txJHihipi. auppotted tmtnrttm VI tobfiMeMf X*. trtc«ma>eft4*d a natanat nrrev
|O* ymblm at
ren* Md MQ-&IW
■> itWMfh Tuesday	( ri hu««i*r jec^mendrd a£ui>
I' iiiiian~.i< "?*|	_,,,, kt o«i Rttlaf that Amertean k<u*
Megatestaud ] leuti kive * lesymtsxW ty fa the-u, ~	f n^rW HO4pftt mmsauniiy tn
, iHJMty ©I VJKIlpUS	1 “Uaro uiwe aUmt Ito writd st
?►« « fr* «&rieet fl^ctotct < *«”t. ’each the rm ri ito p<w-id tn the Mstbaui Student awo- * '•tout Ito f S , sod k»rn to wnr*
ratCan meutittrtXJf n*W	with p*»lr *tu> do nX
Don -Writ sstlcteriU trepmwd wynsjniv stun: tfccit !deol«Q by tha beasfr ri the WMemoto uM priiwal p*dctoiA**.~ euspo'«ri it* edueato>i>»3 >	* t. *	x,
fidKtxi to want to rsxril here. k MXCK TW*NSA «m$trtvt»«toi Criwnhx	Mid ttCay ^ewnrsUos cot under w»y itawr*

i&ita mm .defeat, _Md Or Pba ’ |*hidi ^smta niiMlatten tor «f-taiatiM, b msnm tervtty « * pvtaMT M W cMter nA ri^|

•SCHOLASTIC SCCLTT
Team Shapes Up As First Game Nears: National Championship Defense Is Goal
dependable self. Ted “The Bull” Bu-dynkiewicz, Emil Ciechanowicz, Gus Cifelli, John Helwig, Ed Hudak, Ralph McGehee, Bill Russell, Ken Schuster, and Al Zmiejewski are in the fight.
There is nothing of cockiness or arrogance in football teams at Notre Dame. Perhaps that is why she has millions of friends the world over. Right now the Irish are on the top rung of collegiate football. Yet, as Coach Frank Leahy and his well chosen staff of lieutenants meticulously drilled their ^-charges, it was apparent that no game on the schedule is being taken lightly. The opener Oct. 4, in which we will try to bag a panther at Pittsburgh, is just as important as trying to saddle the Trojan Horse at Los Angeles ten weeks hence.
REGULAR PRACTICE sessions got under way Sept. 8. But long before that the boys had been pointing for this season. Last spring they put in a gruelling six weeks of calisthenics and scrimmages. During the summer many of them took jobs in steel mills, quarries, and factories. Reporting for fall practice the first thing they were told was that no first string positions were cinched. Since then all candidates have been outdoing themselves to make that traveling squad.
® Should Notre Dame successfully defend its national championship this year there are seven players who will enjoy the unique distinction of having played on three national championship teams at the same school, a rare distinction indeed in collegiate football. Those players are: Zig Czarobski, Fred Earley, Gasper Urban, Joe Signaigo, John Lu jack, Art Statute and George Sullivan.
Let’s look at the prospects for the '47 squad. Lost frem the ’46 squad are headline grabbers like John Mastrange-lo, George Tobin, Jack Zilly, Bernie Meter, Gerry Cowhig, George Ratterman, Bob Skoglund and Fred Rovai. That’s a crop for any club to lose — even Notre Dame. This means that in ’47 the reserve corps is not as certain as it was at the start of last season.
# AT THE WING POSTS Jim Martin, as consistent as ball players come, has
By DAVE WARNER
already been tabbed potential All-American fodder. Leon Hart, looking like a veteran for all his 18 years; Doug Waybright and Bill Wightkin all blotters who soak up everything that flies through the air, especially when it’s end zone bound. Those four are being pushed hard by Frank Kosikowski, who went from end to guard and back to end, Bill Michaels, Zeke O’Connor, Frank Lesko, Ray Espenan, “Hoppy” Leonard, Rod Johnson and Al Burnett.
THEN THERE are the tackle positions where they come king-size and with the healthiest appetites this side of your home town. Captain George Connor, acclaimed the best lineman in the country last season, should have no trouble gathering those All - American sweaters again. When Zig Czarobski means business he’s tough to keep out of that starting line-up. And Zygmont does mean business. But if George Sullivan’s trick knee would take a ten-week holiday he wouldn’t have to take a back seat for anyone. Sullivan, the Notre Dame version of the Boston strong boy, was the fifth man in Army’s backfield last year. Gasper Urban is still his old
OVER A TON OF MASS GAINS MOMENTUM
Here are the ten “little linemen" from whom Coach Frank Leahy will choose his starting forward wall. Left to right: Leon Hart, uiggy Czarobski, Joe Signaigo, Bill Walsh, George Strohmeyer, Marty Wendell, Bill Fischer, George Sullivan, George Connor and Jim Martin. Every one of 'em tips the scales at 200 or better.
MARTY WENDELL may pull a Bernie Crimmins by winning monograms at three different positions. Last year he was a center; before that he played fullback. Now he’s at guard where Leahy thinks he will show up most advantageously because of his smart, smack-’em-down defensive ability. But the Chicagoan still has a tussle on his hands trying to beat out Memphis Joe Signaigo for the starting assignment. Rugged Bill Fischer is as tough as they come and big and aggressive enough to go bear hunting with a smile. The “Moose” plays his heart out every second he is in there. Did you happen to hear the ovation he received in New hind those boys pending an injury, are John Connor, Leo Couch, Jim Dailer, Joe Fallon, John Frampton, Frank Gaul, Frank Harty, Joe Helwig, Bob Lally, Bucky O’Connor, Gerry Rams-berger, and Steve Oracko, who was up for a cup of coffee in 1945 before being drafted.
THE PIVOT post finds an interesting duel between George Strohmeyer, an All-American, and Billy Walsh, the Jersey Jolter who made them forget Syz-manski in 1945. Just before the Illinois (Continued on Page 24)

OVER THE GOALPOSTS
■lll■l■iltllll■(lt■■■tallllttt■llllUl■latllalllttl(■lllllal■■llltllalalllalallaaal|||laatalilaalllluaaall■■ll■aaaataaaHltt■al■■alllllaalli■lllaaaalll■allllllllalltll■aaalsaa|
Wdk Pete Humum,
Late in the summer many of the experts on sports in general, and football in particular, gathered their thoughts and started to pick the teams and players of the year. One of the gentlemen got so ambitious that he picked a back on his first string pre-s e a s o n AllAmerica who was a member of a professional squad. But we are all allowed a few mis-। takes.
|] All of these ex
perts agreed on one thing. Notre Dame will be in the A-l, double-plus class and all other teams will start at several notches below the Irish par. Francis Wallace went so far as to say that this year’s team would be the greatest college squad ever to step on a gridiron. Bill Stern, the man who lateraled to Jack Zilly in last year’s Illinois game, picked eight members of the Notre Dame squad on his four-team All-American. This group included Jim Martin, Leon Hart, George Connor, George Sullivan, George Stroh-meyer, Bill Fischer, Marty Wendell, and John Lujack. As you can see the first seven men make up a full line. Mr. Stern, you can’t go too far wrong that way.
HOWEVER, it is a good thing that Notre Dame’s nine opponents are very critical people and don’t believe everything they read in the public prints. If they were so gullible, it is likely not one of the teams would show up on the scheduled date. The only advantage to a calamity like that would be Notre Dame’s first unbeaten, untied, and unscored upon team in history. But as the cards stack up now, the Irish face nine teams, any one of whom might have that fourth ace up their sleeve on a given Saturday.
New Masterminds
Three of the opponents have new coaches. They are Pittsburgh, Purdue, and Northwestern. The men from the Steel City have basically the same squad which came here last year. It is entirely possible that with one game under their belt and playing Notre Dame on familiar grounds in Pittsburgh might
give the Panthers the advantage they need. The second game is played at Purdue. The Boilermakers, rated no better this year than their last place berth in the Big Nine last season, have potentially a strong passing offense, which might break loose and cause a great deal of trouble on October 11. They have Bob DeMoss on the pitching end and some good receivers in Ned Maloney, Clyde Grimenstein, Bob Heck, and Herb Hoffman.
Nebraska has a coach who in his playing days was one of the better quarterbacks in Chicago Bear history. Bernie Masterson held down the Bear pivot spot before Sid Luckman arrived on the scene. Another feather in his cap is the development of Frankie Albert, quarterback in Stanford’s dream backfield of 1940. If the material is there, you can be sure that Bernie Masterson will get the best out of it.
Dark Horses
Iowa has Dr. Eddie Anderson and a team which is supposed to be the class of the Western Conference. Also Dr. Anderson has a quaint habit of upsetting his alma mater as witnessed in 1939-40. Navy is rated as tops in the East and the Middies always seem to be set when the Irish Terrier and the Goat tangle. The gentlemen from Annapolis proved that they have it when they need it in their near upset of Army last season. About Army there are but three things to say; 59-0, 48-0, and 0-0.
NORTHWESTERN has a new coach, Bob Voigts, and is playing on its home field, but still has almost the same team as last season. However, the Wildcats can never be counted out until the last gun is shot by the timekeeper. Tulane plays a different brand of football than we are familiar with in the mid-west. They could be a surprise. Then there is Southern California. They have a powerful team which by itself is a threat to any team. They also have the advantage of familiarity with the warm climate in which they play. Any eastern team is at a distinct disadvantage moving from their crisp fall weather to the land of milk and honey.	.
Even with all these possibilities of disaster, Coach Leahy says, “We have a (Continued on Page 31)
Student Coaches See^ Eager Interhall Stars
In a brief, but interesting interview with Messrs. Napolitano, Maxwell, and Szekeley of the Phy. Ed. department, the Scholastic learned this week of the plans for the inter-hall athletic program for the early fall. And once again, the department has come up with a winner.
WITH THIRTEEN teams entered in the football circuit, a full schedule is being arranged under the direction of Mr. Napolitano.
The hall teams have been divided into two sections, the East and the West. The games will be played according to the days designated on the schedule on^x the athletic field, located directly behind^' the tennis courts. Both sections will play in a round-robin fashion, and the champions of the two will meet in the play-offs. All teams will practice under a student coach, in preparation for the opening day, October 20th. And it will last probably for eight weeks.
Anyone is eligible to compete, with the following exceptions: those men who have been members, at one time or another, of 1) the freshman squad 2) the “B” team orr 3) the varsity. All must have a physical examination. Game time is four o’clock.
Mr. Maxwell is hopeful that enough men will turn out for soccer, so he may arrange a full schedule. He is attempting to develop a varsity squad possibly to compete with other colleges. The schedules of former years have been run on a small basis, with four campus clubs aswJ competitors. If enough potential soccer players report, the schedule will be arranged on a round robin principle similar to football.
EIGHT HALLS have entered the inter-hall baseball fray. Mr. Szekely is in charge of organization and supervision. Keen competition is expected in the practice games which run all this week. These practice games and those of the regular schedule, which opens next Monday, are to begin at 3:30. The games will be played five afternoons per week, Monday through Friday. Because of the limited number of entries, the round robin type of tournament will be discarded.
Plans are now being formulated for a full schedule of inter-hall sports during the school year. On the bill of fare are basketball, swimming, cross country and other sports that have facilities and^) interested contestants.—Joe Archibald. 1
22
•SPLINTERS
from the PRESSBOX
By JIM BUTZ
From a point of ticket sales and preseason ballyhoo, the 1947 collegiate football season should be the greatest
national champions.
in history. Most of the experts have . already conceded the national title to Notre Dame — much to Coach Leahy’s regret. But a look at the roster of the nine opponents of the Irish shows that Leahy’s lads will have nine very interesting after-noons before being recrowned as
Pitt will operate under a new coach, Walter Milligan, who is scrapping the T and installing the single wing again. The Panthers will have back nine of the regulars who stopped Notre Dame’s running game last year and can count 28 lettermen including those from 1944 and 1945. Iowa will be a definite threat to the Irish. Three former Notre Dame men will be on the Hawkeye’s coaching staff. Dr. Eddie Anderson is the head coach, and he is assisted by Frank Carideo and Jack Meagher. Thirty-three lettermen dot Iowa’s roster.
That Man Scott Again )
Navy, in the words of their coach, Capt. Tom Hamilton, “will concede nothing.” Center Dick Scott will captain the Midshipmen with seventeen other monogram veterans from last year to aid him. Army will have but nine lettermen back, but their first string should prove to be a powerful eleven. Joe Steffy, who received the “Lineman of the Week” Award following the Army-Notre Dame scoreless tie of last year, will lead the Cadets.
Northwestern sports a new coach also in Bob Voigts. Thirty lettermen were included in the group of 66 called back for fall practice. Southern California lost 13 monogram men from last year’s squad, but they will have 28 returning plus 23 freshmen who won their numerals.
Johnny Lujack’s popularity is attested to by the stacks of fan mail that pour into 115 Sorin throughout the year, but a new high was reached recently when a picture request came in from
Freshman Football Draws Forty Candidates
Freshman football came back to the campus a week ago after a lapse of five years, when around forty frosh reported to Cartier Field to get in shape as varsity scrimmage partners.
Bill Vangen, Jack Fallon, and Bill Heywood, who are in charge of the team aided by Marty Brutz and Joe Yonto, report some good prospects on this year’s squad. They include Bill Kirchner, a tackle, whom the coaches say to watch. He is a workhorse and looks mighty good. Likewise at tackle, Dean Thomas and SteMarie bear watching. Cartwell at end with Kuh and Figel at guards show promise. Two centers, Yanochick and Groom look like varsity material. In the backfield, Tom Carter and O’Leary at quarter, Landry, Homes, and Croll at half, along with O’Neil and Maxwell at full are the standouts.
TALENT SCOUTS TAKE A BREATHER
The new freshman squad coaching staff talks shop in a restful pose. Left to right: Jack Fallon. Marty Brutz. Bill Vangen. Bill Heywood, and Joe Yonto. The quintet has charge of first year men. who for the first time since the war are segregated on one squad because of the revived freshman rule.
the secretary to Eric Wilson, Iowa athletic publicity chief. Add Notre Dame football men who made good . . . Jim Flanagan, monogram end on the 1943 national champs, withdrew from school to enter St. John’s Seminary in Brighton, Mass.
The average size of the 1947 gridder at Notre Dame is 5’ 10% ” tall and 186 pounds. This mythical player is a shade
The frosh job this year is no easy one, for as the coaches say “They face the toughest schedule of any team in the country, the Notre Dame varsity.” They must learn the plays of the following week’s opponent and run them against the varsity. Then to fill out the afternoon they must go on defense against the same group.
Also back tomorrow afternoon, for the first time since forty-two, will be the Varsity-Freshman game in the stadium. This game will be open to all. This is your chance to see the future Notre Dame teams in action. Who knows, there may be some future Lu jacks, Sitkos, Signiagos, Urbans, Earlys, and Rovais. The latter were a few of the last freshman squad. It might be of interest to note that Bob Snyder, coach of the Los Angles Rams, was frosh coach in Forty-two.—Tom Hynes
over 20 years old. The tackles are the largest of the individual positions, averaging 6’2” and 209 pounds while the halfbacks are the smallest of the grid-ders with an average of 5’10”, 172 pound build. Twenty states are represented on the varsity with the middle west predominating. Illinois has fourteen boys on the team, twelve of them hailing (Continued on Page 31)
23
Summer Sports Picture Brightened By Top Notre Dame Performers
By JIM BUTZ
While the summer was a breather from the rigors of the academic year for most, the fair name of Notre Dame was constantly paraded across .the nation’s sports pages by a group of our golf, tennis, and baseball representatives.
The unbeaten tennis charges of Coach Walter Langford added the Central Collegiate Conference team, singles, and doubles titles to their season’s record before Jim and Jerry Evert, Charlie Samson, Bill Tully, and Bob David shoved off for the National Collegiates at UCLA with a couple of stops en route. Jim Evert copped the singles title and shared the doubles crown with brother Jerry in the Illinois state tourney. Next came the Oklahoma state championships where the Everts were crowned as doubles kings and Jim went to the finals in singles Play.
Notre Dame finished fifth in the Nationals with Jim Evert going to quarterfinal play before being eliminated by Gardner Larned, eventual champion. The Everts advanced to the semi-finals before losing in the National Clay Courts tourney at Salt Lake City. In the Pacific Northwest tournament Jim went to the singles finals and was beaten with his brother in the doubles finale.
Once more the Everts scored a sweep in the Canadian Nationals, Jim snaring the singles title and teaming with Jerry to take doubles honors. Things were re
ATHLETIC COUPON BOOKS	,
Students must present their athletic certification (green slip) at Stadium Gate 14, at the following times ONLY, to receive Athletic Coupon books for 1947:
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS: Monday, October 6, one to five p. m. JUNIORS: Tuesday, October 7, one to five p. m.
SOPHOMORES: Wednesday, October 8, one to five p. m.
FRESHMEN: Thursday, October 9, one to five p. m.
MARRIED STUDENTS: A student whose wife is in residence may purchase an Athletic Coupon Book for a seat adjoining his at Stadium Gate 14, Friday, October 10, one to 4:30 p. m. Price, $7.80, including tax. This book will be valid for home football games only and will not be honored for other athletic contests. MARRIED STUDENTS DESIRING WIVES' ATHLETIC BOOKS WILL NOT PROCURE THEIR OWN BOOKS BY CLASSES AS ABOVE BUT MUST OBTAIN THEIRS SIMULTANEOUSLY WITH WIVES' BOOKS ON OCTOBER 10. Married students must present University identification cards certifying as to their marital status.
STRAGGLERS: Saturday morning, October 11, 9 to 11:30 a. m.. Stadium Gate 14. NO BOOKS WILL BE ISSUED AFTER OCTOBER 11.
Signature of the Student is required at time of issue, therefore all certifications must be presented in person.
FOOTBALL TICKET COMMITTEE
versed in the Wisconsin state tourney as Jerry beat Jim in the singles final and the duet captured the doubles championship.
Playing in the National Amateurs at Forest Hills, Jim Evert was unfortunate enough to draw Dinny Pails, Australian singles champion, in the first round and was eliminated.
In the golfing field Jack Fitzpatrick, one of Father Holderith’s mainstays this past spring, garnered quite a few writeups in Akron, Ohio, this summer as he breezed his way to the Akron District Amateur title. A few weeks prior to this he surprised spectators by advancing to the semi-final round in match play in the Ohio State Amateur title fight. Jack fired the lowest round of the tourney, a 68, during a rain storm.
A freshman monogram winner on the golf squad this spring, Ray Burian of Joliet, Ill., flashed his best form of the season in copping the Hearst Tournament in Chicago with a 69-67—136. Ray earned a trip to Los Angeles to compete in the National Hearst Tournament where he was beaten.
Tom Sheehan, twice captain of the Irish basebailers, played the summer out with York, Pa., in the Class “B” Interstate League. Tom joined the club in June and caught 100 ball games for them, and assembling a healthy .280 average. (At one stretch of the summer he caught 24 straight games in 24 days.) Sheehan is due for a tryout with the Pittsburgh Pirates next spring.
TOM SHEEHAN	S
In 24 Days, 24 Games
Another boy who made good in the minor leagues this summer was Tom Clemente who handled the first base chores for Hutchinson, Kansas, a Class C Chicago Cub farm. Tom swatted out a .295 average.
And speaking of bang-up jobs by Notre Dame men this past summer, let's not forget Coach Frank Leahy’s masterminding the College All-Stars to an upset 16-0 victory over the Chicago Bears. There were seven of last year’s Irish who played a prominent part in the AllStar triumph including George Ratterman, Jim Mello, Jack Zilly, John Mas-trangelo, Bob McBride, Jerry Cowhig and Bob Skoglund.
Not quite a part of Notre Dame bu|| still worth mentioning is the Western Junior and Boy’s Tennis Championship held here during the summer. The boys who participated were thoughtful enough to send a card of appreciation to Father Cavanaugh. University officials did a great job in handling the tournament. The Tourney was under the immediate supervision of Mr. John Scannell.
Team Shapes Up
(Continued from page 21) game of that year there was weeping on the campus when the Detroit Pole was declared ineligible by a Big Ten ruling. But Walsh, then a 17-year-old freshman, stepped in and played terrific football and has been playing it ever since. Walt Grothaus, who started his football with Walsh in ’45, is a boy to keep your eye on. Grothaus is just back from the wars. As the season progressed Don Carter, John Jeffers and Art Sta-
24
^uto are boys who may throw pre-season predictions for a loss.
Another Surprise in Backs?
EVERY SEASON Notre Dams comes up with a sleeper ball carrier. Last year it was Coy McGee, the jackrabbit from the plains of Texas who swivel-hipped and snake-danced his way to fame 77 yards down the chalk line against U.S.C. This year the sleeper could easily be one of two lads from the Windy City, Larry Coutre or Bill Gay. Both have run wild in the practice sessions. When you can run through Notre Dame — well, you know the rest! Johnny Lu jack will be working his magic at quarter with Frank Tripucka, Roger Brown and possibly Pete Ashbaugh to spell him. Lu-jack, the Connellsville Comet, has been Rooking better than ever and should have his greatest year in collegiate football. That word “possibly” before Ashbaugh’s name means that he is liable to see action on offense though his stock in trade is defensive duty. There isn’t a better defensive back in the country. He’s on those opponents’ backs like a dirty shirt. And how would you like the job every Saturday afternoon of tackling “Pep” Panelli every time he toted the leather. Stopping the Orange Blossom might be easier. The Morristown Italian received the Hering Medal as the hardest running back at Notre Dame last spring. This could be his greatest season. At any rate he is a nice boy to have on your side both offensively and defensively. Backing Panelli at fullback will be Cornie Clatt, Floyd Simmons, Len LeCluyse, Tom McCarty, and John Sinkovitz. Mike Swistowicz, a handy boy £it churning those legs when that first down is in sight, can play both halfback positions and fullback. Lancaster Smith, Mr. Mercury himself, and the fastest man on the squad, will be hard to keep out of that line-up come game time. Lank operates from the left half station as does Bobby Livingstone who seems to have regained the form he had before the Infantry slowed him down. Livingstone can stop on a dime, give seven cents change, then head for pay dirt. The Brennan boys, Terry and Jimmy, Bill Gompers and Emil Sitko are what you may have seen before only better.
Absent from the squad this year are Bill Vangen, Marty Brutz, Joe Yonto, Jack Fallon, Bill Heywood, and Ernie Zalejski. All but Zalejski are coaching freshman football, while the South Bend whiz is resting his injured knee.
Now go out and bet your dough on Notre Dame every game.
Gh^ue^'^ Gkattefc
By JOE CHENEY
After spending 109 days and nights away from Notre Dame’s spacious campus, I came back expecting to find a few minor changes here and there. But riding up Notre Dame avenue. I noticed that the Golden Dome still needed leafing; Bill, the cop, continued to stop all motor vehicles from swinging down Dining Hall avenue; and the buses heading town-ward were filled to capacity.
A quick glance in the Book Store told me that the new freshmen would have the Notre Dame T-shirts sold out before Brother Conan could get them unpacked. What a mob around the counters! I thought the long line stretching from the post office to the Book Store extension were vets waiting for their bar- cards until someone asked what book I needed.
I noticed that there are two new signs in the cafe: “Don’t break me. I like my work here.” One shows a glass, the other a plate. 'The last time I saw any signs like these was back in the second grade at grammar school when the teacher didn’t like the idea of us kids carving our initials on the desks. Somebody ought to tell Mr. Ford the average age of the present student body.
Speaking of the cafe, what about that extra 2 cents fox- cream in your coffee?
OH THEY FLY THROUGH THE AIR . ..
Emil Sitko. Johnny Lujack, John Panelli, and Bob Livingstone go through acrobatics for the cameraman. These four may well be the No. 1 backfield combine come Oct. 4.	■
Guess we’ll all have to get used to drinking it black. Look at the money we’ll save if we do. The average cafe-coffee fiend drinks three cups a day. That’s 6 cents a day; 42 cents a week; or about $7.56 a semester. Now multiply that about 2,500 times! ! !
Columbia Rumor
It is rumored that when General Ike takes over at Columbia University bugles will replace the bell system. After the profs take attendance (presuming they do at Columbia), they will sound off something like this: “Latin Class all present or accounted for; American History all present or accounted for; Weight and materials, one man AWOL.
“The unifonn of the day will be skull cap, plaid sport shirt to be worn outside the sport trousers, brown and white saddle shoes, key chain optional.”
In all seriousness, Grinning Ike may find himself in the spot when Columbia plays Army. Will he root for his alma mammy or sing the praises of Lou Little’s charges?
NJD. Loses Great Guy
After two days out on Cartier Field last week, Jim Flanagan, Irish end from West Roxbury, Massachusetts, made one of the greatest decisions of his life. Jim walked into the locker room, pulled off his sweaty jersey for the last time, and checked in his equipment with Mac. The following day Jim was on his way to St.
(Continued on Page 33)
25
INTRODUCING
Irish Fans Multiply 4 While Tickets Dwindle
By TOM McNALLY
As the machine of war that is the Notre Dame team of 1947 forges ahead past the blueprint stage and onto the proving grounds for the final adjustments and priming, it is not too early to hail the three men whose job it is to help keep this machine in the finest possible working order, parts oiled, cleaned and tuned! They are the managers— that all but forgotten segment of the squad whose duties are numerous enough to fill three typewritten sheets of paper about this time every year.
LARRY RYAN
Holding down the head manager slot this year is Larry Ryan who calls Bayfield, Wisconsin, his home. Larry, a senior in the Commerce school with Business Administration as his major, first came here in 1942 and remained until the spring of 1944, his last two semesters at the Navy’s expense. In December of that year he was commissioned and returned last September after 18 months sea duty.
Larry’s job as head manager embraces a number of varied and interesting jobs: He keeps a record of the time put in by each player towards his monogram, takes care of friends of the coaches, makes arrange m e n t s for team Mass and meals on the morning of the game, sees that the necessary equipment is always on the field and that the visiting team is taken care of before home games, and many other related details. But
it is on the trips that Larry’s real work begins for he must arrange transportation to and from trains, keep the team on schedule at all times, handle the sideline passes for the coaches and also handle class excuses for the players making the trip. But his main—and hardest— job on trips is to keep the team together at all times and thus make sure that a shifty back or hard charging lineman is not left stranded on some deserted railway platform!
LEO COSTELLO
Meanwhile, the second member of this triumvirate is Leo Costello, a Senior from .Patterson, New Jersey. Leo came here the same time as Ryan but left to join the Navy Seabees in the spring of

1943 and returned just last spring.
Leo is in charge of all the equipment issued out to the players, shoulder pads,
pants, both the green and blue jersies
and the rest. During practice this is more or less routine but not so on trips for then Leo has the added chore of packing 20 trunks full of equipment, or equipment enough to suit fully 50 men, besides packing such incidentals as extra rain pants, mud cleats —and 25 cases of South Bend water!
This last is a safety
measure to help prevent any sickness
among the players from drinking strange water on the trip. Furthermore, he must see that the trunks get to and from the station, unpack them and have
each player’s equipment ready and waiting for him before the game. Then, of course, after the game the whole process is gone through again and on the way back to school he may spend his time looking forward to next week’s trip and more of the same!
BILL BROWN
It might be suspected from the above list of duties that Larry has a little help in carrying them
out. He does, in the person of assistant man a g e r Bill Brown. Bill, an AB Junior from Dallas, Texas, came to Notre Dame in 1944 and returned last fall after a stretch in the Navy. His job is also manysided: First, he is pers o n n e 1 manager for the team and,
secondly, he, at present, has charge of the field during practice. Otherwise, Bill’s job is simply to help Ryan in every possible way throughout the season.
So there they are! Theirs is a thankless job in many ways but yet an indispensable one to that football machine which will battle in familiar Notre Dame
fashion again this year.
Just the other day Senator Taft came forward with the advice that all Americans should eat less, a suggestion which warmed the heart of Notre Dame’s ticket chief, dapper, industrious Bob Cahill. For 15 years now, whenever Mr. Cahill or his predecessors hung out the SRO shingle everybody congratulated everyone else and said wasn’t it wonderful, 56,000 people were watching the Fighting Irish. However, while formulating plans for the distribution of Army game ducats it occurred to one of the obviously less bright ticket-takers to count the seats: 53,468. Now either the average American beam has broadened with the passage of time or this gentleman—and the 17 who came after* him— can’t count. Whichever is the case it was decided to print 53,468 reserved seat pasteboards, a number puny when compared to the potential demand. Potential, because as early as last February it was announced there would be no public sale of tickets for the Army clash. Tire alumni, students, season ticket holders, parents of students, West Point, and University (administration, faculty, press, etc.) allotments would easily fill the stadium to an overflow. '
TWO OTHER home games also are sold out. Sales for the Iowa game closed September 10th, while Navy tickets went in an amazing four-day stampede (the Middie game is considered a home contest although played in Cleveland). There remain a few scattered locations at §3.60 apiece for the Nebraska and Tulane struggles but these games too, are expected to be proclaimed sell-out^, within the next week or ten days. Application blanks for these remaining seats are obtainable at the Athletic Office on the first floor of Breen-Phillips Hall. There has been no public sale of Northwestern or Southern Cal tickets since preferred alumni, season ticket holders, and box subscribers requests will exhaust Notre Dame’s allotment, which is generally one-quarter the capacity of the home team’s stadium.
As for games on the road, Pitt and Purdue have both nailed up their ticket offices following the early August example set by Northwestern. Out in Los Angeles where the Notre Dame alumni fold has quadrupled in recent years, there seems no doubt that the local Coliseum will jam in a capacity 102,000 to witness the Irish finale. For those with neither morning nor afternoon classes in December there are yet a few gaily colored pasteboards remaining, for th^ nominal sum of $5, excluding cost of transportation.
26
<Glee Club Holds Opening Rehearsals;
Hope To Excel Last Years Performances
With its opening rehearsal of last Monday, the University of Notre Dame Glee Club is now beginning its 32nd year.
Organized in 1915 by an undergraduate, Ward Perrot, the Glee Club then numbered twelve voices. It continued growing until 1927, when it took its place with the outstanding college choral organizations in the country. It was in this year that the Glee Club, under the direction of Joseph J. Casasanta, inaugurated the policy of making two or three concert tours a year outside the Midwest.
® Since that time the Notre Dame singers have appeared in almost every major city in the country. One of the Glee Club’s greatest years was 1936, when, together with the Notre Dame band, they broadcast over nationwide hookups on the stations of both the Columbia Broadcasting System and the National Broadcasting Company. On Easter Sunday of that year, the choristers presented a special concert with Paul Whiteman originating from New York.
Last fall, with the return to a semblance of normalcy, a hundred and fifty men, mostly veterans, reported to the Music Hall for the first rehearsal of the year. And after only one month of rehearsal Professor Pedtke, Head of the Department of Music and Director of the Glee Club since 1938, was so amazed at the enthusiastic and responsive rehearsals that he knew immediately that he ^vas going to have, not only one of the largest Glee Clubs in the history of the University, but also, one of the best.
After five months of rehearsal, the Club set out on its first concert tour, a trip covering four Midwestern cities and nine hundred miles. The reviews of the music critics confirmed Professor Ped-tke’s prediction. . . .
“. . . . their harmony is excellent; they follow their director, Daniel H. Pedtke most carefully; their diction is unerring.—Rockford (Ill.) Morning Star.
“Brilliant singing was done by the aggregate and by individual soloists . . . the group is excellently trained and well-balanced in the different voice sections and chorus numbers were all exceptional examples of group singing.—Sheboygan (Wis.) Press.
•.Then came Easter, and with it went the Glee Club. ... on an eight day jaunt that was to find them singing in
By LOU ALMASI
Syracuse, N. Y.; Lynn, Mass.; Hartford, Conn.; Poughkeepsie, N. Y.; Olean, N. Y.; Binghamton, N. Y.; Erie, Pa.; and Mansfield, Ohio.
This was the tour during which the musical perfection of the Notre Dame Glee Club completely enthralled the
DANIEL PEDTKE
Music Maestro, Please!
audiences and held them spellbound. They sang at the Bushman Memorial in Hartford, an auditorium that has been accustomed to the performances of only the best of operatic companies, an auditorium that has seen . . . and heard . . . every major collegiate glee club in the East. Newspapers the next day wildly acclaimed the Notre Dame Glee Club, saying they had presented the best concert Hartford has had in years.
With the Eastern approbations still ringing in their ears, the songsters invaded the South and took Nashville faster than Grant took Richmond. It was the same story everywhere the men went:
“. . . . a distinctly superior group of singers, welded together by the skill of a director who knows and loves his music, the Notre Dame men gave a program that will be remembered for some time . . . . concluding the program lucre several Notre Dame songs which were an eloquent and stirring tribute to the school of the Fighting Irish. And after last night's concert, there is little doubt in the minds of local Notre Dame boosters that no small share of the school's fame is due to the well-deserved reputation of its singing ambassadors.”
The compiling of statistics at the end of the year showed that the men covered six thousand miles in theii- wanderings and sang to a combined audience of 51,000 people.
There must be some truth in the saying:
“If you want to see the world, don’t join the Navy . . . join the Notre Dame Glee Club.”
Famed Scientists To Lecture Here
Two internationally-famous scientists —Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg of Berkeley, Cal., and Sir Ian Morris Heilbron of London, England—will deliver special lectures at the University of Notre Dame during the 1947-48 school year.
Dr. Seaborg, one of America’s foremost experts on nuclear energy will give the 1947 Nieuwland Lectures in Chemistry at Notre Dame the week of November 17, while Sir Ian, a world authority on vitamins and penicillin, has accepted Notre Dame’s invitation to be the first Reilly Lecturer in Chemistry and will visit Notre Dame during April and May, 1948. Both will lecture on latest developments in their special fields.
Dr. Seaborg, recipient of the American Chemical Society Award in Pure Chemistry for 1947, has achieved distinction as co-discoverer of three of the four known elements of atomic weight greater than uranium. One of the latter- was plutonium which was used in production of the atomic bomb. Dr. Seaborg also recently discovered two new elements, americium and curium. He is Director of Chemistry in the Radiation Laboratories at the University of California.
Sir Ian is Director of the Chemical Laboratories at the University of London. His work has been recognized by awards from the Royal Society and the Chemical Society in London. Last year he received the Priestley Medal, top award of the American Chemical Society.
PRE-MED STUDENTS
All pre-med students who expect to enter medical school in September 1948 must register in room 202 of the Chemistry Building DEFORE NOON TOMORROW for a professional aptitude test to be given October 25. You can not enter medical school unless you register for and take this test
27
"Scholastic" Digests Summer News
The follotving is a specially prepared digest of summer events at Notre Dame. The Scholastic is indebted to the Department of Public Information of the University for its help in compiling this summation of campus happenings during the past three months.
176 Awarded Degrees
Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, presented 176 degrees at summer school convocation, held August 12. Fifty of the degrees were awarded by the Graduate School. Of the remaining, 49 were conferred by the College of Commerce, 29 by the College of Engineering, 27 by the College of Arts and Letters, 18 by the College of Science, and three by the College of Law. Father John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president, delivered the convocation address.
Alumni Set Up Foundation
Establishment of a foundation to exp a n d endowment, development, and other plans of the University through its alumni and friends, was announced July 31 by Father Cavanaugh.
Aims of the University of Notre Dame Foundation, according to the University president, will be to “further the opportunities of the University in inculcating the concepts of Christian leadership through Catholic education and to help in achieving this objective through modernization and expanison of the physical plant; through greater
DEAN JAMES McCARTHY
Head of First Advertising School
concentration on pure and applied research; through creation of endowment and continuing income to assure the highest standards of Christian instruction and Catholic educational environment.”
A committee of fifteen prominent alumni will govern the foundation on behalf of the 20,000 members of the National Alumni Association. Father Cavanaugh will act as Director, with Harry G. Hogan of Fort Wayne, president of the alumni, serving as chairman. Vice-chairman will he James E. Armstrong, secretary of the alumni association.
Among the concerns of the foundation will be the University’s $12,000,000 long-range building program.
Campus Host to CA Study
ND was host to two groups of Catholic Action workers this summer, the fifth annual Catholic' Action Study Week foi* Priests, August 4-8, and a special week-end program of study, July 12 and 13, for students from Catholic colleges and universities.
- The former featured lectures by Canon Joseph Cardijn of Brussels, Belgium, founder of the Young Christian Worker movement, and Patrick Keegan, president of England’s YCW organization. Among the other speakers, who covered all phases of Catholic Action, were Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Catholic Action Moderator at Notre Dame, and Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., campus director of the Young Christian Students. Father Puts was in charge of arrangements.
The student program emphasized the specific nature, purposes, and means of specialized Catholic Action. Speakers included Father Hesburgh and Father Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., CA chaplains at Notre Dame; and Jim Cunningham and Bob Reynolds, ND students.
Boy Leadership Taught
Twenty-two volunteer youth workers attended a course in boy leadership sponsored by the University of Notre Dame and the Boys Life Bureau of the Supreme Council, Knights of Columbus at Notre Dame July 21-25.
The course, conducted by John J. Contway, Executive Director of the Boys Life Bureau, offered methods of training and guiding teen-age boys. Del
egates represented such organizations as .the CYO, Columbian Squires, and the Boy Scouts of America.
Calls for More Sisters
That the Church needs many more Sisters for charitable, missionary, educational, and medical work was the theme of Father John P. Lynch, C.S.C., of Holy Cross Seminary, who gave the closing address at the annual Sisters’ Vocation Institute July 21 at Notre Dame.
Father Lynch, speaking to the more than 300 priests, Brothers, and Sisteij| who attended the Institute, asserted thav prayer and dignified presentation of the high ideal of the religious life must be used to increase vocations.
Other speakers discussed specific means of fostering vocations and preparing novices for their new life.
The Institute also addressed a letter to J. Arthur Rank, the movie king of England, pointing out that his “Black
FATHER LOUIS PUTZ, c s.c. Arranges CA Study on Campus
Narcissus,” dealing with an abnormal community of Anglican nuns, attacks all Sisters of any faith. The letter requested Rank to make clear that the picture portrays a unique case, absolutely contrary to the “open book” record of convents throughout the world.
Discuss Billboard Technique
Latest advertising techniques were discussed at a special Outdoor Advertising School which closed here on July 19. The school, directed by Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce, was attended by nearly 100 representatives from ad firms throughout the country. It was sponsored by tjU^ Outdoor Advertising Foundation whidi aims at the establishment of a course in
28
^utdoor advertising at Notre Dame, the first accredited course of its kind in the country.
Atom Scientists Meet
World - renowned atomic scientists from America, Britain, and Canada convened at Notre Dame June 24-27 for a special Symposium on Radiation Chemistry and Photochemistry.
The chemists, more than 100 in number, heard a welcoming address by Father Cavanaugh, in which the Notre Dame president declared that scientists have made the “art and science of moral living the greatest necessity of th? modern age.” Attacking the “scientism of the 19th century with its godless philosophy and abandonment of objective Waorality, Father Cavanaugh pointed to the subsequent use of scientific knowledge for bad ends and the struggle" of the world to restore order and control over the weapons science has introduced. Only by the return of God, he said, can the solution be found.”
Purpose of the symposium was to discuss some of the fundamental phenomena in the allied fields of radiation and photochemistry. Many of the attending scientists took part in the Manhattan Project and the Bikini tests.
Kenny Asks Vigilance
General George C. Kenny, Commanding General of the Strategic Air Command, warned that the “United States, as we know it, will cease to exist” if the ^merican people relax their vigilance *nd neglect their defenses, in his address at the 102nd Commencement of the University of Notre Dame on June 1.
The commencement exercises, attended by an audience of 3,000, included the awarding of honorary degrees to General Kenny and five others, and regular degrees to 711 graduate and undergraduate students.
“Until we have a far bettei- guarantee of security in this troubled world of ours than we have at present,” General Kenny declared, “we cannot afford to let down our defenses. If we are incapable of defending ourselves and the principles for which we stand,’ those principles will perish and we will perish with them.”
The general went on to say that the solution of America’s present national «id international problems will be de-rmined by intelligent, trained leadership. This leadership must be provided by American college graduates, he as-
Distant Farley Gains New Bus Service
Probably the most practical convenience added to Our Lady’s campus during the summer months is the new bus service to Farley Hall and Vetville, which eliminates much of the unpopularity for the halls on the east end of the campus. Although this service is a continuation of the regular Notre Dame bus route, not all of the busses marked “Notre Dame” go over the new route. Hence, for students’ convenience we are giving the schedule.
Busses leave for Farley Hall from South Bend starting at 8:00 a.m., and continue leaving every fifteen minutes until and including 3:00 p.m. Then they start leaving again at 6:00 p.m. and continue leaving fifteen minutes until and including 11:30 p.m. Please notice that only the busses on the quarter hour go out to Farley Hall.
Busses leave for South Bend from Farley Hall starting at 8:15 a.m. and continue leaving every fifteen minutes until and including 3:15 p.m. Then they start leaving again at 6:15 p.m. and continue leaving every fifteen minutes until and including 11:45 p.m.
This service will be suspended during the morning and afternoon on days of home football games.
Additional new bus service will start next week, when the last bus leaving town each night will be at 11:40 p.m. instead of 11:30 p.m. It is not planned for this bus to go to Farley Hall.
Oct. "Review of Politics" To Feature Mediaevalism
New contributions to scholarship in the field of mediaeval history and culture will be featured in the October number of the Review of Politics, learned quarterly published at the University of Notre Dame. The number will be issued the first week in October.
Notre Dame’s chief mediaeval historians, Professors Gerhart B. Ladner and Professor Anton-Hermann Chroust, are joined by two notable European historians, Professor Alois Dempf of the University of Vienna and Father F. Dvor-nik of the University of Prague in discussing political and social aspects of
serted, who are now joining American society as matured, trained, and thinking citizens.
Others who received honorary degrees at the commencement were: the' Most Rev. Lawrence L. Graner, Bishop of Dacca, India; the Rt. Rev. Msgr. William L. Newton of Elyria, Ohio,
mediaeval civilization in this issue.
Professor Ladner is an authority on mediaeval culture and has written extensively on the history of mediaeval art, while Professor Chroust is an outstanding authority on the history of mediaeval law. Professor Dempf is the author of Sacrum Imperium and many other books on mediaeval philosophy and culture. Father Dvornik is the chief living authority on Byzantine ecclesiastical history and has recently contributed important discoveries on the history of Photius, the leader of the Great Schism.
Air Forces R.O.T.C. Inaugurated Here
As enrollment for the fall semester took place in the Navy Drill Hall last week, suspicious eyes were cast down from the Naval offices overlooking the floor. Navy men, both in and out of uniform, could be seen surveying a table at which intelligent appearing Army officers sat answering questions of enthu-thusiastic young students. The Army officers were signing men for the Army-Air Forces Reserve Officers Training Corps program which was inaugurating its first session at the University of Notre Dame. In charge of the new unit were Lieutenant Colonel Leonard W, Pal-mei' of Gwinn, Mich., and Major Arthur Small of Durant, Okla., both former Army fliers. Also assigned to the organization of government project was Captain Thomas J. Hardy of Logansport, Ind., an AAF administrative officer.
Four non-commissioned officers have been transferred to Notre Dame from other ROTC units to assist with the instruction. It was estimated that the Basic Course would probably total near 100 students. The Basic Course lasts two years, at which time the future officer is admitted into the Advanced Course for a tussle with communications, navigation, aircraft maintenance, administration, personnel management, armament and other subjects related to the training. However, no pilot instruction will be given. World War II veterans with at least two years left in the university may enroll in the Advanced Course to be graduated as Second Lieutenants.—Verne F. Kelley
noted biblical scholar; the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., late president of Notre Dame; Mother Rose Elizabeth, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Sisters of the Holy Cross; and I. A. O’Shaughnessy of St. Paul, Minn., noted philanthropist and President of Globe 5Oil Company.
29
NOTRE DflME NAMES MAKE NEWS
Across the headlines, the columns, the book reviews, the news releases flash the names of many Notre Dame men each day. The Scholastic will attempt to bring them to you in order to give you the facts about Notre Dame men. Space does not permit us to give each name a lengthy write-up but a mention seems far better than not at all. Consequently the Scholastic is interested in news of its readers—students, faculty members, alumni, and former students. To get that news the Scholastic must depend on its readers. If anyone has died, married, become engaged, had a fire, broken a leg, had a baby, struck it rich, written a book, made a speech, started a foundation, or anything else that is news, just let us know.
New Horizons
EDWARD J. MOWERY, staff writer for the New York World-Telegram, and a former student at the University in the class of ’28, has been awarded a $500 prize for his efforts as a reporter in clearing a man who had been falsely imprisoned for forgery. The award was presented by the sponsors of the weekly “Big Story” radio series . . . Dr. William H. Hamill and Dr. Russell R. Williams, Jr., chemistry professors at N. D. have been appointed special consultants in atomic research at Bikini atoll . .. Cruising aboard the USS Albany in the Caribbean area this summer were the following NROTC midshipmen of Notre Dame: Joseph D. Beckey, William B. Bradley, Donald C. Buseck, Stephen R. Caliente, Roland J. Campbell, Victor Chaco, Eugene Corcoran, John
BEV. JOHN A. O'BRIEN; Ph.D. For Taxpayers, a Saving
E. Courtney, James J. Creamer, John Donahue, Tom Dore, John Ferry, Robert Gawne, Gus Gentilucci, Pete Gross, Edward J. Kelly, and Carl W. Huy-ette, Jr. . . . Educational facilities at the University were examined this summer by a leading Moslem ruler, Prince Saif Al-Islam Abdullah of Yemen, an ancient Arabic Kingdom on the Red Sea. . . . “Victory,” a prize-winning sculpture by Eugene Kormendi, Professor of Sculpture, was exhibited at the fifty-first annual Art Show conducted by the Art Institute in Chicago. ... J. Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations at ND, was recently named Alumni Governor for the State of Indiana by the Notre Dame Alumni Association. . . . The Mediaeval Institute has announced the following scholarships for the 194748 scholastic year: Bernard Gendreau of Sarnia, Ontario; Sylvester Theisen of Cold Springs, Minn.; and Patrick McInnis of St. Peter’s Bay, Prince Edward Island, Canada.
New Rewards
THROUGH THE efforts of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, David Van Wallace, a former student of the University in 1923, was able to make the pilgrimage to Lourdes this summer. Van Wallace, as many Notre Dame men know, has been bedridden for 23 years following a swimming accident just before starting his sophomore year at Notre Dame. . . . Rev. John A. O’Brien, Professor of Religion, points out in a summer issue of the Ave Maria that Catholic schools are saving the taxpayers almost a dollar each because Catholic schools receive no aid from national or state tax-rolls. Forthcoming issues of the magazine will continue this series. Fr. O’Brien also was a featured speaker at the Catholic TriState Congress in Grand Rapids on Sept. 12. . . . The Laetare Medal, annually awarded by the University to the outstanding Catholic layman, was presented to Mr. William G. Bruce, prominent Milwaukee publisher and civic leader at a dinner held in his honor at the Schroeder Hotel in Milwaukee on September 9. The presentation was made by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame. . . . Ten papers on results of research in pure-and organic chemistry were presented by Notre Dame scientists at the American Chemical Society convention held in New York September 15-19. The Notre Dame group included Dr. Charles Price, Bikini-observer Dr.
Milton Burton, Dr. Kenneth Campbell, Dr. Christopher Wilson, Dr. Paul Doty, and Brother Columba Curran, C.S.C. . . . Born this month to Mr. and Mrs. H. Smith Keel at their home on Long Island’ a son (8 lbs. 11 oz.), H. Smith, Jr. Hank is a former Associate Editor of the Scholastic.
New Achievements
FOUR MEMBERS of the 1946-47 debate team which won 42 of 49 matches^ during their season and finished in thircF' place in the national tournament were awarded public debate medals at the annual Class Day Exercises in June. They were: Frank Finn, Denison, Tex.; Timothy E. Kelly, Bay City, Mich.; Samuel J. Hazo and James P. Beymer, both of Pittsburgh, Pa. . . . The dreams of 117 ex-servicemen of World War II for “a place to call home” have been realized through the erection and development of “the finest veterans’ housing project in the United States” on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. This view is expressed by Mr. and Mrs. William Ball of Vetville in an article entitled “Vetville By The Dome,” which appeared in a recent issue of The Ave Maria. . . . Dr. Francis J. Brown, Professor of Economics, has prepared a specially annotated edition of the famed encyclical of Pope Pius XI, “On Reconstructing the Social Order.” This edition was released on September 10 by Outline"' Press, Inc., of Chicago.
H. SMITH KEEL For Hank, a New Deduction
30
•N. D. Announces Plans For New Foundation
The University of Notre Dame Foundation has been organized to provide a unified channel for the fund-raising ef-foi-ts of the University.
An over-the-years program, the Foundation is directed by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. Harry G. Hogan, ’04, Fort Wayne, Ind., president of the Alumni Association, is chairman of the board of the Foundation, and James E. Armstrong, ’25, alumni secretary, is executive vice-chairman. New Foundation and Alumni Association offices are being opened in Carroll Hall soon.
Objectives of the Foundation are the -University’s building program, funds for "endowment and research, and the general development of Notre Dame.
Basis of the Foundation is the organization of city committees of Alumni and friends of Notre Dame in all of the 48 States, each directed by an alumnusgovernor. Constant expansion of Notre Dame friendship, influence, information and support will be the program of the Foundation committee.
A Notre Dame unit, headed by Rev. Robert Sweeney, c.s.c., as governor, and Dean James E. McCarthy as chairman, will provide a strong nucleus of information and contact for the other areas and committees. 1	.
Notre Dame students, the ultimate beneficiaries of the program of building and teaching developments, ■will have many opportunities to be of service to the Foundation, and will be kept informed of its progress.
Indiana city chairmen and alumni club presidents met on September 20 on the campus under the direction of J. Arthur Haley, ’26, Indiana alumni governor. The Alumni Association board of directors is meeting on September 26-27 to perfect alumni integration with the Foundation program.
Splinters
(Continued from Page 23)
from Chicago. Ohio and Pennsylvania are next in line with nine contributions each. New Jersey has seven representatives and Massachusetts is next with six. Among the brother acts on the team this year is that of Capt. George and younger brother John Connor, Jim and Terry Brennan of Milwaukee, and John and Joseph Helwig of Los Angeles.
fWhile Jack Fallon is sitting out this year because of a knee injury incurred in the Old Timers’ game this spring, his brother Joe is a guard candidate. Jack
will aid in coaching the freshmen this year, assisted by Bill Vangen, Bill Heywood, Marty Brutz, and Joe Yonto, other varsity members of last season who will not be playing this year. The first time Bob Livingstone carried the ball in high school he galloped 73 yards for a touchdown.
"Bests"
The Hering Awards given this spring to the men adjudged best in their respective positions went to End Bill Wightkin, Tackle Jack Fallon, Guard Bill Fischer and Center George Strohmeyer. Johnny Lujack received the “best all-around quarterback” accolade and Pete Ashbaugh was voted “the most versatile” back on the team. Mike Swistowicz received the “most improved back” award and John Panelli was called “the most aggressive runner.” Fred Earley, placekicking artist, received a write-up by Robert Ripley this past spring for his work in the Purdue game last year. Notre Dame’s seven touchdowns in the 49-6 romp and Purdue’s lone tally were scored by eight different players, making Earley’s seven consecutive conversions tops in scoring for the day.
Over the Goalposts
(Continued from Page 22) representative team of which our alumni and friends will be duly proud ...”
Why Not?
Here is a thought for the Blue Circle. Last year, Southern California came here from Los Angeles just in time to play 60 minutes of football, and after completing their time, returned to the coast quick like bunnies. Some of the members of the Trojan squad expressed a desire to see Notre Dame’s campus. We have a beautiful campus, so why not show it off? This season Iowa, Nebraska, Army, and Tulane visit the campus or at least the Stadium to play football. Why don’t you contact the various schools and arrange for some time in their itineraries so that the interested ballplayers might get a chance to- see the campus?
1947 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Oct. 4—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct. 11—Purdue at Lafayette Oct. 18—Nebraska at Notre Dame Oct. 25—Iowa at Notre Dame Nov. 1—Navy at Cleveland Nov. 8—Army at Notre Dame Nov. 15—Northwestern at Evanston Nov. 22—Tulane at Notre Dame Dec. 6—Southern California at Los
Angeles
Report From Madison
(Continued from Page 19)
the initial activities will be of a fact finding nature directed toward the building up of files; and for this reason the NSA’s first program proposes many surveys and studies, which are discussed below.
1.	HOUSING. This was one of the most important questions discussed on panel No. One on Student Government. It was decided that the housing needs of all students should be studied and that the national office would serve as a clearing house for information on the needs and possible solutions in this field. It was further decided that the national office should analyze all national legislation affecting the housing of students.
2.	STUDENT GOVERNMENT. This panel also recommended that the national office assemble-a file in which shall be included copies of the constitutions of all the affiliating units of NS A. It went on record that surveys be conducted to collect factual data on the feeling -with regard to student government in general, and in specific cases also the reaction to specific constitutions, the opinion of them, and the support for them. All of this is to be done considering the nature of the particular college or university. These surveys are to be compiled, and the facts and ideas which will be brought out are to be made available to all. These reports will enable the national office to furnish information to each individual school upon request.
3.	EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY. The delegates in Panel No. TWO, on Educational Opportunity, recognized the fact that students are prepared for college in primary and secondary schools, and therefore proposed that a survey be made of the educational facilities in these schools with an eye to bettering the conditions by means of publicity and government aid. But the biggest topic of discussion in this panel was the race question. The fundamental difference was finally resolved in the constitutional committee when the steering committee bypassed the rules of the convention for the sake of expediency. However this panel did decide to recommend a survey of comparative educational opportunities of white and Negro students in the South. The delegates from Notre Dame thought that a stronger stand could have been taken on this question.	*
4.	RELIEF: In Panel No. Three, International Students Affairs, some of the discussion was on the subject of relief for students in foreign countries. The delegates recognized the fact that an
(Continued on Page 34)
31
Director Clarifies Rent Law Provisions
Because some of the off-campus living quarters are under rent control and others are not, the Notre Dame Scholastic has obtained definite information about the provisions of the present rent control law from R. L. Jackson, Area Rent Director.
“ Sleeping rooms and apartments which have been rented in the past are registered in the area rent office, 502 Whitcomb-Keller Building, South Bend, Indiana, and remain under control. Students who wish to .determine the legal maximum rent for quarters they occupy may do so by calling at the area office,” said Mr. Jackson.
HE EXPLAINED that the following types of housing were decontrolled by the new rent law which went into effect on July 1:
(1)	Accommodations in hotels, motor courts, and tourist homes.
(2)	Accommodations, the construction of which was completed on or after February 1, 1947, or which are additional accommodations created by conversion after that date (except those built with the help of priorities under Public Law 388).
(3)	Accommodations not rented between February 1, 1945, and January 31, 1947 (other than to members of the immediate family of the occupant).
Dwelling units of these types were removed from control to induce property owners to put additional accommodations on the rental market.
As to rentals that remain under control, Mr. Jackson pointed out that homeowners who rent out sleeping rooms from their own private residences are not subject to the eviction set forth in the new rent law. This means that a person renting out a non-housekeeping, furnished room within a single dwelling unit not used as a rooming or hoarding house would find the amount charged regulated by the rent law, but would be able to evict the tenant without reference to the rent law.
THE EASING of eviction on this type of sleeping room ought to remove one stumbling block of renting such rooms on the part of property owners who fear they would not be able to evict an undesirable tenant.
Students or faculty members who desire additional information about provisions of the rent act governing leases, evictions, and other matters may obtain it from the area office.
32
VA Warns Vets to Return Subsistence Overpayments
Improper attention to official notices of subsistence overpayment has made many veterans attending college under PL 346 ineligible for further training until corrective steps are taken, according to a recent announcement by the Veterans Administration.
Veterans who have received the second notification of overpayment and have not made provision for repayment will not be eligible for further training unless over-payments are liquidated under one of the following plans:
1.	Repay the over-payment to the Vet
You’re headed for the top in a Van Heusen Shirt. You’ll like the smart sewmanship, the low-aet collar models, the action-tailoring, the figure-fit. Sanforized fabrics, laboratory-tested 1500 times a month. Get your money’s worth—always say Pan Heusen Shirts. 83.25, §3.95, 84.50. Philups-Jones Cobp., New Yobk 1, N. Y.
erans Administration (checks oi| money orders should be payable to the Treasury of the U. S.).
2.	Return of the over-payment check to the V. A.
3.	In cases of hardship, authorize the V.A. to make monthly deductions from further subsistence checks, such deductions to be not less than 10% of the total over-payment.
In some cases, when the veteran has received his first overpayment notice within the last sixty days, the full amount of the over-payment will be deducted from their first subsistence check, unless the veteran has made other arrangements with the V.A.
s Frosh Orientation
'	(Continued from page 13)
between one and four. The idea originally called for guided tours, but the Freshmen as a group were so well oriented on the lay-out of the campus that this was unnecessary.
ON WEDNESDAY EVENING the Freshmen Mixer was held in the East Dining Hall. This was “the” big social event of the Program in which the Freshmen could become acquainted with each other as with school personalities and activities through the attractive medium of entertainment. Chuck Russ of the Blue Circle and Bill Shanahan of Catholic Action did the arranging for this
STUDENT OF NUCLEONICS
The Story of Ken Kesselring
On January 7,1946, only a couple of weeks after being separated from the Army Ordnance Department, Ken Kesselring finally began the engineering career he had planned for himself five years earlier.
He had hoped to come to work at General Electric when he received his E.E. degree from Cornell in 1941. Instead he had gone (Jinto Ordnance as a second lieutenant.
There he worked with the Research and Development Center at Aberdeen Proving Ground, with “Kangaroo”—the group formed to introduce new weapons into combat outfits—and with the Ordnance Technical Intelligence Group assigned to study Nazi weapons and engineering developments.
At G.E. he entered the Rotating Engineering Program—especially set up to give the returning veteran a period of familiarization and general orientation. Upon completing his assignments under the program, Ken was assigned to the General Electric Atomic Power Engineering Project and is today a section head and project engineer of the Design Group. The objective: the harnessing of atomic energy for power development and generation.
For your copy of “Careers in the Electrical Industry,” write to Dept. 237-6, General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.
Out of the Army less than two years, Ken is already heading up a design group connected with the G-E Atomic Power Engineering Project.
At Cornell, Ken studied power engineering, specializing in high-voltage protective equipment. He graduated first in his class in 1941.
GENERAL @ ELECTRIC
mammoth undertaking. Chuck Perrin, renowned Master of Ceremonies of the K. of C. vaudeville fame, took over the reins for the Mixer. Besides his duties as M.C., Chuck did impersonations and uniquely situated the Freshmen at tables composed of men from their home state. Jerry Ferren, accompanied by Chuck Russ on the piano, sang several numbers. George Sullivan, President of the Monogram Club, brought his flock over for the evening and introduced the lettermen to the frosh. Several of them gave brief talks and, of course, Ziggy provided the Humor, bringing down the rafters with his rendition of “When Irish Eyes are Smiling.”
Forty-seven cases of coke and twelve
hundred donuts were consumed, music was provided by the Notre Dame Cavaliers and the rare privilege of smoking in the dining hall was enjoyed by the crowd. Freshmen volunteers were procured to aid in cleaning up and the response was spontaneous. The job was completed almost before it began because of the excellent cooperation from the new men.	'
Cheney's Chatter
(Continued from page 25)
John’s Seminary where he will studjy for the priesthood. .	j
Good-natured Jim won a monogram on Notre Dame’s 1943 National Champs before leaving for 38 months Navy duty. Injuries kept him from seeing much action last year. Jim will be missed by the players, the students who knew and respected him, and by his old side-kick, George Sullivan, his roommate for the past two years and a winner of six Notre Dame monograms, three for track and three for his skilled play at tackle. Best of everything, Jim.
Sugar Bowl Deal Sour
According to reliable sources (don’t you just love that trite phrase) the Sugar Bowl rumor concerning Notre Dame signing a 10-year contract to play there on New Year’s Day has already gone down the drain. The board of athletics here at Notre Dame has jotted down a policy tossing all post season games out of bounds. Maybe it’s a good idea after all. In some respects football has gotten out of hand as far as colleges are concerned. Don’t get me wrong. I’m not readying a de-emphasizing campaign. But a college football player spends enough time on the practice field during the regular season plus spring practice without having to toss away his Christmas holidays.
In my opinion, a football squad and its coaching staff should decide for themselves whether or not they should accept any football bowl bids.
While football is being discussed (one-sidedly, that is), rules prevent a coach from taking his whole squad on road trips. The players who battle out there every day scrimmaging against the varsity deserve a “free ride” to make up for some of the jolts they receive out on Cartier. Why not give them a free trip to and from the student-trip-game every year? Some of them missed the big Army game last year because they couldn’t afford it. It wouldn’t cost too much to take the whole squad to Cleveland for the Navy game which is this year’s student trip. Think it over.
33
Delay Subsistence Checks ’Til November
Checks for subsistence allowance to veterans who enter or re-enter school this fall under the GI Bill should reach veterans during the first ten days in November, Veterans Administration announced.
Most of the veterans who attended the summer session will receive two checks for subsistence allowance from the Veterans Administration. One check will cover subsistence allowance due up to the end of the summer session. The other check will cover subsistence due from the date of the fall opening of the school and should reach most of these veterans during the first ten days of November. The issuance of two checks to summer school students starting the fall term will take place even in most of the cases where accrued leave, requested and granted at the end of the summer session, carries the veteran in continuous subsistence allowance status to the date-school opens in the fall.
Delays beyond November will be the exception and usually found in those instances where students have transferred from schools and colleges in other Regional VA areas and failed to secure supplemental certificates of eligibility, or to notify the VA office that now has their files of intention to make such a transfer, VA officials said.
Report From Madison
(Continued from Page 31) organization for this purpose was already in existence and that to set up another relief agency would be a duplication of effort. Therefore, it was agreed that the NSA would sponsor the World Student Service Fund (WSSF). It was also determined that the NSA should seek representation in the United Nations Educational, Social, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).
5. IUS: By far the most important and controversial part of the work of this panel centered around the question of affiliation of the NSA with the International Union of Students (IUS). Some of the delegates wanted an immediate affiliation without any reservation, some ■wanted immediate affiliation under specified conditions, some wanted affiliation in due time, and others did not desire to affiliate at all. Before very long everyone realized that Communist influence in the IUS is very strong; but it was also ' urged that the NSA would not be helping to counteract this tendency by standing on the outside looking in. The final resolution that was passed included a clear statement of both these facts (see
NOTRE DAME OF COTABATO Within Its Grass Walls the Spirit of Notre Dame
. ----------... ---------- ------------- &
elsewhere in this section) and authorized the national officers to negotiate for affiliation with the IUS under certain specified conditions.
Some of the terms to be bargained for are listed here:
A.	NSA shall be the sole organization entitled to represent the students of the United States in the IUS.
B.	This affiliation shall not be construed in any way as constituting an endorsement of the decisions made by the IUS prior to the effective date of this affiliation.
C.	No decision of the IUS which may be specifically repudiated by the NSA shall bind or shall be published as representing the opinions of American students.
D.	On the national level the NSA shall have complete administrative autonomy.
E.	The NSA shall reserve the right to select all United States members of the IUS governing bodies and to approve all U. S. students who will be employed in any capacity by the IUS.
(All of the above restrictions were included in the program which was proposed by the Notre Dame delegation).
On the basis of this resolution it will be impossible for the NSA to affiliate with the IUS until after the next national congress of the NSA. If the congress votes to affiliate, the contract of affiliation must then be ratified by a majority of student bodies which are members of the NSA, comprising two-thirds of the total student membership.
6.	CULTURAL: The convention decided to hold a cultural festival during the summer of 1948 at the same campus as the next national congress. The festival is to include art exhibits, choral groups, concerts, drama, folk dancing,
literature, etc. ... all to be the work of students and other youth groups. College glee clubs, orchestras, little theatre groups, etc., will be invited to participate.
7.	MISCELLANEOUS: Vocational information services were advocated for all schools. It was also advocated that a survey of facilities and progress of various schools which render this service be made available for use by students of othei* schools. During the convention a student bill of rights was also discussed, and a bill of rights proposed by the Notre Dame delegation was accepted almost in toto.
These are considered to be the most important and workable portions of the program which was adopted at Madison. However, there were many other activities proposed; and it is up to the national officers to determine which ones will bT acted upon. It is understood that the success of the program depends upon its being put into operation in every region and on every campus; every individual member student body is expected by NSA to co-operate to the fullest extent with the national and regional offices.
College Parade
(Continued from Page 6) a cocktail shaker in his hand, waiting for the hurricane.
And at Notre Dame University, a new system has been installed whereby each student is photographed at registration and assigned a number. His date of birth appears on the photograph. There’s more to it than just checking on the habitues of local S.B. oases; check-cashing and other activities demanding stude^ identification will be more easily acconP'
•plished. It’s really harmless.
34
Man with a system
Simply pick up your telephone and you can route your voice through any one of thousands of central offices—some with dial mechanisms so complex they stagger the imagination, yet so efficient they seem to work like magic—others staffed by competent, courteous operators whose standards of work have long been a fine tradition.
You command, in effect, millions of miles of telephone wire and cable.
You can direct your call—one of some 110,000,000 that will be made today — to
any one of some 53,000,000 telephones here and abroad.
The operation of this vast system is big business. It is a complex, many-sided business in which thousands of college trained men are working in their chosen fields— development or research, engineering planning, accounting or statistics, public contacts, supervision of operations or other phases of management. These men have found highly interesting and rewarding careers.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Copyright 1947, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.