BOTANY 500
DAROFF
Not just famous names — but all the services that go to make up the kind of shop a man
BY RUDOFKER
likes to rely on. Our reputation was built upon the keystone of personal attention to our customers, friendly consideration for everyone. That’s why so many Notre Dame men respect the integrity of the Campus Shop and its sales personnel, in the same way they do their personal physician or favorite sports car mechanic. We hope you will become one of these men.
Burberrys
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
CHARGE YOUR PURCHASES
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
u
?
L
*
PAY
ONE-THIRD
IN FEBRUARY
On the Campus—Notre Dame
No carrying charge.
October 9, 1959
•f





As a Notre Dame man, your charge account is open at the Campus Shop! Yes, you are invited to enjoy the conveniences of charging your purchases the Campus Shop way. Get what you want when you need it and pay one-third in January, one-third in February, and one-third in March. No interest or carrying charges, of course.




PAY IN
ONE-THIRD JANUARY
^GILBERT'S
PAY ONE-THIRD IN MARCH
Vf
I
3
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR!
Rasmussen Men's Shop
MAIN & WASHINGTON STS.

£
A column of incidental intelligence by JOCktlj brand^^
DRRWTURBOW
\pPTOMETRtST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED EYES EXAMINED
PHONE CE 4-5737 207 W. WASHINGTON—OLIVER HOTEL
“Variety is the spice of life.” Enjoy
GOOD—WHOLESOME
DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT CANTONESE FOODS
Steaks - Chops Fried Chicken
Sea Foods
•
Reasonably Priced
MARK'S CAFE
SEN SAI GAI
134 N. Main St.
"BITE THE HAND"
Edmund Burke first noted that some men will bite "the hand that fed them". But Mark Twain, in "Pudd'nhead Wilson", refined the observation and made it biting:
"If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous, he will not bite you. This is the principal difference between a dog and a man.”
« « *
"PRAISE THE LORD AND ETC."
Perhaps the most popular remark to come out of World War II is this exhortation made at Pearl Harbor by Lt. Comm. Howell M. Forgy, a Navy chaplain:
"Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition."
"IGNORANCE IS BLISS"
It was Thomas Gray who coined this comforting generalization in behalf of all *'D" students. See his "On a Distant Prospect of Eton College": "...where ignorance is bliss, 'Tis folly to be wise."
* »
Jockeii SKANTS striped brief
BRAND	1
"Merely sensational"— that'sthe judgment of college men who have seen the new Jockey Striped SKANTS. Jockey stylists have taken their own original 100% stretch nylon bikini-style brief (already a national favorite)...added candy stripes...and produced a garment you'll really enjoy wearing.
SKANTS is cut high on the sides with a low waistband and comes in a choice of red, black, green, rust or blue stripes. Look for SKANTS— in stripes, or solids—in the Jockey deportment at your campus store.
fashioned by the house of
4
The Scholastic
CoHuneMfouf
“SUCCESSLESS” CYNICISM: By now the winners of yesterday’s hall contests for student government positions have been determined and the post-election glow has begun to dim. Student Body President Bruce Babbitt is reported to have been well-pleased with both the number and quality of those running for office this fall. Even if this be the case, from what we have seen at the time of this wilting, we feel that his observation does not necessarily promise a productive year for student ambitions. Unless a greater number of upperclassmen take a more positive attitude toward student government than has been shown in the past, the year will again witness a fruitless multitude of cynical jibes at student leaders.
JUGGLING THE ISSUE: This week the Notre Dame Juggler is commencing its annual subscription drive. Under the editorship of Jim Yoch, this year’s literary quarterly promises to be one of the best seen on campus in quite a few years. Among the several changes currently being discussed are plans for alterations in the cover and in the general format of the magazine. Moreover, Mr. Yoch has assured us that there will be many other interesting additions to this year’s edition. Spuming our facetious advice to collect subscription money in the Drill Hall on registration day, Yoch intends to let the new Juggler sell itself. Knowing the editor and his very competent staff we are certain that sales this year will reach a new high. If you have not already been contacted, be certain to have your dollar ready when subscriptions are taken.
MECHANICAL CONFUSION: During the confusion associated with registration, the class cards for over 500 seniors were lost or misplaced or inserted in the IBM machines incorrectly or something. Anyway the names of these 500 plus were not on the class roll sheets when these lists landed in the teachers’ hands for the first day of class.
The latest mistake concerning a machine has affected many more than 500, however. Every student must have his picture retaken for his “id” card because the wrong camera was sent and the names did not show up underneath the individual’s picture as they should. Tom Scanlon, Blue Circle chairman, kindly volunteered the services of that organization to handle the retaking of the pictures yesterday and today. Strange, isn’t it, that the mechanization for which most things around here have been sacrificed perpetrated more confusion this fall than any item since the confusion over the cramped exam schedule three years ago.
CAVORTING WITH CRIMINALS: Rumor has it that the interhall football teams are going to take up the habit of engaging in football games with the inmates of the Michigan State Prison. Actually a very reliable source (namely Skip Sullivan) relates that this series is not as foreboding as it sounds. As recently as five or six years ago, the interhall teams played the Pinson team in a very spirited series marked by hard play and close scores. Then the Prison dropped football only to resume the sport this fall. It wants to play eveiy Sunday afternoon and the interhall team that has no league contest scheduled for a particular Sunday afternoon will engage the inmates. One condition — no knives or blackjacks allowed. (See the interhall article in the Sports Section of the magazine.)
A NEW LIBRARY: Recently, while downtown, we had an opportunity to see the practically completed, brand new South Bend Public Library. It is a multi-storied brick building which covers a quarter of a block. Those who remember the old library will readily attest to the tremendous improvement the new facilities offer. Whereas the old quarters were dingy and cramped the new ones will be pleasant and spacious. Whereas the old library had closed stacks (many books were kept in a warehouse) the new quarters will have open stacks. All in all, the new library will be neat and practical and it is likely that when it opens, many Notre Dame students will take advantage of it. We take the opportunity to congratulate the City of South Bend for solving its library problem and we certainly hope that the Notre Dame Foundation will soon be able to finance a similar change on campus.
PROGRESS MARCHES ON: Congratulations to the entire student body for a repetition of their annual victory over the University’s buildings and grounds department. Last year, as in years past, various groups of students started to take short cuts over parts of the University’s many lawns. Once again numerous barriers were erected to prevent them from having their way. These attempts were all quite futile, however, as the many freshly laid asphalt paths demonstrate. Perhaps the only sobering aspect of the complete victory gained by the students is the fact that within 20 years Notre Dame may well become the only all-asphalt campus in the nation.
— B.T.&T.
U.S. KEDS COURT KING
for perfect footwork and comfort Professionally designed by and for top-flight tennis players. Featuring a flexible arch for comfort; an abrasion-resistant sole that stands up to any playing surface; laces to the toe to insure perfect fit, complete support. Fully cushioned, heel to toe. About $8.50.
LOOK FOR THE KEDS LABEL
UltfMfiaUiiMi t
we DON’T GET LETTERS	'•
It is our intention to publish letters in this space every week. We would like them to be numerous, short and concise. We welcome criticism, pko and con, but constructive, of our articles, written in a serious or humorous tone. It is assumed, of course, that all such letters will conform to our standards. Only those which do not will not be printed. -Address all mail to Repercussions, in f care of the editor, Notre Dame Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
GOOD LUCK	'
Dear Editor,
In your editorial last week you stressed the fact that grades should not be the primary aim of the college student. This is certainly true, but might I ask ' how you got your room for this year?
Pat Mantey 204 Fishel’
(ED: Sheer luck.)	*
IN DEFENSE OF THE CLASSICS	*
Dear Editor,	•
In view of my deficiencies in the fields of philosophy and logic it is with reck- * less temerity that I venture to question some of the assertions made in the ar- >♦, tide, “Jazz or Classicism,” which appeared in last week’s Scholastic. This * essay tries to point out three factors — source, improvisation, and swing—which	)
separate jazz and classical music. These I wish to discuss.
On the first point little need be said. It is certainly not too much to assume that no one is so chauvinistic as to make a serious claim that the geographical origin of any form has anything to do with the quality of that form (unless he * is a Texan).
Secondly, while I frankly admit that H I am not too well informed about jazz, I fear that the author is similarly unin- < formed about the classics if he thinks that improvisation cannot be done sue-cessfully in the classical idiom. However, the quality of the music thus pro- * duced depends on the genius of the musician. If Brubeck is a master of improvisation in the jazz idiom, so Bach was in the classical vein.	v
The third distinction which I wish to discuss is — in my opinion — the only Av real one. Swing or an appeal to the emotions is the one aspect of jazz which M is not found in the true classics; but I would add that this is compensated for a by the intellectual appeal which is essential to classical music. Of course I a would not contend that either form is purely emotional or purely intellectual, but only weighted in one or the other direction.	c
. Which is best, jazz or classism? In my mind this question resolves itself almost immediately into another. Which is higher, the emotions or the intellect?
William Wells Hayward, Calif.
-	- The Scholastic
6
I
J
1
1
who was who
, and why
| > At this the start of a new year of curricular and extracurricular- activity for us all, we are all concerned to a greater or lesser degree with avoiding , the mistakes of the past — with making this scholastic year one of achievement ■A of which we may be proud. The Scholastic, ever vigilant against the human / failings and corruption which detract from the name and fame of the University, has more than once in the past made noteworthy contribution by way of constructive criticism to correcting bits of moral decay brought to its attention;
, so it is that I undertake to offer guidance in one aspect of undergraduate /c life which has in the last few years been I not exactly a subject of shame but has > nonetheless caused perhaps a sarcastic barb or raised eyebrow from those prone A to such things.
The subject to which I refer is the annual selection of those of us who will be honored by listing in Who’s Who in American Colleges. And how shall we ■ be guided in our selections? Fortunately J	the solution is at our disposal. We need
!	only look to the past — to those who
! v have preceded us here and have chosen • their Who’s Who delegates with the utmost wisdom, a wisdom that borders on sheer inspiration. From them shall we !* learn. To this end I have spent many ! hours of research on past Who’s Who I*1 volumes and present a few of the Notre t Dame entries here for your perusal.
i ► LEONARD VINCENT HITLER (class of 1936). Throughout his scholastic । j**' career Leonard served as master of cere, monies for pep rallies, debates, lectures, etc., but by far his most noteworthy ef-J fort took place on the eve of the 1934 if football game at Purdue. On that night ! Len fired 3500 screaming students to ;' such a frenzy that they descended upon ; Lafayette en masse where they not only ' demolished Ross-Ade stadium and the i . Purdue Student Center, but also came ; * within an eyelash of capturing for our own campus that pride and joy of Pur-
’ * due cultural life, the Golden Girl.
* DRINKING MAN’S DRINKER
HERMAN SOUSE (’54). Once in a • great while one person will be endowed |" with both the physical equipment and , the desire that enables him to be rei T | garded as truly “great” at one thing « or another. The combination of physical i : and mental prowess was never more in ■ evidence than it was in Chicago-born • Herman Souse, acclaimed in the early
I October 9, 1959 s
1950’s by all undergraduate experts for his ability to consume truly phenomenal amounts of alcohol in any form. A three time winner of Joev’s perfect attendance plaque and twice “Man of the Year” at Frankie’s, Herman set tippling records which are pursued each year by hundreds of underclassmen across the nation, but, in the words of misty-eyed South Bend bartenders, “There will never be another Herman.”
WILLIAM HOWARD JOHNSON (’24). A student senator representing Sorin Hall, Bill became involved in the 1924 controversy over permanent hall residence. To prove the feasibility of the plan, he locked himself in his room at 263 Sorin and remained there for 27 years, sustaining life through the efforts of a politically minded chipmunk who procured a cheeseburger and a cherry coke for him each day of his confinement. In 1951, still only 12 credits shy of graduation, Bill conceded the plan was perhaps impractical and gave up the fight in order to become chairman of the all-night lights committee.
LAMAR T. SLY (’38). A mathematics major and card player of some repute, Lamar in the fall of his junior year became involved in an all-night card game with several members of the faculty in the basement of Corby Hall. At the end of the evening’s pinochle proceedings Lamar found himself the owner of the aforementioned Corby Hall, along with the second floor of Dillon, the basement of Morrissey, and St. Joseph’s lake in its entirety. Lamar held his winnings through the first semester of 1938, finally selling his real estate back to the University at a profit.
SAMUEL NAPOLEON FRITZINGER (’47) (posthumous). A heroically duty-minded ROTC company commander, Sam set an example of the school’s and ROTC program’s demand for perfection when he marched the entire third platoon of Echo company, himself at the head, into the St. Joseph river after a slovenly showing at Presidential review.
ABNER O’BRIEN (’18). In 1921 Mr. O’Bi-ien, while doing graduate work toward a doctorate in anthropology, penned a book which won high praise from his elders in the anthropological world. His Origin of a Species, a comprehensive study of the St. Mary’s girl, is still regarded as a masterpiece in its field.
FREDERICK SMART (’49). Possessed of a truly remarkable mind, this
by CHRIS FOLEY
lad simultaneously held Fullhright, Danforth, Ford Foundation, Woodrow Wilson and Rhodes scholarships. Overnight he became a millionaire by converting them all into A.T. & T. on the New York Stock Exchange.
THAT SOUTH BEND WEATHER
CHARLES LIMPING-SKUNK (’98). A full-blooded Cherokee and son of Chief Drunken Bear, Charlie was the first of his race to attend Notre Dame. Popular among classmates with his quick wit and playful antics with the tomahawk, Chuck thoroughly enjoyed campus life and regularly paraded around in tribal dress. Thus it was that when the Irish basket- , ball forces of 1898 became saddled with a 14-game losing streak, longest in their history, several students appealed to Charlie to perform a victory dance at halftime of the Kentucky game in an effort to change our luck; this he gladly did. Unfortunately, four years away from the reservation had dulled Charlie’s knowledge of Indian lore, and he mistakenly performed a rain dance instead of the anticipated victory dance. . So energetic were his gyrations at midcourt, however, that his proved to be one of the most effective rain dances of all time — for the heavens opened and , cascaded the South Bend area with 96	-
days of unceasing rainfall, flooding every ' river in the vicinity, completely sub- . merging the Golden Dome, and causing Indiana to be declared a disaster area. Although a directive from, Fr. Collin’s office finally ended the great rain, it has been said that to this day South Bend _ weather is affected by Charlie’s famous . rain dance.	.	.
OLIVER D. ANGLE (’33). While the practice of taking final exams equipped with small study guides or ponies is widespread even today, faculty members agree that none of today’s students even . ~ approach the cleverness and guile of one. Oliver (Snake) Angle, who used to re- ; \ gard each exam as a personal battle of wits between himself and the proctor. . Probably his most intricate scheme in- . volved a 1931 final in French 12a; for < < this occasion Ollie tatooed 3750 French . .' vocabulary words, with English equiva- /' ; -lents, on his person, becoming a veritable Dictionaire de Francaise from, the neck down. This his most ingenious ef- .' ? / fort failed, however, when midway through the test he dislocated a shoulder^ . searching for an obscure passage and >> was exposed.	..
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and
Faculty for the Tenth Year .
•	1,500 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
•	See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
•
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
OUR COVER: This week’s cover was done by Gerry Welling. It deals with all the activities at the University for the coming year since no one prominent activity occurs this week. Welling is a fine arts major and has contributed several SCHOLASTIC covers in the past.
SHIRTS EXPERTLY
LAUNDERED
for $1.00
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line
*
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
s vntoow UTTERS ***
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
*	OWL IN THE ATTIC Thurber
*	JONATHAN EDWARDS
Miller
*	KINGS AND DESPERATE MEN Kronenberger
*	FABULOUS VOYAGER
Kain
*	CULTURED MAN Montagu
*	IMAGE MAKERS
Dryer
*	THREE PLAYS
O’Neill
*	SLAVE STATES Olmstead
*	THIS IS CATHOLICISM
Walsh
*	MUSIC AND IMAGINATION Copland
*	THE PRICE OF POWER
Agar
*	MIDDLETOWN
Lynd

1

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-tfce-campus
They’re a “must” because they’re the “most”!
Slick slacks for that lean, mean look! Tapered, trim and stovepipe slim, they fit real tight and ride real low on the hips. No belt needed; extension waistband with adjustable side buckle tabs does the trick. Continental pockets; pleatless front; no cuffs. In Cottons and Corduroy, $4.95 to $6.95. In dress slack fabrics, $6.95 to $15.95. Terrific new colors. At your favorite campus shop.
GO OUT FOR li is. SPORTSWEAR
The Scholastic
J
FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH Takes leave for health
Lobund Laboratories
' Receive NIH Grants
*
Grants and research contracts totalling over $85,000 have been awarded recently to the University of Notre Dame’s Lobund laboratories. The announcement , was made this week by Francis Bradley, V acting administrative director.
, The National Institutes of Health has made a grant of $29,900 to support gen-,0 eral operations at the germfree animal research center for the coming year.
'b Another NIH grant of $15,000 will help underwrite comparative studies be-
’ ing conducted by Dr. Helmut A. Gordon on aging in germfree animals and con-z ventional animals.
The NIH has also awarded a grant of $30,308 to help finance Prof. Philip r Trexler’s work in developing plastic isolators and sterile procedures for germ-v free animal research and other applications. Trexler recently developed a sterile, plastic room for rearing and exH perimenting with the unique creatures.
Trexler is also the principal investi-; gator for a research contract of $10,000 awarded by the Office of the Army Sur-** geon General. (Scholastic, Oct. 2) The project involves devising new and more * effective means for the transportation 4 of germfree animals. During the past eight months more than 800 germfree creatures have been successfully trans-• ported to other research centers in a specially constructed Lobund station wagon or in special containers sent via railway or air express.
FATHER CAVANAUGH GRANTED LEAVE FROM DUTIES AS FOUNDATION HEAD
An indefinite leave of absence has been granted to Rev. John J. Cavanaugh from his post as director of the Notre Dame Foundation and head of the University’s $66.6 million development program. Father Cavanaugh was granted the leave because of a chronic vascular ailment from which he has been suffering.
New Fund Raiser. Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., the administrative assistant to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., has been named acting director of the Foundation, Notre Dame’s fundraising organization. He will coordinate all the University’s public relations and development activities.
The University also announced the appointment of Rev. Thomas J. O’Donnell, C.S.C., to a newly created alumni liaison post. Father O’Donnell, who has been associate director of the Foundation, will travel widely in his new assignment, meeting at regular’ intervals with Notre Dame’s 175 local alumni clubs in this country and abroad.
Father Cavanaugh served as Notre Dame’s president from 1946 to 1952, and he has been the University’s principal development officer since 1953. The Notre Dame Foundation, which he established during his presidency in 1947 and
Dancing Lessons Begin For Local 'Twinkletoes'
Dancing lessons will be taught in the Student Center soon by Michael FitzGibbon of Badin Hall, assisted by John Burns of Pangborn, and two senior girls from St. Mary’s Academy.
Classes will be on Monday evenings, starting this Monday night. The fee for the five one-hour lessons is $5. Dances to be taught are the rock and roll, foxtrot, waltz and cha-cha.
There will be no girl students in the classes, but a dance will be held for the students at the end of the course. Girls will be invited from St. Mary’s for those who do not have dates.
FitzGibbon, a junior history major from Bryn Mawr, Pa., has taught ballroom dancing at the Junior and Senior Assembly of the Progress Club in South Bend. Burns, a junior GP major from Scranton, Pa., has also had a year’s experience teaching ballroom dancing.
Classes are limited to thirty. The first class, set for 7 p.m. Mondays, is already filled; however, other classes are being scheduled as the need arises. Anyone interested in taking the course should see FitzGibbon in 221 Badin.
which he has actively led during the past six years, has received more than $30 million in gifts and .grants. Fifteen major buildings have been erected on the campus since the Foundation was inaugurated twelve years ago.
A native of Chicago, Ill., Father Wilson was appointed administrative assistant to the President of Notre Dame in 1958. Previously, he had served for two years as assistant director of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Office of Province Development. In earlier years he was vocation director for the Holy Cross Fathers and promotion and advertising director of The Catholic Boy. Father Wilson was graduated as a layman from Notre Dame in 1932 and received a law degree from the Chicago-Kent College of Law in 1934. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross that year and was ordained in 1941.
Ex-edHor. Also a native Chicagoan, Father O’Donnell was graduated from Notre Dame in 1941 and was awarded a master’s degree by the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. He was named assistant to the director of the Notre Dame Foundation in 1953 and subsequently became associate direc* tor of the organization-. Father O’Don- 0 nell was ordained to the priesthood in 1945. He is a former faculty member at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C., and also served as associate editor of z . The Catholic Boy.
South Bend Group Sponsors Banquet for Foreign Students
International' students at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College will be dinner guests of the Christian Family Movement of South Bend. The dinner will be held tomorrow evening at 7:00 pan. in the North Dining Hall, and is free to all international students on the two . campuses.
General chairman for the event are C. F. M. couple Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Weissert, 1010 Oak Ridge Drive. Assisting with the arrangements is Mike Sweet, chairman of the campus Human Relations club.
According to Mrs. Weissert, the dinner is undertaken “as the best means for students and couples to become personally acquainted with one another.” The purpose of the dinner is to encourage the couples who attend “to invite these students to their homes throughout the school year with the aim of introducing the student to American family life as it really exists, and of becoming their friends, assisting them in every way possible.”	:
9
i October 9, 1959
FACILITIES
Library
Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Saturdays, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays and holydays, 1 to 10 p.m.
Rockne Memorial
Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Swimming: Monday through Friday, 3:15 p.m. to 3:45 p.m. and 7:15 to 8:30 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 1 to 4:30 p.m.; Activities stop one-half hour before building closes.
Gilbert's
Monday through Saturday, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Barber Shop
Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturday, • 8 a.m. to 12:20 p.m.; Barbers leave at designated quitting time; no one will be admitted that cannot be served by that time.
Laundry and Dry Cleaners
Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 3:45 p.m.
Huddle
Monday through Saturday, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Treasurer’s Office
Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 12 noon and 2 to 5 p.m. Closed holidays.
- Western Union
Monday through Friday, 8:20 a.m. to 12 noon and 1 to 9:30 p.m.
Billiard Room
Monday through Friday, 9:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.; Saturday, 9:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, 1 to 9:30 p.m.
Railway Express ..
Monday through Friday, 12:30 to 2:30 p.m.	.
Post Office
Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Saturday, 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. Closed holidays.
Bookstore
Monday through Saturday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Bowling Alleys
Open bowling only; Monday through Saturday, 12 noon to 5 p.m.
Golf Shop
Every day 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. until golf course closes; then Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
10
Foreign Officer Exam Open to A.B. Seniors; Applications Due Before October 19 Deadline
The closing date for receipt of applications for the Foreign Service Officer examination has been set as October 19. The exam will be held on December 5 in approximately 65 centers throughout the United States and at Foreign Service posts abroad.
To be eligible to take this examination candidates must be at least 21 years of age as of October 19. Persons 20 years of age may apply only if they
Students Stand and Wait For Picture Taking Date
Yesterday and today 6000 disappointed, mumbling students again waited in line to have their pictures retaken for this year’s student identification cards. Such expressions as “All I’m developing here is my legs” and “Tatoos would be a little cheaper” were uncomfortably familial* as the frustrated photographer took his share of the quips.
The problem was not so simple as a mere mixup in the film, electrical system, or photographer as was rumored on the campus earlier this week. It was nothing quite as small as this, but rather it was the camera itself that posed the problem.
Rev. A. Leonard Collins, dean of students, said that the wrong camera was shipped from Chicago by mistake. Instead of taking a picture of the student and combining it with the information found on the IBM cards, the camera took only the picture, omitting the usual IBM information. This, unfortunately, led to an embarrasing situation for the University, who had no choice but to take the 6000 photographs over again.
As one tired student sarcastically put it, “We do everything big at Notre Dame.”
IRC Membership Open To Juniors and Seniors
The International Relations club of Notre Dame is holding its annual membership drive during the next few weeks. The IRC, as it is more commonly known, is devoted exclusively to the discussion of matters dealing with our foreign policy and foreign events which affect this policy. A series of dinner meetings, featuring student papers and faculty lecturers is held each year.
Membership is open to all interested juniors and seniors. Some exceptional sophomores are accepted, while certain freshmen may become associate members. Anyone interested in joining the organization is urged to send a letter stating academic average, extracurricu-lars and reasons for applying to the Chairman, Admissions Committee, 221 Fisher. Interviews for membership will be held at a later date. All applications must be received by October 14.
hold a bachelor’s degree or are seniors in college.
Those successful in the one-day written examination, which tests the candidate’s facility in English expression, general ability and background, and foreign language proficiency will, within nine months, be given an oral examination. Candidates recommended by the oral exam panels will then be given a physical examination and a background investigation.
President confirms. Qualified candidates will be placed on a register- in the order of examination score, and appointments will be made from it as needed. Upon appointment, candidates will receive three commissions from the President as Foreign Service officer, Secretary in the Diplomatic Service, and Vice Consul of Career. These appointments are subject to confirmation by the U. S. Senate.
A newly appointed Foreign Service officer may serve his first tour of duty (normally of two years duration) either’ in the department’s headquarters in Washington, D. C., or at one of the 286 American Embassies, Legations, and Consulates abroad.
In recruiting officers in the past, the Foreign Service has sought young men with broad and general backgrounds. The need for such “generalist” officers has not lessened but, with the more varied types of positions now being filled by Foreign Sei-vice officers, there is an increased need also for persons with specialized training.
Law Admission Test Administered Nov. 14
The Law School Admission Test, required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American law schools, will be given at more than 100 centers throughout the United States, including the University of Notre Dame, on the morning of November 14. During 195859 over 17,000 applicants, whose scores were sent to over 100 law schools, took this test.
A candidate must make separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and should inquire of each whether it wishes him to take the Admission Test and when. Since many law schools select their freshman classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to next year’s classes are advised by the testing service to take either the November or the February test, if possible.
A bulletin should be obtained four to six weeks in advance of the .desired testing date from the Office of the Dean, Notre Dame Law School. Completed applications must be received at least two weeks before the desired testing date in order to allow ETS time to complete the necessary arrangements.
The Scholastic
ONE OF SIXTEEN CARDS “Stick to it”
Local Business Booms f In Greeting Card Sale p Those hitting the bookstore for greet-i ing cards again this year will find those ; 1 campus favorites, “Sophisti-cards,” back in the card racks of Bro. Conan’s emporium. Distinguished as the “Thinking man’s card” by “Sophisti-card” presi-, dent, Pat Nee, of Howard Hall, they receive high praise and popularity on the campus, in South Bend, and Chicago. They were designed and brought to life by the other “Sophisti-card” presidents , Dan Deigert and Terry McGovern, both V distinguished art majors.
The idea grew to reality last spring, when Pat, Dan, and Terry locked themselves in a room for three four-hour * “think big” sessions. From there they went to the drawing board where a num> her of preliminary sketches were made. After soliciting opinions about the vari* ous ideas, the three sent the best cards to press. The printing work was done < * by the Direct Mail Letter Service Co. in South Bend. Six thousand cards of I* various designs were produced.
' The cards were a big hit on campus, as well as off, as their novelty caught the fancy of the buying public. Student v salesmen during the summer sold many of the cards to stores in New York, Kansas City and Florida.
Among the varieties of cards is an ** all-purpose “damn card” for expressing one’s regrets for anything from a forgotten birthday to a forgotten date. The verse consists of a dozen lines of the * popular four-letter expletive.
Dan Deigert, who did most of the caricatures, is from Flint, Mich., while Terry McGovern, the designer, hails * from Cleveland, Ohio. Pat Nee, coordi-’ nator and promoter of the entire project, I f * is a Bostonian.
Still in the embryonic stage, the organization welcomes ideas for future I cards. Anyone interested should contact , • Pat Nee in Howard Hall.
| | October 9, 1959
Campus Theater Sells 1959-60 Reserve Seats
Subscription tickets for the University Theater’s 1959-60 season go on sale Monday of next week at tlie Washington Hall box office, and will be available there every day through Friday from 4 to 6 p.m.
Student tickets as $3 for orchestra and center section seats and $2 for side section seats; the tickets will admit the purchaser to one performance each of the Theater’s three productions during the year.
The Hasty Heart, by John Patrick, opening on November 5 and playing the first two week ends in November, will usher in the coming season. The play, first presented on Broadway in 1945, is set in a British hospital in Burma during World War II.
Joe Harrington, a sophomore who starred in last year’s production of A Hatful of Rain, plays the leading character, Sgt. Lachlen McLachlen, a lonely and bitter Scot who at first rejects the friendship offered him by his fellow hospital patients and by the nurse, Margaret (played by Mary Armbruster). Lachlen’s spirits brightens temporarily when Margaret accepts his proposal of marriage. But he again becomes bitter when he learns that he has only a few weeks to live and decides that he is being offered not friendship and love, but pity.
The cast includes Jack- Curtin as the orderly; John Smith, Yank; Jack Pehler, Digger; Rudy Hornish, Kiwi; Fred Trump, Blossom; Bill Flaherty, Tommy; and Don Zeifang, as the Colonel. Dave McDonald is stage manager and Greg Rogers is his assistant.
Tile Ruins of Pool Stand As Last Remains of Past
Nothing but the ruins of a sunken tile swimming pool now remains of the unsightly cluster of old buildings that formerly cluttered the area behind the Main Building. Even this last vestige is soon to be covered by new grass, which will temporarily beautify the area until some better use is found for the grounds.
The razed buildings formerly served as headquarters for the University’s maintenance departments. The vacated area will be eventually developed as part of the University’s expansion plan.
WANTED—ALIVE ONLY
Any student interested in writing for the SCHOLASTIC’S “Back Page" is urged to submit manuscripts as soon as possible. Topics on any subject which will provoke discussion will be most satisfactory. All manuscripts should be typed 40 characters wide and should include title and sub-heads. Send all copy to Back Page Editor, The SCHOLASTIC, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
J., Ott*
Men Varatiii
Inactivity and brevity again characterized the Senate meeting of last Monday, but in all fairness, not much could happen. The few people that compose the group at present were just hanging on, waiting for the new upper-class hall senators that were elected yesterday. They will have Senate orientation sessions this Sunday in hopes of readiness for' next Monday’s gathering.
You might be interested in attending next Monday’s session. A report of the progress of the partisan political groups and the presentation of the budget ($5000 of your money) will make it a good one to watch. The time is 7:45 p.m. in the Student Center Amphitheatre.
Here is what transpired Monday: SBP Babbitt appointed Tom Moran to chair the Student Welfare Committee^ named Greg Walsh, Keith Hauge, and John Lamont to the Minor Sports Committee, and called on Tom Kurt to he the campus travel coordinator. John Christen, Social Commissioner, reported on last weekend’s Senate Dance. The Academic Commissioner told of the progress of the first Student Forum. A loan of $200 was voted to the Marketing Club so that they can start activities. Ed Butler volunteered to find out the reasons for the dining hours change.
There was a motion made by Bill Scheckler that the Mardi Gras Ball would have preference in case a second dance is allowed in the new dining hall. The University Council set a maximum of 17 events that can be held in the new building because of the complications of setting it up and the shuffling of the students into the old dining hall while arrangements are made for the scheduled events. With the numerous banquets traditionally held, only one dance is permitted. The motion states merely that if a second dance is allowed, and the chances of this are not known, then the Mardi Gras Ball would be first in line because of the great popularity of the event.
As an interesting footnote to the meeting, it was announced that Guillermo “Bill” Vivado resigned as Spiritual Commissioner because, as he put it, he wasn’t sure what he was supposed to do. I commend Vivado for his honesty and sincerity. There is a lot of duplication on campus, and maybe.after SBP Babbitt’s suggested analysis and introspection of the matter, the job will be eliminated as a streamlining gesture. Vivado,' at any rate, is to be thanked for bringing it to the attention of the Senate even at the risk of eliminating himself from the picture.	J
More next week.	. . -
Bob Allen and his Chief Operator, Mrs. Julia Chipman, discuss Long Distance records which will soon be converted to automatic processing.
Meet Bob Allen—he’s growing fast with a fast-growing company
Robert E. Allen got his B.A. degree from Wabash College in June, 1957, and went to work with Indiana Bell Telephone Company at Indianapolis. “It looked like a growing company where I could grow, too,” he says.
It was. Today he is an Assistant Traffic Supervisor there. He’s in charge of six other supervisory people and about 100 telephone operators.
, Bob attributes his rapid progress to two main factors: the thorough training he received and the steady growth of the telephone business.
“I was trained to be a telephone man
ager, not just a traffic specialist,” he points out “I’ve also had practical, on-the-job experience in the plant, commercial and engineering phases of the business. So I’m equipped to handle new responsibilities all the time. And in this fast-growing communications field, that means I have more chances to keep moving ahead.”
* * *
What about a Bell Telephone Company career for you? Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus—and read the Bell Telephone booklet in your Placement Office.
With Mrs. Chipman and Miss Gee, Group Chief Operator, Bob reviews a blow-up of the automatic processing card which will mechanize Indiana Bell’s Long Distance billing.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
12
The Scholastic
STUDENT
TRIP . ..
November 13
by Joe Clark
4 When Charles Dickens traveled down the Ohio river in 1842 he pictured the
* industrial town at the junction of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers as “Hell with the lid lifted.” Not many years ago people still pictured Pittsburgh in about the same way — and for the most part they were right. The city’s mills and foundries shouldered large responsibilities during the two world wars.
* Demands for their products of steel left no time to salve the growing pains of «* the industrial community. Finally, with , the end of World War II Pittsburgh was able to look at itself. It saw many prob-
t lems. These were problems of age and of a changing economy, of steep hills and narrow valleys: problems of smoke, of floods, of highways and parking, of housing and buildings, of education and culture.
, But Pittsburgh saw too that it had been well rewarded for its war time ef-foi-ts. In its steel mills it had found a
* philosopher’s stone that could change the coal and iron deposits of the Allegheny mountains into the gold that was needed to remodel the grimy and unstylish
*’ city. The hard working citizens soon started to prove that they could spend their money well. Spring floods on the river highways posed as one of the
*	first problems to be faced. The worst ! flood occurred on St. Patrick’s day in f 1936 when 36 persons lost their lives and more than $100 million dollars worth
*	of property was destroyed. To protect themselves the Pittsburghers organized a federal project that completed a sys-
. tern of eight dams around the headwa-* ters of the Allegheny and Monongahela
rivers. Research and city ordinances k also made progress in controlling the smoke that blanketed the city during the
*	war time years. Today the urbanites are proud of their fresh air atmosphere.
The City Fathers showed they had an eye for beauty too. Starting from the point at the junction of the three rivers
1 they reconstructed nearly a quarter of 1 the business district into the modern । wonders of architecture that today form ■ the city’s “Golden Triangle.” This year, | to celebrate its 200th Anniversary, Pitts-t burgh held a four-month bicentennial
|	October 9, 1959
festival complete with historical exhibits, showboats, an original musical drama, and river tours.
The steel mills of Pittsburgh also seemed able to form the material needed to fill the ranks of its collegiate football teams. Since the opening game of the Notre Dame-Pitt series in 1909 the Irish have won 15 of their games with the Panthers and have lost only 8 and tied one. Still our opponents in the Steel City have earned themselves a reputation for never giving in without a full 60-minute fight.
Rockne—the silent whistle
When Rockne first met the Panthers as a left end on the 1911 squad the two teams battled on Forbes field to a 0-0 tie. Rockne supplied the thrills to the spectators by taking the second quarter kickoff 40 yards for a touchdown, but referees ruled the whistle hadn’t blown to open the quarter and the touchdown wasn’t allowed.
The 1939 contest exampled the stamina that our Panther foes have always shown. N.D. blasted 35 points out of the Pitt team in the first half. But the fighting Panthers held the Irish not only scoreless in the 2nd half but finished with a series of flaring dashes that totaled 19 points.
Pitt was not always so unsuccessful. During the heyday of Jock Sutherland, .the original “T formation master” from 1932-1937 N.D. made only two touchdowns against the Sutterland-coached
eleven and carried away only one victory.
The 1959 trip to the Pitt game will be Notre Dame’s second in recent years. In 1956 over 550 students spent a very enjoyable week end in the Steel City. The experiences of that trip have contributed much to the plans for this year’s trip which will cost only $27.95 and will provide transportation, room, game ticket^ -a package lunch on the way to Pitt and souvenirs.
Greyhound buses are being used this year for the complete trip from Notre Dame to Pittsburgh and back. Because, of the direct turnpike from here to Pitt . the buses will be able to give the fastest service of any commercial land trans- -	.
portation. Rest stops along the turnpike will give the trippers a chance to purchase snacks to complement the packaged lunches provided. The Greyhound cruisers should prove to be very comfortable for the eight-hour trip.	. ..
There will be another advantage in -the buses for those that have no after- : . ‘ ■ noon classes on Fridays. Although ex- . . cused cuts from classes will not begin	r
until 3:30 as in past years, for those	.
students who can leave earlier buses - -will start departing at short intervals from the Circle at 12:30. The first buses. ' . will be scheduled to arrive in Pittsburgh by 9:30 Friday evening which effectively ? ~ _ will give some of the trippers an extra C night to see the town.	.	/
Buses will deliver everyone directly to / Zy < the Penn-Sheridan hotel which is	j
(Continued on page 18)	• f\
•	-	- , - -■>- n J z ‘~.
CHRISTIAN CULTURE
I
... and Some Christians '
*
THE LILLY ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES
♦
To the enthusiastic students of Christian Culture at Saint Mary’s College, their program is no enigma. However, because of the many misconceptions and vague generalities in existence regarding the major in Christian Culture, this article shall attempt briefly to explain and clarify the mysteries of this novel approach to education, in addition to presenting the speakers in the program’s Lilly Endowment lecture series.
About six years ago the distinguished z British historian, Christopher Dawson, outlined his ideas on “Education and Christian Culture” proposing a study of Christian culture as the foundation for an integrated college curriculum. Professor Dawson believed, as do many critics of modern education, that today’s curriculum has become immersed in a collection of specialized yet unrelated studies. Asserting firmly that religion is the vital element in the formation of any culture, Dawson suggested an integrated approach to learning built around the study of Christian culture. As he defines it, Christian culture is the external expression of Christianity in social institutions and patterns of thought and behavior. This approach to the development of Western civilization would be “a study of the culture process itself from its spiritual and theological roots, through its organic historical growth to its cultural fruits.” This study of the “historical reality of Christianity as a living force which entered into the lives of men and changed them” would offer to the student a unique view of Western civilization and a united framework of integrated learning which would encourage the student to pursue more specialized knowledge.
Professor Dawson’s suggestions have provided the stimulus for numerous articles and discussions criticizing and supporting the plan. Saint Mary’s College is unique in putting this plan into action. With the encouragement of Sister M. Madeleva, president of the college, Dr. Bruno P. Schlesinger of Saint Mary’s faculty set up a program for Christian Culture in the fall of 1956.
One of the major criticisms which arose was the difficulty of putting such an ambitious plan into effect. Would it be practical? With this awareness in mind, Saint Mary’s organized an interdepartmental major covering the junior and senior years including 28 semester hours of classes.
Saint Mary’s program follows a historical-sociological approach stressing the study of institutions and trends of thought with particular accent on certain vital periods of history. This approach facilitates a study of the major historical periods without making the student master all the facts from the birth of Christ to contemporary times. Since the influence of Christianity on the development of Western cul-
by Mary McGreevy
%
A
ture is extremely complex, this approach emphasizes the common elements and unity of that culture rather than the particularities of national development.	;
The core of the program is formed by four semesters of historical sequence beginning with The Making of Europe, a study of the formative years of Christian culture. This course is followed by Medieval Christendom which deals with its period of maturity. In the senior year the sequence continues with The Age of Religious Division and The Age of Revolu- -i tions and World Wars.
Realizing the impossibility of dealing exhaustively with such a vast range of material, Dr. Schlesinger, following Pro
fessor Dawson’s suggestions, has organized the courses care
fully with an intensive study of key periods. An effort is
made to avoid the conventional textbook
Christopher Dawson
through the use of synthesizing works such as Dawson’s Making of Europe, Huizinga’s The Waning of the Middle Ages and Gilmore’s World of Humanism.
Together with the historical sequence there are four semesters of colloquia in which the student studies significant works in the areas of literature, art, social thought and spiritual writings. These discussions are coordinated with the history courses so that The City of God, for example, is studied when the fall of Rome is treated in history and Thomas More’s Utopia is discussed at the same time as the study of Renaissance humanism. This plan is designed to place the work in its historical context thus increasing its significance to the student. To preserve the unity of the
o
Y
A ' ।
I
Ml'.
V
14
The
Mircea Eliade
course, the chairman is present at colloquium. However a scholar in the particular area under consideration leads the discussion. As in the historical sequence, the col-loquia follow a logical order from the formative years of Christendom to the present age.
3 In
J these j study J takes . sified
addition to two areas of the student a more inten-course each
semester
again
■ corresponding to the : period under discus' sion. Aware of the almost unlimited possibilities of such a program, Saint Mary’s has selected
Early
Christian
Writers and History of Christian Philos-
ophy for the first year followed by Church, State and Society, and Christianity and American Culture for the senior year.
The girls of Saint Mary’s are most enthusiastic in their response to the program which is attracting students of high quality; almost half of the first group to complete the course were honor students. The girls believe that they can organize their knowledge much better in their own minds as a result of this general but integrated approach. All of the ideas seem to fall into place as part of a comprehensive whole.
The advantages of such a major are many, but perhaps two points deserve special consideration. On the educational level a high degree of unity is achieved as compared to the regular college curriculum. In the religious field, a program of this type revives important Catholic tradition. This is of particular value in that significant religious writings, formerly overlooked, are being returned to the mainstream of learning.
In the words of Professor John P. Gleason, “Saint Mary’s does not pretend that its Program for Christian Culture has solved all the problems of the Catholic college, or even that this program has explored all possibilities of Christopher Dawson’s proposals. Saint Mary’s experience does indicate, however, that Dawson’s suggestions are by no means impracticable and that they deserve further validation, especially from Catholic educators currently disturbed over the intellectual life of the Catholic Church in America.”
The Lilly Endowment of Indianapolis, Indiana, became interested in Saint Mary’s Program for Christian Culture and has greatly strengthened it by a generous grant. Funds from this grant have made it possible to institute at Saint Mary’s a series of lectures on topics concerned with Christianity, ancient and modern. Their purpose is to demonstrate the vitality of the Christian tradition and to illustrate its significance for man in the past and present. These lectures, now in their third year, are relevant to the Program for Christian Culture but are also of wide general interest.
The following lectures will be offered in the 1959-1960 season. These lectures are to be held in the Little Theater of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary’s College. Notre Dame faculty and students are cordially welcome. Admission is without ticket and without charge.
On October 12, 1959 at one o’clock p.m., Dr. Thomas N. Brown will speak on “Catholicism and Irish Immigrant Nationalism, 1820-1860.” Dr. Brown, an authority on Irish affairs, is a graduate of Holy Cross College and received his doctorate at Harvard University. He was a member of the History department at the University of Notre Dame before, joining the State department where he made studies on Anglo-Irish affairs. He is now the head of the History department at Portsmouth Prioi-y School, Portsmouth, R.I.
The next lecture will be “The Biblical Concept of Justice,’7 by Father John M. Oesterreicher, which will be given October 26, 1959 at one o’clock pan. Father Oesterreicher, director of the Institute of Judaeo-Christian Studies at Seton Hall University, is a native of Austria. Born of Jewish parents, he was influenced in his youth by Dostoevski, Newman and Kierkegaard. The inspiration of Cardinal Newman led him into the Church; a few years later, he was ordained a priest. He came to the United States in 1940.
Father Oesterreicher’s work today is concentrated in the Institute of Judaeo-Christian Studies, a center for research and publication which seeks to encourage deeper understanding between Christians and Jews. Since 1955, he has been editing the yearbook, The Bridge, a collection of studies in the fields of theology, philosophy, history, and the arts. Father Oesterreicher’s best-known book is Walls are Crumbling, a study of seven Jewish philosophers.
Later in the season, Robert Speaight, C.B.E., British actor, director and author will read and analyze T. S. Eliot’s “The Waste Land.” Mr. Speaight created the role of Becket in Eliot’s drama, “Murder in the Cathedral,” and has directed Shakespearean plays at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Author of several books, Mr. Speaight is best known for his biography of Hilaire Belloc.
For the annual Christian Culture Symposium in April, Saint Mary’s has obtained five outstanding scholars and lecturers.
Christopher Dawson will initiate the Symposium with a lecture on “Christian Culture and American Education.” Professor Dawson was educated at Winchester and Trinity College, Oxford, and entered the Catholic Church in 1914. He was a lecturer at University College, Exeter, for 12 years and later at Liverpool and Edinburgh Universities. In 1958, he became the first Charles Chauncey Stillman Professor of Roman Catholic Studies at Harvard University, where he is presenting a general view of Catholicism to students in the' Harvard Divinity School. Even at Oxford, Mr. Dawson had begun to make a special study of the relations of religion and
October 9, 1959
culture, and in this field lies his life work. For years he has been “one of the most profound historians of the ideas, aspirations, and cultural movements that went into the making of Western Society.” (Barbara Ward). The most widely read of his books are: The Making of Europe, The Dynamics of World History, and The Movement of World Revolution.
In recent years Mr. Dawson has devoted considerable thought to problems of contemporary education. He has published a number of articles suggesting a study of Christian Culture as an integrating principle in the undergraduate curriculum. Saint Mary’s College has attempted to put Mr. Dawson’s ideas into practice by establishing its Program for Christian Culture. Mr. Dawson has shown considerable interest in Saint Mary’s program and has acted as a consultant.
The second lecturer in this series will be Vernon J. Bourke who will speak on “The City of God and the Christian View of History.” Dr. Bourke is a native of Canada and a graduate of Saint Michael’s College, University of Toronto. He was awarded his doctorate in philosophy from the Institute of Medieval Studies, Toronto, where he studied under Professor Etienne Gilson. He is at present associate professor of philosophy at St. Louis University. One of the outstanding Catholic philosophers of our time, he is perhaps best known for his work on St. Augustine, Augustine’s Quest of Wisdom. His other books include The French Jesuits and Cartesianism and Habitus in Thomistic Metaphysics. He recently edited the City of God for Image Books.	■
Following Dr. Bourke will be Mircea Eliade to speak on “History and the Cyclical View of Time.” Professor Eliade was bom in Bucharest, Romania, in 1907. He received his Ph.D. at the University of Bucharest in 1932 where he later taught from 1933 to 1939. He also studied at the University of Calcutta. During World War II he was cultural attache at the Romanian legation in London and then in Lisbon. From 1946 to 1948 he was visiting professor at the Ecole des Hautes-Etudes, Sorbonne, Paris and from 1950 to 1955 he was president of the Centre Roumain de Recherches, Paris. He came to the University of Chicago in 1956 as Haskell lecturer, was visiting professor of the history of religion the following year, and in 1958 became full professor and chairman of the department. Among his many books are The Myth of the
Eternal Return, Patterns in Comparative Religion, Birth and Rebirth, and Yoga'. Immortality and Freedom.
Randall Stewart, chairman of the department of English f at Vanderbilt University, will lecture on “Doctrines of Man in American Literature.” He did his graduate work at Harvard and Yale Universities and taught in the following years ' at the University of Oklahoma, the United States Naval Acad- / emy, the University of Idaho, Yale and Vanderbilt. Professor of English at Brown University from 1937 to 1955, he then < returned to Vanderbilt as head of the department. In 19471948 he was visiting professor at Yale, and in 1949-1950 he held the same position at Connecticut College. He has been a Guggenheim Fellow and has taught in the University of Wyoming program. A Tennessean by birth, Professor Stewart has maintained a long-standing interest in the Southern lit- j erary revival, but he has also written a biography and edited the Notebooks of that famous New Englander, Nathaniel Haw- y thorne. Professor Stewart has concerned himself with the relationship of literature and religion and is the author of Amer-	,,
ican Literature and Christian Doctrine and co-editor of The Literature of the United States and Living Masterpieces of A;. American Literature.	'
Concluding the Symposium, Sir Hugh Taylor will speak on “Religion and Science: Toward Unity.” Dr. Taylor received the degree of Doctor of Science at Liverpool University. His 1 post-doctorate studies were made at the Nobel Institute at Stockholm and the laboratory of the Technische Hochschule ‘ at Hanover, Germany. He came to Princeton in 1914 and has been there ever since. During World War II he was a liaison officer between Canadian and American science as director of the research project on heavy water production and finally as associate director of the S.M.A. laboratories at Columbia. He was, for many years, Dean of the Graduate School at Prince- -• ton University and is now President of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation. He is the author of numer- V ous papers dealing with the problem of religion and science and received recently an honorary degree from the University of Notre Dame.
Mary McGreevy—Features Editor, The Crux, St. Mary’s College
IN THE SPRING of 1953, Reverend
Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, chairman-ned a faculty committee that surveyed the advisory programs employed by well over one hundred leading colleges and universities throughout the United States. The direct result of this study was the establishment in the fall of ’54 of Office of Academic Student Advisor. Among its major functions was and still is to help students, particularly freshmen, to solve their academic problems. : One of these academic problems is the failure of the average freshman to study sufficiently during the early weeks of his fall semester. This problem, however, is not peculiar to Notre Dame; deans at such widely separated colleges as Duke, Rice, Dartmouth, and Stanford attribute most course failures among their first year men to “the slow start.”
To pinpoint this problem to the Notre Dame campus, I suppose the best example would be to state that as Academic Student Advisor I have interviewed over the past five years scores of young men about to be dropped from the University for academic reasons. To the man each blamed “getting off to a slow start” as the major cause for his dismissal.
With this information in mind, the University of Notre Dame distributed this fall a Study Hints for Notre Dame Freshmen, designed primarily to alert
16
Pink P'ujneJi:
THE SLOW START
by Dr. Willian Birke
all first year men to the absolute necessity of establishing immediately an efficient study program. This can be achieved simply by following the study suggestions outlined in the inside pages of this brochure. Additional pamphlets and time-budget sheets are available in the offices of your hall rector or the Academic Student Advisor.
An efficient study schedule reduces to a minimum your getting off “to the slow start” — the admitted major cause throughout the country of freshmen failures.
Part of the problem of “the slow start” is the student’s unwillingness to discuss an academic problem with those best able to answer his questions. Instead of a frank talk with his professor,
his hall prefect, or with us, he leans heavily upon gossip and rumor, living by that high school cliche that to meet with your professor is “polishing the ap-pie.”
This bit of juvenile thinking is best r exemplified by a letter our office received recently from the parent of a Notre	*
Dame freshman. I quoted this in part because it unfortunately typifies the	*
fuzzy thinking too many first year men have toward their professors — a completely erroneous attitude, almost childish in its falsity.	*
“His work habits in school vary from fair to good. It is apparent, however, * that he required more time in some subjects than the required three hours. I f often asked him to ask for extra help . if he didn’t understand an assignment, but he never wanted to do this in case ■ he’d be caught, by his classmates, coming from any teacher’s room after class. Perhaps it was a case of both being 4 somewhat shy and not wanting to be known as a ‘teacher’s pet.’ My only A hope and prayer is that he will seek such assistance if he needs it at Notre Dame.”
To avoid academic failure, see to it 1 that you get off to a good start in your work, and this is best achieved by an 4 efficient study program outside of class. If you begin to stumble, meet with men able to help you — your professor, your rector, your Academic Student Advisor.
The Scholastic
t-
k
Space-age thinking and communications
t	Reach for the stars.
>	That’s what a company like Gen Tel —
,	America’s second largest telephone system
*	— must do to find new and better ways to
b	build tomorrow’s communications services.
f	And that’s what our large and highly
trained staff of scientists and engineers continuously aim at. These are the men and women who are engaged in the development of new and promising tech-#	niques in fields such as memory systems,
advanced electronics, high-speed switch-
*	ing, and data transmission.
Gen Tel has been research-minded ever since its small beginning. That’s one of the
A
reasons we have grown into a system that has 1,745 exchanges in 30 states, providing modern service for over 3,700,000 telephones. Our lines carry 119 million conversations each week, and we’re adding 3,750 new phones every week.
To keep up with our country’s growth, we continue to think ahead, plan ahead, invest ahead. In fact, this year, alone, we’re investing almost §200 million in new facilities required to meet the ever-increasing demand for more and better telephone service.
These are typical examples of how we strive—not only to meet today’s communications needs but to answer tomorrow’s.
GENERAL ® TELEPHONE & ELECTRON ICS \ SYSTEM /
h
I
i
October 9, 1959
Student Trip
(Continued from page 13) cated in the heart of Pittsburgh’s “Golden Triangle.” The IBM system is being employed this year to give everyone a chance to select his roommates (the hotel rooms are all doubles and triples) and during the bus trip the keys to the rooms will be distributed.
Find your room quickly, there will be a big night ahead! For the information of the interested engineers, there are tours of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation until 11:30 Friday night. For those others who intend to neglect their academic education for the week end a booklet will be passed out on the buses listing all the activities in the Clubbing District of which a few. are especially suggested.
Cocktails and clouds
There is first the Tin Angel and the Point View Cafe, both reached by riding the Duquesne Heights Incline up to the top of Mount Washington. Here you may find yourself enjoying a cocktail and dinner above the clouds and surveying from the glass enclosed lounges
EXCLUSIVE
NOTRE DAME DANCE CLASSES
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
the panoramic view of the Golden Triangle and the junction of the three rivers at the Point below.
If you can drag yourself away from these week-end substitutes for the Notre Dame dining halls you might make a plunge in the thick of things at the Copa, the Twin Coaches, or the Rock and Roll lounge — all located within a short walking distance of the hotel.
For those able to make it up before the game on Saturday afternoon, there are also a few suggestions forthcoming. Several churches are within blocks of the Sheridan and information on the Saturday morning Masses will be available in the Hotel lounge. For those of you who like heights and survived the trip to the Mt. Washington night spots on Friday night, almost across the street from the hotel is the Gulf Building which offers a view of Pittsburgh from the highest building in Pennsylvania.
If you can leave early for the game don’t miss a visit to the University of Pittsburgh’s famous Cathedral of Learning. Here in 45 stories of Gothic Architecture take time to wander through the Nationality Rooms, decorated in the native styles of 18 foreign nations, or stray through the art galleries, Music Hall, Library and especially the museum,
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
CE 2-3339
which houses the most famous single dinosaur skeleton in the world. It might be better, however, not to wear the N.D. r jackets during this particular tour, even if you are looking for a Saturday night date. The Greyhound buses will provide convenient service from the Sheridan to r the Stadium at noon.
After the game, those who take ad- * vantage of the date service to be offered ( during the ticket sales will need to waste ’’ no time in returning to the hotel. At six o’clock buses will leave from the Sheri- 4< dan for Mt. Mercy College of Women j where the trippers will meet their dates. • The Mt. Mercy girls are then planning to invite their escorts to free suppers 4 at the day students’ homes.
From nine ’til one there will be a dance in the Pittsburgh room of the i,: ’ Sheridan Hotel for the Domers and their dates. The cost will be $1.75. Those un- < sociable ones left without a date oi’ expelled from all the fraternity parties on i the Pitt campus might consider a bus ride to the airport which provides a s spectacular view of molten hot slag pouring down into slag dumps along the way.
Sunday there will be a Mass for the N.D. students in the Mt. Mercy chapel, but nothing else is planned. Whether you corralled a fine date from the evening before or not, there will still be * many things to do for the afternoon. One sad warning if you are proud of the fact that you’re over 21 — since the . Quakers founded Pittsburgh in 1757 drinking has always been nixed on Sundays.	4
What to tell her
If youi- date for the afternoon seems to be at a loss for suggestions of sights r to see you might show your intelligence by suggesting a tour of the Pittsburgh w Airport Terminal. There — you can tell r her — is a modern feat of architecture seven stories tall and ovei- 300 yards in length. Within it are: a 62-room hotel, a skyview dining room for 500 people, a * 300-seat theater, clothing and gift shops, . a branch bank, an observation deck large *** enough for 10,000 spectators and the Horizon Room, a night club featuring dinners, dancing and a floor show.
If she isn’t satisfied, you might suggest a ride at the West View amusement r park, a flight to the moon leaving twice a day from the Buhl planetarium, or— if all else fails — a quiet walk around the Mellon Park, just across from the Sheridan.	-
But don’t get lost on your tours among * the skyscrapers of the Golden Triangle because buses will be leaving — for those	4
who want to get back early — at 4 p.m. and will unload at the Circle by midnight. For the convenience of others . who like to enjoy every possible moment of the trip, the remaining buses will , leave at 10:30 from the Sheridan on * Sunday night in time to spill their exhausted contents onto the Notre Damp campus in time for breakfast Monday ■ morning.
18
The Scholastic
Where Can
the features section
I Get Some
submit to Features Editor, 319 Badin Hall
Really Good Spaghetti?
devoted to intellectually stimulating articles and creative writing by faculty, students, and other readers invites
Sheraton Hotels
Of
Course!
political criticism and commentary . . . analysis of present culture . . . academic criticism . . . humorous essays and verse . . . short stories . . . photographs and sketches
CUT
COSTS

Unfortunately, too many students find themselves in this unenviable position around midsemester and final exam time. The reason . . . they’ve been “cutting costs’’ by sharing books. They don’t realize that penny for penny, page for page, books are the best buy of their college career. DON’T PUT YOURSELF BEHIND THE PROVERBIAL EIGHT BALL. COME IN AND BUY YOUR OWN BOOKS TODAY.
STUDENT-FACULTY DISCOUNTS
Notre Dame
BOOKSTORE
Hera's money-saving news for students, faculty and all other college personnel. During weekends and college vacations, Sheraton offers you special low rates — even lower rates when two or more occupy the same room. Special group rates are provided for athletic teams, clubs, other college organizations.
You get these discounts at any of Sheraton's 54 hotels in the U.S.A., Hawaii and Canada. Just present your Sheraton I.D. card when you register. To get a Sheraton I.D. card, contact:
JAMES NAUGHTON
213 Sorin Holl Notre Dome, hid.
j October 9, 1959
19
DOME pictures: This Sunday the postponed class pictures will be taken for the yearbook. Students are asked to check the notices posted in each
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
Michiana's Leading Barber Shop •
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair
•
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House
5 BABBEBS	MANICURIST
hall for the time and place of their particular picture. Students should note how to dress since it varies with each class.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
•
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
BBBSEB □BEBES EEEBBQ BEBDBB BEBDaQ QQECIBS EDEDDHECIDEECj
KQDL KROSSWORD
No. 2
ACROSS
1. Occult theosophy
7. Beer Barrel, Pennsylvania, etc.
13.	One of the Frankies
14.	Famous Fifth, not drinkable
15.	This is choice
16.	Take umbrage at
17.	October activity of small fry
19.	Nixes
20.	What you must do to get in 26 Across
22.	A Kool, in short
23.	Birdland sound
25.	Scoreless tie
26.	No car for a drag race
27.	Oral ends of Kools
28.	When you need a real change—
30. Beginning of solar system
34. What Kools have
38.	It’s just south of the border
39.	“TheNakedand the Dead” author
40.	Kind of pitch in the ball park
41.	Aver
42.	Scene of a famous parting
43.	Promontories
DOWN
1.	Do it with aspersions or fly rods
2.	Allege
3.	Island famed for native girls
4.	Unbottled Guinness
5.	Fore, pad or hammer________
6.	A Marked man
7.	More than two couples
8.	Dance too enthusiastically?
9	majeste
10.	Baker or masseur
11.	Mame and Charley’s
12.	Shampoo follower
18. Time of the 20’s 21. Summer in Paris 22. Where Kool tips grow?
24. Kind of sails at Christmastime
26.	Minx from England
27.	Me,_____
29. Scarlett gal
31.	More eyes than nays
32.	Bound to allegiance
33.	Sheridan’s Bob
34.	He has lawn parties
35.	Girl situated in Oklahoma
36.	Head shakes
37.	Favorite pursuit of the female
38.	U____(Russia)
L	8	9	10	11	12
L					
					
r					
15
17
22
38
40
42
13
ARE YOU KODL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
YOU NEED THE
25
28
30
39
°K0DLtf
K
4
120		21
		
		
When yxir throat tells
a real change
KGDL
MILO MENTHOL KING-SIZE
4
*
The Scholastic
IRISH LAUNCH REBOUND ATTEMPT TOMORROW
V	by BILL CARY
Now that they are even for the season, I the Irish of Notre Dame will head for the sunny climate of California this Saturday when they meet Coach Pete Elliott’s Bears at Berkeley. The game marks the first time that Notre Dame and California have met. The Bears are the defending champions of the now , defunct Pacific Coast Conference.
California lists 21 returning lettermen ( on its roster. The entire starting line from last year’s Bose Bowl team returns. , Chief loss from last year’s squad was the versatile quarterback Joe Kapp. He was the man most responsible for the fine showing of the team, last season. Wayne Crow, a converted halfback, is being groomed to replace Kapp. Crow k is a 198-pounder who lettered last year.
He is a junior.
J
At the start of the season, Elliott said that, while his team might be as ' good as last year, it would have trouble । equaling the 1958 season mark of 7-3. After two games of the present campaign Elliott looks like a prophet. His , Bears have dropped successive games to Iowa and Texas by overwhelming margins. Iowa spanked the Californians by a 48-12 score and Texas whitewashed the Bears, 33-0. So tomorrow they will . be looking for their first win of the year.
Patton running. The Bears attack ’ from the “T” formation. They rely on the passing and running of Crow and
;	BILLY PATTON
Main cog in Elliott’s offense
; October 9, 1959
I
the blocking and rushing talents of junior fullback Billy Patton, a 192-pounder. Their basic defensive allign-ment is a 5-4 with the two outside linebackers about three to four yards off the line-of-scrimmage. They employ the umbrella defense the same as the Irish do. Both defenses are essentially the same.
The ends for the Bears are Gael Bar-sotti and Dave George. Barsotti is a transfer from San Diego State and is considered a fine all-around player. George was a squad member last year. They are supported by Jerry Lundgren (180), Skip Huber (190), Tom Bates (198) and Roland Lasher (200). All of these are lettermen.
Four lettermen fortify the tackle position. Co-captain Pat Newell (185) and Frank Sally (215) are listed as the starters. Charlie Holston (212) is giving Sally a tough fight for the starting job.
Domoto blocking. The other cocaptain, Pete Domoto, heads the guards. Domoto is a 6-0, 202-pound standout from Berkeley. He is very fast and agile for his size. Jim Green (215) supports Domoto. The other starter is Jeff Snow. He is being hard-pressed by a two-year letterman and Rose Bowl starter in the person of Don Piestrup (185).
The center position is one of the best fortified on the team. Terry Jones (200), and Frank Dorsetti (220) are both two-year lettermen. Jones was named to the second team All-PCC squad last year. Other help will come from Andy Segale (205) and Bob Chiappone (225). Chiap-pone is listed as potentially a great center but has been crippled by knee injuries.
The Bears should be faster in the backfield but not as experienced. Crow is the main hope to fill Kapp’s shoes. He does everything well and should be able to handle the job. If he fails Larry Parque (190), last year’s replacement for Kapp, is capable of doing the job. Like Kapp, he is a good runner. He also is a stickout on defense. Sophomore Jim Gianulias (185) is the outstanding newcomer but needs experience.
Veterans also dominate the halfback posts. Speedy Grover Garvin (195) is the starter at left half. Behind him there is little experience. Jimmy Burress, a tough little speedster, is Garvin’s replacement. John Blaylock (172), the fastest man on the team, could prove to be the outstanding prospect on the team.
Steve Bates (175) heads the right halfbacks. He is a veteran and, along
PETE DOMOTO
Spearhead of Bear line
with sophomore Bob Wills (185), gives the Bears good strength at this position.
Speedster Wills. The California coaching staff is particularly high on Wills. They feel he is one of the finest first-year men in the country. He has run the 100 in 9.9 and the 220 in 21.5. He is considered a fine pass receiver and also an accurate passer. Most important, he is a hard-nosed competitor who likes the going rough.
Patton is a very fine performer from his fullback position. He does everything expected of a fullback, namely block, tackle and run. When he needs a rest the Bears can call on Walt Arnold (220). Arnold runs with tremendous power. To make the position even stronger the Bears have an outstanding sophomore in Dave Maggard, a transfer from Modesto Junior College. Maggard, like Arnold, is a 220-pounder who has very good speed. He does everything expected . and with experience could become a fine football player for California.
The Bears are playing the toughest schedule in their history this season. But they are determined to make up for. their poor start. The Irish will have, their hands full with the Golden Bears tomorrow afternoon. It should be a very interesting game if only for the fact that Notre Dame’s two famous cripples, George Izo and Bill (Red) Mack, should see their first action of the year. The injured Bob Scarpitto might also return ’ to action after being sidelined in the: . Purdue game last week.
.	21
ODDS and ENDS
Purdue’s 28-7 win over the Irish last week was the Boilermaker’s first win over a Notre Dame team in the Ross-Ade Stadium. 1905 was the last previous Purdue win at home but that game was played on die old Stuart Field...
Nebraska is fast returning to its former position as a major football power. Providing the impetus for this resurgence is a stepped-up recruiting program. The Corn-husker scouts signed up seven players from the Minnesota high school All-Star game last week. . . .
Mike Lodish, senior right end for the Irish saw his first action against Purdue shortly before the end of the first half. When he removed his helmet in the dressing room at halftime, he discovered an unprecedented dent about two inches wide and one inch deep, gruesome proof of the heavy combat. . . .
Looking ahead to future Notre Dame opponents is dangerous for the players, but the rest of us cannot ignore the performances of these foes. Perhaps the best individual performance by the enemy last week was that of Pittsburgh’s Ivan Toncic. Toncic sparked a second half Panther rally in which he threw four TD passes to give the Pitt eleven a 25-21 win over UCLA._
Gene Duffy, Notre Dame’s graduated baseball and basketball phenomenon, played professional baseball this summer. He is in tiie Chicago White Sox farm system in which he quickly advanced to the Duluth team in the Northern League. . . .
Michigan State’s loss to Texas A&M two weeks ago ended a streak of 15 straight wins in non-conference play for the Spartans. But with their impressive win over Michigan last Saturday, Tyler Jr. seems to think they will beat Iowa in an upset. . . .
HAFFNER SEARCHES DOWNFIELD FOR AN OPEN RECEIVER
Notre Dame’s sophomore passing artist fades back behind good protection as Angelo Dabiero fends off Purdue’s John Elwell while upended Boilermaker Lenny Jardine crawls towards Haffner. But the pass protection was not always this good as Purdue toppled the Irish, 28-7.
N.D. Baseball Team Opens Fall Practice
Coach Jake Kline opened the 1959 fall baseball season here at Notre Dame on Monday, September 28, by inviting back the members of last year’s squad and also welcoming for the first time a large group of promising sophomores. Coach Kline stated that he will conduct the fall practice sessions “as long as the weather permits.”
The 1959 Irish basebailers finished second in the NCAA District Four playoffs played at Cartier Field last May. With the exception of Co-captains Gene Duffy and Dick Selcer, both of whom have graduated, Notre Dame will have the same squad back. Kline commented that both Duffy and Selcer were very capable leaders and ball players. He added, however, that with experience, the 1960 baseballers could become a threat.
Returning to the outfield positions for the Irish are seniors Mike Graney and Frank Finnegan, and juniors Chuck Lennon, Ed McCarron, and Bernie O’Neil. Finnegan played outstanding ball for his Watertown, So. Dakota team during this past summer. Sophomores Tom Twardowski, Paul Zilka, Leonard Smith, and Jerry McNamara are also making strong bids for the outfield positions.
Senior John Carretta returns to first base again this year while juniors Dan Hagan and Jack Gentempo will be back at the third base and shortstop positions respectively. Competing for second base are seniors Jack Dorrian and Ross Franco. Coach Kline is also impressed with the performances of sophomore infielders Bill Howard, Bill Brut
van, Chuck LaRose and John Tournowski.
Ed Wojcik, a senior, will again catch for the Irish. However sophomore Walt Osgood, an outstanding prospect, is a 4^ serious competitor for the position. Junior Bernie Dobranski and sophomore > Fred Nemic are also making their presence known.
Notre Dame will again have a strong (Continued on page 25)	>
Interhall Grid Campaign ** Set to Open October 11 1
The intramural program here at I Notre Dame will get underway on Sun- ( day, October 11. This program, which r originated during Knute Rockne’s era, claims to be one of the oldest and finest *•<’ among colleges.
One reason why the Notre Dame intramural program is such a success is due to the fact that each individual hall is a competing unit. This creates intense ( rivalry between the halls. Winning the • football championship is an honor which . is generally much sought after by all r' the residence halls.	;
Mr. Napolitano, the head of the in- ‘ tramural activities, has chosen Mike , Morando as supervisor of the interhall * football this year. Morando has announced that the program will be di- ’' vided, as in the past, into two leagues. The halls representing the East part of the campus are Farley, Breen-Phillips, , , Keenan, Stanford, Zahm, St. Edward’s ’ and Cavanaugh. The west part of the	;
campus will be comprised of Dillon,	\
Alumni, Howard, Morrissey, Badin, Sorin and Walsh.
The schedule, although not issued yet, ' will be set for the early part of the sea- ’ son only. In the latter part of the sea- j son, a special schedule will be drawn up ‘ in order to match the stronger teams.
The championship game will be played in the Stadium between the winners of „ each league. Each member of the vic- 4 torious team will receive a silver football as a reward for his merits. In addition, * • this year’s champions will play the j Michigan State Prison team.	A ,
All equipment will be supplied by the school and this will include both shoes M । and helmets. Incidentally, the helmets have new face masks.	A ■
The games will take place every Sunday afternoon from 1 to 5 p.m. on the + 1 two fields directly in back of the tennis > courts. Each game will consist of four * twelve-minute quarters of running time « during which free substitution will be * allowed. Only one time out each half 4 will be allowed unless there. are injuries.
The program, strictly voluntary, has * already attracted four hundred men. j Farley Hall has had the greatest repre- 1 sentation. The officials, with the excep- i | tion of the head referee and the coaches, * are all students who have volunteered. , .
Having already had two weeks of r ’ practice, all the teams are rounding into shape, and they are now ready to begin a season which should prove interesting.
.—John Hoff
The Scholastic 1
22
' THE GRIMNESS OF DEFEAT
Coach Kuharich strides grimly off the field at Ross-Ade Stadium after losing . his first game as Notre Dame football coach.
TIME OUT
Sitting in the press box at Purdue and watching the Boilermakers maul the Irish in the first quarter last week was disheartening. The disheartening aspect of that first quarter was not that it shattered all dreams of a miracle team. No, the worst thing about that first quarer was that Purdue played perfect football.
Admittedly the Irish looked numb, shocked and possibly even lethargic in the first quarter, but the major factor in Purdue’s initial success was not the weakness of Notre Dame but the absolute brilliance of Purdue. By the middle of the second quarter the Boilermaker’s keen emotional and physical advantage had worn off and Coach Kuharich’s squad had recovered from shock. From this point on the teams were evenly matched.
4	ATTENTION KEGLERS
Openings in the 6:30 Friday night > bowling league still exist. Interested individuals or teams please report to the bowling alleys in the basement of the Bookstore before 6:15 this K evening. It is not necessary that you have a team already assembled. Individual entries are welcome.
CRUCIAL INTERCEPTION AND RUN
In fact the Irish were threatening to pull up within one touchdown late in the third quarter when two plays spoiled any hopes for a Notre Dame win. First Bernie Allen intercepted a pass and then on the next play Tiller scampered 74 yards into the end zone. If the score had been 21-14 going into the fourth quarter instead of 28-7, Purdue could not have afforded to be so consei-vative and Notre Dame would not have been forced to be so desperate.
In many respects the Purdue game was a replica of the North Carolina game. The scores were almost identical. In both games one team jumped to a three touchdown lead at halftime, and then were played even the second half. The major factor in each game was the initial advantage gained at the outset of the game by the winning team. The main difference between the two games is obvious.
* Tyler Jr.’s Picks of the Week
Auburn over Kentucky Notre Dame over California Clemson over NC State
I Dartmouth over Brown Pittsburgh over Duke ' Georgia Tech over Tennessee Holy Cross over Dayton
T	Ohio State over Illinois
Indiana over Marquette LSU over Miami (Fla.) j.	Michigan over Oregon State
Northwestern over Minnesota Mississippi over Vanderbilt Syracuse over Navy
* Nebraska over Kansas Oklahoma over Texas Army over Penn State Pennsylvania over Princeton
GAME OF THE WEEK Wisconsin over Purdue
*	UPSET OF THE WEEK
Michigan State over Iowa
TOTALS TO DATE
13 right, six wrong, one tie 68.4 per cent -
THE HAZARDS OF PREDICTION
Looking around the country last Saturday night the Irish were not the only team that was sent back home surprised, defeated and embarrassed. Indiana’s Hoosiers, red-faced and humbled, flew back from Minneapolis after Big Ten doormat Minnesota had beaten them 24-14. Army’s Cadets met a similar fate down in Champaign, Ill. The only reason I mention these games is to point out the uncertainty involved in almost all major college football games. Last week Red Grange, Sports Illustrated’s weekly prognosticator, picked four right and six wrong. The parley card business is flourishing as never* before. People all over the country are foolish enough to think they can “pick the winners.” Of course here at the Scholastic we are fortunate. Once again we have secured the services of Tyler, Jr. Last year, through some mysterious combination of insight and luck, Tyler, Jr. picked the winner almost 70 per cent of the time. Last week, a week of upsets, he was right 68.4 per cent of the time. We just hope he doesn’t jump to Sports Illustrated.	.
RETURN OF IZO AND MACK
Tomorrow George Izo and Red Mack make their first appearance of the season. Any of you who have ever seen Izo throw a ball or Mack glide through a hole in the line know that their presence in a game is electrifying. It has been torturous for them to watch the first two games from the bench. Tomorrow they will both play in the game and Notre Dame will be a threat from any spot on the field.
An impressive win by the Irish against California tomorrow would offset most of the sting from the Purdue defeat. The players themselves know that they are a better team than the one which watched Purdue bowl them over in the first quarter last Saturday. Their pride has suffered. Wounded pride is a dangerous weapon in the hands of an experienced football coach. I look for an aroused Notre Dame team to block crisply, tackle hard and score often tomorrow. — T.R.
October 9, 1959
CERTIFIED GEMOLOGIST ♦
Registered Jewelers American Gem Society
*
Van Horne & Co.
114 W. Washington Ave.
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
ARMY-NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
SPECIAL—A Used Alpaca lined
Parka—Only $7.95
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
REASONABLE PRICES
★
1415 Lincoln Way West
mijins umniMd BNK SUP
NAMCHT CAFETERIA
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
' o
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
' o '
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Patak Leads Irish Golf Open; 18-Hole Final Round Saturday
Ray Patak leads after 54 holes in the annual University Open golf tournament with a score of 214, one over par on the Burke Memorial links. The finish of the tourney was delayed due to the rain last Sunday and the final 18 could not be played. The tournament will be completed tomorrow.
Following Patak is sophomore Tom Grace who shot 76 on Sunday for a 219 total. Grace won the Open last year. He shot a 71 on Saturday.
One stroke behind Grace is Pete Bis-conti, a freshman. Bisconti fired a three-under-par 68. He shot seven birdies on the first, fifth, eighth, tenth, eleventh, sixteenth and eighteenth holes. But on the seventeenth, he shot a three-over-par seven, ruining his chance to catch the leader or perhaps tie the course record of 65 set by Jack Fitzpatrick during the war years.
.4
I'

I
In fourth position is Brace Odlaug with 223, nine strokes behind the leader. Odlaug shot rounds of 72, 75 and 76.
The next ten players are involved in ties. In fifth place at >224 are 1960 Captain Terry Lally, Al Highducheck and Jack Whitaker. Tied for sixth place are Ted Witt, Bob Skrzycki, Dick Manns and Frank Hund at 225. George Mack, who had a poor back nine and a Sunday total of 78, freshman Eric Vandagrift, and Jack Valicenti have scores of 226.
Behind these is Phil Schuster who was the first round leader. Schuster is a junior and a member of last year’s varsity team. He moved out of the top ten after the first day and is now well back with a 227.
The poor conditions that the third round was played under on Sunday is one explanation of the poor scores recorded by many players. On a soggy course with poor footing and exceptionally slow greens, many of the scores rose. The scheduled second round on Sunday was postponed due to the pouring rain and the obviously poor conditions.
The tournament is under the leadership of Rev. G. L. Holderith, C.S.C. who supervises and manages the golf team and the tournament itself.
The top 18 upperclassmen will qualify for the 1960 Notre Dame varsity golf squad with the top six men to be decided at a later date. These golfers will be the men who play the matches for the University golf team.
The leaders: (1) Ray Patak, 72-70-* 72—214; (2) Tom Grace, 72-71-76—219; i (3) Pete Bisconti, 75-77-68—220; (4) 4s Brace Odlaug, 72-75-76—223; (5) Al b . Highducheck, 75-75-74—224; Terry Lal-4*^ ly, (Capt.), 224; Jack Whitaker, 72-74-7^—224; (6) Dick Manns, 225; Bob I Skrzycki, 225; Ted Witt, 73-77-75—225; I Frank Hund, 225; (7) George Mack, 72-•s 76-78—226; Jack Valicenti, 226; Eric ! Vandagrift, 72-78-76—226; (8) Phil Schuster, 227; (9) Bill Wetzel, 75-75-80—230; (10) Bill Agresta, 71-78-84— 233; (11) Jim Kenny, 235.
Baseball
(Continued from page 22) pitching staff next spring. Junior righthanders Nick Pahilnich and Jack Mitchell, Jim Hannan, senior righthander and senior lefthander Charles Scriva-
nswer
SUIT UP IM
by DICKIES
SEE THE GREAT COLLECTION OF CASUAL CAMPUS WEAR AT DICKIES DEALERS LISTED WITH THIS AD.
ROBERTSON'S DEPARTMENT STORE South Bend, Indiana
nich are the nucleus, around which Coach Kline plans to build. Sophomores ‘ ? Paul Petitclair, Jim Fitzpatrick, Chris „„ Teare and Roger Strickland, also a- ■ basketbailer, have been impressive in providing competition at the pitching’ position.
uestion: How can a fellow whip up the best campus wardrobe to take him through the school year—classroom, dates and socials— on a small budget?
CASUAL CLOTHES
Sensibly priced, Dickies casual clothes — inspired by Pat Boone — fit campus life perfectly.
BROWN'S STORE FOR MEN Mishawaka, Indiana
A#
October 9, 1959

education
by MICHAEL BUTLER
-)
and the university j
This week's author, Michael Butler, is a senior mathematics major in the A. B: school. This article represents Butlers first contribution to the Scholastic’s “Back Page.”
In his thought provoking discussion of education, the author considers the two divergent components of learning and points out that a proper synthesis of both is required for proper education, especially on the college level.
“You are what others have made you and what you make of yourself.”
From the very moment that an individual becomes aware of himself and his surroundings, he enters into a lifelong process of mental development, a process I chose to call education. He perceives, considers, performs and reflects and those organisms which we call his mind and personality begin to function. This functioning, this endless cycle of impression, reflection and activity constitutes the pulsating vitality in human consciousness. I’m using the word organism to suggest the dynamic qualities of growth and change, as opposed to static sameness, because they are so characteristic of the human makeup. The human mind, like all organisms, experiences the process of continual becoming. Even the laws which govern its development, the laws of evolution and self-determination are similar to those of other organisms. By the evolution of an organism I mean its dependence on the past for a direction of development into the future. What an organism was several minutes ago, a week or perhaps several years ago has a direct and pressing relevance on what it will be several minutes, weeks or years from now. In addition to its own personal history, an organism also has an evolutionary dependence on its environment, other organisms and in general to all the relevant data of the past.
The human mind and personality experience this same evolutionary develop-- ment. The past, both remote and immediate, helps to formulate directions into the future. We have an endless cycle; the present is built on the past and the future is in the eternal process of becoming.
But to stop here would be to interpret life as a mechanistic determinism, and
26
that is far from being my intention. The word organism itself suggests dynamic, innate properties of originality, not strictly determined patterns of development. It suggests a personal quality of decision-making, characteristic of individuals by their very individuality. It suggests a pulsating vitality that finds leeway within the structure of past events. This intrinsic feature of organism I call subjective determination. Its manifestations in the human situation are free will and the spontaneity of thought. Through its agency, invention, humor, art and novelty enter into life. It is the very principle of human creation, human self-creation.
My description above points out an inherent polarity within the educational process. The task of a formal university education is to synthesize and resolve this polarity. Perhaps the most obvious reflection of this basic dichotomy in the case of the university is the problem of establishing an intellectual and cultural continuity with the past, while at the same time maintaining an imaginative, creative policy of development into the future. The university is the product of the particular cultural tradition in which it exists. It serves as the principle organ looking back at depth into the past centuries of that tradition.
INHERITED ACHIEVEMENTS
At the university the great thoughts and intellectual achievements of ancestors are passed down to their cultural heirs; and it is here that the young learn to respect and critically judge this intellectual heritage. Any university which fails to express a sense of awareness of its cultural tradition, which preaches doctrines of rugged individualism and intellectual anarchy, really fails in one of its basic tasks — that of custodian and interpreter of the past. And yet, at the same time, the university is far from being a static mouthpiece of the past. There is nothing in our world which, strictly speaking, remains the same. Everything is in the constant process of becoming; what ceases to grow decays and dies. This is evidenced in the intellectual sphere by the history of scientific theories, philosophies, societies and physical organisms in general. There is never a halt, only a progression, extension, regression and death. New problems are constantly arising and although they must be seen in the perspectives of cultural tradition, the solu
tions of the past are seldom adequate or applicable. Even the ultimate, so-called eternal problems grow by the very fact that they are considered by minds that change with each new generation. The problems that our ancestors faced are but the ancestors of the problems we face ourselves.
NO PAT SOLUTIONS	.
Any university which preaches pat solutions, fails in its task as much as one that ridicules the past in an atmosphere of intellectual anarchy. Necessity is often termed “the mother of invention.” In the same way, confusion is the mother
of intellectual advancement. Let me clarify my position. Confusion isn’t an end in itself, that would be sheer nonsense. It is, rather, a means to an end, M. the only means. Only the confused mind seeks solutions; it is only the mind that has pondered the problem as a problem, that can ever hope to understand a solu- > tion. Perhaps I can better illustrate just what I mean.
At the beginning of the semester a professor of mathematics was lecturing > to his class on a famous theorem from the theory of sets. When he had written all the assumptions on the board he turned to the class. “Before we prove this theorem,” he said, “we should analyze the problem. The trouble with all of you,” he continued, “is that you read books, and you think you understand * them. You really don’t. You understand what is written in black and white, you understand the manipulations of the proofs; but what you don’t understand is the motivation behind the proofs. Why one point of view is taken and not some *
other. Why a certain set of definitions are made, and not some other. Why, out A. of the thousand and one things that the author could do at any single point in his exposition, he chooses to do this or that particular thing, in preference to all the alternatives. You will never really understand any solution until you first * understand the problem.” He was speaking of mathematical problems; I’m A speaking of problems in general.
The university synthesizes the past *A with the future. It bridges the tradition , of yesterday with development into to- J morrow. The organisms of intellect and personality, not only evolve from the I past, they also judge, decide and are ’ self-determined. Any university which fails to realize this aspect of the education process, equally fails in its task.
The Scholastic
►
A
4
the right more
In the winning fashion of Arrow knit shirts—you sport championship style. The flattering collar features the buttondown in front and center back. Built-in comfort, enduring lit in 100% cotton knit. Interesting patterns in long or short sleeves. $5-M up.
Each Saturday see the NCAA football "Game of the Week"—NBC TV —sponsored by ARROW.
COLLEGE MEN
See our new Arrow Knits—
University Styled
A well-liked shirt for casual occasions is this University Fashion knit pull-over by Arrow. Note the buttondown collar, the neat pattern. Drop by while we still have a wide selection of patterns and solid colors. $5.00 up.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
i
ft
£
5?
&
$
k-
Cl 959 LIGGETT ft MYERS TOBACCO CO
K/NDCST
has welcomed millions to

But Americas
most famous
lady does it!
No Paris design of 59 i:
more lovely than this ageless
beauty, a gift from France
75 years ago. Miss Liberty
these shores with the words,
Give me your tired, your
poor, your huddled masses
yearning to breathe free ...
1 lift my lamp beside the
golden door.



&
&
A cigarette that's Low ir with More taste to it!
THEY SAID IT COULDN'T BE DONE
But BM does it!
When you’re in New York, be sure to see Miss Liberty.
And right now, enjoy an CM — Low in tar, with More taste to it. That free-drawing, pure white Miracle
Tip is so advanced, CM can
use the light, mild premium
quality tobaccos you need
for full, rich tobacco taste.
That s why CM is Kindest
to your taste!
Live Modem with MM
TO TOOR TASTE!