F7	—5^^ 1
|	Che
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•Dl5C€-QVASI-SSmP€R- VICTVRVS- VIVG ^VASI- CRAS-IMORITVRVS*
Vol. XEIX. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 12, 1916, No. 20.
Omar’s Conquest.
BY M. M.
In the world of sand, where Mahomet’s star Flamed over the veering chances of war, Where the yellow Euphrates seaward flows, A broken tribe had turned on its foes, With torn burnoose and yataghan Stained by the failing life of man, And, beside them, women and little ones Between the river and Omar’s guns.
One last wild charge ere the Arab men
Are crushed, like the rank, green growth of the fen And there, at the head of his horsemen ride Their chieftain’s Zilla and Zobelde.
Daughters of Hassan’s strong old age, Pure as the doves under Allah’s throne, True at heart as the Prophet’s own.
With the glad, swift flight of birds from a cage They dashed at the troops; but the horses turned, And the maids were captured by men they spurned.
They had sought free death, and alone they stood Slaves to the victor and hopeless of good.
But on Omar’s stern, brown features broke The light of a smile, as their doom he spoke—
"My Leila, be kind to these desolate girls;
Teach them of glory and guard them as pearls.” And the Pacha’s wife, with a woman’s art. Took the breathless captives with her apart. In a dim kiosk of her gardens, far From the hot red breath of malignant war, She gave them bright robes and chains of gold And much of her own rich jewels she told.
"All these may the bride of a brave man claim,” Said Leila the fair, but no answer came. Splendid in silks and plaited hair, “ But black of brow as souls in despair, By Omar’s order they stood one day, While his youngest and bravest passed that way; For some of his best had sought .to wed The wild maids whom old Hassan bred.
“Choose now from these,” as they went by, Said Leila behind their screen with a.sigh.
“For brave and handsome and strong and true..
Is every encr.who asks for you.”
But they answered not, till the Pacha’s voice Offered to each the gift of her choice.
“My lord!” cried Zilla, the tallest, “content Were we with the .hard, rude life of the tent. Leave the wind to her freedom, unloose the wild dove; To our people restore us, spare those whom we lov,e; Better bread from the hand of a friend, O my lord. Than to live like a queen on the gains of the sword. Send us back to the father who trained us to feel The thought of dishonor more sharp than the steel.”
Then Omar arose: “ God speaketh, O daughter, to-day Through the lips of a woman: have each her own way. Go back to the tents of your people, and ride Forever in safety, for all on my side.”
No more than this doth the chronicle Of the fierce brown riders of Asia tell; Only that Omar rose in his fame Till the desert echoes were loud with his name; And deep in the heart of the desert bands Was love that heeded his least commands.
The Irish in the Civil War.
by frank mulcahy.
^^kOOR PAT,” once remarked, the Con-federate General, Daniel H. Hill, “he has fought courageously in every land in.quarrels not his own.” Thus, in a few words, is characterized, the military spirit of the Irish people since the coming of the Normans to Ireland in the twelfth century. Exiled by English oppression, the sons of Erin have proved their sterling worth, their courage, and bravery on the battlefields, of Europe, Asia,. Africa and America. They have fought under every flag and in every clime.
Ireland has given legions, regiments . and brigades to France, .field marshalls to Russia, France,. Spain and other European countries and soldiers of. unparalleled bravery to every army in the world. There is hardly a country
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
on this earth that has not witnessed the magnificent charges. and the heroic stands of the Irish soldiers. ' The most brilliant victories of the fleur-de-lis have been made possible by the aid of the Irish Brigade. After the battle of Fontenoy, when the sons of Erin, enrolled in the Army of Louis XV of France, completely routed the British soldiers, George II exclaimed in anger, “Cursed be the laws that deprive me of such subjects.”
The Irish soldiers have indelibly written a legend of heroism on the history of the Old Continent. But it was not in Europe alone that the Irish gained undying glory for themselves and their native land. Men of Irish blood fought gallantly for’ the colonial cause during the Revolutionary War. Kearney; Sweeney and Shields figured prominently in our short but bloody war with Mexico, but it was in the terrible Civil War that the fortitude of the Irish soldiers was most tried and in which they proved to be the bravest that ever fought in the New World. Meagher’s Irish Brigade performed military feats unexcelled by those of any Irish organization that ever battled for the lilies of France. In the sanguinary battle of Fredericksburg in . which the Irish Brigade was all but annihilated, Meagher’s ' men showed a spirit of heroism and loyalty that stands unique in the annals of our country. “Never at Fontenoy, at Albuera, or at Waterloo,” wrote a correspondent for the London Times, “was more undaunted courage displayed by the sons of * Erin than during those six frantic dashes which they directed against the almost impregnable position of the foe . . . The bodies which lie in dense .masses within . forty-yards of the muzzles of Colonel Walton’s
guns are the best evidence as to what mariner British regiment of infantry, of men they were who pressed on to death
with the dauntlessness of a race' which has gained- glory on a thousand battlefields, but
none more richly deserved than at- the foot teer for the Confederate Army. Patrick Cle-
of Mayre’s Heights on. the 13th of December, 1862.” '	'	'	:	'
There is no. doubt but that the Irish race played a very important part in our Civil War. “Send away your damned Irish and we’ll whip you well,” .was often the cry of the Southern Generals, while in s the North the Irish soldiers were held in the’same respect. “ If all-the South fought like the'Irish, secession would long since, have Teen an' accomplished fact/’ is a phrase often attributed to many
Northern leaders. The Irish were well represented among the leaders on both sides, they formed an important element of the common • soldiery and they were also .numbered among the religious, men and women, who gave their services during the great conflict.
Much has already been written of the campaigns and battles of Sherman, Sheridan,. Meagher and many other famous generals of Irish birth and parentage. In these pages will be discussed some of the leaders who have not become so widely known as those named above, but who were, one and all, men of undoubted merit, ability and loyalty. Then will be treated the rank and file of the Irish organizations. In conclusion, the heroic work of the Irish religious will be the subject of some comment.
Perhaps the most picturesque figure of the whole war, a man who was loved and admired by the leaders and soldiers of both the Federal and Confederate forces, was The Southern general, Patrick Ronayne Cleburne, often v styled the “Stonewall Jackson of the West.’’ His worth to the South was almost incalculable as is evidencedx from the ..following quotation from General W. T. Hardee’s “Biographical Sketch of Major-General P. R. Cleburne.” “It is but scant praise to say that there was no truer patriot, no more courageous soldier, nor,. in his rank, more .able commander in the Southern armies; and it is not too much to add that his fall was a greater loss to the cause he espoused than that of any other Confederate leader after Stonewall Jackson.”
Patrick Ronayne Cleburne was born at Queenstown, County Cork, Ireland, March 17, 1828. He served for three years in the 41st

-z
I
w

Coming to
■ ‘j
America in 1850, he settled in Helena, Ark., and practiced law there until the war broke out in 1861. He was one of the first to volun-
burne had a fierce love for the Southern cause and could not understand how the Irishman of the North could join with the Yankees in the war of oppression. He enlisted as a private soldier, but because of his knowledge of military science he rapidly advanced to the office of colonel. In the autumn of 1861 Colonel Cleburne was of especial worth to the South for he whipped the raw Southern recruits into well-disciplined regiments. For these services . he was made a Brigadier-General.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Cleburne and his brigade were, engaged in the heaviest fighting at Shiloh, April 6th-and 7th, 1862. For “gallant and meritorious sendees” at the battle of Richmond, Kentucky, General, Cleburne received a vote of. thanks from the Confederate Congress. In the battle of Murfreesboro, December, 1862,. when the general results of the fight were not favorable to the Confederate arms, Cleburne’s divison “without reinforcement, rest or refreshment, encountered and drove before it five successive lines of battle, which the Federal commanderin-chief withdrew from his intact center, and left to reinforce his broken right.” . .
Cleburne’s men were the last to. retire from the bloody battle. of Chattanooga after they had held the redoubtable Sherman at bay for many hours. Cleburne covered the - retreat of Bragg’s army in a masterly manner after the battle of Chattanooga. On the second day after the battle, Cleburne repulsed. Hooker, who was in pursuit of the Confederate forces and obliged the Union leader. to abandon the chase. For this work- Cleburne again received the thanks of the Confederate Congress.
This brave general fell at Franklin, Tenn., at the head of his men on November 30th, 1864. The South deepl}'- mourned his loss, the whole Confederacy shuddered at the blow that had been dealt by Cleburne’s death. His love for the independence of the South, the uppermost thought in his mind, guided all his factions during the war. While the war was in progress he decided to be a total abstainer from liquor for he found that even one glass of wine-disturbed his calculation in a game of chess. “He determined, therefore, while the war lasted and he was responsible for the lives’- of others and the results consequent on the manner, in which he should discharge his duties, that he would abstain altogether from .all kinds of liquor.”
Cleburne was as unaffected and modest as he was prudent and brave. In response to a complimentary letter received during the war from a lady of Tennessee, General Cleburne wrote: “To my noble division .and not to myself belong the praises for .the deeds of gallantry you mention.” He was. loved by his men. Cleburne’s division was the-only one in the Southern Army that was permitted - to carry its own colors into battle after.the Confederate, battle flag be^wne the-national colors.
Cleburne was one of the most broadminded mem in the South. Many times during-the war
he advocated the freeing of the slaves and arming them against the Yankee invaders. His. proposal was not acted upon, when to act would • have done - wonders > for the South. Toward the end/of the conflict the wisdom of Cleburne’s. proposition became apparent to all, and with the approval of the whole South it was adopted, but too late to render effective aid. In referring-to Cleburne’s advocating the arming of the-slaves, the Confederate General, J. B. Hood, declared. that “This stroke of policy and additional source of strength to our armies would, in my opinion, have given us our independence.” .	-
The independence of .. the South was the goal toward which General Cleburne -never failed to strive. .. In the same letter to the Tennesseean lady, mentioned above, he wrote: ‘‘ When our people,, .or the great body of them, sincerely value independence above every other earthly consideration,- then I will regard our success as an accomplished fact/’ His proposal to arm . the slaves- proved that he valued independence higher - than the scruples of caste that prevented the great body of Southerners from admitting the negroes to the army. - The enthusiasm which this brilliant Irishman had for the Confederate- cause was not in the least dimmed by the reverses suffered by the Southerners during the. last years of the conflict. On the very day of=his death, General Cleburne voiced a spirit of optimism that seemed almost inconceivable so.late in the war as November 30, rS64. Clebumer requested permission of Gem eral .-Hood, Confederate commander-in-chief in the battle of Franklin, Tenn., to form his division and attack the Federals who held a strong position... Just before he charged upon the .Union works,, General Cleburne said; to Hood, “General, I am ready, and have more hope in the final success, of our cause than I have had at any time since the first gun was fired.” Forty minutes after Cleburne spoke these words, -he .was killed at the head of his command within a short distance of the Federal lines. “ Major-General Cleburne,” wrote General Hood, “ had:- been . distinguished . for. his admirable conduct, upon many fields, and his. loss at this moment was irreparable.-” This' noble young general—he was only 37 at the time of his death;—was buried in a cemetery which he had passed but; a few days before his death, and of which he;said: “ It is almost worth dying /' to rest in so. sweet a. spot/’	...
316
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Let us now look to another soldier of Irish birth, but one who fought, not on the side of the Confederacy, but. for the Stars and Stripes of the Union, General Michael Corcoran. He was born- at Carrowkeel, County Sligo, Ireland,
For a.time he was a
September 21st.
member of the Irish Constabulary. He came to the United States at the age of 22 and almost immediate!}’- joined the 69th New York Militia, a regiment composed entirely of Irishmen. Corcoran was rapidly promoted, and in 1859 was commissioned colonel of the regiment. Just before the Civil War, Colonel Corcoran refused to parade his men before the Prince of y Wales who was then visiting America. The court-martial appointed to try the courageous colonel, had already commenced its sessions when Fort Sumter was fired upon. The 69th New York, through its Lieut.-Colonel Robert Nugent—for Corcoran had been displaced,— volunteered to go to the front.. The charges against Colonel Corcoran were then dropped and he went to the front at the head of his men.
The 69th took a prominent part in the first battle of Bull Run. The coolness and bravery of this Irish regiment was in direct contrast to the panic that prevailed among most of the Union soldiers. The 69th made the finest charges of the day.and did not quit the field until it would have been suicidal-folly to remain longer. Although the Federal forces had bee'n badly routed, the 69th retired in good order. Colonel Corcoran displayed exceptional bravery in this battle. He was always in the heart of the fight, in the front line of liis command, exhorting his troops to put forth their best efforts.	•	.
■ ' It .was with ho little regret that Colonel Corcoran. gave the order to retire from the position for which the 69th had , fought so fiercely at. Bull Run. The gallant Colonel lingered a - trifle too. long, and was captured by the Confederates. For his splendid fighting and generalship in the battle of Bull Run, Michael Corcoran was made - a. . .BrigadierGeneral. He remained a: prisoner'in the South till: 1862, . when he was exchanged. When he
tinction throughout 'the war and commanded
’came North in that year, he organized a force . the gallant lrish Brigade . during the first part of lrish soldiers known , as . the “ Corcoran of; the Wilderness campaign. On May 5th and Legion.” These troops had an active. part 6th, ,1864," Colonel Smyth and his men stub-in the fighting, in Southern Virginia... General bornly repulsed every charge made on the Corcoran died near’Fairfax Courthouse; Va., Brock Road bythe intrepid Confederate leader, Dec. 22, 1863, as a result, of a fall , from his General Longstreet. Col. Smyth commanded the
horse. After the death of General Corcoran, 'the Legion that bore his name remained intact andfought stubbornly for the Union. It * especially distinguishe_d itself in' the closing battles of the war.
The name of Colonel James Mulligan is one of the first to become conspicuous in the war west of the Mississippi. For eight days Colonel Mulligan defended Lexington, Missouri, against great odds and only surrendered ’ when his men ran out of ammunition, water and rations. The gallantry and stubbornness of Mulligan’s defense is best shown by the treatment accorded the officers of the Union forces by the Confederate General Price, to whom Mulligan surrendered at Lexington. When Mulligan and his field . officers tendered their swords to General Price, the Southern leader said, “You gentleman have fought so bravely that it would . be wrong to deprive you of your swords.” -
Colonel Mulligan was held a prisoner in the South' till October 30th, 1861. After his exchange he received a command in Western Virginia. In the battle of Winchester, July 24th, 1864, Colonel Mulligan fell with three mortal wounds of which he died forty-eight hours- later at the age of 34 years; When he fell at Winchester he was being carried to the rear by his brother-in-law, Lieutenant James H.. Nugent. The colors of the regiment were in danger of being taken. “Lay me down,” shouted the Colonel,- “and save the flag.” After Mulligan’s death, his . widow received from President Lincoln her husband’s commission as Brevet Brigadier-General, dated July 24th,, “for gallant and meritorious services at the battle of Winchester.”	"
No more, gallant leaders were found in either army than in the Irish Brigade, and in no more fitting way could these few sketches of Irish commanders be closed than by touching upon the work of Brigadier-General Thomas A. Smyth of Delaware, ..and Colonels Robert Nugent, Byrnes and- Kelly. Thomas A. Smyth was born , in Ireland, but came to the United States when he was. yet a boy... He served with dis-

M
Mt
&




/J

k]
*	• THE NOTRE DAME
p Irish. Brigade till May 20th, when he was made
* a Brigadier and given a Command in the second division of the Second Army Corps. He res’ - ceived his death wound’ near Farmville, Va.,* N April 6th, 1865, anc^- died a few days afterward.
Colonel Patrick Kelly, of the 88th New York, f took charge of the Irish Brigade in the battle of Gettysburg. Later he succeeded to the 'j	command of the Brigade when Colonel Byrnes
ij	fell dead at Cold Harbor. Colonel 'Kelly was
p	shot through the head while leading his brigade
in a charge on the Confederate works before j	Petersburg. Colonel Byrnes was another Irish? “i	man who gained distinction in the Civil War.
>	When Colonel Smyth was promoted to.the rank
>	of Brigadier, Byrnes was appointed leader
~	of the Irish Brigade: He held his command
.	for. only two weeks, for he was killed in the
,	bloody battle of Cold Harbor on the 3rd of
j June.
:	Before bringing to a close these few words
;	on the able Irish officers of the war, something •
J	must be said of General Shields and of. Colonel
McMahon and General Murphy who followed
!	up the splendid work of General Corcoran in
!	the “Corcoran Legion.” 'General Shields was
' _	born in Dungannon, County Tyrone, Ireland,
i	in 1810 and came to America when he was
;	but 16 years old. During the Mexican War
P	he war made a Brigadier-General and became
j	conspicuous for his ability in many battles.
'	He served for only two years in the Civil War,
; N	during which time he was active n the cam-
paigns in Virginia. The Senate refused to con-
! firm a nomination by President Lincoln for * Shields’ being commissioned a major-general. ■ He then retired to California.
After General Michael Corcoran’s death in .	1863, the Legion that bore his name continued
in existence and rendered heroic service in the Union cause. Colonel James' P. McMahon, of the 164th New York, was one of the bravest officers of the Legion. In the fierce battle of Cold Harbor, “the colonel of the 164th New * ~ York (James P. McMahon), seizing the colors of his regiment from the dying color-bearer as he fell, succeeded in reaching the parapet of _ the enemy’s main works, where he planted his colors and fell dead near the ditch, bleeding from many wounds.” General Matthew Murphy, Corcoran’s successor in the command of the legion, was mortally wounded toward the close of ihe war.	.	.
{Conclusion next week.) ■
SCHOLASTIC	3i7
Varsity Verse.
MARY’S LAKE.	.
An angel from her ivory throne
With grace flew down to earth alone	'
And from a box of gems did shake This beauty spot called Mary’s Lake.
The moonlight loves to linger there. The stars like water-lilies fair ' ••	-
Are sleeping sweetly on her breast With all the'weary world at rest.
J. Welch STRATEGY.
You should have seen the boy I picked To snowball her a bit -
The rascal played the part so well	-
• I feared she would be hit.
And when I offered her my aid, ’ So hard and straight he threw .
I thought at first he had forgot ' And meant to do me too.
I got a stinger in the ear,
A snowball crushed my tile
But what of that? With all, it was
A cheap and precious smile.	.
* And when she laughed and murmured soft " - Just see the rascal run, My happiness was quite complete, .
Her friendship had been won.
I’il go and pajr the rascal now, But I have fears that—well
He could blackmail me, if he chose	’
By threats, to go and tell.
-	' L. Spears.
A TRIOLET.
I intended to write, But it turned out a frost.
I began it at night.	.
I intended to write, But they turned out the light .
- And my candle I’d lost.	.
I intended to write
But it turned out a frost.	.
THE SIGNAL CORPS.	'	-
I wouldn’t mind that military drill, : y It wouldn’t be a bore,	.	.
If I could only find a way ‘	.
To join that signal corps.	.	.
I love to see the sturdy boys.........
Stand bravely on their feet, <	' s-
And wave those flags of every hue; .	:
I think it’s jiist too sweet. ' -	:
Just what their motions are about < ’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
318
I’m sure they do not know,.	’ .
I guess it makes no difference if	■
■	Their arms keep on the go.	*'
They seem to feel so big and strong, -So grand, and even more;
Oh dear, I’d give the world if I	■
Could join that signal corps.
D. E.
The Terrible Tub Tragedy.
This poem what I’m writin’ here
I must say that it won’t be near ..	.
As good as some I’ve writ.
’Cause it’s about a bloomin’ rat What gets killed in a trap, and that Don’t interest me a bit. •
But anyway here is the-plot, There is a little-mouse what’s got -A home in some old tub. -	' -
And when it’s dark and all is still ■ This little mouse comes out to fill -• ' -Its stummick full of grub/
The guy what owns the tub, you know,	1
- He doesn’t like this mouse, and so .	.
He gets a trap with cheese.
And when the mouse comes .out that night -	’	’	’t
There is an awful deadly sight, .	.
’Cause when this darn mouse sees.- :
The cheese and junk a laying there '	*
- ’ 1 - • Upon the trap, he doesn’t care ■ • :	'
About the get tin’ killed,	'	'
He’s only hungry, don’t you see, ' -‘ For yellow cheese, just so that he	:
Might get his stummick filled.	.
•	•	A
And so this crazy mouse he goes	•
Up to the trap and puts his nose	«
Exactly on the cheese.	..	.
- The trap goes off, the mouse gets killed -Just ’cause he wished his stummick.filled, O may he rest with ease!	'
Barrett Anderson.
- - . Huh!!	i	«
The Sorin Hallers think they have-it soft;
They go and come, and come and go as oft;
.As they desire. . For they are the/lords
Who know the “Queens”—whose fathers own the Fords.
They are the men who run, the social whirl, ' -	- -	■	’ "v c	' •	' ' * *	-	-	.
They’ve got the clothes—the time^-the place—the girl.
-They, go to dinner, parties, dances—teas ' ; '
Iri-fact they do.exactly as they please—’ ..	'
Yet think you I’d tie with them iFT’cbuid?—’	:
Well you can bet your coat and'yestT would./ i L: Codk.
The Return.
BY B. MILLER.
When Morgan, the old doorman, finished telling of Mr.' D’Arville, his one-time success as a painter, his grief over the daughter that had run away and finally, his charity toward girls whom others were ashamed to look at, I knew him to be the fine old man I had at first thought him. My conscience hurt for ever .having let myself think otherwise of him. “People didn’t understand him,” Mrs. Jones, the janitress, had said. No, they did not, but I did now. I knew him to be worthy of all the kindness anyone.could give him.
That was the beginning of a very pleasant friendship- between- the old Frenchman and me, for I took pains to acknowledge his next greeting graciously, and he at once took me under his care, making no distinction between me and his other “children.” He would often stop me, as I climbed the dark stairs, late at night, to ask if I had got a good story that day, and sometimes I would drop into his big, airy studio when my own little room was hot, but he never mentioned his grief nor the charity which had grown out of it, though some of the girls came when I was there.
Frequently,'- when I came down the step, or on my way home, I would find him the centre of a group of girls. Instantly he would come toward me with exactly the same deferential but paternal, manner that he showed them, and would escort me' the short distance to my door. '	_
“Ah, my child,” he would say, “and so you are coming home from the work which is so hard.. Well, well, and how did we do to-day? Did the editor-man like our fine stories?”
I nodded silently, usually, for I was beginning to .think this grief-crazed old man the finest soul I had ever known.
One day I stopped the janitress bn the stairs to remind her that my room needed to be cleaned. She.had never forgotten-this before, so I/knew, something'was wrong. She was always good to the old man, and that , had won my liking. She saw, as every one .did, that he was' growing more feeble each / day, and she’ made his coffee in the morning, gave, him hot milk at night, laundered his soft, fine old linen, and pressed his old, threadbare clothes.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	319
“I know I’ve neglected your work, miss,” she said, at once, ‘‘and I’ll attend to it right away. I’ve had a sick girl downstairs with me for the last week, and it has taken my time. She’s one of his girls. He wanted to send her to a hospital, but she was afraid so I took her in with me.”
The poor girl died that week, and the old man, who had had a bad cold, got out of his bed to ride to her grave. The effort he made that day increased his high fever which he could not seem to shake off.
All that week he was very ill. I sat with him when I could, but he did not need me, for those other poor children of his came singly, in couples and in groups, showing that womanly _ compassion and love remain in breasts to . which they would seem to be strangers. They bought flowers and fruit and wine for him, talked and sang to him, and tried, in their awkward . ignorance, to fulfil the womanly offices.
He knew the end,was near. To each one he had something special to say, something that the rest of us must leave the room to let him * say to her ear alone. He gave me his watch and he made his simple will, in which his few personal possessions were left to his distant relative in Prance, if he cared to claim them, and all his remaining money, one thousand dollars, was left to “my dear friend Mrs. Jones, t who for many years has been most kind and helpful.” Besides this, he had nothing in the world but a little life insurance, which would v about cover his funeral expenses, and this he mentioned should be spent for carriages for “my friends, who, I hope, will accompany me to my rest.”
So, one night, I was not surprised to hear the janitress calling me, and I hurried into the old man’s room at once. The instant that I stood in the doorway I knew that it would be only a few minutes before Mr. D’Arville would be gone. He was moving his hands restlessly, and calling for his little Marie to come—to come quickly. The janitress took him up and held him in her big arms, so that he could breathe more easily. The tears were running down her cheeks, but she spoke in her usual r hoarse voice.
' “Marie isn’t here just now, sir,” she said soothingly, and with the sharpened perceptions,
-*■ which we often have when deeply stirred, I noticed for the first time what a- cultured enunciation she had, a fact which was. con
cealed by the harshness of her tones. After a long time the old man 'spoke again.
“ Where—where is she? Where is my beautiful little girl? Where on this earth do you suppose she is?”
“She’ll come home one of these days, sir. She’ll come right here, glad to come,” Mrs. Jones replied. I knew that this was a conversation the like of which had occurred many times in the years that were past.
The old man smiled a little and tapped her hand with the kindly patronage of the aristocrat who does not know that he is one.	•
“You’re a good woman,” he said clearly, “a very good, kind creature.”
Those were his last words. I saw when he died,. and I expected that the janitress would see it, too, and lay him down, but she did not, and then I saw that she was trembling violently. All through her body it ran, that convulsive shudder, and she held the wasted, delicate old body as if she would never let it go.
And then I knew! Grief stripped her face of its heaviness, so that the ghost of her youth passed over her and the likeness between them sprang out like magic. For a long, long time I sat looking off into the dimness of the big room, and at last she put him down and kissed him and pressed his brown eyes shut.
The janitress and I rode in the same carriage to the grave and when we came back-I drew her into my room. “Tell me about it, dear,” I begged. “You would feel better if you did, I think.”	.
“Oh, I don’t know,” she said wearily. “Talk doesn’t help much ever. Anyway, there isn’t much to tell. I was always a bad girl, even when I lived here, but my fa—but he never would believe it. Then, when I was eighteen, I met a man, and I went away with him. I knew what I was going into, and I didn’t care. I was like that. I stayed away, over ten years. Then—well, something brought me back. First, I just meant to walk by and look at the place, and maybe send a friend to him and get some money, but I saw him, and I—oh I felt—well, I rushed over to him, thinking that he’d take me into his arms, even there on the street; for I. knew what I was to him!—1’4 always known that. And. he didn’t know, me, he didn’t know me, at all. He thought I was . drunk, because all I could do was to laugh and cry together. You see—I hadn’t realized what a change life had made
320
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
in me. He took me in and took care of me, just like you’ve seen him do with other girls, and I hadn’t the heart to tell him. He was still looking for a young pretty girl to come back to him. I got the position here, so that I could look after him. That was nearly fifteen years ago—fifteen years—”
Her voice trailed off, and she sat staring far away, somewhere down those years which had brought her from her bright youth to the dirty basement with no solace save the gentle condescension of the old man in the studio up four weary flights of stairs.
Mother’s Child.
BY R. H.
The leaves of the trees in the jmrd of the big Millworth home were just tinging with the hues of Autumn when “Mother’s Child,”— otherwise known as Clarence,—went West into the land of strangers,—to prep school. He was a guileless youth, with a shock of red hair, and a very good opinion of himself. Having spent fifteen years beneath the thumb of a nurse girl and under the indulgent eyes of a private tutor, he regarded his entrance to a school with other beings of his kind as something of an event. It was an event.
Clarence hadn’t been on the Philbrook campus ten minutes before the entire student body of that distinguished institution felt that his coming was an event fraught with the greatest significance. After he had deliberately snubbed “Toad” Marion when “Toad” had spoken politely to him, it was evident that the new specimen would furnish diversion for days to come.
It was at supper that evening that the program was officially started. Tom Marks, the wit of the school, reached his hand across the table to Clarence.
“Shake,” he ordered, “my name’s Marks,— what’s yours?”
“Clarence,” replied the victim immediately.
“Clarence what?” thundered a half dozen voices.	'
..“Clarence Mill worth,” growled the newcomer, with the-slightest suspicion of ruffled dignity.	. ,
It was then that Marks upheld his caustic reputationnobly.
“And what do they call you at home, Clarence?” he inquired in the sweetest of well modulated tones, beaming fatherly upon Clarence.
“Mother’s Child,” replied Clarence without hesitation, “what do they call you at home, sir?”
“Peruna,” returned Marks quickly, amid the laughter of the table, “and you may call me that hereafter. We’ll call you “Mother’s Child,” won’t we, fellows?”
And.the wild acclamation of cat calls, sniggers, and boisterous laughs that answered, seemed to imply that they most assuredly would! Clarence was visibly pleased.
“Have yotf a track team here?” he asked.
While Philbrook boasted of a baseball and hockey team, its athletic ambitions went no farther.
But again it was. Marks who came to the rescue.
“We most assuredly have,” he declared, “and a dandy one, too. What can you do in track?”
“Most anything,” answered Clarence modestly “but mostly I like the hop, . skip and jump.”
“Shucks,” exclaimed “Red” Myers, “isn’t that too bad. We have a dandy, hop, skip, and jumper right now in young Prog. Can’t you do anything else?”
“I can run very swiftly,” said Mother’s Child with awakening interest.
“What’s your best for a mile?” asked McCarthy.
“A mile! Gracious, I never ran an entire mile, sir! I should be fatigued if I even tried it! ”
“There, there,” whispered.Marks consolingly, “say no more about it. We’ll try you out to-morrow, provided you assent, and perhaps we can find a berth for you on Philbrook’s Glorious and BverrRenowned Track Team!”
“Amen, ” said McCarthy fervently, and the mob choked.
But Clarence sat back in his chair and smiled patronizingly. He smiled the same way when he went to bed and was still smiling at breakfast. His teeth chattered a bit as they fitted him out in a syncopated basketball suit and ushered him down to the baseball diamond. For track men they seemed. to be greatly interested in the movements of the prefects, so Clarence had been led to ask if the faculty frowned on track work; To which the manager, Mr. Marks,
THE NOTRE DAME SCEIOLASTIC
had grunted “so so,” and went right on - coughing.
, And for the next hour Clarence went through his tricks before a delighted audience. He hopped, skipped, and jumped. He ran, he loped, he staggered. He leaped and rolled over and genuflected repeatedly at the manager’s -» suggestion. They found him a very willing performer, also very mediocre as a speed fiend. After some of the bunch had grown — weary watching his antics the manager suggested
■J	o	o	oo
that the long delayed track meeting be held forthwith and a representative fellow elected as captain of the team. None said nay, not even Clarence.
The party adjourned to the tool house. - Funny place for a track election, thought Clarence, and then he remembered that the faculty frowned “so so” on the work. Once < inside the meeting quickly came to order. McCarthy mounted the wheelbarrow and recited twelve stanzas of the “Ancient Mariner” and then eloquently nominated Mr. Marks as candidate for track captaincy. Mr. Marks, however, declined the honor on the ground that he was already manager, and did not desire too much responsibility.
“Red” Myers was thereupon nominated, v as was Vincent McCarthy. Then Mr. Marks stepped up on the wheelbarrow.
“Fellows,” he said, “You all know me, as George Washington said when addressing the Light Brigade. Lend me your eyes, for I come to sing the peans of an unknown, but < withal, a right well-fitted -youth. Et tu, Brute?
Listen, I am for electing a- track star,—a champeen—captain of the track team. I realize that Mr. Myers is a good weight man. I acknowledge that Mr McCarthy is some ’ splinter, but—listen now—but I deem Mr.
Clarence Millworth, familiarly known as “Mother’s Child,” to be the monstrosity equal “ to the place. I wish to nominate Mr. Clarence for track captain!”
“Second the motion!”
“I also ask that nominations now be closed.
* Anybody second the motion?” A thunderous “Aye.”	.
"	“All opposed?” Deep silence. .
“We will ballot on Mr. Myers, Mr. McCarthy, and Mr. Mother’s Child, then fellows, let’s move.”
,/i, When the twenty-three votes were counted Mr. Clarence was declared elected by twenty-
321
two and a half votes. The eleven voters clapped vigorously and shouted “Speech! speech!”
Clarence smiled graciously and ascended the wheelbarrow, assisted by the two defeated candidates.
“ Gentlemen,” he said, “I certainly am pleased to see that I shall lead the track team this season. I know you couldn’t have chosen a better man, for I am well-known at home for my racing ability. I drove fathah’s car seventy miles an hour once, and one summer wiien we were returning from the Riveria the vessel made sixteen knots for several hours at a time. Of course things are a little new to me heah, but I fawncy I shall become acclimated at no distant date. I will practice every day from now on and see if I can improve a bit. I stumbled twice when running backwards for you fellows to-day and I shall endeavor to eliminate—”
The voice of the dean broke in upon them:
“But Madam—”	_
“ Never mind,” came the angry reply in a high-pitched, female voice, “I am determined to take my child home with me. I never slept a wink last night worrying over the deah boy’s health,—and besides I do not care for the location of your school,—and further—”
“Mother!” 'exclaimed Clarence eagerly and leaped out the door. Fifteen minutes later the “track team” stood on the campus and watched Clarence and his mother hike bag and baggage toward the railway station. Clarence waved at the group under the trees.
“Poor simp,” exclaimed Myers contempt-ously. “I wonder if that bird will ever wake up? He swallowed everything we handed him, the boob!”	’
Marks’ eyes were wet and. he hastily drew a handkerchief to his face.	.
“Why, what’s the matter?” asked McCarthy wonderingly.
“Track prospects—ruined!” groaned Marks between sobs, “he’s the best dash ‘man in this country. ‘ He was just looking the school over and incidentally making boobs of you fellows who thought he was a $imp. His would-be mother there who is taking him away is assistant coach at Yale.”	• .
■ ---------- ■ — - - . _
It is a good and wholesome thing to watch how brave souls bear themselves in the battle of life.—Mrs. Craven.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
L
322
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
' XLIX. ‘ FEBRUARY 12, 1916 No. 20.
Board of Editors.
TIMOTHY GALVIN,	’l6	SPEER STRAHAN,	’17
RAY HUMPHREYS,	’16	LOUIS KEIEER,	’16
EUGENE MCBRIDE,	’16	D. EDMONDSON,	’18
HOWARD PARKER,	’*7	ARTHUR HUNTER,	’16
HARRY SCOTT, ’l8			
—The burning of the street car cannot be condoned. It was wilful destruction of the property of other people. It was wrong in morals and indefensible in February Sixth, law. We are confident that there are few at the University who do not deplore the act.
But, while the offense cannot be condoned, it is very greatly mitigated by the circumstances which . provoked it. An attack on student passengers by burly ruffians in the employ of the street car company so inflamed the minds of the students that some such violence was. to be expected. The trolley people say these men were not instructed to commit assault, but every circumstance in the case and the carefully measured testimony of all who saw it go to show that it was as deliberately arranged as it was brutally executed. Every street car employe who participated in it laid himself liable to punishment by law. The street car company, whose agents these men were, is open to legal prosecution by every student who was assaulted, or who was driven from the car after paying his fare. Cold-blooded citizens of mature age would probably have resorted to the law for the punishment of this offense, and unquestionably it would have been wiser and more, respectable if students had done so. But. the wrath which meet's injustice by violence is not essentially ignoble, certainly it is not .unnatural in. youth, and, therefore, while, no ethically-minded man' can excuse -the violence, every fair-minded man will abstain from too much condemnation. The lawlessness
of the' street car people almost inevitably begot lawlessness in the students.
This is a very different thing, however, from, excusing insubordination or anarchy. It is to be hoped that never again will such a situation arise at the University. If it should arise, it is to be hoped that the leaders among the student body will show a better example of cool-headedness and obedience to the law. The University itself is pledged to inculcate and enforce respect for constituted authority in civil and religious life, and no sacrifice which she may be called upon to make will ever be considered too great for that purpose. The army and navy of the United States stand behind the smallest legal enactment or the property .rights of an}r man, however great the provocation to despoil him. It is only fair to the students of the University to say that without doubt and without exception they thoroughly understand and frankly accept this position. There is not anywhere in America a nobler, gentler or manlier assembly of young men, and no one regrets recent developments more than they.
£
if a-
—The following letter which appeared in a South Bend newspaper reflects the student point- of view of the attitude of the South Bend Tribune in the case:
Sir:—
As might have been expected by anyone who knows it, the South Bend Tribune, in connection with this regrettable matter, took a position at once stupid and unfriendly. The myopic policy of that publication has been one of the popular University jokes for years. Whoever dictates its policy is a miracle of muddle-headedness. Its owl-like solemnity • and dullness are things sublime and apart. But its pontifical utterance in connection with our recent trouble shows it to be naughty as well as comatose.. In-an editorial entitled “Stamp It Out” it sagely admonishes the University—. which has always been admired the world over for its patriotism and respect for authority—to be good, uses vicious words and assumes that all the blame for the disorder lies with the students. When the official bruisers beat up a-number of boys, innocent bystanders who were not even suspected of offense, the Tribune found no lawlessness in that. It did not advise the company to “stamp it out,” nor offer, to place its 'resources (whatever. that means) at their disposal. In other words, abuse of man is a small offense compared with abuse of property. The affection of the Tribune for. the University' and its students is'touching, and-the Editor is hereby assured that it is appreciated at its true value. .	.
"I am,'sir,-.	respectfully',
■ . - - .	.- T ■ A Student. '

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
323
‘ Mr. J. Parnell Egan.
The song-recital given by Mr. J. Parnell Egan on the evening of Saturday, February 5 th, was pleasing, and was well received by the audience. Ml Egan’s voice has a sweet tonal quality, and is altogether acceptable, and his songs were- well chosen. “Mother Machree,” “Little Bit of Heaven,” and other Irish ballads were best appreciated. Miss Beulah Lee-Taylor gave the tenor able accompaniment, and rendered a number of instrumental solos in a pleasurable manner.
Personals.
—Harry J. Kirk (C. E-, ’13) writes as follows: “There’s a fellow in_Columbus who’s stepping high to-day.” Cause: girl weighing six pounds, who arrived February 4th.”
—Mr. Norman A. Ranstead writes from Hannibal, Mo.: “You will be surprised at the postmark! Are any N. D. students here? Am now draftsman with the Atlas Portland Cement Co. My address is 1016 Center Street. I hope you are all well and happy. Regards to all my professors and prefects.”
—Mr. Raymond F. Kohle, now connected with the firm of Herman J. Wagner, Architect, Canton, Ohio, writes as follows: “I am very well pleased with my position, and think the prospects for the future are bright. I thank you. very kindly for your expressions of interest in my success. I hope some day to see my name among the leading men of the profession, and in my prosperity I will not forget Notre Dame. I miss some of the associations of my sojourn there very much.”
—An old minim wrote the following sentences in appreciation of the late Sister M. Aloysius: “ When I read of the death of Sister Aloysius it was with a sense of personal loss. The obituary notice in the last Scholastic, especially the tribute of Father Carroll, was absorbingly interesting. I thought the reference to her as the “gentle despot” was most happy. Hundreds of students, who hold dear the memory of her as a foster mother in their minim days, must realize sensibly Notre Dame’s ppignant grief.”
The following account of. the N. D. Alumni meeting in Detroit we copy from the Detroit Free Press sent to us by Mr. Ernest P. Lajoie:
"A noble Christian gentleman is the highest eulogy
of his school,” wrote President John Cavanaugh; C. S. C., head of Notre Dame University, to the Detroit alumni of the institution who gathered Tuesday evening in the Hotel Statler to organize an alumni organization.
“A Detroit Notre Dame Club,” wrote Father. Cavanaugh in his letter, “must be wholly in response „ to sentiment.”
“It is entirely in response to such a sentiment, that we have gathered here,” said F. Henry Wurzer' in taking the chair as active president of the new organization. “Every man is here, as Father Cavanaugh suggests, because his heart persuades him to be here.”
SPEAKS OF OLD TIMES.	-	.
J. G. Ewing, ’76, answering both to “John” and “Professor,” spoke for the old times. He urged that the Detroit Alumni boost effectually for Notre Dame and schools of its type.
“There is nothing more necessary to the lives of men than the influence of religion,” said Mr. Ewing.
Other speeches were made celebrating the athletic and debating prowess of Notre Dame. A motion was . adopted to make eligible to the association all who formerly attended the subsidiary schools of the Uni- ’ versity. Reports from the organization committee showed that there are more than 100 Notre Dame graduates in Detroit. Of this number more than 70 . have been located, and they have given assurances -of support to the Alumni association. Edward Sawkins, out of the city on business, sent a letter of regret. Mr. Sawkins is remembered by Notre Dame men as a member of the University’s first football team.
PROF. KOEHLER ENTERTAINS.
Following the election of officers-and the speeches, luncheon was served. After the cigars were lighted. Professor Charlemagne Koehler recited several dramatic and humorous selections. Father French, formervice-president of Notre Dame, who is at present conducting a mission at St. Catherine’s church, was also present. Rev. Boyle and Bert Maris also spoke.
The officers elected are Father F. J. Van .Antwerp, LL. D., ’14) honorary president; F. Henry Wurzer,’98, active president; J. G. Ewing, ’76, Thomas Donnelly, ’94, and William Redden, ’14, vice-presidents; Ernest LaJoie, ’15, secretary, and James O’Brien, ’13, treasurer. Committees are to be named by the active president.
Editor Scholastic	.	> .	.
Notre Dame, Indiana.	’	'	’ .
Dear Sir:—The story of our organization does not portray in any degree the rousing enthusiasm and genial loyal spirit of the N. D. boys. Putting it mildly, Mr. Editor, I will say that without a doubt the Detroit organization is bound to be the livest and most active N. D. Club in the country.	'
About forty men responded to the call and many more wrote in expressing their regrets. We hope that- _ the men now at Notre Dame who live .in Detroit or expect to come to our city will communicate with us so that we may gather them in immediately upon their arrival. With best wishes for Notre Dame, I am
Very truly yours, .	...	.
.	. Ernest P. LaJoie, =
Secretary Notre Dame University Club.
324
THE NOTKE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Obituary.
Mr. Shea.
The University extends sincere sympathy to the Rev. Michael Shea (A. B., ’04; A. AI., ’05) and to Air. John Francis Shea (Ph. B., ’06; A. Ml, ’08) in the death of their venerable father, who passed away at his home in Holyoke, Massachusetts, on January 29th. Air. Shea was a man of vigorous character and attractive personality. We bespeak prayers for the repose of his soul.	x
The Military Ball.
The Notre Dame Alilitary Ball, which took place Wednesday evening in Place Hall, was one of the most picturesque spectacles ever witnessed in South Bend. The Cadets were in full dress military uniform; the students of the University who were not members of the military organization wore evening dress, and the grey uniforms of the companies contrasted with the black dress of the other students and mingled with the pretty costumes of the ladies, filled the hall with color. • - -•
The decorations were all of amilitary character and were the prettiest ever seen at a military ball in Place Hall. American flags fell in graceful folds from the ceiling, old muskets gracefully arranged upon the walls spoke the story of other days and the little lights which peeped out from the folds of the red, white, and blue drapery made the hall a veritable fairyland.
The Grand Alarch was led by Captain and Mrs.StogsdalL after which a program'of twenty-one dances was rendered, the music being furnished by the Collegian Orchestra. Over one hundred and twenty couples attended the function, many of the young ladies .being from out of town.. .	.	' . .
- - ---------------------------- -
, T.l Local News.
—We caririot refrain from sharing with our readers this- beautiful tribute to Sister Aloysius from the pen of a well-known poet.
"ty Sister M. Aloysius.
We need5 not weep for such as she . From whom the dark robes fall;
But only hope our joy may be To meet beyond the wall.	.
- '	, Marion Muir:
—The following telegram was received by Father Cavanaugh yesterday morning: Rev. John Cavanaugh, _
Deeply regret because of serious illness in family must cancel Lecture tour.
Joyce Kilmer.
—Souvenirs of the burned car are not yet on sale.
—Rather Dominic’s paper on “The Operation of Moving Picture Alachines’’ was read to the Electrical Engineering Club on Alonday night, Jari. 31st.	'
—A special five-reel moving picture of the General Electric Company’s Works was shown to the members of the Electrical Engineering Club Alonday night.
—Brownson Hall’s relay team is leading the field in the interhall relay competition, and unless-signs fail the boys from the Alain Building should win the bunting.
—A group . picture of the Glee Club was snapped at AIcDonald’s studio last Sunday. The 'clubmen were attired in the “soup and fish” which they will wear on the concert stage.
—As a sequel to the Fat Alen’s Race, held in the gymnasium Wednesday* afternoon a contest for six-footers was announced as the next event featuring the Varsity basketball games.	•
—To-day’s Red and Blue track meet in the gymnasium gave Rockne’s athletes their last competitive workout previous to next Saturday’s meet with Illinois. The team will ’ be picked next week.
—Brother Albeus is now located in the printing office as assistant secretary of the Ave Maria. Brother Emmanuel has been appointed to succeed Brother Albeus as prefect in Brownson Hall. ,
—A new class in Industrial History of the United States has been started for students of the American History class in the College of Arts and Letters. A new class ’in Foreign Governments will start next week.
—All the journalists who took part in the “covering” of. the recent religious revival in South Bend posed /for their pictures on Thursday afternoon: They have been promised a five-column cut in tomorrow’s News-Times.
: —The class, of 1918J has selected for its corps of officers four of Coach Harper’s basket
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
bailers. Tom King is president of the second year men. Pete Ronchetti, vice-president; Joe McKenna, secretary; and Jerry Murphy treasurer.
—Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., and Rev. Matthew Walsh, C. S. C., left the University Tuesday evening to attend the installation of and the conferring of the pallium on Archbishop Mundelein in Chicago on Wednesday of this week.
—The Annual Sophomore Cotillion has been announced for Friday evening, March 3. The Affair will be informal. The men who have been given the ticket-selling end of the dance are Tom King and Frank Fox, Corby Hall; John Reuss, Walsh; Breen McDonald, Sorin; Louis Fritch, Brownson.
—The Notre Dame Rifle Club now has a record of three wins and no defeats in the intercollegiate rifle competition, having defeated Worcester Polytechnic, 979 to 956. . The individual scores of the winners were: H. Rivas, 199, J. Miller 19S, L. Vogel 196, M. Joyce 193, J. Young 193.	‘
—The University Society, of 44 F. 23rd Street, New York City, wishes to have the names of students who seek employment for next vacation. They declare they have remunerative work to offer. Those who are interested can apply, directly to Mr. J. Walker McSpadden, Manager of the Mail Order Department.
—Vincent Vaughan, head of the committee in charge of the Day Students’ informal dance on February 21, is completing arrangements to make the party one of the most enjoyable of the pre-Lenten season. The six-piece Collegian’s Orchestra will furnish’music. The autumn dancing party of the downtowners was a great success.
—The pharmacists in the University have banded together to’ form the Notre Dame Pharmaceutical Association. R. J. Doherty of Omaha, is chief alchemist of the club, while Harold A. McConnell, also of Omaha, is vicechief. Clarence Williamson of Massilon, Ohio is custodian of funds, and Otto Kuhle of Sioux Falls, S. D., secretary. Besides a round of smokers and banquets the new club expects to enjoy a series of “shop talks” given by both members and outsiders.	.
—Following is a complete list of Notre Dame Clubs in various States throughout the country, so far as we are aware. If any reader
325
knows of any omission we request that he kindly send word to the Secretary or the .President of the University. We desire to have the list complete for the University catalogue. ..
Notre Dame Club of Dayton, Ohio.
Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati, Ohio.
Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis, Indiana. .
Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. ’ Notre Dame Club of Chicago, Illinois.
Notre Dame Club of Boston, Massachusetts.
Notre Dame Club of Minneapolis, St. Paul, Minn.
Notre Dame Club of New York City.
Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
’ Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Notre Dame Club of Portland, Oregon.
Notre Dame Club of Washington, D. C.
Notre Dame Club of Detroit, Michigan.	.
Tri-City, Notre Dame Club, Rock Island, Illinois.
St. Ignatius Loses Its First Game.. .
For the first time this season St. Ignatius met defeat. After'drubbing Chicago University and some of the other strong teams nearby; they have at last been beaten; and the Varsity was the team to turn the trick, sending them down 24 to 15. The Varsity put up the best game of real basketball that has been seen in the local gym all season; and the men from Chicago were going at a lively clip; so it was anybody’s game in the first half. In the second half the visitors faltered as the pace was too strong for them, and Capt. Daley and his mates sewed the game .up. Capt. Daley returned to the game and was. the shining light of the evening, playing the floor from one end to the other, shooting baskets at one end and on the next play spoiling an attempt at a basket at the other extremity of the court. In the second half, he was-sent in to guard the big center who was giving the locals a lot of trouble; and besides playing the floor just as well as he did in the first’half, Daley kept McNulty helpless.	‘
The two guards kept their, men safe andwere largely responsible for the victory; for these fellows from Chicago have a reputation for. making, on an average, something like fifteen baskets a game. The rumor may be true but, we feel, certain the average is much lower than it was before they hit Notre Dame;
Chief Meyers led the scoring, with five baskets from the field and, played one of the best games he has played all season, .in covering the floor, passing, and .shooting, baskets.. Fitz-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
gerald also went big, getting two baskets former’s own floor, a feat that is seldom turned from the. field and also two from the foul line,. by any team; for because of the construction
and in playing the floor. He did more passing. and less of his distance shooting and aided a great deal in the team play.
The first half was about even with the Varsity slightly in the lead, they having piled up 13 points to the visitors’ 10; but at the end of the half, the St. Ignatius men were picking up and were gaining back -some of the ground they had lost in the middle of the half. St. Ignatius started the scoring and kept the lead until they had the Varsity 6 to 2; but here the Gold and Blue team pulled itself together and soon had overtaken the Chicago men. They gained a lead and then, kept it throughout the game, although many times only 1 or 2 points separated the two teams.
The second half was something in the line of team-work we have waited all season to see. At the start of the half the team went like clock-work, the floor work of Daley and
of the “gym” shots at the basket are possible from only a few places on the court. The Aggies know these spots well and when they are defeated on their own court it goes down in the history of the school as one of the unusual happenings. However, the Varsity has played there a number of times and they also know the marked spots on the court; so before the trip to Lansing, formations were planned for these spots. The score tells the story of the success of the formations.
According to Capt. Daley the Aggies did not have a chance with King and McKenna guarding the “shooting places” and the credit of the victory should go to them. Fitzgerald played the stellar game of the evening, ringing up a-total of-23 out of the 24 points made by the Varsity. The Aggies’ rooters were well pleased with the fight put up'by N. D. and cheered as much for them as they did for their
the basket-shooting of Meyers, aided by the
own men. The article appearing in the Lansing
unfailing support of the rest, showed us the paper follows:
first real basketball of the year, and incidentally put the Varsity too far in the lead to fear being overtaken. No changes in the line-up were made even after the score was too large to be topped; and the result was that Capt. Daley, who was playing his first game since his injury, was taken sick after the game
ami it was found his ribs again. .
The St. Ignatius men accurate tossers, and they
had
.were had
been injured
wonderfully a fast, well-
organized team. They were simply out-played. They were given to kicking on decisions a little; but this was their first defeat and they were naturally disappointed when they saw things going against them. .
. Notre Dame, 24 Daley (Capt.) .	.
Fitzgerald Meyers
McKenna
L. F-R. F.
• C.
L. G.
R. G.
St. Ignatius, 15
Holton Cunningham McNulty Zahringer
M. A. C. lost to the Notre Dame basketball team last might on the East Lansing floor 24 to 23 in the best fought game seen at the college this season. The first half finished 16 to 13 in favor of the Aggies, but Notre Dame tied the score in the first three minutes of the final period and then took the lead.
Fitzgerald of Notre Dame was the individual star, making 6 field baskets and ten goals from fouls making a total of 22 points. Ellis made one field basket, the only other .score by the visitors.
Ricker, Hood, and Frimodig featured for M. A. C. Hood was in nearly every play during the first half, but began to tire in the final period and was replaced by Spenser. • Miller replaced Ribgy. Ricker made five field goals, but .had an off night on fouls, caging five out of fourteen attempts.
The M. A. C. team work showed a decided improvement over that in the Kalamazoo game, but was unable. to overcome the superior weight of Notre . Dame. Wood, was used as defensive guard, a change
.	.	...	Egan
Substitutions—St. Ignatius: Driscoll for' McNulty.
Field f,baskets—Meyers 5, Daley 2, Fitzgerald 2 King, .McKenna; Cunningham 2; McNulty 2, Holton. Zahringer. Free throws—Fitzgerald 2; Cunningham 3 Referee-AMilier. -	.
that apparently ; M. A. C. '
Ricker
Hood ’
Wood Frimodig Rigby . , ■ ' ,
worked, to good
- L. F.
. ,R. F.
C.
L. G.
R. G.
advantage.
Notre Dame
Ellis Fitzgerald Ronchetti . McKenna King
M. A. C. Beaten On Own Floor.
Substitutions: M. A. C.-—Miller for Rigby; Spenser for Hood. Notre Dame—-Meyers for Ronchetti, Daley for Ellis. Baskets from field: M. A. C., Ricker 5, Hood 2; Frimodig 2. Notre Dame—Fitzgerald 6, . Ellis 1. .Baskets, from foul: M. A..C.—Ricker 5 in 14.
I ?	Notre Dame^—Fitzgerald 10 in i6a Referee—Rowe,
. T . ■	- ■,	--	, Michigan. ?Time of Halves—20 minutes. First half—-
-ft.last the impossible has been.a^^	Notre Dame, 13. Final Score:
M^A. CIhas been beaten by the Varsity on the M. A.'C.;' 23 ; :No€re Dame, 24.	-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Beloit Defeated.
Beloit’s basketball team paid its annual visit to Notre Dame last Saturday and went home, as usual, defeated. It must be said for -
the Wisconsin team, however, that it is probably the best that Beloit has ever sent to Notre
Dame. The losers are said to have held Wisconsin University to a two-point victory and
we can well believe the statement after seeing them in action. In Miles they have a man-who can make trouble for any basketball team.
However, the Ansi tors had little chance against the Varsity, for with the regular line-up back in the game, the locals looked almost unbeatable. Captain Daley, although not yet fully recovered from the injuries that have kept him out of several important games, was back on the floor. “Dick” may not have been in perfect trim physically, but he made up in headwork and cleverness whatever he lacked in stamina, so that he was easily the star of the conflict. Besides. working the floor in his usual style, the blonde Captain gave a splendid exhibition of shooting, caging no less than eight field goals despite the fact that he was closely guarded.	(
His teammates gave Daley splendid^support. Fitzgerald chalked up eleven points on four baskets and McKenna and King continued their classy work at the guards. The teamwork was good, the passing fast and the playing as a whole the best of the year.
Notre Dame, 31	.		Beloit, 20
Daley	L. F.	Miles
Fitzgerald	R. F.	Philips
Meyers	C.	Stuessy
King	L. G.	*	Lehr
McKenna	R. G.	'	Klasath
Field baskets—Daley 8, Fitzgerald 4, Meyers 2, Miles 5, Stuessy 2, Philips. Free throws—Klasath 4. Fitzgerald 3. Referee—Miller.	'
Subs Defeat St. Viators.
’ The Varsity subs trimmed St. Viators here Wednesday 24 to 15 in a loosely played game. The' St. Viators men said it' was the worst game they had played all season and we can say that it was the most uninteresting we have seen this season. The only thing that kept up the excitement was an occasional spill or a shot at the basket which hit the back door. Gartland, the visitors’ left forward was the star
of the game, for although he did not make as many baskets as Ellis, he played a good floor game and had fewer chances at the basket .than the local man. Keefe was the shining light for Notre Dame, as he played real basketball upsetting many plays.
The game went on for some time before either team could score, but finally Slackford caged one from the center of the floor and the locals were never passed. The ball was kept under the visitors’ basket most of the time with one Gold and Blue man after another taking shots until someone would finally cage it, or Flynn, the St. Viator’s midget, would get hold of the ball and dribble it down to the other end of the floor. This Flynn is about the smallest man we have ever seen on the local court; but he was full of fight and pepper; and when he was not sitting on the floor, he was. going around the floor at top speed which was quite fast.	'
Ellis and Cassidy showed up well at forward, the former caging six baskets from the field and the latter showing up well in his floor work. Cassidy had a lot of bad luck in shooting, a number of them rolling around the basket and then dropping out. Ronchetti played a good floor game and made two baskets from the field. -Murphy and May were sent into the game in the last part of the second half and in this brief time showed promise.	'
Interhall Games.
Corby defeated Sorin and Brownson defeated Walsh - in the relay races which were run between the halves of the Varsity—St. Viators game last Wednesday. Corby’s victory was due to the efforts of Meehan who ran last for them after Sorin had a, small lead -made by Sackley. From the stands it looked as if Baujan had beaten his man to the tape; but the judges declared Corby winner by a small margin. It was one of the closest finishes of the season.	.
The race between the hefties of Walsh and Brownson furnished the excitement and the enjoyment of the St. Viators game last Wednesday. The race was declared a draw, but many thought Jim Cook had successfuly pulled the last Brownson man away from the tape. It was called a tie to save argument; and-argument with those two teams would have neces-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
sitated the calling of" the militia. Cook will pirobably be voted off the team by the rest of the members because he turned a glowing defeat into a wretched victory. Boyle will undoubtedly retain his place, although he may be made to run last in order to assure defeat. For Brownson, Gorman did nobly and will keep his position as last runner; for probably no other man in the school could have lost a race with such a big lead as he had. At one time Walsh was a quarter-lap ahead, but a Brownson man Jost miserably for his team and gained the lost ground. Then Walsh forced Brownson into a big lead; but they finally lost out by having Cook run last. Capt. Boyle said after the game it would be Cook’s last race until he got out of condition.
THE WRETCHED REPORTER.
OR	,
THE TERRIBLE TRIB UNE TRIBE.
. Time:—Monday Noon.
Place:—Any out-of-the-way place.
Characters:—ist South Bend Tribune Reporter.
2nd South Bend Tribune Reporter.
ist Reporter:	.
Hast heard the bloody deed that has been done?
Not since the Leader stopped the middaj' sun Has any such occurrence come to light— The N. D. Students burned a car last night!
2nd Reporter:
Impossible! You do not mean to say	'
That students drove the motorman away
: And lighted a real match, applying it , . To the straw seats where folks were wont to sit?
ist Hep—E’en so, my brother. Thus the story runs: Students with fourteen centimeter guns
And knives and hatchets, lawn-mowers and'picks -And pockets fairly bulging out with bricks Boarded the Hill St. Car. It was their plan To turn machine guns on the motorman.
2nd Hep—And did they this outrageous, bloody deed? rst Rep—Yea, this did they accomplish with alPspeed Arid with real firebrands that “burn and light, The Hill St. Car these villains did ignite.
And marvellous!. Most wonderful to tell!	-
This palace car did burn even as hell.
S And’more mysterious happening by far— ,	-
. When, ceased the flames, there was no Hill St. Carl 2nd Rep-^ Am I entrancedj or would’st thou have me ■	■ • • hear .	,	-	-	.
:That:this great palace car did disappear? . - :
. -,‘ist Rep—Yea, disappeared.even as do thy meals.
’. ; . Nothing remained by midnight but the wheels. '	.
■- 2nd Rep—Witches arid very devils then must be,
> These students, who could plan, and willingly .. ..
Destroy one of the beauties of the age. Was there no reason given for their rage?
ist Rep—None, brother, save that on last Thursday •	eve	_
After the Hill St. Car the Bend did leave
Six thugs with black-jacks in their clothes concealed Boarded the Car and by their talk revealed The fact that they’d permit no one to smoke— But all the students took them for a joke.
2nd Rep—And did they strike?
ist Rep—	Nay, brother, they were wise
For on that car men nearly of their size Were riding. Each thug closed up like a clam Fearing for his two hundred pounds of ham.
2nd Rep—Then there remains no reason for the rage? ist Rep—Not any, brother. Every thug a sage, Did leave that car and quickly board the next Which held a few young boys, and on pretext Of stamping out all smoking, every thug Pulled out a billy and began to slug.
’Twas all meant in a very friendly way— To fracture-skulls for thugs is simply play; But students never seem to see a point, They get peeved if their bones are out of joint, Instead of being tickled at the joke
They fill with wrath until they nearly choke.
2nd Rep—Dost tell me students are so badly bred
As not to laugh when someone cracks their head Just for a joke?	'
ist Rep—	’Tis even so, my friend,
They were not raised as we were in South Bend.
2nd Rep—And this mild pastime of these gentle thugs Turned college students into fire-bugs? ’
ist Rep—Yea, this and nothing more led them so far As to lose reason and destroy a car.
And not a common car, but one that cost Thousands of dollars. Now that it is lost I’ll hie me to the office and will write A tragic story of the.ghastly sight. I’ll call it vandalism, anarchy, Or any other word that comes to me. I’ll shout my news all day about the street .And though my brains are reinforced concrete
People must list to me I’ll yell so loud. •. I’ll print a picture of the-street car’s shroud ‘. And make the horror of the thing so plain -That few folks will discover I’m insane. .	-
2nd Rep—Go with all haste and write as thou hast said-, What matter though your words will not be read.
’ This is the only 'way that we-.can bring ’ The people here to realize the thing.
, (lie writes a stupid editorial which is published in the evening pa,per.- An hour elapses - and two . ■. students are seen, entering the office.) -	’ . ‘
ist Student': -. e ‘	:	, .	.. ’ ;	"
.There is .that maniac, should we not say - .
, Something severe to him this very day ?	. -
2nd Student:' ...	.	‘
‘ ..Nothing severe to him should e’er be said, ,	"
. ’ God p'uriished him by giving him his head. /■
^zS' ^ ;.;.{TcurtaiU; ; '	' • . - /
i
I
I
--3