THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
515
	THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF	
	Jack Mullen, ".ey L. McDevitt,	Editor-in-Chief - - Business Manager
Leo McIntyre, Richard Parrish Richard Elfers, John V. Hinkel,	- - - News Editor , Asst. News Editor Literary Editor - - Sports Editor	J. F. Mahoney, - - - - The Week Cyril J, Mullen, The College Parade Arthur Stenius Music and Drama John Bergan, ... club Editor
	NEWS	
William Craig Bernard Garber	David Saxon George McNally	R. W. Munz	John DsRouifr George A. Kiener Raymond Drymalski
ADVERTISING		BUSINESS
E. T. Bonner, H. J. Noon, -D. M. Meinert,	- - Local Adv. Mgr. Local Circulation Mgr. - Foreign'Adv. Mgr.	L. J. Wisda	H. O’Bryan C. M. Ashman	E. J. Carlin W. E. Burchill
I
iN
IB
IB
VOL. V FEBRUARY 10, 1928	No. 17
1872	TABLE OF CONTENTS	1928
The Week...........................J. F. Mahoney________________516
Next Week’s Events.......................-.........................517
Prom News ..........................W. F. Craig................... 520
Music and Drama ....................Arthur Stenius ............... 525
Club News .............. -..........John Bergan ------------------- 527
College Parade ....................Cyril J. Mullen..............   528
Editor’s Page............................................-.........529
Hobnails ..........................Allan-a-Dale-------------------- 530
So That’s It!......................Karl Martersteck .............. 531
How to Write a Good Short Story.... N. Loti ...................... 533
Incident (A Poem) ...........-......Jasper Brent ...........-..... 535
Sport News ........................John V. Hinkel.............•... 536
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly sU the Lnlrenrity of Notre Deme. Manuscript* may be oddrceaed to THZ SCHOLASTIC or to rooms SM or 4t8 Morrissey Hall.
Watered as eeeoutLelau matter at Notre Dams, Indians. Acceptance for maiUap at ftitvl rate of poetage, Stetten IIOS. October !, 1917, anthorteed Juuc 9S, 1919.
Tbe Adver then in Noire Duae Publications Deserve the Patronage of AO Notre Dame Men
516
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

THE WEEK

The Junior Prom tonight. . . much speculation in Sophomore Hall . . . audible sneers from Sorin . . . admiring crowds of young men in the hotel lobbies . . . brisk business . for the barber shops . . . virile men submitting reluctant hands to manicurists . . . girls that miss trains . . . girls that bring chape-1 rones |.. . bell-boys with ginger ale and clinking .glasses . . .
Profanity and perspiration in Lyons . . . deserted tables in the dining halls . . . four .men dressing one . . . smiling Orientals in the chop-suey joints ... pre-Prom vertigo... borrowed fur coats . . . uneasy the head that wears a derby . . . the superiority of those who have the family car ... South Bend, girls who can remember the Prom of 1921 . . . necks chafing under unaccustomed collars ...
“fix your tie”
What did I do with that
compact?” . . . girls who had SUCH a good time at the Wisconsin Prom, and were afterward entertained at the Gamma Blab House. . .
St. Mary’s gals languishing forlornly on the luxurious divans of the Palais Royale, awaiting tardy escorts . . . veiled smirkings in the smoking room ... “I thought we had this dance” . . . intense weariness at twelve, immediately remedied .. . “Who’s that asleep over there in the corner?” . .. gowns wilting in the back from clammy hands . . . four* classes tomorrow . . . “Wonder if he’ll call the roll?” . .. the evening drawing to an end, and as yet no invitation to the Prom at the Woods . . . cloves and Spearmint . . . scurrying for taxies . . . “If I NEVER see her again, it will be soon enough” ... the leers of the off-campus boys . .. Prom is over. Not exactly like any other Prom, because it’s at Notre Dame.
The novel system of having double cuts the first day of the new semester worked wonders, and credit is due Father DeWulf. Some of the Juniors who were standing in
line at the Library expressed skepticism Wednesday afternoon, and reiterated the remarks the following morning, but Father Miltner quieted their fears.
The sporting gentry will be interested in the announcement that Cowboy Weston, the Masked Marvel, will display his skill as a billiardist next week at the LaSalle annex. The Week suggests an elimination tournament between the champions of Carroll and Brownson Rec Halls, the winner to meet a’ representative of Hullie & Mike’s for the honor of playing the Marvel in a contest. It ' should be stipulated that the Masked Marvel remove his mask, because it is possible that he is one of our own slickers in disguise.
The students were entertained by a marionette show in Washington Hall Tuesday night. Incidents from the life of Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn portrayed more or less realistically, with one touching scene wherein the two boys sailed away into Dreamland (not unlike Little Eva) with an angel guarding o’er them. Between the acts two ladies rendered musical selections. One played Roses of Picardy, a classic of some years standing, thanks to the radio, on the musical saw, and all was silence in the vast Auditorium as the liquid notes poured from the homely instrument.
And speaking of students being entertained, the Chicago contingent listened to a number of prominent gentlemen from the nation’s machine-gum center last Thursday. No damage was done, and it is said that no one was shot.
The Glee Club is resuming its travels, although on a somewhat smaller scale. Fort Wayne, Valparaiso, and other Indiana cities have been favored with concerts by the organization. The Glee Club draws packed houses wherever it appears, and it never fails to bring good cheer and happiness to

those who flock to hear it.
J.F.M.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
« NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS ♦ ^ ^ ^ ^ <>❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ •> ❖ ❖ •;« ❖ <♦
Friday, February tenth—The Junior Prom —Palais Royale ballroom—10:00 P. M.
•, Movies—“Spring Fever” starring William Haines—Washington hall—6:30 and
■ 8:30..
Engineer’s Smoker—Gym.
Saturday—Track—Marquette University vs. University of Notre Dame—Gymnasium— 2:00 P. M.
Basketball — Butler University vs. University of Notre Dame—Gymnasium— 8:00 P. M.
Sunday—Masses—Sacred Heart Church — 6:00, 7:00, and 8:30 A. M.—Students’ Mass, 10:15 A. M.,—Parish Mass. ’
Interhall basketball games, starting at 9:30 A. M., and 1:30 P. M.—Gymnasium. Monday—Scribblers’ meeting—Hoynes Hall
—8:00 P. M.
Religious Conference — Conducted by ' Father James W. Donahue, C.S.C., superior-general of the Holy Cross order—basement of the' Sacred Heart Church—7:15 P. M. ,
Tuesday—Meeting of Le Cercle Francais— Hoynes Hall—6:30 P. M.
Wednesday—Meeting of Wranglers’ Club — Lemmonier Library—7:45 P. M.
Spanish Club Meeting—Hoynes Hall— 7:30 P. M.
Rochester Club Meeting — Lemmonier Library, south room—8:00 P. M.
- Thursday—Meeting of the German Club— Hoynes Hall—6:45 P. M.
Exemplification, of the First Degree by Notre Dflme Council, Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall—8:00 P. M.
Brownson Hall Smoker — Brownson “ ■ “Rec”—7:00 P. M.
Friday—Basketball — University of Notre . Dame vs. Carnegie Tech—Pittsburgh.
Saturday—Basketball—University of Notre ■ Dame vs. University of Pittsburgh—Pitts-/bur^h. •
'>•'Movies—“Frisco Sally Levy” — Wash-•> ington hall—6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
= ; /
517
Sunday—Exemplification of the Second and Third Degree by Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus—South Bend Council’s home—2:30 P. M.
Initiation banquet—Rotary room of Oliver Hotel—1:00 P. M.
S. A. C. PLANS SEND-OFF FOR BASKETBALL PLAYERS
D. M. Meinert, chairman of the Student • Activities Council, announced this week that the S. A. C. is planning something new in the way of campus events—a send-off for the basketball team when it leaves for its invasion of the East on the sixteenth of this month.
The send-off will be the first ever given to a basketball quintet at Notre Dame. Meinert believes that, since the more important football games are always marked by a celebration of some kind, similar interest in and encouragement to the cage stars should be given by the student body.
In order to make the send-off representative and successful, all of the students are requested to co-operate with the S.A.C. in whatever plans that body may make for the occasion. The program is not complete as yet, but will be within a short time. The final plans will be announced both in the Scholastic and by means of posters on the bulletin boards.
February sixteenth is a particularly appropriate date for the students to show their interest in the basketball team. On that day, the men will entrain for Pittsburgh, where they will meet the University of Pittsburgh’s great basketball team. Pitt is undefeated to date. In view of the recent accident to Col-erick, regular Notre Dame center, which will keep him from the court for the remainder of the season, Notre Dame’s chances may not be as good as they would otherwise have been, and a student demonstration of faith in the team should go far to make up for the loss.	,
-------*--------
FOUND—A green Parker pencil—Owner may see Father Heiser, C.S C., Carroll Hall.
518
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
JUDGES CHOSEN FOR SCRIBBLER POETRY CONTEST
Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C., associate editor of the Ave Maria, Charles Phillips, member of the English faculty, and Vincent Engels, also a member of the English faculty, will be the three judges in the Scribblers contest for campus poets this year, according to Walter Layne, president of the club.
The contest, which is open to all undergraduate students of the University, closes on February 15. Three copies of each poem to be submitted should be sent to the Scribblers, Box 67, Notre Dame, Indiana, or given to any member of the club. The name of the contestant should not appear on the manuscript, but with the manuscript a sealed envelope containing the titles of poems submitted should be handed in, with the contestant’s name.
Prizes for the contest will be fifteen, ten, and five dollars. The final announcement of prize winners will be made about March 1.
K. OF C. TO HOLD INITIATION
Grand Knight Howard V. Phalin announced at the regular semi-monthly meeting of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, Friday evening, February 7, held in the basement of Walsh hall, that the Council would stage an initiation next week. The candidates will receive the first degree Thursday evening, February 16, in the Council’s Walsh-hall chambers; the second and * third degree will be administered to the candidates Sunday, February 19, starting at 2:30 P. M., in the home of South Bend Council. Subsequent to the execution of the second and third degree a banquet will be tendered to the successful candidates"' in the Rotary room of the Oliver hotel, at which Supreme Knight Carmody of the Order may be present.
At the meeting Tuesday evening Bernard J. Bird was elected warden of the Council to succeed John V. McManmon, possessor of the office for three years, who is graduating from the University with a B.S. degree in the February class. Departing Warden McManmon was given a rising vote of
thanks by the Council for his multiform services performed while in office. Lecturer McKeown declared that, in his opinion, Mc-Manmon was the most efficient warden thus far in the history of Notre Dame Council; these sentiments were also voiced by Grand Knight Phalin..
Tony Prance, an entertainer from the Or-pheum Circuit, Chicago, and the Council’s orchestra regaled the members with musical selections. Ice cream, cake, coffee and sandwiches were distributed by the house committee. Chaplain Father Gallagan, C.S.C., closed the meeting with prayer at 9:45 P. M.
ANTI-TUBERCULOSIS SOCIETY SENDS LETTER
Dear Notre Dame Students—Christmas is a busy season. It is but natural that some of you to whom we sent Christmas seals early in December have not yet found time to reply. Just now we are making our final check up as we are required to account for . all seals sent from this office.
We shall be deeply grateful if you will either return your unused seals or send us your contribution for the 1928 program of tuberculosis prevention and relief
Please return your seals. The envelope St. Joseph County
Anti-Tuberculosis League.
FR. CARROLL HONOR GUEST OF CHICAGO CLUB
The Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University, will be the honor guest and the principal speaker at the annual meeting of the Chicago club which will be held in Chicago at the Hamilton club Thursday, Feb. 23. The election of officers for the coming year will be a feature of the meeting.
The Chicago club is one of the outstanding alumni clubs, according to James Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame alumni organization. The Chicago group set a new high standard following the Southern-California football game when over two thousand persons attended the club banquet at the Stevens Hotel.


THE NOTRE DA
prominent men speak at annual
CHICAGO CLUB BANQUET
With noted leaders in several lines of endeavor present as speakers and guests of honor, the Chicago Club’s annual banquet, held on Thursday, February second in the lay Faculty Dining Hall, proved to be one of the most important events in the University year. President Halpin, through his customary hard-work and executive ability, was able to gather a select group of really famous men to attend the banquet. Among them were Rev. James Burns, C.S.C., President Emeritus of the University and present Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross; Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., vice-president of the University; Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., for many years president of Notre Dame;
. Samuel Insull, noted financier of public utilities; Edward N. Hurley, former chairman of the United States Shipping Board; Doctor Tivnen, ear, nose and throat specialist of the Mercy Hospital in Chicago; Ernest Graham of Graham, Anderson, Probst, ahd White, architects; Wilhelm Middelschulte, one of the leading organists of the world; Judge, Marcus Kavanaugh of Chicago; and Norman Barry, ’21, president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. .
With the exception of Mr. Barry, who is himself an alumnus of Notre Dame, all of the laymen had been the recipients of some honorary degree from the University. The Laetare Medal was presented to Mr. Hurley . in 1926.	’
After a delicious meal, President Halpin himself introduced Professor Clarence Manion of the Law School, who acted as toast-mastei' for the evening. The speeches were 'all on iopics, interesting to college students, - and particularly interesting to Notre Dame men, and members of the Chicago Club.
After the banquet, movies were shown of the Southern California v game in Chicago from the time that the U. S. C. team detrained in the city until they left it again for California.
The University Orchestra, the Glee Club quartet, and the Glee Club trio, all under the direction of Joseph R. Casasanta, furnished hiusic during the meal and between speeches.
ME SCHOLASTIC	519
NOTRE DAME GROUNDS TO BE BIRD SANCTUARY
If extensive plans now under consideration are approved, Notre Dame will assume a new prominence not brought about by athletic or scholastic supremacy. Through the cooperation of D. K. Stephenson, head of the Stephenson Underwear’ Co. of South Bend and Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C., an effort is being made to make the grounds surrounding the school a bird sanctuary. '
Mr. Stephenson originator of the idea is the owner of a bird sanctuary for migratory birds in southern Michigan, and for many years has been closely connected with movements in other sections of this country and Canada to set aside land for the preservation of wild life.
If the idea is carried through, and it is reported that the priests heartily favor the suggestion, Notre Dame will have the distinction of being the only bird sanctuary in the state of Indiana.
BROWNSON SMOKER PLANS GO FORWARD
Keeping alive an old tradition, a committee headed by Thomas Conney is actively engaged in arranging final details for a smoker for the students of Brownson Hall. The affair, which is expected to far outshine the other two put on since September, will be held February 16.
The students working under the supervision of Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C., rector of the hall, have arranged for an elaborate program of entertainment to include vocal and instrumental talent, boxing and everything that goes to make a successful evening.
At one time, it will be remembered by some, this form of recreation was extremely popular with the undergraduate body. Lately it seems to be losing favor, but Brother Alphonsus gives his assurance that he will continue to encourage the students to give smokers as often, as possible.
Assisting Brother Alphonsus and Thomas Conney are V. Philips and J. Finnerty.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
520
+—’
THE PROM SONG OF 1928 By Harry Owens
Make believe you are mine tonight, little girl.'
As I offer a heart that’s tzme.
Tho’ the stars are divine tonight, little girl
Make believe 1 was made for you.
Even tho’ on the morrow we’ve drifted apart
And a new secret sorrozo creeps iztto your heart
Make believe everything is all right,
*
THE ORCHESTRA
Louis Panico and his Brunswick Recording Band will render the musical selections. Louis Panico is universally recognized as the world’s premier jazz trumpeter. He first gained distinction as the laughing cornetist of Isham Jones Orchestra. For the past few years, he has been leading and playing in his own band. Panico and his group of ten musicians have proven a sensational drawing card of Guyon’s Paradise and the Rendezvous Cafe, Chicago. They will feature the “Notre Dame Prom Song of 1928,” by Harry Owens, the composer of several popular song hits among which were “Linger Awhile,” “Adios” and “One More Kiss.” Mr. Owens is a native of California and is at present leading his orchestra at the Mayflower Hotel in Los Angeles.
3
little girl
Make believe you are mine tonight!
JUNIOR PROM OF 1928
WILL BE HfiLD TONIGHT
The Palais Royale—termed the most beautiful ballroom in the middle-west—will be found to have rounded into an even more beautiful place than it is when the Juniors and their guests enter to attend the Junior Prom tonight. William S. Loughran and his committee have carried into effect an unusual and radiant decorative scheme. The color scheme of the decorations is entirely blue and gold. The ceiling of the Palais is covered with blue and gold paper while the walls have blue and gold fringed crepe paper as their covering. From the center of the ballroom, a huge colored chandelier with hundreds of streamers running to all corners of the place is hung. The back of the ballroom has been converted into a garden with its palms, ferns and flowers of all sorts. As the ballroom is entered one will notice a large elec,trie sign announcing the Prom of 1928. The most unusual feature of the en-
GUESTS OF HONOR AT JUNIOR PROM
John Frederick, Senior President; Jack ' editor of The Scholastic; Walter Layne, eai The Juggler; and Franklyn Doan, editoi °l
' tire decorations will be an N. D., the largest ever built. It is nine feet high, seven feet wide and four feet thick. It will form part of an arch at the entrance of the Palais.
Dome.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
521
Reading left to right—Vivian Leon Leslie, Walter E. Stanton, Catherine M. Cor-ridon, William H. Krieg.
PROM SONG NEW FEATURE
The Prom song written specially for a prom by a noted composer is believed to be a new feature of class dances.
Guests of the Prom will be given very attractive favors. A hammered jewel case will be given each girl that attends. These jewel cases are monogrammed and have the script “The Junior Prom of 1928” engraved on them. They are lined with blue and gold silk.
A clever program of dances was arranged by Robert P. Mannix and his program committee. Not only are the quotations well selected but the program itself is most attractive. It is of gold leaf with a blue seal.
PATRONS AND CHAPERONS
Patrons and patronesses of the affair will be Judge and Mrs. W. G. Wooten, Mr. Daniel O’Grady, Mr. and Mrs. William Roemer, and Mr. James Hines. All of the patrons with the exception of Judge Wooten are professors in the college of Arts and Letters.
Mr. Paul Fenlon, Mr. Paul Byrne, and Mr. and Mrs. James McCarthy will be the chaperons of the party. The Prom will start at ten o’clock and end at two.
.	THE COMMITTEES
The following men have assisted Walter Stanton, general chairman, in his work on the Junior Prom:
Reception—Steve McPartin, chairman; Jack Elder, Joe Locke, John Colerick.
Programs—Robert Mannix, chairman; Joseph Doutremount, James Bannigan, Elmer Zaff.	.
Publicity—William F. Craig, chairman; Paul McElroy, Franklyn E. Doan, J. Harrington Noon, John Hinkel, Tom Lawless and F. Siudzinski.
Favors—Robert Newbold, chairman; John Dorgan, Bud Wilhelmy, Bernard Nalty, Ted Heinlein.
Decorations—William (Red) Loughran, chairman; Robert Tyler; Thomas O’Neil. Joseph Dagnault, James Leyden, Otil Winchester.
Tickets—Thomas Ryan, chairman; Hank Burns, Day Doys; William Seidefaden, Rabin; Robert Shimberg, Walsh; Peter Bris-lebeau, Walsh; Joseph O’Brien, Morrissey; Jack Grey, Day Dogs; William Mclnnany, Lyons; Buck Ahern, Corby.
Music — William O’Connor, chairman; Michael McMahon, Sam Colorruso, George Fitch, Jules Grossman.
Invitations — Albert Sebesta, chairman; J. Hiss, Thomas Hughes.
Arrangements — Spaulding Clements, chairman; Charles DeGroote, George Brau-tigan, Victor Hart.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
522
Junior Prom Guests
Catherine Corridon, Indianapolis' Margaret Thomas, St. Mary’s College Cecelia Bickel, South Bend Mildred A. Krauser, South Bend Virginia Page, South Bend Helen Strictland, Memphis Huth- Kyser, South Bend Thelma Deiss, South Bend Bernice Keller, South Bend Griselda Both, Akron Dorothy Richardson, South Bend Margaret Bereman, Aurora, Ill. Mary McCaffrey, Cleveland Margaret Barlow, Indianapolis Mildred L. Kosanke, New Orleans Marie Casey, South Bend Rose Belle Murbarger, Indianapolis Margaret Diener, Indianapolis Jane Keene, Indianapolis Lorreta Hart, Dunker, Ind.
Helen Barrett Baune, Rosary College Francis Gillen, South Bend Eillen Spittier, South Bend Edna McCarthy, South Bend Ruth Miller, South Bend Louise Hutchison, St. Louis Dorothy Waskaw, Chicago Margaret Cullen, Chicago Mollie Freeh, South Bend Ruth Gallup, South Bend Gennette Cavanaugh, Chicago Stella Phillips, Chicago Betty Halligan, St. Mary's College Lilian Davidson, Detroit Mary Lou Eby, Pano, Ill. Helen Mueller, St. Mary's College Mary McCarthy, St. Mary’s College Alice Gillan, St. Mary's College Jane Kearns, Chicago Mary Leahy, St. Mary’s College Agnes Whalen, St. Mary’s College Doris Davenport, South Bend Sallie McCaffery, Pittsburg Katherine Butler, Chicago Catherine McMahen, Chicago Helen E. Holthouse, Decatur, Ind. Clara Rydell, Chicago.
Phyllis Baer, South Bend Dorothy M. Marcus, South Bend Dorothy C. Reiner, Chicago Catherine Gillis, South Bend Martha Morgan, South Bend Margaret Alby, South Bend Lenore Ann Callahan, Chicago Bertha Ries, South Bend Eugina Doan, Lima, Ohio Dorothy Gunkle, Lorain, Ohio
Vivian Leon Leslie, Gary, Ind. Mary C. Rolining, Capo Glreadea, Mp. Joanna Svete, Fort Wayne Agnes Phillips, Fort Wayne Juanita Dillon, South Bend Florence Riley, Cleveland । Louise Truitt, South Bend Isabel Edelen, Parsons, Kansas Dorothy M. Sullivan, Chicago Katherine Staunton. Shreveport Gertrude Ambre, Hammond, Ind. Clara Hudson Rydell, Chicago Virginia Walsh, Chicago Ciara Kullman, Chicago Elizabeth Mills, Benton Harbor Rose Mock, Chicago Esther Ryan, Roseland, III. Cecelia O'Brien, Chicago Margaret Tynan, Denver Virginia Walsh, Chicago Elizabeth Kahl, Davenport, Iowa Mary Robinson, Racine, Wis.
Viola Allen, Grand Rapids , Anna Louise Maloney, Gary Gertrude Peteres, Saint Marys Eleanor Little, South Bend Nora Katherine Farley, Niles Gertrude Allen, Grand Rapids, Mich. June Hoene, Dnluth Louise Buckley, Chicago Bernice Brockley, South Bend Alice Steketee, St. Marys College Katherine Fitzpatrick, St. Mary’s College Marion Sutton, South Bend Gladys Curran, Chicago Romana Schroder, Minneapolis, Minn. Martha Wheeler, Kamalaee, III. Isabel Brand, Toledo Margaret Clynes, Pueblo, Col.
Leona Burrill, Joliet, Ill, Irene Martin, Chicago Martine Crabtree, St. Mary’s College Isabelle Edlin, St. Mary’s College Mary Elenor Holmes, St. Mary’s College Margaret Barthelomew, South Bend Elizabeth Frutchey, St. Mary’s College Mildred Ronan, Chicago j Thelma Keiser, Los Angeles , Margaret Bartscher, St. Paul, Minn.
Margaret Steinruck, South Bond Dorothy Benkert, Piqua, Ohio Mary K. Murphy, Waukegan, III. Agnes Phillipp, Fort Wayne ’ Joanna Svete, Lorain, Ohio Irene Alby, South Bend Mary Edna Hart, Peabody, Mass. Eleanor Casey, South Bend
Mary Eleanor Holmes, St. Mary’s Colley j Etta Zimman, South Bend 1
Louise Cotter, Indiana Harbor, Ind.	|
Elizabeth Rigney, River Forest, III. _	|
Mary Murphy, Waukegan, Ill. '	|
•Mary Louise Flynn', Washington, D. C.	1
Dorothy Walker, South Bend	1
Catherine Layden, Davenport, Iowa	J
Gertrude Hoffman, Denver	1
Lucille Boyd-Sneed, South Bend ‘ -J Dorothy Gunkel, Fort Wayne	J
Hester Peckinbaugh, Niles	j
Mildred Chisholm, Vicksburg, Miss.	|
Josephine Rieder, South Bend	J
Harriet Barber, South Bend	•" ' |
J
Pauline Fleming, Geneva, N. Y.	Jj
Alice Maraviglia, Chicago Gladys Steele, South Bend	< 1
Jean Brady, Lawerenceville, Kas. Jacqueline Deur, Chicago	J,
Jean Carroll, Baltimore, Md. ...	‘ j)
Muriel Hewson, South Bend	*	. 'j
Elizabeth Lyon, Oakland, Calif.	j
Constance Klakely, Detroit	'	■
Katherine Haynie, Oak Park, Ill. .	/
Virginia Niemann, Chicago Elizabeth Proctor, Elkhart' Gertrude McKinnon, Detroit Loretta McHale, Chicago	—
Mary Catherine O’Brien, Fort Wayne	•
Ruth Helen Fox, Cleveland Jean Blasius, Logan, Ohio Lucile Blake, Tulsa, Oklahoma Margaret Thomas, St. Mary’s Cecelia Bickel, South Bend Mildred Hulett, South Bend Elenor Callahan, St. Mary’s College Margaret Irene Abrey, Chicago Frances Murphy, St. Mary's College Alice Stapler, Louisville, Ky.
Catherine Marie Feeney, Chicago Lucille Redmond, St. Mary’s College Wanda Poston, Lander, Wyo. Mary McCarthy, St. Mary’s Cbllege Alice Kubiak, South Bend M. E. Altenderfer, Philadelphia Irene S. Brown, Stroudsburg Edna M. Cinteque, Detroit Helen Drought, Fergus Falls Martha Wheeler, St. Mary's College Josephine McNab, South Bend Evangellno Petersen, Chicago Helen Rau, Chicago Violet Schneider, Chicago Patricia O'Brien, Gary Helen Hayes, Lakewood, Ohio Mary C. Rolining. Capo Girardeau,	‘
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MARIONETTE SHOW PLEASES
Jean Gros’ French Marionettes appeared in Washington hall Wednesday night, Feb. 7, in a delightful five-scene play, “Huckleberry Finn.” Jean Gros is now making his fifth American tour with his internationally celebrated marionette company.
Almost fifteen hundred strings were handled by the puppeteers Wednesday night in the presentation of “Huckleberry Finn.” This fact was hardly conceivable to the audience, however, so lifelike were the marionettes. .As Huckleberry Finn, Tom Sawyer, Aunt Polly, Becky Thatcher, Jim, the colored man, and other famous characters of Twain’s masterpiece walked about the stage, talked and laughed, the auditor found it hard to believe that the originals were not there in the flesh.
The play was faithful to the novel in almost every respect. It consisted of five scenes : outside the cabin of the “nigger,” Jim; To^i Sawyer’s bedroom; the woods at night, with Huck and Tom on a treasure quest; outside the pirate’s cave; and the circus.
An enjoyable music program was presented by two young ladies during the intermissions. The incidental music for the play was written by Mendelssohn.
'	PROM NOTES
The merchants of South Bend have been most kind in lending the Junior Class various articles for decoration purposes at the Junior Prom. Some twenty suites of furniture, thirty floor lamps, ten rugs and several other articles are to be part of the .decorative scheme.
——
Norbert Engels, a professor in the College of Arts and Letters, and a composer of sever-' al popular songs, composed the verse of the Prom song, “Make Believe You are Mine Tonight.” He also arranged the orchestration of the, entire number. Mr. Engels is the composer of “Lindy Lou,” “The Prom Girl” and several other popular tunes. — •
There is at least one girl who is going to be “up in air” about Prom time and that is Miss Vivian Leon Leslie, the guest of Walter
523
E. Stanton, general chairman of the Prom Committees. Miss Leslie teaches school in Michigan and in order for her to arrive in time for the Junior’s party, it will be necessary for her to travel by plane to South Bend. She and Mr. Stanton will lead the grand march at the Prom tonight.
—«—
The Prom guests will have an opportunity to witness two of the most important sport events on the Notre Dame calendar tomorrow afternoon and evening. In the afternoon, the blue and gold track team will meet Marquette University at the Notre Dame gym. In the evening Butler of Indianapolis will play the Irish basketball team.	<
■ &—
The Prom Ticket sale was the largest in Notre Dame’s dance history. Four hundred and thirty-five tickets were disposed of by Thomas A. Ryan and his committee. Including those who received complimentary tickets approximately five hundred couples will attend the dance.
' -----------------, UNIVERSITY MOVES TO CLOSE DORE
ROAD
The University has initiated a movement to close the Dore road, the paved stretch which connects North Notre Dame Avenue and the Dixie Highway and which now crosses the South Western, section of the. campus in front of the Engineering buildings and the new dining halls.	'
A petition has been presented the county board of commissioners by G. A. Farabaugh, who is acting in the interest of the University.
The petition points out that 2500 students cross the road six times daily and that two accidents have resulted since September when pedestrians were struck by passing motorists.
The University offers to furnish the land and pay the expense of constructing a new paved highway from Leeper Avenue to Angela avenue and East to Notre Dame avenue.
The petition further points out that in time of emergency, such as the occasion of big football games in the Fall, the Dore road might be thrown open and additional traffic facilities thus provided.
524	T H E NOTRE
NEO-SCHOLASTIC SOCIETY FORMED BY PHILOSOPHY SENIORS
On Monday, February 6, the Neo-Scholas-tic Society of the University of Notre Dame was officially organized. This organization is limited to Seniors who are majoring in philosophy, and has the official seal of the Department of Philosophy stamped upon it.
Rev. Matthew Schumacher is Honorary President of the society, and will guide the activities of the present semester. The society is scheduled to meet every Monday and Wednesday at 2:15 P. M. The meetings will last for a period of one and one half hours.
At each meeting a problem or phase of scholastic philosophy, together with its application to modern conditions of thought, will be discussed. The traditional Scholastic form will be in order. One gentleman will present the problem, another will bring forth all possible objections to the thesis being discussed, a third will develop the problem to its fullest degree, a fourth will answer objections, and finally, a fifth gentleman will present his frank criticism of the manner in which the matter was presented and developed. The speakers will rotate from week to week.
The present organization is built on a sound basis, and in its work it will consider all phases of Scholastic philosophy, not in their academic, static forms but rather in their vital aspects and their ability of being applied to modern problems, such as the electronic theory, the epistemological difficulties of the empiricist, and the mental chaos of the evolutionist.
The following gentlemen were elected to office: President, Mr. Robert P. Fogerty; Vice-President, Mr. John Robinson; Secretary, Mr. George A. Kiener.
-------$--------
FATHER MILTNER LECTURES TO SCIENCE STUDENTS
At the general meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science which was held Monday evening, February 6, in Washington Hall, Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Professor of Philosophy, presented an excellent and instructive paper on “The Philosophy of the
DAME SCHOLASTIC	.
Scientist” to the scientific and general student body of the university.
The main purposes of Father Miltner’s
talk were to point out how philosophy completes scientific investigation, and to show what subjects in philosophy were most advantageous to scientists.- These two points were explained and illustrated very forcibly by establishing the relationship which exists between philosopher and scientist. There are no essential differences between scientific and philosophical knowledge except in the matter of degree.^ Both groups of men are concerned with the discovery of truth. Truth is transcendental, organic, and the common heritage of all. No limits can be confined to either scientist or philosopher for each discovery is an installment of the whole truth. Philosophy begins where science leaves off. When the scientist has accumulated a mass of experimental data, and when scientific methods fail to interpret these facts satisfactorily, he turns to philosophy if he does not wish to draw erroneous conclusions from the experimental results before him.
Father Miltner’ stressed Logic and General Metaphysics as the philosophical subjects which are most advantageous to science students. Philosophy gives many of the terms used in a scientific manner a precise definition and elucid explanation, and sheds additional light to material found in science. Philosophy leads science safely over roads with which it is not familiar, for metaphysics unifies the manifold of science itself. ---------------------■
UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR HONORED
Professor Charles Phillips, M.A., of the English department of the University has been selected by the officials of Indiana University as the annual “George Washington lecturer,” to feature the patriotic program of that institution, February 22, in Bloomington, Indiana.
The selection of a Catholic layman in the person of Mr. Phillips is said to be without precedent. In view of the recent attacks on the private life of Washington, notably those by Rupert Hughes, Professor Phillips will deliver an address entitled, “Some So-called Biographies of George Washington.”


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖❖❖❖<»❖ <♦ <•
« MUSIC AND DRAMA ❖ ❖ *5* ❖	❖
It was some time ago that the St. Olaf Lutheran choir presented a program at the Palais Royale and perhaps for this very reason, a review of the evening’s entertainment by. Mr. J. J. Becker, who has recently left 'the University, should pass without mention. Such a short period does not assuage the sting of the invective contained in his brief review, however, and perhaps one is not too lagging in remarking upon his line ‘‘The glee clubs of our colleges and universities, despite the pretense of many of them, are merely social and not musical organizations.” That the work done with the Glee Club does contain some social recompense, cannot be denied, but is not the same found in every musical group ? Perhaps two masters cannot be served at one time, but surely no one can say that Notre Dame’s Glee Club has permitted social activities to interfere with the quality or quantity of their concerts. Admitting that a dance oi’ dinner follows many of the appearances, would Mr. Becker have us believe that these are the only incentives for the members of the organization? Is this the reason why holidays are given over to days of weary travel ? Can this be the end for which the Club works every noon for the greater part of the year? There is work, long tedious hours of it, and yet they are told that such is carried out merely s for social purposes. We ask the professor and critic to look a second time.
—o—
Where upon the campus, we ask, is there an organization which can approximate the Glee Club when activities are concerned? Certainly the many concerts already given this year assure this organization of first place, but unsatisfied with this honor, the Club continues to work at a pace which would tend to disrupt the membership of a greater part of the campus social groups. Within a short time concerts have been given at Fort Wayne and Valparaiso, the latter be-^■g given last Wednesday evening before a large and appreciative audience which read
ily and heartily acknowledged the merits of the singers, but inactivity must be picked in the bud and another concert is scheduled for next Thursday when the Club travels—if the word may be used here—to Elkhart. Knowing that a program used for a great length of time will tend to become “stale,” Director Casasanta has already taken a couple of the lighter numbers out of the program which has served the Club so far this year, and as soon as time permits perfection, two new numbers shall replace the old. Meanwhile the campus awaits the next local concert.'
,	—A.s.
ROY WINS BREEN MEDAL
Speaking on the subject of “A Challenge to America,” James C. Roy won the Breen Medal for this year at the annual contest held in Washington hall January 22, before an audience of 600.
As this marks the second consecutive year that Mr. Roy has won the contest, he was not given the medal; it was presented to Thomas Lee who was second in the contest. Mr. Lee spoke on “America’s Youth.”
Unusual interest was shown in the oration this year, there being twenty contestants in the preliminary contest. 'Out of these, four finalists were picked, the winner being Mr. Roy. Honorable mention was given-Thomas Duffy whose subject was “America’s Heritage” and Francis Corbett who spoke on “Civilization or Chaos.”
The Judges for the event were; Professor Clarence Manion of the Hoynes College of Law, Doyle of the Department of Speech and W. E. Farrell of the History Department.
Mr. Roy, by virtue of his victory, will represent the University in the Indiana Intercollegiate Oratorical contest to be held at Purdue University, the seventeenth of this month. He first came into prominence as an orator in his freshman year when he was made a member of the Varsity debating squad. Roy is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and hails from Fort Wayne, Indiana, the home of the donor, William P., Breen, ’77.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COMMENCEMENT-INVITATIONS COMMITTEE CHOSEN
President John F. Frederick of the Senior class has selected his commencement-invitations committee as follows: John W. Vikto-ryn, chairman; Guy L. Loranger, William W. Kelly, Daniel J. Bradley, and Edward W. Freitas. Orders for commencement invitations will be taken at once to the end of March first; this to assure of delivery fifteen days before the commencement exercises occur,. All seniors residing in Corby hall are requested to get in touch with Guy L. Loranger, those in Sorin hall with William W. Kelly, those in Walsh hall with Edward W. Freitas, those in Badin, Morrissey and Lyons hall with Daniel J. Bradley. Those seniors who reside in halls other’ than those mentioned or off-campus are urged to see John W. Viktoryn, Sorin hall, chairman of the committee.
The commencement invitations this year, the work of the A. E. Elliott Company of Philadelphia, who had the concession last year, are attractively bound in blue leather with the insignia of the University embossed in gold on the obverse side. They consist of more than fifty pages of fine linen paper containing the names of the candidates and their respective degrees, the officers of the University, the various committees of the Senior class , an etching of the University’s Memorial Arch, and other interesting feaures.
All seniors who desire their name inscribed in the invitations different from the way it appears in the Student Directory this year should, submit their name corrected to any of this committee before February twentyfifth.
-------*-------
SCHOLASTIC STAFF CHANGES ANNOUNCED THIS WEEK
Beginning with this week’s issue of The Scholastic, a number of important staff changes go into effect. Richard Parrish, formerly Main Building reporter, will succeed John F. McMahon as assistant news editor. J. F. “Barry” Mahoney begins writing The Week, Cyril J. Mullen succeeds him
as editor of The College Parade, The Scholastic’s exchange column. John Bergan will replace Joseph D. Murphy as Club editor.
The Scholastic also announces three new men on the news staff. The complete list of news assignments follows: ’	‘	'
Richard Parrish—Maim Building
Bernard Garber—Campus Personalities.
John de Roulet—From Scholastic Files.
John Bergan—Clubs.
William Craig—Publications and Debating
George. McNally—Halls and Library.
Raymond Drymalski—Minor Sports.
. David Saxon—Interhall Sports.
George A. Kiener—Dept, of Philosophy.
Raymond W. Munz—College of Science.
-----------------
ENGINEERS TO HOLD SMOKER ’ ENTERTAINMENT
While the more fortunate of the under- ' graduates are revelling with their beguiling, ; coy companions of the uncertain sex, at the Prom Friday evening, we who are left to keep the lonely vigil will not be, thanks to | the thoughful Engineers, entirely without I entertainment.	’
No end of fun of a delightful variety has i been planed for Friday evening in the Gym | at 8:00 o’clock when the serious minded mas-	<
ters of the slide rule will attempt to prove to	|
the campus world that they, when so inclined, are second to none in the dispensing of fun.	.
All early dope points to plenty of pleasure for all on hand (and all are invited most cordially), to the conclusive proof of the debatable proposition that Engineers can really be fun loving and toward the belief that, for . awhile, at least, the mental torture of being , excluded from the Prom will be forgotten. !
There will be boxing bouts together with	;
the popular Ted Crowley and his litle negro	;
“Blue Boys” (they stage a battle-royal that ’ endangers the lives of the spectators); there will be smokes and best of all there will be tasty eats—if you can beat that for 50c then you’re. wasting your time trying to get an education; you’ve got one now.

Wffy,. i ,	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4	CLUB NEWS	❖
^ ^ ^ <>❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖<♦<{• ^ ♦>
CLEVELAND CLUB
The Cleveland Club will sponsor a smoker to be held in the Faculty Dining Hall on Wednesday even' jng( February 15. The Club has been very active since the beginning of the school year and several banquets and socials were staged since that time. The Cleveland Club Christmas Dance was the biggest affair ever staged by a Notre Dame Club of that city. Some one hundred and fifty couples attended the affair. The club banquet held at the Morningside Apartments last Wednesday evening was well attended and the principal speaker of the evening, Professor Phillips, kept the crowd interested with a very good talk.
The Smoker is the first to be presented for the students of Notre Dame by the Cleveland Club and tickets for the affair can be purchased by any student on or off campus.
A gala collection of entertainment has been secured for the evening with Coaches K. K. Rockne, Tommy Mills, Tim Galvin of Gary, and Jimmy Corcoran of the Chicago American the probable speakers. Beside the entertaining speeches the Notre Dame Glee Club will offer a few selections together with offerings by Anthony Kopecky, soloist, Anthony Mulreany, baritone, Pat Manion, special entertainment, and the popular banjo sax trio. Several surprise acts will also be presented to the gathering.
Sandwiches, coffee, ice cream, cake and cigarettes will also'be served to make the affair more interesting.
eTickets for the smoker can be obtained from Cy. Mathews, 612 E. Howard St.; Bernie Zipperer, 204 Sorin; Clete Schnider, 428 Walsh; Norm McLeod, 13 Corby; Ed. Blatt and Al. Shippicase of Morrissey; Ray Breen, Sophomore Hall; Joe Gavin and Joe Fitzgerald, Freshman Hall; and John Zabach, Howard Hall.
The Committee picked by President William O’Neill includes Bernard Zipperer, chairman of the committee, “Cy” Mathews, Norm. McLeod, John Zabach, and Al Shippicasse.
The Committee for banquets picked by the president of the Club included Charles E. Rohr, chairman, Joe Fitzgerald, William Bambrick, Jerry x Reidy, and Dick Bloom as assistants.	"
’ NEW JERSEY CLUB
The New Jersey Club held its first meeting of the new semester Sunday morning, February 5, in the South room of the Library. President Russ Riley announced plans for a series of “get-together” banquets, the first to take place on Monday evening, Feb. 20, in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall. Joe Abbott was appointed chairman of the committee to grange the details for the first meeting. Assisting r' Abbott are Jack Reager, Don Ross, Phil Pro-
527
vinssero, Don Sullivan, Leo Hughes, and John Winberry. A report of the financial status of the Club was given by Tony Ceres, the treasurer, and a budget plan for the remainder of the year was submitted. Chairman Abbott announced that all Club members who were absent from the meeting Sunday should get in touch with him as soon ’ as possible, so he can be assured of their presence at the next meeting. ’
------—4---------
*•* ♦♦♦ $ $ <$b $ *♦*	•$» $ «J*
♦ .OUR CONTRIBUTORS ♦
«£•	♦J*	»*«	•*«	*♦*
Karl Martersteck, the author of the story “So That’s It” in this issue is a notable figure for at least two reasons: his series of articles on effective letter-writing in last year’s Scholastic, and, more important still, the fact that he is one of the very few engineers that contribute to these pages.
In the words of Edna St. Vincent Rilley, “My dear, my dear, it is not so dreadful here” as long as we have N. Loti, that Stephen Leacock of handy information, to point the way to excellence. A reading of his recent treatise, “How To Be Popular,” and his present thesis, “How To Write a Good Short Story,” will insure one’s fame and fortune both with this and succeeding generations.
“Incident” in this number is a poem of Jasper Brent’s. That being said, no comment could better recommend it. —R.C.E.
--------4--------
BOY GUIDANCE MEN RETURN
Eight students of the Boy Guidance department have returned to resume their studies at the University following a five months course in field work during which they were attached to various boys’ recreation centers throughout the country.
Those who will complete their courses and receive their degrees in June are: Lester Flewelling, Peter Merloni, Charles J. Ducey, George Neylon, Roy Bennet, John Cody, and William Murphy.
--------4--------
Rev. Father Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., president of the University is absent from the University on a months vacation. Father Walsh is visiting relatives and friends in the East.
528
-THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

g THE COLLEGE PARADE
I ri— —-» r—11—»i—t n r-i r—i n n r-i r-i rt tT3 C3 C2 C2 C3 E3 C3 C3 CP
By Cyril J. Mullen

The receiving end of a college exchange, a vocation to which I have been lately introduced, is notable not only for its profusion of college papers. It is, I find, well salted with informative and literary matter distinctly not college either in origin or content. Here, for example, is an inspiring little title from The Sunday Companion'. “Ooh; Ooh! Ooh! The story of a big black cat.” For the benefit of those attracted to the paper I may add that it has a You-and-I Department, conducted by Daddy Dan and His Boys and Girls, and that it is published in New York. It has occurred to me that the Sunday Companion may have been an influence upon the early character-formation of the New York students who are my constant table-companions, and for whom I have a special type of admiration.
And while on the subject of non-collegiate sheets, I cannot in conscience pass over The Irish World. Like most violently patriotic and flag-waving publications, it exhibits admirable restraint and delicacy even when speaking of its enemies. I gather from the following that its owners have some money invested in bonds of Mr. De Valera’s late lamented and very defunct, Irish Republic.
“Cosgrave Lands,. Guarded by Great Army of- Police” and continues “William T. Cosgrave . . . arrived in New York, January 20, closely guarded by 3,000 officers, mounted and on foot. There was, however, no apparent need for these elaborate precautions ... in all the welcomes that New York has extended to visitors there was never one so tame and so cold as that which met Mr. Cosgrave.”
—$—
' More advantages of higher education. From The State Collegian “College Bred Cow Makes Remarkable Production Record.”
.	—*—
As a lover of good poetry I quote the following from The Nazarene of Nazareth College, Kalamazoo:
I WONDER
“I wonder what it is that makes us glad I wonder what it is that makes us blue I wonder what we’d do without the wonder I wonder, I wonder, I wonder, And I know you wonder, too.”
I suggest that the author make the remaining words “I wonder” and turn it over to a magazine that publishes very advanced modern verse.
—❖—
Here is a little sunshine from The University Daily Kansan for those protestors J against the promiscuous calcimining of our ’ j lovely young womenhood: “The girls of the	§
senior class of Woodfin School have put a	।
ban on rouge and lipstick with penalties dire enough for any inquisition. What’s more, J the boy members of the class have agreed to help enforce the regulation.” The article J continues to say that culprits shall be punished in various ways, including face washing, forced shower baths, and the adminis- . tration of two tablespoonsfull of castor oil. = The virility of the boys who will attempt to keep their girl friends pure by the vigorous : application of soap and a damp face sponge, is hardly to be denied. However I cannot ; help doubting the efficacy of castor oil, taken ■ internally for the removal of cosmetics. I have always associated castor oil with the . family doctor, measles signs, and various inward disorders, starting with a stomach ache.
—o—
It is easy to see that the Southern Calif or-	;
nia Trojan, is an optimistic paper. It naively informs its readers that there will be a , strictly college dance, for college students only, next semester. To our knowledge every . college dance we ever bought tickets for, was : to be for students and their dates only. But there are usually, beside the students, about five hundred high school children, five hun- • dred working boys and girls, and three hundred odd, Aunt Elsies and Uncle Johns.	’

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
529
THE NEO-SCHOLASTICS
In another column of £he Scholastic, the seniors who are majoring in philosophy have made known the formation of a new campus club, called the Neo-Scholastics .and dedicated ' to the investigation and discussion of modern philosophical problems.
Aside from the fact that the organization ^Ul be particularly important in furnishing a time and a place for conversation on philosophy between men interested in that subject, it has another significance. It makes one additional link in the chain of Notre Dame dubs whose objects are not only to bring the men who have mutual interests together, but also to assist them to attain a •greater proficiency in thinking and in working. Among the organizations are the Scribblers, for the writers; the Wranglers, for debaters; the Academy of Science; the Press ■.Club, for journalists; the Engineering Club; the Law Club; La Cercle Francaise; the German Club; the Spanish Club and others.
Probably the most important function of the dubs mentioned is their capability for bringing men with common interests together. They offer the possibility of intelligent conversation that breaks away from the old, thin-soled topics of football, the Indiana weather, meals in the Dining Halls, the merits of the various rectors, and professorial peculiarities.
And the campus needs an opportunity for better conversation. The topics listed can be discussed by almost anyone on the campus, we believe, and the naturally consequent thing to do when you meet a student is to bPdi conversation by such inane but entirely harmless remarks as: "Howja like that meal?” or "How does Father Blank treat you over in Hoosit?” or "Looks like a good team this year." As introductory remarks, these are not really bad, but when the con-vemtion rambles on and on forever about meals, Father Blank, and the football team, the amount of mental stimulation produced , Would not strain the intellect of a child.
Unfortunately, you cannot know a man's interests by looking at his face except in rare instances. You are forced to strike up the antique chorus with him because neither you nor he has even a vague idea of the other’s interests. If you meet him at a dub meeting, however, both you and he can be certain of at least one intellectual pursuit in common. Consequently, the campus, or at least that part of it which cares for such things as conversation above the grammar school level, should be glad that men with intelligence have organized another club for discussion and exchange of ideas. —J.A.M.
--------*--------
VILLAGERS’ DONATION PRAISEWORTHY
The action of the Notre Dame Villagers Club in presenting a handsome silver loving cup as a trophy to be striven for by South Bend and Mishawaka basketball teams is to be commended.
The prize is donated with the express purpose of stimulating wholesome rivalry and clean sportsmanship between cage representatives of both institutions, and will be exchanged or retained indefinitely according to the winner of each contest played between the two friendly rivals. Enclosed within the cup is a parchment on which the name of the victor and the score of each respective game is to be inscribed.
Aside from the direct service of arousing further constructive rivalry between the two high school athletic groups which are known and respected the length'and breadth of the entire Hoosier State, there is an indirect end which to our minds, is of even greater importance; namely, that this contribution will serve as one more link to rivet together with bonds of the strongest friendship, South Bend and Mishawaka, the cities, to Notre Dame, the school.
Such a praiseworthy accomplishment cannot but help to reflect favorably and upon the organization which made possible this thoughtful trophy,	—J.V.H.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE EDITOR’S PAGE .^=1
THE NEO-SCHOLASTICS •
In another column of ^he Scholastic, the seniors who are majoring in philosophy have made known the formation of a new campus club, called the Neo-Scholastics and dedicated to the investigation, and discussion of modern philosophical problems.
Aside from the fact that the organization will be particularly important in furnishing a time and a place for conversation on philosophy between men interested in that subject, it has another significance. It makes one additional link in the chain of Notre Dame clubs whose objects are not only to bring the men who have mutual interests together, but also to assist them to attain a greater proficiency in thinking and in working. Among the organizations are the Scribblers, for the writers; the Wranglers, for debaters; the Academy of Science; the Press Club, for journalists; the Engineering Club; the Law Club; La Cercle Francaise; the German Club; the Spanish Club and others.
Probably the most important function of the clubs mentioned is their capability for bringing men with common interests together. They offer the possibility of intelligent conversation that breaks away from the old, thin-soled topics of football, the Indiana weather, meals in the Dining Halls, the merits of the various rectors, and professorial peculiarities.
And the campus needs an opportunity for better conversation. The topics listed can be discussed by almost anyone on the campus, we believe, and the naturally consequent thing to do when you meet a student is to open conversation by such inane but entirely harmless remarks as: “Howja like that meal?” or “How does Father Blank treat you over in Hoosit?” or “Looks like a good team this year.” As introductory remarks, these are not really bad, but when the conversation rambles on and on forever about meals, Father Blank, and the football team, the amount of mental stimulation produced would not strain the intellect of a child.
Unfortunately, you cannot know a man’s interests by looking at his face except in rare instances. You are forced to strike up the antique chorus with him because neither you nor he has even a vague idea of the other’s interests. If you meet him at a club meeting, however, both you and he can be certain of at least one intellectual pursuit in common. Consequently, the campus, or at least that part of it which cares for such things as conversation above the grammar • school level, should be glad that men with intelligence have organized another club for discussion and exchange of ideas. —j.a.m.
--------£,------
VILLAGERS’ DONATION PRAISEWORTHY
The action of the Notre Dame Villagers Club in presenting a handsome silver loving cup as a trophy to be striven for by South Bend and Mishawaka basketball teams is to be commended.
The prize is donated with the express purpose of stimulating wholesome rivalry and clean sportsmanship between cage representatives of both institutions, and will be exchanged or retained indefinitely according to the winner of each contest played between the two friendly rivals. Enclosed within the cup is a parchment on which the name of the victor and the score of each respective game is to be inscribed.
Aside from the direct service of arousing further constructive rivalry between the two high school athletic groups which are known and respected the length’and breadth of the entire Hoosier State, there is an indirect end which to our minds, is of even greater importance; namely, that this contribution will serve as one more link to rivet together with bonds of the strongest friendship, South Bend and Mishawaka, the cities, to Notre Dame, the school.
Such a praiseworthy accomplishment cannot but help to reflect favorably and upon the organization which made possible this , thoughtful trophy.-	—J.V.H.
530
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

HOBNAILS
THE PROM SONG? AND HOW!
Dear Al: Written while waiting for a booth at Elbel’s.
CAFETERIA BABY
I’m not afraid of your bacteria Scarlet fever or diphtheria— Your'e just my cafeteria
Baby now
And hozu!
Not afraid of tonsilitis
Whooping cough or meningitis
And if the germs should ever bite us
We’ll say	■
(Hey—hey)
. CHORUS
Though Doctors sneer and snort at kissing, ' They might as well stop all their hissing;
We take ours, and we ain’t missing
That’s true
And you—
You’ll never know hoiv really dear’ya
Are to me,—I’ll never fear’ya, You’re just my cafeteria Ba-a-aby no-o-ow!
•	—DIEGO AND PIERRE.
TO A FREE VERSE POET, DYING SUDDENLY
Angels do not scratch their ears in heaven. . neither do manicurists chew tobacco because it
below the college level
lavender
gaboons mulatto
. besides there are ochre .... a streak
a fish snickers, scaring the bait . . . .
sin is a lovely thing if executed with the correct technique .... the sky, a soiled polka-dot tie ... . her face is like a map, it has so many colors . . . . angels do not’ scratch their ears in heaven.
—PRAGMATIST TO MARGE
Oh! the joy of it all! In a hospital bed, When you’re1 not very sick An’ you’re purty well fed; An’ a nurse they call “Marge” Comes around with a smile That’s got any medisin Beat by a mile!
I An’ whadda I care if - Gray clouds float all day, Just so “Marge" comes around— Makes me happy and gay. But my eyes dim to think I’ll be leaving some day An’ “Marge" will fergit As the goes .on her way,
.	—THE GUMLESS-TYPIST
MY VALENTINE
’Twas springtime, and the earth was young, ’Twas dawn, and day tjust gayly sprung, When first you were my Valentine.
In youth, when all the world was gay, And noiv, when all the skies are grey, You’re still my Valentine.

J
At dawning, and at sunset, too,
My heart's still yours, I still love you;
You’re still my Valentine.
is no of
In age, when outward charm is gone, And when our lives are nearly done,
You still shall be my Valentine.
—WAZMUS.
THE SPIRIT OF THE FIGHTING IRISH
Wanted: A first-class ghost-layer who will guarantee his work. Apply Lyons Hall.
It is reported that a ghost of a Brownsonite who went down with the “Maine” has been haunting the steam pipes leading to Lyons Hall. When interviewed he insisted that he had nothing for publication, but rumor has it that he is incensed because his memorial was disrupted to make way for the new steam pipes and was never replaced.
—FINN MAC COOL VII.
REFUGE
There’s nothing so peaceful as dreamland,
When earth seems so drear everywhere, So wander, in dreams, off to seem-land,
Forgetting, in slumber, each care.
For soon, friend, your ship will be starting, Dream-bubbles will break with the dawn, And after a moment’s departing,
You’ll zuake zip to find dreamland gone.
—A. LASSIE IN BALTIMORE.
¥
ALL CONTRIBS EXCEPT
BALTIMORE LASSIE
Dear Allan: Will you follow Emporia’s style and publish a list of your eligible bachelors? I’m looking fox’ a Valentine.
—S. s. and g. vampire.
Of course, this should have been done before, but what with exams and registration and ground-hog day and this Prom fracas—you can’t blame us for almost missing the amorous possibilities of a Valentine day in leap-year. Oh, that opportunity, alias Vampire, knocked in time. Anyhow,
Remember, leap-year Valentine,
When hunting for a male,
The best of things in life are free,

3
'i
And so is
—ALLAN-A-DALE.
ir
531
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4
---LITERARY —- j
So That’s It
The Glorification of an Inferiority Complex
KARL MARTERSTECK
IT was raining. Tauntingly the wind hurled the drops against the window in front of which a youth was trying to concentrate on Comparative Anatomy. Several times he caught himself far away in spirit; he was apparently interested in watching his pencil rebound from the desk as he struck it. He arose from the chair, and went over 'to the mirror hanging on the wall. After surveying himself from every possible angle, his face reflected the disgust with which his mind was filled. If he only weren’t so odd looking. Individually his features weren’t so bad, but taken collectively they gave the appearance of a home-made ’ automobile—the parts just weren’t made Tor one another. His hair was black and soft, but it didn’t come down to meet his forehead, which was rather broad. His eyes were blue, but huge and out of shape as seen through the heavy lenses of his horn-shell glasses. His nose was long and shapely; at least it made a good support for his goggles—so he was often reminded.
He interrupted his examination here to ransack his paper's and books in search of a postcard. By holding it up to his face at an angle and peering over the top he could disconnect the lower half of his face from the upper part. This gave him a little satisfaction; for his mouth was undoubtedly well-formed. He could make it appear soft and sorrowful or happy and gay. Why, he could actually make it hard and vicious—but he didn’t do that very often because it rather frightened him.
A knock on the door caused him to drop the card and turn confusedly to face a well-built, good-looking young man, wearing a j naming red sweater emblazoned with a golden “D”.
“Hi, Jinks,” was the greeting.	' 1
, “Oh, hello—Draymore.”
“Just passing by and thought I’d drop in. What are you boning?”
“Why—a—Comparative Anatomy. Mayer’s giving us a quiz to-morrow.”
“Say, by the way, are you using your topcoat over the week-end? Mine’s a bit ragged at the cuffs, and I’m taking in the Farnworth Senior Ball. You wouldn’t mind letting me^ have it, would you? I’ll let you have mine.” 5
“Why—er,” Jinks stumbled.
“Oh, I’ll take good care of it.”
“Well—um,” Jinks swallowed hard, “Yes, I guess you might as well take it.”
“Thanks, old man. I’ll take it now if you don’t mind.”
Jinks went over to the closet, and talcing out a neatly pressed coat, conservative in -style, handed it to Draymore.
“Sure much obliged to you. Hope you turn in another E bn the quiz in the morning. So long.”
The door slammed, and as the jauntily whistled tune died down Jinks flopped into the chair. Tears were in his eyes. Why the devil hadn’t he nerve enough to tell Dray- , more that he himself had been invited to the Ball. He looked despondently at the postcard lying on the Comparative Anatomy and then to her picture hanging on the wall. Slowly he closed the book, and with a shake of his head began to make ready for bed.
Sixteen college men can make a lot of ' racket, but put them together in a Pullman coach approaching Hillsdale, w'here Farnworth College foi’ young women is situated, and the result is almost more than normal ears can stand. Jinks was having a terrible
532
/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
time of it. He could hardly hold himself together in the bedlam. He was dncased in a well worn, strikingly hued top-coat of the loose fitting English type. A black felt hat and a bright tan suitcase completed his outfit.
The train jerked to a stop just as one particularly red-faced individual shouted, “Let’s go to town, boys.” Jinks, pulled in one direction and shoved in another, barely touched the steps and lit on the ground with a thud. Before he could collect his thoughts Marge was before him.
“Oh, hello, Jerry (His real name was Jeremiah). I’m certainly glad to see that you arrived all right.”
“Yes,” Jinks managed to gasp, “How are you? You’re looking mighty fine.”
“I’m just too excited to exist, Jerry. Here, give your grip to Sue there. You’re staying at the Congress, aren’t you?”
Jinks nodded as a slim young person came up and took his bag, thereby adding to his discomfiture. He couldn’t but note the huge pin on her breast which stated “No Tips Allowed—But Give For the F. C. Building Fund.” Seeing his bewilderment Marge hastened to explain, “Oh, Jerry, it’s the grandest thing. You know this is Building Fund Week, and the Freshmen were all up in the air as to how to get their quota because the upper classes, of course, had first choice of the methods. One bright youngster hit on the plan of playing porter—this being Ball Week also.”
Jinks began to worry. How much, he wondered, did they expect him to give. With relief he remembered the fifty-cent piece he had as change from his ticket.
“Jerry, tell me all about the football team. We’re all so interested. Did any of the players come down?”
“I think Draymore is the only one.”
“Isn’t he the awfully good-looking one? Do you know him? Do you suppose you could introduce me?”
“Yes, I know him, and—why I guess he’d be glad enough to meet you”
“Now, Jerry, don’t kid me.”
“No, honest to goodness I’m not,” and he looked at her so longingly that he did not see
the crack in the sidewalk that almost caused ] his downfall.	5
“Oh, there’s Hazel with Joe Ballard. Let’s ] wait for them,” she cried. Jinks mumbled I assent, hoping that Joe wouldn’t be taking	|
Hazel out to school, as Joe had a way of mak-	I
ing him appear very much out of place.
“Hello, Hazel and Joe; going out our | way ?”	-
“Hi there. You bet we’ll be right with i you.”	'
And so Jinks took his accustomed place in ' the background trying to figure out why she < had asked him, of all people, to the Ball.	>
On the way out to school they passed the	j
hotel and there waiting for him was the ; slim little portress. “Your grip’s at the desk, sir,” she said, looking expectant. Jinks put his hand in his pocket for the half dollar. His heart stopped.—It wasn’t there. Hastily, yet trying not to appear so, he looked in the other pockets, but there was no fifty-cent piece. Perspiration stood out on his forehead. He reached for his billfold, and with shaking fingers took out one of the two bills —a five spot.	.
“Oh, thank you so much,” gushed the sweet young thing, and was off in a minute, leaving Jinks not so very sure of himself.
Dim, vari-coldred lights blinked coyly at Jinks as he sat facing the crowd of young men and women carried on by the rhythmic throb of the latest dance music. He was unconscious of the girl chattering beside him. His eyes were following her as she floated by in Bob Draymore’s arms. The dance over, he arose to meet them. His spirits drooped as he noted how interested they seemed to be in each other. Finally she shook her head as a negative reply to Bob’s question and turned to Jerry with a sigh. “I surely enjoyed that last dance, Jerry; I’m quite tired, though, now. Let’s stroll out on the porch.”
They found an empty swing, and for a few minutes neither spoke. At last, after some effort Jinks opened his lips. “Margie, just what doi you think of me? Why did you ask me here to-night? Don’t you think I’m a goof?” he blurted out.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Why, Jerry, don’t be absurd. You know I like you loads. That’s why I asked you. You didn’t feel hurt, did you, because I danced four dances with Bob? You know he is a wonderful dancer.”
“No, but—”
“But what?”
“Oh, golly,—you’d probably think me crazy if I asked you.”
“Now, Jerry, don’t be silly.”
“Well, do you like me well enough to wear my senior pin? We’ll get them next week.”
“Oh Jerry—would I? And,” she added as she moved a little closer. "I just refused Bob’s. That’s what he asked me at the end of the last dance.”
With a sigh and a groan Jinks rolled over and opened his eyes. He looked at the clock. Holy smokes! Ten minutes to eight! And he had that quiz at eight. Oh boy—and then it came to him in a flash. His face fell; his shoulders dropped. Oh well, perhaps someday—.	,
How To FKrite A Good Short Story
An Easy Road to Fame and Chicken-Farms
N. LOTI
THE easiest thing about short story writing is getting rejection slips. Since this is a separate and distinct phase of the short story art, I shall not take it up in this paper but will rather confine my efforts to the difficulties involved in the production of a good short story.
Everyone has, in the back of his head or at the bottom of a trunk, the essentials or debris of a good short story that can, with the right amount of training and encouragement, be turned into something quite profitable. My story “Ivory’s Float to Fame,” somewhat responsible for my clean reputation, brought me immediate success and financial independence. This great story had been lying dead and almost buried in the back of my head until one day I happened upon an advertisement which read: “Boy, 13, receives $5,000 for short story. Why not let us help you do the same? Send no money but clip the coupon and we will send you for your inspection our brief course on short story writing. We guarantee that we’ll start you on the road to fame and fortune. Home Correspondence School, Box 4,379,200, Pun-keville, Ohio. Well, this set me thinking and since it didn’t cost me anything to clip the coupon and think, I did both. I had it all figured out. I was three times as old as the youngster who received $5000, which
meant that with my first story I was going to get three times the youth’s amount; just enough to enable me to buy that little chicken farm I have had my eye on for so long. (I have always loved chickens and heifers.)
In a few days my- brief help to fame and fortune came crated in two small boxes about the size of a moving-van. I finally managed, with the aid of twenty men and an efficient gang foreman to remove the contents, some 4000 booths, into my library where they occupied all the available space. Only with the aid of a compass and blueprints was I able to find my way to and from the room.
Reading nine books a day I managed to graduate in five years, receiving a handsome hand-engraved diploma which cost me only $400 including the frame. Then I wrote my story, sent it in, and received a check by return mail with which I immediately purchased my farm and retired, a famous author and prominent farmer.
I owe my success to this wonderful course which for your special benefit I will attempt to boil down from four thousand books to four paragraphs. I am excluding the first two hundred volumes because they related solely to the number of successful men who graduated from the course, and listed the large sums received for first stories.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
534
A story'may easily be written if beforehand you provide yourself with the four essentials of a good tale. In fact no story can get along without them. I refer to the plot, a heroine, a hero, and the villain. Smash , . these elements together and the result is bound to be a story—of some nature. To / avoid confusion I shall deal, with each one of these important factors individually and try to show you how important they really are.
The Plot
Every story should when possible contain a plot. This element is at times elusive and difficult to snare, and unless you are equipped with experience and other things you’ll never get one. In our present day these plots are of a very docile nature but when they roamed the fertile plains of the good old Biblical days they were quite savage and . ferocious. Later these vast herds of plots began to hibernate in the wilds of Boccaccio . whence, in their restlessness, they whisked their tails toward Canterbury. Today they run rampant all over the world, existing on the meagre brains of authors and poets , which fact accounts for their peculiarities and eccentricities.
When you have successfully captured a plot, sit on it or tie it down until you can locate the other three essentials. •
The Heroine
She should be a lovely creature who will immediately win the admiration of your readers. Long eyelashes, nut-brown hair free from dandruff, a row of pearly teeth showing between her red cupid-bow lips, and a winning smile, are all that she ' need possess.
At least once in the story, she should be tied by the villain to a log on its way to a whirring band-saw. To-day this good old contrivance has passed into disuse- and instead we find her inartistically planted on a lighted keg of powder waiting for the end. I personally prefer the older school for its greater suspense and dramatic quality. I think it very masterly on the part of the author to have his hero break his shackles some thousand miles away and arrive just in time to save his sweetheart from being
divided into two equal parts. This method is quite artistic and should be employed whenever possible.
Never under any circumstances allow your heroine to faint even when she is probably bleeding to death or on the verge of throwing a fit. She should instead be permitted to grit her teeth and clench her fists and coyly declare, “Damn it, I won’t faint.” Of course, if her vocabularly contains a larger variety of expletives, a few more of them may be added, thereby enhancing the effect. It is remarkable how this simple procedure will enable her to retain her “savoir faire.” And any heroine who can stick her arm in a crocodile’s jaw, daring him to bite, instead of fainting at the sight of him, always commands a reader’s respect.
It goes without saying that the heroine should be pretty, but this beauty should be of the stable type, the kind that penetrates the epidermis. The hero, who is always a keen philosopher and possessor of a powerful intellect, will not even waste his breath to save a mere painted doll. He wants someone with substance, someone with depth, in fact he wants someone with whom he can, after a first-class rescue, play a game of chess or solve that brainwracking experiment of ping-pong. That’s the kind of stuff heroines should be made of.
The Hero
The hero is always the one who gets the heroine out of a pickle and is directly responsible for the immediate demise of the villain. He is always handsome and virile with muscles like bands of pig-iron. He must have at some time in his adventurous career, saved the old homestead by paying off, at the last minute, the much dreaded mortgage. It is better for him to be single. Married men make poor heroes. Quite often they have found it difficult to suppress a yawn when the girl was in imminent danger of her life. Keep the hero single.	.
Even though the hero should be invu -nerable you must always, for the sake o, naturalness, endow him with an Achilles
DAME SCHOLASTIC
' ’J '	“ v .
THE NOTRE heel—a weakness of some description common to all men. Perhaps your hero becomes easily angered. This is his weakness and is best portrayed by throwing him into a violent rage, using such vicious expletives as “Oh, darn!” “Heavens!” and “Mercy Me!” You can always count on the readers to excuse such profanity ' because they realize how difficult it is for one to control one’s language under the trying circumstances of a hero’s life. Another effective weakness might he his mania for homely girls. There are many others too numerous to mention, but never forget to have him inherit a number of them.
In order to explain how your hero appeared, after tearing a lion to pieces, unflushed, unperturbed and unruffed, you must provide him with a secret pocket containing his cosmetics and a razor. Before approaching the girl who is tied to a post in the lion’s den, he should shave and carefully powder himself. Then with a magnanimous flourish he should, after delivering her from the post to which she has been tied, be made to declare, “There, little, girl-.” The subsequent action is here left to the ingenuity and imagination of the author.
The Villain
Last comes the villain who is easily distinguishable by his peculiar sense of humor. This usually manifests itself when the girl is about to be cut in half or a poor starving family ejected from their home in
to a raging snowstorm. Everyone knows they will perish but the villain just laughs, and chuckles, and laughs. He does this alternately. Always invest your villain with this peculiar sense of humor and the readers will naturally hate him for not letting them in on the joke.
The villain is not the type of person who is easily discouraged. I could never understand fully why he is always so persistent in stealing the heroine and trying to murder her. He simply has no regard for women at all. But the course stressed this point heavily: that the more pretty girls he tries to murder to furnish an outlet for his humor, the better a villain he is.
But in the end the villain is paid back evil deed for evil deed, and very often a few more thrown in for good measure. He either expires, laying all the blame for his villainy upon his drunken father who brought him up on liquor and bombs, or he is gracefully hammered to a pulp by the elephant whom he has been trying to induce to perform his dirty work upon the heroine or hero as the case may be. But animals have a fair sense of justice and have no more love for the villain than has "a human being; so they just feign obedience and at the crucial moment doublecross him, much to our satisfaction and that of the characters concerned.
After everyone in the story gets what is coming to him, come to a close. The best way to do this is to write the word “Finis” after the last sentence, which means “the end.”
Incident
Into the silence of a broken house
You bring your laughter, and your merry singing Startles the shadows, reprimands a mouse, Breaks the long circle of a bat’s dark winging.
You leave; from your remote and ivory tower Floats the low voice of some beloved one calling, And at the house I hear, within the hour The crash of yet another timber falling.
—JASPER BRENT.
536
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

SPORT NEWS

Notre Dame Masters Wisconsin In Brilliant Victory; Score, 21-14 j
Badger’s Offensive1 Stopped	j
Staging a remarkable comeback following their defeat at Lansing the previous Friday, and without the services of John Colerick, regular center and a mainstay of the team, the Notre Dame bas-keteers handily vanquished Coach Meanwell’s Wisconsin cage crew ,	. at the Badger lair
i in Madison last
- '.SJ.S_____:. WUa i Tuesday evening JOSEPH G. jachym by a 21-14 score. ,____________Exceptionally
close guarding by both quints featured the entire battle. The Keoganites, especially, functioned brilliantly in this department of the game as the Cardinals, one of the Big Ten’s best, were held at a safe distance from the baskets for the greater portion of the evening’s activities. In fact, so sparkling was this Notre Dame defense that the Badgers were held to a single pair of field-goals during the entire forty minutes of play—a performance against a Wisconsin cage combination which is accomplished but once in many moons.
The Gold and Blue stai’ted strongly, weakened slightly soon after the second half had . started, and finished with a burst of speed which more than assured them of their splendid victory.
It was a determined Notre Dame quint which took the floor at the start of the hard-■ wood hostilities. Scarcely had play commenced when Crowe inaugurated the scoring by sinking a pretty two-pointer from near the foul stripe. Smith came through a moment later with a tally of like proportions, and the Keoganites had assumed a slight
lead which they never relinquished there-	*
after.	'
Two beautiful field-goals by Captain	;
Jachym, and another by Crowe, coupled with	‘
b. quartet of successfully negotiated heaves	'
from the fifteen foot mark, gave the Badger visitors fourteen points at the conclusion of the first twenty minutes of play, meanwhile limiting their hosts to a bare quintet of tallies. Incidentally, a remarkable feature of this first half performance was the fact that so impregnable was the Gold and Blue de- ; fensive proclivities that not once could a Cardinal player break through for a two-pointer. Wisconsin secured every marker in : this initial period via the foul line.
Dr. Meanwell’s proteges came back strong after the intermission, but it was not until five minutes, of spirited play had elapsed that Miller of the Madison aggregation, tossed the first Wisconsin basket. Foster’s tally by the same route a few minutes later brought the Badgers still closer’ to their fast- ; travelling guests and seemed to infuse new life into their flagging spirits. Play became fast and furious at this point and in spite of numerous attempted basket sallies by the Keoganites, which were checked by the vigorous efforts of the reawakened Wisconsin team, the Cardinals drew up to within three points of Notre Dame with less than six minutes of play remaining.
The Gold and Blue performers having tasted victory would not be checked at this late ; stage of battle however, and promptly squelched the Badger bid for victory when McCarthy, sub forward, entered the embrog-lio and fortwith threw two field-goals to reestablish a comfortable lead for his mates and to bring gloom to the Wisconsin camp-The Cardinals perished bravely and performed valiantly but fruitlessly to the very .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
- The badgers flashed a commendable brand of basketball throughout, but their efforts, strenuous as they were, could not match the inspired and spirited play of a Notre Dame five which was out to inaugurate a brand-new winning record.
Frank Crowe with a pair of field-goals and four successful donations from the charity strip carried off high scoring honors for the evening. His all-around floor play was deserving of note too. Captain Jachym, Donovan, Smith, and the rest of the Keoganites also displayed dependable and consistent basketball. Bob Hamilton, who took Colerick’s place at the tap-off position, while held scoreless from the floor, was nevertheless also an integral part of the Notre Dame play. Miller, Foster and Andrews led the Wisconsin team.
NOTRE DAME (21)	WISCONSIN (14)
B. F. P.	B. F. P.
Crowe, rf_______2	4	1	Behr, rf__________0	1	0
McCarthy, rf —2	0	1	Ellerman, rf.____0	0	0
Jachym, If______2	1	4	Tenhopen, rf______0	0	0
Newbold, If_____0	1	1	Andrews, If_______0	3	3
Hamilton, c.___0	0	2	Foster, c_________1	2	1
Donovan, rg____0	0	4	Miller, rg________1	1	3
Bray, rg________0	0	1	Nelson, 1g._______0	3	1
Smith, 1g ------1	1	0	Doyle, 1g.________0	0	1
FRED MILLER ELECTED 1928 FOOTBALL CAPTAIN AT ANNUAL BANQUET
Fred Miller, first-string varsity tackle for the past two campaigns, and a junior in the college of Commerce at the University, was chosen to lead the 1928 edition of the Rockmen by the 1927 monogram men at the annual football banquet tendered to the team by the school, Wednesday evening, Feb. 1. The banquet was held in the East Dining Hall of the University and was attended by approximately 250 persons—coaches, faculty members, invited guests, and players. Coach Knute K. Rockne was toastmaster. z
Short speeches were made by Coach Rockne, assistant-coaches Anderson and Mills, Father Hugh O’Donnell, Tom Lieb, Aiderman George Maypole of Chicago, Tom Heinz, Cap Edwards, Tim Galvin, Freshman coaches McManmon and Wallace; Boland Burke and August Grams, managers; Captain Smith, and the members of last season’s eleven who will graduate this year. Praises were sounded, felicitations exchanged, anec
dotes related, and the banquet was run off as smoothly and as enjoyable as possible.
In his opening address Coach Rockne.said: “We had a mighty good season from any angle. . . . The team as a whole left nothing to be desired.” Again he declared, “There are two things in my mind that this team will always stand for: first, they never tried to hide from themselves but always faced the facts; secondly, their integrity. Outside of these things they were similar to other Notre Dame teams of past years.” Concerning the freshmen, Coach Rockne said that they were an average looking lot, pretty good on the -defensive, and not so good on the offensive.
Mr. Rockne thanked the loyal alumni' and supporters who were behind the team the whole season. The press also came in for words of appreciation from the master coach of modern football.
Concluding his remarks, Mr. Rockne stressed eligibility and said, “It takes just as much guts to hit the books as it does to play football.”
Interesting talks were also given by the other speakers.
GAGERS SPLIT WITH MICH. STATE, WIN FIRST, 29-25; DROP SECOND, 26-16
Basketball history was made, the nerves of 2000 or so frenzied spectators were shattered, and an unsullied gymnasium record was kept intact Saturday evening, January 28th, when a courageous Notre Dame cage crew, thrice '	,	within seconds
of defeat, rose . to insurmount-
’	abel heights
each time to ■ eventually ;	, score a hard-
earned 29-25 ' triumph over a i powerful Michi-
JOHN T. colerick	State five.
The contest which was easily the most thrilling and the closest basketball battle ever waged within the confines of the new Notre Dame gymnasium, was so desperately-fought and so
Mi"- - .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
588
‘“i
•1
brilliantly played, that it took the Keoganites no less than three overtime periods to subdue their scrappy visitors from Lansing—a job of no small proportions indeed.
Apparently beaten in the last minute of the regulation forty minute playing time and in each of the first two extra sessions, the Notre Dame eagers never relinquished their efforts for one second, and roused to the height of their fighting spirit, fought grimly in tenaciously matching their opponents point for point to convert what was three times expected to be a heart-breaking loss into one of the most brilliant basketball victories ever recorded in Notre Dame athletic annals.
No. inkling as to the nerve-wracking and thrilling play that was to follow was given to the fans during the entire first half which was slow and uninteresting, save that the intermission found the Gold and Blue in front 12-9. zWith the advent of the second half however, the - entire complex of the game was changed. What seemed a listless, slowly-played game before, now resolved itself into one concerted rising crescendo of thrills, suspense, noise and pandemonium in general as both quints swept up and down the floor in brilliant point sorties on opposing baskets. State soon tied the count and ‘then began the point for point game with no team out in front for more than a minute at a time.
With thirty seconds left to play, and the Green' and White holding a slim 19-17 lead over their hosts, Frankie Crowe took charge of matters and sank a beautiful two-pointer. at a difficult angle from side court to bring joy to Notre Dame heai’ts to prolong the festivities with an extra session.
Den Herder’s pot shot from near the foul line early in the first five minutes gave State a lead which seemed to be a winning one as the shot after shot by the Keoganites simple refused to find the hooks for a score; but with barely a minute to play again, Donovan thought it was time to revive the waning Notre Dame hopes of victory. He did so in a very satisfactory fashion by throwing a pretty field-goal which cut the net without touching the rims.
Two-pointers by Den. Herder and Groves more than matched Smith’s heave in the next
added five-minutes and if things had looked dark for Notre Dame before they looked positively forboding now as Michigan State enjoyed a one basket lead with approximately twenty'-five seconds left. Not wishing to see his former labors and the gallant efforts of his mates go to waste again, once more Donovan assumed the hero role temporarily by in; tercepting a State pass and dribbling into the basket for another pair of deadlocking points ten seconds before the gun went off.
This last tally seemed to infuse a fourth or fifth wind into Coach Keogan’s hopefuls as they made the third extra Reriod the last by subjugating their visitors in very approved fashion. Donovan kept up his valiant work by tossing his third field-goal soon after the session opened and Frank Crowe practically cinched the long drawn-out excitement with another point collector of like proportions shortly after Michigan State fought courageously to stave off defeat but Notre Dame would not be denied.
The entire Notre Dame team gave the best' exhibition of basketball that they were capable of, while Den Herder, Felt, and Schau were the main individuals who kept State in the running.

s
i
j
5
■
MICHIGAN STATE 26; NOTRE DAME 16
A basketball subjugation of six years standing of Notre Dame cage teams over Michigan State hardwood representatives was broken last Friday evening in Lansing when the Green and White players had the honor of being the second quint this season to prove themselves master of Coach Keogan’s proteges. The score was 26-16, and in spite of the ten points which separated the friendly rivals at the conclusion of the battle, the engagement was exceptionally fought and closely contested throughout.
Playing before the largest crowd which has ever packed their gym at Lansing and determined to avenge themselves for the long array of previous defeats at the hands of Notre Dame, especially the three overtime period setback suffered the previous Saturday, State was victory bent in earnest and played accordingly.


j



DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE
The Keoganites died hard in a valiant but unsuccessful endeavor to repeat their previous triumph over the same outfit. The wearers of the Gold and Blue fought just as hard as did-their hosts, but inability to solve a powerful five-man defense which State consistently exhibited at critical moments, and maintain a sustained basket barrage on the iron-hoops, proved their ultimate undoing.
The Gold and Blue jumped into an early lead, but the Lansingites led by Den Herder and Felt, perhaps the mainsprings of the State machine, overcame this slight margin and in spite of vigorous Notre Dame opposition were on the long end of a 12-7 score at the half.
The Keoganites took the floor at the beginning of the second half a rejuvinated team. Baskets by Crowe, Donovan, and Colerick, coupled, with a pair of successful charity heaves, enabled Notre Dame to go into a deadlock with State. The Blue and Gold was dealt a severe blow at this juncture however, when John Colerick, brilliant center, was forced from the game because of a broken wrist.
With the score standing at 15 all, it appeared for a while that the attraction would resolve itself into essentially the same thrill-replete action which characterized the previous encounter between the two fives, but after Colerick’s unfortunate injury Notre Dame seemed to have shot its bolt, as they added but one more point during the remainder of the battle, while theii' hosts were adding eleven to insure victory.
Frank Crowe was high-point man for the Keoganites with a pair of field-goals and a one-pointer to his credit, and together with Donovan, Jachym and the rest of his mates carried the fight to theii’ hosts the whole route. Colerick also played a bang-up game until incapacitated by his injury.	.
Den Herder, Felt, and Schau led the successful State play. Den Herder, in addition showed the way to both quints in scoring, collecting a total of ten points via a pair of two-pointers and six converted freb throws.
It was a heart-breaking contest for Notre Dame to lose, but Michigan State clearly deserved their well-earned triumph.
539
HOOSIER A. C. BEST NATATORS IN OPENER; SCORE 41-28
With the two remaining veterans of last year’s championship squad showing the way to the rest of their game but inexperienced mates, the 1928 edition of the Notre Dame swimming team put up a splendid fight against the -powerful Hoosier A. C. last Saturday evening at the Engman Natatorium in South Bend, before the experience of their guests forced them to accept the short end of a) 41-48 score.	,
Led by Captain Brennan and Bill Cronin, the two vets, who captured the only two first places garnered by Notre Dame during the meet, the Gold and Blue natators fought gallantly in each event against competitors who are renowned in this section of the country for their aquatic prowess. Brennan captured the fancy dive over a classy field and Cronin splashed his way to victory in the hundred yard free style in the remarkably good time of 1:01 1-5. Sullivan, Beaume, Campau, Schumate, Dignan and the rest of the Notre Dame human fish also showed up exceptionally well considering the fact that it was the first real competition for some of them, and against top-notch competition.
In spite of the loss, a ray of encouragement was seen in the praiseworthy performances of the new material under fire, and with a little more experience and seasoning the Gold and Blue swimmers will be able to at least hold their own against perhaps some of the stiffest competition any Notre Dame swimming schedule has yet presented.
The team left last night for Urbana where Illinois will be met tonight in the first inter- • collegiate nautatic match of the season. The Illini, led by Heinie Groh one of the premier fancy divers in the country and a lively looking choice for the Olympics, are materially noted for the caliber of their aquatic combinations; so it seems as if Captain Brennan and his men will meet the stiffest possible competition at the very outset. Armour Tech will be met in Chicago the following night ■ and all indications point to another closely
contested meet.	J.H.Z.
540
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

INTERHALL LIGHTWEIGHT LEAGUE
As the Scholastic was not published last week we will give here a brief resume of the games. The scores for Sunday, January 29.
CORBY, 21—HOWARD, 10
Corby triumphed over Howard in a very rough.game due to their greater size and ■ weight. The game was marred throughout by inefficient refereeing.*
SOPHOMORE, 19—BROWNSON, 9
Led by .Gilbertson, the fast quintet from Sophomore completely outclassed Brownson to earn as clean-cut a decision as the score indicates.
WALSH, 16—BADIN, 14
Walsh emerged victor from this nip and tuck battle by virtue of a basket sunk in the last few moments of play.
FRESHMAN, 23—MORRISSEY CUBS, 20
The passing attack of the yearlings proved superior to the individual work of the Cubs and brought them victory in the hardest fought game of the day.
OFF CAMPUS, 31—MORRISSEY BEARS, 22 . What the Day Dogs lacked in teamwork was made up by the individual brilliance of Walsh who scored sixteen points and led his team to an easy victory.
LYONS, 2—CARROLL, 0
This game was forfeited to Lyons when Carroll failed to put in an appearance.
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 5
Due to varsity practice only one game of the scheduled six was played, the rest to be run off during the week. The scores of the postponed games will appear in next week’s Scholastic.
CORBY, 25—WALSH, 6
In a game too one-sided to be interesting the beautiful passing attack of the He Men showed to greater advantage. Pormegiani, whose nine points alone would have given Corby the decision, was the individual star.
SUMMARY OF THE HOOSIER MEET
160 yard relay, tie. N. D.: Sullivan, Digan, Brennan and Cronin; Hoosier A. C.: Howard, Schneider, Stracls and Churchman. Time, 1:23.
200 yard breast stroke, won by Baur, H. A. C.; Reaume, N. D., second; Jewett, N. D„ third. Time, 2:52.
40 yard free style, won by Howard, H. A. C.;
Shaffer, H. A. C., second; Sullivan, N. D., third Time, 5:45 4-5.	•	' *	’
150 yard back stroke, won by Pahur, H. A. C • Campau, N. D., second; Mathewson, H. A. C., third' Time, 2:04 2-5.	’	’
100 yard, free style, won by Cronin, N. D.‘-Strack, H. A. C., second; Churchman, H. A. C.' third. Time, 1:011-5.	’
Fancy diving, won by Brennan, N. D.; Hudson H. A. C., second; Gore, N. D., third.	’
300 yard medley relay, won by H. A. C.—Mathewson, Baur, Churchman. Time, 3:351-5.
The schedule:
February 4, Hoosier A. C., at South Bend. February 10, University of Illinois, at Urbana. February 11, Armour Tech, at Chicago. February 18, University of Pittsburgh, at South Bend. February 23, St. Paul Y. M. C. A., at St. Paul. February 24, University of Minnesota, at Minneapolis.
March 3, Armour Tech, at South Bend. March 10, Michigan State, at Lansing. March 17, Indiana University, at South Bend. March 23, Elks Club, at Milwaukee. March 24, University of Wisconsin, at Madison. March 31, De Pauw University, at South
"•i
Bend.
—J.H.Z.
TRACKMEN FACE STRENUOUS WEEK-END
After more than a week of exhaustive training and minute conditioning and with a minor meet against the frosh cinder artists thrown in last Saturday for experience, the Gold and Blue I trackmen travel to Chicago 3 this evening to the Illinois Athletic Club’s tournament, and tomorrow meet the Marquette aggregation in their second dual meet of the season. Only six men have been
chosen to represent Notre Dame in this evening’s performance in Chicago. They are: Captain Griffin, Elder, Abbott, Schleickert, Kelly and Ladner. Griffin has been selected to carry the colors in the hurdles, Elder in the dashes, and the remaining four men are to make an attempt to capture the honors in the two-mile relay. These men are the pick of the track squad, and although the competition will be of a similar quality, much is
expected of their* endeavors.
Elder, in addition to tying the world’s record for the sixty yard dash two weeks ago in 'the Northwestei’n meet, has been stagings most equally brilliant performances in 1S
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
daily workouts. 'Of the veteran Griffin, little need be said. He has been going1 better this year than he did last year and that in itself verges on perfection. The relay quartet has b.een improving daily. Charlie Schleickert.has been coming up slowly but sure. Kelly and Abbott have both reached mid-season form.
Ladner took the half-mile in the frosh-varsity meet last Saturday with comparative ease. He has earned his distinction. So, if Doctor Peltzer does not decide to participate in all events as we were afraid Tiny Lewis was going to do two weeks ago, perhaps our boys will be able to bring home the bacon.	-
To-morrow, to add to the activities of the week-end, Notre Dame meets Marquette here. The Milwaukee track-sters, despite the loss of their feature runner and sensational star, Schimek, are reported to be strongly fortified with material and keenly ambitious to atone for previous track defeats in former years. Coach Nicholson has groomed his men for the visitors however, and a well-contested meet is looked for.
Sunday the interhall relay races take place. It is hoped that all track enthusiasts, especially the freshmen, will turn out for these events. It is Coach Nicholson’s sincerest wish to have all candidates display an active interest in, this for in a way it may develop a number of potential tracksters and also provide a more competent field of runners from which Mr. Nicholson may chose his next year’s team.—r p.d.
iWlllllllllllllllllB
M	Illi....
It’s a College Trained Pen!
More Stuaents Use It Than Any Other Kind—and if you paid double you couldn’t improve on it
Want a pen for lifelong use?—$7 buys it; $5, if you want a smaller size. Because of Parker’s Non-Breakable Permanite Barrels these pens have been thrown from airplanes 3,000 feet aloft without damage.
Want ease of writing?—Parker Duofold’s famous Pressureless Touch, due to a fine ink channel ground between the prongs of the point (bringing capillary attraction to the aid of gravity feed) is greatest writing improvement in years.	■
And Permanite, while Non-Breakable, makes Duofolds 28% lighter in weight than when made with rubber as formerly.
Why do most college students use it? —try it yourself and know.
5 flashing colors. 3 sizes for. men and women. Six graduated points—one to fit your hand exactly.
Look for imprint, “Geo. S. Parker” on each pen. Pencils, too, in colors to match pens. See a Parker dealer now.
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY, JANESVILLE, WISc
07 and 05 according to size
DuofoldQ)

The Permanent Pen
tUd ul Black Color Combination Bak. T~lo Mort U. S. Fat-OPaa
542
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Dr. Frank M. Powers
UNIVERSITY PHYSICIAN
OFFICE PHONE LINCOLN 1067
RESIDENCE PHONE LINCOLN 9553
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS
DENTISTRY
701-702 J. M. S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
' RESIDENCE LINCOLN 6741
OFFICE MAIN 1130
Finds Right Tobacco for the Tropics
October 6,1926 Laius & Bro. Co.
Richmond, Va., U. S. A.
Gentlemen:
Most all well-known tobaccos smoke well in a cold or temperate climate, but very few in a tropical climate. They are mostly too heavy, don’t seem to be blended right—at least that is my opinion gained from practical experience.
However, Edgeworth is the same in any climate. Again that is my opinion gained by practical experience.
I cannot get the same pleasure out of any brand of tobacco that I can out of Edgeworth, and I have tried many —and paid fancy prices, too. It costa real money to smoke imported tobaccos here; the import duty is very high.
Anyway, we cannot have everything we would like in these countries, so we hold on to all the little pleasures possible. Now you know why I smoke Edgeworth.
Yours respectfully, R. C. Rigg
Cartagena, Columbia, S. A.
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco

1

1
■1
3
DENTIST
OFFICE PHONE MAIN 0689
RESIDENCE PHONE MAIN 1162
SOTTH BEND, INDIANA
■o-
OFFICE MAIN 0887	RESIDENCE MAIN 3561
Dr. John A. Stoeckley
DENTAL SURGEON
511 J. M. S. Building, South Bend, Indiana
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
Extracting; Disease# and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws
X-RAYS
PATRONIZE SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS
612 J. M. S. Building