
Ill SCTI I DAME JCHCLAJTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867

THE STAFF
•	ROBERT RIORDAN
Editor-in-Chief
GENE DIAMOND	-	-	-	-	Navy Associate Editor
GEORGE DESPOT	-	-	-	-	- Managing Editor
James Regan ------ Sports Editor James F. McCarthy -	-	-	-	- Feature Editor
Al Kuenzli -	-	-	- Advertising Manager
Ralph Hayman -	-	-	- Circulation Manager
Bob O'Toole ------ Promotion
COLUMNISTS
Powers - Walters -	-
E. F. Gillespie -	-	-
Art Wagner -	-	-
Frank Guido -	-	-
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.
The Green Banner The College Parade - Swabbie's Log
- ^Photography
Faculty Adviser
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
Frank Grimaldi
John Defant
Gerard Hekker
Octave Emond
Tom Ryan John Thomas
Paul Weyrauch Louis Hafner Robert J. Shaw
Member of Catholic School Press 'Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Two	.
EDITORIAL
... And So We Leave
Another war-accelerated class receive their degrees from the University next week. Another class of seniors is graduating and leaving Notre Dame without an annual as a record of their life on campus, especially of their senior year.
Next week these men will slip swiftly, almost unnoticed, into the uniforms of our fighting forces and go out to find their places in the battle that rages now in the Pacific. Men of Notre Dame have served their nation well in all times whether they have gone out into a world of peace and tranquility, or a world at war. It will be so with this graduating class. Quietly their clothing will change from the informality of campus dress to the khaki of the military.	‘
Some Small Clue of Remembrance
Several obvious difficulties resulting from the years of war have forced the discontinuance of the University’s yearbook, the Dome. Without attempting the impossible task of issuing a miniature yearbook, Scholastic has endeavored to provide in these pages some small clue of remembrance of the undergraduate days of these men who will leave the University next week.
In the early part of this semester, a group of graduating seniors met and discussed the possibilities of putting out such an issue. It was decided that each graduate would have his bit to do for it. Meetings were called at which a Chairman was approved, assignments given out, and committees formed.
Our Thanks
For the work in making this issue possible; for compiling, assorting, and writing the material which appears in these pages, we are indebted to the following men:
... to Jim Retter, and Frank Linehan for their excellent work in fulfilling their appointed tasks as the committee in charge of portraits.
... to George Haley for handling the book-keeping and the records of the group enabling the plans to progress smoothly, and with a financial soundness.
... to Tom Bergin, John Allen, Elmer Gillespie, Raymond Baddour, and William Moore for the promptness and the quality of their work in writing the short sketches of each senior for the section “Men About the Campus.”
... to Robert Riordan who was Feature Editor of this issue.
... to Frank Guido, Scholastic photographer, who covered his assignments thoroughly and professionally to supply many of the pictures that appear in this issue.	.	-
... to Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., and to the Scholastic, for allowing us to work with this special issue, and for assisting us financially in the development of our plans.
To all these men we give a sincere thank you.—The Chairman
The Notre dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	.	'
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 84
JUNE 15, 1945
NO. 13
Education to be Father Moore's Theme
IN MEMORIAM
183 Graduates to- Receive Degrees From Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
By JOHN DEFANT
These are the absent of our class. These are the men who would be receiving their degrees next week. To the memory of these gallant dead from the class of '46: to them is this SCHOLASTIC dedicated.
★	Pvt. James R. Ankenbruck, Fort Wayne, Indiana
★	Pfc. George G. Birmingham, Sioux City, Iowa
★	Pvt. Robert J. Callahan, River Forest, Illinois .
★	I st Lt. Robert W. Caley, Chicago, Illinois
★	Pvt. Louis F. Curran, Jr.
Dorchester, Mass. •
★	2nd. Lt. George F. Eberhart, III, Mishawaka, Ind.
★	Sgt. Thomas J. Galvin, Lawrence, Mass.
*	Sgt. Joseph T. Gibson, Holyoke, Mass.
★	Pvt. James H. Gillis,.
Kane, Pa.
★	James P. Grant, St. Paul, Minn.
* William F. Higgins, Youngstown, Ohio
*	Lt. Edward L. Kinn, Fostoria, Ohio
*	Lt. Robert W. Kneeland, Postville, Iowa
★ Lt. Patrick J. Lambert, Argo, III.
★ Lawrence P. Leonard, Jr.
Toronto, Canada
*	Edwin R. Matthews, South Orange, NJ.
*	A/C Thos. J. McQuaid, Rochester, N.Y.
*	Robert G. Perry, Harrisburg, III.
*	Sgt. Arthur Stancati, Red Bank, NJ.
★	Lt. Ignatius B. Walker, Fostoria, Ohio
“Education—a Preparation for Life” will be the subject of the address to be delivered by the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, to the 183 graduates who will receive degrees Friday, June 22, in Washington Hall at 8:00 o.m.
Father Moore’s address will deal with the value of education as the “finest possible preparation for later life.” Education is “primarily an active process. . . its fundamental purpose is the imminent development of men in the highest and noblest powers; the greater this immanent development— this development within ourselves, which begins and ends within the human person—the fuller the intellectual perfection of manhood. And the more intellectually perfect we are as men, the richer, fuller and more significant should be our personal lives, and the better we should fulfill our responsibilities and obligations toward our fellow men.”
“The aim of education is to produce intellectual maturity. Without education men are ruled by (Continued on page 30)
Graduation Exercises
WASHINGTON HALL Riday, June 22, 8:00 p. m.
PROGRAM
1.	Processional March Orchestra
2.	National Anthem ..________Audience
3.	Conferring of Degrees—
'	Rev. Hugh O'DonnelL GS.C.
President of the University
4.	Address to the Graduates— Rev. Philip S. Moore. CS.C.
Dean of the Graduate School 5. Recessional March  Orchaetrff
Three
ar. -n
eolrew
We were not long in being inaugurated into the Notre Dame way of lifeP^K^e were quickly pushed into lines and out of lines, bought radiators and paid elevator
Sqhior-class dow Notre can ^well repulse as our with that
the Months of the Year;
e are the Years of Our Stay
. . by JAMES R. RETTER
Eight semesters agq\ to first took that f
Dame Avenue. member the quick^ng^of searching eyes first sight of the
dSi
On Sept. 18, Al Donahue’s rhythm kept senior feet tapping at the Centennial Ball. A Country Club tea and dance the following day climaxed the week end and all others like it for the duration. The Junior Prom followed shortly afterwards and featured Mitchell Ayres at the Palais Royale.
Green Freshmen
In those first few days, we were introduced to the campus barbers and, midst the weeping and gnashing of scissors, we learned “for whom the bell tolls.”
In the midst of our serious study, we were visited by the first representative of the underground. He was offering copies for a price, of a free press called “The Green Banner.”
None of us were amused with the little pink slips that came out at mid-semester.
On our Sunday afternoons, the Saint Mary’s Mixers invited us to leave our books and enjoy feminine companionship. ’Twas a joy to both sides of the Dixie.
Then, one warm, sunny Saturday, mid the roar of thousands, we first glimpsed .
our Notre Dame football team. Little did we know that this usually resulted in our campus overflowing with visitors. Thereafter, most of us shaved on Saturdays. Georgia Tech defeated us 13 to 6 that day and there were many who scoffed at the now famous T.
Monsignor Sheen impressed us with the dignity and position of our university in his sermon during the centenary Mass. Father O’Donnell noted the early struggle of Father Sorin as a conclusion to the Founder’s Day program.
There was a war on and all of us joined a reserve ready to serve wherever we were needed.
Intelligent Freshmen
Alumni hall helped put the Gold coast on the map by featuring its own radio station —WND—and believe it or not, no commercials. Washington hall took up much of our free time, as Father Hubbard “the Glacier Priest” thrilled us with his stories and pictures, Max Jordan analyzed the world situation, and Notre Dame presented its great musical show—“Let’s Get Going.”
The E.R.C. men were afraid to look at the morning paper. The V-l was being threatened with Great Lakes and many of our class mates received “Greetings” from our President. It was during this semester that a great group of fellows left us when the Army Air Corps Reserve was called to active duty.
Amid his greatest basketball season, George Keogan passed away from us, but never from our memories. His initiative
Notre Dame basketball team holding down the number 2 spot in the nation.
The Savoyards presented Gilbert and Sullivan’s Patience.
Budding Sophomores
After a two months vacation, we returned to the campus filled with home cooking and eager to return to the books.
Many of us were in navy blue and marine green for the V-l had been called to active duty. And, believe it or not, some of the E.R.C. were still around.
All was not work during that summer semester. Harry Scott entertained us with music and humor. The Lawyers Ball and the K of C ball gave us our chance to dance. The Camel Caravan came to the campus for a second successful show.
The annual Vaudeville Show brought out the campus talent and a lot of laughter.
Msgr. Sheen was heard by 3,000 people in the drill hall for two addresses.
The Engineers Ball was the highlight of a football week end, where we romped over Georgia Tech. We had a great opening victory against Pittsburgh and this seemed to prove that the team, Leahy, and the T were great. The T pounded out victories against Wisconsin, Michigan, Illinois, Navy,
Army, Northwestern, and then. . . that was another semester.
The R.O.T.C. had their first ball the • V-12 featured Eddy Howard in drill hall.
Sophomore “Successes”
but
and the
—Sketch by J. Cardenas
Four
and ideals were manifested in all those who came into contact with him. His example and courage will always be present on the campus he loved so much.
Coach Krause succeeded the late George Keogan and the final count showed the
We. returned to the campus in time to cheer our team to a great victory, in a thriller-game over the Iowa Seahawks.
The Savoyards presented Gilbert and Sullivan’s Rudigore in Washington hall (Continued on Page 27)
a
Presenting the Graduates
JUNE
1945
JOHN WILLIAM ADAMS
Bach, of Science in Bus. Adm.
Charleston, Ark.
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens, Gleams the gold and blue, Glory's mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame.
— Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C-S.C.
ARTHUR LOY ANDERSEN, Jr.
Bach, of Science in Meeh. Engr. Ault, Colorado
JAMES CLAIRE ANDREWS
Bach, of Science in Pre-Med. Central City, Iowa
JOHN VINCENT ALLEN m
Bach, of Science in Pre-Med.
Philadelphia, Pa.
BRO. C. ANGERMEIER, CS.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Evansville, Indiana
Five
J u N E '45
RAYMOND BADDOUR
Bach, of Science in Chem. Engr.
Laurinburg, N. C.
THOMAS PATRICK BERGIN
Bach, of Science in Bus. Adm. Watertown, N. Y.
WILLIAM STOCK BEVINGTON
Bach, of Science in Aero. Engr. Nashville, Tennessee
BRO. J. C. BYLANCIK, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Albany, New York
JOSE BERNARDO CARDENAS
Bachelor of Architecture Panama City, Panama
MR. GEO. C. BERNARD, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Springfield, Illinois
JOHN C. BRESNAHAN
Bach, of Science in Pre-Med. Lawrence, Mass.
JOHN BLACKWOOD CARON
Bach, of Science in Chem. Eng. Rochelle, Illinois
S i x
BRO. F. CHMIELEWSKI, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Detroit, Michigan
MR. DANIEL E. CURTIN, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Chicago, Illinois
MR. WM. H. DONAHUE, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Philadelphia, Pa.
*3 0
JAMES JOSEPH CLYNES, Jr.
Arts and Letters in Economics Ithaca, New York
JAMES V. DONNELLY, Jr.
Bach, of Science in Bus. Adm.
Jamaica, New York -
D U
E S
ROBERT DAVIS COX
Bach, of Science in Pre-Med.
River Forest, Illinois
JOHN STEARNS DOCKWEILER
Bach, of Science in Pre-Med. Los Angeles, California
E. VERNON FROST
Bach, of Science in Chern. Engr. Collinsville, Illinois
Seven
J u N
E
'45
BRO. F. DOUGHERTY. C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Sioux Falls, So. Dakota
JOSEPH MARION HAGGAR
Bach, of Science in Aero. Engr.
Dallas, Texas
MR. C. P. GILLESPIE, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Philadelphia, Pa.
MR. S. J. HAUSER, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Lancaster, Pennsylvania
MR. ED. J. HENNESSY, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Boston, Massachusetts
ELMER FRANCIS GILLESPIE
Bach, of Science in Pre-Med. Newburgh, New York
GEORGE T. HALEY
Bach, of Philosophy in Com. St. Paul, Minnesota
JOHN WALDRON HOSBEIN
Bach, of Science in Meeh. Engr.
Glencoe, Illinois
Eight
JOSEPH EDWARD INCE
Bach, of Science in Bus. Adm.
Layfayetie, Indiana
THOMAS WILLIAM KANE, Jr.
Bach, of Science in Accounting Clifton, New Jersey
FRANCIS JOSEPH KENT
Bach, of Phil, in Bus. Adm.
Chicago, Illinois
G R A D U
T E S
MR. E. KADZIELAWSKI, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters .Chicago, Illinois.
JAMES JOSEPH KENNEDY
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Chicago, Illinois
ALVARO VINCENT LESMEZ
Bach, of Science in Aero. Engr. Jackson Heights, New York
Nine
J u N E '45
FRANCIS MATTHEW LINEHAN Bach, of Science in Bus. Adm Easthampton, Mass.
JOHN FRANCIS LYONS
Bach, of Arts in Political Sci. Norwalk, Connecticut
BYRON EDWARD MARTIN
Bach, of Science in Chem. Engr. Lyons, Illinois
It can be done
Walter l. McDermott
Bach, of Science in Commerce Mineral Point, Wisconsin
MR. M. G. McGRATH, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Panama City, Panama
CLIFFORD DUNHAM MARKS
Bach, of Science in Aero. Engr. Chicago, Illinois
PHILIP PATRICK MARTIN, Jr.
Bach, of Science in Chemistry
Santee, California
JOSEPH FRANCIS MENEZ
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Cambridge, Massachusetts
Ten
FRANK EDWARD MILLER, Jr.
Bach, of Science in Chem. Engr Toledo, Ohio
THOMAS EDWARD NOLAN
Bach, of Science in Meeh. Engr.
Chicago, Illinois
MR. WM. C. O'CONNOR, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Green Bay, Wisconsin .
Nothing like a quiet day at home
WILLIAM WALTER MOORE
Bach, of Science in Meeh. Engr.
Plainfield, New Jersey
JAS. ALEXANDER O'CONNOR
Bach, of Science in Chem. Engr. - --Fort Wayne, Indiana
MR. M. J. MURPHY, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Butte, Montana
JOHN JOSEPH NOWAK, Jr.
Bach, of Science in Chem. Engr.
South Bend, Indiana
JOHN JOSEPH O'ROURKE
Bach, of Science in Bus. Adm.
Brooklyn, New York
Eleven
J u N E
'45
ROBERT H. I. O'TOOLE
Bach, of Arts and Let. in Politics Chicago, Illinois
FRANCIS XAVIER PENDARVIS
Bach, of Science in Chem. Engr. Houston, Texas
MR. ROBERT S. PELTON, C.S.C.
Bachelor oi Arts and Letters Evanston, Illinois
BROTHER AUGUSTUS PATIN, C.S.C., Bachelor of Arts and Letters, Milwaukee, Wis
JAMES ROBERT RETTER
Bach, of Science in Chem. Engr California, Pennsylvania
MR. STAN. J. RDZOK, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Chicago, Illinois
ANTHONY N. RENZE, Jr.
Bach, of Science in Bus. Adm. Uniontown, Pennsylvania
JOHN PAUL RINELLA
Bachelor of Laws Kewanee, Ill.
T w e 1 v e

LAWRENCE ROMAGOSA
Bach, of Science in Bus. Adm. Republic of Panama
JOHN RICHARD SAYERS
Bach, of Science in Chem. Engr. Hacksensack, New Jersey
KENNETH HERMAN SCHULTZ
Bach, of Science in Aero. Engr.
Kewanee, Illinois
ROBERT EMMET RIORDAN
Bach, of Sci. in Foreign Com.
Solomon, Kansas
MR. R. W. TIMM, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Michigan City, Indiana
G R A D U A T E S
RICHARD MELVIN SADOWSKI
Bach, of Science in Bus. Adm. Pensacola, Florida
MR. ROBT. N. SCHIEL, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Leflers Toledo, Ohio
REDMOND FRANCIS TONER
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Stamford, Connecticut
Thirteen
JUNE, ’45
GRADUATES
MELVYN PHILLIP TOMBER
Bachelor of Arts and Letters
South Bend, Indiana '
MIGUEL JOSE VILA
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Santiago, Chile
MR. I. VAN WOLVLEAR, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Grand Rapids, Michigan
MR. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Even every exam must have its end
THOMAS F. X. VAIL
Bach, of Science in Elec. Engr. Poughkeepsie, New York
MR. B. S. WANTA, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts and Letters Wauwatosa, Wisconsin
Fourteen
The Navy and Notre Dame
BY GENE DIAMOND Navy Associate Editor
The Navy came to Notre Dame as something exterior to the traditional, century-old decorum of a university that was proud of an all-inclusive, familylike relationship; a relationship which has bred a legendary and unmatchable spirit into all who participated.
There was something cold and unnatural when a man first came down the long, maple-bordered avenue to the campus because of the printed orders in his pocket. The fact that he had to be here made it a cold military fact. It was apparent then, that starting from a small nucleus of those who knew and appreciated the school there must evolve the integration and absorption of the Navy until it became a working, living part of the entire way of life.
A respect for the age-old traditions was willingly exercised. Only shallow people set aside what is old merely because it is old. Notre Dame’s traditions are reminders that indicate a glorious past. They are kept to stir proud dreams and to strengthen the bonds that hold
—Photo by Guido
men to the school; they are offered to all. The Navy men accepted and were augmented in claiming the legends of Rockne, Corby, and Sorin as their own.
The uniform, a different code of discipline, and an inevitable propensity toward marching, instead of strolling, were all that was not held in common with the countless hundreds of men who had shared, were sharing, and would share in the grandeur of Notre Dame.
These few differences were soon forgotten, the early cautious aloofness was discarded, and we of the Navy became involved in most every other well-loved feature of the campus. The Dome, the quadrangle, Mass at Sacred Heart, the Old Gym, Cartier field, hymns at the Grotto, the Rockne Memorial, Log Chapel, Memorial door, the lakes, — these were the things that nurtured that great regard which successive generations of students had given to Notre Dame, and it was through the knowledge and appreciation of all these things that the Navy became a part of Notre Dame.
+"—”—"—”—”—"—“—■—”—“—“—"—
*—---------------------------—4
By JOHN POWER and HARRY WALTERS
Another gang comes and goes but the dining hall, laundry, and St. Mary’s live on forever. This is the time of year when Notre Dame looks pretty good to a bunch of 50 regular Joe’s who are about to graduate. A year from now the thoughts of dining hall food, sleeveless shirts, and Saturday morning classes will pass into oblivion, — even the Prefect of Discipline will be forgiven. But the days that glistened brightly as when the gang pulled some of its favorite pranks, the dances (what there were of them), and the thrill of seeing the Green and Gold, led by Pat Filley,-come up the ramp of the Stadium, will live on for a lifetime.
Farewell Politicians
Sorin, we fear, will resemble a deserted and obsolete Tammany Hall after the class of 1945 digs deep into our ranks to graduate some of the biggest politicians, and the shrewdest operators to come out of Sorin City in a long time, for this is the gang that started in the days of old (1942) when we were bold and the Middies still wore britches.
No longer will Frank Kent thrill the porch crowd with his harrowing experiences of a weekend in Gary. Nor will Tom Bergin and Jim Donnelly thrive on the onrushing fortune of the Bookstore. And as for Phil Martin—all we can say is “Poor George.” Business won’t be the same without Phil.
Goodbye AU
Levy Wards will be heartbroken without the services of.the “Legal Light of the Law School, John Rinella,” and Hoosiers will be “liquid” again once his roommate, Jim Kennedy, goes into the world of Journalism.
A big blow goes to Larry Romagosa who came up from Panama, made millions of friends, mastered the English language, and charmed the belles of South Bend in between.
To Jim Clynes, the Ithaca flash, who (Continued on page 30)
Fifteen
OR more than a century now, Notre Dame has been an apostle for the rugged and manly way of life and learning. It is here on these grounds
that the Notre Dame of Sorin, of Corby, of Rockne, and of the little Log Chapel by the lake, has sprung outward and around the lakes. From two or three humble buildings, a few teachers, and a dozen students, Notre Dame has become a university of quadrangles, of many halls, of libraries, of a faculty numbering hundreds, and a student body of military and civilian groups numbering thousands.
Such a university belongs to many people, and many people must of necessity belong to her. It is so with Notre Dame. Across the land of America, and in every comer of the globe outside our country, and on the battlefields in the Pacific, there are men of Notre Dame.
Where men come for a moment of quiet prayer to Our Lady of the Grotto
(yur
It was many years ago for some and only one, or a few short years ago for others, but each of them went out one day from the campus. With them they took many memories of their pleasant days at Notre Dame; with them they took the pattern of their life here. . . a pattern grown rich in traditions, friendships, and associations. With them they took a way of living: the doing of a thing, consequent to the thinking of it.
Memories of Pleasant Dayy
The graduating class of June, 1945 will leave next week, taking with them many vivid remembrances of things and people and places of Notre Dame. The graduates have come through college the hard way, through a time of a world at war. Collegiate life has been strip-
Recent survey shows that Graduating Sd‘ nio fond memories of theih • de
BY AL if
J
"Scholastic” E<(
litoi
ped of any semblance of a pre-war trimming. But even in the absence of a gilded college life, the graduates go forward with a full appreciation of whar their life here has meant.
They have grown constantly in their books, their classes, and their laboratories; in their associations with their
professors and with their- fellow men.
Graduate Survey Made
Now they go forward to find their fields of conquest; to test their yearling strength in competition; to be taken up by industry, and the armed forces of our nation at war. They will go forth from this time and place to the many ways of the world. They will find themselves in countless cities of men. But always they will remember friends and faces and things of this place.
A recent survey, which was conducted among the graduating seniors to find the things about the University that the Notre Dame man will remember most, showed that a variety of things rated high on the list of favorites. Foremost among the treasures of the graduating class are the friendships that are made here; friendships bom of the close campus life and the active democratic contact that is maintained and enjoyed by the men who come here.
Friendships Rank First
Those who attend Notre Dame come here from families in the great American middle class. They are sons physicians, contractors, farmers, la accountants, and business men. U the democratic and family-like phere of a university tha allow hazing of freshmen, t fraternity life, acquaintang^^ to make. Most important *c^alr
fact that wealth and social pejitiondrave
Sixteen
'l
ore
J ei/i
•niors will carry away with them many • days at Notre Dame

.ESMEZ
litor Emeritus


with his companions. Once he is here, he is on his own, accepted for what he is as an individual.
Here the South meets the North; New Yorkers befriend Californians. Under the Dome, all learn to live in the equality and friendship of a Notre Dame family. Semester “roomies” soon build strong bonds of friendship that are life-lasting.
Grotto Most Popular Spot
Notre Dame means “Our Lady” and a great devotion to the Blessed Mother of God has always characterized the Notre Dame way of.life. . . and the Notre Dame man.
The gleaming figure atop the Golden Dome is a 16-foot statue of Our Blessed Mother, and there is another beautiful Madonna above the Adoration Altar in Sacred Heart church.
But the most popular center of devotion to Mary on the campus has always been the Grotto, hidden in a little recess back of the Church and facing the lakes. The Grotto is famous for being on each student’s way back to his hall after supper, even if the student lives in Dillon hall.
Throughout his three years here, each i'l senior has had to feel the proximity of Our Lady to his daily life. Whenever ^1 anything went wrong at home, when a tough exam was coming along, when a bu^dy was hurt in Europe, whenever an^ type of favor—small or large— to be asked, it was probably asked dy. . . and most likely it was Grotto.
e is What They Say
f the statements made to ‘What will you always re-ut Notre Dame?” shows ^Friendships made here, and the ire the two biggest items:
i
John Bresnahan: The great respect the Blessed Virgin receives from Notre Dame students.
George Jeschke, Jr., (V-12) : The Notre Dame spirit and the fine times we had here as civies.
Phil Martin: The boys, the nice scenery throughout the year, and the religious atmosphere. Also the long bull-sessions.
Hosbien Waldron: The Notre Dame spirit and the football games.
Edward Nolan (ROTC) : The many friends made among the students and professors while here.
John O’Rourke: The enthusiasm which can be brought up during a football game, or during a football rally. Also the intangible spirit which one is bound to acquire at Notre Dame. James Andrews (V-12) : The beauty of the campus, the fine professors, and the football games.
Robert Riordan: The swell fellows I have met.
—Photo by Guido
Students soon build strong bonds of friendship that are life-lasting
John Lyons: The swell bunch of fellows I’ve met here.
Vernon Frost (V-12) : The exceptionally beautiful campus and the 6:10 a.m. calisthentics.
James O’Connor (R.O.T.C.): The Grotto, my one year at Notre Dame as a civilian, and the football games.
Joseph Ince: The friendships I’ve made while I’ve been here.
Jose Cardenas: The Golden Dome, the friends, and that last minute run to get in before 12 midnight.
Thomas Kane: Pre-war meals in the dining halls, along with pre-war campus life.
Clifford Marks (V-12) : The Grotto, Indiana rain, and Brownson hall. As a naval trainee I believe I’ve missed some of the real Notre Dame life but I know that there’s no finer school anywhere.
Other things which were mentioned as “unforgettables” by some of the graduates were: Magnolias in blossom, the food, the laundry, the cold winters, Father Brennan’s classes, the beautiful spring scenery, registration days, and the scrappy, fighting teams in all sports.
Seventeen
Photo by Guido
1. Committee members discussing final plans for Graduation issue: Jack Allen, Frank Linehan, Ray Baddour, Elmer Gillespie, Tom Bergin, and George Haley.
2. Al Lesmez, Editor of this issue.
3. Gene Diamond, Navy Associate Editor.
J:. Robert Riordan, Features Editor of this issue, and regular Editor of the SCHOLASTIC.
5. George Despot, Managing Editor.
6. Frank Guido, Photographer.
Eighteen
John William Adams: John is the first of the Adams’s to receive a degree from Notre Dame, but if Hugh Devore had his way, there would be more of John’s relatives on campus. "Tree’s” height demoralized his football opponents and, coupled with his outstanding grid
iron prowess, few stood much of a change against him.
"Tree" has been on the campus of Our Lady since September, 1941. Paradoxically, he is usually seen with little Harry Ryan. The last two semesters he has successfully fulfilled a position downtown and at the same time continued his studies towards his B.S. in Business Administration.
John has been quite active in the Monogram club, having captured three N.D.’s during his stay here. “Tree’s" proudest moment came when he was selected on Harry Wismer's All-American team of 1944. Professional football has its eye on John and he will join the “pro" ranks after graduation.
—★—
John Vincent Allen III: Jack's spontaneous witticism, his staccato laugh, his genuine sincerity, and his effervescent friendliness, have made him one of the most popular pre-meds to spend the past three years in the shadow of our Golden Dome.
A member of the Academy of Science, Jack was chosen by Dean Baldinger to represent the College of Science on the Student Council, where, for the past semester, he served as its very active secretary-treasurer. Sophomore pre-meds know him as their efficient and capable embryology instructor, and with his departure. Dr. Powers is losing an able assistant.
"Lefty" has matched his classroom proficiency with an equal mastery on the softball diamond in' interhall competition.
Jack’s final semester has been one of increasing activity. He reorganized the Philadelphia club and was elected its president. As an ardent supporter of the Biology club, this dark curly-haired, pre-med has kept its financial accounts in order during his senior year. After Jack receives his B.S. and spends the summer working hard, he will enter Hahnemann Medical College in the fall, and in four years will start his medical career.
Arthur Loy Andersen Jr.: Art started at Notre Dame in 1940 but went back to the farm in-’4l only to return again in '42 to Notre Dame. During his freshman and sophomore years he held positions in the cafeteria, Washington hall. Woodshop and in the Machine Shop in the Engineering Building. “Andy" is a past president and treasurer of the ASME and was also a member of the Colorado club.
He came to Notre Dame on a Scholarship from the Denver-Notre Dame club in '40 and is nicknamed the “Old Man" by his classmates. He says St. Mary’s isn’t so bad after all since meeting a certain Mishawaka girl there. Andy will receive his commission as Ensign immediately after graduation, but he intends to go right back to the farm after the war.
—¥—
James Claire Andrews: After two years’ service as a pharmacist's mate with the fleet, Jim entered Notre Dame as a junior with the V-12 unit in March, 1944. An ardent pursuer of the right to hang up a shingle as one of Iowa's
foremost sawbones, he has spent many hours with cornea glued to a microscope lens in becoming one of the Biology department's outstanding workmen.
Jim won a reputation as a long shot artist while holding down a guard slot on the Company A team in the Navy basketbail tourney. He is a member of both the V-12 and University bands, in which he does a very mellow job on the trumpet. In Dillon hall's social sessions, Jim is always dependable for one of Joe Miller’s latest puns or for a good second tenor for barbershop harmony.
After graduation, Jim plans to be transferred to a base hospital to await assignment to medical school and the last leg of his toil toward the coveted M.D. and the eventual practice of medicine after leaving the navy.
—★—
Brother Carol Angermeier, C.S.C.: Born in Evansville, Indiana, was graduated from Sacred Heart College. Watertown, Wisconsin. Brother came to Notre Dame in the fall of '41; receives the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
—★—
Raymond Frederick Baddour: Ray matriculated at Notre Dame in September of 1942. He is carrying on the tradition set by his two older brothers, who graduated from Notre Dame, for
The Ups and Downs of Life
he will graduate magna cum laude. He is only slightly shy of a maxima cum laude.
Ray will always be remembered by his friends for his enticing smile plus an occasional and well-worded pun. Although short in stature, what Ray lacks in size is surpassed by his pleasing per
sonality and jovial spirit. He has been an active member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers for eight semesters.
In July of 1943 Ray changed from a civilian to a trainee in the Navy V-12 program, in which he now holds a company office. His next objective is the commission he hopes to receive soon. When peace comes. Ray wants to return to North Carolina and establish himself in the Chemical Engineering profession and raise future Notre Dame men.
—★—
Thomas Patrick Bergin: A confirmed New , Yorker. Tom lives in Watertown and possesses that indefinable New York “twang.” A Commerce man. Tom receives a B.S. in Business Administration. A member of the Commerce Forum, he was vice-president in his senior year.
A rabid adherent to the personality and policies of our late president. Franklin D. Roosevelt, he is ever ready to uphold his hero. One thing he will never forget about Notre Dama is “the good fellows I met here." The fellows admit the feeling is assuredly mutual. His favorite expressions are “No ticket, no eat” and “No, it hasn’t come in yet”—he worked in the Dining hall and the Book store. Tom's room immediately across from the front door to Sorin hall is a favorite stopping-off place for his friends on the second and third floors. After graduation Tom is going to work for an accounting firm in Detroit.
—★—
Mr. George C. Bernard. C.S.C.: His home town is Springfield. Illinois. He will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters cum laude. Mr. Bernard is a graduate of Cathedral High, Springfield. Illinois; entering Notre Dame in September. 1939.
William Stock Bevington: “Bev” entered Notre Dame in September. 1942. His first two semesters were spent as a civilian while the remaining six were completed in V-12. He is one of the Aero Engineers who believes in flying planes as well as in building them. One of his favorite sports is flying since he “soloed” April 28. 1945.
Bill is an active member of both the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences and the Flying club. He likes most sports but never tried varsity games. The Bengal Bouts held an attraction for him. so he boxed in his last semester. Being a true Southerner. his favorite expression is, “Take it slow."
Bill hopes to go to Midshipman school after graduation. Later he hopes to return to see Notre Dame when it is all civilian and strictly all “Notre Dame.” His post-war plan is to work for an aircraft company as a structural engineer.
John Cornelius Bresnahan : To quote from a popular song, “You have to spread joy." and that’s just what Bres* does. His instant flashing smile, his effervescent eyes, and his typical sense of humor “spread joy” throughout any student group of which he is a member. His unrestrained naturalness and friendliness immediately win him friends.
John is indeed distinguished among the gradu-
Nineteen
StSS
ating seniors. He is the only one of them who can boast a place in "Who’s Who in American Universities and Colleges.” In addition to that singular honor, Bres has often been a member of the Academy of Science. And supplementary’ to these distinctions, "The Fox” as he is sometimes called, has participated in varsity’ football.
Bres spends quite some time across the Dixie and is usually’ seen with another easterner, Mike Manzo. John enters medical school after commencement and is very definite about his post-war plans—he’s going to get married.
—★—
Brother John Capistran Bylancik, C.S.C.: Born in Albany, New York, Brother was graduated from Vincentian Institute, Albany’, New York, Brother came to Notre Dame in February, 1942; receives the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
—★—
Jose Bernardo Cardenas: Jose is one of our Latin-American neighbors, hailing from Panama City’, Panama. He had made quite a name for himself not only as a winner in the Beaux Arts Architectural competitions, but as a speaker on Latin-American affairs.. In this latter capacity, he has delivered a series of addresses to over 25 colleges and clubs throughout the Middle West.
The past semester has seen Jose as the editor of Amistad. He also has been secretary’, vice-president, and president of La Raza, and member of the Wranglers, and has even worked in the dining ball- Morning checks greatly perturb Jose, but that phase of his life will be ended when he returns to his native Panama to study law after his graduation from Notre Dame. When the war is concluded, Jose hopes to visit Europe.
—★—
John Blackwood Caron: John is strictly a BMOC with a finger in everything- Member of the Glee club and American Institute of Chemical Engineers since his freshman year, John also fought in the Bengals in '43 and '45, was Clash-more Mike’s handler in the fall of '44 and at one time was Battalion Commander of the NROTC.
In his sophomore year John won the Chicago Tribune Medal for Military Merit. He is now engaged in such trifles at the NROTC 4th. Company Commander, chairman of the Naval Ball for this semester, and keeping the St. Mary’s girls entertained. After getting his Ensign's commission, John will try to talk Admiral King into giving him one of his favorite Chicago weekends. After the war John expects to go into the textile industry.
Brother Felician Chmielewski, C.S.C.: Bom in Detroit, Michigan, he was graduated from St. Josaphat High School, Detroit, Michigen. Brother came to Notre Dame in February of 1942; receives the degree of Bachelor of Science.
—★—
James Joseph Clynes Jr.: The "Boss” needs no introduction, but for those few who do not know him we’ll set him in type. Jim lives in Ithaca, New York. Notre Dame dispatches him out into the world with an A.B.,- major—economics. A cum laude student with a flair for extra-curricular activities—that is Jim Clynes. For three semesters he was a member of the Economic Round-Table and president of that discussion group this past semester. His deep vibrant voice was a part of the University Glee Club for three semesters.
Jim attained the vice-presidency of the Glee club. Amazingly active in all political “deals,” Jim was an outstanding member of the Student Council for three semesters. For two years Jim played on the varsity golf team. This spring he
Twenty
was co-captain, and is a monogram winner in that sport. The “Boss” also showed literary inclinations in his interest and membership in the Bookmen. Amiable, witty’, he has a wide circle of friends. A natural organizer, he instilled the motivating spirit of a project into his followers. Jim enters Cornell Law school in the Fall.
Robert Davis Cox: V-I2’er Bob Cox has the unique distinction of- being the only member of the graduating class who has worn the uniforms of both the Army and Navy’. In 1943, he was called into basic training in the Army Medical Corps but was released to accept assignment to the V-12
Gomfort oJliem . . .
Dear Lord, I come to you In this, the quiet before the storm 1 o ask you one more favor.
I do not wish to go
Into the long dark night ahead, alone.
I am not heroic;
Perhaps, instead, I am a coward To want You with me, So that I may face the future bravely, unafraid.
One other thing I ask of You:'
If I should fall beneath this battle's strife,
Comfort me and beckon with Your hand
To guide me
And be with those I leave behind.
Comfort them as You will comfort me And tell them that I thought of them this night.
—Pat Noble
unit here in November. In his senior year, Bob turned to his first sports love to win a berth as a raqueteer on the varsity tennis team.
As a civilian, he spent his freshman year at Wabash College where he participated in intercollegiate debate and served as Feature-Editor of the Bachelor, campus news-weekly. He was also a member of the Wabash Chapter of Kappa Sigma fraternity. Immediately after graduation. Bob will be moved out to a Naval hospital for a short while before assignment to medical school. All post war plans center around the eventual practice of medicine. His success will hinge as much as anything on a modest, amiable manner and a grin that was ready on all occasions.
—★—
Mr. Daniel E. Curtin, C.S.C.: His home town is Chicago, Illinois. Mr. Curtin will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters. He is a graduate of Lindblom High School, Chicago, Illinois, entering Notre Dame in September 9, 1939.
John Eldredge Stearns Dockweiler: A cum laude degree and the campus table tennis championship rank high on the list of “Docs” accomplishments at Notre Dame. One of the Los Angeles Dockweilers, he joins his grandfather, father and two uncles on the Notre Dame Alumni list. But around the front porch of Sorin he will always be remembered as a member of the unbeatable bridge team of Dockweiler and Clynes, and for his favorite expression—“Let’s play cards,” He is thankful that he has survived the Notre Dame food, and feels that after such training he can face Med school with no fears.
—★—
Mr. William H. Donahue, C.S.C.: His home town is Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters magna cum laude. He is a graduate of West Philadelphia Catholic High School, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Mr. Donahue entered Notre Dame in September, 1943 as a Junior.
—★—
James Vincent Donnelly, Jr.: Born in Astoria, N.Y., educated in Brooklyn, and living in Jamaica, N. Y., Jim Donnelly certainly adds a New York flavor to the graduating class. His “Give me your ticket, please,” have been familiar words in the dining hall, where he has worked, for quite a few semesters. Brother Meinrad will be prostrate when “Smilin’ Jim” rings up his last sale on the Bookstore cash register.
Last semester, while he was president of the Commerce Forum, Jim’s room in Sorin was the hang-out of the commerce school politicians. Many were the times that the Student Council was notified of its meetings by secretary, Jim Donnelly.
Jim receives, cum laude, a B.S. in Business Administration. During his struggle for his coveted sheepskin, he found insurance his favorite course, with delvings into the abstract in metaphysics, his most puzzling subject. You have a lot’of company on that score, Jim. Mr. Donnelly has developed a rather good formula for success, “Work, work, and more work.”
—★—
Brother Fulgence Dougherty, C.S.C.: Born in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, he was graduated from Cathedral High School, Sioux Falls, South Dakota. Brother came to Notre Dame in February, 1943; receives the degree of Bachelor of Arts, magna cum laude.
—★—
E. Vernon Frost: A transfer student under the Navy V-12 program, “Vern,” known better by his close friends as “Frosty," started his college work at Valparaiso University. He came to Notre Dame under the Navy program in July, 1943, as a sophomore, and despite set-backs incurred in transferring, he has succeeded in graduating in eight semesters. Ranging well over six feet, Frosty will be remembered for his ability as a basketball player having played on the first team at Valparaiso.
At Notre Dame his class schedules and Navy life prevented his participating in this, his favorite sport. A second “Alvino Rey” Frosty is the proud possessor of an 18 string electric Hawaiian guitar and plays the Spanish guitar in the most recent organization of the Navy V-12 “Commanders” Band. When the day of discharge from the Navy comes, Frosty hopes to return to southern Illinois and establish himself in petroleum engineering.
—★—
Mr. Charles P. Gillespie, C.S.C.; His home town is Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and he will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters cum laude. Mr. Gillespie is a gradu-
Twenty-one
■ ■■	—■ Men About the	■■
ate of St. Thomas More, School, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He entered Notre Dame as a junior in 1943.
—★—
Elmer Francis Gillespie: Gil possibly had more nick-names cn campus than any other graduating Senior. ‘"Gil,” “Gilewski," “Gillesp," “Elmer" and “Hey, Doc" were common greetings to Gil. Active and aggressive, the young “will be" doctor gained many friends and numerous honors here at the University. A degree of B.S. in pre-med was his ultimate goal yet on the way he branched out into many other fields of endeavor. Who will ever forget his snappy handling of “The College Parade" column in the Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC?
Pre-meds are grateful to him for inaugurating the publication of The Pre-Med Pulse. As editor of the Pulse he presented many interesting and informative articles on pre-medical matters and medical material itself. A faithful member of the Biology club, Gil was ever cooperative in advancing its cause.
There is one particular building on campus that will hallow his name. After the graduation of John Flicka, Gil was accepted unanimously as the “head" of the dining hall student employees. When the Metropolitan club was functioning in 1942 Gil was one of them. In 1944 and 1945 Gil was a member of the Academy of Science, an honorary organization for students of science who excel in their scholastic endeavors. Among other achievements he was a member of the Knights of Columbus and wound up his college career by being elected co-chairman of the Senior Ball. In September this striving young man will enter Georgetown University Medical school to continue his pursuit of medicine.
Joseph Marion Haggar: Joe has been at Notre Dame since September, 1942. His first three semesters were completed as a civilian and the last five in the V-12. He majored in general aeronautics, his favorite subject being Airplane Design and his toughest. Dynamics. He is an active member of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences and the Flying club, and he holds a Student Pilot Certificate with 15 solo hours to his credit. Joe won numerals for the Freshman Golf Team and participated in interhall softball.
He has contributed to the Aero Engineers paper, the Burble. His hobbies include eating big steaks from Texas steers, all sports, good music, and flying. As a true Southerner, “Rebel’s" pet peeve is the cold weather, and he insists that you “smile when you say "Texas'.” He is a
real Notre Dame man and will carry many cherished memories back to Texas with him. Joe hopes to enter midshipman school after graduation but has no plans for after the war.
—★—
George T. Haley: George T. Haley of St. Paul, Minn., graduates cum laude as a Bachelor, of Philosophy in Commerce, majoring in Accounting. After attending St. Thomas' College and the U. of Minnesota, . George started his studies here in November, 1943. A member of the Young Christian Students organization, he served them as secretary-treasurer for the last three years. He also acted as secretary to Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, provincial superior of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the U. S.
A quiet, efficient type of student, George sometimes belies his mildness with a sudden outburst of spontaneous laughter that is the delight of his fellow students and the scourge of his hall prefects. He expects to enter the service after graduation and after the war he intends to do graduate work in Business Administration. Sincere and likeable, George is a fine Notre Dame example of devotion to the religious and ethical principles for which this University stands.
—★—
Mr. Stephen J. Hauser, C.S.C.: His home town is Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters magna cum laude. He is a graduate of Lancaster Catholic High, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, entering Notre Dame in September, 1939.
Mr. Edward J. Hennessy, C.S.C.: His home town is Boston, Massachusetts. Mr. Hennessy will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters. He is a graduate of Dorchester High for Boys, - Boston, Massachusetts, entering Notre Dame in November, 1943 as a Junior.
—★—
John Waldron Hosbein : John, affectionately known as “Hose," entered Notre Dame in September of 1942 as a civilian student. With the coming of the Navy to Notre Dame, John joined the V-12 along with many of his friends and associates. John has been active in the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and has participated in varsity track. These activities, however, have not affected his scholastic standing, since he will graduate cum laude.
Weekends he can be found inhabiting the Service Men’s Center or indulging in his favorite
pastime of dating brunettes. After leaving Notre Dame, John hopes to be sent directly to Midshipman's school to receive his commission. When he again dons civilian attire, he hopes to return for post-graduate work to the University of Notre Dame.
Joseph Edward Ince: Not too late Joe realized there might be a better university in his home state, so he ambled northward from Purdue to enter Notre Dame at the beginning of his Junior year. Joe is a graduate of Jefferson High school in Lafayette and his hobby is music. He is a familiar personality to the patrons of the Dining hall and George's, and he was also very much looked for during his tenure as a mailman. Plans to go into business for himself after the war—his sincerity and congeniality will undoubtedly lead him to success. This semester he has been rooming with Toom Vail in the kingdom of knowledge, the John F. Cushing Engineering building.
—★—
George Joseph Jeschke Jr.: “Jess" is one of the Notre Dame V-12 old-timers, having entered here in September of 1942. He is also a veteran in the V-12 unit; “Seaman” Jeschke and the V-12 at Notre Dame appeared simultaneously in July, 1943. Since George launched his college career, he has been active in the social, athletic, and scholastic life on campus. He is publicity chairman of the Metallurgy club of Notre Dame, a varsity golf man, and holder of a cum laude degree.
Despite his inclinations to worry continuously, George always manages to come out in front. After the war, he says he will strike for a Master’s degree, but he will undoubtedly leave lots of room for some of the hunting and fishing he likes so well.
—*—	.
Mr. Edwin J. Kadzielawski, C.S.C.: Hailing from Chicago, Illinois, he will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters. He is a graduate of Holy Trinity High School, Chicago, Illinois, entering Notre Dame in September, 1940.
Thomas William Kane Jr.: A discharged veteran, Tom spent 16 months in the Army Air Corps as a pilot. He came here in September, 1940, from Clifton, N. J., spent time in the service and returned in July, 1944, to complete his studies. Tom is to receive a B.S. in Accounting. He was a member of the Commerce Forum and also played trumpet in the University band for a
The rugged, masculine tradition of Notre Dame manifests itself as seniors pit their strength against their younger wards from St. Edward's
Twenty-two
————— Men Aiont Hue Gampni. —	■■ ■
year. An adroit swimmer, Tom has been lifeguard in the Rockne Memorial for the past several semesters.
Active socially, “Bones" has more contacts than any two operators. Accounting is his favorite subject yet he also rates it the toughest. Conclusion—the man is a beaver. Tom says he’ll never forget the pre-war meals in the dining hall. After a short vacation, Tom plans to take a Certified Public Accountant examination.
—★—
James Joseph Kennedy: No doubt it will be back to his home town of Chicago for “Red" with his degree of Bachelor of Arts in Journalism. Like his roomie, John Rinella, he also had a brother graduate from Notre Dame. Red was an active member of the Press club and the Midwest club, and also was a star performer in inter-hall basketball. He likes reading good books and considers English his favorite college subject. Good luck Red, and hope the students know it won’t be long before you’ll be writing by-line material for newspapers.
—★—
Francis Joseph Kent: “Young Kent” has almost become a tradition at Notre Dame. Emerging from the Commerce school with a degree, participating in interhall basketball, baseball, and football, and maintaining smooth relations at “Sweet Briar" are hrs three major accomplishments. He prides himself on his ability to name the 48 states with their capital cities, populations and principal industries. He says he may write a geography book. His pet peeve at Notre Dame has been being campused. The one thing “Young Kent" will always remember about Notre Dame is the gray felt hat of Bob McAuliffe.
—★—
Brother Thomas Aquinas Kunna, C.S.C.: Born in Alpena. Michigan, was graduated from St. Bernard’s High School, Alpena, Michigan. Brother came to Notre Dame in February, 1942, receives the degree of Bachelor of Arts, cum laude.
Alvaro Vincent Lesmez: Here is an example of varied talents in one man. A capable student in Aeronautical Engineering, as witness his capacity as corrector for calculus and also for the Aero department, Al also displays latent talents in journalistic fields. He is the first engineering student to ever be full-time editor of the Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC, a position which he held for three semesters. He was also campus editor and managing editor of our campus newsweekly.
Al thanks his draft board for allowing him four 2-A deferments in order that he could finish his studies. He has Been holder of the New York Alumni Club Scholarship for the past two years, and holds a U. S. Government War Loan Scholarship for the same period. He was chairman of the student branch of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences, and vice-president of the Inter-American Affairs discussion group. He also edited the Burble, Aero club publication.
Al won his freshman numerals on the track and cross-country teams here. At present he is the Student Prefect of Cavanaugh hall. Cordial and productive, his seemingly endless stream of energy and resourcefulness has always been directed to the interest of the Universitty, and of her men. Cosmopolitan in his tastes, he formed friendships in many different groups. Al's proximate goal after graduation is the 0. S. Navy, and a possible commission. After- the war, he expects to work for Pan-American World Airways near his home in. New York City.
Francis Matthew Linehan: “Hey Head!” Wearing a broad grin, and with his battered Stetson perched at a forward slope on his head, “The Irregular Cranium” would return your greeting. Frank didn’t always wear that hat; he took it off long enough to spend his senior year on the Student Council, the past semester as its President. He has been a member of the Commerce Forum for seven semesters, serving as that organization's vice-president and president in his last year.
Quite active in sports, “The Head" was on the freshman basketball squad, played interhall basketball and softball during his three years on campus. Frank was an energetic worker for the
Christmas Seal drive last semester, and labored diligently on the publicity committee for the Bengals in 1944. Our Student Council president receives a B.S. in Business Administration, and. after a long vacation, hopes to do personnel work for General Electric. Incidentally, Frank has willed his famous chapeau to the University so it can be placed in the trophy case at the Rockne.
—★—
John Francis Lyons: Jack hails from Norwalk, Connecticut—a graduate of Norwalk High school. He started at Notre Dame with his brother. Bill, in 1941 and has carried on while Bill is in the Army. Jack receives his B.A. in Political Science and after a short rest plans to enter Law school. He wants to practice law in some quiet little town in New England. Even though Jack knows the difference from peacetime days, he will never forget the good bunch of fellows he has met here at Nct.-e Dame.
—★—
Clifford Dunham Marks: Cliff entered Notre Dame in September, 1942, and was a civilian for two semesters before entering the Navy V-12 program. He is an active member of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences and is the present chairman of that organization. “Du-ham” played on the Brownson hall football team in his freshman year and entered the Bengal Bouts in his senior year.
He likes all sports, reading, and riding the Grand Trunk Line. Although as a V-12 he thinks he has missed some of the real Notre Dame life.
he believes that there is no finer school anywhere. Cliff has done excellent work scholastically and will graduate cum laude. His plans for immediately after graduation are to go to Midshipman school. After the war he hopes to devote his time to business mixed with pleasure.
Byron Edward Martin: Valparaiso University suffered a great loss when “By" was brought to Notre Dame by the Navy V-12 in the summer of 1943. By had a fight on his hands from the start to get in all the courses he needed, but his indomitable spirit carried him through, and now at the end he has a magna cum laude. Despite his left-handedness By is impeccably neat. His hearty laughter and friendliness have made him a popular figure in Notre Dame society.
He is an active member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers and holds a company office in the Navy V-12 unit. In between those frequent visits to Valparaiso he likes to drop in at the Service Center for a dance. Right now By is conscientiously striving for that commission, but he is living for the day when he can come home and establish himself in chemical engineering.
Philip Patrick Martin, Jr.: Phil’s a quiet lad, a man more prone to action than to words. And you'll have to look far before you come across a fellow who is as conscientious as Phil. His sereneness is occasionally shattered, though, by a certain color combination that he sometimes wears, when he summons up the courage—a maroon shirt with a canary yellow tie.
The Knights of Columbus have benefited from Phil’s diligence, since he ably served them as Chancellor for a year and a half. He has been a member of the Student Council and a mainstay on Coach Langford’s NCAA champion tennis team. Interhall football and softball have also claimed his varied talents.
Phil’s laboring prowess has renown throughout the whole St. Joe Valley. In Phil’s own words, “I have worked at everything from the dining hall to a South Bend brewery." It must have been the dining hall that gave him that slight bulge around the waist.
Joseph Francis Menez: Joe lives and studies down in the depths of old Sorin sub, making himself as comfortable as possible among all the pipes that seem to have the right of way. While not studying or calming down the inhabitants of Sorin's subterranean labyrinth, he can probably be heard arguing on some important phase of Inter-American relations.
The prefect of the notorious sub finds time after checking all the Sorin boys for morning Mass to belong to the Inter-American Relations club, of which he has ably presided as its president. and has also been president of the NCEA Commission on Inter-American Action. During the winter semester he was teaching at St. Joseph's Academy in South Bend.
Joe first came to Notre Dame as a sophomore and as a result of his intellectual curiosity, he is receiving his A.B. cum laude. More education is in store for Joe after commencement for his present plans call for him to study in-the political science department of the graduate school here on campus.
Frank Edward Miller, Jr.: In September. 1942. Frank entered Notre Dame and with a purpose. The earnest efforts which he has applied since then have been richly rewarded. Since his start in the Navy at Notre Dame in the summer of 1943. he has worked his way up from company offices to battalion commander and he is
T wenty-three
----—— ---—— Mew About the Ccwi/puA.............. ■	■
now a member of the regimental staff. He served as president of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers for two semesters.
Frank has also excelled in the scholastic field and will graduate magna cum laude. His weekends are equally divided between the Service Center and his beloved Toledo, each of which holds something special for Frank; the accent being definitely on Toledo. Despite his oft-repeated remark that things are tough everywhere, Frank has a bright future in Toledo, to which he hopes to return after the war and send his sons to Notre Dame.
William Walter Moore: Bill or “W. W.” as he is known to most of his classmates entered Notre Dame as a freshman in the fall of ’42. After getting his degree, magna cum laude, he will receive his commission as ensign. He was on interhall tennis and swimming teams as well as varsity tennis. In ’44 Bill was the NROTC Color Company commander, won the Chicago Tribune Military Medal, and got a minor monogram for the NROTC Rifle team which he now captains.
He is a member of the Student Council and has been a member of the ASME since ’44. This semester he is the NROTC battalion commander. After the war Bill would like to go back to the Bell Telephone Labs where he worked before coming to Notre Dame.
Mr. Michael J. Murphy, C.S.C.: His home town is Butte, Montana. Mr. Murphy will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters cum laude. He is a graduate of Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, Indiana, entering Notre Dame in September, 1940.
Walter Lawrence McDermott: How many of us will ever forget the stellar performance of Walt in the Old Timers-Varsity football game a few weeks ago? Mac backed up both sides of the Old Timers line and figured prominently in their 19-6 victory over the Varsity. Mac also lent his varied talents to boost the interhall softball competition.	.
Walt’s friendliness and sense of duty has made
hi
Columbus for culminated in
him a pillar of the Knights of many semesters. This activity
Commerce Fo he invari
n
s' one of the “Yacht Club” elite. With that
nfectious grin on his Irish face, O’Rourke has a sunny future.
Brother Augustus Patin, C.S.C.: Born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, he was graduated from Boys Technical High School, Milwaukee, Wis-
a member of the
Mac’s election to the office of Grand Knight in this past semester. His diligent hand could also be seen in the arrangements for the Knights of Columbus bail during the winter semester.
Mac entered Notre Dame as a junior and likes the University of the Lakes more than any other college that he has attended. Walt has a pet gripe, though; he becomes violent when he is disturbed in the middle of a nap. Mac is going to work after his graduation when he receives his B.S. in Commerce.
Mr. Mark G. McGrath, C.S.C.: His home town is Panama City, Panama. Mr. McGrath will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters magna cum laude. He is a graduate of La Salle Military Academy, Oakdale, Long Island, New York, entering Notre Dame, in September, 1940.
Thomas Edward Nolan: Although he now lives in Chicago, Tom claims to be a Hoosier from Valparaiso, Indiana where he lived until recently. He came to Notre Dame as a civilian and worked during his first year in the Dining hall. Later he went on active duty with the Navy in the NROTC. In the last semester Tom was made the NROTC Battalion Commissary Officer. He quite readily gives the food first place on his “Pet Peeve” list at Notre Dame.
Being on the Brain Trust of the NRO’s Tom will receive his degree cum laude and will be commissioned Ensign after graduation. He played interhall softball and says his favorite hobbies
are sports in general. He doesn’t think Bend is such a good place to have fun heads for Chicago every week-end he can.
South so he
John Joseph Nowak, Jr.: John is a
South
Bend man who receives a B.S. in Chemical Engineering. Here on campus he was active in the American Institute of Chemical Engineering and the American Chemical Society. He participated in swimming and basketball in the inter-hall leagues. Struggling pre-meds and striving chem men will perhaps remember John best as their efficient and helpful lab technician in the Chemistry building. John worked off-campus as an analytical chemist; his particular hobby is photography. John has a fine regard for the professors
here at the University and is not stinting in his praise of them. Immediately after graduation John intends to pursue knowledge in his chosen field by doing graduate work in chemistry.
James Alexander O’Connor: One of the quieter fellows from the NROTC, Jim will get his Degree in Chemical Engineering, cum laude. Here at Notre Dame, Jim played interhall basketball and a lot of good golf. He has belonged to the American Institute of Chemical Engineers since 1942 and was secretary-treasurer from July of ’44 to Feb. of ’45.
He held down the rigorous task of heavy apparatus instructor in Phy. Ed., and thinks that Calculus from Dr. Menger was his best college subject and Principles of Chemical Engineering the hardest. After graduation, Jim will receive his commission as an Ensign in the Navy and expects to go right to sea. Now a platoon commander in the NROTC, Jim will always be remembered for his good looks and quiet scholarly manner.
Mr. William C. O’Connor, C.S.C.: His home town is Green Bay, Wisconsin. Degree to be received is Bachelor of Arts and Letters. Mr. O’Connor is a graduate of Pio Nono High School, St. Francis, Wisconsin; and entered Notre Dame in September, 1940.
John Joseph O’Rourke:-Who made the statement that the Irish have vanished from Notre Dame? John J. O’Rourke, Brooklyn-born and Brooklyn-reared has, unbelievingly a love for the “Dodgers.” “Ace” is one of our more enthusiastic baseball fans. He played summer baseball here and was an agile outfielder for the St. Edward and Sorin hall softball teams. John graduates with a B.S. in Business Administration and intends to enter war-work immediately after graduation.
Following the war John plans to enter the shipping business. Rabid in his praises of Notre Dame football teams, his powerful voice could be detected at the crest of any cheer j his freshman year h
rQuite dapper, his last semester wore a hat and coat which stamped
Robert Hugh James O’Toole: to carry on the O’Toole tradition at Notre Dame. Five of his brothers have preceded him here.
“O.K., let’s hear it, men!” O’Toole’s husky voice would plead at the football pep-rallies. The resulting answer would be a mighty roll of thunder as Bob’s infectious zest was caught and the walls of the Gym were pounded with a mammoth drum-yell. He is remembered as managing-editor and promotion-manager of the Notre Dame Scholastic. As vice-president of the Student Council in 1944 he served capably and well. The Bookmen and the Glee club numbered Bob among their members. He was librarian to the Bookmen.
Bob played saxophone and clarinet in the University band before taking up his duties as head cheer-leader. A graduate from the College of Arts and Letters Bob has maintained a cum laude average. Witty, clear-headed O’Toole is destined for a successful career in whatever profession he enters. Jokingly Bob says the WMC has his immediate destiny in hand.
Twenty-four
Men About the	———————
cousin. Brother came to Notre Dame in the fall of '41; receives the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
Mr. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C.: His home town is Evanston, Illinois. Mr. Pelton will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters cum laude. He is recipient of the Monsignor Francis A. O’Brien prize for an Historical Essay in 1941. He is a graduate of Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Illinois, entering Notre Dame in September, 1939.
—★—
Francis Xavier Pendarvis: The “Lone Star State" is well represented in “Tex.” Three years at Notre Dame have affected neither his Southern spirit nor his Texas brogue. In his sophomore year Frank joined the Navy V-12 and also became a member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. In the ensuing years he moved up in both organizations, and he is now a student officer in the Navy and secretary-treasurer of the A.I.Ch.E.
His weekends usually begin with a steak and side order at Rosie’s followed by an evening dancing at the Service Center. Tex’s ever present smile and his soft crooning have contributed to his great popularity with both sexes. During his stay in the Midwest, Tex has accumulated many memories—the magnolia trees in bloom, the grotto, trips to Drewry’s Brewery. As far as he is concerned, V-J day will be the day he can gather up all these memories and with a certain somebody settle down in Texas forever.
Mr. Stanislaus J. Rdzok, C.S.C.: His home town is Chicago, Illinois. Mr. Rdzok will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters. He is a graduate of Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, Indiana.
—★—
Anthony N. Renze, Jr.: Tony, one of the true Notre Dame men, and lay-over from the glorious peacetime""3ays, realizSTRj^Jlrtjr^eji, to bridge that 500 mile gap between him and Dottie, is to graduate. Nini, as his fellow operators refer to him, interrupted his college education by joining the Army Air Force. The off-campus dealers plus George's and Tiny's will lose an ardent supporter when Tony graduates. Even though South Bend doesn't meet with Tony's full approval, we notice now and then he is still able to do quite a bit of operating.
—★—
James Robert Retter: A resident of California, Pa. Jim came here in September, 1942. Here at Notre Dame the “Fox” had very few spare moments. Jim graduates with a B.S. in Chemical Engineering and he intends to start work for the Carbide and Carbon Chemical Corporation in New York City soon after graduation. For three semesters Jim was a member of the Student Council representing the College of Engineering.
A member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineering, he was one of their more active members, acting as publicity agent for them in 1945. The Autumn Ball of 1944 owes its superb atmosphere to the diligent work of decorations chairman, Jim Retter. As a freshman Jim played on Zahm’s interhall basketball team. Of a mercurial nature Jim couldn't resist the opportunity to drive a car to California in 1942 for a local dealer.
Meticulous in his dress and demeanor Retter leaves us with an impression of business-like efficiency and ability to settle things. At Student Council meetings it was usually Jim who broke up
a languishing discussion by an intelligent motion. As a member of the Economic Round-Table he infused his enthusiasm and ability into the club functions.
—★—
John Paul Rinella: Born and raised in Kewanee, Illinois, John dared to venture forth into the world in the fall of 1941 and settle down at Notre Dame. And now with his Bachelor of Law degree in sight, his immediate plans include the state bar exam. John was a member of the old Midwest Club besides being a star pitcher in interhall softball. No subject was too tough for him but his favorite was Domestic Relations— of all things. He is known best of all for his wit and for being such a good friend.
—★—
Robert Emmet Riordan: Ambitious, energetic, dynamic and amiable are all insufficient when applied to Bob. His buoyant sincere smile and pleasing personality have made him many true friends. Bob transferred to Notre Dame in March, 1944, from St. Benedict’s College, entered the Commerce school here from which he will receive a B.S. in Foreign Commerce, cum laude. He hopes to be connected with the State Department in Washington. D. C. soon.
In his short stay here. Bob has wholly participated in almost every type of campus activity. He was managing-editor, and editor-in-chief of the SCHOLASTIC; secretary, then president, of the Student Council; treasurer of the Knights of Columbus; secretary of the Wranglers; a Commerce Forum members—he received their 1945 award—and can be counted among the Bookmen. In addition Bob was co-chairman and instigator of the senior class dinner-dance, played baritone in the band, and has been a straw boss of the west side dining hall. Solomon, Kans., has every reason to be proud of its Notre Dame representative.
Lawrence Romagosa: From Balboa High School in the Canal Zone to the University of Notre Dame in Indiana—what a man won’t do for^»*<4ucation. But Larry is satisfied, and happy that heThadgNotre Dame his home. Larry was president of ZnTRqza during his sophomore and junior years, aand atSb^pok an active part in the Commerce Forum anc^Inter-American Affairs club. His participation in inH{hall sports included soccer, basketball, and softbafLLarry has been a good student while at Notre Btome. He claims statistics is his favorite subject. Sht dents are really going to miss that South American' humor of yours, Larry.
Richard Melvin Sadowski: Dick joined the Notre Dame family in September, 1940, and since then, excepting an eight month stay in khaki, has cut quite a figure on campus. His sharp, snappy clothes have stamped him as the most dressed man at Notre Dame. One of Dick’s favorite gripes, omitting restrictions, is the fact that he can remember all too vividly the “good old days" when there were table cloths in the dining hall, seconds on all food, and pitchers of milk on every table.
The Knights of Columbus claim Dick as a five year member, and he served them as chancellor in 1944 and as Grand Knight in 1945. He has been associated with the Commerce Forum for four years, and the Glee club for two years. He was treasurer of the Student Council in 1944 and did a great deal of work as a student manager in his freshman year.
A degree of B.S. in Business Administration will be Dick's reward upon the completion of his sojourn here at Notre Dame. After commence
ment he plans to enter the hotel business with the intention of gaining a foothold in the night club world after the war is over.	,
—★—
John Richard Sayers: Dick, a true Notre Dame man entered Notre Dame in September of 1942. The following summer he was seen on the campus as a trainee under the Navy V-12 program. Active in the American Society of Chemical Engineers for eight semesters he has been a definite asset to its work. At present he holds a company office in the V-12 Unit.
After getting off to a slow start. Dick worked diligently toward attaining the cum laude degree which he is to receive. Saturdays usually finds Dick making his weekly visit across the Dixie Highway to see a certain girl at St. Mary's. If St. Mary’s' is on vacation Dick still makes his way across the Dixie Highway, but his destination is further north to Roseland’s Ramble Inn where his fellow Chemical Engineers gather in bull sessions. After the war Dick hopes to lay aside his uniform and establish himself in Chemical Engineering.
Mr. Robert N. Schiel. C.S.C.: Hailing from Toledo, Ohio, he will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters. He is a graduate of Central Catholic High School, Toledo, Ohio; entering Notre Dame in September, 1940.
—★—
Kenneth Herman Schultz: “Kenny” entered Notre Dame as a transfer student in July, 1943. Two semesters were spent as a civilian at the University of Valparaiso. His last six semesters were completed as a V-12 trainee here. At Valpo, Ken was a member of Kappa Iota Pi. He is an active member of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences.
His hobbies include all sports and photography. His favorite subject was “sackology” (sleeping); he was most irked by the inspections and the Notre Dame chow. Ken’s most used expression is, “What a girl” (varying accents). Midshipman school fills most of his immediate plans, but what he wants most after the war is to own silk stockings, a suit with two pairs of pants, Kleenex, and tooth paste instead of powder. About Notre Dame he says. “I have enjoyed my stay here at Notre Dame and wish that all the places to which I am ordered are as nice as this.
Mr. Richard W. Timm, C.S.C.: Hailing from Michigan City, Indiana, Mr. Timm will receive th^degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters magna ^^Kaude. He is a graduate of St. Mary’s High lORil, Michigan City. Indiana. Date of his entrance to Notre Dame was September, 1941.
T wenty-f i ve
Melvyn Phillip Tomber: “P.T." is a villager. Mel graduated from Riley High school in South Bend. He graduates from the College of Arts and Letters and expects to enter the foreign service of the United States in the near future. Mel represented the Villagers on the Student Council in 1945 and was active in the Radio club in his Freshman and Sophomore years. He served as vice-president of the Villagers.
When in doubt about the intricacies of a modem library you’d do well to query Mel. He acted as assistant student librarian for seven semesters. Expressing his interest in foreign affairs he joined the Inter-American Affairs discussion group. He has one very irritating peeve—proximity to persons who continually gripe about N.D.
Redmond Francis Toner: Stamford, Conn.’s gift to the class of 1945 is Rem Toner, the “Smiling Irishman.” He entered Notre Dame in Nov., 1943, after spending two years at Iona College, New Rochelle, New York. His favorite subject has been American history, while the many back-breaking hours he has had to spend at physical education gave him the most trouble. He enjoys the rugged life of getting up at 5:40 each morning in order to check the Zahm boys into chapel. “Rem” is the student prefect of that hall.
During his five semesters, he has become almost as much a fixture at Rosie's as the traditional spaghetti and meatballs. As for Rem’s plans after graduation, he says he will make his first million by thirty and then retire to a Connecticut estate.
Thomas Francis Xavier Vail: Tom is beyond a doubt the most popular man in Sorin. The reason?—he’s the mail man. Sorinites literally line the corridors waiting for him to put in his appearance. And in case your watch has stopped, you can set it by Tom; that’s how punctual and dependable he is. In addition to his post office duties, underclassmen have met him as an electrical engineering laboratory instructor. He taught night classes of the University’s War Program during last September’s session.
Tom has well earned his B.S. in Electrical Engineering. He actively participated in the campus branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers during his eight semesters under the Dome and served as its president in his senior year. The band has also been the recipient of his’ varied abilities. Tom has played the bass horn and the string bass. His mighty “oomp pahs” are still echoing in the field house since the last football rally. Mr. Hope is really losing an anchor man.
—★—
Miguel Jose Vila: Mike Vila, marked with his years of competent service as an officer of La Raza club and also the faithfulness with which he helped “the boys” of Senor Corona's Spanish class, graduates with a Bachelor of Arts and Letters degree. But this won't be the only way Mike will be missed—George, at the Arcadia, hasn’t appointed anyone as yet who is able to take Mike’s place in the corner booth. Since George’s is closed on Sundays, Mike’s greatest problem is—What to do on Sunday?
—★—
Mr. John E. Walsh, C.S.C.: His home town is Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Degree to be received is Bachelor of Arts and Letters. Mr. Walsh is a graduate of St. John's Cathedral, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and he entered Notre Dame in September, 1940.
.	—★—
Mr. Boniface S. Wanta, C.S.C.: His home town is Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. Mr. Wanta will receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters. He is a graduate of St. John’s Cathedral, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, entering Notre Dame as a Sophomore in September, 1941.
—★—	.
Mr. John L. Van Wolvlear, C.S.C.: His home town is Grand Rapids, Michigan. Mr. Wolvlear will receive the degree of Arts and Letters. He is a graduate of Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, Indiana; entering Notre Dame in September, 1941.
When you’re down-town . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
---------Try Our ■—
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
THESE ARE THE MONTHS OF THE YEAR
(Continued from Page 4)
and the American Ballad singers were welcomed later in the semester..
The Co-Hops provided popular entertainment and justified the work done on them by the C.A.S.
Father Kehoe took over the reins of Acting Prefect of Discipline as Father Burke went into the navy.
Krause went into the service and was replaced by Wally Ziemba for the remainder of the basketball season.
Believe it or not, some of the E.R.C. was still around.
.	Baby Juniors
By now we were Juniors and took over the hallowed and worn paths that lead to Sorin hall. We were told that 12:00 was still latest that we could stay out.
Two well known campus figures passed away to darken our return. Thomas E. Mills, popular director of the Rockne Memorial died suddenly of a heart attack. Six days later, Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C., died following an appendectomy. His guidance in service affairs to students and his loss to the University are both incalculable.
We revenged our Great Lakes football loss by a hard won victory over them.
Col. Carlos P. Romulo, prominent Phillipine writer, diplomat and soldier, spoke to the student body and expressed his happiness on his return to his alma mater.
Col. Jack Major, humorist, entertained
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
us in Washington hall. He explained that he was a drinking colonel, not a fighting colonel.
The Engineer’s ball was the semi-formal of the semester and Al Ravalin was the band.
Barney Ross was the honorary referee during the Bengal Bouts.
Vivian Della Chiesa sang for us in the drill hall.
The R.O.T.C. Ball brought Chuck Eaton and the V-12 presented Gerry Wald.
The ranks of the E.R.C. were getting pretty thin by this time.
“Growed-up” Juniors
Our last semester as juniors saw quite a few important changes. The V-12 band
CONGRATULATIONS!
to the
Notre Dame Graduates
May every success be yours in coming years.
KRAUSS JEWELRY CO.
207 N. Michigan St
Always a wide selection of attractive gifts.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
BOOKS
For Your
Reading Enjoyment
"THE BEST FROM YANK'
Yank Magazine's best in fact, fiction and picture from every battle-front and .camp.
Brave Men	-
Moral Conquest of Germany ' Mexico
American Guerilla in the Philippines The Father Brown Omnibus Pride's Way Commodore Hornblower The Upstart Poor Child Captain from Castile A Lion Is In the Streets The Wine of San Lorenzo Quit for the Next Border City
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction.
NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STORE
KU
127 W. Washington St.
"In the J. M. S. Building'
T w e n t y - s e v e n
was inaugurated and the Notre Dame band presented the popular outdoor concerts.
The Graduate school was reorganized under the leadership of Rev. Phillip S. Moore, C.S.C.
The Student Council sponsored a Field Day, highlighting a “Phomp” race. St. Ed’s A.C., proved itself in defeating the campus halls including the benevolent old men of Sorin. Sorin had misunderstood the nature of the contest and had done their training at George’s.
The Law Ball and Lew Diamond was the first dance. The Student Council’s Autumn Ball followed with Chuck Cavallo and was the feature attraction of a football week-end, which saw us defeat Tulane and heard Myron Walz play at the Victory Dance. The ROTC ballgoers were entertained by Hal McIntyre.
The Hans Lange Little Symphony presented a fine evening of entertainment at Washington hall.
The students sent that much appreciated candy, soap, and clothing to our Alumnus Major John V. Hinkel, for the Italian children.
Senior “Debs”
Seniors at last. As we strolled down the cinder path, we noticed the marines— conspicuous by their absence. One handful, of the E.R.C. were still around.
We were coming through another football season, and our team had done great. Ed McKeever had taken over as coach
since Leahy’s induction into the navy and he had reason to be proud. The team was known as the bobby sox brigade, but their
victories were not small ones.
Then there came a dismal Saturday when an Army team defeated us thoroughly. Students were quick to answer the call, and a disheartened squad was met at the NYC station by a cheering and proud student body. The disheartened team
Appropriate GIFTS for GRADUATION
June 22
126 N. Michigan Street
Twenty-eight
needed nothing more. They went on to defeat Northwestern 21-0, Southern Champs, Georgia Tech 21-0, and only once-defeated Great Lakes, 28-7.
The V-12 Ball with Vaugh Monroe saw civilians attending in tails for the first time in three years. The K of C featured Teddy Phillips.
“Home in Indiana” played at the Colfax, and there were many laughs.
At Long Last
This semester marked the beginning of the end. The end of college life and the beginning of a more serious way of living.
There have been many highlights in this semester. . . . Student Council Field Day, the V-12 Ball, the ROTC ball, the Bob Hope War Bond Show, and our last college formal — the Senior Candle-light Dance. These are just the flood lights that reveal the moment we have waited for—Graduation evening.
The V-12 anxiously await their assignment to midshipman school, and the civilians prepare to surrender their 2-A deferments or to enter fields of industry; the R.O.T.C. await their assignment to the world’s battle areas. All of us prepare to take our separate way, but we leave armed with the culture, tradition, courage, and knowledge that forms Notre Dame.
For
Notre Dame Men!
The
New Notre Dame Scapular Medal
$1.95 with chain
Beautifully manufactured in every detail by expert workmanship. You'll want one for yourself or as an attractive gift for a friend.
Sincerest Best Wishes
to the
Notre Dame Graduating Seniors
Best of luck to you, graduates, in the war and then the peace.
Corsages Cut Flowers
WILLIAMS
i	..
West of the Oliver Hotel PHONE 3*5149
CONGRATULATIONS GRADS!
We wish to extend our heartiest congratulations to each member of the Notre Dame graduating class, and our sincerest best wishes • for many years to come.
NOTRE DAME
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
Hours:
Week Days—8 a. m. till 4:15 p. m. Saturdays —8 a. m. till 1:00 p. m.
BATTLE CRY!
Chinese soldiers have a battle cry: “Gung-Ho!” Literally translated, means “Working together!” In Americanese, it means Teamwork.
And Teamwork is a word every American understands—in peacetime as in war. In this war, it means perfect understanding among our Government, our service men, our home front.
It means our confidence in our fighters’ ability. It means their faith
in us to provide the material to d^ the job.
It means buying War Bonds. And a very good buy they are, too.
For every three dollars we invest in War Bonds, ’Uncle Sam promises four back in ten years. There’s no more honorable promise in the world!
Buy War Bonds. They’re a wonderful investment—for you as well as America!
All OUT FOR THE MIGHTY 7th WAR LOAN
THE SCHOLASTIC
★ This is an official U.S. Treasury advertisement—prepared under the auspices of Treasury Department and War Advertising Council
Twenty-nine
THE GREEN BANNER
(Continued from page 15) always had a hearty laugh even for a corny joke, we wish the best of luck in his graduate work at Cornell.
Competitor Leaves
Doc Gillespie, a pre-med by trade, a wolf at heart—wrote the “College Parade,” and made nasty remarks about St. Mary’s (bad boy) . . . Smiling Jack Allen, a Philadelphia politician, really turned South Bend upside down at times. One of the gang and a gentleman from start to finish. . . .
Notre Dame’s only living specimen of a well-fed man is Jim Retter. Reason: He worked in the Presbytery. Enough said.
Rem “Young Chuck” Toner is the Irishman with the Eastern accent.
The “Phomp” Too
We’ll never forget the one and only “hot dog” Walt McDermott. Had the boys on Sorin porch in stitches so often, he should have been a doctor.
Last but not least, the character of them all, Frank “Head” Linehan. The tops in the big time. A real buddy who weathered the storm with us through thick and thin in Brownson, St. Ed’s and Sorin. Lots of luck back East, Frank, and don’t forget to pull the Irish through that Army game next Fall.
And so we close. Wishing the grads of “46” Godspeed and good fortune always, and hoping the luck of the Irish will be with all its favorite sons in whatever they may do. Take it slow gang!
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
EDUCATION, FR. MOORE'S THEME (Continued from page 3)
their emotions. Education frees us from the tyranny of the emotions, and this furnishes us the finest possible preparation for later life.”
Eighty-one Naval Science degrees will be conferred, while 34 will be awarded by the College of Arts and Letters, 22 by the College of Science, 24 by the College of Engineering, 14 by the College of Commerce, one by the Law School, and eight by the Graduate School. Twenty-seven of the 34 de-
* Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co
DECORATORS
128 North Michigan Street
THESE NAMES ARE FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW
Shirts and Neckwear
VAN HEUSEN Shirts and Sportswear
B. V. D.
Underwear and Sportswear
McGREGOR
Sportswear
SUPERBA — BOTANY — WEMBLEY Ties ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
ROBEHTSOVS
211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL. DENTISTRY
X-RAYS ANO CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
. DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M. D. M. J. THORNTON. M. D,
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
4O6-4OB TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2S74
COOPER
Underwear
BRENTWOOD
Sweaters
MARLBORO
Sportswear
HICKOK
Belts and Braces
Thirty
grees to be conferred by the College of Arts and Letters will be received by Seminarians and Brothers, while one College of Science degree will go to a Brother.
The College of Engineering will award the following Bachelor of Science degrees: four in Mechanical Engineering, 11 in Chemical Engineering, five in Aeronautical Engineering, one in Electrical Engineering, and one in Metallurgy. The College will also award one Professional Degree and one Bachelor of Architecture.
Included in the 65 degrees to be awarded with honors are 24 by the College of Arts and Letters, nine Magna Cum Laude and 15 Cum Laude, two Magna Cum Laude and 25 Cum Laude in Naval Science, three Magna Cum Laude and seven Cum Laude by the College of Engineering, one Cum Laude by the College of Science, and three Cum Laude by the College of Commerce.
The awarding of the degrees will conclude the curtailed Commencement Day program. Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the university, will celebrate mass at 8:00 a.m., which will be followed at 9:00 by a communion breakfast, and a reception will be held in the Rockne Lounge for the graduates and their guests at 4:00.
GRADUATION GIFTS in Leather
BB3333323223322322332322322233323322332233323222232323333323333323332333323333333323333323332
2223322222222222222232222222222522222222322222$
114 South Michigan Street
CONGRATULATIONS, Notre Dome Graduates
Our sincere congratulations to the Notre Dame graduating seniors and our thanks for your valued patronage. Always a wide selection of corsages, cut flowers and potted plants at
Phone 3-8227
South Bond
Michigan and Colfax
At a Notre Dame Bus Stop
Thirty-one
%
&J
PH
YESSIR I ED' AND TRUE
Q/-' JfMILDER
BETTER TASTING
COOLER SMOKING
That means you offer Chesterfields with every confidence ... for when it comes to- making a
good cigarette, there are no short cuts and no' second-bests. Chesterfield knoivsonlyoheway..
the one that’s tried and true

KIGHT COMBINATION ★ WORID’S BEST TOBACCOS
