
Do you want to know what's 
•

going on at Notre Dame? 
Subscribe to 
-


SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
You'll find: 
• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
what's happenning on weekends 

• 
some off-the-wall college humor 


Only $20 a year -just $1 per issue 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1995-96 
Name: 
Address: ___________ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 

...AND BUDGET 
.· ;suBwA~ · 
.. _Th.e'Pl_;ttc \X'ht:.'re Frcslj)s theTastt:. 
. . -\~ . 
54533 Terrace Ln 277-7744 52577 US Rt.31 277-1024 


SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 20 FOUNDED 1867 APRIL 20, 1995 
WWII
3Notre Dame's campus has not always been as carefreeasitistoday. Production ManagerMark Mitchell talces alook at how the campus unfolded during the Second World War, and shares the memories and experiences of numerous Notre Dame veterans. 


Losing the Race 
12Everything from national news magazines to the national government is questioning affirmative action. Here's a look at what kind of effects this trend will have on Notre Dame's own affirmative action pol­icies. 

CD Review
22Finally, the CD we haveall been waiting for. Here is Scho/astic's review of the compilation CD of Notre Dame's best student bands. · 

FEATURES 

P~ing the Bllcks •Amy Q-awford..................................................•....~.~ ...............................................................10 One More Chance •· Shannan Ball ...........................................................................................................................16 Back to School• Jake Schaller ..................................................................................... '......... _ .................................... 18 Now You See 'Em• Joey Oawford and Chris Myers ................................... ; ............. ~ ...........................................20 Setting Sail After the First 100 Days · Kevin Klau ................................. : ............................................................. 28 
DEPARTMENTS 

Co . Di tra ti.. . · 24
From tlle Editor ............................................................. 2 
:rmng s c ons .................. · ................................ . 
Canlpus Watch ............................................................15 
On Other Cmnpuses....................................................25 
Splinters from the Press Box ......................................17 
Comics........................................................... , ............. 26 
-

Out of Bounds .............................................................23 
Week in Distortion ...................................................... 27 

V etville. Stonehenge. The inscription over the Basilica's east doorway. All ofthese are reminders of a time long past, a time most Notre Drune students today do not even know about, a time when Notre Drune was an utterly different place. 
On South Quad, row upon row ofyoung, uniformed men standatattention. The sound of a whistle pierces the silence, spurring the men into action. In one movement, all 500 men whisk their guns from their shoulders, cock them and point. them toward 0 'Shaughnessy. 
Inside O'Shaughnessy, men sit crammed into the tiny desks, studying military history, memorizing complicated battle formations, and learning about German and 
\ 
Japanese attack strategy. Their faces exude intense concentration -some of this information could mean the difference between life and death; Inside cramped dorm rooms, other men pack their suitcases for the last time, as they head to Europe to fight for our country. 
This was thereality atNotreDrune between 1941 and 1945, whenNotreDruneopened its crunpus to the military as a training center for the duration of U.S. involvement in World War II. 
By 1946, Notre Dame had prepared almost 12,000 soldiers for combat These men left their families, their studies and many of them gave up their lives to protect our country. 
In honor of their sacrifices and Notre Drune's role in the war effort, Scholastic Magazine has devoted seven pages of this issue to remembering this time. On pages 3­6, Production Manager Mark J. Mitchell IV reports on Notre Drune's contributions to the World War II effort, and on pages 7-9, the stories ofNotre Drune alumni who fought in the war bring this period of time to life. 
Correction 

In the Sarcastic section of the March 30 issue ofScholastic Magazine, material was reprinted from a Notre Dame underground magazine called Slow Death, which was producedJn the early 80s. It was the Scholastic editorial board's belief that permission · had been granted to reprint copy from the magazine, but we apologize for not giving credit to its producers. They are: Bill Cavanaugh, Brian Stanley, Betsy Station, Bruce Novotny, Fran Norton, Mark Nelson, Kevin J. O'Brien, Gary Chrunberland, Thomas Daley, Julie Stanley and John Quinn. 
Until Next Year 
Unfortunately, this is going to be the last issue ofScholastic for the 1994-95 sch6ol year. We will send out a summer issue to all incoming freshman, and we willbe back again in August of next year. Have a good summer. 
Michelle L. Crouch 
Editor in Chief 
Cover photo courtesy of Notre Dame Archives 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•APRIL 20, 1995 

On May 8and September 2, 1995, the United States will mark the 50th anniversary ofthe end of World War Hin Europe and the Pacific. For Notre Dame the war was atime ofmilitary occupation, during which the campus was an auxiliary service academy at which nearly 12,00Q · men were trained for combat. 
The toll the war took on Notre Dame students and alumni was also substantial. Almost 300 Notre Dame men were killed on the seas, in the air and on the land in World War H. 
For those who survived the war, the horrors of combat have-remained with them forever. In remembering and honoring their sacrifice, Scholastic Magazine has produced this report onthe university's contribution to the national war effort. The first article reports on -the university's _role, but the following pages are covered with personal rememberances of World War Hfrom Notre.Dame alumni who proudly served and who have shared their stories with µs. 
S C H O L A.S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ A P R I L 2 0 , 1 9 9 5 





In Glory Everlasting 
As the nation marched to war, the students, priests and faculty ofthe University ofNotre Dame kept right in step 
by Mark J. Mitchell IV 

''From my original corridors of 
Cavanaugh Hall,NedBrockman 
killed in the Air Corps and Al 

Nilone and Mike Brady and many others 
never returned." Some entered through 
NROTC,someenlisted, many were drafted, 
all served bravely and many died. They 
were as young as 19 and as old~ 28. They 
came from states across the union to one 
place, Notre Dame. It was at Notre Dame 
·that many of them trained and prepared for 
combat It was their status as Notre Dame 
men thatthey proudly carried to battlefields 
across the world-and it was many aNotre 
Dame man who lost his life on the oceans, 
on foreign soil and in the skies. 
Every city and town in America contrib­uted young men to the fighting of World War II. And every college and university sent alumni and students to the combat zone. ButNotreDame'swasaspecialcase. At the height of the war, in 1943, only two halls, Sorin and Saint Edward's, housed civilian students. The rest ofthe campus­Walsh, Dillon, Alumni, Morrissey, Lyons, Howard, Badin, Zahm, Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips-was home to young men who were not only attending college, but were also preparing to enter the war as sailors and soldiers. 
Notre Dame's military occupation began in earnest in September of 1941, when president J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., de-­cided thatin the face ofthe escalating war in Europe, he would open the university to the military as a training center. O'Donnell's first offer was to the Army since it had established a unit of the Student's Army Training Corps on campus in 1918 during World War I. But the Army did not take O'Donnell up on his offer. 
It was the United States Navy which eagerly responded to O'Donnell's invita­tion and established aNROTC unitatNotre Dame in time for the commencement of classes in the fall of 1941. About 150 students a year were scheduled to complete their college degree work and receive a naval commission through the NROTC program. ButNotreDame' s military plans, and the country's military plans, changed quickly. 
"I was in my room in Lyons Hall reading for' classes the next day when guys came 
Left: Head Football 
Coach Frank Leahy sits 
with his family the night 
before he has to ship out 
to the war area in the 
Pacific. Leahy held the 
rank of Lieutenant In the 
Navy; his duties Includecl 
physical training for 
submarine crews. 
Leahy's first Helsman 
Trophy winner, Angleo 
Bertelli, also served in 
the war In the Marine _ 
Corps. 
Above Right: University _ president J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., reviews the members of the V-7 Midshipmen's school with commanding officer Captain J.H. Burnett. Notre Dame was only the fourth Midship1T1en's school in the country, and it was the only college or university to be so designated, aside from the Naval Academy. 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• APRIL 20, 1995 
running up and down the halls shouting 'War! War! We'reatWar!"' Thedatewas December 7, 1941, and the Japanese had bombed Pearl Harbor. The next day, Con­gress declared war, and the United States mobilized for combat against the forces of Japan, Germany, Italy and a host of other nations which had aligned with the Axis powers. The draft had already been estab­lished earlier in 1941, but conscription and enlistment efforts quickly multiplied. 
For Notre Dame, this meant a greatly expanded military role. In March of 1942, the Navy designated Notre Dame the fourth V-7training center in the country. Through this program, men who had graduated from other colleges could complete Midshipmen's training at Notre Dame in two orfour months and beatwar within half a year. In 1943, the Navy's training ad­vanced when it made Notre Dame a V-12 training center for sailors and marines. By this time, there were only 250 civilian stu­dents at Notre Dame. The rest of the cam­pus residents were military personnel com­pleting their preparation for war. By 1946 approximately 12,000 men had been made ready for combat at Notre Dame. 
While it was often the case that a man would graduate from Notre Dame and then enroll in the V-7, most Notre Dame stu­dents who went to war were NROTC stu­dents who graduated with commissions. Between 150 and 200 Naval officers each yearwouldleaveNotreDamefor service as sailors or aviators. 
And there was still conscription. "I was drafted right off the campus in 1942 be­tween my 5th and 6th semesters." There was no student deferment in the second World War. Notre Dame men were taken from the midst of their college studies and sent to boot camp so that they could fight. given therankoflieutenantin theNavyand Dame president Bishop John F. O'Hara, Professors were · also drafted, oftentimes his job was half entertainment officer, half C.S.C., was appointed Military Ordinary, being trained for-a role in military intelli­physical education coach. A this base in the placing him in charge of all military chap­gence or weapons development. Notre central Pacific, Leahy received the battle­lains serving the United States servicemen. Damephysicist Dr. BernardWaldman took weary crews of submarines and rehabili­One Notre Dame graduate even earned a leave of absence from the university in tated ,them in time for a new cruise. After 70 himself the nickname of the "Parachuting March of 1943 to wcirk at the Los Alamos days under water, submariners were poorly Padre." Father Francis Sampsonparachuted military laboratory. He was part of the team nourished,outofshapeanddepressed;Lieu­into France on D-Day with the first wave of of scientists developing a top secretweapon tenant Leahy's job was to rebuild their · paratroopers and was later taken prisoner fortheArmy. It was theManhattanProject. morale and get them back in top physical by the Germans. Infact, Waldman was aboard theEnolaGay condition for their next cruise. When the war ended in 1945, Scholastic as a scientific observer in 1945 when it There were also the chaplains. Holy Magazine estimated that 239 Notre Dame dropped the first atomic bomb .over Cross priests and Notre Dame graduates alumni had died in.the war and 36 were still Hiroshima. · ·who enteredotherseminaries wereassigned missing in action. Many ofthose who were 

Even Head Football Coach Frank Leahy to serve as spiritual guides for the soldiers memorialized on the pages of Scholastic 
was pressed into military service. He was and sailors across the globe. Former Notre had notations like "(ex. '47i' next to their 


names, indicating that they hadbeendrafted in themiddle of their college careers and never had the chance to fin­ish. 
For those who had served and did come back to Notre Dame, the university desig­nated several halls for veter­ans onlyand built Vetvillefor married veterans who were enrolled as students. The needs of these students were quitedifferentfrom the needs of other college students. A youngHolyCrosspriest, who had once dreamed ofbeing a chaplain on an aircraft car­rier, was made the chaplain for all veterans enrolled at Notre Dame. ''To beinBadin Hallwith him wasarareprivi­lege and a great treat Father knew us, welcomed us, pro­tected us, and taughtus." That priest . was Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
NotreDame'scontribution tothenationaleffortin World 


Semaphore class is conducted for NROTC students and · Midshipmen candidates in the Navy Drill Hall, which the university constructed for military training during World War II. The Navy Drill Hall, which used to lie behind the old Fieldhouse, was demolished after the war, but the "Middy School" building, which provided classroom and office space for NROTC and the Midshipmen's school, is currently the headquarters for campus security. 
reunions were held by 
alumni who took solace in 
remembering happy days 
on the campus. There are 
even reports that in pris­
oner-of-war camps, when 
the "Star-Spangled Ban­
ner" and "God Save the 
King" were prohibited by 
the enemy captors, Notre 
Dame men proudly taught 
their fellow prisoners to 
sing the "Notre Dame Vic­
tory March." "Everyone 
loved it. It gave us spirit 
and courage; And I once 
caughtaGerman guard tap­
ping his foot to the beat." 
Notre Dame did its tour 
of service as a military school, and 50 years after the end of the greatest war ·in the history of the world, the university proudly cel­ebrates the sacrifice of Notre Dame men. The stone slabs of the War Me­

morial Fountain stand as . 
massive but silent remind­

WarII was by no means small. The university gave of itself and its ers of that sacrifice. But in its tribute to those who died in World students, and then welcomed home those who were lucky enough War I, the east door of Sacred Heart attributes to all Notre Dame's to come outalive. Overseas during the fighting, many Notre Dame veterans that which they truly deserve: Glory ~verlasting.. 


_., • I • • • ' .._.,, • t • • • • ~ • ' • 
James M. Purcell '43 
I was stationed in Polebrooke, England, with the 510th Squadron, 351 st Bomb Group. We flew B-17s over Germany. 
I flew 28 missions -my first was my worst. We flew over LudwigShadfen-arrivedat the target, buthad to make a360-degree turn because the German anti-aircraft guns zeroed in on us. The plane I was flying formation with exploded. We were hit too, so we salvoed our bombs. We were hit again and went into a free fall. I finally righted the plane and the frre went out. But we were alone over Germany. I got on our emergency radio, calling for help. The broadcast was chaos -all pilots calling for "little friends" (fighter planes). 

PFC George G. Birmingham (ex46) cannot write his recollections of World WarII ashe was killed by a Japanese sniper's bullet on the island oflwo Jima o~ almost the last day ofthat savage battle. George was one of 25,851 Marines to fall dead or wounded in 36 days. 
Hewas.recruitedbyNotreDamefrom Trinity High School, Sioux City, Iowa, by my father, Edward J. Lalley, a sports writer and Notre Dame alumnus. George was an All-State football halfback and anunbelievably talented athlete with an impish, engaging Irish personality. Coach Frank Leahy was grateful and impressed. Following his freshman year (when freshmen teams played their ownschedule) George could no longer resist the tug ofpatriotism and a young man's curiosity about war, so he enlisted in the Marine Corps. He could have stayed on campus in an officers training pro gram but was in a hurry to get to the war. His personality and ability soon found him assigned .as his battalion commander's radio operator and driver. 
Coach Leahy told my father that ifGeorge Birmingham had returned from the war, his gridiron exploits would have created a legend rivaling that of George Gipp. 
Oh, that hecould have played onthe grass ofNotreDame Stadium! But tragically he was buried in Iwo's volcanic sand. 
Walt W. Kristoff '41 

As Staff Radai: Officer, Aircraft Warning Service, Aleutian Islands, I worked with Air Force Intelligence to help detect or identify a new and unusual Japanese weapon of war. The weapon was a silent, unmanned balloon, mechanically controlled to make the cross-ocean flight from Japan to North America in four to six days. 
In early 1945, the Japanese released thousands of these paper-fabri­cated balloons equipped with anti-personnel and incendiary bombs. Released from northern coastal sites on Honshu Island, these balloons soared across the North and Central Pacific to land in widely scattered areas from Alaska to Mexico. The farthest one reported in the United States was one that fell to earth in Michigan. The incendiary bombs caused many forest fires in the western states and Canada, and one anti­personnel bomb caused the loss of life to an Oregon woman and five children who were on a church picnic when they came upon a downed balloon and caused its 33-pound bomb to explode. 
I became anxious when our radar station began detecting many unidentified targets. Butwhenour fighter aircraftscrambled to search the areaofradar contact, they mysteriously found no targets to identify. Due to a news blackout, our civilian population has never been aware of the balloon attack. 
Dick Elliott '48 

Combatconditions arehell. Always scared. Corpses, all kinds. Severe weather, mud, bone-killing cold, weeks withour a bath. Collective loneliness. Waiting mail call. Moon-lit snow. You and your weapon in white coveralls to escape detection. Moving in moonshade.. Silence. Fear. Youcould become a statistic. I returned to glorious USA's Boston Harbor and back to Ohio for leave before being honorably discharged. I left for war quite green and 19; I returned beyond my years and 21, but with all my vital parts intact. Many ofmy buddies were not so fortunate. They are the heroes. 
Charles Ehret '48 

Theeast face ofthe farmhouse had beensliced clear away, as ifbysome giant woodsman with surgical skill. The table was set for supper, and looked more like an exhibitor's display of rural life than a family meal abandonedontheeveofbattle. Butwhatfrozemeinmytracksinthedeep snow outside was thehugepictureonthe west wall: a six-foot-tall familiar rendition of a Guardian Angel. 
I had been leading the remnants of my rifle company back from our attack upon the ridge above the village ofMedelsheim. My platoon had led the advance to the top, and despite this we suffered the fewest casualites from the German '88s concealed on our unprotected eastern flank. They opened up with withering barrages only after our remaining platoons moved out across the open fields and orchards below the crest Realizing this, my Captain ordered me to withdraw and reorganize our remnants back into the woods. So I coaxed terrified young soldiers out of shallow foxholes as the shells burst all around us. As we went, vie recovered the wounded and as many of our dead as we could. 
It was my first day in Germany -the 16th of December, 1944. We soon learned ofthe penetration byvon Rundstedtof our thin lines through theArdennestothewest-aptlycalledtheBattleoftheBulgebyWinston Churchill. We spent the rest of December 1944 and January 1945 with Patton's3rd Army, obliterating that Bulge. 
I finally got mine on the Siegfried Line near Prum, and on that day in February, only three menremained outofover 50in my original platoon. I was evacuated onthe hood ofa jeep by heroic aidmen to a field hospital, and from there to hospitals in Liege, Paris, and finally inWorcestershire, England. A backlog ofletters caught up with me there. The first letter I opened was a '.'God Bless You"card with thesamepicture9ftheGuardian Angel I had seen in France. 
John F. Donlan '49 
On Christmas Eve, 1944, I was a 19-year-old radio operator with the 103rd Infantry Division in France and Germany. We were pinned down by a harsh European winter and the German counterattack through the Ardennes. Late atnight,mortar and artillery fire quieted down, so another · crew member and I walked to a nearby Catholic church to attend Christmas Eve Mass. Most townspeople had fled the village and destruction. Fresh snow covered the ruins and an eerie silence main­tained. We followed Gl's and townspeople into church. The gothic church was intact except for the dome which had been blown off, so we celebrated midnight mass under the stars. At Communion, soldiers and townspeople greeted oneanother. After mass we wished each other Merry Christmas, and my friend and I moved over the moonlit snow to continue the war. 
Robert J. Campbell '49 
Seven of my friends died about five miles over a place called Blechamrner. (Is that how you spell it?) Well; it was somewhere over eastern Germany or western Poland, depending on whose map you look at. 
They were after a synthetic oil refinery. They weren'treally "after it." They hardly knew it existed or of what importance it was. ("After it" is a phrase used in Hollywood versions of war.) 
They got up before dawn that morning. They were sleepy, cold and ­what? tense? They were young, and, thank God, a little naive-the sort of naivete that helped keep strong coffee and powdered eggs down. 
After breakfast they shuffled through the early morning darkness to the canvas-shrouded trucks racketing outside their mess hall. They quietly looked back as they were driving away. ("Goodbye.'.' Goodbye who? 
Goodbye what? "We'II be back in time for evening chow.") 

A very neat, intelligent-sounding man, appropriately called the intelligence officer, presided at the briefings. He had marvelous charts and photos to display. He even had a marvel­ous voice and a microphone to project it. 
He began that day, I'msure, as he always did. "Today we will attack and destroy ..." (What's this we garbage? He wasn't going. There's a constant in all wars. Oldermen,politicians and non-combatants casually use the word "we." They always sound so determined.) ­
The flight to the target from our base in Italy was routine, I guess, the monotonous drone of four engines, the aimless daydreaming, interrupted by the reality of crew duties and the feeling in your wrists and knees and stomach-hard to describe -just a feeling. 
Conditions over the target were hairy. The flak was what intelligence officers (who never saw it) used to categorize as "heavy, inten~e, and accurate." The flak contributed to the confusion. 
There had been seven aircraft in our squadron. Survivors from the three remaining aircraft told ofone blinding explosion -
then debris -and the remnants of one aircraft, on fire and 
out of control. Three other B-17s had blown up. 
My friends were in one of the aircraft that blew up. 
ThepeoplewhodiedonthegroundwerePolishorGerman. My friends were from Maryland, Massachusetts, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas and West Virginia. 
The event described took place during the 1944 bomber offensive against Germany's oil production facilities at Blechamrner. A prison compound near the target was later identified at Auschwitz. 
John Grimes '49 

I walked out to the point where the cool blast from the sea whistled through the coral lace. A U.S. officer squatted, his eyes fixed to a spotterscope resting on a rock. Glancing up, he rose, stepped aside and offered me a look. Nothing at first-'-grey rock and tangled shrub. Then I saw-a fat-faced Japanese rifleman in full gear sitting in a high, sunny niche just above a cliffside cave, his rifle cradled in his lap. I looked up and was about to grin. But the officer had turned and was signaling back for a sharpshooter. The officer tried shouting something over the roar of the wind but finally gave it up, pointing instead to the spotterscope. The sharpshooter knelt and looked for a long moment then stood and unslung his '03. He attached his scope, sighted, paused a moment, estimated, corrected, then sighted again. Finally helooked back. The officer nodded and the sharpshooter drew a single shiny round from his belt. I went quickly to the binoculars. The rifleman was still there gazing seaward­oblivious and comfortable in the sunshine, his rifle idle across his knees. I heard the bolt rammed home. My head jerked a bit at the report, but I ~aw clearly enough. The "enemy" quietly bowed over his rifle, toppled and bounced once, out of my range of vision. 


Robert L . .Miller '42 '47 
I have mixed emotions about answering the invitation to send in written 
memories of some of my personal experiences in the "Mother of all 
Wars." In a way it is a curse -making me remember traumatic and 
horrendous events which I have tried desperately, albeit unsuccessfully, 
to forget 
Afterseveralmorithsintransit, I finally caught the aircraft carrier Essex 
on October 30, 1944, in the midst of the largest sea battle in recorded 
history -the Second Battle of the Philippine Sea. It was a bad day for 
carriers offthe Philippines. Inoneofthe first kamikaze attacks, the carrier 
Franklin was hitwith heavy loses, while the carrier Belleau Wood lost92 
men. It was to get worse -much worse. Only a few days later, the 
Ticonderoga took a kamikaze offour port beam -thefirst one I ever saw, 
andithitacarrier. On November 25, akamikazehitmyship, even though 
we had hit him with anti-aircraft fire while he was in his dive. We just 
couldn't explode him. Our ship burned and we buried our shipmates at 
sea for what seemed like an eternity. 
On April 11, my ship, the Essex, took another kamikaze. I got hurt that 
time and later I received that coveted award that nobody wanted, but it is 
purple and it is at the top of my campaign ribbons. 
From March 13, 1945, to May 29, some 79 days continuously under­
way, we incurred the most intensive carrier combat conditions ever experienced in naval combat history. The Japanese threw in excess of 2,000 kamikazes at our "Fast Carrier Task Force,'; unfortunately with staggering success. We lost the Indianapolis with 879 casualties and dozens ofdestroyers on the radar picket line as well as hits onnearly every . Essex class carrier inthe entire fleet. Dante's inferno pales in comparison. t 

John D. Shea '40 

After graduating from Notre Dame in June 1940, !received a commis­sion in the United States Naval Reserve and volunteered for active duty in April 1941. I was assigned to the USS Mount Vernon. In October, we were sent to Halifax, Newfoundland, and took aboard 5,000 British troops. As we were nearing Capetown, South Africa, the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. Our cruisers and destroyers left us, and we joined a British convoy setting sail for Singapore. When we arrived, the Japaneseanny was 70milesawayand theJapaneseairforce was dropping · bombs around us. 
After training the crews to 60 ships, I was assigned to the ·uss Rockingham as the Gunnery Officer. It was an attack transport that carried troops to the battle zone. We took part in the invasion ofOkinawa and experienced relentless attacks by the kamikazes. We were there 10 days and had ships onboth sides ofus hit by planes. One ship, the Canada Victory, sank in six minutes. After ten days we returned to the United States for anotherload of troops for the invasion ofJapan. The Japanese had 4,000 kamikazes ready for the invasion. When President Truman ended the war, we took the troops to northern Japan as occupation troops. During the war, I traveled over 200,000 miles on the oceans and crossed the equator 22 times. 

,, 


Williain Talbot '44 
In ourfmal. semesters we were in AS uniforms, and two things stand outinmymindduring those days. One was that the regular university Rare wore blue bands on their.white caps, while ours were plain. And we would explain to the townie girls that the blue indicated veneral disease. The other was the horseplay .in the ranks, and especially in the dining hall, where John Lujack used to toss bread­
Joaf passes to Leon Hart at µi.e other end of the hall. The Prefect of Discipline were no longer a threat to us. 
Otis P. Lambert '49 
Wha·t am I supposed to say? I'm 19 years old, stationed on an anny 
base, 150 miles from home during World War II. I get two weekend 
passes home every month, plus all the benefits of state-side duty. The 
officer sitting across the desk wants a "yes" answer, ,that "yes" will take 
all these perks from me. A "no" answer and I'll remain a safe and still 
happy soldier in the USA. 
Hell, I'll go for it (maybe I am half crazy, but. ..): "Yes, sir, I would." 
The question I just answered is: "Would you be willing to parachute 
behind enemy lines with less than a 30 percent chance ofreturning?" I 
didn't know it, but I had just taken the first step ofjoining the OSS, the 
Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the CIA. 
After a brief but rigid training program, I receive my orders to report 
to Riverside, California, forpassage to Calcutta, India, then toTricomellee, 
Ceylon. There I will train with the rest of my three-man team to go into 
Japanese-occupied Thailand. Our mission is to train Thai natives for 
guerilla warfare against the Japanese armed forces. 
My team will be operating 600 miles behind enemy lines. Our top priority is to recruit, train and develop guerilla forces to harass and delay Japanese troop movements. We are also assigned to rescue downed allied air crews. 
The atom bombs that hit Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August of 1945 ended the war, Our team had successfully accomplished its objectives. The three of us assigned to the Free Thai Underground were part of the lucky 30 percent who would make it out alive; 

A.G. Medina '51 

In December 1944, the 26th Infantry Division and others were rushed to the First Army sector to help in rescuing the 82nd Airborne Division surrounded in Bastone. 
The weather was very cold and the snow-covered hills made it impossible to camouflage our positions. As we topped a hill, the Germans began spraying us with machine gun fire. Next they started laying in mortar shells. 
I heard the mortar shells hitting far to my left. Each sheUkept hitting closer and closer to my left. Suddenly one shell hit to myleft, and my left leg went numb. 
I waited for the shelling to stop. When it did I got up. I looked at my left knee. All I could see was a hole through my trousers's left leg. 
This battle was the second-largest battle next to the Normandy invasion on D-Day. It accomplished all of its objectives. It was called the Battle of the Bulge. 

Theodore Probst '50 
On graduating from high school, my plans to attend Notre Dame were put on hold when I was drafted into the armed services in March 1943. 
Two months after D-Day, I landed in France. My job was assistant to a B-A-R (Browning Automatic Rifle) man. I carried an M-1 rifle. After St.Lo was taken; I was shot by a sniper's machine gun that fired four shots. I caught one of these bullets -it entered my back and exited from my'· stomach. Medical corpsman administered sulfa diazen • tablets and penicillin shots to keep me going before being sent to England for further medical treatment. Medical corpsm~n saved my life with their emer­gency treatment, as I later learned about 70 percent ofthose with this type of injury bleed to death internally. 
After30 days in the hospital, lwas assigned to a graves registration unit . assisting a medical officer in identifying deceased soldiers in Belgium .. Not a very pleasent thing for a young boy, but at least no one was shooting at me. Again I realized how lucky I was when I saw how many did not make it. 
I was also stationed in Germany. There I saw Buchenwald_:... no one will ever tell me that. the Holocaust never happened. Having come close ..·, .. to death and having seen fallen comrades who were not as fortunate as 1•: was, I thank God for every day that he gives me. · -. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• APRIL 20, 1995 
9 






Passing the Bucks 
As universities around the country experience losses in unrestricted giving, Notre Dame's donationfigures are climbing 
of the budgeting flexibility 

by Amy Crawford 
that unrestricted support al­

lows them," the report cc:m­Atradition ofexcel­
tinued. lence may be the Notre Dame, however, hallmark of the has been able to overcome 
University of Notre Dame, this obstacle in funding, and but it certainly has not come remains unaffected by re­without a price tag. Main­cent trends toward decreas­taining and enhancing such ing amounts of unrestricted an impressive reputation re­giving which have caused quires time and money, and nationwide concern. In luckily, Notre Dame pos­1993-1994 alone, Notre sesses both. Damereceivedover65 mil­
"We have been fortunate liondollars in charitablegifts over the last few years to from individual, state and receive as much as we have, corporate sources. Com­as an increase in charitable pared with budget informa­support has become more tion from 1983-1984, this is importantfortheuniversity," roughly an increase of over saidDanReagan,directorof 240 percent in total dona­the Office of Development. tions over the last ten years. Fortunately, this ever-in­''Though some of this in­creasing need for dev~lop­crease can be attributed to rnent and progress has met inflation, the lion's share of with an equal increasein do­the funds are the direct re­nations for Notre Dame. sult of better support and 
But the charitable support loyalty among alumni, par­Notre Dame receives is not ents and friends of the uni­thenonn as far as otherinsti­versity," ;Reagan said. In 
tutions around the country go. On a national level, Notre Dame re­mains outside the recent donating trends that are taking place at other American universities. According to the March ·10 edition of The Chronicle ofHigher Educa­tion, "on more and more campuses, dona-lions for unrestricted purposes are barely .· holding steady, while restricted giving ­money for specific goals and programs ­has been climbing fast." Atotheruniversi­ties, money may be coming in, but it is just not in the form that is always the most helpful to the institution. ''The disparity between the two kinds of giving is begin­ning to alarm some people, who worry that college officials will eventually lose some 
Aaron Skalicky terms ofdonors, the univer­sity receives its support from a wide variety of sources, including parents, friends, alumni, foundations and corporate chan­nels. Overone-half ofits graduates contrib­ute to its donation campaign every year. One reason that Notre Dame does not· have donation problems may be the way it handles its restricted gifts, those earmarked 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•APRIL 20, 1995 
. . . . . . 
. ,--. .. ....,. '• . , . 
by the donor for a specific purpose. Donors who wish to give to a specific university need must work from what is known as "Notre Dame's Priority List," a list of spe­cific items and programs most in need of funding. As a,result, restricted gifts have aided the university in many ways, with libraryendowments, scholarshipsand class­room and dormitory facilities. 
Unrestricteddonations, on theotherhand, are donations which come unspecified to a particular program, and a group of univer­sity officers decide where the funds will be used, giving priority to financial aid pack­ages. These gifts are obtained primarily through the annual fund, compri~ of the direct mail, matching gifts, phone center and the Edward Frederick Sorin Society programs. Often called "seed" or "cap" money, these funds go to projects and to the daily costs of operating the university. 
Aaron Skalicky 

Programs such as the Sorin Society, which honors unrestricted contributions of $1000 or more, have helped approximately 200 undergraduate students receive schol­arship money every year, in addition to facilitating computer upgrades, residence hall renovations and campus beautifica­tion. TheFounder's Circle, adivision ofthe Sorin Society which honors contributions 
of $3,000 or more, has also helped the drive for unrestricted funding. 
Last year, unrestricted donations ac­counted for $12.7 million ofthe total chari­table funds received, with half supplied by the Sorin Society and its campaigns. More­over, theSorin SocietyandFounder' sCircle reported record numbers in both new and / total memberships, proving thatunrestricted funds constitutean increasingly critical role in the advancement of Notre Dame. 
"For generations, people have been do­miting restricted gifts to this university," Reagan noted. "However, unlike other institutions, our unrestricted pool continues to grow on an annual basis. The member­ship and success of the Annual Fund and Sorin Society have not been diminished because of donor restrictions." 0 
11 


by Michelle Cox 

CHECK ONE: . Caucasian . Black 
. 
Hispanic . Asian/Pacific-Islander 

. 
Native American.


Today, this is a common question on everything from job applications to financial aid forms. The recent 
anti-affmnative action trends in national media and government, however, could make this question obsolete. 
Two bills are currently being introduced in Congress that will spark major debate aboutaffinnativeaction. "One would elimi­nate all racial and ethnic preferences in programs run by the federal government. The other would bar all organizations with at least 15 employees from using race or ethnicity as part of their hiring process," reported the Chronicle of Higher Educa­tion on March 10, 1995. For higher educa­tion, this could mean the end of numerous scholarships and fellowships for minority students. It could also affect hiring prac­tices at many educational institutions which currently depend on affinnative action. 
Doug Kmiec, a professor of constitu­tional law in the Notre Dame Law School, explained that "the new legislation intro­duced into the Senate, if passed, would make it federal law that no agent of the federal government could use race, color, ethnicity, gender or national origin for cri­terion of discrimination against or granting preferential treatment to any individual or group. The real question becomes whether or not the federal government should be allowed to decide the recipients of funding based on skin color." · 
The real question for Notre Dame, 
though, is how this recent discus­

sion and pending legislation might affect its current affirmative action policies and the future diversity of the student body. "It is in Notre Dame's favor that it is a private university. We don't stand to lose many federal dollars," said Iris Outlaw, director of Multicultural Student Affairs. 
"The only federally-mandated affmna­tive action program at Notre Dame is in the Human Resources department," added Kevin Rooney, director of the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. "All other de­cisions on this issue are left up to the insti­tution. Notre Dame hru; a committee and a task force which implement policies." 
If the federal government decides to rule out affinnative action as a means of deci­sion-making, however, non-government institutions, like Notre Dame, could follow suit. In recent years, it has been common for private institutions to follow the guidelines set for public institutions. 
Already the rationale for affirmative ac­tion seems to be changing. Some believe there is a discrepancy between those who really deserve compensation for disadvan­tage and those who actually receive help. "The programs as currently designed along racial lines are doing very little to aid the truly disadvantaged," saidClintBolick,liti­gation director of the Institute for Justice, who is drafting the bill to end all federal affirmative action programs. Bolick added that his bill would allow federal programs to give preferences based on non-racial criteria, such as coming from a low-income family. 
0 ver the last twenty years, minority • enrollment at Notre Dame has in­creased. Part of this increase can be attributed to affirmative action policies. According to a plan announced by Presi­dent Malloy in February, 1988, which is still in effect today,."Notre Dame is com­mitted to a serious effortto create a commu­nity enriched by increased minority group presence among students, faculty and ad­ministration." At that time, the university set a goal of a 15 percent minority presence in the fresh­man class, according to a 1988 press re­lease. This goal was first achieved in the fall of1989, when 16percentoftheincom­ingfreshmen were minority students. Since then, the numbers haveconsistently dipped, sometimes lower than 15 percent, until mi­norities constituted 16.7 percentof the 1994 class of entering freshman. In orderto maintain this diversity atNotre Dame, the university attempts to attractand serve minority students in a variety of ways. But such efforts around the country have recently been scrutinized. Soineschools are already facing both court and public oppo­sition to established programs. In 1994; courts ruled that the University of Mary­land had no right to restrict one of its schol­
12 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ APRIL 20, 1995 
• ,.) -. . . c,' 
. 

arships to black students. In addition, the Justice Department charged Illinois State University withdiscriminatingagainstwhite men by excluding them from a training program that led to janitorial work at the institution. At UCLA, the chancellor has come under heavy criticism for the use of racial preferences in admission and hiring. 
Unfortunately, there are many is­sues and much disagreement clouding this complicated issue. Ideally, race would become fundamentally irrelevant. Butmany believe that the unfor­tunate reality is that systematic disadvan­tage comes with being a minority, even today. Such disadvantage may still be present in the American education system. Two weeks ago, Newsweek reported, "America's public-school systems simply do not produce enough African-American students who are ready for top-tier univer­sities." In 1993, out of approximately 400,000 black high-school seniors nation­wide, only 1,644 got combined scores of 1200 or better on the SATs, and only 8,256 scoredbetween lOOOand 1200. "The short­age of high-scoring black kids," the report continued, "forces colleges to compete for minority applicants." Notre Dameis no exception. The Admis­sions Office makes special efforts to attract minority students. "We want a large pool of minority applicants so that we end up with thebest students," said Rooney. As aresult, recruitment of minority students is a more 
. . 
• . • , 
long-term process, starting the summer before their senior year. At this time, · letters are sent to the mostqualified minor­ity students. 
An even more ac­tive approach starts in the fall when the ad­missions staff makes phone calls to these individuals and visits their high schools. 

Then Notre Dame holds a spring visitation weekend to which the best-qualified minority prospectivestu­dents are invited. "This gives them an up­close look at life at Notre Dame," said Rooney. 
The emollment figures for minority stu­dents are usually proportional to their ap­plication rates, according to Rooney. For instance, about 16 percent of the applica­tions this year were from traditionally underrepresented backgrounds, and about 16 percent of next year's incoming class will .be made up of people from these groups. 
M inorities are also given special attention in finan­cial aid consideration. The ad­missions staff can nominate certain stu­dents to be considered for Holy Cross des­ignation. Holy Cross designation is par­tially based upon his­torical disadvantage. ''The majority ofstu­dents whoreceivethe designation come from underrepre­sented groups," said Rooney. Most blacks, American In­dians, andHispanics, many · Southeast Asians and a few white students are nominated. Once a person is granted Holy Cross designationbythead­missions staff, his or her name is given to the Financial Aid Of­fice. The designa­tion potentially grants them special finan­cial assistance opportunities, but there are many steps to the process. "Just like any other student, if the Holy Cross student applies for financial aid and demonstrates a need, we begin meeting that need with self­help programs, such as a Stafford Loan, a campus job or a Perkins Loan," said Joe Russo, director of the Office of Financial 
Aid. ·"Ifthere is still unmet financial need above what these outside grants and pro­grams provide, the Holy Cross student will be considered for additional support from· scholarshipandgrantprograms." This year, 96 percent of freshman given the Holy Cross designation received financial help from one or more sources. 
Russo was quick to point out that Notre Dame has no race-exclusive scholarship program: "There is no program here which hasasthesolecriterionone'srace. Welook at need and academic credentials. It is always done on an individual basis," he said. "The special attention that is given to minority students reflects the university's commitment to enhance diversity at Notre Dame, and I support that." 
If Notre Dame decides to ride the wave of the anti-affinnative action move-./ ment, these special efforts to attractand finance the education of minority students might not be acceptable. Rooney specu~ lated that there is nothing coming out of Washington right now that will bring great change to Notre Dame. "The federal winds change directions too often to base deci­sions on," he said. "If there were major changes made on government affinnative action policies, then Notre Dame would probably form a task force to Jook at the implications and possibilities for Notre 

One concern. is that corporate ways. "It is important for all of our donors might remove funding for students to have the opportunity to minority concern programming if meet people from a variety of back­the national trend swings away grounds as they prepare to enter the fromracially-basedaffirmativeac­real world and all its diversity," he tionprograms. HereatNotreDame, said. "It is important for Notre for example, companies like the Dame to continue to be a place that Lily Foundation and Ameritech In­provides educational opportunities diana are contributing to univer­to all sorts of individuals." 
sityprograms whichencouragedi­In the university's aspiration to versity and work to ensure the suc­uphold standards of both law and cess of minority students. justice, they face many difficult 
"Someofthechangesandissues decisions. As the national conver­in national government may rein­sation on affirmative action grows force old negative attitudes and louder,institutions around thecoun­may result in foundations with­try will have to take a careful look drawing monetary support for at their procedures. Perhaps the multicultural programs," noted rationale for what constitutes dis­

Outlaw. 
The Office of Multicultural Student Af­fairs has been able to put on programs like their Prejudice Reduction Workshops be­cause of money given byfoundations which encourage efforts to develop communica­tion and understanding on campus. The MinorityEngineeringProgram, which helps minority students to be successful in the academic arena, is another program which would be at risk. "Our campus and society as a whole have made improvements in their acceptance of different people, but we still need to be more sensitive and tolerant," said Outlaw. 
Rooney supports diversity within the stu­dent body and looks at the issue in two 
advantage and the distribution of awards that attempt to provide equal oppor­tunity will prove important points of discus­sion. In Kmiec's words, "the new thrust may be that it is time to nominally declare race behind us and focus on disadvantage. Some of those who are disadvantaged may be minorities. Whoever they are, [achiev­ers] have a place here." 0 
BRUNO'S PIZZA ,,1f rm;um~mtln Open for carryout, DINE-IN and delivery Accepting reservations on weekends. from 4 ­1Op.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 115 U.S. 31 Oust north of campus) 261 OPrairie Ave. 273-3890 288-3320 "All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses.  


SCHOLASTIC.MAGAZINE• APRIL 20, 1995 

"God is dead." -Nietzsche 
"Nietzsche is dead." -God 
"I hate the Dead." -Gipp 
OH, YOU CRAZY PRIEST! 

Well, well well! At a recent Student Leadership Banquet, Father Rocca, the AssistantVicePresidentofStudentAffairs, decided he could park wherever he wanted -even in the areas covered with those blaring yellow lines, recognized by others to mean, "No Parking." The rebellious VP alsodecidedtomotionacarloadofrectresses to do the same. The sweet and innocent rectresses, knowing what they were doing was wrong, questioned the up-to-no-good Father Rocca Hisresponse? "Don'tworry. I'll take care of you. They don't touch US." What will this reckless abuse of power lead to next? Parking in handicapped spaces? Throwing away aluminum cans in the clear glass recycling bins? Running with scis­sors? Careful, Father Rocca, Big Gipper is watching you. · · 

STICKSAND STONES ... 

Now the Gipp is not one to brag or boast, but he recently received some information that he feels should be made known to all those· whiners out there who think yours truly is "unprofessional" or "irresponsible." In fact, CampusWatch was voted the sec­ond best column in Indiana by the Indiana Collegiate Press Association. (No, no re­ally -hold the applause until the end.) Apparently, the professionals didn't find the Gipper so unprofessional. Are apolo­gies in order? The Gipp won't hold his breath. (Now you can clap.) 

IS NOTIHNG SACRED? 

It has been reported to the Gipp that the bathroom has been the unlikely target of 


CamRusWatch. 
. BY THE GIPPER 

Attitude, Allegations and Innuendo 
many practical jokes in Grace Hall. Earlier this semester, due to some mischievous rapscallion, members of one section found themselves showering without shower cur­tains. No punchlines needed here. In addition, recently members of another sec­tion had to visit the "royal throne" without theprivacy of dividers. Asconniving as this prank was, perhaps it could work out with a little teamwork. The Gipp doesn't know aboutyou, but he has always wanted some­one there next to him to hold the sports section while he's busy on the john. This idea could really soar. I'll hold, you tap, baby! 

FOWL PLAY 
Has anyone else noticed the recent duck invasion on campus? Well, the Gipp had someone look into it and it turns out that the ducks are unwelcome guests on our lakes. 

·guys make the lake a very unbecoming color, so the powers that be at Notre Dame decided to take action. Swans, which cost a pretty penny, were bought, their wings were clipped and then they were set loose on the lakes. Since ducks and swans do not get along, .the ducks are now making do with the lakes of water that form on every sidewalk on campus. Clever solution, but the Gipp wants to know what the difference is between duck dookie in the lake and swan dookie in the lake. He also wants to know what Notre Dame will do when these new guests start making the campus an unbe­coming color. 

WHO'S ON FIRST? 
Apparently, we aren't the only ones who are confused as to who exactly is in charge in the administration. Fr. Beauchamp and Monk Malloy recently visited the UND-Australiastudentsvacationing...er,Imean... taking classes Down Under in Fremantle, Australia. At one of the ceremonies, pre­sided over by Monk Malloy and Fr. Beauchamp, the Chancellor of the UND­Australia chapter extended a warm and heartfeltthanks to, ''The University ofNotre Dame in the U.S. for all their help, and especially for the support of their president( Father Joyce." That'sOK,MonkHirohito, the Gipp could have sworn Newt Gingrich was president. Who knows? 
Well, you crazy kids out there, the Gipp hopes you have a wild and wacky summer. As for the Gipp, he will choose to follow some words his mentor once said to him. "Adventure-Hmmph!! Excitement­Hmmph!! A Gippercraves notthesethings." So long and thanks for all the fjsh. See you next year. D 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II APRIL 20, 1995 
. 15 

") 




One More Chance 
Junior Maria Panyi has competed against some ofthe top fencers in the nation. Now she faces her toughestfight yet: against the NCAA for another year ofeligibility 

by Shannan Ball 

The tenn. "f?rced r.etirement" is not often heard in the world of college athletics. But it could oecome a reality for Irish fencer Maria Panyi. 
Panyi is 25 years old, and according to NCAA regulations, she will not be allowed to compete her senior year because of her 
age. This is yet another twist in herfencing career, which has taken many turns. 
Panyi is a native of Hungary, where she was Junior Athleteofthe Yearin 1989. She competed on the Hungary national team until 1991, when communism fell. At 22, she enrolled at Notre Dame. "Once com­munism fell, I was offered many college scholarships and was allowed to attend school in the United States," Panyi said. 
However, she could not fence for the NCAA during her first two years at Notre Dame. "I stayed with a Hungarian family where the man was an alumnus. I did not know it, but that was a violation of NCAA rules, so I missed my · first two years of fencing,'' she explained. Although unable to compete in the 
.· ::.. NCAA's,Panyi accumulated a41-1 record · in the regular season, placing her first in career winning percentage and second in single-season winning percentage. ThisyearwasherfirstatNCAA's. Hailed as the nation's premier female in the foil category, Panyi captured second place at theNational Championships and was voted the Outstanding Fencer in women's foil. "I'm very upset that I could only fence one .year. I took second this year, but that was because of bad decisions,'' Panyi said. "I think I'm number one, and ifl c:ould have a second chance, I could prove it." 
Her hopes rest upon the efforts of Brian Boulac, assistant director ofathletics, who is working onPanyi' s behalf in hopes that they will allow her to compete her senior year. ''There's not much we can do,'' said Boulac. "We just hope they will make an exception, but as of now the NCAA stipulation regard­ing athlete age says she can't compete." 
Panyi, who was the women's foil captain this year, hopes to hear from the NCAA by August,butsaid shecouldbe notified as late as next January and still compete. "If we didn't have Maria, it would be a great loss. She's the premier fencer not only at Notre Dame, butin the country," said Head Coach Mike DeCicco. 
Regardless of the decision, Panyi will remain atNotreDameandkeep her scholar­ship, serving as an assistant coach. "I still want to be part of the team," she said. 
"We made a special effort this year to recruit the number one, two and three na­tionally-ranked high schoolfencers so Maria can work with them next year. It will be great if she can bring them anywhere close to her level," DeCicco explained. 
Even if she cannot fence at the collegiate level, Panyi' s fencing careeris far from over. She has applied for United States citizenship .andhopestocompeteinnextyear'sOlympic games as a member of the United States fencing squad. 0 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• APRIL 20, 1995•? 
• •,l _. • • • :--;' , ,, -• • •. • • '. • 
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup ofthe week in sports April 11 to April 18 edited by Shannan Ball 
Irish Prepare for Long Home Run: 
The Notre Dame baseball team is poised to return to the top 25 and hope this week will put them over the top. The Irish are scheduled to play nine games in the next six days. 
The sluggers have been building mo­mentum, winning 15 of their last 18 games. Last week, they defeated Illinois and Si­enna Heights, and also took both games of a doubleheader against Detroit Mercy. 
Lacrosse Ranked 11th: 

Afterdefeating 15th-rankedHarvardand Air Force, the Irish raised their record to 6­3 and earned 11th place in the USILA poll, the team's highest ranking ever. 
The win against Air Force gave the Irish a perfect record at home for the second season in a row. The score of 16-5 was the biggest margin of victory for the Irish this year. 
Senior attackman Randy Colley led the offensive attack for the Irish. Colley be­came the career assist leader, with a record 
91. On defense, freshman goalie Alex Cade has made 91 saves and had a career best 19 saves against Harvard. · 
This season the Irish have played five ranked teams and face 14th-ranked Massa­chusetts next week. 
Softball Tied for MCC Lead: 

The Irish boast an undefeated record in the MCC and are tied for the lead in the conference with Cleveland State. 
They split a double-header at Michigan State and shut out Wisconsin-Green Bay at home, by scores of 3-0 and 9-0. The Irish have won 11 of the past14 games. 
Katie Marten leads the team with a .356 average, and Sarah Hayes is first on the team in RBIs and extra-base hits. 
NotreDamehasbeen strongontheinound, holding its opponents to a batting average of just .189. The pitching staff posts a collec­
. · tive 1.36ERA led byTerri Kobata. She was named MCC Player of the Week. 
Williams qualifies for NCAA's: 

Errol Williams qualified for the NCAA championships with a time of 13.6 in the 110 meter hurdles at the Illinois Track and Field Spring Sports Festival Meet Jeff Hojnacki led the Notre Dame men's track team with firsts in the 1,500 meter and the 800 meter runs. In addition, Matt Althoff took first in the 5,000 meter run and Lamrur Justice won the triple jump. 
At the same meet, Irish standout Erica 
Petersonpostedfirstinthe400meterhurdles 
and Kristi Kramer won in the 3,000 meters. 
Senior Randy Colley set the Notre Dame career assist record while leading the team to a 16-5 .win over Air Force. 
Premctions: Bookstore B-Ball: 
· Schaller's Schot: Ezekial 25:17and Sweeter Than Candy both surprise by advancing to the final eight Swoosh shocks the tournament by advancing to the final four. However, they fall to NBT 2 in the semi-finals. Led by the Hacking Brothers Ziolkowski, C.C.E. upsets favoriteModelslnc. to setup thefinals. With a team comprised mostly of last year's championship squad, Joe Haigh andNBT2 are too much in the finals and they win by six. 
Ball's Boast: Bookstore is not an ordinary tournament, so this can .not be an ordinary prediction. I do know that Four-Play and Matt probably won't be the champion, since yours truly is the center (I am 5'0"). However, going on nothing but gut instinct, I think the Dancing Itos will claim the crown. If not, they mayat least get a top 10 single out of the deal. 
-

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ APRIL 20, 1995 

After declaring himselfeligible for the NFL draft at the end ofhis junior season, Notre Dame's Tom Carter has come 


Back to School 
Thejum.p from college to the pros is a big one. Just ask former Notre Dame comerback Tom Carter. By the end of his three years with the Irish, opposing quarterbacks often completely avoided the All-American's side of the field. Now, as a comerback for the Wash­ington Redskins, Carter plays opposite Darrell Green, a sure-fire future Hall-of­Fame player. Green has been a perennial All-Pro,andhas also won theNFL' sFastest Man contest several times. Just as quarter­backs stayed away from Carter's side ofthe field at Notre Dame, they now pick on his side. "You just have to do yourjob the best you can," he said. "Nobody throws [Green's] way." Carter has also benefited from playing with Green, however. "He's taught me the patience and the temperament you need for the pros," he said. "You have to know that you are going to get beat; you just have to come back and make a play the next time." One of Notre Dame's best comerbacks, Carter left school after his junior year at Notre Dame and entered the draft Hewas selected in the first round by the Washing­ton Redskins, and has certainly not disap­pointed anyone. In his rookie season with the 'Skins, Carter was tied for second in the NFC for interceptions. Although heleftfor theprosearly, Carter has vowed to finish his schooling, Now back on campus, the pro comerback takes time off from hitting wide receivers to hit the books for one last year. Carter is en­rolled in the college of Business Adminis­tration, and is majoringin finance. With 18 credits, Carter's semester has been busy, but he is scheduled to graduate this year. 
18 
by Jake Schaller 


. Sports Information 
Tom Carter routinely shadowed the opposing team's most dangerous player during his career at Notre Dame. The All• American cornerback left for the NFL after his Junior year with .10 career Interceptions. 
_ Following in the footsteps ofball-hawk­ing comerback Todd Lyght, Carter had three successful years at Notre Dame. As a freshman, he broke into the starting lineup 
SCHOLASTIC 

three games into the season, and then started six straight games at free safety. During his freshman campaign, Carter also enjoyed what was, in his opinion, the highlight of his career with thelrish. "The Miami game my freshmanyearwasdefmitelythehighlight," he said. Starting as a freshman against the numbertwo team in the nation, Carterstood his ground, and so did the Irish. A 29-20 triumph gave the Irish the lastlaugh in their rivalry with Miami. 
Duringhis sophomore year,Carterstarted all 13 games at comerback, and led the Irish in interceptions with five. The sophomore showed off his 4.38 40-yard dash speed against Tennessee, when he returned an interception 79 yards for a touchdown. 
It was Carter's junior year, however, when he became dominant. A UPI honor­able mention All-American, Carter led the team with nine broken-up passes and five interceptions. With four interceptions after seven games, opposing coaches and quar­terbacks finally seemed to understand the comerback' s talent, and began ignoring his side of the field. 
Carter turned in standout performances againstBYUand Penn State. AgainstBYU he held the nation's leading receiver, Eric Drage; to three catches, and against Penn StateheheldO.J.McDuffietothreecatches. The exclamation point on Carter's Irish career, h9wever, came against USC With the Irish clinging desperately to a 31-23 lead, the Trojans had first and goal to go on the Irish five-yard line. With ten seconds left, USC went up top, throwing to. the comer of the end zone. The ball seemed destined to land in the hands of a USC receiver, but Carter climbed the sky a la 
MAGAZINE ¦ APRIL 20, 1995 
. ,. ) -. . . --: . . _,. , -. -.. . . ·. •, '. 
Michael Jordan to grab the pass and secure the Irish win. 
The play showed some of Carter's best attributes as a cornerback. A wide receiver for part of his high school career, Carter can anticipate the moves of those he covers. With a 43 1/2 inch vertical leap, the corner rarely loses in-air battles for the ball. 
After his tremendous junior season, draft scouts considered Carter a bona fide pro prospect. It was at this point when theNotre Dame star decided to test the NFL draft waters. "Itwas definitely a financial thing," Carter said of his choice. "Some people don't come from the same backgrounds as a lot of the people here." 
Two seasons with the Redskins have given Carter a taste of life in the pros, and some of its best competitors. Carter men­tioned Jerry Rice, Michael Irvin and Irving Fryar as the top three receivers he has covered, and rated Cowboy Troy Aikman the best quarterback he has faced in the pros. "Troy is just in a class by himself," he said. As for his peers, Carter put Deion Sanders at the top of his list, saying that "Prime Time" has the total package. "He's got the wiry frame, 4.2 [40-yard dash] speed and confi­dence," Carter remarked. "He does a lot of talking, but he backs it all up." 
Carter has also had to adjust to playingfor a team that is going through a rebuilding phase. After enjoying a 28-6-1 record dur­ing his three seasons at Notre Dame, Carter has endured 4-12 and 3-13 seasons with Washington. But he remains optimistic. "It's hopefully going to be better," he said. "Everything is different now. We have a whole new team built from the bottom up." With a foundation that includes Carter, the Redskins' rebuilding phase is offto a terrific start. 0 


i7 
i l 
•BlisiiliiE•iii§•J II Video Reviews 
The Shawshank Redemption: 
Prose and Cons 

NowYoU 
by Joey Crawford 

W ith the passing of yet another forgettable Academy Award ceremony, millions of people saw Robert Zemeckis' s Forrest Gump virtually shut out its com­petition. One of Gump's most noteworthy competitors, however, was Frank Darabont's epic drama The Shawshank Redemption (Columbia/Tri Star, R). Very few directors can combine brilliant artistry with pure drama, but Darabont is an exception. He successfullycombinesthetwoinhispicture,resultinginoneofthe most spellbinding films of the decade. Based on Stephen King's novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, the film stars Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne, a brilliant young banker wrongfully convicted of mur­dering his wife and her lover. Sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State Prison, he befriends Red (Morgan Freeman), a fellow convict who· "can get things." Narrated by Freeman, the drama primarily focuses around Andy's relationship with Red in the Gothic prison setting; Tortured by a gang of prisoners called "the sisters," Andy refuses to take part in the system's violence and corruption. One afternoon, he casually offers financial advice to an officer. The officerendsAndy'stormentbyruthlesslybeatingtheleaderofthe "sisters" and rewards him with a reassignment to the prison library. While working in the library, Andy makes himself available for financial consultation and eventually the entire prison staff receives advice from him, including the warden. Through his persistence, Andy completely renovates the jail's _down-trodden library into one of the finest prison libraries in the Northeast and helps numerous convicts receive their high school diplomas through equivalency tests. But the friendship between Andy andRed is the true heart of the movie. Andy brings hope and strength to Red through encouraging words ofwisdom, whileRed offers Andy friendship during this time of loneliness. The cinematography of the film is spectacular. Dizzying angles and noir lighting characterize this stark portrait of the realities associated with prison life. Amazingly, Shawshank captures rare beauty in a place full of darkness and evil. The acting in the movie is equally memorable. Robbins and Freeman interact well, capturing the desire for freedom and dignity associated withprison life. The performances of the supporting actors are also impres­sive, particularly that of James Whitmore, with a remarkable portrayal of a convict overcome with depression and loneliness . · The fact that the actors had a wonderfully poetic script to work with (also from Darabont) certainly strengthened their perfor­
mances. The ShawshankRedemption is a magnificent film, truly deserv­ing all of the critical recognition it has received. Perhaps Oscar should have been more generous. O 
20 

The Shawshank Redemption and Quiz again at this year's Academy Awarru. 




Quiz Show: 
Truth or Consequences 




See'Em 
Show were ignored at theaters and But third time's a charm on video. 


by Chris Myers 
The first time I saw Robert Redford's film, I dismissed it as much ado about nothing, a relatively easy mistake to make. Taken at face value, the movie lacks the necessities of your typical Hollywood hit There's no violence, action, sex, nudity or blockbuster-status stars. It passed in and out of theaters as quiet as a mouse, and it has the receipts to prove it But now, homevideogivesQuizShow(Hollywood,PG-13)itsworthyvenue. Based on the quiz show scandals of the 1950s, the film focuses on the show Twenty One. When champion Herbie Stempel, a Jewish mega-geek; is asked to blow a question, he's replaced by suave, debonair WASP, Charles Van Doren. Van Doren sends slumping ratings and pulse rates through theroof, and to ensure the show's popularity, the producers start to feed him the questions, and eventually the answers, before the show. Enraged by Van Doren' s catapult to fame, i.e. the cover ofTime, Stempel blows the whistle on the fix. At first, Quiz Show may seem like a nostalgic time capsule. The set, costumes and art deco scenery, drenched in subdued blues and grays, feel right at home on the TV screen. But Redford's close attention to detail is only the tip of the iceberg. The movie manages to examine the topics of anti-semitism, personal morals and ethics, truth,justice and loyalty, all with a remarkable amount of style and subtlety. Whereas a movie like Forrest Gump practically kicked you in the head with cheap sympathy, Quiz Show never degrades itselfto force a moral on you. Its actors' use oflong stares, glances or sighs speak volumes more than any monologue. In that regard, thank the cast The combination ofRalph Fiennes and John Turturro, as contestants Van Doren and Stempel respec­tively, could not come any closer to perfection, and the supporting castofRobMorrow,DavidPaymer,HankAzaria,MartinScorsese and Christopher McDonald give Quiz Show the distinction of possibly having the finest ensemble on film in years. But special credit goes to Paul Schofield, who plays famed poet Mark Van Doren, the father of Charlie. His perfonnance epitomizes every­thing that Quiz Show succeeds with -grace, class, intelligence and a subdued sense of heart The only flaw is the film's lack of femalecharacters,asStempel'swifeistheonlymemorablewoman, and even her character is a sub-supporting role. · Aside from that, Quiz Show is a definite winner. All about images, the film offers a remarkable expose of what we look for in television, and how the media influences our expectations. With a script that requires its audience to have half a brain, and a cast that delivers line-for-line, action-for-action the finest ensemble perfor­mance of the year, Quiz Show is a masterpiece of subtlety. Its transfer to video should finally prove that a strong cast, a smart script and a great director are the true necessities for Hollywood success. O 
21 

iliiil4iii§•S•i§II
South Bend has never been known as a mini-Seattle or appreciate Sabor's great instrumentals, which include acoustic Athens, but most people who have snubbed the campus guitars, horns and percussion. Complemented by smooth vocals 
music scene in the past will be surprised to find a decent and Spanish lyrics, you don't have to be bilingual to appreciate amount oflatent talent on this year's campus band CD. Featuring them. Give this band a listen. all original songs, the sounds range from country to alternative, However, going on without mentioning Emily Lord would be with enough diversity to please even the choosiest oflisteners. Of impossible. Anyone who has ever heard Lord perform knows how 
the 16 bands, here are the highs and lows: captivating her voice is. Soulful lyrics accompanied by guitars, Kicking offthe album bongos and Lord's spell-is Krautmiset's ''Tro-binding voice do justice 
phies and Cash." With to"HeyJoe,"atrulybeau-
Mus·1·c· 101
smooth guitar, rhythm-tiful song. 
based instrumentals, and But toward the end of 
even a little trumpet the album, things begin 
mixed in, these guys can to lose steam. ''Fine with 
easilybecomparedtothe Me" by Amateurs 
earlyRed Hot Chili Pep-proves their name says it 
pers (you know, when all. Hyou look past the 
they were good). The strained monotone vo­
smooth vocals and inter-cals, unimpressive lyrics 
esting lyrics make this andflatmusicalback-up, 
song the one that you 'II all you really have left is 
probably catch yourself a halfway-decent guitar 
humming the rest of the solo. Torture to the ears. 
day. You can tell that Also, the last track, 
thisbandisn'touttosell, Q.E.D.'s "Terminal 
but just to have fun with Space,"palesincompari­
their music. son to the others. Aneo-
Sweep the Leg S p e e d w a g o n , Johnny keeps the tempo Queensryche-type band,· going with "Disquiet" Q.E.D.'s song is pieced .. Good rhythm with grat-together with annoying ing guitar and haunting power-chords and lack-vocals make this song a luster music. Anyone great song for cranking who likes reminiscing up in the car. Johnny is about the days when we: just an all-around fun listened to Journey (and _ group to listen to. actuallyenjoyedit)might 
EmiLy's "King Per-like this group. mission" is another out-This year's compila-· standinghard-coreselec-p l ·tion is full of diversity, tion. The harsh guitar op, rock, a ternative, country ... the new however. Other·selec­
and beat rhythm section cam'PUS band CD is all o-Fthe above.. . tions include Decaf's 
make this a great tune to ~ mainstream typeofalter-mash to. However, if native music, The you think you'll pop this by Aaron J. Nolan . Roadapples, whose sac-; song in your Walkman charine~sweet ''Popsicle·. and still have five senses '-----------------------------J. Crush'; is the Barney of afterward, think again. Take it to the pit, man! rocksongsandMikeMcGlinn'scouhtryloveballad"NextTime," 
The highlight ofthe album, however, is Tackle box's "Identify-proving that McGlinn has plenty of talent off the football field. ing a Spider's Web." This is one incredible cut Excellent guitar-July, George and the Freeks, Las Peligrosas, Little Milton and bass coordination and intense vocals make this a definite standout Big Earl fill out the rest of the album; · The band seems to have a REM influence, especially the Stipe-like Overall, I feel that this album is definitely worth a listen. S.ome lead vocals. songs you'll find'to be ear-candy~others are not so sweet, but you 
The Latin-American Sabor Latino add plenty ofethnic flavor have to eat your broccoli ifyou want some cake. Forthe tiiost~, .· to the mix. Anyone with an ounce of culture could surely this album is just desserts. gmde: B+ · · · · , · : · 0, 


·, I• 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ APRIL 20, 1995 
23 


Coming Distractions 
From April 20 -April 26 
Field, Court & Alley 
Baseball: ND vs. Valparaiso, Thursday, 7:00. 
ND vs. Illinois -Chicago, Saturday and Sunday, both days are doubleheaders starting at noon. ND vs. Alabama, Tuesday at 7:00 and Wednesday at 5:00. Frank Eck Stadium. Tennis: MCC Tournament, Friday and Saturday, Eck Tennis Pavilion, 9:00 a.m.
ll Softball: ND vs. LaSalle, Friday, Ivy Field, 3:30. 
\I ND vs. Cleveland State, Ivy Field, 1:00. 

Cultural Connection 
Entertainment: "Student Art Show," April 23-May 21, Snits Museum of Art. Gus Giordano Jazz Dance Concert, Sat. 8:00, O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. 
The Tony Barron Orchestra, WSND fund raiser, Saturday, Stepan Center, 7-11 p.m., $5 per person or $8 per couple. 
Earth Jam Benefit Concert, Thursday, 5-1 Op.m., Stepan C~nter, with booths, exhibits and bands. For more informa­tion, call 634-1763. 
Film, "Disclosure," Friday and Saturday, 8:00 and 10:30, Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film, "Breakfast Club," Thursday, 8:00 and 10:30, Montgo­mery Th~ater, Lafortune Student Center. Film, "Monty Python: Meaning of Life," Tuesday, 8:00 and 10:30, Montgomery Theater. 

Hey I Yo« wa""" 
50 bo.~k 1v My plqce 11n<l l'lal\ ov!-? •.e;r ~·"'··· 
24 


Y' t Kew Ji>vi, we·vt ~ee.n .scei"~ eqJ, or~cr ,. (oupl~ of l.,c,f/rS MW .,_.,.J :r ·-Jl,iolc. ;k ~frM t-J( 1 well, Yf..~ . V\0"1··. 
..... 


On the Silver Screen 
University Park West: 277-7336. "A Goofy Movie," G, 1 :45, 3:45, 5:40, 7:30, 9:20. "Muriel's Wedding," R, 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:30. "Tommy Boy," PG-13, 2:00, 4:45; 7:00, 9:10. 
University Park East: 277-7336. "Rob Roy," (Screen #1 ), R, 1 :30, 4:10, 6:50, 9:30. "Rob Roy," (Screen #2), R, 2:30, 5:30, 8:30. "Bad Boys," R, 1 :30, 4:00, 6:30, 9:00. "While You Were Sleeping," PG, 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:40. "Outbreak," R, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:50. "Pulp Fiction," R, 2:00, 5:15, 8:45. 
Town & Country: 259-9090. "Jury Duty," PG-13, 12:45 and 3:00 (Sat., Sun.) 5:00, 7:15, 9:30. . "Jefferson in Paris," PG-13, 1:00 (Sat., Sun.) 4:00, 7:00, 10:00. "Once Were Warriors," R, 1 :15 (Sat., Sun.) 4:30, 7:30, 9:45. 
Scottsdale: 259-9096 "Kiss of Death," R, 10:00 (Tues.) 2:00, 5:00, 7:30, 10:00. "While You Were Sleeping," PG, 9:00 (Tues.) 2:30,4:45, 7:00, 9:30. "Bad Boys," R, 9:00 (Tues.) 1 :30, 4:30, 7:15, 10:00. "A Goofy Movie," G, 12:15, 2:15, 4:15, 6:30, 8:30. "Circle of Friends," PG-13, 1 :45, 4:00, 6:45, 9:15. "Tommy Boy," PG-13, 12:00, 2:45, 5:15, 7:30, 9:45. 
Cinema at the Snite: 631-7361 "Pulp Fiction," Friday and Saturday, 7:00 and 9:45. "Thelma and Louise," Tuesday, 7:00. 
i0,1 1 o..-,J i,Jell, Wt t>1tly h«ve o. c,vple of week5 ldf 1 ~• how "hovl pl•o+i11' 
o. bi~ jvi<y ort< r,3~1 1 
here! . 
\ .. . te•r•a~, 
) 

Big Boy is Dead 
American burger demi-god dismembered and a country is griefstricken 
. It's Time for the A-Team . Epitaph for BigBoy 
We had Hungeling and Orsagh, and for He was agood man, and evenin his grave 
ND, that was radical. Yet our gap-toothed, he willcarry the torch ofhamburgerperfec­
boot-scoot boogeying neighbors at Indiana tion. His checkerboard pants. His spar­
University recently one-upped us with a kling eyes. He was the only man, besides 
presidential ticket known·simply as "The Jesus, wholived sin-free. Big Boy is dead, 
A-Team."WithHannibalforpresident, Mad and my world will forever be black. 
Murdock, Paceman and B.A. Barrackus, The crime was brutal. Big Boy was 
the A-Team's platform is a classic example kidnapped from a restaurant in Toledo; 
of true genius being ridiculed by the tight­Ohio (allegedlybyagroup of college prank­
undie automatons that hold dominion over sters), savagely dismembered and distrib­
governments everywhere. Although they uted piece by piece to the nine other Big 
didn't win, I thought I'd show you the Boy eating establishments in the area. Each 
platform that sparked so much controversy. body part was accompanied by a note that 
Hannibal wanted to start a mulch drive in read, "Big Boy is Dead," and each was 
order to increase campus security. Students signed by the culprits, "The Pimps of 
would bring spare mulch to campus. This Pimplyness." 
would make IU greener. A greener place Big Boy's worth wasestimatedat$4000, 
means moretourists, morefoot traffic, more butthememoriesthathehasgivenAmerica 
lightinstallation,andasaresult, betternight are priceless. 
security. I think Sgt. Murphy ofthe Toledo Police 
Mad Murdock wanted more cheese-food said it best "This is a sad, sad day for the 
products available to students as well as city when somebody would desecrate a 
more cotton balls and Q-tips for artprojects. · hallowedsymbolofthe 1950sand 1960s." 
Of course, every ticket is entitled to a Amen. 
slight imperfection, and in this case, their tragic flaw may have been mental stability . .The ticket's origins actually stemmed from their belief that the campus had been in­vaded by elves. Th~ir main goal, above all others, was to elimiqate these mischievous 
creatures. 
And how would they have let s~dents 
know what's going on with IU govern­
ment? 
"We'11 use telepathy to getall ourideas to 
everyone," says Paceman. 
But alas! It was not meant to be. As great a ticket as this was, B.A. Barrackus spoke like a true sage in acknowledging the prob­lem that inevitably ended the A-Team's quest. "We're a legion of justice, and le­gions of justice have been misunderstood throughout history." · 
The disfigured head of Big Boy, which was left with a note in a Toledo, Ohio, Big Boy restaurant. 

SC~HOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 
by Kris Kazlauskas 

. Put.in' on the Hits 
Let's play make believe. You are a wonderful,kind-heartedsecretary atFlorida Slllte University's law school. You lead a virtuous life, kick booty at Yahtzee and you make a mean pot roast. Now let's say that you just happen to see someone commit an honor code violation. Do you report the crime? 
Not if it was Joann Plachy who commit­ted it. 
Plachy realized that a university secre­tary, Margaret Satterfield, had witnessed hercheat. Whatshouldshedo? Ifyouhave any Mafia ties, the answer is as clear to you as it was to Plachy. You hire a hit man. 
Plachy allegedly paid Peter Laquerre $1000to bump offthesecretary,and to save her good standing at the university. Of course, like any real he-man would do, Laquerre kept the money and called the police. 
Seminole spirit-alive with pride. 
From the Indiana Dally Student 



I I 
! 
Grist for the Mill 
MY AfJIJOAl CDMMENCEH£NT 
A1lb°Kt~ IS AU.JAYS A 1)\f­FIC.OLT, BITTUSWE.ET TASK.. 
o0 0 

RICK GREY 
0 0 
0 
Ollt FD6TMLL TEAM 15 STARl/llb A "REBUILD/10G . SEASOJ-J II .'.::QUAR.E. /1.J THE 
FACE N8(T SEASON. 
jl 
~ 
J 


WHAT 'DOES O"-lE. SAY TO STO'DENTS ENTERING A Hl&HLY COM'PHETlVE. JOB 
MARl(E.T, ANl) FACING EVQ MO¥£.. l)'tFFIC.OLT ~KIAL A-Nl> El.D~OMIC. CDIJ1)1TIONS ~ 
C> 
0 

0o 
Mb l.DCAlLY, OF COO~E., wt'LL &. l.COl:JIJ{,. -'IT A I-IE])IA O!.WS. 50te0U/Jl>//Jb 7llE RE·TRIAL OT= AN ND-LA0 &l2AWATI:. tNVOLVfD 
IN A FATAL Auro Acc.(i)£NT 
Win-\ ONE CF OJK. l.WOEJ2.­
STILL, IT'LL BE. !JO l'lc./,JIC. BAa HERE. F"Ol?_ 
MEI E.ITl-lE:."R. •• : 
0 
TO THE QZAi)­
lJAT/1':ib QAS5 
OF /'1'15, I'b 
JOST LI l(E. TO 
SAY ONE TI-JING':. 
TAKE ME WITH YOU. PLEASE. 

f~LEs rROM -rH~_-rDP ~!.._111£ DiJ/!1£ 
W£Ll-1 :r:-rs gefAJ A 6/?ftlf '(KR.6€ Yr::AR.5 Of 'E,E;(Nb t{E..R.E IN ''Slf!Ot..A',;;r!c," Euf -r1MG MoVES. orJ.. · 111Ml~­
'rt> AU-M'( fR.leNDS.. A/JD 
t..ovep oNf,S, AND 1"H€ 

tol~. --r:r.r.ro.rn 'JI[. -we PIN/fl. A9.;,4w.., ~M! '((,.i,! 
MARK MA-Z..-Z.01-A 
--..-----.-­

I I
frSffll-or= {J(l-{f,R r'toPl6 f\lJYwfti, THAN!<':> AbAII\J. ·. m w..io UJJDfRSTTX:il>/T<J:AI> 11{1) 
r:,{:;€N A Bt.A""T-·. 

SiR!-P. MYwM, :r:·M sOtJN'Ct.\K:r­
Cf-lG€SE;Y. :C-M /\Jo"(~ Ai·-. 6cciDS'(Gs, ~l.Tf MARI::\ 1'Ass6I> ovf fRoM -roo /1,\.Vc,\-{ cee,.efsR.A-r1 ,,X 
26 

-
~----"' 
"' Mon 
MM,we iolta b..i/ [ 

.' -. . . .....,. ., ; -. . . . 
~. • ,.... ...._, --• ,I • 

I 

A 
rious "rabbitkeeper" while I used ointment by Kris Kazlauskas to soothe my swollen nipple. The egg hunt was a tradition that lived s I lay resting my weary head, untill left forcollege,evolving slightly with 
dreaming of a field ofdaffodils the times, until my brother and I took over 
where newborn bear cubs for our parents and began hiding eggs for 
wrestle and dragonflies dance wildly in a each other. These later years introduced the tribute to spring, Ifeel the windblow gently thrill of new hiding resources that went through my window, softer than the sneeze previously untapped by mom and dad, like ofapraying'mantis, and I am reminded that ventilation ducts and the inside of the lawn itis Easter. It is a time for celebration of the mower. It started out innocently enough Resurrection, but more accurately in this back in the late 1970s and early 1980s, day and age, a time when Christ and the when the family would gather around the Easter Bunny take center stage, sharing the table, break out the Paas egg-dying kit and spotlightin a duality as inseparableas Milli get busy. Although real eggs were fun to Vanilli. And girl, you know it's true, this decorate, plastic eggs were the preferred country couldn'thaveonewithouttheother. treasure, and the hard-boiled works of art So without delay, I throw on my best pink that I had so painstakingly dyed typically · · taffeta dress, polish the lizard skin boots ended up as projectiles when I got together ;and prepare for the only celebration of the with the neighborhood kids to play Star 
yearwhen thedining hallmakes lambchunk Wars. 
pizza. Today, not much has changed. My mom 
Easter serves two purposes for me: re­sentme anEaster basket filledwith Cadbury 
flecting on the memories of previous egg­eggs, Kit-Kats, Skittles and malted-milk hunts and the quest to relive those child­ball "bird eggs." But, the one thing that was :hood years .as a jtihior in college. As a missing from the basket was the traditional 
•youngster, I enjoyed the Easter celebration marshmallow''Peeps." Forthosewhodon 't :with my rabbit, Hop-Along. My brother know of what I speak, you haven't missed :had a rabbit too, and together, rabbit battles much, but for those innocent souls whose ·were the order of the day. Better than any misf ortuneit was tobe therecipientof these 
plastic toy, we treated the rabbits as if they yellow, sugar-coated, marshmallow dan­were WWF action figures, making them dies shapedlikedeformedbaby chicks, you jump offimaginary turh buckles in order to can imagine my surprise when Iwas denied pin their opponents. Hop-Along lasted for Peeps for the first time in my young life. Of three or four Easters before he decided one course, I usually only ate about halfa Peep day to bite through my shirt, sinking his before I decided that I still did not have the little buck teeth into my areola. It wasn't discerning palate that the Peep demands. long after that when I realized that I had no The rest I let dry in the sun prior to setting desire to nurse a rabbit,. and that perhaps them free with a wrist rocket Hop-Along was suffering flashbacks from As far as the egg hunt is concerned, I rabbit Wrestlemanias of Easters past In a discovered that most of thepeople who live sad day, the rabbits were given to a myste-on Ironwood Rd. go to church around 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ APRIL 20, 1995 
10:00a.m. or so, leaving a multitude of plasticeggsunprotectedaround theirhouses. Taking candy was as easy as strolling through a backyard or five.But do not think I am so cruel as to steal the eggs. Rather, in 
a moment of brilliance I had while eating a fortune cookie, I simply replaced the candy with little slips of paper that said things like "Congratulations! You found the egg. You'reagoodkid.Love,theEasterBunny" and "Candy's bad for you. Good hygiene ­habits last a lifetime. Go brush your teeth." In this way, I could celebrate Easter in my heart, while at the same time protecting the teeth of young Mishawakans. Everybody 
wins. 
In the end, the most poignant part of Easter that I have noticed at Notre Dame is the communion between animals and people, and it is for this reason that I finish this final Week in Distortion of the school year with a heartwarming little tale. 
As I walked through the quad on Sunday, savoring the remnant of an asparagus tip I had enjoyed in the dining hall, I happened upon a squirrel who was looking for a handout Withapieceofmuffininmypalm, I spoke with my eyes, "Alleluia, the Lord is risen! Have a piece of muffin." And in an , unspoken gesture that I will foreverremem­ber, the squirrel transcended the limits of his species with a reply, "The Lord is risen indeed, Alleluia! This muffin is very tasty. Thank you." 
Enjoy the Easter Season, good luck dur­ing Finals, and don't forget to spend some time communicating with the animals. . 
This is a humor column. These views are not necessarily the views of the editorial staffofScholastic Magazine. 




Setting Sail After 
by Kevin Klau 


the First l00·Days 
I
.I 
11
I 
.j!11 
i 
I 
ii 
;11. 
:11 
[I 
Kevin Klau is a junior government major, with a concentration in the Hesburgh Program in Public Service. He resides in Morris­sey Manor. 
28 

He has been called countless names, branded with even more labels, chastised for what he says and even ridiculed· for what his mom says. Based on this description, Newt Gingrich sounds more like an underdeveloped, pre-pubescent sixth-grader than the most powerful man in Ameri­can politics. Yet like it ornot, we depend on this man to navigate our political ship through the rough waters ofsuch issues as affirmative action, balancing the budget and determining the role of the United States in the changing global arena. What are the chances we will come through it better than the Australian entry a few weeks ago in the America's Cup qualifying round (a boat whose hull splintered during the race forcing the crew to abandon ship)? We must objectively consider the success of Gingrich's public relations masterpiece known as the"Contractwith America" when trying to evaluate his ability to legislate. Theonly thingpromised in the Contract was that its 10 key items (i.e. the balanced budget amendment, bill to outlaw unfunded man­dates, the line-item veto, etc.) would be brought to a vote in the House of Representatives. All 10 mea­sures were broughtto a vote within the first 100days. Score: a perfect 10 for the Georgia native. Secondly, we must consider whether Gingrich has been worlcing to satisfyhis lifelong desire tobe in the ·limelight, or if the Contract was indeed something the American public wanted and understood. He has oversimplified the content and consequences of the Contract in order to gain widespreadpublicapproval. This, unfortunately,isnothingnew. DomostAmeri­cans, or even students here at Notre Dame, realize that tlie Contract includes a Constitutional amend­ment (to -balance the budget), that it would restore funding in the Star Wars defense program, or that it would cut capital gains taxes much like Ronald Reagan did during his tenure in the Oval Office? The most critical question may be whether or not the voting public comprehends howta '-tax cut will force drastic reductions across the board in federal 
I 
ii 
i 
' 
programs. Many opponents of the bill argue that it would likely make deficit reduction much harder to achieve. Does it matter to voters that capital gains tax cuts would predominantly impact only those Ameri­cans earning more than $100,000? Or more impor­tantly, that America would not reap the economic benefits, for at least four or five years? 
Newt has won a lion's share of timein the limelight highlightedby his national address two weeks ago­a luxury heretofore reserved for Presidents. His address solidified what many analysts had been saying for a while: Newt is at the helm now, and President Clinton has been little more than a specta­torduring the Contract's first lOOdays. YetGingrich, called by Newsweek "the most effective lawmaker since Lyndon Johnson," has acknowledged that the hardest battles lie ahead in getting his measures passed. Here Gingrich has already encountered what many pundits are calling "Byrdlock," in honorofthe Democratic Senator from West Virginia who has proven to be a master of manipulating the filibuster _ and throwing a wrench in theRepublicans' progress. 
The first 100days saw some high-levelpoliticking 
by America's newest household political superstar. Yet with this fame comes the responsibility of unit­ing his party to see House "s1,1ccesses" ride through the Senate and become law. Combine the Demo­cratic opposition with a few Republican Presidential hopefuls in the Senate trying not to slide too far from the middle, and we may see a Congress in turmoil before the end of the year. Though Newt has given some Americans a reason to believe that Congress once again can be the effective body it was under LBJ, a storm is brewing ahead. 
The first 100 days must be used as a springboard for bipartisan, bicameral lawmaking. Newt is on the brink of defining himself and this Congress as the most productive in decades, and though the work has just begun, we must stay on board to see ifour ship can weather the waters ahead. . 
') . ' . -.· _. . -. ­
I • r• --..., --, r I • ~ • 
~~~E~,t;J; We Deliver ---~~r1--c The Restaurants To You! 
Featuring Menus from the Area's Finest Restaurants
i111i¥ 

DELIVERY SERVICE 
~­





... Along with 23 other Fine Restaurants 
~1,,U/4t~t 
For Delivery Call .. .

L.,/£~'1,~j -•m 
272-2-EAT
iilll 


The Notre Dame Glee. Club 
Announces AUDITIONS for the 1995-96 School Year 
Join one of the finest All-Male Choral Ensembles as we Celebrate 80 years of Musical Excellence at Notre Dame! 
Current Freshmen and Sophomores are Welcome! 
Activities include: 
U.S. Tours during Fall & Spring Breaks EUROPEAN Tour ~Summer of 1996 Four Major On-Campus Concerts each year 
·111formational Meeting Tuesday, April 25 at 7:30 p.m. Room 220 LaFortune or call 631-6352 









