
ft 
Ride a Bike 
for the 
.Retarded 
Sunday, April 27 
For local details contact Logan . Center: 289-4831 
. Sponsored by Indiana State Teachers Association and Indiana Association for Retarded Citizens . 

. 



Editor 
James Gresser 
Art Director 
Bill Weyland 
Production Manager 
John Phelan 
Managing Editor 
Sally Stanton 
News Editor 
Jane Thornton 
Arts Editor 
Katy Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
Bill Delaney 
Business Manager 
Sarah Bartzen 
Circulation Manager 
Paul DeBacco 
Photography Editor 
Ed Brower 
Advisory Board 
Ronald Weber, Carl Magel, Ed Sanna, Madonna Kolbenschlag, David Schlaver, C.S.C., Richard Conklin. 
Staff 
Mike Karels, Steve Slater, Thomas J. Waldoch, Dave Beno, Annemarie Sullivan, Peter Fitzgerald, Ron Rundstedt, Tara Carey, Mark Luppino, John Kenward, Mark Ondash, Dave Dreyer, John Harding, Tom Birsic, Jack Pizzolato, Leo J. Mulcahey, Don Reimer, Kathy McElroy, Dave Miller, Mike Sarahan, Nick Strittmatter, John M. Murphy; Mary Digan, Chris Meehan, Lonnie Luna, Mike Feord, Patrick Smid, Mark Hopkins, Bethann McGregor, Bob Gilroy, Rich• Odioso, Eileen O'Grady, Paul Hess, John Vincent, Tom Moskow, Mike Towle, Rich Nugent, Dan Adler,. Tom Desmond, Rich· Landry, Mike Casey, Paul Starkey, Patrick Cole, Sue Grace, Bob Kissel, Gary Harden. The opinions expressed iri ScHOLASTic are those of the authors and editors of · · SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. Second class. postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind.. 46556. · The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational 'Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from ScHLOSTIC. Please address all manu­scripts .to SCHOLASTIC., Notre Dame, Ind. 
Volume ll6, No. 14 April 25, 1975 Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINERS 

6 Graduation Blues -A look at what graduating seniors might expect to find in the scholastic and real world beyond du Lac's borders. 

Perspectives: 

9  Graduate School  
10  Law School  
12  Med School  


FEATURES 

4 Photographs -Europe in black and white, a photo­essay by Carvel Collins. 
20 Standardized Testing -How accurate and realistic are the SA T's, GRE's and other general exams? 
22 ETS ·-The function and inner workings of the Educa­tional Testing Service. 
26 Pechek -·-· Trying to answer why ND's most successful wrestling coach was not rehired. · 
28 Allocco -·· The shattered dream of finally becoming ND's number one quarterback. 
REGULARS 9 Perspectives 
14 
. Book Review 16· Letter 18 People at ND 19 People Behind ND 

25 
. Weekin Distortion 

29 
.Irish Sport Shorts 30 The Last Word 



46556. All unsolicited material becomes the Illustrations: Photos on cover, 7, 8, 9, 14, 18, 20, 21, 22, 26, 27, 29 by E. James property of SCHOLASTIC. Brower / Photos on cover, 17 by Chris Smith / Photo on 18 by Paul Joyce / copyright ID 1975 Scholastic / all rights Photo on 19 courtesy of Ernest Brandl, redone by E. J. Brower / Photos on 28, reserved / none of the contents may be re­29 by T. David Paulis / Photo on 29 by William J. Delaney / Artwork by C. produced without permission. · William Weyland / Cover by Weyland. 
PHOTOGRAPHS 
by Prof. Carvel Collins 




·Salzburg 
Florence. 


.Got Those Graduation Blues? 
Another · beautiful winter has passed at Notre Dame and spring is slowly blooming. The yardmen have raked and seeded the lawns and soon the quads shall be green again.· The ducks on St. Mary's Lake are beginning their nuptial rituals, much to the delight of all Notre Dame males. · 
Notre Dame is alive again. Sud­denly the students have -emerged from their winter hibernation to fill the quads. .The air is· filled with laughter and carefree voices. · 
The most careefree · of students are the seniors. The pressures of exams and study have passed by the wayside for most seniors. The Senior Bar has replaced the library as the place to "study" and to meet friends. Though most seniors are living a rather carefree existence, there is a, concern in each of them about the future. Soon the soft comforts ,of Notre Dame will be gone, and the seniors will have to face the cold, rear world. 
This article will be an attempt to detail the situation the seniors will have to face -by explaining how ·the 1974 graduates fared after gradua­tion. The examination is based on the survey of The Future .Plans of May 1974 graduates of Notre Dame. This survey. is administered each May by the · Office of Analytical 

. Studies in the Dean of Administra-' 
. tion's Office. In the survey, 1347 of 1669 in thedass of 1974 responded to the ·survey, giving a reply per­centage of nearly 80%. . 
Of the 1347 students that replied, 474, nearly 35%, reported that after . May they would be entering Amer­ica's work force in some sort of job. 
· . Of the. 474 students, 310 stated that as of May 1 they had jobs. The average salary of 310 workers was $10,600. 
The students of the College of Business fared well in the job market for 1974. Of the 405 students in the College, 340 responded. to the ques­tionnaire, giving a rate of 84.2%. The accounting majors had the greatest success in finding jobs. Of the. 118 accounting majors who applied for jobs, 103 had jobs at an average salary of $11,105. Of the 35 man­agement majors who applied, 22 had jobs at an average salary of $10,432. The finance majors, of .which 20 of the 32 applying got jobs, had an average salary of $9,800. Lastly, of. 
.the 37 marketing majors who· ap­plied, 14 .had jobs with an average salary of$9,000. Mr. Willemin, the' Director of the Placement ·Bureau, stated that for 1975 the accounting majors were getting the best job offers. He added that marketing students were finding jobs in the sales area, ·while finance or manage­ment students were incurring some difficulty in finding jobs. 
"The great job demands are for engineers,", said Mr. Willemin. This 
. statement is supported by the em­ployment of the College of Engineer­ing in 1974. Of the 210 students in 
· the College, 167, nearly 79.5%, re­plied to the survey. 
All the departments of the College had an extremely high percentage of job placements, as is exemplified· by the Department of· Electrical En­gineering which placed 21 · of the 28 students who. responded_ to the sur~ vey, at an average salary of $11,600. The students of the Department of Metallurgical Engineering had an· average salary of $12,500, the high­est of the different jobs examined: iri the survey. The worst depart~ ment -· to fare . in the college was 
. architecture, which placed three of the 12 who responded to thesurvey. The lowest average salary was $9,100 for the architecture department. 
. In the College of Science, 254 of the 306 majors replied to the survey, giving. a rate of 83%~ In the working field -science majors did not. fare badly. Of .the 017 math majors who 
by Bill Gonzenbach 

applied for jobs, 14 received posi­
tions at an average salary of $9,600. 
The small number of chemistry, 
physics and geology majors were 
very successful in procuring jobs. 
The salaries and number of posi­

tions obtained in the College of Arts 
and Letters are extremely varied. Of 
the 748 students in the College, 585, 
nearly 78.2%, responded to the sur­
vey. By examining a few of the 
majors some idea of the Arts and 
Letters job situation can be gained. 
Of the 13 economics majors who 
applied for jobs, five received posi­
tions at an average salary of $11;400 . 
Of the 17 English majors who ap­
plied for work, seven obtained jobs 
at an average salary of $6,100, while 
the average psychology major ob­
tained an average of $9,500. 
In all, there were less jobs for stu­

dents in the College of Arts and 
Letters, and the average pay was 
less than the other. colleges. 
In this era of reducing employ­. ment, an increasing number of stu­
dents sought advanced professional 
training in law schools: Where there 
were 197 applicants for entrance to 
law school in. 1972 and 203 in 1973, 
in 1974 there were 216. · 
While qualifications of. Notre 

Dame. applicants rose slightly, re­
quirements for admission, caused 
by tough competitio·n nationwide, 
also rose. Of the 216 applicants in 
1974, 134 or 62% had been accepted 
in law school at least once as of 
May 1, 1974; in 1972 this percentage 
was 70% and in 1973, 75%. 
In 1972 . the acceptees to law 

school scored an average of 602 on 
the Law School Admission Test 
(LSAT); in 1973, 625, and in 1974, 
627. The mean grade point averages (GPA) reported by acceptees for th.e same three years were 3.27; 3.33, ·. and 3.30, respectively. 

Of the 216 who. applied, six were females. Their average LSAT was 582, as compared to the males' averageLSAT of 611. Of the 134 ac­cepted, four were :females. The fe­males' average. LSAT who were ac­cepted was 609, as compared to 629 for the males. 
The greatest number of law school applications came from the Govern­ment . Department;. In all, ·there were 285 applications from 70 applicants. There were 78 ;total acceptances, of. which 42 · applicants· were ac­cepted.,. 
The.second largest number of ap~ plications came from . the Depart­ment of English .. From the 21 appli­cants, . 85 applications were sub­mitted. There were 27 • acceptances for·ll of the applicants. 
· A serious problem facing students who enter the legal profession is the fact that law school enrollment. is steadily increasing while available positions are not increasing·in pro­portion· to the enrollment growth rate~ However, in our present econ­omy there are not many fields which are not overcrowded,· and the prob­lem of overcrowding does not affect the prospective lawyer in his quest for the legal profession .. 
. In relation to· the increase in law school enrollment is the increase in the . enrollment of .the Master of Business Administration . Program. In 1974 there were 76 students.from Notre Dame who applied to MBA school. Of that number, 59 were ac­cepted. The average GPA of those accepted was 3.05.' · . The Economics department had the greatest number of applications with -16. Of the 16,· there were 13 accepted to·· MBA programs. The average GPA of these students was 3.06. 
There were eight· applicants· from the Department of Finance. Of these,· five were accepted. The average GPA of the group was 2.91. 
i ·.'­; ,.....,_. 
' 

The Government· Department had seven applicants of which five were accepted. The average GPA of this group was 3.03. . 
However, the MBA is no assur­ance of a job in our present economy. Students with good· backgrounds in accounting or ·engineering··· and. an MBA have good chances for em:. ployment. However, if one 'lacks an accounting or· engineering back­ground, chances for employment were somewhat hampered. 
·The number of students pursuing graduate education · has been . de­creasing recently. In 1972, 50% of · all •· respondents ·were :planning · to pursue graduate education in some form; in .1973,· it was 47% and in 
1974 it declined to 45%. 
· The greatest number of · students 
from Notre Dame pursuing graduate 
work in 1974 was from the College 
of Arts and Letters. · 
In the English Department 25 stu­

dents applied for graduate school. 
Their• average GPA was 3.37 and 
their average Graduate . Record 
Exam was 1217. Of these 25, there were 22 students accepted to grad­uate school. .Of the accepted, the average GPA was 3.33 and. the average GRE was 1220.· 
The second largest number to at­tend graduate school came from the Modern , ·Language Department. There .were 14 who applied and all 14 were accepted. The average GPA was 3.52 and the average GRE was 1204. 
Finally,· the . Psychology <Depart­

ment had 11 people apply to grad­
uate school according to the survey. 
Of these seven were accepted;, · The 
average GPA :was 3.13 and. their 
average GRE was 1200; 
The other departments in the 

College of Arts. and Letters . had 
fairly. numerous applications; how­
ever, the number is too extensive to 
examine in detail. 
.. In the College of Science, the de­
partments . of Biology and Math 
-offered the greatest number of grad­
·uate applicants. · 
. · In the Biology Department there .were 14 applicants, 11 of whom were accepted to graduate school. Of these 11 the average· GPA was 2.96, while the average GRE was 1231. 
There were .. eight, applicants for 

graduate school from the Math De­
partment. Of these eight, there were . seven students who were accepted. Their average GPA was 3.56 and their average GRE was 1401. 

Co~pared to the College of Arts t<.:,..:_~OM 213 HOURS· ss'il·'-<':ltR: a few years. "You can't get a job 
~~:ri~;tt~=i t~:SsCo!~;~c~~tsEn:c:; -r:,-·;n'. _. ·!~j~)~•-•~,"cJ~ ~~~h~~~:;a!s:~~l, s~~~! di~~~,fe;! graduate school. .The greatest num-said. ber of applicants is from the. Elec-in 1974. Of these ten, seven were ac-,Like so .many others,. Ken and trical Engineering Department In cepted. The average grade point -of Mary desire the free life that the less .this : department,, there were eight these acceptees was 3.51. skilled jobs .afford. These jobs do not applicants, seven of _whom were While there is a certain job secu-require the commitment and pledge chosen··,-for . graduate school. .. The rity in the medical and law profes-that many more prestigious , jobs average GPA of.the acceptees was sions, the greatest job security for afford; yet they do offer money·and 
3.53 arid the average GRE was 1298; · any· senior .is· the military service. freedom many graduates .. desire in The number of applicants from the Each ·year the ROTC program at these uncertain times. -College ,of Business for graduate -Notre Dame _commissions seniors for What the future holds for the 
work is almost negligible. _· · dtity as military officers. . Class of 1975, is rather difficult fo .·· Of all the students who responded In 1975. there wilLbe 17 Air Force determine. All the statistics ,on job to the .survey, 179 applied .to grad-· ROTC ·graduates, 22. Army ROTC placements and graduate school ac­uate school. Of these 150 were ac-graduates and 28 Navy ROTC grad-ceptances have not been compiled. cepted. · For the acceptees the aver-uates, with three Marine options. . However, being without the aid of age GPA was 3.25 and the average Hopefully for these graduates, most statistics, it is possible to.gain some . GRE was 1251. . . of them will be_ commissioned in -. perspective of the' job situation. by 
In this day of decreasing job sup-their respective branches of service. using a meter other than statistics. ply, a·great number of students are In ,this time· of job' scarcity, stu-And that meter is the Senior. Bar. turning. to. the: medical health pro-dents are.. also turning .to .. volunteer On ''Rejection Night"-the' evening fession in· order to find employment. programs to procure some sort of where a senior shows a job rejection Each year the preprofessional pro:. work:. This is evidenced by student slip and receives a drink at a reduced gram· at Notre Daine draws a huge application _to such agenciesas the price-the Senior Bar was packed. number. of students. Peace Corps and VISTA. Students filled the large rooms of the 
Of those students who responded · The rise in. unemployment has Bar ·and spilled out. upon the · lawn to the· survey last year,' 128 applied caused a certain amount of discon-· surrounding , the . haven · ·for dis­for. medical schooL The :average certedness. in, the. graduating stu-gruntled seniors. GPA for these applicants was 3.35. dents._There is a rejection of theidea · The graduates-to-be had many a Of the ·128 there were 88 who were of job permanency. Some ,students rejection_ slip ·in' hand and many a accepted to medical schools.· The are, questing for mobility and-free-drink to drink. Throughout the bar average GPA for the acceptees · was dom, -and therefore they· seek -more there was a sense of carefreeness­
3.45. · menial-type work such.as bartending as if all were saying.«What's a per­
. · The , majors of the applicants or working on ships. . . · . . . son to do?" varied from psychology to chemical Mary,_ a senior from St. Mary's, is ,, Mr. Willemin, the director of the engineering. -However. the greatest ·planning on going to Nantucket . Placement Bureau•.pointed out that number· came· from the preprofes-Island to be a cocktail waitress. She .the Notre Dame graduates are far­sional program and· biology ..· · says that ·the pay • is good •and-· the ing . better· than, most other schools. 
There -.were 94 Science Concen-job offers her the freedom she de-So maybe the graduates should count trate preprofessionals who applied to. sires. their blessings. However, it is rather medical school. Of these 64 .were ac~ Keh, an -economics major, is at-. distressing to spend over, $16,000 cepted, The average-GPA-:for the tempting to get a·job on a barge for ·and four years and not.be able to acceptees was 3.35. find a job._ 
· ·There:<were 11 Arts and Letters The answer to the job problems preprofessional students , who . ap-does not seem close at hand. The plied for medical school. -Of these, seniors at "Rejection Night" were nine were accepted. The average able to forget about the problems of GPA was 3.29. ·. the job market and graduate school. 
· -There were also ten biology-ma-But the night passes and reality ap­jors who applied to medical schools pears again the next day.· < .· . 

Graduate School· Is a State of Mind 
If I were a visitor from another pianet, I ·would say things like this· about graduate 'students·: . , 
"They really are not like students at all, but rnore like computer tech­nicians . processing data found in books, on paper, in 'small print, with footnotes on. every other page. They digest . words with giant yellow marking 'appliances that soak up alf kinds of good· tllings." . . 
Graduate . students have been known ,to liv~ in libraries for weeks at a tiine existing on a diet of Heinz soups and . saltines. During that elapsed · tim·e they are researching topics . of great importance. On my 
. planet we call such people, "tvomes.'' Translated here, . it . would . mean "Space Technicians" :or "Scholar's . Disease." -Space technicians are the people we calf in the middle ·of the·. nigh(~hen we· can't get to sleep and we need . something to read. They .. are: well , paid , on my planet and. highly' respected. · · · · . · 
1 see .·no ctiffer'ence. between grad-. uate school and learning how to be a plumber, except of course plumb-. 
ers make,. more money when they. graduate, but we .won't mentjori that_ b~cahse it will .be'a,sore spot £qr too 
by Larry Burns· 

many graduate·· students who _are wandering aroi.md aimlessiy: Why are they wandering around? Usually, most grad students don't know why they are' in 'grad school. "Shylish": is the name we give to_sti.ch behavior on my planet.. Roughly translated, here, it mearis '"Ivy Wall Disease." It generally, occurs inJhe spring of an individual's senior· year in col­lege. Symptoms include vomiting, a redness around the pupils, and severe choking around the neck. 
· If I were herein graduate school, I would take ·a course in _graduating. After all, isn't . .that the point of going to school? I mean, why pro­long the natural course of events? .. As 'the suri comes up; the night goes down. As we go to school, we grad­uate., So why is it so hard to make' 
the transition? -' . , . 
If I were a visitor from another planet,:i wcmid say.that the purpose of graduate school is rather confus-' ing. On my planet we .learn to grad­uat~ , in. college: We give students er.edits: for living off campus, for learning, to _cook and learning · 'to· . clean; _We run seminars· in "Realistic· Social Expectations/' ."Transitional· Fears''.. and _;'Christian: Money Man-. agenient.'' On _my planet we see rio reason to go any further with educa-. 
tion'.· · · ·· . Our. scientists have nc:ited a ;e't~rd~ irig effect upon those wlio'liave· ven­tured any further than common sense will allow. English majors, for instance, have been known to exhibit 

.

(Mr. ·Burns graduated· in 1972 and is back visiting Notre Dame in the form of.a graduate student. He is. quick to point out that it was not: the ,famous Notre pame· mystique which brought him back, but that it was in reality a f_ord Pinto.) 
a hate for their subject after such a nonsensical ·experience. · ·.. , . Somewhere along the proverbiai pltimb line. of education,. individuals. decide ,not to enroll .in ·graduate school. On my planet we say such individuals have a Davy Crockett de­termination for non-academic adven­tures. I would encourage these indi­viduals fo multiply and·· I would· piace _them in important positions in 
scho'ols. ·__ · ' · · · · · · If ·r· were a visitor from anoth~r plari'et i:would encourage seniors, at ·their commencement exercises to·. read the disser:tation titles presented in their souvenir. programs.·. Then I wouldsay: -"All right, folks, stand -up;::. . (I would.pause for dramatic effect) '. . Now ·:•Gra_duate,' God-. dammit!" 

Some Observations on law SchooL and·Attendance There·of 
by Nell Rosini 


(Neil Rosini, '13, iscit'rrently study­ing at the .Yale University Law School. Rosini was a writer jor Scho­lastic, an Observer cartoonist and he also served as president of the Arts and _Letters Student Advisory Coun~ cil.) 
In the second week of my law school career,. the entire first-year: class was invited . to another in a se:ries • of welcoming a.dd:resses; . this one coming from a member of the faculty. Most of us showed up .:_ I guess we just could not be welcomed 

·· enough -and precisely at four in the afternoon, as promised, an im­posing gray-suited gentleman took 
_ his seat on the oak platform at the head of the class, and a silence settled-quickly. 
· With crisp articulation, without smiling, he first said, "You are all welcome. We are all welcome. Why shouldn't we be?" This question ­unlike the other seven or eight thousand posed in two weeks of classes -was meant to be rhetor­ical. 
He then told us a few things about attending law school, like, "You are not going to miss much by spending a few years of your life here." (Even after eight class days, · this was a timely reassurance.) He called law study "something of a professional course in liberal arts." He promised that we would acquire "ways of analysis" through "dialectic" and "SOCRAT programming'; (a refer­ence to the · question .and answer. metho_d of instruction employed als·o by Socrates). 
He noted, "Law school is a pass­port to upward mobile travel with­out further visa." He warned us to beware of the "tendentious manipu­lation towar,d support of society's status quo" and before sending us on our way,' afforded two final. com­forting observations: . ''Law school is a community -in.awaY -and the last socially legitimated oppor­tunity to think hard about some­thing irrelevant." (That· last word was intended as a synonym for "academic.") The lecture proved in­spirational for. us first-year bundles of insecurity. Many · already found some aspects of law school somewhat unsettling: the involuntary audience participation .in every class, the unfamiliar vocabulary of legalese, the hefty . required reading, the cumbersome cas_e method of culling information, the distinctive electric crackle of a highly competitive at­mosphere. And then ·there was a gnawing ache born of that first' month's 1;1ost _burdensome question: 
What am I doing here? We were 
all touched by the gracious gesture 
of this gray-suited professor oflaw, 
giving generously of his time to put 
to rest some of our trifling concerns. 
His solicitude was all the more re­
markable since he had been conduct­
ing his class in Contracts -from 
day one -with all the charm and 
sensitivity of a Grand Inquisitor. He 
made the ogre in Paper Chase, by 
comparison, seem as threatening as 
Owen Marshall. (I shou_ld point out 
that one of the fatal flaws in Chase's 
reality was the students' la.ck of 
humor. Even Contracts class never 
became so oppressive that a .little 
sniggering couldn't brighten the. at­
mosphere.) 
Fortunately, professors .with a 

taste for student-directed sadism are 
not common. Some of my other 
classes have been downright enter­
taining, especially when. professorial 
aggressions were directed elsewhere. 
Every day, for instance; right after 
Contracts came some of the most de­
lightful classroom hours I've spent: 
a course in Torts, a word derived 
from the same root that brought us ·"torture." It means ·"wrong." . 
Torts is technically a llstudy of 

liability without contract" but; since 
our professor had a refined s·erise of 
case-directed. sadism; an acute sense 
of timing, and the storyteller's urge, 
the topic's comic ·potential was ex~ 
quisitely realized. Parties were al­
ways falling through collapsing 
staircases, slipping · on figure~spa 
soap bars, d:ropping: fireworks from 
commuter trains, or· contracting 
dread contagions in ·foetid railroad 
puddles. A Torts course examines in 
excruciating detail a sample of 
suits pressed to set things straight 
again. That is, the severely injured 
attempt to collect. a. forturie in dam­
ages and retire comfortably. It was 
in Torts that I first realized attor­
neys -like physicians -necessar­
ily develop a "clinical · detachment" 
when their business · involves so 
much misfortune: 
In that first semester there was 

also a mandatory course in Federal 
> SCHOLASTIC 


Civil• Procedure,· designed to impress one with the number of technicalities a crack legal system can devise with 800 years •to· do it. , Constitutional Law led me to conclude .that Su­preme. Court justices -like clergy­men·'--: can derive from a textual quote· almost anything they choose; Property Law is the .study of fan­tastic· abstractions confected to keep owners .. and would-be owners from killing each other. Other courses I've taken include Criminal Law, Taxes, Estates, , Family Law, and Corporation . Law, ·to· name a· few old standbys. ;., 
Not. all this stuff is exactly amus­ing; much ·of. the class discussion I've heard seems calculated to ob­fuscate the obvious. More judges than you'd believe can't· put two sentences• together and maintain co­herence.-Hours and hours are spent studying the most tedious legal con­troversies with which every lawyer ought to be familiar, especially when facing a . bar exam. . Imagine the prospect .of dragging a yellow Hi­Liter, for three years, over miles . of lines like: • 
Since the Judicature Act there is no doubt we .have to apply the · principles of equity, and accord­ing to those principles there was in this case that which was not granted by-deed, and which need not be granted by deed, and there­fore there was that which is valid now in equity as a good title upon 
. which this gentleman, the . plain­tiff; being in. possession of a seat, had. a right to. stay .and say ."It is no use your. saying _to me I am obliged to ·go because I have· not got in .the language of Wood v. Lead'bitter (1) . a grant by deed; this is an interest .which, whether you call it an easement or not, is an interest which I can now ac­quire. in •equity ,by parol and I have that interest." 

People tend to dislike studying law in direct proportion to the frequency of turning up sentences like that. 
After a few terms of law school, I've made a few other observations too. I expected that having four dif­ferent law classes at a time would be like cutting a tuna sandwich in quar­ters and calling them . a four-course meal. In college there was always diversity, different disciplines, dif­ferent ideas. How different could be one law text from another? I've discovered, as you may have guessed, that the differences can be chasmal, since different· areas of law have de­veloped in remarkably distinct pat­terns. But still the intellectual diet in professional school does have a dif­ferent taste (to maintain this series of metaphors). In retrospect, the di­versity of an undergraduate· course load seems juicy and luscious-like fresh; ripe fruit~ompared to the baked-in-a-pie flavor of ·law study; But this is· not to disparage those who prefer their fruit in a crust. . 
I've also observed that for most students the formal. part of an edu~ cation in law entails much more than book learning. There·.are mock trials (to sharpen courtroom technique), moot court exercises (for appellate argument practice), law journalwrit­ing (for those:inclined toward legal scholarship), and· clinical programs (for getting students out to do things for people.) · 
There is also ·the experience of simply living in a group of law stu­dents who ·are, after• all, ·a distinct bunch from the typical lot of under~ graduates. Much of ·· the· old ca­maraderie grows scarce as considera~ tions like marriage, careers and the end of adolescence exert an influence. Outside interests constrict a bit; many students don't have any inter­ests ataH beyond legal opinions and finance pages. Some display awesome altruism. in tireless efforts to benefit the underprivileged; others seem composed only of raw ambition, a condition which excites in the indi­viduals an unhappy disposition and in others,· a distaste. 
I have also observed that most law schools can be disagreeably competi­tive: the law journal has just so much room in its staff box, the high grades are limited· in number, the de~ sirable job piacements are finite. 
'. But there are compensations to studying' law. The gray-suited ogre pointed out afew. There are others: like a playful sense of gamesmanship, which is interesting, at least .for a while, and appeals to acrostic-niak~ ers and cro~sword-solvers. But for­tunately, law study is more than ~ word game-it's a· sometimes'excit­ing pursuit of the mechanics of so~ ciety, a• search for fair priorities, a quest for orderly' process.. Law. touches almost everyaspect of our lives .(if you don't believe it now, someday you'll find 'out);. it's' a source of security to kriow why it does and how. An attorney has taken a good, close look at "the system," knows· its 'workings, knows -how to influence it. Even a trivial •victory is satisfying, especially when the cause is believed in. . . 
I would not recommend law school to everyone. I'm • not.. even sure whether I like it or not; I am sure, though, that right now· there's no place· I'd rather be: And if you do apply and attend, forget this article and come expecting nothing. You might be pleasantly surprised. Either way, three long years -and $20,000 from now, nothing is going. to keep you from what you really feel like doing. Maybe. 



,:Med Sch·ool:­A Meari_{To 
·An:End 


' The-.fl~t «iay; ·yoi{ stand iri int~r: rrtinable lines waiting to· signj>apers, to ha~e your • photograph . taken,· to pick up . your schedule. Cocky . and fidgety, : you·. suspic~ously _eye . d?zens like you,. cocky' outside, fidgety in: side. This is the day you ha\'.'e wor~ed four hard years to see. Now, four more stretch before you, arid you really . don't. know .any 'more about· what. they. will .be· uke than . you .did four years earlier: •. ' . ... ···.Medical ·school: presents· many changes from -the undergraduate years.j)ne of thedlrst to become ap­parent to the first.:year student is the difference in the curriculum.·For two years, th~ ~tirriculuin is composed.()f extensive,·. all~inclusive, unmitigated §tudy of the !'basic sc~ences." This is the . usuai pattern~.. though th~re ~~ af~w variations on the theme. . . .. -Medical . schools •in , the ,;lJnited States can tie categoriied 'in ,any ;oi severai .ways.'. First,. there are· three~ year.· programs and four:-ye_ar' pro.:. grams. In the first,. classes , c~:m_tiniie (tirougliout'"ihe ·summer;·)n tlie_ s'ec~ orid, sum·mers are giveri,to .the_tr:~di.:. tional: vacations> .Thus:·:.the. to'tal iimount of time in scliooi is approxi;. 
1.,:: : '. • -·. -· •·• • • •;_ • -• < 
• 

·.·; __ .. ,; 
.. 
-·:·><¾ 
~~ 

(Greg Stidham/13, is enrolled.in the University-of Toledo Medical-School. Stidham is also ·a former :editor of 
· Scholastic.) · . 
mately the same,· and.:the real_· dif­ferences between.the two approaches are • more subtle/ The advantages of finishing schoolin three. years must be weighed against the disadya.ntages of having to-push through the three years without a major pause, of be­ing unable to add-summer: earnings to theincome supplied by huge loans, . of,having one year.less to assimilate and organize-the quantities· of mate­rial one is expected to master in that time. Finally, if:any·part of the. pro­gram must. suffer from the compres­sion of time; it-more often than not, unfortunately, is the time devoted .to .actual clinical experience ..The 'argu­
. ments go both ways, and· the. topic is still one of heated discussions among medical educators~ Apparently, the· now ten-year-old . experiment of three-year medical :schools has still not received its final judgment. · · . A new approach to curric:ula . de­. veloped hand in hand with the riew three-year s<;hools, and its advan­tages are still being assessed by edu­cators. Known ._ by various descrip­tive names, the ''systems" approach 
divides the. basic sciences curriculum according to body. systems;irt lieu of science · subjects. .· Thus, -instead of spending his first· year studying bio­chemistry, • physiology and anatomy the student might study the cardio;. vascular system,, the_ .• respiratory · system, ·and. the _renal ·system. · · He would· ·study. -each of ·these· ·systems in all of its aspects, e.g., the anatomy of the heart would .be studied con-. jointly with :the . biochemistry • of heart muscle and the physiology of vascular-hemodynamics:-Of course; there are. advantages arid -disad­vantages. The. student:'.-studying "systems". is likely to have'. difficulty forming:. cohesive notions:' of basic physiologic·_ principles; the,: student studying "'subjects''. is_ likely to,chave more difficulty relating the physiol­ogy to the anatomy' which•·he may not yet study for-some months. · ;It seems that there is a third viable classification -of medical· schools, .and · this is ·a 'philosophical-one. -Having talked with many friends in various schools across: the:· country,, I have . concluded that there is ,a great dif­ference of opinion on how much.clin~ ical experience, should be giverii to students ·and when , it should :be­gin. (."Clinical experience•~: refers' to . the experience: of-interviewing; ,ex­amining and taking part in the treat­ment of patients in the hospital situ­. ation.) Some ·schools: consider. this experience sacred:to the last year.or · the last two years of medical school. At the other end of the', spectrum are ·schools . which: give a'·course' in · physical :diagnosis ,at.the :beginning of"the first:year.Here students learn techniques of· the physical ·examina­tion· and begin:, to examine, patients· imniediately,; though' they:· niay not · fully ; , unde:i;-stand ·,·:the; significance of what they, do: or. of -the disease entities. they uncover., until_ a later time "in their ,: studies;· In ~ this .' ap­. preach; limited' clinical exposure· is integrated into the curriculum from ·. the beginning, with one or two after­
.. · 


noons a week spent with patients until the third or fourth year, when the student spends his entire day in the hospital as part of the health­care _team. 
The three categorizations of medi­cal school curricula._ which I have. tried to outline describe some real differences among schools, though in the end I think-these differences are not so •significant. The suitability of one program: over another is largely a matter" of personal interests, in­clinations and preferences. Further-· more;. the choice of a school:-,when there is. a choic~is rarely based on these cm1siderations, but more often on factors such as location, size·and expense.. 
Finally, itis necessary to add that in a large number of medical schools, students •-and educators.• 'alike are
-. . . . . ­

convinced tbat the type_ of program rriatters:far less than the individual's attitudes toward_ educating himself. The bulk of a physician's knowledge and . competence · is acquired ·not in school,.but after he. graduates, when he himself'is his only.professor. . 
I have tried to describe some of the variability"which exists among medi~ cal schools; 'indeed, there· can be little question that each. school pos­sesses a character all itsown.. At the same time, . there are C experiences which are shared by.all medical stu~ dent~, regardless of their school. .•, 
One of the most'rriemorable of the medical school experiences is that of the long hours in anatomy lab2:-the days that:it took 1:o· become:_com~ 
,_ f.ortable dissecting a humari 'cadaver; the • fong and tedious hours . spent picking through· ' a ·.·small area._·•_ of tissue, . atteni.ptirig to · identify -tiny and. Obscure structures; the "home~ work;; hciurs,trying to compare text~ book diagranis with recollections of the cadaver and memorizing "names of mu·scles with'their origins and in­sertions. It'is grueling, difficuit and unpleasant work,. 'and :when one de­·scribes :it gently to" 8. .~onrriedical person, 'iie. is likely to be.· met with exclam·ations of horror and accu'sa­tions of callousness~ Although ·gruel­iiitfand uripleasan't, it is still es~en­
APRIL•25, 1975 
tial to the understanding of the hu­man body, and virtually all medical· students spend the better part of a year literally getting to "know'.' their assigned cadaver. , 
A second indelible memory of med­ical school must be the recollection of the long hours of study. Many stu­dents come to medical school hoping to shed the reputations they acquired as undergraduates for their long h~urs_ and small number of other_ in~ terests; usually they are disappointed. First, the "pass/faHsystems are poor disguises :for the continued pressure to succeed, numerically, on tests. Sec­ond, .the student who is relieved to be freed of the competitive grind he endured while trying. to gain accep­
, tance. :will. often_ be ~ismayed · to firid his colleagues mor~ competitive tha_n ever. FinaBy, and this is perhaps the only valid. consideration, the volume, of material which.must be mastered in a short time is _such that one, al­most_ always, i~ compelled to. spend all .of ~is time studying, trying to learn what he must to be a compe­tent physician: . · · 
si~£us-seeking,:;ddwm a1i4 w~e4~ 
in that order, are.the three major 

... personality tfaits <>f American _· ·medical students. If Hitler had . ··been born 'in this 'coun_try instead 
.of Au.stria,' he no doubt would .. 'have be'come a doctor, and victims , . -of ;iis; sadism and thirst for per­
' sonat. power .:would. have been 
. limited to afewhundred palients '·rather than tens of millions. .... . . ' ~Pierre de Vise: 
.University of Illin~ 
: ...... '.'. ·. . •1' ' ' ..• ' 

The. quote appeared in the news-. lette'rpf tii'e StudenfAm_erican Medi­cal Association: Exaggerated, • per­haps;. but also . frighteningly percep­tive. The'. temptation is great, I am afraid, to allow self-interest and self­gain to become the primary motiva­tors for one's efforts in medical school. And if one is· not constantly on his guard against that possibility and highly sensitive to his own mo­tives -conscious and unconscious ­he is sure to fall victim, to fall into the group described by de Vise. Sadly, many do. 
Is it possible to· say: I love medi­cine, but I.hate medical school? This is the situation I find myself in. Medi­cal school ha~. been the most_ frus­trating academic venture that I, per­sonally, have attempted. The empha.~ sis on tests -has not changed dra­matically sirice my undergraduate years. Students. compete for· top spot in the _class, bicke~ing for test points in a way _that should have been out~ g~own yea.rs _earlier. The demands of study invade ·every area'. of _one's time, even the :time once _reserved for. privacy-:-for _reading; for. think­
ing quietly: . · . · . . · 
' . Medicine, outside the classroom, is vastly different..There is ·the impact, of course,,_of seein·g closiup, people who are suffering greatly,. some .of whom ·. are . dying .. It is hard.' Some­times it is ~ery hard. But there is the growing realization, and the halting; initially uncertain confidence, that one can really do somethingto make that suffering a little less painful, .a little iess prolonged, or a littl_e more bearable. An·d, for thcise·who wish.to do· that; medical school issomething . which' must be experienced, .and . 
0

sometim,es endured. . 
. . . • 

. I ~ess thaqsa good word~"en­dured.'.' I have found that medical school is riot pleasa'nt, and is not the culmination. It is a continuation. of an u~ple~sant pro_cess of prepa~ation. But! have also found that what comes. after. is, indeed, rnost worth'.. whiie. It 'is at that time that I will, at last, be better· ·,equipped to help allay the suffering of fellow humans. Arid that, to me, is tlie most worth: while thing one can do. . ' . ,'. 
r .-:.. .. _.· ...... -._. -· -...._..... ·--,,.._ ... "'·-:----. 
Working in America: A Pacemaker Go·ne Crazy 

.If the long lines at the placement bureau are not convincing, the. cam­pus graffiti of the mid-70's are the best evidence of a new spirit abroad in the land: "Revolutions and Reve­lations Are Bullshit: Go Out and Get a Job!" The real signs of the times are the want ads. Consciousness IV is decidedly pragmatic. 
.For those in the process of enter­ing the world of work-and not yet contaminated by it----Studs Terkel's Working is an enlightening and so­bering experience. It is a kind of guide through .the labyrinth of eco­nomic bondage in our society, a cele­bration of the work ethic and at the same time a dirge for its passing. For many leaving college this year, the first job will be equivalent to step­ping into Charon's ferry-there will be no turning back. For others, em­ployment will be serial, an adventure 
·as ·hazardous ~nd ·uncertain as an expedition up the Amazon. Terkel's subject is as plastic an_d 
· pluralistic as his form, the oral his­tory. In an age of instantaneous communication by radio, television, phonograph and jet travel, the tape recording replaces the diary or the journal .as the mos·t authentic and immediate transcription of. human experience. Whether the oral history genre began in the 30's with the testimonies of Southern tenant farm­ers in.· The Disinherited Speak, or with James Agee's Let Us Now Praise Famous Men or with the Fed­eral Writers ·Project-by any stan­dard Studs Terkel is a pioneer in the field. (He has been interviewing peo­ple on WFMT-Chicago for ovel'. 21 years.) Terkel has• often compared his work to gold prospecting: "You have to have a sense of the drama of life itself, so that you can preserve the truth by taking a hundred pages 
by Madonna C. Kolbenschlag 

of transcript and making it ten pages, without distorUng the •truth. Well, it's cutting all the fat off and getting the gold----it's like a gold prospector-he's cutting through the ore, and getting the gold dust, and that is the trick." Like All God's Dangers, another superb ccmtempo­rary oral history, Terkel's edited transcripts are .not only a recogni­tion of the intrinsic and untrans­latable· poetry and ·truth of the in­dividual, but also of the necessity for an artist to give it significant form. Terkel feels that inthis process the tape recorder · acts as • a· kind · of "booster," heightening the common man's sense of self-respect and sig­nificance. 
The form he gives to his collection . of workers' oral histories is thematic and functional at the same time. The Table of Contents, for instance, looks like the Mid-America Job Guide, interspersed with a few cameo chap­ters. Working does not have the meta­phorical resonance· of his earlier work, Division Street, which ex­plored the spectrum of. self-division and social polarization in the Amer­ican neighborhood.Yet, on the whole, the testimonies are more self-probing than Terkel's oral histories ·of the Depression, Hard Times. And there is the curious and, at times, startling effect of juxtaposition: the farmer and the strip miner in "Working· the Land," the TV executive and the ex~ president of a conglomerate in "In Charge," the baby nurse ·and the nursing home attendant in "Cradle to the Grave." In temperament, phi­losophy and expression these individ­uals leap and clash on the pages of print, shouting their exhilarations and shrieking their pain. Work is not something one feels neutral about. One of the most interesting 
Sister Madonna Kolbenschlag is an assistant· professor .in the De­partment of American Studies. 
sections is the last one, called "Fa­thers and Sons." Here, while the saris' occupations ·often differ from their sires', one is struck by the in­tensity with which faith in work, be­lief in one's choice of occupation or profession is transmitted from gen­eration to generation. 
Sharon Adams, receptionist in a Midwest business .establishment, re~ iterates a common post-graduation experience: "Okay, the first myth that blew up in my face is that a. college education will get you a job." The hours she spends. chained to the telephone have changed the way she talks and have set limits on her normal sincerity. It has literally transformed her personality: ''I re­member on applications I'd· put down, 'I'd like to deal with the pub­lic.' (Laughs) Well, I don't want to deal with the public anymore." 
If the telephone has been her nemesis, the automobile has shaped and muted ·the lives of thousands of Americans . in thousands .of ways. Terkel's chapter on "The : Demon Lover" captures_ America's slavery to the mechanical bride, from the assembly line to the car dealership. In a series of Ford Plant vignettes, Terkel documents the· slow meta­morphosis of men into machines and robots-a process that is short-cir­cuited only by sporadic little psychic "revolts" that seem· fo be increasing in American industrial life. Workers who daydream: CIWhen . you dream, you reduce the chances. of friction with the foreman' or ·with the next guy." Workers who tell jokes, invent pranksand games to get through the 
. •.SCHOLASTIC 


day. Workers on drugs. Workers on the bottle. Workers who, like Gary Bryner of the Lordstown plant, re­sort to sabotage and deliberately let a car "go by." For him, it's a rare moment of exhilaration in the midst of stifling, repetitive regimentation: "With us, it becomes a human thing. It's the most enjoyable part of my job, that moment. I love it." 
But the assembly line is not the only job that spawns sabotage and friction-proofing devices. The office worker who draws Mondrian doodles on company time and the switch­board· operators who "yank all the plugs" experience the same sense of liberation. The act of sabotage lends a kind of comic crea!ivity and com­munity to the tragic sameness and loneliness of much of the American industrial structure. 
Some of the· happiest and un­happiest people in Terkel's catalog are numbered among a group that might be called "the hustlers." Iron­ically, many of them seem unaware of the stress and strain they suffer, judging by the incidence of ulcers and alcoholic problems among them. These are the people who spend most of their waking hours "hawking," "hyping" ·or "faking" for the sake of a buck, a product or a cause. They are engaged for the most part in beating down consumer resistance to whatever they're selling, and they play longer hours of emotional ten­nis ·than most other workers. The group includes such .disparate occu­pational roles as stewardesses, mod­els, hookers, advertising writers, commercial artists, press agents, public relations · officers, · solicitors, undercover investigators and car salesmen. Their plight-conscious or unconscious-is summed up meta­phorically _in-the recurring night­mare of John Fortune, the advertis­ing· copy chief: <'I'm a stand-up co­median. I'm standing on a stage with a· blue spotlight ori -me, talking. I begin by telling ~okes. Gradually, I begin to justify my life. I can't quite see the audience. The light becomes more and more intense. I can't re­member what I say. I usually end up crying. This dream I've had maybe three, four times." Or, take the case of the young Xerox salesman who is on the verge of a nervous break­down: "You give him bullshit. You wiggle, you finagle, you sell yourself, and you get him to sign. Pow! you 
APRIL 25, 1975 won a round. The next day is another round. What the hell am I doing? I don't enjoy it." Or the grim remi­niscence of a middle-aged designer: "I wanted to be at the drawing board, creative, doing something I believed in. But I became .a pimp/' He found he could outdrink his clients and get contracts by catering to their frailties. "I got the work all right~ but it made me sick. I couldn't stand it." 
The philosophy of "hustling" is perhaps best expressed by Roberta Victor, a prostitute since the age of fifteen. Of all of Terkel's respon­dents, she has the most remarkable sense of the archetypal significance of her profession for . the larger American society. She sees her life as not terribly different from the as­sembly line worker who works forty hours a week and comes home numb, dehumanized, cut off. "Hustling" has made her cold, unable to care and to feel. But the overt hustling society of which she is a part is amicrocosm of the larger society: "The power relationships are the same and the games are the same. Only this one I was in control_ of. The greater one· I wasn't. In the outside society, if I triedto be me, I wasn't in control of anything. As a bright, assertive woman,. I had no power. As a .cold, manipulative hustler, I had a lot. I knew I was playing a role. Most women are taught. to become what they act. All I did was act out the reality of American womanhood." 
The ''hustlers" may indeed be harbingers. of things to come. If futurologists are correct, more and more people will be drawn into this kind of work as we approach the end of the century. Alvin Toffler sug­gests that we will witness a revo­lutionary expansion of industries whose sole .output consists -not of manufactured goods, nor even of ordinary · services, but· of pre-pro­grammed.."experiences.": People will begin to hoard experience as they once hoarded things, which is to say that more and more people will be needed to sell us something that we don't need or want-yet. 
While the laborer struggles against the machine and the hustler against emotional resistance or indifference, the broker and the bureaucrat con­tend with the demon of the "sys­
. tern." A recurrent image of para­sitism runs through the testimony of Terkel's unhappy brokers-a sense that they are raking off a cut from the productivity of others. The bu~ reaucrat frets because his work does not have a direct impact on others -he suffers from a ·chronic sense of meaninglessness. 
The shadow image which emerges from so many of these confessions is, of course, the American Dream. One might say, the. disillusionment is often directly proportionate to the intensity of the promise and expecta­tion. Throughout Working the dream clings to the frayed edges of the worker's aspirations. The dream of retirement is to be expected: the bungalow down South, the garden, the boat, the little business. But the most persistent fantasy is the one of "the next step up the ladder." Amer­icans are incurably hooked on social mobility. "Thirty and out" has one meaning for the assembly linewelder, and another for the advertising man. The _threat of early obsolescence is offset only by the dream of a con­stantly rising occupational star-the Horatio Alger myth. Pauline Kael, a film critic and one of the happiest workers in Terkel's catalog, notes the incredible disparity between the imagined and the real opportunities that Americans must resolve. Adver­
Using, TV movies, folk wisdom, socialization and the school system brainwash the young by glamorizing some occupations and implicitly de­grading others. "So people form . a low self-image of themselves, be­cause their lives can never match the way Americans live -on the screen." Ray Wax, a Wall Street stockbroker. who was happier when he was building houses, traces his unhappiness to his childhood belief in the .dream that someday he would "score," someday he would make it to the top. When he did, he found there was a limit to what he was prepared to do to make money. 
Americans who do not suffer from. delusions of grandiose occupations may be the victims of another obses­sion, "excitement." The happiness reflected in some of the Working testimonies is difficult to reconcile with the compulsive, self-punishing, debilitating syndromes that accom­pany these jobs:It is in fact not hap­piness, not contentment and equilib­rium, but what one contemporary psychiatrist has called "addiction to stimulation" that is devouring these 
' ' ,' 

individuals. Environment,· mass me­dia, child rearing-our cultural mi­lieu 'tends tci "hype" the American to expect peak experiences~xcite­nient; .• exhilaration, stimulation-:-: as the norm. Many work at jobs which feed this lust for ·excitation and by dint of their frenetic activity end up as corporate executives or politicians with control over other people's lives. And then, God· help those who are not afflicted with the same addiction. Larry Ross, an ex-president of a con­. glomerate, has been there. He got tired·"playing God." He dropped out to become akind of roving consul­tant: "I've been to the mountain top. 
(Laughs) It isn't worth it." 
No occupation, itseems, is immune 
from dehumanization or self-betrayal. 
What then of the really happy ones, 
the chosen · few who seem fulfilled, 
integrated, uplifted by their work? 
Who are they? A significant number 
of them work with concrete things,. 
small things...:....like the piano tuner, 
the· sto~emason ·. and the• bookbinder. 
For many of the ·satisfied; work is 
connected with a sense of continuity 
arid immortality. The'· instruments, 
the buildings, the books that survive 
their labors are an· extension of the 
worker's identity ·into · the future: 
Some, like the waitress and the com­
munity organizer,. are intoxicated 
with· giving service. She love$ her 
job because, "I have to be. a waitress. 
How else cari I learn about people? 
How· else does< the world come to 
me?" He enjoys bringing people to­
gether who have been cheated by the 
"system," left out: He builds things 
that will give people the power to_ 
make: changes in their lives.· fll'm 
one of the few people. I know who 
was lucky illJife to find out whafhe 
really wanted to do." 
· · If these· .modern Utopians· have 
anything · in common; it is probably 
the fact that for them work is more 
than a jo~it is. a dedication, a call­
ing.. They extract a satisfaction from 
the. moJivation of -their work, not 

· merely from. the work itself; Like the 
storefront lawyer and .the piano tuner,' most of 'the happy ones can 

say, "M,1 life and my work are one." 
'The concept of work as a<Ccalling" and as a "stewardship" for greater ends is one of the most ·significant and persistent components of the American heritage and perhaps ex­plains the degree of dissatisfaction and . restlessness. among working Americans.. In a sense~ we have beeri 
.programmed by our Puritan-evangel­ical history to expect more of our­selves and our work_:_we are 'all spoiled prophets in search of a voca­tion. Nora Watson, an editor, in orie' of Terkel's most brilliant interviews·, observes: "I think· most of us are looking for a calling, not a job. Most of us; like the assembly line worker, have jobs that are too small for our spirit. Jobsare not ·big enough for people.... You invest a job with a lot of values that the society doesn't allow you to put into a job. You find yourself like a pacemaker that's gorie crazy or something." . 
But to change. the pacemaker would require anaesthetizing the en-' tire economic system -impossible. The answer seems to lie· in some sort of separate peace that each individ~ ual must · seek and .make· ·with his situation, · some psychic equilibri­um he can achieve within the scope of his indentured 'status. For a professional Hke · Nora Watson it might rnean: "You· recognize your~­self as·. a marginai person. As a per­
. son who can give orily-miriimal as­sent to anything that is going on in this society.. ; • What you have -to find is your own niche that will allow you to keep feeding and clothing and sheltering yourself· without ·• getting downtown: (Laughs.) Because that's death. That's really where death is." For a carpenter like Nick Lindsay_:_; the son of the poet-doctor Vachel Lindsay-it's a kind of rhythm, a kind of doubleness that is not de­structive but vital: "I say my calling is to be a carpenter and a poet; No contradiction: (Cha~ts.) Work's quite a territory."· So is Studs Terkel's book.,'. 
r~-••---••-~--•----T·-::--•-•-~•~-.-~~~--., f Letter·'. .:· ··· --_J 
L · < <::· · ,J-.•~-~ -· . 1 
A Letter·. 
' I • 
to Friends 

"Human existence. is something 'so fragile, so exposed, that I cannot love. without .trembling." 
-Simone Weil 

It was, I believe, Simone de Beau­voir who told the story of a young friend who joined· the French Com­munist Party, but soon thereafter became disillusioned and quit., Even Communists, he explained, die alone. .It is, indeed, a ._ sobering thought, one with ·special aptness. to the L e n t e n season. The young friend, explained . de · Beauvoir, . had come to the gripping realiz_ation that death can emasculate even the most all-consuming ideas-that no sense of fraternity, sincere, or imposed, can significantly · soften ·.. the.· blow when death comesto call., The story haunts me as Isit out another eve­
. ning of the late winter rains which have drenched, this area. for weeks. Something-perhaps <.memories -of my recent pilgrimage back to Notre Dame-prompted_ me -to, return. to _an earlier Scholastic issue, , to the touching words of Jim _Ward, who· learned too soon the·. embrace of death, and to the pained words .of Greg Stidham, numbed by the death of an -old man whom he "knew only_ .. by his struggling face." 
I have been told that .it : is most inelegant, if not downright· rude, to dwell publicly on death. Still, risk­ing opprobrium, I press :on. Pru­dence would . also :warn that , the Notre Dame community has seen and .heard of too. much death lately, and will note greatly appreciate my dwelling on the subject.. But atime comes, after the shock and the numb­ness wear off, when we must at last look death in the face and try to make some sense of the losses we have ·had to endure.· 
· One who is very dear to me c:ince said that she needed· faith' because it was the only way she could un­derstand. death. My thoughts drifted to Block, the squire in Bergman's The .Seventh Seal, playing chess with Death, and -at orie point la­menting, "To believe· is to · suffer. It's · like loving someone in the dark, 
. who never answers." Faith does, as my friend said, help make sense out of death. But faith itself is a diffi­cult thing. And at times one almost feels that it is an abdication of one's responsibility · t9 face .death and reckon with its grim· visage. The temptation of faith, in other words, is that it can become a crutch· in­
.stead of a foundation.. ·. But this need not .be so. In the same, way that Socrates taught us that .philosophy is the exercise of learning how· to die, Lent can be; fo.r the Christian, the time to learn how to die-and how to live. The driving snow and persistent rains thatgreet the beginning of Lent give way at its end to the first signs of spring, the promises of regeneration_ after all seemed lifeless. 
I hesitate to go further. What was intended as a letter of sorts to those with whom I still feel a very deep and special bond has begun to sound more. like a homily. It is, rather, that bond of.which I wish to speak, that undercurrent of solidarity or fraternity which has become im­prisoned in the overly abused word "community." I risk here. commit­ting a second faux pas: dragging out. the skeleton of that which was (originally quite sincerely) termed the· ·"Notre Danie community." I shall,· however, take the. risk of fur­ther· reproach, ... for I consider •the point an important one. 
I 
It is, indeed,· a paradox· of this 
I 
life that we are drawn together most effectiveli by tragedy; that it seems to require the death of one from among us to bring again. to light the links that bind us. But every paradox has its awkward·. truth. For; as Christians, we know that the horror of death is balanced off by its promise of new life. We find hope in the darkest days of Lent, and in the loss of one dear to us-for in. the· continuous flow of confusing. opposites which consti­tute our life, sorrow always brings promise of joy. 

I have in· the past been accused of incoherence-and. I fear that I might be subject :to the same com: plaint here. My point . is · actually rather· simple,· and was made more concisely and much more eloqueritly by Greg Stidham. It· is a primary temptation of college life to become effectively isolated from the world and-all those who.surround us. We build a fortress of our preoccupa-. tions and• only grudgingly open our 
· door to others. In a do~yotir-own.: thing world, we each build our little universe and defend it against all comers. We become islands . unto ourselves. Meanwhile, people, some nameless and some all too familiar, die, .or feel pain, or despair, or re­quire help. And only when the tragedy. stares us right in the face, only when death gets so uncomfort­ably close that we cannot ignore it, do we come out of our shells (al­beit temporarily) and join others in a common suffering. It is; however, in those moments of shared strife that the seeds of community are first sown. What we have most in common is our experience of suffer­ing, of the tran~itoriness of joys and sorrows and of the fragility of human life. These experiences, if fully felt and shared, can be the foundation of the deepest and most meaningful of communities. But our· preoccupations too often force us to · deprive ourselves of. these· ex-' periences through a sort of emo­tional lobotomy.: Community · can only exist among those who toil and suffer together-who together share the profound losses and uncertain­ties as well as· the profound joys of life.. Community cannot be spawned by a housing plan, nor created' in the medium of a. keg of beer, nor perpetuated through a bureaucracy for the careful control and · "im­provement'' of studenUife.· It cannot exist as long as, the most crucial and painful experiences· and emotions of life remain . totally private, or are summarily :ignored as distracting or unpalatable. Yes, Greg Stidham, people are dying. And only when we learn to see· the face of death, and: therefore the glow of life, in every face that passes in a. hallway-only. when every contact with another and every• deed done . for another take . on 
. the urgency of trying to save.a dy­ing man-will we fully understand what death is trying so tragically..to teach us. Kerry McNamara 


This year the N.D. crew team is being captained by Paul McEvily, a senior from Bricktown, N.J. Paul has been on the team since he was a sophomore and last year was the treasurer of the club. Since his home is located on a river, his interest in the sport came naturally..He also has two older brothers, one that graduated from N.D., who were row­ers and urged him .to join the N.D. club;· 
Having played soccer, basketball and tennis in high school, Paul has discovered that rowing is one of the best activities there is for all­around conditioning. It provides him with disciplined, consistent work­outs as well as a relief from studies, and a chance to travel during the season. 
Paul's duties as captain are varied. In addition to maintaining good re: lations between the coach and team; he is responsible for the care and re­pair of the delicate and expensive e q u i p m e n t. During the winter months he also keeps ·the team in good physical shape by conducting workouts six days a week. 
Paul will be graduating this May with a major in government and in­ternational affairs. Rowing is inevi­tably to be included in his future plans..His three years in crew have made him a lifetime member of the 
r 
very "fraternal group." 

If anyone were to hold a "busiest man on campus" contest at N.D., Tom Porter, the chairman of the 1975 An Tosta! Committee, would surely be a prime contender for the title. The spring festival prepara­tions, which started in November, have made his schedule during the past few weeks very hectic. 
Tom received the duty of running An Tosta! as one of his major re­sponsibilities as the Executive Co­ordinator of the Hall Presidents Council, a post to which he was ap­pointed this year. He is a senior math major from Cranford, N.J., and in addition to working in the 
~1"T-':!Z,"'! ti~~..-;.\

L,.: ;'~:.r:,
;-~.tmi_-~-t._(~l 
~it~: 
;;.;...____..:.:-..-..:.---­.. \(""'1'~ ~"1•.C-."',·•
~.,,._;.,,,.-·.','
~ 
--~~=i;!..~:; 
t·~---=~-~ 
~,q'~ 
' 
j.
J 


dining hall, he has been president of Grace Hall for the past two years. Under his direction the hall won the James E. Brogan Award at last year's An -Tosta! for the fireworks display sponsored in conjunction with the St. Mary's Student Gov­ernment, ran a $1,000 charity drive, and sponsored the first-place booth at Mardi Gras this year. Tom has also initiated a TV station within the dorm which has recently taped its first program. Now, with a new president elected in Grace, and the end of An Tostal, Tom's last few ·weeks at N.D. should be somewhat 
more leisurely. 

Each week the research staff of Scholastic magazine directs its ef­forts outward in an attempt to uncover the most noteworthy. and pivotal personalities of the Notre Dame community. This . week our focus is directed inward on our own staff as we uncover the gem of the Scholastic news staff, Jane "Spar­kles" Thornton. Jane has served as the Scholastic news editor for the past year and is credited with such highly successful columns as "Peo­ple at Notre Dame." Aside from her daily functions as news editor, Jane has also played a key role in the compiling of this year's Course Evaluation booklet. Along with her involvement with Scholastic; Jane must also find time to perform du­ties as a resident assistant in Farley Hall. The topic of Jane's future after her spring graduation has sparked much speculation· and ru­mor. One highly placed sotirce has her accepting an offer:.from Time magazine, which has allegedly of­fered her an immediate executive position on the strength of her Scholastic experience. Those who know Jane best, however, report that she is bound for law school in Florida, where she may be pressed into service as the editor of the Law School Course Evaluation booklet. 
-Sue Grace Torri Birsic 


People:Behind_ ND 
l ~--~, ............ ,p.,. ............. .,t _ __,..,._.., ~.--· ,....___~ ,_....,....."""'-.........-• __,,_...,,,,....1....,.....---......~·----__...._....,.. ..... 
The Quest for Understanding 
"Throughout his teaching life, Brandi's motive force has been his oft-repeated contention that 'only by knowing its history can anyone understand'.what architecture really is.' " This was written about Ernest Brandl in the South Bend Tribune in December of 1958 when he was still an active teacher in the Depart~ ment of Architecture. Since then, he has retired and been appointed Scholar in Residence, but he is still proving,that statement true. O_n the evening of. Thursday, April 10, 1975, Ernest ·Brandl gave a lecture to a group of architecture students, tell­ing them about a man who is little heard of in American architectural circles but who is, in Brandi's opin­ion, the greatest architect of this century-Adolf Loos. He began the lecture by talking about Loos.as an architect, showing how his .. work contained .many innovations attrib~ uted to later architects and show­ing how Loos always kept meeting the social needs of man in his work. Then he began to talk about Loos the writer, . reading some of his work, including a piece about Oskar Kokoschakar, a great painter. Then he began talking about Kokoschakar, showing us some of his _paintings and explaining why he.thinks that this man is perhaps the century's greatest artist. 
But what has this got to do with understanding architecture by know­ing its history? Well, to know the history of architecture, one must know and understand the culture in which it developed. This is the pur­pose of the course which Prof. Brandl is teaching with Prof. Rich­ardson, chairman of Architecture, and •for which Brandl. gave his Loos lecture. The course is an elective for seniors,· titled ·History of Modern Architecture, and it tries to link re­cent developments in architecture with developments in other cultural areas, such as art, music, literature and philosophy. It's an attempt to deal historically with our own period 
APRIL 25, 1975 in, as Brandl puts it, the widest sense -through the works of the 
mind. 
This search for total c·ultural awareness has been evident through­out his life. In the 1930's, when he was an architectural consultant to the city of Vienna, he. organized the first International Summer Courses. This was a program by which for­eign architecture students came to Vienna, were given. work and 'a chance to share ideas and view­points. The Nazi invasion of Austria forced him to leave for England, where he spent the war years. In 1947 he came to the United States, after having taught in several archi­tecture schools in England. In 1951 he came to Notre Dame. 
While here from 1951 to 1965, he taught courses in Philosophy of Architecture, History of Architec~ ture and History of Culture. One part of his stay here that he likes to talk about is his work with the· students in the Fine Arts Circle. The Fine Arts Circle was a student discussion . group, like the Wranglers, but dedicated to the Fine Arts of painting, sculpture, architec~ ture and music. Students presented papers and examined works of art with the hope of being able to come to a judgment of value. The group was formed in 1957 · and asked Prof. Brandl to act· as its faculty moderator "because there are few . who possess this catholic world view, this understanding of the hierarchy of value (and, too, the knowledge of the subject matter) .as you do.'' He served as moderator from the group's beginning in '57 until· he left Notre Dame in '65. 
It was also during this period that he met Frank O'Malley. Brandl says that Notre Dame has a great tradi­tion because there have always been great individuals here who have left their stamp on the place, and that Frank O'Malley was the greatest of them. There is little to wonder at that a man like Brandl, who strives 

/ 
to. bring a fuller. understanding of our culture to more people, should have been so close to so great a 
teacher as O'Malley. .• · · · In 1965, Brandl retired from teaching and was appointed Scholar in Residence. However, a visit to Cal~ ifornia State Polytechnic College for one quarter turned into six years; and Brandl taught there until 1971. At. that point, however, Brandl felt that he must have more time to continue his research and to write down all of the information which he has compiled.. He returned to Notre Dame and was welcomed back warmly by Prof. Richardson and Fr. Burtchaell. Now that he is back he has two major projects under way: a complete translation of the works of Adolf Loos and a his­tory of American cathedrals built before 1850. He is presently anno­. tating his translation of Loos' work to prepare it for publication. After he finishes that, he has files full of research on American cathedrals by himself and the students in his archi~ tectural history seminar, which he wants to put into book form. One might think that a man who has lived and worked for so long in and around schools would tend to judge achievement by their scholar­ly merit. Not so with Ernest Brandl: his diversity in· viewing culture and history extends itself into his views on personal achievement. The one thing of which he is most proud of doing was not scholar~y but humane. An animal lover, he collected over a hundred faculty. signatures for a petition sent to Congress to influence the passage of PL 85-765--'-a humane slaughter bm. · · -Michael D. Feord 
19 

Limits Of Standardized Testing 
A standardized .test can be a use~ ful instrument;-it can also be a very dangerous .one when taken beyond .its limits. "You have to be careful not to claim you're doing more than you are," Mr. Ch~rles w. Daves, director of TestDevelopment for the Higher Education and Career Pro­grams. at the , Educational Testing Service says:• "There are standard errors in any sort of standard test." Everyone has heard of an excep: tion to· the: rule, ·the person who scored very low on the SAT and graduated magna cum laude from an Ivy League school, yet this also is in the statistics. "Validity studies prove the tests are : fairly ·· accurate for what they are designed to test," Mr. Daves asserts, < . . : But what are _the tests designed to test? .Mr:· Ben Colbert, involved in the College Entrance Examination Board· Program at ETS defines the s_cope of• one instrument.. "The ,_SAT evaluates performance at a"partic·u~ ·lar time' and only predicts: perform­ance in the first year ·of college. It is based on general patterns of be­
liavior; there are always some ex­ceptions." The best single predictor according to Daves is performance in previous experience.. The results of standardized tests, . when . combined with such long-term measures as grades and rank in class produce the best index for prediction. ·: ._ 
Notre Dame· uses a weighted for­mula in undergraduate admissions. ''.The SAT's do play a role iri deter­mining the probability. of _a candi­date's success, but a much lesser role .than high · school achievement and rank," explains John Goldrick, director of admissions. He is quick to point out the claims ETS does not niake about the tests. "The people at ETS 'recognize the test's _cultural bias. They do not claim that it is a perfect instrument ·. and . caution against using it as the sole admis­sions criterion. Yet to do away with the' SAT seems meaningless if no alternative is presented." 
The popularity· of standardized tests suffers from a basic problem: they are designed fo be relatively selective. As Colbert suggests, ''the 
by Sally Stanton 

problem comes in when you attach meaning to scores, when you deter­mine what are acceptable scores for each institution.· For, _-a _ kid who wants to·go to a particular institu­tion and can't·because of h·is score, all rationalization .cari't help/' Citing Bowden College as an example of an institution which no longer requires scores, Colbert noted a declining emphasis on the S_At Yet much de­pends on .the size of the college and how .it uses the scores. Manv edu­cators feel that the abolition ·of the SAT is not a panacea. 
IIStaridardized testing grew as the college popula tiori broadened; each school had its own testing batteries. Finally, t,he colleges decided to group together," Daves explained. Now the test can serve as a common national base, modifying' th·e "buddy system" method of admission; As Daves· sees it, "Standardized tests enable stu­dents from le~s prestigious high schools _to get into universities/' Be­fore, if the high school was unknown; or had not previously sent students to a · selective institution, the stu­dents had admission problems. Gold­rick agrees, "The SAT's help. us get a balanced view, to look at a high school· from \\'.hat, it says. it· is and how it fits· info a riational scheme." 
. . 

Dr. Peter Grande, Assistant Dean in the Freshman. Year of 'studies elaborated, "Test. scores are a' con­venient •way of dealing 'with ·mass data; they can' summarize potential and achievement. · Often they_ serve 
.as-an equalizer to let a person from 
a lesser known school emerge." Tests 
are not only one-way streets; they. 
can :also aid the student. "Properly 
used scores can be quite useful in-­
guidance. A student who scores high 
and yet does poorly -in school,· or a 
student in the lower end of .the 
verbal -curve~ might profit ·from 

special attention." Yet it is extreme­
ly important that this data be in.: 
terpreted and used properly. "There 

is' a-:certain self-fulfilling': prophesy 
inAest scores," Grande -feels .."If an 
. SCHOLASTIC 


individual takes his or her score seriously, he may start to achieve at that level. Even the way a teacher perceives a student affects :his per­formance; if he expects the student to do better, he does better. The difficulty ·comes from labeling, when a student starts thinking of himself as a 'C' student for example." 
"Tests should be used not abused," Goldrick said. "It is the colleges that abuse, not ETS." Yet, since ETS is i·esponsible for the administration of the tests, and is in the_ best position to_ be aware of_ their limitations, .itis also irithe best position to guard against that misuse. ,As Daves ad­mits, ''the people in the business are much more skeptical about standard­ized tests thari outsiders." · · _ 
. . ' . . . . .. . 
ETS _does sponsor programs and 

seminars_ on testuse, yet positive re~ 
sults are not -guaranteed. The _defi­
ni_te measures they can take are lim­
ited;. beyond publishing brochures or 
issuing warnings, the_ finaf step-ETS 
can_take_ is __ to terminate_ its ,contr_act 
with the _offending institution. Mr. 
William _Turnbull, the president -_of 
ETS, does' not feel that ETS can or 
should police .the use of its . scores. 
He compares his organization's posi­
tion-with that; of a car_manufacturer, 
who is not required or able to i_nsure 
that his cars are.not used to spee,d. 
--,_Forthe last ten years, _the average 
SAT -score has declined throughout 
the, country, causing speculation· on 
the. quality of secondary -education 
and/or_ students.: Daves feels -that it 
may be due to a more heterogeneous 
testing · population., Grande specu­
lated that the difference· may also 
derive from the nature of the test 
itself; The SAT is a .fixed reference · 
test. -In 1948, the reference group. of 
11,000 students was fixed!.and-the 
statistical mean determined at -500. 
.';'In order to keep with the referen~e 
fixed in 1948; a common thread.must 
be maintained throughout. This may 
have broken down." 
Besides · secondary students and 

the College Board, ETS is involved iri · developing tests to select for· a wide range ·of postcollegiate · study'. Fr. Robert Austgen,: director of the graduate .'.-admissions -program at Notre ·Danie, points to. an important difference between the graduate and · undergraduate: admission situation. "The study "intents of a student-·ap~ plying to a graduate school is .dif­ferent from those of an ·undergrad-
APRIL' 25, 1975 
uate freshman. A graduate appli­cant is applying for a specialized area within a particular department. Testing must be much more special­ized than that at the high school level." 
_The GRE's, the Graduate Record Examinations, were developed from a need for a "uniform test." "There are many important things that the test doesn't measure: creativity, re­search ability, teaching ability," Austgen admits, yet he feels that such an instrum~nt is necessary. The admission _process consists of three requirements:· a transcript, recommendation and _test scores. "If we don't know the school or profes.:. sor, we need a standardized test to help gauge the student." 
Dr. __ Francis Yeandel, Assistant 

John Goldrick Director ofAdmissions._ 

Dean in the College of Business Ad­
ministration, stresses this point. Ad­
mission decisions are complex. when 
the candidates come from-all differ-. 
ent types ofinstitutions, with differ­
ent -grading scales. It is further· 
complicated when the · candidates 
come -from all over the world or 
have been out -of school for a.num­
ber of years. "A standardized test 
provides a common basis. You have 
to have comparison points. _It is not 
the perfect answer, bufthe logistics• 
and variables involved are,:tremeri-­_dous.'' 
One test -which ETS administers appears to be particularly -· well adapted to its purpose. The Law SchooLAdmissions Test, LSAT, was first developed in 1947 at-the request of law deans. It is owned and con­trolled by the Law School Admis­sions _Council, which is composed of ­representatives from all the_ law_ schools which use the test. ­
Dr. Robert Waddick, Assistant Dean in the College of Arts and Let­ters, has long been involved in pre­law counseling. He feels that the test is a valid measure of aptitude. "The questions are all formulated by law ·teachers; EI'S does not make it up, not at all. ETS just edits•-and puts it in test form." · 
Ms. Marianne Hopkins, in Notre Dame Law School Admissions, con­curs. "The LSAT does give an indi­cation of certain natural abilities: to read rapidly and comprehend, to think logically, to analyze material: It is testing for the way a mind ap­proaches a problem.'' Without· these skills, la\v school is much harder and chances of success snialier. 
Th_e test adlllinistration is, care­fully controlled· by ETS., "At ·1east once a year an inspector from -ETS comes.to campus to take the test, He looks just like acollege -student, . so we don't know he's there," Waddick state~. Test. security -is_ -high, .but competition and pressure to cheat are 
high. .. Waddick points to a growing em­phasis on scores. "The importance.of the tests has gone up with -grade inflation. Letters of recommendation ­have inflated too.". -As it is, pressure is on the student to do well on the tests and this may contribute to poor -results. "Often; too much rides on ·a performance at one or two sittings," Grande feels. Dr. John Malone, Associa_te Dean and the director of the graduate division in the College of Business-Adminis-­· tration sees this happening· on ·the graduate level. The Business Boaj-ds, ­(formally the Admission Test 'for Graduate . Study in Business, ATGSB) differentiate between the student who has a · low capacity for · learning arid orie with a high ca~ pacity, _exceptfor those students who do ·not test well. • <'Some . students takEdhe -test too seriously," Malone contends, "and find themselves read­ing· too _much into -questions • and getting confused. . They see . things that the designer didn't expect. They overtake. the· _-test. COthers become exceedingly anxious; -they can't cope with the. extreme time pressure." ,Yet i>erhaps the test is selecting here 
too. "People like these, 'victims of anxiety,'· may not be able to cope with high-pressure management problems.JJ · 
A third group of poor test takers are students who just. don't know how to take tests. "Many students don't prepare, psychologically or methodologically." 
"There is a tremendous band of 'ordinary' students," Malone feels, ;,a tremendous _middle ground of people which the test has no ability to measure." The factors involved in success ·are varied,· but ability and desire enter in. 'The best measure of self-control, self-discipline, -drive, determination and enthusiasm is the academic average.''. Although Malone recognizes grade inflation as a prob­lem, he sees rank in Class as adjust­ing accordingly. · 
Admissions is a difficult problem. 
And, as Malone points out, there is 
no direct correlation between aca­
demic average and professional per­
formance. None of the standardized 
tests ciaim to -predict performance 
past the first year at the new insti0 
tution. "There is a difference be~ 
tween the most successful lawyers 
and the best_ law students," Daves 
admits. "They are not necessarily 
co1:related. The tests have no claim 
to prediction after the first year, and ·especially after graduation." 

Educational Testing Service: Through the Looking Glass 
Standardized tests have now be­come a fact of life for most students. Few are strangers to the "pre-test blues" or the "butterflies-in-stomach" syndrome; and in_ 'contrast _to ordi­nary test trauma (which is the se­mester companion -of all good aca-· demic procrastinators), standardized trauma cannot be assuaged by more conscientious class attendance or last-minute cramming. You take the test :md get the scores. 
Yet a great deal depends on the quality of those scores: college, grad­uate school, career. It seems unfair that a few hours can decide so much. The relation between test and goal is murky; the questions, a psychologi­cal maze. -There's a feeling that you're. looking in a· mirror; seeing the surface, suspecting something be­hind it, but unable to go through the looking glass to get to the other side. 
On that other side is a "wonder­land" called ETS, the Educational Testing Service, a collection of low, modern buildings four miles outside 
by Sally Stanton 
' . I • 
Princeton, New Jersey. The grounds, once farmland, include 400 acres of gently rolling hills, woods, -a man­made lake and a flock of migratory ducks. 

When '.founded in 1947, its duties were fairly limited. The American Council on Education, the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and the : College Entrance Examination Board decided to unite their ·testing operations and created an independent, specialized entity. As the quality and quantity of education expanded so did ETS. It soon grew too large for its original office across Nassau Street from the University and in 1958 moved to its present headquarters. -In the meantime, it has sprouted branches· in Berkeley; Evanston; Washington·, D.C.; Los Angeles·; San Juan; Austin; and At­lanta. · 
ETS is · a nonprofit corporation, chartered by the Board of Regents of the State of New York to "engage in, undertake, and carry. on services, re­search, ·and other activities as may be appropriate to such purpose.'' It de­velops and processes most of -· the standardized tests students take like alphabet soup during their educa­tional· careers: SAT, AP, GRE, LSAT, ATGSB, et al. (The notable exception is ·the specter of pre-med existence, the MCAT.) -The name ETS, well known from its frequent appearance on test bulletins, booklets and answer sheetsJ is often maligned when the test results arrive in stu­dent mailboxes. 
-Actually much -of this spleen is misplaced. ETS is not directly re­sponsible for the content of the tests. Its major testing -programs are owned and controlled by various in­dependent agencies: the College En­trance Examination Board, the Grad­uate Business Admissions Council, the Graduate Record Examinations Board and the .Law . School Admis­sions. Council. These bodies -contract with ETS,to produce any part!cular 
SCHOLASTIC 



test and retain control of that test's production through policy boards elected from their individual educa• tional constituencies. 
As Mr. Charles W. Daves, director of Test Development for the Higher Education and Career Programs at ETS, describes it, test production is a dialogue. Though the degree of control may vary, the general pro­cess is the same: the policy board meets with ETS to determine what skills it wants to test, the degree of selectivity it wants and any other "content and statistical problems." The policy board decides what to test; ETS, how to test it. Each stage of test development is open to ques­tion and review to determine its con­formance to the group's specifica­Uons and the consistency of its style. 
Test designing is not a simple pro­cess; a specific test takes ·· approxi­mately two years to develop. Before it _reaches the student, it must go through a pretest run to weed out any ambiguous. questions. Each test contains·, ·.besides· ·1:he majority of questions, two particular types: ex­perimental questions which are not included in the candidate's score and are themselves being tested to see if they are performing well enough to use as score~determining questions and the equating questions which ar~ included . in the score and which serve to keep ·the test on scale as Mr.'Daves explains, to "keep ar: in­dividual from being harmed or helped by the· fact that· he took a particular test with ' a particular group of.other students." 
Standardized tests given by ETS and others have been accus.ed of cul­tural or racial biases. Yet perhaps much of. 'any existing bias stems from. the nature of aptitude testing. Aptitu~e tests test skills developed over a long period of time; they ·can­not assess "raw potential." If the tests are biased, which Mr. Daves grants they are, they :are "biased in an academic way and as schools are geared.;, Economics, rather than race, determine a students opportunity to 
APRIL 25, 1975 

.,•.--·-•--•··--""'"-~·-:----..~..-.--··--···-·­
··.,..-...---------•·'--;·· '" ...-~--:·. -···: ·.. ,~-. 
-. . •"'". 

develop the necessary , academic skills.. To guard against .any class bias and to make the "general· feel­ings about the test better," ETS in­cludes members of minority groups on test reviewing committees. 
Besides testing, which is probably its closest contact with the student population, ETS is involved in re­search and instruction. In fact this is where much of its internal energy and enthusiasm is directed. Mr. Wil­liam W. Turnbull, the president of ETS, sees his organization's concern as one of "providing, studying and devising services for carrying out educative concerns, helping individ­uals andinstitutions do a good job." Testing is an important and .neces­sary part of this concern but "t~sting must be in the context of an educa­tional purpose." Mr. Turnbull would like to see ETS have a role in defin­ing that purpose. · · One aspect of research is directly linked to the testing process. V~lid­ity .studies try to ascertain if th~ correlation between what the test purports to measure and the achieve-· ment of the. individuals selected by that measure correspond within cer­tain limits. For example, a test which was designed to measure skills nec­essary for sweeping floors would be a poor test if no one who passed it and was selected to sweep floors could do so. On the other hand, no test claims that all the individuals who do well on it will do well in the actual area of concern, nor should it be the only factor in determining admission to a 
specific group.. To be an outstanding floor sweeper· one needs more than just skill or talent; self-discipline, enthusiasm and dedication are all im­portant, though unmeasurable at­tributes. ETS, in cooperation with its policy boards, tries .to reconfirm data and reevaluate its measurement de­vices. 
ETS has moved into other areas of research less closely tied to the_ ac­tual testing process. Some of its proj­ects have been requested by the sepa­rate policy boards, some by govern­ment. agencies and some..·by inde­pendent foundations. For example, ETS recently completed a survey of inen and women with doctorates for the. Graduate Record Examinations Board to determine ifthe· experiences of the two sexes differed. A division of ETS, the Education Policy Re­search Institute. is under a contract with HEW to analyze the financing of public education and suggest pos­sible ways to improve it. 
ETS's Center for Occupational and Professional Assessment, COPA, has developed tests to. select police and firemen, to certify auto mechanics, and for .real estate salesmen and brokers. There are sell-administered tests. for dentists and pediatricians 
23: 
"The College 
Location Service, 
sponsored by the 
College Board, was a 

critical success to help them stay abreast of develop­
prove its. communication with stu­
but a box office flop." 

dents, making the test bulletin more ETS is involved in instruction and ments in their fields. 
readable, working with test super­instructional measures. The Institu­
visors, bringing students to . ETS. tional Research Program for Higher 
"We are trying to develop. a con­Education,· established in.1965, aims tinuing mechanism to. deal with stu­to help institutions study themselves standardized testing: ETS . itself, dents' problems and frustrations." and their stu'dents, to aid in reevalua-should it want to; cannot escape the Mr. Turnbuli is also, aware of this tion and educational change. It pro-testing profession. "ETS cannot pur­lack. "Most of .the benefits students vides such self-study measures as the sue educational policies in contradic­receive now are secondhand, devel­Institution Goals Inventory, IGI, to tion to the wishes of its governing oped from needs of institutions." The gather faculty, student and adminis-boards." Turnbull observes, "We are ·problem is determining ho:,v to gather trative · opinions as to · institutional accountable to our Board of Trustees . student opinion. The specific com­goals; the Institutional Functioning which is in· turn responsible to the plaints are attemled to routinely; the Inventory, IFI, to aid an institution policy boards."· Since ETS is char~ individuals. involved .bring the prob, in determining what its present tered by the New York Board of lem to ETS's attention. It is the gen­strengths an_d weaknesses in policies, .Regents,it has a third bodyto which eral questions. that require feedback. teaching practices, and academic and it must answer. "We wantto know what kind of re­extracurricular programs are as · Its responsibility to the · policy sources students ; would find useful viewed by its three broad groups: boards at times obscures the fact when. they need more information in faculty, administrators and students;· that measurement, and more impor­making decisions,'' says .Turnbull. and the Student 'Instructional · Re-tantly, education, is a two-sided af~. "The CoilegeLocation Service, spon­port, SIR, to allow instructors and fair. It is the institution which uses sored by the College Board was a students to assess course instruction. the scores gleaned from standardized · critical success, but a box office flop." 
· Possibly one -of the most exciting tests, but it is the 'student who ac­The service, through which students new research programs is not institu-tually pays to take the test and goes can arrange to receive information tional, but ··individual in· emphasis. through ·the three~ ' or· four-hour, ·about colleges with programs which Made ·possible by a grant· from· the sometimes longer, ordeal. . interest them, earn~ about.two years National Science Foundation, the Mr. Ben Colbert, a new employee too late.. Student interestin the proj­
ect is low. , . . . '..
System of Interactive Guidance and in the division of ETS which works Information, SIGI (pronounced sig-most closely with the CEEB, is sensi­. Student paneis and questionnaires gy), is a computer-based system de-tive to student problems. He and the are adopted by. each .program . to signed primarily for community and · group ·he· works with are trying to se~ve.its needs; ETS.is now trying to junior·college students to help them "get out more," visitin·g the testing tie the various methods together to in making career decisions.' Devel-centers and observing the actual test­get a more. cohesive picture of its 
operations.., . . . . . .
oped from a humanistic philosophy, ing situations. "Most of the students . SI_GI combines a system of guidance . who take the SAT's are not quite as ETS is, as Mr. Colbert ·points out, based on individual value decisions,· a. vocal as their older· counterparts." "in the middle between colleges and vast store of occupational data and a Colbert observed: Most are only six­students.'~ ·u. devises, the. tests, but strategy·for processing· information. teen years old, without definite goals. does not control.their material. It has The student is compelled to make a These tests may be among the first the hapless task of processing' the choice -between hypothetical occupa-of their kind they _have encountered. scores and. sending.,out ,the results. tions and, in the process, to· reexa-Colbert's division :has· tried to· im-· Yet /its _position is·. not. totally un­mine and reevaluate the relative im-. enviable. As Colbert points out, "ETS portance of specific vocational values. enjoys· the fact that it is the main Though not a definitive instrument, pacesetter in• determining what edu­or a crystal ball, SIGI is designed to · cation is, yet . this· position is also 
· aid the student exploring his or her kind of disturbing." goals. Perhaps Colbert sums the situation Although ETS is actively involved up best. "The only thing stable in the in other areas of educational re­whole thing is that that damn test search and development, one keeps continues to be hard and hard and coming· back to its involvement in hard.'' 
Ki:-.; • • • ~"~•----.-;---•:-"'-.-·-;--:~~~•,.-~·7~..,--,•--.;-•----~-~·-•,-·-~a•-•--•~~--,-•~·--~~·"=•·•---·;-1 
1-Week--lri Distortion •. . · .·· ;! 
L~-.:....-........ -.. ,_.-.··---'~:.......-·~~ ', -..~--~--<_-_ ·~ _,··,.:-~ · . ----· ~,'·:c-~--·-,....~v·... -~.... ,;, .• -.-.,.,..-·--.:>-· ....,..s~.:.;;___~_.................::.....,.___....j 

Though one must concede that Notre Dame social life oft leaves much to· be desired, Domers do try to make the most of the situation. Dances, concerts, and interhall and interquad activities seem to be drawing large crowds and attracting audiences. Perhaps the biggest perennial crowd-pleaser is the good ol' American movie. Indeed; cinema­going seems to be the most popular pastime, ' second only perhaps to elbow-bending -at local taverns. Maybe you ·like to catch the latest flick, or perhaps you're a devotee of vintage oldies. ·At any rate, before you scuttle _over to the Engineering Auditorium or travel to one of South Bend's theaters, you might· want to consult our descriptive list of movies, 
'riew and old. :Sit back and browse through· ·this special · edition of MOVIE GUIDE.... 
·On• A. Clear Day You Can See For­ever -documentary exploring the unique weather phenomena of -the Michiana area. War· and Peace '-two-part survey of a struggle to reinstate the Julian calendar. Part I_: combat between administration and students. Part II ~ · adoption of the -Provost's pro­posed calendar. Kidnawed -' story about a chap­
·lain's. truant cocker spaniel. · There's A Girl In My Soup --:-futur-· istic wierdie about how nymphs take, over a male university by · way of 
· the cafeteria. · The Greatest StoryEverTold-ex­amines in . epic fashion perennial· promises to lower s·tudent drinking 
age.··· · . Cat pn A 'Hot Tin Roof -family 
flick showing the humanity of dy­namo security bigwig J. Arthur Pears; rescue . of a helpless feline from the . top of Stepan Center. Sleeper -educational film demon­strating the .soporific effects of some college courses on some college stu­
dents. · · Take The Money and Run::._ story of a · diabolical University president's escape with student tuition increases. 
The Great Escape --'-the tale of the mass exodus of 6,000 undergraduates for summer vacation.. Valley Of The Dolls -Yarn about what two consecutive weeks of No­Doz can do to one's health: True Grit -home economist's study of the effects of institution food on the average student. 
20,000 Leagues Under The· Sea ...:.. 
marshy adventure· reel about· dare­devil 'North quad walking ~fter a spring rain. ' 
Around The World In Eighty Days 
'-fantasy ·concerning the picaresque travels of a college president .. 
Deep Throat and Dr. Dolittle · ­
double bill; I) short about larynx examinations · at university infir­maries; II) expose. of quack phy­sicians and• their malpractice· suits at the same infirmaries. Last Tango In Paris -foreign flick about the. legendary . belly dancer . Fran DeMarco . before her deport~ ment to .Indiana, America. . · Andromeda Strain -Greek classic about a · transexual god who de~ velops a hernia. Magnum Force --:-tale about the in~ humane gestapo tactics of college campus security staff. . Yours, Mine, and Ours -film dia­
logue between a president and a pro­vost which turns into a fight over who is king of the ·mountain. · How To Stuff •A Wild Bikini_--:-beach flick· about amorous college seniors at the Michigan dunes. · Dirty Dozen --:-all-star cast in a domestic espionage · thriller about school administration graft and cor­ruption. Rosemary's Baby -X~rated sizzler about unwanted pregnancy in a co-ed dormitory.. Up The Down Staircase -=-story about the madness and frenzy at O'Shaughnessy Hall ' during change 
of class. -. 
The God/ather -biography about the dark patriarchal· figure who charts the human destiny of the ND 
student. . ·. 
Frenzy/It's A Mad, Mad, Mad,' Mad World -. double ', bill about pre­registration hassles, check-marked cards and closed-out courses. . 
Bless .The Beasts And The Children 
-anthropological film study about the ethno-religious cult that derives from the Urchins' Mass. 
Well, dear readers, this is the final chef-d'oeuvre of your favorite ( ?) Scholastic columnist: No more will this witty and ubane auteur pen and purvey knowledge and humor. An­other will take my place next Sep­tember, in an effortto charm, amuse, and instruct. So, as I quit this ver­dant campus of Du Lac, I say as did the poet Catullus, "Frater Ave Atque Vale." .(For. all of you ple­beian .Latin flunk-outs; that means, "Brother, Hail and Farewell") '. 
-JohnM. Murphy, Esq. 

-Pechek: 

Unanswered Questions 
Before the 1973-74 season, the Notre Dame wrestling team had only seven . winning seasons out of a total of eighteen, with the high­est number of wins in' o~e season being the 11 meets won in ,'.7!-'72. In_. '73-'74, .· a new coach,· Fred Pechek, took over,. and that year he took the Irish wrestlers to a 10­7-1 season, with a record nine con-. secutive team wins. Then during this past season, '74-'75, Pechek's wres­tlers went 14-11 against an extreme­ly tough schedule, to set the school record for· most team wins in a sea­son. Also; wrestlers have set six individual records in Pechek's two 
ye~rs liere, . ,_ · . . . . . Coach Pechek. was a membe~ of the last class (1~63) of Notre Dam~ students to graduate with a B.S. in Physical . Education. From 1964 to 1967, he worked here as a graduate assistant in the Phys. Ed Depart­. ment, while getting his M.A. in Edu­cational Administration. He then went to Purdue University and worked again as a graduate assis­tant while earning an M.S . .in Phys­ical Education.·· As a grad studerit both at Notre Dame .and at Purdue, he acted as assistant wrestling coach. Afte~ ·a •year as head ,wrestling · coach at a· high .school in upstate New York, -Pechek went to ,West Liberty State College in West Vir­. ginia. . While _· there _from 1969.· to · 1973, he was head wrestling coach, · defensive .. backfield football coach, .and assistant professor of-Phys. Ed. in a ,major's program. In. addition to -his .official. coaching and teaching duties, he initiated the first summer wrestling camp ever· held in West Virginia, initated • the first . free­style wrestling tournament in the 

state, served as West Virginia . performance as an instructor. Yet chairll'.an .of . the U.S. Wrestling many students, especially wrestlers, Foundation . f r o m 1969-72, . and ·• . were .stunned by th~ departmenes 
served· as :chairman of the West Virginia Conference w re s t Ii n g coaches in 1971-72. 
. Then, in 1973, when he was-.of­fered the job of phys. ed. instructor and head wrestling coach at Notre Dame, he accepted and came . here. Two seaso~s passed and-at the very end of February, 1974, Pechek and his young, returning wrestlers had finished the· most successful season of any Notre Dame wrestling team and were looking forward to an even better one next year. But that_ sea­son may have to. wait, for on March 1, 1975 (while Pechek was at the NCAA tournament) Mrs. Pechek re­ceived a registered letter, notifying Fred Pechek that the . Phys.. Ed. Department was not going to renew his .contract for the. 1975-76 school year. 
The problem, · it .came= ·out, , was 
that. Coach Pechek's. job was: not· .only to be a wrestling coach;, but also to be a phys..ed..instructor. 
Although he was quite successful as 
a wrestling coach, the Phys. Ed De­
partment, which was responsible for 
hiring him, was dissatisfied with his action. Most students .w~~e of the opinion. that Pechek was a good teacher, as well as a good coach,·and wante<l specific reasons why he. was not being rehired. T.o indicate. th.e students' feelings, a few, wrestlers circulated a ••petition suppor.ting Pechek and collected · close .to 1,500 signatures in the two -days before spring break. · 

The _anatomy of the decision, not the reasons _behind it, was :all that · was made public by the department. Dr. Fallon, chairman of _the depart­ment, . described the 'process in this way: "Mr. Pechek had . been hired for a. combination job of physical education and wrestling coach;, the only decision which this department made is that through due process, which consists of reviews·of his per­formance by a committee , on ap­pointments and promotions, it ·was ,decided by this committee, to recom:.. mend that Mr. Pechek's appoint­
.ment .to this. department not:be. re­newed.'~ In accordance with Faculty Manual instructions, a recommenda­tion by a department's C.AP:-and c~airman then; goes to.: the dean. of · 


the college, and then to the Provost other two men had. He also men­formed and that he no longer con-. 
for approval. Since phys. ed. is a tioned that there had · been · some trolled the situation: "I think it 
freshman activity, the dean in this negative student response to Coach would be unfair for me to take him 
case is Dean Hofman of Freshman Pechek, as well as the usual favor­aside. I could then only speak as 
Year, and .since the C.A.P. is made able feedback. O'Sullivan and Stark one person, ·and anything that I told 
up of tenured members of a de­were not reached for comment. him at that time would reflect on 
partment's faculty, the committee The only time we heard any spe­my opinion, but it might very well 
making the original recommenda­cific reasons offered was when Coach be that the others thought to the 
tion was made up of Dr. Fallon, golf Pechek gave us his side of the story contrary." About Pechek thinking 
coach O'Sullivan and swimming and told us what the committeemen that he had improved, Fallon said 
coach Stark. The decision, then, be­had given him ·as reasons. He said that that was a matter of opinion on 
gan with Fallon, , O'Sullivan and that his first year here had been which Pechek and the committee did 
Stark, went through Fallon as de­very difficult, . with disagreement on not agree. 
partment chairman,· went to Dean both his and Dr. Fallon's parts as to After finding out about the com­
Hofman for· approval and then to what his role in the program should mittee's decision, Pechek _saw the 
Fr. Burtchaell for final approval. be. He admits that his attitude to­evaluation form ·and· went to each 
wards the program in his first year member asking them what reasons
Scholastic then went to ·the indi­

was not very good, and says that at they had for their poor evaluation.
viduals involved to see if we could the end of that year he had not Specific reasons for not· giving himget the reasons behind the decision. 
wanted to renew his contract. Dr. a good evaluation on organization
Fr. Burtchaell y1as unavailable for 
comment. Dean·· Hofman said that 
the workings ancfrecommendation of 
the · committee were all handled 
through due· process, and, therefore, 
there was ·absolutely no reason to 
not. approve the committee's action. 
Mr. Pechek had made an appeal, 
s~id Hofman, but he and Fr. 
Burtchaell had considered it along­
side the committee's. recommenda­
tion and had.turned it down. An ap­
peal having been made, Hofman con­
siders the matter to be totally final 
and closed.· He added that the deans 
must assume that each committee is 
a responsible group, 'and that their 
work must be kepf secret, or the 
entire administrative proc.ess in­
volved would suffer. 
Fallon commented on the method Fallon talked him into staying and were based on his not having ini­
of evaluation which the committee said that they would go through a· tialled his semester class lists on 
used, saying that each of the com­trial year. Pechek says that Fallon time, having another teacher fill out mittee _members operated individu­promised to sit down and talk with his student record cards at the end ally on a standard evaluation form. him if; during that second year, of one rotation, and supposed dis­The evaluation is, he said, based on things weren't working out. Pechek organization of his class when other observation of the teacher's per­still wasn't sure about wanting to teachers covered for him. Pechek formance and attitude. He admitted stay until .the . beginning of this says that during the week in which thateach evaluation was bound. to semester, when, encouraged by the his class lists were to be initialled, he be· largely subjective, but maintained success of the wrestlers, he decided · was· away at the National Catholic thai all the commiUeemen reached to stay and work everything out. He Tournament at the beginning, had the same decision separately -t_hai: felt that during the second year his three dual meets in the middle and . . Fred·. Pechek's performance did not attitude towards the program had · had to wrestle John Carroll Univer­meet necessary standards. The main improved and that he was _doing his sity on the weekend. His student methods · of . observation are, said job as well as could be expected. record cards were filled out by Miss 
Fallon, generally observing a teach­Then he found out that he was not Astrid Hotvedt (who .did it willingly) 
er's behavior around the_ office, oc­going to be offered another contract. at a rotation change where one ro­
casionally observing a ·_ class, and When we asked Fallon about this, tation ended Friday and the next 
covering for other teachers when he said that he.remembered the dis­began Monday, and Pechek was on 
they are absent. "You can tell very . cussion, but not the promise of a a road trip from Thursday to Tues­
often when :you're covering some­meeting if things weren't working day. About the· covering incident, 
one·else's· class," said he, "the kind · out. He also said that between the Pechek said that O'Sullivan com­
of work they're doing." He admitted end of last year and the beginning of plained that, the five times he took 
not having dropped in on any of this year, the committee on appoint­over for him, the class was totally 
Coach Pechek's classes, but said the ments and promotions had been disorganized. Pechek replies that 
APRIL 25, 1975 
once, after , O'SulHvan had com­plained that he did notleave detailed enough instructions, he left a page­Icing list of activities for the class to do, but O'Sullivan. ignored. them and had the class do leg lifts and calis­thenics for the whole period. He also feels._that the committee was unable to. properly evaluate his teaching be­cause only; O'Sullivan ever saw him teach, _and only three times at.most, over. two years. 
He was told that he had poor pro­fessional· attitude because he said things detrimental to the department and Notre Dame.. Pechek feels that this means he spoke last year about things which he felt were being done wrong in the department; he says he's reformed. since then .and has been quieter this year. He also points out that· whenever· the members. of the department went out to lunch 
together, at which they usually dis­
cussed physical education related 

topics, the three. committeemen· al­ways declined any invitation to come. There were also at least three Sunday afternoons when members of the department met at Pechek's house to work .out. future course · plans. Again, .the committeemen did 
not participate. 
One other . criticism he got was 
that he dressed atrociously; that is, 
he didn't wear a shirt .with "ND 
Phys. Ed. Staff" on it every day. 
Pechek wonders . how .. they know 
what he wore in class when he was 
only observed .three . times in two 
years. Those were the only specifics 
he was given and _he feels· that there 
is more to explain. Things like: if 
the members of the committee each 
evaluated.him individually, why_ did 
they. each use·· exactly .. the. same phrases, down to the ·last word, to tell him that ·he had a poor atti­tude because he filled out his weight chart during a staff meeting (in­cidentally,·he says it wasn't a weight chart)?. · 

To ;get some i n d i c a t i o n of how good a teacher · Fred Pechek is,·. we.· obtained one. of his • class rosters and called· the students to find out what they thought about him. Out of 23 students, we reached 
18. Out of the· 18, ·18 thought he was a· good teacher; 11 of those · 18 thought that, he was better than most of the other instructors, •. and 7,of those. students_ were extremely enthusiastic in their support of 
Pechek. · · ·· 
_ .-Michael D. Feord Stumpy Murphy 
·Allocco's ::clou·ded Dreams 

Frank Allocco has had the distinc­tion of being the backup to Toni Clements as Notre Dame's. quarters back for the past three seasons. An injury suffered· early in his sopho­more year had 'given Frank ari addi­tional year of eligibility and, with' Clements graduaUng, Allocco was. given the choice of coming back .to take ·over· the job for next year.· He decided to take the advantage of the 
extra year. ,. . . The winter-conditioning program described .in ·the other article ori spring ball was one of the.· happiest times of Allocco's stay here at Notre Daine. "Here was the chance that I'd been waiting for since rve come here," said Frank. "I've had so many dreams about b e co min g ~otre Dame's q u a r t e r b a c k, and now they had come true." ·-·_Until the scrimmage. Less .than two· weeks ago on the · ninth play of the spring's second scrimmage, Frank rolled out to his left, was hit and, in the process of · falling, landed squarely on his right shoulder. Rwas diagnosed as a sep­aration and would require corrective surgery ifhe wanted the opportuni­ty to throw again. Allocco's dreams, 
·• . 

a reality for three months, are now· . clouded again, and neither he nor anyone connected with . the ' gutty senior knows what will happen·... . 
Frank was operated on last_ Mon­
day . afternoon and the ·operation 
was.termed a complete success. He'll 
beJn a. sling until mid-June, when 
he'll have to start all_ over again 
building up his arm. But for no\Y, 
the. spring· is over for Frank Allocco. " 
.As I write this, the' spring has 
claimed besides Allocco· a tackle, 
split end, fullback, a . center on of­
fense, two, perhaps three lineback~ 
ers (one of them a co-captain) and 
a safety on defense. Add to this the 
possible return . of th_e.. suspended 
football . players and .the ones al~ 
ready excused from. spring ball .for 
one . reason or another, and ·. you'll 
realiz~ 'why spring ball has become 
~(bit eerier this year, the inaugural 
of Dan Devine. · · · 
. Practice is always needed for ex­
cellence and conditioning is one of 
the foundations for a · successful 
team. But what price must be paid 
forglory in April,When it is in Octo­
ber that performance makes ·or 
breaks Notre Dame football? · 
· -W. J. I>elaney 

r~---·.... ~\·-~:.. -._,:;·/'7'>--··<,'.',:/'':·· __ ...~ ·,<_.. '"·:~.,!:,·_·:_·:/._,,.__._ ..:··_.i·:·.... :·;,_~;:__ -,-..._r'·-::-;:,:·_~--:,·.\ '--~.-:_.:·_.:,_'.. .;.·, --.•,. '·:_•-_, :_·_v•::,",,------.._...-~ ·;-"·_:' ·.-~_:";."·' ~::~··""1:~·-···":,! 
I Irish Sport.-Shoa:ts-,, -, -.:_! -. ,j 
t_,,,_,.,,,......,,..,.__,,,.. ~ ___..,_,......,,,~~,,_ ; --·....~...-'--~----~-"'----·-~..---...,.,,---,.,.,--~--~-.,,--~.....~ ~ .. ~-.~--.. ,.,,) 

. . . 

The Irish baseball team,, not known for· their early starts, has provided the campus with a pleasant sur­prise this spring. After a rain-filled midsemester break, Coach Jake Kline and his corps have come back to South· Bend with the power .and hustle of which champions are made; Pitchers Bob Stratta. and Bob Hughes have carried the load in the throwing depart­ment;· while Stan Bobowski, Jiin Schmidt, Frank Fia.ski and Dave Doemel have provided clutch hitting down the stretch. -Even attendance at the stadium has in­creased this season,· Kline's last as Irish skipper. And a winning season would be the greatest send-off to the · man who guided Notre Dame baseball for all these years. 
-Irish wrestling, on the upswing over the past few years, has announced the captains for · next year. Seniors ·Dave Boyer and John Dowd_ will lead the grapplers in the '75-'76 season, which looms to be the finest in one of the oldest Notre Dame varsity sports·. 
Lefty. Smith and his hockey team also recently an-. nounced the_ captains for the upcoming' seasciri. Senior Pat -Novitzki and junior Brian Walsh have been tabbed to lead · the· youthful icers. With only two seniors· graduating, and the number-one line of Ham­ilton, Walsh and Pirus returning, the team has the po­tential to be number one in the WCHA next year. 
: As I stated in the last Scholastic issue, the Yankees and the . Mets will meet in a subway series when the . regular baseball season ends. The Yankees will win the series in five games, with Bobby Bonds and Catfish Hunter starring for the team that will_win their first series since 1964. 
'As for you diehard Cubs and White Sox.. fans, if ­there were a seventh place in the American West and National East,, they'd be in that position.'. But un-.· fortunately, there are only -six positions, and that. is where you'ltfind both Chicago teams at the end of-the season. 
After · enjoying their finest season in many years, the Irish swim team under Coach Denny Stark has appointed Mark "Speed" Foster as captain for the up­coming season. Foster, a junior, will join Drew Wallach; Jim Severyn arid crew in the attempt to better 'their performances of this season, the goal of the Irish tankmen. 
Congratulations are in order for Dick DiBiaso, as­sistant basketball coach· for· Notre Dame for the past four years, who was recently -appointed head coach at Stanford. DiBiaso, a knowledgeable man in the funda­mentals of the game, ·and -a powerful recruiter, now enters one of the toughest leagues in college basketball. With his strengths, however; we know he'll be a winner, and on beha.lf of Scholastic, I'd like to wish him the very best of luck. 
Another new appointment within the Athletic De­partment has been the hiring of Kevin Hoene as head hockey coach at St. Mary's in -Winona; Minnesota. Hoene, a graduate of Notre Dame, played -on the hockey team and was named captain his 'senior year. He's remained with the. Irish hockey program since then as an assistant ·to Lefty Smith. Again, we wish him the best of luck in Kevin's new position; ­
The women's tennis team has already begun· its spring season this year, and according to captain Betsey Fallon it's going to be a good one. •~Most of.the other teams we're playing this season should be pretty close to our caliber, so we are all pretty optimistic_." So far this season they've played in four matches; one of which was_ againsfIndiana. University, Indiana's best women's 
. team last season. Still to. come is an away match at Lake:Forest and their final game against Northwestern here on May 3 at 1:00. Besides first singles 'player Betsey Fallon and second player Jane Lammers, other standouts -include Carol Guckert, Carol Simmons and Janet Krier. 
-Bill Delaney.· 


r-*~·· ~ ....,.__~ .~ ;.':''.· _:. . __·.·-: ~v-.·.~-.,,-........,-,......-c-~~ 
t· The; Last Word\ 
t-.~,·· ...£~--···/~-.; ,·;.;;:.:-i·~--~~· .. ·~ ~-~ ,.;·:· ';..., .,>-~-->S·'.J:2/~//;--.:·~'..ti.0-..:--·~~-­
~T 

i . . . 
liWf 
by Jim Gresser 

When next August rolls around, encerl by people as future-oriented as I'll begin to serve my time as a high the pre-meds and pre-laws. The pre­school teacher of English and The­med, for example, is confronted with ology. To be frank, I'm very much an education which may have pre­afraid of that prospect. I wonder pared him only for med school. One what I can possibly teach high school. letter from a med school can mean students; and. why. So far I've de­four more years of: educational se­cided not to smile until Valentine's. curity and a predetermined future, or • Day and to .tell ,my students on the a confrontation with. the existential If this university is successful, and first day .of class that we'll operate abyss. I believe that its students prove that on the basic ~ssumption that human it. is, it needs people who can teach
In any case, friends,. here we are. 

nature is a fallen. one. Beyond that, and .who· can learn what is truly
Faced with the real world. · unfortunately, I'm lost. valuable and endudng and why that 
·-In all honesty, though, looking at

I mention my own situation only is so. It must have people who 
the real world isn't so bad. rn· fact;

because • it seems in some ways to realize th_e value of :work, but also 
it's kind of exciting. For one thing, it

parallel closely the situation of many believe, as Saint Exupery writes,
does make tis examine what four

other seniors. As we confront the "Straight-ahead of him, nobody can 
years. of college education have done

gloomy fog that looms pastgradua--go very far." Students must be able 
for us. It's a bit cliche, but it is, after

tion, the specter, of not having a job to see their work in the context of 
necessarily. the purpose of

-or, perhaps worse, having a job-,­all, not the world of their lives. 
education tci teach a student to do

raises its ugly head. And if employ­As Professor Joe Evans points out 
something, but to be -sanieone. If

ment, or lack thereof, isn't the im­in his essay, "The Vocation of the
after four years of "higher learning"

mediate question, then · continuing . Teacher," it is the role of the teacher, 
we are people who can look around

education probably is. Even for those then, "to be able to see and point to 
us arid appreciate our world,. its.· peo­

considering graduate or professional -the 'world' in a grain of sand-or in
ple and their works, !think we're

education, the future is uncertain at a sapling, or in a robin-redbreast or 
· doing all right. Anything beyond that

best and possibly grim. in a falling star, -or in telstar, or in
is, probably hubristfo anyhow. It

Along with a worsening economy a wisp of hair, or-in a smile, or in two 
might even be an explicit purpose of 

and job market, seniors also seem to parts of hydrogen and one part of
. education only to give us certain

be suffering a· philosophical dilemma oxygen, or in afamily, or in a vil­
insights and then ask share

as well. There seems to be among so us £o lage, or in a 'society for the preserva­
them.

many of us a strong feeling of being tion of barbershop singing,' or in a disjointed in time. For the past Perhaps the purpose of our educa-body politic." twenty-one·· years, everything seems -tion, whether in science, business, en-If Notre Dame has done that for to have flown in such a smooth con­gineering or arts and letters is ex-its students, whether they get into tinuum; it was always expected that. actly to enable us to escape occa-med school or not will of course not all of us would make it this far. But sionally the world of means and . be determined. But in some ways it now what? Most of us don't really • ends, goals and objectives, careers · may riot matter quite as much if they know. As America's choice educated, · and futures. That's a world that is do or they don't. It won't matter we seem to be less equipped for a always· threatened by failure; and either if they take a few years off to functional role in society than any­while failure is unavoidable and nee-decide what· they want to do; And body else. essary for growth, there must be a being disjointed in time may present 
This anxiety over the future is not · solid intellectual, personal and spir-· itself as a great opportunity. If our just characteristic of arts and letters itual foundation which is free from -. education has been successful, there majors who never seem prepared for failure and therefore able to sustain might even be something to teach anything anyway. It's even experi-it. high school kids in Tampa. 
You·ue 
been there. 
now you can· 
help them. 
They've got a long way to go. In a world that isn't easy • 
. But with someone's help, they'll make it. What they need is a friend. Someone to act as confidant and guide. Perhaps, it could be you as a Salesian· Priest or Brother. 
· The Salesians of St. John Bosco were founded in 1859 to serve youth. Unlike other orders whose apostolate has changed with varying· c·onditions, th·e Salesians always have been.:.. and ­will be, youth oriented. Today we're helping to prepare young­sters for the world that awaits them tomorrow. Not an easy task but one which we welcome. 
And how do we go about it? By following the precepts of our founder, Don Bosco. To crowd out evil with reason, religion and kindness with a method of play, learn and pray. We're trying to build better communities by helping to create better men.. 
As a Salesia.n, you ·are guaranteed the chance to help the young in a wide range of endeavor •.. as guidance counsel­ors,. technical and academic teachers, as coaches, psychologists .•. in boys clubs, summer camps •.• as mission­
·aries. And you are given the kind of training you need to 
achieve your aims. · 
The Salesian family is a large one (we are the third largest order) but a warm one. A community with an enthusiastic family feeling where not only our talents are shared but our short­comings, too. If you feel as we do, that service to youth can be an important mission in your life, we welcome your interest. 
·r-----------. 
For more information about Salesian Priests and . . 
I

1· .
Brothers, mail this coupon to: 
I:SFathaer,Joesesph.,Maaflnel,ss.o;~ s:o;:H:·:O:sco ·1 Box· 639, New Rochelle, N.Y. 10802 
1._

I I am Interested in the Priesthood D Brotherhood· D . . . 
I Name Age 
I 

Street Address__________________ 
I CilY----------Slate----ZlP----­
I 

1 
Phone--------------------,--Education____________________ I 

......__ Your Current Job _________________ .. 
~---------.,,,,,, 
Ward-Phillips Lecture~: 
ACCOMODATING THE MODERNS 
FREDRICKC.CREWS 
Professor of. English University of California at Berkeley 
Tuesday,: April 29, through Friday,. May 2:. 
4: 00 p.m., Library Auditorium 


. . . 
· We make summer matter with a full range of undergraduate, graduate, Weekend College and Continuing Education courses on one of America's most beautiful campuses ••• and with specialinstitutes and workshops, modern residence halls ••• and our good teachers.., . 
3 SESSIONS (day and evening): .. ·:. · May 21-June 20, June 23-July 25 and July 28-Aug. 29 
. .... . .. ' Call or write for" the Summer Bulletin: Summer Session Office,: C.W. Post Center 
Long Island University · · 
Greenvale, LI., N.Y. 11548 .• (516) 299-2431 
---c.w.;.post center 
. · LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY 





