THE NOTRE DAME
FATHER SORIN WITH INDIANS AT MISSION The Oldest Tradition
In This Issue:
Founder's Day plans . . . Arnold Lunn lectures . . . Radio Starts . . . Irish meet lllini . . . Tennis Finals . . . Illinois Scribe predicts . . . Interball plans ... The Week ... College Parade ... Introducing — Splinters
October 8. 1937
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
i m jc post this
Who is your
FOOTBALL ANGEL?
r-”5■
I	foment - - •	-en<i of » ;oVe	K
1 thing ^otber	^ickel 1
I Street” s s new n- c,°a detail i job °n th", eXcitinS as	S °f ]
n the ’ot! a a	y ^cond I
grover	—c 1
JONES H ------ 11
Introducing H. J. Lutcher Stark, Texas Football Angel, The Man With The Million-Dollar Hobby ...
HE brought Nebraska’s famed Dana X. Eible to coach football at Texas at triple the salary of the highest-paid professor... gave $100,000 towards a giant stadium... spent $2000 for band uniforms... laid out $100,000 for needy students and football players ... and is happy to buy his own tickets to the games.
Meet the ideal alumnus, the Santa Claus of the Southwest.
Archangel and His Bible by KENNETH FOREE, JR.
THE SATURDA EVENW^ '



S''
AND in the .ame issue , Carol Cameron wanted a sophisticated man and she I got one! Read “Sunrise Over Newark" a short story ' by Jane Hall “Chinese Victory” a story by Bradford Smith__“Sketch of a Buccaneer" a story by Weston Martyr__“No Visible Means” by John McClain... “The Labor Mask” by Garet Garrett_ i	“The Biography of an Undelivered Speech”by Senator
■ Arthur H. Vandenberg... Alice Duer Miller’s latest
—~el “And One Was Beautiful.” And lots of laughs on the Post Scripts page.
a

SIS
HOW TO MAKE AMOVIE'
tQPP If you haven’t received your copy of “1937 Football Schedules,” showing new rule changes, this year’s games, ■ IbEbEi and 1936 scores of 119 leading colleges, ask at the business office of the paper publishing this advertisement.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 71
October 8, 1937
No. 3
A. S. M. MAKES PLANS FOR FIRST MEETING
•
The first meeting of the year of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals will be held on Oct. 13. The meeting will open with dinner at 6:45 p.m. in the University Dining hall. There will be a technical session at 8:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. The speaker at this first meeting, Dr. John A. Gann, will talk on the subject: “Magnesium and Its Alloys.”
Dr. Gann received his collegiate training in the Case School of Applied Science, his master’s degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and his doctor’s degree from the University of Gottingen in Germany. Dr. Gann is now Chief Metallurgist of the Dow Chemical Company. He has been connected with this company for the past 20 years, most of this time having been devoted to the development of magnesium alloys and of methods for handling and treating such alloys.
Dr. Gann’s address will present a comprehensive review of the magnesium industry. A considerable number of lantern slides will be used to illustrate the lecture and Dr. Gann will bring with him numerous samples of the various magnesium alloys. All interested persons are invited to attend the meeting.
The officers of the Chapter for the year are: Prof. Carl F. Floe, chairman; James I. Boland, Oliver Farm Equipment Co., vice chairman; George J. Foss, graduate student at Notre Dame, treasurer; and George E. Stoll, Bendix Products Corporation, secretary.
All meetings of this year will be held on the second Wednesday evening of each month in the Engineering auditorium.
NOTICE
All those interested in contributing to the literary pages of THE SCHOLASTIC are invited to call at the Scholastic offices in the Ave Maria building, Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday evenings between 7 and 8 o’clock.
MASS. SERMON TO MARK CELEBRATION OF FOUNDERS DAY. WEDNESDAY
By George Haitchcock
Next Wednesday, Oct. 13, the University of Notre Dame will celebrate Founder’s Day in memory of its founder and first president, Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. This day does not mark the date of the founding of the University but rather the feast day of Father Sorin’s patron saint, St. Edward, king _ and confessor. ------__--...    —. — ., - — - _ ——	■■
i
Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. A day in his honor.
"Muscle Men" Induct New Men This Week
Tuesday evening at 7:45, President Paul Nowak called to order the first official meeting of the Monogram Club.
After the reading of the minutes by Secretary Nevin McCormick, and other sundry duties accomplished, Joe Zwers presented a list of those men who are to become members. Later on in the evening President Nowak personally introduced these men to the other members of the club. Their formal acceptance will take place on a later date.
For the past week a pack of brawny athletes donning red berets, sprouting golden bows, and toting their school books in laundry bags, have been dotting the campus. These are the monogram candidates carrying out part of their initiation ritual.
The president stated that several suggestions for a better and more active Monogram Club had been received, but he deferred action upon these until a later date.
This year the day will be celebrated by a special Founder’s Day-solemn high Mass at 8:30 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church for students and faculty.
The celebrant of the Mass will be Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. He will be assisted by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., deacon, and the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., sub-deacon. Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., will act as master of ceremonies.
Father Burke to Talk
A sermon on the significance of the occasion will be delivered at the Mass by the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
In former years, Founder’s Day was always the occasion for elaborate festivities. Before the death of Father Sorin in 1893 the day was marked by a review of the achievement of the past, and by reports of what could be expected in the future. During the afternoon there were various interhall athletic events. In the evening programs were given in honor of the men who founded Notre Dame.
Ninety-six years ago this winter Father Sorin, with six Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, stood on a little knoll overlooking St. Mary’s lake, blessed the land and visualized the great center of learning his hands were to give first form.
As in the past, Founder’s Day will be an academic holiday, all classes in the University being cancelled. Students are urged to attend the special Founder’s Day Mass honoring the patron saint of Notre Dame’s pioneerpriest.
Two students at New York university claim an eastern altitude record for their weather observing balloon, which stayed aloft four hours and reached a peak of 67,500 feet.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DR. GURIAN IMPRESSED BY HOSPITALITY AND FRIENDLINESS OF NOTRE DAME
By Fred Sisk
“I have a very good impression of Notre Dame and especially like the great friendliness and kindness of all I have had the occasion to meet.” Such was’the observation made by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, newest addition to the faculty of Notre Dame, of Lucerne, Switzerland in an interview during the past week.	.;
As an authority in the field of politics and especially Bolshevism, Dr. Gurian said the current question of Italy’s Mussolini and Germany’s Hitler was a difficult question to answer He, however, remarked that he was impressed a great deal by the address made by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in Chicago concerning war, and he believed the President’s speech would have considerable influence in the involved European political situation.
Notre Dame Well-known
Continuing Dr. Gurian said that Notre Dame is well-known in Europe when the Catholic universities of the United States are mentioned. Chief among the reasons for the university’s predominence across the Atlantic is the presence of several European educators in the faculty, the invention of synthetic rubber by the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. and the popularity of the Irish football team.
Dr. Gurian arrived in New York aboard the French liner, Normandie, and spent two days in that city previous to his arrival at Notre Dame last Sunday.
While here, he will conduct courses in the Principles of Politics, Reform of Capitalism, and a course dealing with the philosophy and government of Russia.
Dr. Gurian said he agreed with other European professors in saying that the American college student applies himself more to his studies than do the students in Germany. He said part of this was due to the lax regulations of class attendance in the universities ’ of Germany as well as in other European colleges.
Has Written Many Books
Prior to his departure from Switzerland, he has delivered a number of lectures on the subject of Bolshevism in Austria, Switzerland, and particularly in Zurich, Switzerland.
As an authority on Bolshevism, he has written several books on the subject as well as contributing several articles to leading publications in America, England and France. In a late issue of the American weekly, Commonweal, he discussed the recent
Engineers' Meet To Discuss Year's Plans
•
Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., head of the College of Engineering, discussed the purpose of the Engineer’s Club at the first meeting of the year, last Tuesday.
He declared that the aim of the organization was to supplement the other engineering organizations on the campus and to give each member a wider perspective in his chosen field.
Mr. Feragen, the guest speaker, gave a short talk on the Salesmanship in Engineering.” He illustrated his talk with stories drawn from his own work with the Bendix Corporation, South Bend.
Mr. Feragen was introduced by George Schlandecker, the club president. Following Mr. Feragen’s talk Schlandecker announced that new club members would be initiated Oct. 13. All engineers are eligible for club membership.
Mr. Frank T. Flynn, jr., assistant professor of social work, was elected to the board of directors of the Indiana State Conference on Social Work at its annual meeting in Indianapolis last week.
The conference was attended by Mr. Flynn, Rev. John O’Connell, C.S.C., and Mr. Hoyer, of the department of sociology, and Mr. Maurice Pettit of the department of politics.
struggle of the Catholic church in Germany. British reviews containing his articles have been the Tablet, Black Friars, and the Coloseum, and the French publication, Vie intelle-tuelle. In the October number of the Dublin Review an article dealing with the terrorism of Stalin was written by Dr. Gurian.
His latest book is entitled Rise and Decline of Marxism. Others of his books include Hitler and the Christians, Bolshevism Theory and Practice, The Future of Bolshevism, and The Comparison of Bolshevism and Nazism. Most of these numbers have been translated into Dutch, French, Italian and Spanish.
VINCENTIANS SET FOR ACTIVE CHARITY YEAR
The local conference of the Saint Vincent de Paul is assured of an
equally successful year. Thirty-four active members answered the roll call
at the last meeting held last Sunday
Rev. J. C. Kelley. C.S.C.
morning in the oasement of Walsh Hall, and 12 candidates petitioned for membership in the society.
Late this past week it was learned that two members from
the St. Vincent
de Paul Conference of the Uni
versity of Wisconsin will pay a visit to the local council and inspect the work being done here. They will arrive tomorrow and will remain for the meeting Sunday morning. There will be a general discussion and exchange of ideas concerning the two councils.
Earlier this week a comprehensive report for last year was released from the office of the Notre Dame conference. The report discloses that $489.97 was expended by the council during the period, including the purchase of groceries, clothing, shoes, fuel, medical attention for the poor, and a supply of Catholic literature for the St. Augustine colored parish in South Bend.
The number of families assisted last year was 27, and a total of 183 persons were aided in some way during the same period. In addition, members made 284 visits to the homes of the poor or sick. Another interesting item in the annual report is that 28 persons were assisted by the local unit to return to their families or friends in other cities.
In connection with its aid for children 35 were induced to attend the parochial schools and 22 to attend Sunday school.
Distribution of prayer books, rosaries, other religious articles, books, magazines, and newspapers totaled 1,820 for the past year. This figure does not include, however, the number of similar articles distributed weekly to convalescents at Healthwin Sanitorium.
The Notre Dame council is one of four St. Vincent de Paul Societies in the Holy Cross Conference, which includes South Bend and the surrounding area. The local unit, wihch is the largest and most active in the entire conference, works in conjunction with (Continued on Page 22)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
KNIGHTS WILL STAGE NAVY DANCE
•
Grand Knight James L. Quinn announced last Tuesday that the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus will give a football dance the night of the Navy game at the Jefferson Plaza. C. Richard Jenney is chairman, and he will be assisted by Robert Le Mire, music; Joseph Drol-la, tickets; George Morris, publicity; and Richard Foley, patrons.
There will be a football smoker in the Knight’s lounge during the Illinois game. Chairman of this affair is Edward Hagger.
The remainder of the permanent committees were also announced. C. Richard Jenney is the chairman of the membership committee, assisted by James Cleary and Louis Dunn. The Catholic Activities is headed by Fred Crollard, and Edward Grogan is in charge of the discussion groups.
Club Inaugurates
At last something new in a campus club!
The La Raza club, organization of the Spanish speaking students on the campus, is making plans for the formation of a soccer team under the leadership of Vince Gurucharri. Tentative plans have been made to play local town teams, other campus groups, and possibly teams from other colleges.
Jaime Gomez, president of the club, announced that the annual Columbus day banquet would be held this year on Tuesday, Oct. 12, at the Oliver hotel. Among the guests will be Prof. Pedro de Landero, faculty advisor of the group, and Mr. J. Pedeville of South Bend.
Bookmen Pick Members
At their last meeting, Wednesday, Oct. 6, the members of the Bookmen club interviewed applicants for admission into the group. These were eight in number, of which two will be chosen for admission after consideration by the members. Their* names will not be disclosed until the next meeting.
The program for the year was adopted by the members. There are to consist of round-table discussions of various books and authors already selected at some previous meeting, talks by faculty members, and social meetings.
This week the members met at their new meeting place, the Seminar room in the Law building. According to President Williams, the meetings are to be held every other week.
LUNN'S LECTURES TO REVEAL COMPLETE DATA ON COMMUNISTIC ATROCITIES IN SPAIN
By F. G. Barreda
Arnold Lunn, world famous Catholic convert, celebrated English author and professor of Catholic Apologetics, delivered the first in his series of six
lectures in Washington Hall last night. Mr. Lunn arrived on the campus Monday after a summer journey of three weeks in war-torn Spain that carried
Arnold Lunn “Martyrdom is the test.”
Greet Office Changes With Glee
Startling innovations in the editorial offices greeted the editors, columnists, artists, and reporters of The Scholastic this week as the third issue was prepared.
Through the courtesy of the Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the board of publications, a radio, an electric clock, and new lights were installed in the offices located in the Ave Maria building.
In the memory of the oldest members of the staff this is the first time that a radio has ever aided to lighten the labors of hard working staff members. Not so, the electric clock. There’s a story behind that.
Several years ago an electric clock enhanced the wall with its beauty and utility. When June came the clock was still there. In September it was gone. Only the wires remained. To this day the mystery has never been solved.
The staff members join with the editors in thanking Father Broughal and the board of publications, as well as William R. Dooley, graduate business manager, for the kind attention shown.
, him through the towns of Burgos, Toledo, Sevilla, Salamanca, and up to the Madrid front.
In his first address Mr. Lunn spoke on “The Background of the Spanish Situation,” emphasizing the manner in which the Communistic propaganda filtering from Russia has flowed into every tributary on the shaky political map of Europe. The Red Death which is spreading like a plague over modem Europe, he explained, is far more devastating in its effects than the Black Death of the Fourteenth century.
Subsequent lectures for the following six weeks will deal with “The Opening of the War,” “The Siege of the Alcazar,” “Catholicism in Spain,” and other accounts of the civil war that Mr. Lunn witnessed on his journey through the Iberian country ruined by war.
Professor Lunn’s views and conceptions gathered from his experiences in Spain were published in a series of articles in The Tablet, an English publication. A condensation of these has been put into pamphlet form under the title of “The Unpopular Front.” Much of this material concerning the true status of the Catholic Church in Spain will be defended and expounded during the lectures.
From these articles the English author proves that “General Francisco Franco, leader of the Rightists, is fighting for religion and decency against rapine, anarchy and militant atheism. At bottom only one thing matters; and that is that Spain, Europe, and Mankind should be freed from a system of bloodshed and an institution of murder.
“Martyrdom is the test, and martyred Spain has passed the test with distinction. The manure of Communism has fertilized the stricken fields of Spain, and from that bloody soil has sprung the glorious flower of heroic Faith.”
The series of lectures is intended for the purpose of clarifying the muddled reports published by misinformed correspondents of the American press. If the truth about present day Spain is to be known, it must be uncovered only by those who have come upon the scenes of the atrocities committed by the followers of Communism.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OPENING PROGRAM ON THIRD RADIO SEASON ON TAP TUESDAY; PLAN BIG FEATURES
By Robert Sheppard
“This program has come to you from the campus studios of the University of Notre Dame.” Such is the familiar radio identification that will again reach
the air waves when campus radio activities swing into action Tuesday, Oct. 12.
The new season, the third in campus radio history, will be drected as in the
ers to the stair.
Rev. E. Burke. C.S.C.
past by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
At a meeting of the station per-sonell last Tuesday auditions were held for approximately 50 newcom-
Plans were also completed for the opening program and a schedule of regular programs was worked out the coming year.
The initial program o f the season, which will be presented Tuesday evening, will honor the founders of Notre Dame. The
half hour will be made up of several selections by campus musical groups as well as a talk by James Armstrong, Alumni secretary.
Among the regular programs will be a sports review on Thursday evenings. This year the spot will be held down by Steve Miller who will give highlights of the football game just past as well as forecasts for the game to come. Another popular feature of last season that will return is the program entitled Music of the Masters. This year the quarter hour will include selections by Arthur Davidson, Paul Locher, William Mooney and Jack Collins.
The announcing and production staffs numbering approximately 25 students will be headed by Norbert Aleksis and Jack Solon. Both Aleksis and Solon held full time radio jobs during the summer.
Journalism Lectures
The sports writing class of the School of Journalism enjoyed two guest lectures during the past week. On October 1 “Red” Barber of Radio Station WLW addressed the future scribes on the problems of a radio announcer in sports work.
James S. Kearns, former Editor-in-Chief of The Scholastic, spoke last Wednesday on the routines of sports reporting. Kearns is a regular sports writer on the staff of the Chicago Daily News, covering principally baseball, golf and football. He stopped at Notre Dame on his way to cover the Irish-Hlinois contest, and got his first look at the Irish Varsity. However^ he was loathe to express an opinion.
Changed Reading Trend Shown in Latest Books
9
Of the many new books acquired by the library since the closing of the school year last spring, there are none that surpass in importance a work of the Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, Rev. James A. Bums. This is his History of Catholic Education.
In harmony with the recent tendency of the reading public to seek out books of deeper significance than novels and short stories, most of the books were of an economic, social, religious, or philosophical nature. Included in them is a book that amazed the United States by becoming a best seller, Mathematics for the Millions by L. T. Hogben.
Among the books dealing with our times, in social and economic fields, there are Mr. W. R. Barnes The Supreme Court Issue and the Constitution; L. T. Norton’s Old Age and the Social Security Act; David Laurence’s graphic book, The Supreme Court or Political Puppets.
Novels include: Wind From the Mountains by T. Guibransaln; D. Coolidge’s, The Trail of Gold. Christopher Hollis’s latest book titled, Foreigners Aren’t Fools.
Form Philosophy Club
Owing to recent interest in Scholastic philosophy, manifest throughout the country, a group of local students interested in philosophy, have planned to organize a group under the tentative title of “The Schoolmen.”
The Schoolmen plan to foster an interest in current books, movements and figures in the world of philosophy. It is intended to provide an outlet to the student of philosophy for his classroom principles; and at the same time stimulate outside reading.
Any student who has attained the rank of junior is eligible for membership, and should attend the first meeting, Monday night, Oct. 11, 7:45 p.m. in Room 117 of the Main building. If attendance is impossible application should be made at 354 Alumni.
ROUND TABLE HEARS OF EUROPE
•
His personal observations and opinions of six European countries gathered this summer on a six-weeks’ tour was the subject matter of Thomas P. Mulligan’s talk to the Round Table, student current forum, last Monday evening.
Meeting at the Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend, the Round Table heard the Cleveland, Ohio, senior discuss the political, economic, and social phases of England, France, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, and Belgium.
Mulligan told his listeners that poverty was much more rampant in Europe than in America, and that most Europeans are deprived of those things in life which Americans consider more or less as necessities. Too, he described the militant belligerence of several of the European countries.
Most Europeans, Mulligan said, are tremendously interested in the Spanish civil war, and are surprised that America does not show much interest in the situation.
In absence of Professor Downey, club moderator, Jerry Kane, a senior from Tacoma, Wash., presided, and he conducted the question box at the conclusion of the talk.
Carl Doozan, the only charter member of the Round Table still in the organization after its three years’ history, made a plea that the Round Table take active steps to increase its membership. The Round Table meets each Monday evening at the Rose Marie Tea Room, to dine and to discuss current events.
Prominent Guests
The possibility of another of the “Perfect Play,” the presence of potential All-Americans, and the attraction of an anticipatedly close game, contributed their share in attracting sport fans to the Notre Dame stadium for their first glimpse of the 50th edition of the Notre Dame football team.
Among the distinguished visitors present last Saturday was Paul Hoffman, president of the Studebaker Corporation. From Chicago came Probate Judge O’Connell, the J. McAllister Berrans, Daniel Ryan, Sr., and Emmet Whalen.
Probably the most interested spectator in the stadium was E. Douglas Staples. Coming from ' Calimete, Cuba, Mr. Staples was a well known track man in his time at Notre Dame. He finally left school in 1897 to join Teddy Roosevelt and his “Rough Riders” in the Spanish-American war.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
"FINLANDIA" IS FIRST SYMPHONY CONCERT
•
The Symphony orchestra of the University of Notre Dame, under the direction of Prof. Daniel Pedtke, is now rehearsing the Symphonic poem “Finlandia,” from the pen of the Finnish composer, Jean Sibelius, one of the greatest of living composers.
The symphonic poem is a form of orchestral composition that supplanted the symphony in the romantic period of musical history. It is included in the repertoire of many of the leading symphony orchestras. Other numbers which the symphony orchestra will include in its programs are two compositions by Beethoven and several of the greatest works of Carl Van Weber.
During the last several rehearsals the personnel of the string section has increased to twelve violins and three cellos. However, many more are needed in order to balance the brass section. The French horn section of the orchestra is incomplete, and anyone desiring to play in this department are urged to get in touch with Prof Pedtke.
For the present the main work of the orchestra will be to accompany other activities on the campus. Plans are being formulated for one grand concert which will be presented on the campus at a later date. Road trips are also being considered, provided that the ability of the orchestra is able to maintain the Notre Dame standard.
Announce Debate Topic
“Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes.”
This is the new varsity debate question for this year as announced by Mr. William J. Coyne, coach of debating. The question is being used in many colleges this season, and should prove both a timely and interesting one.
The call for candidates for the Notre Dame squad will be made later. By the end of next week a prepared bibliography and other material will be on reference in the library for those who wish to try out.
The members on last year’s team who will probably try out again this year are: Charles Osborn, Tom Mulligan, Redman Duggan, Claude Fitch, and Frank Brame. Robert Schmelzle and Tom Proctor, also on last year’s team, will be ineligible this year because they are members of the College of Law.
Grandson of Alexis Coquillard, First N. D. Student, Carries on Tradition
In the early evening of November 26, Father Sorin first entered South Bend. With him he carried a letter from Bishop Hailandiere, of Vincennes, which reads in part . . . “Enclosed please find the §310 you asked of me; also a letter of credit on Mr. Coquillard for the sum of $231.12%.” . . .
Father Sorin received the credit from Benjamin Coquillard and spent the night in the Coquillard Inn; then in the morning Alexis Coquillard, the son of Benjamin, guided Father Sorin to the banks of St. Joseph
Notre Dame Way Back When . . .
Lake. They walked from town together, the priest destined to found a university in the wilderness, and the boy destined to be his first student.
Today, another Alexis Coquillard, the grandson of the first Alexis, is a student at Notre Dame, continuing a family tradition which has been maintained through three generations.
But even before the time of Father Sorin and Notre Dame the Coquil-lards were intimately associated with the land on which the present university stands. Soon after Father de Seille established the mission of St. Marie des Lacs he became a firm friend of Benjamin Coquillard. This friendship was maintained until the death of Father de Seille.
Father Badin, the successor to Father de Seille, also found a staunch friend in Benjamin Coquillard; so, it
Hear Phillip's History
A life story of Charles Phillips, late professor at the University and the man responsible for the formation of their club, will be presented to the members of the Cracow Club, organization of Polish students on the campus, by Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., moderator of the group.
This club was one of the first on the campus to become active this year, its first official act being to receive Communion in a body at the Mass opening the school year. Elections for the present year will be held at the year’s first meeting, Tuesday, Oct. 12.
was with the confidence born of experience that Bishop Hailandiere committed Father Sorin to Benjamin Coquillard’s care, when he sent Father Sorin into the wilderness to transform a small mission into a university.
And when Father Sorin opened the doors of the small brick house by the lake the first student to apply for admission to the new Notre Dame du Lac was Alexis Coquillard, the son of Benjamin Coquillard.
Alexis acted as interpreter for Father Sorin as the priest's pure
French tongue struggled with the dialects of the district. Between classes Alexis operated the ferry on the St. Joe River.
However, the untimely death of his father forced Alexis to leave Notre Dame and engage in the wagon manufacturing business in which he achieved quick success.
When he married, soon afterwards, Father Sorin officiated at the ceremony. The wedding gift of Father Sorin, a Madonna by Luigi Gregori, is an heirloom of the Coquillard family.
The second Alexis Coquillard graduated from Notre Dame in 1903, and his son, the third Alexis, is now enrolled in the University. The current Alexis is a sophomore in the Arts and Letters school.
Fitch Heads Debates
Frank Fitch, junior in the College of Commerce, was appointed chairman of the interhall debating for this year, according to the announcement of Pierre de la Vergne, president of the organization.
The first meeting of the group was held Tuesday night. Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, moderator of the group, spoke to the members of his experiences while abroad this year. Other plans for the group are to give way for the coming interhall debates, which will commence shortly. Frank Brame will assist .Fitch in handling the details of the contests.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FROM THE FILES
September 23, 1871—“Now my little boys and girls,” said a teacher, “I want you to be very still—so still that you can hear a pin drop.” In a moment all was silent, when a little boy shrieked out, “Let her drop!”
October 7, 1871—A. lawyer once thought he could entrap the renowned clergyman and satirist, Swift, by proposing to him the following: “If the devil and a clergyman were to go to law, who would win the suit?” “Without doubt, the devil,” answered Swift, “for he has all the lawyers on his side.”
October 21, 1871—A young man says that there may have been such a thing as real true love in olden times, but that now the notion is entirely obsolete; and if you ask a young lady now-a-days to share your lot, she immediately wants to know how large that lot is.
March 16, 1872—The- following somewhat ambiguous paragraph appeared in an Edinburgh paper: “We regret to find that the announcement of the death of Mr. W-----------is a malicious fabrication.”
March 23, 1872 — “Cast iron sinks,” is the legend on the sign of a Hartford plumber. “Well, who (hie) said it didn’t?” inquired an inebriate who had read it over three or four times, and chuckled when he thought he saw the point.
September 16, 1876—Two Hibernians were passing a stable which had a rooster on it for a weather vane, when one addressed the other: “Pat, wThat is the reason they didn’t put a hen up there instead of a rooster?” “An’ sure,” replied Pat, “that’s aisy enough; don’t you see it would be inconvainment to go up for eggs.”
November 4, 1876—An Irishman complained to his physician that he stuffed him so much with drugs that he was sick a long time after he got well.
Cow-education is the word for it, it seems, at Eastern New Mexico Junior College. Bossie is helping put several youths through school. Bringing their cows to the campus, they are selling milk to pay expenses.
Eastern grid officials will have to go into training if they expect to work any eastern college games this fall. They must produce a physician’s certificate attesting perfection of sight, hearing and general condition.
This is the story of the politician who made good in spite of it. Scott Reardon, president of the S.A.C., expresident of the junior class, associate of campus “Bosses,” and leader in student activities, is the man. Gay blade of the River Front, this personable young man ... he became a “man” only recently . . . broke away from the Indian-besieged town of Sioux Falls, which he claims is in South Dakota . . . practically no help at all so far as the rest of the students are concerned.
Aspires and . . . perspires ... to gain a Bachelor of Philosophy degree in Business Administration. Practices for the financial terrors of the economic royalists by selling plows to unsuspecting farmers in his territory.
At one time he wanted to join the Monogram Club, ran around in short pants in the middle of winter for the glory of Coach Nicholson’s track team . . . gave this up when the snow melted . . . affected his voice, or so he claimed ... to listen to him today is to agree that this would be a shame liquid and smooth ... as witness the feminine flutter at his appearance during the pep meetings.
Worries about student trip plans at present . . . when that clears up will look for other and greater things to worry about . . . expects greyness before graduation.
FIRST ISSUE ALUMNUS CONTAINS TRIP NEWS
•
The October number of the Notre Dame Alumnus announces that students making the trip to the Minnesota game will be welcomed in Minneapolis and St. Paul by members of the Twin City Alumni association. Besides the reception planned for students there will be a dinner and dance held after the game. Headquarters for the students will be at the St. Paul hotel.
Fall plans of Alumni groups throughout the United States are comprised for the most part of informal gatherings and smokers held on Saturday afternoons to hear radio receptions of Notre Dame football games.
Other features of fall activity are scheduled trains taking Notre Dame alumni groups to Notre Dame games, especially the Pittsburgh, Army, and Minnesota games. Denver, Colorado alumni have scheduled trains for both the Minnesota and Pittsburgh games.
The National Alumni association voted “no” this summer to continuance of the Dix plan of class reunion, a plan devised to reunite former students not only with members of their own class but also with members of all other classes attending the university at the same time. This year Notre Dame classes will return to the plan of five-year reunions for all classes, coordinated with a program of special reunions of clubs, hall residences, and participants in individual campus activities.
Chicago Frosh Elect
Tuesday night, the Chicago Club, Notre Dame’s largest campus organization met for the first time this year. The incoming freshmen have swelled the enrollment of the club to approximately 300.
John Buckley, head of the club, welcomed the freshmen and introduced the officers to them. He informed them that it was the privilege of the first year men to select from their own ranks a representative vice-president. The purpose of this being to create a more representative, interested, and active membership among the freshmen.
The election was held immediately after President Buckley’s announcement. After the votes had been cast and counted, Francis McDonough, a graduate of Mt. Carmel High School, Chicago, was declared the new vice-president.
With the election out of the way, Buckley set forth the club’s plans for the present year. He proposed a program whereby each member of the club can participate in the activities.
V
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK By Harold A. Williams
MUSIC NEWS By Paul Locher
Artists
Quite a field day the art students had last Thursday. They seemed to enjoy it as much as the rabble who tramped all over the grass on the main quad to inspect the gems. The rabble peered over artistic shoulders and asked pseudo-artistic questions. The art students didn’t mind. In fact, we believe they secretly enjoyed it because they haven’t had anyone to watch them since last year when the nearsighted speech major walked into the wrong room and stayed to look around. The only real disconcerting part of Thursday’s affair came when some well-meaning soul asked if it was a class in surrealism. It was a class in landscape painting —so one of the artists told us. We noticed that every art student had a dirty old smock. We looked all around but we couldn’t find any flowing black ties or green berets. And not one art student needed a haircut.
•
Rat trap
Over in time-honored Sorin, they tell us, there is a fellow named O’Brien, who, having nothing to do one evening, borrowed an old-fashioned, bring-’em-back-alive, bird cage rat trap. Within 8 minutes, O’Brien, or rather his borrowed rat trap, caught eleven live mice. Good enough. But we think it would be still better to know where Mouse-trapper O’Brien borrowed the old-fashioned rat trap, and what he did with the eleven live mice. Anything to say, O’Brien?
•
Saturday
We won’t bother to say anything about the game because if you still care to read about, the talented Scholastic sports writers will hack away at it on page 17 if they haven’t mislaid the Sunday papers. We’ll just content ourselves (and probably nobody else) by talking about the mascots, the band, and the airplane advertisement. For instance the mascots. What would have happened if one of those leashes broke?—Probably a swell story, and some new cheer-leaders. But no fight, so all we can say is that Mike, like a typical Irishman, looked his best and growled his loudest when the Bulldog was bow-legging it on the other side of the field. And then there was the new song by the band. Somebody in front of us was yelling for the hotdog man so we didn’t hear anything but the title of the new song —
“Thanks for the Blow.” For what blow? How does the rest of the song go, Joe? And, finally, there was the dog food advertisement in the sky. They wouldn’t go to all that trouble for just the two mascots, would they?
Adolescent
Each new Freshman crop looks younger than the previous one. This year the men of ’41 have an unusually fresh, childish, naive, telegraph boy, look. We’s been wondering if these boys are as young as they look. The other day on the street car we met one of these young looking Freshmen. Now we know that there is at least one Freshman who is as young as he looks. For want of something better to talk about we asked about his extra-curricular activities. He didn’t look like the type that played football so we skipped that. We asked him if he were going out for the managers’ organization. No, he didn’t like politics. Scholastic or Scrip? No, he didn’t care to waste his talents on the desert air. Dome? No, every Freshmen who couldn’t make anything else went out for the Dome. Debating, radio, acting, clubs, band, symphony orchestra — none of these interested him. Suddenly we thought of the glee club. He looked like excellent material for the glee club. At the sound of the words “glee club” his face glowed as all Freshman faces glow when one mentions their favorite extra-curricular activity. Yes, the glee club was the only activity that interested him. We asked him how he was making out. His face fell as all Freshman faces fall when one mentions the activity they didn’t make. He was turned down, he murmured disconsolately, because his voice hasn’t changed yet.
•
Addenda
For the past three weeks a self-reliant young fellow in Brownson has been making his own bed because he didn’t know the maids did such things. . . . The gaudy new sign on the music building will now prevent anyone from mistaking the music building for the boat house. ... A four year aspiration of ours was finally gratified when somebody let us carry a flare in the pep parade. . . None of this year’s Scholastic staff has any musical ability so Father Broughal has installed a radio in the editorial office to ease the monotony of proof reading such stuff as this... The pre-game signal drill by the Drake band in the stadium Saturday morning was something for our boys to think about.
Plans for musical activities at the University have formulated rapidly with the Band and Glee club presenting their initial performances. The Glee club appeared on a recent
Paul Locher
Columbia hook - up, featuring an interview with Coach Elmer Layden and several other prominent football coaches. The songsters gave the program a realistic setting, with a background o f familiar Notre Dame football songs. Every noon finds the group
practicing lustily in Washington Hall for their next public appearance on Dec. 8.
The band broke precedent last Saturday by offering complete marching formations on the occasion of the first home game. As in previous years, time has been so limited that Director Joe Casasanta originally could not plan more than a careful selection of personnel. However, as' an expression of good-will to the visiting Drake band, Mr. Casasanta surmounted the difficulty raised by the loss of 45 graduating seniors from last year’s organization, and drilled his marching unit in appropriate formations.
A new song, “Thanks for the Blow,” written by himself, added novelty to the performance at the half. The Drake band had some interesting variations from regular marching routine, especially in their opening formation. With two more weeks intervening before the next game at home, the band promises another entertaining show for the Navy.
Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the music department, is busily engaged with a reorganization of the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra. Having to start without a nucleus from former years constitutes the greatest difficulty. Mr. Pedtke is especially interested in giving every musician an opportunity to try out with his orchestra. Given a balanced personnel, we may be assured of enjoyable concerts later in the season, in view of the excellent musical experience Mr. Pedtke brings with him to Notre Dame.
The Radio Club met on Tuesday evening for the first time in their studio in the Engineering building. This preliminary meeting offered the finest opportunities to men on the campus, who may or may not be affiliated with an official musical or-
(Continued on Page 22)
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CALENDAR
Friday, October 8
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; October devotions and benediction; Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Freshmen choral society, 6:30 p.m., Washington Hall.
Saturday, October 9
Football, Varsity vs. Illinois at Champaign; Movie, Washington Hall, first show for freshmen only, 6:40 p.m., second show 8:20 p.m.
Sunday, October 10
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8, 9, a.m.; St. Vincent de Paul meeting, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh Hall, 11 a.m.; Interhall football, Brownson field, 10 a.m.; Benediction 7 to 7:30 p.m.
Monday, October 11
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00.p.m.; October Devotions and Benediction; Meeting Schoolmen, room 117, Main Building, 7:45 p.m.; Interhall athletics, Brownson Hall, 3:30 p.m.; Symphony orchestra, 6:30 p.m., Washington Hall; Wrangler meeting, 7:45 p.m., Law Building.
Tuesday, October 12
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Opening of campus radio activities, WSBT, 7:00 p.m.; Interhall athletics Brownson field, 3:30 p.m.
Wednesday, October 13
Founders’ Day, no classes; Solemn High Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 8:30 a.m.; Meeting, A.S.M., 7:30 p.m., auditorium, Engineering building; Freshmen Choral society, 6:30 p.m., Washington Hall.
Thursday, October 14
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; October devotions and Benediction; Meeting, Iowa club; Symphony orchestra, 6:30 p.m., Washington Hall.
Two Princeton men have entered the picture magazine field to challenge the ultra-successful reign of Yale-inspired Time Inc. Alpha Delta Phi’s Henry Luce and the late Briton Hadden, B.M.O.C. of the Eli class of ’20, first launched Time in 1923, following it in subsequent years with the equally successful Fortune, the “March of Time,” and Life. Now Nassau’s Charles Payne and A. Lawrence Holmes (’32), injected fresh blood into the Street & Smith pulp group, have transferred Pic into a general picture magazine in a threeway circulation war with Life and Iowa’s Look.
COLLEGE PARADE
By John A. Callaghan
Purty Purtry
From the Southern California Daily Trojan-.
Roomy, Roomy Listen to me, And you’ll hear what’s driving me insane;
Chummy-wummy,
Listen to me,
For I feel I surely must complain— Will you kindly Keep in mindly
That your socks look bad upon the floor?
And what’s more, pal
(I’m not sore, pal)
They reek just as much behind the door.
—o—
“Slanguage”
At last we have our own dictionary—“we” being the college word in general. Dean Edward H. Lauer, of the University of Washington, has compiled what he likes to call a “campus dictionary.”
After perusing this dictionary, the lovers of pure English will learn that when a student says, “I’m taking my fever Frau to a cement mixer in a tintype,” he really means he’s taking his “heart-hastener to a swing-session in a wheeled-tub.”
Definitions (if you need ’em): Fever Frau: a good-looking girl student; cement mixer: a dance; tintype, or wheeled tub: just an automobile.
—o—
Jottings
A college differs from an asylum in that one must show an improvement to get out of an asylum. . . . From a sports column in The Varsi-tarian: “The return tangle was not only a veritable “murder at the Rizal Stadium,” but was a revelation as well: without the Jumping Jack and the Grand Bec in the lineup, Sto. Thomas is the same Golden Avalanche. Imbibe that, you suckers, wiseguys, and dopestersl”. . . . The Anapolis Log sez: “He who laughs last has found a dirty meaning.”. . . We’ve heard ’em called Schnapps Coats and Beer Jackets but Kansas U comes up with Vodka Vests. . . And Penn. State publishes a Hitch Hiker’s Time Table—with the best spots and times for snatching rides in any direction. . . Why don’t they title it, “Thumb Fun.” •
Because the Hitler government allows any German traveler to take only $4. spending money with him, Christian Otto Winzen came from Germany to the University of Detroit, with just that much cash, although his passage and railroad fare had been paid.
FORUM MEMBERSHIP LARGEST IN HISTORY
•
Over 200 Commerce students, the largest number ever to attend a gathering of the group, were present at the initial meeting of the Commerce Forum.
Professor Eells Tells Forum History.
New members were welcomed into the club by President Charles Brosius. Professor Eells, faculty advisor of the group, gave a short history of the Forum and a summary of its plans for the immediate future.
Among the most interesting of the projects planned by the club for the coming year which were discussed at the meeting, is the Commerce Round Table, a division within the Forum itself which will meet regularly for the purpose of discussing current business happenings throughout the world.
Plans are being formulated for a dance, sponsored by the Forum, to be held after the Southern Colifomia game in late November. This is the first time that the group has ever sponsored an affair of this kind.
Prof. McDaniels, new member of the faculty of the Commerce school, gave a short address on the “Place of the Business Man in the New Business Plans.” Officers were introduced to the new members and several gave short talks.
The present membership, well over the 200-mark, is the largest the Forum has ever reached.
Change Cotillion Site
Class President Joseph Mulqueen announced last week that the Sophomore Cotillion will be held on Friday night, Oct. 22, at the Palais Royale. The discovery that the University dining hall had poor acoustics caused the change of plans that had been previously made. Reggie Childs will supply the dance music. It is expected that 300 couples will sway to his rhythm tunes.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
THE FLY IN THE OINTMENT
By The Fly
Engineers and Style: The weather beaten problem of the school has been solved. Look at the jackets being sported. The sacred coat of the engineer (or is it milkman?). Princeton calls them beei' jackets. Inexpensive, baggy, with brass buttons— what a buy.
Old Notes: The rattling, jovial trolley car late at night. Eager, happy—a panting mechanical hound bouncing along the wavy trail. Some night the hound may jump. Whoops.
Personal Appearance: Blue and gold and a candy store. Sounds like a poem. Benches where doughnutcola breakfasts are downed. Luxury.
are not what they seem. The Fly has dined there many, many times. The food is good.
Noise: Mystery. The buzzing noise at the north end of the law building. Solved by Fly Foot the detective. Air conditioning.
100 Men and a Priest: Getting back to the three R’s for another nine moon shifts us back to the usual routine that is as trite as ham and eggs and as withered as the Old Infirmary. Frisky freshmen pricked up their ears to the pulpit eloquence of the rectors reciting a few hundred pages of rules and regulations. The upperclassmen did some blue ribbon cauliflower waving themselves.
Bunking in the attic in Badin isn’t so downright ordinary if you can get it. Like a government bond, it’s the principle of the thing that counts. Freshman Hail, as old as mythology and Edna Wallace Hopper put together, is still going strong despite circulating rumors that this historical landmark would be used as bonfire kindling for the Minnesota game. Oh well, we could put ten berries on the table that the Cardboard Palace will still be tottering when the Twentieth Century goes to the happy hunting grounds.
Half asleep on our stools the other morn we heard the prof say, “I’ll show you what I have in mind,” as he erased the board. There is no moral or morale to this tale, but the thought implies that even guys with diplomas are apt to have one foot in the lake sometime or other.
Crowds: More people. Dining hall harder to get into. Book store worse. Imagination?
Musical Flyer: Little Jack Little gets better every day. Bolero and Jungle Rhythm were tops. Benny Goodman will blast his way into our hearts this week.
Place of Birth: The Fly, born and raised in the attic of Freshman Hall, gazes now at the new Palace. No more frolics in and out the walls. Paint, gleaming, clean paint, camouflages his landing fields. Last hope: Baedaker’s Guide for Flys.
History: In the U.S. History course Freshman Hall is used as the classic example of an Indian long house. The Indians living there call it a Castle.
Overheard: Freshman: Read your calendar. Month of April. “Generosity counts in Lent.” “Easter Vacation” April 14-19.
Planning: A Freshman in Zahm Hall has Deanna Durbin’s picture gracing the wall over his desk. That’s looking forward. Watch for the high C.
“Did you say you loere going to the Cotillion?”
Defense: Stop razzing St. Mary’s. The Fly comes to the rescue. Things
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.............Faculty	Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT._____________________Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA............................Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams_____________________________The Week
John Callaghan College Parade
John F. Clifford_______________Splinters from the Press Box
Nelss Staff
Vincent DeCoursey___________________________News Editor
George Haithcock____________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk____________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard_____________________Michael Mongoven
Vernon Sneider____________________________Edward	Huff
Joseph Miller__________________________Thomas Marker
James Dempsey_______________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay______________________Fructuoso Barreda
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli____________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby_____________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe_____________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson_______________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan
Art Staff
George Elmore_______________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers Ed Cort
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 71	October 8, 1937	No. 3
Founders' Day
NEXT Wednesday, October 13, will be Founders’ Day
—a University holiday. But why should a great university recess classes for a whole day just in memory of a founder and his followers who started the institution away back in 1842, ninety-five years ago? There are founders and founders. In fact every institution existing today was started by someone. Let’s find the answer.
When the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., and six Brothers first came to the banks of the St. Joseph river they had a total capital of only four hundred dollars, and a deed to the land now occupied by the University. The deed was granted by the bishop on the condition that a college be built and opened for students within two years.
It was then that the vital spark of Notre Dame’s existence was kindled by Father Sorin—the Spirit of Notre Dame. In spite of great difficulties and many personal hardships, his indomitable spirit and determination, with the help of God, overcame all obstacles, and Notre Dame opened its doors on time.
When the main building, constituting most of the college, was reduced to ashes a short time after it was built, the early founders took the disheartening event in stride, and before the fire had died down plans for a new Administration Building were started.
So, as you sit in your rooms next Wednesday afternoon before going to a show, spare a few minutes of your time in reflecting on the results obtained with the aid of the Spirit of Notre Dame. Look at the Notre Dame of today.
Remember that this distinctive, intangible something can become your own property, and that you can carry it through life as Notre Dame has done throughout her history. Acquire it, if nothing more, during your stay here. It will overcome the age-old, to use a twentieth century phrase, “will to fail,” and disappointments will be only temporary for you.
Finally, remember that “Founders’ Day” is not an empty name meaning “no classes,” but that it purposely and wisely reminds us of Fathers Sorin, Badin, and a host of others who not only gave and sustained for us that physical life of Notre Dame, but also that moral and spiritual life—the Spirit of Notre Dame!
V
Peaceful War
TODAY many competent observers darkly predict that war-torn Europe staggers on the brink of a far more disastrous catastrophe than ’14. Crudely, frankly they picture a vista of blood and thunder, of gas-filled and bomb-stormed cities, and of maimed and dying civilians. It’s not a pretty picture—not even in your Sunday supplement.
No one doubts that there is something wrong with this world of ours. No one doubts, we think, but that communism and neo-paganism are behind war and strife in Europe. The universal cry is: What are we going to do to prevent this impending disaster? And to make the question more pertinent: What can we as Catholics do to halt the onrush of communism and neo-paganism?
Last week the answer came. It came not from the palaces of king, nor from the halls of statesmen, nor from the cloistered walls of educational institutions, but from the fountainhead of Catholicism—the Vatican. It was a simple answer. It was a profound answer. It tells you what you can do as a Catholic to forestall the twin enemies of civilization. Therein lies the importance of the Holy Father’s latest encyclical.
For the last week in a forcible and direct encyclical the Holy Father, foreseeing the bloody panorama of a Europe that may come, advanced a remedy that has withstood the test of centuries. It is a peaceful remedy. A powerful remedy. It is the Rosary.
V
The Seal
OF COURSE, we all know the words to the Victory
March and the Hike Song, but how many of us know the meaning of the seal of the University. Through curiosity, a survey was made a few nights ago. It was found that three fellows out of 25 knew the symbolism.
In case you don’t know, this is the meaning: The Latin words on the edge of the seal are translated—The Seal of the University of Our Lady of the Lake.
Next, the shield in the center represents the Universe. The Cross is the symbol of Catholicism. The words on the open book are translated: Our Life, Our Sweetness, Our Hope. These are the words spoken by St. Bernard to Our Lady.
The waves below the cross represent the lake. For the true name of the University is Notre Dame du Lac— Our Lady of the Lake. Hence, the waves symbolize the school by the lake.
The star is the Star of the Sea—Our Lady, showing that Notre Dame is under the patronage of the Blessed Virgin. This is the symbolism of the .seal of the University, the meaning of which we should all know.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Valhalla Via «
By William Cullen Fay
They came out of the morning mist, swarming in broken blue lines up the steep slope. They ran bent forward, rifles held straight out; and the sun lancing through the mist struck white glints off the naked bayonets. Rifle fire from the Confederate lines reached them as they splashed through the creek; then the batteries atop the knoll awoke; lashed them; rolled them back, like dry leaves blowing down a gutter.
All day the blue line leapfrogged forward, was tossed back, leapfrogged again; and was tossed back. Twice the line almost gained the crest; then the Confederate cavalry charged. Grey men on grey horses, led by a slashing giant astride a black horse. Then sabres silvered in the sunlight, struck down, came up sun-flecked. And the blue men fell back down the slope.
He was tireless, that man on the black horse. Between charges he squatted behind the breastworks to mingle with the men. He cursed with some, laughed with others, put new hope in flagging spirits, new strength in weary bodies.
He spoke to one man—more a boy, really—kneeling in a trench corner.
“What’s yo name, son?”
“John Davis, suh.”
“Well, John Davis, yore doin’ a lot of shootin’ but mighty little hittin’.”
“Sorry, suh.”
“Those bullets cost money, sonny. Take yo time. Yore jerkin’ yo trigger finger. Aim long and squeeze easy, sonny; and point yo sights at theah beltbuckles.” He passed on down the trench.
Dusk crept up from the valley shrouding the blue mounds which dotted the slope. The tireless man mounted his horse and rode off towards the rear. There were reports to be made, orders to be received.
He was late. Many horses were tethered by Beauregard’s tent, and the men within made long, wavering silhouettes on the tent walls. He dismounted and entered. Beauregard was seated at the end of a long table. Bragg was at his right; Jubal Early at the left. A good man Early, but Bragg—he didn’t like Bragg.
Beauregard rose. “Ah, there you are, General. We were talking about
you. You were magnificent, today, General—a veritable stone wall.
“Thank you, suh.”
“Sit down, General. Have a drink.” Beauregard gestured to a bottle on the table. “I fancy we all deserve a drink. A good day’s work well done, eh General?”
“Yes suh . . . but nothing to drink, suh. Ah’ll have to be getting back to mah men to prepare them fo the attack.”
“Attack, General? I ordered no attack.”
“Ah took it for granted we would follow up ouah advantage, suh. They will have to retreat beyond the river. We can wait, catch them with theyah force divided, and wipe out theyah rearguard.”
Beauregard tapped his palms together, thoughtfully. “No, I think not, General. The plan’s too risky. We are outnumbered. We can’t afford to leave our position.” His fingers overlapped in a gesture of finality.
“Then, suh, with youh permission ah’ll return to mah men.” He rose to leave the tent. There were times, he knew, -when argument was futile. As he mounted he recalled Early’s sympathetic wink . . . but Bragg had smiled smugly.
He was seldom given to self-analysis, but tonight under the stars he gave the horse its head and slumped in the saddle allowing his mind to wander. . . .
At the Point they’d called him “Stonehead”; now they called him “Stonewall.” Perhaps he had been slow; his trajectory problems always were shaky. But even then he’d thought that the hand which moved a pen concisely might falter with the sword. And the foot deft in the ballroom might stumble on a bullet-torn slope. . . . And men—men were funny, too. You had to know them. Easy enough to drill on the parade ground, but in a fight you had to cuss some and caiole others. Men like Davis for instance. Greenhorns with a gun. You had to coddle them a little. . . . But if they had the stuff they soon weaned themselves. . . .
He scarcely noticed as the horse carried him down the back slope of the hill away from the lines; then turned back down the side valley which circled back to the battlefield.
. . ..And that ass Beauregard. With a little more Lee in him he’d be on those Yankee’s tailcoats right now. But instead he sat in his tent. Defense was good in its place, but offense won wars.
He awoke from his reverie. Around him were fallen figures, twisted straw men. He was back on the slope. Vaguely, he wondered how many of the blue figures had felt his sword. The thought gave him no qualms. War was war. If a bayonet came up faster- than his sword went down—well, that was war, too.
His hands tightened on the reins. Best to get off this slope. Dead men were dead men—he was no graveyard whistler—but the lines were near, and the sentinels were youngsters, kids like Davis, more apt to shoot than challenge.
He swung the horse to the left and urged it faster up the slope. A letter to Mary before he retired—then the horse was gone and he stretched out on the hard ground. Funny, Virginia horses didn’t stumble. Then he felt the fire in his stomach. He couldn’t breathe. He pressed his palms against the earth, trying to push himself erect. Nothing. Perhaps if he lay still his breath would come back. . . .
Once before he had felt like this. That was the first time he had fired his father’s rifle. He had waited until his father rode off to town for the mail; then he had climbed on a chair to take down the rifle from the pegs above the fireplace. The woods had been silent that morning. Waiting at the top of the hill he had heard the deer coming. How carefully he had laid the rifle barrel on the log. How carefully he had trained his sights on the bend in the trail. Then, when the deer was big and brown in his sights, he had fired. He remembered how the rifle butt had kicked into his chest. All his breath had gone with a woosh. And breathless himself, he had watched the deer die—quickly, with only a brief frenzied leg threshing. . . . Perhaps the deer had felt fire in his stomach . . . perhaps he had struggled for breath . . . perhaps. . . .
John Davis’ eyes aimed long down the rifle barrel; his fingers squeezed easy. The rider spun from the horse, lay twitching on the ground for a moment. The legs straightened. Then all was quiet beneath the silent stars.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ATHLETICS
ILLINOIS "UP" FOR GAME WITH IRISH SATURDAY TYPICAL SURPRISE PLAYS ANTICIPATED
By Andrew F. Wilson
The Orange and Blue men of Illinois are pointing for Notre Dame tomorrow. “Old Zupp” himself says so. The failure of the Illini to “open up” against De Paul, despite the risk of defeat, showed the seriousness of their intentions to save everything as a surprise for Notre Dame. They are especially
noted for their “surprises,” the most , famous in recent years being the ’ “Flying Trapeze” play. In its adolescent form a few years ago, this maneuver ruined Ohio State’s chances to tie for the conference championship in an early game, 14-13. In its better-developed version it abetted a 19-0 swamping of Southern California. It is rarely used now, because of the danger of fumbling one of its wide laterals, and serves chiefly to keep the defense open and jittery.
Before Francis Schmidt came to Ohio State, Bob Zuppke at Illinois was Razzle-Dazzle Exponent Number One in the Big Ten. He still bases his attack more on deception and fast ball-handling than on sheer power and blocking. His team has almost as many formations as it has plays, unlike Notre Dame, which runs all its plays from box or punt formation behind a balanced line. The Illini some-
Left Guard Ruetz “Truckin’ ” Against Illini.
times use a single or double-wing from an unbalanced line, sometimes a balanced line with box and short punt backfield alignment, sometimes “spread” formations, from which they may run immediately or quickly shift tight and direct a line smash at the uncertain, drifting defense. They are capable of trying anything at any time.
The Orange and Blue squad is big and fast this year, “sturdier than ’36,” says Zuppke, “but greener.” Fourteen lettermen are back. To be especially watched are Left Tackle
(Continued on Page 21)
New Interhall Plan To Be Inaugurated
•
Mr. Scannell, head of the department of physical education, is introducing two new ideas into Interhall sports this year — two individual schedules of soccer and touch football.
The outstanding difference between touch football and the “real thing” is that a tackle is made in touch football by placing two hands simultaneously upon the man with the ball. Other differences are that the first down zones are 20 yards instead of 10, that there are nine men (no tackles) to a team instead of 11, and that any man is eligible to receive a forward pass. The quarters are ten minutes with unlimited time outs for substitution or injury; no other time outs may be taken. Because no interference with punts is allowed, a team must tell an opponent when a punt is to be made.
A penalty of loss of the ball is given for leaving the feet to recover a fumble. Penalties of 15 yards are given for unnecessary roughness in touching, leaving the feet or touching another part of the body to the ground in blocking, and for use of the hands on the head. No spiked shoes or protective devices may be worn.
Interhall Touch Football Schedule
Sunday, Oct. 10, 10 a.m.—Cartier Field: Freshman vs. Zahm; Cavanaugh vs. Brownson; Carroll vs. St. Edwards; Badin vs. Old Infirmary. Brownson field: Sorin vs. Morrissey.
Monday, Oct. 11, 3:30 p.m.— Brownson field: Walsh vs. Howard. Tuesday, Oct. 12, 3:30 p.m.—Alumni vs. Lyons.
Soccer Schedule
Freshman field: Sunday, 10 a.m., Howard vs. Lyons.
Monday—3:30 p.m., Cavanaugh vs. Morrissey.
Tuesday—3:30 p.m., Brownson vs. Sorin.
KILRAIN IN FINALS OF NET TOURNEY
•
Out of the 68 men who filed into the courts for the Annual Fall Tennis Tournament only three combatants remain in action. Captain Eddie Kilrain, Whit Gregory, and Bill Fay, who showed his abilities as a fresh-
Tennist Kilrain “Cap” Comes Through.
man last year, will struggle for top honors. Whit, Ed, and Bill are “tops” in the racquet-swinging field, and should climax the Fall session with really spectacular matches. The tournament as a whole has been a regular Utopian affair for the dopesters, as they watched the brilliant style and flashing speed of these boys carry them to the finals.
In the second bracket Fay beat E. A. Mahoney, 6-0; 6-0, while Kilrain dropped Paul Tully, 6-2; 6-2. Frank Reppenhagen of the varsity took J. R. Foley to task, only to be defeated by Fay in the third round, 6-2; 6-1. Bill Arnold, also a varsity man, won from Hardart who defaulted, and lifted himself into the third section. In a hard fought match, Fred Simon dropped Dempsey, chalking up, a score of 6-2; 6-3. Bowler also lifted himself into the third bracket when he out-pointed Ed Repetto.
Swinging into the third fray Gregory marked up a 3-6; 6-3; 6-0 combination against Bill Arnold in a fast contest. Bill was unable to stand up under Gregory’s bullet-like drives. Simon was victorious in his match with G. Belanger, 6-2; 6-3, while Kilrain beat Bowler.
In the semi-finals, Fred Simon played hard and skilful tennis, but he was unable to beat Eddie Kilrain, who came through with a score of 6-1; 6-0; and 6-3. Bill Fay must still tackle his opponent, Whit Gregory, to finish up this bracket.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
CHANGES HURT CAGE GAME SAYS KEOGAN
SECRET PRACTICE AT URBANA ALL WEEK LONG ZUPPKE PLANS TO "SHOOT THE WORKS"
Perry Blain, Sports Editor, Daily Illini
Although the Varsity basketball squad’s initial practice session is less than two weeks away, Coach George Keogan does not care to discuss the chances the Irish have in copping . their third consecutive National Championship. At present the Irish mentor is wondering how the new rule, which eliminates the center jump after- a basket has been made, will fare during its first year’s trial in the Mid-West.
We all recall that Mr. Keogan belonged to that small minority of coaches who were opposed to the discarding of the center jump in favor of bringing the ball in from out of bounds with the team scored upon in possession of the ball. He believes that this rule favors mediocrity and can see no valid reason for a team to hand the ball over to the opposition just because it was powerful enough, or lucky enough, to sink a basket. Under this ruling both teams are deprived of a 50-50 chance to procure the ball. Thus the weaker team is given a break. Even though a center may fail to get the jump, his team, if it be an aggressive, well-drilled outfit, can obtain possession of the ball.
Mr. Keogan fears that selfish coaches who continue to tamper with the rules of the game are doing basketball a great injustice and robbing the game of its thrills. That tenseness, that air of expectancy, which gripped the cage enthusiast as he sat on the edge of his seat during a closely contested battle, breathlessly awaiting, even fearing at times, the result of the tip-off, will be gone. No doubt he will miss it.
A new definition of football has appeared.
It is a “function essential to governmental functioning” and appears in the protest of a number of colleges against the federal admission taxes on sports events.
The colleges contend that by this definition, the 10 per cent tax is unconstitutional.
With the football season almost upon him Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau prepares to take the issue to the Supreme Court.
A shortage of football shoes will apparently force a large portion of the Gooding College football team to play barefooted. The “large portion” being George Blankley, who stands 6 feet 3 inches barefooted—barefooted because he needs a size 14 football shoe.
Illinois’ pending battle with the Irish of Notre Dame is the chief topic on the Illini campus today, but a definite student opinion on the outcome of the game is as difficult to secure as are passes of admittance to football practice this week. Never before have so many and so varied predictions been made A on an Illinois game although there
Nation's Grid News Told in "Heads"
Holiday Bad Day for Ollie Day
Fullback Ollie Day’s fumble paves way for Huskie’s score as Washington wins from U.S.C., 7-0. Trojan’s fumbles nullify gains as every scoring threat is turned back by Washington.
Friday’s headline — “Minnesota Takes to Air this Fall.”
Sunday’s headline — “Minnesota Falls via Air.”
“Rain Postpones Tulane Grid Tilt”
Tulane’s Green Wave was unable to cope with another wave today— a wave which rippled over two feet of water on the Tulane Field at New Orleans after a 21 hour rainfall. Auburn and Tulane will get together Monday, however, if the water calms down.—Des Moines Register.
Another Friday headline—“Isbell’s Passes Purdue’s Hope Against Buckeyes.”
Sunday’s headline—“Buckeyes Grab Six Isbell Passes; 13 to 0 Against Purdue.”
Pitt Held Scoreless by West Virginia
Only the first team, however, for the shock troops score thrice on long marches to beat the straight shootin’ mountaineers by three bull’s eyes.— New York World Telegram.
Dam Bursts on Cayuga’s Waters
Flooding Colgate With Touchdowns
Cornell makes Andy Kerr’s boys look as if they forgot their water-wings as 40-7 count rolls over their heads.—New London (Conn.) Record
are a few who think the Illini will be able to beat the Irish, most of those questioned think Coach Bob Zuppke’s men haven’t a chance, while a few think it might be close.
Coach Zuppke, starting his 25th year at the helm of the Illini, has been pointing for Notre Dame since the first day of practice Sept. 10. He is still pointing for them, only more intensely now than before. He has made all practices this week secret and only newspapermen with special passes are allowed to watch drills.
“Zup” will say nothing about his plans for Saturday. Needless to say, however, he will have ready for the visitors plays and formations never before used by the Illini. i?e is definitely planning to shoot the works.
Campus enthusiasm is running high. The greatest pep meeting in years is being planned for Friday night. Fraternity pledges are yelling “Beat Notre Dame” every five steps when approaching their houses, and spirited discussions on the possible outcome of the game can be heard on every side.
Ticket sales are running higher than at any time since the Army-Illinois game in 1929. Approximately 60,000 will be on hand to witness the battle.
The Illinois eleven, with one exception, is "'in perfect condition for the game. Jay Wardley, first string quarterback, who injured his knee three weeks ago, is still out and will not see action.
The first string backfield will have Jack Berner at quarter, Capt. Lowell Spurgeon and Bob Wehrli at the halfs, and Howie Carson at full.
The line will have Bob Castelo and Joe Klemp at the ends, Willard Cramer and Harry Lasater at the tackles, Dick Fay and Mel Brewer at the guards, and Jim McDonald at center.
This team will be composed of two sophomores, five juniors, and four seniors. The line will average 198 pounds and the backfield 175.
“Democracy would be wise if it would curb the education of thousands of our present school population.” Pres. James L. McConaughsy of Wesleyan University takes the other side of the Save-Democracy fence.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING byMark j-Mitche|1
There are two reasons why Livermore, California, is famous. One of them
might be considered pretty bad. His name is Max Baer. The other—just about the best there is—Nevin Francis McCormick, varsity right halfback. He
might remind you of “Shadow” Smart, except that we would have grave doubts
about “Shadow’s” ability as a blocker or pass-receiver, and those are two of the things that “Bunny” does best. Of course an average of about five yards an attempt at carrying the ball last year is not so bad—for a right halfback in the Notre Dame system, anyway.
Bunny played only two years of football at Livermore High school. During these he was a halfback under the Warner system. Coming to Notre Dame, he was truly “just one of the boys.” He never got above the “B” squad in his sophomore year, and even last year at the beginning of the season he was about as low as you can be and still remain with the “A” outfit.
TRACK TEAM DRILLS FOR FALL MEET
The sprinters are practicing starts, the distance men are running crosscountry, and the field event men are perfecting their form. Coach John P. Nicholson keeps very busy at track practice these autumn afternoons making sure that everything is running smoothly and never failing to give the necessary encouragement and advice to each individual cinder man.
Most of the men have rounded into fairly good shape in the few weeks they have been practicing, and the team as a whole shows a great deal of promise for the long season which begins next January. Because of the fact that last year’s team was so hampered by injuries, Nick is paying particularly scrupulous attention to the shins, arches, and muscles of his track men. At the least sign of soreness, he has the afflicted athlete remain idle until he has recovered.
Last Monday for the first time this year, the distance men travelled over the long grinding five-mile crosscountry course. Since the training is becoming more intensive, the distance men will soon have to run this course at top speed two or three times a week.
Fall track practice will be climaxed by the Annual Fall Handicap Meet scheduled to take place in the middle of this month.
He did get in the game against Carnegie Tech — so did about fifty-four other fellows. Bunny was not to be kept down, however, and his hard work moved him along the line, past first one man, then another. Came the seventh game of the season, against Army at New York, and a new name was included in the starting lineup. It read—“McCormick.... RH.”
Since then Bunny has been the stuff of which All-Americans are made. He works all the time, never letting down. He likes to block better than anything else. His ability as a pass receiver is partly explained by his speed which enables him to get behind the secondary, and stay there. He likes bullet passes which can be caught on the run, because they enable him to stay away from the defensive backs.
Besides this he carries the ball—carries it through holes which just aren’t His slippery hips shake off many a tackler, and when he is hit hard he has the happy faculty of being able to relax and just bounce. This explains why he comes up smiling so often after a 250-pounder has cut him down, head-on.
Bunny has a great deal of confidence in the team this year—says they are going places. He realizes he has a job on his hands, but he will just go on working. A senior Economics major, he would like to coach when he finishes. He lives on the second floor of Walsh with Joe Callahan from New York— sort of a contradiction of Kipling’s “Never the Twain Shall Meet.”
And so we give you five feet seven inches and 160 pounds of right half back, a small parcel to be sure, but filled with high explosive which will shatter many an enemy’s hopes before the season is over.
On the Enemies1 Trail
TO DATE:
ILLINOIS defeated Ohio U. 20-6 and tied DePaul 0-0.
CARNEGIE TECH lost to N. Y. U. 18-14.
NAVY defeated William and Mary 45-0 and The Citadel 32-0.
MINNESOTA defeated North Dakota State 69-7 and lost to Nebraska 14-9.
PITTSBURGH defeated Ohio Wesleyan 59-0 and West Virginia 20-0.
ARMY defeated Clemson 21-6.
NORTHWESTERN defeated Iowa State 33-0.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA defeated College of the Pacific 40-0 and lost to Washington 7-0.
THIS WEEK:
ILLINOIS plays Notre Dame.
CARNEGIE TECH plays Purdue.
NAVY plays Virginia.
MINNESOTA plays Indiana.
PITTSBURGH plays Duquesne.
ARMY plays Columbia.
NORTHWESTERN plays Michigan.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA plays Ohio State.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
IRISH B-TEAM TAKES BOILERMAKERS 13-8
ZUPPKE OPENS HIS 25TH SEASON AT ILLINOIS; POINTS FOR GAME WITH IRISH
—___
By Charles Callahan
The Notre Dame “B” team garnered its first victory of the season Saturday by beating the Purdue Jay-vees 13 to 8 at Lafayette. The win was well earned as the Irish out-gained and out-charged the Purdue team which although big and rugged, was sluggish and didn’t appear to have a great deal on the ball.
Purdue kicked off to Notre Dame and the march was on. Sweeps by Lynn and Tuck together with some pile-driving by “Bing” Binkowski brought the “B’s” three first downs in a row. Then Tuck shot a 20-yard pass over center to Lynn who had cut around the Purdue defenders ana Brad racked up the first touchdown. Kelleher place kicked the extra point. Notre Dame did no further scoring in that half, but Purdue, driving through the Irish subs in the second quarter managed to reach the 30-yard line. The seconds braced at the right time, however, and held the seven point lead.
Starting the second half Notre Dame took the ball shortly after the kick-off and again went straight down the field. After the hard-charging Irish line had opened up many holes for the ball-carriers, Purdue’s secondary came up close to fill the holes. Then Tuck flipped another aerial to Lynn and the score was 13 to 0.
In the final period Purdue put on its best drive—scoring after a hard smashing advance against the subs. When Kelleher intentionally grounded the ball in the end zone to avoid risking a punt, Purdue got two more points.
For the Irish, Fitzgerald played great ball in the line and Binkowski’s fierce smashing averaged a good five yards. It was the passing combination Tuck to Lynn, however, which brought home the first bacon of the season.
Q‘£OUGtlUAt
&/WOWSKI
“Notre Dame can be beaten,” were the words of Coach Bob Zuppke as he greeted his football squad on opening day. He was starting his silver jubilee campaign, this being the 25th Zuppke year at Illinois, and it goes without saying that he was trying to convey to his players that this year the team ____________________________________ he wanted to beat most of all was Notre Dame. Illinois is a member of
Varsity Drills For Game With Dazzling lllini
•
The members of the Irish Varsity who were actively engaged in licking the Drake Bulldogs last Saturday were excused from practice Monday afternoon. They listened, however, to more than a little criticism of their play in the season’s inaugural. Tuesday the boys got down to business and spent the week in scrimmage and defensive drills in preparation for the Illinois contest tomorrow.
Coach Layden and his assistants are stressing fundamentals once again this week. Although no one knows what to expect from the lllini, Coach Kline and his freshmen have been using Bob Zuppke’s plays against the Irish in the week’s practice scrimmages.
Against Drake, the Laydenmen were not up to their usual standard in the blocking department. Their passing was spotty except on a very few occasions. Pass defense also was stressed because the boys still must improve a great deal in that department.
The coaches are still seeking a man who can punt with the consistency of a Carideo or a Shakespeare, but this type of punter does not come every year. Jack McCarthy seemed to have the edge in this department, but the mentors were still searching for consistent hooters.
Andy Puplis, signal barker, who saw little service against Drake, is expected to start Saturday. The manner in which he performed this week was very impressive, and he seemed to have recovered fully from his preseason injuries. The remainder of the squad fared rather well last Saturday, and as the week’s practice drew to a close the entire outfit was physically able to make the trip to Champaign.
Greg Rice, Notre Dame’s diminutive little national two mile champion, has received an invitation to run in the annual Sugar Bowl track meet. The meet is held during the Christmas holidays in connection with the Sugar Bowl football game.
the Big Ten, but the Conference championship was not mentioned.
This little play on the part of the lllini mentor shows why he is known as one of the greatest psychologist’s in football. Time after time, Zuppke-coached elevens have upset supposedly stronger clubs. It being certain that the old coach wants to overcome the Fighting Irish, spectators can expect “Zup” to uncover some of his heralded hokus-pokus, razzle-dazzle type of pigskin play.
Bob Zuppke is one of the few coaches in this Maine to California territory of ours who is mentioned in the same tone as the late Knute Rockne. He and “Rock” used to do a lot of good-natured kidding toward one another. It was a matter of great debate as to whom would be the winner were their teams to clash. “Pop” Warner is another member of that grand old clique. These men won championships consistently. Zuppke after having graduated from Wisconsin in 1905, came to the Urbana institution as head coach in 1913. From then up through 1934, Illinois won or tied for the Big Ten championship on an average of one out of every three seasons. Since 1934, he has not been blessed with material of championship or even near-championship caliber. In each of the past three years though, he has come through with at least one major upset victory.
Coach Layden, of the Irish, says that it does not do much good to scout a Zuppke crew, the reason being that “Zup” has been known to change his offense beyond recognition from one week to another. In the latest issue of Collier's, there is an excellent story about the caginess of the old veteran. Pennsylvania used to camouflage the ball by having each member of the backfield wear enormous soft brown elbow pads on the - outside of their jersies. Zuppke noted that the rulebook did not specify the color of the ball. He told Pennsylvania: “Take off those elbow pads or I’ll paint the ball green.” The pads came off.
As a coach, he is a master strategist. However, the talents of the man do not stop here. He has done recognized works in the field of poet-
( Continued on Page 20)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By John F. Clifford
A tired, bruised first team left the field last Saturday pleased over theii-accomplishments and grinning because they knew Joe Boland had a line in there just as good as the one that left. Some colleges call these second stringers “scrubs,” but at Notre Dame the handle doesn’t fit. Among that great swarm of green jerseys was an unheralded, big, tough tackle. No. 45—Dennis Emanuel.
.	V
To the kids in the north stands and the beauteous maids on the fifty yard line sporting their “mums,” number 45 was just another tackle; but to us he was a lot more--a Fightin’ Irishman, and that’s quite a bundle on the gridiron. Denny has been dogged by a knee injury for three years, and when he ran on the field more than one hoped that he would leave with the same amount of enthusiasm, realizing that Denny doesn’t handle ends and backs the way he handles test tubes.
V
. But this knee couldn’t stand Denny’s way of playing. A lull went over the stands as he limped from the field, all feeling that he was done—washed up as far as football was concerned. There are several good tackles on the Irish squad, but none has more fighting spirit—more guts—than Denny Emanuel. This trick knee stuff is nothing new to Denny. He takes is philosophically now, and he is still at it, all the harder. The French have a phrase for one such as Denny, which they inherited from the World War: their hopes seemingly shattered, they simply say, C'est la guerre and rebuild again. And Denny is out there now, not in the best of shape perhaps, but as he bowls over the interference coming through the line and makes the tackle, he sets the runner down with an emphatic C’est la guerre!
.	V
SLIVERS . . . The prize boner that should have been pulled over the air Saturday: “All right, folks—the back field shifts to Rival Dog Food—” . . . Joe Casasanta et alii without the spats . . . that All-American boy in the program—Jimmie Austen! . .. Joe Boland during practice: “Hey, Fogel! Don’t stand there picking your nose—block! • . . the ages of the football men according to the program . . . these beeg Freshman footballers—cannon fodder, huh! . . . Ziggie among the Monogram men . . . and aren’t the candidates so cute now? . . . Clashmore Mike’s aggressiveness—brutes don’t have intellects, all right . . . “Splinters From the Press Box” sitting on the 35 yard line . . . high school kids throwing “streamers” that looked very familiar . . . “Bare (poddin) Bearskin” and his awful cracks at those poor sensitive football men—the old nasty . . . Notre Dame’s rendition of the “Big Apple” . . . McCormick after the game sporting Homburg and ? . . . Minnesota!
V
To you, Steve Miller, we render our sincere apologies for the mistake we made last week. Picking Michigan over Michigan State was purely an oversight on our part in copying your scores for publication. Sorry, Steve. It won’t happen again. And to you, dear reader, kindly accept Steve’s choice, as he picked it right—and several others for a .692 average to date. Not bad, not bad’t all. We like that So. Cai-Ohio State, too.	.
• V ■
NOTRE DAME 20, ILLINOIS 0
California over Washington State Pittsburgh over Duquesne Holy Cross over Georgetown Michigan State over Manhattan Minnesota over Indiana Northwestern over Michigan Cornell over Princeton
Purdue over Carnegie Tech So. Cal over Ohio State Navy over Virginia Columbia over Army Washington over Oregon State Yale over Penn Duke over Tennessee
FENCERS OPEN DRILL FOR HARD SEASON
•
The walls of the north room of the Notre Dame fieldhouse will again resound with echoes of clashing steel as the Varsity fencers formally open theii- practice sessions early next week. Only two of last year’s veterans are on hand to ease the worries of Coach Pedro de Landero and Senior Manager Joseph F. Nigro.
The returning lettermen are Captain Jack Zerbst and Bob Scarlata. Both of these men are saber men. Coach de Landero will attempt to find men to replace Telmo de Landero and Jack McAuliffe, who graduated, and Bob Seco, who didn’t return to school this fall.
Manager Nigro announced that 35 men reported for the first call of varsity fencing candidates. He said that Notre Dame’s Captain Blood, Jack Zerbst, is in rare form after a summer of hard, swashbuckling labor. Upon Zerbst’s and Scarlata’s shoulders falls the burden of carving a path through the wall of opposing fencers. Zerbst is considering an offer to double for Errol Flynn in the fencing scenes.
Because of his height, Captain Zerbst will probably be a candidate for epee, along with Charlie “General” Colgan and Jim Graham. Colgan will also be out for foil with Pierre de la Vergne, Victor Mercado, and Eugene Kiefer. All of these candidates have had some experience, both in intercollegiate meets and in tournaments.
Several sophomores have had experience in the Illinois Fencers League tournament for novices. The sophomore sabei- men are Jerry Don-avon, John Gavin, Joe Smalley, and Rob O’Brien, the only left-handed fencer on the squad. The foilsmen are Robert Sayia and Robert Lenihan.
Although the 1937 team started slowly, it ended the season victoriously. It came from behind to tie Chicago, the Big Ten Champions, 8%-8%. And Scarlata defeated the Big Ten individual saber champion from Wisconsin. Aftei- the intercollegiate season was over, the three man foil team of de Landero, McAuliffe, and Seco defeated all the collegiate teams in a tournament, losing by one point to a team from the American Olympic squad. Once the actual fencing begins, there will be a lot of work to do to bring the team up to last year’s standards. But Prof, de Landero always seems to be able to do it again.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
SHEEHAN'S 76 WINS IN FALL GOLF
•
Thomas Sheehan emerged victorious last Thursday afternoon, from his 18-hole play-off match with Bud Donovan, in the Eighth Annual Fall Golf Tournament. Sheehan carded a 76 while Donovan came in on the long end, with a 77.
Donovan got into trouble early in the fray. He carded a five while Sheehan took a par four on the first hole. They parted the next two. On the third Donovan went one over par, and Sheehan was two up.
The fourth, fifth, and sixth holes were halved at par. On the seventh Donovan again wavered, and went two over, while Sheehan continued his unbroken string of pars. Tom was then four strokes in the lead. Donovan began to hit his stride with
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C. Protege makes good.
a birdie on the eighth, cutting his foe’s lead to three strokes.
Donovan was trailing as they came up to the ninth hole. Sheehan’s second shot went wide into the sand trap to the right of the green while Donovan’s fell short. Bud pitched to the green but Sheehan failed in his attempt to blast out, and in addition took a practice swing that netted him a two stroke penalty. He was on with his next shot, and two putted for an eight. Bud chalked up a birdie four and the match now stood one stroke in his favor. Donovan had a 39,- and Sheehan a 40 at the turn.
Both men slipped one over par to halve the tenth, and on the eleventh Donovan parred, while Sheehan took a five and went down two strokes. On the twelfth Sheehan’s par put Donovan down another stroke. The
IRISH CON9UER DRAKE IN SEASON OPENER McCormick, McCarthy, tonelli star
The march is on! The 1937 Fighting Irish team began its long journey last Saturday afternoon with a clean 21 to 0 victory over the Bulldogs of Drake University. Twenty-one points were margin enough for victory, but Drake’s defeat was even more decisive than the score indicates. The Irish were
On the Enemy's Bench
By Ed Brennan
Notre Dame will meet Illinois in football tomorrow, for the second time in history. The two schools first opposed one another on the gridiron in 1898, and the Irish took a 5 to 0 verdict. A field goal, then counting five points, provided the margin.
Tom Hamilton, former Navy coach, who was this year' succeeded by Lieut. Harry Hardwick, returned to the fleet with a record better than any head coach at Annapolis in the past ten years. He is remembered as the man who broke the jinx of Army and Notre Dame.
In ‘Pigskin Preview,’ Francis Wallace’s recent football forecast, Bill Daddio, Pittsburgh’s right end is predicted to be the outstanding lineman of the year. Northwestern’s captain and quarterback, Fred Vanzo, is slated to be the best blocker and defensive back. Both men oppose the Irish on the first and third Saturdays in November.
Carnegie Tech, defeated 18 to 14 by NYU last Saturday,led at the half 14 to 0. The Violets scored the winning touchdown in the last two minutes, on a long forward pass. The Scots are placing high hopes on the passing and running of Jerry Mat-elan, their left halfback.
When Navy turned back Citadel 32 to 0 last week, they were penalized 12 times for a total of 95 yards. In the first quarter of the game, Bill Ingram, Navy’s great back was stopped cold, but his running mate, Alan McFarland, was more effective.
thirteenth was a par for Bud, but Tom put his putt down for a birdie three to even the match.
On the fourteenth Sheehan went one over par, and Donovan took the lead. They halved the short fifteenth hole, and on the long sixteenth Sheehan’s birdie again evened the match. The seventeenth netted Donovan a five, and Tom a three to put the latter in the lead. Fighting to regain lost strokes, Bud banged out a birdie four on the last hole, but Sheehan, playing a conservative game, came home in five for a 36 and the championship. Donovan’s score for the last nine was 38.
, within scoring distance four other '* times during the tilt but let their opportunities slip away from them.
Fiery, shifty little “Bunny” McCormick stole the spotlight from the
Halfback McCarthy “A Perfect Play.”
point of individual play with his dashing offensive performance. He was the Irish sparkplug at all times and troubled Drake no end.
The supremacy of the Irish is shown in the total yards gained from scrimmage—301 for the Irish to 124 for Drake. In addition the Irish had 11 first downs to Drake’s 5.
The passing offense was, as expected, poor, but it is in punting that the averages show the Irish way behind. The average of 21.3 yards was not as bad as it seems, however, since the Irish were never forced to kick for distance, but were usually aiming for the coffin corner. Drake was far superior, nevertheless, in this department due to the brilliant booting of Bob Huston who averaged 52.8 yards in five tries in spite of the fact that he was usually kicking from or near his goal line.
The first quarter of the game went scoreless. The Irish got started in the second quarter, at least in regard to scoring, and after marching down to the Drake five yard line, put over the first touchdown of the season on a pass from McCarthy to McCormick.
Though all of the play took place in Drake territory, this was the only touchdown the Irish could put over in the first half.
Drake made its only real threat in the third quarter when Suter, taking a pass from Pug Manders, dashed down the sidelines to the Notre Dame’ llyard mark. After three more plays, however, Kuharich intercepted one of Manders’ passes, and the Irish took (Continued on Page 20)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Sport Shorts
Rumor from Pittsburgh has it that the Panthers are just coming to Notre Dame on November 6th for a pleasure trip. Obviously the Pitt supporters are becoming pretty confident. They probably haven’t heard about those perfect plays the Irish are becoming accustomed to pulling off or about a little fellow named McCormick. We’ll see.
Safe, Speedy TRAVEL AT 2c a mile via SOUTH SHORE LINE
All the guesswork has been taken out of this discovery business—when you go by South Shore Line you know where you’re going, when you’ll get there . . . and it doesn’t take a queen’s jewels to pay your fare. Adventure is splendid . . . but there’s nothing like modern speed and Safety—Go by South Shore.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

So They Say
The report that Notre Dame was below par this season appears to have been slightly out of line. Preseason stories had Drake coming to the wars with a really good team and some of the brasher critics had Drake tabbed to toss Notre Dame for a loss. But Elmer Layden’s outfit scored a decisive victory without pressing hard.—New York Times.
Because the Irish came up with Jack McCarthy a left halfback who can run, kick, and pass, they defeated Drake 21 to 0 Saturday.—Chicago Daily Neivs.
A slippery mite, Bunny McCormick, sparked Notre Dame’s potentially powerful team yesterday afternoon as the Laydenmen set down Drake 21 to 0 at South Bend.—Kansas City Star.
Jack McCarthy’s 85 yard run on a “perfect play,” the dream of every coach, highlighted Notre Dame’s 21 to 0 victory over Drake in the opening of the Irish 50th football season at South Bend yesterday. — Providence Journal.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
----❖----
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
V CARBURETOR U.S. Pat. No. 2,082,106 YELLO-BOLE
ew way of burning tobacco
—better, cooler, cleaner. Carburetor-Action cools smoke. Keeps bottom of bowl absolutely dry. Caked with honey. At dealers* now.
UPDRAFT
Zuppke Points
(Continued from Page 17)__________ ry, painting, and philosophy. Ned Brant, a syndicated newspaper comic strip is a product of his pen.
A visitor at an Illinois practice session would believe Zuppke guilty of lack of interest, or at least inattention. He saunters along the sideline talking here and there, but never losing sight of his players. And, any Illini performer can tell you that “Zup” evidently follows every move, for should there be any letdown, the old man ■wall suddenly order a correction or shrill out some instruction or criticism.
In his coaching he is a monologist. He repeats and repeats how a certain play should be run. He is ever ready to talk about a play, a player, or exploits of the past.
As mentioned before, the year 1937 is his 25th as head football coach at Illinois. Notre Dame wishes Zuppke an almost perfect silver jubilee season. They would like to see but a single blot on his record—an Irish one!
Irish Conquer Drake
(Continued from Page 19)
possession of the ball on their own 15-yard line.
It was then that Notre Dame executed another of those brilliant “perfect plays.” McCarthy took the ball on the 15-yard line, broke through right tackle, and dashed out into the open behind perfect blocking. One Drake player, Pesetski, remained in front of him, but McCarthy galloped out of reach and scored easily after a run of 85 yards.
The Irish scored their third and last touchdown in the same quarter. McCormick and Tonelli brought the ball down to the three yard line, and the latter took it over for the final tally.
McCormick averaged 8.1 yards per try and had a total of 98 yards to his credit. His performance was topped however, by McCarthy who gained a total of 107 yards because of his brilliant 85 yard dash. The latter’s average was 10.7 yards.
LATEST DISCOVERY IN PIPES
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Illinois Prewrite
(Continued on Page 14)
Harry Lasater, Right End Gastelo, and Left Halfback Lowell Spurgeon. Lasater is a 205-pound driver, expert at butting through interference, messing up reverses and off-tackle plays. Castelo is extremely fast, fine at going down under punts. He is one of the best pass-catchers in the Middle West. Spurgeon is the captain and chief ball-carrier, the lightest starting regular. He is a “triple threat,” a kicker, passer, and shifty runner, most adept at spinning away for additional yardage when cornered near the sidelines. “Zupp’s” latest surprise may very well be built around these last two men—star halfback and star end. Quraterback Berner, being the heaviest man in the backfield at 190, backs up the line. He is a remarkable diagnostician of enemy plays, breaks up any number of reverses, and dives in often to block punts. As a matter of fact, the whole Illinois team is noted for its punt-blocking ability.
A crowd of 60,000 or more—a near sellout—is expected at Champaign. This is the second time that Notre Dame and Illinois have ever met the first being October 8, 1898. The score then was 5-0 in favor of Notre Dame, the five points representing a field goal kicked by Halfback Chuck Fleming from the 45-yard line, four minutes before the end of the game. This was the first field goal ever attempted in the Middle West, and was made by a leftfooted kicker. On the squad at that time at Notre Dame were Father Farley, rector of Sorin Hall, Chuck Fleming, and Angus McDonald, now president of ihe Southern Pacific Railroad. The center was John Egge-man, famous alumnus,who spoke at several “pep” meetings in the gym last fall, and who died during the past year.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8211
New Charters Planned
This year the Presidents’ Council is starting a new* method of chartering campus clubs. Instead of applying for a new charter each year, any club desiring to renew its charter must submit a statement of financial condition, with a list of the officers of the club to the office of the Prefect of Discipline. The charter, once issued, is good until revoked for a substantial reason.
Charles Callahan, president of the Presidents’ Council, announced that 15 members of the Council assisted the members of the S.A.C. in organizing the Drake pep rally. This practice will be followed in the remaining rallies.
STETSON
AIR-LIGHT FELTS
by Stetson
So light you’ll hardly know you’re wearing them... hut with all the grand quality and style that have made Stetsons world-famous.
Stetson Hats
Servers Active
The first meeting of the Servers’ Club was held Monday evening in the sacristy of the Sacred Heart Church, President Larry Hess acting as chairman.
About forty members were present at the gathering, and plans were made to feature such speakers as Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., Rev. Patrick Carroll, C.S.C., and Rev. George Marr, C.S.C., at the bi-weekly meetings of the club.
The constitution of the club was read by President Hess, and the new candidates were registered. These names will be kept on file till places can be made for them on the regular servers’ list.
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Vincentians
(Continued from Page 4)
the Vincentian Service bureau in South Bend. In turn this bureau coordinates the totality of the Catholic charitable work in South Bend.
In the near future talks will be given by members to the religion classes in the University upon the nature of the work conducted by the St. Vincent de Paul Society.
One Thing That It Takes
To Bring You Higher Grades
The Revolutionary Pen with
nw in a new and Superlative Model —Parker’s Speedline Vacutnatic!
Now—to helpput your Learning on a higher plane than ever, Parker presents its greatest achievement—the new Speedline Vacumatic.
A conquering Pen is this, because it never runs dry in classes or exams. It gives you continuous year-round mileage if you merely fill it 3 or 4 times from one birthday to the next.
Held to the light, it shows the ENTIRE ink supply—shows days ahead if it’s running low. A wholly exclusive and original style—Parker’s laminated Pearl and Jet—now with restful Speedline shape.
And not merely modem in Style, but modem also in mechanism. Its SACLESS and patented Diaphragm Filler radically departs from all earlier types, whether they have a rubber ink sac or not.
Good pen counters are now showing this pedigreed Beauty. Go and see and try it today. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
Makers ofQaink, the new pencleaning ink. 15c, 25c and up.
VM/////,
&VACUMATIC
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT
HOLDS 102% MORE INK
THAN OUR FAMOUS DUOFOLD
Pens, $5, $7.50, $8.75, $10. Pencils to match: $2.50, $3.50, $3.75, $5.
Music News
(Continued from Page 9) ganization to bring forth their individual musical talents. Aside from the pleasurable sensation of having been “on the air,” there is much practical experience to be gained, and perhaps life work in the field of radio after graduation. The Radio Club is not a closed organization as many would think.


MANAGERS SYSTEM IS EFFICIENT
The late Knute Rockne not only developed a highly efficient football team but also a highly efficient group of managers. This latter group was built around one man — the head football manager. This year the job falls to John Donnelly.
Just what are the duties of a football manager? Well, on trips away from home it is he who sees to the lodging of the varsity. He makes sure they receive the proper food. He has charge of equipment, together with countless other things.
But a football manager’s life is not all trips. During the season he must be on the practice field every night. When the varsity calls for water or sweat shirts, it is he who sees that they get them. If Coach Layden wants helmets or blocking dummies a call goes up for Johnny.
Then, he also has charge of the manager’s organization. This year approximately 50 freshmen reported. Each night Johnny assigns them a job, in fact, there are also 20 sophomores and eight juniors for whom jobs have to be found. This is no simple task. It is up to him to see that his organization runs smoothly, and if you have ever been at a Notre Dame football practice you know that this is so.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
1002 Tower Building
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
The Collegiate Whirl
“The most barbaric thing ever invented in modern times.” That’s what rush week is to Betty Graham, president of the University of Kansas chapter of Sigma Kappa.
She had in mind the university’s practice of housing all rushees in Corbin hall, girl’s dormitory, during rush week.
“There,” she says, “they become victims of mob psychology and mob hysteria. Corbin hall is the most fertile field for wild rumors regarding sororities that one could possibly find.”
Swing to Ellsworth's
for those ARROW SHORTS
that can take it!
Come in and pick out a new batch of
Arrow shorts
Arrow undershirts
65c and up - 50c
Small church colleges, by bringing together young men and women of the same cultural level, are indispensable allies of Mr. Cupid.
Blawnrtlj’H
Betty Coed and the Duchess of Windsor have something in common —the Duchess’s wedding dress. Adaptations of the gown the former Wallis Warfield wore when she married the abdicated King of England have gone to college -with a bang.
Siting iti
A civil engineer, 39 years old, who decided he should have been a doctor, has enrolled at Tulane university for the six-year medical course, including a year of premedicine four of medicine and one year as interne. He entered the school as a junior in the arts and sciences.
Pop Warner, the “old fox” of intercollegiate football won his 300th victory in 43 years of coaching when his Temple university team beat Virginia Military Institute, 18 to 7.
MAX ADLER
‘' 'The Biff Store on the Corner”
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors.
Arrow Shorts can take it!
Can you?
• Even under duress Arrow shorts will maintain their placid dignity without sawing, binding or creeping. They’ll wear well too, without shrinking, and dutifully serve you in a pinch. Arrow Shorts—seamless crotch —Sanforized Shrunk 65c. up. Undershirts 50c.
MROW UNDERWEAR

Copyright 1937. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
standing right next to the most attractive person you ever met, but you don’t know it until you are introduced.. .
until you get acquainted.
And you don’t know how much pleasure a cigarette can give until somebody offers you a Chesterfield.
Certainly this is true: Chesterfields are refreshingly milder... they’ve got a taste that smokers like.
