The Notre Dame Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
NOVEMBER 18
1932
)
J
3
1
THE SEA WOLF
"Nature in the Raw”—as par* frayed by the noted artist, N. C. Wyeth.... inspired by the infamous Captain Kidd’s fierce raids on die gold-laden Spanish galleons (1696), which made him the scourge of the Spanish Main, “Nature in the Raw is Seldom Mild” —and raw tobaccos have no place in cigarettes.
No raw tobaccos in Luckies that’s why they’re so mild

WL buy the finest, the v very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does notexplain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that "Nature in the Raw is
i Seldom Mild”—so these
aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—"It’s toasted”. That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.
“It’s toasted"

November 18, 1032
One
What is YOUR RECORD so far?
EVERY undergraduate is judged by his class and campus record. Usually the oustanding men in college are those whose energy springs from a vital, healthy body.
A common enemy of health is constipation. It may cause loss of energy, lack of appetite, sleeplessness.	.
Try this pleasant “cereal way” to health. Two tablespoonfuls of Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN will promote regular habits. ALL-BRAN furnishes “bulk,” vitamin B, and iron. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP Bron Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — real coffee that lets you sleep.
After College
WHAT?
Insurance ?
Julian S. Myrick, famous New York general agent, says: "Selling life insurance is the best paid hard work there is. No capital required other than a good character, an active mind and perseverance. Any young man with these qualifications will find a great future in insurance.”
NO OTHER BUSINESS offers greater rewards for hard work.
But insurance offers some pretty tough problems. Perhaps that explains why in this business, as in college, a pipe is the most popular smoke.
While you "cram” for that exam ... or later when you figure out the best way to sell a $100,000 policy, just light up a pipeful of Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco.
Edgeworth is the favorite college smoke.* And only in Edgeworth can you find that distinctive blend of fine old hurley tobacco. If you would like to try before you buy, just write Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., for a free sample package.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—151! pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
^9^
All - Bran
Two
The Scholastic
BOARD OF LAY TRUSTEES
So. Bend Tribune Photo
Shown above are members of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame together with the Ex Officio members, officers of the University and the Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, as they appeared at the annuaLboard meeting held last Friday.	7 .	' ,	.	...	’ "
Seated (left to. right) : A. R. Erskine, South Bend; Reverend James A. Burns, C.S.C., Provincial;'Edward N.
Hurley, Chicago, Ill.; James J. Phelan, Boston, Mass.; Warren Cartier, Ludington, Mich.; Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. .	.	\	.	•	•
, Standing (left to right): Brother Ephrem, C.S.C., treasurer of the University; H. A:Smith, South Bend; F. W. Lloyd, University comptroller; George M. Anson, Merrill, Wis.; C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis.; Clement C. Mitchell, Chicago, Ill.;-E. J. Doyle, Chicago, Ill.; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, Ill.; Frank C. Walker,<New York'City.
November 18, 1982
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- VI	k|	f* I I - . Entered as second-class
hshed weekly at the Vnlvers-	I	I	matter at Notre Dame, In-
tty of Notre Dame. Manu-	| |IV	I	lOUC	LZalTlC	UGllOlaSlIC	diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to	_ .	.	-	'	.	'	- . -	. -	in9 at special rate of postage.
THE scholastic, PubH-	JJisce	Quasi	Semper	Victurus	Vive Quasi	Cras	Monturus	section nos. October s. ion,
cations Office, Main Building.	„ „ „„	authorized June 25, 1918.
FOUNDED 18 67
Edmund A. Stephan....
James S. Kearns ........
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON
WILLIAM DREUX	LLOYD TESKE
News Staff
• MITCHELL TACKLEY.’......News	Editor
ROY SCHOLZ.......Assistant News Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors PATRICK . CORCORAN	JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors TIGHE WOODS..............The	Week
ROGER MCGOVERN.......College	Parade
ROGER BEIRNE.......Music	and Drama^
RICHARD-PREZEBEL.......Staff	Artist
Sports Staff LESLIE RADDATZ.........Sports Editor WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED MacBETH GEORGE BELTING ’ JAMES PICK
Features Staff RAY WATERS..............Features Editor
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN -
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY.... Graduate Manager RAYMOND J. NABER______Circulation Manager HARRY MCGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH
Volume LXVI.
NOVEMBER 18, 1932
No. S
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Nov. 18.—Annual student trip to Cleveland: train leaves 10:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, Nov. 19.—Football: Varsity at Cleveland, Ohio, with-Navy; Cross-country, Central Intercollegiate meet at East Lansing; Movie, “First Year,” Washington Hall at 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, .Nov. 20.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.; Sacred Heart Church; Catholic Alumni Conference: Opening High Mass, Sacred Heart Church 11:00 a. m.
MONDAY, Nov. 21.—Knights of Columbus meeting, . Walsh Hall, 7:45 p. m., first degree initiation; Lecture, Etienne Gilson, “Christian Concept of Nature,” 8:00 p. m., Washington Hall.
TUESDAY.Nov.22.—Scholastic staff meetings, Editorial Board, Publications Office, 6:30 p. m.; news, sports, and features staffs,'7:00 p. m., Room 222 Main Building; Sympony orchestra, 6:45 p. m., Washington Hall; Lecture, Etienne Gilson, “Christian Concept of Man”; Annual pre-Army pep-meeting, gymnasium, 6:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 23.—Movie, “Congorilla,”. Washington Hall, at 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.; Wranglers meeting. . Law Building at 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Nov. 24.—Thanksgiving Day; no classes; . Send-off from the post office for the team, leaving for Army game.
S UMM ARY
' . .	-NEWS
Five Hundred Students Leave This Evening for Navy-Notre Dame Classic in Cleveland........1.x.... 5
Editor. Charles .Sheedy Announces Initial Issue of
Scrip, Literary . Quarterly	......... 5
Vienna Saengerknaben Present Two Hours’ Program In Gym Monday Night.............................. 6
Professor Etienne Gilsen, Famed For His Research in Medieval Philosophy, to Lecture Here Monday and Tuesday ...............-......................... 6
Indiana Academy of Science opens session yesterday.— 7
Catholic Alumni Conference Sunday ........—...... 9
FEATURES
Frank Werner, president of the senior class, is “Man About” ............................................. 8
Reviewing the legitimate Stage in “Theatre Talk”........ 9
Campus Dressed in Gay Colors on Eve of North-’ western game ........................-.............. 16
Notre Dame’s Metallurgical Department is Growing.-------17
Introducing Joe Sheeketski...........................  24
SPORTS
Notre Dame takes Northwestern, 21-0, after ninetyeight yard return of kickoff by George Melinkovich....20
Cross-country team to close season in C. I. C. meet at East Lansing tomorrow......................... 1.20
Notre Dame 24, Kansas 6, as Irish begin comeback.-------21
Varsity to play Navy tomorrow at Cleveland before 60,000 _____1................................       22
Basketball scrimmage begins -----------------------......22
Morrissey, wins Group I crown in interhall league......-23
Splinters from the Press Box; Kearns picks Notre Dame to beat Navy 14 to 0----------.................25
Army to try to break tradition next week by beating Notre Dame two years straight.._____________________26
Reserves play scoreless tie with Purdue “B”.......  2S
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
J HE quarterly examinations came, lingered awhile, and have gone, leaving in their wake a flock of new resolutions and a momentary stampede on the library. They came at a bad time as they proved embarrassing to the various hall wood-gathering and decoration committees, but they were a timely reminder to the majority of the students who have the ability to look ahead to February and wisely plan to make the rest of the semester count. It is hard to study during football season, but you get much better football tickets when you are an alumnus than when you are a perpetual senior.
V
HERE are some moments when a football game can be beautiful and even sublime. (No letters tor the editor from doubting philosophers now boys!) We refer to that great run made by George Melinkovich. We do not have to pay tribute to George, the stands last Saturday did that; this is intended to be a word of praise for the ten men who made that run possible. Their blocking was truly artistic. The run itself thrilled seventy-five percent of the spectators, the other twenty-five percent sat quietly and drew in their breath sharply as they watched a superb display of football fundamentals.
V
J J EATED discussions about school spirit seem to be the fad of the moment around the campus, so we insist that we ought to get our little word in, too. We refused to worry about the Notre Dame spirit, even when warned by letters from irate alumni, and stirring speeches by post-graduate students. We’ve always believed in the old-fashioned ideal of school spirit coming right up from the heart. It cannot be excited by letters, bulletins, or petitions. After last week’s display of feeling on the part of the student body, we do not think the S. A. C. will have to waste any more of those pretty yellow cards on do-or-die-for-old-School propaganda.
J HERE is something sad and melancholy about “the morning after” any event. The flags and gay bunting on the fifth of July, or the Christmas tree on the second of January do not do much to elevate our spirits to the point of ecstasy, and neither do the “Beat Northwestern” signs on the fourteenth of November. Howard Hall went so far as to fly the Irish flag at half mast Monday morning.
V
c
OME of the seniors have decided to brush up on their Emily Post and teach the campus the correct attire for all occasions. They have not formally organized as a campus club yet, but they are making extensive plans. One of the first ultimata issued by the Correct Costume for College Men Club was “tuxedoes are to be worn on all occasions after six o’clock in the evening, even at informal dances.” Their first attempt to put this ultimatum into effect was appreciated only by a very few, but they insist that the movement is growing.
V
J T did not take a very great stretch of the imagination to picture a night cold and clear, and glittering with virgin snow as the Wiener Saeng-erknaben sang that most beautiful of Christmas carols, “Silent Night.” Anyone who saw those hundreds of students sitting hushed and attentive as the sweet voices of the Viennese boys pictured in song that first Christmas night could not but feel the tremendous power of music. The melody held that most difficult and restless of audiences, a college student body, as if myriads of invisible wires held some giant breathless and unable to move. The students showed their unfamiliarity with some of the more difficult compositions by a very annoying scuffling and whispering but, as the beautiful story of the Virgin Birth unfolded, they proved that an American audience can appreciate music they understand just as much as their European brothers.
November 18, 1932
Five
FRESHMAN HALL WINS S. A. C. RALLY AWARD
Decorations Plus Stunt Give Frosh The Loving Cup.
To the students of Freshman Hall went the silver trophy offered by the S. A. C. for the hall contributing most to the success of the Northwestern rally. While their wood-pile was not the largest, the points gained on the appearance of their decorations and the ingenuity of their stunt were sufficient to overcome the totals gathered by their adversaries.
Novel Fight Signs
The freshmen introduced several novelities in the way of hall decora-• tions. Over the doorway was a huge sign with the words “You fighting Irish, Beat Northwestern.” Above this the word “Frosh” was spelled out by a green Neon sign. On both the east and west sides of the entrance was bunting with the colors of the two schools. On the west side of the hall were green placards for each position of the team in the formation of the Rockne system. On the placards were printed the names of the first and second teams. On the east side were purple placards arranged in the Warner system. The names of the players of North western’s first team were printed in their respective positions. On either side of the door were portraits, one of “Rock,” the other of “Hunk.”
Pajama Parade
The winner’s stunt began with a pajama parade by the residents from the second floor down to the porch. Then Paul Krause gave a speech elaborating on the old. proverb of “Coming events cast their shadows before.” Following this the “shadow was cast” when a student dressed in a football uniform to represent N. U. was hung from a limb of a tree. A funeral dirge sung by the pajama-clad Frosh concluded the entertainment.
According to Father McAllister, popular rector of Freshman Hall, the trophy will be on display in the “lobby” of the Hall.
The judges of the contest were Father T. J. Brennan, Mr. Fagan., and Mr. Buckley, of the departments of philosophy, architecture, and economics, respectively.
FIVE HUNDRED ENTRAIN FOR CLEVELAND THIS EVENING IN ANNUAL STUDENT TRIP
“Scrip” Is Out Tonight;
New Cover, New Size, Fine Content Mark First Issue
Scrip comes out tonight. A few hours after The Scholastic is off the presses, the first issue of this year’s Notre Dame’s quarterly will be on sale
Charles Sheedy
Six short stories, three poems, two essays, and four book reviews.
in the halls and the University newsstand. There are changes—remarkable changes—in Scrip this year. It is a bigger magazine, nearly 50 pages long. The cover is ultra-modern with its hand-lettered “Notre Dame Quarterly” running down the left hand side, and its handsome design by Bec-var in the center of the page. One thing about Scrip remains the same, however. The price is 25 cents.
“Variety” In Contributions
Getting to the content itself, one is forced to the conclusion that Editor Sheedy has maintained an admirable editorial balance in his pages. The word “variety” typifies those 50 pages. Six short stories, three poems, two essays, and four book reviews comprise the table of contents.
Some of the contributors are well known to former Scrip readers. Mattingly Spalding, 1931 Ladies’ Home Journal prize winner, Charles Phillips, professor of English at the University and Cornelius Laskowski, (Continued on Page 6)
TO LEAVE AT TEN-THIRTY
Mass in Cathedral Tomorrow A. M.; Statler Hotel Will Be Headquarters.
By Robert Dillon
Tonight at 10:30 o’clock approximately 5C0 will leave on the student trip to Cleveland, for the Navy game, from the Michigan Central Railroad siding one mile west of Notre Dame. Arriving in Cleveland to-morrow morning at 7 o’clock, they will go to Mass at the Cathedral not far from the station.
From correspondence received by Niel Ebert, chairman of the student trip, a special breakfast will be arranged by Fischer-Rohr’s and Sonn-halter’s Restaurants at the price of 25 and 35 cents. These establishments are run by graduates of Notre Dame. They are within a block of each other and in turn within two blocks of the Cathedral. Both restaurants represent a seating capacity large enough to take care of the incoming students.
Headquarters At Statler
The Hotel Statler has been announced as the official Notre Dame headquarters over the week-end celebration. After the game a dance and a dinner, which are to be held as separate affairs, will take place. Practically the entire dance facilities of the hotel will be used and a large attendance is expected. The Notre Dame and Navy football teams will be guests of the Notre Dame club of Cleveland at both events. Invitations have been sent out to the collegiate gridders, as well as to the officials and both coaching staffs. Students of Notre Dame may attend either or both affairs.
Large Ticket Sales
The game in the afternoon promises to be a colorful affair. From reports received the ticket sale is extremely large. Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium seats about 80,000 persons and there is no “fifty yard line” seating problem, because nearly every seat offers an excellent view of the game. The students will watch the Irish and (Continued on Page 10)
Si:c
The Scholastic
Etienne Gilson, Noted French
Lecturer, Here Next Week
GIVES TWO TALKS
Famous Exponent of a “Christ-tian” Philosophy Will Speak
Monday and Tuesday.
By Mitchell Tackley
Professor Etienne Gilson, a member of the faculty of the famous Sorbonne Univeristy in Paris, as well as a noted lecturer in the field of social philosophy, will deliver two lectures in Washington Hall next ■week. The first lecture will be delivered Monday evening, November 21, and the next one the following evening.
Brought By Father Miltner
Professor Gilson is brought to Notre Dame through the efforts of Father Miltner and the Department of Philosophy. He will speak on the subjects, “The Christian Concept of Nature” on Monday night, and “The Christian Concept of Man” on Tuesday night.
The lecturer is, as many are aware, considered the outstanding authority in the field of research in medieval philosophy. He is the author of several books on the subject. Among his many publications is an appreciation of the Philosophy of St. Bonaventure which is, no doubt, considered his best work.
Spoke Here Before
Professor Gilson is at present delivering a series of lectures at the Institute of Medieval Studies, St. Michael’s College, Toronto, Canada. Following his engagement at Notre Dame, he will deliver another series of lectures at St. Louis University, St. Louis, Missouri.
The professor spoke last year on the subject, “The Concept of a Christian Philosophy.” In his lectures, he showed the qualification “Christian” ■was not a misnomer because the truths of a Christian revelation had distinctly modified the philosophical conception of the Greeks.
All those who heard Mr. Gilson last year will be glad of the opportunity of hearing him again. Upperclassmen in all the colleges of the University . are urged to be present at these lectures, as they will not be of a techni-
Series of Pep Meets Are Planned by S. A. C. For
Army Game Send Off
Pep-meetings on three different occasions next week are the features of the activities planned by the S. A. C., in preparation for the Army game. On Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons, the student body is asked to meet the team as it leaves the field and on Tuesday evening at 6:30 o’clock, the pep meeting proper will be held in the gym.
The pep meeting was set for Tuesday because of the early departure of the student special train as well as the Thanksgiving holidays starting Thursday.
It is expected that Coach Anderson and Captain Host will speak. The exact time and details of the meeting will be announced through bulletins.
Adirondack Club Holds Dinner at the Rose Marie
Fifteen members of the Adirondack Club were present at a dinner held in the Rose Marie Kitchen, South Bend. The dinner was immediately followed by a business meeting.
Plans for a dance to be held at Saranac Lake, New York, were discussed by the members. President James C. Munn outlined the work to be accomplished by the organization in holding the dance. The club will hold another meeting within the next two weeks.
The Department of Economics announces that those majoring in that subject who expect to be graduated in June must have their thesis topic selected and approved by Dec. 1. For aid in selecting the topic and for its approval, the student should consult that member of the department in whose field the subject falls.
cal nature, nor such that one unfamiliar with philosophical literature may not easily understand.
The lectures are scheduled to begin promptly at eight o’clock on both Monday and Tuesday evenings.
1300 HEAR CONCERT BY BOY CHORUS OF VIENNA
Masterful Performance Given by Youngsters.
Over 1,300 persons were thrilled last Monday evening by the Vienna Saengerknaben, the Singing Boys of Vienna, Austria, when they gave a concert in the gymnasium of the University. This organization, making its first tour of the United States, was organized by imperial decree of Emperor Maximillian in 1498, and has withstood war and political strife. Today it is stronger and more gifted than ever. Made up of boys ranging in age from 9 to 13, the choir has had many of the world’s greatest musicians, including Mozart, Haydn and Schubert, in its ranks.
Sing National Anthem
Appearing on the stage dressed in sailor suits, the Singing Boys and their conductor were introduced by Dr. Paul J. Menge of the department of modern languages. The program was fittingly opened with The Star Spangled Banner. This and Dixie, sung as an encore, were the only songs sung in English.
“The Spinning Song from ‘The Flying Duntchman’ ” by Richard Wagner opened the first part of the program. The munsical discourse between the two soloists gave the audience an indication of what it could expect of the remainder of the program. One of Franz Schubert’s less known “Sere-, nades” and “Engelterzett (Angels’ Trio)” by Mendelssohn were the sec-and third numbers. “Ascendit Deus” by Jacobus Gallus, a five part chorus
(Continued on Page 14)
SCRIP APPEARS
(Continued from Page 5)
C.S.C., have appeared many times in the past. Most of the material, however, seems to be the work of several new men. Sheedy’s frequent appeals for the uncovering of latent literary ability appear to have had their effect.
It would be difficult as well as unjust to say what is best in Scrip this time. Sheedy’s own story Some Things Are Fatal is a nice bit of work. Two Sketches by Mattingly Spalding, and Professor Norbert Engels’ Two Modern Medias are outstanding. Cornelius Laskowski’s poem Psalm For Autumn is on the same unexcelled level as his former endeavors.
November 18, 1932
Seven
DEBATE SEMI-FINALS TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK
Indiana Academy of Science
Is In Session At University
Final Eliminations Planned For Early December.
A process of elimination has gradually reduced the competitors in the interhall debating league to a point where a semi-final debate in the Sophomore-Freshmen group can be determined.
In what was undoubtedly one of the best debates in the series thus far, Lyons won out over an eloquent team representing Carroll. The topic for discussion, the Bonus Question, proved its debatability, as the two mentioned teams fought to what appeared ot be almost even terms.
Foley Best Speaker
However, the Lyons team, consisting of George Lawton, Lucian Bloom, and William Burkhardt, advanced ar guments so fast that the affirmative team of Carroll had much to contend with, to challenge them, and as well, to advance their own arguments.
Foley, for the losers, was probably the most forceful speaker, with Lucian Bloom close behind him. It was Bloom’s rebuttal that played no small part in turning the judge’s decision to the Lyons’ team.
Most of the points advanced dealt with the inability of the government to pay the bonus, or with statements issued by General Glassford, commissioner of Police in the District of Columbia, at the time the Bonus Army was encamped at Anacostia.
Dillon Defeats Morrissey
Dillon, by virtue of a still closer decision over Morrissey, earned the right to compete against Lyons for the semi-finals, to be held before the Knights of Columbus of South Bend, next Monday evening.
In the Senior-Junior group, Sorin and Alumni are paired with the winner of that debate meeting the strong Howard team to ascertain the semifinalist in that group. These debates will be held at the end of this week, and’ continue into Tuesday of next week, when the two teams who are to meet for the University championship will be known.
Plans are already near completion, for the final debate to take place at St. Mary’s College, sometime during the first week in December.
“Politics” Number of “The Juggler” Will Be On Sale
This Coming Tuesday
The second issue of the Juggler will appear on the campus next Tuesday. Noteworthy in this issue is the art work. Art Becvar’s ’cover, his clever cartoons, Dick Prezebel’s caricatures, drawings by Jerry Doyle, Leo Baulauier and Vicente Singson, all combine to make the issue as a whole better than last month’s.
Maintains Style
The written material is in the same vein as that which heralded the Juggler’s change of policy last month. Tighe Woods contributes his keyhole portraits, this time of Kitty Gorman and Jack Finneran. Joe McCabe, among other things, has written a parody of Catherine Brody’s Nobody Starves, the first novel of the depression. Leslie Raddatz has another article on politics, Jack White a satire on Grand Hotel, and Joe Degnan an article that is a worthy successor to his “Oxford Student at Notre Dame last month.
The cartoons are good. The articles are good. The magazine is good.
N. Y. School of Social Work
Honors Prof, John Sullivan
Professor John A. Sullivan, instructor in Sociology, was notified recently that his research project has been accepted by the New York School of Social Work. This entitles him to the certificate in Social Work awarded to graduates of that institution.
The New York School of Social Work is strictly a graduate school and awards a certificate after two years of resident study. Mr. Sullivan graduated from Boston College in 1928, and has had considerable practical experience in dealing with delinquent boys in New York City. He joined the Probation Work faculty here in September.
Notice! “Scholastic” Staff
“The Scholastic*’ staff will meet at 7 o’clock on Tuesday evening in Room 222, Main building, instead of tonight.
LECTURE TONIGHT
Dr. Newman, Chicago University, to Speak on Twins, In Washington Hall.
Dr. H. H. Newman of the Zoology Department of the University of Chicago, will deliver the lecture at the public session of the fall meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science, to
Dr. Fernandus Payne President, Indiana Academy of Science.
be held in Washington Hall at eight o’clock tonight.
“Mental and Physical Differences in Identical Twins, Reared Apart,” is the title of Dr. Newman’s talk which will be semi-technical in nature, and illustrated with lantern slides. This subject was recently treated by Dr. Newman at a meeting of scientists at Princeton University.
Public Welcome
An invitation to attend has been extended by the Academy to all who are interested in the public lecture nt Washington Hall tonight.
Dr. Newman is well known in scientific fields for his specialized work done in connection with general researches conducted by the University of Chicago regarding the effect of heredity and environment upon the physical and mental development of individuals. He has also done con-(Continued on Paste 14)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
ANNOUNCE RULES OF SULLIVAN SCHOLARSHIPS
By Joseph Hanratty
A pleasant “hello” was the response to our knock on the door of 106 Howard. Entering we found ourselves in the midst of a panelled room; the most beautiful room on the campus, in the opinion of one inmate, Francis A. Werner. For those of you who don’t know, he is president of the senior class.
Frank traces his nativity to New London, Wis., where he attended the Public High school. “I wanted to attend military school but just didn’t,” he said with a finality which clearly implied that there was to be no more questioning along that line. He came to Notre Dame upon the advice of “numerous uncles” who had spent the early part of their lives as minims and then stayed on to earn a degree.
In High School Politics
Werner received his first taste of school politics while a junior in high school. He was chosen chairman of the prom and the following year elected president of his class which only goes to show that sometimes history does repeat itself. He made both the football and basketball teams in high school. Since coming to Notre Dame, however, he has lost some of his interest in sports. He played interhall basketball last year with Howard Hall. A voice from a corner of the room remarked that Werner was too small to play football. An embarrassing situation was averted by allowing the remark to pass unheeded although the tormentor was identified as Red Tobin, “the other half.”
“Diligent Student
Frank is the kind of fellow who can adjust himself to meet different conditions. He is a student in the college of law and takes his work seriously. His roommate characterizes him as a “diligent student.” He has no favorite authors—the law books take up most of his time—but he enjoys glancing through the Saturday Evening Post in spare moments; a firm believer in the adage “Business before Pleasure.” ■
As the interview progressed, talk began to touch the more “intimate” things of life. When the subject of girls was brought up, he was not shy, only modest. Admittedly, Frank has a few feminine admirers or “fans” according to the campus lingo. A
mania for hospitals completes the topic interest under this heading.
In the first semester of his freshman year, Frank met Red Tobin the self-styled “better half” and they became pals. At the beginning of the
Francis Werner
Tobin: “He passed because he had a drag.”
second semester, they bunked together in the stucco palace. This has been going on since then. The last year is being spent in a junior hall because the room is one of the “smoothest” and largest on the campus and requires very little in the matter of decorations.
Memory apparently forsook Frank when asked for an interesting event during his three and some odd years here. But the voice in the corner again made its presence known. We gathered two events of importance from the viewpoint of human interest. Both were tragic in their content but some humor might be gleeaned from one of them.
The first took place in Frank’s sophomore year when he and Red were touring near Woodstock, Ill. It was dark and; as they approached a railroad track, they came upon the body of a young man who had been hit by the midnight flyer. Red proudly boasts that they took it for a ride to the morgue.
This -was not their first instance of tragedy, however. The proceeding year both were ejected from old Sophomore Hall for something or other. “ ’Twas the middle of night arid 30
Applications Must be in Before Christmas Vacation.
Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., Chairman of the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes, this week announced the rules governing the award of the Roger C. Sullivan Scholarship for 1932-33. The prizes will be awarded in January.
Only those men who were students during the school year 1931-32 are eligible to make application for the scholarship. The semester grades of the last school year will be used in determining which man has shown the greatest improvement in his academic work during that year. No student who entered the Sophomore, Junior, or Senior class of the current year with a condition or a failure will be eligible to apply for the scholarships.
Apply to Fr. Molony
All applications for the scholarships must be made in writing to Father Molony before December the ISth. The scholarships follow:
(1)	A scholarship of $250 will be awarded to the student applicant in the present Sophomore class whose grades, in comparison with those of other Sophomore applicants, show the greatest improvement in his studies during the sceond semester when compared with the first semester of the school year 1931-1932.
(2)	A scholarship of $250 will be awarded to the student applicant in the present Junior class whose grades, in comparison with those of other Junior applicants, show the greatest improvement in his studies during the second semester when compared with the first semester of the school year 1931-1932.
(3)	A scholarship of $250 will be awarded to the student applicant in the present Senior class whose grades, in comparison with those of other Senior applicants, show the greatest improvement in his studies during the- second semester when compared with the first semester of the school year 1931-1932.
below zero,” Red added with emphasis. He continued with “The next day I flunked a quiz but Werner passed it because he had a drag.”
November IS, 1932
Nine
ALUMNI CONFERENCE TO BE HELD HERE SUNDAY
THEATRE TALK
Ry Roger Rpimp
Solemn High Mass to Mark Opening of Convention.
Sunday, Notre Dame will be host to the National Catholic Alumni Federation which is sponsoring a one-day conference. The theme of the con-
Reverend William Bolgzr. C.S.C.
Will define a decent livelihood.
vention is, “Social Justice in the Economic Crisis.” The 1932 national convention will be held in conjunction with similar meetings throughout the country. Much of the discussion will be centered about the two great encyclicals, Rerum Novarum of Pope Leo XIII., and Quadragesima Anno of Pope Pius XI.
Mr. James E. Armstrong, the alumni secretary of Notre Dame, is vice-president of the Federation, director for the Middle West, and ex-officio chairman of the Nov. 20 conference.
High Mass At 11 O’clock
The convention opens at a solemn high Mass at 11 o’clock Sunday morning. The sermon at this service, “The Spirit of Quadragesimo Anno,” will be delivered by Father Joseph Huss-lein, S.J., a recognized economist and author. A luncheon will be held in the University Dining Halls at 1 o’clock.
Rev. J. W. Maguire, C.S.V., president of St. Viator’s college, will conduct the round table discussion to be held at 3 o’clock in the auditorium of the Law building. During the course of the afternoon, papers will be read by Rev. B. J. O’Reilly, S.M., former president of Dayton university, whose topic will be “The Way Out And The Way Beyond,” Rev. Francis Kun-necke, S.M., who will propose a solution of present day problems, A. J. Schweitzer, Chicago, who will outline the purposes of the new Catholic (Continued on Page 16)
There may be nothing new under the sun, but a large parcel of what is old, thereabouts would be new under the proscenium. The well-spring of theatrical plays flows but periodically seldom. The slightest gushing is dammed up by producers desperate to extract all of the value. As a result stagnation becomes the eventuality with anything new and successful.
If a football picture is liked, why should not all football pictures be liked? The football will be the regulation size. If a romantic conception of gangster life is a thriller why not have every conceivable gangster story written so that the machine gun in the violin case trick can be used for all it’s worth. Or who could be uninterested in a series of criminal lawyer character turning case by hypnotizing everyone but the righteous-looking judge.
Legitimate Stage Success
The legitimate stage success can seldom be just revamped and rehashed and played again for any profit on the legitimate stage itself. But a play of any originality is usually a predecessor of a long line of screen variations, slightly and otherwise, of its theme, or scene, or general box-office appeal. With affected interest one excites entertainment by comparing the different actors in identical parts. And it is usually laughable to see how well variables can be made on what originally was pot-pouri.
Selection Of Material
There is nothing that can be done about installing running play-water as long as the picture houses must open every night. The fast output will not allow any selection of material long since tanned under the sun. The problem of a play-idea is a difficult one, but if all the kleig light respicing and re-exciting were sun probing and studying, the drama wellspring would be a “joy forever” instead of a misery today and tomorrow.
Cinema people have one virtue though, paradoxically, it be a hidden one. Everything in their creed must be clearly understood and entirely appreciated by everyone. A famous playwright asked the producers why they rejected his admittedly good material. “Of course, it is good,” was the reply,
“but what will the Middle-West think of it?” Parity is so firmly American. We sacrifice and gain at the same time. The East would dislike the Middle-West taste at times. And never the twain shall meet in Hollywood.
Wiener Sangerknaben
Those of us who gained so easily a pleasant introduction to the Weiner Sangerknoben (the Singing Boys of Vienna) Monday night were as much amazed at their talent as delighted. Their ages varying between 9 and 14, the Austrian boys give to the singing the freedom and the spirit of youth besides their remarkable talent and training advantages. This choir of Vienna had been under the patronage of the Hapsburgs, but with the latters’ fall subsidy was once given by a priest. To keep the organization more financially secure an 11 month’s tour is now being taken. Perhaps America, in spite of the mercenary cause, is seeing another' Haydn or Schubert receiving, as those two, his early training in the Weiner Sangerknaben.
Marywood College, Scranton, Entertains N, D,’s “B” Team
Marywood College in Scranton, Pa., was a genial host to the members of the “B” Team when the latter combated St. Thomas college two weeks ago in that city.
On Sunday, following the game, the Immaculate Heart nuns invited the entire Notre Dame group to visit their school. The girls turned out en masse to welcome the team and the managers. The College recreation hall was given over to an hour and a half of dancing to victrola and radio music. The party ended at 9:30 to enable the N. D. party to catch a 10:05 train.
The players, on returning, were appreciative of the hospitality of the Marywood college people and considered their stay at the girls’ school as one of the highlights of the trip.
More salutary than a temporary abandonment of the gold standard would be a permanent abandonment of materialism.
Ten
The Scholastic
CAWLEY ADVOCATES NEW CABINET POST IN TALK
Wrangler Would Have Secretary of Education.
“It is my opinion that every citizen who reflects at all upon the many problems of our Government, and is likewise cognizant of the rather futile attempts made to solve the majority of them, is somewhat concerned with the growing lack of leadership in public office,” was the comment that Frank Cawley made when addressing the Wranglers at their regular meeting, Wednesday evening.
Educational Qualification
The purpose of his discussion was to show that an educational qualification for prospective candidates for public office, should be instituted
Cawley outlined his plan, explaining the type of examination to be offered, which would be compiled by an educational board, consisting of six members, with each of the two major political parties supplying three men. In submitting his idea, Cawley deemed it advisable that a Secretary of Education should be included in the cabinet of the President, thus offering centralization of control of the entire project.
State Support
When asked just how wide the qualificational scope would be, Cawley stated that members in state legislatures, and offices in the federal government similar to that, would comprise the lower limit of the extension of the system.
“Doctors are required to pass an examination, before they are allowed to practise, and likewise are lawyers. This is true in many professions. Why not in the profession of political science?”
With those w’ords Cawley summed up his discussion.
As in all cases, the Wranglers were called upon to voice approval or disapproval of the scheme, and vigorous arguments on both the pro and con sides were recorded.
Dr. Albert Einstein claims that the world is 10,000,000,000 years old.
NOTICE!
There will be no “Scholastic” next week because of the Thanksgiving recess.
MUSIC MAN
John Beljon, ’30, whose orchestra will play at the Victory Dance in Cleveland tomorrow night in Hollenden hotel.
Beljon’s Orchestra To Play For Dance at Hollenden
Students attending the Victory Dance in Cleveland, the evening of the Navy game, will be interested to know that John Beljon, ’30, and his orchestra, will play for the dancers, in one of the two ballrooms of th( Hollenden Hotel.
Many remember Beljon, when he played with the Notre Dame Jugglers several years ago. Since then, he has become a composer of popular songs. “My Prom Sweetheart,” “In Araby,” and others were written for a special dance held at the school, some time ago. He wrote the theme song of the motion picture, “The Spirit of Notre Dame,” and Wayne King introduced his successful waltz, “Yearning for You.”
Since graduation, he had been featured regularly through WGAR, a radio station in Cleveland.
Beljon plays the piano, and during 1929 and 1930, was soloist with the Notre Dame Glee club.
STUDENT TRIP
(Continued from Page 5)
Middies battle from seats located in the same section, between thee 35 and 45 yard lines.
The Notre Dame-Navy game is Cleveland’s first “big-time” football classic. And the program for the game is one of the largest ever issued for a gridiron contest.
FINAL PLANS FOR ARMY TRIP ARE ANNOUNCED
Eastern Clubs Co-operate For Army Game Program.
Final arrangements for the student special to the Notre Dame-Army game in New York were announced at a joint meeting of the Metropolitan, New Jersey and Connecticut Valley clubs held last Wednesday night, with Metropolitan club President Ed Kosky acting as chairman.
Tickets for the trip, which are $20.05, have to be purchased by Tuesday, Nov. 22, at the latest. They may be obtained in the Athletic Association office at 12:30 Tuesday, or from Sabby Addonizio, New Jersey club president, 443 Walsh, or Al Ripley, vice-president of the Metropolitan club, who rooms in 410 Walsh.
200 Seats Reserved
Purchase of the railroad ticket entitles a student to one ticket to the game, at $4.40, and this may be also secured at the Athletic Association office. Two hundred seats are being reserved for Notre Dame students, announced Kosky.
The names of those students making the trip are to be handed in to the office of the Prefect of Discipline by those in charge of arrangements, so that the privilege of single cuts may be extended to the students during their absence.
Students possessing railroad passes may go on the special and also have only single cuts marked against them if they obtain the necessary stubs from Addonizio, and hand them in at the Athletic office on or before next Tuesday. ’ The time designated for final distribution is 12:30 p. m. Tuesday. The complete time schedule for the trip, via New York Central Lines, is arranged as follows:
Leave South Bend, Union Station, Wed., Nov. 23, 12:30 p. m., (C.S.T.) Arrive New York, Thursday, Nov. 24, 8:30 a. m. (E.S.T.)
Leave New York, Sunday, Nov. 27, 11:00 a. m. (E.S.T.) Arrive South Bend, Monday, Nov. 28, 6:45 a. m. (C.S.T.)
The hour of departure from New York on Sunday allows ample time for the students to hear Mass before boarding the train at 11:00 a. m.
If a student misses the student special at 11:00, he may leave on a later train, the tickets being good until 11:00 p. m. Sunday.
November IS, 1032
Eleven
DEBATING SQUAD TO MEET PURDUE DEC. 3
Argue Before Convention of High School Debaters.
The University debating team will travel to Purdue university Dec. 3, to give a debate before an assembly of high school coaches and debaters of Indiana. The topic selected is as follows: “Eesolved that all hydroelectric power should be owned and operated by the government.”
The Notre Dame men who will make the trip to Lafayette have not as yet been selected. Within the next week, however, definite information will be released.
Try-outs for the varsity debating team are scheduled to begin about Dec. 9. All wishing to participate in this field should give their name to any member of the Speech department. All students are eligible, Freshmen included.
“Resolved that at least 50% of state and local revenues should be from other sources than from a tax on tangible property,” is the topic for those desiring to qualify for the University team.
Architects Receive Awards
From Beaux Art Institute
Results of the last problem submitted to the Beaux Art Institute of Design in New York have been received by the juniors and seniors of the architectural department. Those receiving mention on this Archeology problem, the subject of which was an eighteenth century Spanish grille, are: C. J. Medland, J. A. Docken-dorff, L. R. Chreist, and L. J. Stitt, seniors; and F. J. Lavengood, I. R. Sandmeier, J. N. Newbold, and F. R. Kellogg, juniors.
LOST!
An autographed copy of The Great Meadow by Elizabeth Madox Roberts and owned by George Spaulding of 248 Corby Hall has been missing from the latter’s room for some time. If it has been found by anyone the owner would greatly appreciate its return.
NOTICE!
The regular Knights of Columbus meeting has been deferred until Monday night, Nov. 21. First degree initiations will be given on that date. All are requested to be present.
WELCOMER
Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., who in the absence of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, delivered the address of ivelcome to the members of the Indiana Academy of Science this morning.
Deadline for “Dome” Proofs Set for Wednesday, Nov. 23
Wednesday, Nov. 23, is positively the last day to get and return proofs for the 1933 Dome senior and junior pictures. The selection of proofs which have not been called for on that day will be left to the discretion of the Dome editors.
Should anyone not be able to return proofs that they have already gotten by that day, proofs will be accepted at 154 or 162 Alumni Hall for some days afterward. The photographic headquarters in the basement of Walsh Hall, however, will be closed after Wednesday. Those who desire re-sittings should return their proofs, and give their names, as the Dome photographer will return in the near future.
Hours are from one to five p. m. in Walsh Hall. Orders are taken then for finished pictures, samples of which are on exhibition. Photographic work for the Dome is being done by Moffett-Russell Studios, one of Chicago’s most reputable photographers.
Never rest upon your oars, but always try to improve upon the performance of your work.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE HOLDS MEET TUESDAY
Blaha and Brown Read Papers at Regular Session.
George C. Blaha and Louis C. Brown, juniors in the College of Science, presented papers at the regular meeting- of the Notre Dame Academy of Science last Tuesday evening.
“The Voyage of the Beagle” was the topic of Blaha’s discussion. “The Beagle” was a ship rigged as a barque and mounted with guns. The voyage, which was an expeditionary one, had for its purpose the completion of the survey of the southern coasts of the peninsula of South America from the southern entrance of the river Plata around to Chiloe.
Observations Of Darwin
Charles Robert Darwin was taken along as a naturalist. Darwin added a great deal of information through his observations, which are recorded in the Journals of the Beagle, in the fields of geology, botany, and zoology.
Brown’s paper entitled “The Extraction of Ammonia from Coal Gas by the Direct and Indirect Method” was a discussion of the technical procedures involved in the two processes. He then enumerated the amounts and percentages of the various products obtained by the process from one ton of coal, and gave four advantages of the direct method over the indirect method.
Criticisms Voiced
Vittorio Arcadi and Carl B. Ford presented criticisms on Blaha’s and Brown’s papers respectively. They commented on the papers with respect to completeness and discussion of the subject matter.
A short business meeting followed the presentation of the papers. The meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science was discussed and arrangements were made for the members to assist the program committee of the Indiana Academy during its fall session which is convening at Notre Dame this week.
During most of the week previous to the election, Secretary of Commerce Chapin was the theoretical head of the nation, since Vice-President Curtis and all cabinet officers holding seniority over Mr. Chapin were out of Washington on campaign work.
Twelve
The Scholastic
FINAL STATISTICS ON SURVEY ANNOUNCED
Campus Opinion Regarding Movie Stars is Shown.
F. J. Fogarty, president of the Commerce Forum, has announced the final results of the movie survey conducted by the Forum. Over 285 replies t o the questionnaires were tabulated. These tabulations form an accurate indication of campus opinion.
Lionel Barrymore led the field for the favorite male star, with his brother John 40 votes behind in second place. Wallace Beery and Robert Montgomery ran a close race for third place with Beery winning by a margin of 20 votes.
Joan Crawford Is First
A stunning upset was recorded in the ballots cast for the favorite feminine star when neither Greta Garbo nor Jean Harlow ranked among the first four. Joan Crawford was selected as the favorite actress by a large majority with Norma Shearer a poor second. Marie Dressier, who apparently had second place on the basis of the early returns, slipped to third place barely nosing out Marlene Deit-rich.
“Refined” comedies won over its rival “sports pictures,” in the race for favorite types of pictures, by the narrow margin of three votes. Mystery dramas ranked third, followed closely by dramas featuring love interest.
In the realm of short subjects, news reels took first place away from “animated cartoons.” The cartoons had been an overwhelming favorite to win this event because of the popularity of “Mickey Mouse,” but the “news reels” coasted in on a comfortable margin of votes.
Hear-say Best Advertiser
The survey showed that word-of-mouth advertising is the chief reason for deciding bn which picture to attend, while newspaper advertisements are scanned with the name of the star proving to be the main lure to the box-office. The name of the director does not influence the choice nor does the name of the producer. A good title also creates a desire to see the picture.
The main criticism of present offerings is that they are too sensual.
(Continued on Page 17)
CHAIRMAN
James Armstrong, Alumni secretary, who will act as chairman at Catholic Alumni conference opening at Notre Dame Sunday.
Father John Ryan Tells of Obstacles to Recovery
Two great obstacles lie in the way of unemployment relief and revival of business, according to the Reverend John A. Ryan, professor of moral and industrial ethics at Catholic University in Washington, D. C.
“The first obstacle,” he says, “is the belief that the upward turn of last July is continuing. That belief has been nurtured by politicians and statesmen and some business men, but it is not true. The upward trend ended about five weeks ago. Since then the trend has been steadily downward.”
The other obstacle, claims Doctor Ryan, “is that there are conflicting economic theories held by the people who are trying to get at the roots of the matter. One group believes that if sufficient credit is made available business will increase, goods will be sold and unemployment will gradually spend itself.”
“I believe,” he goes on, “that this theory is utterly unsound. No offer of abundant credits can induce men to create goods for a market which they know does not really exist. No general and sustained improvement can take place until purchasing power is recreated and restored.
The average unemployed family in America should have at least fifty dollars a month to live on, Father Ryan said, calling that a sum that would provide a health standard.
SMITH'S CAMPAIGNING IS TOPIC IN*COMMONWEAL”
“Happy Warrior’s” Boston Talk Recently Reviewed.
In post-election comment much stress was placed on the part played by the “Happy Warrior,” Alfred E. Smith. The conclusions reached by The Commonweal in its issue of Nov. 9th under the caption “The Hammer of Bigotry” have pertinent interest. Commenting on Mr. Smith’s Newark and Boston speeches it says:
Speaks For Catholics As A Whole
“Newark cleared his bosom of much very human but perilous stuff. Boston expressed his strong and manly and practically Catholic soul. In both places he spoke the truth, frankly, fearlessly, coarsely, if you will. In Newark, that truth was personal. He had suffered as few men have been made to suffer, and he struck back at those chiefly responsible for his sufferings. In Boston, the truth he uttered was lifted above his personal lot: he spoke for the Catholic body as a whole, and what he said will pass permanently into the records of high American patriotism.
“Now, I say this, two wrongs never made a right. They (the fomentors of bigotry for political purposes) were absolutely wrong in 1928. They forgot the principles upon which this country was established and because of which she has flourished, but do not let us forget them.
“There can be no bigotry and there can be no resentment in the Catholic heart. It can’t be there. We have been taught, and it is impossible for us to divorce ourselves from it, that our first consideration is this country.
Why America Has A Meaning
“We were taught in our elementary schools that Almighty God Himself made this country and hid it behind a veil for centuries until civilization was able to take advantage of its great natural resources, and He allowed the proud Santa Maria to pierce the veil that the United States may he open to the world as a haven of refuge and a harbor of repose for the downtrodden, the poor and the oppressed of every land.
“It is in that way that we view this country. It is because of that that we give it our allegiance. It is because of that that we give it our loy-(Continued on Page 15)
November 18, 1032
Thirteen
CATALYZER’S NOVEMBER NUMBER IS RELEASED
Two Feature Articles Appear in Second Edition.
Presenting- two feature articles instead of the customary one, the November issue of The Catalyzer, monthly publication of the Chemist’s club, was released this week. The new feature, a secondary main article, takes the place of a personal column formerly contained in the scientific publication.
’22 Grad Writes
“Commercial Production of Sodium Phosphates,” by Lawrence E. Rom-baut, M.S., ’22, is the issue’s main article. It traces development of phosphates’ use in various industries and gives technical details regarding its application to certain industrial problems.
Mr. Rombaut, author of the article, is chief chemist of the Warner Chemical company, Carteret, N. J. He received a B.S. in Chemistry from the University of Rochester in 1921 and completed work for the Master’s degree at Notre Dame in 1922. He has been connected with the Warner Chemical company since 1929.
Comparison Of Texts
The secondary article entitled “Chemistry Textbooks — Then and Now” traces the evolution of that branch of specialized writing from 1868 to the present day. It compares the text published during that year by Charles W. Eliot, later president of Harvard and editor of “The Harvard Classics” and Frank H. Storer, with a text published within the last few years emphasizing condensation of matter in the later book.
Urges Specialization
Joseph S. McGrath, C.S.C., who received his Bachelor of Science degree from the University in 1932, is the author of the secondary article.
Interesting advice to recent students of chemistry is given by The Catalyzer’s editorial entitled “A Right First Impression.” It cautions the Freshman student of Chemical Engineering against considering his subject in too general terms and advises him “that one can get nowhere in this field except by specialization in a single branch, and that the Chemical Engineering course not only does not, but cannot, embrace the entire science.”
PRESIDENT
Jules De La Vergne, president of Le Cercle Francois. The French group is inaugurating a new series of informal gatherings this fall. The next one: a bridge party next Wednesday.
S.A.C.’s Northwestern Dance Packs Them in Saturday
Continuing what seems to be almost a precedent established along successful lines in previous student body dances this year, the Student Activities Council packed the K. C. Ballroom almost to overflowing for the dance following the Northwestern game Saturday, November 12.
George Reilly, chairman of the S. A. C. dance committee, states that a capacity crowd, including a very representative group from Northwestern University, enjoyed three hours of dancing to fine music by the Notre Dame Jugglers. Chairman Reilly had written to the editor of the Northwestern publication and to the president of the Northwestern Student Council, asking them to invite the university students to the S. A. C. dance.
According to Francis Werner, Publicity Chairman, the Faculty Dance Committee is very much pleased with the results of this and every other dance sponsored by campus organiza-ti ns during the Fall.
A man without passion is only a latent force, only a possibility, like a stone waiting for the blow from the iron to give forth sparks.—Henri-Frederic Amiel.
DO TELL! FRENCH CLUB PLANS A BRIDGE PARTY
Membership of Cercle Francais is On The Increase.
Members of Le Cercle Francais have planned a smoker and Bridge party for their next meeting to be held Wednesday evening. George Belting, Salvatore Ferrari, Frank C. McMann, and Thomas Brobson will also present papers. The topics of their presentations were left to their own choice. Each paper will be about five minutes in length and will be presented in French.
The second meeting of the French club was held Wednesday evening, Nov. 9, in the Brownson Recreation room for which no program was planned. A general gathering of all the language clubs was discussed by the members. Professor Langwell, accompanied by Thomas Hines, led the group in a few French songs.
According to Jules De La Verne, president of the club, it has been the policy of the Cercle Francais not to have a class room atmosphere about its programs, but rather a friendly gathering of students interested in the language from a cultural as well as a practical point of view. The success of this plan may be measured by the increase in membership with each meeting.
Buhl Frowns on Silent Cheering in the Stadium
Silent cheering, which made its 1932 debut at Notre Dame last Saturday, also made its farewell nod, if Frank R. Buhl, manager of stadium personnel has anything to say about it. According to Manager Buhl, this newcomer in cheering circles had everything to do with the marring of a perfect record for usher’s functions at the Northwestern game.
With the exception of the student section where the silent cheering was to be in progress; the crowd of 45,000 people was handled with ease and perfection by the stadium personnel. In the student cheering section, however, three consecutive aisles were blocked by silent cheering activities, students were unable to reach their seats and much confusion resulted which otherwise would have been avoided.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
4
AS STUDENTS PEPPED FOR N. U.
. Friday night’s mammoth bonfire, which, drew upwards of 5,000 roaring grid fans, shown in its early stages with willing students building the great pifrc.	Bcn<i Tribune Photo)
Boys Choir of Vienna Thrills 1300 With Outstanding Musical Program Monday
(Continued from Page 6)
of the last half of the Sixteenth century, proved to be a special treat for • those who appreciate pure music. It was sung in liturgical style, and thus showed the ability of the young boys to produce music entirely lacking in emotion. The first part of the program concluded with a folk song, “Schlafe mein Prinzchen” by Bernard Flies.
“Bastien and Bastienne”
. After a 15 minute intermission the entire ensemble reappeared to enact the opera, “Bastien and Bastienne” by W. A. Mozart. Dressed in costume of the latter part of the eighteenth century, the chorus appeared dancing a minuet, and singing. After a short time Bastienne appears singing her sorrows on being separated from her lover. A sorcerer comes in and to him she tells her sad story. She retires from the stage and Bastien appears, also very sad. The sorcerer tells him that he will again be united witht his lover. The finale consists of a betrothal scene. In this little opera
the Singing Boys showed that not only were they singers beyond comparison, but also that they were competent actors.
Schubert’s “Psalm 23”
A rendition of “Psalm 23” by Schubert opened the third and concluding part of the program. This was followed by “Jubilate” Friedrich Burkhart in which the chorus showed the marvelous quality and the great range in the voices of these young boys. Two folk songs, “Der Wanderer in der Saegemuehle” and “Der Jaeger aus Kurpfalz” were the next numbers on the program, and the concert was concluded with the Christmas hymn, “Stille Nacht (Silent Night).”
For an encore the singers again turned to an American folk song, Dixie, which they seemed to take a great deal of pleasure in singing. After departing from the stage they were recalled by the audience and for the second encore sang the familiar “Blue Danube Waltz” by Johann Strauss.
INDIANA ACADEMY OF SCIENCE IS IN SESSION
(Continued from Page 7)
siderable work concerning the biology of twins.
Preceding Dr. Newman’s lecture, the Academy’s annual dinner for members, guests, and friends will be hied in the University dining hall al seven o’clock. Following the dinner and immediately preceding the lecture will be a short business session for the election of officers.
The present officers are: Fernandas Payne, president; Richard Lieber, vice-president; Ray C. Friesner, secretary; W. P. Morgan, assistant secretary; Marcus W. Lyon, Jr., treasurer; Stanley A. Cain, editor; and Will E. Edington, press secretary.
Address Of Welcome
This morning an address of welcome was to be delivered by Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Presi-dentof the University. Dr. Fernandus Payne, president of the Indiana Academy of Science, was to deliver a response.
Dr. Payne is head of the department of zoology and dean of the Graduate School of Indiana University. He is also a contributor on the results of research in cytology and genetics.
This morning at 10:30, Dr. C. E. Boord, of Ohio State University, delivered before a general session of the Indiana Academy meeting in conjunction with the St. Joseph Valley . Section of the American Chemical Society, an illustrated lecture on “The Relation of Certain Physical Properties of the Unsaturated Hydrocarbons to Their Molecular Structures.”
Founded In 1881
• The first session held this -morning was a general meeting for the transaction of business and for general addresses. For the remainder of the time the organizations meet as sections each devoted to its own special phase of scientific work.
Since the Indiana Academy of Science was founded in 1881, it has held two meetings each year. The spring meeting which was held this year at Turkey Run State Park is held every year usually in May at some point of special geological, historical, or botanical interest.
During the course of the fall meeting which concludes tomorrow noon, more than 130 scientific papers will
(Continued on Page 15)
November 18, 1982
Fifteen
INDIANA ACADEMY OF SCIENCE IS IN SESSION
(Continued from Page 14)
have been read by various members of the Academy. These presentations of individual researches cover detailed work done in the general fields of bacteriology, botany, chemistry, geology and geography, physics and mathematics, and zoology. In the number of papers presented this meeting establishes a new record. The previous record was made at the fall meeting of the Academy in 1927 which convened at Notre Dame.
N. D. Well Represented
Notre Dame is well represented in the various sections. The Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, is chairman of the meeting of entomologists. Mr. James A. Reyniers and Mr. Lawrence H. Baldinger will present papers before the section in bacteriology. Sister M. Joseph Geise, Sister Elizabeth Seton McDonald, students in the summer session, and Dr. Theodore Just have prepared papers in botany. Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., noted for his research work in chemistry, especially in the field of acetylene chemistry, will present papers in both botany and chemistry. The largest representation of Notre Dame men is in the section in chemistry. Dr. E. G. Mahin, Dr. H. D. Hinton, Dr. Richard R. Vogt, F. J. Sowa, G. F. Hen-nion, Thomas H. Vaughn, L. II. Baldinger, J. A. Toussaint, and R. J. Spahr, all of the Department of Chemistry, will read papers before ' the session in chemistry. Papers in physics by the late Eugene D. O’Connell, and one by William Engels in zoology, will be presented by title.
Final Session Saturday
Final sessions of the Academy’s fall meeting will be held tomorrow morning in the Cushing Hall of Engineering. The principal feature will be a symposium and exhibits by the Junior Academy under the direction of Dr. Howard E. Enders of Indiana University, chairman of the group.
Members of the program committee who made arrangements for the scientist’s meeting at Notre Dame were: Dr. E. G. Mahin, University of Notre Dame, chairman; Drs. M. W. Lyon, Jr., South Bend; C. A. Mallott, Indiana University; N. E. Pearson, Butler University; and L. A. Test, Purdue University.
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
All letters must be signed in full with address and mailed to the Editor of
The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall.
GRATITUDE
Edmund A. Stephan,
Editor of Notre Dame Scholastic.
Dear Mr. Stephan:
I wish to express my very deep appreciation of your splendid article in The Scholastic eulogizing my late husband, also the resolution which was so kindly adopted by his colleagues.
May I take this occasion to express my gratitude for the many personal prayers and visits to my home from the Fathers and Brothers, the lay professors and their families and my husband’s students.
Their splendid loyalty has touched me deeply.
Thanking- you for your sympathy in this time of great sorrow,
I am sincerely,
Mrs. Anna O’Connell.
FRIENDLY MISHAWAKAN
The folloiving letter was recently received by the Editor of the “South Bend Tribune.”
I suggest that the promoters of that Notre Dame bonfire will enjoy their next Christmas dinner and the warmth of their hearths much more by distributing the material intended for that huge conflagration to the many destitute families who are almost entirely without the necessary material to keen their children from suffering the pangs of cold and hunger during the coming winter.
The memory of such a sacrifice, if it be a sacrifice, on the part of the students may linger in the hearts and minds of many tots until they, too, are enrolled as students of a great institution that upholds the principles of a loving Savior of children.
J. K. Wiekamp, 533 Webster street, Mishawaka, Ind.
SECRET PRACTICE
Editor of The Scholastic,
Dear Editor:
I think that the students should be allowed closer contact with the football team. For myself at least I know that the extreme secrecy guard-
Initials will be used on request.
ing all practices of the team has created in me the feeling that there is no close relationship between the student body and the squad.
I have come to the realization that when I was in high school I knew as much about the Notre Dame teams of those years as I do now about this year’s team. When somebody, not at school, asks me about the team, I can only relate what I have seen in the newspapers. Now how am I supposed to yell my heart and lungs out for a team that I see in action only four days a year (the days of the Haskell, Drake, Carnegie, and N. U. games) ?
I know there must be a way out. In my opinion all the good gained from secret practice every day in the week would be small when compared to the spirit that would be aroused if the students were allowed a glimpse of their “own” team in action one day or possibly two days in the week.
It’s not too late this year, so let’s have a look at that team that is going to whip the Navy, Southern California, and the Army.	P. D.
Law School Notes!
Honorable Thomas O’Meara, a prominent lawyer and jurist of West Bend, Wisconsin, delivered a lecture to the law students last Friday evening, November 11, in the Law Building. This was the second in a series of lectures delivered to the students under the auspices of the Law club.
COMMERCE SURVEY
(Continued from Page 12)
Improvements suggested are that sex be removed from the plots and clean, wholesome stories substituted.
This movie survey is the first of a series to be tabulated by the Commerce Forum. The results are to be mimeographed and are to be sent to leading motion picture producers. Its purpose is to acquaint them with what type of cinema entertainment the average college student enjoys seeing.
The next survey to be tabulated will be on the subject of “clothing” and will be under the supervision of F. J. Fogarty, president of the Commerce Forum.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Campas Is Colorful And Cold For N.U.-N.D. Game
ALUMNI CONFERENCE TO BE HELD HERE SUNDAY (Continued from Page 9)
By Joseph Degnan
Monday was a perfect day for the big game. But it was just fortyeight hours late.
That is why some forty thousand Eskimos shouted away the cold for well over two tense hours last Saturday watching the annual tussle between our own lads and the boys who rode down here from Evanston on that morning with a strange animosity in their eyes. The wearers of the white (stripes purple) didn’t seem to feel a bit inferior even after that disheartening 95-yard gallop which sent the Notre Dame stands into a maze c-f tossed hats, and hurried the great number of late comers quickly to their seats- with all sorts of bothersome questions about what had happened. All afternoon there were sharp smacks, (on the field) hard tackles, and now and then a word to be forgotten. There are different ways of keeping warm.
Old And Young Turn Out
It was more than a desire to ger their ticket’s worth that brought out the colorful thousands that afternoon. Girls in red hats, heavy furs, and usually trailed by an army of male attendants with blankets, were plentiful. Old men, some of whom may have done a little galloping on that very sod in their gayer days, sat joyfully through the snowy afternoon and shocked their wives with a surprising knowledge of the cheers. And the boys—well, you know how all you brutes are when it’s Northwestern vs. Notre Dame.
Both bands battled against the weather throughout the game, but the Notre Dame boys in light blue and gold shivered away to victory by a startling performance at the half.
Campus Prepares For Game
Early last week indications of something unusual were about the campus. Teams lounged along behind stalwart plugs, dragging heaps of wood and the lazy members of the hall committees. By mid-week there were huge piles of stray wood heaped near the various halls. Tuesday evening hall filching contests brought on feuds that were far from friendly. The Howard attempt to lift some of Morrissey’s pile was dampened by thick sprays from fire hoses lodged in the Morrissey fort. The Badin skirmish Wednesday noon featured a
barrage of eggs and the timely appearance of Big Ed Krause.
Hall decorations were also apparent early in the week. Streamers in the color of each school, tricky pep signs, and window displays came first. Then later electrical signs and lighting devices glittered from the various halls.
Two Pep Meetings Held
Thursday evening a short pep session was held in the gym. Friday, the growing enthusiasm was chilled only by classes. Along about four in the afternoon the campus was already alive with alumni and guests. Shortly after the student body surged out of the dining halls the huge torch light parade got under way, winding its way to the various halls where the stunts were cheered. The sinuous chain included the complete student body by the time it circled Alumni Hall and broke into the hike toward the gigantic fire.
Rallying around the fire was vigorous, and the usual cheers and songs had more than the ordinary gusto. Faces red with the glow of fire faced the searing wind and chanted in unison at the officials on the stand: “We want a holiday.” Every speaker was applauded warmly. We got the holiday.
Crowd Gathers Early
On Saturday the sky steeled itself with a cold tightness, and the morning brought intermittent flurries of snow. But the crowd was ready, and people stood talking in small groups under archways. The “Caf” was jammed with the hungry and that usual line of boys who like to line things up, as they put it. That usual line said that the feminine visitors were the best seen in years, and they’re willing to be quoted.
After the game the campus was yet more lively, the signs still glowing, and the atmosphere merrier than ever.
Hotels in the town to the South were packed with alumni and guests who were far from sad.
Saturday night was a lively one in South Bend. Laughter, lines of cars, people hurrying to and fro, beautiful girls—we can’t go on like this. Anyway that queer newsboy in front of the Palace told us with a sober face that he thought Canada Dry must have gone up five points over the week-end.
League for Social Justice, and Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., ’ll, whose successful work in the field of religious contacts with students qualifies him as the foremost authority on this subject.
“Decent Livelihood, Its Content and Moral Basis,” is the subject of Rev. W. A. Bolger’s address. Father Bolger, C.S.C., ’07, was formerly head of the department of economics at Notre Dame and is now vice-president of St. Thomas college. A banquet at 7 o’clock in the University Dining Halls will bring the conference to a close. In addition to Father Bolger’s discourse, two other speeches will feature the banquet program. Mr. E. A. Fitzpatrick, head of the department of education at Marquette University, and Mr. J. Fitzgerald, executive secretary of the Society of St. Vincent DePaul in Detroit, will discuss subjects in the field of social justice.
All District To Be Here
Alumni of every other Catholic college in this District—DePaul, Loyola, St. Procopius, St. Bede’s, St. Viator’s, Quincy and Routt colleges in Illinois; St. Joseph’s in Indiana; Columbia, St. Ambrose and Trinity in Iowa; St. Benedict’s and St. Mary’s in Kentucky; University of Detroit in Michigan; College' of St. Thomas, St. Mary’s and St. John’s in Minnesota; St. Louis’ university, Rockhurst and Conception in Missouri; Creighton in Nebraska; University of Dayton, John Carroll, St. John’s and St. Xavier’s in Ohio; St. Gregory’s in Oklahoma; University of Dallas and St. Edward’s in Texas; Marquette, St. Norbert’s and Campion in Wisconsin —are also urged to avail themselves of the concentration of the best Catholic thought on a vital Catholic question.
Open To Students
The conference is open to any student who wishes to attend. Those matriculating in the economics department will find these lectures of invaluable assistance to them.
Tickets for the Mass and Round Table are being given to the students in the Department of Economics. Others may secure these tickets without cost at the Alumni Office. A general registration fee of three dollars includes the entire program.
November 18, 1932
• Seventeen
SMITH’S CAMPAIGNING IS TOPIC IN “COMMONWEAL” (Continued from Page 12)
University’s Metallurgical Division Rapidly Growing
alty and our devotion, and no crosscurrent of political issues will ever take it away from us . . .”
“It was this passage of Smith’s Boston speech which will be remembered, and which forever in this country will help to maintain and strengthen and develop the great truth which it states in such simple words. That truth was meant for Al Smith’s fellow Catholics; but it was a catholic utterance in another sense: it was universal in its application to the political and social life of the nation. Two wrongs never make a right A platitude. A copy-book maxim. The sort of thing thousands of politicians, and clergymen, and school teachers, and editotrial writers, glibly speak, or preach, or teach, or write—and which remains true in spite of being so rubber-stamped and stereotyped ' unto boredom and derision. Yes, the truth is there; but it does not live until a man arises who is its living expression. Such a' man is Alfred Emanuel Smith.”
Smith Has Stood The Test
“On the anvil of his Boston speech, the mighty Smith reforged anew in the fire of his own love for his country, that weapon of the truth which is the only weapon which can win against all others—the Cross. Out of the pains of persecution, limited, to be sure, but most real from the rack of misrepresentation and calumny, Al Smith has come forth tempered like tested steel, purged of resentment, j great-hearted in spite of all lost illu-• sions, to teach all his countrymen, . but Catholics first, that in the life of a nation of free men living under the laws which free men obey because they are just, two wrongs can never make a right—and the unity and peace of the people depend upon the acceptance and practical use of that fundamental principle of civilization.”
The Laetare Medal is an award made annually by Notre Dame to some lay Catholic who has achieved such distinction in his field of special endeavor as to reflect glory upon the Catholic Faith. Mr. Smith was the A recipient of this award in 1929.
Clarence Ruddy of Aurora, Illinois, came within a few votes of being elected Prosecuting Attorney in Kane County, Illinois.
By Joseph A. Toussaint
Considerable credit for the growth of this Division of the Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Department, must be given to Professor H. B. Froning, whose foresight led to its introduction at Notre Dame. It was in 1925 that Professor Mahin came to the University to assume charge of the work in Analytical Chemistry, and to develop the Metallurgical Division.
The various Metallurgical courses were introduced as electives in the curricula of studies leading to the degrees of B. S. in Chemistry and B. S. in Chemical Engineering. From the beginning, students in these Divisions became interested and class enrollments were encouraging.
Handicapped At Beginning
While the facilities, during the first few years, were not as extensive as they are at present, the old laboratories in Chemistry Hall permitted the immediate introduction of experimental research. The first Doctor’s degree in Metallurgy was granted in 1928. Sin-e that time three Doctor’s and six Master’s degrees have been granted in the Division of Metallurgy. A considerable number of students majoring in Metallurgy have received Bachelor’s degrees in Chemistry and in Chemical Engineering. The research leading to these degrees was chiefly concerned with the case-carburiizng of steel and with the nature of non-metallic inclusions in iron and steel.
Laboratories Moved
The Metallurgical laboratories were moved from Chemistry Hall to the new Engineering building in February, 1932. The laboratory equipment and other facilities were considerably increased at that time and new courses were developed.
The present equipment includes two Leitz Micrometallographs for the examination and photography of metals up to 4500 diameters, for the study of crystal structure. This study offers to the student an explanation of the physical characteristics of a metal or alloy, including hardness, brittleness, toughness, tensile strength and many others. There is a well
equipped dark room adjoining the Metallography Laboratory.
Thermal treatments of metals are carried on in five General Electric muffle Furnaces. These furnaces are of the internal resistance type, and are governed by automatic pyrometer controls. Two of the latter are equipped with recorders.
The Olson Universal testing machine is a unit in the new Physical Testing laboratory. Tensile, compression, and transverse tests are being made. This machine has a capacity of 60,000 pounds.
New Machinery Installed
An Izod Impact machine, with a capacity of 120 foot-pounds, for measuring the toughness of metals was recently installed. Another valuable unit is the Moore fatigue testing machine. An extensive investigation of the endurance limits and fatigue characteristics of malleable cast iron is now under way, using this machine. This work is being done in cooperation with the Malleable Iren Research Institute. It will probably extend over a period of years.
There are also four hardness testers in the Physical Testing laboratory. They are of the most improved types—Brinell, Rockwell, Vickers, and Shore. A metal-working lathe for preparing specimens, besides the usual cutting, grinding, and polishing machines, completes the equipment.
Big Research Possibilities
To the embryo metallurgist a wealth of research possibilities is offered in the new laboratories. Thermal treatment, fatigue, impact, fracture, compression, tensile, and transverse tests, in connection with the study of microscopic structures, offer an attractive field for both routine class work and research investigation.
The opportunities are enhanced, in the new laboratories, by the presence of a very good library. This necessary tool of research contains the most important reference books and journal sets, American and foreign.
Notre Dame, also boasts of a local chapter of the American Society for Steel Treating, whose membership is comprised of metallurgical studenis and technical men of the vicinity.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
COLORFUL COLLEGIANS!
Alphatosis Forority, coeducational Greek society, is the latest to make its appearance at the University of Wichita, Kansas. At the first meeting charter members decided that any one could be a member, provided he could show credentials to prove himself the victim of “pink tooth brush.” Rushing takes the form of a footrace.
V
COLLEGIATE ABORIGINES!
The authorities at the University of Arizona have warned men students to “be on their guard for collegiate husband hunters.”
V
IT’S A LONG TIME BETWEEN DANCES
Ohio Northern University recently had its first dance since 1871. Removal of the 61-year ban on dancing was the outgrowth of increasingopposition from the student body.
V
ALARMING PSYCHOLOGY!
Sleeping was required in a class at Colgate University recently. A psychology professor was trying to determine the most effective pitch for an alarm clock.	-
. V
RESTFUL EDUCATION!
In the Texas State Teachers College Spanish students sit on top of their desks or sprawl across the lecture tables while reciting. The head of the Spanish department prefers that the class members sit in informal positions while reciting so that they will not be afraid to speak when called upon.
V
THREE L. SHAVERS
Three coeds at the University of Louisiana must be darned popular. So much so, in fact, that they have shaved their heads so they won’t have so many dates. They will, no doubt, cease to be troubled by social engagements in the future. Excepting with those inordinately large, southern mosquitoes.
FIRE SALE
Students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who participated in a riot last spring-are being assessed fifty cents. This fee will go to reimburse a fireman for “one pair of pants, lost” and defray cost of the damage to various pieces of fire apparatus.
‘ V
BY GUM! BY GUM!
The Purple and Gray informs us that 2,000 wads of gum were removed from the Texas University library tables in a recent campus cleaning campaign.
V
SUCCESS DEPENDS ON INDIVIDUAL
It seems to be a favorite pastime of professors in schools of business to try to figure out whether or not it pays to go to college. From their reports, of course, it always pays. The most recent investigator is Professor James C. Egbert, of the Columbia University Business school, whose report shows business school graduates earning annual salaries ranging from $360 to $100,000.
One item that is noticeably lacking in most attempts to determine the value of a college diploma is the amount of the expenditure necessary to get the diploma. In any business venture, in order to figure the ultimate profit one must begin with the original expense which must be deducted from the returns. Therefore, in figuring out the value of a college education, its cost should be considered and not just the graduate’s salary.
The wide range between the salaries of graduates, $360 to $100,000, would indicate that a college education is not always a paying proposition. A college education is of value only in proportion to the graduate’s ability to make use of such education. As many an unemployed graduate can tell you, college is no royal road to success. What you get out of college depends largely on what you bring to it. If you are the $100,000 man, you may require the University to help you attain the maximum of your potential ability. But if you are the $360-a-year man you are wasting your time and money in college.
—Daily Minnesotan.
November 18, 1932
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
THINKERS AND COUNTERS
It probably would be nothing short of heresy to say that the present economic depression has helped mankind to any great extent, but to our mind it unquestionably has. Only the most extreme type of individual will come out of all of this without having his sense of values altered. We wonder, for instance, if the contempt in which a liberal education has been held by the utilitarian element of the day will be as pronounced when we return to a state of equilibrium.
People who have scoffed at philosophy and literature and religion because they did not amount to anything in terms of dollars and cents must consider them in a different light today. Their own gods have failed them. Our banks have tumbled not because our business men know little about banking. Our balance sheets have failed to balance not because we haven’t enough expert accountants. Our economic machinery has slowed down not because we are unaware of the way it works. Rather it has gone back on us because we do not understand its relations to other things. We have lost sight of the purpose of production. We have made gold an end, instead of a means.
If we cannot lay all the blame at its door, we can certainly say that the philosophy which makes such a deity of a “business” education is very much responsible for the chaos in which we find ourselves. Men have come to place too much im-iportance on counting, and too little on thinking. It has too often- been deemed more desirable to have a million dollars than to know what might be done with a million dollars.
The man with a good liberal education would know. He would be certain, to begin with, that there are some things which cannot be bought with a billion dollars, that greed is something distinct from his make-up, that heaven is outside the'realm of the gold standard, and that his fellow man is intrinsically his equal.
We have had enough of narrow men, materialistic and pragmatical men. We need thinkers ’-nth their feet in the sod and their heads in the sky—and we will have to look for them in some place other than a “business” college.
ON THINGS AT HOME
Last Monday evening the faculty and student body were privileged to listen to one of the most famous choruses in musical history, when the Vienna Saengerknaben gave a concert in. the gymnasium. The singers offered two of the most unsurpassed hours of entertainment the campus has ever experienced. Several students, looking for amusement and unable to pay for it, took a chance on the little German fellows. They went away thinking how easily they might have passed up the program and how ridiculous it would have been to do so.
All of which brings home the astounding fact that there are some things more worth-while than a Harlow-Gable romance or a few hours at a dance hall. The Scholastic would not attempt to make out a schedule for student recreation, but it believes that many activities going on under our very eyes are vastly more fascinating and incomparably more beneficial than some of the nonsense that passes our movie censors.
Next Monday and Tuesday evenings Professor Etienne Gilson of the Sorbonne in Paris will give lectures in Washington Hall at eight o’clock. One of the outstanding philosophers of the day, Doctor Gilson is renowned most for his thesis of the existence of a “Christian” philosophy. His talks will be masterful, as well as enlightening. Students interested in philosophy should miss him under no condition. Students not interested in philosophy should drop over and give it a chance.
V
OLD TIMES	•
The Scholastic feels certain that it expresses the sentiment of the greater part of the student body when it commends the S. A. C. on its efficiency in handling the many details of pep meeting promotion, hall decorations, bonfires, etc. of the past week-end. The work of the Students ' Activities Council was well planned and minutely executed. The atmosphere of the whole school more closely approximated the spirit of old than it has at any time during the past few years.

J
Twenty	The Scholastic
One Debt Paid: Irish 21, N. U. 0
Melinkovich Races 98 Yards to First Touchdown; Others Come on Passes
HARRIERS RUN IN C.I.C. MEET AT EAST LANSING
Vairo Scores on Throw From Koken; End-Around-Lateral Brings Final Tally.
By George R. Belting
The battle is over but the Armistice has not yet been signed. When Notre Dame and Northwestern play, regardless of which team wins, there never is a peace treaty drawn up; but instead the battle is renewed the following year. Notre Dame won the last skirmish by a score of 21 to 0.
Crowd Of 40,000
Some 40,000 rabid football fans defied the elements and braved the wintry blasts that swept through Notre Dame Stadium last Saturday afternoon to witness the annual clash between Dick Hanley’s Wildcats and “Hunk” Anderson’s Fighting Irish. When the final gun announced that the game was over these 40,000 people, thrilled with the display of football that they had witnessed, buttoned their coats a little tighter around the neck, blew into their hands in an effort ot warm them, and went their several ways to tell their friends and neighbors of Melinkovch’s 98 yard run, and to spread the glory of Notre Dame.
Melinkovich Starts Things
It was a game of the keenest action from the opening kick-off which fullback George Melinkovich caught on his own two yard line, and returned to the Northwestern goal line for the first score of the game. Charley Jask-which place-kicked the extra point. The Notre Dame team had tasted the Northwestern blood and were thirsty for more.
Charley Jaskwhich then kicked off to Northwestern and the game was on in earnest. The Blue and Gold
had a tough time crashing through the Wildcat forward wall, and then Jaskwhich resorted to an aerial attack which culminated in Vairo pick-
George Melinkovich
“They really blocked for me.”
ing one of Mike Koken’s 20-yard tosses out of the air, and stepping across the goal line. It was towards the end of the first period that Jaskwhich sensed that something was wrong.
Notre Dame had the ball on the Northwestern 20 yard line. Koken and Sheeketski tried the line three times and three times failed to gain. On the fourth down Jasckwhich decided to use a pass, and called on Mike Koken to toss one to Vairo who was standing on the goal line waiting for the ball to come to roost, which it (Continued on Page 24)
N.	D, Squad Closes Season In Conference Race Tomorrow.
Tomorrow the Irish harriers will compete in the Central Intercollegiate Conference cross-counrty meet which will be held on the campus of Michigan State at East Lansing.
This contest which will bring the best of. teams into a battle of temerity and stamina will be the last for the local squad this season.
Difficult Course
The course outlined at East Lansing has always proved to be a difficult one. The route includes a round about the track, a jaunt out into the woodland regions and back onto the cinder oval for the finish which is usually set for a show between the halves of a football game. The running path has been soft and soggy on previous occasions, but the conditions have done little to dim the hopes of the Notre Dame crew.
Coach Nicholson said when asked concerning the prospects: “The boys are the hardest workers I ever had. My heart is with them. I hope they win; they are capable of doing it.”
Those are the praiseworthy words of “Nick” who has been noted for his pessimistic remarks in the past.
Dim Prospects
A win would mean a victory over the Spartans who defeated the Irish two weeks ago on the local course. It also means a victory over a number of other goods teams without the aid of Roberts, the team latest casualty.
In spite of these handicaps and the gloomy outlook, the teams look forward to a victory. So let’s pull with them and wish them every success. They deserve it.
November 18, 1932
Twenty-one
WHOA THERE PUG!
N.D. STARTS COMEBACK;
BEATS JAYHAWKS, 24-6
Irish Even Score With Kansas After 28 Years.
The ic. k. Mr. Rentner didn’t go so far this time. Jack Robinson and some of the boys objected. That’s Olson, No. 25, winding up for a big job— blocking Hugh Devore. Joe Sheeketski stayed on his feet despite the blocking and helped halt the Pug.	Tribune Photo.
“B” Team Loses, 24-6 To St. Thomas at Scranton
By Nick Connor
On Nov. 5, 1904, a. Notre Dame football team went west and lost to the University of Kansas 24 to 5. And on Nov.’ 5, 1932, Hunk Anderson’s Irish defeated the same Kansas school 24 to 6. At the first meeting between the Jayhawkers and the Irish the crowds were few and quiet. But the last clash gave the 26.000 fans plenty of thrills and excitement. Many followers of football wondered if Notre Dame would be able to come back after the defeat the week before by Pittsburgh. But the outcome of the last score easily indicates that the Irish did come back and stronger than ever.
By John D. Carbine
The fighting miners of St. Thomas of Scranton, Pennsylvania, kept their record void of any defeats in their class at the expense of the Notre Dame “B” ream in a game played at Scranton on Sunday, November 5. The final score was 24-6, but the game was a far more even battle than the score would indicate.
The first ten minutes of the game went along very peacefully, and were > rather dull. Twice did each team try two running plays, and fail to make any appreciable yardage, punted. Then suddenly the Irish offense, began to click. In eight successive plays they marched from their own thirty-five yard to a well earned >	touchdown.
6-6 At The First Quarter '
The Hamburgers then kicked off to St. Thomas, and they ran the kickoff back to the middle of the field. Here the Miners completed a forty yard > pass which placed them in a scoring position. Ted Casey, the Tommies’ great back, plunged over for the touchdown, but failed to convert the extra point, and the quarter ended . with the score tied at 6-6.
Midway in the second quarter, the » Miners running attack began to function for the first and only time during the game. Starting on their own forty yard line, the Miners drove down the field for their second touch-
down. On this drive the Tommies used only straight line plunges. Casey once again, was responsible for the touchdown. The half ended a moment after this second touchdown with the score, St. Thomas 12, Notre Dame “B” 6.
La Borne and D’Amora were injured early in the second half, and the Hamburgers seemed to lose heart when they saw their two stars go to the sidelines. A moment after their injury, Casey, on a fake punt, heaved a long pass far over the heads of the secondary to a waiting end, who ran unopposed for the Miner’s third touchdown.
Esser And La Borne Star '
St. Thomas got their final touchdown in the fourth quarter when one of their backs got around left end for sixty-two yards. He was downed on the two-yard line, but the versatile and omnipresent Mr. Casey took care of this little matter.
Esser and La Borne were the Notre Dame stars, while Ted Casey was practically the entire Miner offense.
The game was played before a crowd of ten thousand which overflowed St. Thomas’ small stadium. Coach Jake Kline had charge of the trip, and McElligott and Kelly accompanied the team as managers. After the game, the squad were guests at a dance given by the Mary-wood College for Girls.
Kansas Scores Early
Coach Anderson assigned his shock troops to start the game and in the first few minutes of the initial period they received a number of joltingshocks, as Kansas converted the opening kick-off and a few plays into a touchdown. But the minute the Raiders got the pigskin they started down the chalk-marked field. After a fev-thrusts at the stubborn Kansas line Nick Lukats eased his way through the two teams and raced 47 yards for the first score for Notre Dame.
Notre Dame Begins To Click
The Irish regulars started the second quarter. After the two teams battled to a stand still for ten .minutes, Notre Dame began a scoring spree. The team then was clicking like a well oiled machine. The rhythm of the backfield showed a very close resemblance to that famous quartet— the Four Horsemen. The guards pulled out of the line and blocked, the ends and tackles all blocked with deadly precision, and all that the backs had to do was to hit the gaping holes for long gains. In other words the great Kansas team was being hopelessly outplayed in every phase of the game. Fighting Joe Sheeketski on his first attempt at carrying the ball broke loose and sped 60 yards for a touchdown.
As the third quarter was nearly over, George Melinkovich behind per-(Continued on Page 25)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Irish to Battle Midshipmen At Cleveland Tomorrow
SCRIMMAGE STARTS AS CAGE DRILL SPEEDS UP
Baldwin, Crowe, Voegele, And Others Battle for Places.
TO DRAW 60,000
Notre Dame Favored to Take Sixth Straight From Navy; N= D, Systems Clash.
Bjr Nick Connor
Tomorrow, Cleveland will be the center of one of the football’s most colorful pageants, the annual midwestern classic between Notre Dame and Navy.
The game will be held in the new Cleveland Stadium situated on the lake front. A crowd of about 62,000 are expected to see “Hunk” Anderson’s Irish, and “Rip” Miller’s Middies, perform on the gridiron. From the pre-game records of the two teams, Notre Dame should have little trouble in sinking the Navy under a deluge of touchdowns.
Navy Tough Last Year
The do-or-die spirit employed by the Middies every year against Notre Dame proves that Frank Merriwell and his squad of athletes had nothing on the Navy, when it comes to playing good, hard, clean football. It will be remembered that the slam-bang type of playing used by the Midshipmen last year cost Coach Anderson three of his regulars, and this probably figured in Notre Dame losing to Southern California and Army.
Coach Miller of the Navy, has two second string, red-headed backs, who figured in the downfall of Maryland last week, and from all indications these two midshipmen will see plenty of action in the game tomorrow. These two backs are Red Cameron and Red Baumberger.
Middies At Peak
Coach Edgar “Rip” Miller, a Notre Dame star linesman in 1924, has intimated that his team has two objectives in view. The first is to show that they can play inspired football; and the second is to better previous showings made against Notre Dame. Although the Middies got away to a poor start this year, it is believed that tomorrow’s game will find them at their peak, and Coach Anderson
Interhall Standings
GROUP I.
W L
Morrissey ............. 4	0
Corby.................. 2	0
St. Edward’s .......... 2	1
Badin ................  1	2
Dillon ................ 1	2
Lyons ................. 0	5
GROUP II.
W L
Alumni ............   4	0
Freshman ____________ 3	1
Walsh ............... 2	0
Howard ............   1	3
Brownson ............ 1	2
Carroll  0	5
T
1
2
1
1
1
0
Pts.
9
6
5
3
0
T Pts.
0	8
1
0 0
0
1
2
2 0
Results of Sunday Nov. 6.
Morrissey 13: Lyons 6.
Corby 13; Badin 12.
Walsh 7: Freshman 7. St. Edward’s 13; Dillon 0.
Results of Sunday Nov. 13.
St. Edward’s 0: Badin 0.
Alumni 33; Freshman 7.
and his proteges are expecting opposition enough to force them to use most of their 140 plays.
About 500 students are expected to accompany the team to Cleveland tomorrow, and it is the official student trip. Next Saturday Notre Dame will play the Army at New York, while on the last day of the following week-end the Navy will pit her Middies against the Cadets from West Point.
Break up that Cold .... Take a Turkish Bath
To stop a Cold in the making .. .
Take a Steam Bath
For Constipation........... Take a Colon Bath
LA SALLE ANNEX BATHS 115 LaSalle Ave.	Mr. Sundloff	Phone 3-9361
Coach George Keogan’s sharpshooting eagers have been practising daily for about a month. The first few weeks were spent in renewing the fundamentals of basketball, practising up on the long shots, taking free throws from the foul line, and working out defensive formations.
During the past ten or twelve days, however, the Notre Dame mentor has been scrimmaging his proteges against Coach Clay Johnson’s Freshman team. The varsity squad has looked plenty, nice in these workouts and the prospects of having another record-breaking team do not seem as remote now as they did when Dr. Keogan first issued the call for candidates.
Season Opens Soon
Exactly three weeks from to-night the season officially opens with Albion College, the first team to test the mettle of the Keoganites. Six days later the varsity faces Illinois Wesleyan. Then on December 19, comes the real battle of the year, the annual skirmish with Northwestern. All three of these games are to be played at Notre Dame, so the varsity really has a slight advantage in that they will be acquainted with the court.
Jim Ferris will, no doubt, be the mainstay at the pivot position until (Continued on Page 30)
November 18, 1932
Twenty-three
MORRISSEY HALL WINS GROUP I GRID CROWN
Whips Dillon for Title; Alumni Looms As Group II. Winner.
By Edward Van Huisseling
Interhall Sports Editor
Morrissey Hall, by virtue of her 13 to 6 trimming of Dillon two weeks ago, has earned the right to meet the best that Group II has to offer in the Interhall championship game which will take place in the stadium on Dec. 4.
Although no team in the latter cluster has proved its supremacy at this date, it is highly probable that the Alumni gridders will find the crown firmly placed on their heads if they are able to add Walsh to their list of victims.
Alumni Has Edge
By comparison of scores, the Juniors have a granted pre-game advantage. The strong Freshman crew fell before the Gold Coasters, 33 to 7, while Walsh’s best efforts netted her a tie with the Frosh.
Should Walsh rise to unexpected heights and triumph over Alumni and win its postponed contest with Brownson, it would spell doom for Alumni and championship for the Seniors. The latter contest will be played as soon as weather permits.
Freshman and Alumni staged their big battle Sunday on Cartier Field. Practically the only spectators that witnessed the 33 to 7 drubbing of the frosh were a biting wind and its bosom pal, a penetrating cold wave. The wind charged up and down the gridiron, making steady play impossible and causing a large number of fumbles.
Freshmen Routed
This contest, previously labeled as a bang-up ball game, turned out to be a complete rout of the first year men. Alumni, by scoring at the psychological moments, put their rivals on the edge of complete demoralization.
The Junior proved their superiority in the first five minutes of play with two touchdowns, and another before the end of the period..
Two Freshman passes, intercepted within their 30 yard srtipe, put Alumni in position to register its two remaining touchdowns.
On her lone venture into Alumni territory, Freshman chalked up its
lone score through the air following a penalty against the Juniors.
The Frosh gathered a bit of consolation, if there was any to be had, by that fact that they were the first hall to cross the Alumni goal this year.
St. Edward’s and Badin supplied the remaining activity in the league. With that same sweeping wind to combat, neither team was able to turn from this struggle long enough to push over a score. Neither team was able to hit its stride long enough to make any great headway. Fumbles
--------------------------4 ij
I!
LIVINGSTON’S	j
■ ■	’i
Home of KUPPENHEIMER and other famous make	Ij
SUITS ...
OVERCOATS..
TUXEDOES ...
Stetson Hats	Nettleton Shoes
Select your
CHRISTMAS GIFTS here
N. D. Jewelry
Pennants
Banners
Compacts
Pillow Tops
Book Ends
Bracelets Novelties
Two stores for your convenience Downtown and on the Campus
marred the efforts of both elevens.
The Minims had the better going. They chalked up more first downs and outgained their opponents from scrimmage. Both squads threatened the opposition’s goal line once, but they found the cold weather had sapped the strength needed for the final push. Andrews was again the outstanding star for the Saints.
Because of the student trip this week-end there are no games scheduled for Sunday.
(Continued on Pajxe .27)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Joe Sheeketski
WILDCATS BEATEN (Continued from Page 20)
By William Flynn
Joseph Lawrence Sheeketski is carrying on an old Notre Dame tradition. He is a right half-back and that means that he is a good blocker. Moreover, when the football season is over, he draws on a baseball unie, after a period of rest, and becomes a varsity catcher under the direction of Dr. George Keogan.
That right-half position is something in football when played at this institution. Back in the days when Knute Rockne was developing his open game with all its color and spectacle. he needed good blockers—blockers who, although small themselves as football players go, could take the other man out of the play.
Must Be A Blocker
It all came about this way. Certain plays in the Notre Dame quarterback’s notebook are based on the principle of getting the ball carrier safely past the line of scrimmage and into a broken field. The blockers, and particularly the right half, usually lead the way. Consequently the holder of that position in the backfield must be good.
The theory is that if there are no opponents left standing after the ball carrier crosses the scrimmage line, he won’t be tackled. Which is all very elementary, but effective, especially when executed by Notre Dame teams.
So back in the days of Gipp there were Mohardt and Barry. The Four Horsemen came and went—all great blockers. Then Elder and Schwartz had their Marty Brill. And now there is Joseph Lawrence Sheeketski in the backfield.
Another Ohioan
Blocking right-half Joe is a native of Shadyside, Ohio whose greatest claim to distinction besides being his home is the fact that it is within a few miles of Bellaire, Ohio, residence of Jim Harris, left guard in the current cast of the Fighting Irish.
At Shadyside High school, Joe played three years of football, basketball and baseball. He was a right half during the football season, a forward during the court season, and when the grass grew green and the leaves unfolded at Shadyside, he became a catcher. Incidentally, he was captain of the basketball team one year.
But during the summer months he took on another form of recreation. Since he reached his 16th year, he has been a steel wrestler in the Wheeling
mills. All in seven years, for he was 23 during his last season in the iron league, he worked up to the position of a “lap welder,” whatever that means in a pipe foundry.
Along with the high school sports, “lap-welding,” and going to classes he made the acquaintance of Frank Wallace, old Notre Dame publicity man, and now with the New York Daily News in the capacity of football expert, and a “one-a-year” football novel writer. Wallace got Joe to come to Notre Dame.
Hero Of “Huddle”?
After Joe had been here a year, Wallace came out with his novel “Huddle.” Its hero was an iron worker. Joe was an iron worker. Perhaps there is a relation between the two. It can’t be too much of coincidence for both men were iron workers and good football players.
After receiving Wallace’s push and landing at Notre Dame as a student in the Department of Physical Education, Joe played football. But when spring came around he again turned (Continued on Page 28)
did. Jaskwhich added his second point of the game when he made good a placement. During the remainder of the quarter and throughout the entire second quarter Notre Dame kept their opponents on the defensive.
Four men handled the ball on the play that resulted in the scoring of Notre Dame’s final touchdown, which proved to be the last score of the afternoon. At a point late in the game when it looked very much as though there would be no more scoring, Notre Dame got possession of the oval on the Purple 28-yard line. Koken then tossed a beautiful pass to Banas, who was hit from behind by Olson and downed on the Wildcat three yard line.
Strategy Does It
Here it seemed that Notre Dame was lacking the scoring punch, for they were held without gain for three downs. Then the strategy was employed and Jaskwhich called a huddle.
On the next play Koken got the ball, faked it to Banas, handed the ball to Kosky who came from around end, and as Kosky was about to be nailed, he tossed a beautiful lateral to Jaskwhich who stepped across the goal line. Jaskwhich put the finishing touches to the game with a neat place kick that raised the final score, to 21 to 0.
Northwestern (0) Notre Dame (21)
Manske .............LE................. Vairo	.
Heuss ..............LT............  Krause
Dilley -------------LG............. Harris
Weldin .............C............ Robinson
Kawai ______________RG____________ Greeney
Gonya --------:-----RT.............. Kurth
Fencl ..............RE............. Devore
Auguston ...........QB__________ Jaskwhich
Rentner ............LH.............. Koken
Sullivan -----------RH......... Sheeketski
Olson --------------FB________ Melinkcvich
Touchdowns — Melinkovich, Vairo, Jaskwhich.
Points after touchdowns—Jaskwhich (3)
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Kosky for Vairo, Pfefferle for Krause, Gorman for Robinson, Pivarnik for Greeney, Roach for Kurth, Host for Devore, Vejar for Jaskwhich, Lukats for Koken, Brancheau for Sheeketski, Banas for Melinkovich, Leonard for Melinkovich, Murphy for Vejar, Wunsch for Harris.
Northwestern—Jens for Manske, Thoma for Jens, Riley for Heuss, Whalen for Dilley, McDonald for Weldin, Kostbade for Fencl, Potter for Augustson, Leeper for Rentner, Stanul for Leeper.
Coaches—Dick Hanley, Northwestern ; Hunk Anderson, Notre Dame.	'
Referee—Frank Birch (Earlham). Umpire— John Schommer (Chicago). Field judge—Col. H. B. Hackett (Army). Head linesman—J. J. Lipp (Chicago).
November 18, 1932
Twenty-five
N. D. 24, KANSAS 6
(Continued from Page 21)
feet interference rounded the left end and dashed 70 yards for the third touchdown. After the Blue and Gold gridmen had worked the ball down to
Nick Lukats
He tied the score in the Notre Dame-Kansas game with a 47 yard run.
the Jayhawkers’ eight yard line, Mike Koken swept wide around the right side of the line for the last score of the game.
Statistics show the superiority of Notre Dame over Kansas. Notre Dame gained 407 yards from scrim. mage while Kansas gained but 97.
The Irish punters averaged 44.7 while the westerners averaged but 36.7. It would be hard to determinee just who was the chief ground gainer for Notre Dame, as all of the backs some time or other during the 60 minutes of play broke loose for long runs.
Summary:
Notre Dame	Pos.	Kansas
Vairo .............LE............. Casini
Pfefferle .........LT.......... Mehringer
Wunsch ............LG.......... Kvaternik
Alexander .........C............. Burcham
Pivarnik .........._RG___________ Atkeson
Roach .........-...RT............ Clawson
Host (C) ...........RE............ O’Neil
Vejar ..............QB........... Schaake
Lukats ............LH-.............  Dumm
Tobin ..............RH............. Smith
Banas ..............FB........... Gridley
Score by periods—
Notre Dame ............6 6 6 6—24
Kansas  ...............6 0 0 0— 6
Notre Dame scoring: Touchdowns, Lukats, Sheeketski (sub for Tobin), Melinkovich (sub for Banas), Koken (sub for Lukats).
Kansas scoring: Touchdown— Schaake.
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
WHAT THEY THINK OF
We have often wondered what football stars think about as they tear up and down the gridiron for long gains. To set our curiosity at rest, we sought out George Melinkovich a bit after he had cooled olf from his 98-yard trip last Saturday. We uncovered the following slant on things: '
“When I saw that kickoff coming right at me,” Mink said, “I kept hoping that I’d get a chance for a good run back.
“My hands were really pretty cold and I was nervous anyway, so when the ball bounced in front of me, I had a lot of trouble picking it up. I was plenty nervous by that time.
“Finally I got started and kept thinking about running as hard and as fast as I could. When I thought I was almost stopped, a hole opened up—I don’t know— how—and I ran through.
“I saw Rentner and someone else coming up on me—I never have found out who that other Northwestern man was—somebody came along to block for me, I think it was Chuck (Jask-which), and the next thing I knew I was all alone. But I could feel someone chasing me.
“Down around the Northwestern 30-yard line I got thinking that I’d run an awfully long ways and that the goal line would never show up. The last 25 yards seemed like that many miles. All of a sudden it was all over.”
NOT GUILTY
In the last two week’s interim since our last appearance, we have learned that this column was popularly blamed for the “Forecaster” letters that appeared in some of the halls after the Pitt game.
As a point of accuracy: we had nothing to do with those letters. We make our little speeches right here.
STIMULATION
The “Stop Notre Dame” adherents have certainly worked overtime this Fall on new formations to meet Hunk’s offensive offerings. It added plenty of interest, too.
First, Pitt popped up with a 6-3-2 defence borrowed for the occasion from the patent holder, Pop Warner, who invented the gadget for the Stanford-St. Mary’s game a year back (so we’re told). They added a frill of their own with floating tackles on Irish reverse plays, and added co the general confusion by crashing their ends inside the tackles on those plays.
Last week’s game produced, among other things, a butterfly defense with the Wildcats doing the fluttering. Their tackles played back about two yards, hesitated before crashing and then went straight in. The fullback headed the diamond formation of the backfield, about three yards behind the center. The halfbacks played wide, outside the ends, from eight to ten yards behind the line. The safety man brought up in the rear.
The movement to check the Irish has stimulated considerable inventiveness among opposing coaching staffs and the result for the rest of the season will be interesting to watch.
SCORECASTS
It’s two weeks since we tried our luck. On our last attempt we had 25 right, 4 wrong, and one tie. For the year we have won on 115 selections, suffered 27 setbacks and earned draws on 17 games.
For tomorrow:	’
NOTRE DAME 14. Navy 0.
Auburn 13, Georgia 7.
Army 27. West Virginia Wesleyan 0. Southern Methodist 13. Baylor 0. Boston College 13, Carnegie 0.
Columbia 20, Syracuse 6. Iowa State 7. Drake 6. North Carolina 14, Duke 0. Fordham 13, Oregon State 6. Harvard 10, Yale 6.
Kansas State 13, Kansas University 0. Marquette 7, Washington and Jefferson 0. Michigan State 12. Detroit 6. Northwestern 13. Iowa 0.
Ohio State 13. Illinois 0.
Purdue 20. Indiana 7.
Texas Christian 14, Rice 7.
Stanford 13, California 7.
Wisconsin 13. Chicago 6. Michigan 7, Minnesota 0. Nebraska 13. Oklahoma 0. Texas 13, Arkansas 0.
West Virginia 14, Davis-Elkins 0.
I
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
ARMY TO CHALLENGE NOTRE DAME COMEBACK
Powerful Cadet Team Favored To Beat Irish Next Week. -
Prepared to throw up the highest possible barrier in Notre Dame’s comeback path, the powerful Cadets of West Point will clash with the Irish in Yankee Stadium, New York, next Saturday.
The Army will have more at stake than an upset of the Notre Dame victory hopes. They will be gunning for their second consecutive win over the Irish in as many years; they have never accomplished that feat. In 1928 they seemed on the threshold of turning the trick but an inspired Irish eleven threw back the gray machine 12 to 6.
Army Favored
On the basis of their record so far this year, the Cadets are rated as heavy favorites over Coach Anderson’s charges. Army has measured Furman, Carleton, Yale, William and Mary, Harvard and North Dakota State by tremendous scores. Only Pittsburgh, conquerors of Notre Dame, have turned back the West Point eleven. In that game Army produced two touchdowns against the team Notre Dame couldn’t score against, and in the opinions of most critics, really outplayed the Panthers.
The Army . offensive strength has been the outstanding feature of their season. Aside from the Pitt game, the lowest score that they rolled up was 20 points against Yale. They smote the touted Harvard eleven with a barrage of touchdowns in an astounding 46 to 0 triumph.
Strong Defensively
Defensively, the Cadets are far from impotent. Pittsburgh’s three scores are the only ones chalked up against the soldiers so far. With West Virginia Wesleyan furnishing the opposition tomorrow, there is little danger of another blemish on the West Point record before the Notre Dame classic.
SAM’L SPIRO & CO. /Temporary Location^ \ 128 So. Michigan St. to /
CLOSE OUT
Balance of our big $200,000 Clothing Stock ‘HART SCHAFFNER and MARX' (and other standard brands) Men’s Suits-O’coats
All new——fine all wool worsteds---this season’s new shades — single and double breasted models. . . .
OVER 600 GARMENTS Taken from our $35.00 stocks and sacrificed at this low price—
The Minnesota club met Wednesday, Nov. 2, at 6:30 p. m. in the basement of Walsh hall.
I would rather feel compunction than attempt to define it.—St. Augustine.
SPIRO’S
November 18, 1932
Twenty-seven
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 23)
Alumni 33; Freshman 7.
Alumni Hall practically clinched the right to represent division two against Morrissey, the winner of division one, of the Interhall leagues by defeating Freshman Hall Sunday by the score of 33 to 7, a much bigger score than was thought would be scored in the game.
It was not the fact that Alumni ■won so much as it was the precision with which they did it that surprised a group who braved a biting wind to see the two teams battle it out on a snow covered field. Whereas this game had promised to be one of the outstanding games of the year, it was nothing but a complete rout for the Junior hall.
Scores Two In Five Minutes
Scoring two touchdowns before five minutes of the first period had elapsed, and adding another- before the end of the period, Alumni assumed a commanding lead which was never threatened. Freshman scored its lone touchdown just before the close of the first half when after a 15 yard penalty had enabled Freshman to enter Alumni territory it completed a pass for its lone touchdown. Incidentally this was the only time throughout the course of the game that Freshman advanced into Alumni territory.
Alumni registered two of its three first period touchdowns through long runs. Soon after the opening of the game Luckonitz ran around left end for 52 yards for a touchdown. An attempted pass for the extra point was incomplete.
Freshmen Battle Hard
Shortly after Holland blocked a kick on the Freshman 15 yard line with Pogue recovering and running for the touchdown. This time Bloesma dropdicked for the extra point. A run around right end of 40 yards by Pallman passed to Pogue for the extra point after the second of these scores.
Although the score would not indicate it, Freshman put up a hard battle and did well in the face of tremendous odds. In addition it has the satisfaction of knowing that it is the first team to score on Alumni this
year.
St, Edwards 0; Badin 0.
In freezing weather, last Sunday morning, St. Edward’s and Badin struggled for twenty-eight minutes in a hard fought battle, which resulted in a scoreless tie. Both teams moved from one end of the field to the other several times, and some forward passing was done by St. Ed’s, but the greater part of the playing was done in mid-field. Neither team seemed to be able to get started. Badin played the entire game with only eleven men.
DRAPE
On the Corner
The FULLBACK
is an attractive feature of these
SUITS
The popularity of these English Drape suits is making consistent gains and our low prices prevent any blocking of interest in their adoption. We present a strong line of them and if your goal is good grooming, here are the suits you should tackle.
During the first few minutes of the game, both teams were fighting desperately in an attempt to score before the cold could numb their bodies, but after this they settled down to the type of playing which was consistent throughout the remainder of the game, even and steady. It was in the course of this period that Emerling of St. .Ed’s, a half-back threw a few passes to the Sophomore' ends for some short gains. Badin retaliated with equal gains through the line and around the ends.
(Continued on Page 30)
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
RESERVES PLAY PURDUE “B” TEAM TO 0-0 TIE
Game Moral Victory for Locals; Cousino and Cavender Star.
While Notre Dame and Northwestern were doing battle here in Notre Dame Stadium Saturday the Notre Dame “B” team was playing a scoreless tie with the Purdue “B” team at Lafayette. The tie partially atones for the defeat suffered by the Notre Dame Reserve team at the hands of Purdue last year.
Notre Dame outplayed Purdue by a big margin throughout the entire game but once it reached a scoring position it lacked the aggressiveness to advance.
Twice the Irish went the length of the field to the Purdue five yard line but on both occasions the Purdue line stiffened and Notre Dame was forced to relinquish the ball.
A crowd of some six thousand braved a bitter cold day to see the two teams in action. The Purdue band entertained between the halves.
Cousino, Ronzone and Cavender played brilliant football for Notre
Dame. George Kozak was acting as coach of the team and Tom Thompson and Tom Walsh were the managers in charge.
Summary: Notre Dame .	Purdue
Begley —__________ .LE_________ Davidson
Mariani ___________LT.--------- Overtree
Jaeger ____________LG............ Rother
D’Amora ____________C___________  Diebel
Shamla ____________RG.......... Nadolski
Cousino ..........-RT........... Dilling
Herold ____________RE.......... Anderson
Cavender QB.................... Toriello
Witterbottom ......LH.......... Pekelsma
Clark .............RH........... Shapiro
Ronzone ___________.FB------------  Lamb
Officials: Referee, Ted Curtis, Chicago: Umpire, J. Thompson, Gary; Field Judge, G. P. Snow, Chicago; Head Linesman, George Keenzler, Purdue.
SHEEKETSKI
(Continued from Page 24)
into a baseball player. Once more a catcher, he won a monogram during the 1932 season and had a batting average of about 285 despite a prolonged slump. His hits included several homers at crucial moments.
His greatest thrill came during the first game of the 1931 season. Hunk took the boys down to warm-up against Indiana. Joe was at right half and carried the ball on a 70-yard,
non stop flight for a touchdown. Since then he ambled 65 yards for another score against Kansas.
He plans to become Coach Sheeket-ski after graduation in June. The school that gets him will have an experienced man for football, basketball, baseball, and steel wrestling.
“B” Team Loses to Gary
The Notre Dame “B” team lost a hard fought game to Gary College by the score of seven to six at Gary a week ago last night. The game which was played in near freezing weather was marred considerably by fumbles.
Notre Dame scored first midway in the first period, when Clark ran 45 yards off right tackle for a touchdown. Burke attempted to rush the ball over for the extra point, but was unsuccessful.
This lead was held till the final play of the second period when a long pass was completed for a Gary touchdown. The point after touchdown which eventually proved ot be the margin of victory was made after the gun had sounded denoting the end of the first half.
Both teams strove desperately to score in the second half but were unable to make any concentrated drives.
Every Hour on the Hour
to
DOWNTOWN CHICAGO
Every hour on the hour a fast train leaves the South Shore station, Michigan St., at LaSalle, South Bend, for downtown Chicago, making the trip in a little more than two hours. This is the quick, convenient way to the city. Equally fast trains also leave Chicago every hour on the hour for South Bend.
For complete information on South Shore Line service, see Jimmy McGrath, No. 1, Morrissey Hall.
SOUTH SHORE LINE
O.	A. CLARK’S
RESTAURANT
104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
/ Catering to :•
NOTRE DAME MEN j
/ for over thirty years
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Mans Meal Drop in Any Time.
November 18, 19.32
Twenty-nine
MICHIGAN STATE BEATS IRISH X-COUNTRY TEAM
Score is 19 to 39; Ottey Shows Olympic Form for Victors.
On November 4, Captain Bowers and the Notre Dame thinlies were routed on the home stretch of their four and one-half mile grind about the campus, and lost by a 19-39 score to Michigan State.
The State team was led by Tom Ottey, Olympic 5000 meter aspirant, who finished about a quarter of a mile ahead of the field in 22:55.5. The ease with which the winner ran, and his apparent inexhaustion, drew applause from the crowd at the finish.
Two Michigan harriers, Captain Wissner and Pongrace, crossed the finish line tied. Their time was 24:10.
Jake Bowers and Joe Young who had held on to the leaders, suddenly slowed up when Young suffered from a stitch in the side as the two were climbing the hill on the side of St. Joseph’s Lake about a half mile from the finish. Bowers stuck with Young urging him oh to the tape. They crossed the line together in 24:15.
In close succession Elliott, Smail, and Fullerton of the Spartan squad followed the first two Irish runners.
Duke finished his race for Notre Dame in ninth place with a hard sprint.
Clyde Roberts was running along with the leaders until an injury to foot slowed him up a bit with one and one mile to go. Later upon ex-aminaiton it was found that Roberts had broken an ankle bone. He finished the contest with his painful injury, demonstrating clearly the spirit which is instilled in Mr. Nicholson’s men.
The other Notre Dame men followed in this order: Grimes, O’Reilly, Hoyt, Else, Moran, and Troy.
The victory of the Spartans was
LEMONTREES ______S' JU
O pt om e tri s t s 222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
GLASSES ...
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
not so impressive as the score indicates. Notre Dame’s runners had an even chance to win at the three mile mark, but lost out on the final sprint.
Despite the depression, Columbia university has discovered that a cross section of 103 graduates of the Columbia School of Business are earning an average of §5,000 a year each. The yearly incomes of the 103 range from §360 to §100,000.
SINGLE from S2 • DOUBLE from S3
Private underground passage to Penn Station and all subways running to Yankee Stadium, polo Grounds and Baker Field.
'in NEW YORK
B
B
6
B
B
B
B
E
American Hotels Corporation
tel 32St. Bway


Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 27)
The last period brought forth some playing which was slightly harder than it had been earlier in the game. Each team was making a last final effort to push the pig-skin oval over the coveted line of their opponents, but it was in vain. The two teams were apparenlty possesesd with the idea that neither of them should score. This struggle on the part of both teams was still going on when the final whistle blew to end a fine
arrangement with the manufac-
exhibition of fighting against tremendous odds.
Farrell, one of the Badin halfbacks, is to be praised for his unusually fine playing. Despite the fact that the Sophomores did not appear to notice him, he made himself evident to both teams by his nifty blocking and tackling. Andrews and Sunn were a head above all in the St. Edward’s attack.
We are always a little more or a little less than an animal—Chesterton
BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 23)
after the football season when A11-. American Ed Krause will once again familiarize himself with a basketball, and cause many opposing teams to lose more than one night’s sleep while they try to work out some method by which they might stop the “Big Moose.”
Although it is much too early in the season to predict, or even for Coach George Keogan to decide which five men will form the first team, yet there are some men whose consistency thus far almost warrants their being on the varsity five. Captain Johnny Baldwin, and Leo Crowe, veteran guards, are almost sure of capturing their old places. Joe Voegle, Eddie Alberts, and Leo Keating seem to have the best of the argument on the forward posts. Jim Ferris is almost alone in his battle for the center position. However, there are three more weeks of practice before the first game will be played, and plenty of things can happen in that time.
turer of Aristocrat Radio Tubes whereby you may return your old tubes on new
Aristocrat
At 50% Off the Regular List Price
These tubes—R. C. A. Licensed—represent the finest quality in Radio Tubes obtainable at any price. ' Triple tested, they are delivered to you in perfect condition, fully guaranteed.
Have Your Old Tubes Tested FREE!
Bring in your old tubes and have them TESTED FREE! Our tube testing equipment is the latest and most efficent, assuring you of an accurate report on every tube. If any of your tubes show up weak or dead you can turn them
in and buv brand new R. C. A. Licensed at 50% of the regular list price.				Aristocrat	Tubes
Tube Number	List With Your Price Old Tube		Tube Number	List With Your Price Old Tube	
226	85c	43c	280	1.05	53c
201A	80c	40c	224A	1.65	83c
245	1.15	58c	235	1.65	83c
227	1.05	53c	112A	1.55	78c
171A	95c	48c	247	1.60	80c
Other Types Are		Obtainable	it This Same Discount.		
There is a Walgreen Drug Store near you. Open every evening and Sunday.
STRATIGON “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD” 114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c
—dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c
—from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special
—served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries
—the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame
• Students Meet”
Open 24 Hours.
November 18, 1932
Thirty-one
ACROSS THE SCRIMMAGE UNE
By Joe Kurth
I see that five hundred students are going to Cleveland for the Navy game
Last Saturday’s game showed what can be done when the students really get behind the team. Maybe “29er” was right.
Robinson and Pfefferle look like the “coming” sophomores after their performance against Northwestern last week. Robinson was in on every play and Pfefferle’s blocking a sight for sore eyes.
Melinkovich’s 98-yard run for a touchdown on the kick-off again brings to mind Adam Walsh’s remark to the Four Horsemen in 1924. The famous quartet had been getting nowhere behind a second string line when Rock sent in Walsh and the rest of the first team line. After a good gain on the next play, Walsh said, “I guess the Four Horsemen can’t get very far without the Seven Mules.”
Pfefferle’s savage tackle of Jakie Sullivan when the latter was trying to return a punt was great. Pfefferle was captain of the Campion team that Sullivan played on. Probably Sullivan would like to have Pfefferle blocking for him now.
Lowest Rates for First Class
/eaaiHOME FOR
Travel
One Way
Round ■	Trip
DETROIT
$4.00
$6.00
tomorrow. Northwestern’s representation at the game last week was very poor considering how near the school is to Notre Dame.
Norm Greeney ought to be “hot” in tomorrow’s game. It is the first time that he has played in Cleveland since he performed in the John Marshalal High school line there.
THANKSGIVING
The same group that thought Pkt was going to be a pushover are now saying the same thing about Navy. They forget that Navy was supposed to be weak last year, but managed to put three Notre Dame regulars on the injured list.
TOLEDO
$3.95	$5.95
CLEVELAND
$6.85	$10.30
and Greyhound will save dollars for Christmas fun
We have ’em!
Elk Sport MOCCASIN OXFORDS $2.75
For Campus Wear, heavy Elk upper with double sole and leather heels that will stand hard wear, also Black and Brown.
LOUISVILLE $6.50	$9.75
PITTSBURGH $9.45	$14.20
CINCINNATI $6.75	$10.15
ST. LOUIS $6.20	$9.30
COLDWATER $2.20	$3.30
FLINT $3.00	$5.40
BATTLE CREEK $2.00	$3.60
LANSING $2.25	$4.05
HERE’S sober fact .... you can save enough dollars on your Greyhound bus trip home for Thanksgiving to buy several worthwhile Christmas gifts, or to make a trip to the next big game.
And Greyhound’s the preferred way to make holiday trips. You roll along smooth highways, with congenial fellow-passengers, cheered by healthful Tropic-Aire heat, no matter how crisp the air outside.
Only one bus company in the world can give you the security, the nation-wide service, the convenience of schedules that Greyhound offers. No matter where you’re going—how short or how long the trip—ask the Greyhound agent first. Nine chances out of ten, he can serve you best and save you real money.
BOSTON SHOE STORE
124 So. Michigan St.
LIMA
$4.15	$6.25
RICHMOND $5.50	$9.90
BUFFALO $10.75	$16.15
LIGONIER -$1.30	$2.35
FORT WAYNE $2.50	$4.50
UNION BUS DEPOT 133 South Lafayette Blvd. Phone: 3-8283.
GREYHOUND
-Z I fl C 1
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
On Down The Line
Ry Fred MacRpth
MOVING PICTURES of TED LYONS’ pitching form will be used to train CHICAGO WHITE SOX rookie pitchers next spring . . . BASEBALL GAMES are played RAIN OR SHINE IN MEXICO . . . JACK SHARKEY DOES NOT INTEND TO MEET MAX SCHMELLING WITHIN THE NEXT TWO YEARS . . . SCHMELLING kept JACK waiting for TWO YEARS before he would give him a return match.
To pass the time during the bus ride from the university to the stadium, members of the YALE FOOTBALL SQUAD endeavored to write down the names of the states of the union . . . ONLY ONE PLAYER succeeded in recalling the names of all the states ... or nearly all . . . his team - mates protested when they learned he had included SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA and TULANE ... the GERMAN ATHLETIC CLUB FOR THE BLIND recently held athletic contests at BERLIN . . . entries were listed for SPRINTING, PUTTING THE SHOT, JUMPING and HANDSPRINGS. . . .
“LEFTY” FURIN of SHARPSVILLE (Pa.) CAN PITCH RIGHTHANDED OR SOUTHPAW WITH EQUAL FACILITY ... HE SHOULD STAR IN DOUBLE-HEADERS . . . only 300,000 people watched the ST. LOUIS CARDINALS play their home games during the past season . . . DR. CLOYD GOODNIGHT, president of BETHANY (W. Va.) COLLEGE proposes to abolish paid admissions ot athletic contests at his college ... he fears the “gate” threatens the AMATEUR STANDING of his teams . . . among other things, WALTER JOHNSON holds the ALLTIME RECORD of 3,497 STRIKEOUTS. . . .
WRESTLING has flourished as the oldest sport in the world from the time of MILO OF CROTON ... he licked them all in the year 511 B. C« . . . DOGS are used to hunt lost golf balls at the famous ST. ANDREWS in SCOTLAND . . . KEENE FITZPATRICK, grand old track coach at PRINCETON, has retired after a career of 42 years ... 22 were spent at
WHATEVER the occasion . .. whatever the hour . . . whatever the distance . . . the telephone carries your voice back home or away from home as you desire. Swift, sure, and inexpensive... toll telephone service meets present-day demands for both speed and economy in business as well as in the home.
PRINCETON . . . JACKIE “KID” BERG is making a salary of 200 pounds a week in a LONDON REVUE . . . “SLIP” MADIGAN (St. MARY’S) spits on his hands when he becomes excited during close games . . . “POP”;.WARNER smokes dozens of cigarettes during a game ... he hadJbetter smoke the toasted variety when his team plays PITTSBURGH.
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Foar terms of eleven weeks are riven each year. These may be taken consecutively (BLD. in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (M.D. in foor years). The entranee requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, indnding the snbjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Cata-lecnes and application forms may be obtained from the Dean. .
The "Economical Noice of VLillions
INDIANA BELL
Telephone Company
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
Phone [Residence 3-4041	X-ray
DR. E. S. LUCAS	
D e n t i s t	
702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend,
Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana
Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted
Service	at Moderate Prices
J. BURKE, Inc.
Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians
Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343
DR. B. A. KAMM
Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan tt (10 to 12 m. Hours 4 [3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana
DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST Dentists
Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes
Residence Phone 4-6354
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
Office 3-6978	Residence 2-6741
DR. LEO J. QUINLAN
Dentist
514 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street

„ . .	(Office 4-5821	X-Ray Telephone }^sidence 3.3090	y DR. H. W. CARTER D entist 315 Union Trust Bldg.	South Bend, Indiana
,	(10 to 11:30 a. m.
Hours |2 to 4 p. m.
DR. H. BOYD-SNEE
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana
FRANK J. POWERS, M. D
University Physician
Office at	Hours:
University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
© 1932, Liggett & Myeis Tobacco Co.
THE young .man is saying the reason he smokes Chesterfields is because they satisfy.
The young lady agrees with him. She says: ^They click with me, too. I’m not what you’d call a heavy smoker. But even I can tell that they’re milder. Besides, I always have a kind of feeling that Chesterfields taste better.”
She’s right. Chesterfields are just as pure and wholesome as Nature and Science can make them. And we have upwards of 90 millions of dollars invested to ensure their mildness and better taste.
THE CIGARETTE THAT'S MILDER • • • THE CIGARETTE THAT TASTES BETTER