LETTERS
Sir:
Every morning as you walk into the “Cat” to get a paper or buy cigarettes, a line which seems miles long has to be “sweated out.” It is bad enough to endure lines for everything else here.
I believe that the particular department in the “Caf” which I am referring to, has fallen into a rut and will continue to make students, and profs as well, endure the lines for such minor purchases as a paper, a package of cigarettees and even an ice cream cone. There is a lot of unused space in the basement of the “Caf” in the vicinity of the Public Telephone Booths which could he very easily utilized to dispense the newspapers during the peak period which lasts approximately an hour in the morning. This would eliminate the unpleasant ordeal of standing in line day in and day out and would do away with the crowded state of affairs which creates so much unnecessary confusion in the “Caf” every morning. The primary purposes for having the “Caf” is for the sale of food and not a place for endless cigarette and newspaper lines. The endless “chow lines” and all the rest of these lines are aggravating enough, so why not eliminate as many as we can and make life a little more pleasant for everyone concerned.
An ex-GI afflicted with Liniophobia.
TUX and TAILS
$40 and $50
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan St.
South Bend’s Largest Store For Men
Sir:
I have noticed the cleavage which exists between the great majority of our student body and the Spanish American students and I am sure this is a very evident fact to anyone who spends one day on our campus. However, it did not surprise me in the least for this is not a special phenomenon of our campus. I have seen it in other American universities as well as in Spanish American universities where it works in reverse with the North Americans in the minority. I have noticed it in La Sorbonne of Paris, where the minorities are numerous and more conspicuous for some of them, like the Arabs, do not become “westernized” in their costumes. It is simply part of the temperament of men to stick together with those who speak their own language and have the same cultural background. ’
What prompted me to write this letter is a noticeable trend on the campus to break down this cleavage and bring about more social relations between the -two groups. This is definitely a commendable line of action. I am sure that if carried out it will bring credit and.
benefits to both groups and to Notre Dame at large. However, if a method of coercion is followed the results may turn out to be just the opposite of the desired ones. National and racial sensibilities would be hurt and animosities aroused. Let’s steer shy of this course.
First I will direct my appeal to the minority, who has many customs and traditions which I share and deeply cherish. I know you will not deny me the privilege and pleasure of considering myself part of your group in more than one way. We should try to participate in the campus life as individuals by coming out of our group. We should strive
to learn the American language to the best of our abilities and avail ourselves of the opportunities to know and understand better American culture. This, we can accomplish only by making cordial friendships with American students. From my experience I can tell you that these friendships will be one of the most pleasant memories that you can take away from an American college.
Secondly, I want to make an appeal to the majority, my fellow citizens and once (for four years) my comrades in arms. We should not expect the Spanish American students to lose their national identity. They are not immigrants in this
country but visitors.. We should not object to their grouping and their talking in Spanish when we are not in the conversation. Remember that Spanish is their language and that English is very hard for most of them. We should be ready to welcome them with our sincere friendship and try to know them as individuals.
There are many other practical ways to bring about the desired ties of friendship and I leave it to members of both groups to take the lead and meet this challenge to their good social behavior with a true Notre Dame spirit.
Hector M. Davila, Lieut. Comdr, (inactive) USNR.
General Electric Co., Dept. 6-237 Schenectady 5, N. Y.
Gentlemen: Please send me a free copy of CAREERS IN THE ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY, APD-2
CONTENTS
FOREWORD
OPPORTUNITY UNLIMITED
One Company . Six Departments— Power for Peace—The Bringers of Light —The Salesman of Home Appliances— Electronics Makes Business—A New Industry from Test Tubes—Heating . . Cooling
TRAINING FOR LEADERSHIP
On Test—General Course—Sales Engineering—Design Engineering—Accounting—Manufacturing
SCIENCE LOOKS AHEAD
New “House of Magic”—“A Group of Men”
PEACETIME BLUEPRINT
From War—“More Power to America”
it ft*
ttlWW


Name
Address
GENERAL © ELECTRIC
953-113F-211
3
WONDERFUL WOMEN!
A woman’s the greatest of all contradictions,
She’s an angel in truth, a demon in fiction;
She’s afraid of a cockroach, she’ll scream at a mouse,
But she’ll tackle a husband as big as a house.
She’ll take him for better, she’ll take him for worse,
She’ll split his head open and then be his nurse. .
When he is well and gets out of bed, She’ll pick up a teapot and throw at his head.
She’s faithful, deceitful, keen-sighted and blind;
She’s crafty, she’s simple, she’s rude and she’s kind.
She’ll lift a man up, and throw a man down;
She’ll call him her- kind, and make him her clown.
You think she is this, you think she is that.	'
She’ll play like a kitten, and bite like a cat.
In the morning she does, in the evening she don’t;
She says she will, but you know that she won’t.
❖
CAMPUS QUIPS
Bud Bey: “Why did you leave your last class?”
John Bedard: “Illness.”
B.B.: “What sort of illness?”
J.B.: “My prof said he got sick of me.”
❖
Vince Scully: “What do you mean by women’s sphere, Uncle Mike?”
Mike Miller: “The earth.”
❖
At the dining hall—
Harpo O’Connor: “I can’t eat this food; call the manager.”
Beauteous dining hall girl: “It’s no use; he won’t eat it either.”
Two of the local music appreciation boys went down to the recent Sigmund Kornberg concert held in the peppy little hamlet down the road. The soprano was doing the solo when Dick Blaumeiser
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
said to Paul Biebel, referring to Romberg conducting the orchestra,
“Why does that man hit at that woman with his stick?”
“But he isn’t hitting at her,” replied Paul.
“Well, then, what’s she hollerin’ for?”
♦j.
POETRY DEPARTMENT
’Twas in a restaurant they met,
Romeo and Juliet;
He had no cash to pay the debt
So Rome-owed what Juli-et.
A sailor and his girl were riding out in the country on horseback. As they
Another Headquarters for ARROW
Loads of Arrow Shirts in many different collar styles to make all necks look handsome.
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Here—You are always a Guest before you are a Customer
stopped for a rest the two horses rubbed necks affectionately.
“Ah, me” said the sailor. “That’s what I’d like to do.”
“Well go ahead,” answered the girl. “It’s your horse.”'
❖
Husband: “I guess you’re pretty mad because I came home with this black eye last night.”
Wife: “Not at all. When you came home you didn’t have that black eye.”
❖
Movie Actress: “I’ll endorse your cigarettes for no less than $50,000.”
Cigaret Magnate: “I’ll see you inhale first.”
❖
Father: “Who broke that chair in the living room?”
Daughter: “A few minutes after I came home it collapsed, Dad, but neither of us was hurt.”
❖
A reporter had been sent to cover a great mine disaster. He was so impressed
4
Ifs Adler s for ARROWS
M TK CORNEK... IflCNMAN ( MMM4WN
For pushing pencils,
or paddles:
ARROW SPORTS SHIRTS
A specialty of Arrow Sports Shirts and Sport Knits is to give you plenty of action room for every activity. But plenty. '
Whether it’s schoolwork, bicycling, canoeing, or anything else that calls for comfort, Arrow provides it.
What’s more, most of these Arrows are washable, and give you that torso comfort without sacrificing an iota of good looks. Your Arrow dealer has proof.
PS. If your Arrow dealer hasn’t the one you want, try him again.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
by all he saw that he tried to indicate the emotion and heroism around him in that great panorama of death. In a wire to his editor he began:
“God sits tonight on a little hill overlooking a scene of stark disaster.”
His editor wired back:
“Never mind disaster—interview God —get pictures if possible.”
♦
A nervous man went to a psychiatrist and as he was being questioned, kept plucking invisible things from his clothing and tossing them away.
“Why do you do that?” asked the doctor.
“Feathers keep growing on me,” said the man, “and I got to keep plucking them off. Look, handfuls of them”
The psychiastrist said patiently, “Now don’t be foolish. There are no more feathers on you than there are on me.”
“Oh, yes there are,” the man said, as he kept pulling more invisible feathers and tossing them away.
“Oh, no there aren’t,” insisted the doctor.
This went on for some time until the psychiatrist suddenly started brushing invisible things off his own suit and cried: “You’re wrong about it—and for heaven’s sake stop throwing the feathers on me!”
ND Lay Trustees Hold Semi-Annual Meeting
The semi-annual meeting of the board of lay trustees of the University was held on May 10 with a meeting of the finance committee followed by a luncheon in the lay trustees’ dining room at which Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president, was host.
Attending the meeting were Joseph A. LaFortune, of Tulsa, Okla.; Frank C. Walker, of New York, former postmaster general; Joseph P. Kennedy, of New York, former ambassador to Great Britain; Thomas T. Beacom, of Chicago; John C. Tully, of La Grange, HI.; Byron V. Kanaley, of Chicago; P. C. Riley, of Indianapolis; William J. Corbett, of Chicago; Roy McCanna, of Burlington, Wis.; John P. Murphy, of Cleveland, Ohio; George W. Strake, of Houston, Texas; Bernard J. Voll and E. M. Morris—both of South Bend.
The lay board was organized in 1920 for the purpose of “holding, investing and administering the endowment funds of the University.” Mr. Voll and Mr. Morris were hosts to the board at luncheon in the South Bend Country dub last Saturday.
5
^he cNotre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
By BILL BRAUN and FRANK McCARTHY
iiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiitiiiHiitiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiitHmiiiiiitiniimiiimiHiiiii
JOHN DEFANT, Editor
JACK HUMMEL PAUL WEYRAUCH GEORGE COLLINS JOHNNY WALKER JOE CHENEY
Managing Editor Sports Editor
- Navy Editor
Feature Editor News Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS ... The College Parade SAM SMITH ----- The Crow's Nest BILL BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	-	- Soph Soap
JERRY OLWELL -	.	-	_ Campus Clubs
¥
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL -	-	- Photographic Editor
AL KUNTZ	CHRISTY WALSH
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA (Cover by Frank Cacciapaglia)
CONTRIBUTORS
JACK SULLIVAN BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY ROBERT J. LEANDER JACK MINZING JOHN A. O'CONNOR
JIM REGAN JOHN THOMAS DICK DEITZ JIM CLEMENS PETE BROWN JIM MALER MEL GODDARD DICK DOWDLE CLARENCE ZIMMER LEONARD DENTE JOE WILCOX JOHNNY KRUEGER
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
ARTHUR COUGHLAN, TOM GARGAN -	- Circulation
M. E. VARGA .	-	.	.	_	_	_ Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles— San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is'published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
We saw the............down town last week cautiously sneaking into a............he stayed just long enough to .........
a ....... and	then he surreptitously stole out via the back
door. . . . He wasn’t wearing the usual...... but had on a
rather startling ............ The Moral of this little epic, •
students, is never tell stories about the .... that may be
used for publication . . or the story will result in a...
«£♦
When ex-G.I. Brink was called into Father Kehoe’s office during the past week, the PD wheeled in his chair and asked in a familiar tone, “Well, who are you?” . . . the voice was so much like that of Brink’s former commanding officer that he immediately assumed ramrod posture and reeled off the reflexive routine. . . “Corporal Brink reporting, Sir. . . . First Regiment, Three Hundredth Field Artillery, Platoon Five, Squad Three . . . requesting a three day pass” ... So help us . . . this actually happened.
Big business on the campus was room registration for the -fall semestei- . . . Frank Wynn went to see about getting his old room back . . . “I’m sorry,” said the clerk at the window, “you should have sent in a post card to hold it . . . but I can give you room 308” . . . “Fine,” said Windy, about to leave . . . “No I’m sorry, that’s taken too - . . I guess you’ll have to be satisfied with room 324” . . . Frank didn’t say a word . . . You guessed it. . . 324 was his old room. . . .
❖
We managed to sneak into the Badin Hall Banquet at the LaSalle Tuesday nite and aftei- sipping a coke with a pink ice cube in it, were inspired to compose the following limerick . . .
There was a young fellow named Maddin Secure in a single at Badin
He’s getting four roommates Three more than that tomb rates Now Badin’s a place to go mad-in.
❖
Here and there . . . Tommy McGuire overheard on the quadrangle singing, “I’m a Big Boy Now ... I want to be treated like a big boy now” . . . Ray Chamberland still trying to find a way to “Get Acquainted” ... St. Ed’s Charlie Roult seen at St. Mary’s . . . said Charlie, “I’m only calling on some of mother’s friends” . . . and cute ones too . . . Vince Kedel staying up all nite studying for a blood test . . . we mean blood friends . . . he’s a Chem Major . . . you know what a Chem Major is ... a fellow who gets credit for raising a stink in his classes . . . Mr. Mullaly explaining to his class that logic cannot be taught in a colloquial fashion due to the difficulty of expressing oneself in the language of the proletariat . . . Vince “Claghorn” Boyle collecting discarded design plates to sell as souvenirs at the coming Engineer’s Open House . . . Bob Gaffney begging his roommate Hap Cordesman to make a series of pencil sketches of his newly acquired Huddle Trophy . . . Jim Donahue racing off to an English class to “get a chance to use his new text book before it goes out of date”. . .
♦
After visiting with some of the journalist majors at the Golf Club our sense of better judgment proposed this timely dittie . . .	(Continued on page 31)
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918..
VOL. 87, NO. 8	MAY 17, 1946	NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
N.D. Confers Doctorate on Nimitz
Nimitz Has Notable Record in Both Wars
Fleet Admiral Nimitz was born in Fredericksburg, Texas, on Feb. 24, 1885. He attended high school in Kerrville, Texas, and received his appointment to the United States Naval Academy in 1901. Graduating with distinction in 1905, he ranked seventh in a class of 114.
This was the beginning of his climb to one of the highest positions in the United States Navy. Nimitz served with outstanding merit in both wars and has received the nation’s most distinguished awards. In 1912, when he was a lieutenant, he saved one of his men from drowning and was awarded the Silver Life Saving Medal. The Distinguished Service Medal was given to him for his “conduct of the operations of the Pacific Fleet, resulting in the successful actions against the enemy in the Coral Sea, May, 1942, and off Midway Islands, June, 1942.” He also defeated the Japanese at the Solomon Islands, and succeeded in capturing and occupying the Gilbert and Marshall Islands.
On Oct. 7, 1943, Nimitz was made Commander-in-Chief of the Pacific Fleet. When Congress established the new rank of Fleet Admiral, Chester W. Nimitz was made a five-star admiral by act of the President and approved by the Senate on Dec. 19, 1944. Aboard the battleship Missouri in Tokyo Bay he signed the Japanese surrender papers on Sept. 1, 1945.
In addition to the Distinguished Service Medal, the Distinguished Service Medal by Congress, the Gold Star in lieu of the third Distinguished Service Medal, and the Silver Life Saving Medal, the Admiral has the Victory Medal, the Asiatic-Pacific Area Campaign Medal, and the World War II Victory Medal. On Aug. 10, 1945, he was invested with the Order of Knight Grand Cross of the Bath by Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser, British Commander-in-Chief in the Pacific, on behalf of His Majesty, King George VI. —Gerard Hekker
Admiral Nimitz making speech of acceptance at Convocation.
Citation
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME confers the degree of
DOCTOR OF LAWS, HONORIS CAUSA
on
a stalwart Christian gentleman who has served his country with loyalty, distinction, and honor in the various ranks of his profession from Ensign to Fleet Admiral, whose present position as Commander in Chief of the United States Fleet and Chief of Naval operations is a tribute to his ability and an indication of the trust and confidence which his fellow citizens repose in him, an officer whose gallant service and brilliant strategy have aided magnificently in defending our country from her foreign enemies in two world conflicts, whose prudent counsel is as effective in peace as is his sagacious leadership in war,
on
Fleet Admiral CHESTER WILLIAM NIMITZ of the United States Navy.
Fleet Admiral Honored
at Special Convocation
(Pictures on Pages 10 and 11; “The Admiral From Texas” on Page 12.)
Peace will be only an interlude between wars unless all of us learn the art of living in global community, Admiral of the Fleet Chester W. Nimitz, Chief of Naval Operations, declared Wednesday afternoon in accepting an Honorary Doctor of Law Degree from the University at a special convocation.
“It took nearly a decade,” stressed Admiral Nimitz, “for the similar-minded, like-speaking thirteen original states to agree upon a program of national unity. Let us have patience with the United Nations as it struggles with diverse speech and radically differing economic systems to produce an organization dedicated to the maintenance of peace—of peace by example and cooperation if possible, of peace maintained by police force if necessary.”
Admiral Nimitz pointed out that “the greatest weapon the United States brought to bear in this war was education. It was the greatest, because without it none ether was possible. Without education, the God-given wealth of material resources our country possesses could not have been so effectively utilized foi- its defense.”
“In the Pacific,’ said Admiral Nimitz, “we opposed an enemy whose equipment was occasionally as good as our best, and sometimes better. His patriotism, and morale was as high as our own. But the Japanese sailor, soldier and marine was not trained to think. His function was to hear and believe and obey. Our was a comprehending discipline and his was but blind obedience. American Loys had been taught to think.”
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, who welcomed Admiral Nimitz to Notre Dame, referred to his address of 1942 which was directed to Nimitz and declared: “Yes, history
(Continued on page 22)
7
Galvin Elected Member of Lay Trustee Board
Timothy P. Galvin, Hammond, Ind., attorney and Deputy Supreme Knight of the Knights of Columbus, has been elected a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame, it was announced by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. The election took place at the board’s semiannual meeting on May 10.
Timothy P. Galvin
Mr. Galvin, who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1916 with Father O’Donnell, succeeds as a trustee to the late John H. Neeson, ’03, former Commissioner of Public Works at Philadelphia, Pa., who died last December. Nationally prominent as an attorney, Mr. Galvin also served as National President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association in 193435.
The new member of the Associated Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame has been especially active in the Knights of Columbus. After serving successfully as Grand Knight of the Valparaiso Council and District Deputy of the Valparaiso District, he was elected as State Deputy of the Knights in Indiana in 1925 and continued in that office for a period of three years. He also has been a member of the Knights of Columbus Gibault Home Commission, a delinquent boys’ home at Terre Haute, Ind., conducted by Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, since 1928.
Mr. Galvin was elected a member of the Supreme Board of Directors of the Knights of Columbus in 1933, and also served as chairman of the Audits Committee, one of the most important committees of the Supreme Board. In January, 1941, he was elected Supreme Mas-
FOOD FOR EUROPE
At the request of the President of the University and in cooperation with a national drive being conducted by the NCWC, the Student Council has instituted a "Notre Dame Food For Europe Cam-qaign."
Details are being worked out at present with Mr. Ford, Manager of the University Dining Halls with the hope that a substantial saving on one meal can be allocated to this campaign.
ter of the Fourth Degree of the Knights of Columbus. Early this year he was named Deputy Supreme Knight of the Knights of Columbus.
At a testimonial banquet tendered him on Jan. 31, 1946, in Hammond, Mr. Galvin was eulogized as “one of the outstanding Catholic laymen of America” by a large gathering of Knights and other guests from all over the midwest. He is married and has three children. The Galvins make their home in Hammond.
Dr. Jump to Join
ND Biology Staff
Bolstering an already outstanding biological staff, Dr. Austin Jump of Easton, Md., has been named an assistant professor of biology at the University, it was announced this week by the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies. The appointment is effective with the fall semester.
Dr. Jump, who conducted research in the development of mold amylase for conversion of mash in the production of ethanol in the Joseph E. Seagram research laboratories in Louisville, Ky., during most of World War II, also spent six months during the war in the Panama Canal Zone. In Panama he was in charge of investigations at a laboratory which was established by the University of Pennsylvania under a contract from the Office of Strategic Research and Development.
The new professor, currently a research associate at the University of Pennsylvania, formerly was in charge of instruction in the biological sciences at Maryland State Teachers College, Frostburg, Md. He received his doctor of philosophy degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1938.
Dr. Jump has contributed articles to scientific journals and is the co-author of a textbook. He is a member of the Torrey Botanical Club, Sigma Xi, and is a fellow of the A.A.A.S. He is married and has one child.
Graduate Students to Hear Fr. Moore
Guest speaker at the graduate students’ supper to be held Wednesday, May 29, will be Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Ph.D., Dean of the Graduate School and Director of Mediaeval Studies at Notre Dame. He will discuss the nature, function, and future of the Graduate School.
This event will be the first postwar gathering of graduate students of the
University and their initial function as a group. According to Mr. Charles S. LaCugna, Department of Political Science, chairman of the affair, it is intended that this will inaugurate a program of organization among graduate students of the University.
The dinner is to take place at the Oliver Hotel. Reservations may be made between 1:00 and 3:C0 p.m., at 117 St. Edward’s Hall (La Cugna) and between 10:00 and 12:00, noon, at 147 Lyons Hall (McLaughlin). Entertainment will be provided during the dinner and after the address.
Assisting the chairman is a committee composed of Vincent P. Hogan, Edward P. Smith, Fernando V. Serpa, Joseph F. Menez, and Martin M. McLaughlin. Further details will be announced in subsequent issues of the Scholastic and in posters appearing in the campus this week. All graduate students are also being contacted by mail.
—Martin M. McLaughlin
The Department of Biology at Notre Dame, headed by Rev. Robert Sheehan, C.S.C., is one of the finest in the nation. Valuable contributions were made in its - laboratories and by members of its faculty to the U. S. Government in World War II.
8
’Fact Finding' Move Toward Partisan Objective, Says Commerce School Dean
American industry must debunk “a great deal of the nonsense that has gained currency regarding the superlative competence of government to deal effectively with all the affairs that concern the economic life of all our people,” declared James E. McCarthy, dean of the University Commerce school, in an address prepared for delivery at a luncheon session of the 154th Eotary district conference on May 10 in the Oliver Hotel in South Bend.
Dean McCarthy contended that it was time people were told that government, at least in the United States, was not created to organize the daily life of its citizens, that man is not government’s creature but government is man’s creature.
“We must tell our people,” he continued, “that government has no proper place in the area of wage setting, that merit, skill and capacity to produce are true esssentials of a realistic wage structure, that ‘fact-finding,’ as it is currently practiced, is a patterned move toward a partisan, politically wise objective.
“We must tell our people that the ‘right’ of any group of organized workers to strike against the common interest, in blocking off the sources of light, heat, food, power, transportation and communications, does not exist, that industry’s ability to pay increased wages is wholly dependent on labor’s ability and willingness to produce, that labor monopolies are as opposed to the common interest as are the international cartels.”
The speaker added that the government’s “continued profligacy” was responsible for the country’s financial dilemma, that the only thing the so-called liberals have to be liberal with is the wages and profits earned by others.
Dean McCarthy charged that “violent and frantic opposition from the propagandists of so-called liberal theories” is the natural enemy of prosperity and the well being of the individual. “We must tell our people,” he went on, “that excessively low interest rates, excessively high taxes and excessive restrictions on the use of tools are specific items that debar us from making the fullest use of our national inventory for the common good.”
To spearhead the attack on the “enemies of private enterprise,” Dean McCarthy suggested that industry make use of advertising to take over the responsibility of organizing its informa-
Dean McCarthy
tion, propaganda service. He said that the protestors against the American pattern of democratic industrialism had managed “to create more disorder and disunity than Mr. Hitler and Mr. Tojo could in foui- years of savage, bloody warfare.”
The speaker continued: “With reason, not with emotion, in the saddle, it will be apparent to all that the American free enterprise system, for the past decade subjected to abuse from gang pressure to government.fumbling, has gained for our people an overall wealth unmatched in the world today. There is not much time left to reaffirm our faith in a system where the process of distribution and production are left to private initiative, and where economy is reasonably free from government interference.”
The Student Council is endeavoring to approximate the number of students who would be interested in making the trip to New York and the Army game, Nov. 9th.
There are many arrangements to be made and at this time actual expense has not been. determined. This approximation will, however, give the Council a basis to work with in cooperating with the athletic office and University officials.
Any student interested in attendance should turn in his name to the Rector of his hall some time during the next week.
Pope Pius Water Color on Display in Gallery
A watercoloi- of Pope Pius XII receiving Allied soldiers at the Vatican in a special audience is among paintings and drawings executed by Lieut. Francis J. Hanley, USNE, professor of Fine Arts at the University, which is currently on display in the Wightman Art Galleries at Notre Dame.
The display, which opened at the Library on April 22 and will continue through May 22, has been described by critics as “among the best to come out. of the war.” Lieut. Hanley’s drawings and paintings, executed in the Mediterranean Theatre of Operations, represent impressions of North African ports during combat operations, as well as scenes of the United States and British Navies in action on the invasion beaches of Sicily, Salerno, Anzio and Southern France.
A special section of the exhibit is devoted to oil paintings of Stations of the Cross designed and executed by Lieut. Hanley for Our Lady of Victory Chapel of the United States Navy at Bizerte, Tunisia.
The Wightman Art Galleries on the campus are among the best galleries containing Catholic Art in the nation. More than 225 works of art are displayed in the four large rooms of the galleries housed in the Notre Dame Library. Included are many old masters.
Badin Students Gather
At South Bend Banquet
The residents of Badin Hall treated themselves to a banquet at the LaSalle Hotel in South Bend, Tuesday evening, May 14.
The banquet, which was strictly for the residents of Badin Hall, had Father Furstoss as its moderator. The committee, under the able chairmanship of Bill Stockman, was composed of Bob Con-cannon, Bob Powell, Larry McCormick, Don Perkins, Jim Webb, John Ford, Paul Omer, Lou Tondreau and Jim McCarron.
At the informal affair a display of talent was as palatable as the menu. Frank DeLeo proved his ability as an impersonator with a take off on Charles Boyer and Humphrey Bogart. Bob Cas-lion pounded out some hot jive on the piano. As soon as the smoke cleared away from the piano and the guests cooled off, Bill Ballurt rolled the boys in the aisles with his inimitably sharp wit.
Dick Callaghan, Tom Currie, Bob Gaffney and Hops Cordesman formed a musical quartet and pleased the audience with their renditions. Also musically inclined, John Quinn and Bernie Finucane burst out with some hillbilly music. All the entertainers are residents of Badin Hall.
9
An Admiral of the Fleet
Admiral of the Fleet Chester W. Nimitz, left, is greeted at the South Bend airport by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C,, president of Notre Dame; Michael T. Cummins, South Bend city comptroller, who represented Mayor Dempsey; and Captain J. Richard Barry, Commandant of the naval unit at Notre Dame.
Admiral Nimitz, Father O'Donnell and Captain Barry. Admiral Nimitz flew from Washington in his twin-engine Lockheed-lodestar. He was accompanied by his aide. Commander E. B. Fluckey, holder of the Congressional Medal of Honor, Capt. Walter Karig, and two pilots.
Admiral Nimitz and Father O'Donnell broadcasting over WSBT. Joe Boland, WSBT announcer, is holding microphone.
Leaving the airport. The motorcade Bend on its way to Notre Dame.
passed through South
Admiral Nimitz and Father O'Donnell after arriving in the circle. A large group of students were on hand.
The Notre Dame Naval unit band greeted the Admiral of the Fleet with ruffles and flourishes.
10
Becomes a Notre Dame Man
The Admiral of the Fleet and Captain Barry inspect the Naval unit.
Admiral Nimitz O'Donnell.
receives his Doctor's cape from Father
The Chief of the United States Fleet receives the degree of Doctor of Laws from Father O'Donnell.
Immediately after the Convocation Fleet Admiral Nimitz met officers of the Student Council and Veterans' Club.
When the formalities of the Convocation were finished Admiral Nimitz played a game of horseshoes. His partner was John Mangan, official university chauffeur. Their opponents were head coach Frank Leahy and Bill Vangan, a student.
Admiral Nimitz and Coach Leahy shake hands after the game. This was not their first meeting — they tangled frequently in friendly horseshoe games in the South Pacific, where Leahy served as a Naval officer.
11
The Admiral From Texas
By ROBERT EMMETT FLANNERY	*
History, with its inclination for the spectacular, will never connect him with “Don’t give up the ship” or an “England expects every man to do his duty,” but as a top-flight twentieth-century naval commander, Admiral of the Fleet, Chester W. Nimitz, Chief of Naval Operations of the United States Navy, must have reserved for him his own little corridor in history for the manner in which he directed, organized, and effectively utilized the entire United States Pacific Fleet in the whole of World War II.
After the disaster of Pearl Harbor, there was obviously an urgent necessity for immediate recovery and reorganization of the remnants of the Pacific Fleet. Pearl Harbor marked a crucial point in the history of our country. There was imminent danger to the West Coast as well as the whole U. S. President Roosevelt summoned the Secretary of Navy, Frank Knox, who recommended Chester W. Nimitz to fill the post as Commander in Chief of the Pacific Fleet—or what was left of it. On December 7,1941, Nimitz was Chief of the Bureau of Navigation, a position that controlled personnel assignments and allocations for the navy.
He was whisked out of Washington in civilian clothes under an assumed name. Part of his baggage was a canvas envelope containing a report of the Pearl Harbor disaster and informing the new CINCPAC of the situation at our Pacific outpost. In this he found that of the eight capital ships, five were at the bottom of Pearl Harbor. Three would have to be sent to the states for repairs. The situation was precarious. When he arrived at Hawaii he was met by the unfortunate Kimmel, and it was then that Nimitz expressed an opinion that characterizes him so well. Said Nimitz ruefully, “You have my sympathy. It could have been me.” '
It was the custom of all flag men to have their staffs. The staff of Admiral Kimmel fully expected to be sent back to the states for desk assignments and a probable court-martial at which they would be witnesses. Even with the knowledge of the top navy personnel, Nimitz told these men that they would be retained on his staff. They were acquainted with the area that he would have to control in his position as CINCPAC which embraced the territory from the Aleutians to New Zealand; the North to the South Pole; Western U. S. to the South Seas; and up to Japan itself. He
controlled the administration of all the ship and naval shore installations in the Pacific and had strategic command over all the great oceans with the exception of the mainland coastal areas of the South Southwest Pacific. This was under the strategic control of General Douglas MacArthur.
In the future dealings with his subordinates, Nimitz used a psychological method of finding out their capabilities and weaknesses. He kept those whom he had promised, but as time passed he replaced weak links and misplaced personnel. At first he had trouble with the old hands and their affection for the capital ships in preference to aircraft carriers. Nimitz realized that the carrier was evolving as the first line of naval offensive operations. Then he made his changes in the admiralty, task forces, divisions, and even in individual ships. His method of replacement was predicated on performances. He permitted the individual commander his own stratagem. Such a method delegated tactical authority to the lower divisions and left him free for overall strategic problems.
Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz.
Who is this man who, without precedent, changed the micien regime of naval formulas to conform to modern combat standards? Nimitz was born of GermanAmerican parentage in the town of Fredericksburg, Texas. His grandfather was a captain in the merchant marine. As a youth Nimitz wanted to be a soldier and had aspired to West Point. He was preparing for that goal when the opportunity came to attend Annapolis. He passed the competitive examination and entered the academy in 1901 at the age of sixteen. At the naval academy he was a keen sportsman, and although weighing a mere 150 pound, he stroked the Annapolis crew of men who outweighed him. Annapolis sent him out to sea with the distinction of being graduated seventh in his class. Following his commissioning at twenty-two, the Ensign was assigned as skipper to a leaky torpedo boat. Later he worked himself up in the submarine service. As was inevitable for a man of his caliber, he soon earned his flag. In the opinion of navy men, he is the most-respected and best-liked man in (Continued on page 33)
12
Catholic Attitude
Needed in Politics
“Non-existence of a Catholic political party in the United States is the soundest argument for a Catholic attitude in politics and, in a sense, creates a definite need for more Christian principles in the political sphere,” Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., Professor of History at Notre Dame, declared in the current issue of The Ave Maria, Catholic weekly published at Notre Dame.
“The soundness of the political principles of Catholic philosophy,” stated Father McAvoy, “can be readily proved in the writings of such great Catholic teachers as Bellarmine, Suarez and Vittoria. Catholic teachings on the dignity and personality of man and his supernatural destiny, as exemplified by the pope’s broadcast of Christmas, 1944, agree perfectly with the principles of the Constitution and of other American basic laws.
“Catholic action in American politics,” continued Father McAvoy, “would not mean, as some might think, merely that Catholic politicians need only be practicing Catholics while holding office. No one judges a Catholic industrialist as acting in the Catholic pattern merely because he confines his religion to attendance at Mass on Sunday and contributions to Catholic charities. Catholic social action insists that he carry the principles and practices of his Faith into his industrialism.”
The Notre Dame educator pointed out that the Christian notion of law and authority is not the sole contribution that Catholic action can give to the American political scene.
“From this basic idea of the nature and purpose of law,” stressed Father McAvoy, “are derived other concepts which are gravely needed in American government for defining the proper limits of social legislation, for regulating monopolies and cartels, for preventing cliques—political, social and military— from using the government for unlawful objectives.
“American military power,” emphasized Father McAvoy, “will have achieved only a pyrrhic victory if, after destroying the totalitarians of Europe and Asia, it would allow a new form of totalitarianism to swallow up our democracy. The true lover of American political traditions and ideals needs today to form clearly in his mind the true concept of his human dignity and personality.”
Father McAvoy concluded: “Not only must Catholic men and women who vote
Bids for Knights of Columbus '
Spring Formal on Sale Today
Deputy Grand Knight Frank Grimaldi purchases' first bid for Twenty-Fourth Annual Knights of Columbus Spring Formal from Ticket Chairman Frank Kowalski. Waiting to purchase are J. Sullivan. R. Hayman. D. Brady arid F. Cacciapaglia.
After a special meeting with the members of his committee, Frank Kowalski, Chairman of the Ticket Committee for the Knights of Columbus Spring Formal, issued a statement that the sale of tickets will begin today. A limited number of bids will be sold and those who are interested in obtaining them are asked to contact the men who are aiding Chairman Kowalski. As a concession to the knights of the University council, the sale of bids has been held open to them alone from last Monday until early this Friday morning.
The date of the annual Spring Foimal is next Friday evening, May 24th, and the scene is the Indiana club where the dancers will enjoy the music of Johnny Walker and his band between the hours of nine and one. Two o’clock permissions
and who assume political power be well informed on the correct ideals of law and government but their lives must be trained in the application of these principles; and in many cases, they must be urged to seek Catholic leadership in the fields of politics. This challenge presents itself in every discussion of American politics of the war and postwar needs. There is a positive need for Catholicity in American politics and of Catholic politicians who are Americans.”
will be granted students attending the dance and car privileges will extend over the entire week-end. Since the number of couples attending the ball will be limited to 200, those interested in attending have been advised by General Chairman Ralph Hayman to purchase their bids as soon as they have the opportunity of doing so. The pi-ice is $3.50 per couple.
Chairman Hayman, with a view of providing for the convenience of the entire student body situated in the various campus halls, has directed that the sale of tickets be located at points where they will be most accessible. These locations include the council chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall; 220 Alumni; 233 Howard; 301 Badin; 316 Cavanaugh; 211 Lyons; and 163 Dillon. “Make it a point to contact the men in any of these halls,” Hayman said, “and your ticket needs will be satisfied.”
While the announcements have been forthcoming concerning the motif, it has been revealed that the completed theme will present an interesting setting.for this year’s spring formal. The decorations and the arrangements committees have been concentrating in long secret sessions to carry into effect the plans which they have already made. The evening of the 24th will reveal the results of their efforts.
13
Galvin to Address
K. of C. Banquet
Coincident with the regular bi-monthly meeting held by the University council of the Knights of Columbus was the announcement by Grand Knight Robert E. Sullivan that the speakers for the banquet honoring the next second and third degree class will be Timothy P. Galvin, deputy supreme knight of the Knights of Columbus and recently appointed a member of the board of lay trustees. Mr. Galvin will appear as part of the program to be held on the ninth of June at which time the John E. Chevigny class will be initiated. The new class will commemorate all of the 22 brother knights of the local council who, with the deceased brother Chevigny, gave their lives in World War II.
A drive for membership is now under way to complete the class and, to keep the group within reasonable limits, only 25 more men will be admitted at this time. The entire initiation will be conducted in conjunction with the Mishawaka council and will feature a full day’s activities culminating in the banquet at which- Mr. Galvin will be the main speaker.
Reports by the chairman of the dance committee, the picnic committee, and the Santa Maria were made as part of the regular business portion of the meeting. Concerning the Bengal Bouts, which were staged this year under the direction of the K. of C., it was reported that the receipts amounted to over twice the sum ever taken in by the charity-fights.
All students who are interested in joining the Knights of Columbus and who wish to enter in the next class are advised to inquire at the council offices in Walsh Hall concerning application for membership.
These initiations will be the final ones of the semester and will complete a year’s activities which has seen the Notre Dame council receive for the first time since 1942, the scroll of honor from the Supreme Council for its work over the past two semesters. .
—James Sullivan
Toledo Club Planning
Dinner, Picnic, Dance
At the May 8 meeting of the Toledo Club, members discussed the forthcoming dinner at Rosie’s, a picnic, dance, and the activities of the job hunting committee.
Thursday May 23 was the date chosen for the dinner at Rosie’s at 7:30 o’clock.
For the month of July, a semi-formal dance is being planned. Band and location are still indefinite.
14
Nine Veterans Study For Priesthood at ND
Nine ex-servicemen, who are potential members of three Catholic religious orders, are being extended the opportunity to decide whether or not they desire to enter the priesthood by following a preseminary course during the current semester at Notre Dame. Among them are veterans who participated in some of the fiercest fighting of World War II.
The nine students, representing the Paulists, the Franciscan Fathers and the Congregation of Holy Cross, do not live in either Holy Cross or Moreau seminaries on the campus, but reside as regular students in residence halls at Notre Dame. A tenth veteran has tentatively decided to study to be a secular priest, after completing like the others, preliminary college work at the University.
The only difference between these students and regular Notre Dame students is that the prospective seminarians follow the pre-seminary course, specializing in Latin and philosophy. All of the spiritual facilities of Notre Dame are, of course, available to them.
Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., Director of Vocations at Holy Cross Seminary on the campus, stresses that none of these ex-servicemen is under any obligation to enter any of the religious communities. The chief purpose of the opportunity being afforded them at Notre Dame, according to Father Wilson, is to help them decide, by taking the pre-seminary course, whether or not they desire to continue their studies for the priesthood. If they should decide that they want to enter the priesthood, they will then enter a seminary either at Notre Dame or others conducted by their respective religious orders.
Among the ex-servicemen who are studying at Notre Dame currently under this plan are: Robert McLaughlin, Rockville Center, N. Y.; Milton Folds, Chicago; Gregory Shinert, Randolph Field, Texas; and Maurice Chase, Dinu-aa, Calif., all of the Paulists.
Russell Lesperance, Pound, Wis.f and Alfred D’Alonzo, Orange, N. J., are from the Congregation of Holy Cross. William Orr, Devil’s Lake, N. Dak., is from the Franciscan Fathers, and James O’Connor, Freeport, Ill., is a secular. Two others prefer not to have their names mentioned.
Fifteen other veterans of World War II are currently studying for the priesthood in Holy Cross Seminary. These include men who saw service at Iwo Jima, Bougainville, Leyte, the Bulge, Cassino, Salerno, and other stiff battles of the late war.
N. D. Debate Team Wins Discussion at Purdue
The Notre Dame debate team won all four awards in a national discussion contest held last week at Purdue University in Lafayette, Ind. Colleges and universities represented at the contest were Rutgers, Alabama, Denver, Montana, Stephens College, West Virginia, and colleges and universities from Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Iowa, and Indiana. General theme of the discussion conference was “Free Trade Among the Nations of the World.”
Frank Finn, Sam Hazo, James Reedy, and Fred Ricker represented the University at the contest. Mr. Leonard Sommer, debate coach, accompanied the group and served as judge during the conference.
In addition to the four team awards, superior citations, the highest ranks awarded, were given to Notre Dame debaters, two to Frank Finn and one to Sam Hazo. Finn and Hazo were selected by their respective panels to draw up a major resolution to present to Congress.
Finn was one of the five individual winners of the national contest. At the close of the contest he participated in a thirty minute broadcast.
Student Council announced Wednesday afternoon that the Progress Club in South Bend has been signed for the Victory Dances after the home games next fall. All other clubs and halls are not available.
ARMY MAILING LIST RESTRICTED
The Football Ticket Committee advises the student body that the General Public mailing list for the Army game November 9 has now been restricted to former patrons only. No new names may be added, for with heavily increased obligations to N. D. alumni. Stadium Box subscribers. University Administration and now the Official Student Trip, the Committee has decided that the fairest way to distribute the few tickets for public sale is to apportion them amongst friends of Notre Dame who have been supporting this game in years past.
It is impracticable to extend further our already overloaded mailing list All requests for application blanks will be checked against our records and the persons advised accordingly.
Application blanks will be mailed in July. The ticket sale for all games opens August 1.
Football Ticket Committee.
Cardinal Tien Aide Served In Marines
During Cardinal Tien’s visit here everyone on the campus was asking the same question: “Who’s the Marine with Cardinal Tien?”
To clear the air of mystery, here are a few pertinent facts about Staff Sergeant Louis J. Maloof of the Sixth Marine Division which fought from Guadalcanal to Okinawa. He spent 48 months in the Marine Corps, six of which were spent in China. It is with these six months that we are concerned.
The Sixth Marine Division landed at Tsingtao in October, 1945, to accept the surrender of Jap troops concentrated there. As 60 per cent of the American forces were Catholics their first thought was to find a Church and to offer a prayer. Thus it was that they found St. Michael’s, Bishop Tien’s Cathedral. Maloof immediately noticed the dire straits of the mission and resolved to do something about it. By appealing to his buddies, he raised 10,000 American dollars to help the starving populace. Catholic, Protestant, and Jew alike contributed— it was an acknowledgment of the esteem with which they held Cardinal Tien, a humble and meek little man who never had stopped smiling.
A short time later Maloof was ordered to the Mission as liaison officer. He organized a Catholic Servicemen’s Canteen and arranged for busses and trucks to bring the Marines and sailors to Church. An average of 5,000 attended Mass and received Communion every Sunday.
Sgt. Maloof said that during this period “the administration of the mission fell into my hands.” The regular mission and personnel had suffered greatly at the hands of the Japanese and all needed rest before resuming their former duties.
When Bishop Tien was raised to the Sacred College of Cardinals no one was happier than Louis Maloof. He worked 19 hours a day to prepare His Eminence for the journey to Rome. He taught him English in 3% months, wrote a short biography of the Cardinal, held numerous conferences with the Chinese press, and began work on a long biography which will come out this winter.
As a reward for all his untiring efforts he received in 1945 the Pope’s very special Apostolic Benediction through the Apostolic Delegate in Washington. And, on May 15 at St. Louis Cathedral in New Orleans, Louis J. Maloof, at the hands of Cardinal Tien, received the highest award the Pope can bestow upon a layman— the medal “Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice.”—Paul Abraham
Ray Miller Addresses
N. D. Cleveland Club
Forty-two members of the Undergraduate Cleveland Club attended a Communion Breakfast in honor of theii-Mothers, May 12th. The Mass was celebrated in the Dillon Hall chapel by the Rev. Thomas Roshetko, S.M., a native Clevelander and former Army chaplain, who later gave a short address at the breakfast.
Ray T. Miller, Notre Dame alumnus and former mayor of Cleveland, was introduced by Vic Gulyassy, toastmaster and former club president, as the guest speaker. After giving a flashback of Notre Dame in 1914, Mr. Miller remarked that the Cleveland Club had only 5 members at its start and that “Notre Dame is the greatest fraternal organization I know of. I can’t go anywhere in the courts of America without finding Notre Dame influence.”
“In 30 years time, the world has changed tremendously,” Mr. Miller asserted. “You stand in a new era of world history. World history is now our history. We have abandoned the Monroe Doctrine. All the quarrels and difficulties of the world are our problems.
“The powerful news syndicates mold and form public opinion today. Even the radio is controlled by newspapers. The
At the Cleveland Club's speaker's table: first row, left to right, Charles Roult. Jr-Treasurer; Fred Naegele, Vice-president; Gene Kane, Secretary; and John Deyerle. Executive assistant; second row, left to right. Bob Sullivan, Grand Knight of K. of C.; Ray T. Miller, Guest Speaker: Father Thomas Roshetko, SJC; Vic Gutyassy, Toastmaster; and Paul Abraham, President.
Speaking of Capitals
By JOSEPH C. RYAN
How many state capitals can you name? A little earlier in your schooling you could probably identify all forty-eight. But how many do you know now? Here are twelve states to your left, twelve capitals to your right. If you can name the right capital for each state, you may go to the head of the class; if not—you'd better get out the old geography book. A score of ten right is very good. Answers on Page 31.
1—South Dakota_____a—Charleston
2—North Carolina b—Bismarck 3—Oregon c—Pierre
4—West Virginia______d—Columbia
5—Vermont_____________e—Raleigh
6—Delaware_________f—Montpelier
7—Washington g—Salem
8—South Carolina_______h______—Frankfort 9—Missouri_____________i—Concord
10—North Dakota j—Olympia
11—Kentucky k—Jefferson City
12—New Hampshire i—Dover
youth of today will have to cope with many problems in order to live. The 40-hour a week plan is for those who wish to stand still. To progress, we must work constantly. Catholic youth will have to fight for their principles.”
IS
Divorce Destroys Sanctity of Home,
Says Fr O'Donnell
“Divorce and planned parenthood are destroying the dignity of womanhood, and as a natural consequence, are destroying the sanctity of the home,” the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, said last Sunday in an address on the Catholic Hour, broadcast from Chicago over the National Broadcasting Company network.
Father O’Donnell’s talk was the third of five he is currently preaching on suc-ceding Sundays over the Catholic Hour on the general subject of “Hail Holy Queen.” His next address will be given next Sunday, May 19. The Catholic Hour is broadcast each Sunday at 6 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time.
“There is a curious glorification,” Father O’Donnell stressed, “of the multimarried whose current liaisons are faithfully recorded by the daily press. In many cities a ratio of three divorces to one marriage is not uncommon. There is such wide-spread shirking of parental duties that we are raising a generation of children who even now are reaping the bitter fruit of their parents’ neglect, according to the appalling record of constantly increasing juvenile delinquency.
“Priests preach religion,” continued Father O’Donnell, “but it is for parents first to instill it, by word and example, in the hearts of our children—to teach them belief in God, dependence upon God, and obedience to His laws. A strong civilization begins at the cradle and fireside. It starts at the mother’s knee with lessons in the simple virtues. A strong civilization can have no other foundation; one built on any other is foredoomed to decay.”
The Notre Dame president gave thanks, however, that “we still have the strong woman, the valiant woman, the courageous woman, faithful and true, carrying on in imitation of Mary in the fulfillment of her duties as a real mother. She is the mother who sees herself as God’s agent, who sees her children as immortal souls, made by God and intended for God, that have been entrusted to her care.”
“Such mothers,” emphasized Father O’Donnell, “are the hope of the world, the hope of this nation, to whom I pay tribute for their fidelity and devotion to the highest ideals of motherhood. They have been tried in the crucible of love and not found wanting. With them as a force, our beloved country may succeed
16
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
in casting off the curse of neo-paganism and truly have a rebirth, a revival of family life in homes where the mother is literally the queen, guiding her children in the paths of righteousness and rejoicing in them as she watches them grow toward God.
“Sorrow has come to millions of sufferers in the back wash of a global war; sorrow to the women of Europe, mothers, thousands of whom are even now plodding along weary roads, homeless, leading the children whom they bore they know not whither; sorrow to the children, ragged, hungry tots with pinched faces, whom privation has made far older than their years. May I appeal to all Americans to help these unfortunates by contributing to the campa:gn to feed Europe now?
Sorrow has come to those mothers who have seen their own flesh and
blood come back maimed and ill from the battlefields. And. it has come to those brave wives, who, through tears, have embraced with arms of tender mercy their husbands, whom war has broken in body, while murmuring inwardly, ‘for better, for worse; for richer, for poorer;	-
in sickness and in health, till death do us	.
part.’ ”
Concluding, Father O’Donnell said: “Noble women, valiant women all, women whose lot has been to wait and hope and pray, we salute you as the real heroines of the war. Brave women, g -J strong women, who gave those nearest and dearest to you, remember that in the person of the Mother of God, the Mother of Mercy, who gave her only Son for ’’ your redemption, you have a friend, a guide and a help, and a mediatrix in the " long years ahead. She will never fail you, if you hut have recourse to her.”
THE SINGING TOWER BY THE LAKE
By JOHNNY WALKER
Notre Dame men need no introduction to the subject of bells. Their infernal clanging regulates our very lives on the campus from dawn to dusk. But over in the slim spire of Sacred Heart Church is a group of 23 bells some of which have been interwoven in Notre Dame history since 1856. Most of them hung in the twin towers of the old church before they were transferred to their present setting in the lofty belfry of Sacred Heart.
As is so often the case in the history of important Notre Dame landmarks, Fr. Sorin envisioned and carried out the plans for a carillon at Notre Dame. He contracted the famous Bollee et fils bell foundry in Le Mans, France, the cradle of the Congregation of Holy Cross, to cast 22 bells of various sizes. The big bell, or Bourdon coming from the French Bourdonner, meaning to hum or buzz, was cast in Cincinnati. In November, 1865, after the installation of the bells, Archbishop Purcell of Cincinnati blessed the new carillon.
measures eight feet, eight inches across. Our friend, Bud Condron, is a normal sized lad and the Bourdon’s circular bulk towers far over him. You may wonder why it is that our bell doesn’t sound its voice more often. It is simply a matter of a manpower shortage. It requires twelve stalwart students to ring the eleven ton bulk of bell and rigging. Brother Boniface tells us that he can rarely collect enough student muscle power to accomplish this task. The exterior of the bell is decorated with a floral design. The decorations on the interior of the bell are the work of students, very handy with chalk and apparently unafraid of contracting the “bends” at such altitudes. If you listened the day that His Eminence Cardinal Tien visited the campus you would have heard the deep voice of the Bourdon over- the higher pitched tones of its smaller’ companions.
In the belfry above the Bourdon are the chimes. These are the bells that strike the hour, ranging from 15 pounds
to 1,094 pounds in size. We have made mention previously of the carillon in the tower. However, technically Notre Dame has a combination of both. Chimes consist of eight stationery bells tuned to the diatonic scale—full tones apart. A car- -illon consists of three octaves of stationery bells tuned to the chromatic scale— half tones apart. The compass of the bells in the tower is two and one half octaves.
In 1930 the entire carillon, along with the restoration of Sacred Heart Church, was repaired after years of disuse. The old weight drive was replaced by a motor. These repairs were done through the generosity of an old friend of the University. Students who were on the campus last summer will recall the short concerts played on the chimes from time to time throughout the day. This is accomplished automatically by means of a revolving drum containing more than 2,000 holes. Adjustable pins are fitted in at varying intervals and as the dram revolves the pins trip a series of levers which in turn cause hammers to strike the bells. This arrangement sounds a little on the Rube Goldberg side but is (Continued on page 34)
In 1866, when the statue of Our Lady was blessed by Archbishop Spaulding, the bells, already in use for nine years, were rung for two hours in full peal. An inspection of the belfry revealed that the great Bourdon had developed a crack which measured a foot long. Generous people from all over the nation donated a second big bell. Their names can be seen cast on its side. The new Bourdon crossed the Atlantic twice, once as copper from the mines of Michigan and again returning in the form of a great bell from M. Bollee’s famous foundry. The new bell weighed a little less than six tons, exclusive of its clapper. The arrival of this monstrous bell caused no little consternation among the city fathers of South Bend. They were afraid that the giant Bourdon would be all too much for the fragile bridge spanning the St. Joe. So a specially constructed raft was used and pulled across the river by oxen. At last on August 15, 1888 the big bell now secure in the lower belfry, was dedicated by Bishop M. F. Burke of Wyoming. The new bell, with its mellow booming voice could be heard, it was said, for 24 miles around. It was then suggested that the carillon be increased to 63 bells. M. Bollee himself offered to cast the bells to match as he put it, “The finest bell to leave this foundry.” But this dream was never realized.
An indication of the size of the Bourdon can be had by examining the accompanying picture. The metal in the bell’s sides is a foot thick, and the mouth
Bud Condron, inspecting the Big Bell in the Church tower, accentuates size of Bell
17
N. D. Naval Unit to Bid Farewell
to Campus with Eleventh Ball
The navy units will bid their social farewell to Notre Dame the night of June 14 when the 11th and final Naval Ball is held at’the Palais Royale.
The semester’s social highlight, the Naval Ball is always regarded by the trainees as the event par excellence. The accompanying gay and carefree weekend will further enhance the romantic atmosphere for 126 men who are on the point of climaxing their long training period with commissioning on June 30.
The theme of the ball may well be, “The biggest, the best and the last.” Capable and experienced Jack Schneider has been named as General Chairman. Assisting him are: Edmund V. Marshall, Executive Chairman; Pat Stanton, Executive Secretary; Paul Rehkoph, Decorations Chairman; Bill Adler, Publicity Chairman; Jim Healy, Favors Chairman; and Ed Pinaire, Financial Secretary. Lt. Comdr. Gott is the Faculty Advisor.
Departing from a long established, and
The naval ball is the bi? event of the semester for the trainees.
somewhat biased custom, Schneider announced that his guest would not be named Queen of the Ball, but that a queen would be selected the night of the ball by a committee of men elected by the trainees.
A number of pleasant innovations will mark this final shindig; one of which is the portion of the dance devoted exclusively to the graduating members of the unit. Another is the “pinning” ceremony in which the graduates will present their guests with miniature officer’s crests.
Saturday morning, Captain J. Richard Barry will conduct a review of the units. The trainees and their guests may spend Saturday afternoon browsing around the campus. Practically the entire Oliver Hotel has been reserved for the Saturday night revelry. The separate classes will meet for a night of dancing and gayety.
The band, yet unannounced, will be a “name” band. The bids are retailing at $6.00. Remember, “The biggest, the best and the last”—the 11th Naval Ball.
The next in the Vocational Lecture Series will be delivered by the Dept, of Philosophy Tuesday night at 7:30 in the Biology Building amphitheatre.
Bengal Bouts Net
$2,500 for Missions
Now only a week-old memory the 15th annual Bengal Bouts were this week tagged by officials as more than twice as successful as any other Bengal tournament in both attendance and receipts. The figures released showed that there were 2500 paid admissions at the Finals last May 9.
In terms of currency, the Bengal Committee cleared $2,500 for the Bengal Missions from ticket sales, donations, and concessions. This was the net figure after an estimated $700 was deducted for expenses, and an ungratifying $460 deducted for Federal taxes.
It was also announced that all fighters taking part in the finals will receive sweaters with boxing monograms.
—Christy Walsh
A.I.E.E. Publishes
The Electric Line
At the May 8th meeting of the AIEE, chairman Dick White reported on a Student Branch meeting he and Mr. Stauder attended at the University of Minnesota, and also appointed committees to organize the club’s annual picnic and dinner. The plans for the Engineering Open House, sponsored by all the campus technical clubs, were discussed and a tentative schedule was drawn up to display the equipment of the Electrical Laboratories.
“The Electric Line,” the official club paper, is now being published again after a reconversion and recharging by its hard working editors, Bob Brown and Charles Borders.
The guest speaker, Jack Ley, with extensive experience to back him up, explained the development and production problem of different types of radio equipment. Jack demonstrated his points with assemblies from the University Laboratories.
Seniors Must Fill Out Information Forms
Joe Patrucco, publicity chairman of the Senior Ball, announced Wednesday. -that all graduating seniors are to fill out information blanks relating to their home-town publicity as soon as possible. Each form must be completely filled out, one for each local paper in which it will
appear. Along with the information blanks, a standard-size, highly-glossed each form. These pictures may be ob-finished picture is to be turned in with tained at Bagby’s Studio for 50 cents.
The blanks may be obtained at Bagby’s or from Joe Patrucco, 25 Lyons Hall. It has been requested that the graduating seniors give their full cooperation in this matter immediately.
THE STUDEBAKER MALE CHORUS
Sponsors
South Bend's Most Spectacular Event The Victory Sing by L000 male voices
Midwest Conference of Associated Male Choruses of America
Sat. May 18	8:00 p.m.
Navy Drill Hall
Student Tickets $1.20, tax incl.
18
Under the Shadow of the Dome
A Story of the Department of Fine Arts
By JOHNNY WALKER
!
!To be an art student at Notre Dame requires something of the stamina of a mountain climber. For, in order to follow i	his chosen field of study, the fledgling artist must climb the
\	heights to the fourth floor of the Main Building to the eagles’
nest under the dome, which is the Department of Fine Aids.
F
Historically the Department antedates the ancient structure in which it is housed by many years. The Department, one of the oldest on the campus, is in its 92nd year. The Art Department was organized in the year 1854 under the direction of Julius Ackerman. Examples of Mr. Ackerman’s work can be seen on the walls of the Director of Studies office in the form of murals. Probably the best known of past directors was Luigi Gregori whose beautiful work adorns tb° walls of Sacred Heart Church and the interior of the don.
.	On the walls of the second floor corridors of the Main Build*	ing are his murals depicting historical events in the life of
Christopher Columbus. In 1929 Emil Jacques, a Flemish 4
painter, took up the work of supervising the department. His outstanding work is on exhibition on the mezzanine floor of the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery. 1937 saw Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, the present director, assume control of the alpine Fine Aits Department. Mr. Sessler is assisted by Mr. Francis J. Hanley, Associate Professor of Fine Arts, who teaches design and drawing and M. E. Kormendy, a sculptor who hails from Budapest. Examples of Mr. Kormendy’s work can be seen in niches in the walls of Dillon and Alumni halls. Many of the students are familiar with Mr. Hanley’s splendid exhibition of war paintings in the Wightman Gallery. These drawings and paintings were done by Mr. Hanley when he was in the 8th Amphibious Force as a member of the Flag Officer’s communication staff where he served as a Lieutenant, USNR. Mr. Sessler also saw military service and was a Combat Intelligence Officer attached to the 3rd Air Force. While in service he illustrated recognition manuals to aid in the identification of aircraft and naval vessels. When he was
Members of Professor Hanley's design class combine talents in decorating the patio floor of the new Roman court in Art Department. The floor design is a contemporary expression of antique mosaics such as found in Pompeii.
stationed at Sarasota, Florida, Mr. Sessler executed some murals for an Officers Club lounge and did some portrait work. One of his most beautiful paintings is the portrait of Bishop O’Hara, former President of Notre Dame, which was done before the war shortly after his Excellency’s elevation to the bishopric. This painting presently hangs in the University parlors. By virtue of the fact that Mr. Sessler and Mr. Hanley were serving in the armed forces and because of few students following the course during the war years, the Department, for the first time in its 92 year history, closed for approximately one year.
When the word artist is mentioned, the general inpression among laymen is of a long-haired character who is just a trifle berserk and who spends his time in gloomy garrets painting and starving to death simultaneously. The war records of Mr. Sessler and Mr. Hanley alone are sufficient to dispell this misapprehension. They would be a sad disappointment to anyone expecting the frock coat and the Windsor tie. Nor are their students escapists who do not wish to face the realities of life.
When the matter is reduced to its essentials, we are all artists at heart. If you doubt this, you have only to look at your nearest note book or text book to see a multiplicity of doodling, those sad preoccupied dogs which have been laboriously sketched during a dull lecture, or look to your nearest telephone directory and gaze at the work of countless artists. It is this innate quality which the Art Department searches out and develops, this inner urge to portray our thoughts graphically. Mr. Sessler maintains that anyone capable of writing his own name and who is of average intelligence can be taught to draw. The general trend of art students is toward commercial art in some form. To this end the courses of study are designed along practical lines so that the student can gain his livlihood through his art. Fine art is really art for art’s sake done in much the manner of a symphony, a thing to be studied and interpreted. But take this same fine
art and sell it and it becomes commercial art. Recently large business enterprises such as the Elgin National Watch Company have introduced finely done paintings into their advertising campaigns. If this trend is indicative of the future we may have contemporary DaVincis and Rembrants selling soap from the pages of national magazines.	'
The program followed in teaching a student the fundamentals of art is principally one of individual attention. Each student is an art class all by himself and must be schooled in the special aptitude which he possesses. That small yearning to draw is nurtured through the four college years not only by specialized art courses alone, but in conjunction with the other courses offered in the College of Arts and Letters, such as Literature, Philosophy and History in order to form a well rounded-out education. It is through this well balanced '	\
education that the student is capable of doing creative work and is not merely a technician versed in the mechanics of < drawings alone. The professor strives to keep the student’s own style an individualistic whole so that upon his entrance into the field of art after his graduation, the student will be primarily selling himself to his prospective employer, and not as a carbon copy of the style of his professors.
Presently the Fine Art Department consists of 12 stu- ■ dents, but next semester Mr. Sessler expects about 18 or 20 more. The courses offered consist of Drawing, Painting, Decorative Design, Graphic Arts, History of Art and Commercial Design. The majority of art students are without previous * experience or knowledge. Examples of good painting done by Freshmen without previous training indicate how readily adaptable most people with an interest in the course can be to the supposed unending difficulties of fine art. Here at Notre Dame the art students have a splendid opportunity to have their work reproduced in the campus publications. Just recently an issue of the Scholastic carried a cover for the	;
Bengal Bouts which was the work of a fine arts student. The	'
year book, the Dome, always has a generous sprinkling of
Professor Eugene Kormendy, renowned Budapest sculptor, watches with a keen eye as Art aspirants chisel out individual interpretations of what a head should look like. Professor Kormendy, sculptor in residence, is best known locally for the statues that adorn the newer residence dormitories.

Professor Sessler, sold on individual supervision, is giving a young Rembrandt some fine pointers in shading down a sailor. The
heroic sized plaster statues both got a fresh coat of paint as part of paid by the hour for sitting pretty.
contributions by art students. The opportunity for public exhibition of their work is quite novel and is not found in the majority of large Universities. At the close of each year the students hold a public showing of the products of their talents, usually in the Wightman Gallery. Students of Notre Dame’s Art Department have gone forth into industrial designing, publications, and even into the fabulous Kingdom of Hollywood and have become successful.
The Department, tucked away as it is high under the eaves,
seldom
Deep Brown,
entertains visitors principally because of the altitude
in the process of painting a still-life. Harry former G.I., now a Fine Art student, returned
to painting after three and a half years' absence. Among other things he has learned that good drawing and color are requisites for a top-flight illustrator.
the rehabilitation program in the Art Department. Life models get
and the seemingly unending stairs. But a trip up there is well worth the climb, if only to see what a group of industrious boys and a good imagination can do to a dingy, gray room. An indoor Roman courtyard is in the process of being recreated so that, much in the manner of a stage set, models ■ may pose in a simulated outdoor atmosphere. A colorful, impressionistic floor, has been installed and its bright colors lend life to the gray walls. Murals of Latin America and atmosphere sur la Seine, bric-a-brac shelves, potted plants large enough to carry birds, all have helped to dress the De-
Joe Finelli, Jim Small, “Rosie" Rosanova and Andy Wallach brush up on a class project. Behind them are the decorative murals done by Mr. Hanley depicting gay Parisian scenes, quiet cathedral towns and bon mots of not so quiet Frenchmen such as Villon.
partment up so that it resembles its name, Seventh Heaven.
But the Department dreams of the day when it will be able to move from its humble quarters so far above the rest of Notre Dame into the new Fine Arts Building which is. included in the projected building program. But until that time the Department will continue to trudge up the stairs to go on with its work of training young men of promise in the field of art, a small but mighty part of Notre Dame.
After returning from service. Professors Sessler and Hanley dressed up the Art Department which became a wartime casualty. Both have achieved a national reputation as artists and have exhibited their work in many outstanding galleries.
John Swain, Webb Marshall (seated) and Joe Finelli design a Maytime wayside shrine utilizing cast-off materials and salvaged candelabrum. The shrine is designed in the tradition of Peter Hunt, very popular contemporary decorator.
ADMIRAL NIMITZ
(Continued from page 7) has been made since the uncertain days of April, 1942. And you have certainly made history since then. You have come home from the wars—“home is the sailor, home from the sea”—acclaimed a hero, a recognized leader among leaders to whom Americans look up. We of Notre Dame have watched you with the affectionate pride of a long-standing friendship. We have kept you in our prayers, as we said we would.
“In all fairness, Admiral, we should tell you that we are depending on your wisdom and vision now, just as much as we did up to V-J Day. You, who did so much to win the war, can do much to win the peace. I know you may say that you are not a statesman. Perhaps not. But you have position and influence, and, what is more, you have the kind of old-fashioned common sense that we like at Notre Dame. This is an old-fashioned school. We believe in principles of right and wrong as they apply to individuals and nations. . . .
“It occurs to me that Poland is the test as to whether we shall have a peace based on principle or expediency. . . . The fact is we are amazed that the Unit
22
ed Nations should permit a quisling to bring charges against a nation that helped the Allies win the battle of North Africa. Now if the Security Council of the United Nations is to investigate Spain, we feel that in all justice that Poland, the Balkans and other countries under the rule of Red Fascism should be investigated as well and a report made to the United Nations.”
Admiral Nimitz arrived by special plane at the South Bend airport at 12:30 p.m. and was driven through the principal streets of South Bend in a motorcade. He was greeted at the entrance to Notre Dame by the band. and student body, at which time he reviewed the Naval V-12 unit and Naval ROTC unit stationed at Notre Dame. A special lunch - ‘ at which he was honored guest followed in the Notre Dame dining halls. Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies, made the presentation of the degree to Admiral Nimitz.
Following the convocation the Admiral received representatives of the Notre Dame student council and the Notre Dame Veterans Club. A reception for members of the Notre Dame faculty and their wives was followed by a special dinner.
Admiral Nimitz was accompanied to
Notre Dame by his aides, Commander E. B. Fluckey and Capt. Walter Karig. Among othei- distinguished guests were theii’ Excellencies, John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, William Arnold, D.D., Military Delegate, and the Very Reverend Thomas A. Steiner, Provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers.
—Ray Donovan
Propeller Club Elects Younghaus President
Notre Dame port members of the Propeller Club of the United States reorganized and elected officers at a Buffet Dinner^held at the D.A.V., Tuesday, May 7. .... -
Albert E. Younghaus was elected president; Frank J. D. Kowalski, vicepresident; and George F. Schnurle, secretary-treasurer. Mr. Herbert Bott is the honorary chairman and faculty advisor of the club.
Only students who are majoring in Foreign Commerce are eligible for club membership. The next meeting will be held May 20. All those interested in joining the organization should contact Frank Kowalski in Room 220, Alumni Hall.
Scholastic Sports Section
Klinemen Go Against W. Michigan Tomorrow
By DAVE WARNER
24 Lettermen Battling for Grid Berths; End Situation Improved
By PETE BROWN
Home are Happy Warriors after getting a glimpse of a good portion of the Mid-Western countryside through the window of a rumbling bus which transported the baseball squad on its current five-game road trip. At Cartier Field tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 a highly regarded Notre Dame baseball team led by Coach Jake Kline and Capt. Tom Sheehan will try to saddle an unstable Western Michigan Bronco whose only consistency this season is its inconsistency to win regularly. Tuesday the Irish journeyed to Ann Arbor, Mich, where it tried to annex the Michigan Wolverines to a seven game winning streak with Jack Barrett, major domo of Kline’s mound corps, seeking his fifth win of the season.
The Broncos’ season so far has been an erratic one. They lost a doubleheader to Ohio State but on the other hand they walloped the Wisconsin Badgers in both ends of a twin bill. As of last Monday morning Wisconsin led the Western Conference with a six and one standing. Another of Western Michigan’s victims is Michigan State, a better than average club. Listed among the conquerors of the Brones is mighty Michigan to whom it is not exactly a disgrace to lose. Coach Charlie Maher has been having his
(Continued on page 28)
For those who plan to attend tomorrow’s game here with Western Michigan, a list of the uniform numbers of Notre Dame players is presented as an aid to identification.
1	Frank Gilhooley
2	Billy Hassett
3	Bill Dioguardi
4	Geo. Schneider
5	Tom Coccotti
6	Dick Smullen
7	Tom Sheehan
8	Virgil Scarpelli
10	Bill Albert
11	Frank Ciszczon
12	John Mayo
13	W. Mahannah
14 Joe Gehring
16 Jim Presley
18 Dick Kluck
20	Jack Barrett
21	John Hilbrich
22	Ed Cordasco
25	Ray Petrzelka
26	Elmer Raba
28	Stanley Krivik
29	Tom Clemente
30	Bill Sherman
With spring practice almost completed, Coach Frank Leahy is finding that most of his veterans are having more trouble getting their legs in shape than anything else. All but two of the injuries suffered by his men have been to their legs. The two exceptions are Moose Fisher with a shoulder injury and Luke Higgins with a head injury.
An even two dozen lettermen of previous squads answered the first call for spring practice. Of the 24, only 14 were members of last year’s squad. At first there was a complete lack of experienced ends, but in the past few weeks Mike Davlin, a left end on the ’44 squad, returned to the campus. Davlin, from Omaha, Nebraska, shares with Dr. Eddie Anderson, head coach at Iowa, the distinction of being the youngest man to win a football letter at Notre Dame. Both were 16 when they earned their first monogram, Mike in ’44 and Dr. Anderson in ’18.
The other ends who show some promise are Bob Walsh, Jim Martin and Dave Lloyd. Walsh was a teammate of Bob Kelly at Leo High School in Chicago. He weighs in at 200 lbs., is 6' 2", and served two years in the Navy. Martin, a Cleveland product, pushes the scale pointer to the 205 mark. He has 30 months of Marine service behind him. Lloyd comes from Los Angeles. His hitch in the Navy lasted 18 months. Walsh, so far, has displayed the best pass-catching qualities essential to T-formation ends.
The tackle situation is a complete reversal of the end problem. Six lettermen are vying for the two coveted spots. They are Ziggy Czarobski of Chicago and Bob McBride of Lancaster, Ohio, winners of two monograms; and Bill Russell of Omaha, John Glabb of Long Beach, California, Moose Fisher of Chicago, and Jack Fallon of Alton, Illinois. Ted Budy-nkiewicz of Chicopee, Mass., also has a say in the proceedings. He played a year of freshman football here before spending 38 months in the Army. Czarobski spent 34 months in the Navy and McBride 39 in the Army. The others played on last year’s team. Their average weight is 211 with Fisher tops at 225 and McBride and Glabb at 205.	.
The guards are one-up on the tackles with seven lettermen. They are John Mastrangelo of Vandergrift, Pa., and Fred Rovai of Hammond, Indiana, with two apiece; and Luke Higgins of Edgewater, New Jersey, Ed Fay of Pittsburg, George Tobin of Arlington, Mass., Vince Scott of LeRoy, New York, and Tom Potter of Kearney, New Jersey, with one each. All but Higgins and Tobin earned their monograms last year. Both were members of the ’42 squad.
Bill Walsh of last year’s team represents the only returning monogram winner at center. This Phillipsburgh, New Jerseyite, carries 210 lbs. on his 6' 2%" frame. He is backed by Bill Vangen of Bell, California, a veteran of four and one-third years of Navy duty, and George Strohmeyer of McAllen, Texas, another three year Navy veteran.
With the absence of John Lujack, the quarterback post is bouncing around between George Ratterman of Cincinnati, a monogram winner of last year, and Frank Tripucka of Bloomfield, New Jersey. At present Joe Gasparella, who has won monograms for the past two seasons, is out of competition because of a knee operation. Fred Early confines himself to placeknck attempts for the same reason. John Doe of Chicago also has his helmet in the ring.
John Agnone, Las Vegas, Nevada; Bill Gompers, Wheeling, West Virginia; Emil Slovak, Eliston, Ohio; Bob Kelly, Chicago; Terry Brennan, Milwaukee; and Bob Livingston, Hammond; represent the returning lettermen for the halfback positions. With some experience at the end of last season, Floyd Simmons is a man to be watched. The most promising of the new crop of halfbacks are Mike Swisto-wicz of Chicago and Bud Bartiser of Webster Groves, Mo., who is splitting time between football and track this spring.
Four former monogram winners including Jerry Cowhig of Boston, Jim McGurk of Montclair, New Jersey, and the brother act of Jim Mello and Pep Panel-li, brighten the fullback picture. Ray lannucillo of Providence, Rhode Island, (Continued on page 34)
23
Track Squad to Meet Michigan State Sat.
By MEL GODDARD
The Notre Dame track team will attempt to score its first victory of the outdoor season in a dual meet tomorrow with the Spartans of Michigan State at East Lansing, Mich.
Although the Irish defeated Michigan State three times during the indoor* season, Coach Karl Schlademan’s squad promises to give Doc Handy’s boys a lot of competition. Several men have been added to the Spartan team since running started outdoors, and many of the performers have shown marked improvement in the past few weeks. The best indication of Michigan State’s improvement is the 92 to 44 trouncing handed to Marquette last Saturday at Milwaukee. The Irish have also been strengthened in certain events by men returning from service.
Notre Dame, as usual, will be the weaker of the two teams in the field events. Bruce Drynan has tossed the shot and the discus farther than any performer the Irish will have on hand. Ted Wonch, brilliant Spartan pole vaulter, has cleared 13 ft. 7 *4 in. on two different occasions. That is more than a foot better than the marks turned in by any Notre Dame man this season. Reader and Beckford have broad jumped around 20 ft., and the latter has been a consistent point winner in the high jump. The hopes of the Ramblers in the field events will rest with Cliff Brosey and Luke Higgins in the weights; Bill Fleming, Painter and Keelan in the high jump; Hunter in the broad jump; and Pogue and Greenway in the pole vault.
The situation might be different when the boys start running. Billy Leonard should take the mile but not without some competition from Gibbard of Michigan State. Leonard will be up against a top-flight half-miler in the 880 when he meets Walter Mack, who set a new meet record of 1:56.6 last week at Marquette. In the dashes Notre Dame will have Gar-tiser and Thompson against Schepers and Tanner. The hurdles will find the Spartans’ double winner, Harold Mayhew, opposing the Irish trio of Smith, Fleming, and O’Neil. Jim Fraser of Michigan State ran a 50.3 sec. 444 last week and should give plenty of trouble to Sabota and Kenny. Notre Dame, providing little Jim Murphy gets over an upset stomach, should pick up points in the two mile run. Neil Styer, Kelly and Tracey should also be in the middle of that race. The mile-relay could be the best race of the afternoon. The Michigan State quartet of Jones, Beckford, La-
NeHers Whitewash Indiana, Edge Out Purdue for Close 5-4 Victory
Ey BILLY SLAVICK
Notre Dame’s netters went to both extremes last weekend to capture their first and second matches of the year. Losing only one set in nine matches, the Irish whisked past Indiana here a week ago Thursday, 9-0, and then came within three points of losing to Purdue Friday, finally emerging on top, 5-4. Saturday’s clash with Kentncky at Lexington was rained out, halting the meeting of Junior Davis Cuppers Bill Tully of N. D. and Kentucky’s Albert Reynolds.
It was Notre Dame from the first serve in the Indiana match, and it seemed that the meet had hardly gotten under way beneath a glaring sun before Coach Walter Langford’s racqueteers walked off the court with six straight-set singles triumphs neatly carved out. Tully had the roughest time of the six, going duce several times in his first five games, losing two of them. He ended up well ahead however, winning over Bob Bosart, 6-2, 6-0.
George Ratterman, giving an exhibition of his best tennis this season, defeated Bill Manis, 6-2, 6-1; Ed Caparo brushed aside Willie Joyce, and Harry Erd disposed of John Ambler. Both matches ended up 6-1, 6-0. Joe Brown did just as well, passing William Williamson, 6-0, 6-1.
Before the doubles got under way, Langford sent Ratterman off to football practice, and Brown, Erd, and Hoffman to the showers, substituting Phil Lyons, Jack Franz, Tyke Hartman, and Ralph Biaocchi. Tully and Caparo paired to beat Manis and Joyce straight love sets, Hartman and Lyons took a pair of 6-0’s after dropping the first, 4-6, to down Bosart and Manis, and Franz and Biaocchi topped Hunter and William Blackburn, 6-4, 6-2.
The Purdue story struck no parallel note though. No one, even Tully, got by without a stiff battle, and the Irish only led 12-9 in sets as the last ball skidded across the Boilermakers’ indoor courts.
Dave Rogers of New Albany extended Tully twenty games before the Notre
Grou and Fraser set a new meet record of 3:24.5 at Marquette. That time gives them a slight edge over the Irish, but Coach Handy will field a team which should make it plenty close.
Neither squad should overpower the other tomorrow, but, if Notre Dame is to have a successful outdoor track season, tomorrow seems to be the best day to start winning.
Dame captain finally took the first set, 11-9. Bill then eased through the second, 6-1. Ratterman beat Bill Van Camp, 6-4, 6-4; Caparo knocked off Jack Cohen, 6-3, 6-4; but Erd, Hoffman, and Brown, weren’t quite so lucky. Hal Morgan squeezed by Erd, 6-3, 9-11, and 7-5; Hoffman lost two 6-4 sets to Al Matisse, and George Alexander edged by Brown, 8-6, 6-3.
Tully and Ratterman finished off Rodgers and Alexander in the No. T doubles match, 6-2 and 7-5, but Hoffman and Lyons lost to Matisse and Jim Boring, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3. That left it up to Caparo and Erd.
The deciding match was nip and tuck all of the way. Ed and Harry took the opener from Van Camp and Rudy Wits-man, 7-5, but lost the second, 6-8. The No. 2 Notre Dame duo led in the final set, 5-2, and it looked like it was all over, that is to all except Van Camp and Witsman. The Boilermaker pair came back to win the next four games, and the first point of the next—only three points from the match. But Erd and Caparo rallied, coming back to take the game and a slight advantage in the see-saw through the next six to finally win the set, 11-9.
Langford said that it was probably the most closely fought team battle he had ever seen—right down to the last point.
It may be even closer this weekend, as Notre Dame plays this afternoon in Kalamazoo against Western Michigan, and goes to East Lansing to meet Michigan State tomorrow. Wisconsin will be here Thursday, and the University of Michigan will journey to South Bend Saturday.	-
Western Michigan’s No. 1 man, Walter Stuckert, a pre-war letterman, and John Milroy, No. 6 in ’42, lead a strong team.
The Michigan State battle will probably be a replica of the Purdue match. The Spartans went to LaFayette last Friday, the day after the Irish won, 5-4, and walked off with an identical victory. “It will really be close, probably 5-4 either way,” Langford predicted. The State netters have been defeated by Michigan and Northwestern.
There is a possibilty that the rained out Northwestern match will come early in the week, but only a possibility. The Kentucky match was canceled, and the season will end one match shy, unless Langford is able to schedule a fill-in.

24
Two Bengal Champions Dethroned;
Agnone-Deem Fight Spectacular
By PETER J. PESOLI
That type of aggressiveness and power nurtured by college football proved to be too much for defending champions John Trave and Ralph Deem as bruising Jack Fallon and ferocious John Agnone dethroned the ex-champs with a viciousness that had a crowd of 3,500 attending the 15th annual Bengal Bouts on its feet most of the time roaring its approval.
The most spectacular fight of the night was Agnone’s T.K.O. of Deem in the 165-pound, senior middleweight division. Deem, possessing both punch and boxing skill, was favored to win by virtue of his easy victories in the prelims. The bout began at a deceptively slow pace as the boxers warily circled each other, waiting for an opening. As Deem attempted to close in he caught an overhand right of Agnone’s that was heard throughout the field house, and which proved to be merely a prevue of things to come. Deem took a count of nine and came back to stave off Agnone’s knockout attempt, managing to hang on till the end of the round. At the beginning of the second Deem looked as though he would last, lashing out with a couple of vicious lefts. It was then, however, that the hard hitting Youngstown, Ohio, lad unleashed a devastating series of rights and lefts to drive Deem into the ropes. The RO valiantly attempted to defend himself but it was like trying to stop a buzzsaw. At this point, referee George Nate stepped in to stop the bout after one minute and seven seconds of the second round had expired.
Jack Fallon, 210 pound tackle of Alton, Ill., although spotting his opponent considerable height and weight, earned a unanimous decision over big John Trave by sheer aggressiveness and endurance. Fallon m.anaged to bull his way through Trave’s far reaching guard to continually strike home with club-like rights and lefts. In the second round Trave was staggered for the first time in two years of Bengal fighting. The third round saw two tired fighters swinging and missing, but Fallon had already piled up enough points to earn the decision of the judges.
The Paul Porter—Jack McGrath bout in the 147-pound class—another slugger vs. boxer affair with brawn triumphing over skill—went to Porter, whose devastating right was too much for McGrath’s boxing ability to overcome. In the first round Porter rocked McGrath with three sledgehammer-like rights to the head and McGrath decided to attempt to outbox his opponent. Porter took the first round but had trouble finding McGrath in the
second who meanwhile had changed to “Jab and clinch” tactics. But by the third Deadpan Paul had partially solved McGrath’s style and several more of his wicked rights found their mark to clinch the decision.
Joe Delia, a wild-swinging southpaw from Jersey, took exactly two rounds to polish off his opponent, Jesse Poston, in the 155-pound class. Joe employed hard-charging tactics to get Poston within the range of his whistling left hook and at the end of the second round had the Texan in trouble and on the ropes. Delia was crowned champion when his opponent failed to answer the bell for the third round.
The third footballer of the evening to win on the 12-bout card was veteran George Dickson from Brighton, Mass. He outstyled and outclassed his tired opponent, Frank Bonotto, who started too fast in the first round.’
Bob Satti showed good style and boxing savvy in defeating game Joe Kosnik for the second time in the tournament. Bernard Peterson was scheduled to meet Satti but received a pre-fight rib injury, necessitating Kosnik’s substitution. Satti had previously decisioned Kosnik in the prelims, and their second bout was almost a stereotype of their first encounter. Kosnik tried to slug it out with Satti, but the New London, Conn, lad barreled his way in to register several times on
3,500 Fans in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse for the Finals of the Bengal Bouts
Joe’s nose. At the end of the bout Kosnik, his nose bleeding profusely, was still trying hard but Satti had too much for him. Kosnik, however, deserves particular commendation for his contribution to the B e n g a 1 s since he hadn’t trained for the finals, assuming he was out of the running.
Tom Balenti, another lad possessing a wicked right, outhit Russel Van Keuren to cop the 135-pound title. It was a hard, fast fight with Van Keuren—although on the receiving end of several rattling rights—always coming back to mix it up.
The first bout on the card, the 127-pound title match, offered one of the closest decisions of the evening as Jim Rotchford’s reach enabled him to narrowly eke out a victory over hard-hitting Greg Despot.
At intermission time Killer Syzmanski and Muscles McAdams engaged in a chai-, lenge match, fought according to the Marquis de Olsen and Johnson rules, complete with pistols and confetti-filled buckets. Challenger McAdams flattened the Killer in the second round (which was no surprise to all who knew the outcome of the David and Goliath tussle).
The annual Bengal Bouts Sportsman Trophy was awarded to Robert Gaffney of Syracuse, N. Y., a wounded vet of World War II. Frank McAdams, ’31, former Bengal Bouter and also a wounded vet, presented the trophy as 3,500 spectators applauded their approval. Gaffney, defeated in the preliminaries in the 127-pound class, was encouraged to enter the tournament by Dominic Napolitano as a means of conditioning his leg.
Michigan Track Squad Decisively Defeats ND
By DICK DIETZ
Golf Team Lengthens Win Streak, Trounces Michigan and Purdue
The U. of Michigan put another rung in its long ladder of track supremacy over Notre Dame last Saturday when its well balanced squad trimmed the Irish 74%-47% on Cartier field. Doc Handy’s spikemen held their own fairly well in the running events hut were woefully weak in the field events, being completely shut out in the discus and getting only 1% points from their combined efforts in the shot put and the broad jump.
Bill Leonard opened the meet with a win in the mile for the Irish and added another- victory to his already bulging string. Leonard broke on top and led until the final quarter when Thomason of Michigan stepped into the lead. Bill sprinted by him 150 yards from the finish and won going away. His time was 4:25. The extra effort put into the finish of the mile, however, probably cost Leonard the half mile just 25 minutes later. Bar-ten, who was third behind Leonard in the mile, won it in 2:02.4. Low, of Michigan, was second and Leonard was third.
Hugh Short, a former Georgetown athlete, raced to a 50 second victory in the 440 and then returned to anchor the winning Michigan mile relay team. Sabota and Kenney of Notre Dame were second and third respectively in the quarter mile.
The outstanding performer of the-day as far as Michigan was concerned was stocky Horace Coleman who captured firsts in the 220 and 100 yd. dashes and ran the first leg of the mile relay. Bill Fleming led the Irish with a win in the 220 low hurdles and seconds in the high jump and in the 120 high hurdles. Footballer Bud Gartiser finished second in both dashes while John Smith won the 120 highs and Neil Greenway tied for first in the pole vault.
The two mile run turned out to be the best race of the meet as lanky Dean Voegtlen edged out little Cornie Styers at the tape after a gallant finishing kick by the latter. Styers, running smoothly and steadily led almost continuously throughout the race followed closely by Johnson and Voegtlen. With about 250 yds. to go Johnson suddenly spurted into the lead. Styers then turned on the power and bolted ahead around the final turn towards the finish. Voegtlen, who started his bid last, was coming all the time, however, and passed Styers ten yds. from the tape. Despite his loss, the little two-miler gives promise of becoming aT standout performer on Handy’s squad.
The Notre Dame golf team maintained its undefeated season record to date by defeating Purdue and Michigan in matches played May 11 and 13. Purdue was defeated at West Lafayette, Saturday, by a 15% to 11% score, while Michigan was trounced, 19 to 8, on the local course Monday afternoon.
By scoring seven out of a possible nine in the best ball matches, the Irish gained a lead on the Purdue linksmen in the morning round that was sufficient for victory despite Purdue’s 9% to 8% lead in the afternoon singles. George Stuhr and Everhart Schleck teamed up to defeat Harrison and Durmick, 3 to 0. Dick Whiting and Joe Totten won from Stackhouse and Dahl, 2 to 1, and Captain Tom Kennedy and Jim Besenf elder scored a 2 to 1 win over Memeth and Van Derbloemen of Purdue. Whiting, Besenfelder, and Totten won their singles matches in tfie afternoon.
Notre Dame outscored Michigan, 5% to 3%, in the best ball matches, and 13% to 4% in the singles played on the Notre Dame course. Whiting and Totten took a cleancut 3-0 match from Barclay and Schalon of Michigan as Whiting shot a 68 for the best score of the day. Stuhr and Schleck won from Ramsey and
Irish Golf Team—Left to right Jack Quinn. George Stewart Joe Totten, Coach Father Holderith, Everhart Schleck, Dick Whiting driving off, Tim Besenfelder, Captain Tom Kennedy, and Tom Connelly.
Courtright of the Wolverines, 2 to 1. Stuhr also set the pace in the singles with a 71 to beat Elliott of Michigan, 3 to 0. Kennedy and Schleck also scored 3-0 victories. Scores of the Michigan match:
Best Ball Matches					
Barclay Schalon	Out 38 38	In 34 37	Total 72 75	Mich. Pts. 0	ND Pts.
Dick Whiting	35	33	68		
Joe Totten	41	36	77	-	-
Ramsev	36	41	77	1	
Courtright	39	39	78	-	-
George Stuhr	39	35	74		2
Everhart Schleck	40	36	76	-	••
Elliott	41	37	78	2%	
Kessler	39	37	76		..
Tom Kennedy	39	37	76		%
Jim Besenfelder	39	37	76 Single Matches			3%	~5%
Ramsey	43	37	80	%	
Dick Whiting	38	37	75		2%
Elliott	40	40	80	—	--
George Stuhr	35	36	71	-	3
Barclay	38	38	76	1	—
Jim Besenfelder	39	34	73	-	2
Schalon	41	41	82	—	--
Tom Kennedy	37	37	74	••	3
Kessler	37	34	71	3	—
Joe Totten	41	37	78	-	••
Courtright	41	38	79	__	—
Everhart Schleck	39	34	73	4%	3 13%
26
INIKIKIM
By JIM CLEMENS
The youngest regular on this year’s crack Notre Dame baseball team is eighteen year old .Raymond John Petrzelka, lanky freshman from the “tall corn country,” who is currently belting the ball at a .370 clip while holding down the first base job in most acceptable fashion.
“Seeds,” which is the latest nickname to be pinned on the towering youth, was born December 2, 1927, in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, a city of about 65,000 population situated some twenty-two miles west of Iowa City. There he attended Roosevelt High School and proved to be an all around athlete by earning a total of eleven monograms in foui- years of competition—four in baseball, four in basketball, two in football, and one in track.
Although he captained the basketball team in his senior year, and made the All-City team as a center, it was in baseball that he received the biggest athletic thrill of his high school career. Alternating between first base and the pitcher’s box in his senior year, “Seeds” clouted the ball at a lusty .385 clip and turned in four wins against no defeats when he took his turn on the mound. This in part helped his team to the finals of the state championship, where they defeated East Waterloo High School 1-0 for the State title in a magnificent.no-hit no-run performance, “Seeds” contributing one hit to the attack and playing flawless ball at the initial sack.
In recognition of his fine all around play during the season, Ray was named as the first baseman on the State All-Stai- High School baseball team and received honorable mention as a pitcher, a dual honor of which he can be justly proud.
After his graduation from high school in June, 1945, the 6' 2" 180-pound youngster enrolled at Notre Dame and made his first appearance on the Irish campus the following November. Deciding to confine his varsity athletics strictly to baseball, “Seeds” played on the Zahm Hall basketball team and by his stellar floor play and uncanny shooting ability led the team into the campus finals against St. Edward’s Hall. He was high scorer as the Zahmites annexed the championship in a thrilling contest.
When Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline issued his first call for baseball candidates this spring, “Seeds” lost no time in getting to work, and so impressed the Irish mentor with his long range hitting
and nifty fielding that he was soon a fixture at first base. Thus far the Iowa youth has been banging the ball far and often and with a little more polish and experience should develop into one of the best first sackers in collegiate circles.
In a recent two game series at Iowa City against the University of Iowa, “Seeds” received his greatest athletic thrill at Notre Dame when his Mom and Dad and girl friend Jean Zobl, came down to watch him play. They were accompanied by a whole contingent of Ce-dai- Rapids “Petrzelka” fans. Ray didn’t disappoint the home folks either, lashing out two singles and scoring one run which aided materially in the first victory of that seiies.
Second semester freshman Ray has three more lusty baseball seasons ahead of him here at Notre Dame before he graduates with an A. B. Degree in Physical Education. Then he would like to combine a professional baseball career with a little coaching in the off season, if the knee injury which he suffered while playing basketball in high school doesn’t interfere with his plans.
In his spare time Ray keeps several scrap books on baseball and avows that dancing is his keenest form of relaxation, preferably with his girl friend Jean, of course. Among his particular chums are Dave Langley his roommate (himself a winning pitcher for the Breen-Phillips baseball team) and the fellows on the ball team whom he calls “a swell bunch of guys.”
Klinemen Trim Iowa Twice, 3-0 and 9-4
By BUZZ WRIGHT
Iowa failed to halt Notre Dame’s assault on Big Ten opposition last week and the Irish returned from Iowa City with another pair of victories added to their string of successive wins. The sweep of the Hawkeye series gave Jake Kline’s nine their sixth straight conquest since splitting the opening twin bill with Indiana. .
The series opener on Tuesday saw Jack Barrett blank the home club, 3 to 0, and the following day Walt Mahannah went the route as ND came out on the long end of a 9 to 4 score.
In the first game the Irish got to southpaw Jack Bruner for eight hits, tallying once in the first inning and twice in the sixth. Meanwhile Barrett spaced six Iowa safeties, all singles, to chalk up his third triumph and become the first Notre Dame hurler to register a shut-out this season.
Jack Mayo’s single over second brought home George Schneider with the first marker after the flashy third-sacker • had walked and pilfered second base. In the sixth Ray Petrzelka opened with a single and romped across home plate on Tom Sheehan’s double,- the only extrabase blow of the contest. Right Fielder Elmer Raba then hit safely to bring in Sheehan with the last run.
Sheehan paced the Irish with the stick, punching out a brace of singles in addition to his two-base clout. Bill Diehl topped the losers’ efforts with two one-basers, while Ray Petrzelka garnered the same for ND.
Two big innings, aided considerably by Hawkeye miscues, enabled the victors to come froni behind and nail the verdict in the second battle. Once again Jack Mayo was responsible for the first Irish counter, singling in Ben Kozlik after the latter had started the first stanza with a base on balls. Iowa came back with a couple of runs in the second chapter, but a big fifth inning put ND in front to stay. Two free passes, an infield hit, a fielder’s choice, a passed ball, and three fumbles handed the Klinemen five runs, more than enough to win. Rambler scores in the ninth finished the day’s fireworks.
Walt Mahannah twirled his second victory in as many starts as he granted the lowans but seven hits. Bill Martin, a former Notre Dame V-12 student, started for the losers and was relieved by Bob Faber in the fifth.
Ten errors were recorded by the official scorers with four being charged to ND. The Irish, however, came through with two twin-killings.
27
Baseball League Lead Shared by Four Teams
Four teams were tied for first place in the Interhall Baseball League at the end of the first week of play with one victory apiece. Breen-Phillips, Zahm, Cavanaugh, and St. Ed’s all emerged victorious in their first league starts.
In the most keenly contested game, Zahm Hall eked out a 1 to 0 victory over Alumni. In this pitching duel, each team secured but three hits. The scores of the other games during the week were: Cavanaugh 4, Sorin 2; St. Ed’s 2, Dillon 1; and Breen-Phillips defeated Dillon.
The schedule for next week: May 17, Walsh vs. St. Ed’s; May 20, Cavanaugh vs. Zahm; May 21, St. Ed’s vs. Alumni; May 22, B-P vs. Walsh; and May 23, Sorin vs. Dillon.
Tour Campus Florists
for the Knights of Columbus 24th Annual Spring Formal:
Jim Evans, 225 Sorin
Jack Noonan, 104 Walsh
Mark Doody, 129 Howard
Highest Quality at Lowest Prices
All Through the Day Dark Town Poker Club Ah Yes, There's Good Blues
Tonight
Seems Like Old Times Full Moon and Empty Arms
IATECT TUNES
COPP'S MUSIC SHOP
122-24 E Wayne St
Clean fun in the Bengals. Muscles McAdams tap dances on the back of Killer Syzmanski in Bengal Bout intermission mock battle.
KLINEMEN
(Continued from page 23) troubles developing a consistent winner among his pitchers this.spring. The nearest one to it is Ed Rossi, a southpaw, whom Maher will start against Notre Dame tomorrow afternoon in an attempt to handcuff the heavy hitting Irish attack.
In a surprise move Kline may beckon his ace, Barrett, for mound service against the Broncos. The veteran Notre Dame baseball pilot seemed to think Barrett would be ready after only three days rest following the Michigan encounter, but should he falter Mahannah, Kluck and Smullen will be on tap for relief duty. Up at East Lansing last Saturday Barrett made Frank Merriwell look like a creampuff. With the score knotted at 4-4 Barrett relieved “Rowdy” Smullen in the eighth. He proceeded to pitch runless ball and in the tenth won his own ball game by slashing a sharp single after Georgie Schneider had tripled. Joe Gehring may break into the game, depending upon how the lefthanded outfielders fare against southpaw pitching, while Stan
Krivik will probably remain at first in place of Ray Petrzelka although Krivik went 0 for 5 against Mich. State. There may also be some alternating in the infield. Pete Koblosh and Gene Lavery broke into the lineup for the first time this season last Saturday and both favorably impressed Coach Kline.
Next game for the Irish is a return match with Michigan State here May 25.
Wolverines Snap N.D. Win Streak
The Michigan Wolverines again held thier baseball jinx over the Irish nine as they won 7 to 1 at Ann Arbor, Tuesday May 14. The defeat was the second in 10 games for Notre Dame and their first after seven straight victories. A trio of Michigan hurlers, Wise, Bowman, and Block, held Notre Dame to five hits while the Wolves collected nine off of the hurling of Jack Barrett and Walt Mahannah. The defeat was also Barrett’s first loss of the year.
For Appointment Phone 3-0678
5 Barbers Manicurist
W. E. Cyr, Prop.
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop"
SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOB APPOINTMENT
100-102 South Main Street
Chair No. 5
Michigan has now registered five straight wins over Notre Dame since the Irish lost one from them in 1944.
Mayo led the Irish hitting with two while Gilhooley, Kozlik, and Krivik had one hit apiece.
28
Splud&id ^tom the PteAA
By PAUL WEYRAUCH—Scholastic Sports Editor
IRISH SPORTS CALENDAR
Today, Friday May 17 t- Tennis, at Western Michigan.
Saturday, May 18—Baseball, Western Michigan.
Track, at Michigan State.
Tennis, at Michigan State Golf, Northwestern.
Thursday, May 23 — Golf, Wisconsin.
Take Notice!
The excitement caused by the sensational basketball winning streak compiled this last season by the Fighting Irish has long since died down, but there is a new winning streak in progress. Seven straight games had been won by Jake Kline’s baseball team up to press time this week with Michigan the barrier to the eighth straight. Tomorrow afternoon the Irish club will meet the strong Western Michigan Broncos on Cartier Field—a game that is worthy of drawing a large crowd. Attendance at the home games so far this season has been exceptionally good, but there is always room for more.
About 25 years ago baseball was the number one sport on the campus and held the attention now commanded by football. From the first season, 1892, through the Michigan State game of last week, Notre Dame baseball teams have won a total of 622 and lost 296 with 12 ties. This record, if my scant math ability holds up, gives an overall percentage of .677. Head Coach Jake Kline was captain of the 1917 team which won ten of fourteen games.
A total of 48 former Notre Dame varsity ball players went on to play Major League baseball. This list includes old timers such as Adrian “Pop” Anson, Roger Bresnahan, Ed Reulbach, Ed Walsh, Cy Williams, and many others.
The 1946 nine is well on the way to one of the best seasons in many years at Notre Dame. Consistently good hitting and pitching has been the key to success thus far. Jack Barrett has been hurling some beautiful ball games while the freshman trio of Walter Mahannah, Memphis, Tennessee, Dick Smullen, Yonkers, New York, and Dick Kluck, Chicago, have provided many pleasant surprises for Jake Kline in the way of stellar pitching. Hitting honors have been well divided among the regulars.
Bengal Sidelights
The championship bouts of the 1946 Bengal Boxing Tournament proved to be real title fights. Competition was never dull as the boys really went to work on each other in quest of the honors. Jack Fallon won a popular decision when he dethroned John Trave as heavyweight champion. Trave, a fine fighter and true sportsman, had held the kingpin seat for two years. Much of Fallon’s success was due to his “trainer,” Harp Dougherty. Paul Porter proved the advantages of a puncher over a boxer when he took a decision from Jack McGrath in the 147 pound class. McGrath boxed beautifully but was subdued by Porter’s potent punches. John Agnone wasted little time in going after Ralph Deem, defending champion in the 165 class. Deem was stunned by a hard blow in the first round and could not slug it out with Agnone beyond the 1 minute and 27 second mark of the second round. Tom Balenti showed some clever boxing skill as he defeated Russ Van Keuren in the 135 title bout.
Bernard Peterson was unable to meet Bob Satti for the 142 pound final fight so Joe Kosnik, a game fighter if there ever was one, moved in as a substitute. Kosnik had lost two fights in the prelims, the second a three round decision to Satti. He had been out of training for a week and was not notified that he would fight in the finals until the afternoon of the fight. Kosnik gave Satti a real battle in the finals but lost a close decision. He took a lot of punishment in the Ben-gals as did many others, but he never quit.
Just received!
Attractive Elgin American Cigarette Cases and Compacts
IDEAL GIFTS
arvn
126 N. Michigan Street
This 'n That—Here 'n There
The home town papers were right on the spot for the Bengal finals. The Beaumont, Texas, Enterprise requested the results of Paul Porter’s bout, the Milwaukee Sentinel awaited word on Ralph Deem’s battle, and the Alton, Illinois asked for the word on John Fallon. . . . Johnny McHale, Notre Dame student-pro baseball player combined, is currently hitting in the cleanup spot for the Buffalo Bisons of the International League. A couple of weeks ago he hit a home run to give the Bisons a 2-1 win over the first place Syracuse Chiefs. . . . Some excellent improvements are being made on the athletic field to the south of the campus. Additional tennis courts are being put in, a backstop has been erected for use in baseball, shade trees planted near the diamonds for comfort of the fans, and clay infield improvements made. . . . Matt Bolger, former Irish and Iowa Seahawk footballer, has enrolled at Cornell University and will play for Ed McKeever this fall. . . . Bill Leonard’s 4:25.1 mile against Michigan last week again ranks him among the best in the nation. Roland Sink of Southern Cal has turned in a 4:15.3 but this is the only known mark better than Leonard’s best. . . . The varsity tennis team got as far as Cincinnati last Saturday before they found out that the Kentucky match was called off. It was a nice ride, anyway....
BOOKS
For your reading enjoyment: Then and Now
— W. Somerset Maugham Wilderness Adventure Alexander of Macedon Wrath in Burma Famous American
Athletes of Today
Great Horse Stories Burma Surgeon Returns Lustre In The Sky Wake of the Red Witch
NEWS CENTER
127 W. Washington Street
"In the J- M. S. Building"
29
CAMPUS CLUBS
By JERRY OLWELL
"Transcripts From My Secretary Alyce's Notebook''
Dear Jerry,
While you were out of town many of the Campus Clubs held meetings to complete their final arrangements for summer formals. A number* of the clubs are having a hard time finding a suitable theme for the evening. Why not “Victory Night,” victory considering both the past war and the 1946 football season. Also towards the middle of the evening each Club Summer Formal should stop its festivities for a moment while they offer a prayer for the war-dead of that Club.
Father Kehoe’s attractive secretary left a note on your desk which said for you to tell all clubs that they had better register with the Office of the Prefect of Discipline immediately if they haven’t done so already. Any club not registered is not recognized by the University.
Call Art Coughlan, Philly Club Prexy, immediately after you get back. He has some good news for you; also get in touch with Christy Walsh and find out more about the fine plans that the Vets Club has for Memorial Day. They intend having a Memorial Mass with the whole student body attending. You will find on your desk a letter from some girl in Brooklyn, N.Y. She tells you not to use the word “Prexy.” It irks her, she said. I answered the letter and told her to send you her picture. I thought that the future of the word “Prexy” would depend on a picture of this young lady.
A new club was born while you were away. It is the Olean, N. Y. Club. They started off their activities with a bowling party on May 4th. Lou Joseph took top scoring honors, while Nick Ash and Bob Duffy had to be content with the alley. This club also had a down-town dinner party at one of South Bend’s leading restaurants. The Olean Club offers membership to all students from Southwestern New York and Northwestern Pennsylvania. On the agenda for this attractive organization is a Communion-breakfast and picnic both to be held in the near future. For the latter part of June they are planning a trip to Chicago.
The Central Illinois Club finally got on the ball and held a meeting. They elected officers and ratified a Constitution. Gene Slevin is President; Bob Uhl, Vice-President; Bill Fuertges, Secretary; and George Riley, Treasurer. The Rev. John O’Brien is the moderator of this Club.
President Slevin announced that his club is having a membership drive that welcomes all students who live within a 50-mile radius of Peoria.
The Buffalo, New York, Club held a meeting and discussed plans for their summer dance. They are also arranging for a down-town dinner party for the near future.
The Vets Club handled many of the arrangements that made the visit of Admiral Nimitz so pleasant. But Ed Dixon, Sgt.-at-Arms of the Vets Club, wants it known that all Pacific Admirals were only Secretaries to his General Douglas. Ed was a “Dogface” in the South Pacific.
About ten Club Secretaries appeared at their meeting. Some thirty were expected. I told them everything that you had written down. They were very cooperative and promised to help you in the future.
We Confident
that men’s and young men’s clothing will be nearly as scarce and hard to secure next -Fall as they are today.
We cAaae 9n
an excellent line of woolens from which suits can be tailored for your Fall needs.
9n View- Of
wz suggest that you place your order for Fall delivery now.
If044^1, WaM9&
for Full Dress and tuxedos and accessories can now be handled.
PARKER - WINTERROWD, Inc.
115% N. Main Street
(Upstairs)
PATRONIZE "SCHOLASTIC" ADVERTISERS
That is about all I could find. I hope you have enough for your column,
Youi* Secretary, Alyce.
P.S. The Philly Club had a social last Wednesday Night. Guests of honor at this affair were the four Philly Club boxers; all lost, incidentally. Tiny Franny McAdams, who you will remember fought Szymanski, has been invited by Mike Jacobs to tangle with the winner of the Louis-Conn bout. Franny is a few inches over four feet.
Interhall Softball
Scoring 12 runs in each of its first two games, Breen-Phillips took over first place in the Eastern Division of the Interhall Softball League. B-P defeated Cavanaugh, 12 to 11, in its first game, and then trounced Sorin, 12 to 3. In other games in this division, Sorin won a foi*feit over Zahm, and St. Ed’s overwhelmed Cavanaugh, 24 to 4.
In the Western Division weather curtailed two of the games with the result that only three games have been played. Alumni defeated Badin, 9 to 7, in the opening game, and on Monday Alumni fell before Dillon, 7 to 2.
30
Man About Town /CiUtoMf, and QUmo-
ABOUT THE TOWN:
Ex-Infantrymen on the campus commenting on the local gendarmes. “They seem to wear more paraphernalia than I ever did when I was in combat.” . . . Jim Bark after a dinner at the Oliver commenting to his waitress about a “No Tipping” sign. She calmly replied, “Bless your little Irish heart, dear, apples were forbidden in the garden too.” . . . Two brothers and one Chicago Club big-wig, and three saints from Mary’s School, playing spin the bottle on their table in the Dining Boom of the Hoffman. . . . The many student husbands struggling with their family wash at the Bendix Launderette. . . . Apple-sauce instead of cranberry-sauce served with Turkey Dinners at the Hoffman on Mother’s Day. ... A very pretty girl seen with Don Patrick at the Hoffman. Don is famous for his legal prowess. . . . An elderly local alumnus commenting on La Fortune’s Cafe. “All students should stand, if sitting, or stand still if walking when they are in the presence of the ND “Victory March.” How true. . . . The off campus get together of the entire Student Council at Rosie’s this past week. . . . The American Flag flying over night, above the American Trust Bank downtown. Tsk, tsk, Chamber of Commerce. . . . That mean old bus driver who caused ten students to be late when he refused to stop one night, because he said he was all filled up.
ABOUT THE CAMPUS:
The student who told his balding English professor just what he thought an exclamation point was. “Just another period that blew its top.” . . . Big Jim Atkinson at the Bengal Bouts puffing on large Corona-Coronas. His South Bend steady must be giving him his allowance again. . . . Met Club Don Degnan trying to crash Sport’s Week over at the “Rock.” Don would like to Palais
ANSWERS TO QUIZ ON PAGE 15	
1—South Dakota —		c—Pierre
2—North Carolina _		e—Raleigh
3—Oregon 			g—Salem
4—West Virginia 			a—Chaarleston
5—Vermont 			f—Montpelier
6—Delaware			i—Dover
7—Washington 			j—Olympia
8—South Carolina _		d—Columbia
9—Missouri		..k—Jefferson City
10—North Dakota —		b—Bismarck
11—Kentucky —.			h—Frankfort
12—New Hampshire		i—Concord
Royale with Mary Lou. . . . “Red” Prendergast whipping up sharp answers for Mr. Madden and Co. . . . Pert Betty Black attracting the attention of Campus Club columnist Jerry Olwell. He hasn’t gotten up enough courage to ask her for a date yet. The Air. Corps didn’t train you that way, Jerry. . . . Vince Boryla, star basketbailer who hails from East Chicago, seen strolling the lake campus with the daughter of one of ND’s all time great track coaches. . . . Professor and ex-naval Lt. Davis sporting “coterie” double-breasted suits. . . . Roy Palmer, Boy Scout Emeritus, sad because he couldn’t attend the Scouting Affair in the drill hall last week. . . . Who is the pretty lass who accompanied lawyer Bob Miller to Dean Pound’s lecture last Friday? .... Bob Hayden had a narrow escape last week when his date decided to walk back to SMC from the center of town, at nine o’clock p.m. Bob didn’t have a mid-night. He is still puffing. . . . Thank God McGinnis finally received the letter from Kathy that he waited so long for. He was down to the second joint on his left hand. . . . McDermitt and Pap-yanykos hit the jackpot as they “fell” into a deal that included a new Cadillac and a private swimming pool. Oh yes, they met two girls also.
FASHION FRUSTRATION:
Big Jim Webb attending the Bengal Bouts attired in only GI suntans. What will Hickey-Freeman say about that?
LOST AMBITIONS:
The coming wedding of our dynamic blond librarian to that lucky graduate student. Many students will not have those fictituous library assignments anymore.
❖
HITS AND NEAR MRS.:
Those long distance telephone calls from ex-NDite Hoolio down in Mexico have the wires burning up over at St. Mary’s. . . . Girls at this school claim that they “would consider” marrying an ND student if he “is tall, dark and HAS SOME.” . . . The young freshman at St. Mary’s who asked her Nun just what a bachelor was. The Nun replied, “Just any ND student who hasn’t a car for a weekend.”
❖
FLOWER SHOPPE:
Orchids to Larry Gobeler and his charming wife for feeding those hungry students the other night. The Gobelers have a charming apartment. . . . Carna
tions to Bob Gaffney for his sportsmanship in the Bengal Bouts. . . . Roses to Sam Hazo and Frank Finn for their fine job in the round-table discussion that discussed Free Trade. Many schools were represented and Notre Dame naturally took all honors. . . . Japanese beetles to the gent who would not let that sailor eat in the Mess Hall the other night, but then allowed the men who work in the kitchen to eat. . . .
❖
OUR PERSONAL BOOK:
“God gives every bird its food, but doesn’t throw it into the nest.” When you sag under the books remember that the opportunity to pass is yours but that you must seek the knowledge, lest you find a pinkish slip under your door.
THE GREEN BANNER
(Continued from page 6)
There was a young man from N. D.
Pursuing an A.B. Degree, His studies were few . . . He finished at two . ..
And was out on the Golf Course by three.
• ❖
For a parting bit of humor we can’t help but remember the time Moe Casey was having watch trouble . . . the time piece had failed for the third time in the same day so Moe decided to make his own repairs . . . the first thing that he saw when he removed the wrist plate, was a little bug . . . very much mangled by the works .. . “No wonder it wouldn’t go,” said Moe in disgust, “the engineer’s dead” . . . that’s all folks.
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
CLASSIFIED
PHONE or MAIL to the Publications Office 118 Main Bldg., Extension 255
TT71 you'*® looking for a typist for your thesis work contact Mrs. G. E. McKnight. Morningside HoteL South Bend, Indiana.
10 CENTS PER PAGE
31
It was quite an occasion when Admiral Chester Nimitz came aboard last Wednesday. The combined Navy units were out in full dress to welcome the visiting party as they drove down Notre Dame Avenue. As the Admiral’s car came to a stop, the Navy band broke into, Ruffles and Flourishes” and followed with the Admiral’s March. We’re not saying that the music was bad, but the Admiral started to drive back to South Bend. . . . Captain Barry asked Admiral Nimitz if he wished to inspect the men. Four hundred and fifty pleading eyes were too much for even this old veteran of Pacific warfare. He said no, and a silent cheer was lifted to the heavens. . . . Oscar Birdbrain was looking forward to seeing the Admiral, but when it came time for him to arrive, Oscar had forgotten and went to Ordnance class. Oscar didn’t notice that there wasn’t anyone else there because he always sleeps through that class. Oscar is usually very conscientious (he won’t do improper fractions in Math class) so his custom of sleeping in this particular class was surprising. He defends his actions by saying that once last year when he paid attention the instructor gave the following lecture: “By means of a pedal attachment, a fulcrumed lever converts a vertical reciprocating motion into a circular movement. The principal part of the machine is a huge disk that revolves in a vertical plane. Power is applied through the axis of the disk, and work is done on the periphery, and the hardest substance by mere impact may be reduced to any shape.” “This wonderful instrument,” says Oscar, “is a grind stone.”
&
POETICALLY SPEAKING
It has always been the opinion of the Chief Crow that the pun is a choice form of poetry. This week’s poetic contribution comes from a man of quite some literary experience who is not above using the pun in limerick style to compliment his friend.
The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher
Called a hen a most eloquent creature.
The hen, pleased with that, Laid an egg in his hat.
And thus did the hen reward Beecher! •
—Oliver Wendell Holmes

DOWNTOWN TALK
It was on a crowded Notre Dame bus, crowded as only an ND bus can be, when a three-year-old and his father jammed themselves on, and Ed Soergel to be of help, said, “Aren’t you afraid your little boy will be badly squashed?” “Not a chance, bud,” was the reply. “He bites.” . . . Don Monnet tells us that it was the same bus that had a child who kept yelping away like a stuck factory whistle. The mother couldn’t do a thing with it and Don turned to one of the Smal-dones to say, “The trouble with that child is that it is spoiled.” The mother looked up, “Oh no,” she demurred, “they all smell that way.”
RO'S ARE TALKING ABOUT
Last week’s demerit list provided more laughs than the last five issues of the Scholastic. (Who said that isn’t hard to do?) Clyde Smith and two others were ordered to store their summer khakis and whites in the company gear room. When they went to get them ready to wear this summer, they discovered that someone had stolen them from this place of “safety.” Upon reporting said fact to
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
the o.rcers they were promtply smacked with a three week restriction for “loss of clothing.” Oh well, there is the right way, the wrong way, and the--------------, or is it treason to mention it? . . . Investigating the offense listed as “gear improperly stowed,” we found that deservers of this title had the shoelaces in their shoes under the bunks untied. One hour of extra duty. No remarks. . . . The menu for last week provided RO’s with a grim laugh when it was posted. According to it, last Wednesday we had “dreaded veal cutlet” . . . Jack Simmons came back from liberty last Saturday night saying he was out with a girl who had a map only Rand McNally could love. . . .
QUEASY QUOTES (Look it up)
C. D. Snow: “The reason life on o’her planets is extinct is merely that their scientists are a little more advanced than ours.”
Walt Thompson: “A flea never worries, he knows he’s going to the dogs.”
Rulon Ellis: “Granmaw :s having trouble finding her glasses. She leaves them wherever she empties them.”
Ralph Deem: “The world is neither round nor flat—it’s crooked.”
♦
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“Are you going to take a pretty girl to the ball, or are you going to take the one you took last time?”
32
Usury Subject of Carey Talk Before Wranglers
Students delivering papers before recent meetings of the Wranglers were Bill Carey, the club president, and Charles Patterson. The forensic-minded Wranglers meet weekly in the Architecture library.
Carey’s paper was entitled “A Pound of Flesh” in which he developed the thesis that the present system of taking interest in our banking business is usurious. He traced the practice of usury to the ancients and pointed out that it was condemned by Aristotle and by the Church. The only justification for taking interest, he continued, is if the money loaned goes for positive activity, otherwise unproductive loans can be categorized as usury. Quoting Belloc as a modern authority, he contended that the present system of interest taking will continue and eventually bring about a decay of civilization. The discussion following the paper centered about the point whether money is a tool of production or merely a medium of exchange.
Patterson delivered a paper on “Medical Care and Public Health,” in which he supported the present legislation before Congress for the establishment of Federal Public Health Service. Known as the Wagner Bill, the law if passed will virtually control all medical care in the nation, and will, as the speaker stressed, solve a great many of the existing public health problems and be a benefit to all classes of people. “It is obvious that we as a nation are pointed towards some form of socialized medicine,” said Patterson, but he strongly maintained that the machinery of the Wagner Bill would not be a step by the U. S. toward the “socialism” that students on government have taught us to abhor. Sick people are not free people, and the Wagner Bill would provide for both preventative and curative medical care. Led by Bernard O’Hora, much opposition to Patterson’s paper was voiced by some of the Wranglers.
ADMIRAL FROM TEXAS
(Continued from page 12)
the navy today. For relaxation Nimitz enjoys tennis. His game is near tournament perfection. After a good evening meal the sixty-two-year-old warrior likes to spin salty yarns, accompanied by sniffing good bourbon. He collects maps, charts, and takes orders from only three people—the President, the Secretary of Navy, and the Mrs. He is a submarine
man and does not like to fly, although he has flown over 60,000 miles. Among his colleagues he is known as a “jinx” as far as air travel is concerned. “Bull” Halsey once said, “I’ll do anything for Nimitz except fly with him.” This was borne out on one of his periodic flights to meet Admiral King on the West Coast of the United States. While landing, the plane hit a log and turned on its nose. The never-excited, always-meticulous Nimitz gathered his papers and boarded a whale boat that was to take him to shore. Out of habit the five star admiral stood up in the boat. The coxswain, not recognizing the CINCPAC, yelled, “Sit, down, you.” When Nimitz sat down, the sailor recognized him and apologized. Nimitz turned to him and said, “Stick to your guns. You were right.”
The opinion of the navy men of this quiet man from Texas is substantiated by the fact that he was jumped over 28 senior flag officers when chosen to replace the unfortunate Kimmel. The confidence that the now-deceased Franklin Roosevelt and late Secretary of Navy Knox had in this man was justified a thousand-fold in the results of the action in the Pacific. Nimitz controlled the battle of the Coral Sea. The Coral Sea battle was not another clash of fleets as was at Jutland. It was a test of fair tactics, both army and navy, combined under the control of CINCPAC. Combined with this air bombardment was the parry and thrust of task forces under the command of Spruance and Halsey. Planner Nimitz, in directing these thrusts, gave the engagement the appearance of a “Hell-for-leather” affair, but in reality it had all the stealthy calculations of Indian raids.
In June, 1942, the battle of Midway was carried out by Spruance on the order from Nimitz. The strategic handling
For that "particular" card on that "particular" occasion —
I. W. LOWER CO.
Decorators
128 North Michigan St.
of this victory has yet to be equaled. Nimitz’s calm, Germanic exterior cloaks an intrepidness as great as any admiral of our naval history. For this action Admiral Nimitz received the Distinguished Service Medal. After the victory of Midway Nimitz called Spruance back from the fleet, and taking advantage of his tactical knowledge, used him for the strategic post of Chief of Staff.
After receiving his allotment of ships from Admiral King in Washington, Nimitz then formulated his plans for the invasion of Guadalcanal. For this venture he called on “the sailors’ sailor,” Vice
SCREEN ANO RAOIO
■-msM. com im imuow. «r
AMERICA’S MOST FAMOUS STAR OF
"very nan knoWk there's o pipe shape that's created especially for him.
•mall eval race large Ml (ace lamt »•■ *«•
•••are.jaw <>ce lee* aval «eea
TheHudde
33
Admiral Gohrmley, to command the invasion of Guadalcanal. In this operation Gohrmley was to be assisted by Admiral Richmond Kelly Turner whose cold, ruthless efficiency controlled the amphibious landings. Admiral Fletcher gave the air cover necessary. This invasion was coupled -with the disaster of Savo Island, in which the “Sitting Duck” cruisers Quincy, Vincennes, Astoria, and the Canberra, were sunk. At this time Gohrmley was relieved by necessity and replaced by “Bull” Halsey. Nimitz again showed his faith in the men he selected by returning Gohrmley to Hawaii and putting him in command of the Fourteenth Naval District there. This was done to permit Nimitz to avail himself of this strategist.
After the Japanese evacuated Guadalcanal and the Russell Islands, Nimitz controlled and carried out the leapfrog policy, going through Rendova, New Georgia, Koonbongaro, Vella Lavella, Treasury, Bougainville, the Gilberts, the Marshalls, and Wake. All of these campaigns were bitter and led to one conviction. If the accomplishments of Chester W. Nimitz during the war are a criteria for the work he is assigned to at the present, then the American people can assure themselves of a navy that will be the world’s first line of defense.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON, M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
La Raza Club Sponsors
Dance, Presents Show
The La Raza club opened its spring social season with a delightful danceparty held at St. Joseph’s’ Parish Hall, Saturday evening April 27. The hall, artistically decorated in the Latin American motif, provided a very romantic atmosphere. The Latin touch lent itself further to the scintillating rhythms of the Tangos, Rhumbas, and Boleros played by the best Latin American Orchestras on the juke box.
The big feature of the evening was a show put on by the talented members of the club. Featured at the piano were Stuart Prentice and Hermilo Gloria, who both exhibited excellent talent. Gloria’s “Boogie Woogie” and his version of “Caldonia” produced a big round of applause and called for an encore. The crowd was greatly pleased with Fernando Serpa’s rendition of Latin American folk songs. The show was well handled by M. C. Francisco Salido.
Another feature of the evening was the presentation of the door prize, an imported Mexican orchid, by the president of the club, Francisco Lluria. The lucky recipient was Miss Helen Czerneck, date of Miguel Sastre.
The committee responsible for the delightful evening included Sebastian Company, Alberto de Rojas, Fernando Serpa, and Francisco Salido. —Samuel Adelo
TWENTY-FOUR LETTERMEN
(Continued from page 23) li, brighten the fullback picture. Ray tops the backfield men in weight at 232.
Twenty-two states are represented on the squad. The majority of these are middle-western and eastern states. They range from Oregon to South Carolina and California to Massachusetts. The largest man on the squad is Gus Cifelli of Philadelphia at 255 lbs. The smallest is Jack McNamara of Chicago at 145.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our wn laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Engineers to Hold
Open House Moy 25
On Saturday, May 25, from 1 p.m. to 7 p.m., the combined engineering societies of Notre Dame will open the doors of their laboratories, drawing rooms, and class rooms to the general public. The purpose of the open house is to acquaint the people of South Bend and vicinity with the facilities of the Engineering School. The societies have planned a program that will display equipment of the various laboratories in actual use. Provisions have been made for a sufficient number of guides and ushers in order’ to give everyone individual attention.
The Metallurgy department will demonstrate automatically controlled furnaces, polishers, and microscopes similar to equipment used during the war for research. The Civil Engineering school will display its surveying equipment and up-to-date materials testing laboratory. Notre Dame’s own wind tunnel will be shown to the public, as will several of the airplanes used by the aeronautical school in training its air-minded engineers. The Mechanical Engineers will open up their shops and heat power laboratories as well as demonstrate the use of these in supplementing their curricula. Automatic control of motors and generators by relay systems will be shown by the Electrical Engineering department. Practical demonstrations of the use of electronics in controlling and regulating electrical motors and generators plus a display of modern radio equipment will also be included on the electrical engineers’ agenda. The Chemical Engineering school has elaborate industrial chemical machinery which they will display. Displays of prize winning drawings and the procedure followed in solving an architectural problem will be the contribution of the School of Architecture.
THE SINGING TOWER (Continued from page 17) nevertheless, very efficient. Because of the limited range of the carillon only a portion of simple melodies can be played. We are advised that the carillon will resume operations shortly. The following is the time and the name of the composition rendered by the chimes:
6:55 Holy God
8:55 Mother Dear Oh Pray For- Me 10:55 To Jesus Heart All Burning
1:10 Dear Guardian of Mary
3:10 O Salutaris
5:05 America
7:05 Ave Maria
10:05 Taps
We trust that very soon the graceful spire of Sacred Heart Church will again become the singing tower by the lake.
34
COLLEGE PAPAD E
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
Down at Purdue, things are really done up brown. The Junior Class provided a night of music for their Prom. Tex Beneke and his band played for a Variety Show to start off the evening. At 11 p.m. Tommy Dorsey took over and furnished the music for the dance which lasted till 4 a.m. . . . Not bad at all!
❖
He: Smoke?
She: No, thank you.
He: Drink?
She: Nope.
He: Neck?
She: Oh, no.
He: Well, what do you do? -She: I tell lies.
—Utah State Student Life.
*
An interesting note comes from Yale. In order to accommodate veterans, that university is doubling up all of its dormitory rooms, and cutting all the room rents in half. . . . How about that?
This one was stolen from the New Rochelle Tatler:
A recent ad of an Oklahoma school read, “Shoi-t course in Accounting for women.”
Not long aftei- the ad appeared, a note reached the school’s president. It read, “There is NO accounting for women.”
Then, at the University of Rochester, for their Spring Weekend the students were entitled to a varied program. Friday night started off with a Variety Show followed by a Street Dance. Saturday afternoon found the studes and their guests at a track meet, and on Saturday evening came the crowning achievement, a Formal, for which Jesse Stacy, the (“Loop” of Broadway) supplied the music. . . . The only catch is that the weekend was rather expensive —$3.60—That almost four skins!
WJOTW Department — clipped this week from the Auburn Plainsman .... that’s two in a row they have chalked up against them. .
“Mister, did you hit that little girl?” “Yeah. What of it?”
“Gosh—what a wallop.”	•
❖
Would you call for help if I tried to kiss you?
Would you need any help?
—Colorado Mines Oredigger ♦
I’m through with all women. They cheat and they lie.
They prey on us males Till the day that we die. They tease us, torment us, And drive us to sin. Say who was that blonde That just walked in? ” .
—St. Bona Venture ♦
Sage Sayings quoted from the Butler Collegian:
Four out of five women haters are women. --
Love hasn’t changed any in -2,000 years. Greek girls used to sit all evening and listen to a lyre. Zl.
35