HE OTX Dm
SOJOLftSTIC
UJM (WUS ntUJS [WK
CHORISTER WILLIAM SCULLY
Lends Soprano Trills to Music Week
IN THIS ISSUE ...
MUSIC WEEK SCHEDULE METALLURGISTS MEET HERE ABSURDITIES SET TO GO
TRACKSTERS AT DRAKE BENDA TAKES REINS KLINEMEN MEET WILDCATS
THE WEEK COLLEGE PARADE INTRODUCING
APRIL 23. 1937
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
For your new
STETSON
see
South Bend's largest assortments
at -
Bound Edge-at Its Best by STETSON
i
Now ready
the newest in
Summer Suits Sportswear
Shoes
Doff this newest Stetson with pride. It has everything that a well-styled snapbrim should have . . . lower crown, narrower band, wider brim with wide binding. And note how that brim curls up behind. You’ll be seeing this hat on the smartest heads this Spring.
Stetson Hats
At Stores That Lead in Style
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notie Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
April 23, 1937
No. 22
KNIGHTS SWING OUT AT FORMAL BALL TONIGHT
BOY SOPRANO, AMPHION CHORUS, HEADLINE MUSIC WEEK FETE; GLEESTERS TO GIVE POPULAR CONCERT SUNDAY NIGHT
Tonight is the Knights night out!
By Eddie Huff
The annual spring formal of the Knights of Columbus, under the chairmanship of William Foley, will be off to a fast start in a few hours as Charlie Agnew waves a baton over his famous dance orchestra from the platform of the Palais Royale.
This holds promise of being the most successful event of its kind ever put on by the organization. Approximately 250 couples are awaiting the nine o’clock hand and the tune of the special Formal song, composed by George Sauter, junior from Indianapolis, Indiana.
Committees for the event have been working hard in preparation for the evening and have done everything possible to insure a successful program.
Charlie Agnew, music master of tonight’s festivities, is no stranger to Notre Dame dances, having appeared here several times in the past, and at every time seeming to have an improved organization. The band first became popuolar through its radio broadcasts from Continental Room of the Hotel Stevens in Chicago.
Chairman Foley and his aides are (Continued on Page 22)
Pianist Art Davidson in previous recitals.
Three individual performances and three group entertainments will comprise a five-evening musical bill in the celebration of the second annual Notre Dame “Music Week” to begin in Washington Hall on Sunday evening at 8:00 o’clock. Arranged by Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C.; Prof. Joseph J. Casa-
Submit Nine Plays For Mitchell Award
Nine plays have been entered in competition for the William Mitchell Memorial Award for Playwriting. Monday, April 18, was the closing date for submitting a play for the award, which was established in 1928 by Mr. and Mrs. Joseph V. Mitchell, of New York City, as a tribute to their son, William Mitchell. The fiftydollar prize is awarded annually to the student writing the best play of the year.
The plays and their authors entered in this year’s contest are: “Small Light,” by Lawrence Larkin; “We Go On Living,” “But Definitely/’ by Jack H. V. Hearn; “The Circle,” “Strained Interlude,” by Milton J. Bock; “Hell and the Five Apparitions,” by William H. Conway; and “Out From the Shadows,” by Gene F. Ling.
santa, head of the music department; and Frank W. Lloyd, University comptroller, the program will present the University Glee Club of forty-five voices in full concert to inaugurate a week of music appreciation.
The Amphion male chorus from the twin cities, Fargo, N. D., and Moorehead, Minn., in the Red River Valley of the North, under Director Daniel L. Preston, will appear on the stage of the campus theatre with its ninety voices on Monday evening.
David Garvin, freshman violinist from Colorado Springs, Colo., accompanied by Arthur’ Davidson, junior pianist from Greenville, Miss., will entertain with a violin concert on Tuesday evening. Davidson, who has arranged Garvin’s numbers, will interpolate with a piano concerto. Garwin played concert violin in the far West before coming here.
Billy Scully, fourteen-year-old soprano of Iona preparatory school for boys, New Rochelle, N. Y., and vested choir boy of the Holy Family parish in the eastern city, will visit the campus on Wednesday as the guest of Mr. Lloyd. The juvenile, rusty-haired, Irish-American singer will be accompanied by Davidson.
The Notre Dame band of a hundred pieces will play the week’s finale on Thursday evening under the direction of Prof. Casasanta’s baton.
The Glee Club will give its complete a capella concert in two parts. The first half of the program will present motets, folk songs, and specialties for baritone and tenor voices. The humorous number, Genee’s “Italian Salad,” with William O’Brien in tenor solo, will be featured in the finale. Robert Heywood will sing baritone solo during the first act. During the intermission there will be a piano solo of Liszt’s “Hungarian Rhapsody No. 12” by Arthur Davidson.
A medley of campus songs, ar-(Continued on Page 9)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
DRAMA. COMEDY. SWING. TRAGEDY. IN 1937 EDITION OF "ABSURDITIES"; ALL MAIN FLOOR SEATS TO BE RESERVED
By Frank E. Larwood
With dances, skits, and songs, sung both by soloists and an octette, the 1937 Monogram Absurdities on May 1, 2, and 3 in Washington Hall will be built on the lines of a musical comedy according to the co-producers, Steve
Miller and Larry Danbom.
A continuous and hilarious evening of entertainment is promised at each performance. Ed Casey, of Portland, Ore., who is almost a show in himself, will be master of ceremonies. He will introduce favorite athletes in roles of entertainers.
Johnny Moir will sing several Scottish ballads and Joe Zwers will be directing a swing band. In a “heavy drammer” John Goncher, as an old
Gagster Paul Larmer
Writes 1937 Absurdities
lady, and Len Skoglund, as a hillbilly, will try to evade the evil clutches of the villain, Arch Gott. Paul Nowak, playing the part of Julius Caesar, and Bob Wilke, in the role of Cleopatra, will give that more refined drama, “Julius Caesar and Cleopatra.”
Drama of contemporary life will-be given in a “St. Mary’s” skit with Chuck Sweeney, John Marshall, and James Parsons taking the part of Notre Dame boys. Buck Jordan, John Francis, and Dan Gibbs will be “belles” from across the lake.
The entire lower floor of Washington Hall will be reserved each night. Reserved seats will cost 35 cents both for students and others. General admission seats in the balcony will be 25 cents.
Sunday night’s performance will begin at 7:15 to accommodate people from South Bend who will then be using daylight saving time. This night is especially for those other than students, although students may attend any night. Saturday and Monday nights the Absurdities will begin at 8:15.
The Story of Socrates is Re-told in Weekly Patrician Talk
As a seeker of truth, Socrates was convicted of the stereotyped crimes of a philosopher, it was declared in another of a series of Patrician radio talks given by Gerald Zeiller, senior in the College of Arts and Letters.
Since very little was written by Socrates himself, we must depend on the Memoralulia of Xenophon and . the dialogues of Plato for an insight into his personality, the speaker said. The oracle of Delphi was said to have told Chaerephon that there existed no wiser man than Socrates. It was while Socrates was attempting to determine the truth of the oracle that he was tried and convicted for having corrupted the minds of the youths of Athens.
“Poets and artists were questioned and appraised of their learning but while they knew things that Socrates did not, they made the mistake of thinking that their one line of endeavor equipped them for all things. Therefore, Socrates came to the conclusion that he was wiser than they because while he didn’t possess their knowledge, neither did he possess their ignorance,” the speaker remarked.
“Realizing that the minds of his accusers were filled with absurd accusations against him, Socrates asked the judges that if it were true that he corrupted the youths of Athens, why haven’t they who listened to him years before, and who have since grown into maturity and wisdom, come forward and denounced him for corrupting them in their youth.”
Zeiller concluded his talk by describing the last hours spent by Socrates before his death. After forgiving his jailer and counselling his family, Socrates raised the cup of hemlock and drank his death.
DINNERS. AIR TALKS. MARK UNIVERSAL
N. D. NIGHT
•
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated last Monday night by alumni groups in all sections of the country. The feature celebration was, as usual, the program of the Notre Dame club of St. Joe Valley in the lay faculty dining hall of the University.
Professor Louis F. Buckley, president of the club, was in charge of the proceedings, while Walter L. Clemens served as toastmaster. The new end coach, Joseph Benda, was introduced, as were Professor F. X. Ac-
Prof. Louis Hasley Sought varied talent
kermann, fifty years a teacher at the University, and Ted Prekowitz, president of the Villagers’ club.
A varied program was presented, including speeches and songs. The entertainment was arranged by Prof. Louis Hasley.
Part of the program was broadcast at 8:45 over WSBT of South Bend. Among the speakers were Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C., who talked on “Shakespeare—1937 Version,” Paul Foley, editor of The Scholastic, Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University. Joe McNally contributed the impersonations that won him fame on the Pontiac Show. Music was provided by a campus group with vocal numbers by Mr. James Fuery, ’26.
In Chicago, focal point of interest in the celebration, a nation-wide hook-up was arranged through the courtesy of the Studebaker Corporation, which relinquished a portion of its time on the air to the school. Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, and Elmer Layden, football coach and athletic director, spoke on this hookup. The Glee Club, under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta, sang several Notre Dame songs between the talks.
There were eight hundred present at the Chicago celebration and noted guests included Jimmy “Schnozzle” Durante, and Warren Brown, sports writer.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
WILL OSBORNE BRINGS TOP-FLIGHT BAND
TO 1937 BALL
ALL DAY PROGRAM OF TALKS, DINNERS, CAMPUS TOURS TO MARK A. S. M. INITIAL JOINT TECHNICAL SESSION TOMORROW
By Richard Riley
Changing the course of popular dance music is not a new experience for Will Osborne. For, in 1924, he was the first to desert the ranks of
Ball-player Will Osborne Files his fan-mail.
the raucous jazz bedlam, to give the entertainment world what since has become more popular—the whispering orchestra and soft vocalizing. Will Osborne and his orchestra will present his distinctively new theory in the world of dance music at the Notre Dame Senior Ball, May 7, in the Palais Royale.
The music committee, under its chairman Daniel J. Sullivan, has selected Osborne’s orchestra from a long list of popular bands throughout the country. Since the organization of the band in 1924, Osborne has appeared for prolonged and popular engagements at such centers of entertainment as the Park Central hotel, The Hotel New Yorker, Paradise Cafe, Ritz-Carlton in Montreal, and the Netherlands-Plaza in Cincinnati. In addition, his systematically kept list of radio fans numbers more than a million and a quarter.
Bids for the Senior Ball and -Tea Dance will be $8.50 a couple. The price of the tickets has been reduced as far as possible in order that everyone may be able to attend this, the outstanding social event of the school year. This is in keeping with the policy inaugurated by all dance committees during the past year.
Tickets will be on sale May 3, 4, 5 and no later. The sale will positively close on the fifth. Bulletins in the various halls 'will--name the exact places of the sale.
By Frank Reilly
For the first time in the history of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals there will be a joint meeting with the Chicago chapter at Notre Dame, tomorrow.
The program, which will be an all day affair for those having Saturday
Twenfy-one to Compete For Coveted Breen Medal, May 3 and 4
•
Professor William Coyne, of the speech department, announced this week that the preliminaries of the Breen Medal contest for oratory will be held in the basement of the Law building on Monday and Tuesday, May 3 and 4. The groups of contestants, with their hours for speaking, appear below. Not more than two speakers will be selected from each group to participate in the finals which will be held a few days later.
On Monday, May 3, at 4:10 p.m. the following will speak: Ciaccio, Finucane, Hesburgh, McEniry, Merkle, Proctor,'Schemmer. On the same day at 7:40 p.m.: Hogan, Kennedy, Meier, Mulligan, Nemey, Neumann, Parks. On Tuesday, May 4, at 4:10 p.m.; Boyle, Flynn, Johnson, Jablon-ka, Lyng, Osborn, Quinn, Ronan.
The preliminaries in the Freshman oratorical contest will be held in the basement of the Law Building on Tuesday and Wednesday, May 4 and 5. The same regulations will prevail as for the Breen Medal contest.
Tuesday, May 4, at 7:45 p.m. Finucane, Gilliland, Lenihan, Michaels, Murphy, Mooney, Sadlier. Wednesday, May 5, at 4:10 p.m.: Bowles, Brother Dunstan, Funk, Hogan, McEniry, McNicholas, Schrenker. On Wednesday,at 7:45 p.m.; Boivert, Ciaccio, Jablonka, Machey, Morgan, and Meier.
Californians Meet To Plan Banquet
Closing the activities of a highly successful year, the California Club, which was organized for the first time this year, will meet this evening to perfect plans for a banquet to be held in the Rose Marie Tea Room in South Bend, Tuesday, May 4th.
According to Lloyd Stolich, president of the club, Dan Murphy will be toastmaster of the affair. Thirty-two members will • attend in addition to several guests, one of whom will be Prof. Thomas Madden.
off, will consist of golf, inspection of University laboratories, and distin
guished talks. The day will be topped off with a dinner in the University dining halls, followed by an address
by Doctor A. B-Kinzel.
Dr. Kinzel, of New York City, is the chief metallurgist of the Union Carbide & Carbon Research Laboratories, Inc. The speaker has lectured extensively i n England, France, and Russia. His name is well
known to everyone in metallurgical fields. He began his collegiate work in Columbia university receiving his A.B. in 1919, commenced his technical education in Massachusetts Insti
tute of Technology, where he received his B.S. in 1921. His graduate study and research were done in the Uni
versity of Nancy, France, and from this institution he received the degree of D.Met.Ing., in 1922, and the honorary degree of Sc.D. in 1933.
His subject: “Some Specific Effects of Deoxidizing and Alloying Additions to Steel.” The address will be illustrated and the meeting will be open to all persons interested. Mr. J. F. Calef, Chairman of the Chicago Chapter, will preside at this technical session in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
The Notre Dame Chapter under the direction of Prof. Edward G. Mahin has asked their guests to come prepared to enjoy.a day of relaxation, as well as of technical profit. Students will demonstrate equipment in the various laboratories, especially the high-voltage laboratory. Besides the metallurgical laboratories, the laboratory for Aeronautical Engineering, and the biological laboratories, now nearing completion, and other engineering laboratories will be open for the benefit of the guests whose scientific interests may not be confined to the field of metallurgy.
The dinner will be served in the University dining halls, at the cost of one dollar. Tickets are obtainable from Walter Troy.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
ARTICLE ON JUSTICE BY FATHER O HARA IN "LAWYER"
Under the associate editorship of Arthur C. Gregory, James H. Levi, Guy EL McMichael, jr., and Arthur R. Martin, jr., the third quarter edition of the Notre Dame Lawn er was issued recently.
Contributors include the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Mr. Jacob Geffs, professor of law at the University of
Lawyers Martin and Gregory Half of the Editors.
Alabama; John O’Phelan, judge of the superior court of Pacific and Wahkiakum counties, state of Washington, and the Rev. Charles C. Milt-ner, C.S.C.
Father O’Hara’s contribution is entitled “Justice.” It was first given by him as an address during the “Catholic Hour” radio series on Sept. 6, 1936.
Judge O’Phelan’s address is entitled “The Judge and Lawyers — Their Duties.” This speech was first given when Mr. O’Phelan was inaugurated as judge on Jan. 11, 1937. In 1904, Judge O’Phelan received his LL.B., from the University of Notre Dame.
- Professor Geffs’ article was entitled “Statutory Definitions of Public Utilities and Carriers.” The article will be carried over into the May issue.
Another feature of the book is a contribution of the American Law • Institutes “Restatement of the Law of Agency with Annotations to the Indiana Decisions.” The following students contributed papers to the issue: Anthony W. Brick, jr.; Frank Lanigan; Edward J. Hummer; James R. Burke.
Vincentians Organize Young Boys Club
The crack of baseball bats and other reminders of good fellowship are the fruit of the St. Vincent de Paul Society’s latest project. It is the. Saturday Night Club, an organization of underprivileged boys of ages from eight to seventeen years, living in the South Bend area. Nine Vincentians have taken charge of the club, a constitution has been drawn up, officers elected, and a program of classes, teams, and get-togethers has been planned.
Notre Dame to Receive Phillips Bequest
A $363,554 bequest to the University of Notre Dame was revealed when the will of the late Frank B. Phillips, former Fort Wayne capitalist and realtor, was filed in the Fort Wayne Superior Court recently.
Distribution of the Phillips’ fortune became possible through the death of Mrs. Delia Breen, who under the terms of Mr. Phillips’ will was given a life interest with the residue to pass to other Catholic institutions. St. Mary’s College is likewise a beneficiary, and will receive $1,000.
Much of the bequest consists of government bonds and stock in the Peoples Trust & Savings Company, trustee of the estate. The estate holdings will have to be liquidated before Notre Dame can realize on the bequest.
Dust Off The Ballot Box For Chicago Club
Election of officers for the Chicago Club of 1937-38 will be held in the basement of the Library on Thursday evening, April 29, President Maloney said this week.
The club is planning a golf tournament on May 15th and 16th for its members; prizes of various kinds are ready for the winners.
Inter-club athletic competition is rapidly becoming quite popular. The Chicago Club defeated the Metropolitan Club in handball by the score of 3-2, last week.
Force of Change Moves Disciplinary Head Info More Modern, More Commodious Quarters
By Vincent DeCoursey
On the surface all they did was to move the door across the hallway. Outwardly there was no change, the glass still bore the inscription, “Prefect of Discipline” with the same mysterious “2-4” in its lower left hand corner, the same hush fell over those passing it; but all was not as calm as it seemed on the surface— underneath seethed the spirit of change.
The old Prefect of Discipline’s office had been reformed into a glorified telephone booth and the activities of the place had been transferred to a room across the hallway. But this was not important. There seemed to be a mood of intense excitement hanging over the new quarters, a mood that was heightened by the comparatively enormous amount of room in the place. To the normal observer this would mean nothing, but to the Notre Dame men who have
RICHARD SEAGRAVES.
OF ANDERSON. IS
I. C. O. WINNER
•
Delivery of an oration bitterly opposing the present national action on the Child Labor Amendment won for Richard Seagraves, of St. Mary’s High School, Anderson, first place in the annual Indiana Catholic Oratorical Contest held Sunday afternoon in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
The Notre Dame Wranglers, sponsors of the contest, entertained the competing orators with the annual I.C.O. Banquet in the Oliver Hotel Saturday night. They were greeted by Richard Meier, president. Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., William J. Coyne, and Dr. Francis E. McMahon, members of the University faculty, pointed out the advantages of public speaking. Charles Meyers, secretary, presided as toastmastei*.
Following the attendance of the High Mass in Sacred Heart Church, Sunday, the high school orators were shown through the University Art Gallery. A general tour of the campus preceded the contest.
Seagraves was awarded a gold ‘ medal and the McNamara silver cup. A silver medal was presented to the winner of second place, Henry Frei-stroffer, of Central Catholic, Fort Wayne. William De Muth, of Catholic Central, Hammond, and John Ziedler, of St. Mary’s, Michigan City,
(Continued on Page 8)
passed this sanctum with lowered eyes and bated breath for years it meant everything.
It meant, for instance, that no longer would the administration of disciplinary action be hampered by physical equipment so inadequate wrongdoers became as sardines awaiting tinning in the outer office.
And what caused it? A simple little thing like a telephone that wanted a place to rest and couldn’t rest until it had moved the best known office on the campus out in the cold. The thing is enormous, it can only be compared with the effect of revolution. What would be the confusion if the Empire State building were overnight to be changed into a glocery store; or the White House into a silo? “The old order changeth yielding place to the new.”
Notre Dame is no exception.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
7
Small Audience Sees University Thespians Give Two Highly Creditable Performances
One of the best performances of the University Theatre group was presented last Sunday night in Washington Hall before one of the slimmest audiences in recent years.
It is seldom that any .amateur group is able to run off two one-act plays in a single evening without tangling things. But under the direction of Professor Albert Doyle, the two plays, “Thread O’Scarlet” and “Hot Headlines,” were given with almost professional polish.
In particular, “Thread O’Scarlet,” a drama of simple Irish folk, was ably directd and acted. “Hot Headlines” lagged from the start, gained momentum, but wobbled to a close. But together the two plays showed concretely that talent necessary for a campus theatre group is present.
“Thread O’Scarlet” was a well cast drama that was creditably acted throughout. Particularly impressive in the cast was George McDermott in his portrayal of the nervous juryman Butters, who has voted for the death of a fellow townsman, only to reveal himself in a sudden twist at the end as the murderer. The characterization was not spoiled by over-emotional acting. Migsworth (John
To Bestow Forum Keys On Ranking Members
Commerce Forum keys, designed by the president of the organization, Al Smith, will be bestowed upon senior- members having an average of 85 or above. The investiture will occur some time in the very near future. They will also be conferred on all the officers of the club.
Twenty-five members toured the Bendix Plant last Tuesday at 1:00 p.m. They were conducted through the brake assembly department by Mr. Granger, the safety manager.
An officers’ meeting was held last Thursday to discuss arrangements for the picnic to be held during the middle of May.	•
Shout For Cheerleaders
Candidates for next year’s cheerleading positions are to report at 12:30 p.m. on Monday, April 26, to Walter Nienaber in the apparatus room of the gymnasium.
. Nienaber, who led the squad this year, said this week that several positions will be open for next year. Two men will be lost by graduation, and • all five positions on the squad will he open to the best performers. Next year’s head cheer-leader may be chosen before the end of this school year.	'
Gorman) and Smith (Bob Henegan), companion of Butters, had the task of narrating the plot of the story to a Traveller (Robert Blake), and all three gave excellent performances. Fructuoso Barreda, as the drunkard, Breen, gave a highly convincing and dramatic color to his role. The Innkeeper (Harold Jablonka) was satisfactory in a minor part.
“Hot Headlines” was a complex affair of concealed identity and sudden twists, and did not live up to the high standard of its predecessor. John Brassell, as Fred Hastings, and George Morris, as Francis Xavier Cohalahan, alternated at playing “Cop and Robber” while Frank Ciolino, as Hasting’s wife, looked on. Ciolino gave a much better interpretation of a feminine role here than in his earlier effort in “Whistling in the Dark.” James Sweeney and James Brown, confederates of Brassell, capably filled minor roles.
Not a little of the success of “Thread O’ Scarlet” was accounted for by excellent off stage effects under the supervision of Professor Frank Kelly, of the speech department, Alfred Sniadowski, stage manager, and his associates.
Villagers Catch Fever; Beat Political Drum
Campaign fires are burning vividly in South Bend tonight, for the members of the Villagers’ Club, the largest campus organization, are making preparations for the nomination meeting to be held in the Columbia Athletic Club on May 3rd.
The village lads have split into two factions, one headed by Ted Preko-witz, president, the other guided by the blonde barnstormer, Jack Scott. Rumors have it that the last minute nominations at the monthly dinnermeeting will create a surprise. At present there are very slim chances that a dark horse will steal the spotlight.	.
Peter Nemeth, Jr., veteran of past political wars, has been given the duties of campaign manager for the Prekowitz clan. The Scott group will be marshalled by the campaign tactics of Harry Koehler.
lowans Plan Breakfast
Joseph Mulqueen will be chairman of an Iowa Club Communion Breakfast to be held on the morning of Ascension Thursday, May 6.
lowans on the faculty will be guests of the students in the Lay Faculty dining hall after the eight o’clock Mass. President Jerry Davis, in announcing Mulqueen’s appointment, set'the breakfast price at fifty cents a plate.
FAMED PHILOSOPHERS TO HEAR SECOND
DISPUTATION
By James Dempsey
Dr. Mortimer J. Adler and Professor Scott Buchanan of the University of Chicago will be present at the philosophy disputation in Washington Hall from 10:00 to 12:00 aun., on May 12. Both men are extremely in-
Philosopheks Johnstox & O’Leary Soon to Syllogize
terested in the progress of scholastic philosophy.
The Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., head of the department of philosophy, said students will be excused from their 10 and 11 o’clock classes to attend the disputation.
Chairman for the event will be John O’Leary. A prefatory paper entitled, “Why the Nature and Destiny of Man?” will be given by Raymond McGrath. "William Prendergast will defend the formal disputation, “The Nature and Destiny of Man,” against such objectors as George Ce-cala, Joseph Crisanti, Carl Dooz-an, James Gagnier, Duval Johnston, Robert Kelly, George Lane, Edward Neaher, James Waldron and Maurice Quinn.
The supernatural end of man will be considered by Joseph Loftus in a paper entitled, “The Incarnation and Its Relation to Man.”
At the conclusion of the program, the audience will be allowed to take part in the public discussion.
Engineers Make Plans For Annual Picnic
The Engineers’ Club is the second campus organization in as many weeks to select Lake Christiana as the site for its annual picnic. Tentatively, the date has been set for May 27. In former years the picnic, an annual affair, was held at Indian Lake and twice at Hudson Lake.
As yet, no definite date has been set for the club elections, which will be held in the middle of May. Tom Carney, president, announced this week that no meeting will be held until the elections.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
DEPICT LIFE SKETCH OF METROPOLITAN
TO BOOKMEN
•
At the meeting of the Bookmen, Wednesday, in the former library of the Hurley College of -Commerce building, Professor Frank O’Malley, of the English department, addressed the members on the subject of John Baptist Lamy.
‘•Willa Cather used this remarkable man as her model for the archbishop in her novel Death Comes to the Archbishop,” Mr. O’Malley said, “and well she might for he was the first metropolitan of the archdiocese of Santa Fe, New Mexico.”
Mr. O’Malley traced the life and the work of the man, and told how Miss Cather became interested in the subject and gave something of the history of her work, “Death Comes for the Archbishop.” After his talk Mr. O’Malley answered questions of members, and an open forum discussion was held on the topic.
Spring Weather Draws Chemists From Labs
The recent stretch of warm weather finally drew the Chemists from their laboratories. Last Saturday saw the opening games of the Chemists’ club softball league. Four teams are in the league, one for each of the four classes. The games are played each Saturday afternoon on Brownson field, starting at one o’clock.
In the opening games, the Juniors defeated the Seniors, 10-7, and the other resulted in a run-away victory for the Sophomores over the Freshmen, 19-6.
Tomorrow afternoon the Juniors will oppose the Sophs, both trying to preserve their undefeated records. The Seniors will battle it out with the lowly Freshmen.
I. C. O. Contest
(Continued from Page 6)
tied for third place and received bronze medals.
Medals were also awarded to John Buczkowski, of St. Hedwige, South Bend; William Minges, of Central Catholic, South Bend; and James Maher, of St. Paul’s, Marion. The medals and trophies were donated by Mr. Joseph P. McNamara, of Indianapolis, Deputy Attorney General of Indiana.
Judges of the contest were Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., Dr. Francis E. McMahon, and Richard Meier, varsity debate captain. Pierre de la Vergne directed activities as general chairman, and Richard-Foley was in charge of the publicity.
You probably won’t recognize him from that “picture,” so we’ll start right out by saying this is the story of Francis Anthony Carroll, of New Rochelle, New York. He came upon the name “Pinky” in his second year here when his peculiar coloring was finally properly catalogued. You know him better by that name. Also, he isn’t as bald as the drawing, (not quite); that’s merely a bit of professional jealousy. He contends he always had a high forehead, but gads! man, it couldn’t have been this high!
His age is a dark secret, and anyway it’s none of our business—-but some of his home town lads’ call him grandpa, so you figure it out. He has successfully resisted all attempts
to throw him to the St. Mary’s girls by coyly attempting the character of a misogynist (that’s a woman hater). This belies his lurid past in which the mention of an Irish-Japanese exotic seems always to crop up. That shows an international taste. He once outdid a performer in a fashionable Chicago night club at barn-yard imitations. ... It is because of pranks like this that you wouldn’t believe our small, pink-faced friend to be of quite a religious nature. He has absolutely no enemies on this campus. ... a very engaging grin covers his more nasty moments ... of which there are few. He went out for interhall football last year, playing the game for the first time in his life, and was he a scream! ... a gnome in padded pants. A most affable chap is this bald and small lad from the
• -East.....
SWING LABELS MARK TORRID PRIMARY CAMPAIGNS
•
Eleven parties and two independent candidates, a total of 90 nominees, turned to swingy slogans rather than the traditional blotters to gain political supremacy at the primary elections to be held in the lower lobby of the dining hall, Thursday, April 29.
With five senior cliques in the race, Thomas Funk, campaign manager for the “Bing” Connor party, last week flooded the junior halls with song handbills entitled “Swing to Bing.”
Introducing a new campus political stunt, Joe O’Boyle, who is running the campaign for the George Keenen entry, was late this week “burning up” the campus with his match book handouts.
A four plank platform is presented to the voters by Johnny O’Connor and his party. In brief, it is: the acquisition of a “name band” for the Senior Ball, restoration of Senior Week, sponsorship of intra-class functions, and a new date for the Senior Ball.
“Go With the Green,” stamped on blotters of a dark Irish tinge is the campaign slogan of the aggressive faction headed by Thomas Bohen and running under the guidance of Jerry Kane. Spurred on by the cry of “A Better Ball With Bohen” and “No More Dancin’ with Anson,” this group is making the contest close. Richard Delaney is in charge of the senior elections.
Turning to the traditional blotter as a vote-getter, the scooping John Thomas party moved this week to strengthen their forces for a last minute push.
Filing notice late’ last week, Gregory Cushing came through to make the junior primaries a three-cornered race with his motto of “Push Cush.” Commenting on the tussle, Dan Shee-day, of the Goodwill Party remarked, “It will be a close election, but we hope to meet a lot of swell fellows.” Martin Burns has charge of the junior elections.
Unusual in campus politics this year is the appearance of two lone wolves candidates, Kenneth Duffy, Bill Small. Cleverest of campaigners, Small is distributing mimeographed letters to the freshman class, signed by his supporters. He hopes to triumph with “No Stallin’ with Small In.”
The All-Hall slate, headed by Pat Goff, is campaigning with “Don’t Be -Tardy, Vote All-Hall Party.” On the
(Continued on Page 9)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937	9
THE WEEK
Hat in the Arena
It was two laundries ago that brother Foley, in his editorial capacity, shelled campus politics. For the most part we agree with him that there is much ado about virtually not a thing at all. Yet because we had some experience in campus campaigns we would like to alleviate the sting of his attack. Twice we tried for office and twice we brushed the rosin from our eyes and got off the floor, hurt and disillusioned. They were sore defeats, and in our innocence we felt absolutely crushed. Now they strike us as funny. The “meetings” in a fourth floor Lyons room; 30 men sprawled in various postures, all smoking furiously; when would we spring the blotters? In those plain, unimaginative days blotters were as certain as Grotto singing in May. How to word handbills? A.B. men took care of that item and Commerce men collected funds. Then the general chairman: “How is St. Ed’s?” The representative from that unsteady structure would state, positively and pridefully, that he had the contingent in his hip pocket. Of course, the second floor in Morrissey was a total loss; Joe Doaks, of the opposition, lived there. We were running for the innocuous graveyard office of vice-president and we inevitably stammered and blushed when asked for an account of our activity. We could count on the vote of the fellow next door, but nobody else’s. The night before primaries we could not sleep. We swept through with more votes than any other candidate in the field, only to have the whole thing called off because some over-zealous backer had stuffed about 40 votes in the box, all written in the same hand, tied with a blue ribbon. A thick veil had best be lowered over the second and third chapters of the story. But with all the setbacks and blasted hopes we believe that it was good experience. Just think of all the blotters we graced!
* ❖ *
On The Aisle
Shame grips us in admitting that • we have never been to a Monogram Show in three chances. This year we shall go—not that we expect the monogram men to swoon with delight. In the first place, that hot trumpeter from Brownson will be one of the spotlights. The alligators will be swinging. Joe McNally, Alumni’s zany, will work his funniest magic. A campus lawyer, with three years’ experience on the boards, will master the ceremonies. Outside talent is being featured whereas in former years only athletes could emote. Washing-
By John A. Gillespie
ton Hall will rock (and we mean that literally).
* *
Off-Campus Quirks
South Bend, long known as the Friendly City, seeks to propagate its policy of amity even among the little children. A man in the Physical Education school, who conducts recreational activities as “partial fulfillment of the requirements” for his degree, told us of an interclass softball league in junior high school. The teams are named after a vegetable or a fruit, depending on the captain’s leaning. Monday the Beets beat the Beans, the Grapefruits gored the Grapes, and the Carrots crushed the Cantaloupes. Still, not all the current whimsy is confined to South Bend. On the campus Sunday the Ginger Snaps took two out of three games from the Animal Crackers (Memphis club).
Pearl in the Dross
Little things count. We don’t know how many tunes we had wandered about the city of South Bend without seeing anything unusual. The same stores, the same displays, until we got so that we looked with unseeing orbs. Eyeless in South Bend, that was it. Then, like a shot in the arm, came genius. On Main street, in a new, stream-lined, chromium - plated market, is, or was, a truly ornate replica of the Main Building.
Taller than two yardsticks, it is faithful and imposing. For the most part, the material is boxes and cans. We had hoped to find symbolism in the structure, but when we noticed that the Dome was formed with lemons, we became afraid. The statue atop the Dome is plaster of parts. Kraft cheese boxes are the roofs and the steps. Some of the pillars are represented by soft drink bottles. As for the body of the building, Oxydol boxes are the most prominent. Also to be seen are cans of peas, corn, tomatoes, and tomato juice, boxes of Lux, and bars of soap. Above the doors of Brownson and Carroll are black wooden crosses on top of bottles of Canada Dry. At the side of the edifice, so there can be no mistake, is a picture of the Main building. We understand that the display was entered in a national window-dressing contest. Certainly it is the result of ingenuity and effort. No drab mind created such a handsome work. When the designer placed the last box of Oxydol, chosen for the blue and gold cover, he must have felt like the sculptor Borglum when he chipped away the last bump on the nose of George Washington.
Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C. Is Memorial Treasurer
•
Reverend John Ryan, C.S.C., of the history department of the University, was elected secretary-treasurer of the LaSalle Memorial Commission at the commission’s meeting in the Oliver Hotel last Sunday afternoon. Father Ryan was selected as a member of the commission by Gov-ernoi' Townsend of Indiana, receiving his official certificate from the state department of parks.
The plan of the commission is to work toward the completion and dedication of a merorial in South Bend to Rene Robert Cavalier Sieur de LaSalle, famous French explorer, during 1943, the 300th anniversary of LaSalle’s birth. Definite plans for the erection of the memorial are now being considered by members of the commission.
Music Week
(Continued from Page 3)
rangements by Prof. Casasanta, will constitute the second part of the Glee Club program, in which John Collins and Joseph Pawlowski will render tenor and bass solos.
Representing twenty-five distinct crafts within their membership, the Amphion chorus of the Noi-th and West has thrilled music audiences throughout the country and Europe. The repertoire of the chorus is drawn from a wide selection. In it will be found works ranging from the eariy-church harmonies of Palestrina da Vittoria and Bird to the modem arrangements of old Russian folk-songs.
The dual efforts of Garvin and Davidson will include, Schubert’s “Ave Maria,” Kriesler’s “Liebesfreud,” and Chopin’s “Waltz in A Flat Major” in a program of seven groups.
Master Billy Scully’s selections will come from the “Panis Angelicus,” part of the Corpus Christi hymn of St. Thomas Aquinas as arranged by the French composer, Cesar Franck; Brahms’ “Lullaby,” Kreisler’s “Old Refrain,” Gounod’s “Ave Maria, “Mighty Like r Rose,” by Nevin, and the favorite of the famous Irish tenor, John McCormack, “Just For Today’.”
The Primaries
(Continued from Page 8)
other hand, Joseph Mulqueen implores the frosh to “Let’s Swing This Spring and Vote for Mulqueen.” Their platform program is: “The 1937 Sophomore Cotillion Will Be Tops.” The sophomore primaries will be directed by George Bonfield.
The polls will open at 8:00 a.m. on Thursday morning and will remain ’ open until 5:30 p.m.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
CALENDAR
Friday, April 23
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Track, varsity at Drake Relays, Des Moines, Iowa; Knights of Columbus Spring Formal, Columbia Athletic Club, '9:00 to 12:00 p.m., Charlie Agnew and his orchestra.
Saturday, April 24
Track, Varsity at Drake Relays, Des Moines, Iowa; Baseball, Varsity vs. Northwestern, Cartier Field, 3:00 p.m.; Tennis, Varsity vs. Indiana, Bloomington, Indiana; Movie, Washington Hall, “My Man Godfrey,” William Powell and Carole Lombard, first show for freshmen 6:40 p.m.; first joint meeting, Notre Dame and Chicago chapters, American Society for Metals, dinner, lay faculty dining hall, 7:15 p.m., technical session, auditorium, John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, 8:30 p.m., Dr. A. B. Kinzel, speaker.
Sunday, April 25
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Meeting, Chesterton Society, Law Building, 10:30 a.m., Christopher Hollis, speaker; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, 11:00 a.m., Knights of Columbus Chambers, Walsh Hall; Opening day, interhall baseball; Music Week begins with concert of University Glee club, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Monday, April 26
Tennis, Varsity vs. Western State Teachers, here; Golf, Varsity vs. Ohio State, Columbus, Ohio; Meeting, S. A. C., basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting, Servers’ club, Sacristy, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 p.m.; Concert, Amphion Male Chorus, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, April 27
Baseball, Varsity vs. Purdue, Lafayette, Indiana; Concert, David Garvin, violinist, Arthur Davidson, pianist, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, April 28
Tennis, Varsity vs. Chicago, here; Concert, William Scully, 14-year-old male soprano, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, April 29
Primary elections for class officers, supervision S.A.C., lower lobby of dining hall, 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Meeting, Notre Dame unit, Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade, Room 117 Main Building; Concert, University band, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
THE CARD
Senior Class Candidates
President, George Keenen; vice-president, Thomas Kavanagh; secretary, Francis Mulhern; treasurer, John Deane. S.A.C.: John Bourke, A.B.; Emery Sherwood, Commerce; Edward Shell, Engineering; John Fogel, Science.
President, Johnny O’Connor; vice-president, George Fitzpatrick; secretary, Harold Williams; treasurer, Thomas Sheils. S.A.C.: Eugene Dolan, A.B.; Henry Theis, Commerce; John Tobin, Science; Jerome Magee, Engineering; Herbert Weber, Off-campus.
President, John Thomas; vice-president, Edward Grogan; secretary, Harry Fox; treasurer, Thomas Healy. S.A.C.: Robert Fernbock, A.B.; Robert DuBois, Commerce; John Lun- • gren, Science; William Gallin, Engineering; Frank Wukovits, Off-campus.
President, Jack Connor; vice-president, Joe Nigro; secretary, Daniel Ryan; treasurer, John Cottingham. S.A.C.: Dennis Emanuel, Science; Paul Schaub, Commerce; Ed Cronin, A.B.; John Pinas, Engineering.
President, Tom Bohen; vice president, Hugh Correll; treasurer, John Monteverde; secretary, John Braddock. S.A.C.: George Kerwin, Engineering; John Kelly, A.B.; Francis Crowley, Science; Francis Delaney, Commerce; John Hynes, Off-campus.
Junior Class Candidates
President, Paul McArdle; vice-president, Bart O’Toole; secretary, Martin McGinnis; treasurer, Paul Morrison: S.A.C.: Theodore Frericks, John McAuliffe, John McMahon.
President, Gregory Cushing; vice-president, Eugene White; secretary, Oliver Helland; treasurer, Al Nigro. S.A.C.: Thomas Roche, Arthur Davis, John Longhi.
President, Dan Sheedy; vice-president, John Walsh; secretary, Neil McGarvey; treasurer, Vincent Dollard. S.A.C.: Dan Donovan, Donald Duffey, Charles Hayes.
Sophomore Class Candidates
President, Kenneth Goff; vice-president, Charles Kelly; secretary, Gerald Flynn; treasurer, John DeMoss. S.A.C.: Thomas Judged
President, Joseph Mulqueen; vice-president, Robert Blake; secretary, Daniel Sallows; treasurer, James Alyward. S.A.C.: John Schroder.
President, Bernard Henegan; vice-president, Kevin O’Gorman; secretary, Paul Young; treasurer, Robert Chamberlain. S.A.C.: James Brown. Independent Candidates for President
Kenneth Duffy, William Small.
"THE LAST DINNER" ON AIRLANES
WEDNESDAY
•
At 8:30 Wednesday night the campus radio studio will become in rapid succession a court room, a penitentiary cell, and an execution chamber. These are scenes in “The Last Dinner,” the second play to be presented this year by the N.D. Playhouse of the Air.
The play which was cast and directed by Norbert Aleksis, student radio director, will have as principals Jerry Hogan, Arthur Mulhern, John Gorman, and George Morris.
Meanwhile, plans for the interhall radio contest are nearly completed. Halls have been urged to take full advantage of the practice periods provided in the campus studio, which is open from four to six o’clock on Mondays and Tuesdays for rehearsals by seniors, and on Wednesdays and Thursdays for juniors. The weekends are reserved for sophomore ■ and freshmen halls.
Entertainment of every type is anticipated on the contest programs. The preliminary contests will go on the air the week of May 3. The four finalists will then appear in a full hour program on either May 13 or 14.
The programs will be judged on a basis of quality and radio execution. Judges for the contest will be appointed in the next few days. They will include a member of the faculty, of the department of Music, and of the staff of WSBT, South Bend.
RADIO LOG
Week of April 26-30
Monday, April 26—Patrician talk, 7:00.
Tuesday, April 27—Philosophy Series, talk, 7:00.
Wednesday, April 28—Walter Hagen, jr., golf talk, 4:30; Paul Locher, piano, 6:45; Faculty Talk, 7:00; N.D. Playhouse of the Air, 8:30; David Garvin, violin, 9:00.
Thursday, April 29—Science Club Program, 6:45; Music of the Masters, 7:00; Dance Melodies, 9:00.
Friday, April 30—Scholastic News, 4:00; Questions and Answers, 4:30; Spanish club, 7:00.
February 19, 1881
Several fine fish were lately angled from the blue waters of St. Joe Lake.
Handball seems to be at a stand still. Interest , in the game is apparently declining..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23; 1937
11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAP SMOKE
Our eagle eye scouts brought back a most favorable report on the Monogram Ball of Friday night. The orchestra sounded well, those attending were amiable and pleasant, and even all the borrowed tuxedos and tails fit for a change. Mrs. Kamm’s . pride and joy, Adolph, (Morrissey) was there shuffling with an indefinable deftness, somebody’s been taking dancing lessons. . . . The “Texas Blonde” (Academy) makes the college girls wish they had matriculated at Vassar or Smith—She is what we would classify as an “Attractive Public Nuisance”. . . . Paul Larmer (Off-campus) always looks bored at a dance—You’ll learn my sweet, you will learn. . . . Joe Drolla (Alumni) and partner report that the bus business is paying well these days. . . Joe Ruetz (Dillon) put on a one man floor show and showed all who were interested how “Truckin’’ is done in South Bend.
Paul Langton (Alumni) pole vaulted over the “Caf counter” for his monogram date—too bad he’s not a swimmer... Our prediction of George Kristel’s (Sorin) marriage, materialized March 31st. . . The portals across the road are now closed to Don Currier (Howard) You ain’t missin’ much, Don. . . A pair of brown eyes make Jim Wyatt (Walsh) a frequent visitor to a down state city. . . Frank “Popeye” Frascati (Walsh) now plays the Casanova role at the local “Nat.”. . .
From certain unnamed persons comes moanings that this column has plugged the forthcoming Monogram Absurdities. We still contend that on the morning of May 2 the Senate will be investigating the person who hasn’t seen it. . . Why Not? All the jokes will come from these quarters ... Do all of you get the same feeling we get when you see Ed Von Hoene walk through Walgreens? He reminds one of a Peacock. . . Someone once said there were four offices in the Law club, Pat Fisher (Sorin) doesn’t seem to have as yet found that out in spite of the fact that he is president of the club. . . . The O’Connor (Howard), Callahan (Lyons), Brannigan (Dillon), and Reardon (Morrissey), group is out with its annual blotter supply. What? Again !. . .In the Senior Class elections, Jack Monteverde a really good guy should get elected secretary. . .
Well here they come out of the paddock — Kelly-Vettel-Meyer and Quinn, they all seem in best of form and anxious to get this race over. They parade before the grandstand
on their way to the post and the favorite is Kelly and Meyer, the dark-■ horse Vettel will bear watching. The New York entry Quinn, seems a little outclassed but he has a good rider up on him and he may come through, as a matter of fact folks this is anybody’s race. They have now reached the barrier and are lining up. Vettel breaks through and is now being placed in the end stall—there goes the bell—.
They’re off. A perfect start with Meyer running for the rail with Kelly, Vettel and Quinn closely bunched. They are now settling down to their business and at the half are running close, coming into the three quarters Kelly on the outside is coming up fast and Meyer is dropping back fast, Kelly and Vettel now pass Meyer. Meyer and Quinn running neck and neck, into the back stretch they go with Kelly lengthening out running a great race — here they come, oh what a race, four great runners and none should be ashamed of a defeat in this glorious race, one which will go down in the books as the closest
“Swing takes too much energy”
race of the year—neck and neck they run, giving their all, up the stretch they pound, hoofs gleaming and necks distended striving for every inch of ground, a nose will win this race for any of the horses, oh what a race this Quinn is running but the field is too great for him, but a gamer horse never ran.
Kelly, Vettel and Meyer coming up the stretch neck and neck, now Kelly is pulling away from the field and— this P. A. system has suddenly gone blooey—-will anhounce the results later folks. Boy, what a race, the Law Club is agog.
You Know Them By—
JACK McMAHON (Cavanaugh)— Pepsodent Smile.
JACK BRODERICK (Alumni) —Dangling Cigarette.
PHIL WELSH (Sorin)—Bow Tie.
TOM CASSIDY (Serin)— Red Hair.
JACK BAKER (Lyons) — Camel hair top coat.
CHICK MALONEY (Walsh)—Putty Nose.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
Sparks From Flint » By William C. Fay
Impressions of What Happens When Auto Workers Seek Solace in Sitting. A Firsthand Account of the Flint Filibuster.
This article presents a first-hand account of what a former Notre Dame student saw and experienced during the recent sit-down strike in Flint, Michigan. The opinions are those of the writer and present only his impressions of what occurred. The Scholastic prints them as an entertaining insight into a now famous situation.
“So they stuck you in the woodpile, this year?” The zestful tone of the statement startled me from the pleasant lethargy which had seeped into me from watching through my window the slow, sure movements of the student workers who -were sunning themselves behind Freshman on the hrickpile which once had been the left wing of St. Edward’s while they daintily chipped away the plaster adhering to the faded, yellow brick.
I swung about in my chair, turning from the window which fronts on the new Biology Building, and glanced toward the door. A young man stood there. By the rakish slant of his brown, crushable Alpine, the harmonious blend of brown shirt and tie, the careless cut to his tweed suit, and the friendly smile rippling his lips, I recognized him immediately as a Notre Dame Man.
“Come in,” I called. “Welcome to 132 Freshman—the garden spot of the campus and the finest “double” in the hall; Don’t bump your head on that water pipe.”
“Don’t worry,” he replied. “This was my room all . last year.” He stepped in and his eyes swept reminiscently about the pale, tinted walls. “Tell me,” he begged, “does the wind still blow in the winter-time ?”
“She does,” I answered. “Take off your coat and sit down some place— that chair by the desk looks promising. I don’t recommend the bed.”
“Thanks,” he said, easing himself into the chair which rose to the occasion. “Was just walking by, so I ' thought I’d drop in and see what the old place looks .like.”
“It still does, doesn’t it?” I ob-served.	•’/./
“It sure does,” he agreed. v'-’
“Well, what have , you been doing ' with yourself?” I asked. .“Living in Lyons this year?”	; "7/
“No, I’ve been working this year-working for General Motor, at Flint, Michigan.”
“Get mixed up in that ‘sit-down’ strike?”
“No. My shift was off when the strike was called, but I did see a good bit of what went oh.”
“Was there as much sabotage and violence as the papers splashed across the headlines?”
“No, there wasn’t any sabotage—-Oh, the men used some car seats and bolts of muslin to make beds, but there was very little damage. The
CINQUAINS
. MANY BRAVE HEARTS. . .
I
The heart
Asks nothing more . .
Than that someone shall break
Its very core a thousand times A'day. . .
It
God gives
Us each a heart
To teach us something of
The meaning of such things as hope, Despair. . .
111
All hearts	.
. Are cozy flames
To-which cold reason comes
= To tvarm her hands, to temper truth, . With love. . .
’• ;	■ ■ • \ iv .	.. . .
The heart	; _
Has depths no sea
Can boast, and which no eye ’ ;
Can find; but can, I knozv, be probed
- By pain. ; . - .	.	.. -, - .
'	- v.	A.
The heart	..	>/. \
Is worm-food, too,	' .. ,
When laid to, lasting sleep., 7/-'.^/ . -But worms gnaw 'now where pain had
■ gnawed . .	‘	. . . ..
Before. . .	. /	\	;	:
r?-■ VI .
Death is	.	.
The end of all; .	.	/-/ ’ - -
The heart-beat stops: the soul, Loathe- fio remain without its mate,. '
/ Is fled, . .	' . . r - 7; // 1' *.
<■..7;,/./-/: j —Edward O’Neill/ /
men did tip over the Sheriff’s car, one afternoon, but his ‘hard-boiled’ actions .were mostly to blame for that. When he .‘cooled off’ and met the men halfway the violence stopped entirely.” .
“How did the strike turn out? Were you satisfied with the results?”
“Yes, the men in the plant were : satisfied; they got just about what they wanted. The ‘piece-work’ plan of paying wages was abandoned, and the forty-hour, week with pay-and-a-half- for overtime was substituted. Right now we’re working forty-five hours and -receiving pay-and-a-half for the extra five hours. That means more money per week for us, and there’s /another advantage. The new schedule slows down production, and that means a longer working-year. Usually, we worked from seven to nine months; now, we’ll work.ten or eleven months.”
“Any other change developed from the strike?”
“Yes, there’s a more friendly feeling between the worker and his boss. That’s come about since the Union instituted.the ‘Steward’ system. There is a ‘Steward’—a ‘Steward’ is the Union representative—in each division of the plant. If a worker believes he is being treated unfairly by J- his boss, he complains to the Steward; the matter is investigated. If the boss is found guilty he receives a reprimand from the Company— three reprimands means dismissal. However, the system works the opposite way. The boss can complain to the Steward about one of the workers. If the worker is found to be doing poor work, he is dismissed, and loses his union card. So. you can see. that the new system is good for two reasons; the boss can’t ‘ride’ his employees; and the employee can’t loaf on the job.”
“Say, what time is it? Four-thirty all ready! ’Guess I’ll have to get go-• ing.” He stood up and looked about the room. “I see they’ve fixed the water faucets.” He walked over to the wash basin and spun the handle of the “cold” faucet. Cold water flooded the bowl. He tried the hot. A thin trickle of lukewarm water ..water dripped into the bowl.
- “Gosh,” he said in awe, and walked . out into the hall.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937	13
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_________Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY_________________________Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER______ ____________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie-------------------------------The Week
Anthony F. O Boyle--------------------------College Parade
Joseph Rotondo—-----------------------fn The Juggler Vein
Robert L. Grogan-----------—_---------"Scholastic of the Air”
News Staff
Louis DaPra_________ Harold A. Williams.. Michael Mongoven____ Richard Riley_______ George Haithcock
Frederick Sisk_____ Thomas Marker______~_
Gregory Byrnes Frank E. Larwood_____ James Dempsey________
____News Editor ____Assistant News Editor ____Frank Reilly ____Robert McClain ____Vincent de Coursey ____John Callaghan ____James Hufnagel ____Graham Starr ________F.	Barreda ----------------------------John Kohn
Edward Huff
Vincent W. Hartnett)____ Harold A. Williams j ”
.Literary Editors
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett__________________________________Sports EdjJ°r
Andrew M. Crowe__________:______;_-_______Assistant Sports Editor John Cackley Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride_________________________■_____Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby____________—.----------------John Clifford
Charles Callahan_______________________William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott_________________________________James A- AValdron
Francis Kroeger____________________________________drf Editor
George Elmore
William R. Dooley, '26_______________________Business Manager
- Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor. 233 ‘Walsh Hall, Notre Dame. Indiana.
Vol. 70
April 23, 1937
No. 22
SINE LAUDE ...
MBITIOUS and well conceived plans for an Honorary Society ran into a stone wall this week and the move
will have to lag for another year. It is probably too late now to remedy this year’s situation, but this is the ideal time to make sound plans that will bring success in another year.
No one can sanely question the value of a properly organized, movement to honor Seniors who have maintained high academic rating along with extra-curricular activities. Notre Dame, where talent is rarely slighted, should be the last place to balk at honoring genuine academic activity and real leadership.
. This is not merely a nebulous claim—the workability of the plan, the advantages it offers, have been proved time and again. Practically every large college or university, secular or public, has some such means of honoring and inspiring scholarship. Loyola, Marquette, Canisius, University of Detroit, and Holy Cross are but a few who either have affiliation with Phi Beta Kappa, or maintain some sort of individual group along the same general lines.
Right here at Notre Dame a similar movement was . born and has operated successfully—the Academy of Science. That it works well is proved by the activity of its members, the enthusiasm with which it continues, and the many imitators it now has. But this is a specialized group. and offers no inducements to the average student.
• In the cafeteria, displayed prominently in a glass case, are handsome trophies for billiards, golf, handball, and bowling. It is logical that these trophies should be presented; they fill a long-felt need. But is not academic leadership fully as important as a strike, a par, a three-cushioned carom, or a strong back-hand?
The plan as offered by the S.A.C. this year may not have been perfect, but it was a start. With time to. iron out its defects, we can hope for better results at some not too distant date.	’	;
MUSIC HATH CHARMS ...
AST year there were sly titters and a general wink when the first annual Music Week was announced. Those attending the first program had no difficulty finding
room to stretch and clap with vigorous arm motion—there was plenty of vacant space in Washington Hall. But when the third and fourth numbers on the -card rolled around it was a different story. There were no reports of a stampede, but the campus was genuinely interested.
Music Week is one of those things that was “let go” too long. Now that it is definitely started there should be no difficulty in . keeping interest. Programs of the 1937 caliber are bound to bring response. Even the addicts of “swing” will line-up when really good music is presented in a professional way.
▼
MARCH OF SCIENCE ...
NOTRE DAME is rapidly achieving a nation-wide reputation as an outstanding contributor to scientific knowledge and research. Under the late Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., whose discoveries awed the world, under the skilled mind and hands of Reverend J. A. Zahm, C.S.C., Professor Green, and many others, the reputation first began. Now under new, younger men, equipped with the latest in laboratory equipment, the achievements give promise of going to unimagined lengths.
„ Four of the outstanding men in the field of Metallurgy have been brought to the campus this year through the efforts of Professor Edward G. Mahin and the Notre , Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals. Tomorrow, famed metallurgists whose reputation is world wide, will meet here for technical conferences.
Science, say the leaders of today, will become more and more important and prominent in a newer world. .Notre Dame has a long lead on the scientific field, and will undoubtedly march in the front rank.
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
ATHLETICS
NICHOLSON'S TRACK TEAM WILL PARTICIPATE IN DRAKE RELAYS AT DES MOINES
TODAY AND TOMORROW
BENDA ACCEPTS POST AS NEW END COACH SUCCEEDS O'BRIEN
Notre Dame’s track team heeded Horace Greeley’s advice and "went west” this week-end. Coach John Nicholson and his proteges left yesterday for Des Moines where they will participate in the Drake relays today and tomorrow.
The fate of Notre Dame in the meet rests with two men, Greg Rice and John Francis. Rice, stellar sophomore miler, has been bothered by stiff legs. The condition was brought on by strenuous practice after a two-week layoff because of a throat infection. Francis, star half miler, has been bothered with sore legs lately. If these two men are in top form, Notre Dame’s medley and four mile relay teams will be among the strongest in the meet.
In the medley relay, Jim Parsons will run the quarter mile, John Cavanagh will do the half mile, Francis will handle the three-quarter mile, and Rice will run the mile. Cavanagh’s return to the track squad after pulling a tendon early in the indoor season gives Notre Dame a chance of having the strongest medley relay team in the history of the school.
Nicholson can pick a representative four-mile team from Rice, Francis, Arch Gott, John McKenna, Steve Szumaehowski, and Gene Gormely. Coach Nicholson said that if Rice and Francis were ready, his four mile relay team will be second to none, with the possible exception of Indiana. Indiana has Lash, Deckard, and Smith to build a team around.
A two mile relay team composed of Cavanaugh, Rice, Francis, and Sheehan may be entered by Coach Nicholson. The mile team will be built around Parsons, Sheehan, and
• Cavanaugh. Coach Nicholson is as yet uncertain who the fourth member of this team will be. “Nick” may also enter teams in the 440 and 880 yard relays. Captain “Bucky” Jordan and “Ace” Clifford are returning members of a team which last year copped both the 440 and 880 yard has a better than average chance, •with both Langton and Gibbs clearing over 13 feet in practice. The shot put and discus will rest in the capable hands of John Levicki and Bud Famonville.
Joe Benda New end coach.
CHICAGO. MET CLUBS FIGHT FIERCELY IN HANDBALL BATTLE
•
On’ a dark and stormy day last week there was held one of the most’ bloodthirsty handball matches in the history of the sport. Four stalwarts from the Chicago Club formed a team and ran roughshod over a handpicked group from the Metropolitan club.
When the dust had cleared away and the players of each team had been revived, it was discovered that “Hollerin’ Hank” Pojman, “Jumpin’ John” Clifford, “Marvelous Marty” Burns, and the masked unknown— Clare — all from the City of Wind, had in their possession the mythical title of Intercity Club Handball Champs. The “Eastside - Westside” crowd composed of Loftus, Foley, Walsh, and Fallon, willingly assented (Continued on Page 20)
By Mike Crowe
Joe Benda, appointed end coach April 17 by Athletic Director, Elmer Layden, arrived at the University Monday afternoon and took charge of his new position. Benda replaces popular Johnny O’Brien who was killed in an atomobile accident March 12.
Since graduating from Notre Dame, Benda has spent the last eight years in coaching. Taking over the Cathedral High School football team of Duluth, Minnesota, in 1928, Benda piloted the team to the championship of the Twin Ports conference, winning six games and losing none. Impressed by this record, officials of St. John’s, Collegeville, Minnesota, obtained Benda’s services in 1930. He has been in charge of St. John’s football teams since that year.
In seven years’ competition against the larger schools of the Minnesota State College conference, St. John’s won 31 games, lost 12, and tied six. They won the conference championship in 1932 and 1935.
Before coming to Notre Dame as a student, Benda attended Cathedral High School in Duluth, where he won all-conference honors in football in 1921 and 1922.	,
Benda received a leg injury in 1924 while taking part in a game. He withdrew from school in 1925 to undergo an operation on the leg, returning to play varsity Ball at end in 1926 and 1927. Benda, Maxwell, and Wallace shared the duties at right end. The Scholastic of 192627 in reporting football prospects stated: “Joe Benda,known as a tough, crashing end, will be ready to continue superior play at that position.” In several other games of that year The Scholastic sports writers commented on the outstanding end play of Benda.
During Benda’s playing days, Notre Dame compiled such overwhelming scores as a 77-0 victory over Beloit, a 69-0 defeat of Lombard, and a decisive 41-0 triumph against Baylor. Some other teams vanquished during his time were Northwestern, Army, Minnesota, Georgia Tech, Penn State, Carnegie Tech, and Southern California.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
15
RACQUETEERS OPEN SEASON IN MATCH AGAINST INDIANA
•
Fresh from a two week’s round robin elimination tournament Notre Dame’s 1937 Varsity tennis team travels to Bloomington, Indiana, tomorrow to open its difficult eightmatch schedule against a veteran Indiana University team. Following the match with their down-state rivals
Coach de Landero From Fencing to Tennising
the Irish netmen return home on Monday to try their strokes against a powerful Western State Teachers’ squad. Coach de Landero is firmly convinced that such strong opposition so early in the season will provide him with a good idea on the prospects and ability of this year’s young and inexperienced team. Official selection of the team was made earlier in the week, and the following men will comprise the squad to see action against Indiana in the season’s opener. Captain Fallon, Kilrain, Arnold, Gregory, Simon, Wolf, Rappenhagen, and Lewis.
Five of the above mentioned players are sophomores, two are juniors, and one a senior. Only Fallon and Kilrain have had intercollegiate competitive experience. While it is not yet definite as to what players will take care of the singles assignments and which ones will pair- up for doubles, tentative placing has Fallon, Kilrain, Gregory, Arnold, Simon, and Wolf doing the soloing, while Kilrain and Arnold, Fallon and Gregory, with Rappenhagen, Lewis, Simon or Wo J? getting the call for the last tandem.
Both Indiana and Western State are considered to have excellent teams this year. The Bloomington squad is composed chiefly of veterans while the Teachers, judging from meagre reports, seem to have the happy combination of experienced players supplemented by promising new material. Because of the obvious inexperience of the Notre Dame team considerably more attention than is’the usual case is being given
IRISH DIAMOND MEN TO PLAY NORTHWESTERN ON CARTIER FIELD SATURDAY AFTERNOON;
KLINEMEN LOOK FOR VICTORY
QUARTER FINALS RUN OFF IN HANDBALL
TOURNAMENT
•
Six hard handball matches were played over the last week-end, and as a result the victors gained a berth in the quarter-finals of the University Handball Doubles tournament. Two matches remain before the list of quarter-finalists will be complete, and these will be run off in the very near future. Pojman-Brogger fooled the dopesters by upsetting the seeded Ford-Mundee combination. The other seeded outfits of Darcy-Malarney, Fallon-Clair, and Lonergan-Riley are certain quarter-finalists.
Darcy-Malarney will meet the winner of the Moorman-Curran vs. Rogenstein - Whitman battle. Mulves-Cleary will face the highly favored Lonergan - Riley duo. Fallon - Clair will take on Ponath-Conway or the sophomore outfit of Metrailer-Borg-man. In the other matches Clifford-Race will meet the surprisingly strong Pojman-Brogger combination.
Fallon, Darcy, Clifford, and Claire are members of the varsity handball team. Darcy, who is teamed up with Malarney, and Clair, who is paired with Fallon, were winner and runner-up, respectively, in the singles tournament, and stand a very good chance of being finalists in the doubles.
The contest, which started three weeks ago, saw an entry list of 54 teams. Now ten teams remain in the competition, and two will be eliminated before the quarter-finals get under way. The finals should be played some time next week. The trophies, which will be awarded to the finalists, are on exhibition at the University cafeteria.
its chances. If the new material comes through for Coach de Landero Notre Dame’s net prospects for the next three years appear to be exceptionally good. The big question seems to be not of material but rather will this new set of Notre Dame racquet wield-ers be able to overcome its lack of inexperience at the very beginning of the season, or will a few matches in a short season have to be played first?
The Irish baseball nine, undefeated up to the present and rounding into form after another week of practice, will take the field Saturday against the Northwestern Wildcats in their fourth game of the season.
The Wildcats come to Cartier Field with a great deal of game experience under their'belts. Unable to practice either indoors or outdoor on their home grounds, the Wildcats took a trip South as part of their preseason training and split even in six games. They played a 2-game series with Louisiana State, Alabama, and Mississippi.
Like Coach Kline, Burt Ingwersen, Wildcat mentor, invaded the football ranks to fill the numerous vacancies left by graduation. Cleo Diehl, Northwestern end, who has won mono-
“Cousin Joe” O’Neill Vp from the ranks.
grams in both football and basketball, is headed for a third monogram, having firmly established himself at third base. Paul Werd, another end, has taken over the first base job. Bob Voights, a tackle on last fall’s eleven, -is contending for one of the outfield berths. Vanzo, a hefty quarterback, was also seeking a place in the outfield.
Coach Ingwersen has built his team around the few returning lettermen. Captain Ralph Mack, last year’s leading hitter, will handle the catching duties. The way Captain Mack wields the willow will furnish Irish pitchers plenty of cause for worry. Bill Chown, one of the few returning infielders, has been stationed at second. Jack Woy, regular left fielder last year, may be shifted to short.
The pitching assignments will fall on Jack Kaufmann, a portsider, and Bob Roth, a right hander. Bill Syring, a sophomore, may, however, take the mound against the Irish. He won two games on the Southern trip.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
INTRODUCING By Gene Vaslett
That far famed school in dear old Brooklyn known to the “boys” as “The Prep” and to strangers as Brooklyn Preparatory School has sent many a famous contingent to Notre Dame dating back to Frank Labome and others. But no group from “The Prep” has gained more fame, or should we say notoriety, than the boys that came out here in September of 1933 determined to show the Mid West the type of culture handed out at “Prep” in old Brooklyn-by-the-Gowan-us. Their names have become legends around the campus. Brien, Lane, Tangney, and Foley, all have become “famous,” but it has fallen to John “Boff” Cavanaugh t o carry on the athletic heritage of “The Prep.”
John and his “long brown legs” were well known at the Brooklyn academy of learning and admired by many people, both masculine and feminine. His “l.b.l’s” were comparatively unknown until his senior year because it wasn’t until then that he took to the cinders and found out that he could run. He tried the quarter first and started his track career off, auspiciously enough, by running two (count them) legs of a mile relay, the first leg and the anchor leg. Opinions differ as to whether he was carried over the finish line or was pushed.
This same relay team, with four men on it, went on to win the Private Schools City championship which is no easy accomplishment in New York.

He came to Notre Dame the following year, becausle, among other reasons, “seventeen of my friends were coming here.” That’s the “Prep” crowd we were telling you about.
“Nick” saw him during his Freshman year and converted him into a half miler, although he still runs the quarter in the relay. His ability as a half miler won him a place in his Sophomore year on one of the greatest two mile relay teams Notre Dame has ever known. This team composed of DuCassa, Shiels, Bernard, and Cavanaugh set a new Notre Dame record of 7:54.8 in that event and it hasn’t even been approximated as yet. Their nemesis that year, and every team has a nemesis, was (you guessed it) Indiana U. They beat the Irish foursome at Butler and again at Drake, but outside of the Hoosiers the Irish were considered tops.
Last year “Boff” ran a 1:55.2 half mile in the Navy outdoor dual meet, the fastest he has ever traveled over the distance. Consistently he keeps down to 1:57 which is good enough to win any race held around here. Running on (Continued on Page 19)
S. A. C. SWIM MEET SET FOR APRIL 28: ENTRY LIST LARGE
•
Soon the annual splash session, sponsored by the S.A.C., will be soaking the lapels of serene judges at the South Bend natatorium, as the opening gun booms at 8:15, the evening of April 28. Reverend Julian Sigmar will have charge of the events, with Richard Delaney as general chairman.
The events that will keep the boys busy are free style—40 yard, 100 yard, and 220 yard races. For variety, the boys can also try their stamina in the 40 yard breast stroke and the 40 yard back stroke event. A 120 yard medley relay should prove interesting, with 40 yards in free style for the starter, 40 yards of the back-stroke for the middle man, and 40 yards breast stroke for the anchor man. The free style relay will have four men, each swimming 40 yards, to bring a total of 100 yards for that event.
To make up the low board competition, five dives will be required: the swan dive, the back dive, the jackknife (back), the one or one and one-half somersault, and the half or full Gainer. From the eight-foot high board, the swan dive, the back dive, and the somersault will be required, together with two optional dives. An added event is the plunge for distance.
Awards have not as yet been agreed upon, but according to Chairman Delaney they promise to be well worthwhile. As usual, awards will go to the winners and runners-up. The Huisking trio walked away with honors in last year’s events, and will be on deck this season. Last year they combined to win the relay, while Frank took the 220 yard free style swim, and Ed was the winner of the under-water event. Former stars McGurl and Green will no doubt be on hand to defend their titles to the low and high board diving honors. Hughes, Verhoeven, Lawler, and Casey are also contestants who figured prominently in last year’s meet.
Prospective competitors have to make their entries before April 28 to Chairman Delaney, 421 Walsh Hall. Practice sessions for those who are interested will be held daily from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m., under the supervision of Reverend Julian Sigmar.
West Texas high school, too small to support regular elevens, expect to organize a league of six-man teams next fall; three men will be -used on the line and three in the backfield.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
17
IRISH GOLFERS PLAY OHIO STATE MONDAY AT COLUMBUS
•
With the season already successfully under way, Notre Danie’s current crop of golfers are looking forward to a continuation of the remarkable record built up by the Irish stymie-men of the past eight years, when they invade Columbus next Monday, April 26, to engage Ohio State’s Buckeyes.
The personnel of the Gaelic traveling squad has not as yet been determined, but there are three players who are almost certain to make the trip. Two promising sophomores, Tom Sheehan and “Bud” Donovan, have been hitting their stride of late, and are sure-fire bets to go. Besides these two newcomers, Captain Lou Fehlig has been playing his usual consistently good game and is assured of a starting berth. The makeup of the remainder of the team is very doubtful, as Father Holderith, N. D. mentor, has such a wealth of experienced material from which to choose his squad that some good men are sure to be left behind.
Father Holderith is optimistic concerning the forthcoming battle with State’s ever-dangerous aggregation. The prospects of repeating last year’s 14-4 victory over Ohio look very bright. After being checked momentarily by a 9-9 tie with Washington University, the local outfit swept back to overwhelm Chicago, 17-1.
“Over - confidence,” according to Father Holderith, “will be our hard-■ est adversary. We won a fairly easy match from Ohio last year, but they aren’t going to be so easy this time. They had several promising youngsters who have undoubtedly improved their game in the past twelve months and will in all probability give us a much stiffer battle.”
ON DOWN THE UNE
HARRY NEWMAN, basketball coach at Collinwood High School in Cleveland, has been forced to establish the policy of calling all his players by their last name. This action had to be taken because five of his first string players are named Bob.
Though it was only mentioned slightly in the papers and probably noticed by few, Canada still rules the intercollegiate hockey world. McGill University recently defeated Harvard, 7-2. Harvard is considered among the best of United States college hockey teams.
One of the outstanding foul shooting records in Pennsylvania scholastic - . basketball has - been established this year by a team coached by JACK
IRISH BASEBALL NINE DEFEATS ILLINOIS TEAM IN 13 INNING CONTEST AT URBANA BY NARROW MARGIN
SIX TEAMS PRACTICE DAILY IN SPRING WORKOUTS
•
With the grass growing and the trees budding, young men’s fancies are turning not only to the amorous pursuits spoken of in literature, but in a large measure to athletic pursuits also. Besides the thrown-to-gether softball games, the all-day golf games, and the spritely lads capering on the cinder paths around the lakes, organized sports are in full swing with the blossoming of the new season.
Six University athletic teams have either already started their seasons, or are preparing to venture forth in the future in quest of intercollegiate laurels. Elmer Layden has a couple of hundred jerseyed and cleated lads getting into shape for that murderous schedule next fall. Due to a variety of causes, among them the death of Johnny O’Brien, bad weather, and Easter vacation, Coach Layden’s men are further behind in their spring schedule than ever before.
And no sooner has he copped one national championship, than Coach George Keogan holds a spring session of his own to prepare for next year. The baseball team has already started the season, having won their first two games, but extensive practice will be necessary to polish some of the flaws which Coach Kline has discovered in early season games.
Coach John Nicholson’s track men swung from their indoor season to the outdoor paths almost without a break. And the Drake Relays tomorrow will show just what kind of shape the boys are in. Coach de Lan-dero has switched his attention from fencing to tennis, but his lads have also been victims of the weather. And the golf team was finally able to get in a few practice swings before the season opened, although the weather bothered them, too.
RYAN who, in 1921, was one’ of the best free throw artists in collegiate ranks. In 11 games, his Valley Forge players connected with 59 out of 74 attempts for a percentage of .809.
When it comes to superb play in polo, the Army team must be mentioned. They recently defeated Pennsylvania Military College, 18-4, for their thirtieth consecutive victory.
Notre Dame made timely hits and timely putouts while Illinois strung together three errors in the thirteenth inning; so the Irish nine defeated the Illini, 7-6, at Urbana Saturday.	.
Puplis’ single in the second and Borowski’s single in the seventh were the only hits off Illini pitcher Swanson for seven innings. But in the eighth, Jim Carson’s two-bagger and pinch-hitter Mohr’s left field single drove in two runs. Illinois, having scored one run in the fifth, tied the score in their half of the eighth with hits by first-baseman Callahan, batting hero and fielding goat of the game, and Louie Boudreau, basketball star. With tvro on and two out Wib Henry sent a ball high and far to left, which Notre Dame’s Nolan, running backward, caught magnificently.
Nolan followed up this bit of fielding brilliance by singling in the ninth, with Moir on base. Arboit came up with two men out, and knocked a
Jake Kline His men victorious.
single. Moir scored, followed by Nolan, running recklessly all the way from first and sliding hard for home. With a two-run lead, Arboit walked two men, and was retired, Rydell coming in to pitch to the base-getting Callahan. Calllahan then smacked his longest hit of the day, a two-run double to right, and Goncher replaced Rydell, finishing the inning safely with the score tied, 4-4.
Callahan got his fifth consecutive hit in the eleventh, but no other safeties were made by either side till the thirteenth. Johnny Braddock substi- . tuting for Brennan at second, hit a grounder which Callahan kicked. Gaglione, playing at third for Joe O’Neill, tipped a roller which Callahan picked up and threw wildly. Bourdreau at shortstop, the smoothest player on the field, then took Borowski’s rolling drive and also threw wildly past first, sending- Brad-
(Continued on Page 20)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
CAPTAINS OF IRISH TEAMS FROM 1928 TO 1932
TO PLAY IN O'BRIEN MEMORIAL GAME;
LARGE ATTENDANCE EXPECTED
IRISH NINE TO FACE PURDUE TUESDAY AT LAFAYETTE
e
By Mark J. Mitchell
A football team composed of every element from All-Americans to reserves—but Notre Dame men all— will assemble in the Notre Dame stadium on Sunday afternoon, May 2, to pay tribute t their recently deceased teammate, Johnny O’Brien, in the game he loved so well. Not all of them played with O’Brien, but every one of them is a teammate of his in the sense that all Notre Dame men play on the same team in the game of life.
The roster of former players, making up the team of Alumni which will meet next year’s Varsity, has been growing every day. At present it includes all Notre Dame captains from 1928 to 1932 inclusive, as well as John Lautar, retiring captain of the 1936 squad.
With the exception of O’Brien’s position, left end, the entire line of the 1930 national championship team will be present. Paul Host, captain in 1932, will fill the vacant place.
Captain Tom Conley, popular choice for All-American in 1930, will line up at right end. Joe Kurth, AllAmerican in 1931 and 1932, and the
John Lautar
New old-timer.
only sophomore among the 1930 starters, will be back' at right tackle. Bert Metzger, 154-pound All-American, will fill his old place at right guard. Tommy Yarr, captain and AllAmerican in 1931, will be at center. Tom Kassis at left guard, and AI Culver at left tackle fill out the rest of the 1930 championship line.
Fred Miller, 1928 captain; John Law, 1929 captain; Jack Cannon, guard; Regis McNamara, tackle; Frank Leahy, tackle; Bernie Leahy, halfback; Mike Koken, halfback; Dan Hanley, fullback; Norm Greeney, guard; Jim Harris, guard; Frank Kerjes, guard; Bob Terlaak, guard; Frank Butler, center; and Charles
IRISH GOLFERS DOWN CHICAGO TEAM 17-1 ON LOCAL LINKS
Taking advantage of last Monday’s perfect golfing weather, Notre Dame’s fairway experts piled up the largest margin in the history of the William J. Burke Memorial course to beat Chicago, 17-1. In swamping their rivals from the Windy City by such a large score, the Irish golfers swept the morning doubles matches and scored 11-1 in the afternoon singles play.	■
Before the morning matches had been begun, Hi Lewis, the Chicago number-one man, fell down the steps of Morrissey Hall and sprained his ankle badly. Since he was, of course, unable to play, Chicago was seriously hampered by the unfortunate accident.
Captain Lou Fehlig and Bill Castleman got off to a good start for the Irish by -winning their doubles match with Jim Goldsmith and Jack Matthieu by a 3-0 score. Bud Donavan’s par 72 was too much for Bob Sampson and Bill Webbe of Chicago, and he and his teammate, Harry Baldwin, repeated the 3-0 score of the first foursome.
After Tom Sheehan had blanked his Chicago , opponent, Jim Goldsmith in the first afternoon singles matches. Bob Sampson scored Chicago’s only point when he held Bob Wilke to a 2-1 victory. Al Mailhes defeated Jack Matthieu and then Gene Milbourne scored a victory over Bill Webbe to finish off the day successfully for Notre Dame. The. Notre Dame team used a different man in each match; all of the men showed exceptionally fine form for such early-season play.
Hafron, halfback, have notified the Athletic Association of their acceptance. Of these, the majority were reserves in O’Brien’s time who achieved regular positions later.
In addition, the Alumni will be aided by such stars of the retiring Varsity as O’Neill, Steinkemper, Cronin, Mundee, Wilke, Wojcihovski, Danbom, and Miller. And so, with oldsters and youngsters arid intermediates taking part, the O’Brien Memorial game assumes the proportions of a real classic.
Tickets for the contest are now on sale at the Athletic Association Ticket Office, as well as at several places in South Bend and nearby towns. •
By John F. Clifford
With Old Sol smiling benevolently on the opening of big league ball, Coach Jake Kline and his nine young men will try to please the variable Indiana disposition of baseball’s fav-’ orite patron when they take on the Purdue Boilermakers at Lafayette next Tuesday, April 27. The first game of a home-and-home series will serve as an estimate of the real strength of both ball clubs.
The development of strength and the determination of the ability of two veteran hurlers, who had been set back by illness, to take their turn on the mound loomed as the biggest problems of Purdue early in the spring. Returning from an extended sojourn into Louisiana recently, the Boilermaker squad served notice that these problems have been solved by winning four out of six games.
The infield assignments will in all probability be held down by the following: first base, Joe Waling, a strong hitter and good fielder; second base, Co-captain Bob Lucas, a demon with line drives; short, Johnny Thompson, a snappy ball player; and third base, Tom Breslin, who batted for .375 during the Southern campaign. '
In filling the outfield berths Coach Dutch Fehring is in an uncomfortable position; he is blessed with such a wealth of material that picking the most powerful trio has been difficult. However, Pat Malasaka, a veteran of two seasons, and Baker, the compiler of a .363 average down South, are certain of starting in the Irish game. The third man will be picked from Poulos, Mitchell, and Glenn Downey, the latter a veteran pitcher whose arm may keep him from the mound. Jewell Young, of basketball fame, is also a possible outfielder.
Pitchers on the Boilermaker’s nine are fairly strong. Co-captain Oris “Lefty” Martin, Arnold Bredewater, Bob Rosser, and Jerry Bartz are all capable hurlers. Bredewater, a sophomore right hander, worked the only full game of the Southern trip and struck out 11 while Purdue defeated Louisiana Tech 2-0. Veteran backstop Harry Krause will do the catching.
The Irish infield will be composed of Carson, Brennan, Puplis, and O’Neil, running from first to third respectively. This quartet has worked admirably so far, accounting for several snappy plays. Catching will be divided between Al Kozelove .and Jim ’	(Continued on Page 19)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
Gents of Walsh Lose to Seminarians
As spring rolls around, the gentle-ment of Walsh heed the call of the wild and emerge from their basement recreation room to play at softball. But some of these stalwart fellows could not be expected to play anything so effeminate as softball. No, it’s either the real game or nothing for them. This spirit took definite form last Saturday afternoon when a group of the aforementioned G. of W. trooped over to Holy Cross Seminary to play baseball with the future clergy.
It was a motley crowd, indeed, that formed that team. Behind the plate with his glass arm pegging them down to second and Ins endless line of pep chatter, crouched Muscles Dick Riley. From the mound, Walt Schrader, the West Virginia Hill Billy twirled the ball round the necks of batter, catcher, and umpire. Forming the balance of the team, such students as Jack (The Week) Gillespie, Jack Hurley, Al Bride, and Frank Reilly, called encouragement to the gentlemen of the battery of Walsh.
But all efforts were in vain. The seminarians, who are a coldly serious lot when it comes to baseball, bore down on the G. of W. and defeated them with such decisive finality that the campus boys are now returning to their less active game of softball. If they lose in that sport, it’s down to the rec room again for some exciting ping-pong and billiards.
FOR SOPHOMORE CLASS OFFICERS		
President:		Secretary:	■
“Bob” Henegan	S. A. C.: “Jim” Brown	Paul Young
Vice President:		Treasurer:
O’Gorman		‘Bob’ Chamberlain
WE APPRECIATE YOUR		SUPPORT
“Say it with flowers” on
Mother’s Day, May 9th
Send her flowers by telegraph
SOUTH BEND FLORAL CO.
114 South Michigan Street
We make corsages that will glorify any gown at the Senior Ball, May 7th
N. D. Man Honored
Champaign-Urbana, Hl., Apr. 23.— Professor D. J. • Plunkett of Notre Dame, has been elected to associate membership in Sigma Xi, national science honorary society, it was announced here today. He is a graduate student in the University of Hlinois department of zoology.
Irish to Face Purdue
(Continued from Page 18)
Waldron. The other half of the battery assignment will be divided among the pitching team of Captain Ennio Arboit, Johnny Goncher, Lefty Rydell. The pitching on the Notre
Dame team at the beginning of the season was relatively strong, but sore arms and stiffness have made that department somewhat uncertain. Outfielders Borowski, Nolan and Moir will serve as the big guns of the afternoon, the latter matching batting eyes with several erstwhile basketbailers of the Boilermaker nine.	.
Introducing— (Continued from Page 16)
the mile relay team of Parsons, Rubly, Bernard and himself, “Boff” helped bring home first place trophies from the State meet and the outdoor C.I.C. meet and also another Notre Dame and C.I.C. record of 3:19.8 for the classic relay event.
, He started off this year in fine shape by winning the half in the Indiana dual indoor meet but the next week in practice “Boff” pulled a muscle in practice and had to remain inactive for six weeks. He’s coming around to condition now and he’s out at the Drake Relays today running in the medley and mile relays with two good “long brown legs” to get him around that track.
' Quiet John smiled when he told us he was majoring in Journalism, we don’t know why, but he did. He’s one of those boys who are daffy over “jamming” (swing to you) and he’ll do anything to hear a good number played by Goodman or Waller or Bob Crosby on the swing concerts from Chicago. His life ambition is to board a freighter and land on a South Sea island and sit around all day in a white linen suit with a thousand swing records to play to while away the time.
A CONTEST
Four cash prizes, ranging from $100 to $25 and totaling $250, will be awarded student readers of our advertisements in colleges and universities throughout the Middle West and South for typewritten essays of from 300 to 500 words on "What I Like Best in Modem Bailroading— and Why." The closing date will be May 10, awards by June 1. Address me at Chicago for reference material and to submit your essays.
President.
ILLINOIS CENTRAL SYSTEM
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
laileted. ba
HBRT 5CHRFFRER
& R1RRX
U/kat it Menis!
it’s the extras that count— extra hand tailoring at all essential points,- extra high quality in fabrics, linings. Inter-linings and trimmings,-extra care all along the line from cutting to the final rigid inspection. You'll notice the difference in the easy fit and comfortable pliability. You'll notice it still more when your suit, after months of hard wear, still holds its shape, and looks smart and fresh long after the ordinary suit would have been discarded.
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
South Bend, Ind.
Chi-Met Handball
(Continued from Page H) to the claims of their delirious opponents.
Now let it be known that from this day forward Hank Pojman, “King of the Killshot,” wishes it to be known that he is spokesman for the Chicago club aggregation. He also stated that he and his boys will challenge any other campus club to a finish fight and may the toughest gang win. Pojman and his lads, incidentally, have been on a diet of nails for six weeks. Any clubs with title aspirations will put in an appearance at the residence ’ of Marty Burns, 122 Walsh Hall.
Irish Whip lllini
(Continued from Page 17)
dock home and the other runners to second and third. Johnny Moir drove in both Gaglione and Borowski with a single, but was himself stranded.
A walk, a deep triple and a fly scored two runs for Illinois. Up came Callahan and Boureau with two outs and the score 7-6. Both singled. Pinch hitter Connelly then waggled his bat at hree of Goncher’s best pitches, and the game was over.
The fielding was naturally loose, but for such an early season game the spirit of both teams was very strong and the competitive tension exceedingly high. 
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrist* and Mfg. Optician*
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
Dr. Landis H. Wirt
ORTHODONTIST
1002 Tower Building
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919	Indiana
From the Files of "The Scholastic"
December 1, 1917—Lieutenant E. (“Nig”) Kane (C.E.,’14) is stationed at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Because “Nig” used to keep Brother Florian busy quelling disturbances in St. Joseph’s Hall, don’t for a moment imagine that “Nig” is serving a sentence at the fort. On the contrary he is serving his Uncle Sam and longing for a cruise on the Atlantic, with France as a destination. If “Nig” gets a chance to rough-house the Kaiser, Wilhelm will -wish that Brother “Flo” was around to sep arate them.
September 7, 1867—We would like exceedingly to make the Scholastic Year an illustrated paper, so far at least to give the photographs of the intelligent, frank, cheerful - looking students who are rapidly filling up the hearts of the professors by their zeal and enthusiasm in class.
September 22, 1906 — Wanted: — Men between the ages of 15 and 30 to report to Coach Barry today, and every day at three o’clock. Each man will be presented with a football suit, free of charge, and all that is expected of the recipient is that he appear on the field in said suit. Barry will do the rest.
Curb: “What is he charged with?” Tommy: “Murder on the high C’s.” A bazaar* for the benefit of the Carroll Hall A. A. took place in Washington Hall on Thursday afternoon. Every third number drew a prize. The interest in the drawing centered in the last number, which was to draw the Columbia bicycle.
March 2, 1895 — The ice was 25 inches thick before the thaw set in.
Mr. Johnson, our boat-builder, has just finished a working model of the seat intended for the new size-oared, shells. It is a marvel of ingenuity, and will do away with the superabundance of oil that was necessary to race in the old days.
(Continued on Page 21)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
21
Back a Few Years Into History
March 10, 1917—Chester, ‘Chet,’ Grant reported for the basketball team while he was yet suffering from injuries received on the gridiron. To his natural fleetness he adds a fine knowledge of the game. He is the equal of Captain McKenna as a guard, and he vies favorably ■with McDermott when given a chance at forward. His dribbling, pivoting, and blocking were the best seen at Notre Dame this year. Grant is a sophomore.
The Reverend Prefect of Discipline presided over Brownson Hall during the illness of Brother Hugh.
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
i	February 21, 1880
I The rehearsal of the Orchestra on Wednesday last was well attended. Lately, an important addition has been made by the introduction of a clarionette. It is needless to state that this is a most effective instrument in an orchestra—as effective as it is difficult to handle.
It has been reported by the director of the tailor-shop that they are now prepared to offer to the students of the University spring and summer goods at a remarkably low price— and the goods too being of the best material—wool. Full suits are now being offered at all prices, ranging from S12 to §42.
Plenty of red lights on next Monday evening. William Tell will be presented by the Thespians, and we will tell you how well in our next issue.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
I



♦si
MEN!
A perfect exam grade . • . Yes, and that’s a perfect cigar he’s smoking. It’s a LITTLE FENDRICH PANETELA . . . the mildest, most enjoyable smoke ever .. . (It’s made from imported long-filler tobaccos) . . . And we’ll bet that he and all the fellows are unanimous in pronouncing .. LIiTlE.. FENDRICH Cigars . . . 100% . • . O. K.!!
-LgTTLE O,
Pendrich^j)
P A Ki FT EL A S



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
Sentenced to the Torture Wheel!
Duplicate of shoe testing machine used by the National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C. See
DOUGLAS SHOES Punished to Prove
QUALITY behind STYLE
“Show ’em no mercy!” is our motto. “Twist ’em, turn ’em, stretch ’em, strain ’em” The “Torture Wheel” does all that, and more — but Douglas Shoes can take it! Proof that All-Leather Construction means extra miles of wear, extra smiles of real satisfaction!
You’ll need white shoes this summer — and we have them. All-whites and two-tone trims. (Perforated all-whites are the thing, say fashion experts!) Grey is going strong on sports shoes, as a trim with white buck and black. You’ll find them all at your Douglas store — priced to pamper your purse.
Men’s Normal-Treds* -	-	- ' $7
‘With patented, corrective, scientific features.
W. L. Douglas Store in So. Bend
210 South Michigan Street Open Saturday Evenings VICTOR C. ASTONE, N. D. Representative DcuqSaA Show
Knights Swing Out
(Continued from Page 3)
prepared to receive upwards of .250 couples at what they predict will be one of the most successful Council dances in recent years. Last year’s dance, headed by “Mickey” Dendler, was one of the highlights of the Spring season.
Was My Face
red/
“. . . . and that South Shore electric train just crept up on me and passed me by — and me with eight cylinders and super high test gas! So when we got to Chicago I says, ’I guess 1’11 go via South Shore Line next time.’ Now I’m sticking that extra money in my pocket.”

FINAL ART SERIES IS NOW DISPLAYED
IN LIBRARY
•
Concluding the final series of 48 pictures to be shown, the last exhibit of 12 pictures is now on display in the catalogue room adjoining the foyer in the University library.
The University is one of the 300 spots chosen by the Living American Art association for display of these four series of exhibits, and the primary object of these showings has been to offer the work of well-known and noteworthy artists at a reasonable price.
Using a new process of reproduction known as the collotype process, only a limited number of copies of each picture are made for distribution to those who care to buy them.
Included in this week’s showing are “Anne” by Henry Varnum Poor, “Moonlight” by Joseph de Martini, “Still Life—Apples” by Henry Lee McFee, Karl Fortresses’ painting of “Landscape,” “Voice of the Nightingale” by Joseph Stella, “Sleeping” by John Carroll, C. Coggeshall’s concept of “Landscape,” “Little Coat” and “Fur Shop” by Kenneth Hayes Miller, “The Boat” by Peter Blume, and a colorful print entitled “Mars,” “Orange and Green” by Arthur Dove.
Almost all of these pictures are well known, and most of them are from the valued collections of the leading art museums. The exhibit has been shown at leading museums, libraries and schools throughout the country.
Briefly Noting
Within a month Dayton University wall send six of her debaters out on the road of forensic glory. They will be gone over a month, and in less than thirty days will engage twentyeight opponents. . . .
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 23, 1937
23
Psychology of Laughter Is Treated in Talk
“The Psychology of Laughter” was the topic of the address delivered last Wednesday evening by Dr. Daniel O’Grady, professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, who gave the final talk in the winter series of public lectures sponsored by the Notre Dame club of Chicago at the Palmer House.
Professor O’Grady, who was educated at the University of Ottawa and at Catholic university in Washington, D.C., has been an instructor of philosophy at Notre Dame for the past eleven years. Dr. O’Grady has made a hobby of the psychology of laughter and of humor.
Continue Symposium on Catholic Doctrines
“Oui* Lady, Her Position in Catholicism,” was the subject of the discussion held by members of the Chesterton Society, Monday night, in the Law Building. Leading the speakers was Vincent Hartnett, a senior’ in the College of Arts and Letters. Also at the Monday night meeting, August Sidler, a senior, was annuonced secretary, by President James K. Ner-ney. He will replace William Botzum.
George Morris and George Keenan, both juniors in the College of Arts and Letters, will take the affirmative and negative sides respectively, ■when the Chesterton group discusses “In- ' fallibility,” Sunday morning at 10:30. There will be no regular meeting of the club Monday night.
My Palm Beach is as cool as no clothes
THAT NICE NUDE FEELING...PLUS STYLE
£ You feel as cool as nude. Yet others see you smartly dressed. That’s the way Palm Beach adds up.
An Invitation
El Club Santa Teresa of St. Mary’s College cordially invites the members of the La Raza club, students of Spanish, and students interested in the language, to a dramatic-musical program followed by an informal meeting, which will be held. Monday, April 26 at 7:15 p.m., in the Saint Mary’s College Lounge.
• There are no other summer clothes in which you can look so trimly tailored and so shipshape, yet feel so unhampered, so breeze-blown, so utterly glad-to-be-alive.
The real big sensational news about
Stop with GEORGE J. (Studie) LINS, ’02 at the
Lins Golden Court Motor Hotel
On U. S. 66 Will Rogers Highway Tucumcari, N. Mex.
Filling Station and Cafe in connection.
PALM BEACH
this year is the assortment of rich, darker-tone mixtures which look like imported worsteds—Bradford stripes, Harlequin or two-color stripes, pin-point mixtures and $ Z. 75 handsome solid shades. Get yours now Aj while selections are at top form. Enjoy their smartness and economy today as
THt	well as later.
GOODALL COMPANY * CINCINNATI

§5	* r
■■
Copyright 1937. liGGETf & Myers Tobacco Co.
Wow!
, says Al Schacht the Clown Prince of Baseball whoops it up
for the grand openingof the 1937baseball season.
fir Ing league pleasure...



the bleachers roar... "Swat ’em out!”
As the big leaguers swing into action watch those Chesterfield packages pop out of the pockets. There’s big league pleasure for you., everything you want in a cigarette. K homer if there ever was one... all the way ’round the circuit for mildness and better taste...with an aroma and flavor that connects every time.