

PUBLISHED SINCE 1867 
""~i ~ ~ 
L·. ~~-.· • 



SCHOLASTIC 
Freshman Issue 2007 
news 04ft NEWS STORIES OF THE YEAR 
Scholastic Staff Get up-to-date on campus happenings with a review ·of the top news stories of the 2006-2007 school year. 
FACES TO REMEMBER 
Christopher Meskill and David Poe!! Take a sneak-peek at the campus celebrities that you should know. 
Culture 14 
...... : ............ _ 
................ •

............• 
······ ........ _ 

PERFECT STRANGERS Nick Kolman-Mandie Scholastic slims down the spectrum of roommate relations into three basic categories -"kindred spirits," "I'm OK, you're OK" and "it wasn't meant to be." 
HOME, SWEET HOME 
Peter Hadley and Jessica Farmwald An overview of your future home -the residence halls and their traditions. 
CLUBBING AT NOTRE DAME Michael O'Connor Asamplingofthe opportunities-fromservice to athletics -available to help you do more than just homework. 
Is THERE ANYTHING TO DO AROUND HERE? Nick Kolman-Mandie From live music to films and plays to art, literature and beyond, Notre Dame is alive and thriving with fun. 

Sports 34 
SPORTS STORIES OF THE 
YEAR 
Christopher Meskill Read up on the most newsworthy stories in Irish athletics during the 2006-2007 school year. 
From the Editor . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Chat with the Gipper. . . . . : . . 23 Staff Editorial . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Campus Sights Snapshot .....28 News Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Good Eats . . . . . . . . . . . . ..3 I Irish V9cabulary . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Valedictorian Q&A .........40 
Vol. 149, No. 01 • Summer 2007 

SCHOLASTIC 

Editors In Chief Doug Schlarman AmyMoyors 
Managing Editor Rogina Gosicki 
Executive Editor Mika Laskey 
Production Editor Kate Drossor 
Assistant Editor 
Claire Sobczak 
Design Editor Emma Daugherty 
Executive Copy Chief 
Jessica Farmwald 
News 
Carie Snyder, editor 
Molly Slavin, assistant 
Culture 
Sarah Barrett, editor Jennifer Wulf, assistant Michael O'Connor, assistant 
Sports 
Brittany Lash, editor Marques Camp, assistant 
Humor Elisa Suarez, editor 
Design 
Mayono doLoon, assistant Katie KNaploton, assistant 
Kathleen Dilenschnelder 
Copy Stall 
Christina Golubski Katie Koysor 
Photography 
Kristin Kovo, editor Juan Muldoon, editor Courtney Sullivan, assistant 
Buslnoss and Distribution Jenna Newcomb, manager 
Advisor Ro~ert Franken '69 
Disce Q11nsi Se111p111· Victtmis Vive Q11nsi Cms Moi-itt1r1is 

Published at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556, The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2007 University of Notre Dame. Scholastic Charm School1 out of control. All rights reserved. No contents of 
this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in 
any manner without written consent of the publisher, Schofastt'c Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material, Burly Office Overhaul. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 48566. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received ~y 6:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number, All letters must bo signed, Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space, And his blantant roseacia. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed, Tho subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2,60 per copyi please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of tho annual football review are available at $5 per copr, Advertising rates available on request, Tho opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student 
body. 

FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 



Corby Night 


Men ofthe class of2011 ... Is God calling you? Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, and informal discussion. 

Wednesday, Sept. 19, 8pm at Corby Hall_ 
vocation.nd. edu 
Questions? call 1-6385 
SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 3 

Why Notre Dame? 
A primer on Our Lady's University 

Notre Dame is a unique place. It is in the middle of nowhere and seemingly archaic with its single-sex dorms, parietals and Catholic identity. Yet, so many alums speak so positively about their alma mater. Many employers gush at the prospect of hiring Notre Dame students. So what is it about Notre Dame that makes it so special? Notre Dame is technically a university, but it's more than just that. It is a place that strives to fulfill its goal to educate, not just the mind, but also the body and spirit. Although this aim of the university may seem a bit lofty, if you let the university shape you, you will find yourself growing in more ways than just intellectually. Your four years under the Dome will give you the ultimate college experience. There is no other place that offers the combination of top-notch academics, high-profile athletics, stellar Campus Ministry programs (and not just for Catholics), a gorgeous campus and a tight­knit community that feels like a family. You'll find that Notre Dame is a demanding place. There will be plenty ofp~rties and SYRs to attend, as well as more interhall sports opportunities than you can imagine. However, there also will be presentations to prepare for, 10-page papers to turn in and some bickering with professors over your final grade. During the fall, you'll find that postponing your school work until the weekend will become a pointless exercise. Notre Dame football weekends will take up all ofyour time, especially considering this season's expectations. There are so many things to do, but seemingly so little time to do it all. Life at Notre Dame may be overwhelming at times, but think of it as an opportunity to sharpen your time management skills. Think ofit as a place that tests your ability to have the boldness to say "no" in the right situations. Ifattending Notre Dame isn't exactly your dream-come-true, think ofwhat a Notre Dame education can provide for you. As an undergraduate, you might not be able to see the bigger picture of where your education is taking you; but trust us, a Notre Dame degree will prepare you for the real world. We live in a society that is driven by success, one that tempts many students to choose majors they think will lead to monetary success. But it is essential that you study what you care about. It is true that picking the right major can be difficult, especially given all of the available options. Still, college is a place where you will learn how to think, write and read critically, as well as where you will receive a holistic sense of the vast span ofopportunities that are available to you. Choose a major that will fulfill you intellectually, and the rest will take care of itself. Look at Head Football Coach Charlie Weis (ND '78). How many football coaches do you know that majored in speech and drama? Take advantage of Notre Dame. You'll be surprised how much it has to offer. Get to know your professors. They don't bite and can be valuable resources. Study hard, but don't let it deter you from getting. out ofthe library to experience campus events and meeting lifelong friends. Enjoy the traditions, and don't take anything for graf!ted, because it all will go by faster than you would think. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 

Fight Song & Alma Mater 
The essential songs fo.r life under the Dome 
Scholastic Staff 

Many incoming freshmen have the luxury of already having the Fight Song and the Alma Mater ingrained in their minds since birth. But for most freshmen, the first time they hear these songs will be during their first pep rally or the opening school-wide Mass. Here, Scholastic gives you an introduction to the lyrics that, by the time you graduate in 2011, you'll know as well as your own name. 
"Notre Dame Victory March" (The Fight Song) 
Honored by college football as "the greatest of all college fight songs," the "Notre Dame Victory March" was written by two Notre Dame graduates -brothers-Michael Shea, a priest, andJohn Shea, a monogram winner in baseball -in 1908. It first was performed on campus in the Main Building rotunda on Easter Sunday in 1909. (Hint: You really only need to know the chorus.) 
Rally sons ofNotre Dame: Chorus: Sing her glory and sound her fame, Cheer, cheer for Old Notre Dame, Raise her Gold and Blue U7ake up the echoes cheering her name, And cheer with voices true: Send a volley cheer on high, Rah, rah! for Notre Dame Shake down the thunder from the sky. We will fight in ev'ry game, What though the odds be great or small Strong ofheart and true to her name Old Notre Dame will win over all, We will ne'er forget her While her loyal sons go marching And will cheer her ever Onward to victory. Loyal to Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame, Our Mother" (The Alma Mater) 
The Notre Dame Alma Mater is performed at the end of every football game at Notre Dame Stadium, win or lose. Itwas composed in 1930 byJoseph]. Casasanta, a 1923 ND graduate, in honor of the dedication of Notre Dame Stadium-.the House that Knute Built. The lyrics were written by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., a 1906 graduate and ND's president from 1928-1934. 
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true, Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy Gold and Blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And 'our heartsforever, Praise thee, Notre Dame; And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame! 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 


0 Daric Snyder 



Jordan Hall of Science Opens 
After over a decade of planning, years of construction and $70 million in funding, the Jordan Hall of Science is open. The 200,000-square-foot building is dedicated entirely to teaching and student research, providing rare opportunities for undergraduates. The University of Notre Dame's College of Science desperately needed more space. In the last few years, interest in science courses at Notre Dame expanded noticeably, and more students continue to add sciences as a primary or secondary major. Since 2000, the number of science degrees pursued by undergrads grew over 18 percent, and because overstuffed labs do not meet Notre Dame's high expectations, it was time for the College of Science to expand. Jordan Hall, Notre Dame's largest building for undergraduate education, enables thousands ofstudents to take science lecture and laboratory courses each semester. The hall features 40 labs distributed among the sciences, and many of , the Jordan Hall labs host tools students at other universities would never see, let alone use. This state-of-the-art equipment includes a powerful Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) Spectrometer that will allow students to examine the world at an atomic level. Inaddition to the labs,J ordan Hall also features two stunning lecture rooms, both equipped with an advanced 3-screen projection system, a video-enabled fume hood for experiments and network connections for every seat. Each is spacious enough to seat 250 students -or hold marching band practice. There is a new dome on campus, too ­Jordan's 50-foot Digital Visualization Theater. The 136-seat room is more than a planetarium; it is an opportunity to visualize ideas in a new way, capable of showing the complexity of the galaxy or the human body. The first floor of Jordan Hall hosts the Museum of Biodiversity. The glass-enclosed area on the first floor is home to Notre Dame's massive collection of plant and animal life samples, including the substantial Greene­Nieuwland Herbarium. According to curator Barbara Hellenthal, the herbarium alone contains over 270,000 plant specimens from the late 18th century onward. These important specimens are irreplaceable because the carefully archived plant samples are still 
relevant to research today. While the school has owned the sizable collections for some time, many ofthe animal specimens were hidden away 
· and scattered across closets and storage cabinets throughout Galvin Hall. At last, the collection is gathered in one place. "The collection is priceless," Hellenthal says. Notre Dame has the museum's collection insured for $20 million. 
The specimen rooms are not the only great rooms in the Jordan -do not forget the greenhouse or the observatory. The greenhouse offers four smaller pods with precise individual climate controls. The observatory, up on the roof, allows astronomy classes a direct look at the night sky through many new computer­enhanced telescopes. 
TheJordan Hall ofScience is an unprecedented update to Notre Dame's science facilities. The new building is devoted entirely to undergraduate teaching, and now space once used by undergrads in Nieuwland, Galvin and Stepan Halls can be renovated for graduate and research programs. Everyone in the College of Science can breathe easier. Joseph Marino, dean ofthe College of Science, says, "A student who chooses science shouldn't feel like they're working in a dungeon." 0 

Scho/asticNews<'M1• ••••••••••••••
.1~r; 


tudents Serve thers 
o Maggie Condit 

~ 


otre Dame offers many ways to stay busy and involved. Some students forgo the usual SUB 
movies or hours in LaFortune to use their spare time to help others in ways big and small. 
Notre Dame students have continued to live out the university's legacy of service and activism this past year. Students have voiced their opinions, raised awareness, and worked for change in many social activism groups on and off campus. Students who participated in the Wednesday Lunch Fast, which donates a portion of the money for the meal to the World Hunger Coalition, and who attended the second annual Academic Forum on the Global Health Crisis discovered that small efforts can lead to big change. Larger efforts have also been made by Notre Dame students throughout the year. The Progressive Student Alliance sponsored a trip to Washington, D.C., to protest the war in Iraq. 

every employee at Notre Dame, and the canned food drive collected over 14,000 pounds of food for the Northern Indiana Food Bank. 
Rising junior Cindy Brenner, along with hundreds of other students, spent her fall break on one of Notre Dame's many service trips. Brenner traveled to New Orleans with a student-run organization called Operation Renew New Orleans and helped · gut houses destroyed by 
O Maggie Condit 

n the weeks following the news of
I

the 33 shooting deaths at Virginia 
Tech, the deadliest shooting in national history, a Virginia Tech baseball cap hung on the stone wall on the side of the Grotto. As students came to the Grotto to light candles for the Virginia Tech community, they realized that they share many goals, ideals and hobbies with the students in Virginia. Saying a prayer at the Grotto was just one of the ways that the Notre Daine community showed their compassion for Virginia Tech. At a memorial mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, students, faculty and members of the South Bend community filled the entire church, leaving nothing but standing room in the rear lobby. 
Notre Dame's student government 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 
The Campus Labor Action Project staged protests and wrote reports in supportofa living wage for 

N Offers Solidarity to Virginia Tech 
responded to the shootings by drafting 
a letter to Virginia Tech expressing the 
.university's condolences. This letter was 
sent with posters of the Notre Dame 
dorm mascots on which students wrote 
messages ofhope and consolation. After 
signing the posters, students received 
ribbons in the colors of Virginia Tech. 
Many students wore these ribbons to 
express solidarity with Virginia Tech on 
Notre Dame's Maroon.and Gold Day. 
Teachers also devoted class time to 
discuss the horrifying shootings. As 
a Film, Television and Theatre major, 
rising junior Traci MacMillan said that 
her "entire broadcast journalism course 
was turned around after the shootings." 
In,class, discussions centered around "what was appropriate to do in this kind Hurricane Katrina. Brenner says her trip made her "aware of the government's role in the reconstruction efforts, or lack thereof, after Katrina and the ne~ds of the people of New Orleans." 

Many students this past year worked for change on campus in social awareness clubs such as Amnesty International and Circle K, attended lectures and seminars and watched documentaries and plays on everything from women's rights to the death penalty. The popularity of the political science and peace studies majors, social activism groups on campus and the award-winning Center for Social Concerns show that Notre Dame students can be proud of the ways they are actively improving their world and serving others. 
of situation if Notre Dame had to deal with it, and what should be released on the news covering it." 

Campus security and the University Counseling Center reacted to the Virginia Tech shootings by sharing their services for physical safety and mental health for the Notre Dame community. In an e-mail to members of the Notre Dame community, the Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., president ofNotre Dame, urged students to use these resources in times 1/l of crisis. He outlined the ways that "the S:w tragedy at Virginia Tech will spur even o z 
~

greater review and preparedness" in safety ::i measures on campus so thatNotre Dame ~ can continue to be a safe community for &5 
its students. ••••••••• 
7 







CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY & LESBIAN



STUDENTS 

Meet student members of the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students will host a f3ECEPTION for interested first-year students: 
Monday, August 27th 
1:30-3:30 p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse Building 

{3rd Floor Lounge) 

Visit our web site at http://www.corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students also sponsors: 
Coffee & Conversation at the Co-Mo 
Solidarity Sunday 
CommUnity 
NETWORK Sessions 


--·~ r 
ScholasticNewsijJJ ···············1 
Learn Your Irish Vocabulary 
o Michael O'Connor .. 
AnTostal: The Celtic festival of spring; a weeklong celebration hosted by the Student Union Board with fun events for students. 
· Bengal Bouts: 
.· · Annual student-run' . boxing tournament. 

Bookstore Basketball: The largest 5-on-5 outdoor basketball r·-·· · 
···· ··· -··­

tournament in the world,  Quarter Dogs:  
held  every  spring  on  25-cent hot dogs sold in LaFortune  
campus.  starting at midn{ght.  

Reckers: A 24-hour restaurant located CoMo: The Coleman-Morse Center, behin_d South Dining Hall. 

which offers study space and free popco~~ ~:~-s~ft..drinks. : !R;~Lif~:. Offi~~· ~fi~sidence Life and' 
D6 D2/D2000. S d ki 1 
, . tu ent par ng ots,
located near South Quad and North 
Quad, respectively. 
;DART· Th .. ~ . b ... 11.· h ·· tud · · ·• 
;Housing, the most.despised compound• 
, -d • , h -· f 
iwor kon ~ampus; Its w ere you go I you : brea parietals_-or any other rul~s. 
The Rock: Knute Rockne Memorial, an 

; . t · r e lsys emNy w IC. s .d NenDts • exercise facility on South Quad. 
regis er 1or c asses. ow on msI e ,
1

}t gained the nickname from the days of . Rolfs: New~r,-;h~~~h·h~rde~~~.fi~a~·-.··:; 
:telephm1eregistratiQI1. · -­Dog book: The photo directoryofNotre . Dame and St. Mary's freshmen; a traditional aid for finding dates to dances. 
• D PAC: The Marie P. DeBartolo 

: Performing Arts Center, home of world-• activities on campus. : class music and dance performances. • 1------·· · · -·· -·-··•· --··--·---·· ·····------·: ··-····--· ·····-·-······---·-··-····------·····-·-····-' :Stepan (Center): A hideous geodesic 
The Huddle: A convenience store 
located in LaFortune Student Center. ----------·-·······-· --·· --···· ·· ····· · ·· ······· '. insideND: Onlinesystemforaccessing ' academic information such as semester .: grades, available courses and WebCT. ­

JACC ("Jack"): Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center; home of basketball -=~mm$01i,Fiand hockey games and pep 
-

•exercise facility, located on the east side 4 
of campus. . . . 
The Shirt: Worn by most students and fans at football games, proceeds from sales are used to fund many student 
!dome building on the north end of 
•campus (not to be confused with Stepan' Chemistry Hall). · 
. --··--·---___________________ 
Stonehenge: War memorial fountain at the south end of North Quad; a popular location for many unofficial freshman orientation activities. 


SYR: Officially called a "theme dance," "Screw Your Roommate" got its name from the legendary tradition of setting up one's roommate with a date from the 
' Dogbook. 
:Touchdown Jesus: Officially known · as the Word of Life Mural, a famous mosaic on the south wall of the Hesburgh Library. 
; / 


Turtle Creek ("TC"): Apartment. complex formerly popular among ND students; located very close to campus, it washithardbyalocalnoiseordinance, but still remains home to "Rally in the Alley," a large party at the beginning and end of 
the school year. 
~S~D: Student-run fine arts radio 
~tation specializing in classical music. 
I • • 
i. 

L. ·--~--····----·· --·-•-•-····--····--·. ---····••-•·-· -•--·-·-·· 
WVFI: Student-run progressive radio i station located in LaFun. 0 · -z 
0 
~ 
0 J: 0 
en 
. 
9 ••••••••· 



to those people that you, as a Notre Dame student, should know. 
JENKINS: In April 2004, the Rev.  
John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., was elected the  
17th president of Notre Dame by the  
board of trustees. He is the university's  
third president since 1952.  ·  
Jenkins, 53, is a 1976 graduate ofNotre  
Dame. He received  a master's degree  
from the university in 1978, and he also  
holds two degrees in philosophy from  
Oxford University.  
Jenkins  was  ordained  a Holy Cross  
priest in  1983.  He joined the Notre  
Dame faculty in 1990 as a professor in the  
Department of Philosophy. From 1997  
to 2000, Jenkins served as the religious  
superior for the Holy Cross priests and  
brothers at Notre Dame. In 2000, he  
was named vice president and associate  
u,  provost of the university. During the  
~  2003-2004 school year, Jenkins was on  
~ i== ~  sabbatical, serving as a visiting professor at the University of Chicago.  
o I &"l  Jenkins made himself the subject of much controversy two years ago when he initiated  

~~campus-widediscussionon the relationship centered around whether or not to allow the continued presence of "The Vagina Monologues" and the Gay and Lesbian Film Event on campus . Jenkins ultimately decided not to restrict the performances of these two events but to include discussion panels as a way to encourage dialogue about the issues. 
WEIS: In December 2004, Charlie 
Weis was hired as the head football 
coach of the Fighting Irish, following 
the firing of Tyrone Willingham, who 
had served for three years as head coach. 
Although Weis was not the university's first choice, he certainly fit the job description. Even before coaching his first game in blue and gold, he already had something in common with Irish legends Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy -a Notre Dame diploma. In addition to 
his Class of 1978 ring, he has four Super 
Bowl rings highlighting his 27-year 
coaching career. 
Weis has studied the game from 
every perspective and at every level. He 
began his career as a high school coach 
in New Jersey before moving to the NFL. Along the way, Weis worked as a defensive assistant, offensive coordinator and special teams coach. 
During his second year at head coach, Weis led the Notre Dame football team to an impressive 10-3 record and a place in the Sugar Bowl. He expects continued success in the 2007 season. 
POORMAN: The Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., is beginning his ninth year as vice president of student affairs, a position in which he oversees several programs, including Campus Ministry, Student Activities, multicultural and international student affairs, Notre Dame Security/Police and the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ResLife). When he accepted the position in April of 1999, he said that his new responsibilities gave him a chance to "serve [the} students," a task which he admits is "at once daup.ting and exciting.", 
Prior to serving as vice president, Poorman was an associate director of Campus Ministry, rector of Dillon Hall and a priest-in-residence in Grace Hall before that building was converted into 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 
offices. Poorman received his bachelor's degree from the University ofIllinois and a Master of Divinity from Notre Dame. He later earned a doctorate in Christi9Jl ethics from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Calif. 
WHITE: Entering his eighth year as athletic director, Kevin White looks to consistently enhance athletics at Notre Dame. His tenure already has been marked by national championships in fencing, women's basketball and women's soccer. White also has overseen 
five top-15 finishes for Notre Dame in the NACDA Director's Cup, a measure of an athletic program's overall success. In NACDA's final winter standings for 2006-2007, Notre Dame finished 14th. 
·White worked as Arizona State University's athletic director for four years before coming to Notre Dame. He has served on several NCAA committees, on the executive committee of the Division I-A Athletic Directors Association and as chairman on the Pacific--10 Conference's television and bowl committees. In 1997, White received the Alumni Achievement Award at Saint Joseph's College, where he studied as an undergraduate. He then earned a master's degree at Central Michigan University and a doctorate at Southern Illinois University. He also has done postgraduate work at Harvard University's Institute for EducationalManagement. · 
MALLOY: The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., (ND '63, '67, '69) served his final term as the 16th president of Notre Dame in 2004, a position that he had held since 1986. He also has served as a professor of theology since 1974. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 

Malloy was remarkably accessible for a university president, as he conducts a freshman seminar each semester and resides in an undergraduate residence hall. Several years ago, before a knee injury, Malloy even played an occasional game of basketball with students. He received undergraduate and graduate degrees in English from Notre Dame, a second master's in theology while studying for the priesthood, and a doctorate in Christian ethics from Vanderbilt University. He also has received countless awards, including 22 
honorary degrees. Malloy has served as co-chair ofthe subcommittee on college drinking of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (a component of the National Institutes of Health) and chair of the National Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse. 
HESBURGH: The Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., (ND '39) served as. Notre Dame's 15th president from 1952 to 1987, the longest tenure of any active American university president. As president emeritus to the university (the position that he currently holds), Hesburgh has played a pivotal role in developing several of Notre Dame's academic institutes. 
Perhaps Hes burgh's most distinguished contributions are those he has made to national and international public service. He has held 16 U.S. presidential appointmentsinvolvingmany major social issues, including civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, campus unrest, treatµient of Vietnam offenders, Third World development and immigration 
1':'4'i
Scho/asticNews',u_i ·············..
·,,,!J 

reform. Among the recognitions that he 
has received are the Congressional Gold 
Medal and the Medal of Freedom. 
"Father Ted" finds time to connect with students, often guest-lecturing in the classroom and presiding over Mass in residence halls. His presence on campus is ubiquitous; the library, center for international studies and the public service program all bea~ his name. 
BREY: Brey joined the Irish as head basketball coach in July 2000 after leaving the University of Delaware. He 
made his excitement about coaching at Notre Dame clear in his first press conference: "I've only been to South Bend twice before · today, road games when I was at Duke University," he said. "[I] left on the bus [ ... ] and drove off this campus many times, [thinking,] 'I wonder if I could ever be good enough to [coach] at a place like this.' All I can 
say is, wow, we're here." 
And Brey has left his mark. In 2001, he led the Irish to their first NCAA tournament appearance since 1990. He since has led the team to three more tournament appearances, including a trip to the Sweet 16 in 2003. Earlier that season, Brey's Irish defeated three top-10 opponents, the first such occurrence in Notre Dame history. He also coached three consecutive 20-wiri teams for the 
·first time in Notre Dame history. , 
Brey's career-winning percentage in 12 years as an NCAA head coach is .640. Before coaching at Delaware and Notre Dame, Brey serv;ed as an assistant atDuke under coach Mike Krzyzewski and as head coach at prep powerhouse DeMatha High School in Maryland. 
11 ......... 


__ •l:.l:;l 


.-~.;.~\\~:%1;t,r:!f~:/~·:e:;~==~'.;.:;.-­
'':'"':°''~:~,(:.":: ~ '''"' 
r-. 
\


I,-.-­
1 
! 
o Regina Gesicki 
. . . 

. dry one load, respec~ively). Make sureto.• 
.. t's tim .. e to begin tha.t da.u.ritin.g t.a.sk hardware store, such as ·Home Depot, .I.. ofpacking. "Where do I start?" you when youarrive. . .. ·. . bring rolls of quarters, alaundry basket ask. Never fear. Whether you're a .Ifyou do not have a handyman moving or bag to haul your duds toithe laundry list-maker or a bag-stuffer, ScholastiChas youin,storeemployeesoftenwiHassemble room, detergent, stain remover and a the low..:down on dorm roomnecessities. . a loft for a fee. Or; if you're feeling drying rack forcl9thing you'drnthernot . Whell you arrive on campus, don't be adventurous, you can even try buildfog . shrink. Also, if yoii. do not want to Jug · discouraged·by the-looks ofyour room; -• your·own'from scratch:But remember to those quarters around, you should think While they come with the standard desk, bring a toolbox. about purchasing Domer Dollars, which bed and closet, empty dorm quarters To make for a homier crib, you might are credited to your student card. As an tend to resemble prison cells. Be sure want to bring a couch or futon. Ifspace, added incentive, each load oflaundry is 25 to bring plenty of posters, pictures and money or transportation is a problem, cents cheaper using the "dollars." even Christmas lights to spruce up the canvas butterfly chairs or bean bag chairs One of the most important decisions walls. Some students buy rope lights are the way to go. You also may want will be whether or not to bring a computer or shamrock-shaped lights for school carpet or rugs to cover the hard floor, and, if so, whether to use a desktop or spirit. which can get very cold to walk on in the a laptop. If you choose to leave your Most rooms have only a single overhead winter. A carpet sale takes place on campus .computer at home, you can use one in light fixture and fluorescent lights over at the Stepan Center during Freshman a computer cluster on campus, some of the sink, so floor lamps do wonders. You Orientation weekend, and usually you which are open 24 hours. However, some also will want a desk lamp and maybe can find the right fit for your room at students prefer to write papers and e-mails one small light to clip onto your bed for the campus sale. Room dimensions vary, from the comfort of their rooms, which late-night reading before you doze off and some can be found on the Office of makes a desktop computer an ideal choice. to sleep. Residence Life and Housing Web site. Many other students find it easier to bring Speaking of sleeping, the beds do not (Visit http://orlh.nd.edu.) a laptop computer to school. This allows come with linens, so make sure you bring Pack a shower caddy to tote your soap students more freedom when working on some bedding-sheets, blankets, pillows, and shampoo to and from the community papers or using the Internet, as they can comforters for the cold winters, etc. -bathrooms. A robe or large towel and relocate to their hearts' desire. whatever will make you feel comfortable. shower shoes (i.e., flip-flops) also are There are many ways to connect to the Body pillows are great for lying on the necessary. Internet in LaFortune Student Center floor and studying. As far as laundry goes, you can do it and Hesburgh Library if you bring a
w :) 0:: Some dorms have beds that can be yourself or use St. Michael's Laundry laptop. These campus buildings and all ~ bunked, while others have modular Service. St. Michael's is an on-campus the dorins recently have been outfitted furniture, which means you can bunk your laundry service that will pick up your dirty with wireless Internet connections. You ti; bed on top of your desk and wardrobe. clothes, wash them and return them for a may want to bring a wireless Internet card -~ If your dorm does not have modular fee. Ifyou decide to do your own laundry, to make connecting convenient. For non­~ furniture and you would like to loft your most dorms have coin-operated washers wireless computers, there are standard and dryers ($1.50 and $1.00 to wash and ethernet jacks available around campus,
~ed:.:~~.~n pmchsse, loft kit at, ]~cal 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 

! 
Scho/asticCulture ria\.
~J ·············· 
too. Additionally, ifyou don't want to lug a printer to campus, both color and black and white printers are available in the computer clusters. Every student is gi'1en $100 in their print quota at the start of the school year; black-and-white printing costs 10 cents per page, while color pages deduct one dollar. 
As far as entertainment goes, bring whatever tickles your fancy. Many students bring televisions for those much-needed study breaks. The dorms are equipped with cable, but if you and your roommate are movie addicts, you may want to bring a VCR or DVD player. A CD player or iPod will provide some musical variety. Get in touch with your roommate to divvy up the more expensive items you'll share. 
Aside from West and Mod Quad dorms, most are without air conditioning. A fan may come in handy for those hot nights at the. beginning and end of the school year. 
One thing to remember is that microwaves are not allowed in the dorm rooms. Most floors in the dorms have a microwave in the common room for making popcorn or Easy Mac late at night. It might be a good idea to bring a hot pot that will boil water so you can make Ramen noodles, the quintessential college food. . 
Rooms no longer come equipped with land line phones. For an extra fee, however, you can get one for your room. 
A cellular phone has many advantages, often including free long distance service and increased mobility. Cell phones are one of the easiest ways to keep in touch with family, old friends from home and new friends around campus. 
As far as wardrobe goes, there are a few must-haves. Don't forget warm clothing for the infamously cold South Bend winter. You'll need a warm coat, gloves or mittens and a hat if you don't want to freeze. Bring a raincoat, umbrella or poncho for rainy walks to class and football games. Remember to bring outfits and shirts in your dorm's color to. show your spirit at pep rallies. Since most of the closets are small, you may want to buy some plastic shelving containers that are cheap and practical or under-the-bed plastic containers. 
A swimsuit is a must for the mandatory swim test that all freshmen take at the beginning of the year. Each dorm will have a couple of dances -both formal and semi-formal -each semester. Pack a fun dress or two or a jacket or suit and tie for such occasions. 
Don't forget a camera to capture all the fun memories you are about to experience with the football games, pep rallies and dorm events. 
If your suitcases are stuffed, or if you forget something, do not worry. Although South Bend may not be a buzzing metropolis, it does have plenty ofretail stores. Tpe University Park Mall is complete with a Macy's, Banana Republic, Gap, Express and many other stores. And if you absolutely must have your favorite teddy bear or your bottle cap collection, Mom and Dad are just a phone call and a care package away. 0 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 



Scho/asticCulture r@;-·············· 


erfecl·. 



"Nick Kolman-Mand.le 
Welcome to your new dorm room. Behind your door you wiU find a bed, a desk and a roommate. Have a good year! It may be true that some universities house gigantic supercomputers that match each incoming freshman with a roommate of compatible sleeping and study habits, as well as ofsimiliar musical and neatness preferences. Alas, at Notre Dame there is no such system. Roommate pairings are randomly selected, and you will not receive any sort of personality questionnaire that will be fed into a supercomputer to match you to your dream roommate. But fear not. The indiscriminate process of the Office of Residence Life and Housing is not without its merits. For many of you, college will be your first experience living in the same room with another human being. Even for those who currently share rooms with siblings, your dorm situation will be much different. It is no longer feasible, for example, to resolve every disagreement with a punch in the arm or relentless teasing. vVJ:ule the resident assistant (RA) one door down is there to help you with your problems, you'll find that banging on the wall and constant finger-pointingwillget you nowhere. Rarely, however, will a situation arise whic;h needs more than a little heart-to-heart talk. Rooming with a complete stranger is a unique opportunity. Despite Notre Dame's unsystematic approach, you'll find that you are more adaptable to dealing with a shared room than you may think. What's more, the amount ofinfluence you currently have on the matter is, well, none. Fretting about your future roomie is a waste of your precious summer time, so don't lose sleep over it. The spectrum of roommate relations can be divided into three simple categories. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 

Note: Remember that your roommate-to­be is probably reading this same thing right now. You both have the opportunity to make your living situation as comfortable as possible. 

Kindred Spirits 

You may move in on your first day, meet your roommate and pledge your eternal friendship to him or her within an hour. Or the engagement may take a couple weeks. In either case, count yourself among the few lucky if you find a best friend in your roommate. You'll both love Kanye West and hate country. You'll own the same color of shower sandals, and you'll have more fun playing in the box your Gateway was shipped in than actually using the computer. Within a month, you'll know each other inside and out. 
While rare, this situation is certainly possible. Always having your best friend around you adds to your comfort level, and you'll likely meet people together and share a good number offriends. Beware, though. Don't box yourself in during Freshman Orientation weekend. Use it as a chance to meet as many fellow students as possible. Remember to be your own person and, for goodness' sake, don't pass up a chance to playvolleyball with your brother-sister dorm because you and your roommate are busy battling it out on the Xbox .. 

I'm OK, You're OK 

This may be the most common situation for roommates. There is absolutely nothing wrong with not asking your first-year roommate to be best man or maid ofhonor at your wedding. In this instance, your roommateis nice, considerate, relatively neat and gives you your space. Whatever his or her personality may be, it's not difficult to live with this person. In this scenario, you'll 
both make friends of your own but have pizza and watch a movie together every once in a while. At the very least, you'll have a comrade to join you as you head to the dining hall those first few nights or to throw a Frisbee on the quad with after class. 
You'll get to meet all ofyour roommate's friends, and you can introduce him orher to yours. Failing to achieve communal nirvana in your own room will send you down the hall, to another floor or to another dorm for your best friends. The more effort you make, the more people you'll meet, and the more likely you are to make those lifelong friends. 

It Wasn't Meant to Be 

Sadly, some roommates just don't get along. You may verbally argue on several 
· room-related points, or your roommate could be so inconsiderate thatyou actually look forward to parietals. Whatever the case may be, don't hesitate to ask your RA for advice. The worst rooming situations can warrant room changes, but this scenario is rare. 
On the bright side, you will have an especially strong impetus for making friends outside the room and a good reason to get involved in extracurricular activities. Don'tlet the person you share a room with taint your overall college experience. 
Chances are, despite your assigned roommate, your first year at Notre Dame · will be among the greatest ofyour life. Take heartin the fact thatyour future roommate 
w has the same reservations you might have :::, C: about living with someone you've never :::, 
!::i 

met. To ensure a good year, be yourself, be u 0 considerate and, perhaps most important of ~ 
::i

all, keep your mess confined to your side of 0 the room. 0 Cf) u I 

•
Peter Hadley 

•Jessica 
Farmwald 


Everyone knows Notre Dame has a long history of tradition, but few besides alumni and students are familiar with the traditions ofits residence halls. Read on for a brief . introduction to some ofthese time-honored events -from the charitable to the bizarre. 

"THE BANNER" The Vermin of Carroll Hall may live all the way across the lake, but that doesn't stop them -from showing off their spirit in a big way -and by "big," we mean 30 feet by 90 feet. 


west 


WelshFamily:Welsh Fam is home to the Whirlwinds and is traditionally a sports powerhouse on campus. The easternmost residence hall on West Quad organizes one ofthe more unique events on campus: the Welsh Family Feud, a game-show style competition that pits dorms against each other, part of a spirit week full of events centered around dorm pride. West Quad boasts the newest dorms on campus, the only residence halls on campus other than Mod Quad to have air-conditioning. 
Keough: The Kangaroos put on the annual Keough Chariot Race. Each dorm builds its own chariot to win fame, Ben-Hur style. For their White 
Wedding Dance -with themes such as "Pirates" and "Mafia" -the men of Keough nominate one 'Roo from each section to compete for the title of Captain Keough. Keough, partnered with Welsh Fam, is known for dominating Late Night Olympics, a night of competitions for charity among the halls. 
McGlinn: The Shamrocks of McGlinn are best known for hosting Casino Night, an evening of gambling and games. Each Shamrock invites up to five friends, all of whom can buy raffle tickets and place bets with fake money. All proceeds benefit the Catholic Worker House. 
O'Neill: Built as the first male residence hall on West Quad in 1996, O'Neill has been home to some ofthe most active and rowdy men on campus ever since. Known as "The Angry Mob," the men of O'Neill show their dorm pride when they march loudly toward pep rallies and in signature events, like the Miss ND Pageant. O'Neill co-sponsors an event with Lyons called "Recess" where a number of playground games and snacks such as Ring-Pops and candy necklaces bring students back to their middle-school years. 
Duncan: In the hopes of relieving resident overcrowding, Duncan Hall, currently under construction, wi_ll be a men's dorm opening in the fall of 2008. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 



Sorin College: The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., former university president, lives in this men's dorm, the oldest residence hall on campus. It became a "college" in the 1960s when the Otters seceded from the university to protest Notre Dame's stance on the Vietnam War. Sorin hosts an off-color talent show during one home football weekend each year. Rubbing the right foot on the statue ofFather Sorin at the main entrance brings good luck. Past residents of Sorin College include Knute Rockne, George Gipp and Moose Krause. 
resident anonymously invites a date 
on campus, Zahm transforms its incoming freshmen into loyal, mischievous Zahmbies. Before the first pep rally each year, the men of Zahm perform the Torquemada 
Cavanaugh: The women of Cavanaugh have an annual weekend in the spring duringwhich dads become dates for a dance at the College Football Hall of Fame or moms come in for a brunch. Which parent comes alternates each year. Co-hosts ofthe Winter Carnival, the Cavanaugh Chaos work with Zahm to bring a petting zoo and other kid stuff to campus. Each winter, they also put on a spirit week leading up to their SnowBall, a formal danceheldinLaFortune Student Center. Thepast spring, the Chaos hosted their first annual Dance-a-thon as a fundraiser for Hannah and Friends, a foundation that works with children with autism.Thefoundation was started by Head Football Coach Charlie Weis. 
Zahm: The most infamous dorm 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 
Walsh: Not to be confused with Welsh Fam, Walsh Hall was named for Notre Dame's sixth president, who is credited with instituting the university's first 
intercollegiate football team. The Wild Women host the Walsh Wild Week in the fall, a series of competitive and not-­so-competitive events. It culminates in the Mr. ND Pageant and the Walsh Hall Fall Frolic. The Wild Women dress up as Britney Spears-esque Catholic schoolgirls for the Frolic dance. Walsh also hosts Football 101, a popular question and answer session with players from the football· team. 
Lewis: Lewis is the largest women's dorm on campus, and its residents, the Chicks, participate in the SK Chicken Run to kick off their spirit week. Each 
(a ceremony 
mysteriously kept under wraps). In true fraternity spirit, most members of the dorm insist on calling their home "Zahm House" instead ofZahm Hall. 
Keenan: Connected to Stanford Hall by the Chapel of the Holy Cross, the Keenan Knights distinguish themselves with their signature event, the wildly succe·ssful Keenan Revue. The revue is a three-night show that the Knights put on every February. A sellout crowd attends this collection oforiginal student comedy. Keenan is also host to a hugely successful mud volleyball tournament in the spring. 
Stanford: The men of Stanford live directly across the quad from North 
Scho/asticCulture@··············· 

to the Chicks' signature dance, the Lewis Crush, which ends the week of activities. The names of the Chicks' chosen dates are announced in an ad in the Observer, the university newspaper. The building served as housing for nuns until 1975 and is famous for their patio and accompanying covered walkway. 
St. Edward's: St. Ed's is the oldest building now used as a dorm, although it didn't become a residence hall until 1929. It is the only residence hall listed in the National Register ofHistoric Places. The Gentlemen of St. Edward's Hall, or the Stedsmen, began a tradition of wearing kilts to football pep rallies. They have since been given exclusive rights to shirtless kilt-wearing by university administration. St. Ed's holds an annual event called Founders Week which includes a 2-on-2 basketball tournament and a charity shootout. All proceeds from Founders Week go to a charitable cause. St. Ed's has an end-of-the-year dance on a yacht in Chicago. It is also home to a weekly Spanish Mass. 
Dining Hall. The Griffins once were known as the Studs, but changed their mascot in tribute to former rector, the Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. They also put on an Iron Grill contest where contestants from each dorm compete to grill the best steak. Every fall they host the Benefit Bash, a late-night event, with proceeds supporting an orphanage in Chile. 
Farley: Farley Hall, located next to North Dining Hall, has been a women's dorm since Notre Dame went co-ed in 1972. Pop Farley week is perhaps the best-known event of the Finest. This celebration, which culminates with a dance, features a different fun activity for the Finest and their dates each day of the week. 
Breen-Phillips: The Babes ofBP raise money each year for diabetic patients with their Meal Auction. Students and faculty members bid to eat with campus celebrities w who have volunteered for the event, § including former university president ~­Father Hesburgh and former Notre Dame 8 running back and Washington Redskin tii
:'5

Reggie Brooks. Inthe late winter or early o spring, Breen-Phillips provides relief &lI 
from the cold with its Beach W:ek...... ~ 
~ 


Knott: At pep rallies, the Jug­gerknotts can be easily spotted in their orange and blue attire. Each spring, they hold Knott on the Knoll, ap. af­

:::::'.':::==:s::::::;:;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;~~';;J/1,~~~~~~ terno on of free 
Siegfried: The Ramblers of Sieg­fried compete annually against Knott in the Flanner Cup, a week's worth of events including tug-a-war matches, arm wrestling and relay races. The week culminates with a dance co-sponsored by the two men's dorms. Siegfried also sponsors the annual Rambler Scrambler, a putt-putt tournament where sections in the dorm construct each hole of the food and entertainment from campus bands. Knott also hosts the Justin Brumbaugh Basketball Tournament in honor of a former resident who died in his senior year. 
Pasquerilla West: Nicknamed PW or P-Dub, this dorm is home to the Purple Weasels. In 1981, Pasquerilla West was the first dorm built specifically for women at the University ofNotre Dame. 
and ends in a dance where one girl from the winning section is crowned Queen. 
Pasquerilla East: PE is the home ofthe Pyros and the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (a.k.a. PEMCo), which stages a complete musical every February. The troupe's history includes productions of "Godspell," "Guys and Dolls," "Damn Yankees" and "Footloose." This past year's play was "Ragtime." In conjunction with with Shades ofEbony and Wabruda, PEMCo hosted its first-ever panel discus­sion about the cultural importance ofthe controversial musical. PE also is proud of its annual intradorm event, the PyrOlym­pics. The sections compete against each other in relay races and costume contests, among other events. PE is unique because its first through fourth floors are num­bered five through eight, to differentiate 


course. In the spring, Queen Week, an intradorm it from Pasquerilla West. event, fosters intersection competitions


south 

campus-wide boat of the Year award and were the interhall 
QUAD 

race on St. Mary's champions in football, basketball, volley­Lake. In the fall the ball and baseball. 
Alumni: Conveniently located at the intersection of God Quad and South Quad and known to its residents as "The Center ofthe Universe," Alumni is home to the Dawgs. Each spring, the Dawgs host The Calling, an event steeped intra­dition and shrouded in mystery. Alumni's biggest rival is its neighbor, Dillon. The rivalry is re-ignited with Rivals Week, during which Alumni and Dillon compete in different sports competitions. 
Dillon: The largest dorm on campus, housing over 350 students, Dillon was voted Hall of the Century. Its signature event is the Dillon Pep Rally which is hosted before the first home football game. The Pep Rally satirizes life at ND and includes keynote speakers and ND cheerleaders. The Big Red also hold the 'Stache Bash' in the spring. The DHlon­ites all grow mustaches to raise money for charity in anticipation of a dance. 
Fisher: You'll know Fisher by the gi­gantic green 'F' on the building. Every spring, Fisher hosts the Fisher Regatta, a 
......... 18 
Green Wave holds 
a 50-hour roof-sit, 
during which stu­
dents from around 
campus take turns 
sitting on Fisher's 
roof for charity. Plus, Joe Montana lived there. 
Pangborn: Pangborn sits on the far west end of South Quad. It hosts Phoxy Facts (a trivia contest) and a 3-on-3 vol­leyball tournament in the spring. It also is the site for A Life Uncommon, a group that meets regularly to help students deal with eating disorders. Pangborn hosts the Phox Phire, a bonfire where the effigies ofthe mascots ofopposing football teams are ceremoniously burned. 
Lyons: Easily recognized by its famous arch overlooking St. Mary's Lake, this women's dorm sponsors the Mara Fox Fun Run every fall in honor ofa freshman resident killed by a drunk driver in 1993. Money raised from the event goes to a student scholarship fund. Lyons also hosts a beach-themed dance each fall. 
Morrissey Manor: The building isn't just its residents' home, it's also their mas­cot, the Manor. Morrissey is the second largest men's dorm on campus, located directly across South Quad from Fisher. The Manorites won the 2006-2007 Hall 
Howard: The ladies of Howard put on a marshmallow roast to celebrate the first snowfall ofthe school year (arguably the only time that the arrival of snow is welcomed). Room decorations are a big deal for the Ducks, as they compete against each other in an annual Parade of Rooms. Every fall they host the Howard Hoedown, a semiformal dance to kick off the school year. 
Badin: The home of the Bullfrogs is the second-oldest dorm at Notre Dame. In the spring, the women of Badin host a campus-wide karaoke and dance competi­tion, the Badin Spring Breakdown. Their scores from the first round qualify them for a chance to spin the karaoke "Wheel of Death" to compete for gift certificates at local restaurants. 
Carroll: Overlooking St. Mary's Lake from the west edge of campus, Carroll Hall offers a beautiful view. The Vermin enjoy a close-knit environment as Carroll has the fewest residents of any dorm. "A Car­roll Christmas," features a tree-lighting ceremony and performances by university choirs. The hall's "GO IRISH" banner is made ;with 80 bed sheets and 10,000 staples. Ifyou've been assigned to Carroll, a bike is a must, unless you want to be late to class every day; this dorm is located farthest from the rest of campus. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 

PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE T DAY 
to the only stude.cit-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

the latest campus news and sports 
in-depth coverage of campus issues 
reviews of campus entertainment 
off-the-wall humor 

Serving the N=~~I~~:~ ~~:~~n~t: SCH O LAST IC understand campus events even when you're not on campus 
13 ISSUES . 35 DOLLARS 
SEND THIS FORM AND Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. $35.00 PAYMENT TO: 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. OR 
NAME:----------------­
ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS:I/MARKETPLACE.ND.EDU/ ADDRESS:----------------STUDENTSHOP/ 
, ~-~--­
-

' 
~~~--~-­


.. 
,t1k
.. ·-
DUKUilHR) 
~~­~,)~~ 
['I;, 

.-,~r-.; ~ . 




ScholasticCulture(@· ············ 

CH 
It's about that time, kids. Put away that cheesy high school 
yearbook, throw aside your graduation cap and get ready for the best 
four years of your life. Some call it a mind-opening experience, some 
call it a break from reality and some call it the only time in life when lewd debauchery is not only accepted but also encouraged. 
This here is the Gipper, the anonymous spy/writer who keeps this campus up-to-beat on its most absurd, disgusting, immoral and hilarious events. In every issue of Scholastic, Gipp gets to describe the best "tips" received since the last publication. This is where you come in. As readers, you will provide the bullets that allow Gipp to make his fortnightly character assassinations. The Gipper needs you to be his eyes and ears. So screw loyalty to your roommate, friends and lovers. If it's funny, juicy or obscene, Gipp needs to know about it. You report, Gipp derides. 
You may be asking what a typical Gipp tip is. Well, there's no exact definition, but try this for a rule of thumb: If one of your friends does something so asinine that you know any true friend would keep it quiet, it will make a good tip. Let's give some examples. Your roommate skips class to drink half a case of Natty Lite -don't tip Gipp. Your roommate skips class to participate in some extracurricular activity in the bushes behind Main Building -by all means, tipp Gipp. · 
And remember, Gipp loves to print photos. One loyal tipster submitted the picture shown at the right. Did we print it in the very next issue? You betcha. 
The Gipper would love to give some examples of past classic tips, but unfortunately we can't go into too much detail in this issue. After all, Mom probably will peruse through it after you're finished. But come this fall, you all will become familiar with Gipp's unique M.O. 
Anyway, enough self-promotion; the Gipper feels a duty to let you know the things they don't tell you in the welcome packet. . 
You've probably heard a few times that Notre Dame is all about Jesus. Actually, many students say that Notre Dame is all about football, beer and strained gender relations, but Gipp supposes that, to some extent, it still is about ol' JC. After all, his mosaic is the officially recognized signaler of touchdowns, and that's kind of important. Plus, you can't spit in the air on this campus without hitting a chapel. But for the sake of brevity, Gipp will try to give you a run-through of the heathen, secular aspects of our campus life. 
Let's start with the beer. Traditionally, the ND bigwigs had a beautifully-crafted "if we don't see it, it's not happening'' .,?· policy that let all of us lushes toss 'em back like candy as long as the dorm room doors were shut. But over time, that glory faded away. Now, it's technically illegal to consume hard liquor on campus, so be careful. (But what isn't 
' technically illegal?) 

Now, on to dorm life. While ND doesn't have Greek life, it does have a pretty solid system of on-campus housing. Compared to our peers, we have an amazingly high percentage of students living on campus, and almost everyone stays in the dorm they were assigned to freshman year. There is one gigantic catch to our dorms, though. Boys and 
girls, the Gipper hath seen illogical repression, and thy name is Parietals. Your dictionary (a.k.a. duLac, the official campus rule book) can give you an exact definition, but just know this: If you came to college hoping to get closer to a special someone after 1 2 a.m. on weekdays or 2 a.m. on weekends, you might be in for a rude awakening. Some people will tell you that parietals are a good thing, because they signal the end of the night and let everyone get to rest. Right ... because college students aren't old enough to decide when the night is over for themselves. 
Like a lot of things in college, the problems you'll have with the aforementioned issues will depend largely on your resident assistant (RA). RAs are the seniors who, either because they didn't have enough friends to live off-campus or wanted to save Daddy a few bucks, will live amongst you in the dorms to make sure you're at least attempting to follow the rules. The degree to which RAs actually give a crap varies greatly, but in general ladies get the shaft when it comes to power-tripping RAs, which, in. the case of some RAs, apparently means "Retentive, Anally." In any case, Gipp advises you to befriend your RA ASAP, because it can't hurt to have him/her as a friend if you ever appear in front of the Supreme Irish. Disciplinary Court known as ResLife. 
That should be all for now, young ones. The Gipper hopes you are as excited to start your time here as he is to ruthlessly embarrass 
w 

you on these pages. Please don't be nervous as you enter this bawdy new world of GippLand, because Gipp promises that you'll c:: adjust quickly. By mid-September you'll be hoppin' across South Quad on your way to LaFun to get some ODs, complaining about !:i ;j Reslife and debating whether to ask your crush from the Rock or that cutie from FYC out on a date •to NDH or SDH. Sound ;j u 
u 

fun? t;; Enjoy the rest of your summer, and do try to lose 15 pounds in August -just so things are back to even by fall break. And if :5 
0 
I

you remember one thing when you step onto this campus, it's this: Tip Gipp! See ya soon. 
u 
U) 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 


·.............;f;ii,,\scho/asticCulture 
~ 

oMichael O'Connor 


YOUR GUIDE TO 

I 



AT NOTRE DAME 
Whether you want to continue your involvement in student government or meet other Domers who share your love of horseback riding, Notre Dame has a club for everyone. Take a look at a few of your choices ... 


Scholastic choice: SIBC 
One of the largest student organizations at Notre Dame, the Student International Business Council (SIBC) is the only one of its kind in the nation. Open to all majors, the SIBC is dedicated to providing students with real-world professional experience and international development. Every summer, the SIBC sends dozens ofstudents around the world on international summer internships and teaching positions. 
ANTHROPOLOGY CLUB 
One of the many clubs within a major; it aims to establish connections between ents and faculty within the department. 

I ETHNIC 
[Scholastic choice: !ITAUAN AND GERMAN CLUBS 
/These two are just a fe:w of theniariy !ethnic/language clubs on caI11pus. 

iThe Italian Club's activities include· 
NDESIGN 
This club gives members the opportunity to explore the world of graphic design through speakers, field trips .and various internships. 
PRE-PROFESSIONAL CLUBS 
These include Pre-Law, Dental, Veterinary and Medicine; they bring guest speakers and admissions representatives from post­graduate schools to campus and provide resources to learn more about the fields of study. 
SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS 
This club fosters a sense of community among women in engineering through social activities, career aid, service and academic support. 
.Wabruda'sevents range from professional development. workshops to a "Brain Bowl"Jor local grade school students to · barbeques ori campus. . , 
LA ALIANZA 

[opportunities to practice speakingitalia:n, · · One cffthe larg'est ethnic clubs On campus, [cooking dasses, tripsto Chicago's Italian ..·.· itwas formed abo11t five years ago when 1neighborhood arid Italian operas 1n se~eralother groups merged,It educates !Chicago. The German Ch1b'stwOyearly and entertains students through programs !highlights are .Ok"domer"festand a trip that i11clude Hispanic Heritage Month 
w /t.. o..·Ghicago.'s f:·.,am··.•.e····.d.:·..·.Christkiridlmarkt. Celebrations and theLatino FonriaL 
D:: ::, I 

!:::i 

::, ,wABRUDA ·.· ·•·.· ·..·.•. ·.····..· ·. .· < .' ·., ASIAN AMERICAN 
u 

fThis is {relati~ely n~w club for African.--.... ASSOCIATION \American males ori campus. Parts).lpport . This duh.cerebrates Asian-American 
u 
~ 

0 !group and partJead~rship organization, • heritage fu.roughJellowship, servic:e.and 
I 

ENTREPRENEUR CLUB 
A group of individuals who plan to start or have already started their own businesses, the "E-Club" travels to national conferences, sponsors campus speakers, guarantees internships and job opportunities for club members, and prepares members to write business plans and compete in competitions. 
INVESTMENT CLUB 
It provides students of all majors with the opportunity to manage an investment portfolio of over $300,000 of real money. Weekly presentations, discussions and semester trips to the Chicago Board of Trade make this club vital for establishing connections. 
. . . I 

events tl1a.tshowcase the uniquevalues of various Asian cultures. j 
HAWAII CLUB . . i 
Works to share the culture ofHawaii! 
th···r()ug.h... ..·.u·· social an.cl e.d.ucati.onal.·•j!
v.a.ri.·o...... s. 

activities, · including a luau each spring. This dub is. open to all students. . . 1 
TExAS CLUB . . j An outlet for.ND Texans _tocelebrate and i learn aboutTexaspride and culture. The j club sponsors various social activities and I camrus rel,at~~ events, asw~Uas recently ·i· · helpmg fobrmg country artist and Texan, PatGreento cariipus for a concert; . j 

FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 


ScholasticCulture:~.············· 
I ATHLETIC 
Scholastic choice: BENGAL BOUTS 
The 77-year-old Bengal Bouts boxing tournament offers an opportunity for men with varying levels of experience to compete to raise money for Holy Cros.s missions in Bangladesh. If you are into boxing and happen to be female, check out the Women's Boxing Club, a recently formed group. 
WOMEN'S RUNNING CLUB. 
Named the 2 000-2001 athletic club ofthe year, they compete in road races in tl1e area, roughly 10peryear, and sponsor two big events: the Aloha Run and the Relay for Life, on-campus races that raisemoney fqr charity .. 
i 
SKI CLUB 
Members compete in both giant slalom and slalom events in Michigan, Wisconsin knd Canada. · 
CLIMBING CLUB 
~ponsors rock-climbing trips to places like the Red River Gorge in Kentucky and provides all the necessary gear and training for participants of all levels of experience. 
EQUESTRIAN TEAM 
The club takes weekly lessons at stables located about 15 minutes from campus. Riders ofall levels are welcome to join and donotneed to own a horse. Throughout the year, the team participates in competitions sponsored by the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association. 
SAILING CLUB 
Their practices ,:tre held on St. Joe Lake on campus and at another nearby lake in Michigan. Members race throughout the Midwest and the nation. 
POM_SQUAD 

· This group of 14 women from Notre Dame and St. Mary's is dedicated to enhancing the spirit of Notre Dame· through the performance of dance routines. The Porn Squad performs at pep rallies, basketball halftimes and 
j 

campus-wide and dorm functions such a~ the Notre Dame Activities Night and th~ Dillon Hall Pep Rally. . 
MEN'S WATER POLO ! 
This dub team is consistently one of th~ top performers in the Midwest. With the official season in the fall, team membed . travel to places such as_Florida for thei~ more relaxed spring season:Notre Dam~ also has a Women's Water Polo Team. j 
FIGURE SKATING CLUB , 
Founded in 1999 and recognized as thd 
. . .· .. . I

athletic club ofthe year for 2001-2002, th~ team skates against varsity and club teamsJ and they have competed for two nationa~ championships, achieving eighth place id 2000 and seventh in 2002. 
FIELD HOCKEY TEAM . i The team· was formed three years ag9 to offer both men and women of aHskill levels a chance to participate. The tea~ practices four days a week in the spring 
. I

and fall and competes against otherteam~ in the area. · l 
l 



I _SPECIAL.I_NTEREST 
Scholastic choice: UNIVERSITY BANDS 
They include the marching band, several concert bands, jazz bands, and brass and percussion ensembles. Tryouts for the bands are open to all students, undergraduate and graduate, who are enrolled at the University ofNotre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross. 
SWING CLUB 
Members meet weekly for two hours of "East Coast" swing lessons and dance time. The class is geared toward beginning dancers, but there are student instructors who work privately to challenge and teach intermediate and advanced dancers. 
COLLEGE DEMOCRATS & COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
These groups hope to raise political awareness and participation among university students. Members also frequently campaign for local candidates. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 
MARTIAL ARTS INSTITUTE This club teaches the unique techniques and applications of Vee Jitsu Ryu Jujitsu and Chung Do Kwan Tae Kwon Do. Students who begin as freshmen can reach the rank of black belt in both arts by the end of their junior year. 
FARLEY PLAYERS, ST. ED'S HALL PLAYERS AND PASQUERILLA EAST MUSICAL PLAYERS A few dorms sponsor groups that put on student theater and musical productions each year. 
HARMONIA 
This is a female acappella group with about 15 members from the ND community. 
GLEE CLUB Notre Dame's all-male choir has a strong fraternal atmosphere and focuses on vocal technique and style. The group performs on campus and travels in the U.S. and abroad. 


THE DOME YEARBOOK 
Always looking for writers and photographers to help with spreads, the most recent Dome was completely in color. The time commitment is very flexible, and although experience helps, it is not necessary. 
BAGPIPE BAND No prior experience is necessary, as new members are provided free bagpipes for four years and given lessons. The band performs on football weekend mornings in full dress (i.e. kilts), as well as at other university and dorm events, particularly around St. Patrick's Day. 
SUSTAINED DIALOGUE 
As an all-inclusive group that works to improve race relations and interaction at Notre Dame, it encourages increased communication:between different racial and ethnic groups through informal weekly small group meetings and special events. 

AFRICA FAITH AND JUSTICE 
The university's chapter of the U.S.,· organization seeks to integrate Catholic social teaching into U.S. policiesinAfrica. Each year, this club sponsors Africa Week, · aimed at raising awareness for justice issues in Africa. · 
FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM (FAST) 
This group serves as the firsdevel of the emergency medical system for events and athletics on campus. Team members hold Red Cross certifications in standard first aid and CPR for the professional rescuer. 
.TAKE TEN 
A program initiated by the Kroc Institute 
for Peace Studies, it is open to students 




Scholastic choice: THE BASILICA GROUPS 

The Basilica of the Sacred Heart has a number of ministries open to new members. Their choirs include the Folk 
. Choir, the Liturgical Choir, the Women's Liturgical Choir and the Hand bell Choir. The Basilica is always looking for new readers, Eucharistic ministers and altar servers. 
FOUR:7 

A Catholic faith group based on small group sharing and larger worship sessions, they offer retreats and speakers to add to the faith experience. 
BAPTIST COLLEGIATE MINISTRY 
An organization open to all Christian traditions, it focuses on fellowship, faith­sharing and Christian living. They hold weekly Bible study meetings, church visits, retreats, shared meals and other activities. 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS A Catholic men's organization focused on service to the community and loyalty to the Church, the Notre Dame chapter is dedicated to the principles of the nationwide order through many activities, including their Steak Sales, which raise $40,000 annually for charity. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY RETREATS 
Notre Dame offers many retreats, including the Freshman Retreat, which is geared toward the issues and experiences of early college life. There are opportunities to lead retreats as upperclassmen, as well as to attend the popular NDE (Notre Dame Encounter with Christ). 
IRON SHARPENS IRON 
This interdenominational, student-led Bible study group seeks to foster solid Christian relationships and to challenge and encourage students to grow in their faith through fellowship, praise and worship, Biblical teaching and prayer. 

LEADERSHIP/ 
· · · 
PROGRAMMING Scholastic choice: STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

Student government includes class · : councils that plan events for each class, 
: the Hall Presidents' Council, a Student · w (Senate with members elected from each ~ !dorm and the Executive Staff. Student . ~ t Government is the best way for student 
,voices to be heard and for student:.planned ~ [ events and ideas to become realities .. 
~ 
I. . .·. 
&i I 
SUB 
Student Union Board (SUB) plans campus-wide events like:movies and concerts. Each class has a council that also plans events. Many of the candidates each year for student council president are former SUB officers. Joining SUB is a great way to get involved in student government during freshman year. 
CAMPUS AFFAIRS COUNCIL This club has one representative from 
each dorm and also serves as a voice for students, 
JUDICIAL COUNCIL 
i Judicial Council provides peer advocate~ to students facing disciplinary hearing~ in the Office bf Residence Life and Housing. 
i
FLIPSIDE i 
This is· a stude.tit-:run o~ganization whos~ purpose is• to program weekend events that do not involve alcohol, such a~ bowling,ic.:e,-skatingand trips to Chicago; .Tlie events are open to all students an9 hope to provide alternatives to drinking 
. I 
on campus.. ~ 



FR:OM STRAUSS TO THE. ·. SHINS, .· ELILA FtTZGERALD TO ::DliE·. FLEDERMAUS E\lERY: ·ONE CAN f[ND SOMETHING· THEY ·tOVE WHEN WE ARE ON A[R. ARE YOU MAJOR­
. : . ' ,. -.. ':,.•· .· . 
fNG ~N M.:USIC? BROA.DCAST JOURN'Al;,. fS:lv\?··oi 'iusT· j-,iAVE-: ··Jo/:..:PA.SStO·N .f.QR 
GREAT M:USIC:? tHIN ·vou BELON:G·· AT 
WSN'D1 :. JT. [S NOTRE :!:?AME'S . . ONLY 
sTUDENTc'"RUN ·RA·orio ·:sTATION, · ij ROAD­CASTJ NG to TH@; GiREATER Mtc.H JANA AREAi (M~CHlANA -WHERE MJ(Hl-GAN 

.t6&L~N:Jtt~ttt?R£N\EMBERTHIS · 
. YOU PJCK(THE MUSIC .· ..•• ..·...·...·. .. YOU· RUN THE SHOW ·. . 



Do you see yourself on our staff? 


MAYBE YOU SHOULD. Whether you're interested in photography, writing, 
·design or business, we're interested in you. You need somethin'g to do outside class, and we need new talent to produce Notre Dame's biweekly newsmagazine. Coincidence? You decide. 
For information on joining our staff, send us an email at scholast@nd.edu or check out the Scholastic booth at Activities Night. 







SCHOLASTIC 
1
r,. 11 
Scho/asticCulture (!eli'· ············:: 
-,,;::f/ !i 
:: 


o 
Michael O'Connor 

o 
Regina Gesicki 


Sometime during the semester, 
the dining hall's spicy sea 
nuggets will send you running, 
or crawling, off campus to the nearest 
eating establishment. Or perhaps late­
night Reckers just isn't making your 
sweetie feel special enough. Better yet, 
maybe the parents are in town and want 
to fulfill their biological duty to feed 
you. Whatever the reason, getting off 
campus every now and then will keep 
your tastebuds in better shape. We 
propose visiting some of the following 
venues to satiate your deepest culinary 
hankerings. 
THE WHITEHOUSE DINER ("FAT SHIRLEY'S") 
Location: Corner of Mishawaka and Twyckenham Prices: Meals range from $2 to $5 
The atmosphere is smoky and the food is greasy, but man is it good. The Whitehouse Diner, nicknamed "Fat Shirley's" after a former waitress' girth, is the place to be after parietals have taken effect and Reeker's becomes a little too played out. The food is cheap, off of a classic diner menu, and breakfast is the house specialty, served all day and all night (the diner is open 24 hours). Note: Avoid anything labeled "stew." 

NUEVO TIJUANA 
Location: 1116 South Main Street Prices: Traditional Mexican food from $5, entrees start at $9 
An authentic Mexican Restaurant, Nuevo Tijuana serves up fresh and delicious Mexican originals and favorites from tacos and gorditas to sizzling fajitas. In addition to the food, the interior is quaint and vibrant, covered with historical Mexican figures which add to the atmosphere. Try it out if you are looking for a more traditional "south of the border" experience than dining hall quesadillas. 

THE VINE 
Location: 103 W. Colfax (Corner of Michigan and Colfax) Prices: Main courses range from $8 to $15 
Looking for a restaurant that is perfect for a date, dinner with the family or a casual evening with friends? The Vine, in downtown South Bend, has a great atmosphere and even better food. For your main course, try one of several delicious pasta dishes, with or without meat. The dessert menu changes every day, and the wine list is extensive. Best ofall, nothing at The Vine is very expensive. 

CJ'S PUB 
Location: 417 North Michigan Street Prices: Burger platters from $6.45 to $10.95 
C]'s Pub is famous for one thing: its burgers. They are enormous, delicious, prepared to order and can be topped with BBQ sauce, Canadian bacon, grilled onions and four types of cheese. Their projector screen and excessive ND paraphernalia add to the experience. It's crowded on football weekends, but it's a fantastic way to experience great food and the ND culture. 

MIKADO 
Location: 402 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Dinners range from $6 to $16 
Either sit at a conventional table or up at the teppanyaki counter where the chef will prepare your food right in front of you. This Japanese restaurant is popular with students and South Bend residents alike. Its relaxed atmosphere is fine for family dining or a date. If you like darker meat, we highly recommend the sukiyaki steak. If you like sushi, come here to get it fresh. The menu includes items like octopus and barbequed eel for more adverturous eaters. Relatively inexpensive, Mikado is fun for a quick break from campus dining fare. 


ROCCO'S RESTAURANT 
Location: 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. Prices: Pizza starts at $7 

Rocco's has been a Notre Dame staple for many years. All the decorations herald Notre Dame traditions and victories past and present. It is close to campus, so students can be found enjoying the excellent (and inexpensive) pizza on almost any night. Though most people do go for the pizza, the pre-meal antipasto is not to be missed. 

ELIA'S MEDITERRANEAN CUISINE 
Location: 111 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Appetizers range from $1.50 to $4 Entrees range from $6 to $10 
Mostnewcomers-and current students -are surprised at the diversity that South Bend can offer: diversity of food, that is. One Lebanese family operating an ethnic restaurant doesn't exactly mark a boom in the city's cultural demographic, but it does 
· make for interesting eating. Appetizers include hummus, baba ghannouge and grape-leaf rolls. Main courses are healthy and most frequently contain rice, chicken and beans. Desserts, like everything else, are homemade, and perfectly complement the coffee. Also, Elia's is cheap, making it a great eat for those on a low budget 

LULA'S CAFE 

Location: 1631 Edison Road Prices: Coffee from $2 to $5, food from $3 to $7 
Lula's Cafe is located just off campus, making it a popular study spot and hangout for students. The coffee is always 
I

fresh, and the specials change daily. Try 
w

one of Lula's seasonal offerings or go c:: 
::,

for one of the cafe's new twists on old 
!::i 

favorites, such as the Brie grilled cheese. ::, u Take some time to check out the eclectic u 
55 

decor as you enjoy your meal. 0 :5 
0 
I 
u 
CJ) 



STUDENT EMPLOYMENT 
with the Student Activities Office 
EVENT ASSISTANTS NEEDED For more information, visit sao.nd.edu 
1Alumni Hall 2BadinHall 3 Breen-PhilITps Hall 4earroll Hall 5Cavanaugh Hall 6DillonHall 7FarleyHall 8 Fisher Hall 9HowardHall 10 Keenan Hall 11 Keough Hall 12 Knott Hall 13 Lewis Hall 14 Lyons Hall 15 McGlinn Hall 16 Morrissey Hall 17 Old College 180'Nei11Hall 
· 19 Pangborn Hall 20 Pasquerilla East Hall 21 Pasquerilla West Hall 22 St Edward's Hall 
23 Siegfried Hall 24SorinHall 25 Stanford Hall 26WalshHall 
27 Welsh Family Hall 28ZahmHall 

,I; 

I 
I 


I --~-----, ~ 
, ------~~----­

--~ 

•···········0scholasticSports
"=-· 


The Magic of Notre Dame 
O Marques Camp
Magic. 
If I could describe the 

culture of Notre Dame in one word, ma.gic is perhaps the only word that seems appropriate. This magic, rather than the sleight of hand and deception we sometimes associate it with, is an experience of mystical, powerful and charming proportions. The magic is sensed all around, yet cannot be described. The magic is there, but cannot be seen. 
Aside from the undeniable spiritual influence of the magic of Notre Dame, it is the tradition of Irish athletics that gives the school its magic. This tradition is what experiencing Notre Dame means. More so than any other college institution in the country, Notre Dame was shaped by the great names of the past who built the foundations for a tradition. The Four Horsemen. Knute Roclme. George Gipp. Austin Carr. PalilHomung.JoeMontana. Rudy. These are some ofthe authors that 
·helped pen the magic. 
It is a curious fact that despite the school's prestigious academic and spiritual reputation, it is the athletic tradition that brings in rabid fans from different walks of life, different parts ofthe world, ofall ages 
-infact, ~any ofthese fans have np direct connection to the university. Yet they are drawn in by the magic, most notably the magic of the football team. Everybody, whether a fan or not, knows about Notre Dame because of the unparalleled tradition ofthe football program. Eleven national championships, seven Reisman trophy winners and 96 All-Americans are 

~ 
0 
D. 
II) 
u 
5i 
5 
0 
I 
u 
(/) 
only the beginning of the stmy. 
For many fans, the Notre Dame campus is the Mecca ofcollege.football. Strolling across the campus on a crisp autumn Saturday, making their way to the legendary Notre Dame Stadium, fans can't help but feel overwhelmed by the magic and tradition. Less like a stadium and more like a cathedral, Notre Dame Stadium evokes a transcendent quality; more than a 100-yard field and bleacher seats, millions upon millions of fans show up every home football game to pay homage to the tradition. It is an experience that simply cannot be duplicated anywhere. 
We often see sports as a novel way to ward off the pressures of everyday life. Attending the football game on Saturday keeps a student's mind off of the homework that is due for Monday; taking in an exciting basketball game will make one forget about all of the pressures oftests, friends, roommates and homesickness. But more than this, sports, . especially at the college level, share a more aggregating quality that not many other activities share: Theyserve to unite individual people into communities and communities into a whole. Sports bind us together in a web of common experience 
-they give us all a stake in something, leading us to come together as one body. Much like religion, sports unite people that in many ways had nothing else in common but a shared passion. This fact is what makes Notre Dame and its tradition of athletics unique. More so than any other school, Notre Dame is 
about unity. Not only does the unique athletic tradition build a community of people on campus; it builds a community of people from all over the world. Ask any passionate fan about what makes Notre Dame so special, and the likely answer that you'll get is the magic. For those people who are lucky enough to make the trip to campus,themagicissomething that is felt the instant you stand and admire the statue of Mary and the Golden Dome. At this instant you truly recognize that you are standing in a very special place, a place where some of the greatest athletes and coaches in Notre Dame history have also stood. A place where tradition was born and continues to evolve. A place where human experience goes beyond the material and into the spiritual. Notre Dame, above all else, is a p!ace where the spiritual experience takes precedence over all else. 

So feel truly blessed to be on such a magical campus. Every day, in every Irish athletic team, new authors are working on the story that Rockne, Rudy and others previously wrote. In a sense, to experience athletics today i~ to experience the works of these great individuals firsthand. Whether you are a fan of sports or not, Notre Dame willlikely touch you in such a way that the transcendent purpose ofsport will become apparent. By experiencing the magic and the tradition, you are becoming a part ofa strong, united community that is unlike any other. 
Welcome to Notre Dame, and I hope you enjoy the show. 
The views expressed in this col1t1nn are those of the author and not necessarily the views of 
Scholastic. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 




omen's occer 
0 Marques Camp

Big-time revenue sports such ;s football and men's and women's basketball draw such national attention, many people tend to overlook Notre Dame's real peren­
nial powerhouse: women's soccer. Having reached the NCAA Division I quarterfinals 10 out of the past 13 years, including national championships in 1995 and 2004, the Irish reached the national championship game again this past year and com­peted against perhaps the biggest powerhouse in women's soc­cer: North Carolina. The Irish, undefeated up until that point with a 25-0-1 record, fought valiantly against the Tar Heels but eventually succumbed 2-1. The Irish, ranked No. 1throughout most of the regular season, boasted the national scoring leader in sophomore forward Kerri Hanks (22 goals, 61 points). In ad­dition, their'defense was anchored by goalie Lauren Karas, who had 12 shutouts and ranked second nationally with a 0.32 goals against average, helping the Irish outscore their opponents 85­11 on the season. Only five seniors depart this year for the Irish, so look for the team to come back again in the fall as one of the mam contenders to capture the national champi­onship. 0 

'.r.,'

Scho/asticSports,~· · ············· 


In perhaps one ofthe most surprising sto­ries of the year, the men's hockey team, com­ing off of a 13-9-4 re­cord from the 2005-2006 season, started garner­ing national recognition when they rose to No. 1 in the national rank­ings. Goaltender David Brown, a finalist for the Roby Baker Award for the nation's top player, and Erik Condra, a center who scored 48 points throughout the season, led the team's dramatic turn­around. The biggest factor, though, may have been legendary coach Jeff Jackson, who came to the team in 2005, hoping to help the Irish recover from a 5-27-6 record suffered in 2004. Jackson received the Spencer Penrose Award for the year, given to the top hockey coach in Division 1. The turnaround, per­haps, came quicker than expected. As the Irish accumulated wins, more and more fans turned out to watch. Towards the end of the season, a ticket to one of their games became one of the toughest tickets in town. The Irish were seeded #1 in the NCAA tournament's Midwest regional, and, after fighting 

i

their way to a double overtime victory in the first round, fell to 
'' 

Michigan State, the eventual national champion, by a score of 2-1 in the second round. 0 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan State September 23, 2006 
The Irish football team had high expectations coming into the 2 006 season. After Charlie Weis led the team to a 9-3 record in 2005, fan's hopes for a return to glory in a national championship were for a touchdown with less than three minutes remammg, catapulting the Irish to a 40-37 victory. As fans back on ~ campus celebrated by running through a. 0 


en

Stonehenge, the Irish football team u 55
realized that the season was not over just 
::i 

yet. 0 0 
I 
u 
C/) 
35 .•••••...


FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 
high. But after a 4 7-21 blowout loss to archrival Michigan, the morale of the Irish was down as they headed into the next week's game at Michigan· State. What made matters worse was the recent inability of the Irish to defeat the Spartans, having lost 7 of their past 9 meetings. In fact, hopes for the season couldn't have possibly fallen further than tl1ey did at halftinle of 
tl1e MSU game, when the Irish trailed the Spartans 31-14. Still trailing 37"-21 entering tl1e · fourth quarter, the Irish were perhaps bracing themselves for national cries of"overrated." Hopes rose again as quarterback Brady Quinn and the Irish started to click. Little by little, the Irish chipped· off the Spartan's lead, and senior corner back Terrail Lambert capped off a miraculous rally with an interception return 

\ ~ --. ' ----­




Listening In. 
e. 

¦ Law Student 1: What's that? Law Student 2: Scholastic. Law Student 1: Whatis it? Law Student 2: It's campus news for literate people. 
11 ''Iwouldn't even eat that stuff drunk" -Huddle worker, in reference to quarter dogs 
11 

''No, I hooked up with his friend yesterday." -not-so-secretive female student 
11 Student 1: What's your favorite class this semester? Student 2: Probably parasitology. Student 1: Wow! That's so cool that you get to study 
all about Paris! 

11 "How do you spell 'masochist'?" · -student:filling out a Teacher-Course Evaluation 
CLOVER OBSESSION vVhat exactly is the thought process that goes into a decision like this? "Will one ofyou take this razor and shave an actual clover into my head?" "Oh sure. This seems like a well-thought out, completely sober choice. I will assist you with it." 
13jYearsAgo 
An Ideal Freshman 
On September 6, 187 6, Scholastic "ventured on giving a little counsel [...] to those who begin their college life this year." 
The freshmen will be ''placed in the midst ofcomrades hailing from all parts ofthe country [. .. } They have good and bad qualities, both of which may exercise some influence on his conduct in life." Each student should only "endeavor to cultivate the friendship of such as may be distinguished for their virtue and intelligence." Like the good and bad companions, there are good and bad inclinations: ''Ifhe would become an estimable and accomplished man, faithful to the duties of life, he must follow faithfully the promptings ofhis good inclinations and banish at once those ofthe bad." 
The administration strongly adheres to this severe philosophy. Now is the time to begin the banishing, so as to arr:ive on campus prepared to become "an estimable and accomplished man." 
-Doug Schlarman 



ART 


LE 


Office and Print Center 




;)J\nthonyJiar:e/ 

LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

•-----·······••rfiiMScholasticCulture 
~ 
ls there 




anything 
to do around here? 

a Ryan Greene 
o Nick Kol:rnan-Mandle 

Welcome to South Bend, the city that sleeps. A lot. If you're looking for a lively, 
exciting town to paint red, don't hold your breath. But while the surrounding area is hardly a wealth of entertaining possibilities, campus life can more than make up for any such shortcomings. Here's a handy guide of what to do on those otherwise dull weekends. 
SCREEN AND STAGE 

• Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) 
Openedinthe fall of2004, DPAC is one of Notre Dame's newest buildings in an ambitious campus-wide constructlon plan. The center features five different theatres, including the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre and an innovative 100-seat pipe­organ theater. The theaters have been designed so that concerts may be held simultaneously without noise interference from each other. Covering 150,000 square feet and at a cost of $64 million, DPAC is the home of Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television, and Theatre. The new theaters absorb some ofthe student performances traditionally held in Washington Hall in addition to
w ::,IX serving as a venue for outside acts. The 
!::i Browning Cinema is also the only THX­
certified movie theater in Indiana. 55 
8 
:'.5 


0 •NDCinema 

J: You can catch the best of Hollywood,
&l 

rA-11:,.; independent and international films at DPAC everyThursdaythrough Saturday night. Recent films have included "Climate," "A Hard Day's Night" and "Adventures of Robinhood." Formerly known as Cinema at the Snite, this project is sponsored by the Department ofFilm, Television, and Theatre. 

• SUB Movies 
The Student Union Board shows movies every Thursday through Saturday night for an entrance fee of $3. While it also shows older, second-run films, ittends to focus on larger Hollywood hits, like "The Departed," "Blood Diamond" and "The Pursuit ofHappyness." ­
• Student Film Festival 
In January, the films made by Notre Dame's film-production students are showcased for a week in the state-of­the-art Browning Cinema at the DPAC, courtesy of NDCinema. Consider this your chance to check out the films before_ theyhit the indie film-festival circuit. This must-see event promises controversy, art and even a few laughs. 
• Theater 
From classical tragedy to lowbrow comedy to foot-tapping musicals, Notre Dame's got it all. Washington Hall hosts many performances during the year, and-student plays also have been performed in DPAC. A special feature at Notre Dame are performances featuring the professional English troupe Actors 
from the London Stage in their unique renditions of Shakespeare's plays. Every year, the Pasquerilla East Music Company presents a popular musical to sell-out crowds. Recent hits have included "West Side Story" and "Ragtime." A variety of other shows are hosted through such -additional groups as ND Opera, The­Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company and 
St. Edward's Hall Players. 
LIVE MUSIC AND MEDIA 
• AcoustiCafe 
Every Thursday night at LaFortune Student Center, the Student Union Board hosts an open-mic night for student solo musicians and campus bands. "Whether you've got a hankering for some John Mayer and Norah Jones covers or you just want to check out the original music produced by campus talent, this event is free for everyone. Ifyou're interested in performing yourself, SUB has open sign­ups each week 
• Concerts and Shows 
Not a lot of bands pass through South Bend, but ycm can count on Notre Dame to line up a show on campus every now and then. Recent performers have included Ben Folds, O.A.R., Better Than Ezra, Third E.ye Blind and stand-up comedy by Vince Vaughn. Great bands sh9uld continue to invade campus with theyear's kickoff event, Student Activities' "The Show." Also keep your eye outfor concerts at Legends -an all-ages university-run 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 
Scho/asticCulture(~-, \...............
-.,,';?/ 


club and restaurant south of the stadium -and at the Joyce Center. Past years' offerings have included] ohn Mellencamp, Flogging Molly and Jason Mraz. 
• Collegiate Jazz Festival 
This competition between· college jazz bands from all over the country draws a lot of attention from jazz enthusiasts nationwide, including Brandon Marsalis,who made an appearance at the festival a few years back. 
•NDTV 
The newest addition to student-run media, Notre Dame Television broadcasts around the clock. NDTV's programs include campus news, sports, entertain­ment events, comedy and more. Tune in to campus cable 53 for the goods. 


ARTSANDIJTERATURE 
• Notre Dame Literary Festival 
For one week each February, the Stu­dent Union Board hosts nightly readings from notable writers, with one night set aside for student writers to read their own work. Formerly known as the sophomore literary festival and going into its 4lstyear, it has featured such legendary writers as Kurt Vonnegut, Ralph Ellison, Arthur Miller, Joyce Carol Oates, Tennessee Williams, Dave Eggers, John Irving and Tom Clancy. 
The Creative Writing Program, a gradu­ate program at Notre Dame, also hosts a number of writers throughout the year. These readings don't tend to get a great deal of press, so look around the hallways ofO'Shaughnessy for posters, or check out the English department's calendar ofevents at www.english.nd.edu/ events. 
• Snite Museum 
The Snite is open Tuesday through Sunday, and admission is free. It tends to be one of Notre Dame's less-traveled treasures, although many students and professors attend the opening ofthe spring exhibit where the MFA and BFA students showcase their work. 


STUDENT ACTIVITES 
• Student Union Board (SUB) 
While South Bend isn't exactly an enter­tainment hub like New York or Chicago, SUB does a good job of bringing outside shows and speakers to. campus as well as sponsoring various on-campus activities. Divided into several branches, SUB not only provides weekly movies and occa­sional concerts, but also multicultural and intellectual activities, in addition to stu­dent services like prize raffles, organized trips, and final exam stress relievers. 
• FlipSide Though looked down on by some as does a good job of providing consistent student activities, usually on the mellower side. Expect a few video game and board game tournaments and prize nights, as well as organized trips to local mini-golf and bowling establishments. While not the premier source of entertainment on campus, FlipSide can be counted on for planned events nearly every weekend. 0 


D.I,Y. 

If all entertainment options fail, you're going to have do ityoursel£ Though this list may seem extensive, it's almost guaranteed that you're going to hit a few gray and dismal Saturday evenings here in South Bend. But Notre Dame isn't so much about the things you do as it is about the people you meet. ·when your calendar is empty and the snow is piled up outside, there's • nothing like ·an impromptu dorm-room luau or something as simple as hot chocolate with your new 
·friends. Freshman year can .be the best of 
times and the worst of times, but a. little 
creativity can go a long way. It can save a lot· 
ofmoney, too. 
Ofcourse .if all else fails, and you .find yourself spending your Friday nights star­ing at the wall, you can always a:pply for a job at Scholastic. 
UJ 
er: 
:::, 
!::i 
:::, 
u 
u 
~ 
::c 
&l 




Michael Rossmann, a double major in theology and economics 
0 
Doug Schlarman
You're a very lucky­intelligen t-a thletic­talented -well-rounded incoming freshman. Seriously. Way back in December, there were a whole lot of you. And now just the strongest, wisest and bravest remain. And you are one of them. Behold, the statistics from the applicant pool of 
the Class of 2011. , 
.,;__
,,_ii 'l\· 
.
/,•,:i, ~-i%:, 

What is your favorite memory from your time at Notre Dame? 
I can't pick a single "favorite" memory, though I will name one great one. During fall break of my freshman year, I signed up for a trip to Appalachia through the Center for Social Concerns. I didn't know any of the members of my group before that week in Kentucky, but had such a fantastic week. I remember having one of the best conversations of my life with the other members in my car and in a very profound way feeling as if "yes, I am home at Notre Dame." 
What class gave you the most trouble in·your four years? 
One of the courses for my theology major, Christian Traditions II, was one 
of the most challenging courses during my four years. It also happened to be 
one of my favorites. 
Where's your personal study spot? 
If I weren't graduating, I wouldn't want to reveal my secret spot, as I would want it to remain secret. But ... the math library in the basement ofHayes­
250/o p1·ojected percentage ofminority students 4% projected pe1-centage of international students 
average SAT score ofthe Class of

1414 
2011 

32.5 average A CTscore ofthe Class of2011 
with Michael Rossmann 
~~~ from Iowa City, Iowa was named valedictorian for the Class of 2007 with a 4.0 GPA. In addition to his stellar academic record, Rossmann worked with the International Scholars Program in Kampala, Uganda researching development studies and also has studied abroad in Mongoro, Tanzania and Krakow, Poland. 

Healey is quite possibly the quietest place on campus. Also, if the weather is nice, you can't beat the benches on God Quad. 
What is your favorite way to procrastinate? 
E-mail is a blessing but also a curse. I tend to hit "reload" a few too many times when I need to get things done. 
Is it hard for a student to balance work, extracurricular activities, free time and sleep? What's your advice on the best way to do so? 
You'll never have the time to do everything you would like, though you will have time to do much. [...] At the same time, just because you will have work to do for classes does not mean that you can't participate in activities. In fact, I would strongly recommend that you have at least a few small commitments, as they will help you manage your time and enable you to get to know people outside ofyour dorm. I believe the biggest element of success in college is being able to manage your time. 
14,501 applicantsfo1· the 2006-2007 freshman class (most ever) 1,985 admitted students expected to enroll 
868 high school valedicto1·ians applied 
427 high school valedictorians admitted 
What is your favorite brain food to keep you focused while studying? 
I tend to drink a lot of coffee, and I also eat a lot of cereal. I don't know if I was subconsciously trying to trick my body into thinking it was the morning when working late at night, though coffee and cereal helped me through a lot of papers. 
·What are your plans for the real world? 
I'm joining the Jesuits with the intention ofpriesthood and will be at the Jesuit novitiate in St. Paul, Minn. I had never thought about the priesthood before I came to Notre Dame. 
What will you miss the most upon leaving Notre Dame? 
I never would have believed I would have had so many opportunities at college -the chance to travel all-over the world, the ability to have those late-night conversations that you never want to end, and the opportunity to live in a community of some of the most incredible people you will ever meet. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2007 
UP THE GRILL CONCESSION 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
SAD 



SAD.ND.EDU 




DomerDollars 
Mail in application 
[·_ ndlD. Number· 
LastName 
l 

Rrst Name Middle Initial 
r--IocalAddress 
\ Permanent Address ­

L------·---------~~~~~----__J 
Primary Phone Number 

Enclosed is the following amount to open a Domer Dollars Account. $____ (minimum $20) 
Deposit is by: ___Cash __Check 

(Make checks payable to the University of Notre Dame.) 
I Signature 


Please mail to: University of Notre Dame Card Services Office P.O. Box 1129 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (s74) 631-7814 

------------.--·-------------·-
Domer Dollars make campus life easier! 
You don't need to carry cash! Simply use your · University ID card to buy just about anything on campus. 
Domer Dollars are safe, convenient "electronic funds" accessed by using your ID card. To find out more about Domer Dollars, visit 
www.nd.edu/~cardsvcs 
Activating your account couldn't be easier. Mail in the application form before you obtain your ID card, or use our Web site after receiving your ID card. It's safe, secure, and very convenient. Remember this site for balance inquiries, sales histories and of course, future deposits! You can make a deposit using either MasterCard, Visa, or Diners Club card. 
A few Domer Dollar locations: 
Hammes Bookstore 

(Get your books and supplies) 
ND Food Service locatiQns 
(these are just a few) Burger King Starbucks Subway Sbarro 
Reckers Legends of Notre Dame 

Vending and Laundry Sorin's at The Morris Inn The OIT Solutions Center Riley Digital Imaging Studio University Hairstylists 






