

9
IMAGE 
CRISIS 
¦ 
BALANCING ACADEMIC FREEDOM WITH CATHOLIC CHARACTER 


newB~o4=--------­
NEws BREAKERS, IMAGE MAKERS 
Mike Laskey 
Anew head of Notre Dame News and Information gives a different perspective on the office. 
HURDLES ON THE TENURE TRACK 
Amy Meyers 
Why are women 26 percent of all faculty but only 19.5 percent of tenured and tenure-track teaching faculty? 
COVER: SOUL SEARCHING 
Dave Poe/I 
How does the debate over academic freedom affect Notre Dame's image, in South Bend and beyond? 

Culture~16____ 
BEHIND THE CURTAIN 
Claire Sobczak 
Scholastic delves into the theater scene on campus to give 
you an inside look at the play production process. 
DISABILITIES AWARENESS MONTH 
Peter /--lad/ey 
Agrowing group on campus hopes to educate Notre Dame students about people with disabilities. 

~p_orts 2s 
CHRONICLES OF "DIAMOND DAVE" 
Michael Kim 
Former Irish tennis standout is set to coach a women's tennis star. 

Jiumorss 
THE SECD1'!DMOST-FAl'1OUS VIRGIN ON -­CAMPUS 
/-la/le Kiefer 
Avirgin's lament. 
2 Snapshot . . . . . . . . . . . . ... 18 4 Scholastic Cribs ...........22 5 Gipper ................34 Point/Counterpoint .. , .....36 

I 
' 
"'1; 
Vol. 148, No. 09 • 02 MAR 20 
SCHOLASTIC 
COVER DESIGN 
DAVID REDENBAUGH 
IIIAGE'tCRISISllil 
Editors in Chief Mo Ertel Jim Ryan 
Managing Editor 
Lauren Wilcox 
Executive Editor Christopher Meskill 
Executive Copy Editor Doug Schlarman 
Executive Copy Assistant Regina Gesicki 
Executive Design ,Editor David Redenbaugh 
News Dave Poell, editor Daric Snyder, assistant 
Culture 
Claire Sobczak, editor Mike Laskey, assistant 
Sports 
Michael Kim, editor 
Humor Halle Kiefer, editor 
Design Amy Meyers, assistant Julie Ruffin, assistant Emma Daugherty 
Carolin Hubscher 
Copy 
Kate Dress'er 
Photography 
Brenna Mannion, editor 
Kristin Keve, assistant Christine Burke 
Business Manager Jorge Villarreal 
Distribution Bryan Lowery, manager 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Se111pir Victtmts Vive Quasi Gras Moriturns 
Published biweekly at the University of 
Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 
2005 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. Put on your Mom Jeans. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts 
or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the next 
issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. Chronic-what-des of Diamond Dave. All letters must include the Writer's· name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic . reserves the _right to edit letters for space. Requests for cor­rections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed. Bye, Seniors!.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back Issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number. or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
02 MARCH 2006 
;@!Scholl1S~C Farewells·············· · 
\M'1ih·~~l'Ki~; s;CJAs;dlt6r;ii~hb{ktd th~!'ti.~ hast_~ 
fi>Wfo.tfootb?ll_tick~~~frcin\l)OW,q~af!$rpµblis~ing_

ia'Footb'all R'eview·forthe ages£nterti1iriingp?ss1bl~ · 
bot:i~~ff~rs\l,ithESPN,~Bcar~Grqh~Ra'Ria'~Press,he

cisri't:too.·concemed.•abqut.hi;;.fuWre;A•P.r!>po.r,iel)~-­



%R~-,-~ 
.., ~ 
w 
3: 
w 
a: 
:f 
u 
;:: 
V, 
s 
0 
:i:: 
u 
VI 

02 MARCH 2006 3 ......... 

t Bono: He's been nominated for ~j.·· .···.·the second time for the Nobel Peace Prize. Not only can he sing and wear shades indoors, but he, like, stops AIDS and cures hunger ·arid stuff. 

Black basketball jerseys: 
We're not sure if Brey is trying to make some kind of statement or if he's just mourning his team's dismal record. And, ick. They're 
·ugly. 
·. C.la.ss C.oun.·cil. ·e.lection .
J.i•.· posters: How many ~ differep.t ways can four . · people pose together outside theDome or in Hurley? 

H March Madness: . · 
~Too bad they don't give out 
. bids for the team with the mostheartbreakingdouble:-­overtime losses byfive points or less. 
. . j ···.·... __. Olympic figure . 
•··· ~~kating costumes: 
· Onthe one hand, halfof•· · the girls looklike clown prostitutes.On the other · hand, they're shiny! 

STAFF EDITORIAL 

Stifled and Silenced 
The lack of a rape crisis center on campus perpetuates strained gender relations
0 ur campus is not quiet. We raise our voices to drown out opposing teams in the stadium; we make the Joyce Cen­ter reverberate with our screaming and clapping during basketball games; we blast music out our windows on sunny, spring semester days. But with all the noise, some voices are silenced. In the case of sexual assault, the power of vocalization is at times the only defense. With an inadequately staffed Health Services Center, which is lacking a gynecologist, a questionable reporting history of rape and assault, and a general malaise toward women's issues on this campus, rape and sexual assault continue without being questioned or confronted. Without a rape crisis center, women are discouraged from coming forward and reporting the assaults that happen on this campus, in this bubble, and in this family. Who is listening? Sexual assault survivors are silenced by default. There seems to be a disheartening trend in the aftermath of sexual assault. A survivor ofassault might immediately go to Health Services, where he or she is told to visit a hospital for a rape kit, as Health Services does not have the ability to perform this service without a rape crisis center. Upon arriving at the emergency room of a local hospital, the victim finds that unless it can be claimed on his or her parent's insur­ance, the charge for the rape kit will be nearly $1,000. Often, a student will be too afraid to file an insurance claim, as it would necessitate reporting the assault to his or her parents. Even if the survivor knows the identity of the assailant, Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) or the South Bend Police Department cannot press charges without DNA evidence. And many students fear reporting the circumstances under which they were raped because oframifications stemming from duLac. Notre Dame students violated in the most intimate way find themselves at a dead end because of a lack of evidence and a lack of initiative on the part of the university . . Many students avoid reporting rape and sexual assault to NDSP or Health Services, fearing their cases will travel through what a Health Services representative termed "the ND grapevine." This leads to misrepresentation ofstatistics, which results in the common perception that rape is rare on our campu~. If students are afraid to report their cases, Health Services practitioners cannot gain the experience needed to administer to sexual assault survivors. This has become a cyclical problem. Fear leads to underrepresentaion of cases and supposed lack of demand for sexual assault services. With the prevalence ofunhealthy alcohol consumption on this cam­pus, the existence of strained gender relations, and the dangerous trend of apathy among the student body and,·arguably, the administration, the conditions for rape and sexual assault are unwittingly fostered. It is easier, in some ways, to ignore the painful reality on this campus than to attempt to reform the "traditions" that have, year by year, perpetu­ated it. It would be unrealistic to call any college campus a "rape-free zone." It is not unrealistic to say that with the creation of a rape crisis center, at least Notre Dame would become a rape-conscious zone. Males and females on this campus could then recognize the reality of sexual assault and the danger of silence. 
02 MARCH 2006 
(i!~ Scholastic News•••••••••••••.·;
' . 
Are They Buying the 'Backer? 
Notre Dame plans to make major changes to the off-campus community 
• oaric Snyder 
0 ver the next few years, the area south ofcampus will undergo 
major transformations. The Northeast Neighborhood Res­
toration Organization (NNRO), an alliance between the city of South Bend, Ind., and the University of Notre Dame, as well as the Madison Center and two local hospitals, seeks to overhaul the neighbor­hood south of campus. After years of collaboration and research, many of the organization's goals are on the verge of becoming a reality. As explained byuniversity Executive Vice-President JohnAffleck-Graves in a recent presentation to Student Senate, the plan includes the development of a "college town," which would feature a mix of retail and residential sites. Within quick walking distance of campus, the area would provide students with new options, restaurants, shopping and possibly even a new place to live. 
The benefits of the revitalization project on South Bend's northeast side will be extended not only to students, as the plan hopes to bringnew energyto the entire community. In addition to the developments favoring students, tp.e NNRO intends to bring exciting new jobs and homes to the area. Speaking in his State ofthe Cityaddress on February 16, South Bend Mayor Steve Luecke expressed hopes for "creating a clean, safe and attractive neighborhood which is economically and ethnically diverse, with high-quality housing and increased home ownership opportunities that will attract appropriate retail and commercial development." 
According to the mayor, a new single-family housing division is planned southwest ofcampus, as well as improvements to existing nearby homes. An additional area of retail development will be built further south, at the intersection of Corby Street and State Route 23. The South Bend Clinic also plans an expansion only several blocks away. Beyond these residential and retail enhancements, the city intends to zone and build a research park on several acres ofland in the vicinity ofthe Linebacker Lounge. The land, currently owned by the university, could be converted to space for research and technology :firms, bringing numerous valuable new jobs to the area. (For the foreseeable future, Affleck-Graves assures ''t_he 'Backer is safe" from the development of the research park.) The city, along with the university, believes the park, along with the new re:­tail and residential opportunities, will bring new blood to the northeast neighborhood, creating a community teeming with activity. @ 
:::l 
w 
~ 
w 
~ 
0 
02 MARCH 2006 
~ Mike iaskey 
he word "spin" is not well-liked research activity, significant faculty and for a job that was less demanding on his 
'[
in the world of public relations. student accomplishments, major events family life, a deep affection for his alma 
It smacks of heavy bias and on campus, and Notre Dame's Catholic mater was an important factor in his suggests deceptive tactics employed in character, Brown says. decision to shift careers. "The thought attempts to make a groups or products or While News and Information operates in general of doing public relations was political candidates.look better than they through the meclia, its· nature as apro"' -very difficult to absorb, and I think Notre really are. And while the University of mater of the university makes it a public Dame was the only place where I would've Notre Dame's Department of News and :relatioils_:_artdnot:i jmi:rnalistic_: body.· · done it," he says. "It would be very dif­Information could be seen as the univer­Despite this distinction, the department ficult to promote a political candidate or sity's "spinner" -its primary goal being has attracted distinguished journalists to a new miracle drug, but because of what the enhancement of the school's image head its operations. Matt Starin (ND '64), we're involved in here, no matter how -the department has a dif-you might differ on approaches ferent attitude. "The vast and policies that the uni-majority of what goes versity takes, at base on at Notre Dame is you know we're doing amazingly positive," good things. We're
"There's a guiding said Dennis Brown, educating young peo­the university's as.., ple. That's what we're 

philosophyat NotreDame 
sistant vice president about." for News and Infor­Wycliff, a profes­mation, in an e-mail. sor of journalism at
that can be a yeast for the "Students, faculty and Notre Dame, has a staff are engaged in a similar affinity for the 
American soul. We've got
wide array of impor­university that made tant activities, and the job appealing to

something unique to offer,
it's rewarding for all him when he was ap­of us in News and proached last fall. "The Information to bring fact that I began teach­
so let's tell people about it." 
attention to this work. ing last year reflects Some might refer to that I began to feel this work as 'spin.' But that I had something to for us, it is the day-·-Don Wycliff give other than meet­to-day opportunity ing daily deadlines," to tell Notre Dame's he says. "There's a sense story honestly and ac-that this is the time in life · curately." when you have one last hurrah, 
News and Information communicates who led the department as associate vice and you ,want to do something meaning­with the media daily, particularly through president for News and Information from ful with it. If I could do somethingfor press releases and feature stories run on 2002 untilhesteppeddownlastsemester, Notre Dame, that would be a deeply the department's Web· site. Brown says· joined the department after working as satisfying thing.'' the depar_tment works to "enhance the the editor at the Boston Globe for eight Wycliff is entering the department at perceptions of Notre Dame among a years. Storin's successor is Don Wycliff a busy time; he will arrive on the tail of variety of audiences," from the Church (ND '69), who will take over on March 13 the highly-publicized academic freedom 
to the general public. The department fo­after 16 years at the Chicago Tribune. . . · debate: '"Our \office has beei;i very. busy cuses on publicizing faculty expertise and Starin says that, in addition to his desire fielding calls and email messages from the 
02 MARCH 2006 · 
media, alumni, faculty, students, staff and the general public," Brown says. "On an average, we are receiving six or seven inquiries and comments daily, compared with three or four on an average day." 
During controversies like the academic freedom debate or former Head Football Coach Tyrone Willingham's firing, New::s and In­formation is quietly yetforcefully thrown into the thick of things, dealing with the headlines behind the scenes. "In periods like the Willingham thing, it is a blur, between e-mails and phone calls both from the public and the press," Starin says. "The need to communi­cate internally as well as externally, the need to keep abreast ofthe changing landscape of information from day to day, hour to hour, and minute to minute is incredible." 
Brown has led the department during the transition from Starin to Wycliff, sohe has been the one to deal with the academic freedom controversy. "My colleagues and I are in the center of the storm when controversies occur, and that can be challenging," Brown says. "Because Notre Dame is a place that inspires such loyalty and passion, certain decisions, events and issues will anger some people. My hope is that anyone associated with the Notre Dame will realize that its leaders are absolutely committed to doing what they believe to be best for the university, and, at the same time, that their deci­. sions are inevitably going .to cause discontentwitli cine contingent 
or another." . · · · 
When the departml:!nt is not inthe midst ofcmitrov.ersy, one ofits more interesting roles isworkingwith the wide variety offilm, tele­v1sion and commercial teams that are looking to use the university's name or logos. "With entertainment requests, we will review the .. material and decide whether it is in our best interest to be associ­ated with the film or show," Brown says. "For example, I recently approved the use· of Notre Dame logos in the pilot ofa television 
show ba~ed upon the book and film 'Friday Night Lights.' On the · contrary, I-turned down l~st ie~k ;i_i;equest to use an image of the Notre Dame Leprechaun i~ the TV sh<:>w 'Veronica Mars.'" 
From divisive controversies to television shows, Wycliff will have· ·plehty'to keep him-bu_sywhenhe takes up his new postuext month, and he seems ready for the riew challenges. "I think Notre Dame has a story to tell, and I want to he a part of telling it to the country," Wycliff says. "There's a guiding philosophy at Notre Dame that can be a yeast for the American soul. We've got something unique 
to offer, so let's tell people about it.''  0  
~­ ~­ 
.  ;, _.;. ' :· :  ·,, .--.'  . -,  ~  l',i "'1 1'  •  
~ .• o ~~a~~~• ;­"­~ IC· ~ #l ,IX ti .ii ~ c;. ,,'· -~ r-. ie :& 4 r;; • e •  ;}  ..._ 7''  Cf. ,''·-~ -'  
:·::~  
,.  f~  
·. ',!,;, !Ii  
·: 'i: >:: & ; . , .~  
.~ [ii,. .. ,, 1\1.. _; M  
,_{,-.  
:!:.t::  
;!. .. •i  
,  •.  
,;'\,:  
' :t  

02 MARCH 2006 



· · · · · · · · · · · · · (ir! Scholastic News 
•• []=OQD~M .......................I 

CJ>erspectives on why women COY(lprise 26 percent ofall faculty but only 19.5 percent oftenured and tenure-track teachingfaculty 
o Amy Meyers
When economics professor process, and most faculty members take Notre Dame could benefit from an in­Teresa Ghilarducci began the maximum period (seven years) before ternal report similar to those that other teaching at the University requesting review for tenure. Because new universities have conducted." 
of Notre Dame in 1984, she discovered faculty members are most often hired at Teresa Phelps, professor at Notre Dame a distressing rumor that was • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Law School, also commented spreadingamongherstudents. on Notre Dame's patriarchal Though she had recently de-'' structure. "Notre Dame is a fended her dissertation and Notre Dame is a very male-domi-very male-dominated place," earnedherPh.D.fromtheUni-nated place. So many men in positions she says. "So many men in 
versity of California-Berkeley, positions of authority don't her students had erroneously of authority don't spend any time with spend any time with women assumed that she was an eco-women and have a very small under-and have a very small under­
nomics graduate student from standing of women. They J·ust don't get standing ofwomen. They just St. Mary's College. "Students don't get it." had a hard time understanding it. ' ' Jean Ann Linney, vice presi­who I am," Ghilarducci says, dent and associate provost "As a young woman, I didn't I f for the Office of the Provost,
-Teresa Phelps, Notre Dame aw pro essor
fit the mold of the traditional notes, "The most frequent economics professor." • • • 0 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • concern from women fac-
Despite these early challenges, Ghilar-junior ranks, there is a larger percentage ulty is that male colleagues and students ducci remained at Notre Dame, earned of women at the assistant professor level don't respect their accomplishments tenure, and now serves as a full professor than at the associate professor or profes-and contributions. They often feel their and director of the Higgins Labor Re-sor ranks. opinions and contributions are ignored search Center. Unfortunately, all female Another explanation is that in some or diminished." She adds, "Most women faculty members have not been as success-ways academia has remained like a me-work very hard to balance the multiple fol. While one in two male Notre Dame dieval guild. According to Ghilarducci, demands in their lives, they'd like things faculty are full professors, only one out of acting as an apprentice to a senior faculty to be a little easier, but I wouldn't say I five female professors are in that top rank. member is still an effective way to advance hear them complaining." Moreover, though women are 26 percent one's career. When those superiors are ofall faculty, women are only 19.5 percent men, however, women may find it difficult e!fi'amily Obligations oftenured and tenure-track teaching and to relate to, or even find, a peer mentor. research faculty. And women leave Notre Particularly at Notre Dame, where very While family obligations often are cited Dame in greater proportions than their few of the senior faculty members are fe­a~ reasons why women. have difficulties male counterparts. male and the president and provosts have advancing in any profession, the sched­
Why, 30 years after the first woman always been men, a woman professor can ules and demands of academia make it was offered tenure at Notre Dame, are so feel even more like an outsider. an even tougher environment in which to many more high-ranking faculty mem-"Women provosts and presidents are balance work and family. For one thing, hers at Notre Dame men? more likely to address the issues ofgender academia has a national market and most inequality," says Christina Wolbrecht, colleges have small departments. After fi Patriarchal Place associate professor of political science. completing their doctorate programs, For example, Princeton conducted a graduate students often apply for every One explanation for the dispropor­report on the status ofwomen faculty in job opening available in hopes oflanding tionately small percentage of tenured the natural sciences and engineering in at least one interview. These prospective female professors is that women have not schools that were under the direction of professors may then be often offered jobs traditionally been hired at the same rate a female president. Wolbrecht also added at colleges and universities far away from as men. Tenure is a complex and lengthy that "a number ofwomen faculty believe their families or husband's jobs. South 
•••.••• 8 02 MARCH 2006 

Bend is an especially difficult place for professionals to find jobs. 
Still, according to Linney, in a situa­tion where a prospective female profes­sor was married to a man who is also a Ph.D. pursuing a tenure-track job, "we make every effort to accommodate the employment needs of a husband. This is increasingly challenging, but something that most universities face and try to deal with creatively." And while there are many examples ofhusbands following their wives' careers to Notre Dame, as a University of California-Berkeley study concluded, "the dual-career dilemma is more of a problem for women than men, since, as other studies have established, most women academics are married to men with advanced degrees, and most academic men are not married to women with advanced degrees." 
There also seems to be no good time for a tenure-seeking woman to become pregnant or raise young children. Ac­cording to the "Report of Workplace and Family Issues Subcommittee" from 
the American Political Science Association, 
"women who do not have children are 
gaining tenure and promotion at roughly 
the same levels as men, but women who 
bear children within five years ofearning 
.their Ph.D. are far more likely to drop out 
than men who also have small children 
during their tenure probationary." The 
report also found that the "most critical 
effects" are on mothers who have children 
during graduate school or soon after. 
One reason for this may be that gradu­
ate students have limits on the number 
of semesters in which they can receive 
funding. Pregnancy and raising young 
children can be particularly difficulty in 
the pre-tenure years. 
"Being pregnant, giving birth and adjusting to a new baby slows the indi­vidual down for the better part ofa year," Linney says. "Typical faculty work con­siderably more than 40 hours per week. The demands of parenting and family · responsibilities are often disproportion­ately shared in families, so women who don't have a responsive and giving spouse 
([!ScholaJ3tid'-4ews· · · · · • · • • • · · • · • · • • 
often take on more of the household and family tasks." 
Notre Dame has made some progress in addressing these issues. For example, the university-sponsored daycare facility, the Early Childhood Development Center, has very strong programs for children of university employees, though it still does not admit children under the age oftwo. Also, some departments, like the English and engineering departments, have made great gains in hiring more women. 
But despite these advances, Notre Dame still fails to hire women in propor­tions that reflect the national availability. With the added difficulties women face in pursuing doctoral degrees and remaining at a university that lacks the amenities of a large city, it seems unlikely that this situation will change without a concerted effort by every department and the ad­ministration. Otherwise, professors like Ghilarducci will likely remain a rarity at Our Lady's University. 0 

;
Ill , , 
5 
~ 
0 
0 

Vl 
02 MARCH 2006 9 ......... 


1 



~u![j~~ freedom and what ,tmeans for Notre .. 
!IH
::ml Dame's academic image .Dave Poell 
: •• ,•. ;:,.:.;,,,. !,.:,,,;·~·to,-, -~---• .• :-~ ,.',· ·•· ,.·"....'" "'•. , .•~ .• •··•:.,•,·,,•t', ._, •.••· ,f.. ,.,,:•·,··· ,.:.:i-.:: , .., '' -"'~•••,••·'-••:'•"·•·•-·,.,,,.,.• , .•-'• .•,.,_ •• ·;,",,r••., .. 
in1 tho r~oht messau1 to t~ue utm~versmtv co~10 u~mt~~ 
(~PDtTf)f:ivJOrfl R11nl-1 [filP1~[Fl[lfl~ Ehi~u•'·unc~ ({P!FlnP{J:dITTj'•p F~nc~ ~il®Pt@6f1•1~1]qf1R nn~(!IJf\PP/1f:~~ ffiJ1:,fllrt.·•
b,JlJdth.L [IJdJ iJ ~9UUuuLJ WLJQ6J UUCY.J t11 Q1J ~sJ UwU!.'.h ul dl.ltJ@ l}UUULJ \Z'i;J\JuuLJl:J)d LJ Uddl@? hJG Q)J scL.iLl 
1t8Uoil flfilJEtJBt~ lasthe dobatebeen 11111 nIUI If P!flHJlr till? ~UIB@JumOlill ~®illTITI@t(~uD.TI~] O . B[~ u.B~ Vlltill~] . Bfil~fil i'®Ll!tlli~l~J~J(I3~ ~@ ~filuw3lJ0l·gLJu ®Gu ~J (Ig~2u:Ou@u~®3 @ffuIT@iOm~J~gl.J .. -. IS _frrn Jenilil~ 
I 't~~ [;l~({@h ,~fij ~,~~ . ~~& ~6ID ,~,~ml:~,,~qriJ ,,~~ wi1~."~,~,.j f~~l( r1f
tW WP 1 ~ ~ l\Htl tlirnm Iim~ ®ill. ·!:11 film~ ~ !l] wm H .,, ~ WJ I mri ~ ~ ~ WJ WiH11 ~ E'J JD @J t " 

@ Scholast(c Cover Story,,,,, , , , , , , , , , 
, ''[heposition I am inviting you Notre Dame on the map intellectually distinction of being among the top 20 of 
. to consider, then, is that an among U.S. universities and among world U.S. News and World Report's rankings of 
·• event which has the implicit universities," Sayre says. national colleges and universities espe­or explicit sponsorship of the university The formulation of the agenda Sayre cially impressive. In fact, the university as a whole, one ofits units, or a university refers =to can be traced to what has come is the only religiously driven school to recognized organization, and whichjs or to be known -as the Land O'Lakes Con­make the list, which is a point ofpride for appears to.be in name or content clearly ference. Held at the behest ofthen-Notre Dan Saracino, assistant provost for un­and egregiously contrary to or incon­Dame president, the Rev. Theodore M. dergraduate admissions. "We don't look sistent with the fundamental values of a Hesburgh, C.S.C., the Land O'Lakes at any Catholic university in the United Catholic university, should not be allowed Conference convened in the presence of States as a true competitor," Saracino at Notre Dame." These words, spoken in 26 Roman Catholic priests and educators says. Inagreement with Saracino, Richard an address delivered to the Notre Dame in July 1967 at a small retreat center in Yanikowski, president and CEO of the faculty on Jan. 23, 2006, by University Land O'Lakes, Wisc. The purpose ofthe Association of American Catholic Uni­ofNotre Dame president, the Rev. John conference was to discuss the best meth­versities, adds, "Notre Dame is certainly 
I. Jenkins, C.S.C., have set off a con­ods for making Catholic institutions of a prototype for American Catholic higher tentious campus-wide debate about the higher learning important interlocutors education." For Saracino, the Catholic appropriate limits of academic freedom in the pressing debates about the state of character ofNotre Dame is crucial in re-
at a Catholic university. Despite the fact that the address was given in response to the production of two-controversial campus events, · the "Vagina Monologues" and the NotreDame Queer Film Festival, .. many observers of the current clash believe thatJenkins' speech is indicative of a larger problem 
"Sponsorship with a department means that somebody thinks the event has academic worth. If there's something that so many people care so strongly about, it deserves to be heard:' 
-Kaitlyn Redfield, UFSND Chair 
cruiting and securing the types of students he wants to attract. In his opinion, Notre Dame's Catholicism complements the school's academic reputation. "We tell the story of Notre Dame," he says. "And central to this is the fact that Notre Dame is Catholic. It's in a faith tradi­
that ·the university must now seriously the modern world. Out ofthe conference tion and it's not apologizing for it." face. In conversations occurring both came a document known as "The Land And yet, while Notre Dame's Catholic inside and outside the university, one uni­O'Lakes Statement: The Nature of the image has rarely been a point of seri­fying concern seems to appear over and Contemporary Catholic University." In ous contention within the Notre Dame over again: Can Notre Dame continue the first section of the statement, the community, the university's degree of its academic trajectory as one ofthe most drafters make explicit mention of the Catholicity has always affected the ways preeminent research universities in the importance of a Catholic university's in which it is perceived by outsiders. In a United States while still maintaining a commitment to academic freedom: "To nation that has become increasingly secu­distinctive Catholic identity? With fears perform its teaching and research func­larized during the past few decades, there of possible censorship colliding with tions effectively-the Catholic university have been times when-Notre Dame's concerns about the necessity ofretaining must have true autonomy and academic Roman Catholic affiliation has been 
·. a predominantly Catholic reputation, it freedom in the face of authority ofwhat­decidedly more detrimental than benefi­is the.answer to this question that could ever kind, lay or clerical, external to the cial in its quest to be taken seriously as a very well determine the still evolving academic community itself." "The Land competitive research university. For this academic image ofNotre Dame. O'Lakes Statement was very important reason, many major media outlets latched 
Becoming an Academic Force because it said that Catholic universities onto the story ofJenkins' speech because 
· Notre Dame's status as one ofthe most should be concerned with the problems ofits potential for inciting controversial ,prestigious universities in the United of our times," Hesburgh says. After the public discussions regarding, Catholic States no longer can be seriously disputed. release of the epochal Land O'Lakes doctrine and more modernist interpreta­In the· latest rankings of the top.colleges Statement, Catholic universities found tions of sexuality and the permissibility and universities in the nation by U.S; themselves less inhibited to inquire about of alternative lifestyles. "Unfortunately, News and World Report, Notre Dame cur­some of the more pressing issues facing in the secular culture, religious affiliation rently finds itselfat the No. 18 slot on the American culture that previously had puts us in another category so that when . list.This indicator of academic excellence been deemed too taboo for a Catholic a national news organization is doing a is made all the more remarkable given the setting. And yet, nearly 40 years after story, they may just not think ofus in the fact that Notre Dame has failed to register the seminal Land O'Lakes Statement same terms as they think of a school like as a competitor among strong academic .was drafted, Notre Dame remains em­the University of Michigan," says Matt i'i: 
institutions for much ofits history. "Fifty broiled in· the· effort to adequately hold. Storin, former associate vice president ~ years ago we were just a college with a few in tension its Catholic nature with its for news and information; As a media a: w graduate programs?says Kenneth Sayre, · academic goals. professional and somebody-who has had 8 
u
· · ·· ·: ·. ··· ·a professor ofphilosophywho has·taught ·Problemswith Perception to deal with the perplexities of proinot..: 
~ 
at Notre Dame since 1958. "Whatgot us To be sure, the struggle for striking a ing the image ofa university as unique as :5 0 
:c
·started in the direction we're pursuing balance between faith and academics has Notre Dame, Starin remains convinced u 
V, 
was Hesburgh's big agenda of.putting been challenging, making Notre Dame's that there is only so much Notre Dame 

02 MARCH 2006 11 ........ . 


l-.-1,·· ­
i • · · • • · • · · • · · · · ~)Scholastic Cover Story 
~ . ., 
r 
can hope to accomplish in selling its legitimacy as an academic powerhouse to the general population. "In a country as a whole where stereotypes die hard, if you say 'academics' to all but people in the business of higher education, those people are going to say 'Harvard.' As any honest administrator will tell you, we're not Harvard on the basis of academic statistics," Starin says. 
There are those within the university, however, who believe that the nation­wide obsession with the U.S. News and World Report rankings does much more harm than good, especially in the case of Notre Dame. Some proponents of this view believe that the standards preferred by the ranking methodology of the U.S. News and World Report give Notre Dame an inherent disadvantage in comparison to Ivy League schools, which enjoy much longer histories and better established reputations. "We shouldn't be following uncriticallyin the path ofthe Ivies. Those schools are great in so many aspects, but Notre Dame needs to recognize that of the top 20 schools, there's one that's dif­ferent, and that's us," says Tommy Forr, campus editor for the conservative cam­pus newspaper, The Irish Rover. As Starin notes, "Our academic reputation has been built over a mere 50 years, and you just can't change it quickly.'' 
James McAdams, a professor ofpolitical science, spent part ofhis academic career at Princeton and agrees with Storin's assertion. "It's a question of perception, and perceptions take a very long time to change. There has to be a distinction be­tween appearance and reality. I'd have to say thatNotre Dame's undergraduate ed­ucation is easily just as good, ifnot better than Princeton's," McAdams says. Sayre, who has witnessed Notre Dame's mete­
·, oric rise firsthand through the decades, 
~ffJDD ffiJ 
--·• 
17
,((µ ', ,I r1u, r ·. U::;,'I ! ' 7
0D u believes that the emphasis on rankings can interfere with a university's mission. "We have to be honest in realizing that Notre Dame has no business being in a ratings race. Even ifwe did have a shot at reaching the top 10, what's the point? Our focus should be on becoming a superb university with a Catholic commitment." In concert with these positions is Mark Roche, dean of the' College of Arts and Letters, who places the importance of Catholic character in even starker terms. "Ifwe weren't Catholic, we'd be identified as a second-tier Midwest school without a hospital," Roche says. 
Another concern that is shared by certain university figures is the power­ful effect anti-Catholicism has had on Notre Dame's ability to be recognized as an institution on par with schools like Harvard, Yale and Princeton, which were originally founded as Protestant institu­tions. "It's not just Catholic paranoia to realize that there's a lot of anti-Catholic sentiment lingering in the powers that be who make those rankings," said history professor Brad Gregory at an installment of the Theology on Tap series held on February 22. McAdams attributes this bias to a paradoxical intolerance present in secular education that identifies Catholic views ofsocial issues with disdain. "Many scholars believe that secular universi­ties have a monopoly on truth because a secular university is more objective and isn't distracted by one's religious beliefs," McAdams says. 
Yet based on his experience with what he feels is the overriding anti-Catholic mentality at Princeton, McAdams treats the assumed objectivity of secular insti­tutions with the utmost skepticism, as does theology professor Gary Anderson. "There is an overall moral framework that the university subtly or not so subtly 
advances," Anderson says. He points to incidents at secular universities where views that are religious come up against heavy opposition from both administra­tors and faculty members. Anderson points to an incident at Oberlin Col­Jege in Ohio in which a faculty member wrote a piece expressing his reservations about the normalization of homosexual­ity and was threatened with censure by the faculty. "His personal life was found somewhat in shambles. There is a real potential danger concerning what being on the public record in those positions might do to you, especially ifyou want to be appointed to certain positions in moral philosophy ormoral theologywhere those issues will be put under the microscope," Anderson says. Similarly, as was noted in a February 20 Observer editorial by law professor Nicole Garnett, the Yale Law School forbids the Christian Legal Soci­ety (CLS) to interview law students on the Yale campus since the CLS reserves high-level positions for Christians only. "Yale's institutional commitment to the anti-discrimination policy [ ... ] trumped concerns about religious freedom in the employment context," Garnett wrote. 
Not Catholic Enough? 
Against this backdrop of a prevalence of observations that point out the degree ofreligious intolerance at certain secular universities, various people have tried to temper the controversial effects of Jenkins' speech by asserting that in some areas Notre Dame has more academic freedom than its secular counterparts and thus must strive to strengthen its ties to Catholicism. "The worry is that there are some things you can do to heighten your national prestige which threaten 'the ability of the university to offer an education that is distinctively Catholic," says Peter Wicks, a philosophy graduate student who has experienced the intellec­tual atmospheres ofuniversities as diverse as Oxford, Cambridge, Princeton and Notre Dame. "Questions about sponsor­ship are important, but I think it will be a real shame if the question ofwhat son of education the university should provide was addressed on the assumption that it should be the sort of education Harvard provides with a few bits chopped off," Wicks says. 
David Solomon, director of the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture, finds himself confused with what he in­terprets as Catholic reticence on certain present university issues. "I've always been struck by how hesitant Catholics are to draw on their own rich intellectual tradition and how they've been so willing to turn to what I consider other shallower and less interesting traditions in build­ing their institutions," Solomon says. In Solomon's opinion, the current debate over academic freedom should not entail an apology on the part ofNotre Dame for its Catholic character. "I've heard faculty at Notre Dame say that it makes them physically ill to lecture with a crucifix on the wall over the lectern. While I know that many smart people feel that way, and I am not surprised that they feel that way, I am surprised that they want to teach at Notre Dame," Solomon says. 
Some of the more religiously fervent figures who have an interest in the Catho­lic tradition ofNotre Dame caution that the university's tendency to intellectually engage with certain secular issues threat­ens its ability to function as a satisfactory representative ofthe Catholic faith. In the judgment of law professor Charles Rice, Notre Dame's commitment to being a research university has damaged its ability to provide a solid undergraduate educa­tion in the Catholic tradition. "One of the tensions between the research university and the Catholic character is that ifyou're focusing primarily on research reputa­tion, you're going to end up diminishing the real thing that a Catholic university has to offer, which is an examination of issues on the basis of objective morality and the basis of objective truth," Rice says. For this reason, Rice says, the very prospect of showing a play like the "Va­gina Monologues" on campus should be abandoned. "The Catholic university has no right to sponsor something and present as a university something that is contrary to the truth as it has the truth," he says. 
02 MARCH 2006 
In the same vein, John D'Arcy, bishop ofthe diocese ofFort Wayne-South Bend, has taken a very vocal stance against Notre Dame's willingness to allow the production ofthe "Vagina Monologues." In formulating what he would consider to be the Catholic Church's position on academic freedom, D'Arcy believes that Catholic universities should look to the Vatican's document on Catholic univer­sities, Ex Corde Ecclesiae ("On Catholic Universities"). According to this docu­ment, a Catholic university "guarantees its members aca­demic freedom so 

long as the rights of the individual person and the community are preserved within the confines of 
"The obligation of a university is to prepare students in all realms. Hopefully it [Notre Dame] will stay on course and really become more accepting of elements and forces outside the university instead of becoming a cocoon." -Gus Hinojosa, UFSND alumni sponsor 
Senior Kai­tlyn Redfield chairs UFSND and does not see a problem with university 
the truth and the common good." D'Arcy is extremely skeptical of the academic value of the "Vagina Monologues" and questions the widespread assumption that the issues addressed in the play are the issues ofour times. "I think Notre Dame has to ask, 'Who is pressing this upon us?' Is this [the "Vagina Monologues"} really going to help us to minimize and overcome violence against women? The Catholic teaching has the ability to respond to this," D'Arcy says. 
Worries ofPossible Censorship 
While few will contest the position that the Catholic viewpoint should be presented in response to all distinctly non-Catholic perspectives espoused at a Catholic university, the very prospect that the president of a university could threaten the academic independence of certain university departments has led to fears that all academic events may one day be subject to the moral restrictions of the Church. English professor Glenn Hendler has been a staunch advocate of the "Vagina Monologues" since it first was performed at Notre Dame five years ago. A specialist in literary criticism and interpretation, Hendler resents the hard-line stance that the play contains "egregious" offenses to Catholic morality. "They're misreading the play," Hendler says. "They're assuming that an artistic piece can be reduced to one single inter­pretation." And while Hendler concedes that the play's open displays of sexual expression differ with certain norms of Catholic morality, he doesn't think this

eration of possible restrictions as an attack on their profession. "A lot offaculty were very nervous because even the prospect of suppressing dissent is so threatening to the academic enterprise that people get worried about it," says Seth Brown, chairman of the. faculty· senate. Yet Wicks believes that the faculty con­cern sterns more from general princi­ple thanfrom what Jenkins specifical­ly said. "I think that there's a widespread conception that it's in­appropriate for a uni­versity presi­dent to intervene in these sorts of matters. It's seen as an affront to the dignity of their profession to 
have people outside their academic fields interfering in their decisions," Wicks says. 
Drawing the Cultural Battle Lines 
It may seem odd initially that Notre Dame's ongoing debate has centered on the question of whether or not to allow university sponsorship ofcertain campus productions, especially given the fact that the main focus of Jenkins' speech was academic freedom. "The key to under­standing academic freedom isrernernber­ing what it's for," Wicks says. "Giving scholars free reign to pursue their work as they see fit and then have that work assessed by their academic· peers is the best systembecause it's the most effective way of getting to truth and increased un­derstanding within each field ofinquiry." 
f · ,·-, Other professors hold a similar view of the way the dispute has been distorted. "I'm surprised that faculty claim it has to do with academic freedom," Solomon says. "Fr.Jenkins used the distinction between sponsorship and censorship. After all, atheists are free to write and say whatever they want here." Anderson, who spent eight years at Harvard Divinity School before corning to Notre Dame, also does not think that freedom of inquiry is under assault. "Ifyou look around Notre Dame, it's not as though every faculty member 
holds the positions ofthe catechism ofthe 
Catholic Church. It's not my perception 
that anyone's advancement is hindered on 
the basis ofwhat they would say regarding 
those positions," Anderson says. 
However, in Sayre's opinion, the effects 
of the address could have unintended 
consequences that Jenkins had not an­
ticipated. "Fr. Jenkins may have been a 
bit rash in posing the debate in the terms 
that he did. The artistic events that we're 
talking about really don't have a whole 
lot to do with academic freedom. They 
do have to do with points of vigorous 
disagreements between factions," Sayre 
says. "He's stirred up the conservative 
and liberal factions by posing the debate 
in terms both of them can adopt as a ral­
lying cry. That may not have been a par­
ticularly good move," he adds. Redfield 
is somewhat sympathetic to Sayre's view. 
"I feel sorry for him Uenkins], because 
I don't ·think he intended to garner so 
much attention. You need many more 
hours ofdiscussion and discernment on 
issues like these," she says. Redfield was 
particularly concerned with Jenkins' lack 
of engagement with organizers of the 
"Vagina Monologues" prior to his speech. 
"We have organized [this event] for three 
years, and prior to the speech he met with 
us for only one hour on the day of the 
speech," Redfield says. 
In some respects, Sayre's fear of the 
debate being· purposefully polarized on 
campus has already come to pass. The Irish 
Rover has run numerous editorials decry­
ing the presence of the "Vagina Mono­
logues" on campus and has expressed 
desire to eliminate the production from 
campus. Included in theDec. 1, 2005 edi­
tion of the newspaper was the reprint of 
·a speech by Christian Hoff Summers, a 
scholar at the conservative think tank the 
American Enterprise Institute. Entitled ':Sex, Lies, and the Vagina Monologues," Summers'· speech compares Eve Ensler, .the playwright of the "Vagina Mono­logues," to the Nation of Islam's radical leader, Louis Farrakhan, due to each · individual's fundraising efforts. (Last year Notre Dame's production ofthe "Vagina Monologues" raised $15,000 for organi­.. zations whose goals are to help prevent violence against women.) In the editorial, Summers writes, "Farrakhan [ ... ] has raised' large amounts of money for some worthy ends. But this does not put him or his crusade ofhatred beyond criticism. The same is true for Ensler and her play 
02 MARCH 2006 
and her army of followers." Forr agrees that the play's overall message and its . fundraising efforts could be damaging to , the reputation ofany Catholic university that sanctions it. "Certain things could be perceived as scandalous. There is a move­ment by Eve Ensler to· target Catholic universities. Ensler has. major problems with the Church, and large portions of her proceeds and the V-Day movement are flooding Planned Parenthood's cof­
fers," Forr says. 
Such combative language, however, 
threatens to divide the debate further 
along ideological lines. "Free speech 
means no undue burden on what can be 
talked about," Redfield says. "We raised 
a lot of noise because we believe we are 
the only people who raise these issues 
[addressing violence against women] 
on campus." Wicks is slightly skeptical 
of this rationale. "While departments 
should have a larger degree of freedom, 
I don't see how it's possible to provide an 
academic justification for sponsoring the 
'Vagina Monologues' every year," Wicks 
says. "I think the students who p:uton the 
play claim benefits for the performance 
that are principally therapeutic. That's 
a perfectly legitimate reason to want to 
produce a play, but it's not an academic 
reason and hence not a basis for sponsor­
ship by an academic department. It's no 
more part of the English or sociology or 
FTT department's mission to minister 
to victims of sexual abuse than it is part 
of the physics department's mission." He 
adds, "In my view, the most serious threat 
to the integrity ofthe English department 
comes not from Fr. Jenkins, but from 
members ofthat department who believe 
that their role as academics, and. thus 
their academic freedom, extends beyond 
teaching and producing scholarship," he 
continues. Hendler disagrees vehemently 
with this interpretation. "I can't imagine . 
an understanding of academic freedom 
that doesn't include theater," Hendler 
says. "Ifartistic expression isn't protected 
by academic freedom, why don't we just· 
eliminate all ofit in the academic set­
ting?" 
Striking a Balance 
It is now more or less accepted by all those on campus that Jenkins' address on the relationship between Catholic character• and academic freedom was a conversation that needed to occur sooner rather than later. "The issue needed to be · addressed and somebody had to do it," 
02 MARCH 2006 
says Alex Renfro, a member ofUFSND. Given the vibrant discussion that has ensued, it is almost difficult to imagine what would have happened had Jenkins gone about th~ issue in a different fashion. "He had the option of actually canceling it ["Vagina Monologues"], and I know there were faculty members who strongly counseled him to cancel it. He didn't choose that," Roche says. 
It should be noted that Notre Dame's engagementiri. this conversation puts it in a league with several other Catholic universities.·"This conversation is going on at other places and has been resolved in various ways," Yanikowski says. "For a campus which has stated principles with regard to its Catholic identity, to identify things that fall beyond the pale as possible abridgements ofacademic freedom is not unusual." Anthropology professor Caro­lyn Nordstrom is extremely optimistic that Notre Dame possesses the tools to find a satisfactory solution. "Everyone is messed up about the big issues surround­ing our culture, and I think it's great that students here are honestly trying to come up with real solutions." 
Due to the zeal that has .been seen on both sides ofthe debate and the nature of any great research university like Notre Dame that has a wide variety of cultural viewpoints, it seems that some compro­mise must be struck to preserve a consen­sus on campus. Roche acknowledges that this will be difficult. "We haven't figured out yet how to link the two [academic freedom and Catholic character]," he says. In Sayre's estimation, analogizing the Church's role in education to a tree proves illuminating. "Like every living thing, the Church as a living institution in time has got to adapt. It has to have a firm trunkthat helps it retain its overall instruction. It has to have the heartwood . that makes it firm, and that's the conser­vative element. But it also has to have the sapwood on the outside that continues to grow. This corresponds to whatis often called the liberal element. Both of these elements are absolutely essential ifthe institution is to remain healthy. My hope is that Jenkins realizes he can't make a decision thatalienates either side."Sayre's last sentence is crucial. Ultimately, .the issue is out of the public's hand and must be left to one man and one man alone. In the meantime, we sit and wait. 0 


r·~:.·1 . :7 . 
uu u 


1\ · · · seen. The Grill, located on the first floor bland. The dessert selection ranged from 
l! RESTAURANT O .· • of a histodc, three-level building, and house~made ice creams in daring flavors like bourbon and cafe au lait to a delicious 
;: [n®J~Il©W·.Club LaS~lle, the up~t~irs bar, provi.de 
patrons with an amb1t10us menu. The molten chocolate cake. 
. •. . night Scholastic visited LaSaJle Grill, the LaSalle Grill is a smoothly run opera"' · · . . . typically modern American menu in-tion; the Web site has a reservation fea:.. ... Regina Gesicki corporated Cajun ingredients into many ture with email confirmation and room . 
.• small dishes in honor ofMardi Gras. to make special .requests, ·which adds to 
• A braised rabbit and alligator strudel· the positive experience that begins when was beautifully presented ina light, crispy the accommodating staff greets you atthe pastry, but these full-flavored meats were door. Though expensive for the average slightly overpowered by the spiciness of• student looking for a dinner off campus,. the accompanying okra.salad. The staple LaSalle Grill is worth the money for a Caesar salad was improved by the addition . special occasion. The combination ofa of tangy g.r:ana padano ·cheese. Scholastic : great ambience, superb service and a dar­recommends any ofthe hardwood~grilled . ing but notaaunting menu makes LaSalle steaks with a selection from the assort­Grill a luxurious dining experience. 0 menfofsteakhouse sides, which arelarge enough to· share. Scholastic chose grilled 
i /J.·alle Grill, Michiana's pnly ·. asparagus and creamed spinach, which Location: 115 Wert ColfoxAverme, South Bend, Ind.·.· !.. 1! . AAAFourDiamondAwardwin-. . were. perfectly prepared .. A pan-seared (Entrances on Colfax andLaSa!le) . . r, has all the ingredients to . duck breast arrived with crunchy toasted Phone:574-288-1155· 
I · .s p n upscale, metropolitan dining barley and was coyered with a prosciutto . Entrees: $19.25..:.$35.95 experience in South Bend. With its taste:­and shiitake mushroom cream sauce. Hours: 5-10 p:m., Mm. thruugi. Thurs., 5-llpinz., F,i ful, understated decor -:-warm.:.toned We enjoyed a breast of chicken,·suitably um/Sat. . 
. landscape paintings hang from the muted amped up with mustard and molasses . Coats and tiesfornien preferre_dbutnot ;required. gray walls -arid its ability to drawbig­barbecue sauce. The flavorful sauce was name community p·atrons -:-like Notre. a little much when paired with black pep--. DameHead Football Coach Charlie Weis per mashed potatoes, but in no way could _ 
· · '-LaSalle Grill is a: place to see and be • this. chicken, enfree be. accused. of hem( 
Making its transition from the stage to the screen in late 2005, the mid-'90s rock opera "Rent" presents the modern-day America version ofGiacamo Puccini's four-act opera, "La Boheme." "Rent" is set against the harsh backdrop of New York City and aggressively confronts the hardships faced in the lives of six friends living in the East Village, from poverty to drug addiction to AIDS, but more than this, the play-cum-film thrives on the strength ofits by now famous, emotion-filled . songs, which drive tht; plotline forward. Prior to its screen release, rumors circulated among "Rent" afi­. ·cionados that the movie version ofthis cult classic could not hope to outshine the experience ofseeing the show performed on Broadway, but with such B-list, has-been musical performers as Drew Lachey of 98 Degrees and Joey Fatone of*NSYNC making guest runs, the stage ofthe Nederlander Theatre has not seen real talent since, well, its original cast. And that's what's so great about the screen version of "Rent"; director Chris Columbus managed to reunite four ofthe six original leads ofthe play for his film version, providing "Rent" fans who weren't able to see the original cast on Broadway a taste of the sensational show that shook the nation 10 years ago. And, hey, if "Chicago" could win a Best Picture Oscar in 2002, "Rent" should have at least been given a nomination bid. . -Mo Ertel, co-editor in chief 
"The Squid & The What," .
With a tagline like "Joint Cust. ody Blows," it's hard not to appreciate :the biting, sardonic humor of "The Squid and the Whale." It's funny -painfully funny. Jeff Daniels plays Bernard . . Berkman, an. overeducated, domineering creative writing professor who indoctrinates his 
.children in existentialism and dismisses "Tender is the Night" as "lesser Fitzgerald." When his over­competitive. pseudo.:.masculinity drives away his cheating wife (Laura Linney), his two children suffer through the nasty divorce. Berkman dates his older son's love interest and e11courages his son to cheat on his girlfriend, while his wife shacks up with her youngest son's tennis coach and rubs her new book in her <husband's face. Ultimately, what makes "The Squid and the Whale" sci funny is how painfully accurate it . ):is to the suffering ofa real-life divorce. Often it's tough to tell whether to laugh or squirm in your chair, 
h h 
ecause t e writing its too close to home. Although it's definitely a smaller indie movie, "The Squid and the Whale" is worthy ofa Best Picture Oscar. -Doug Schlarman, executive copy editor . 
02 MARCH 2006 


wvfi presents 
Mindset is Notre Dame's cultural and music webzine. The site features show and cd reviews, interviews, venue info, photos, and music from campus and local bands. Everyone interested in writing about music and art is encouraged to participate. 
www.nd.edu/~mindset 

ENON 
live at legends Sat. April 8 






WSND 
88.9FM 
Tune In. 
SCHOLASTIC 

J;napfwt 
PHOTOS BY BRENNA MANNION 
"Laissez les hons temps roulez" 
(Let the good times roll) 
In the wake of Hurricane Katrina, New Orleans bands together to both 
rebuild its most devastated areas and reignite the spirit of the community . 
with its annual celebration of Mardi Gras. 

LLI 
DomerDollars
:c: 

I­

-



® 
HIHJIIS.: 
IID:IOE
BUDDLEMarl 

NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 
food.nd.edu 
@8cholaBtic Culture · • · · · • · · • · · • · · · · 





'Two Peiformances ofa J:ifetime 
Chieftains to perfonn with cNotre <1>ame Symphony Orchestra at <t.>Y,C, CarnegieJiall 

" Michael o'Connor 
hey have collaborated with Sting, 
'[
the Rolling Stones and countless 
other high-profile bands, but on Thursday, March 2, the Chieftains, a cel­ebrated Irish music group, will share the stage with the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra. As ifthatisn't exciting enough for the students in the orchestra, they will be traveling to New York City to join the Chieftains for a St. Patrick's Day concert at Carnegie Hall. 
The concert at the Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) will be the second Notre Dame appearance for the Chieftains, who are returning to cam­pus after a sold-out show last year. This year, the concert sold out in five days, a record for the DPAC. About a third of the tickets went to students, which is noteworthy, since the tickets went up for sale over winter break. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orches­tra is comprised of about 80 students, primarily undergraduates, of a variety of colleges and majors. Dan Stowe, director of the orchestra, says that being able to play with a group like the Chieftains is an incredible opportunity. "It somehow came up in discussions last year between [Chieftains member] Paddy Moloney 
02 MARCH 2006 
and John Haynes, the executive director of the DPAC here. I gather that the first notion of us joining them for the Notre Dame concert on March 2 was raised, and then the [St. Patrick's Day] event came up, too," Stowe says. He also hopes that the orchestra's participation with notable musical groups and performances at im­pressive venues will lead the Notre Dame community to acknowledge the talent of the individuals that make up the orches­tra. "I hope that the visibility ofthis event raises the profile of the symphony here," Stowe says. "They truly deserve the at­tention here on campus." 
The members of the orchestra are ec­static about their upcoming performances wth the Chieftains. Jessica Nelson, a sophomore from Breen Phillips and a member of the second violin section of the orchestra, was thrilled when she heard about the rare concert opportunity. "We're veryexcited," Nelson says. "It's a little intimidating playing at Carnegie Hall, so we want to be sure to get all the little things right for the concert here at Notre Dame. But it is definitely more excitement than nerves." Nelson also notes that it has been nice playing the more vibrant music of the Chieftains, rather than their more traditional clas­sical music selections. "It's been a great motivator for the orchestra to play at a place like Carnegie Hall. And the music is just so much fun," she says. 
Moloney expressed his excitement about the two performances in a phone interview. He is drawn to Notre Dame because of the university's interest in Irish culture and because of its "great collections oflrish folk music." Moloney looks forward to playing with the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra. "We have had an orchestra program for the past 40 years for certain larger concerts and for programs on TV: It's great to have a fusion ofclassical music and our more tra­ditional jigs and reels," he says. Moloney promises a fantastic show onMarch 2 that will include some special guests along with the orchestra. And he is thrilled that the Notre Dame students will be able to accompany the Chieftains in New York City. "The concert at Notre Dame w ::, a: will be a great occasion, but it'll be nice !:i ::, to be well-rehearsed for the New York u u 
t;show," Nioloney says. "We're absolutely 
::i 
delighted about Carnegie Hall." 0 
:c 
u 
Vl 
21 •••···••• 

··············@ScholasticCulture 0 G> 0 O 0 O 0 O G O 0 0 0 0 O e G> (Q O O O O O O 0 O O O O O O O O O O O 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o
1 
. arah BarreU 
P.~ 
j_·.,_;·:·;···:t(;_:,)\li_f_·_."_ now b.la~k.ets the grass in the mid-St~ew, a .Ril~y groupie, 1~~:<?e;,\Wafer's ; '-:./£,;;,;'!!', -•~_::~ die ofwmter on South Quad, but a pomt: "Riley 1s ~e on.ly P\f5;;2tf~:; accom­
moda;~~c episodes.;~says. 
lap,qp.:e;n{¢~#ig!he building,. the Riley en­tl{Ji1~},W'gµJdinI~_ti~e music playing, as well at/~?:ft?#f~•I~f.¥¥~ clay and plaster dus~. D~,vlW:~ir:$.fP:fljfJeft, a doze~ stud~nts si~ at sn~eHl~P1~~(~refully crafting coil pot~ttI 
by harrd-;;..The0 cream-colored cement walls"2J and aproned students are covered in clay. Downstairs to the right, dozens of large plastic bags cover students' projects, which are also veiled in clay. A massive staircase cuts the room in half. 
Heading back to the front of Riley, the archways over the front steps lead upstairs, where a second double door opens onto 
the second floor hallway displaying art on 
the walls. 




:.~:s:r:?i~:::~~~ 
technique to intent students. Adjacent to the classroom, a dusky, orange-lit hallway 
serves as a photography classroom. The 

'.{it}:}(t{~~bmn_ients, "Riley provides a uniquepi~tedin yell~w and ~ot pink, .is on the [\f?t1;:t,<1f.Spect1ve on what it means to be human [ ... ] right, and the'"lliley design studio center
tlff~1;:i?:~:;:,~;:.;:: :oi~ti{;J~~~~::: · 
~V weighs in on the importan2e ofthe building atmosphere before re-entering the blea5 to Notre Dame. "Riley is its complete own winter outside. Ignoring the clou"cl. 1 8 subculture ofNotre Dame, where you can the encircles the rear entrance, th 
~ enter a completely different microcosm of leaving Riley comes away with" a ~ the university, and where all preconcep-appreciation ofthe unique make-u@ft ,.,A.; ~ ~ions you have about N otjf;pame and beautiful building .and the hard work oftne" 

~iii-:~ Its students do not apply," Ire:.:says. Roque students who call It home. 0 
0 
......... 22 02 MARCH 2006 . 
~ ScholasticCulture···············
/-,·:--:·> f__YCY._;·_·..•• ·. :·\l\ DO O O cf()() ~ 0 0 0 OfjP}) 01<qp.op ,,.li~9~Sl..H,,.$I·9~9Al-0:--;~O ~O-cP7o_~9 ° 0
-O 
oO 0 0 0,C),p;:,0 0 0 0 q.qp._.OO<9.Q,0 0 y·Bolb'tbtJoo.oo 0000 0 o.o o o
;1ir11ri · · · 1 
w 
a: 
::, 
!::i 
::, 
t:l 
~ 
< 
_J 
:c 
u 
Vl 
02 MARCH 2006 23 •...••. 

··············· @ScholasticCulture 
i i 
I : 

<lJehind the Curtain 
·Often overlooked,a vibrant theater seen~ 
volved in theatertakes as much-time,• 
.· "Salome," sophomore BrettJanecek, says, passion and dedication as being a varsity "T love being~an FTT major because it athlete for many NotreDame s9,idents. is research with practicum. The benefit And while the architects slave· away at of our homework is that we .are learn­
Bond Hall and the engineers cram for ing through doing." The play's assistant their· impossible exams 'in Fitzpatrick technical director, junior Ryan Retartha; ·.· Hall, student actor,s(directors and crew adds, "I loye being involved in FTT members are sc~tfered throughout cam­productions because we .are.able to work pus venues, devoting countless hours to with the department's· professors. They their passion. This semester, students are so knowledgeable and treat us like have .miiny opportunities to experience contemporaries." · the art of theater production for them-;./ Professor Anton Juan is directing selves. / ''Salome," and his experience has indeed 
The many steps necessary for produc:­proved useful. Two different styles of ing a play at Notre Dame require hours theater exist: Eastern and Western. "'Sa­of time that otherwise coulcl,-be sp.ent lome'· is produced ..ih. the· Eastern style, doing homework. Successful productions which is hard l:iecause the scenedesigns, not only call for talented actors, but also moveri1ents of the actors and their vocal people to work behind}:he scenes. Senior qualities ar~ all much different from what Cameron Rains gota'fuU dose ofthe in"'· .. we are used to·inWestei"n theater," Re­tensity ofthe theater world when he took . .~ tartnasays;_''But Anton Juan is frm;nthe 

·o 
•claire Sobczak t takes heart to participate in the­
I
ater atNotre Dame. Theater is not 
known for its intensity or difficulty, in comparison to other. stereotypically more demanding majors. But being in­
on the roles ofdirecti.ng, producing and 
designing the play "SubUrbia," which ran· 
for three nights in February. 
Thos,ethree nights were the culmina.c tion ofa one-and-a-half-yearjourney for Rains. "Ifirst got my hands on 'Sub Urbia' 
w _in the fall of myjunior year, when I had
a: 
:) / to direct a scene of it for my directing: 
!:i 
:) process class," Rains says. "linitiallywent
u 
u 
.fC: into directing to learn how to be a bet... 
0 5 ter director forfilm, but I really enjoyed.· ::r: 
!U 

-~-·-·--··""' 
thrives at Notre Dame 
working with the' actors, sets, and lighting ina theate::,F~etting." Rains extended his iriterestih directing when he bec,ame the . assistant director of"Arcadia" last spring. H~ then got involved with the Notre 
Dame Student Players, through which hewasassigriedhis manyresponsibilities in "SubUrbia." "Directing 'SubUrbia' has been one of the most educational experiences I have had atNotre Dame," Rains says. "Wh.enyou direct aplay, you are forced to figure out how to concisely and effectively express ideas to people. I beca.mea salesman, and I had to sell 'SubUrbia' to the actors." 
•. $tudents involved in the upcoming Film, TeJevision, & Theatre (FTT) De­partment·production of Oscar Wilde's "Salome" share:the,s~me affinity for the stage as. Rains. The stage manager of 
· 
•from New York who plays Salome in the production. _"Our.costume designer, professor Rick Donnelly, took a trip to Philippines and has a lot of background in the Eastern style of theater." 
.Some of the characteristics ofEastern theater that can be seen in ''Salome" in­clude chant.clike dialogue, intricate and over-the-top costumes, and. a ritualized dance performed on two sticks ofbamboo by Olga Natividad, a professional actress 
.•••••••• 24 02 MARCH 200~ 




@ScholasticCulture ·· · ·· · ·· ·• · • • • • 
Japan over Christmas break, so all our do really challenging showslike 'Salome' . tions. There is ho preference for actors costumes are very accu·rately Eastern,'; because ofit." · · or crewmembers to be theater majors, but Janecek says. "There is a lot of silk, and . The love oftheater comes at a high it typically happens that the production · some ofthe costumes are made out ofcar pricefor these dedicated thespians. "Pro­·side ofthe show is comprised of people tires and spoons to get the right effect. It duction has been_ my life," Janecek says. who are taking theater classes," Salazar should be quite a spectacle." "On average, I spend about 12 ,hours · a says. Rains shares the same feelings about 
"SubUrbia" and "Salome" represent day in the DPAC working on the play." -getting involved iri theater. "There is a two different forms oftheater that prevail The "Salome" crew members still have a definite theater scene at Notre Dame that at Notre Dame. "Sub Urbia," performed couple more weeks until tech week-the most· peopkdon't know about," he says. by the Notre Dame Student Players, week before the opening of the play that "It's very easy to getinvolved in theater was,run entirely by students. "We have involves the set construction and the here; a lot of dorms even have their own to find pla_ces to rehearse wherever we technical and dress rehears-student players groups. You just have can," Rains· ·says, "A lot of the time we als. "Tech week is fun in to take some initiative." had to rehearse in'204 O'Shaughnessy, the sense that boot camp Rains may be done with "Sub­which is probably one ofthe)east theat-is fun," Rains says. "It's Urbia," but he ·can't 
· rical settings we could have used.'~ The brotherhood through stay away from di­.-.productions organized by FTT,onthe suffering. I didn't get . recting. He is now · other hand, are funded by the university, · ·more than three hours working on an FTT which allow for much more ambitious -ofsleep ~::i.ch night that production called productions. The students involved in week because.J was so "Matt and Ben," a ·. these ptoducticms have access toall the consumed in th"eplay/ comedy about how . amenities of the Marie P. DeBartolo Theater majors are· Matt Damon and Ben Performing Arts Center (DPAC). "The not the only students Affleck came to write construction ofthe DPAC has been huge who have access to theater "Good Will Hunting." for µs," says senior Miguel Salazar, the · at Notre Dame. "Non-FTT Meanwhile, the crew­production stage manager of"Salome." majors can definitely be members of Salome "Itisthe development ofmodemtechni-involved in· FTT_produc­will be preoccupied cal theater; and we .have had the chance to . with their production until lllid-April. All students should take advantage of the the­atrical opportunities
"Being involved in theater 
at Notre Dame this
takes as much time, passion 
spring. "Salome" opens 
and dedication as being 
March 28, and "Matt a varsity athlete for many and Ben" will run April Notre Dame students." 10-12. 0 

02 02 MARCH 2006 25 ••••••••• 


· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · @ Scholastic Culture 
• Pet:er Hadley 
r many students, March is 

he longest month of the year. 
The work piles up without end, and the only respite from the lingering winter and all-nighters is a single week of fun and relaxation during Spring Break. But March is also Disabilities Awareness Month, and Best Buddies, Notre Dame's upstart chapter of the international organization of the same name, seeks to celebrate the month 
different opportunities with a series of events. "There are justso many for students to come in The leaders of the Notre contact with persons with 
different opportunities 
Dame chapter of Best special needs,'' Roblez says.

for students to come in
Buddies see Disabilities "Students are able to see 
contact with persons
Awareness Month as an the variety of successes opportunity for Notre with special needs." that disabled persons have 
Dame students to learn about both the contributions of people with disabilities as well as what they can do to ease the struggles of the disabled. 
On the international level, Best Buddies was founded in 1989 by Anthony Kennedy Shriver, and is dedicated to improving the lives of people with disabilities by helping them establish close, one-on-one relationships with high school and col­lege-aged kids. Each "buddy" is paired up with one adult with disabilities for his or her entire time as a member of the group. This continued relationship allows for those involved to become close friends and explains in part the huge success that Best Buddies has experienced. 
With the same general goals ofits par­ent organization, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's chapter ofBest Buddies was estab­lished in 1991, and was comprised of five students working with disabled partners. Attesting to the success of the group, Best Buddies' membership has steadily 
......... 26 
expanded; there are over 60 .students involved with the club this year. 
This month, a variety of events will take place on campus that will raise awareness of the challenges faced by disabled people and help students unfamiliar with Best Buddies to understand the organization. Best Buddies co-president, senior Kat Roblez, is optimistic about the month of awareness. "There are just so many 
achieved." 
The month will kick off with a Mass at the Basilica on March 6 at 5:15 p.m. On March 15, multitalented musician Sujeet Desai will perform at 7:00 
p.m. in Washington Hall. &!J~if ~Ml!)@BI~ So while March may con-
Desai was born with Down y Syndrome and can skill­fully play six instruments, having been named "Most Outstanding Individual with Down Syndrome" by the · World Down Syndrome Congress. On March 26 from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., Best Buddies will host its second annual Friendship Games at Stepan Cen­ter. Food and festivities will be available. all day, giving students the chance to interact with children and adults involved with Best Buddies in the South Bend area. In addition, a table will be set up in. the LaFortune Student Center towards the end of the month with information for students interested in. joining Best Buddies. 
On March 29, Notre Dame Disabil­ity Awareness Month's keynote speaker, John Kemp, a prominent attorney in the fields of disability, rehability, health care and nonprofit organizations, will give a lecture in 102 DeBartolo Hall at 7:30. Kemp's expertise comes from experi­ence: he is without arms below the elbows and legs below the knees. Roblez thinks that Kemp's lecture will be especially thought-provoking for Notre Dame stu­dents, many of whom are interested in pursuing careers in law. "Many of these people become frustrated with the stress of applications and competitiveness they encounter," Roblez says. "But after seeing John speak, suddenly it becomes, 'If this guy has had the courage and perseverance to get in, maybe I could do it too.' It gives people, both with disabilities and without, 
hope in succeeding." 
·,,; tinue to be cold and dreary, DisabilitiesAwarenessMonth hopes to bring a much-needed reprieve for students with an assortment ofevents designed to heighten· awareness of dis­abilities and to expose the work of Best Buddies to more students on campus. "So .many people may come .. out to events not originally interested in Disabilities Awareness," Roblez says. 
. "Perhaps they come because they are interested in law or something else. But if we get them out for different reasons and still ·manage to have · an effect· on · them., well, that's the point on Disabilities Awareness Month.'' 
02 MARCH 2006 




Friends and Brothers in Holy Cross 

Since 1842 and growing into the future . 

. ­
4N.NSWER(,m· 
-THE €ALL . 
;,,/ . ~ . 
ook past the dancing clowns, the rollerskaters with flames bursting from their heads, the extravagant 
firewor and the warm, fuzzy sensation you feel when you're watching the Olym­pics. As cool as the 2006 Winter Games in Turin were, various disappointments tainted the Olympic experience, espe­cially for the United States. 
The Olympics weren't disappointing in the sense that the world's most powerful country failed to better its 34-medal total at Salt Lake City in 2002. In fact, the 25 medals the Americans won in Turin comprised the highest total for the U.S. in a Winter Olympics on foreign soil. Nor was it disappointing from the perspective ofNBC Sports Chairman Dick Ebersol, whose Olympics telecast was destroyed in the ratings by amateurs singing their hearts out on "American Idol"; he still made millions of dollars for the network through advertising revenue. It was, however, disappointing to ·see a bunch of brats (or idiots, imbeciles, morons, dimwhs -whatever you want to call them) donning the red, white and blue. They' made fools of themselves and of 
1· their country. 
I Acting bratty is nothing new for Ameri­can Olympians. Look back to the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano,Japan, where 
U.S. men's hockey players trashed -,­
. :,~,..~:i
their hotel rooms and threw fur­
• 
.•
niture out the windows after 
··: 
·I
failing to make the medal round. 
But that might not have been as THE UNITED BRATS OF AMERICA?.To everyone's great '­;,\·urp~ise~ especi~lly 'his owi:i:~.'Ol~m~i<f ~·1pi~e skier sdci~' ' 
embarrassing as Lindsey Jacobel­
'Miller failed to win ~ny medals in tn~'.2006 winte/Games/ ' .
lis' showboating in the women's 
. despite the fictthat he was heavily}av'orei(to'do so. ' ' ' ' 
1
:"'~:':,_>1.,~_~ , ' ':;::•.·ll~••~·:··?:_>,:..::.-~s: .~: '..,_ .•
snowboard cross final. Leading 
the race by a considerable margin, the 20-year-old from Stratton, Vt., tried to show some "flair" on the penultimate jump by grabbing her board in midair. She fell, was passed, and had to settle for the silver. What's ironic is that Jacobel­lis has said that she wants to change the perception of snowboarders as reckless and unintelligent. So much for defying that stereotype. 
But not even Jacobellis could top the biggest brat of them all -alpine skier Bode Miller. The controversial skier was seen chugging beers at the local bars the night before his races. His reckless and carefree attitude cost him-he straddled a gate in two of five events and skied off-course in another. His comments afterward were eye-opening to say the least. "I just did it my way," Miller told the Associated Press. "I'm not a martyr, and I'm not a do-gooder. I just want to go out and rock. And man, I rocked here." Miller rocked himself to zero medals in five events. He went on to say that "the same people who recognize I came out with no medals should recognize I could have won three." Dear Lord, who is this 
man? 
Add figure skater Johnny Weir to the list of brats. He blamed his Olympic flop on his bed mattress being too hard and on his own failing to make the bus to the venue. How about speed skater Chad Hedrick, who refused to congratulate teammate Shani Davis after Davis became the first African-American to win an individual gold medal at any Winter Games? The way these athletes handled themselves is disturbing and suggests that America is breeding a generation ofselfish brats with no appreciation for anything, including the Olympics. Perhaps the Olympics have lost their intrigue in the post-Cold War era, but this behavior is unacceptable an~ humiliating to America. 0 
·'. ': ' ...· 
...·-· .. --: -.'. ••~ ~-~ .. rn,er1ls/qasketpan·.p1ay·s\@led;rr1: Chds.1,fro'n,;ii's.·.w~s .• _ OL,!\: . .. .attendance .for the m:e . ' b:i~kJi:biiLgiilie lastSa 







_, ·. }) .· :~111~s1i~ 
, .•::,/,r2B. ·.../:.. 
. .-.•·._ ,· . -.. ,.; '.' -:</;",. 
·......·__•.·.· .. ·.· ....:.··_.'..:,..:··.·:,.• :.:.·.·,·;.:·,.•_·,·.•.·.·.·..:.•.·.··•·•.'..•·.·•··.·..·._,.:··.···,,,·.:•.:.::.1·.•.,,_·.·.··.·..··.·,·.·.· .. _,_ -· _.; ., ---~~--:!'· _:·. . -.• · . ' ----._ . 
.
;:::)\/,:.. x,:y·.: ·:":,?-;:r:.~))tf?J:-;_:--.=:1).t;i:0~:;_:_): ...: 
,'l 
1 
r._.···. ·Dame's all-time lead~r in 3~point sh~ts ·:·_ made (302) and m,inutes_ played _(4,814), . 
i .. (?recently;played one seasori with Cari'.' C ff::_. fabtiano fothe Lega-2Italian· Basketball ; 

.IW:'.:L~i:i:rt~:c~~it~!e~:india~a; the•••-· 
.lt\ii1tiitl11I. f nis R,aiikiftgs, tht! Ji:ish are nOW:· ranked · L;:l:-;{:Net :5 :and.have enjoy~d imptissive1icj:\ :.. \/tories ove~'.r.-Jo.·2fWake F9re_st;·No'.0 lO ·
I .i~~~t'.i1~e,s,ee;No; 
@ScholasticSports··············· 

tJ> 1?s. 

OUR CALLS 
SPORT: MEN'S BASKETBALL OPPONENT: DEPAUL WHERE: JOYCE CENTER WHEN: SATURDAY, MAR. 4, 4:00 P.M., EST 
Michael Kim 
......?.P.<?!-:~~. R-.4~~~r....................................................... 
Men's basketball looks to wrap up a roll­ercoaster ride of a season at home against DePaul. The Irish shouldn't overlook DePaul, especially considering that they have not beaten the Blue Demons since December 2003. Head Coach Mike Brey will have to motivate his team not only to shoot the ball well (the Irish are the best shooting team in the Big East Conference), but also to play an inspired defense against an athletic DePaul team. Notre Dame needs this win even for just a chance at the Big East Tournament in New York City. 
I see the team gathering its composure and honoring senior guard Chris Quinn the right way with a win on Senior Day in his final home game. Notre Dame wins, 86-80. 
Christopher Meskill Executive Editor 
On Saturday, Notre Dame plays its last game of the 2005­2006 basketball season against DePaul at home. Unfortunately for the Irish, the .campaign has been a lackluster one, despite some fantastic efforts against notable opponents. Although the Irish have demonstrated an incredible amount of heart, I suspect a hint of last year's late-season woes. Just as the 2004-2005 Irish collapsed against Holy Cross in the first round of the National Invitational Tournament after being snubbed by the NCAATournament, I predict that the Irish fall short ofDePaul and the BigEastTourna­
~ 
ment. As Irish fans have become accustomed 0 
D. 
to, DePaul wins this one close, 69-67. u Ill 
t; :5 
0 
:r: 
u 
Vl 
29 .........
~-:~{tf· 


o Michael Kim 
rmer Notre Dame tennis great 

David DiLucia (ND '92) rolled 
his eyes at his parents when, on 
a recruiting trip to Notre Dame inJanu­ary 1988, he stepped outside ofthe South Bend Regional Airport only to be greeted by a ruthless snowstorm. Notre Dame initiallywas an afterthought for DiLucia, who had received countless scholarships offers from schools boasting warm weath­er and perennial championship-contend­ing teams. The wiry, 5-foot-8-inch prep tennis star from Norristown, Penn., only considered making a recruiting visit to Notre Dame at the urging of his father, Tony DiLucia, an Italian-Catholic with a tremendous respect for Notre Dame. "Only God knows ifyou're going to make it in the pros," the elder DiLucia said. "My feeling was iftennis didn't work out for David, then he should have a great education to fall back on." 
When DiLucia arrived at Notre Dame -·. 
for his recruiting trip, he was welcomed 
~ by then first-year men's tennis Head 
0 Ill Coach Bob Bayliss, who knew it would
C. 
u 
be improbable, if not impossible, to sue­
0 ~ cessfully recruit the blue-chip DiLucia. 
u I Vl At the time, Notre Dame and tennis 
didn't belong in the same sentence. 
.•••...:. 30 
Bayliss was allotted only two scholar­ships to distribute and ha9 Sciuth Bend's cold-weather stigma and Notre Dall}e's football obsession to overcome. In his favor, however, Bayliss was able to boast both the newly-opened Eck Tennis Pavil­ion and, more importantly, his ambitious vision for men's tennis at Notre Dame to become a national contender to sell in his recruiting pitch. "I challenged David and said to him, 'We're going to [reach national prominence], with or without you,"' Bayliss says. "I told him how fun it would be if you were the guy to get the ball rolling and be the cornerstone of building the program." After flying back home to suburban Philadelphia to make his decisio~, DiLucia followed his heart and made up his mind. Much to his father's delight, DiLucia decided to answer Bayliss' challenge and enroll at Notre Dame. 
· At Notre Dame, DiLucia fulfilled his potential with tremendous· flair for the game, and his college career since has become legendary. With his aggressive serve-and-volley game and innate all­court sense, DiLucia played like a man among boys. "Diamond Dave" -as he affectionately became known -helped 
Notre Dame rise to national prominence .. He amassed an astonishing career record. of 14f-33 in singles and 70-:-30 in doubles, and he had. an impressive 46-7 r~cordjn singles his junior year. He became the only five-time All-American at Notre Dame -three times in singles and twice in doubles -and became the only Irish player ever to hold the No. 1 ranking conducted by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association. Against all odds, DiLucia led Notre Dame to the NCAA finals his senior year, only to fall to Stanford. That . same year, DiLucia won. the 1992 Dan Magill Award, presented to the top col­legiate senior men's tennis player in the . country, and he continues to hold many 
· Irish men's tennis records today. After graduating with a degree in psy­chology in 1992, DiLucia turned to the · professional circuit, remarkably qualify­ing for the singles main draw at the U.S. · Open that suinmer. DiLucia's first-round . match was against a young player named Pete Sampras, who went on to win a record 14 Grand Slam titles. DiLucia played in every Grand Slam event dur­ing the height of his professional career, and he even reached the Round of 16 in men's doubles at Wimbledon with play­
02 MARCH 2006 
0 ScholasticSports···············

ing partner Brian MacPhie in 1993. His he was willing accept the position. After tennis prowess has allowed him to travel much reflection, DiLucia resigned from all around the world and play such well-his position with the USTA and decided known tennis players as Boris Becker and to coach Davenport full time. It was made Jim Courier and notch victories against official on December 21, 2005. · such notable players as Mark Philip-Davenport, a three-time Grand Slam poussis and former world No. 1 Gustavo champion, has held the No.· 1. ranking Kuerten twice in doubles play. t four times in her career, but winning 
Due to the physical wear and tear of a .,Gr~nd Slam titles cpntinu~li to drive the grueling tour schedule, capped.off by an , '29-year.:.old Californian,·Who· has: not .. injury to his Achilles' tendon, DiLucia won one since the 2000 Australian Open. realized his professional career was near-LookingfQr an edge after finishing second ing its end.He continued to play tennis at the Australian Open and Wimbledon in sparinglyandhelpedhishometownPhila-2005, Davenport hopes DiLucia can get delphia Freedoms win the World Team . her over the hump by refocusing her on Tennis Title in 2001. With his playing· · game tactics and teaching her to view the days dwindling, DiLucia began flirting game from a new and deeper perspective. with the idea of coaching. "David has . Speaking highly of her new coach at the always been a coach," Bayliss says. "He . 2006 Australian Open press conference, would always :pe p111li:µg .people. aside, .. Davenport referred to piLm;ia as "a very hitting balls with them after practice to · · smart individual, very intense and very get things right." While playing with the focused on a lot of things," making him Freedoms; DiLucia met up with another . the perfect fit as her new coach. Philadelphian, Women's Tennis Associa-While DiLucia has been busy traveling tion (WTA) tour player Lisa Raymond, with Davenport on tour, he has continued who asked DiLucia to coach her. During · to remain loyal to Notre Dame. Demon­their training sessions, Lindsay Daven-strating his dedication to the university, port, an occasional doubles partner on DiLucia gave a significant donation to the tour with Raymond, would join in on the men's tennis program to help fund its trip workouts, and as a result, DiLucia became this summer to Germany, Austria and Ire­on the national collegiate level, DiLucia cordial friends with Davenport. land. He continues to keep in touch with now has the challenge ofhelping Daven­
After eventually parting ways with Bayliss, who, DiLucia said to Notre Dame portwin at the highest level in the Grand Raymond, DiLucia accepted a prestigious Sports Information, "was instrumental Slam tournaments. With DiLucia's track position with the United· States Tennis in the success I achieved at Notre Dame. record of dealing with seemingly impos­Association (USTA) in 2004 as one of [His guidance] has served me well· be­sible situations, it is likely that Davenport four national coaches; DiLucia coached . yond college." will once again climb to the top of ~e USTA juniors in the high performance While he was able to turn the Notre WTAranks. 01 program in Key Biscayne, Fla. But last Dame men's tennis team to contenders October, DiLucia received a call from Davenport, who asked for advice about finding a new coach after she split with her long-time coach, Adam Peterson. 
At a 2006 Australian Open press conference,. Daven.port recalled her telephone .conversation with . DiLucia. "I first called Dave to get his advice. as a good friend of mine and see what he thought," Davenport said. "I don't feel like truly a lot of people know who I am as a person, and I was curi­ous who he, would recommend." . . Though DiLucia offered her some -·· 
potential references, Davenport. contemplated a few weeks later whether DiLucia himself could be her coach .. Deciding 'that DiLucia would be best fit for the role, Dav­enport flew to Florida to ask him if 
;tttJiHI}: 
02 MARCH 2006 
c::ifl?/::·c::i,~:;::;.?'~0:•.-:·;::~::7l_f:±~~;.. 

_________. ______ . -·-----.-~-·--·--------------. --•·---····--~-----·---· .-····----~------•--'--•--·----·· 
Junior Jeff Samardiija looks to replicate his football success on the baseball diamond 
l
• BriH:any Lash 
m Thorpe, Bo Jackson and Deion Sanders were all outstanding, versa­
tile athletes possessing the unique 
ty to excel in not one, but two profes­sional sports. Junior Jeff Samardzija is not yet on the level of those greats, but he is undoubtedly in hot pursuit. 
After a breakout 2005 football season in which he caught 15 touchdown passes and was named a consensus All-American wide receiver, Samardzija also was named one of the top 100 college baseball pros­pects by Baseball America after a stellar 2005 campaign in which he compiled an 8-1 record, 56 strikeouts and an im­pressive 3.89 ERA. The "Shark," as he is known, is beginning to prove that he could go pro in either sport -or both. Before he can attempt to pull off the re­markable feat of becoming a dual-sport professional athlete, however, Samardzija first has to survive this spring. 
"It takes a special athlete to do what he is doing," Notre Dame Head Baseball Coach Paul Mainieri says. He would know, as Samardzija, a right-handed pitcher, is Mainieri's first Notre Dame baseball-football athlete since Scott Sollmann (ND '97). Samardzija will split his time this spring between two hefty responsibilities: making more than a dozen starts in the Irish pitching rotation and prepping for Head Football Coach Charlie Weis' intense spring drills, which begin March 22 and culminate with the Blue-Gold Game on April 22. Throw in the added pressure of maintaining his GPA in rigorous Notre Dame courses, and Samardzija is a _shark swimming in treacherous waters. 

Even before the spring baseball season started, Samardzija already had one big hurdle to jump: He missed all ofsummer and fall practice. Skeptics worried that l ~ his dual-sport responsibilities would hurt , I 0 D. him this spring. With all the media atten­
VI 
u 
tion and success surrounding Samardzija 
~ 
:s 0 in the football season, many doubted he 
::r: would be able to abruptly change his _;ai>--:-.::athletic focus back to pitching. 
••....... 32 
Samardzija put those doubts to rest in his first start of the 2006 season, which came in the second game of the regular season against Air Force in the Service Academies Classic on February 24. In that game, Samardzija held the Falcons to one run and four hits in six innings while striking out two. Mainieri is hopeful that Samardzija can continue his pitching success and increase his load from nine games in 2005 to 15 this season. More games will only heighten the pressure, and Samardzija and his coaches have devised a means to lighten the load. 
"[We find] a calendar that works for both of them," Mainieri says of his scheduling partnership with Weis. In past springs, Samardzija has attended all spring football practices, and as a result he has had to limit his baseball commitment. But this spring, Samardzija will be required to attend only a third of football's spring practices, something he will be doing for the first time in his three years at Notre Dame. "He's so established and he knows the of­fense, which allows him to [miss more practices]," Mainieri says. The hope is for the football team not to suffer in his absence, while the Irish baseball squad will be dramatically improved with his services. "We hope this translates into even greater ·success this season," Mairiieri says. 
When all is said and done, however, this season could make or break Samardzija's · future in sports. Ifhe consistently pitch­es at a high level, it is likely that he will be selected in June's MLB draft. Ifthat happens, he could pitch this summer in the minors and come back to football in August, ready to begin another record­breaking season. By December he will have a multitude of options available in both sports. Although Mainieri cannot say what Samardzija will choose to do, he offers one sincere wish: "I hope that he's happy and successful," Mainieri says. "He's a remarkable young man." 0 


fistening In ••• 
"I've been watching your body, and I've deemed it wor­thy of my attention and affection. Wanna hook up?" 
-misguided Irish Rover reporter 
"It tastes like America." 
-overheard student in Sbarro 
•
• 
fl "I'd rather not be a helper dog. Because I don't like to 

• 
help people." 


I z, • -overheard Scholastic staffer 
• (I "Frankly, for most people, what comes out of their 
I 
• mouth is not interesting." 
• -Pulitzer Prize winning author 
;;J 
• @ "It's completely not necessary to wash your hair 
• more than twice a week." • -student in South Dining Hall 
• 
• 
fl) Alumnus 1:"When's the last time you had fun with a 

• 
skinny person?" Alumnus 2:"Well, they're hungry all the time."


• 
(ID Scholastic Humor .... ··" •.. •.. • 
/1/ 



Twenty-Three Years Ago
• • e e e e • • • e e • • • • Le--·-e---e--e-~e 
' 
. 
:?7•-•-•
Iii. ·
r~ j~ ~ 
'· 
,', 
,' .
.. 
I -Halle Kiefer
.\'•-•-•--•~•-•-•-·-•~· 
I . .
•A,,
s I thumbed through some old Scholastics ... well, ~. .· not actually thumbed, since aH my fingers snapped I · · offwhen I tried to· step outSide into the icy tundraTfor a cigarette last week. As I frost-bitten stumped through Tsome old Scholastics, I cai:ne upon an old advert addressing · 

• 
the very addiction that led to my affliction. It featured ~ one Mr. Larry Hagman, best-kriown for his work on "I I.Dream ofJeannie," and worst-known as a grinning shill Tfor the American Caricer Society. Quoth Scholastic in the rMay 1983 issue: , -.-.


. 
' 
~ '.'W/:Jenevery~ufeellike S11Z_<Jkin' a cigarette, insteadofstr{~~n' 
f itp a 111,atch, strike up the band-"-: the 'Larry Har;man Speczal .TStop Smokin' W~ist Snappi1z' Ref Rubber Band.' Get one free efromyour American CancerSocze-ty.'' .·. >
I , . . . , . , I 
T While this ad apparel).t:Jy was. written during the Pro­Tfoun~ly Unnecessary Abbreviation Craz~ of'83, I'm faidy • certam that nowadays, for the same pnce of the rubber · ~ bal).d(free), I can get the actual Larry Hagman to, come I to my house and slap me gently on the wrist whenever I Tfeellike it.To be fair, tl:iough, l;,llrry Hagman does t1:iat 
• nqw anyway, despite my repeated -though admittedly 
~ half-hearted _:_ attemptst~ get him to stop. How about [ i11stead ofstriking up the band, rstrike myself whenever! Tha:ve a:nimp:ure thought about Larry Hagman? Oh, right.TBecause there ain't (!nough rubber bands in the WORLD. TJust say no, kids. , ___ ­
• 
Iswear, her head was normal-sized when I got here.And she is not happy about it,at all.That bastard FatTuesday sure packs one mean, face-deforming punch. Happy Lent, everybody. 


. .· . .~.-:• 
i t ..·.·· ·Having hit the ha}l:with ·the'force'of a meteor plummeting · girljn question, foryo1¥:self. Cpnsidery~:mt}~lf}\'~l"Il,(!4/{ ( · /', 'from the stratosphere' irito i:he earth's' Sl_lrface, the vomitress ~;.; ~crearnsf-tthecroi<fiq~fi.ecab)"Beciuse.9Sj:>erceilfofth~1 ~.·.. : from earlier in the °'ight· ~woke' sofoetim~ later that'night to p~ople here are nerclpohi.h~ts likfyo~)'r L\ndsJ~Il}; i:li~ gppr.< 







l'i ~IE 
~l\ 
(Q\:\·' •o··... < ••·..· h, hello, dearfi~aders, yo.u'y~.Cat1ght thiGipper off 
.··u·a··.·.r.d.·.. H• .. · ..t·.·.tl ..... ·
·.•.··•··.··...·.·.-.·.· ·.··•.:.··g· ...·· e.·.·.·w···.a···s·····.·.ju.st·:·a.·.11.· ...·e··.· m.•.·. i5,.ty.·) r.e.i:n.. i···.n.•....is···.cingalre.ady
.. · .....· · · · . about the rum'-drenchedMard1 Gras so recently past, . ..· tl:ie cmly:d:0¼1po.int,of,whicµ:peingwlienGipp,_confusedby the . . . . sho.utsofdrunkenunderclassma11ani:lcrazed withhisape~like .. ...• lasdr1ationwit:4 sliinyobjects,1ifted his Htirb.cahe~soaked shirt ' 
..·.. • and revealed the. downy white, si:retdi~111arkid ·expanse··of his i ·. torso inth.e quest for b'eads. The image of weeping, trembling ; .. •·•:, .·. ibysfariders begging t:he 9ipper t9,forthel6veof God, put his · i ·.· ·.· .·.shirtbaclCon.is theonly.iliingthatwiH enableQipptojustbarely 
·... make it through the 16jong•.days lIDtilSti Patty'sday;· when 
./ , µmqserit,p~ssei-~-by ca#.once .~gai11:~uppiesstheir ·gag reflex at Jhe. sigtt 9fgreenh€!adss11adt!diI1(}ipp'slip:µriouspeltofbody hafr.To:ddeyo~: bver until i:liat:ilo.riou.s"Mf;: Gipp asks you to ple3.s~•·gatb,~r arounfl aridenjbyas,he Sllbmitsigryour. approval 
~< 
r .. • 
91fP){p)f~~'
. . . . ,' ' .. 
Having piled into acrnwded car, a group of friends: were joined by two othefgid~ on their way hollle to ' hClofiver R~dgeh,budt one ofthegirlsacc~dentallysl~rri111ed.·... ·•-.•· .. •. :. er nger mt e oor. . . ··• • ... << < _ -, ·_ l
Mistaking the gn;mp's laughter and general drnnken ·.. · reveling as being directed at; her friend's pain; the other girl.··. begins by.shrieking atone ofthe·g~ntlernengfth.e.grollpfor 
his apparent mockery ()fthe gfrrs grave finger i~jurf1-Vhi.cl1 she
claims to the cabbie is so.seveted1~t:_the fingernt!arly'1popped· 
off.". In order to cover upthe extrellle awkwardness oftl'legirls' : insanity, the gent riervously,contim1ed to. chor*. In.respo.11se : . 
to his chuckling, the friend takes a .wild. swing ,•:: and cra~¼:s _ -. ·{
the girl sitting next to him across the face. . . . __ .. :,. . _i· 1 However, not cont~_nt ;with simply physically as,saulting the:' _.,. · other passengers"'of i:lie cab, the girls then asserted. that they · · , . would be unable to speak to the guy in question b'efore he went:'' ' ,i 
tanning, implying, .of course, that the,pearly SouthBend slfeen, \:... · .J a person's skinmay acquire o-ver lllO~th after slciyd)l'.Il101Jth'isi': >:'( somehow inferior.to the fl~ky.coat()frnelan61?:asp9rtedpy~.sAy,·\:.:'·\.;,;, a .·gaunt harpy •.screeching.·from•. theJront:seatpfth(;Xrish.. Ca,b,.' ·' j•\· 
. This· line of reasoning so?n devolve? intOJhe' gitl shri.<::lting 
(: . the phrase·.. ''.Go·taimin.g!" over an.dfoyerf or~h~Jiest_qf the car /} ride, thusearninga placejn textpooksastheip.9sfµnstiID.fort-i able.·15 minutes in Indiana history. Th~ girls al~() cmmefthat 
.. they.would .sue. the.•·passeI1gets.. ofthe cab; while _oneclaitaj#g .. to. be a "Golden Gioves bqx~r'' pro~ised .tc{pµili:h.'ey€!ry' qth~r •;; . passenger•in..·the. fac.e;·••Repl~ce:~h.ejvord1,'.'~f~r';.-w,jtli?.i;.r:~zy ><· .. 1 drunken harridan/ ancl lllaybetheni:he,Gippei.c#imak.esqrile:::;F:••.••. 
0
. se!¥~e :r~tnt~:)sicpartof.this,·s~<>rytcim€!s,as'flie:fadi;s,.Kj\rikg).·•:·}(' arrived attheirde.st1nation,,turn•tpdfliver,theil'·p¥rting-,sl1o(at/, >.. ..• . the othet._fares:·."Do yquknov.r ivhyfali1,16,st didnTc9fh¢}j:e,i~?F .··•.•: the injured girlasked the slack-cjaied grdup·reiµ~}iiirlg/Fiie:gii{' · opens her iriou.thind:\:. .. ,, 
.wt~~t~1ritf\il~~f?i{lltlt!lftW:
.lowing passage, you will lose illresp.i~tfor lier, or,ifyqi/af~ the : 
. ·< \/j , 
.. :·i•.·•.•-·•.·.·.·.·...•··.··:..·.•.·.•.•.•.. .•.-·.·.·•:··.·..,~.•,·1l.·..
'1 
·,'_.NoroonifoHleverseguesthisweek,'astheGipper'wants'to' ',' :\·· .-'" . .-. -,, ',· ../·. /:J_.~:J;\ i
:~·t2ftdelti1/bout.ili"o7=,:.··•·he·~rT?.•..• ·. Ii..·•':; ~~rf,~1~:·.. .. ·•·i 
([! &holcuilicHumor · · ·· · ··•· ··· · · ·· 

'fhe Second Most-J/lamous 1?irgin on Campus 

• Halle Kiefer 
.. 
arlier this school year, Jan:
C
magazine published one reporter's 
hard-hitting article on how she put her internal strength and self-disci­pline to the test and abstained from sex for one entire month. By my personal calculations, I haven't been having sex for 261 months, or over 7,969 days and count­ing. Let's look at my journal to check how I've been handling this challenge: 
Day #1 
Am born. Somehow manage to write this journal entry. 
Day #3,841 
Stare straight ahead at the blackboard, 
.· .•·• 
withanycombinationofthephrases"pro­jectile vomit" and "public indecency." 
And that, I have a problem with. That and the sad fact that that once you get a few moni:hs under the Dome and a half a Nalgene of vodka under your belt, even the most steadfast of prudes starts showing a little T & A in the hopes of scaring up some significant cross-gender interaction. As a result of the limited dating options, your choice to keep the boulder over your love cave is always yours to make . . . up to a point. That point being when the only time you can talk to the opposite sex is three-sheets to 

··. ···paralyzed with confusion and fear when-·· the wind under strobe lights, mindlessly 
the school nurse explains how babies are made. Remain incredulous; hum the theme song from "Zoobilee Zoo" in . my head to drown out the informative 
video. 
Day #5, 782 
· For a second, th<;mghtl was in danger of 
· losing virginity. Realized that by "virgin­
ity," actually meant "will to go on." 
Today, in-between bouts of zealously 
scrubbing my genitals to a showroom 
sheen and lighting tapers to the patron 
saint of heavy petting, I'd like to take 
a moment to slide my torn and tattered 
V-Card out of my wallet and take a very 
long, very hard look at what it means to 
be a senior leaving the bubble while still 
pure as the driven snow. Technically 
speaking. 
I think one fairly common student 
attitude toward abstinence can be most 
accurately expressed in a quote from se­
nior virgin Matt Skinner, who notes, "I 
feel that it's empowering on this campus 
[to be a virgin], but once I graduate and 
get out in the real world, I'm going to feel 
like a huge loser." That. Is. Bleak. 
But like all the great irate virgins who 
came before me, I don't credit individual 
lame-itude or profound social awkward­
ness with my complete lack of booty. As 
you may have noticed, dear reader, it is 
practically canon law that the closest 
thing approximating a date on this cam­
pus is 20 minutes long and can usually be 
summed up the next day at the dining hall 
02 MARCH 2006 
grinding against any available biped (your roommate's boyfriend, your roommate, Sa_squatch, etc.), all the while unaware thatyou have just lost bladder·and/or bowel control. If one of two chokes for sexual expression available to many ND students is the type ofactwhich requires a three-way with Jack Daniels to get started and subsequently gets you reported to the Gipper and/or ResLife -the other being cold showers, vigorous calisthenics and flagellating yourself with a whip whenever Satan puts those evil urges inside you -it stands to reason that more people than usual would keep their legs firmly crossed, ifonly to preserve a teensy shred of their dignity. 
To frame my viewpoint with a histori­cal example, virginity by default is sort of like taxation without representation. Your taxes might by used to buy white pow­dered wigs for the poor, or wooden teeth for the blind, and so forth, and maybe you support those particular causes, but the fact remains that you aren't deciding where your doubloons, or whatever, are going. And then there's a king, and the analogy sort ofbreaks down at this point, but much the same way the colonists dumped tea into the harbor, so should the conscientious student resist the ... I don'i: know. 
On a side note, let me just say a little something about so-called "born-again virgins," because we have a few out there. You were born a virgin once. That 
time was when you actually were born. Whatever you chose to do after the fact,·, once you cross that sex bridge, there's no 
· going back. You're not a virgin again by abstaining from sex any more than I can be a born-again fourth grader by walk­ing around in jelly.sand·als and stirrup pants and peeing my pants at Hannah Gellman's birthday party again, despite what I kept screaming to Hannah from the back of that cop car. 
Bottom line, I'm not saying that every­one should heave sexual morality out the window (and here I know that sentence is going to be re-printed in the Rover with the word "not" taken out). Nor do I want to be the screeching harbinger of sexual conscience (author's note: yes, I do). But really, no one wants the only options for Domer-love to be blurry fornication or infinite onanism, despite the fact that both options would make incredibly kickass band names. So, while it's tempting while under the gaze ofOur Lady to claim that our unmentionables are simply being guarded by a powerful and vengeful God, we should in reality begrudgingly acknowledge that itis more complicated than all that. So, please, join me in celebrating all the spiritual member benefits our V-Cards provides us. For 0 
a: 
example, a reduced risk ofcatching pubic :) :!E lice. Or not roasting in the fires of Hell u :c 
5;
for all eternity. Well, at least until I get 
::i
a drink in me. ,t,; 0 :i: u 
V> 
35 ......... 

· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · @ Point/Coun~erpoint 

/COUNTERPOINT 
Does Notre Dame have a positive academic image? 

Carlier this year at Harvard University and the University ofPennsylvania, the student activities organizations' decision to fund explicit campus literary erotica magazines (ap­propriately called H-bomb and Quake, respectively, the latter being an homage to Penn's Quaker roots) raised very few eyebrows. At Northwestern Uni­versity in 2000, a student's attempt to form a white supremacist student group was met by a reasoned "standards and procedures" response on the part of the administration that included public forums to explore and deplore the ideas he wanted to champion. The point is this: To many at other uni­versities, Notre Dame's current raging debate over student academic freedom is considered. quaint. The. fact that this outrageous controversy has been precipitated by an annual perfor­mance of an award-winning play about women's sexuality is all the more curious to intellectual onlookers. The question ofrestricting student free speech begs the question: Why would a serious institute ofhigher learn­ing want to hinder any form of academic discourse organically created by the bright minds it has itself admitted? Catholic or not, Notre Dame stands to lose much in the way ofintellectual stature and prestige ifaca­demic freedom for students is notfully supported by the university at large. Scholarly institutions ofthe highest order recognize that reigning in academic discourse tragically stunts the vibrant and creative campus soul. These institutions recognize that academic freedom for all needs to be held sacred to preserve the bold, exploratory truth-seeking that makes a university great and a college experience valuable and formative. If Notre Dame chooses not to recognize this, it is likely that Harvard, Princeton and Yale will gladly accept the talented students, faculty and researchers who might oth­erwise be Irish at heart. @ st Saturday night I awoke bathed 
n sweat, as for the third time 
n a week I was haunted by the 
t g atthe "academic freedom" debate presently "raging" on campus heralded the apocalyptic end ofNotre Dame's academic credibility. Fortunately, my fears receded as my sobriety returned and I realized I was being an idiot. . 
You see, try as I might, I can't find an instance where the university has curtailed academic freedom. The "Vagina Mono­logues" were moved to.· a classroom, not banned. Ifthe play's message is as universal as its advocates would have us believe, I'm sure it will be able transcend the despotic 
walls of 101 DeBartolo; So in truth, the . 
perceived assault on academic freedom 
is bogus. The only real freedom that 
was lost during this whole process 
was my freedom not to have to listen to outraged liberal femi-doxies lament the : . oppression oftheir female parts. 
Now for some objectivity: That Notre Dameis willing !Oopen a: dialogue concern-_ ing academic freedom can only engender admiration and respect throughout the wider academic community. Balancing our Catholic identity with Ivy League caliber academics is anissue no other top-tier school faces. Ifthey are as intelligent as the Princ­eton Review claims, our peer academics will recognize the academic freedom debate as a concerted effort by Notre Dame to carry out an exacting reevaluation of its mission and values for the development and enrich­ment ofthe university. How can anyone not respect that?. @ . 
02 MARCH 2006 









