The Notre Dame Scholastic
261
C€HHIM
We have just finished playing a game of chess. In itself, our game was harmless and unimportant enough, but when we finished we were wondering about many things. And some of these things may, or may not, be worth while setting down.
However: doesn’t it seem to you that in the giant’s derby of modern life, many little pastimes, that have in them the seeds of rather great and majestic things, are slighted, passed by without even a glance?
Of course you may say that Stutzs and skyscrapers and shoutings leave no time for the “little things.” And yet, is it not the peppers and relishes that lend spice to the steak—even, possibly, bring out certain fine points of the steak that would otherwise go unnoticed—and untasted?
Well: at this moment, over in Germany, two gentlemen with the somewhat mouth-stopping names of Alekhine and Bogoljubow are engaged in a match for the chess championship of the world. Alekhine, a cold, logical player, is leading his romantic, daring opponent by a score of ten to five.
Alekhine thinks out his combinations in ice, ice that will not readily melt when struck with heat. His opponent figures in high, many times impractical, but at the same time beautiful, combinations. And the white and black pieces, carven out of elephant tusk, move frigidly and dance warmly over the board.
So: right here, it strikes us, we have a parallel with Life itself. How many move through their days as icebergs coldly calculatingly move on the sea. Usually they “get some place”; but then-!?
And then there are those who wing their way through Life, breaking their wings, every other moment, on some barge of ice.
But somehow they always manage to find new wings—and the word “angel,” no matter how inappropriate here, can’t help coming into our mind!
Usually this kind of person is not what would be called, generally, a success. But there are Morgans and Rockefellers and Baron Rothsteins in the kingdom of . . .
Awareness!
Glre
No^re Dame Scholas^ ic
Disee- Quasi-3empeT-Vic'Supus-Vlve'-Quasi-Cras-MorituTiis
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel...... Thomas A. Cannon.. J. Archer Hurley.... Walter Langford_____ Joel Egerer_________ Ramon G. Smith...... Alfred E. Gall......
........Managing.Editor Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor ........The	Week ........The College Parade ........Music and Drama ........Campus.Clubs
.. .Script Features
Editor
Editor
Paul J.
Hallinan
NEWS STAFF
James J. Kearney
James Collins Howard Webster
John Bergan, News Editor Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor Harry' A. Sylvester
William J. Magarbal, Interhall Sports Editor
Henry B. Asman
James McFeeley
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington
Chester M.
J. Noon
Local Circulation
Ashman. .Foreign Circulation
Frederick N. Davis......Local Advertising
James L. Rizer........Foreign Advertising
... .Editor-in-Chiej Graduate Manager
George Allan John Morz Leslie Radoatz Edward Connors
Manager Manager Manager Manager
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
VOL. LXIII.
NOVEMBER 15, 1929.
No. 9.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week—Archer Hurley--------------------:----------
Coming Events________________________________________ N. D.-U. S. C. Officials Make Statements on Game—Neil C. Hurley Our Guest—U. S. C.—John E. Bergan____________________ U. S.’C. Sports Editor Traces Rivalry—Joe Clarke_____ A Man About the Campus—Emil L. Telfel________________ Campus Clubs—Ramon Smith_____________________________ College Parade—Walter Langford_______________________ Editor’s Page________________________________________ The Wink_____________________________________________
262
263
266
268
269
272
273
275
276
N. D. Battles to Beat Drake—John A. Kiener.
Splinters From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr—
On Down the Line--------------------------
277
283
288
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of AU Notre Dame Men

M EN have been pulled out of your bed who get up for no bell now. Students, who have sat in our old chairs, and talked the same things we discuss, are silent now. The battered washstand in the far corner of your room has hidden the sputtering face of a student who studies no more. Men whose room we have, whose dreams we share, and whose laughs we echo, are men among hero dead of Notre Dame. Wrapped in flags, they now lie in the fields of Flanders.
RT as we know it here is art. In some places art can be anything from problems in geometry to delirium tremens. A modernistic painting, The Fossil Hunters, was entered in an art exhibit at New York last week. After the judges had carefully studied the cubistic monstrosity, they conceded it the second prize of five-hundred dollars. Later it was discovered that the picture was hung wrong side up. The fossil hunters were standing on their triangular heads. But the critics who pretend to criticize modernistic art, and the artists who believe that such geometrical nightmare can be self-expression are in even a more unbalanced position. Modernistic art cannot be blamed for being turned, rather it is the modem mind that is twisted. A painting of something as odd as a morbid fossil hunter can have artistic value if we can see the hunter as a man, and his surroundings as fossilized. But when we are shown a jumble of cubes, circles, crescents, and crochet needles, and told that this represents a fossil hunter hot on the trail of Pithecanthropus Erectus we appeal to a policeman. For the law seems to be the only modern, human institution that can enforce its first principles with a big stick.
M XAMINATIONS have passed. According to prevailing superstition, tests are given to find out what we know and what we don’t know. Above all, they should he given to find out what we are capable of knowing. Modern education, like any number of other things essentially modem, has one failing—it keeps us from being educated. It develops personnels, not personalities. You have often heard, perhaps even said, “Why take an Arts and Letters course at college? What can you do when you get out?” The answer is, “What can’t you do ?” A liberally educated man leaves the campus without a ball and chain, for some forms of education are like the forging of a chain. The links in this chain are college' courses—those known as practical or professional. And when such a chain is cast it binds a man to his necessities. The ball on your chain may be an executive’s desk, an operating table, or a juror’s bench. These things are all good, but the truth is,
you can’t escape them! The liberally educated man may leave school without prospects of a job, he usually does, but he has one great consolation. He knows that the things he has studied are old. As old as the Sphinx, some of them, and all of them older than eugenics. An old things, though mouldy, are never in danger of being fads.
vj OE MCNAMARA, who enjoys the fourfold blessing of being Irish, a lawyer, a humorist, and a friend of mine, had his play, Kick Off, produced at Keith’s in Indianapolis this week. Joe, who -was last year’s Funny Fellow, left his campus throne to John Nanovic, though the wholehearted reception accorded to Kick Off proves that his cap and bells are still tinkling.
| IRE has more than one kind of warmth for man. Fagans burnt their sacrifices, the Vestals lived only to keep a flame eternal, and the Church has the sanctuary lamp. Man’s emotions are quickened by the flicker of flame. The bon-fire ripping the darkness with rifts of flame at the pep meeting Thursday was more than a burning heap of odds and ends It was a monument to the sportsmanship that marks the fame of Notre Dame.
ICHIGAN Boulevard has resounded to the tramp of Notre Dame’s legion of followers quite frequently this year, and tomorrow Soldiers’ Field will again witness the spirit that is spirited in either victory or defeat. Dan Barton and Jerry Parker, cheer" leaders and good fellows, have done good work; tomorrow will see them in one final contorted effort to make Notre Dame cheering as famed as Notre Dame playing. And as'we march out of Soldiers’ Field, and down the boulevard, let’s do it knowing that our throats have done their lustiest to add to the mighty din.
GROUP of students have recently recognized themselves and one another as being members of a select and honorable student society. The club is select in that its fellows include only members of that race known as human beings, and in that once a member, always a member. It is an honorary society because every member of the club is honorable enough to admit that he owes money to every other member. The fundamental difference between this organization and other honorary student societies is that the'members believe that a yawn is not the only true sign of intelligence;
The Notre Dame Scholastic
263
♦ ♦ 4 ❖
II Coining Events II
FRIDAY, November 15—Scholastic Editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main building, 7:00 p. m. — Movies, “Difficulties Made Easy,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Glee Club Concert over NBC chain from KYW, Chicago, 9:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, November 16—Classes excused.—Football, Notre Dame vs. Southern California at Soldier’s Field, Chicago, 2:00 p. m.—Chicago Club’s Notre Dame-Southern California Banquet, Main Dining room, Hotel Stevens, 7:00 p. m.—Victory Dance, Hotel Stevens, 9:30 p. m.— Cross Country, Central Intercollegiate meet, Lansing, Mich.
SUNDAY, November 17 — Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00; High Mass at 9:00 a. m.; Benediction at 7:30 p. m.—Masses, St. Mary’s Church, Ninth and Wabash, Chicago, 6:00 until 12:00.
MONDAY, November 18—A. I. E. E. meeting, Engineers’ room, Badin Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Meeting of the Business Board of the Dome, Law building, 6:40 p. m.—Meeting of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Engineers’ Club, Lay Faculty Dining room, 8 p. m.
TUESDAY, November 19—Glee Club Smoker, Music Hall, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, November 20—Rocky Mountain Club meeting, first floor Court Room, Law building, 6:45 p. m.
FRIDAY, November 22—Scholastic Editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main building, 7 p. m.
GLEE CLUB TO BROADCAST TONIGHT
Thirty members of the varsity glee club of the University, will leave this afternoon at four o’clock for Chicago, where they will broadcast tonight over the National Broadcasting Company hook-up during the “Armour Hour.” The club will be on the air from 9 until 9:30 when the glee club and band of the University of Southern California will broadcast over the same hook-up for the next half hour.
Among the songs which the glee
club will sing tonight are two of the most famous of the Trojan school; they are “Fight On,” and “The Cardinal and Gold.” The three principal Notre Dame songs will be sung, as well as many others. KYW is the Chicago station broadcasting the ’ concert.
The men chosen by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the glee club, to make the trip are:
First Tenori: Andrew Hayes, Ronald Zudeck, Thomas Kerrigan, Frank O’Neil, Jim Collins, Arthur Glasow, Francis Staudt and Herman Ziffrin.
Second Tenori: William McAleer, Zeno Staudt, Donald O’Toole, Herbert Petzel, Gil Kirwan, John Beljon, Jerome Parker, and Jerome Crowley.
Baritones: Jerry Reidy, Joseph Butler, Morton Goodman, Al Welzen-bach, Robert Alge, Gordon Salmon, and Harry Merdzinski.
Basses: Alfred Stepan, Ed Phelan, David Barry, Charles Ziliak, W. A. Nehrling, Rudolph Sturm, and Francis Coogan.
NOTRE DAME “LAWYER” MAKES APPEARANCE
The Notre Dame Lawyer, under the editorship of Francis T. Ready, recently made its first appearance on the campus for this year. It is a 52 page book containing many interesting and excellent articles. Clarence Ruddy, the first editor of the Laivyer who is now practicing law in Aurora, Ill., wrote the first article entitled “Lawyers and the Flowing Bowl.” This is a rollicking, breezy article that shows how lawyers from time immemorial have ben noted for their conviviality and spirit of good fellowship. Raymond Young, a senior in the College of Law, has a well written article on the technical subject of the principles governing the distinction between conditional sales and chattel mortgages. The bad effects of the many technical loopholes in American criminal procedure is considered by Larry O’Connor. William Konop writes of the capacity of an infant to acquire an independent domicile. The remaining portion of the Lawyer is devoted to a citing and discussion of recent cases having bearing on important subjects. These cases are well handled and of considerable interest. The editor, Francis T. Ready, is to be complimented on his work. Under his editorship the magazine is making great forward strides.
S. A. C. GIVES PLANS FOR STUDENT TRIP TO
CHICAGO
The Student Activities Council, through the courtesy of the Faculty Board of Control, announces that the student trip to the Notre DameSouthern California game will officially begin at 8:00 tomorrow morning when the first Student Special leave the South Shore Station in South Bend. Other trains will leave every half hour thereafter up until 12:00. The return trip to South Bend can be made on any regular South Shore train leaving Chicago Saturday night.
The game, which will be played on Soldier Field, Grant Park, will start at 2:00 o’clock. The gates to the field will be open at 12:00 o’clock. Spectators at the game tomorrow will be required to show their tickets at the entrance to the field.
Busses marked “Soldiers’ Field” moving south on Michigan boulevard furnish one of the best means of transportation from the loop to the stadium.
Railroad tickets, game tickets, and athletic books must be shown to the rectors of the respective halls before permission will be granted for any student to attend the game.
DR. ARNOLD ZIMMERMAN LECTURES TO ACADEMY
OF SCIENCE
At the first open meeting of the Academy of Science held this year, Dr. Arnold Zimmerman gave an illustrated lecture on “Gastric and Intestinal Peristalsis.” Dr. Zimmerman was born in Geneva, Switzerland, and is at present Professor of Anatomy at the Illinois Medical School. He has studied in many universities abroad and has done important research in Physiology, at the Mayo Clinic at Rochester, Minn.
In his lecture the Doctor explained the various forms of peristalic motion found in the intestinal tract of animals telling how each motion is brought about and the origin of the nervous impulses directing them. Moving pictures were shown which illustrated very clearly the different points in the lecture. These pictures were taken at the Mayo Clinic and are the first of their kind ever successfully attempted.
The lecture was considered quite entertaining and instructive both by Science and’ Art students.
264
The Notre Dame Scholastic
1930 “DOME” NOW WELL UNDER WAY
Under the able direction of Mr. Robert Pendergast the work on the Dome is now under way. All of the art work has been finished. The drawings in color and the scenes have been chosen for the opening section. The cover design has been selected. A greater number of pages has been allotted to the art work sections than has been given to this feature in former Domes. The art work and the arrangement of the sections in the Dome this year are the finest yet seen in western college year-books.
The photographer will soon return to Notre Dame to take the pictures of the juniors and seniors who have as yet escaped the camera. He will be at the same place as formerly. Group pictures of the various halls are being taken this week. The students who are competing for the prize to be given to the man who sends in the best snap-shot of Notre Dame campus life and student activities should send in their offerings to Robert Pendergast, 339 Badin Hall.
Plans have been made for one of the greatest subscription campaigns in the history of the school. Students interested in writing novelties or satirical papers for the Dome should' send in their manuscripts to the editor in Badin .Hall as soon as possible. The close of the semester is the “dead-line” on all material for the Dome.
SERIES OF FEATURE ARTICLES TO APPEAR IN “SCHOLASTIC”
How the “Victory March” came to be the traditional chant of Notre Dame men, how much the statue on the Dome weighs, the real story of the Vengeance Tree, what caused the “Big Fire” of 1879, what the rules were like fifty years ago—these are a few of the points about which feature articles will be written during' the coming year. More than twenty articles will appear in the Scholastic this year, according to the plans of the feature editor and his assistants.
Each of the halls will be reviewed, somewhat in the manner' of College Humor’s stories on American universities. Sorin, Corby, Howard, Morrissey, St. Edward’s, Freshman and Sophomore will pass in review before the Scholastics feature stand. Cuts are now being dug out of dusty Ave Maria Sies for use in this
series, rvhich will begin after Christmas.
Next week Alfred E. Gall, who wrote the story of Cartier Field several weeks ago, will tell of the University Gymnasium—home of basketball and track stars for scores of years. Following that, Army games of past years will be re-told: about the time Rockne and Dorais introduced the forward pass to the East, about the war-time team, and about the Niemiec-to-O’Brien pass that won last year’s Army game.
FRESHMEN NOMINATE OFFICERS
The Freshmen held their first class meeting in the gymnasium last Friday, November 8, for the purpose of nominating class officers. The following students were nominated: for President, William Hanifan of Brownson Hall and Jack Duffy of Howard Hall; for Vice-President, Frederick Curran of Carroll Hall was elected unanimously; for Secretary, Thomas Griffin of Carroll and William Brady of Howard; for Treasurer, John Quinn of Carroll and William Scully of Howard. The actual election was scheduled to take place Thursday afternoon in the gymnasium. Ballots are to be prepared containing the names of the various candidates.
The Freshman President holds his office until a new class head is elected in the following year; and he is also made a member of the Student Activities Council.
SPECTATORS ANNOUNCE
ELECTION OF NEW
MEMBERS
The Spectators Club announces the election of the following members: John Hickey, a junior* in the College of Arts and Letters; Edward D. Connor, a freshman in the College of Law, and Thaddeus Xelowski, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. By reason of varied interests and activities these students have proved not only their interest in the aims of the club, but also their ability to take an active part in the discussions.
Applications were received from fifteen students, but because of a limited membership in the club, only three could be selected. Many of the others would have made very desirable members. It is suggested that these men again turn in their applications at the annual spring election,
when the vacancies of graduating seniors may be filled for the follow
ing year.
Louis L. Hasley is president of the Spectators and Robert M. Dinkel is secretary. The total membership of the club is now sixteen.
SOPHOMORE HALL PLAN-
NING A BIG YEAR
Sophomore Hall has none of the prized old traditions of which other halls boast, but of late years her men have made enviable records in various fields. Consequently, this year’s residents are faced with. the task of carrying on the work of the preceding classes; they are doing it well enough to venture a prediction that this will be Sophomore Hall’s greatest of years.
Speaking of his charges, Reverend John Margraf, C.S.C., the new rector, says: “I am well pleased -with the group we have in the Hall this term. They have taken a keen interest in inter-hall competition; they have won the football championship of their division, and have tied for first honors in cross-country. I find them supporting every activity enthusiastically, as their response to the S. A. C. stunt program will testify. On the whole, it seems that Sophomore Hall will have a fine year.”
Reverend Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who has been at Sophomore Hall for the past two terms, expressed his opinion that the present tenants would equal, if not surpass, the excellent showings of othei* years.
The school year has scarcely begun, it must be remembered. With basketball and baseball seasons yet to come, Sophomore Hall will be in a position to turn out athletes to follow the lead of Mullins and Carideo; scholars and writers will have their chance to equal the performances of famous Sophomore Hall men. From all indications, Sophomore Hall will have a record year.
• NOTICE!
Material for the new literary publication, including essays, short stories, one act plays, and criticisms should be given to Louis Heitger, chairman of the new quarterly magazine, in Walsh Hall. Work on the magazine is advancing at a rapid rate; the first issue will appear two weeks from next Tuesday.
«-----------------------------❖
The Notre Dame Schola
Clarence Manion Addresses K. of C.
Lecturer Francis McGreal could not- have chosen a more capable and better fitted speaker to address the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus at their regular meeting held last Monday, Armistice Day, than Professor Clarence Manion. Pro-
Professor Clarence Manion
fessor Manion on this occasion possessed all his usual powers of oratory, and besides these extrinsic capabilities he had good insight into the subject matter- of his discussion. His knowledge of the war came to him not by mere I, hearsay but by actual experience, and he knew full well the part that the . national organization of the Knights of Columbus played during the great , war, for he was actively engaged as ! one of the first secretaries in the t Knights of Columbus war work. ' During the course of his stirring V address he pointed out that the war I has been too readily forgotten just because a “lobby” was not being paid i for remembering the horrid scenes enacted during the World War, and ft
FRANK HERING IS HONOR GUEST AT DINNER
Frank E. Hering, noted alumnus of Notre Dame, captain and quarterback of the football team of ’97, and first football coach at the University, was honored at a dinner in the Hotel Oliver last evening. The occasion of the dinner was the conferring of a decoration on Mr. Hering by the War Mothers of America. This was in recognition of Mr. Hering’s being the first sponsor of a nation-wide Moth
the soldiers who fought in it. In concluding, the speaker of the evening stressed patriotism which was not out of order for it is one of the four underlying principles of the Knights of Columbus. The applause which greeted Prof. Manion’s talk conclusively proved to Frank McGreal, lecturer, that he had not made any mistake in choosing Professor Clarence Manion to be the speaker of the evening on Armistice Day.
Following the principal speaker, the Reverend John McNamara, Chaplain of the Notre Dame Club of New York, spoke on remembrances of his years spent at Notre Dame.
At this meeting the Notre Dame Council inaugurated a new plan whereby they will be the hosts of divers campus clubs throughout the coming year. The club thus honored as its guest last Monday night was the Kentucky Club, which turned out in full force to hear its favorite son, Professor Clarence Manion speak on “Remembering What We Have Forgotten.”
During the course of the business part of the meeting Grand Knight Chevigny announced that the first class of candidates would be initiated into the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus on Sunday, December 8. Malcom McVean, a member of the membership committee, was thrice complimented by the Grand Knight on his exceedingly active work in the advancement of this coming class. The number of his applications nearly doubles those of his nearest competitor. •
Further entertainment for the meeting was furnished by Jerry Roach, whose rendition of the Rosary was exceptionally well received, and five members of the Notre Dame Jugglers including John Beljon’s Madcap Trio. -----------------------------------
er’s Day. The War Mothers, having made a thorough inquiry, publicly proclaimed at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Washington, on May 10, 1925, that this honor belonged to Mr. Hering.
Mr. Hering was originally to have received the decoration, along with General Summerall and Admiral Koontz, at the National Convention of War Mothers held in Louisville last September. He was, however, unable to attend the convention, so
tic	265
the presentation was delayed until last evening. There is a special significance and honor attached to the decoration since Mr. Hering is the first civilian to receive it.
Mrs. Mary E. Spence of Milwaukee, Past National President of the War Mothers of America, made the presentation. Mr. S. B. Pettigill was toastmaster, and among the speakers were Mrs. Margaret McCluer of Kansas City, Past National President; Mrs. Virgil McClure of Lexington, Kentucky, National President; Reverend Elmer Ward Cole, Hon. E. F. Seebirt, Rabbi William M. Stern, Dr. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C.
A. I. E. E. AND ENGINEER’S CLUB TO HOLD JOINT
' MEETING
The Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Engineers’ Club announce that for the first time in the history of the organizations a joint meeting will be held in the Lay Faculty Dining Room, next Monday evening at 8:00 p. m.
The occasion of the. meeting will be that of a visit to the campus of a group of high officials of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. In attendance will be the Chief Transmission Engineer of the company who will present the principal talk of the evening—“The National Broadcast Chains”—an illustrated explanation of the manner in which national programs are made possible.
The Director of Personnel Work and the Superintendent of plants of the Detroit office, and the Plant Superintendent of the Cleveland office, as well as a large group of prominent telephone officials of the St. Joseph Valley will also be present.
CHARLES PHILLIPS EDITING NEW BOOK OF POEMS
A volume of poems edited by Professor Charles Phillips of the English department is announced for publication this month by Houghton, Mifflin & Co., Boston. The book, entitled “Wings of Sunset,” is the posthumous work of the California poet, Ina Coolbrith, who in years gone by had many associations with Notre Dame through her friendship with Charles Warren Stoddard and the Reverend Daniel E. Hudson, C.S C. Professor Phillips, who edited and arranged the collection, is also author of the memoir which prefaces the volume.
266
The Notre Dame Scholastic
^Welcome Southern California!
Knute K. Rockne
Head Coach, Notre Dame
Institutions are known by their products. The products of the University of California, since the time it was founded, have been the finest of the fine—great in athletics, science, culture, and citizenship.
We feel particularly honored to be able to play the representatives of the gj uuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiuiiiiiuiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinmiiiiiiuuuiiiij^ | “VICTORY MARCH” I
e Cheer, cheer, for old Notre e
1 Dame,	i
= Wake up the echoes cheer- 1 | ing her name;	i
e	Send a	volley cheer on |
e	high,	|
= Shake doivn the thunder = i	from	the sky.	i
= What though the odds be | |	great	or small	i
| Old Notre Dame will win i e over all,	i
i While her loyal sons go e | marching	e
| Onward to victory.	|
University of California tomorrow’ afternoon. It is my sincere -wish that these games -will continue through the years and become a tradition.
Knute K. Rockne.
The members of the Notre Dame football team have always entertained the greatest respect and highest regard for Southern California. Clean playing and utmost good feeling have always characterized our gridiron tilts. In the name of the team I extend a' warm welcome to our Western visitors.
John Law,
Captain, 1929 Notre Dame Football Team.
Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
President, Notre Dame University
Notre Dame is happy to be host to the football team of the University of Southern California. Our only regret is that wTe cannot actually receive these “strangers” within our gates. This regret, however, is tempered by the reflection that the City of Chicago, -where the game is to be played, and, indeed, the entire Middle West, join with ours their hospitable greeting to these young gentlmen from the Coast in a spirit of general amity that is truly American.
Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.,
President. Nov. 12, 1929.
John Law Captain, Notre Dame Football Team
QuilUIIMIItllllllUIIIIUI.tllllllUlllllll.lull11 UI 11
| “CARDINAL AND !
|	GOLD”	j
= And- when Old Trojan’s = 1	men fall into line,	i
| And the Cardinal and Gold j
I	is unfurled,	i
I And when our team goes e |	smashing down the field	e
e As our men into the fray i e are hurled;	h
e And then our foes will feel | the Trojan’s might e
| And the courage of our i | warriors bold.	e
e For with every heart and I e hand	I
| We ivill fight as one strong j
I band	i
I At the sign of Cardinal and I
I Gold.	[
[■JiiiiuiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiutiiiiuiiuiuiiiiuuiuiHiuiunitur^
The Notre Dame Scholastic
267
Greetings S^Cotre ^ame!
Howard Jones
Head Coach, University of Southern California
It is indeed thoughtful of the Notre Dame Scholastic staff to inscribe an issue to the University of Southern California, a friend and a rival 2000 miles away.
Because of the high calibre of Notre Dame sportsmanship, it is always a pleasure to have your team on our football schedule and we look upon our annual game as a contest with a competitor of high character as well as top-notch ability.
The intersectional games between the University of Notre Dame and the University of Southern California have been successful in arousing the mutual respect of the midwest and far west in each other’s sportsmanship and skill on the gridiron, and as long as such contests played by the Trojans and the Irish are staged, football will live as the king of collegiate sports in which friendship and mutual admiration are fostered by the clean playing of a hard game.
Sincerely yours, Howard Jones.
Nate Barrager
Captain, Football Team of Southern California
1	STARTING LINE-UPS	I
I	NOTRE DAME	U. S. C.	|
E No. Player	Pos.	Player No. 5
1	17	COLRICK______________L.E.R____________ARBELBIDE	44	S
1	35	LEAHY _______________L.T.R_____________ ANTHONY	29
I	19	CANNON_______________L.G.R____________ GALLOWAY	2S	1
1	7	MOYNIHAN_____________„C_____________________DYE	48	1
i 44 LAW ___________________R.G.L_______BARRAGER (c) 25 E
I	41	TWOMEY ______________R.T.L_________________HOFF	10	1
!	33	VEZIE _______________R.F.L_____________ TAPPAAN	11	1
E	24	CARIDEO _______________Q______________ SAUNDERS	15	e
E	84	ELDER_______________-L.H.R____________ PINCKERT	17	1
E	12	BRILL _______________R.H.L_____________ EDELSON	24	5
i	21	MULLINS ______________ F________________ MUSICK	35	|
5	Notre Dame—Kenneally (2), E. Murphy (3), Metzger (4), Koken =
E	(5), Christman (9), Gebert (10), T. Murphy (11), McNamara	(15),	E
E	Vik (16), M. Schwartz (18), Howard (20), Locke (22), Kaplan	(23),	E
E	O’Connor (25), Shay (26), Collins (27), Massey (28), Conley	(30),	E
E	Kerjes (31), B. Leahy (32), Thornton (34), Herwit (37), Bondi	(40),	=
i	Provissiero 42, Culver (46), O’Brien (47), Zoss (50), Kremer	(53),	e
E	Savoldi (54), Nash (60), Keeney (62), Yarr (63), McManmon	(66),	£
E	C. Schwartz (67), Whelan (72), Donoghue (75), Kassis (77),	Bailie	E
E	(78), Cavanaugh (80), Carmody (83).	=
E Southern California—Seitz (1), Duffield (2), Mortensen (3), E E	Chambers (4), Brown (5), Sheffer (6), Gowder- (7), Kemp (8), T.	j
=	Wilcox (9), Steponivitch (12), Stephens (13), Bond (14), Templeton	e
E	(16), Krieger (19), Hill (20), Moses (21), Shaver (22), Mallory	e
E	(23), Hammack (26), Apsit (27), Bakei- (30), Truher (31), Thiede	E
I	(32), Hall (33), Whittier (34), Shaw (35), R. Wilcox (37), Jurich	E
|	(38), Winfield (39), Hirsch (40), Ward (41), Duranian (42), Durkee	i
E	(43), Mason (45), Decker (46), Williamson (47), Joslin (49), Becker	;
E (50), Berry (51).	E
I am indeed pleased, in the name of the Southern California football team, to send greetings to our opponents in the game on Saturday at Soldiers’ Field. The members of our squad have always held Notre Dame elevens in the highest respect and regard, so that I feel that it will be an honor if our team should leave the field the victor.
Nate Barrager,
Captain of the Southern California football team.
I am very happy to bring this word of greeting to the faculty and students of Notre Dame University through “The Scholastic,’’ and to express my appreciation for the cordial relations that have existed between the two universities. Every football game is a hard fought • contest and one that appeals to all true sportsmen. I am sorry that I shall be unable to attend the game this year* but I am sure it will be on the high plane that has characterized the former meetings. With every good wish, I am
Faithfully yours,
R. B. von KleinSmid, President, Univ, of South. Cal.
268
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Our Guest—The University of Southern California
AS universities go, the University of Southern California is comparatively of more recent growth than Notre Dame. Founded in 1879 at Los Angeles, by Methodists who felt that the interests of Christian education in California would be furthered by the establishment of an institution for higher learning, its first building was erected in 1880. In October of the same year the institution was formally opened for the reception of students and the work of instruction was begun.
The campus is situated about three miles southwest of the business section of Los Angeles, in one of the most beautiful and rapidly growing sections of the western metropolis. Los Angeles, with its population of over a million, representing citizens of every state in the Union, as well as from foreign lands, is strategically an ideal location for a great institution like the University of California. Not only is the salubrious climate of the greatest advantage in helping this great western university maintain a high standard of physical health and well-being for its students; but its fine reputation for learning and its ideal location, and its policy of opening its doors to all students of good moral character and proper educational qualifications, regardless of religious belief, have combined to make it, in truth, measure up to the best ideals of a university, and while maintaining its intellectual lead, produce some of the best all around athletes in the country.
Of course an ideal location and a splendid faculty alone could not attract students. The climate of Los Angeles is such that many more tourists from every quarter, come to spend part of each year there, or to make Los Angeles their permanent home. Four transcontinental lines have their terminals at Los Angeles, making it the great railroad center of the Pacific Coast. A network of electrical roads and motor bus trans
portation lines connects Los Angeles with its suburbs and towns and cities farther north, south and inland. It is known as the Convention City of the West because each year brings large bodies of people to Los Angeles for the discussion of every kind of politics, religion and the humanities. Hollywood, the nation’s motion picture capital, is a Los Angeles suburb. Churches of every denomination, with their services to one’s spiritual needs, appeal to every diverse shade of religious belief. The result is that the University of Southern California, aside from its many regular and special educational courses, affords unexcelled advantages for the study of politics, commerce, sociology, the drama, and kindred subjects at first hand. The University is coeducational, and the diverse viewpoints of the various groups of students in the different schools and colleges makes this association an important cultural factor in their lives.
Then, too, there is the indirect, because un-analyzable, influence of the gloriously equable California climate. During the war it was discovered by the Government that the young men from the West Coast, particularly from the colleges and universities, graded higher, as to height and health and general intelligence, than any others. Dr. Annie Besant, noted Theosophist, whose cult has large establishments in California, is authority for the statement that in California a “new race” is coming into being, intellectually and physically beyond that residing inland and on the Atlantic seaboard. Dismiss these facts as accidental or not, the fact remains that the University of California has attained a pre-eminence in student accomplishment, in every field of athletic endeavor, which has made it the envy of older and numerically larger and richer universities.
The campus of the University of Southern California is located in close proximity to Exposition Park, Los Angeles, on which more than $1,-
000,000 has been expended in erecting and equipping buildings and beautifying the grounds. The State Building contains exhibits of the products, mineral and vegetable, of the various counties of the State. The Museum of History, Science and Art contains the valuable collections of the Historical Society of California, The Academy of Science, The Cooper Ornithological Society, The Fine Arts League of Los Angeles, and numerous private collections.	"
. The new Law School makes the thirteenth building on the campus. The college buildings are accessible by the main boulevard routes in Los Angeles, and by the West Jefferson Street, the University and the Pacific Electric Line.
The fifty-five acres of the park athletic grounds, with the newly completed Stadium seating 84,000, are available and afford ample facilities for all outdoor sports. Recognizing that physical training is both hygienic and educative, the faculty encourages every reasonable effort in the direction of physical development, and requires that each student upon entering undergo a thorough physical examination. Heart, lungs, sight and hearing are examined; advice given in the case of under-development or toward the correction of minor deformities, and suggestions given regarding individual exercise.
All athletic and team contests are under the close supervision of the Director, and any student desiring to enter the athletic intercollegiate contests must be not only physically fit, but must have attained a certain standard of scholarship before he will be allowed to participate.
There is merit in contests where the student athletes of one college face those of another. Win or lose, the struggle is. the thing, and the fine spirit of American sportsmanship prevails, adding year by year, something to carry forward into the great, fine, inspiring body of American collegiate tradition.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
269
“DAILY TROJAN” WRITER
TRACES N. D.-S.C. RIVALRY
By Joe Clarke, Sports Editor, The Daily Trojan
(As written for the Notre Dame Scholastic.)
The friendly rivalry that exists between Notre and Southern California started in the fall of 1926, when the Ramblers traveled to the land of sunshine to meet the Sons of Troy at the Los Angeles Coliseum. Notre Dame won that game, and through their clean play and great sportsmanship, a spirit of friendliness and understanding sprang up between the two universities, such as is seldom seen, when' the student bodies are two thousand miles apart.
The rivalry is not all with the teams, or the students. The brains behind the teams are also rivals for grid supremacy in the coaching field. The first meeting of Jones and Rockne was back in 1921, when the Iowa Comhuskers kicked the dope bucket into the next state by unsetting Notre Dame 10-7. Aubrey Devine was the captain and quarter back of the Iowa team. This game goes down in Howard Jones’ diary as one of his greatest victories.
With the signing of Jones as head grid coach at Southern California, a new page in football history was started, and after looking over the material during the first year, he asked for an intersectional contest with Notre Dame, and so the first game was played in the Coliseum. It was in this game, that the foxy Knute Rockne put little Parisien in at the half, and one of his left handed passes caught the Trojan secondary defense asleep and the game was won. This tied the rivalry between Jones and Rockne up tighter yet. The score of this game was 13-12. After this close battle, the east and middle west began to realize that the far west could produce teams that ranked with any of them.
In the return game played in 1927 at Soldiers’ Field before 117,000 milling and jamming fans, Rockne sprang into the lead and won again by a 7-6 score. The only excuse the Trojans had for this defeat was the
muddy field, something upknown in Los Angeles. These two intersectional contests cemented the greatest athletic friendship of recent years between the schools, and another game was requested, so both universities signed on the dotted line to meet again. This time it was to be in Los Angeles again.
It was a hot fall day, and the Coliseum was packed to capacity plus. Southern California had defeated all comers and was hailed as the greatest team on ; the coast. Although the Ramblers had had only a mediocre season, still the intense rivalry between the two teams spurred them on and the game took on a national aspect.
It was a Southern California day, and the Trojans walked off the field on the top side of a 27-14 score. .They were entirely happy, for they had defeated Notre Dame for the first time, and incidentally had again tied the coaches wins at two all.
The game was a complete success, and another was the cry beard throughout the country, so again the Mighty Ramblers of South Bend, and the Thundering Herd of Los Angeles, will do battle on the scarred ground of Soldiers’ Field in Chicago. Notre Dame will enter the game as favorites due to its clean slate, while S. C. has dropped one game, that to the powerful California aggregation who knocked Pennsylvania over in the earlier part of the season. Once more Rockne and Jones will match wits and again tens of thousands of spectators will watch the warriors battle for intersectional supremacy. The outcome will only be determined after the last whistle has blown and the fourth game between the great middle western university and the pride of Southern California has been put down in the grid books as finished.
We of Southern California are proud to be the only western university on Notre Dame’s schedule, and we feel that to be there shows that you respect our power. Our relations have always been of the highest grade, and it is the sincere hope of all Trojans that these annual battles between our universities will continue.
NOTRE DAME HAS WON TWO OF GAMES
WITH U. S. C.
The fourth annual contest with the University of Southern California will be played tomorrow on Soldiers' Field, and Notre Dame will be attempting to chalk up its third victory in the series.
Ever since 1926 Notre Dame has had the great privilege to play this consistently fine team from the west coast. The first two games the Fighting Irish took by close margins; the third, last season, was won by Southern California’s powerful team.
Perhaps the most interesting, exciting and thrilling game ever played by a Notre Dame team was the one with Southern California in 1926, the first year of their relationship. Until the beginning of the third quarter Notre Dame had led 7 to 6, but Southern California rallied and suddenly jumped into the lead, 12 to 7.
And with only a minute to play, Parisien, the -wily pilot who had been injured in the proceeding Indiana game, was rushed into the fray and began to open up a fast, wierd passing attack, engineering the ball down to the California 25-yard line. But there they stood with only a few seconds left—just enough time for one or two plays. Parisien calmly stepped back, however, and whirled a beautiful pass to Johnny Niemic, who trampled across the goal line, winning the game for Notre Dame, 13 to 12.
The next year the Fighting Irish were again successful, winning by the narrow margin of one point, which incidentally was the cause of much consternation among the recordbreaking throng of 117,000 spectators at the game. Last season Notre Dame’s mediocre team, fairly relieved from the crushing Carnegie Tech defeat, went to the west coast to meet the Trojans.
Even though they were outscored, 27 to 14, Notre Dame was never out-gamed and outfought. Although there is nothing but praise for the great team of Trojan warriors, the courage and splendid spirit displayed by the Fighting Irish made them as glorious in defeat as they would have been in victory.	.
And again this year the teams are as evenly matched as possible, another record crowd is looked for, and it will indeed be a battle fit to be spoken of for many, many years to come.
270	The Notre Dame Scholastic
Greatest “Pep Week” In N. D. History
Climaxed by Last Night’s Bon Fire
Jerry Parker is the “man behind the guns” of the greatest pep rally in the history of Notre Dame. With the assistance of the S. A. C. and the Blue Circle, he has supervised the week-long celebration which was climaxed last night by a massive bonfire, probably one of the largest in America, in the midst of thousands of cheering students and alumni for a Notre Dame victory tomorrow.
The first “Rockne Day” in the history of the University was celebrated Tuesday. A special Mass held in Sacred Heart Church opened the day’s celebration, which concluded with a great ovation by the students in the evening. The student body paid tribute to their great coach in a torch light parade and a five-minute session of lusty cheering.
On Wednesday, the individual halls ' held pep meetings to organize for the gigantic rally which took place last night at the bonfire. The fuel for the bonfire which the different halls had been laying in for the last few days, was judged and pushed into one gigantic pile, surrounded by eight telephone poles, which were set up and donated by the American Telephone Company. The silver loving cups in the wood-gathering contest were won by Sophomore Hall and Off-Campus.
The climax of Notre Dame’s greatest rally week was reached last night. After dinner the 83 piece university band paraded the campus and gathered the students from the 12 halls into one huge procession. The off-campus students gathered at the intersection of Notre Dame and South Bend Avenues and paraded to the site of the bonfire, escorted by a delegation of firemen and policemen. The giant wood pile had been soaked with crude oil and was touched off at 7:30 o’clock. Traffic was routed south of
the fire. Many of the South Bend public joined the noisy throngs at the scene of festivities.
A number of prominent alumni leaders and former Notre Dame football stars made their appearance on a specially constructed platform near the bonfire, and told tales of victory and defeat that have become cherished traditions at Notre Dame.
A brilliant flash closely followed by a loud report suddenly attracted attention from the monstrous bonfire which was lighting up the countryside for miles around. Fireworks of all varieties were shooting from the wings of an aeroplane soaring above. Captain Charles Bowers of the Shock-ley Flying Service, in charge of the plane, dropped bombs from the plane at an altitude of 2,500 feet, and these were responsible for the deafening reports and glaring flashes experienced throughout the course of the events of last night.
The enthusiasm of the students over what Jerry Parker so correctly called the world’s biggest bonfire, was a revelation to him, he said. Fox Movietone and Pathe Sound News recorded the festivities in sound and picture.
Tomorrow, Notre Dame will attempt to show Chicago and Southern California fans the Middle West version of the silent cheering stunt. The Notre Dame cheering section at Soldiers’ Field will be equipped with colored card^ supplied by “The Hub” clothing store of Chicago, and, heeding the commands of the cheer leaders, will snap through a pantomime of colored card signals that should startle staid Chicago sport audiences.
Every student in the cheering section will find upon his arrival at" Soldiers’ Field, three cards with six
colors, and a card of instructions tacked to the seat he is to occupy. The stunt manager wishes to emphasize, the fact that each student is to closely follow the instructions detailed on his instruction card, irrelative to what instructions may appear on his neighbor’s card. The instruction card calls for eight stunts, and the color of the card to be shown for each individual stunt will be marked in the provided square with colored crayon. A fac-simile of the instruction card follows:
INSTRUCTION CARD A. Follow stunt manager. B. Hold indicated color out. C. Keep card out of sight when not in use.
D. Take off hats during stunts.


1	(Reverse)
2	(Three times)
3	(Reverse)
4	(Reverse)
5	(a)	Unfold as leader passes vertical rows (b)	Reverse.
6	(Reverse)
7	-
8	(Reverse)
Section 17 Row Seat
The Notre Dame Scholastic
271
FREE TRIP TO EUROPE WILL BE FIRST PRIZE IN “DOME” CONTEST
A free trip to Europe is the first prize in a subscription drive to be launched by the 1929 Dome Monday night at a general meeting to be held in the Law Building, at 6:30 o’clock. In an endeavor to secure a campuswide circulation of the yearbook, this novel contest has been inaugurated.
Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications, has announced that, following a Board of Publication’s meeting, it was resolved that the contest would be open only to members of the Junior Class as the Dome is their particular publication.
“JUGGLER’S” FOOTBALL
NUMBER WELL LIKED
Dedicated to the “Fighting Irish,” the Football Number of the Juggler, which appeared on the campus Monday, made, in the words of Editor John L. Nanovic, “Another run for a touchdown.” Carefully edited material from 61 contributors made a magazine which was sprightly and amusing, from the front to the back.
A full page article by Coach Rockne entitled, “My First Football Game,” and written especially for the Juggler, was very well received.
The §5 prize for the best art work was awarded to John Zeedick. Archer Hurley received the prize for the best written material submitted. Paul J. Hallinan and Art Kane were added to the staff roster because of their consistently good work. Hallinan was made an associate editor and Kane was put on the Art staff.
The next issue of the Juggler will be the Christmas Number. Dead line for the issue will be Saturday, November 30.
CHICAGO CLUB TO GIVE DINNER-DANCE
The Chicago-Notre Dame Club has made extensive preparations for the entertainment of Notre Dame alumni and their friends at a dinnerdance to be held in the main dining room of the Stevens Hotel after the Notre Dame-Southern California game Saturday. Edward. Gould, chairman of the affair, has announced
The student securing the most subscriptions will be awarded this trip. The second prize is §75.00 in cash, while the third prize will amount to §25.00.
Attention is drawn to the fact that only at the meeting, Monday night, will members of the Junior Class be permitted to sign as competitors in the contest. The duration of the contest is two weeks.
This will be the most novel contest ever conducted at the University, considering the magnitude of the prizes.
that the dinner is to be served at seven o’clock in the main dining room. ’ Special entertainment will be given throughout the meal.
John Costello, president of the alumni in Chicago, has secured the services of the cosmopolitan after-dinner speaker, Jimmie Walker, suave mayor of New York, who will be the chief speaker of the evening. Some of the other prominent men ■who will be present are: Chancellor Bernard J. Shiel of the Archdiocese of Chicago, Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C, poet-president of the University of Notre Dame, Reverend J. H. O’Donnell, C.S.C., prefect of discipline at Notre Dame, Judge John W. Eggeman of Fort Wayne, Indiana, Howard Jones, the coach of Southern California, and K. K. Rockne, the humorous coach of the “Fighting Irish.”
This dinner-dance will serve as a homecoming for the Notre Dame alumni from all parts of the country. Commenting on the purpose of the affair, President Costello said: “The game and the dance afterwards will help to refresh the memories of the old students, and it 'will also give the men of Notre Dame an opportunity to renew acquaintanceships formed in their school days.”
Tickets for the dance following the dinner will be sold to Notre Dame students at the special price of three dollars. The dance will be one at which the students and the alumni are to pay homage to the warriors of the Notre Dame and the Southern California teams.
BREEN MEDAL PRELIMINARIES NOV. 18, 19, 20
The preliminaries in the Breen Medal Contest for Oratory will be held next Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, November 18, 19 and 20, in Washington Hall at 4:00 p. m.
Contestants will speak in the following order: Monday—Boyle, Breen, Corbett, Guadnola, Walsh; Tuesday— Apodaca, Broestl, McGreal, Murray, Stanton; Wednesday — Ackerman, Andary, Darrow, Hanna, Keogan, Vaughn.
It is imperative that these men be present at the appointed time.
JUNIOR CLASS DANCE IS SUCCESS
More than 300 couples attended the Junior Class informal held last Friday evening in the Palais Royale Ballroom. The dance, which was the second informal class dance of the year, was highly successful if the opinions of those attending may be taken. The Indianians, popular radio broadcasting orchestra from station WSBT, furnished excellent music for the affair.
The outstanding sucess of the dance from every standpoint may be attributed to the untiring work of the chairman and members of the various committees in charge.
WALLACE AND RIORDAN ADDRESS PRESS CLUB
Francis Wallace, prominent sports and free lance writer, and Professor Robert Riordan, of the Department of Economics, were the principal speakers at the Press Club meeting held Tuesday evening in the North Room of the Library. Both men are graduates of the Notre Dame school • of journalism and have had active experience in the newspaper field for the past six years. Mr. Wallace, until recently, has been sports writer of the New York Mirror, and Mr. Riordan has been employed as editor of the Bengalese Magazine, published by the Congregation of Holy Cross at Washington, D. C.
Mr. Wallace has been visiting the Notre Dame campus and football field for the past two weeks. A number of his feature stories have been published in magazines for the months of November- and December. His story,’ Life’s Touch Downs in the December issue of the Bed Book is a typical reflection of his ability as a writer and a journalist.
2T2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
We really do not see why we should be writing up Cyril J. Mullen. He is president of the Scribblers, is he not? And if the president of that circle of
Cyril J. Mullen literary lights could not write a good article about himself, who could? The answer is—well, just what is the answer? Modesty forbids us to give our answer. (Now! Now! The “birdies” are entirely out of order and very ungentlemantly!)
Cyril is a writer. His writings tend to satire of a very biting kind. At times this trend in his literary efforts have not been appreciated very much; but who ever heard of an author who was appreciated before he died? Cy’s aptness at satire was, however, duly recognized when he was made Satire Editor of last year’s Dome. Notice that we said recognized, not appreciated.
In his freshman year Mullen made the art staff of the Juggler; and his sprightly sketches did much to enhance the fun in the “Funny Fellow.” (Or is it the editor of the Juggler that is called the “Funny Fellow?” If so, we apologize, Nanny.) The following year Cyril became the conductor of the College Parade page in the
THIRD UNIVERSITY WORLD CRUISE OFFERS FELLOW-
SHIP IN HISTORY
A fellowship in History, carrying membership in the Third University World Cruise for the second semester voyage around the globe this winter, was announced yesterday by Dr. James E. Lough, founder and president of the student cruise organization. The award, which is to be made by a committee of university professors, will include all transporta
Scholastic. In that year and in his junioi* year he was very prolific in a creative way; his poetry and humorous essays appeared often in the Scolastic’s late literary section. In his junior year he rose from the comparative obscurity of the College Parade to the lofty but precarious eminence of the Week, which he wrote very ably until the pressure of his many activities forced him to relinquish it to Archer Hurley.
Cy was elected to the Scribblers in his sophomore year. His rise in that organization was very rapid. He was elected to the secretaryship of the club last year; and this year he was elected president. He also belongs to the Spectators Club.
Mullen was awarded third prize last year in the Scribbler annual poetry contest. His poem, “A Man of Imagination,” was given special praise by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnnell, C.S.C., president of the University and a well known poet. Reverend O’Donnell said that the sestet of Mullen’s sonnet was at least as fine as any of the poetry submitted.
When it was decided to have a new literary magazine to take the place of the Scholastic literary section, Cyril was one of the men chosen for the board of editors, along with Louis Heitger, Murray Hickey Ley, John Nanovic, and Louis Brennan. Cy will sift the wheat from the chaff in the poetry contributions.
Cyril is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters; lives in Lyons Hall, and admits that his home town is River Forest, Illinois. On being requested for a statement, since all men being interviewed should make a statement, he said:
“I have always liked to write satire. Just as history has a fascination for big Tim Moynihan, so does the subtle and ironic twist of a phrase, a sentence, or paragraph, fascinate me. But I have found out that at times satire may be very reprehensible—but let’s change the subject. Are you going to the Southern Cal game?”
--------------------------------------
tion, tuition, meals, field trips and sight-seeing for the complete University Cruise around the world on board the new Cunard cruise-ship “Letitia,” specially chartered by En Route Service, New York.
Seniors, graduate students and faculty members are eligible for the’ fellowship, which is not competitive. Candidates will be judged on their scholastic records, recommendations from university officials, personality, and ability to benefit from the great
| ]	Music and Drama 11
»j» «j» »J» 4*	❖ ♦♦♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ &
Among some very worthwhile productions in Chicago we might mention the following:
The First Mrs. Fraser in which Grace George plays the leading role. Supporting her are A. E. Mathews and Lawerence Grossmith. St. John Ervine wrote the play and Miss George has been in England for several months selecting a suitable cast for its American presentation. The Dramatic League is sponsoring it and it is playing at the Princess.
Journey’s End is playing its last week and this is your last chance to see an excellent war play. Playing at the Adelphi.
Courage, with Janet Beecher, is playing at the Grand Opera House.
For those who like sun-fiend George Bernard Shaw, Major Barbara should satisfy that craving. It is a typical G. B. satire. In the company are Frieda Innescort, Dudley Digges, and Elliott Cabot. A Theater Guild production playing at the Blackstone.
If you must see Ethel Barrymore she is playing in The Love Duel. The play, however, is feeble. At the Harris.
At 2:15 Friday afternoon, and at 8:15 Saturday evening, the Symphony is playing Pagan Poem by Loefler, Saint Saens’ Fifth Con-erto, Macbeth by Richard Strauss and Max- Reger’s Concerto in the Old Style. Rudolph Ganz will be the piano soloist. He is one of America’s leading pianists, composers and conductors. At Orchestra Hall.
Saturday evening Norma will be given at the Opera. In it are Raisa, d’ Hermanoy, Marshall and Boromeo. Cooper is conducting.
The Isadora Duncan Dancers are giving a recital at Orchestra Hall Friday evening. Highly recommended.
And Fritz Leiber, irrepressible Teuton, is at the Chicago Civic Theater in Hamlet.
educational opportunities offered by the University Cruise. November 30 is the last day on which applications are received.
Full information about this fellowship has been sent to the Department of History by the University Travel Association, 285 Madison Avenue, New York City, educational sponsors of the annual University World Cruises. The business and travel management is operated En Route Service, Plaza Hotel, New York.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
273
ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB
The Rocky Mountain Club made its first attempt at re-organization November 8 in the first floor Court Room of the Law building. While the greater part of the students from the states of Colorado, Wyoming and New Mexico were present, the attendance was comparatively small. To remedy this the students of Utah and Arizona are also requested to be present at the next meeting of the club, Wednesday evening, in the first floor Court Room of the Law building at 6:45. It is hoped that this will increase the membership in the club so that plans for the very near future may be carried on successfully. ’
Because of the incomplete attendance, elections were deferred until this next meeting. Present plans call for a lively discussion of social activities, and for the successful re-organization of the club, a smoker to be held as soon as it is convenient after the elections, when committees are to be appointed.
ROCHESTER CLUB -
At the next meeting of the Rochester Club, to be held Tuesday or Wednesday of next week, all are requested to be present. Final plans for the near future are to be discussed. The plans for the Thanksgiving Day dinner are well under way, and tickets are to be secured from any of the officers of the club.
An additional supply of Christmas Dance tickets have arrived and they may be procured from Frank Norton, Morrissey Hall, or from Bill Jones, who has charge of their disposal. Because an estimate of the size of the crowd to attend will depend on your early returns you are asked to secure reservations as soon as passible from Frank Norton in Morrissey, or from Karl Brennan in Sorin.
It is imperative that all members attend the next meeting because suggestions for future activities are to be considered. Any members with suggestions are asked to weigh them carefully before putting them before the club.
NEW JERSEY CLUB
The New Jersey Club held its last meeting on October 28th in the Law Building. The meeting opened with the election of the Freshman Vice-President representative, Albert Jacobson of Perth Amboy. Following this, President Massey announced the plans for the Christmas dance. Vice-President, James Dilley was named general chairman of the dance. Suggestions were made to hold it at the Newark Athletic Club. Mr. Dilley has written the manager of that Club and was informed that the dance could be held on December 26th.
Suggestions were also made by President Massey to give a testimonial banquet in honor of John Colrick some. time following the Army game. All members agreeing to ( the proposal, the Club had a Mass said November 5th, for the happy repose of the souls of Rupert Mills, an alumnus, and Orlando Pucci whose tragic deaths were regretted by so many present students. The next meeting will be held soon, and the date will be announced in the Scholastic.
UTICA CLUB
November 2nd, the Utica Club held its first banquet of the current year at the Green Parrot Inn, in South Bend. A large number was present and the event was declared a success.	I
The speakers were Professor Farrell of the University Faculty, and Tom Hameline, ’29.
Mr. Farrell gave an interesting history of Professor Lyons, a native of Utica, and of several other prominent men of that city, graduates of Notre Dame.
Plans are nearly complete for the Christmas Formal to be held December 30, at the Yaheendasir Country Club. Denis Morgan, Chairman of the ticket Committee reports a large sale; all those members who have not received their ticket are asked to see him as soon as possible.
The next meeting of the Club will be held Sunday morning, November 24. As it will be important, all members are asked to attend.
DETROIT CLUB .
The first banquet of the year was held Thursday, November the seventh, in the College Inn of the LaSalle Hotel, in South Bend. President Sullivan in a short talk congratulated Bob Neydon, Bud Mortenson, and Deon Sutton, who were responsible for the success of the banquet. The speakers, Professors Phillips, Mr. Engels, and Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C. gave speeches which were both entertaining and inspiring. Professor Phillips pointed out the purpose of the Club and told of the value of such organizations.
The officers of the Club gave brief talks and Edward Nebel, General Chairman of the Christmas Formal, told what progress had been made in the plans for the affair. The ballroom of the Detroit-Leland Hotel and Jack Johnstone’s orchestra have been secured for the dance. Nebel announced the following committees: Tickets: Bob Neydon, Chairman; Ken McLeod, Deon Sutton, Russ Beaupre, Leo Cavanaugh, Jack Whitliff; Favors: J. Walter McFarlane, Chairman; Jos. Buchanan; Reception: John Manning, Chairman; Bud Mortensen; Music: Walter DeBaene, Chairman; Francis Beaupre, Henry Kopeck; Publicity: Dennis Bedard; Invitations: Mack Trombley, Chairman, Ed. Reaume, Jos. Holdrieth; Arrangements: Michael Halligan.
•	PHARMACY CLUB
The Pharmacy Club held its third meeting of the current year last Tuesday night in Chemistry Hall. Mr. Waller addressed the club in a lecture on “Genetics.”
The Pharmacy Club this year has planned a very full schedule. For the purpose of livening the meetings, President Myers broached a plan at a meeting held almost three weeks ago to continue the work started last year of taking moving pictures, with a small moving picture camera, of all events entered into by the Pharmacy Club. To further continue this plan, Mr. Myers announced that he could obtain short comedy reels for the projector which could be shown at the meetings, after discussions. Meetings can in that way be held oftener and will be made much more interesting.
274
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Hei’e is one they tell out at Stanford about Biff Hoffman, their recent grid and track star: Biff “lighted a match, stuck in the ground with the head up, at 49 feet, 6 inches with a 16-pound shot and did not knock over or break the match. Biff was practicing with the 16-pound shot during the 1927 track season and made a mighty heave of 49 feet, 6 finches. Bill Ellington, assistant track coach, marked the spot where the shot landed by sticking a match in the ground with the head up. Biff’s next put grazed the head of the match, lighting it without breaking or moving it, and left it blazing merrily.”
By the way, folks, did we ever tell you of the time we got London on the loudspeaker with our one-tube set? No? Then perhaps it’s just as well if we don’t, but we must say of the occasion that the aerial and ground wires were disconnected, the batteries were dead, and the tube was burned out. Of course, all these little handicaps reduced the volume somewhat, yet it was still loud enough to be heard quite distinctly by Grandpap, who had been as deaf as a post for 23 years.
This is a tough break for all the co-eds in the state of Michigan. The state legislature has made it a misdemeanor for anyone to wear a badge or fraternity pin if not a member of the organization the insignia represents. Think of all the pins that must reluctantly be returned.
The University of Minnesota recently dedicated its new Cyrus Northup Memorial auditorium, which is one of the largest and most fully equipped opera houses in the country, having a seating capacity of 4,800, or 1,500 more than the new Chicago Civic Opera house.
At the last meeting of the Student Council of Manhattan College, five freshmen were “arranged” for infraction of rules and each received a sentence for his respective delinquencies. We wonder if this “arrangement” was figurative in any sense of the word.
It is estimated that some 120,000 persons are pursuing education in the colleges of New York City and thereabouts. Columbia leads the field with 37,000 students, while N. Y. U. has 32,000, Fordham 8,000, College of the City of New York 5,000, Hunter College 4,500, and so on down the line.
There is an assertion in the Carnegie Foundation report to the effect that the University of Michigan employs an “intensely organized, sometimes subtle system” in recruiting athletes. The system seems to have been just a little too subtle for Mr. Yost, who denies any knowledge of the existence of such a system and says that if it does exist he would like information concerning it. ■
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spectator Dies Due to Lack of Support,” says the University of Virginia paper. It does seem that someone could have been humane enough to give him just a little support. What? Oh, the Spectator was only a magazine! ■
Northwestern has already begun to work up the old fight for their game with Rock’s Ramblers. The Daily Northwestern has a banner in the upper right-hand corner of the sports page that reads, from left to right, something like this: “Beat Notre Dame!” But in another part of the page numerous bouquets - are tossed at our Fighting Irish, particularly in regard to the victory over Wisconsin. Among other nice things they say this: “The power that Notre Dame displayed Saturday indicates that they have one of the strongest teams in their history, and this includes the famous team of the ‘Four- Horsemen.’ It would not be a bit surprising if they go through their rigorous schedule undefeated.” So maybe deep down in their hearts they mean to be good to us and not beat us after all, which of course would be giving us quite a break.
In speaking of the Notre Dame victories over Navy and Wisconsin, the Purdue Exponent says that “it looks like another Irish landslide.” Thanks, and your Boilermakers don’t look so sloppy themselves.
A member of the medical faculty of Kansas says: “Cribbing is worse in the University of Kansas than in any other university where I have been.” Maybe the Kansans could improve in this art (or science, if you prefer) if they had someone to coach them on the technique and the fine points of the practice. And we suggest that a few English courses be offered for- the sole benefit of the medical faculty.
Listen, friends, we have a champion in our midst. Yes, even a world champion, yet his modesty and his reserve are thoroughly refreshing. He would prefer that these words of praise go unwritten and unpublished, and he has stubbornly demanded that his name be withheld. The story all reverts to an article in the daily paper of Indiana University claiming for one of the Indiana students the world’s endurance record for yo-yoing. This person had manipulated his yo-yo for 15 minutes without stop or even hesitation. When our bashful friend heard of this he forthwith plucked one of the infernal things from his pocket and began operations . For 15 minutes he yo-yoed rythmic-ally, splendidly, beautifully. Then, after he had broken the previous record, he shifted the thing to his other hand without missing a lick and unostentatiously continued for another 15 minutes, at the end of which time he voluntarily stopped with these unassuming words: “Aw, shucks, I could do that all day if I wanted to. But what’s the use? Wait till somebody breaks this record and then I’ll go twice as long again.” After we had congratulated him warmly for some ten minutes he finally consented to give us a little exhibition of fancy and trick shots. This show was truly a revelation. As he swung into action yo-yos seemed to be flying all about the room. When these contortions were completed, he took a yo-yo in each hand and worked them in clever unison. Then as. a grand climax, he balanced himself on the bedstead for several minutes on one foot and at the same time went through his series of yo-yo tricks. So all hail the new champion!	•
The Notre Dame Scholastic
275
IIHIMIII II I EJJENTIALJ!
This issue of the Scholastic makes its appearance on the eve of the big game of the year. Tomorrow afternoon, at Soldiers’ Field in Chicago, some one hundred twenty thousand people will gather to watch the University of Notre Dame play the University of Southern California.
A mammoth crowd to watch two tine teams engage in a fine game of football, a game “pointed for” by every one of the men on the gridiron; and the men on the Notre Dame team deserve commendation both for their excellent record so far, and their long and intense preparations for each contest.	.
But in the midst of the noise and excitement that will have their sway tomorrow afternoon let us not lose sight of the fundamentals behind a university education: let us, in short, remember the essentials that are behind our presence here.
Neither team would be on the field were it not for some man, or men, visioning youth’s wayfaring enlarged and intensified, made splendid and noble, by the opportunities conveyed in a college education. To them a college was a place where God might be more easily talked to, where thought would leap like flames of fire, where beauty’s shining shield would be forged into her lover’s armour, and where feeling and consideration of one’s neighbor would be a cardinal article of faith.
But, in the last analysis, all these things come down to a personal something that is within the individual. Call it what you will, this something is an internal possession, and no number of external occurrences, as such, can add one jot or tittle to this innerly grasped residuum.
Our inner growth, if it be worthwhile, may be occasioned and stimulated by things outside of us, but it is never composed of them; then, too, these things that are not us, should be of value only insofar as they are significant of reality.
On the campus this week, we have had many stimulants to game spirit in the forms of “pep” meetings and bonfires; but what of the prods to our spirits?
Do we regularly assemble our ideas to have them addressed by the thoughts that each new day brings to us?
Do we, every so often, collect into great piles all our tattered notions, our narrow ideas, soak them with the kerosene of our dissatisfaction, and apply the match of a restless intellect?
Do we, when the fire is over and a new dawn has swum over the hills, do we, I say, band together our best endeavours and send them out on the field of the Day? And do they know that we are behind them to every inch of the man we pride ourself on being?
We are not disparaging game spirit or any form of athletic endeavour; but we are making a plea, with all our spirit behind it, for a firm keeping in view, even in the most diverse surroundings, of the ultimate, permanent purposes of a college education; we are urging the primacy of the inner life and the necessity for a rigid selection of those foods that shall nourish it; in short, we are insisting on a renewed and more stable recognition of values; and, as fundamentals are the source of all enduring values, we say, once again, Remember the ESSENTIALS!	—M. H. L.
276
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Due to the fact that the announcement of our poetry contest was truncated by who-ever-it-was we will announce again that for the best two-line humorous verses submitted to the Wink prizes will be given. Anyone is eligible, English majors, New Yorkers and St. Mary’s students. We will not award a prize to anyone on probation. Of course we cannot announce the prizes until we have at least three contributions. In case someone trumps her ace, the hostess will receive the consolation prize.
—o—
“This is a democratic age, and in nothing is it so democratic as in its amusements and in its arts.”—Liberty Editorial.
At least that is grammatically correct!
—o—
An advertisement for an unusual humidor asks: “Why don’t cigarettes always taste the same?” Sometimes it depends upon who pays for them. .
—o—
A tooth-paste blurb wants to know where to send our ten-day supply of their amazing formula. We can suggest that they send ours to Commander Byrd. Since the quarterly exams we just don’t care.
—o—	.
TO WAZMUS
You’ll never succeed, no you’ll never succeed, In a garden of roses you are only a weed.
—o—
An article in Liberty, (by Herman Tappe) asks: “What is Beauty in Clothes?” Well, Herman, we’d say it is still beauty.
And right here we must give Liberty credit for helping us out this week. Rilluh, after them exams we was, as they say in the vernacular, as tired as a Chicago deb after she’s been out unsuccessfully for five years.	•
—o—	•
Again from Liberty: “Almost Every Other News-stand Purchaser of Weekly Magazines Buys Liberty.” And we still want to know WHY?
A COUPLA BRIGHT BRATS’ CRACKS
Little Peter Whimpet was growing fast. In fact he had reached the age of three everyday expecting to grow up and fall over backward. Imagine his mother’s surprise when he walked in from the office one day and said, “Muzzer, when I grow up I’m going to fall over backward. Comb that out of your permanent!”
—Mrs. John Whimpet.
Mary Exigesis, running away from the razor strap, fell on the good inlaid linoleum and kicked a while. When her o. m. went to pick her up she hollered, “Aw, act your gin Eddie.”	—Mrs. Ed. Exigesis.
—o—
When the Vagabond Lover heard that we were having a contest he felt that it was his duty to comment on it as follows ... or, if you prefer, as follow:
Your contest fills me full of sighs, I fear there is an abstract prize.
—Vagabond Lover.
NOTES FROM OUR DIARY:
Last night (Sunday) I got to thinking of Ruth, and Jeanne, and Romayne, and Helen, and Sylvia and Cy and all the others and when I began to think that I didn’t have a date with one of them and nature was teeming at Notre Dame and everything I just had to write a sonnet. If it had a different rime scheme and fourteen lines and an octet and a sestet it would be a sonnet. Guess maybe Wink will print it. k (Ed. note: Wink, being hard up for material, will print it.)	.
TO ALL OF YOU
Gray rain, falling listlessly— A single birch, entangled in its own Long-curling hair.
Vast stretch of sky and space—
And none to watch	.
The falling of my tears.
(Ed. note: Thank the Lord.)
.	—Donnie D.
—o—
That little spell of rain we had last Sunday seems to have called forth a few contribs. Witness this from one who signs himself “0. C. ’30.” Personally we think it came from Doaks ’09.
FOR A CERTAIN KIND OF NIGHT
Under, over,	Over, under,
Out again	Doron and up,
Beneath a dark green awning. All around the town, Midnight passing	Dreary, trickling
Very slowly,	Raindrops which
Four more hours until dawning. Are chasing me around.
We hear that Wazmus was tendered quite a home-coming when he visited St. Mary’s yesterday (Sunday). If there had been more girls who remember his essay on the modern girl we dare say there’d have been no home coming for Wazzie.
We’ve decided to offer another prize. This one is for song-writers. To the tune of “Sweetheart of All My Dreams” someone will write a song. We don’t care who it is as long as they use the first two lines given out by Donnie D.
“I’ll bit you, I’ll bite you, I’ll bite you,”
—Sweetheart of Tennessee.
We have found out where Fort Huachuca is. Report has it that it is an army post, the feminine population of which alternates between Forts Huachuca and Bliss. We hear that one good reason for the hiatuses (or is it hiati?) used to be a wrestler.
—o—
Oh well, when we ponder the futility of it all, we decide to throw up our job, but then someone always comes through with a contribution and then we have to get some more copy ready. Really, kiddies, you’re so good to me and I’m quite tired of it all.
—T. Talbot Tabloid.
Notre Dame Battles to Beat Drake, 19-7
Bulldogs Lead Till Final Period, When Fighting Irish Score Twice
A STURDY pack of Bulldogs spurred on by a ravenous appetite tore, dove and leaped for the escutcheon of the undefeated Fighting Irish, but they leaped in vain for while they were in the air the Notre Dame warriors slid through them for a decisive 19 to 7 win.
With the third quarter coming up and the score 7 to 6 against them the Notre Dame eleven began to loosen up its counter-attack and mustering its forces drove the raging Bulldogs back to their lair.
Drake Offense Potverful
After the start of the fourth quarter Drake never had a chance of over-
The Capable Leader of the Shock Troojis
Bud Gebert
coming the lead piled up in several short minutes by the Fighting Irish. To that time, however, Coach Ossie Solem’s white jerseyed and blue-helmeted men just chewed and bit the opposition, keeping the slender one-
Califomia’s Gracious Gift to Notre Dame
Johnny O’Brien
point lead which they garnered in the initial quarter, and caused Notre Dame to exert itself to the limit.
Drake was nevei’ deterred by the Fighting Irish defensive, but kept on pushing and shoving the football down the field, time and time again, where they appeared to be entertaining fond hopes of a touchdown. Luckily, the consequent winners held their fort and put the ball out of danger on numerous occasions.
Bulldogs Score Early
It took Drake just seven and one-half minutes to score their only touchdown after the start of the game. On a fumble by Al Howard, Drake took the ball on Notre Dame’s 39-yard line. After a succession of line plunges by
Van Koten, a lateral pass placed the ball on the six-yard line, from whence Van Koten took it across on three straight plunges through center. Barnes kicked the goal for the extra point, this being Drake’s margin up to the third quarter, as shortly after Schwartz broke loose for a beautiful 45-yard gallop, and followed by plunges and end runs from the Drake 25-yard line, Howard took the ball across the goal for the touchdown. Gebert’s place kick was wide of the bars and Notre Dame’s chance for a tie had been dissipated.
From that point it was even-
Meets His Home-State Buddies on Gridiron Tomorrow
“Moon” Mullins
278
The Notre Dame Scholastic
STATISTICS OF THE GAME
FIRST DOWNS: Notre Dame, 15. Drake, 10.
YARDS FROM SCRIMMAGE: Notre Dame, 269 yards.
Drake, 96.
PASSES COMPLETED:
Notre Dame, one of seven for 22 yards.
Drake, three of sixteen for 41 yards.
PENALTIES:
Notre Dame, seven times for 55 yards.
Drake, four times for 20 yards.
stephen with neither team getting a hand up on their enemy. Notre Dame did carry the ball down to the Bulldog’s 5-yard line in the second quarter but failed by inches on fourth down to make the required distance.
AT. D. Rallies in End
With tongues drooping and jaws sagging the band of Bulldogs seemed to weaken late in the third quarter and they allowed the Fighting Irish to skim through for two markers and the victory.
As the final period opened Notre Dame had carried the ball down to Drake’s 17-yard line after a beautiful long, sweeping pass from Mullins to Carideo which netted 22 yards. On this pass Mullins faked a wide end run, halted abruptly, then stepped back and heaved a long spiral into Carideo’s outstretched arms.
Criss-Cross Is Winner
On the first play as the last quarter began, Elder followed a perfect blanket of interference around end and tore for the touchdown. It was a wonderfully executed criss-cross play and it had the opposition so completely flustered that Elder’s four-man interference was able to cross the goal ahead of him, there being no Drake players near him at any time.
The last counter was made by Mullins on a 23-yard dash through center, the runner shaking several tacklers off and cutting through to the goal. The play previous had been a lateral pass and Schwartz had brought the ball from the 38-yard line where Nesbitt had punted out of bounds. Carideo made his kick good this time and the final points were chalked up.
'	i
Drake Loss “Tough”
It was a tough break for Drake to lose such a hard-fought game, but it would have meant “death” to Notre Dame’s national championship aspirations. It would have been the “setup” turned into the proverbial “upset.” Instead the Fighting Irish are again walking the straight and narrow path which leads them to the heights which they hope to surmount.
Again, the team as a whole played a whale of a game, but we must give a great deal of praise to Drake’s marvellous backs, Nesbitt, Van Koten and King. These three Bulldogs carried the brunt of their team’s efforts and they bore them well—almost too well in fact. ,	■
The lineup:
Notre Dame		Drake
Colrick	LE	Briley
McNamara	LT	Shearer
Metzger	LG	Wright
Nash	.	C	Don Carlos
Kassis	RG	Groustra
McManmon	RT	Faber
Murphy	RE	tVensel
Gebert	QB	King
Schwartz	LH	Barnes
O’Connor	, ,	RH	Nesbitt
Howard	FB	Van Koten
Score by periods:		
Notre Dame			6	0	0	13—19
Drake 			7	0	0	0—7
Touchdowns—(Notre Dame), Howard. Elder, Mullins; (Drake) Van Koten.
Points after Touchdown—(Notre Dame) Carideo; (Drake) Barnes. Both on placekicks.
Substitutes: Notre Dame—Culver for Mc-manmon, Yarr for Nash. Locke for Kassis, Donoghue for McManmon, Vik for Murphy, Kaplan for O’Connor, Collins for Colrick, Twomey for Culver, Cannon for Metzger, Law for Locke, Mullins for Shay, Conley for Vik, Carideo for Gebert, Elder for Schwartz, F. Leahy for Donoghue, Donoghue for F. Leahy, Schwartz for Elder, Gebert for Carideo, Vik for Conley, Howard for Mullins, Kaplan for Brill, Cassidy for Cannon, Bondi for Law, Colrick for Collins, Culver for Twomey, B. Leahy for Schwartz, Cronin for Donoghue, O’Brien for Colrick, Hoffman for Culver.
Drake—Stevens for Briley, Seiberling for Iverson, Nesbitt for Van Koten, Risser for Wright, Goodwin for Seiberling, Seiberling for Goodwin, Van Koten for Nesbitt, Nesbitt for Van Koten, Brewer for Barnes, Snelson for Shearer, Briley for Stevens, Goodwin for King, Butcher for Groustra, Fagan for Nesbitt.
Referee—Ed Cochrane (Missouri Valley). Umpire—Ira Carrithers (Illinois). Head linesman—G. W. Taylor (Fairmount). Field judge—Messmer.
CAGE SCHEDULE OF 18 GAMES ANNOUNCED
The tentative 1929-30 basketball schedule consisting of eighteen games was released late this week. The schedule will probably remain the same as announced, although it has not as yet been approved by the Faculty Board of Control of Athletics.
Practically the same teams are scheduled as were last year, with the exception of Armour Institute, University of Kansas, and Kentucky. Inasmuch as Kentucky is not to be played this season, Notre Dame will not be allowed an opportunity to
1929-30 Basketball Schedule (Tentative)
Dec. 7—Lake Forest Col. at Notre Dame Dec. 13—Albion College at Notre Dame Dec. 19—Northwestern at Notre Dame Dec. 23—Iowa at Notre Dame Dec. 28—Ohio State at Columbus Dec. 31—Northwestern at Evanston Jan. 7—Indiana at Bloomington . Jan. 11—Marquette Univ, at Notre Dame Jan. 18—Univ, of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Jan. 22—Michigan State at Lansing Jan. 31—Wabash College at Notre Dame Feb. 4—Marquette Univ, at Milwaukee Feb. 8—U. of Pittsburgh at Notre Dame Feb. 14—Butler Univ, at Indianapolis Feb. IS—Michigan State at Notre Dame Feb. 22—Wabash College at Crawfordsville Feb. 28—Butler University at Notre Dame Mar. 8—Univ, of Penn, at Philadelphia
avenge the stinging 19 to 16 defeat administered by that team last year.
The opening game of the season is to be with Lake Forest and it will be played on the home court December 7. Then follow games with Albion and Northwestern at home.
During the Christmas vacation, contests are scheduled with Iowa, Ohio State, and Indiana. They are to be played away from home with the exception of the one ■with the Hawkeyes.
After the vacation period, the team runs into the toughest spot on the schedule, meeting Indiana, Marquette, Pittsburgh, Michigan State, and Wabash, all in a row. The final game of the season will be with Pennsylvania, and the contest is to be played in Philadelphia. Last year Notre Dame trounced Penn, 32 to 19, before one of the largest crowds ever to witness a cage game in the Palestra in Philadelphia and this return game should draw another record-breaking attendance.
CONROY TO COACH TITANS’ CAGE TEAM
Louis Conroy, star performer on the 1925, ’26, and ’27 Notre Dame basketball teams has recently been appointed coach of the University of Detroit basketball team.
Conroy was the unanimous choice for three consecutive years as a member of the All-Western basketball team.
Works Under Dorais
Conroy’s appointment as cage instructor brings another distinctive honor to Notre Dame, inasmuch as the director of athletics at Detroit is Gus Dorais, alumnus and formerly a star football player of Notre Dame, the other half of the pass combination, “Dorais to Rockne.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Trojans to Meet Nemesis To-morrow
WHEN Notre Dame faces Southern California tomorrow, it will be meeting the country’s leading point scoring machine. The Trojans have participated in seven contests this season, dropping only one, and that to the strong California outfit.
This ravaging, terrifying Trojan fleet has delighted in running up high scores against her opponents. The season began with an overwhelming 76 to 0 victory over the southern branch of the University of California. The next contest with Oregon State was a bit more refined for Southern Cal won 21 to 7.
Washington was the next whitewash victim, losing 48 to 0, and a similar application was administered to Occidental, only this time the score was 64 to 0. The annual feud with Stanford resulted in another victory for the Trojans, the latter winning 7 to 0.
California Only Loss
California threw a wrench into the Trojan works by defeating them 15 to 7, but last week Southern Cal came back against Nevada and rolled up a tremendous 66 to 0 score.
The Trojans, hampered by the loss of such great men as Hibbs, tackle, Williams, quarterback, McCaslin, end, and Thomas, halfback, have developed into the nation’s most powerful scoring machine, rolling up a total of 289 points in the seven games already played. The Trojans’ defense has also been superb as only 22 points have been scored against it.
Jones Switches Linetip
The whole first string lineup is one of weight, power and ability. Coach Howie Jones has made a few changes from his lineup of last year, strengthening the weak spots, especially in-the line. Jones has put Barrager, a mighty fine center last year, at the running guard position. The Southern California offense relies mostly upon a single-running back and hence Bar-rager’s presence at the right guard post is furnishing the needed punch.
To replace Barrager at the pivot position, is George Dye, a lad who played a year with Alabama before matriculating at the western coast school. Dye weighs 234 pounds and stretches himself to his full 6 feet and four inches, and he is said to be as fast as lightning.’ Tim Moynihan
will have fierce opposition, perhaps , the toughest he will experience this season.
Steponovitch, a re-converted guard, and Tappan have been at the end posts but Jurich and Joslin, sub-ends, showed latent ability in last week’s game and are due to see action tomorrow against the Fighting Irish. Anthony and Hoff are the tackles, and Galloway is the other guard.
Native Syrian in Backfield
The backfield is composed of Ernie Pinckert, a consistent 60-yard punter, . Harry Edellson, whose home town is Jaffa, Syria, a clever blocker who is able to smack the legs out from under halfbacks and roving centers ■with precision and aplomb, Russ Saunders, the powerful fullback, and Musick, a newcomer, at the other half.
Southern Cal’s offense chiefly has been the single ball-carrying back principle combined with a weird and crafty aerial attack. Notre Dame has had a lot of experience with this mode of offense and if it proves just as successful in breaking up the passes as with the Drake heaves, there will be no trouble in upsetting the Trojans.
Notre Dame May Open Up
Notre Dame may be expected to open up with several new plays, if the trend of the game warrants, and her supporters are due for a glimpse of the original “new” team promised early last fall. Coach Knute Rockne has emphatically stated that he will be on the sidelines for this game, directing his men as usual, and no doubt he will encourage them to wipe out Southern Cal’s 27 to 14 victory of last year by a wide and decisive margin.
NOTRE DAME TO PARTICIPATE IN C. I. C. MEET
TOMORROW
Notre Dame’s cross-country team left here today for Lansing, Michigan, where they will take part in the annual Central Intercollegiate Conference meet tomorrow afternoon. The meet, which annually draws some of * the best teams in the Middle West, is sponsored by Michigan State this year.
The Spartans, undefeated the past three years, numbered this race
among their many victories last season. They are the favorites to win again this year, due, no doubt, to their imposing record thus far.
Anyone’s Meet
Joe Sivak, who was seen here two weeks ago in the Notre Dame-Butler meet, led the harriers to the wire in the conference championship in 1928, with Laurens Brown, of State, a close second. Sivak covered the five miles in 26 minutes and 10 seconds.
Sivak and Brown, together 'with Wilson and Howery, of Notre Dame, are favored to fight it out for first place in tomorrow’s test. To attempt to pick the winner, however, would be a hard task. This is why Sivak bested Brown last year, but Brown has beaten both Howery and Wilson this season. Howery led Sivak to the wire by a good fifty yards two weeks ago. Well, it will be a good race, anyway.
All Conceded Chance
Besides Michigan State, Notre Dame, Butler and Marquette are conceded more than an even chance of winning the championship. The meet this season, promises to be one of the most hotly contested ones in the history of the Conference, and. a victory for an “outsider” would not be a great surprise.	’
Concludes N. D. Schedule
This test will conclude the season for Coach Nicholson’s Blue and Gold harriers. Too much credit cannot be given to “Nick” for the development of the 1929 team. Beginning with but two experienced men as a nucleus for his team, he has whipped them into a fast, evenly-balanced squad which is one of the most feared in the Conference. The loss of Captain Joe Quigley for the Indiana meet, dampened the team’s chances considerably, for Joe could always be depended on to be among the leaders at the finish. The boys carried on, however, and showed that old Notre Dame “fight” made famous by the football team, but nonetheless characteristic of every wearer of the Blue and Gold. They lost, but the defeat was suffered at the hands of an experienced squad which is one of the contenders for the Big Ten Crown.
= The All-Interhall football | = team selections will appear in | = the next issue of the Scholastic. =
280
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Pim min tn ii ii iii i it mu nt ...iiiiimmiiitiitimitiiiiiitiimiitmiiimii>miiiiiiiimiiiiiiimittii{B]
Ws
e	Corner Michigan e
e	and Colfax i
J Genuine
Drinkless
Kaywoodie Pipes
E	with	E
|	Sterling Silver Inlay	i
e	Notre Dame Monogram	e
|	$5.50 $6.00 $7.00 I
e Plain	Thorn Natural e
J^Jmiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiituniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiitiiitiiiiiitiiiiuiimiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiii^] [»]iiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iinii»iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiniiiii«t«HiniiiiniuriHiuuimniiinninitg]
THE
| CHINA INN |
j AMERICAN and CHINESE |
Restaurant
|	Private Booths and Club Room	I
i	65c Dinners	1
1	50c Noonday Lunches	|
I	11 to 2	j
I	210 N. Main St.	|
|	South Bend, Indiana	|
Qiiiatmtiitiuiitiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimatiiiaiiaimiiiimimitiiiiiiitiimiiittitttiiiimmimaminit^^
i	CREAM, BLUE OR BROWN
i	CORDUROY PANTS, $2.95 and up
E $10.00 Men’s Blue Corduroy Sheeplined Coats
S J. > »
E Men’s great warm sheeplined coats, with E Beaverized collar, 36-in. long, with belt. A E splendid coats for all occasions. Sizes 38 to 48.
GILBRO’S
E	FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE
E	330 South Michigan Street
[S^iiiiiiiiiiiiaaiaaatiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaBiiimiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiatiiiiui'iimiiiHiiiiiaitiiim]
QiiiiiHiiiihiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiJiiiiijiniiiiiiiiiniiiuniiiMninniiiiinniiiiiiiiiiiiiHininiiHntiniiQ
BASKET BALL I EQUIPMENT
I	SWEAT	SHIRTS	I
I.	SWEAT	PANTS	f
I	SWEAT	COATS	I
I	SWEAT	SOX	I
Leather. Coats, Suede Coats, Sweaters, Slickers, etc. Buckskin Shirts and Jackets.
I	The “RECO” Store
I 113 NORTH MAIN STREET
|	Open evenings till 8.
SlBBaBBSIBIBIBBBBBSBBBBBBBBBBBIIBIiaSBISBSBIIBBBBBaBBSSBBBBlBBBIBBIiaiBBBBBBBBIBBBBaaiBBBB.8l8llll|lliai888ai8ia|
Notre Dame Scholas
tic
281
The
OFF-CAMPUS AND SOPHOMORE IN SCORELESS TIE
Off-Campus and Sophomore, winners in their respective divisions, battled to a scoreless tie on Cartier Field last Sunday and the championship of the Interhall league still remained undetermined. The teams were evenly matched, as the outcome clearly attested.
The morning’s heavy rain left the field in a sodden condition. This caused unsteady footing which greatly handicapped the ball carrier and frequently retarded lengthier gains.
Both teams were in scoring territory several times but the defending team always stubbornly checked its opponents’ charges, and held for downs. These see-sawing advances, however, did not make the game irksome, for every thrust and plunge was replete with action.
Conti Runs 55 Yards
Probably the most thrilling play of the day was a fleet run of 55 yards by Conti, Sophomore quarterback. He punctured the center' line, swerved to the left of the field, then scampered down the sidelines deep into Off-Campus territory before Kozak, the safety man, brought him to earth from behind. This gesture was short lived for Off-Campus soon retrieved the ball on downs and immediately punted out of danger.
Captor, Sophomore fullback, was a bulwark of strength with his consistent plunging and dazzling defensive play, while Lagura’s certain tackling frequently halted the Off-Campus backs.
Kozak Is Off-Campus Star
Kozak, day-dog left halfback, again sparkled with a versatile display of clever football tactics. He tackled viciously, blocked perfectly, and advanced the ball on every attempt. Not alone did he stop at this but further crowned himself through an uncanny ability to be present where passes could easily be brokeil up and unerringly flung beautiful tosses to waiting receivers. Close to him for individual brilliancy was Bill Walsh, flashy left tackle, who broke up plays, covered his man, and figured in a vast majority of the tackles made.
The lineup:
Ofp-Campus	Sophomore	
Crosby	LE	Mikes
Walsh	LT	Garlanger
Wallace	LG	Bender
Hall	C	McCarthy
Otte	RG	Hamilton
Friel	RT	Reilly
Nona	RE	Cox
Crooks	QB	Conti
Kozak	LH	McCabe
Stowell	1 RH	Lagura
Doyle	FB	Captor
Pipes save no midnight oil
Delightfully different. You’ll like the exclusive SUN-KIST flavor
Save the wrappers. See inside for the list of premiums.
IF PIPES made the man, anybody at all could rise in the world just by smoking a few pounds of Edgeworth. But pipes do not make the man.
Men make the pipe—most men do. Somewhat depends on the individual, more on the pipe, and the tobacco is most important of all. Things must be congenial.
Edgeworth is a congenial tobacco, cool, slow-burning, fully flavored. Edgeworth has poise, kindly good nature, real tobacco personality — Edgeworth welcomes new friends. Many a good man has been pledged to pipes by Edgeworth alone.
Like to meet Edgeworth? Just ask with the coupon—and the postman will bring your first few pipefuls of the genuine, three years seasoned if it’s a day. Our treat, if you please.
Others have found Edgeworth and quit their discontent.
So may it be with you!
VAL BLATZ BREWING COMPANY Milwaukee, Wis.
SAWYER'S Rainwear FROG BRAND SLICKERS
EDGEWORTH
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos — selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy it anywhere

— “Ready Rubbed” or “Plug Slice”—15jl pocket package to pound humidor tin.

C AWYER*S Frog Brand Slicker* hate estab-•3 lished a lasting reputation on the campus among well-dressed college men and women uhrrr rain garments of good appearance a» well as tong life are essential.
Sawyer slicker* are all good-looking. roomy, well-cut garments, guaranteed to keep you absolutely dry and warm and are to be had lined or imlincd. button* or clasps as you prefer, m a wide variety of styles for every purpose. Your choice of colors. Shops every— where carry them.
H.M.SAWYEFL& SON
EAST- CAMBRIDGE. -------MASS.
Offutt • V<xk.N.Y OmcwwIB.
Larus 8s Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
(Witness my seal)
(and my seat of learning)
(and my postoffice and state) Now let the Edgeworth come! V
SEND THE “SCHOLASTIC” HOME.
282
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ca^x
A Publix Theatre
Saturday—Tuesday
Make a Date For a Good Time
The personality bonfire in her latest all talking romance as the department store sales girl who got her bargain.
BOW
in
“THE SATURDAY NITE
KID”
A Paramount
ALL-TALKING HIT
with
JAMES HALL
Wednesday-Friday —
Funny! Fast! Furious!
WILLIAM
in
Speedway
with
ANITA PAGE
DAVID TORRENCE
' and
KARL DANE
MEN
The other day I had a friend of mine ask a taxi driver when his ' student customers were theatre bound, which theatre in South Bend received the most patronage—
Quick as a Flash He Replied:
Why ask me a question like that? Everybody knows the student hangout is
That taxi driver said a mouthful— and how! !
Anyway fellows, we do appreciate your patronage and are for you always—all ways,
Sincerely, “JACK.”
P. S.—“TANNED LEGS,” a very good musical comedy with Ann Pennington is the screen . attraction commencing Sunday, with 5 loud Acts of Vaudeville.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
283
❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖ ❖	BY H. A. S. JR.	<•
It has been a long, long time since any one man has been able to exert such an influence over a team as has Albie Booth over this year’s Yale team. That his influence has progressed beyond the stage where the fact that his insertion into a game results in a veritable metamorphosis of the Yale team, may be merely termed a coincidence. This fact was proven again last Saturday in the Maryland game. A Yale attack, which had been stumbling along, suddenly found itself two plays after the elusive Albie had been inserted, and proceeded to score 13 points, all of them earned. Booth was taken out in the third quarter, and immediately a Maryland team which had not won a game in its four previous starts, began to smash through Yale, finally tying the Blue in the last five minutes of play. Maybe it’s just a coincidence, or rather a string of coincidences, but this is one fellow that doesn’t believe so.
Michigan’s surprise victory over Harvard only goes to show that a team may be outplayed in almost every department of the game and still win by playing for the breaks, and sheer fight. Once a season, a Michigan team, no matter how lowly its prospects, rises above itself and defeats a better team. Last year, it was Illinois whom the Wolverines took over, this year it is Harvard. A couple of hundred
miles away, however, it was Illinois, the favorite, who needed the breaks to beat Army.
—o—
Maybe we are wrong, but it seems to us that this-sea-Notre Dame team has yet to play its best in any game in which it has participated this season. And so it is that we look for the Rockmen to peak tomorrow. They needs must, to beat Southern California, and it is only when a Notre Dame team must do a thing that it is at its best.
Dr. Paul Martin, young Swiss doctor, now doing postgraduate work in New York, is expected to be the sensation of the impending indoor track season. For years, this blond Adonis has been one of the greatest runners in the world, placing second in the 1924 Olympics to Douglas Lowe of England in the 800 run. Charlie Paddock recently spoke of him as the ideal amateur. The young doctor will not even accept expense money, much less the money which many amateur track men are accused of accepting on the side.
WE NOMINATE FOR THE HALL OF FAME:
Stumpy Thomason, a senior at the Georgia Institute of Technology,who is in the unhappy position of being the star of a team, once great, but now mediocre, but who, instead of letting his team’s reversals affect him as they have seemed to do with some of his team-mates who played last year, has carried on, and now stands out as one of the (Turn to Page 285)
---------------------------
Granada Theatre
STARTS SATURDAY
“FLIGHT”
LILA LEE - JACK HOLT
The Big Parade and The Cock Eyed World of the air combined
The Most Sensational Air Feats Ever Photographed
284
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
[■JiiiiiiitiiinHmiiiiiistuitiiiiiiittiiitttiiittiiiiHSitiitiiittHniiintittiiiiiHtMHtiiiiiiiniiiinniitiiifa]
| Where Notre Dame I I Men Meet |
1 “Always in the Crowd” 1
Hot Chili	1
Hot	I
Tamale	i
Ice Cream	=
Candy	1
|	Delicious	Malted	Milks	e
| KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG |
i	327 North Michigan Street	e
01 huh liiiiHlHlliliiilliiiiiiiliHlliiiiiHilllinilliliinilinilllHlliitlHllHlHHHilHiHIHllHtHiiHlHQ ^^HHaHIIIHtHltllHttHntlltllHHHtnilHIIHIItlHIIIUliUllllllllllllHSHIUIHIIIIinHniHlllllllllllUlQ
I Notre Dame	i
I ... I
I	Southern California	I
I If you cannot attend the game you = |	can get a play by play report in the	|
|	News-Times “Pink” Football Extra,	|
|	containing final scores of all games; on	|
I	the street Saturday night at 7 o’clock.	i
|	THE	|
| NEWS-TIMES |
:	.	E
gjmnuiii.■■■.■■>■■■■■■.mi.......
]	HELLO MEN!
| SMITH’S CAFETERIA |
1	111 East Jefferson Boulevard	=
«
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
| WE DO OUR OWN BAKING f
I SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP | e	West Washington Ave.	e
^QlHHlIIHIIIIHIHIIIIIHHIHHIIIHHIHHilHl.  Hill...1.HHHIIIIHHtttHlllQ
^^IltlHHIHIIIHHHHHIIIHHHHHHHHIIIIHHHIUHIlHHHtlHH tlHIIIIIHlIIIHIHHIf HHIllHIIIllitllll^^
I THE SOUTH BEND
I CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
St. Joseph Loan & Trust Company
• *
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
Qtiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiianiiiiiiiiiiiiniai(iHiiiiiiiHiiiiiiitiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiinitiiiHniHHiHiiiiiiniHiHiiHiiHHitniHiiiiintHHiniiiHHtii
] J. M. S. BUILDING
5?
1
I
The Notre Dame
greatest backs in the country, whose versatility is exceeded only by his courage, who did everything except carry water* in the game with Notre Dame, who is the first man whom we know of since George Pfann to run on his knees, once having been brought to earth, who gives everything he has in every game whether or not it is winning or losing one, who is a credit to his school and to the game he plays so well, and finally, who will last as an inspiration to others who will some day attempt to follow in the trail he has blazed.
Last Saturday we went under for the first?time this season, all of which gives us nine wins and a tie out of fifteen picked. Next Saturday we pick Purdue to beat Iowa, Yale to beat Princeton, and Tennessee to beat Vanderbilt.
Scholastic	285
There seems to be a dearth of outstanding centers this season, not so much in quality as in quantity. Moynihan seems to be the outstanding one in the middle West, while Ben Ticknor of Harvard, and Tom Siano, Fordham’s diminutive Captain, are outstanding in the East. All of. which brings to mind the all-time All-America team for the last ten years, which George Trevor picked a few weeks ago. We knew Mr. Trevor when he was with the Brooklyn Eagle, and later when he was with the Sun, his present paper, and we always respected his opinions in sporting matters, but we thought that he had much better judgment than to pick Pund at center ahead of Lovejoy, Garbisch and Cravath, to say nothing of the immortal Adam Walsh, who, incidentally was the only modem center to whom Fielding Yost gave any recognition when he picked his All-Time team some several years ago.
<
The cereal that’s so crisp you can hear it!
Here’s a breakfast treat to match the crispest spring day that ever brightened the campus. Just try the new Kellogg cereal—Rice Krispies. Bubbles of toasted rice. Rich with flavor. And so crisp they actually crackle in milk or cream!
RICE KRISPIES READY TO EAT HELP YOURSELF TO
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the diningrooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include XLL-ettAVt, Kelloggs Corn Flakes, Pep Bran Flakes, Krumbles and Kelloggs Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffet that lets you sleep.
286
The Notre Dame Scholastic

THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP A. M. MYERS, Prop.
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS
—0—
Flowers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL
Phone 3-7171
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE. TELEPHONE 3-5149
Q........	............................................iiiiummiunnf«|
GEORGE L. MILLER
103 North Main Street South Bend, Indiana
For school supplies
□
B
4
0
Burberry Overcoats
Mount Rock Fleece Overcoats
Scheyer-tailored Clothes .
Bachrach Neckwear
Atkinson Poplin Neckwear
Trimble Hats
Peterson’s Fine Irish Pipes
and
appropriate reading material
patronize

o
The Book Shop
IMPORTED and DOMESTIC MEN’S WEAR
119 North Michigan St.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
287
HARRIERS LOSE MEET TO INDIANA
Indiana’s Hoosier harriers, who have never tasted defeat on their home course, added another victory to their rapidly mounting string last Saturday when they defeated Notre Dame by 21-37.
The Indiana cross-country course, one of the most difficult in the Mid
dle West, is really what the name implies. Over fields, down valleys, across brooks, up hills,—it stretches across the country for five long miles it is treacherous, and, for those unaccustomed to it, sometimes dangerous.
Leas and Clapham, Indiana’s two distance stars, breasted the tape in 25 minutes and 13 7-10 seconds to
tie for first place. Alex Wilson and Gene Howery were first to score for Notre Dame when they crossed the line in third and fourth places, respectively. Four more Indiana men finished before Jim Biggins took ninth for the Blue and Gold. Cavanaugh was tenth and Ray Connors eleventh to score the other Notre Dame points.
And Cut to Ordor
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES. TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES
©hatter
Suits MO, M5, *50 Overcoats	4
RESERVES WIN DOUBLEBILL OVER WEEK-END
Notre Dame’s reserve teams chalked up two victories last Saturday when they met the Ball Teachers College in Muncie, and the Iowa University reserves on Cartier Field. The former game which was played as a night contest was a slaughter of the teacher’s college eleven, Notre Dame winning 81-6. After four quarters of nip and tuck football on the home gridiron, the Fighting Irish reserves emerged from the game with the Hawkeye B team, on the large end of a 7-10 score.
Iowa and Notre Dame were fighting an even battle until Litzwan, Acers, and Williams of the home guard alternated the ball from midfield to score the only touchdown of the game. Kingney’s boot for the extra point was successful.
The Hawkeyes made a desperate attempt to head off the reserves late in the game, but were stopped on the Fighting Irish one-foot-line. Merton, of Iowa, blocked a Notre Dame pimt and picked it up to score a touchdown in what seemed to be a legal play. Referee Parker ruled otherwise and the ball was returned.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE	.
©harterWouse
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	:
; The character of the suits and ;
•	overcoats tailored by Charter House s , will earn your most sincere liking. "
? MAX ADLER
—	Inc.	m
•	On the Corner	Michigan and Washington «
Dciit Experiment. With goar&ppearancQ
At the Best Mens* Shops
288
The Notre Dame Scholastic
won’t drag a weary round when you come to class pepped up with a Shredded Wheat breakfast. Lazy hours follow meals too heavy. There’s a lot of energy in crispy golden biscuits of
he clock
Shredded Wheat
Contains every food element essential to health
Nunri-Bush c/lnkle-Fashioned Oxfords
can SEE and FEEL the difference.
exclusive with Nunri-Bush. You
Better looking because better fitting — trim around the ankle, snug at the heel — the result of the ANKLE-FASHIONED feature,
KLINGEL’S MEN’S SHOE SHOP 112 North Main Street South Bend, Ind.
Patronize the SCHOLASTIC advertisers
| On Down the Line |
. . . Iowa University is not in the least optimistic . . . since a visiting team, celebrating a victory, tore out the old goal posts, new ones of steel have been anchored in six feet of concrete . . . “Tiny” Harter of the Bradley College football team is believed to be the largest football player . . . this linesman weighs only 307 pounds . . . Walter Hagen and Horton Smith are booked for 27 golf matches in 30 days . . .
. . . Current odds on the Fighting Irish to go through the season undefeated are 4 to 1 . . . Bob Zuppke says of them: “Notre Dame has the reserve strength and the speed that are the marks of all good teams.” . . . “Lefty” O’ Doul, Phillies outfielder, discarded by four major league clubs was this season’s batting king . . . averaged .400 . . . American boxers are in sole possession of all the ring crowns . . .
. . . Christian Keener Cagle, Army captain, is called “Red” by the press ... be it as it may, his hair is not red at all . . . Lightweight boxers have proved more durable than the title-holders of other classes . . . Kid Lavigne boxed for 24 years . . '. 1,584,517 golf balls were imported to the United States in the first six months of this year . , . an increase of 150,000 over the same period in 1929 . . .
. . . Boston College suffered an odd penalty in its game with Duke . . . Boston kicked twice out of bounds and on the second time Duke was awarded the ball on its 40-yard line .. . Barton Cooper of Alameda, Calif., is blind but plays golf . . . what’s the diff . . . Only once in the last six years has Maureen Orcutt, 22-year old golf star of New York failed to qualify in a major tournament ... She has held the Metropolitan area title four consecutive years ...
. . . William Glasgow, Iowa captain, is playing despite a fracture of his cheek bone ... he wears a steel face guard . . . Easton, Mo. high school began its basketball season with a 138 to 4 victory over Oak Grove . . . Waseda U. defeated Keio in a three-game “world series” in Japan . . . 40,000 saw each game and thousands were turned away ...
The Notre Dame Scholastic	289
■	For Saturday’s Game
For Thanksgiving
And the Holidays
A Cozy, Warm Spiro Alaskan Fleece
OVERCOAT $50
They’re shown here in the styles that fashion leaders of America are wearing—belted Raglans, double breasted town coats and ulsters—in heather, tans, browns, blues, and greys. You can’t beat those for warmth, style, comfort and value. Come in and see. We invite you. »
—Other good, serviceable, stylish Overcoats from $25 to $100
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes \ ■
290
The Notre Dame Scholastic