Scholastic
Vol. 80, No. 5 December 17, 1943
S Johnny Long to Play at V-12 Ball	j
S Rosie's Popular With Civilians .	'	|
S Basketball Team Plays Wildcats Tomorrow j
^he SNotre Q^ame Scholastic
Di see Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney___________________________....Editor-in-chief
Ralph Abell_______________________________Associate Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole____________________________Managing Editor
Harold Berliner and John McKeon....Asst. Managing Editors Jim Cassidy and Bob Schellenberg---------------------"The Week" Bill Waddington________________________________-Splinters
Lieut. S. L. Beatty__________________________________Observations
Jim Casey and Buzz Hassett.............. The	Green Banner
Dick Murphy_______________________________...College Parade
Al Lesmez_____________________________Man About Campus
Ratshin and Grossman----------------------Now Hear This
News Staff
Frank Keenan.....____________________________________News Editor
Al Lesmez---------------------------------Campus Editor
Edward Madden_______________________Administration Editor
John Keleher	Vernon Mikkelsen	Joe Plante
J. D. Usina	R. L. Marske	James McCarthy
Jim Regan	H. G. Gilligan	Bill Thompson
Paul Wood	Leland James	Frank Gleason
Steve Loyacano John Locke	Mike Canair
Features
Al Broten ________________________________________..Editor
Al Bisbee	Palmer Amundsen H. F. Ziegler
James Paris	Leonard Hogan	Sam Miller
Art Wagner	Harry Tanner	Charles Veenstra
Sports Staff
Bill Carey._________________________—.............—- Editor
James H. Howard Jim Fennelly	Jack Houghteling
Joe-Murnane	Paul Brennan	David Scheider
John Power Jim Regan ,*'v Joe Fahey
- -
Staff .Photographers
Al Shaefer Charles Renaud Joe Haller Frank Cacciapaglia
■^1’ Circulation
John * Matmillec_______J.__..ii...-----—....—	Manager
Don CqIp - ■_____________1___55^.__Asst. Manager
Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C...—Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school ye:-r at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
EXTENSION OF REMARKS OF
HON. BERTRAND W. GEARHART
of California
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, November 19, 1943
Mr. Gearhart. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to unanimous consent granted by the House, I am including in the Congressional Record some verses entitled, “Prophecy for Peace,” which are so exalted and majestic as to be worthy of publication everywhere.
These inspiring words were written by my friend, James Patrick McGovern, of the District of Columbia bar, a captain in the A.E.F. during the First World War, whose poem on the war effort, inserted by me in the Record of September 17, 1943, has also appeared in recent issues of The American Legion Magazine, The Stars and Stripes, and other patriotic publications of Nationwide circulation.
That which he now so generously dedicates to the national welfare is the following:
PROPHECY FOR PEACE
Elusive peace, so simple, yet blind lead blind When power betrays its duty to mankind, When gross ambition scoffs at right and wrong, When mercy is not truly wise and strong.
“The world,” vowed Wilson, “safe for democracy!”
Who heeded then his words of prophecy?
The League renounced, the boom and crash, lost youth, Utopias—all delusions masked as truth.
What are, we ask, our men now fighting for
Which was not sanctified by the former war?
“It must not happen again,” the millions cried;
But the battle closed, and faith soon dimmed and died.
What augurs now the stage of war unrolled
When on the front at home avarice is so bold It knows no rule to mark its grasping bounds, And even the distant fighting front confounds.
What soldier feels the invincible will to win
When here at home are many corrupt like sin,	.
Leaders of strife, who use the war to pry
Their profits more and more, while brave men die?
Chiefs of industry, whose first care is their gain, Callous to death due to the ill-made plane;
Hirelings in Government, lobbyists in hall, Political yes-men, gathering votes, one and all—
What matters it to such, if opportunity offers, To pack to overflowing their golden coffers?
Let others fight the war, a mere mirage,
While piously they commit their sabotage.
i Another day of trial will dawn and then
-Will discord, guile and greed rule us again, Despite the blood, the suffering, the treasure Paid in the insatiable sieve, world-war’s grim measure?
“Peace in our time” from the last war to this
Betrayed our judgment by a Judas kiss;
Again, unless we shun gold, pride and ease, Today we’ll fight, but tomorrow we’ll appease.
It is in hearts of men that peace must grow;
The peace we reap is but the peace we sow.
Glossed words, false deeds, though decked with seal and wax, Must mock their authors before they turn their backs.
—James Patrick. McGovern.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at speciai rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 191". Authorized June 25, 1918.
V-
VOL. 80
DECEMBER 17, 1943
No. 5
Navy V12 Ball Set for Friday, Jan. 14;
Johnny Long's Band to Play in Drill Hall
BY EDWARD MADDEN
The V-12 Ball, number one dance of the semester, will be held on January-14, 1944, in the Navy drill hall. The festivities will begin at 2100 and last until 0100. The Ball will be in the traditional Navy formal style, patterned along the lines of the previous V-12 dance.
The general chairman of the Ball, Pvt. Bud Davis, has announced the following committees:
Orchestra: James Griffin (Navy).
Tickets: Dick Steele (Navy), John Sheahan (Marine).
Decorations: Dick Bevington (Navy), Francis Rogers (Navy), Fred Fitchey (Navy), Francis Collins (Marine).
Programs and Invitations: Foster Freeman (Navy), Robert Curley (Marine) .
Refreshments: Frank Dragoun (Navy).
Transportation: (checking, parking, and bus transportation) Joe O’Keefe (Navy).
Publicity: Edward Madden (Navy) Scholastic, John Matmiller (Marine) Outside Publicity, Robert Fanning (Navy) Outside Publicity, John Con-ron (Marine) Outside Publicity, John Drendel (Navy) Outside Publicity, Clint Johnson (Navy) Poster and Campus, “Ch"ck” Kiraly (Navy) Poster and Campus. -
An added attraction and colorful “come-on” for the. young ladies — a special surprise favor will be in store for them!
The price will be $3.50 per couple and no corsages will be worn.
Johnny Long, who brings his orchestra to Notre Dame on Jan. 14, not only pilots one of the fastest young bands in the country, but he can claim further distinction as the only left-handed violinist in popular music.
Going back to his childhood for the actual story of how a playful pig took a generous bite at John’s extended fin
gers, injuring the tendons and rendering them useless for the rigid manual dexterity demanded of violinists, our converted “southpaw fiddler” has never wanted to convey the impression that
Johnny Long
he is a freak bowing for the amazement of the gathered throngs. On the contrary, Johnny has practiced long and arduously to perfect tone and technique that might well be the envy of the ordinary orthodox right-handed violinist playing solos.
Lt. Day is NROTC Instructor;
Replaces Lieut. Ehrmann
Lieut. H. M. Ehrmann, U.S.N.R., who has been instructor in the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps here at Notre Dame for the past ten months, left last week for new duty. .
Lieut. Richard M. Day, U.S.N.R., will be his successor, reporting from the U.S.
Naval Reserve Midshipmen school at Abbott Hall in Chicago.
A graduate of the University of Washington, Seattle, NROTC, Lt. Day has been an instructor in damage control, communications, and seamanship at Abbott Hall for the past 15 months. Lt. Ehrmann, who was ordered to report to the Chief of Naval Operations in Washington, D. C., had duties here of the same nature as those of Lt. Day, and in addition taught naval law.
J. D. Usina
American Ballad Singers Present Delightful Folk Songs
By Leland James
Notre Dame was entertained last night with a selection of American folk songs presented by the American Ballad Singers. The program opened at 8:00 in Washington Hall. The Ballad Singers, a group of outstanding, individual soloists, gave a delightful and rollicking program.
Their repertoire consisted of native folk songs and ballads collected from every part of the United States. They included sea chanties, spirituals, cowboy times, hillbilly songs, street cries, childrens’ game songs, and songs for Victory. These songs are a part of the United States itself and present a crosssection of our country.
Some of these songs date back to the time of the Pilgrims and trace the musical history of the American people up to the present time.
The singers blended their voices perfectly, imparting their enthusiasm to the music and to the audience. They are led by the noted composer, Elie Seigmeister, who directed them superbly. The group consists of six members: Ruth Fremont and Helen Yorke, sopranos; Rebekah Crawford, contralto; Lester Germain, tenor; Dolf Swingas, baritone; and Earl Waldo, bass. .
The concert was attended by a small audience of students and faculty members. The Singers presented a very delightful program enjoyed by all.
3
Deaths of Miller, Harrington, Adams Raise
Number of Notre Dame War Dead to 72
BY SEAMAN ART WAGNER
OBSERVATIONS
By Lieut. S. L. Beatty. U.S.N.R.
In the Sacred Heart Church on the Campus there is a plaque containing seventy-two names and a flag containing a corresponding number of gold stars. These honor the Notre Dame men who have given their lives for their country.
The most recently reported casualty —the seventy-second—is Ensign Matthew Miller, class of ’42, a dive bomber • pilot. He was killed December 8, in an airplane crash near Wildwood, New J ersey.
Major Vincent F. Harrington, class of ’25 and one of the seven mules of Notre Dame’s famed 1924 National Championship football team, died of a heart attack while at an officer’s club in Rutlandshire, England on November 29.
The German government, through the International Red Cross, reported that Lieut. Billy Adams, ex ’42, was killed in a raid on the German naval bases of Bremen and Kiel, June 13, 1943.
The list of the known Notre Dame war dead to date follows:
Lt. Lawrence A. Barrett. "40.
A-C Charles F. Bebeau, ex. ’43.
A-C- Edward J. Brockman, ex. '45
A-C Matthew A. Byrne, ’42
Pvt. Vito W. Cappello. ’43.
Lt. James L. Carroll, ’43.
Ensign Henry B. Caudill, ex. ’41.
Ensign John G. Casey, ’41.
Lt. Arthur J. Chadwick, '36.
Ensign Francis X. Clarke, ’39.
Lt. James T. Connell, '40.
Lt. Richard Coad, ’42.
1st. Lt Milton E. Connelly, ex. ’43.
Lt John E. Cox, ex. *43.
A-C Pierre R. de la Vergne, ’38.
Ensign Thomas F. Durkin, ’37.
2nd Lt Allen H. Elward. Jr., ex. *44.
S-Sgt. Daniel P. Farley, ex. ’38.
Ensign John P. Ffrench. ’34.
Sgt Romaine M. Fiffe, ex. ’43.
1st Lt (Rev.) Patrick X. Flaherty. ’34.
John V. Flyn, ’36.
Joseph C. Foley, ’37.
Ensign Wm. G. Foley, ’41.
Robert E. Fordyce, ex. *42.
Capt. Richard S. Freeman, ex. ’29.
2nd Lt Floyd C. Grazier, ex. ’39.
Oliver P. Helland. Jr., ’39.
William F. Higgins, ex. ’46.
1st Lt. Herschel G. Horton, ex. *43.
4
CpI. George R. Jackman. ex. ’42.
Lt Vincent J. Jasinski, ex. ’34.
Ensign Fergus F. Kelly, '37.
Major Joseph E. Leising, ’39.
Lt. William P. Marsh. '41.
Newton L. Matthews, ex. '36.
Lt. Col. Hugh F. McCaffery. '27.
A-C William J. McJunkin, '41.
Cpl. Richard L. Novak. '29.
Pfc. Joseph A. O'Brien, ex. '40.
Ensign Charles H. O'Donnell, ex. '40.
Lt. Edward H. Phelan. Jr., ex. '40.
Eugene A. Poletto. '40.
Lt. Joseph P. Prendergast, '36.
Ensign Paul E. Purcell. '40.
Francis V. Quackenbush, ex. "38.
Capt James J. Quinn. '36.
Pfc. Ambrose I. Rice, ex. '38.
PvL Joseph F. Riley, ex. '37.
Cpl. Joseph W. Reynolds. ’43.
T-Sgt. John W. Roach. Jr.. ’38.
Lt. Edward J. Schreiber. '41.
Ensign James O. Schltheis. ’41.
LL Anthony J. Seaman, ex. ’40.
Cpl. John W. Shea, '40.
S 1-c Arthur C. Smith. ’33.
Pilot Officer Lionel V. O. Smith. '33.
1st Lt. Neal D. Smith, ex. ’41.
Cpl. Daniel J. Sullivan, ex. '36.
John T. Von Harz. ’40.
Capt. George C. Wassell. ’31.
Douglas C. Weaver, ex. '40.
A-C Archie C. Strang, Jr., ex. '43.
George W. Weber, ex. '40.
Capt Thomas J. Webster. '40.
A-C John J. Whelan, ex. *43.
2nd Lt. John H. Weichman. ex. '43.
Ralph G. Wingfield. '40.
Ensign George A. Wolf, ex. '39.
Lieut Billy C. Adams, ex. ’42.
Major Vincent F. Harrington. '25.
Ensign Matthew J. Miller. '42.
In addition, there are seven men known to have been captured, and thirteen have been reported missing in action.
Captured:
Cpl. Charles M. Butterworth, ex. ’42.
Lt Richard J. Carroll. '37.
Rev. John E. Duffy, ’23.
2nd Lt. Thomas P. Foy. ’38.
Ensign John C. Metcalf, ’37.
Ensign George K. Petritz, ex. '38.
Sgt. Mario G. Tonelli, ex. ’39.
Missing in action:
Lt William C. Adams, ex. ’42.
Sgt. Robert D. Bijur, ex. ’43.
Lt Chas. M. Bransfield, ex. ’41.
2nd Lt John L. Crane, Jr., ’40.
Lt. Albert J. Fensel. ex. ’42.
Pvt. Henry J. McConnell, ex. ’47.
Lt Edward F. Miller, ex. ’42.
William G. Murphy, ’33.
Lt.-Howard K. Petschel, ex. ’42.
Joseph J. Reardon, ex. *22.
Edward F. Rorke, ex. ’39.
Lt Otto J. Seifert Jr., ex. ’43.
Ensign John F. Sprague, ex. ’43.
Notre Dame has not forgotten her servicemen. A special Mass is offered daily for them; and November 24 was set aside for campus-wide prayer for the Notre Dame men who have died in service.
Navy correspondence, by Lieutenant Commander Robert A. Cook, U.S.N. (Retired), and Professor George G. . Connelly of the Department of English, History, and Government, U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. Prentice-Hall, New York City, 1943, 73 pages, 75 cents.
“Designed to aid Navy indoctrinees and V-12s in meeting the requirements for writing Navy forms and letters,” this handbook contains instructions and exercises used at the U.S. Naval Acad-
Lieut S. L. Beatty, U.S.N.R.
emy, lists of official ship and aircraft designations, Navy abbreviations, and a glossary of Naval terms. Examples are given of every form of official correspondence, from a request for leave of absence to a report of recent Naval action in the Pacific. For youi' personal library as a member of the Navy you may order it through the’ University bookstore or through a bookstore in your own city.
A list of tutors in mathematics and in physics, recommended by Dr. Menger and Father Bolger, the heads of those respective departments, is available at the V-12 Office. It includes V-12 seamen, Marines, and several civilians. Trainees who serve as tutors receive a special rating on aptitude for the service which appears in their service record, provided they are properly registered for tutoring service in advance at the V-12 Of-(Continued on page 20)
JU	3E	-		ajc.	ii.
	The Week r	-ar	-sr ir -sr -sr sr	i □r ci
BY JIM CASSIDY AND BOB SCHELLENBERG
TOP OF THE WEEK
Why does a chicken cross the road?
BE SEEIN' YA SWOON
Frankie Sinatra was rejected from the Army’because of a punctured eardrum, . . . Now we know why he doesn’t swoon —he can’t hear that stuff.
And with Bing having four kids, our only hope seems to be that Dina Shore enlist in the WACs.
MORE—PRETTY PLEASE
Say, what’s coming off when “our boys” are giving such a big blow to our caf girls? A rousing welcome to South Bend Central! It must be the St. Mary’s restriction.
RHUMOR OF THE WEEK
F = MA.
THE SEWER THE BETTER
The pick and shovel men are really raising cain. (and a lot of dirt) in Brownson Field. Digging deep, shall we say? It strikes us that Mayor Kelly is carrying this subway too far.
IS RADIO REALLY DEAD!!
Tone Beep.
Announcer-. Your station WZAHM— the shore station, New South Flibble-duzzer Springs, Minn.- .... A short transcribed announcement.
Commercial: (Thirty Voice Chorus Sings)
Bubble, Bubble tirudildiledada, Bubble, Bubble tirudildiledada, Quixy Soap Shreds has such suds, Eats the grime out of your duds. One thin dime buys a box for you ; Dissolves all dirt and all the laundry too
Bubble, Bubble, bubble-
Announcer: Try a box of Quixy Soap Shreds Today—you’ll be baffled. Writes Mrs. P. Q., Upper Fobwatch, Penn., Quote:—Since I switched to Quixy Soap Shreds, my troubles are down the drain, so are all the clothes I washed. Why, after making the 140-day Quixy test I’m
beautiful again—. I’ve even turned my dishpan hands over to the scrap drive— Unquote. Try a box today. Remember Quixy Soap Shreds are the only Soap Shreds containing minimum daily requirements of Vitamin Bl.
Organ: (Tearfully) 1 o’clock Jump (Fade out).
Announcer: Now friends, it’s time to wander- once again up the next block, turn to the left, stop for a red light, then continue to the little house half way up. Where we meet your neighbor and mine, Helen Bent, Backstop Wife!! (despondently) Has Helen the right to happiness, can life be gTuesome on the road of life? Huh? (with new found enthusiasm). But first—Mothers, have you served your family Bingsley’s Buttered Barley Balls—they’re better! They are the only cereal containing dehydrated spinach. Bingsley’s Buttered Barley Balls come in two convenient sizes, both curwed to fit the roof of your mouth. The handy “BeBe or Good-morning-dearslurp—good-bye-dear—size.” and the hearty “bowling- ball or I-haven’t-any-thing-else-to do — this-mornin-anyway” size. But if it persists consult your physician immediately. Do you want to serve tempting, nourishing breakfasts?
No other cereal can make that statement!! GE CHUBS TADAY.
(Short pause—no doubt the one that refreshes).
Remember friends, in yesterday’s episode of Helen Bent, Backstop Wife— Our Gal Sunday had just received news that John’s Other Wife—Ma Perkins (the one that broke her back and is in the hospital) had told Joyce Jordan, woman doctor that Helen had been running around with Young Doctor Malone. . . . Just Plain Bill in an effort to stop this nasty gossip tried to reason with Ma Perkins but after some loud remarks Bill is evicted (thrown) into the street, suffering a broken leg and internal complications. Our story today opens in the Bent living room—where Helen wearing a black ensemble (in mourning for big Sister who was killed while reaching for the pair of nylons in a bargain basement two weeks ago) is talking to her closest friend Portia Brown.
Helen: Bill is in the hospital, Pepper Young, my adopted son, has run away with a chorus girl. Portia, I can’t go
on living—what shall I do? What shall I do?
Portia: (at a loss for words)-—III
Helen :Why doesn’t Dear John call? I feel ghastly!!! I can’t go on living— what shall I do?
Portia: Helen, My dear, why don’t you kill yourself?	-
Sound: Gun shot, woman’s scream, breaking glass, and sound of truck dumping ton of coal into the kitchen sink.
Music: Poet and Peasant Overture.
Announcer: Will Helen commit suicide? Is Just Plain Bill’s skull really fractured or is his head just naturally flat? What of Pepper Young? Will Dr. Brent call Surgery? Is Ma Perkins really Superman in disguise? Don’t for-bet to listen tomorrow at this same time when Bingsley’s Buttered Barley Balls, the only Buttered Barley Balls containing composite dextro Boron alpha amino phenyl meta acido salycilate, brings you Helen Bent, Backstop Wife. Stay tuned to this station for Mary Marlinspike, girl Elevator Operator which follows immediately. (Fades out as dead phonograph record turns over in its groove.)
Ed. Note: And then when something worth listening to accidently gets on the air before noon, some jerk starts shaving with an electric razor.
HEADLINE OF THE WEEK
“GIRL JOINS WAVES TO HELP CAUSE”. To help cause what?
A NOTABLE NOTE, MR. STHELIN
There is a swing concei-t to be given by the Victory Band in the offing. . . . The only objection, and a very good one we. believe, comes from Fr. Burke, Prefect of Discipline of the University.
Fr. Burke knowing the younger* generation as he does, feels that the rythmic thumping of the hundreds of hep feet in the balcony of Washington Hall would be too much for the structure, and thus very dangerous for those who attended; ... Of course, what jam session isn’t dangerous for all who attend? Perhaps adjustments can be made if we play our cards right and bid two no thump for the evening. -	•
REGULATIONS
All those men may have weekend leave who are not restricted, who are not flunking a subject, who are not marching off demerits, -who are not on fire watch, and who have their watch stripes.
Both of you get back on time!!
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
To get back to St. Mary’s.
5
A Friday Night at Rosie's, Traditional for Notre Dame Men, is Left Solely to Civilians
BY DICK AMES
“Going down to Rosie’s” is more than just another event at Notre Dame. It has grown into something of a ritual, as one class of students after another has inherited the taste for spaghetti, hard-crusted bread and several bottles of beer for Friday-night supper. By now it has become part of the permanent tradition of the University, one of those things that have to be left behind with graduation, that belongs even more to the freshman coming in than to the senior walking away.
In recent times the popularity of Rosie’s might be attributed to student escapism, brought on by the monotony of the dining hall’s usual fare. Even though this may be the case, the results are the same, a good meal and a good time for the escapists. But the whole point of the thing dies with an attitude like that.
Because Rosie’s, while always known and attractive for its food, is more than just a place to get another meal. It’s a social event, a la everyday clothes and an open collar. It’s the sort of thing that makes living through every blue-Monday possible, thinking thead to the next weekend. Usually the trip is a spontaneous affair; at noon hour someone says, “How about Rosie’s tonight?” And you answer, “I really have a lot of of work,” and then at five o’clock you’re on a crowded bus with a small gang of lads who have been tempted away just as you have. Someone pulls the buzzer at the drug store corner and you all pile off and string down that alley behind the barber shop, trying to pick your way among the stones and at the same time see just who’s going to be there on this particular night; and you can feel the excitement growing as you listen to the jokes and the laughing that have started already. Then through the door into the small, packed, front room, and someone always asks why the devil all of you didn’t get down here, earlier. There are no tables, so for a half-hour or so you browse around seeing people
•5*	♦♦♦	*!•	«J» •J* ❖	«J>
❖ FOOTBALL NUMBER ❖
❖ A .few copies of last week's Foot- ❖ ❖ ball Number still remain. They are ❖ available at campus and downtown ❖ newstands, and at the Publications ••• *♦* Office. ■ - -	Price • 25. cents. ❖
♦ ♦♦♦♦♦♦ & •:* <»
❖ &
6
you know, checking up on this and that with different ones, and maybe squeezing yourself into some full booth just for the conversation. Then finally a table, you order, and there’s another half-hour wait before the “spaghet” arrives, so you talk. Maybe that girl from St. Mary’s you thought was kind of cute is there, and she talks to you. Anything is possible at Rosie’s. More people come and go, and by the time you’ve eaten and had a final cigarette there are more plans for a show, or a trip down to the Arcadia. Whatever the plans are, you go, just because it’s impossible and seems a little foolish to think about going back to the books in the mood you’re in now.
And that’s Rosie’s — two rooms, a lot of tables, and a lot of good times. It’s not quite the same as it used to be now, with half the fellows in the V-12 and not able to get away on week nights, but it’s still quite a place. What the table down at Morie’s is to Yale, what the Jug and the Union are to Minnesota, Rosie’s and spaghetti on Friday nights will always be to Notre Dame.
Second Number of Catholic Action Quarterly Appears
The second number, and Winter Issue, of The Movement came off the presses Tuesday, and proved to be an exceptionally well-written and interesting edition.
Under the editorship of Jim Cunningham, former Scholastic staff member, the four-page news quarterly is published by the Notre Dame chapter of the Catholic Action Society. The Movement brings to its readers news articles, feature stories and reports, emphasizing actual projects, campaigns and programs carried out by CAS.
Featured in this winter issue was a report on the success of the BX, spon-. sored by CAS. This non-profit student book-exchange handled over $500 worth of used texts, and saved students an estimated $200.
Another feature dealt with the popular, CA-inspired- Co-Hops. Originated . last summer.' primarily for V-12 student servicemen, the Co-Hops are now held on a large scale, with hundreds of local girls participating in the affair each week at the Progress Club, which now admits both civilian and military students. ■	-	-	•	■
Marine Murmurs
By Private Knoc-E Toff
Two weekends ago Pvt. Tucker threw a party for a few of his select friends on the third floor of Cavanaugh. The gathering took place at the exclusive local YMCA where the fellows got together with several young ladies from the local high schools. They danced, had refreshments which included pretzels, and various soft drinks. The party broke up in an orderly fashion at 2200, with the girls retiring to their homes and the boys to the Irish oasis. Pvt Tucker is now on the list.
Another man about town is Pvt. .Williams who persuaded four of his friends to go riding with some beautiful scenery he had dated up. It so happened that the scenery was of the rugged type and Pvt. Williams now has four enemies as well as a reputation for being untrustworthy.
“Tell it to the marines,” must have been the inspiring words which prompt- , ed a certain young miss from the village of South Bend to ■write this rhyme. This is the warning given by her to all Indiana lassies.
, Any Marine can be his name,
But that is not his claim to fame.
He feeds the girls a big, lone line,
And thinks he’s making them feel fine.
- He really thinks he’s quite a charmer, -
But in fact'he’s just a farmer.
The Marines may have all good boys, But don’t forget that girls aren’t toys. So girls when you begin feeling high— You’d better spread your wings and start to fly.
Anyone can work this problem •— What’s the square root of V-12? Answer—4-F.
And then we have the mastermind Pvt.. “I-know-it-all” Ziggie who has taken over the position of professor in his physics, class. Only trouble is the (Continued on page 21)
Stehlin's Victory Band Returns to Campus;
Appears at Washington Hall Dec. 29
BY STEVE LOYACANO
In bringing his nineteen-piece Victory-Band to the stage of Washington Hall, John Stehlin will be making his second musical appearance at Notre Dame.
Stehlin and his Victory Band crowded the students and members of the faculty into Washington Hall last August to such an extent that some of the
“couldn’t bear to miss it” students were literally hanging from the window-sills. With the addition of so many more experienced men, coupled with the “sock” arrangement that Stehlin and Haaser have created, the Victory Band will undoubtedly pack them in and once again get the “joint jumpin’!”
A portion of the forthcoming program will include: a beautiful arrangement of “Paper Doll” with Dick Ames supplying the vocals; combination melody of “Mary” and “Cuddle Up a Little Closer”; “Dancing. In the Dark,” featuring the vibrations tones of . the sax / section; the exact recorded arrangement of Captain Glenn Miller’s, “I’m Thrilled,” and a host of other outstand-!
ing past, present, and future hit tunes.
John Stehlin, a native of Brownsville, Tenn., is only 20 years of age and has already studied music for 15 years, starting at the amazing child-prodigy age of five. His first lessons in music were on a piano, but in the course of his studies he has mastered the saxaphone, clarinet and trombone (which, incidentally, is rather extraordinary: for a “reed man” to blow a brass horn).
At Vanderbilt University John organized a band and played for various affairs. One particular engagement he states that he will never forget was a football victory dance. In payment for their musical services, the band agreed to play for a percentage of the gate. It was raining “cats and dogs” that night, but the inclement weather did not hinder 1900 dance seekers from passing through the portals of the box office. Stehlin and his aggregation lost money that night, in fact a great amount of money; before the crowd had started pouring in John agreed to play for a
minimum guarantee. They felt pretty low that night, but that is only one of the many tough breaks that exist in the music world.
Stehlin organized his first band while a freshman in high school. One . of the outstanding experiences of that outfit was a broadcast over one of the South’s major stations. His only comment on that earlier performance was, “It was awful !”> However, John stuck to the idea of music as a hobby, and during his off-time from pre-medical studies he spent many hours playing and arranging. Basing my conclusions on a few of his recent manuscripts, it is this writer’s opinion that Stehlin is one of the best arrangers in the business.
But now, let’s hear more about the band. The rhythm section is, without a doubt, the hottest percussion unit that was ever compiled in one band since the traditional swing bands of Notre Dame originated. The bass player is a former band member of none other than the King of the Slide himself — Tommy Dorsey. The drummer’s almost impossible manipulation of a series of speeding rim shots would send any hep cat in search of a linoleum to lacerate. Alvino Rey has nothing on the Victory Band’s guitar man. He picks the strings so fast that the motion of his hand cannot be followed by the normal eye. The “Ivory Man,” (piano-player to those who aren’t hep to jive talk) beating out on the ' 88 keys in a torrid boogie-woogie bass, adds the final touches to make this a strictly big-time outfit. The complete band includes: eight brass, five trumpets, three trombones, five saxes (with Stehlin himself doubling to make six reeds), and again — that terrific rhythm section.
The managers of the band are: Bob Valestin, Larry Carden, one of the main cogs in Stehlin’s musical machine, and lastly competent Jimmy Spencer.
Norman (Hodges) Haaser, alto and baritone sax man, who, incidentally, is a professor of Mathematics here at the University, has traveled on the road with professional name bands for six
years. To Norm are accredited many of the special arrangements played by" the ensemble.
Three Concerts for Glee Club;
Carols on Christmas Eve
By Frank Gleason
The Notre Dame Glee Club, composed of thirty voices, has yet to be heard this semester. After days of diligent practice under the able supervision of Mr. Pedtke, these voices are finally ready to make their debut. They have three programs planned.
The first is to be an open-air affair on Christmas Eve, an innovation on the campus. The singers will leave from the Music Hall at 6:30 pan., and will sing in each hall the famous old Christmas carols which are so typical of the holidays.
The second concert will be on January 14, at the annual Faculty Dinner. Mr. Pedtke has stated that he may feature some soloist if someone can “meet the exacting requirements.”
Four days later, on January 18, they will make their final appearance of the semester at a formal Glee Club Concert. It will be held in Washington Hall, and this showing is certain to feature a soloist. Mr. Pedtke states that the hard thing to do is to decide which of his many excellent voices will receive the honor.
Game Results to be
Given at Saturday Co-Hop
Results of the Northwestern - NT), game will be received" direct from Evanston Saturday night at the Co-Hop, to be held as usual in the newly decorated Progress Club, 601 West Colfax.
The same smooth music that flowed last week will be tapped again, and hundreds of South Bend’s loveliest will be on hand for dancing and conversation. Things start popping promptly at 8 o’clock, and go for more than three hours.
Civilians and servicemen are both eligible for entrance, and St. Mary’s girls are allowed to attend with dates. An extra special Co-Hop will be held Christmas Day.
7
College Parade
BY RICHARD MURPHY
LET'S GRIPE!
Purdue students have run up against the same situation as we here on the campus. The Purdue Exponent informed us that the students were to have only Christmas Day as their vacation this year. Feeling very disgruntled over the situation they took their grievance to the president of the University, and he gave them a lecture about the soldiers on fighting fronts not having vacations, transportation, etc. The students were told that it was a privilege for them - to be still in school and all decisions rested with the military authorities. However, in a later edition it was announced that the army and navy personnels stationed at the university have decided to add Friday, Dec. 24, to the Christmas vacation. It sounds like the students have a method in their madness.
HEAVEN BOUND
A man went to the doctor. He complained of a headache. The doctor quizzed:
“Smoking too much?”
“Never smoked in my life.”
“Perhaps you have been drinking too much?”
“Never had a drop of the stuff.” “Steppin’ out with women too much?” “Never had a date.”
After due deliberation the doctor then observed: “Your trouble is that your halo is too tight around your head.”,
THE PLAINSMAN.
EXPENSIVE ABSENCE
The Creightonian, publication of the University of Creighton, tells us that the students in the College of Journalism are being fined fox absences from class to the tune of one dollar per day. The students may work off the fine by working in the office at fifty cents an hour. Here’s hoping they. haven’t the flu epidemic out there!
PROFANITY COSTS—
The De Pauw tells of the drive on the campus to raise money for the China Relief. The V-12 students are so enthused over this worthy cause that they are out “swearing for China.” The idea is that for every profane word that is
3
said a penny will be dropped into boxes which are distributed throughout the V-12 halls, and the paper reports that a very tidy sum is being collect'd by the copper-holding receptacles.
POOR PAPA
Mrs. Rosenburg has just received a fur coat. She handles it joyfully for a time, and then looks sad for a moment.
“Wha’s da matta,” asks Mr. R., “don’t you like de coat?”
“Oh yes-s,” says she, “but Semmeee, it’s sorry I’m feelink for de poor t’ing what wuz skinned.”
“T’enks,” says Mr. R.
THE TOMAHAWK
ST. MARX'S GIRLS SKIP THIS
Please skip this paragraph, girls. It was included by mistake, but as there was nothing better for presentation, we asked the printer to print it upside down.
IVNUDOf Sasano
•puaq aoq uo pun?s 03 puq aqs
Avoqamos 31 p^qs Axauq
—puo.i Xpuaj[u s^qs uraod siqj, ‘pjptu u 03 qonq u 3aq q(OAv Cuojq
•A\oqs n jquq .raq oai° noA jj ‘A\oqauios pro 31 puy q.aqs 3aq uua no^ .‘.uouq 03 q4u3q3no aqs Sunparuos s<3j ‘ubuioav
u saujo.u 3uq3 SuiqpAuB siaraq3 jj
THE HEAD OF THE CLASS
Professor in Economics class: “Mr. Kent explain how a recession, a depression, and a panic differ.”
Frankie: “Well," a recession is a period in which you have to tighten your belt, a depression is when you have no belt to tighten, but’ when you have no pants to hold up, it’s a panic.”
THE TOWER'
IT'S A HOME RUN
This one appeared in the Saint Vincent Joumalette.lt seems that the local announcer in Altoona became a little befuddled by the action of one of the Prep plays. Over the loudspeaker came: “On that play Ciccarelli, aided by the superb kicking of Ciccarelli, went around end and far down the field for a loss of six yards.”
A REAL PAL
Who borrows all your ready cash?
Who smokes the last one in your pack?
Your Roommate
Who breaks the furniture and the lamps?
Who uses all the postage stamps?
Your Roommate
But who’s a constant pal to you?
Who overlooks the things you do?
Who knows and loves you through and through?
Your Mother.
THE TOMAHAWK
BEST QUIP OF SPORTS WRITERS
In recent weeks is that of Warren Brown in the Chicago Sun. Mr. Brown, in commenting on professional football and gambling activities, notes that the “principal apologist for the league, (Arch Ward), writing in the Chicago Tribune, gives his vote of confidence to the Washington Redskins and to Commissioner Elmer Layden and all his works. It is not news of course to find anyone giving a character reference for Layden. He is now and always has been as fine a character as competitive sport or its administration has ever known. It is news, however, indeed it is a heluva story to discover that anybody writing in the Chicago Tribune, can find anything in Washington with which to agree.”
XOU'RE OUT
She led a spotless life below, - Death held for her no terrors, Now she’s gone where the poppies blow,
No hits, nd runs, no errors.
—The Greylwund
OH WELL-
PATIENT : (in Doctor’s waiting room) : “How do you do?”
Second Patient: “So, So. I’m aching from—
First Patient: “Glad to meet you. I’m. Mendelbaum from Chicago.”
OVERCAST—
A Mississippi steamboat was stopped owing to a dense fog. A nosey passenger inquired the cause'of the delay.
“Can’t see up the river,” said the captain laconically.
“But I can see the stars overhead,” the passenger came back sharply.
“Wal,” said the captain, “unless that loose boiler busts we ain’t going that . way.” • .
Captain J. Richard Barry and Staff Inspects V-12 Regiment of Seamen and Marines
BY JOE PLANTE
Captain J. Richard Barry Inspects Navy V-12 Unit.
Saturday morning, Captain J. Richard Barry with members of the V-12 ; staff, inspected the newly organized V-12 Regiment. It was the first time the regiment of Navy and Marine trainees had been gathered together.
The three battalions of the regiment were marched on to the field adjoining i the Navy Drill Hall. The battalions / were assembled parallel to each other on the field. After having been saluted, the inspecting staff proceeded through the ranks of men. Accompanying Captain Barry were Lieut. Comdr. Pierson, U.S.N;, executive officer, Captain Fin-ney, Marine officer, Lieut, (j.g.) Collins, ’	U.S.N.R., drill officer, and Mr. Bana-
t	sheck, Marine gunner.
| The V-12 regiment is composed of ' three battalions: one Marine and two Navy with each battalion having about five companies. Officers of the regiment v are:
! Seaman Mudge, regimental commander; Pvt. Waters, regimental subcommander; Seaman Connair, aide; Pvt. Martin, aide; Pvt.: Dackins, aide. The Regimental Commander Seaman Mudge and the Subcommander Pvt. Waters *	will alternate in command	of the regi-
■	ment.
The first battalion of	Marines’ is
under Battalion Commander Pvt. Brown, with Pvt. McKenzie subcom
mander, Pvt. Mansfield adjutant, Pvt. Landon sergeant major, and Pvt. Mathwig, runner.
The officers of the second battalion are Battalion Commander Seaman Flan-nigan, subcommander; Seaman Bosler, Seaman Zimmerman, adjutant; Seaman Strom, petty officer, and Seaman Merz, supernumerary.
Third battalion officers are Battalion Commander Seaman Amundsen, subcommander; Seaman Cassidy, Seaman Kramer, adjutant; Seaman DeVries, petty officer, and Seaman Kunkel, supernumerary.
Plans are in hand for future regimental inspections and training in regimental reviews.
Pyromaniac Apprehended
According to a story this week in the South Bend Tribune,. the fire bug who has been plaguing the Notre Dame campus for the past several weeks confessed last Sunday afternoon, and was disclosed as a V-12 trainee. The confession was obtained by an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The name of . the arsonist has been ordered withheld. He is, however, a seaman with a 92% average in the Col
lege of Commerce. He has been at the University since January, and in the V-12 program since July.
The student admitted his guilt as to .the fires in Sorin, Dillon, and Brownson halls. He denied, however, the two biggest blazes — those of the Scholastic office and the Carpenter Shop. He has been sent to a naval hospital for examination.
The story, in the local town paper, of three fires in historic Sorin, is amusing. Sorin’s slide-rule scholars doubt if the old fortress, with its cardboard palace sub, could hold out under even one sizable blaze. Only slight damage resulted from the one small fire in Sorin.
Connolly Resigns; D. C. Ford New Dining Hall Head
Eugene F. Connolly, manager of the University dining halls since 1932, has submitted his resignation effective December 15, it was announced Wednesday by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Mr. Connolly will be succeeded by Mr. D. C. Ford, of Swift & Co., Chicago. He was assistant manager of the sales promotion and procurement division of the hotel contract and institution department of that company.
Coming to Notre Dame in 1932, when he succeeded the late Robert Borland, first manager of the new dining halls project, Mr. Connolly proved an able executive in the feeding of 3,000 students and the incidental problems and special events. He has also been in charge of the increased program which, includes the feeding of both students and Navy midshipmen, and the affiliated operations of the several campus stores and canteen, combined under the accelerated program.
Mr. Connolly resigns to devote full time to the business he recently acquired known as Ye Huddle, near the John Adams high school in South Bend. Before coming to Notre Dame he had served in the McAlpin Hotel, New York City, and was for a number of years with the Statler and other hotels.
The new manager, Mr. D.- C. Ford, has been with Swift & Co. since 1927. He is a graduate of Cornell University. His experience with Swift has included many hotel and institutional projects, in the Midwest, New England, New York and New Jersey. His departmental experience with Swift has equipped him with many of the special qualifications demanded by the present scope of the Notre Dame dining halls, one of the largest school dining hall projects in the United States.
9
NOW HEAR THIS!
V-7 NEWS
By B. D. Ratshin and M. C. Grossman
Sick Bay—Sick Boy
The only production line that surpasses that of the famous Henry Kaiser is that hypodermic department of the Sick Bay. As you’ve probably seen and felt, the efficient method that really needles the men consists of two corpsmen who attack you on both flanks as you pass between them.
Nightlifing It
The men on liberty downtown are so officer-conscious that some have been observed saluting the goldish hue that emanates from jewelry store windows.
Your Navy Courses Do Come In Handy In Chilian Pursuits, so stated the Midshipman who saw his girl waiting for him on a lonely dark street corner. Silently he crept up behind her, yelled, “Ready, Now,” whirled her around and pressed his lips to hers.
After two minutes, she breathed recognition, “William.”
The Dumbest Guy in the Regiment
The middie who is still going out for morning calisthenics in his sleep. In a recent interview, the somnambulist stated, “It’s swell out there in the moonlight, but that frost surely cools your hands during those push-ups.”
A New Song— "The Assignment Blues'1
Oh, I want the largest landing barge of all—
Oh, I want the largest landing barge of all.
. Though my eyes are only 15-20,
For L. C. T.’s, that’s plenty,
Oh, I want the largest landing barge of all.
Good, Bad, and Notre Damish
After a hard day of marching and studies, the mate at 2200 peeks in your room as you’re tiredly reclining in bed and asks, “All in?”
To which you answer in a fatiguing voice, “You bet.”
Our Award for the Week
For showing outstanding courage beyond the line of duty goes this week to the Second Battalion hero, who two weeks ago happened to pause in the production line and before he knew it, zing, zing, zing, zing—he had received double doses of serum in both arms. “Truly outstanding valor in the fight for Notre Dame,” was the official comment. (And there’s no chaser with these shots.)
Saving Shoeleather
Also in line with the arm plunging campaign is the story about the middie caught drinking out of the faucet in his room despite the sign definitely stating, “This is unfiltered water. Do not drink it!”
When his company commander asked him why he did persist in sipping the liquid, our shipmate replied, “Well, sir, with all these serums in me, it just seemed a waste of shoe-leather to go out to the fountain for a drink. A germ won’t even look at me now.”
Patricia Travis Honored

Miss Patricia Travis
Air Cadets at Texas A. & M. College recently. chose Patricia Travis, junior at St. Mary’s, as queen of their graduation ball. Pat has been guest of honor at two Notre Dame senior balls. She attended the cadets dance along with Maryellen Muchenheirn, St. Mary’s junior class president.
The Green Banner
By Jim Casey & "Buzz" Hassett
YULE GREETINGS
Give our regards to Broadway, ’cause, brother, with a two-day parole from the classroom staring us in the face, (please don’t call it a Christmas holiday!) we’re sure we won’t be there. A five-week vacation, last year, and a weekend this year — what great luck!!! But, gentlemen, the opportunity to spend Christmas in the South Bend area is going to be a novel and diverting experience. There will be surprises — big surprises — holly, mistletoe, and a variety, of Hoosiers chirping “Merry Christmas!” By New Year’s we ought to be authorities on the various dialects that abound in these parts. . . . Just think, in all the years to come, we can sit back comfortably in our little domain in the berry patches of Weehawken, New Jersey, or What Cheer, Iowa, — and tell our grandchildren all about the glorious year of 1943, when their father (or grandfather) almost lost his life at Christmas, out in the wilds of Indiana. . . . What bothers us most of all, though, is the fact that we don’t have a mantel piece from which to hang our stockings on Christmas Eve. (Come to think of it — we haven’t even got stockings!!)
RUMORS HAVE IT—
That there was no dancing at St. Mary's, last Sunday. No doubt the belles in those parts were having their excellent collection of records re-ground. . . . Bob Ghegan misplaced his glasses, Saturday. He meant to seek assistance from some of the boys in his wing of Sorin (Third Floor), to help search for the lost glasses. By chance he mistook the clothing cabinet for the door of his room. He walked in and the cabinet door closed. He was found two days later in an emaciated condition. Besides cutting himself out of several classes, he faces expulsion from the University by not signing out for a week-end. . . . Do you know that the Architecture Building is the only building on campus that is “out of plumb” — it’s higher at one end than it is at the other? (Haw! don’t we dig up some of the darndest dirt!!). : . . As one of the - associate “roving” correspondents for this sprightly pulp weekly, we beg to inform the world that things must be slowing up or down in the neighboring Bedlam to the south. In passing Sweeney’s, the. other night, we didn’t have to walk in the street to get by it.
(Continued on page 22)
10
' Seamen Snertz has Adventure with Needle; Moral: Patronize Service Center Sewing Unit
BY SEAMAN AL BROTEN
A stitch here and a stitch there keeps ye olde navy man in condition. Such is the age-old. proverb or, as some advisers put it, “A stitch in time saves nine.”
The biggest shock to some guys may be the horrible realization that their loved ones have forsaken them for some lieutenants in the air corps.
But to Seaman Snertz Wertz of the Notre Dame V-12 Unit, the sight of a gaping hole in the sleeve of his jumper was enough to apply the brakes on his happiness.	.
Snertz loved that old jumper. It had been with him since he was sworn into Uncle Sam’s navy. Although one could see, without a Sherlock Holmes investigation, that its sleeves had dragged in more than one bowl of soup and its collar had been scorched by more than one iron, there was something friendly and companion-like about it.
When the officer bawled him out for accidentally tripping while marching past the reviewing stand, or when the bus driver “read him” up and down for forgetting his money, or when the instructor smirked joyfully as Snertz muffled a snap question — he could al-
man Wertz did not become panicky. With superhuman courage, he drew himself together, smiled at the hole, and prepared for the delicate operation. Of course, he recollected, he could take the “patient” to the Red Cross Sewing unit at the Service Men’s Center, but this job was something he had to do himself. He owed it to his jumper.
So Snertz cleared his desk and placed his instruments — needle, scissors, and thread — to one side. Stretching the jumper in a prone position on the table, he prepared to thread the needle.
In the quietness and sanctity of that room Notre Dame’s new masetro of the needle went to work, repairing his garment. With masterful twists of the wrist and inspired thrusts, which he had acquired after years of experience, Snertz performed his job.
His heart was in his work on this eventful day. It was not like the time he sewed a button on his pea coat, and in so doing, arranged threads in an irregular pattern through two pockets. It was not like the time he almost darned the index finger of his left hand into the toe of his sock. .
No, a great spirit guided those fingers as they moved the needle and thread back and forth through the sleeve of his jumper. His grandchildren would some day hear of this, thought Snertz to himself. Future Notre Dame students would probably erect a statue of him, as the man who made Notre Dame “needle conscious.”
Within 15 minutes the job was done. With pride, Snertz stepped back to regard his work. “Well done,” he remarked to himself.
But wait! What was this? The truth struck home with the fury of a New York cab driver in action. He had sewed the wrong sleeve.
(Editor’s Note: It has been voted by future Notre Dame students not to erect a statue to this man.)
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖	❖
❖ CHRISTMAS VACATION ❖ ❖ -------------------- ❖
❖ AU rumors concerning a prolonged *2* Christmas vacation are unfounded. ❖ ❖ The "Scholastic" has it on unim-❖ peachable evidence that no change
in the schedule, hitherto announced. ❖ is contemplated. There wiU be class- ❖ ❖ es Friday (24th); there will be more ♦ ❖ classes, Monday (27th).
❖ ❖ ♦*O
ways recoil inside his humble jumper and feel that he had a friend beside him.
The day was dark and dreary. Ominous clouds pestered the earth with flashes of mist and rain. Undone homework lay in front of our hero. Visions of “Zero” in the Physics quiz shot back and fjich before his eyes.
He was alone in his room. His roommate was annoying someone else down the hall. Thoughts of the past flickered within his brain.
Then, like a shot in the dark, Snertz’ eyes caught a glimpse of a man’s flesh — his elbow peering out through a hole in the sleeve of his beloved jumper.
His heart stopped. For a moment, he thought he was dead. Then, he heard the midshipmen’s band down at the other end of the campus, and he knew he wasn’t dead (cuz it couldn’t be heaven with them around).
Through the dimness he could see all of the events of the past to which he had worn this jumper. Memories of working on the “honey barge” at Great Lakes, shoveling snow at Newport, and “falling out” at San Diego were all associated with that jumper.
But like all men with character, Sea-
So You're From Notre Dame. What Position Did'You Play?
11
By Palmer E. Amundsen
The doctors bent over and carefully took off layers of bandage. Little sevenyear-old Johnny Morrison had weathered the dangerous eye operation made in an effort to correct his blindness of one eye. But unlike the happy ending of the stories of the movies, when the final bandage was withdrawn, not only had the operation failed to regain the eyesight of his bad eye, but that of the other was gone also. Seven-year-old Johnny Morrison was blind. He had apparently lost the first round.
But there were other rounds to come, rounds in which he could learn to “see” with the other faculties of his body, rounds in which he could fight, and in which he alone would decide whether to win. And Johnny proved himself an adept fighter, for he has come a long way in the years since that last bandage was removed.
Today, John Morrison is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, having majored in Philosophy. He would like to stay here another year to work for his Master’s Degree in Philosophy, but if this is not possible, he will go into the study of Physics at some school of technology. John’s average in his courses is 93%. He is on a part scholarship, and the remainder of the tuition is taken care of by the Catholic Guild for the Blind, of Boston. The details of the scholarship were ironed out by Father Carroll, of the Catholic Guild, and it is to him that John owes the most thanks for making his stay at Notre Dame possible. The ultimate ambition of this blind student who has proved his ability to be a true fighter is to teach some phase of physics, using his foundation in philosophy as a means of solving some problems, and as a means of explaining others.
It was back on October 23, 1920, in Holyoke, Mass., that John was bom. From birth it was evident that some ailment would mar his eyesight. The doctors diagnosed the ailment as buph-thalmus, a structural defect. After the failure of the operation, John began attending Perkin’s Institution for the Blind in Watertown. He attended that semi-private school for 12 years. There he won one of the prizes offered by the National Underwriters for an essay he wrote. Also on his list of accomplish
ments is the fact that he was a shotputter at that school. He managed to take second place in one meet, and first in another. His heave of 34 feet for the 12-pound shot was deemed excellent, and was way ahead of the nearest competitor.
A year ago last summer John spent his time working in a “snack-shack,” a six by ten foot stand where he sold soda, candy, cigarettes, and accessories to fishermen who worked on the pier where his stand was located. It was while working here that John met Miss Anna Muse, who is his best girl. John taught her to write in braille, though she has perfect eyesight, and her letters to him now feature the privacy of a personal letter that does not need a reader.
It is very interesting to watch John at work on campus. His is a system of efficiency and exactness. True, by necessity, it must be such. Still, the beauty of its smoothness sometimes awes the inexperienced eye. For instance, his schoolbag contains numerous class books, and they are placed in such a way as to be tagged and numbered in his mind. To him it is just a matter of custom to pull out the right note book. His wallet is arranged in very much the same way so that his lack of being able to tell the fives from the ones, will not leave him short-changed. It is easy enough to tell the coins, but the bills have complexities of their own. His note books, his typewriter, braille writer, ash tray, radio, and tobacco, along with every little detail which we so commonly misplace, are all at his finger tips merely because he has this exactness, this system of orderliness about him.
While he was being interviewed, he dropped something on the floor. Automatically, as if his eyes were functioning, his hand reached down to exactly the right spot and brought up the object. It is this ease of reaching for things, this perfect, normal picking up of things which makes you feel that John has come out victor in all the other* rounds since losing the first.
As to how John manages to study, and to maintain such a high average, it is with great pride that we announce that the Scholastic plays its quiet but important part. It is comforting to know that there is someone on campus who truly appreciates the Scholastic, and “studies” it. John uses it as his note books, having one issue for each subject, and writing in braille during classes so that he can study in his room. To supplement this note-taking, John has a reader, Ray di Nardo, who helps him by reading his assignments from text books, and at the same time acts (Continued on page 18)
Know Your Navy
E. MADDEN
1.	When American submarines cross the International Date Line do they rise to the surface or dive underneath?
2.	What are “mare’s tails?”
3.	Why are gun salutes given in odd numbers?
4. After .what are aircraft carriers named?
5.	What does the term “snafu” mean?
6.	In naval parlance a jackass is (1) an animal; (2) a small, motor-driven tractor; (3) the catch which holds a watertight compartment fast; (4) a canvas plug stuffed in the hawse pipes to prevent water from coming aboard through them; (5) a low form of marine life.
7.	In what year did the Japanese bomb the U.S.S. Panay in the Yangtze river?
8.	Where did the word “skipper” originate?	■
9.	Has there ever been a mutiny in a U. S. warship?
10.	If plane pilots breathe oxygen, what use do they have for carbon dioxide?
11.	When was the first American fleet organized?
12.	What is the origin of the word “geronimo,” shouted by paratroopers when they leap from a plane?
13.	Does a magnetic compass point to true north or magnetic north?
14.	Does the American flag have more red or more, white stripes? .
15.	What is the real name of the Navy’s famous “Battleship X?”
16.	What is: (1) an LCVP; (2) an •LCR(S); (3) an LCM; (4) an LVT-(A); (5) an LCC?
17.	“Look at the Gibson girl!” the sailor* cried. To what did he refer?
18.	Where are: (1) Empress Augusta -bay; (2) the Aurunce mountains; (3) Kiev; (4) Laruma river; (5) Buka?
(Answers on page 17)
12
4
Notre Dame Sports
Wildcats Meet Irish in Chicago Stadium Tomorrow; Northwestern Seeks Revenge
BY JIM FENNELLY
Notre Dame’s basketball team, riding high once more by virtue of a 43-31 win over the University of Wisconsin, hits the dusty trail to Chicago, where they play the Northwestern U. tomorrow night in the second game of a doubleheader at the Chicago Stadium.
The game is a traditional one. The series dates back to 1915, when the Irish and the Wildcats first crossed swords on the hardwood floor. Forty-three contests have been played, Notre Dame getting the nod in 29, while one game ended in a 20-20 deadlock. Last season Notre Dame’s “dream team” twice kayo’d the boys from the banks of Lake Michigan, and it will be an awful cold winter down Northwestern-way if the new Krause edition can duplicate the feat. Before every Notre Dame-Northwestern game, be it basketball or checkers, every Irish player dreams of a wildcat pelt hanging by the fire, and the. favorite Sunday morning breakfast down at the Evanston annex is “Irish Turkey.” So tomorrow night should find
The Stripe-socked Badgers Were Victims No. 2
the Chicago Stadium the scene of some high-and-mighty basketball.
Northwestern got off to a not-too-auspicious start last Saturday when they dropped a close 47-45 decision to Western Michigan. However, the only blot on the Irish record was caused by the same team in a contest that closely resembled the Bronco-Wildcat shindig, so the two teams should be evenly matched.
But the only fly in the Irish stew is the fact that Northwestern was without the services of one Otto Graham, AllAmerican footballer, and one of the highest scoring forwards in intercollegiate basketball last season. Graham was sick abed with the flu, but is expected to be around tomorrow night at 8:15, game time, and should cause no end of trouble to the Irish guards. Otto was expected to run wild last season too against the Blue and Gold, but some expert- goal-tending by All-American Bob Rensberger limited La Graham to two field goals. If history repeats, Notre
Dame should have victory No. 3 safely tucked away when the sun comes up on Sunday morning.
Northwestern football has also contributed agile Nick Vodick, a product of South Bend, whom Irish fans will remember from last season as an aggressive and business-like ball player.
While Notre Dame has a green and inexperienced team, Northwestern, on the other hand, has a group of cagey veterans, nearly all of whom saw action last season. This will be an important factor tomorrow night, and if the young Irish team has a case of stadium jitters, sad stories will be told in Irish-town.
Coach Krause has decided to string along’ with the same five that did so well against Wisconsin. The five, composed of Klier and Kivisto at forwards, Todorovich at center, and Kelley and Rutledge at guards, showed an amazing amount of speed and a scoring average way above the sad 4 for 36, compiled in the second half of the Western Michigan game.
The Wildcats will be out to avenge those two defeats of last season, and also to atone for a certain football game played at Evanston a month or so ago.
The lineups:
Notre Dame	Northwestern
Klier-------F.Graham
Kivisto F. '___________Vodick
Todorovich__C.________Felt
Kelley G.Schadler
Rutledge G.  Ward
Two Civilian Leagues to Feature Interhall Basketball
By Jim Began
Plans have been completed by the Physical Education department for the basketball program this winter with two civilian leagues in operation. Both the regular Inter-hall league and the Overflow league will have the basketball court of the Rockne Memorial as the scene of their games. The Overflow league ■will open its schedule during the week of December 20 while the Interhall circuit -will swing into operation during the week of December 27.
Twelve teams are entered in the Overflow league and many practice games have already been played by these teams in order to learn the comparative strength of the teams. This league will have an earlier starting date than the other league because the teams select their own men, while tryouts were necessary for the Inter-hall league.
Large turnouts have predominated the practice sessions of the Inter-hall (Continued on page 23)
13
Krausemen Trounce Badgers For Second Triumph
By John Power
The Irish of Notre Dame moved into an early lead and never relinquished it, as they soundly whipped Bud Foster’s Wisconsin quintet, 41-31. The game, highlighted by a revised Irish lineup, provided the necessary punch for the second victory of the current season, before 2,000 fans in the Fieldhouse.
Coach Ed Krause found his much sought scoring power in a lineup that started Leo Klier, and Ernie Kivisto at the forwards; Bernie Rutledge, and John Kelly at guards; and Mark Todorovich, a Marine transfer from St. Louis University, at center. To add to his many accomplishments, John Lujack shed football cleats to don a basketball uniform, and make his collegiate basketball debut.
Klier and Todorovich paced the Irish with eight points apiece, closely followed by Kivisto and Rutledge, who each garnered seven. Matching the latter two were Des Smith and Bill Johnson who collaborated for fourteen points of Wisconsin’s final total. The Irish controlled the backboard, thanks to their height and aggresiveness, but failed to find the range from, the free throw line hitting on only seven of seventeen shots. Luck-
■ily, however, the men of Madison watched but seven of their twenty-three swish the nets. Todorovich and Rutledge left the game in the closing minutes on fouls as did. Patterson of the Badgers.
Kelly opened the scoring for Notre Dame in the fourth minute, but Wisconsin equalled it, and added a free throw, to lead 3-2 for the first and only time all night. Baskets by Klier and Rutledge, plus two by Kivisto made it 10-5, and the Irish pulled away, running the
score to 23-15 at half time. Notre Dame continued to pour it on in the second half, but were matched goal for goal by the Badgers until a final tally by Frank Gilhooley gave the Irish an 1816 second half advantage, and a ten point margin of victory for the night.
Notre Dame 41
B F	P
Klier, f	3 2 3
Kivisto, f	3 10
Todorovich. c	4 0 4
Rutledge, g	3 14
Kelly, g	12	2
Furman, f	10	2
Lloyd, f	0 0	0
M. Smith, c	111
Lujack, g	0 0	3
Gilhooley. g	10 0
Totals 17 7 19
Wisconsin. 31
B F P
D. Smith, f	3 12
Lovshin. f	000
Patterson, c	2	14
Johnson, g	2	3	2
Ryser, g	0	0	1
Gallagher, f	2	0	2
Dystra. £	2	2	1
Dick, f	0	0	0
O’Brien, c	10 1
Selbo, g	0	0	0
Matthews, g	0	0	0
Grim, g	0	0	0
Totals	12 7 13
Fiee throws missed—Kivisto 2, Rutledge, Kelly 5. M. Smith 2. D. Smith 5. Patterson 4, Johnson 3. Ryser, Gallagher. O’Brien. Selbo.
Officials—Nate Messinger and Bill Haarlow.
N. D. Varsity Track Team Shaping Up; Prospects Good
By Joe Fahey
Doc Handy is finally getting a line on his varsity track team after two weeks of preliminary practice. Last Monday he started to work in earnest after cutting the varsity to 24 but retaining 25 others to work out. If present plans are followed this squad will consist of about 45 men. Most of those
on the varsity won their spot due to last year’s experience. The football team is -well represented with Sullivan, Signiago, Zilly, White, Yonakor, and Perko. Two stars from other campuses will also represent Notre Dame this year. Pohland, who was the Big Ten half-mile champion last year, hails from Minnesota, and Anderson, of Marquette has pole-vaulted 13 feet, 3 inches.
Though the schedule is a long way from completion, Western Michigan’s Broncos have already agreed to meet the Irish here. There is also a threeway meet in the offing with Illinois and Purdue.	. >
The present varsity consists of the following men:
Anderson, Bennett, Cauley, De Wolfe, Forester, Hoag, Kiely, Kunzler, Laur-rita, Lundergan, Lyons.
MacCauley, Martin, Mistretta, Ninne-han, Pohland, Purcell, Schwinn; Stupay, White, Wood, Yonakor, Zilly.
R.O.T.C. Second Company Wins Cross Country Run
Official results of the Naval R.O.T.C. cross-country run on November 26th, a five-man team representing the second
platoon of the Second Company placed first with 39 points. The two platoons of the Third Company with 54 and 62 points respectively took second and third place honors.
Larry Woods blazed a trail around St. Mary’s Lake to lead the harriers across the finish line by an easy margin. Walt LaBerge, Jack McGrane and Bud Gotta snatched runner-up laurels.
The cross-country event was the first in the series of contests to decide ultimately the color company. Ensign S. J. Jablonski, USNR, handled the meet.
N.R.O.T.C. Wins No. 2
With Victory Over Dujarie
• By Jack Houghteling
The N.R.O.T.C. scored its second straight basketball victory of the season when it defeated Dujarie Hall, 3123, Wednesday evening, Dec. 8, in the loser’s gym. Al Wade topped the Navy scorers with 11 points but Brother Peter Damian was high point man for the evening with five field goals and a pair of free throws. .
Scoring was slow with the Brothers holding an 8-4 lead. The N.R.O.T.C. cut this margin to 8-7 by the end of the first quarter. The Irish cadets continued their scoring drive and dropped in eight, points while holding the Brothers to - three to take a half-time lead of 15-11.	/
The second string started the third quarter for the Navy and succeeded in extending the lead one more point to make the score read 21-16 at the end of the third period. The first five returned to the game to maintain the lead - and also to increase the score to its final
count of 31-23.
The line-ups:
N.R.O.T.C. 31
'	.	B	F	P
Earley, f	2	0	0
Gilligan, f	-	1	0	1
Wade, f .512
Ledwith, f	■	0.01
Bohn, c-	.	2	2	3
. Z wicker.' c	0	0	0
• Houghteling,. g	0	:1	3
Moore, - g._	1.0 0
.. Beaudine, g' '	1'1 3.
La Berge;, g . ' 1 i 0, 1
Totals. 13- 5 14
N. R. O. T. G. ......._ Dujarie Institute _____
Dujarie 23
.	. - - B F P
Climacus, f 3 0 2
Pedro, f	0 0 0
Geran, f .. .002
Walter, c 0 0 0 1
Carol, c	0	0	0
Roch, g - .	0	11
Augustine, g	.	0	0	0
Damian, g	5	2	1
Gerontius, . g	-	-2	0	2
Totals . -	10	' 3	9
_____ 7 15 21 31 _____ 8 11 16 23
14
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Cage predictions for tomorrow:
Notre Dame over Northwestern.
DePaul over Indiana	.
Great Lakes over Purdue
Illinois over Missouri
Marquette over Wisconsin
Iowa over Monmouth
Tonite: Camp Grant over Glenview.
Illinois’ “Gee Whiz Kids,” who licked
the original “Whiz Kids,” minus the
whizzer himself, Andy Phillip, in their
Bill Waddington
first contest this season, still lack the experience that last year’s national champs possessed . . . Coach Doug Mills is grooming Stan Patrick, a Leo high graduate of Chicago
and a two season man at Santa Clara, to re-
place the vacancy left by Big Ten scoring champion, Andy Phillip. . . But guys lie Phillip come few and far between. . . . Des Smith, who started at forward for the Badgers last Saturday is one of the oldest players in present Big Ten competition at 25. . . Herman Schaefer, Paul Armstrong and Dal Zuber, all of whom started for. Great Lakes in their
first contest this year are products of Fort Wayne, the former two having gone to Indiana and the latter to Toledo. . . . DePauw Pre-Flight, who meets Notre Dame later* this season, has among it’s lineup, Russ Wendland, former court ’ ace at Northwestern and Lou Tourek, regular guard on Morton’s 1940 Illinois State champion team; but they didn’t inherit any pro such as they did Bob Steuber, ex-Bear, who was so omnipotent in their grid campaign. ... Bill Paschal, Georgia Tech’s gift to the pro ranks, is a likely successor to Bill Osman-ski as far as raising pre-game fear with the opposition is concerned. ...
After many years of trying, Michigan finally takes over the “Little Brown Jug,” but Fritz Crisler of Michigan desires that Minnesota retain the trophy because of the unusual state of conditions that prevailed this year. . . . Just the same, Vic Kulbitski and John Perko, who both played regular with the Gophers before coming here, put in two potential bids for the jug. . . . After all, they did help the Irish to beat the Wolverines.this year, thereby avenging the defeat that their ex-teammates were to meet later .in in the season. . . . Don Smith, ex-Minnesota eager now at Great Lakes, was a member of the V-12 program at Illinois Normal when the program was first inaugurated. . . . Western Michigan capitalized on late rallies against both Notre Dame and North- ■
western, the second period substitutions being responsible for the bulk of the closing minutes scoring power in both instances. . . . Bill Hearlow, who offi-cated the N.D.-Wisconsin game here last week, was a cage star at the U. of Chicago not long ago, when they at least used to win a ball game every once in a while. . . . The Iowa Seahawks basketball squad has carried over Dick Burk and Charley Chesbro from its football aggregation, the former being on the receiving end of the pass that gave the Hawks their second TD against the Fighting Irish. . . . Northwestern always seems to lure four or five of their grid-ders out for basketball, this year* they being Otto Graham, Nick Vodick, Duane Sickels, Jack Harker, and Frank Clawson, the latter being a brother* to Don Clawson, all-American fullback at the Purple institution a few years back. . .
At Aquinas high in Columbus, Ohio, Vai Boehm, a fireman every other 24 hours, has taken over the coaching duties of the high school cage quint. . . . Pat Kennedy, foremost basketball official in America who startled Madison Square Garden - with his antics, is being challenged in the person of Nate Messinger, of the middlewestern sector. . . . Nate’s explosions at committed rule violations are not quite as picturesque as are those of the inimitable red-faced Kennedy. . . . Notre Dame’s 504,000 spectatorial total for the past football season includes four games which were in the - upwards of 60,000. . . . Had the Great Lakes contest been played in Comiskey Park, instead of at the Naval ' Training Station, there might have been a fifth. . . .: The Irish almost double their opposition in first downs and yards gained by passing, and almost tripled their opponents in the yards gained rushing department. . . . In the seven important fields (first downs, yards gained passing, yards gained rushing, passes attempted, passes completed, punts, and average yards per punt), the Fighting Irish were able to subdue the compiled statistics of their competitors. . . .
And using Western Michigan as a basis, there ought to be a pretty good game of basketball in the Chicago Stadium tomorrow nite when the Krause-men take on the Northwestern Wildcats. . . . They’ll have plenty of football material oh hand to avenge their stunning grid rout of five weeks ago. . . .
"Collier's" All-American
Has Four Notre Darners
Captain Pat Filley, Angelo Bertelli, Jim White, and Creighton Miller of Notre Dame were picked by Grantland Rice, dean of America’s sports writers, to his 1943 All-American team.
The feature of the article as it appeared in Collier’s magazine, was the action shot taken of “Ange” Bertelli as he scrubbed his GI’s at a Parris Island basin. “Ange,” now busy in his officer candidate training far from college campus, has not heard the stadium din since his impressive tribute at Cleveland in the Navy game at midseason. . Bert’s boot beanie was the object of much “admiration!”
Culled by Rice from his nation-wide board of selectors the team represented the efforts of some of the country’s topgridiron experts.
All-American Board
Honors Four Irish Stars
For the first time in 20 years four teammates were elected by the AllAmerican Board of Football to national distinction. Angelo Bertelli, Creighton Miller, John Yonakor, and Jim White won honors on the third wartime lineup presented by the board of 50 experts who made the annual country-wide survey.
Organized in 1924, the group is under the chairmanship of Glenn “Pon” Warner, a veteran of 50 gridiron campaigns himself. The rest of the body includes one head from each of the 48 states.
The 1943 voting was wide open and everyone in amateur competition, service teams included, were eligible. Even ex-professional stars now playing for marine, sailor and soldier elevens competed on an even footing with the collegians.
Creighton Miller of Notre Dame was the only civilian to make the grade, while Angelo Bertelli is one of the two team members now absent from his college haunts. The two other stalwart Irish to win recognition are both in their last semesters of preparatory training before they become commissioned officers, John Yonakor in the Marines and Jim White in the Navy.
15
Anselm Forum and State Alumni Newly Formed Here
By Edward H. Madden
Two new organizations have blossomed - forth on the Notre Dame campus.
A forum group whose efforts tend toward the promotion of tolerance and understanding in matters of religion, creed, and general outlook of life has heretofore been functioning through impromptu meetings. However, the following items of organization have now been decided upon: The name of the organization shall be the Anselm Forum. This name was chosen in honor of Father Anselm, an eleventh century priest who was noted for his broad mindedness. Gary, Indiana, has such a forum adhering to the same principles, and is being used as a model for the Notre Dame organization.
The group will be a loosely constructed discussion society because of the impossibility of perfecting any association due to the shifting of military membership. The members will meet once a month, the first official gathering to be held on December 17 at seven-thirty p. m. in room 123, Dillon.
The forum has the aspect of a last man’s club in that its membership will dwindle as its military members are transferred until the last man is reached, at which time the organization will be ' dissolved. The theory is that as this particular group diminishes, the principles involved null be spread by the diffusion of the erstwhile members who were either shipped to another station or returned to civilian life. It is hoped that these men will start similar organizations in other places.
The second organization is the Boy’s State Alumni. Every year in most states of the Union the American Legion sponsors a miniature state-like community where the functions of democratic institutions and the meaning of the American way of life are taught. These “States” are held for- eight days, usually in the State Capitols, around the middle of June.
The organization here at Notre Dame is open to any past member of any “State”, regardless of what year he attended. The general aim of this group will be “talking over one thing and another that happened way back then.” At the present time the membership roster includes: Roy Grimmer, Bill Dotson, Jerry Schneider, Art Wagner, Hugh Tanner, R. W. Parsons, and your writer.
The first official verbal “affaire d’hom
16	.
neur” will begin at six-thirty o’clock on December 17 in 317 Dillon. Anyone having been connected with a Legion Boys’ State at any time is invited and urged to attend.
Notre Dame Grad Pilots First
Bomber in New Britain Raid
From “Somewhere in New Guinea” nearly eight weeks ago came the announcement that “the Japanese stronghold on New Britain was rocked back on.its heels today by a staggering punch from hundreds of American bombers and fighters in the heaviest air assault in the history of the Southwest Pacific.” This was the raid on the huge enemy base which General Douglas MacArthur said, “broke its back.” The first heavy bomber over the target was piloted by Capt. Ellis Brown of Duncan, Okla., with 1st Lt. Leo G. Facteau, a Notre Dame graduate of 1940, as navigator, and scored a direct hit on a transport.
The story of this great raid on Ra-baul which had been planned since last May has recently been followed by this release from the Allied Headquarters in the Southwest Pacific: “Lt. Gen. George C. Kenney, commander of Allied Air Forces in the South-west Pacific, has presented a Distinguished Flying Cross to 1st Lt. Leo G. Facteau, Rd. 1, Plattsburg, New York, for participation in bombing missions in this theater.” The Notre Dame alumnus is now a squadron navigator.
Leo Facteau, a member of the first C.A. group at Notre Dame in 1939, worked at home on his father’s farm in the upper Champlain Valley of Northern New York State after graduation from the College of Commerce in 1940, joined the Air Corps in January 1941, and has hopes, as soon as his military duties are over, of quietly, permanently, settling back on the land. .
Five Games Remain in
First Round of Chess Tourney
Only five games remain in the first round of the La Raza tournament. The winner of the first round will play the winner of the second round for the championship title, and beautiful cup-trophy.
The players who want to enter the second round must turn in their address and a record of, all.the free days and free hours. They must see Miguel Vila . or leave a note under his door in Sorin Hall room 11. Every player still has the chance to win one of the three prizes that La Raza has for this tournament.
—John O’Rourke
La Raza Club Observes Feast of Guadalupe
By John O'Rourke
Last Sunday the La Raza Club celebrated the feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe. This holy day has always been observed by the Latin American students.
This year’s anniversary was celebrated with mote pomp and enthusiasm than ever before. The club, together with their guests from the Santa Teresa Club of St. Mary’s, attended the 8:00 mass at Sorin Hall. Father Sheedy, who said the Mass, gave his sermon in Spanish. Father had prepared the speech all week and delighted the congregation with his clarity, and the suavity of his accent.
Something novel was added to this ceremony when the Spanish Glee Club, led by Bitsy Repilado and composed of Romagosa, Prieto, Vila, and several others, sang several hymns during the Mass.
After the Mass was over, the group proceeded to the dining hall, where they enjoyed a special Communion breakfast prepared by Mr. Connolly. A pre-war note was struck when the regular student tables of the dining hall were draped in tablecloths for the first time in two years. .	I
During the breakfast Lorenzo Roma- . gosa, president of La Raza Club, made an introductory speech and also served as toast-master. Professor’ Jose Corona spoke on “The Soul of Pan America”, Jorge Prieto spoke on “The Fiesta of Guadalupe”, and Fr. Cunningham, adviser of the Club, spoke on “Our Lady of the Americas”. Representing St. Mary’s was Rosemary Pangburn, who spoke on “The Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe.”
Trainees of Sigma Chi hold dinner; Cowan named prexy
Among the navy and marines at Notre Dame are quite a number of men who belong to fraternities at their own alma maters. One of these fraternities, Sigma Chi, has a large representation from campuses all over the country, with members in the V-12, Midshipmen and N.R.O.T.C. and have organized in to a semi-formal chapter having meeting Wednesday nights. They held an informal dinner at the La Salle Hotel two weeks ago and elected John Cowan, 211 Alumni Hall, as their counsel.
Christmas Mail Pours in to Notre Dame P.O.;
Civilians, Marines and Seamen Want Letters
BY SEAMAN HERB ZIEGLER
. Be he civilian, marine, or seaman, his eyes are certain to sparkle and his pulse to quicken when he receives a letter from home.
Yes, everyone is looking for a letter. And most students are not so particular about the source, either. For instance, some abstruse brethren have been known to enter into long-term contracts with the “Book-of-the-Month Club,” and then to sit back with great satisfaction and read the irate and threatening letters the aforesaid company reserves for its especially bad accounts.
But be that as it may, some are driven to some pretty extreme measures when they see their comrades drag in one pastel envelope after another, while they themselves remain empty-faced and empty-handed.
Who are the genial gentlemen smiling from behind the windows as they operate this all-important campus business? They are, with one exception, Brothers of Holy Cross.-
The office is managed by Brother Theogene, the postmaster,- assisted by Brothei- Marcellinus, and five clerks, Brothers, Eli, -Jean, • Ramon, Martial, and Mr. Irwin Alber. This seven-man group pitches in and gets out the mail
Twenty-nine Irish Gridders
To Receive Monograms
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University and chairman of the Faculty Board in Control.of Athletics, announced that monograms would be awarded to 29 players, five managers and the head cheerleader of the 1943 Notre Dame football team.
Players who will receive awards are John Adams, Angelo Bertelli, Herbert Coleman, Sigmund Czarobski, Frank Dancewicz, Ray Davis, Fred Earley, Pat Filley, Jim Flanagan, Robert Hanlon, Robert Kelly, Ray Kuffel, Victor Kul-bitski, Paul Limont, John Lujack, James Mello, Bernard Meter, Creighton Miller, Robert Palladino, John Perko, Julius Rykovich, James Snyder, Joe Sig-naigo, George Sullivan, Frank Szymanski, Gaspar Urban, James White, John Yonakor and Jack Zilly.
Manager William Boss, John E. Breen, Nicholas J. Amato, James A. Schmid and Robert W. Schramm and Cheerleader Anthony Early also will receive monograms.
for the thousands of men on this campus.
Civilian mail is distributed three times daily by student mailmen ’employed by the University. The V-12 mail is handed to platoon mail clerks twice daily. These men are responsible for getting the mail to the trainees. All V-7 mail (Midshipmen’s School), after being sorted by the postoffice, is sent to Morrissey Hall in a navy truck. There it is handled by mail specialists from the ship’s company.
At present, the load of parcel post is very heavy. The department is confronted with an unusual problem this Christmas in the distribution of the packages. In former years, the students have always returned home for vacation, but this year, practically the entire student body will be on the campus.
- Brother Theogene has not revealed his plans for meeting, this situation, but adequate and complete notice will, be given. All students who enjoy the prompt service they have received in the past are confident that “we’ll get the goods this Christmas in plenty of time,” if Brother Theogene and his hardworking, cheerful staff have anything to do with it.	.
O'Keefe Speaks On Rationing At Commerce Forum Meeting
Joe O’Keefe, president, spoke on rationing at a meeting of the Commerce Forum held recently in the Rockne Memorial lounge. Among the interesting and. informative comments made by Seaman O’Keefe were that our. oil re7 sources are now adequate; the gas supply is sufficient; but lack of pipe lines and the costs of drilling make the present rationing system necessary. He predicted that in the future fixed allotments of these fuels will be given local boards, which in turn will distribute it according to the allotment. ,
Cleverly interspersed with jokes and witty remarks, the talk aroused much discussion. Mr. McMichaels, professor of business law and former legal advisor to the South Bend rationing boards, offered expert knowledge in the discussion.	-
Mike Barry, Tom McCaughey, and Bud Malone were put in charge of arrangements for a party to be held soon.
—Joe Murnane
Answers to Quiz
on Page 12
1.	By custom they dive.
2.	Cirrus clouds, portending wind.
3.	By ancient superstition, firing of an odd number of guns is considered lucky. In the olden days an even number of guns were fired when the captain or master gunner* died during a voyage.
4.	Famous old ships and important battles, past and present. (Escort or auxiliary carriers are named for bays, islands.)
5.	Situation normal; all “fouled” up.
6.	(4).
7.	1937.
8.	By common “internationalese” from the Scandinavian word “schiffe” meaning a ship and/or the Dutch word “schipper,” meaning captain. It appeared in print in England in 1390.
9.	No.- (In 1842, however, three men aboard the U.S.S. Somers were hanged for conspiring to mutiny.)
10.	To smother flame. Carbon dioxide can extinguish an engine fire on a bomber in five seconds, even in full flight.
11.	In July, 1775, by George Washington.
12.	At Fort Benning, Ga. Members of the 505th Battalion saw the movie “Geronimo” the night before they made their first jump, started yelling the word in a “hi-yo, Silver!” manner. (The purpose of this or any yell is to relieve pressure in the ears from the fall and to relieve nervous tension.)
13.	Magnetic north.
14.	More red (Seven red, six white.)
15.	The South Dakota.
16.	(1) Landing craft, vehicle-personnel; (2) landing craft, rubber (small); (3) landing craft, mechanized; (4) landing vehicle, tracke'd (armored); (5) landing craft, control.
t 17. A newly-developed portable radio with an hour-glass shape.
18. (1) Bougainville island; (2) Italy; (3) Russia; (4) Bougainville island; (5) Bougainville island.
17

*7a«e a 'lip
fyuun the. Old JWae&bui
TRY THE NAVY CANTEEN FIRST!
w/loI uie lume:
CANDY CIGARETTES COCA-COLA CIGARS GUM
ZERO DECK
DINING HALL
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
(Continued from page 12) as his companion in any venture downtown. Braille books obtained from the Library of Congress in Washington, or the State Library in Indianapolis, add to his store of knowledge. It takes about eight large braille books to make an average textbook, so that the size makes them hard to carry around. They are excellent reference books for use in the room, however.
John recognizes most of his friends by the sound of their voices. When he is walking back and forth along the walks of the campus, or along the corridors of Sorin, and he comes to an obstacle, there is something “indefinable”: a combination of a sixth sense, and the sense of hearing (the echo of the steel plates in his shoes rebounding off the sides of the object) which warn him to slow down, and sidetrack. Naturally, since his shoes make no sound in the snow on the ground, the going is tougher for him.
John’s favorite hobby is playing his radio, connected in a rather complicated pattern of wiring which testifies to his knowledge of the art. Since he has a deluxe model with a very good loudspeaker, but with the rest in poor working condition, and another model of rather small size and without much tone, John has wired them together and manages to capitalize on the good points of each. Also wired in on this maze of plugs and wires is a clock which automatically turns on the radio at the desired hour. Still another set of wires connects his bed with earphones so that he can enjoy music while in the comfort of retirement, and yet not run the risk of disturbing next door neighbors. Also on his hobby list is the enjoyment of good music which he listens to from a phonograph connected with the rest of the wiring. He used to like to go swimming in the Rockne, and to do some high diving, but a mandate from an authority put a stop to his diving. Since that was the main point of interest in the Rockne, John’s attendance there has dropped off.
John is most grateful to the University, to the students, and . to the workers in the cafeteria, all of whom have consistently helped to make it easier, and more pleasurable for him.
The unbelievable ease of his movements, the enjoyable quality of his talk, the general serious attitude of his study, and the steady, determined method of his daily life makes him likeable and interesting; someone very much to be admired.. That Notre Dame should have as fine ,a. lad as Morrison on its campus is a pleasure and an inspiration to student and faculty.
Ensign Brewbaker, Coach and Grid Star, in P.E. Program
By Joe Murnane
A husky, well-built individual came whirling by on a bicycle, as some V-12 students snapped to a salute. One of them could be heard saying, “Boy, look at that Ensign. He looks as though he could handle the whole V-12 program.” The man referred to was Ensign Carey Brewbaker, the officer in charge of the V-12 physical education program.
Behind Brewbaker’s amiable smile and modest speech lies a pleasing personality that has set up an athletic and collegiate record that few could equal. His colleagues and record have revealed that this husky Virginian played tackle, and captained Roanoke’s 1936 State Championship eleven, and also was a member of the Championship Roanoke baseball team. In addition, he was the school’s heavyweight boxing representative, its Senior Class president, and a member of the Blue Key national honorary fraternity.
After receiving his degree in Politics from Roanoke, he went on to do undergraduate work at North Carolina University, where he majored in Physical Education. Later he coached the famous Durham High School eleven, which won two straight State Championships. Coach Brewbaker’s Durham High basketball team won seven straight State Championships, the Glens Falls, N. Y., Eastern Interscholastic Tournament, several other tournaments, and 77 consecutive games. Several of the Durham athletes went on to score in football and basketball, and one of them, Bob Gant, from Duke, received All-American rating in football on several selections.
In March, 1942, Brewbaker was given a leave of absence from his duties at Durham to join the Navy. He was first stationed at Norfolk, Va., then Seattle, Wash., after which he was sent to the Pasco Naval Air Station, where he played on the undeefated Pasco service eleven. In May, 1943, he received his commission, and in June was put in charge of the Notre Dame V-12 physical program. He has done an extraordinary job in fashioning the Physical Education program here, and declares, “It is a pleasure to work with such fine men as Dr. Scannell and the University officials.” Incidentally, he considers - the Notre Dame team of this year to be one of the best he. has ever seen, including Rose Bowl elevens and All-Star Champions. .	.
•Notre Dame is fortunate m having her tradition of physical prowess fostered under the tutelage of such a man as Ensign Brewbaker.
INTRODUCING
By AI Lesmez
If a man bites a dog, that’s not news any more. But if a football player, espe-
cially a tough
Jim Mello
fullback like big Jim Mello, writes poetry, then you have a reason for sending out an “extra.” At first, it was hard to believe that the two natures could exist in one person, but on examination of the voluminous scrapbook of poems he has written, some doubt w a s cleared, and only awe was left.
It seems that James Anthony Mello, born in West Warwick, R. I., on Nov. 8, 1920, terror
of opposing teams, yard gainer extraordinary, and as scrappy as they come, likes to pen his emotions in the language of the delicate poet.
Jim claims that he has to feel in the right mood before he can sit down to write, and that the subject must be one which appeals to him at the time. That, he claims, is the reason why a lot of his poems are about one Jacqueline Castle, of South Bend.
But writing poetry about pretty girls and about anything else is not the only thing which Jim does. He has proved his strength on the field this season. During his highschool stay at Warwick High he managed to win three monograms in football, three in basketball, and three in baseball. He made all-state in football and baseball; was captain of the football team and co-captain of the baseball team. On the gridiron he chalked up a Rhode Island record by scoring 121 points during one season.	.
Last year he played with such notables as Gerry Cowhig and Corwin Clatt, always dependable Irish fullbacks. Jim himself was lost early in the season due to an injury, but this year he carried the bulk of the groundgaining chores.
Notre Dame and Jim Mello. Playing excellent ball throughout the season, he was chosen by the Naval Academy and Iowa Seahawks as the best fullback the two teams faced this year, and when you get your opponents’ votes you have to be good.
Throughout the ten-game schedule it was Mello who was called upon by Bertelli and Lu jack to hit the line for the few yards to a first down that are the toughest. But Jim didn’t stop at the line of scrimmage. A fine broken field runner, he stepped away from defensive line backers and into the rear guard of the secondary many a time. He was a man to be watched and watched closely.
Jim and Herb Coleman have been
A DURATION DO!
Your shirts are valuable items these days and appreciate special handling.
Turn up your shirt collar before sending it to the laundry. A collar washed flat doesn’t fray so easily at the crease.
Have your shirts laundered frecpiently. A too-soiled shirt requires more scrubbing and conse- . quently wears out more quickly.	.
Go easy on the starch. Starching stiffens fabric, . so that it breaks instead of bending.	.	’
When you buy, buy Arrow. Arrow shirts are ‘ longer-lasting, better-fitting, and carry the San- ; forized label (fabric shrinkage less than 1%).
asked to play in the annual East-West game New Year’s Day. As this will be his last game for the duration, plan on hearing Mello go for substantial gains, ramming the West line with real drive.
Seven N D Men Graduate
From Randolph Field, Texas
Randolph Field, Texas, Dec. 5 — Culminating a year of peak production of fighting flyers, the central unit of the Army Air Forces Training Command delivered 1943’s final punch at the Axis by mass graduation of thousands of new bomber and fighter pilots today.
Even as the new combat pilots, youths from every American state, from the District of Columbia, and from two
Jim is a junior in physical education. He would like to work as a coach or physical education instructor. His enjoyments center around Glenn Miller, Arch Ward’s column, Alice Faye, Jan Valtin’s Out of the Night, and most important of. all, his copy of Hobo Netos.
The past season was a great one for
SHIRTS -TIES - HANDKERCHIEFS - UNDERWEAR - SPORT SHIRTS . -	-	■ '	■	' ■	• * I	.
■fc BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS ★
19
foreign countries, went into their active assignments, the eleven advanced pilot schools were beginning work with their next group of cadets who will graduate early in January.
Fighter pilot stations participating in today’s graduation ceremonies are those at Moore Field in Mission, Eagle Pass, and Foster and Aloe Fields at Victoria, all in Texas. Potential bomber pilots were graduated at Brooks, Lubbock, Ellington, Pampa and Blackland Fields in Texas and at Altus and Frederick Fields in Oklahoma.
Among the new pilots are seven men from Notre Dame. They include:
Lt. Paul H. McKenny, ex. ’45, Appleton, Wis., graduated from Aloe Flying Field.
Lt. Frederick E. Lescher, ex. ’44, Harrisburg, Pa., graduated from Aloe Flying Field. '
2nd Lt. Robert A. Fischer, B.S. ’42, Wauwatosa, Wis., graduated from Eagle Pass Flying Field.
2nd Lt. Joseph W. Mahoney, ex. ’45, Lawrence, Mass., graduated from Eagle Pass Flying Field.
2nd Lt. Harry D. Kennaley, ex. ’44, Kansas City, Kans., graduated from Foster Flying Field.
2nd Lt. John L. Ryder, ex. ’44, Hudson Falls, N. Y., graduated from Foster Flying Field.
2nd Lt. William Katz, ’42, Teaneck, N. J., graduated from Eagle Pass Flying Field.
A. I. C. E. Meets: Plans Dance
At a meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers held on December 13th, 85 men turned out to discuss plans for a dance some time in the future. After showing movies of the 1943 Notre Dame - Michigan game, refreshments were served in the Units Operation Lab and the upperclassmen explained the nature of some of the equipment to the newly enrolled members.
Next meeting of the group will be on January 3, at which time a representative of the La Bour Centrifugal Pump Company will discuss pump problems and design.
OBSERVATIONS
(Continued from page 4)
fice. The civilian tutoring is done on a cash basis to be paid for by the trainee. V-12 trainees are not permitted to carry employment for pay unless authorized by the commanding officer, according to the Manual for the Operation for V-12 Units.
V-12 seamen who receive Congressional or Presidential appointments to be considered for admission to the U.S. Naval Academy or the U.S. Military Academy, if otherwise eligible, may be admitted by transfer of credit on certificate of having completed a full year of college in the correct curriculum, or by examination, as outlined in the official pamphlets of the two academies. Several local V-12 men are taking the preliminary examinations set by their Congressmen; others are completing their papers for transfer by certificate. The V-12 Office has a copy of the June 1943 issue of “Regulations Governing the Admission of Candidates into the United States Naval Academy as Midshipmen and Sample Examination Papers,” NAVPERS-15,010, which may also be procured directly from the United States
Have a Coca-Cola = What’s the good word?
20
Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C. Doubtless there are copies of this pamphlet and the similar one for the Military Academy at the University library. V-12 men may read the bulletins of the Bureau of Naval Personnel on this subject which are available at the V-12 Office from the course officer.
MARINE MURMURS
(Continued from page 6)
assigned instructor can pull a few more wires than Ziggie, especially in the field of magnetism.
Canadian Clubs to all the fellows who are doing a swell job in delivering the mail. You’re really on the ball. Also to Pvt. Mathwig who is taking “Pvt. Donald Duck” Dakins home with him for Christmas.
I want to quit school. Anyone know whom I have to see?
SUGGESTIONS:
—A dancing class for a certain redhaired company commander and all his type has been requested by a few badly trampled S.M.C. hostesses.
A dealcoholizer plant at the bus stop for the habitual smoke stacker.
Something to take care of the poor office girls when Sgt. Bing is duty N.C.O. over the weekend.
—Self-working slide rules.
—Voice mufflers for certain N.C.O.’s.
Letter to Superman:
Dear Super,
I am one of your ardent fans, and I have a complete library of your superman comic books as well as a scrapbook of your daily adventures in the South Bend Tribune. When I saw how you solved the problems of other marines I decided to place my problem in your hands.
My problem is, Mr. Superman, I have more work than I can handle. Please send me two lady Marines to help me at my difficult task. Knowing you will do your best to remedy this situation, I remain—
Your Ardent Admirer, Corp. Haag, Marine Detachment, Notre Dame, Indiana.
scuttlebutt of the week: All Phy. Ed. classes will be discontinued due to the numerous casualties among its participants. — The V-12 at Notre Dame is going to be mechanized. Each man in the near future to be issued a green scooter similar to the one buzzing about the campus to overcome the hardship of traversing to and from classes.
IN THE ARMED FORCES?
SAFEGUARD YOUR MONEY
There’s one sure way to safeguard your travel cash, and that is with AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES. You not only have spendable money, but in addition SAFE MONEY, for if lost or stolen, their value is refunded in full.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 75d for each $100. Minimum cost of 40c for $10 to $50. For sale at banks and Railway Express Offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES... -
I^baf/stbe best defense aqainsf tuberculosis ?
FIGHTING men say that attack is the best defense
And this holds true in the battle against our greatest unseen enemy — the dread tuberculosis that still kills more people between the apes of 15 and 45 than any other disease
TB is no respecter of persons or homes—over night it may strike you, your family. One strong safeguard is your an-
nual purchase ot Christmas Seals, which has helped a gallant army of volunteer laymen and doctors cut the TB death rate by seventy-flue per cent since 1904.
Your help Is needed now to prevent a wartime rise to tuberculosis. To protect your home . . and every home to America_____send in your contribution. today, please!
The National. State and Local Tuberculosis Associations >n the United State*.
BUY
CHRISTMAS
SEALS
21
THE GREEN BANNER (Continued from page 10)
(Yes — that’s all we’re permitted to do, and all that we ever do — walk by and look in.)
SPORTS DEPARTMENT
The 1-C Athletic Club (veterans of World War II) are planning a big blowout, to be held in the not-too-distant future. The exact date will be decided later. . . . Hmmm, very definite and exact crowd, aren’t they!
THROUGH OUR HENCHMEN
Who lurk hither and yon, lying in wait for the unsuspecting innocent abroad, we gather a great deal of inconsequential trivialities which would go unobserved otherwise. And not the least of pleasant tidbits garnered over the past week-end is the pertinent fact that the Scholastic .is read and enjoyed by people never suspected of such tardy mental lapses. In this category one of the pleasant surprises came to us when we observed calm, cold, calculating Jeanne Schultz slyly thumbing our proof sheets in the composing room. Being employed in the Science Department offices, she flipped over the sterner stories of administration and campus lore, but, (smart girl!), paused momentarily at the humor columns. And, wonderful to relate, she broke into a faint smile as her eyes ran down the pages. Those close at hand say there was even the faintest audible resemblance of a muffled chuckle. Yes, just such rewards as this keep us in there pounding out copy week after week.
HERE AND THERE
If this columns smells like the Vets Hospital or the Blackhawk, you can bet that we have first-hand knowledge of both. . . . Yes, the Blackhawk surely isn’t the same on Friday night, although there was a group of grads there as usual. ... As for the Vets Hospital (Casey is due for a pension) it’s like the Infirmary on a large scale. . . . After one fellow stood in line for six hours, he discovered that the gentleman in front of him had been standing in the same line since the last war. . . . Three ' cheers for Prof. Paul Bartholomew, who was seen a week ago Saturday night at the Progress Club dance. Quite a gay old blade, if you ask us. . . .
FROM THE ROCKETTES
Comes the lament that they don’t get the Scholastic more often — so that they can see what the N.D. men think of them. . . . That sounds like a golden opportunity, men — shall we tell them?
22
Anyway, the Promotion Manager and the Circulation Manager, notably immune to Sweetbriar antics, may find ^something in the wail for more action.
MIDDLE OF THE WEEK
Wednesday — what did you think it would be?
QUESTION OF THE WEEK
Why do we have to come back so late on that Sunday afternoon?
HAVE YOU NOTICED
That Tom Bremer and Jack Kelly are the busiest men on campus — running around like mad (and they probably are) trying to deliver “specials.” Thus to the wise — relax, if you are expecting a “special.” Your letters are in good hands, and you will get them eventually. . . . And now for the bus to see what goes on in the village. Adios!
Speakers Called for Breen Oratorical Contest
By Paul Wood
Entries are now open for students who want to compete in the annual Breen Oratorical Contest.
This competition was founded by the Hon. William Patrick Breen, class of 1877, and is given to the student of the University who excels in oratory.
Rules of the contest stipulate that the oration must be original, and not
To CHICAGO-and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO.BEND R. R.
less than nine nor more than eleven minutes in length of delivery.
Entries must be in by December 30th, 1943, and consist of giving name and campus address to any member of the Speech Department or leaving it in Room 328, Main Building. Preliminaries will be held on or about January 27th, 1944, confirmation of which will be made at a later date.
The award is made after competition in delivered orations, decided by three judges selected by the faculty. The winner of this contest represents the University at the Indiana State Oratorical Contest, held each year on the third Friday of February. No student may win the Breen Medal more than once, but the winner of the Medal may compete several times for the honor of representing the University in the state contest. •
There are also ten-dollar prizes offered to the winners of the freshman, the sophomore, and the junior contests in oratory.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
50uthseh0RE
A CHRISTMAS SUGGESTION FOR A NOTRE DAME GIFT
CAMPUS CENTENARY PUBLICATIONS—$5 the Set
Notre Dame — 100 Years
Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell
University Press, Notre Dame, Ind.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS SLOO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-25674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bld., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building '
L. E. Fisher, M.D.
M. J. Thornton, M.D.
TWO CIVILIAN LEAGUES
(Continued from page 13)
teams and Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the Physical Education department, has said that he believes the caliber of this league will be up to the high standard of other years. Each team in both the heavy and light divisions has had several drills and these will continue until the start of the official season during the week immediately following Christmas.
Teams to be represented in the Interhall league are Brownson Hall, Breen-Phillips Hall, Sorin Hall, St. Edward’s Hall, and an Off-Campus group. Each team will have a team of players under 150 pounds and another of the fellows exceeding that weight. The workouts are being conducted in order to give the managers a chance to look over the candidates in order to choose the best men to represent their halls.
Managing the teams in the league are students in the Physical Education department. Frank Ruggierio will handle the Breen-Phillips team while Gene Long will manage the Brownson five. St. Ed’s will be coached by Jim Snyder, Sorin by Dick Froehlke, and the Off-Campus quintet by Mike Manzo.
Ruggierio and Long have had the largest number of candidates reporting because of the fact that they both coach freshman halls. St. Ed’s, Sorin and Off-Campus haven’t had as many candidates but they are expected to mold strong teams.
The possibility still exists of the V-12 ■ having a league in the afternoon if arrangements can be made for some of the facilities used by the midshipmen in the afternoon to be diverted. This plan might involve the use of the Navy drill hall by one of the Navy groups.
Band to Give Concert
Shortly Before Christmas
The Notre Dame Concert Band will present its first concert of the semester shortly before Christmas, the specific date as yet unannounced. Composed of men chosen from the marching band, this smaller group of musicians has a service membership of over 60%.
In the past it has been the custom of the band to play at all varsity bas-s ketball games on the campus, but study hour restrictions placed on the V-12 men in the band this year have made band appearances impossible thus far. Director H. Lee Hope has the members ready to go at all times, and their first opportunity may come at the Purdue game here at home on December 23rd.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Coin
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. "T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS
CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
23
Copyright 1943, Liggett & Myebs Tobacco Coj
AND HERE THEY ARE... again in the cheerful Chesterfield Christmas Red-the cigarette gift that SATISFIES with the best in Smoking Pleasure.

YES...THE CIGARETTE WITH THE RIGHT
COMBINATION OF THE WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS
STRIDES AHEAD in Mildness, Better Taste and Cooler Smoking because Chesterfields are made of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos... plus the Right Combination to satisfy smokers everywher
Remember in g cigarette—the Blend...the Right Combination — that's the thing