MARTIN INGELSBY PROFILE FAMOUS SWEDISH ORCHESTRA AND CHOIR VISIT SAINT MARY'S 

(J) ¦ 
::r 
G) 
Ol 
d 
CD 
:J 
en 

Basement: LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-4004 
Open: Monday-Saturday 12:30 -5:30 pm 

Valentine's Day Specials! 
Valentine's Bouquet 
$7.00 Assortment of seasonal red and white flowers 

The Cupid Special 
$10.00 2 roses in a red vase 

V-day Balloon Bouquet 
$6.00 1 mylar and 3 latex balloons tied down with chocolate candy 

Dozen Roses in a box 
$40.00 
Half-Dozen Roses 



$20.00 

Also Available: 
0 
Assortment of fresh flowers including: roses, sweetheart roses, carnations, gerbera daises, orchids, stargazer lilies and much more 
• 
Mylar balloons $2.50 each 

• 
Latex balloons $0. 75 each 

• 
Cards 

• 
Candy 




\. ' 
B R U A R Y 
. (2001 Election Guide 
. ..





_, 07 
:crn1ER)Cdverage or:i~is year's 
'Car:tdidate#ot1e_lp.iernove:uncer.: 
tai11ty ih castin9·yourha1icit ··---· (Help Wanted · _·, ,·. .. -16 
, . \\ . by Katie Freddoso 
""'-. 
Students eam'n; learn with 
on-campus jobs. 
f How Swed~-It Is · 
26 

\_ by Cristin Fenzel 
A famous Swedish orchestra stops over·in South Bend on its world tour. 
jLI 

j Presidential Endorsement 
03 

Editorial Board 
Retreat Yourself 
byJennifer Morgan 
PQintMan ._ ... 
. •byBrendan.Barkef 
Poetry in Motion 
18 20 29 



Vol. 142, No. 9 • 08 FEBRUARY 2001 
____sc~?~s!i&,?,_j~J/Oj71!aff --. . __,_ · ·-. -----­
Editor in Chief 
James J. Pastore Jr. 

Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News Katie M. Caspersen, editor Matthew C. Ziegler, assistant Campus Life Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor Kristin A. Kramer, assistant 

Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jessica L. Daues, assistant Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus 
-Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor Design Matthew Barr, editor 

Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant 
Katie Browning, Brendan Condon, 
Mary Huigens, l(atie Wales 

Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor Graphic Arts Caroline M. Wolf, editor Michael M. delaRosa, assistant 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor Jessica L. Daues, assistant Jennifer L. Wahoske 
Distribution Angela M. Polsinelli, manager 
Advertising Kyle Zuaro, manager 

Jessica B. Potish, assistant Marketing Morgan K. Anderson, manager Online F. Brian Scofield, manager 
Jamie L. Moran, assistant 

Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at 
Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of 
Scholastic magazine is Copyright © 2001. All rights reserved. No 
contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced 
in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic 
magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or 
material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, 
LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published 
in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday 
before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address 
and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit 
letters for space. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back 
issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or 
date. Back issues of the annual football review are available at $5 per 
copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed 
in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of 
Notre Dame or the student body. Don't worry; be happy. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 

Alittle more than three months ago, I was faced with an unsavory proposition: deciding how to handle Scholastic' s endorsement ofa presidential ticket. A virtually even split found half of the editorial­board members supporting Vice President Al Gore and half supporting Texas Gov. George W. Bush. The divide made for some interesting discussions among the staff. Ultimately, however, I decided that the only thing worse than not endorsing a candidate was supporting one half­heartedly. Scholastic remained editorially silent, choosing instead to pro­vide an objective overview of each major candidate's platform. Now, as the student-body presidential elections approach, I am once again faced with the proposition of how to handle Scholastic's endorsement of a candidate pair. Although many question the effectiveness ofthe Student Union -particularly the power that the student-body president and vice president wield-these two individuals nevertheless act as representatives and stewards of students' interests when dealing with the administration. I make no apologies that Scholastic takes the elections seriously. The editorial board puts in hours of work crafting the endorsement. Each candidate pair is asked a similar series ofquestions and is given 30 minutes to plead its case. Only then do the managing, associate, news and assistant news editors, and I endorse a ticket. We look for a strong vision with well­defined and feasible goals, we look for experience working within the system and we look at the support staff and the people whom the candidates have gathered around them. The ideal leaders are confident in their platform, comfortable working with administrators and students, and excellent at delegating tasks to reliable supporters. As we interviewed this year's crop of candidates, I realized something: this is a remarkable moment in Notre Dame's history. The scope and breadth ofthe candidates and their ideas is absolutely remarkable, as is the conspicuous absence of the usual 'joke" candidates. Scholastic' s endorsement is on the following page. Read it. Think about it. But don't ignore the candidate profiles on the following pages. Ifyou do, you' II be missing the big picture. Something wonderful is happening: People are starting to believe in the system again. Perhaps the selection ofMike Brown as the Notre Dame Leprechaun and the admission of Molly Kinder to the Irish Guard has sparked some enthusiasm that things can change for the better ­even at Notre Dame. This election, I invite you to leave your cynicism at home, make an effort to vote and believe that sometimes, the system does work. 
Correction: In the Sept. 7, 2000 issue, Dorothy Carson's Web site for her Grotto documentary "Cave Candles" was misprinted. The correct address is http:// 
dsssk.=hi,esnd"1ulcornoni. Schoia,& regreIB the mo,/. ~ 
r Jim Pastore 
Editor in Chief 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
EDITORIAL 

Vote Norton/Moscona 
This election marks a watershed mo­ment in Notre Dame's history. Five of the six tickets feature at least one woman, two include black candidates, and an increase in the number of signatures required to make the ballot eliminated the annual parade ofjoke candidates from Zahm Hall. Although this year's candidates have some fresh ideas and some genuine enthusiasm, Scholastic feels that one ticket offers the most promise for positive results and the greatest hope that student government can improve daily student life. This election, cast your ballot for Brooke Norton and Brian Moscona. Two major factors motivate Scholastic's endorsement: Norton and Moscona's plat­form and their experience. The Norton/Moscona platform is a_ thoughtful and well-defined road map to· making students' lives better. Norton and Moscona's step-by-step approach reveals their know-how and inspires confidence in their ability to get things done. Nearly all of the candidates want to improve LaFortune' s 24-hour space and utilize the vacancy left after ND Video closed its doors, but only Norton and Moscona present a detailed plan to accomplish these goals. The specificity of th~ir platform comes as little surprise. Norton has worked as the student-body vice president for the past year, gaining valuable experience. Moscona serves as the sophomore class president and worked as freshman class secretary. Norton and Moscona have some flaws as well. Their platform won't win any praise for containing revolutionary ideas. One could almost translate their slogan -"The Time is Now" -as a promise to finish off the projects started during Brian O'Donoghue and Norton's administration rather than to create new and exciting ones themselves. But not all of Norton and Moscona's ideas are old. Among the more innovative ideas, Norton andMoscona hope to establish a three-day camping trip prior to Freshman Orientation to give incoming stu­dents a chance to bond in an environment free from tie-exchanges and the Domerfest. _Including Cl and C2 as stops on the St. Mary's shuttle route and developing a series of life-skills workshops that would cover such things as car maintenance, self-de­fense and cooking are also ideas that caught our attention. 

Questions remain, however, about their insider status. Norton admitted that her fo­cus on certain projects over the past year limited her ability to interact with the stu­dent body. As president, she may once again lose track of students' wants as she pursues pet projects. 
To combat this potential problem, Norton delineated a series of steps that she and Moscona would take to make sure student voices are heard by student-government members and administrators. Norton and Moscona plan to host town-hall-style meet­ings with administrators and students, using the class e-mail lists to deliver the agenda of the meeting to all students and to encourage 
Norton and Moscona 's ability to push through sig­nificant changes far out­weighs any flaws with the ticket. 
participation. 
The plan once again reveals Norton and Moscona's strength in formulating well­defined and specific goals. Their ability to push through significant changes far out­weighs any flaws with the ticket. 
What about the other candidates? 

Demetra Smith and Y ogeld Andre offer an exciting, broad and fresh vision that is big on ideals and short on specifics. Their plan to offer scholarships based on service work is an excellent proposal, but it's also an enormous undertaking, as is their plan to develop study-abroad programs in third­world countries. Since neither Smith nor Andre have any student-government expe­rience, we have to wonder if they can get things done. Smith and Andre would likely make excellent additions to a social con­cerns committee within the Student Union, but it's difficult to imagine them at the top of the pyramid. 
Ryan Becker and Nikki McCord have experience and an extensive platform. How­ever, they frequently refer to creating new committees to study various problems and campus issues. The first step in Becker and· McCord's plan to lower bookstore prices involves forming a task force to study the issue while another key platform plank ad­vocates the formation of a Student Aca­demic Council. More bureaucracy is the last thing that student government needs. Other initiatives, such as fostering increased gender interactions and increasing the par­ticipation of majority students in minority events, are a bit broad and will be virtually impossible to accomplish without more­specific goals. 
Sophomores Christopher Zimmerman and Andrew Nelson are running on an extremely interesting but unfeasible platform. They want to combine the Student Senate with the Hall Presidents Council and the Campus Life Council in order to streamline student government. The proposal would require, among other things, that the Student Senate vote to dissolve itself -a move that would be surprisi_ng, to say the least. Zimmerman and Nelson's unrealistic plans stems, per­haps, from their complete lack of student­government experience. 
Also lacking prior student-government experience, Maureen Gottlieb and Victoria Fetterman would rely on the skills they've honed as members of the debate team to help them get things done. Their platform sounds familiar: Grab 'n' Go in DeBartolo, cable TV in dorm rooms and opening LaFor­tune on a 24-hour basis. However, Gottlieb and Fetterman did not appear to have a good grasp of the work involved in pushing these proposals through the system. 
Holt Zeidler and Allison Henisey boast a strong background in student government. Perhaps that is why their platform came as such a surprise. Few ideas appeared to be well-developed or researched. They identi­fied the construction of a bowling alley as their most important campaign plank. When · asked about the size of the complex and where the funding would come from, the candidates had only vague answers. Their plan to improve late-night programming was equally ambiguous. 
•In the end, then, only Norton and Moscona provided a well-researched, well-developed and feasible set of campaign promises. Their experience recommends them for the job and their track record proves they can get things done. Norton and Moscona deserve your vote. 0 
SCHOLASTICEDITORIAL 3 


j 
I' 
Irish Vice 

Spreading joy to Domers everywhere 
.. ,,..,.... you're hunched ovefyour desk, listen­ing idly as some professor drones on about account balances, when you hear the Miami Vice theme. Suddenly, five men in white leisure suits and dark glasses burst into the room, throwing out candy and Adidas merchandise and shining a spotlight around the classroom. "Who are these people?" you ask. They are the ND Vice Squad, a collection of anonymous undergrads who trek around campus spreading cheer and getting laughs. The train is led by the "Front Man," the RA who got the group together. The "Big Guy" follows, along with "Tunes," who carries the stereo; "Fuse," with the spotlight; and "Supplies," who litters the crowd with party favors and Adidas gear. As one member said, "People just lose it laughing at us. But then they see that we're taking it seriously, and they get a confused look on their faces." According to the Front Man, the squad 
was co"nceived as an antic at a dorm dance. But the concept was so well received that the five members decided to take their act around campus. They have been spotted at basketball games, often attracting the atten­tion ofESPN cameras, and around the class­room buildings. Apparently, their random entries into classrooms have even enter­tained professors, who occasionally invite the crew to stay and talk with the class. In fact, the squad has become such a strong presence that it caught the eye of the Notre Dame Adidas representative, earning its members some matching white shoes and lots of Adidas gifts to distribute to fans and students. 
Yet, despite all this popularity, the mem­bers wish to remain anonymous. Because of the laughable, flamboyant nature of the act, the men are apprehensive about having their true identities known around campus. Their Web site's guest book has already been 

Story by Matthew Ziegler Art by Carol Wolf 

assaulted by some prankster, and they fear more people calling them and showing up at their doors. Scholastic certainly would not want to be responsible for such a thing, but ifyou wish to know more, you can check out the site yourself at http://drive.to/ndvice/. You can find out how to book the squad for birthday parties and dances, and, maybe, with a bit of dog book scrutiny, figure out who they really are. D 


How soon do I need to place my Valentine's order? 
A week in advance, so we can make sure that we have the flowers you want. We'll still be able to take care of you even if you come in that day, but you won't have the same freedom of choice. 
What's the biggest order you've ever gotten? 
It wasn't when I was working, but there was some political figure from another coun­try whose daughter went to school here, and he ordered a $500 arrangement. It's a leg­end around here-=--the vase was so big that we could hardly deliver it. It was just this huge monstrosity. 

~----------------IJll!II----------------------------------~
....-----~-~J.. >>
L____ 
re--­
! · 
~Ten_Q_ue_sJlQIJ.S,____--1__.., 
with an Irish . . 

With Valentine's Day rapidly approach­ing, Irish Gardens, Notre Dame's on-cam­pus floral shop, is gearing up for the holi­day. Student Manager Jessica Martin, who feels that "being surrounded by flowers makes any place a wonde1ful place to be," sat down with Scholastic to talk about the flora available to students. 
Do you get more orders on a big SYR weekend or for Valentine's Day? 
Well, Valentine's Day is our busiest day of the year because it's about 45 percent of our business. The night before, we have to make up all the orders, so we might be here until two o'clock in the morning. 
; '.,-, 
._, 
.. 
..'..·.•.•.·.;.· .:-?· '\· ]··· 

Bus Stop 

label: Old Jalopy Recordings release date: December 2000 Story by Joe Muto 

American folk music is in trouble. The once-popular singer-songwriter Jewel has faded into obscurity, and the former media darling Lilith Fair failed to reach beyond the flan-nel-shirt-and­B irkens tock crowd. That's where Chris Goddard comes Ill. A2000Notre Dame graduate, 
~ Goddard de­scribes the mu­sic from his album Bus Stop as "energized folk." Aside from a few slow acoustic ballads, this album is anything but tradi­tional folk. He's more Ben Harper than James Taylor, with lively bass lines, funky organs and trippy lyrics in songs such as "Kaleidoscope," "Juice" and the album's title track. Think Phish, minus the hordes of unwashed fans. But Goddard's repertoire on Bus Stop extends far beyond Phish clones. Solid rock­ers like "Doddridge County" and "Waterville" make you wonder why we even need bands like Matchbox Twenty. "Rocking Chair" and "Ellie's Window," two of the aforementioned acoustic ballads, are soulful and honest without lapsing into pretension as so many folk singers do. In fact, the songs are remarkably upbeat, con­sidering the conditions under which they were written. 

When Notre Dame students study abroad, they expect to absorb the culture ofa foreign country. But Goddard faced the unexpected while studying in Costa Rica: He was diag­nosed with Type I diabetes and wrote most of the album while he was almost too weak to sit up. Since then, he has set his sights on helping others afflicted with the disease, holding a benefit concert in his hometown ofSt. Louis that raised more than $23,000. D 
Chris Goddard plays a concert Feb. 9 at South Bend's own Lula's Cafe at 9:30 p.m. 
judgmentcalls 

.· ... Parkin~-Spacrj .·...· > > Hogi._J 
Learn how to park and quit taking up two spaces, you ignorant buffoons. 
0~·•·•_·.•·~-·•_T~h-e~•K~··~~:~c~·~~·~~··•··=1· 
Anything that ridicules the Observer is OK with us. 





Citeonly;~ng~:~e1 · 
than the game was the halftime show. 

Any college that requires a Date Week to get students to go out doesn't deserve to celebrate Valentine's Day. 


>> 
What kind of arrangements, flowers and other things do you provide? 
We always have daisies, roses and a sea­sonal bouquet that's pre-made, but we order flowers daily so we can provide whatever the customer wants. 
What do the flowers say to you when you're arranging them? What inspires you? 
I try to make each arrange~ent look as full as possible, and I really like to use bright colors that complement each other. I try to stay away from carnations! 
Really, how much do the flowers deter­-mine how "successful" the rest of the 
evening is going to be? 

Well, depending on how much a guy spends, we pretty much know how it's go­ing to go. Some guys come in and say they want the cheapest thing we have, and you know the night probably isn't going to pan out, but the ones that tell us they don't care how much they spend are probably going to do pretty well! 
A guy comes into the shop and can't decide whether to get chocolate or flow­ers for his lady. What do you tell him? 
Well, chocolates are going to go straight to her hips, but flowers will brighten the whole room. They'll also last for several days, but the chocolate is just a momentary plea­sure. Plus, flowers are prettier to look at. 
If you were a flower, what kind would you be? 
That's actually a question we ask when we interview future employees! When I was a freshman, I said I'd be a carnation, but now I think I'd be a white rose. They're simple and elegant, and they go with every­thing-::-just like me! 
Let's put a'new spin on the question ­who would make a better flower: Chris­tina Aguilera or Britney Spears? 
·1 think that Christina Aguilera would, because her head and hair are so big, but the rest ofher is so little. Plus, her hair is always different colors. D 
-Kristin Kramer 

', ' ' . ,' ' ' ' ,, . •...·.··.·.·.·..·....1
. scJ6LA.s;1cNOTE~o61<: s 


'.;" '! 



34 & 35 Years Ago 
The Trouble with Stubble 




Norelco was an avid advertiser in the Notre Dame Scholastic during the 1960s. The following ads appeared in the November 11, 1966 and April 28, 1967 issues. The real ones had pictures, but you'll get the idea: 
Girl: Dick's stubble makes him look /O beatnik -UGH! 
Nore/co Flip-Top Speedshaver 20: Give him me! I'll make him a neatnick! Quick! Slick! And not a nick! 
The Nore/co Flip-Top Speedshaver 20­ZOWIE! This beard battler shaves close, yet comfortable. Famous rotary blades kiss whiskers good-bye. Never a nick, cut or scrape. Shaving is a shear delight and flip­top cleaning is a flip. Price? DOUBLE ZOWJE! ! !! Less than a cashmere sweater! 
Dapper-looking young man, obviously a swinger: Hey, good-lookingfellows like me. You owe it to your public to take along the Nore/co Rechargable ... [it shaves] without nicking orpinching ormarring your breath­taking features .. 
Valentine's Day gift problem solved. TRIPLE ZOWIE ! . 
-Cristin Fenzel 

do_meli_gJ1ts_____ __ 

COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL 
Demand for weddings at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart is so high they have to limit who can get married there. The bride or groom must be a 

r:i
Notre Dame student, graduate, faculty member or administrative staff mem­ber, or be a member of the Sacred Heart Parish. Here are the numbers: 


about 90 
Weddings held in the Basilica in an average year: 
Weddings held on a normal Saturday 
in a fair-weather month: 
4 
Hours allowed for a ceremony, including 30 minutes of setup time: 
2 

Date on which the Basilica begins taking reservations for next year's time slots: 

March 5 

~r People waiting for cancellations at any given time: 

10 to 15 

Source: Rose Mary Wray, coordinator ofweddings and baptisms at the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart. 

> > Ten of Our Favorite Ideas: 
1. Convenience store in LaFortune -somewhere to go 
besides Reckers late at night. (Norton/Moscona) 
2. Freshman-O camp-out-finally, a chance to meet people 
without having to wear their ties. (Norton/Moscona) 
3. St. Mary's shuttle stops at C1 and C2 -why hasn't 
anyone thought of this before? ' (Norton/Moscona) 
4. Excused senior absences -because jobs are sort of 
important. (Becker/McCord) 
5. Football tickets distributed through the mail -after this 
year's nightmare, anything would be better. (Gottlieb/Fetterman) 
6. Streamlining student government -the less bureau­
cracy, the better. (Zimmerman/Nelson) 
7. Club at senior bar -let's open the doors to the under 21­
year-olds. (Becker/McCord) 




jiil 
8. Study abroad in developing nations -forget Europe ­
why not try something really different? (Smith/Andre) 
,...... :, 

9. Service-based scholarships -athletes shouldn't be the 
only ones rewarded for hard work. (Smith/Andre) 
10. Campus safety improvements -more lights, more call 
boxes, more safety. (Gottlieb/Fetterman) 
Be sure to check out page 3 for Scho/astic's endorsement. 



Presidential candidate Ryan Becker and running mate Nikki McCord hope to create a student government that students can get involved in and under­stand. "I want to make student government an organization that students can look at and see something tangible, and something that makes student life easier," Becker says. "In the past, I have seen that student government does well with big, broad goals, but sometimes Ifeellike we have missed the point." Becker, a junior from Zahm Hall, and McCord, a sophomore from Pasquerilla East, vow to make high prices at the bookstore a top priority. "The biggest complaint that we have heard from students is definitely the bookstore prices," Becker says. "The first thing we would do is to form a task fore~ made up of students and administrators to look at the problem and see what we can do." Ideas include locked-in textbook dis­counts for students and increased dialogue with the Faculty Senate to ensure that pro­fessors keep prices in mind when ordering books. "If all else fails, and they are not going to help us out at the bookstore, then we will look into instituting some sort of a book swap," Becker says. "But, ultimately, more students will be shopping online, and this is a problem that the bookstore is going to have to face up to." Becker and McCord also plan to create a student academic council. This body would provide a forum for students to discuss aca­demic issues and improvements. "Students don't have a large enough voice in academic issues," McCord says. "We want to create an academic council with reps from all of the colleges that would work in conjunction with the academic committee in the Student Sen­ate." Becker says, "It's our academic policy. We pay $30,000 a year to go here. We should have a voice in academic decisions." Diversity is another important issue for the candidates. The pair wants to encourage majority participation in minority events through a student-government newsletter that would inform students ofdifferent events on campus. "Our goal is to make sure majority students know they are welcome at minority events," Becker says. "It has to be a commu­nity-wide effort. It can't just be minority stu­dents working to recruit other minority stu­dents or just minority students going to minor­ity events. That defeats the purpose of diver­sifying the campus." 
Becker and McCord also have big plans for increasing non-alcoholic events on cam­pus. One component of this plan includes turning senior bar into a non-alcoholic club a few weekends each month. "This way you have a club environment that is on campus ­it will be a safe environment and students will participate," McCord says. The pair also hopes that this club could provide refreshments and stay open a few hours after parietals as an alternative to late nights at Reckers. 
Other top issues for the ticket include a free shuttle to Movies 14, a baseball field on campus open for student use, excused ab­sences for seniors with job interviews and renovations to the LaFortune 24-hour space. 
Both candidates come to the campaign with a good deal of student-government experience. Becker served a term as Zahm Hall senator and was chair of the Senate Residence Life Committee. He also served on the First Year Advisory Council, his Sopho­more Class Council, and he was the president ofthe Class of2002 as a freshman. McCord is the Pasquerilla East senator and co-chair of the Senate Diversity Committee. She also serves on the Student Wellness Advisory Board and the University Committee on Diversity Retention and Recruitment. 
Becker and McCord believe with their experience and drive, they can motivate the students to work with them to make their platform ideas a reality. Becker says, "If you involve the students the right way in student government, it can be an effective and dynamic organization." . 
-Katie Caspersen 
8 SCHOLASTICELECTION COVERAGE 


We love to talk. We love to listen. We love to find solutions to prob­lems." In these three sentences, vice-presidential candidate Victoria Fetterman sums up the qualities that she believes will guarantee her and presidential candidate Maureen Gottlieb's success. The majority of the two sophomores' experience comes from their work together on the debate team. But the pair does not believe student-government positions require extensive experience in university politics. Their slogan -"New Ideas From the Student Body"-reflects this. Gottlieb and Fetterman feel they have an advantage over other candi­dates who are "caught up at LaFun" because students are more willing to share their ideas with students unaffiliated with student gov­ernment. The two highlight their propensity for seeking student opinion as a major theme for their campaign. Like many other candi­dates, they vow to go dorm to dorm for ideas during their term, something they have al­ready begun during their campaign. "People think all too often that no one sees you after you get elected, and that's a problem," Gottlieb says. "You need to be out with the student body." Fetterman also appeals to the students to contact them with issues of concern. "Our e-mail addresses are on [our campaign posters]," she says. "We want people to contact us. They're not just out there to fill up space." Gottlieb and Fetterman believe that the most critical aspect of their platform is expanding student access to dorms. "As a campus of young adults, ~we can handle ourselves," she says. "I know that dorms like BP are open most of the day, and there hasn't been any rash of robbery or as­sault." Though the university already plans to make dorms accessible with student ID cards once the necessary technology has been installed, Gottlieb believes they can help speed up the process. Fetterman also sug­

gests that student leadership is needed to implement the access system fairly. "I think rectors and security guards should be re­sponsible for following standardized poli­cies," Gottlieb says. "Father [Edward] Malloy or Father [Tim] Scully needs to be brought in to oversee this." 
Another central element of their plat­form is adding a Grab 'n' Go facility in DeBartolo Hall. As Fetterman says, the existing locations at the dining halls are too far from classroom buildings to make a roundtrip possible during 15-minute breaks. Gottlieb suggests that a facility could be set up in the existing computer lounge or in the basement. 
Though the administration objects to this proposal because food in the building could damage computer technology, Gottlieb dis­misses this as unrealistic. "If the rules [pro­hibiting food] in DeBartolo are going to be enforced, you might as well not have Grab 'n' Go at all," she says, adding that few observe the rules already posted. 
Other aspects of their platform include a proposal to convert the football-ticket dis­tribution scheme into a mail-order process. They also plan to pursue such commonly mentioned goals as adding police call boxes on campus and giving students a choice of long-distance carriers. 
The two believe their proposals are feasible. "We're going to have to go through bureau­cracy, but on the whole, I don't think they're very difficult to implement," Gottlieb says. "I think that if we address one0 half or three­quarters of our platform issues, then we'll have addressed a good portion of the needs of this student body." 
Both are aware that their gender will be noticed during the campaign. "This is about 
·• 
our ideas, not our gender," Gottlieb says, and Fetterman adds, "I hope people look to our platform, our personalities and our per­severance." D 
-Jeff Drocco 
>> 

Name: Maureen Gottlieb Class: Sophomore Major: Government Dorm: Cavanaugh Hall 
>> 

Name: Victoria Fetterman Class: Sophomore Major: Psychology and government Dorm: Breen-Phillips Hall 
>> 

Most important*: Universal student access to dorms 
Least important*: ND Stadium available for concerts 
Quote: "I hope people look to our platform, our personalities and our perseverance:' 
-Victoria Fetterman 
* According to the candidates 
>> 

Survivor luxury item: Gottlieb:-Toothbrush . Fetterman: Internet access 
'N Sync or Backstreet Boys? Gottlieb: 'N Sync, "BSB are not even boys." Fetterman: 'N Sync 
Use "Jactitation" in a sentence: "If we don't win this election, we're going to experience severe jactitation." · · 
SCHOLASTICELECTION COVERAGE 9 
,· 
: • ,.~,.#­
. : \~ 
, jX:: 


BROOKE NORTON BRIAN MOSCONA 



Class: Sophomore Major: Marketing and government, · peace studies concentration Dorm: Stanford Hall 
>> 


Most important*: Cable TV in all dorm rooms 
Least important*: Student-government update column in the Observer 
Quote:. . " ... [W]e know that we can use our experience; we can-use our skills and teamwork to make the university a better place:• -Brooke Norton 
* According to the candidates 
>> 
Survivor luxury item: Norton: Book of quotations Moscona:Picture ofJamily 
'N Sync or Backstreet Boys? Norton: Backstreet Boys Moscona: Backstreet Boys 
Use "Jactitation" in a sentence: "Jactitation is the key to anyone's success:• 

The time is now 
Hoping to build on the successes that she and student-body President Brian O'Donoghue have achieved throughout the past year, Vice President Brooke Norton and running mate Brian Moscona believe that "The Time is Now" to meet students' needs. "We'rerunning because we know that we can use our experience, we can use our skills and teamwork to make the university a better place," Norton says. The candidates will rely on their strong backgrounds in student government to get things done. Be­fore becoming vice president, Norton served as freshman class secretary and sophomore class vice president. Sophomore class Presi­dent Brian Moscona also served as fresh­man class secretary for the Class of 2003. Although he applied to the London pro­gram, Moscona says that he will not go if elected vice president. The extensive Norton/Moscona platform emphasizes four projects already in progress: Establishing a 24-hour convenience store and gift shop in LaFortune, extending week­day parietals to 1 a.m., improving gate ac­cessibility and installing cable TV in each dorm room. Norton and Moscona defer to students for ideas. "We'll decide what our priorities are by what [the students'] priorities are, and we'll get them done," Moscona says. They see student support as essential for success. For instance, although Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman is willing to entertain extending weekday pa­rietals to 1 a.m., he questions student inter­est in the matter. And cable was actually voted down in the 1980s by students reluc­tant to pay forit. Even ifNorton and Moscona can rally enough support for cable installa­tion, the earliest it can be in dorm rooms is the summer of2002-the year after Norton andMoscona' s administration. Nevetheless, Norton wants to work towards this goal. "We need to lay the groundwork, work on 
the referendum and get the students to­
gether," she says. 
Norton accepts the criticism that she and 

O'Donoghue spent too much of their time 
on the second floor of LaFortune, away 
from the students. "Odie and I worked so 
hard to get [projects] done ... we were so 
driven," she says. To combat this problem, 
Norton and Moscona will encourage stu­
dent participation in monthly town-hall­
style meetings, inviting Poorman and other 
administrators, too. They plan to use mass 
e-mailings to inform students of the meet­
ings' agendas beforehand to spur enthusi­
asm. "We need to make attendance so high 
that we can't all fit in the room," Moscona 
says. "If the support is that overwhelming, 
they have to listen to us." . That support will be necessary to push 
through some ofNorton and Moscona' s more 
innovative projects. The candidates hope to 
offer free tutoring andLSAT and GREreview 
sessions through the student-government of­
fice. The candidates also want to coordinate 
"Life 101" workshops to teach skills such as 
self-defense, car maintenance, financial plan­
ning and Web-page design. 
In perhaps their most ambitious proposal, 

Norton and Moscona hope to add an optional 
three-day camping trip to Freshman Orienta­
tion, giving students the opportunity to form 
new friendships before they get to campus. 
They also plan to bring a hip-hop conference 
initiated by Harvard University to Notre Dame 
in order to encourage dialogues on race, and 
initiate an environmental service 
program,"Clean Up Your Own Backyard," to 
preserve the beauty of the lakes. 
Despite such an extensive platform, 

Norton and Moscona are confident that they 
have the ability to succeed in office. Norton 
insists, "I know I can do it, I know exactly 
what I'm going to need to do, and I'm 
willing to make that commitment again." D 
-Sarah Childress 



10 SCHOLASTICELECTION COVERAGE 


L

---------------------------~======'-======------­


DEMETRA SMITH YOGELD AN·DRE 

Expanding the vision 
Demetra Smith and Yo geld Andre's 
platform stands out from the other 
candidates' promises of Grab 'n' 
Go at DeBartolo and on-campus cable TV 
installation. This candidate pair has a very 
different vision. 
Smith was inspired to run for student­
body president after a group of students 
looking for a candidate willing to address 
community-and social-justice issues ap­
proached her. She eagerly accepted, asking 
Andre to run with her. "Iknow that he brings 
a different perspective, but also that we 
communicate very well," she says. 
The candidates hope to bring several ma­
jor issues before the Student Senate. But 
first, says Andre, they need to streamline 
student government. The pair's primary con­
cern is to establish service-based scholar­
ships. Using as their model the Lou Holtz 
Scholarship -a leadership-based grant 
awarded annually to one student -Smith 
and Andre hope to aid students who would 
like to devote more time to service work and 
community leadership. 
Smith and Andre also plan to revise the 
bookstore buy-back policy to students' ad­
vantage, to research the feasibility ofstudy­
abroad programs in third-world countries 
and to bring sensitive campus issues "out 
of the editorial pages" and into monthly 
educational forums involving students and 
faculty. They support the efforts of Out­
reach-ND,. the unrecognized gay, lesbian 
a_nd bisexual campus organization, and 
promote the inclusion of sexual orienta­
tion in the university's non-discrimina­
tion clause. 
Prompted by criticism ofNotre Dame's 
use of apparel manufacturers that allegedly utilize sweatshop labor, Smith and Andre plan to encourage the university to join the Worker Rights Consortium, a multi-univer­sity pact d~signed to ensure proper treat­-ment of laborer_s. On a similar note, the candidates would discourage the university from outsourcing jobs, such as the current 

arrangement under which the Hammes Bookstore is run by the Follett Higher Edu­cation Group, since few companies provide as many benefits to local workers as does the university. 
Smith and Andre see immense value in establishing cooperative efforts with South Bend residents to improve the area. "More and more students are recognizing that Notre Dame is an amazing place in and of itself, but also that we are a part ofthe South Bend community," Smith says. 
The candidate pair participates actively in campus life. Smith is involved in Farley Hall activities and film production, while Andre sings in the Voices ofFaith Gospel Choir and the Glee Club. Andre's religious views pre­vent him from working on Saturdays, but he says that his faith will "absolutely not" impair his ability to serve as student-body vice presi­dent. Both candidates also studied last year in Angers, France, where they met. 
Smith and Andre bring little political ex­perience to the campaign, but they are con­fident in their ability to fill the offices of president and vice president. The pair is certainly aware ofthe questionable potency of the student government, explaining on their Web site: "We recognize that our abil­ity to implement our goals is limited by the lack of power the university gives the stu­dent union, and [we] realize that our true power lies in the student body." Andre considers this campaign a "call to student solidarity," acknowledging that only as a united student body can the university truly achieve remarkable improvements. 
Smith and Andre summarize their cam­paign as "Expanding the Vision," because they feel that issues pertinent to the student body extend beyond the campus itself. By focusing on greater social concerns, the candidate pair hopes to bring students to­gether for the improvement of the campus and of the community. D 
-Matthew Ziegler 




Survivor luxury item?. Smith: Journal and pen Andre: BJble 
'N Sync or Backstreet Boys? Smith: Neither · Andre: Neither 
Use "Jactitation" in a sentence: ''The jactitation of the candidate got me very nervous:• 
SCHOLASTICELECTION COVERAGE 11 

--, ~--_._l_ ---------------------------­





>> 
Name: Holt Ziedler Class: Junior Major: Computer science Dorm: Keough Hall 
>> 
Name: Allison Henisey Class: Junior Major: Civil engineering Dorm: McGlinn Hall 
>> 
Most important*: Bowling alley near 
senior bar Least important*: Grab 'n' Go in DeBartolo 
Quote: "We've put together general things that can be manifested in different ways." -Holt Ziedler 
* According to the candidates 
>> 
Survivor luxury item? 
Henisey: Class ring 
'N Sync or Backstreet Boys? Ziedler: Neither Henisey: Backstreet Boys 
Use "Jactitation" in a sentence: "If there is one thing I want to see on TV it i~ jactitation." 
12 SCHOLASTICELECTION COVERAGE 

I've always looked up to the position," says Holt Zeidler about his ambitions to the student-body presidency. "I'm the hall president of Keough right now, and I thought, 'Why can't I do this for the whole campus?' " He and running mate Allison Henisey stand on a platform that he charac­terizes with the slogan "When. Tradition Meets Innovation." The tradition, accord­ing to the candidates, consists ofthe current administration and many ofthe policies that are being enacted by the student govern­ment. The innovation enters when Zeidler and Henisey "put a little twist" into these traditional elements. Zeidler and Henisey' s primary concern is to build an eight-lane bowling alley near the Alumni-Senior Club. To Zeidler, this idea "represents something that already exists, but that we could make better." A bowling alley by senior bar would provide a safe alternative to potentially dangerous South Bend venues. After meeting with Father Mark Poorman, vice president of student affairs, Zeidler and Henisey feel confident such an addition is feasible. The candidates feel that obtaining funds would be a task better left until after determining whether building a bowling alley is the right avenue to follow. "Itis justa matter ofhow we are going to go about spending it; the money is there," Henisey says. Zeidler and Henisey also wish to devote much of their effort toward improving late­night programming. While they do not put forward specific ideas for events, they are cer­tain of their aim: To keep people on campus. The particulars of activity planning, Henisey contends, are the responsibility of the Student Union Board and individual clubs. As presi­dent and vice president, the candidates will work to empower these groups to improve the quality and variety oflate-night recreation. Other important ideas include a plan to implement a short-term on-campus parking system for such things as unloading grocer­ies and dropping off people. If elected, the candidates also hope to hold a campus-wide field day and to bring a band to Notre Dame for a concert after Opening Day Mass. 
Zeidler is intentionally vague about many ofhis proposed issues. "We've put together general things that can be manifested in differ­ent ways," he explains. The candidates pur­posely avoided issues that they knew were unlikely to be implemented during their term, such as installing a campus-wide cable TV network or extending parietals. By steering clearofdubious campaign promises and overly precise goals, Zeidler and Henisey feel that they have created a very feasible platform. 
The two candidates bring a fair amount of experience to their campaign. Zeidler is currently the Keough Hall president and has served on the Student Life Advisory Com­mittee and as the campus-events commis­sioner. Henisey has worked with the Club Coordination Council since her freshman year and is now the club coordinator. "We have the experience working with students and other organizations to take everything to the next level," Zeidler says. 
However, given a race in which some other candidates have far more student-government experience, Zeidler and Henisey believe that they possess a more qualifying feature: Their personalities. Zeidler plans to serve as a "president in the flesh," rather than spend­ing his time locked away on LaFortune's second floor. He and his running mate worry that not enough students are informed on the questions and issues that face the student government. Henisey says. that she and Zeidler will make a sincere effort to meet and talk with people, and to establish liai­sons between student organizations. 
A vote for Zeidler and Henisey is, accord­ing to Zeidler, a vote .to "take campus im­provements that already exist and put a little innovation into them." By building on the steps the student government has already taken they hope to continue improving stu­dent life. 0 
-Matthew Ziegler 

. ---,. . . . . . , -...---. . ' , . . .-. ­
. . . . .
~ 


!\\;·.·; .;~i~·
.,. ,' ' ./2.• ,,~l 
,. ::-: ; Jt.~:ft :n 
·,,,,·~ . ;ll••~<tl.., I 
.c:~-11!!?~~~~ 


CHRIS ZIMMERMAN ANDREW NELSON 
Time for a change 
If you ask Chris Zimmerman, he'll tell you "it's time for a change" in student government, and he' 11 ask for your vote. Zimmerman, a chemical engineering ma­jor, is running for student-body president with Andrew Nelson, a business undeclared and Spanish major. According to the sopho­mores from Fisher Hall, neither have a great deal ofstudent-government experience, but "in our opinion, you don't need much," Zimmerman says. "Sitting there on Fresh­man Class Council isn't going to get you into the big time." c Zimmerman is section representative for Fisher IA this year, and Nelson volunteers extensively with Circle K. The ticket's big­gest plan for next year is a restructuring of student government. The two believe that· the three bodies that currently govern the campus -the Campus Life Council, the Student Senate and the Hall Presidents Coun­cil -are too many. "This is where the problem lies," Nelson says. "Do we really need two committees .discussing the same thing?" Instead, the candidates envision one group, the HPC, composed of two presidents from each dorm and headed by the student-body president and vice president. On a regu-Jar basis, two representatives from HPC, the faculty and the administration would discuss what needs to be done at what Zimmerman calls "University Union meetings." Zimmerman says that the move from three representative bodies to one would increase the quality of candidates, make class govern­ments more vital and increase students' voice. "The Faculty Senate holds all kinds of power, when it should be the student~ [who are in control]," Zimmerman says. For this change to take place, current stu­dent senators would have to vote to dissolve the Student Senate. Nelson says that senators will go along with the plan if they really care about what is better for the students. "Al­though student senators rriight choose not to dissolve the Senate, that is the risk you take," Zimmerman adds. "We feel wehavealegiti­mate chance to achieve this." 

Another important platform plan calls for revamping LaFortune Student Center. "At a university of Notre Dame's caliber, the fact that students don't use LaFortune is laugh­able," Nelson says. "The basement 24-hour space looks like a 1980s pizza parlor." Nelson and Zimmerman call for a fiscally responsible renovation ofLaFortune. They want to move the administrative offices out of the second and third floors and into other buildings such as Brownson, Flanner and Grace halls; the floors would be converted into social space with couches, TVs and computers. 
Another platform plank encourages a re­evaluation of the disparity between the grade-point averages in different colleges at Notre Dame. "I couldn't tell you why," Nelson says, "but a grade that is an A in the College ofEngineering is not necessarily an A in [the Mendoza College of] Business or [the College of] Arts and Letters." Accord­ing to the candidates, teachers need to get together and decide what each grade means. 
Zimmerman also wants to do incoming freshmen a favor by eliminating the differ­ences between introductory courses taught by several different faculty members. Such courses should be "uniform," Zimmerman says. "The only difference between classes should be who's teaching it." 
Some of Zimmerman and Nelson's other plans include adding phones to 24-hour spaces in all dorms, investigating the possi­bility for food service in DeBartolo, and creating a guide explaining Notre D_ame and South Bend to first-year _and transfer stu­dents. The pair also wants to organize four all-school Masses per year-with a Mass at the end of each semester. 
And, despite their lack of traditional stu­dent-government experience, Zimmerman and Nelson are confident that they have what it takes to accomplish their goals. D 
-Annie Ralph 
. ' 

~•l•,.
~­
··,I·
\ I i "P· 
~/· 
>> 
Name: Chris Zimmerman Class: Sophomore Major: Chemical engineering Dorm: Fisher Hall 
>> 
Spanish 
Dorm: Fisher Hall Most important*: Streamline student government by combining Student Senate, CLC and HPC 
Least important*: Grab 'n' Go in DeBartolo 
Quote: "The work of the Senate, HPC and CLC often overlap." 
-
* According to the candidates 

>> 
Survivor luxury item? Zimmerman: Journal Nelso'n: Pop Tarts 
'N Sync or Backstreet Boys? 
. Zimmerman: Backstreet Boys, " 'N Sync guys are grubby." Nelson: Backstreet Boys, "A.J. looks like Splinter from the Ninja Turtles." 
Use«Jactitation" in a sentence: "What the hell does jactitation mean?" 
SCHOLASTICELECTION COVERAGE 13 

· .. · -., . -=----~-­
----~~-------,,___ ­


! 
I,' 'II  KATIECASPERSEN When asked to rate his perfor­mance as student-body Presi  
dent, Brian O'Donoghue was  

quick to say, "My year's not over yet!" With 51 days left in office, O'Donoghue vows that his staff is working harder now than ever before. "This team does not want to let any part of this opportunity pass through our hands," says O'Donoghue. If the past 10 months are any indication, the current administration will indeed make the most ofeach remain­ing day. 
Last year, O'Donoghue and Vice Presi­dent Brooke Norton ran on a rather ambi­tious platform, but many of their cam­paign promises have produced tangible results. The Rectors' Endowment Fund, which O'Donoghue and Nortcin identi­fied as their most important issue, was established within 31 days of the admin­istration taking office. This fund allows residence-hall rectors and, ultimately, the vice president for student affairs, to pro­vide money to students who otherwise could not participate in university events such as home football games, section din­ners, dorm dances. The money may also be used in situations such as sending a student home for a family emergency. 
Other major successes include programs such as Greatness Grants and the Blessing Unto Others project. The Greatness Grants provide funding for student-initiated ser­vice and projects, while Blessing Unto Others is a fundraising project that will provide money to orphanages in Chile. "These were instances where the univer­sity really believed in what we were try­ing to do," O'Donoghue says. "Ifwe could produce funding, they would match us, and this cooperation made these wonder­ful projects possible." 
Academic lunches remained a success­
14 SCHOLASTICELECTION COVERAGE 

ful program through which students in every college met with professors and advisors over lunch, and the administra­tion has also continued work to provide students with a number of online aca­demic services. O'Donoghue is proud of the access that his administration has been able to gain for students to the Board of 
Trustees. 
But the current administration has had its weaknesses as well. One criticism has been that O'Donoghue spent too much time in his second-floor LaFortune office, and not enough time among the student body. "It's true, I am not out as much as I 
Brooke and I ran under 
the idea of believing .... 
We never stopped 
believing that certain 
things were possible, 
and that faith has car­
ried us so far. 
-Brian O'Donoghue 

could be," says O'Donoghue. "I try to get to every event that I am invited to, and when I am not out there, I am in this office working for the students. I would say I put in 60 hours a week trying to make the most of this opportunity." 
One self-proclaimed weakness is diver­sity programming. "If there is something 
that we need to work on more, this is it,"/ were not always the most visible presi­
O'Donoghuesays. "Yes, wehaveco-spon­sored a lot of events, but there is a good deal more that can be done." O'Donoghi/e and Norton are looking at a new progrtlm now that could possibly work for a r:l.ew, administration. This program woulµ in-elude a retreat for all of the dorm multicultuml commissioners th/Would dential and vice-presidential pair, they have fulfilled many of their campaign promises. "Brooke and I ran under the idea of believing," O'Donoghue says. "I would pass this idea on to the next admin­istration. We never stopped believing that certainthingswerepossible,andthatfaith has carried us so far." D give them a better understanding of their jobs and let them know what money is available for programming. 
Some problems have simply been out of the current administration's control. The debacle known as this year's football­ticket distribution was actually planned by the previous administration of Micah Murphy and Michael Palumbo. "Unfortu­nately, I had very little to do with that," says O'Donoghue. "We have a committee to review this issue, but I want to wait to allow the new president to work on this. Being student-body president and not be­ing involved really annoyed me last year." 
One portion within their platform termed "The Call" was intended to keep .students informed of various events on campus, but the program had to be scratched after funding was cut. As for the current status of SafeRide, O'Donoghue says that the current statis­tics simply do not support the program at this time. The Office of Student Affairs is currently reviewing the implications of alcohol on campus to answer questions regarding drunk driving at Notre Dame. "Ifdrunk driving.is occurring, I don't care about statistics," O'Donoghue says. "Even if statistically it isn't feasible, if it can save )ives, it should be resurrected." 
While O'Donoghue assures us that he is not done yet, looking over his term up to this point, he sees a very effective admin­istration. "I honestly believe that we have given as much as we possibly could/' he says. Although O'Donoghue and Norton 


O'Donoghue and Norton aren't done yet 


TIP THE GIPP. GIPPER.l@ND.EDU 
(_}\ffiQ((s 4/~~ 



!Pa,c\"' 
The Gipp loves this time of year. The time when the weather gets just warm enough during the day to turn the campus into a muddy bog and just cold enough to freeze it into a sheet of ice at night. The Gipp offers a toast in the spirit of the season: Here's to getting smashed in a, room by yourself on a Wednesday night. That's right, it's Valentine's Day again, and, at Notre Dame, that's about the most fun you can have. 

Taxicab Confessions 
But if you just can't stand the thought of drinking alone, why not call a taxi? Some girls were imbibing at one ofthe local estab­lishments when they decided it was time to go home. They flagged down a cab and got 
ROAR Before engaging in bloody battle with Beowulf, Grendel got his start working as an S_DH manager. 
.....=....,,,=,,,,,,. 

in for the ride back to campus. Along the way, the friendly cabdriver inquired, with great tact and proper deference to the la­dies, "Mind if I have a cold one?" He then proceeded to whip out a beer and started swigging it as he wove his way toward ND. The young ladies were less than amused and asked to be let out of the cab to find another ride home. 

Moonshine 

In more beer news, that funky smell in the air might not be the ethanol plant. Knott Hall apparently has its own microbrewery. One clever resident cooks up a special midnight brew using the hall kitchen in the wee hours of the morning to complete vital steps in the brewing process. With periodic trips to his home for more supplies, the Juggernaut brewmaster keeps a happy stream of liquid flowing out of Knott's kitchen . 
You've Been Warned 

Ofcourse, ifyou live off campus, you can have your beer delivered instead ofputting in the time to make your own brew. You just have to be willing to accept some minor inconveniences, such as walking to class from Cl, cooking your own meals and having your house or apartment picked clean while you're away on vacation. To combat the off-campus-crime problem, the landlord ofsome houses-on St. Pete's Street sent around a memo with tips on what to do before leaving for the holidays. Among the recommendations: Take anything of any value home with you for the holidays be­cause ifyou don't, it will be gone. The Gipp was also particularly fond of another sug­gestion: Bring all kegs inside before leaving. 

And Warned Again 

The landlord on St. Pete's Street isn't the only one issuing warnings. Computer­cluster consultants recently got a nasty e­mail from their superiors warning them about on-the-job behavior. Apparently, some of these ultra-knowledgeable tech­nology gurus have circumvented the university's ban on Napster and were downloading music onto those kiosk com­puters they sit behind. Also found on the consultant-only computers: video games. The Gipp finds the e-mail especially funny since not too long ago, he heard that one of the upper brass at the OIT had. to be reminded that drinks were not allowed in the labs. Whatever happened to leading by example? 
Now You're In Trouble 

Those tips about beer? Well, the Gipp thinks the South Dining Hall manager should read 'em and grab a few cold ones himself -maybe that will help him loosen up. Some loyal tipsters were eating lunch in the DH when they noticed two young men toss­ing a hard-boiled egg back and forth. Unfor­tunately, so did everyone's favorite head­set-wearing South Dining Hall employee. He rose from his seat and, running the risk of getting a wrinkle in his starched shirt, stalked over to the youngsters to put an end to their egg-catch. But then he went a step further, asking for their IDs and sending them to ResLife. A little harsh ifyou ask the Gipp. Couldn't he have just told the guys to knock off the egg-toss? But, then again, we're talking about a place where moni­tors are posted to make sure diners don't smuggle out more than one piece of fruit. Which leads the Gipp to make his next point: People take stuff from the DH just to spite the system. In fact, the Gipp thinks that you probably have some interesting dining-hall memorabilia in your dorm room or apartment right now. Well, here's what the Gipp wants you to do: Drop off photos of stuff you've borrowed from the DH to the Scholastic office in the base­ment of SDH. Don't worry, the Gipp'II keep your name and face out of it. The best pies will grace this column next is­sue. And, hey, this is stuff you've already taken. Don't go smuggling things out just to get in the Gipp. 
Well, that's all the Gipp's got to say about that. A parting toast: Here's to good brew, good times and good tips! 0 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 15 


KATIEFREDDOSO 
Notre Dame doesn't come cheap. In fact, it runs over $30,000 a year. The high cost drives many students 
to find jobs in an effort to defray the ex­pense. The university provides them with various employment opportunities in order by the university. In addition, the university allocates federal funds to subsidize student salaries at various community agencies, such as the Center for the Homeless. That means that the center can pay students $3 per hour, and the university uses government money to pay the other $3.10 per hour. Regardless of which program student employees par-hour as long as their total income -includ­ing that from family contributions, grants, scholarships and loans -does not exceed this budget. The Student Employment Of­fice, which is part of the financial-aid of­fice, notifies students of how much they are eligible to make based on a review of the 

U.S. Department of Education's Free Ap­plication for Federal Student 
Aid and the College Scholar­

GIFTS GALORE Colleen Barrett's job at the Snite Museum of Art gift shop helps pay the bills. 
ship Service's Profile applica­


tion. From these applications, the financial-aid office deter­mines how much a family will be able to pay, taking into ac­count income, assets, family size and other relevant factors. The employment office offers a standard $2,100 a year to stu­dents, although they may earn more than that as long as they do not exceed their student bud­get. This figure is based on 11.5 hours ofworkper week at $6.10 per hour for two semesters. 
The employment office is fairly flexible with the limit on a student's income. "We are compassionate to students' needs/says Cortney Swift, se­nior financial administrator at the office. "If a student were experiencing serious financial challenges, we would do all that we could'to help him help him­self." This includes increasing a student's eligibility to cover such things as above-average transportation costs or family hardships such as a parent's loss of a job. 
to maintain its day-to-day operation, en­courage community service and help stu­dents finance their own educations. 
There are two types ofuriiversity employ­ment: the Federal Wark-Study Program and campus employment. The main difference between the two is the source of funding. The Federal Work-Study Program is, as the name suggests, federally subsidized, whereas campus employment is financed 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

ticipate in, they receive pay according to a common scale. 
Eligibility requirements for the two types of employment are essentially the same. The Office of Financial Aid calculates a student budget of $31,600 a year. This fig­ure includes tuition and fees, room and board, books, transportation and personal expenses. Students are eligible to work as many as 20 hours per week at up to $7 .05 per 
The number of students who work varies by class. The percentage of student workers in the freshman class is far smaller than that in the sophomore, junior and senior classes. Of the 2,875 under­graduates earning an hourly wage at the university, only 467 are freshmen. Seniors are nearly double that number. The most · significant increase comes between fresh­man and sophomore year. Swift says that there are several reasons why this is the 
I . . . -' -. . . -, . . -. • • • ­
I • • 

HELPING HAND 
Liz Hanpeter earns her keep working for German­Russian .language professor Vera Profit. 
case. "Many freshmen come in with schol­
arships or awards from their local alumni 
clubs, or from organizations like the Rotary 
Club, and they don't need to start working 
until sophomore year when those run out," 
she says. Also, children offaculty members 
are not required to do work-study during 
their first year. 
While only 196 graduate students hold positions that pay an hourly wage, almost half ofall graduate students at the university hold stipended positions. Most ofthem have jobs as research or teaching assistants, and · rather than making them keep track of their hours, the university pays them one lump sum for the semester. _Only two percent of the 1,435 students employed in stipend po­
sitions are undergraduates. 
In addition to helping students with their 
budgets and keeping track of their incomes, 
the employment office also provides a stu­
dent job board. Employers, both on and off 
campus, post available positions on the 
board, which is accessible over the Internet. 
While the job board is widely used, many 
students find_ their jobs through friends or 
siblings. Steve Price, a support manager at 
DeBartolo Hall, says that in his eight years 
working at DeBartolo, he has never needed 
to advertise available positions. "I get a lot 
ofstudents coming to me for work who have 
heard about the job from friends and room­
mates, so we get a lot of kids working for us 
who already know each other," he explains. 
"My philosophy in hiring students is this: If 
you're intelligent enough to get into this 
university, you are intelligent enough to 
work for me. AndI've never had a problem 
with my employees." 


Both Price and Senior Staff Assistant Patti Guzowski believe that the students are an important part of the workplace. "I miss the kids when they're on break," Guzowski 
, says. "It gets too quiet around here." She admits that there have been instances when students have failed to show up for work, but Guzowski maintains that those instances have been few and far between. "They're dedicated employees, and having a job now is a good learning experience for them," she says. Student-employees benefit from their jobs as well. "You have to learn to juggle a lot of 
things at once, because on top of school and clubs and stuff, you also have to come in to work," says freshman Tiffany Natelborg, an em­ployee of the Office of In­formation Technologies. Depending on the job, stu­dents' hours may be sched­uled for the entire semester, or they may change on a weekly basis. All employ­ees are expected to show up or find their own substitute. Food Services requires all 
Percent of each class working an hourly paid position 24% Freshmen 38% Sophomores 40% Juniors 41% Seniors 
7% Graduates Percentage of Students working a stipend position 
2% Undergraduates 
46% Graduates 
student dining-hall employees to work at least one weekend shift, ·whereas depart­mental or clerical jobs need students only during the business week. Price has his own way of running things. "I let them tell me when they can work because I know they have other extracurricular activities," he says. "That way, they have no excuse not to show up to work." 
Despite the added obligations, students understand the importance ofwork. "I don't have class on Thursday, but I have to get up and come in to work," student media techni­cian Matt Orenchuk says. "And if I work during dinner, I have to skip eating with my friends. But I get paid to do that, and it's not like I have to work every day, so it's really not a big deal." 

Student-workers also have the opportu­nity to interact with non-students. Junior Gina Montenaro works at North Dining Hall. She says that despite some initial dis­comfort, many students enjoy working with South Bend residents. "It's not so comfort­able at first, but then, once you get to know each other, it's fine," she says. "[The qon­student workers] are often really interest­ing." In general, students enjoy the opportu­nity to interact with people of different backgrounds and circumstances. 
Student-workers also have the opportu­nity to meet other students at their jobs, and many say that this makes having a job easier. In fact, the benefits of a job can even extend beyond having a little extra cash in your pocket. Montenaro says, "I've made a lot of friends and found people to ask to dances 
from working at North Dining Hall." 
Holding a job as a student may not be easy, but student-employees are generally satisfied with their jobs. Sophomore Sara Mij al, who also works at North Dining Hall, says that "the shifts can be really long some­times, but it's usually a lot of fun, and everyone's really nice." D 
Je1Jny Wahoske contributed to this sto1y. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 

l' • -~ . . -~------------­
------~~---­




Retreat Yourself 
Campus Ministry provides all sorts ofescapes 

JENNIFERMORGAN 
Few could imagine a holier atmo­sphere than that of Notre Dame's campus. Theology is a required course, every dorm has its own Mass and, at any hour of the day or night, one can find students praying at the Grotto. For many, one of Notre Dame's most appealing aspects is the integration ofspiri­tuality into everyday life, including the many retreats offered throughout the year by Cam­pus Ministry. "The retreats are great oppor­tunities for students to focus on faith, learn about their faith and to pray together in a structured way," says retreat director Father John Herman, "and for a lot of students, the retreats are transforming moments in their spiritual lives and key moments in their college experiences." 

,i:
i: Many first-year students take advantage of such an opportunity by attending the Freshman Retreat. "I realized that I was not the only person whose vision for freshman ye~ wasn't going as planned," says fresh­man Katie Ellgass. "The classmates and group leaders that I met on the retreat were inspiring and hope-filled individuals who gave me a better perspective on my situation." 

Held at the Sacred Heart Parish at Notre Dame, the Freshman Retreat is a two-day overnight retreat offered several times dur­ing the year. Although certain residence halls are targeted each weekend, students from any dorm are always welcome. 
"This retreat is different from other re­treats because it is more geared toward helping freshman feel like they belong here at Notre Dame -socially, academically and spiritually," says Father Bill Wack, Freshman Retreat director. "The students come as individuals, participate in some group activities, talk about relationships and then discuss how they are going to take what they have learned out into the world with them. Thething that is most impressive about the retreat is how honest it is." 
For many freshmen, this retreat is more than making friends and getting accustomed to college life -the retreat becomes the cornerstone ofwhat it means to be a part of the Notre Dame fru:nily. "After this true spiritual awakening, which more than any­thing else made me ask questions about the role of God in my life that I had never 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

thought to ask before, I knew that Notre Dame was truly unique," says freshman Brent Burish. "Our retreat group continues to pray together on Sunday nights at mid­night at the Grotto, putting our fears about both the previous and upcoming weeks to rest. The retreattaught me that I have friends in my search to find my mission on earth as God intended for me." 
But a student's retreat experience does 
not have to end after his or her freshman year. The Notre Dame Encounter, perhaps the most-popular retreat on campus, is the pri­maryretreatprogramofferedbyCampusMin­istry. Itis open to all students on campus, both 
retreat veterans and first-time participants. 

Sister Susan Bruno, director of the NDE Retreat, attributes the retreat' s popularity to its reputation. "Itis a wonderful experience, and, for many, NDE is a life-changing event," she says. "At the retreat, students have the opportunity to look at themselves in an authentic way, to look at God in a different way and to examine their relation­
ships with both God and with others." Each 
day ofthe retreat has a focus. "Students get out of the retreat what they put into it, and most put in over 100 percent," Bruno says. "It is such an honor and a pleasure to see and work with students who truly want to know, 
meet and have a relationship with God and 
to see what an impact the retreat has on them." 
The Freshman Retreats, in which 350 to 400 freshman participate each year, and NDE, in which more than 300 students participate, are the most-widely attended retreats on campus. However, these retreats are only two ofmore than 25 retreats offered by Campus Ministry each year. Seniors can attend one ofthree senior retreats offered to 
reflect on their life at Notre Dame and 
prepare for their spiritual futures. There are also ROTC retreats and retreats offered in 
conjunction with cross-cultural ministry, including the Asian-American Freshman Retreat, the Latino Freshman Retreat and 
the Learning to Talk About Race Retreat. Sophomore Araceli Bonilla had a unique 
retreat experience when she went on En­counter with Our Faith, a Latino retreat. She said the retreat was "different because 
it incorporated more cultural aspects." And senior Eileen Huie is proof that there is a retreat to suit every student's needs. She helped Circle K, a service organization, put on its own retreat with the help of Campus Ministry. ''I went to Campus Ministry, and they helped me to find a place to have the retreat and to organize it." 
All of the retreats are designed so that students may take something with them into real life, as opposed to leaving the lessons they have learned behind them. Notre Dame is committed not only to offering students an excellent education but also to fostering their spiritual growth in an environment grounded on faith. By actively participating in one or more of the retreats offered on campus, students are given the opportunity to grow spiritually while developing intel­kctw~. . 
_ Spiritual Getaways 
Interested in going on a retreat? Remaining retreats for the 2000­2001 school year include: 

) Freshman Retreats 
#34, 2/23-2/24 
(applications available 1/29-2/19) #35, 3/30-3/31 (applications available 2/26-3/26) 
) Marriage Preparation Retreats 
3/23-3/24 5/11-5/12 
) Notre Dame Encounters #65, 3/30-4/1 (applications available 2/19-2/23, due 4 p.m. on Friday, 2/23) 
#66, 4/20-4/22 . 
) Senior Retreats #5, 3/2-3/3 #6, 4/6-4/7 


) Senior Service Retreat 
2/9-2/10 
) Upon This Rock Retreat 
4/7-4/8 · 
For more-information, visit the . Campus Ministry Web site at www.nd.edu/-ministryl. 





V 
V 
the latest campus news and sports in-depth coverage of campus issues 
reviews of campus entertainment 
off-the-wall humor 
SCHOL8STIC one ste ahead since 1867 
. \::i 
,?.:;;. 




. ·:;~·::_. : 

'F ~L...!s£Pc.CE M.L~OURsueScRIPTION tit· S~No;.J,s j.;RM AN~ ·,;;: . .•.·-~•··. 
· $35.00PAYMENTTO: .... .. I ' NAME: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE . . i·J' I -· ,:. · · ·· ·.· 31 sLAFORTUNE $i"up~~T <:ENTEfl + . 
. ,. ADDRESS=-):·"'· 




;:. I' -,,_..;---------,---,---­
-.I 



. . , ----~-~ -----------­
--------___._J_ ­


BRENDANBARKER 

There is an expression in basketball: "A team will only go as far as its point guard will take it." Considering the lofty preseason expecta­tions for Notre Dame's men's basketball team this year, senior captain Martin Ingels by, a point guard, faced a difficult burden entering this season. After starting for the Irish in his first two years, Ingelsby watched from the bench as then-senior Jimmy Dillon grabbed the start­ing role. This season, lngelsby has returned to the starting lineup under coach Mike Bi:_:ey and carries the task ofleading the Irish to the top of the Big East Conference and back to the NCAA Tournament for the first time in more than a decade. He has per­formed the job admirably thus far this sea­son, leading the Irish to the top o(the West­ern Divison of the Big East after victories over conference rivals Syracuse, Georgetown and St. John's. Ingelsby, a Philadelphia native, comes from a basketball family: His father played at Villanova in the early '70s and had brief stints in both the NBA and the ABA. As a high-school senior, Ingelsby was named the Gatorade Pennsylvania player of the year and won the prestigious Markward Award, which is given to the best high-school player in Philadelphia each year. Hewas also named a McDonald's All-American honorable mention. Ingelsby became the starting point guard in his freshman year at Notre Dame. He immediate! y became a vital part ofthe team, starting all 27 games that year and getting named to the 1998 Big East All-Rookie team along with current NBA players Ron Artest and Khalid El-Amin. Ingelsby again played a pivotal role on the team the next season, and while the Irish struggled through a disappointing year, Ingelsby remained a consistent force at point guard. After starting his first two years under coach John MacLeod, coach Matt Doherty reduced Ingelsby's role. 
20 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

"It was hard to sit down after starting for two years, but I learned a lot about myself and a lot about people. I look at it as a learning experience," lngelsby says. 
Indeed, Ingelsby has come back this year looking stronger than ever, and now 1t is once again his responsibility to lead the Irish. Notre Dame entered this season with .u~usually lofty expectations, being touted as a consensus Sweet Sixteen pick and even a dark horse Final Four candidate. The Irish rose as high as No. 10 in the 



oint 

MAN 
Despite some bumps along the way, Martin Ingelsby has emerged as a key component ofNotre Dame :S, success this season 

AP poll before struggling through a rough stretch in mid-December and early January. 
Ingels by, however, believes thatthe team is pastthat. "We're just starting to click together," he says. "Ifweplay well as a team we can go really far into the tournament." 
The NCAA tournament is once again within Notre Dame's reach, and Ingelsby is undoubtedly an important force behind the team's success. Ingelsby has held his own against some of the nation's premier point guards, including the nation's assists leader, St. 
John's Omar Cook. 
"Martin knows who he is," Brey says. "He 
plays to his strengths." 
Junior forward Harold Swanagan agrees·. 
"He's been a big part of our success," he says. 
"Martin plays 40 minutes a game and got 
himself in great condition over this summer. 
He's been here for four years, and he knows 
what to do." 
This may come as a surprise to some people 
who did not consider the point guard to be an 
Irish strength coming into the season. 
Ingelsby, however, has quieted any doubts 
with consistent, impres~ive play. His confer­
ence-leading assists-to-turnovers ratio speaks 
volumes for the value he brings to the Irish 
squad this year, especially considering the 
competition that he faces in that category. 
"Ithink I've played pretty consistently so far," 
he says. "I wanted to prove to people coming into 
this year that I could play at this level, and I think 
I've done that so far. Being a point guard, I don't 
have to worry about scoring so much as getting 

the other guys the ball, and that's what I've been · trying.to do." 
"He's been very unselfish in running the team," Swanagan says. "He doesn't force any shots. He runs things very efficiently." 
Brey is also not particµlarly surprised atingelsby's level ofplay. "He's a senior," he says. "He'splayed a lot of ball, and he's very capable ofleading this team." 
But Ingelsby's journey to this point has not been trouble-free. The Irish have been in a state offlux for the last few years, playing for three different coaches· in three years. MacLeod, who recruited Ingelsby to Notre Dame, was fired after Ingelsby's sophomore year~ Any college basketball player knows that the pressure to win in today's game results in quick coaching turnovers, but such inconsistency still poses a challenge. · 
"It's tough coming in as a freshman, getting recruited by Coach MacLeod, and then two years later somebody else comes in," Ingelsby says. 
Doherty succeeded MacLeod, interjecting some much-needed life into the program. But Doherty' swell-documented departure for his alma mater, North Carolina, left another void in the program. Doherty was expected to bring a level of stability to Notre Dame, but his stay turned out to be just a brief stopover. 
"It's not easy to adjust to different coaching styles, different 

, " 
HE'S BACK Under Brey," lngelsby has returned to the Irish starting lineup. · ·· , 

personalities," Ingelsby says. "It's hard getting over two coaches leaving, but I think Coach Brey will be here for a long time, so I don'tthink the rest ofthe guys will have to worry about that for a while." 
Despite the nature of the transition, Ingels by has responded admirably. Earlier this year, im­mediately after the university announced Brey' s arrival, the player's upcoming role was clari­fied. Brey recalls talking to Ingels by for the first time after accepting the position. 
"The day I got the job, I called him in Philly to let him know that he was the guy,"hesays. "It was important for him to know that, and that this was his team." 
"When he came up to my house this sum­mer, he told me that I was the senior on the team, that I was the leader, and that they were going to give me the ball from the beginning," Ingelsby says. 
Brey's faith in Ingelsby has obviously paid off, as the Irish are getting increasingly closer to an NCAA Tournament berth for the first time since 1990. Ingelsby and Brey's relationship 
has clearly been a positive factor for this team. 
"It's a great relationship," Ingelsby says. "We both have the same attitude. We're not into yelling and screaming, but we have the same composure on the court and on the sidelines. He's very demanding on the court, but he's niade the transition very easy." 
As the Irish approach the home stretch of this season, hopes remain high. Now that they are once again nationally ranked and appear to be over the mid-season funk, the Big East and NCAA Tournaments loom large on the horizon. If Notre Dame is destined to make an appearance in the "Big Dance" this year, it is Martin Ingelsby who must lead the Irish down the stretch. . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 




I 
I 
i 
Ii 
(I 
11 
ll 
Ii 
'I 11'i 
i 
i. 
\: 
\ i 
'. 
I 
There's one great thing about going fishing here. 

There's no limit. 
..___ _ 
~­
·-,.,,.... 
Got the urge?~ 

The delicious BKBIG FISH®Value Meal. 
After one bite, you'll be hooked on our tasty fish fillet topped:with fr;sh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce along with crispy fries and anice-cold drink. And best of all, this is one fishing spot.that never runs out. 
.:c-.. _,'-:': . 

. . The Huddle LaFortune Student Center . 


0 --' 
w 
u:: 
a: 0 
z 
~ 
0 
z 

After starting her first two seasons, seniorfoward Kelley Siemon was taken out of the starting line­up last year in favor ofthen-senior Julie Henderson. This season, however, she has cemented her role as a starter, dazzling a sell-out crowd by scoring 15 points and grabbing. eight rebounds against the University of Connecticut while playing with a broken hand ..· 

I started playing basketball when: I was in second grade, in the boys league. My brother played, and I always looked up to him and loved watching his games, so I decided that this would be something that I could be good at as well. 
If I could play any other sport besides basketball, it would be: volleyball. I loved playing a sport that was a little more femi­nine and graceful. In basketball, there's so much pushing and physical play between opponents. Volleyball requires an equal amount of hard work, and you still get to look like a girl when you play. 
After my senior year, I will: hopefully still be playing basketball-maybe over­seas. Living in Europe, playing basketball and getting paid for it sounds too good to be true. If not, I'd love to do some kind of ministry with Athletes in Action. 
The highlight of my career at Notre Dame so far is: without question, the win against UConn. There aren't words for how exciting it was to beat the No. 1 team in the country by 15 points, in front of a packed arena. Those are the moments that our team has worked so hard for for the past four years. 
The hardest class I have taken at Notre Dame was: calculus. I hate any kind ofmath. When I heard that it was required as a Notre Dame student, I honestly thought about not coming here -for about five seconds. 
My predictions for this year's team is: to win a national championship. We have all the components necessary to achieve that goal. We have the ability, the discipline, the chemistry, and, most importantly, the desire to compete and to win. 
The one thing I will miss most about Notre Dame after I graduate is: the friends I've made and the times we've­spent together. I've had an incredible four years here, and it wiHbe one ofthe hardest things I'll ever have to do when I leave in the spring. 
If I could be any Disney character, I would be: Cinderella -because she gets Prince Charming. 
-Jessica Daues 
Jerry's Jabber 
Troy Murphy posted 24 points and 11 rebounds as the Irish basketball team cruised to an 83-73 victory over Saint John's. Ryan Humphrey added 16 points, including a high­light-reel dunk off a 
Martin lngelsby pass. 
Notre Dame has won six consecutive conference games ... Former Irish head coach Matt Doherty's Tar Heels ascended to No.1 in the AP and ESPN/Coaches' polls following an 85-83 victory at Duke last Thurs­day ... On the women's side, Notre Dame's historic winning streak continues following an 81-65 victory over Boston College Saturday. Ruth Riley tallied 24 points and 13 boards. Niele Ivey, Alicia Ratay and Janeka Joyce also contributed with double-digit scoring ... The Irish hockey team has won just one game in its last eight. With a pair of losses to Ohio State over the weekend, the Irish have all but disappeared from postseason contention ... Sprinter Liz Grow set a school record in the 400­meter run Saturday at the Meyo Invitational, winning the event with a time of 
53.30. Godwin Mbaqwu won the men's triple jump, leaping 14.88 meters ... Since starting the season 1-3, the women's fencing squad has won 16 straight matchups. Natalia Mazur led the effort in sabre, posting a 17-0 record this weekend. In foil, Liza Boutsikaris finished 22-1. The men's squad extended its winning streak to 36 matches, cruising to a perfect finish at the Notre Dame Open. In sabre, Gabor Szelle (12-0), Matt Fabricant (17-1), Andre Crompton (15-1) all posted undefeated records in the second day of competition. . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 








BY MATTHEW BARR 




FROZEN 

MOMENTS 

Then-senior and University Presi­dent Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy (above) watched as two key players were declared inelligible during his senior year, deflating hopes of a successful season. 
NOTRE DAME: 72 BOWLING GREEN STATE UNIVERSITY: 77 


The 1962-63 men's basketball team de­pended on its youth. Notre Dame boasted three talented sophomore start­
ers -a rarity even by modem standards. Although the two starting seniors brought some experience to the court, the Irish needed stellar performances from their sophomores if they were to improve upon the previous year's disappointing 7-16 record. 
Any preseason doubts in the team's ability were silenced in the first four games of the season. The three sophomores -Ron Reed, Larry Sheffield and Walt Sahm -proved they deserved their starting positions. In the openeragainst St. Joseph's, forward Ron Reed made 17 of30 field-goal attempts, totaling 35 points. Guard Larry Sheffield scored 19 points in both of the next two games, while center Walt Sahm hit double figures in each of the first four games. Together, the trio combined for a four-game total of 197 points. These impressive individual performances -and resultingvictories-provedthatNotreDame' s trio of sophomores could succeed. 
By late December, the Irish had success­fully braved the toughest part of their sched­ule. After defeating Illinois and Indiana by slim margins, the Irish lost in overtime to highly ranked North Carolina but then came back to beat DePaul, Detroit and Butler by impressive margins. With an 11-3 record through their first 14 games, the Irish squad appeared destined for the tournament, prompt­ing Terry Wolkerstorfer of The Notre Dame Scholastic to laud the team as "perhaps the . most talented in Irish history." 
By mid-January, however, the academic ax dealt a blow to the Irish squad when the Office of Academic Affairs declared sophomores Sheffield and Reed ineligible for the remain­derofthe season. Sheffield, with a 17 .2 points­per-game average, was the team leader in scoring, while Reed was third in scoring with a 14.1 per-game average. With 11 games left on their schedule and two star players watch­ing from the sidelines, Notre Dame's chances of making the NCAA Tournament seemed slim. 
"Those were two outstanding players," says Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, a senior on the team that year. "Ron Reed was probably our best player. He went on to play profes­sional basketball and baseball. The loss didn't crush our hopes, but it definitely changed our outlook." 
Notre Dame's makeshift squad stumbled through its final nine games of the season, winning five of nine contests. Senior co-cap­tains John Andreoli and John Matthews stepped up their play, but the squad remained a mere remnant of the early-season team. With the NCAA Tournament approaching, many won­dered whether Notre Dame would even accept a bid. Athletic Director Moose Krause offered no encouragement to hopeful Irish fans. "We will only take a bid ifwe think we have a good chance for the championship," he said. 
The Irish eventually did accept a bid and were pitted against Bowling Green -a team that had already defeated Notre Dame earlier in the season -in the first round of the tournament. The Falcons boasted theNCAA's leading scorer, Howie Komives, and 6-foot­11 center Nate Thmmond, who later found success in the NBA. "The combination of those two players made the possibility of victory rather tough," Malloy says. 
Coming into the tournament, Bowling Green had won 10 straight games and showed no signs of slowing down. Sure enough, tl1e Falcons came out firing. Matthews scored 18 points as the Irish kept the game close. When Matthews cooled offin the second half, how­ever, thelrishcouldnotmatchBowling Green's intensity. When the final buzzer sounded, _Bowling Green had pulled away for a 77-72 victory. 
"They'll be back," DePaul player and spectator Ray Meyer said as he watched the beaten Irish team trudge off the court. The once-bright season had ended in disappoint­ment, leaving Irish fans to wonder what might have been had Reed and Sheffield remained with the team. The team's nucleus ofsophomores, however, would be back the next season, both stronger and more experi­enced. As the rest of the basketball world watched Notre Dame leave the court that night, the words ofMeyer undoubtedly ech­oed in their minds. D 



OUR)CAL..l..S 
>> 
SPORT: MEN'S BASKETBALL OPPONENT: WEST VIRGINIA WHERE: WVU COLISEUM WHE_N: SUNDAY 2:00 P.M. 
Notre Dame has won a school-record six straight conference games. Riding a convincing victory over Saint John's, the Irish dominate the Mount­aineers on the road, winning 84-69. 
-Gerard Meskill Sports Editor Notre Dame seeks revenge for the Mountaineers' lack of respect for Irish fans and cheerleaders. Cruising on a six-game winning streak, the Irish defeat West Virginia 86-70. 

-Jessica Daues Assistant Sports Editor Although West Virginia tried to kick us when we were down, Notre Dame prevailed. Don't expect the results to be any different this time around. The red­hot Irish stomp the 
Mountaineers 78-62. 
-Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 


how can you 

The truth is, a little of your time can make a lifetime of difference. Because kids with something to do are less likely to do drugs. You can help. For more information on drug prevention programs in your community, call or visit: 
1877 KIDS 313 www.youcanhelpkids.org 
Office of National Drug Comrol Policy 
MANFRID HO:S:ECK. S3 STIJDENl'S CONDUCTOR ;)Z..,.f<><;, ~,..,.._.,. z_J, :,,,z s10SHS:IORCITIZINS MARIN-\Mf5CJ-IERIAKOVA. t7 r-·-··~ r Si0NO/5MCCOM\IU7'llY
I 

SOPRANO I , ii•~~.,;,,,.,. 
s12ADum 

NADIA,..YOlo\D.S.MEZZO r ,._/?. 41T....,,• 'r!/1/L _ S8GROUPS(IO+) MARCOBERTI.TINOR. J.....1 vv--;r~ __.....I" TICK£l'SAVAIIABIIATTI-IE JOHN RELYEA BASS MOR.EAU BOX OFFlCE. t219) 284•46".6 
1-· ..... ·-I-···· .-·-· ••I'/(,,,) ,J, . .,-,,, •.•;,.·. •••.•.!.•.!~/-··-,·.., 



SCHOLaSTIC 
is now hiring: Editor in Chief 
Applications due Feb. 13 
Managing Editor 
Applications due Feb. 22 
For more information, call Jim Pastore at 631-5029 or stop by our office in the basement of South Dining Hall. 


. ' , ' -----~---­
. ~­


How Swede It Is 
CRISTINFENZEL 
The Swedish Radio Symphony Or­chestra and Choir's current Ameri­can tour includes appearances at Avery Fisher Hall in New York, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, Orchestra Hall in Chicago ­and, on February 15, St. Mary's College in Notre Dame, Ind. It's certainly an unlikely venue, and that's why those who know the prestige of the orchestra and choir are so excited. "We haven't had a musical event of this mag­nitude since I've been here, and that's 20 years," says music department chair Paul Johnson, who arranged the groups' ap­pearance through a contact with their agent who represents them in the United States. The concert is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Office of the Provost and the music departments ofboth Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 

The orchestra was founded in the late 1930s. It plays regularly in Sweden to a radio audience ofabout 200,000 listeners. The choir, founded in 1925, is one of the world's premiere a capella ensembles. Both groups emphasize the performance of new Swedish music, though they have gained widespread acclaim for their per­formances ofclassical music as well. This 
"The Requiem is one of the monuments of music that is not ignorable ... it's also a monument of Catholic music." 
-Paul Johnson 


1 
I 


is the orchestra's first major tour under the direction of Manfred Honeck, who has also 
collaborated with the Vienna Philharmonic, 
the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and the BBC Symphony Orchestra in London. Johnson hopes concerts by high-profile groups like the Swedish Radio Symphony 
Orchestra and Choir will help generate mo­mentum for Notre Dame's new performing­arts center, due to open in two years. After their South Bend appearance, the groups will make a stop at the University of Michigan, whose large Hill Auditorium and close proximity to Detroit often at­tract distinguished artists. "This is true of many colleges that are near urban cen­ters," Johnson says. He hopes this concert will be the first of many that develop a similar relationship between Notre Dame and Chicago. 
The performance will be held at 8 p.m. in St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium, which was chosen over the Morris Performing Arts Center in downtown South Bend to make it easier for students to attend the event. O'Laughlin is bigger than Washing­ton Hall by about 700 seats but still is intimate. "In a concert hall that size, the Verdi Requiem is going to blow you out of your seat," Johnson says. 
Giuseppe Verdi'sMessadaRequiem, the only piece on the program for the February 15 performance, is indeed as unique and exciting as the opportunity to see a world­class orchestra up close. Verdi is best known for his operas, and the Requiem is probably the only piece he composed that rivals their quality and importance. He wrote it to me­morialize the Italian poet and novelist Alessandro Manzoni, whom he greatly 
admired. When the Requiem was first per­formed in 1874, some complained that it was too dramatic and emotional -in short, "too operatic." Others of his time, · and many since then, however, have real­
ized that the drnmatic elements only add to the sincerity and power of the piece. "The Requiem is one of the monuments of music that is not ignorable ... it's also a monument of Catholic music, which makes its perfoi;mance here particularly significant," Johnson says. "It's not per­formed very often because it is so elabo­




.: .-:.: .. ·:-.: 
: :;•,·-,-~.. ' 

rate, so when you do get the chance to see 
A;equiemisaver;si<mofthiMassperformed to comrilemorai:ethe '. ·.it, you shouldn't skip it." 
.
This may be even more true this year, which marks the 100th anniversary of 

. Entrance
Verdi's death. Undoubtedly, the concert 


Lord)iave)ner~y;Christhav~mercy,Lordhave.
will provide the chance to pay tribute, as 

: ,,mercy: ·,. · ..r Verdi did, to the life and genius of a truly .F· ::"i"Day'ofW..;rath;" Js'pecfal ~equ_ence pa_rticulai-.to " 
,,.. r '' • f. _ 'J ) : · ,· ~ ~ ,f ··'/·_ -\ .-;/
¥

gifted artist. . , . arequiemt.. , ':; -1 , • -···,-•·,.· •• ••. • .-· 
Offertory :,·: ":~ . Sung"during the.6ffJrint, \.' J./ :/ ;//:_j/ ·(.·-_.-__./
Sanctui ·,-\ ..-r -ii~1y,'1i61y:1h~Iy:i Y_,., , · 
Tickets are available at the Moreau Cen­i iAgnusDe('0' ,; ·n,1,ambofGhd ·. : L: ,. .---.-.. 

ter for the Arts Box Office at St. Mary's or 

i , <'Lu~ deterrrJ:i·' :'lf:EterrialLight" 
ci•· '..
by calling 284-4626. Student tickets are $3. i::. '-//:_-:,, Tickets for Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
1
faculty and staffare $10. 
· 



;,..T:m~;,~~ttirttt~i~~liif'titt&~tf!:,t~fftr·
More infonnation on the Swedish Radio 

J..ibera·••~e to be·_·pad of.a.Mass ·coiit{ib,uted .to_·-by. v~riomi :italian 
Symphony Orchestra and Choi1~ as well as 

coiriposers_honoringthec()lllposerGio~chinoRossi~i,b~tth~project 
other concerts sponsored by the Depart­

0 lleVer Came fofruitiOil, · c ' 
w· 
":I:. •
ment of Music, can be obtained at http:// 
z 
·z.
www.nd.edu/-congoers. To read more about 
a: 

·enI-. , .·.. j
the life and works ofGiuseppe Verdi, check out Verdiana at http://www.r-ds.com/ 
·1
verdiana. htm. 





The Soloists 

Marina Mescheriakova, a soprano, is no stranger to performing Verdi. During the 2000-01 season, she per­formed in a new production of fl Trovatore with the Metropolitan Opera, and she performed the role ofElisabetta in Don Carlos with the Opera de Paris and the Vienna Staatsoper. She also performed the role of Helene in Jerusalem, again with the Vienna Staatsoper. Her past roles include the Countess in Mozart's Le Nozze di Figaro, Donna Elvira in Don Giovanni and Mimi in Puccini's La Boheme. Mercheriakova was born in Volgograd, Russia and studied at the Tchiakovsky Conservatory in Moscow. She currently resides in Vienna, Austria. 
Nadja Michael, a mezzo-soprano, was born in Leipzig, Germany. She studied singing in Stuttgart, Germany and at Indiana University in Bloomington and recently performed the roles ofDalila in Samson and Dalila and Eboli in Don Carlos. Her past roles include Amastris in Handel's Xerxes, Dulcinee in Don Quichotte and Fricka in Das Rheingold. She enjoys performing the works oflate romantic composers, and she has recorded several CDs. 
Marco Berti, a tenor, was born in Italy and attended the Conservatorio Giuseppe Verdi in Milan. He made his professional debut in the role of Pinkerton in Madame Butteifly. He has also played Rodolfo in La Boheme, Ruggiero in La Rondine, Macduff in Macbeth and Ismaele in Nabucco. 
John Relyea, a bass-baritone, has performed many works with orchestras in his native Canada. These include Handel's Messiah, Verdi's Requiem, Beethoven's Missa Solemnis and Bach's St. John's Passion. He has performed the roles ofColline in La Boheme, Polonius in Hamlet and Figaro in Le Nozzi de Figaro. This season, he will make his New York debut at Carnegie Hall as Rodolfo in La Sonnambula. Relyea studied at the Curtis Institute and continues to study with his father, Gary Relyea, who is also a bass-baritone. 
PHOTOS (TOP TO BOTTOM): COURTESY OF SWEDISH RADIO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA; TANYA SOURCES:CONCERTPROGRAMS NIEMANN; COURTESY OF SWEDISH RADIO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA; CHRISTIAN STEINER 

SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 


. NO DATES FOR YOU 

ASuniival Guide to Love in South Bend 
How did the Croc Hunter snag his wife Terri? He dated her first! 

All OOB wanted was a few nice folks to send out on some blind dates, just in time for our Valentine's Day issue. We weren't going to plague them with cameras; we were justgoing to interview each ofthem. Then, we hoped to have our in-house gender-relations extraordinaire, sociology professor David Klein, examine the outcomes and help us all learn some­thing about dating. Unfortunately, many ofthe people whom we invited would have died before they would allow themselves revealed as blind-daters for OOB. Were they afraid that readers would think they were desperate, or is dating just not cool around here these days? This year, Klein asked the 104 students in his Marriage and Family course whether the dating climate at Notre Dmne is a problem, and 94 percent said yes. Since we didn't manage to set up dates, as planned, we'll just have a look at his top five reasons why. Reason No. 5: The campus and South Bend are dull places. 
All right, yabloody wombats, stop mak­ing excuses. How about a quiet dinner at Basil's or The Vine? A romantic escapade at the Potawatomi Zoo? 
A rendezvous at Movies 14? It ain't Paris, but what 
preparation. 

These are aUvalid claims, but ifthe problem is that we students 
are too awkward/shy/nerdy, we have to be the ones to change 
this. Our dating story was supposed to help remedy the situation 
and give students the confidence to date. But it's the kind ofthing . that won't work unless both parties are enthusiastic. 
ReasonNo.1: There aren't enough opportunities to meet; we need better recreational facilities and/or mixed-gender dorms. 
Seventy-nine percent of the students surveyed said that this was at least a somewhat-important factor, and, according to Klein, "Females were more likely than male~ to view this as 
important, but males were more concerned than females when 
I did a similar analysis eight years ago." 
Part of the problem here is that the dorm belonging to the 
opposite sex can sometimes seem as foreign and pernicious as 
the Australian outback. But let's put it this way: We all know 
Steve Irwin, the Crocodile Hunter, right? The whole charm of 
the Crocodile Hunter is his fearlessness. His sense ofadventure 
would make him a great date, except that he's married, which 
brings me to my next points: 
Fact No. 1: The most willing prospective daters are those who have serious relationships at home. 
When OOB asked whether it was fair to go .on a date with a single person when one is involved in a relationship, the reply was a resounding, "Just don't tell them." This is very treach­erous territory. Having unknowingly gone on dates with a fellow or two who had women-in-waiting, I knocked all two­timers out of the running. 
Fact No. 2: The second-most responsive prospective dates are senior girls and freshmen boys. 
For the ladies, I cannot gauge whether they are trying to get 
into a relationship before the Titanic sinks and it's graduation, 
if they're just bored, or if they're nearing their sexual peak­
but for the freshmen lads, I imagine their reasons would include 
all ofthe above. I thought about pairing up these two groups, but 
that's just a taboo in itself. I mean, when she was 13, he was 
nine, and for all we know she could have been his babysitter, by 
crikey (in the words of the Croc Hunter himself)! 
So, there are a lot of reasons why there isn't more dating 
going on. Among the miscellaneous responses to Klein's sur­
vey, we found some more interesting ideas about why we're in 
this sad state: One male said "Catholic.guilt"; a woman sug­
gested "Nintendo and Sony Playstation." 
Chin up, mate, dating has its advantages. Just.think of the touching moment when the crocodile hunter first encountered Terri, the woman who is now his .. wife. He was doing a demonstration at the Australia Zoo, and he caught her eye in the crowd as a crocodile was trying to killhim. It was love at first sight. But even the Crocodile Hunter never said love was easy. I watched one episode where he narrowly escaped a snake biting him in the face, and then he chirped, "That wasn't the most frightening thing that has ever happened_ to me! The · scariest moment in my life was gettin' mprried!" . 

28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 



room, the ballroom will condense the audi­weekly AcoustiCa:fe, it will feature a select 

KATHLEENCORTE 

ence, providing a sense of closer contact group of campus musicians, who will each They come from across the United between the authors and those who come to perform for 30 minutes. Emmett Malloy 
States-and sometimes even from hear them speak. and Jennifer Zatorski, who are in charge of 
other countries -to South Bend at In addition to bringing students into con­campus entertainment for the Student Union its coldest. They bring their books and their tact with writers, the festival has tradition­Board, used the criteria of seniority, musi­poetry, as well as the reputations that pres­ally provided a forum for student writers cal professionalism and crowd support to tigious awards have lent their names. They who want to share their work with the Notre select musicians for the event. The final are an elite group of authors and poets Dame campus. In past years, the festival lineup includes Phil Wittliff, a sopho­invited to campus by the Sophomore Liter­committee has held auditions to select a more blues player; Geoff Rahie, a senior ary Festival, which has_been bringing cel­group ofstudents to take part in the festival's who has been playing atAcoustiCafe since ebrated authors to Notre Dame since 1968. Student Readers Night. This year's com­his freshman year; a group consisting of 
While the Sophomore Literary Festival mittee, however, chose to replace the more Nick Faleris, Dave Hunt and Vince introduces a different and unique group selective Student Readers Night with a Stu­O'Connor; and junior Luke Mueller, of writers every year, the format of the dent Coffeehouse, when the stage will be whom Malloy describes as "a die-hard festival has generally remained the same­open to any student-writer who wants to Pearl Jam fan" who "plays with a passion until this year. Chairman Mark Avitabile take part in the festival. "The idea is that I cannot even compare to others." and the other committee members have put everyone who wants to share their work The committee decided to include music a new spin on this year's festival, beginning can," Avitabile says. "I didn't want to turn in the festival this year as an with a change in venue from the spacious anyone down." acknowledgement to the many students on theater of Washington Hall to the ballroom Student-writers will each have 10 min­campus who write their own music and of L&Fortune Student Center. utes to read their poetry, short stories or lyrics. "Music is a big part of the arts at 
Moving from Washington Hall to the excerpts from longer works. Anyone who Notre Dame," Avitabile says. "We can in­smaller, less-formal ballroom may seem wishes to read is welcome, although readers clude another part of the student body that like a step downward, but the festival com­must sign up for a time slot in advance. might not otherwise come." mittee believes the change will help create "You can sign up until 10 minutes before it Breaking tradition is not always consid­a better atmosphere for _the readings. "I felt starts," Avitabile says. ered a good thing, but the event does so with it would be a more-intimate setting between Keeping with these attempts to include the intent of redefining the festival and the authors, the poets and the students," more students in the weeklong festival, it gaining it more attention on campus. Avitabile says. · will close its literary celebration with yet "It's about appealing to a vast majority of 
In past years, the large theater of Wash­another new feature: the Best of the people," committee member Michael ington Hall often did not fill to its complete AcoustiCafe. Rampolla says. "By branching out into dif­
-. 

capacity, leaving the audience spread While this event will be held in the same ferent genres, we're able to get more people throughout the auditorium. Since it has less place and at the same time as the usual, involved." . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 







Family Restrooms 
Is this the beginning -or the end? 

I: I: 
i 
', ! 
JESSEKENT 
Iwas at the South Bend airport the other day, and, to my surprise, I saw a sign that read "Family Restroom." On the 
door was a Gen-X, neutral, computer-icon family holding hands, apparently ready to partakeofthe fun that is the family restroom. I had no idea that family restrooms even existed. My friend Patrick says that they are quite common now in public buildings. Where have I been? I don't know about your childhood, but when I was a little tyke and had to go to the bathroom, I was begrudgingly dragged into the men's with my father or the women's with my mother, depending on whom I was with or who wanted the dirty task. Apparently, in the last 20 years, political correctness has dismissed this as a gender-insensitive act. Too many eyebrows raised when three­year-old Johnny was led into the ladies stall by mom. This is under­standable. What could be better than a potty experience that includes the whole family? This makes the whole process much less awkward. Instead of little toddlers going about their little toddler business in the oppo­site-sex bathroom, now we can have several whole families crammed into a tiny tiled room all rooting their sons and daughters on. Look, I can't go when I have a total stranger stand­ing next to me at the urinals. Can you imagine the trauma that children will en­dure in the family restrooms? 

There are many other issues raised by the family restroom that I can't seem to figure out. Are they reserved strictly for the use of the immediate family, or can I go with, say, my 18-year-old second· cousin Denise? Is there an age limit to the family restroom? If the line for the women's room is around the corner, can my grandma snatch me by the arm and use me as a family-restroom pawn? 
As you can tell by my sarcasm, I think this whole family restroom thing is down­right absurd. It appears, however, that I'm about the only person in America today who feels this way. The other day, while wolfing down some Grab 'n' Go in my dorm's television lounge, I had visions ofa world where, unbeknownst to me, family restrooms had become really big. 

It all began with an advertisement an­nouncing a new grand opening in Elkhart. The MTV-style editing instantly caught my attention. 
Jingle (catchy, in background): 
Where's the place where the whole fam­

ily can play? / Family restroom, family restroom I Bring grandma and spend the whole day / Family restroom, family restroom. 
Man (emerging, wearing suit): Hi, I'm Gary Davidson, proud owner of the Fam­ily Restro9ms chain:We started in 1989 with a goal: To provide a safe, well-lit, fun environment for the American fam­ily. With over 350 Family Restrooms across this great union of ours and more popping up every day, I think we've suc­ceeded. Amusement parks, with their long _ lines and seasonal openings, are a thing of the past. Family Restrooms offer qual­ity family "good times" 363 days a year. And remember, when you plan your next corporate outing or company picnic, keep Family Restrooms in mind. We have ad­equate parking and conference rooms for meetings. 
Jingle (continues): Fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun / Family Restroom, come catch the fun. 
Man (pointing at the camera, with a million-dollar smile): Can't wait to see you -come join the fun! 
I can't believe it! I switch to the business 
-channel and see on the ticker tape that Family Restrooms stock is trading at an all-time high. Ana­lysts like it because it's every­thing these dot-commers aren't. Ernie Paul from Forbes says: "Families are always going to want fun, and they are always going to have to go to the bathroom. That's why this quarter I'm dumping my e-commerce and picking up Fam­ily Restrooms." 
At _this point, I'm starting to think I'm seeing things. Am I the only one who thinks this Fam­ily Restroom idea is out to lunch? I flip over to ESPN, certain to find nothing remotely related to Family Restrooms. 
A new, slick commentator takes _time out of his witty reper­oire of "She-Bangs" and "Just ike Your Momma Taught You" o· announce: "This afternoon it 
as made final. In the tradition started by Disney's deal down in Anaheim with the Mighty Ducks, Boston-based Fam­ily Restroom·s has just bought the Red Sox for three-quarters of a billion dollars. Fans of the Red So_x saw it coming, and while they lament having the team's name changed to the Family Restroom-ers, they appreciate the funding to renovate the sta­dium and keep _the Green Monster standing one more season." I sat listening, past the point of disbelief. Family Restrooms had become the hottest thing since sliced bread. Where had I been all this time? Did I fail to mention that the Family Restroom-ers made the Plays,ofihe Week in a no-hitter against the Indians?_ 
It's a-happening. 


. . -. .... . . . . '_., ' ~ . . 
. ' ·. -. ~ . . , ... ' . . .
' 

Roses are red, squirrels are brown There's lots to do when love comes to town: If you're looking for love and can't find a match, This weekend's tennis should prove quite a catch. None do /'amour quite like the French do ­See La Parinoire this Sunday at two. See Guys get their Dolls Or a play by Shakespeare Or a saccharine-sweet movie with Ryder and Gere. That first line was wrong: Some squirrels are gray, Some are red, too. Happy Valentine's Day! -Cristin Fenzel 


• 
Fri 09 Tennis: ND women vs. Virginia Tech, 4:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavillion. 

• 
Sat 10 Tennis: ND women vs. Wake Forest, 9:00 AM, Eck Tennis Pavillion. 

• 
Sun 11 Tennis: ND men vs. Iowa, 10:00 AM, Eck Tennis Pavillion. 

• 
Sun 11 Tennis: ND women vs. North Carolina, 12:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavillion. 

• 
Sun 11 Basketball: ND men at West Virginia, 2:00 PM. 

• 
Wed 14 Basketball: ND women at Syracuse, 7:00 PM. 


, . ' . ' .. 
.>>··. 

lectures 
• Thu 08 "Saving the World's Great Cats: Jaguars in the Millennium," 7:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo. 

movies 

• Thu 08 Autumn in New York and The Legend of Baggar Vance, 10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 
• Fri 09 and Sat 10 Autumn in New York and The Legend ofBaggar Vance, 8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 
• Fri 09 and Sat 10 Dancer in the Dark, 7:00 and 
9:30 PM, Snite. 
• 
Sun 11 French Film Festival: La Parinoire, 2:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Mon 12 Gilda, 7:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Tue 13 The Ginko Tree Bed, 7:00 PM and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. 

• 
Fri 16 and Sat 17 The Eyes ofTammy Faye, 7:30 and 9:30 PM, Snite. 



the arts 
• 
Thu 08 through Sat 10 Guys and Dolls, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall. · • Sun 11 Maria Stablein, piano, 4:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Sat 17 Notre Dame Jazz Band, Washington Hall, 


2:30 PM. 
• Wed 21 A Winter's Tale, 7:30 PM, Washington · Hall. 

student life 
• Tue 13 Sophomore Literary Festival Student Coffeehouse, 8:00 PM, LaFortune Ballroom. 
• 
Wed 14 Basketball: ND men at Rutgers, 9:00 PM. 

• 
Sat 17 and Sun 18 Track and Field: ND men and women at Big East Championships, Syracuse, N.Y., 8:30 AM. 

• 
Sat 17 Basketball: ND women at Rutgers, 7:30 PM. 

• 
Sun 18 Basketball: ND men vs. Seton Hall, 2:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Tue 20 Basketball: ND women vs. Miami, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Wed 21 Basketball: ND men vs. Boston College, 7:30 PM, Joyce Center. 



by David O'Connor 




A Valentine for Catholic Lovers 

Where do we find ourselves? A crazy prophylact~c of the tongue. "Sexual intercourse" Austrian named Ludwig Wittgenstein, comes from the same region of the language native who was one of the great philosophers to various sorts of -ectomies and -oscopies. It does 
of the last century, said, "The limits of my Ian-notsoundlikesomethingforwhichonewouldcross guage are the limits of my world." When it comes the hall, let alone the world. "I'm sorry, I can't meet to love, I think he has a point. Our mothei; tongue you for lunch today; I have to go to the medical stammers and scolds when she tries to speak of ceriter for a sexual intercourse." My favorite illus­love. Every word chagrins us, and we blush from tration of where this way of talking takes us is the inarticulacy. phrase "sexually active." It seems to be modeled on 
The most common word we mouth to de-"radioactive": the "sexually active" teenager is an scribe the Qpnjugal embrace is as old as English, isotope with a short half-life, spewing particles of our four-letter friend derived from a German sexuality that threaten to cause beta decay in the root, ficken, meaning "to strike or beat" (so surrounding atoms. much for romance). What is common comes to Neitherwordsadolescentnorwordsmedicalspeak lose its savor and, in the end, is good for nothing to our erotic desires. Both modes of speech leave the but to be thrown in the street and trampled tongue dry in our mouth, with the unpalatable choice underfoot. When I was a boy, three decades ago, between being tasteless and tasting like a medicine. the word at least retained a certain vulgar po-How like a drink of fresh water it is to read in Plato tency, even when voiced only among other boys that Eros is a great god and to speak oflove with the -I don't recall it being thinkable to say it in sacred names of Dionysus, god of wine, and front of girls -and it was uttered in front of Aphrodite, goddess of beauty! Our poor tongue adults only for the most extreme of purposes. It seems to coveritselfin shame when confronted with meant something then, something about cross-this erotic theophany. A scholar could point out the ing a line or being unusually provoked. _We Greek word for "sexual intercourse" is aphrodisia, 
could wear it as a badge __, "the things of Aphrodite,:' which is true as far as it of our impudence. But goes. B'ut this is rather like saying the Catholic [T]he "sexually active" teenager is 30 years of trampling Church's word for "cup" is chalice: one is a mun-an isotope with a. short half-life, have made it in truth dane instrument of profane life, the other the con­
spewing particles ·of sexuality that whatthe OxfordEnglish tainer for a bloody yet nourishing god. Dictionary says it has In our time, the Catholic Church has done more 
threaten to cause beta decay in the been for a century, a than anyone else to make visible this divine as-surrounding atoms. "meaningless intensi-pect of sexuality. I d_o not claim she has done --'----------~---------fier." One wonders ifthe enough. The tongue remains a most erotic organ, 

O'Connor is an associate professor of philosophy and classics at Notre Dame. He teaches "Ancient Wisdom and Modem Love" to about 250 students a year. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1980. 

century has made a meaningless intensifier not but our language labors to make itself heard over only of the name, but of the action named as well. the noise of boys sniggering over pornography The limits of this erotic world are common indeed. and doctors clattering about with their cold in­
-But when we try to ascend from the common to struments. We need love-intoxicated Catholic the public, do we fare better? The phrase "sexual poets to find new heaven, new earth, new words. intercourse," and the use ofthe word "sex" to cover "The conjugal embrace, the nuptial meaning of . not just the fact of male and female, but what we the body." For most of us, this cannot be our (though not our former president) call "sex acts," mother tongue. They are the quaint idioms of are also hardly a century old. At the very moment Vaticanese, the foreign speech of a land where we our German word left the confines of the erotic and may visit but do not live. The conceptions of our became a general terni of excitement or abuse, the mother tongue suffer under us, whether we boy vacuum was filled with words more at home in a them in the postures _pf a whore or lay them out hospital than the nuptial chamber. Our talk oflove against the sky, etherized upon a table. came under the severe influence of the public-Itisanhonestresponsetobideone'stimeandbite health authorities. The nuptial meaning of the one's tongue, until the weather clears and new work 
. body, to borrow a phrase from Pope John Paul II, can be done. As crazy Ludwig said, "Whereof we all but disappears. This medical tum in our Ian-cannot speak, thereof we must be silent." But there guage made public speech possible by sanitizing it, is a risk in.waiting, too. Ifl bite my tongue too often, like chlorine in so much sewage. It was the begin-I may lose the power of speech altogether. And then ning of the movement toward safe sex, a kind of where will I be? Nowhere to be found. D 






THE ONLY PLAY BY PLAY THAT'~ FOR THE ~TUDENT~III ...BYTHE~TUDENT~ · 
/.tf+:/1-wv(f:~.tt!wl 
-. 

UPCOMING BROADCASTS: 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
2/I 8 -SETON HALL @ 2:00 PM 2/2! -BOSTON COLLEGE @ 7:30 PM 3/04 -GEORGETOWN @ 2:00 PM 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
2/24 -GEORGETOWN @ I:00 PM 

MEN'S HOCKEY 
2/9, 2/IO -BOWLING GREEN @ 7:00 PM 2/16 -MICHIGAN@ 7:00 PM 3/3 -WESTERN MICHIGAN@7:05 




$2 
thurs at 10:30 \'-\fri,. sat at 
__,•:>~"-.8 and 
·'9} 10:30 
2000 'Pulifzer 
author of 

'Prize for poefry 

"!!cholocations,,
for '!'/c.epair,, 



1~oft12fh 
author of 'fan 'Poefry MaH-er ?" 
.sophomore liferary 

·1.r-fhurs 9

-.~thurs at 10:30 }~ fri,. sat at il:. in lafun
·'·•·~i\ballroom

,,?8 g 1030 
-./frea ·

155 debartolo 
_:?,s~;treshmentsf
$2 
sfudenf readers in lafun ballroom 
·sa:::°foe. 

basis for the movie "the very be.sf "-{);e/d of :/)reams" of" edition 












