IT^1'
AS A NOTRE DAME MAN


YOU CAN CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
4*

PAY PAY PAY
1/3 IN JANUARY, 1/3 IN FEBRUARY. 1/3 IN MARCH,
A
1960
1960
1960
No Carrying Charge
t .
t '
Your charge account is open at the Campus Shop! Get what you need, when you need it and charge it the Campus Shop way. Designed for University men who live on a budget, this handy way to charge your clothing needs makes it possible to get what you need now and pay 1/3 in January, 1/3 in February, and 1/3 in March. No interest or carrying charges, of course.

1 ■ i

>
^GILBERTS


On the Campus—Notre Dame
October 16, 1959
3
r
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Engineering of microwave relay and carrier systems keeps Bryan Clinton’s job interesting and challenging.
“I got the engineering career I wanted ...and right in my own home state”
In 1955. William Bryan Clinton, Jr., got his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering at Clemson College. Now Bryan’s with Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company at Columbia, South Carolina. He's doing specific planning of long distance communications projects involving cable carrier facilities and microwave radio relay systems.
Bryan chose a career with Southern Bell over several other offers. “There were three things that were most important to me,” he says. “First, I wanted to go with an established, growing company where I could grow, too. Second, I wanted thorough basic training to get started off right, plus participation in development programs to keep me moving ahead. And, third, I wanted to stay in the South.”
After 15 months of on-the-job training in various phases of company operations, Bryan was assigned to the Engineering Department at Columbia, S. C. His work with carrier systems and microwave radio projects has involved him directly in the growth of the company. And he’s broadened his experience through development courses in management, general engineering, engineering economy, and microwave relay systems.
“I know I’m with a fast-growing company and I feel I’m really participating in its growth,” Bryan says. “What’s more, I’m getting the training I need to keep me abreast of new communications developments and take better advantage of advancement opportunities when they come along.”
Bryan Clinton earned a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering. He’s one of many young college men pursuing rewarding careers with the Bell Telephone Companies. Find out about opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus—and read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
The Scholastic


“SHANGRI-LA”: During the past week (especially since Wednesday evening) complaints concerning the handling of ticket sales for the first campus-wide dance have been numerous. Foremost among these is the charge that the committee refused to honor the list of signatures that those waiting in line had initiated to insure that the sales were made on a “first-come, first-served” basis. Another complaint is that those in charge sold dance bids to late-comers in preference to students waiting in the much longer “bid-football ticket-room reservations” line. As far as we can determine, most of these charges are based on fact; however* we do not feel that those mistreated should direct their blasts at this particular committee. Instances of this kind have occurred in the past and will continue to occur as long as the present system remains in force.
In regard to the specific charges mentioned, volunteer dance lists have never been honored and never will be. Anyone could sign such a list for a dozen of his friends and slip away undetected, while those actually present would thereby drop twelve places on the list. In regard to the confusion in lines, it is apparent that a certain amount of mismanagement was involved. Nevertheless, the situation was greatly aggravated by the shouting and shoving of the frenzied mob. As a result of this and similar fiascos, student government leaders have devised several plans whereby future dance bids would be issued without lines. According to the plans, I.B.M. cards will be distributed to anyone desiring to attend the dance. These cards are to be sent into a student government clearing house. Several variations are suggested to take over from here. One plan calls for a reputable person (e.g., a cleric) to draw the desired number of cards by lot. Another plan calls for upperclassmen to get first choice on a quota basis. Still another plan calls for several campus-wide dances; preference at the second given to those not chosen for the first, and so foi*th.
It seems to us that the end desired is good, the means questionable. Among those many dissatisfied patrons of the “Shangri-la affair” there must be several with suggestions on how to simplify (or complicate) the entire dance ticket distribution procedure. We are inviting all interested parties to submit their ideas to the Scholastic. We will publish the results in the hope that they may assist the student leaders in formulating a new policy.
PICTURESQUE GHOSTS: A few days ago we had an opportunity to view the exhibit of photographs now being shown in the University Art Gallery. This is truly a remarkable collection of photographs of a unique type of life in a past era, namely the ante-bellum mansions of Louisiana. In this display entitled “Ghosts along the Mississippi,” the artist Clarence Laughlin has captured the romance and glamour of a strange but beautiful phase of architecture, patterned aftei* French provincial, classical and even African models. One subject, the Belle Grove mansion, is shown in rapid stages of decay immediately prior to its destruction in 19-52 by fire, a fire which occurred shortly after the decision had been made to restore it to its former glory. All in all, the exhibit is extremely interesting and well worth seeing.
EFFICIENT EFFORT: After our “Commentary” of last week in regard to the retaking of ID pictures, it is appropriate to add one last note. The additional work involved in requiring all students at the University to appear at the Drill Hall to have their pictures taken was handled in a most expeditious manner. The University, with the assistance of the Blue Circle, saw to it that the lines (when there were lines) moved very quickly. Not one complaint reached our ears about the usual standing and waiting which seems to have characterized this school in the past. We take this opportunity to extend our thanks to all those responsible for making this necessary but annoying task as convenient as possible.
EAST LANSING, AGAIN: For* the second time in the last three years, the seniors are embarking to East Lansing, Mich., for the annual melee gratuitously entitled the senior trip. Two years ago the trip was quiet enough, possibly because the temperature was somewhere in the vicinity of 100 degrees below zero (almost). And the wind was blowing. Such weather conditions are not generally conducive to an over-amount of outdoor physical activity although some seniors, ostensibly with datbs, were on their feet in the end zone stands throughout the contest (presumably to keep warm).
Four years ago, in one of the most lively senior trips in recent years, the seniors descended on East Lansing foi* the express purpose of attending the football game. As things turned out, the football game was among the least memorable of the events that transpired throughout the campus. The new dormitories in which the trippers were housed received a fresh coat of paint (in spots) and the huge statue of the Spartan, a landmark on the campus, acquired a fresh green flavor to match the dormitory interiors, of course.
For the results of this year’s trip, see your nearest senior Monday for full details.
— B. T. & T.
5
OnC&uqiQS W Shulman (By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys”, “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, etc.)

FASTER, FASTER!
College enrollment continues to spiral upward! The need for more classrooms and
ENGINEERING—Make slide rules half as long.
more teachers grows more desperate daily. But classrooms, alas, do not spring up like mushrooms—nor teachers like May flies. So what must we do while we build more classrooms and train more teachers? We must get better use out of the classrooms and teachers we now have. That’s what we must do.
This column, normally a vehicle of good-humored foolery, will today forsake laughter to examine the crisis in higher
MUSIC—Change all tempos to allegro. (An added benefit to be gained from this suggestion is that once you speed up waltz time, campus proms will all be over by ten p.m. With students going home so early, romance will languish and marriage counsellors can be transferred to the Buildings and Grounds Department. Also, houses now used for married students can be returned to the School of Animal Husbandly.)
education. My sponsors, the makers of Philip Morris Cigarettes, as bonny a bunch of tycoons as you will see in a month of Sundays, have given cheerful consent to this departure. Oh, splendid chaps they are—the makers of Philip Morris, fond of home, mother, porridge, the Constitution and country fiddling 1 Twinkly and engaging they are, as full of joy, as brimming with goodness, as loaded with felicity as the cigarettes they bring you in two handy packages—the traditional soft pack and the crushproof flip-top box.
ALGEBRA —If X always equals twenty-four, much time-consuming computation can be eliminated.
DENTISTRY-Skip baby teeth-they fall out anyhow.
SERVING NOTRE DAME	*
Editor:
In your “Commentary” editorial column in the October 2 issue of the Scholastic, you made reference to the coming of a second broadcasting operation / of WSND. Your reference to this second voice was substantially correct, but your statement concerning 640, WSND, was erroneous. I quote, “Meanwhile, over at 640, the usual repertoire of news, sports , and rock ’n’ roll will prevail.”	'
If the Scholastic editors had taken the time to check their facts by listening to WSND, they would have discovered a new concept in WSND programming— * a concept which bans rock ’n’ roll in toto. This programming philosophy is based on the conviction that university x students appreciate more than the usual drone of news, sports, and rock ’n’ roll.
Consider this an invitation to tune in sometime — I’m sure that you will be as pleasantly surprised as the many WSND listeners have been this year.
Mike Ahem, WSND Program Director . Editor:
I am very elated to learn that classical ** • music will be broadcast over WSND in
November. It will be a pleasant reprieve *i from the constant animalistic sounds now heard on radios everywhere on campus. I only hope the Huddle also sees the light.
P. B. Kusbach, 221 Fisher
(ED: Since the campus voice no longer plays rock ’n’ roll, Mr. Kusbach is obviously referring to other radio stations.)	.
How can we make better
use of existing campus facilities? The answer can be given in one word— speedup! Speed up the educational process-streamline courses. Eliminate frills. Sharpen. Shorten. Quicken.
Following is a list of courses with suggested methods to speed up each one.
PHYSICS—Eliminate slow neutrons.
PSYCHOLOGY LAB—Tilt the mazes downhill. The white mice will run much faster.
’ ♦
POETRY—Amalgamate the classics. Like this:
Hail to thee blithe spirit
Shoot if you must this old gray head
You ain’t nothin’ but a hound dog
Smiling, the boy fell dead
You see how simple it is? Perhaps you have some speedup ideas of your own. If so, I’ll thank you to keep them to yourselves.
© 1959 Max Shulman
* *
The Philip Morris Company, makers of Philip Morris, Marl-boros and Alpine, have no interest in speedup. We age our fine tobaccos slow and easy. And that’s the way they smoke —slow and easy and full of natural tobacco goodness.
QUITE A QUERY
Editor:
Must make a few comments — just to w. start the year out right!
1	.) Congratulations; hearty concratu-lations (sic) to all the editors on a fine first issue!
2	.) Must not let “Ivanhoe” sneak in somewhere this year!
3	.) What is D. Jim Ausum escaping from?	4
4	.) — and keep up the good work, and let’s hear some applause for the all American, well-rounded (out), sporty, good natured, and generally wonderful college women, i (Namely — S.M.C.’ers!)
—St. Mary’s Sophomore <
(ED: 2) Ivan will return; 3) Reality.)
MOVIE AAADNESS
Editor:
We had just come out of the movie (Continued on page 19)
6
The Scholastic

me and joliet
by JIM D. AUSUM
iT
f MEN OF NOTRE DAME: N.B. Two weeks ago, you were given a quiz in this very column, the stipulations of which b » even Jimmy Hoffa could remember. It । was made quite clear that if you flunked , the test, you were to send one dollar to the University, c/o J. Ausum, No. 3 ... Sorin. Now I know you guys aren’t any smarter than I am, and I missed three out of four, and I made up the questions myself. SOME OF YOU AIN’T PLAY' IN’ FAIR. Now get that money to me right away, or I will see to it that the 640 is removed from your radios. Never ' again will you be able to heal’ our own sixteen hours per day, seven-day-per-week version of “It Pays to be Ignor-. ant,” which might not be so bad, at that, now that they’ve given away their Crash Craddock records.
I dreamed I went to Joliet in my maidenlike innocence.
CAVORTING WITH CRIMINALS, INDEED
It was reported in last week’s issue of the Scholastic that the interhall football teams would soon be playing teams from the state prison. Although I am a little hesitant about actually attending one of the games, I am afraid that the results of such a series will prove about as valuable as a new pair of tennis shoes is to a clubfoot. To illustrate, I have written a play about what might be a typical afternoon within the walls. The editors call it abortive, but I call it ROMEO AND JOLIET, and it’s my play. The scene is Joliet prison, and the day is bright. As the bus carrying the Fisher Hall interhall team approaches, three convicts can be seen falling to the ground from what must have been quite a distance, since not one of them is smiling. There is conversation in the bus, which may be easiei- to follow if I give you the cast of characters.
Romeo Schultz: a boy from the wrong side of the Dining Hall, but nevertheless the hero.
Guts Ball: a convict who plays left tackle.
Portland Cement: who doesn’t speak,
October 16, 1959
but whose presence is I’egretted by all.
Five Fishermen: who speak in unison.
Five Fisheimen (honors Group) who also speak in unison, in hai-mony yet.
The Chez Paree adorables. Who are lovely.
A reporter from the Voice of 60: which has bad breath.
The Chicago White Sox: Who need another outfielder.
Three guards: Who used to be hungry Ph.D.’s.
The prison team: Who have always wanted a Mr. Outside.
Wallace H. Jones: Who directs “The numbermen.”
Frank the Cop: here for a refreshei-course.
SCENE ONE
Romeo: “Looka dem guys failin’, and all at the same speed. Ain’t Newton grand?”
Five Fishermen (HG): each holding a considerably diminished fifth, “Knock it off. We’re getting carsick.”
Frank: “Gimme yer I.D. Cards.”
Reporter: “The Voice depends Help! upon blind luck. Help!”
SCENE TWO
(inside the walls. Romeo is talking to Guts.)
Romeo: “Well, when do we start the football game?”
Guts: “The what?”
Romeo: “Da football game. We done come up here ta play football.”
Guts: “That’s absurd. We don’t have such a thing anymore, ever since we de-emphasized. However, we have something I’m sure you’ll like, if you’d care to stay. It’s a new thing called the beer relay, and if you can
find an anchor man, we can play for fun and profit.”
SCENE THREE
(twenty-two men are seated at a dining hall-like table, one team to a side.)
W. H. Jones: “Ha one two three four, ha one two three.”
All Seated: (Glug, slurp, and other drinking noises.)
Guts: “Rest period. How do you like the game, Romeo?”
Romeo: “Ish deliiful. Sure beats football.”
Guts: “And we have progress, Romeo; see there our yard is already all asphalt. It will take three or four years before you have that.”
Romeo: “Ish far superior- to football.”
Guts: “And all of our cell-blocks elected senators. And we don’t have to eat corn fritters if we don’t want to. And we can walk up any steps we want to.”	•
W. H. Jones: “It’s beat.”
Guts: “And the lights don’t go out, except once in awhile we have a temporary power shortage when they fry one of the boys.”
Romeo: “Ya got room on the team?”
SCENE FOUR
(All are lying quietly on the floor, except for Guts, Romeo, The Adorables, and Frank. Frank is picking up LD. cards. Romeo and Guts are picking up the adorables. There is nothing more to be said.)	,
So please, let’s not allow this sort of thing to happen. Let’s keep our kids here, trying to figure out how to get tickets for Shangri La, reading escape, retching, scalping tickets. Remember, we can’t just let that stadium sit there empty.	-

Why are so many college
is celebrating its
50TH ANNIVERSITY
Yes Fellows: 50 years of serving the needs of Notre Dame men with quality clothing and furnishings at modest prices.
TUXEDO RENTAL
in conjunction with
GINGESS BROTHERS
of Chicago
“AFTER SIX” latest style tropical weight tuxedo complete with tie, suspenders and cummerbund . . . only
$060
k^^nen switching to pipes?
SEND YOUR ANSWER IN 25 WORDS OR LESS
MIM
WIN 4 YEAR WARDROBE
261 PRIZES IN ALL
1st prize—A famous Botany "500” wardrobe every year for 4 years (2 Suits, 2 Sport Jackets, 2 Pair of Slacks, and 1 Topcoat.)
Next 5 prizes—Ultra-precision imported Sony Transistor Radio
Next 5 prizes — World-famous pocket size Minolta “16" Camera
Next 250 prizes—Kaywoodie Campus Pipe
Pick up an official entry blank at your regular tobacco counter, or write Kaywoodie Pipes, Inc., New York 22, for one.
HINTS TO WIN: Why men smoke pipes—
There’s a rich, fulfilling, “all’s well” feeling that a man gets only from a pipe. A relaxed, calms-you-down contentment that’s associated exclusively with pipe smoking. And you get all the pleasure of smoking without inhaling.
Why pipe smokers choose KAYWOODIE
Campus Yacht $4.95
Kaywoodie Briar is imported, aged, selected, hand crafted, hand rubbed, tested, inspected, and only then does it earn the coveted Kaywoodie Cloverleaf. That’s why Kaywoodie hefts airily light; always smokes cool and sweet. The exclusive Drinkless Fitment inside the pipe condenses tars, moisture and irritants as nothing else can. Try a Kaywoodie. One puff is worth 1,000 words.
CHOOSE YOUR KAYWOODIE
from the famous campus collection .. .’4.95
other styles and shapes ’5 to ’50
KAYWOODIE
accents the male look
s
The Scholastic
Comfud ScdMd
APATHY DOMINANT THEME OF ELECTIONS
1
- Fewer Than 50% Vote > For Student Leaders
Apathy was the dominant theme in the upper-class hall elections held last Thursday. Over one-half of the offices, or 57%, were given, or would have been given, to the candidate who took 15 1 minutes of his time to get a nomination form filled out.
f Out of a total of 60 offices, ranging from senator to secretary, that needed to be filled, 17 are still vacant and an, other 17 were gotten on a no-contest ' basis. Percentage-wise, this works out t. to more than 25% of the offices being un, filled and another 25% having been won * without challenge.
"* Of the two major offices, president . and senator, 58% had only one candidate running. This percentage breaks down into four out of 12 presidencies and three out of 12 senatorships going ’ . to singles candidates. One hall will have no senator.
Apathetic Voting. The voting, either , reflecting or abetting this apathy, was the lightest that present student government officials have ever seen. Voter turn-out was so pool’ that Jim Lekin, the head of the Blue Circle election committee, didn’t even bother to officially tabulate the percentage but only estimated it to be less than 50%.
,, However, several members of student government could still find bright spots.
ELECTION OFFICIAL The lonely crowd
Bill Scheckler, a national vice-president of NFCCS and a stay senator in the present Senate, pointed out that this was the first time within the last three years that the election committee has not had to reopen nominations. He also agreed with Student Body President Bruce Babbitt that the caliber of elected officers is steadily improving, ■with this year representing an especially good group. “Although fewer men may be running for the various offices, better men are filling them.”
Severe Senioritis. A breakdown of the halls shows that the to-be-expected case of senioritis is still prevalent. All four senior-hall presidents were elected without opposition as was the Sorin Hall senator. One hall, Fisher, did not even have a candidate running for the office of senator.
In the case of Fisher Hall, Babbitt is quoted as saying that he has “no plans to hold a special election.” “It is important that the students realize that, when we set nomination deadlines, they are final ones,” he went on to add.
Even more disturbing was the fact that two out of the four junior hall senatorships had only one candidate. However, all the presidencies were contested.
Although all sophomore halls filled their major offices, two minor positions were vacant in Morrissey, which is the largest of the four halls. It also had one position uncontested as did Lyons.
Danforth Issues Call For Grant Applicants
Notre Dame, which has consistently received its share of the Danforth Fellowships, has once again been asked to nominate two or three candidates for the September, 1960 Fellowships. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., has reappointed Professor Frank O’Malley as the University’s liaison officer with the Danforth Foundation.
Since the inception of the Danforth Fellowship Program in 1951, Notre Dame students have received nine of the 557 fellowships awarded. Their record is surpassed only by Duke with 13 and -Harvard with 10. Students at 236 colleges and universities have been awarded grants in the past eight years.
Applicants may be preparing to teach in any academic field common to the undergraduate school. However, at the time of application, the student may not have taken any graduate studies. According to the Foundation, “the appointments are made on the basis of outstanding academic ability, personality congenial to the classroom, integrity and character, including serious inquiry within the Christian tradition.”
An appointment is made for a period of one year, with expected renewal throughout the years of graduate study and on to the doctorate if the studentFoundation relationship proves mutually agreeable. The maximum annual grant for single Fellows is $1500 plus tuition and fees charged all graduate students. Married Fellows receive $2000 plus tuition and fees with an additional stipend of $500 for each child.
The Danforth Fellow is free to use his fellowship in any accredited American university and many carry other fellowships concurrently.
Commission To Receive "Shangri-la" Bid Returns
Anyone who purchased a bid for the “Shangri-la” Student Government dance, only to find a “Dear John” letter in his mailbox, or be otherwise compelled to change his plans, may return his bid this Sunday at 10 a.m. in the Rathskeller of the LaFortune Student Center. Bids are not to be resold without being returned to the commission, since this would prevent the necessary revision of the late-permission list.
Due to a mix-up between Buddy Morrow and the booking agent for the dance band, Buddy Morrow, having a previous engagement, will not play at “Shangri-la.” In his place, the agency has been able to engage the well-known Les Elgart and his band.
October 16, 1959
9
Hold Final Moot Court Arguments Saturday: Supreme Court Justice to Judge Participants
As a climax to several years’ competition, the final round of the annual Moot Court of the Notre Dame Law School will be held here tomorrow night at 7:45 p.m. in the Engineering auditorium.
Established in 1950, the Notre Dame Moot Court annually sponsors a competition in appellate advocacy, which is open to all second-year law students on a voluntary basis.
The State of Hoynes. Throughout the competition the cases are argued in the supreme court of the imaginary State of “Hoynes.” The final argument, however, is assumed to take place in the Supreme Court of the United States.
Student finalists who will appear before the federal judges are Don R. Gardner, Cincinnati, Ohio; William B. F. Custer, Fredonia, N. Y.; Paul H. Titus, Bradford, Pa.; and Lawrence D. Wichmann, Erlanger, Ky. Custer and Titus are graduates of St. Bonaventure University while Gardner and Wichmann took their undergraduate studies at the University of Cincinnati and Villa Madonna College respectively. They are all third year students.
The Honorable Harold H. Burton, supreme court justice, will serve as Chief Judge. Serving as associate justices will be Judge Alfred P. Murrah of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, Oklahoma City, Okla.; and Judge Paul C. Weick of the U. S. Dis-, trict Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Cleveland.
These participants will be judged on the quality of their written briefs and
their oral arguments. The two winners will have the honor of representing the Notre Dame Law School in the national Moot Court competition next month. They also will receive the Dean’s Award, which was established in 1950 by the former dean, Clarence E. Manion, and cash prizes amounting to $100 for the first place team and $50 to the second place team, which are given by the Notre Dame Law Association.
The case, in the matter of Doris Grant, involves an illegitimate child held in temporary custody of the court. The mother, a narcotic, attempts to stop a final order of commitment by the court.
Several Supreme Court Justices have presided over Notre Dame’s Moot Court finals in recent years. Among them are Justices William J. Brennan, Jr., Tom Clark, Charles Witaker and John Harlan. Justice Sherman Minton, now retired from the high court, officiated at last year’s competition.
Competing Students. Tomorrow night’s competition is, for the participating students, the high point of three years of Moot Court activities. The first-year law student participates in practice court sessions. Actual competition begins with the student’s second year, and the winners in that series participate in the final round in the fall of their third year.
The Notre Dame Law School, established in 1869, is the oldest Catholic law school in the United States. As a national law school, the program is designed to equip a student to practice law in any jurisdiction; and its graduates are members of the bar in every state of the Union.
Card System Revised As Library Speeds Up
Several changes have been accom- ' plished in Notre Dame’s ivy-covered library during this past summer. The most obvious has been the rearrangement of the card catalogue system. According to the new arrangement, the cards of the books classified according to subjects are found in the files near the humanities section, while the cards of the books classified according to authors and titles are next to the social science section. It is hoped that this arrangement will facilitate and speed up the finding of books in the library. v
The problems of reserve books, which always puts a particular strain on the freshmen, is still a familiar obstacle to the students. The books, which have been regularly disappearing from the shelves for the past few years, are rapidly diminishing in number. It is rumored that not only do books go out « the front door, but quite often through the window.	4
With library conditions as they are, it is, at times, quite trying for the average student. And library conditions are rapidly becoming more crowded. The library has increased the number of books during the past seven years from v 282,000 books to 527,000 At an average of 35,000 new books a year.	v
However, it should not be too long before the new library is under construction. Kev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., ' the Notre Dame president, has stressed . the need for the new library to the alumni while speaking of the $66,000,000 Building Fund. It has been stated publicly that the Library Administration has begun the planning of the building.
IAW STUDENTS TITUS, WICHMANN, GARDNER AND CUSTER Prepare briefs for court of last appeals
'House of Pizza' to Open In Old Vetville Rec. Hall
The new “House of Pizza,” located in the Vetville Recreation Center next to the Navy Drill Hall, will open to Notre ’ Dame students this week end. The new	।
establishment, styled in an old Roman I setting, will consist of one large room which will serve both as dining room j and kitchen. The walls of the dining room will be decorated with murals of * the city of Rome, and special lighting , effects characteristic to the old Italian ' cabarets will also be used.
Seating fifty to sixty people, the pizza house will cater to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students. It will be open from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. daily except Sun- ( day.' If there is sufficient business from the upperclassmen, the establishment will remain open after 10 p.m.
Louis (“Luigi”) Rapelli will be general manager and chef of the new pizza house. Rapelli, who has been in the pizza business for eight years, will serve all varieties of pizza, including some of -his specialties; soft drinks, coffee and milk. Orders to take out will also be served.
10
The Scholastic
University Holds Breen Oratory Competition; Entrants to Submit Oration Copy by Nov. 24
^bowd Otte
Masters of oratory are once again invited to compete in the annual Breen Oratory Contest to be held on campus the first two weeks of December. First place winner will receive a gold medal.
“The Breen Medal for Oratory” was founded by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the Class of 1877, and is awarded annually to the student who excels in oratory. The competition for this award is conducted by Professor Leonard Sommers of the department of communication arts, and is open to all undergraduates. However, no student may win the Breen Medal more than once.
Original Topic. The preliminary eliminations will be held on December 2 at 4:30 p.m. in the Forensics Room of the LaFortune Student Center. Speeches are to be seven to ten minutes in length, on any topic suitable to oratorical delivery, but they must be original. All entrants must submit a typewritten copy of their oration to Professor Sommer in Room 344 O’Shaughnessy Hall by November 24.
Finals will be held on Wednesday, December 9. If the medal is won by a senior, it will be presented at the graduation ceremonies.
There was no award for oratory in 1877 when William Breen, with a 96 average, was one of the two graduates that year to receive a Bachelor of Arts degree. However, in 1883 an anonymous letter printed in the Scholastic expressed indignation that the State Oratorical Association had rejected the applications of several Notre Dame students who had attempted to enter the state contest. That year, for the first
Dr. Croteau to Take Part In Congressional Study
Dr. John T. Croteau, professor of economics at the University of Notre Dame, has been engaged by the House Committee on Ways and Means to take part in the Committee’s coming investigation of the tax structure of the United States.
The professor will participate with a panel of economists in a study of the tax problems of mutual financial institutions. Written studies by the members of the economists’ panels will be published in October and on the basis of these written submissions Congressional hearings will be held.
The hearing on the tax problems of mutual financial institutions, at which Dr. Croteau will appear, is scheduled for December 14. Dr. Croteau has specialized in the problems of financial intermediaries and in this field has written two books, a number of journal articles and has served as a consultant both to governmental agencies and to trade groups.
October 16, 1959
GOUDREAU AND TWARDOWSKI
Gold Medal winner
time, a medal was awarded to the senior who excelled in oratory.
In 1902, the medal was presented at graduation by the Honorable William P. Breen, LL.D., and has since been donated by him.
Lettermen to Provide Music For Sat. Night Victory Dance
The Lettermen, under the direction of Wally Jones, will provide the music for tomorrow night’s Victory Dance at the LaFortune Student Center, from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Tickets, priced at $1 per couple, will be on sale at the door. As usual, the “ever popular, reasonably priced” Dixie Shuttle will run to and from St. Mary’s before and after the dance.
Chairmen of this affair are Tom Con-neely and Clem McDonald. Student combos and possibly the Glee Club quartet will provide the intermission entertainment.
Wally Jones, in charge of the evening’s musical accompaniment, “is better than ever before, as evidenced by the record turnout at the Center for last week’s dance,” asserted Social Commissioner John Christen.
LABS TAKE OVER
There will be a general organizational meeting of all those interested in using the language laboratory facilities on Monday night at 8 p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall. This personal use of the lab is intended to replace the language series which was run by the AB Advisory Council last year. Instruction in the use of the lab will be given at this meeting.
Mwey, Mney, Mney
It being the anniversary of Christopher Columbus’ landing in America, one wonders if he had as much trouble getting here as the Senate has in getting their budget through the tedious wheels of legislature. This reporter knows only that last Monday’s meeting was a mighty long sit, and certainly something to think about.	>
$6,054.39 was dished out last Monday to a heterogeneous group of do-good outfits, and although it is assumed all the groups that got some could account for it when it is all gone, *it just seems that there might be some leakage. The catch-all generality, “clerical,” absorbed much of the money, and investment in paper might not be a bad idea. The implications are strong, and might even be unfounded, but there was quite a bit written off to “clerical.”
The Blue Circle, Hall Presidents’ Council, the Four Classes, and all the commissions received their money at the meeting as did the minor sports, dance underwriting and special project funds. The office expense and a stab-in-the-dark $250 for an outdoor pep rally figure to be quite a hunk, but then so does the amount appropriated to national affiliations.
The NS A received $282.50 for its first semester conventions and office expense. The NFCCS needed $142.50 for its regional dues and the sojourn to the regional assembly. The National Catholic Action Study Bureau, which has Notre Dame as its permanent headquarters, got $200 for the week it has planned. There is always a bit of a thing about these national groups, both in the Senate and from the members of the student body. Many do not even know that they are members, but that is their own fault. The other criticism: why give them money if they do not do anything worthwhile? They do do things, but they need money to publicize it and extend their operations. No gripe on this re- . porter’s part because they appropriated money to the outfits.
The new crop of senators was there Monday, even though a bit timid. Maybe they were waiting for the spark from the missing Fisher Hall senator. The Senate was otherwise quite alive Monday, even though a bit picky about small things.
It looks like some real progress is being made on the student discount service project of the NSA under John Keegan’s hand. A poll of 600 students encouraged them to seek reduced prices in the applicable areas. A dozen merchants have consented so far, with more in sight. Not everything is set yet, but things are being done, and the idea is a good one.
11
RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOW!
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
Michiana's Leadin? Barber Shop •
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair
•
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House
5 BARBERS	MANICURIST
OUR COVER: Ah, the season of autumn is upon us; and with brown leaf and chill breeze . . . excuse us if we seem to have been carried away by the poetic artistry of today’s cover. It is the first such cover produced by John Martine, a junior in architecture, who has previously displayed his talents in both Dome and Scholastic illustration. We expect several more covers this year from artist Martine; — he has successfully captured the spirit of the season of the year — one almost expects to see a band of maintenance men, complete with rakes, come tripping gaily from behind those trees. . . .
VlM
she saamn s ana hdshm @ EESEDE SESBI ESSE BEDS
““““ BEEBE
KBS

a
3
3
SEEHSI
3 3
30E_______
HEEBBB g^HEES Bnansa sdeibee BHE SEMES ESS hbm aaHSS aaffl
tflMSNV TODM
KUDL KROSSWORD	No. 3
ACROSS
1. Trojan school
4. What she applies when it’s gone far enough
9. Past tense of meet
12.	Crew-type letter?
13.	Dame who gets around
14.	Eggs
15.	No literary type, he
17. Underworld god of Egypt
19.	They're thicker than squares
20.	Talks flatly
21.	It follows Bee
22.	Half the Army
23.	Bdts below the belt
25. Famed fiddler
28.	Abbreviated absence
29.	Not many
30.	Such eaters forget more than their manners
33.	Specialized cereal
34.	A Nod is a backward girl
35.	Electric wrigglers
36.	Wire measures
38. They’re given by 15 Across
40. There are two for it on Broadway
42. Edible dolls
45.	It’s human to
46.	Kools have Menthol--------
48.	Everyone’s first girl
49.	Has been
50.	Hole_________
51.	Beneficent bill payer
DOWN
1.	With a sub, they’re out of town
2.	Fly talk
3.	Those who appreciate Menthol Magic
4.	Coeds who’ve made it
5.	Sad French streets
6.	Short morning
7.	What to change to when your throat tells you
8.	Gaelic part of herself
9.	With Kools, all day long you’re_________
10.	Live backward; it’s no good
11.	Russian news agency
16_____Canal, Germany
18. Russian John
23.	This season
24.	Bit of a blow to the band
£ change: Kools!
27. Possesses
31.	Les Etats_____
32.	A kind of sausage
33.	With no springs, for flowers or dams
37.	Song for the birds
38.	God of Ingrid's ancestors
39.	Thrown by cubists
40.	Keep in stitches
41.	Period of time
43.	Zsa Zsa’s sister
44.	But (Latin)
47._____West
l«»l
FR.TSR
e 1959, Brown * Williamson Tobacco Corp.
K®L
When your throat tells you its time ■for a change you need a real change
YOU NEED THE

opKODL
MHO MENTHOL KING-SIZE

12
The Scholastic
YOUT
at VIENNA
On a warm day last July, on a narrow, cobblestone street in Vienna, a young American met a dark-skinned African. As the African approached the American, he extended his hand. “Shake hands with a Negro, American,” he said in perfect English. “That’s something you can never do in your own country.”
It was no accident that Africans walked Vienna’s streets last July, no accident that his English was pex-fect, no accident that he was aware of our Negro problem. He had come, or rather been brought, for a purpose. He was a participant, a Communist participant, in the Seventh World Youth Festival for Peace and Friendship.
From July 26 to August 4, Vienna, a free city outside the Soviet bloc, was host to this Seventh Festival. Youths from eighty countries, some 16,000 strong, backed by over $100 million of Russian money, attended. Many of these youths were hard core Communists from Russia, the Satellite countries, China. Many of them were Communists from the Middle East, Africa, South America. And with these came those the Soviet hoped to impress, neutralists, socialists, leftists — the uncommitted— those who were not Communists, but who just might be sold Communism. In the shadows in Vienna, removed, but active, were also those gathered to work against the Festival — hundreds of Hungarian refugees, hundreds of West Germans, some Americans, the youth groups of Austria itself. Behind all of these — ominous because of their secrecy — were an estimated 5000 Russian “tourists” and secret police.
There were all types of Americans in Vienna. Some came as I had to work in counter-Festival activity. Others were just tourists passing through. Still others had come as part of the American delegation. The American delegation was actually two delegations. The first was organized out of New York City and was led by people who wished to cooperate entirely with the purposes of the Festival agencies. Their aim was to send 400 cooperating young Americans to Vienna. It became obvious that this quota was going to be difficult to fill and the New York group resorted to taking in the very young and the very naive. As a result there were an incredible number of bubble gum chewing American “kids,” particularly girls, in Vienna.
A second American group was organized in Chicago. Their leadership was not Communistic, and it was their wish to go to Vienna in a participating but not a representing capacity. In this respect they were acting in compliance with the wishes of the State Department who asked that no Americans go in any official capacity. The New York group had chosen to disregard these wishes.
From the outset then, the American contingent in Vienna was divided and at cross-purposes. Upon arrival the Americans of both the Chicago and New York groups met jointly. In a spirited meeting marked more for its violent turbulence than its adherence to democratic procedures, the non-Com-munists succeeded in selecting a steering committee. This action was denounced by the Festival organizers and all those who had shown themselves to be anti-Communist were denied access to meetings. In fact, the total Chicago delegation had their accreditation taken away from them.
This was to be the keynote of the Festival — the ruthless suppression of any attempt to promulgate any view other than a Communistic one. There were cracked skulls, and broken bones, and open wounds to testify only too well to this. That which was Communist in tone was cultural, that which was democratic, or Western, was partisan propaganda and had to be suppressed. This became the Communist line.
Sometimes one had the feeling that he had come to watch his own funeral. On the opening day of the Festival, 60,000 Communists crowded the Vienna stadium for a display of mob emotionalism all too horribly reminiscent of the mad days of
by DENNY SHAUL
Nazi Germany. We watched for four hours as 16,000 youths from eighty countries paraded into the Stadium, We listened as those 60,000 spectators chanted over and over, “Peace and Friendship, Peace and Friendship.” With flags waving, and crowds yelling, and the bands playing, the Russians added the coup de grace and released 5000 peace doves. But perhaps the most horrible spectacle of that day was the exhibition of some 1200 Czech gymnasts. It was an incredible display of mass discipline and great mass co-ordination. 1200 bodies became as one movement, one pattern, one machine. 1200 people became less than human.
The ten-day period was so many days of repetition of the old charges against the West. Though the Communists professed the Festival to be merely a cultural exchange, they utilized every opportunity to sell Communism and criticize the
HAMMER, SICKLE BACKDROPS INTENT COMMUNISTS
United States. During the day a wide variety of seminars was held. The titles were innocuous enough — “Government and Higher Education, Meeting of Young Lawyers, Meeting of Young Architects,” etc., but always these seminars came back to the same, shopworn themes, “There is no race problem in the Soviet Union, only in capitalistic countries.” “In the United States men go hungry, in Russia everyone is always employed.” “In the USSR all education is free, in the United States the poor cannot be educated.”
At night the technique was much more subtle. The Leningrad Ballet, the Moscow Symphony Orchestra, the Peiping Opera entertained. At every chance it was stated that Communism was concerned about the arts, that they had a culture. The United States was portrayed as a land without art or culture, a land of materialism and moral degeneracy.
The opportunities for speaking to Communists were somewhat restricted. The Russians had housed all Satellite-country participants in houseboats on the Danube. This made it highly difficult for them to be in contact with Westerners. Their spending money was limited to less than $2 in some cases so that they stayed in groups, maintained their charted schedules, and caught their special buses. Nonetheless they were eager to talk to Americans and sought them out whenever they could.	■
October 16, 1959
ARTIST SERIES
version 1959-60
by JACQUES CALLAHAN
MATA
' ~ rest. The assurance of a good seat, which a season ticket gives, is doubly important because no seats will be reserved for individual performances if there is a sell-out for the season; and it can be safely predicted that at least four of the performances during the season will . have standing room only crowds.
The first reason for the success of this year’s Artist Series will be the duo of blonde soprano Frances Archer and contralto Beverly Gile. These are comely, beautifully gowned young ladies who have a way with a song. Their style, their rhythm, the very color of theii’ voices change as they rove through an unusual and varied repertoire of the
Nov. 20, 1959, 8:15 p.m. the curtain will go up on the first Artist Series attraction of the 1959-60 season, Frances . Archer and Beverly Gile. This highly acclaimed folk-singing duo will head a cavalcade of seven topflight performances scheduled to appear on the Notre Dame campus during this academic year. In their wake will follow: The New Art Wind Quintet, Players Inc., Sigurd Rascher and the Notre Dame Symphonette, Ma-
THE NEW ART WIND QUINTET
Series which has never before presented a wind ensemble. But to say the New Art Wind Quintet fills this need is an understatement for it is the leading such group in the chamber field which, in < this country, it pioneered.
Twelve years ago Melvin Kaplan, oboe, Martin Orenstein, flute, Charles Russo, clarinet, Morris Newman, bassoon, and Ralph Froelich, french horn, were merely five talented friends who got together whenever they could for private evenings of chamber music. • Kaplan convinced them to give up their individual careers and become a permanent concertizing unit; since then they have been making the fascinating tonal, textural and harmonic possibilities accessible only to their particular combination of instruments known to the American public. They perform works ' by such masters as Mozart and Beethoven, but the response of contemporary composers, such as Milhaud, who have written an unprecedented number of over four hundred original works for the group, is the best measure of their artistic success.
January 8 and 9 will see the return to campus of the Catholic University’s Player’s Inc. Publicity for this group '* would be superfluous. They have played to sell-out audiences in Washington Hall for the past four years and can truly be said to be back by popular demand. They are bound to draw full houses for their two presentations this year, so the assurance of having a seat for the players
ta and Hari, and Rosalind Elias.
Formerly the Concert and
Lecture Series, the Artist Series provides top quality entertainment for the Notre Dame academic community and her friends in the South Bend area. The Series, handled for the University by the Blue Circle Honor Society, is presented by the University purely as a service; and it has maintained a high level programming in the face of a large and inevitable deficit every year.
As in the past, all performances will be held in Washington Hall where season tickets will go on sale next Monday, Oct. 19 through Friday, Oct. 23. A season’s reserved seat in the orchestra or center balcony will cost students and Notre Dame personnel $7.50 and the side balcony $5.00, a savings of $3.00 and $2.00 respectively. Individual prices for the general public total $4.00 more than the $10.00 which will purchase a seat in the orchestra or center balcony, while $7.50 gives them a $2.00 saving for the
folk songs of thirteen languages in their communicative and personal way.
Together since 1950, the Misses Archer and Gile have, to great success, toured the United States and Canada twice, appeared on such national television shows as “Omnibus” and “Tonight,” and record for the Disneyland label. The opinion of the New York Times is typical of the critical acclaim their endeavors have received: “These performers know what they are about. It is not every afternoon that one sees an audience moved to tears by the sheer emotional expressiveness of the singing voice, but listeners were furtively wiping their eyes yesterday after the old Welsh tune, ‘Ar Hydy Nos.’ ”
Instrumental virtuosity follows next on the program with the December 4 appearance of the New Art Wind Quintet. The appearance of this group fills a long standing need in the Artist
HARI
14
The Scholastic
ROSALIND ELIAS
is reason enough for purchasing a season’s ticket.
From the sublime to the ridiculous is the keynote of this year’s playbill. There is no need to fear death and bane when . the Players perform Macbeth on Jan. 8, :	and Birnam Wood comes to Notre Dame.
| The following night they display their " remarkable versatility going from the tragic to the comic with Shakespeare’s Comedy of Errors as vehicle.
t Jan. 15 will bring the appearance of a truly distinguished artist, world-re. nowned saxophonist, Sigurd Rascher.
Recognized as the unquestioned master I of his instrument, Mr. Rascher has an * unusual and interesting musical history. I He taught himself the saxophone as a child and graduated from the State Academy of Music in Stutgart, Germany in 1931. After developing a deep interest in this much maligned instrument playing in dance orchestras in Europe, he decided to become a concert saxophonist.
j Through a prolonged study of the instrument, he has succeeded in extending its range to four octaves instead of the usual two and one-half octaves, and , has achieved a flexibility, agility, and expressiveness unequaled by any other saxophonist. He has also persuaded composers from many nations to contribute j, to the repertoire of his chosen instrument, and has performed these works I; with the major orchestras of the world.
For his concert in Washington Hall, Rascher will be accompanied by the Notre Dame Symphonette, faculty members from the music department.
Ruth Mata and Eugene Hari, long time concert favorites and top dance team on television come to Notre Dame on March 11 in a program entitled “The World in Pantomime.” Here is an evening of danced theater that is one of the outstanding novelties of the entertainment world. It is, all authorities agree, high comedy at its best. The circumspect precincts of Carnegie Hall, the sports newsreel, the ballet and the circus are among institutions that are hilariously explored by these dancing satirists in programs designed for the eye, the ear, and the imagination.
Swiss born, Mata and Hari have been delighting audiences ever since their American debut in the Broadway musical “Straw Hat Review.” They won a tremendous following from their regular contributions to the well-remembered “Show of Shows” and their frequent guest appearances on “The Ed Sullivan Show.” This will be their first appearance on the Artist Series and they add variety to an already well-rounded program.
“The Met’s youngest, prettiest leading
PLAYERS’ INCORPORATED
singer” {Time), Rosalind Elias will be the Series’ final guest of the year. She is a mezzo-soprano who brings to the concert platform not only her comely person but also a rich and velvety voice infused with spine-tingling color, the result of a natural musical temperament.
“Leading singing-actress at the Metropolitan” said thez Christian Science Monitor of her 1957-58 performances. Her crowning triumph was her portrayal of Erika in the Pulitzer prize opera, “Vanessa.” Of this, one New York paper said, “After last night Rosalind Elias must be considered one of the leading singing actresses at the Met. . . . She stole the show.” Miss Elias’ appearance here will be on March 25.
When the season is over, it can be argued that this year’s Artist Series will have been the best program ever. Dramatics, the dance, operatic and folk singing, solo and ensemble instrumental virtuosity make this a widely varied series. Mata and Hari and the New Art Wind Quintet are welcome additions to the programming of past years. And at least two of the performers, Sigurd Rascher and The New Art Quintet, are recognized as the outstanding artists in their field. All will be entertaining. None should be missed.
’ YEARS AGO
A’ Seventy-five Years Ago — A couple of members of the l boat crew captured a rabbit and took it to their hall in an attempt to domesticate it. They cared for it lovingly; feeding L it some of the food from the dining hall, and allowing it the run of one of the biggest rooms on campus. Unfortunately despite all of then* valiant efforts the little furry died after a week; the poor creature went berserk from looking at the ▲ same old gray walls.
* * *
f Fifty Years Ago — Notre Dame began its drive for excellence by soundly trouncing the Georgetown debate team.
< Doing battle in Gaston Hall on the Washington campus, the forensic duos were greeted with wild cheers from their respective hooters. Both sides showed amazing strength in their opening remarks; however, Notre Dame gained the advantage, when it came back with a slashing rebuttal. Through this
startling victory over the “Georgies,” Notre Dame pulled ahead two to one in a series that everyone hope would continue through the years.
* * *
Twenty Years Ago — Jacks held the lead over bridge in campus-wide popularity. The rector of Alumni, hearing the noise of a hot Jacks’ match, assumed the worst and rushed into a room expecting to find the “cubes of ivory” rolling and a pot of confiscate (for the missions, of course). To his surprise he found the boys in the midst of one, two, three O’-Learying.
♦ * , *
Ten Years Ago—Toying with the idea of beginning the honor system on campus, a few of the professors decided to-try an experiment. They passed out exams and left the room; the most surprising results were achieved in this effort. Fellows who hadn’t opened their books all year had them opened for a full hour.
The Ancient Editor.
October 16, 1959
IF
AT THE MOVIES
AVON
Richard III (Oct. 15-21) starring Sir Laurence Olivier and F. Timothy Keyhole, is Bill Shakespeare’s answer to Paladin. Though Olivier is shaky on his “Thous” and “Thines,” his brilliant performance has won him the White Owl award of the week. “Have a White Owl, Larry.”
COLFAX
The Devil’s Disciple (Oct. 16-22) rounds the culture kick for movies this week. This one was written by George Bernard Shaw, of “My Fair Lady” fame, and stars Bert Lancaster, Kirk Douglas, and the indestructible Sir Larry (White Owl) Olivier. According to our very unreliable sources, mainly A.B.U.H. Research, Inc., this movie was picked as a winner. Therefore, it won’t be worth seeing.
GRANADA
The Big Circus (Oct. 8-18) is, as Ed Sullivan would say, a rrreeeeally big shew, starring Victor Mature, Kathryn Grant, Red Buttons, Rhonda Fleming, Gilbert Roland, and David Nelson. All the stars turn out rather standard performances, but Ozzie and Harriet will be shocked to see what they have done to sweet little David.
Last Train from Gun Hill (Oct. 19-25) . turns out to be a remake of 3:1Q to Yuma, only this time Kirk Douglas (see Devil’s Disciple review) and Anthony Quinn are the stars. It seems that Kirk’s Indian wife gets herself killed and Marshall Douglas sets out to track down the murderers. How Anthony Quinn gets involved in this, you had better see for yourself, because its a giveaway tip.
RIVER PARK
Around the World in 80 Days (Oct. ■ 16-19) can now be seen and heard on a narrow screen and monoaural sound. This, however, will hardly hurt the late Mike Todd’s great comic travelogue. David Niven is still properly British and Cantinflas can still make you laugh.
STATE
Blue Denim (Oct. 16-22) is really a touchy movie about a very touchy subject. It is adapted from the hit Broadway play of the same name and stars Brandon De Wilde and Carol Lynley. The problem at hand is that of a couple of youngsters who are unable to confide in their parents about their misled intimacy. This situation leads to a futile attempt at solution such as you would expect from kids ignorant enough to start with. Macdonald Carey and Marsha Hunt play De Wilde’s parents — a couple of adults unaware of their son’s troubles and seemingly unwilling to understand. In general, one point weakens the effect of the movie and that is its failure to come up with a satisfactory moral solution.
'	—Tony Wong
^eadM:
The Symphony and Rabin
by Frank Smith
This Sunday, October 18, the South Bend Symphony Orchestra opens its 27th season at St. Mary’s College in the O’Laughlin Auditorium. Opening the 195960 season with its first of five conceits given throughout the year, the South Bend Orchestra is presenting Michael Rabin, considered by many to be the greatest violinist of the age.
Rabin will be the first of a number of great stars appearing this year with the orchestra. Three pianists will follow the brilliant, young violinist over the coming months. John Browning will appear in December, Jean Casadesus in February, and Byron Janis on March 13. To end this year’s concert series, Eileen Farrell, one of America’s most loved sopranos, will be the guest star in May.
MICHAEL RABIN
Mr. Hames, now head of the Music Department at Hillsdale College in Michigan, who presently conducts the Hillsdale Symphony, and Mrs. E. M. Morris, founded the South Bend Orchestra in 1933. Edwyn Hames now conducts the group which still retains six of its original musicians. William Ewald, violin; Miss Jean Kerr, cello; Col. Edward Payson, oboe; Donald Bimrn, oboe; Miss Laura May Briggs, violinist and assistant concertmaster; and C. D. Snell, violinist and personnel manager, have all been with the orchestra for over twenty-five years.
In mid-1950 Rabin, a virtually unknown boy of fourteen, starred on the Telephone Hour with two other great violinists — Kreisler and Francescatti. Some months later, on November 24, he made his recital debut at Carnegie Hall. Dimitri Mitropoulos, conductor of the New York Philharmonic - Symphony, called the boy “the genius violinist of
tomorrow.” Michael Rabin has since proved himself many times over to the most elite and discriminating of the music world.
Michael comes of a musical family. His father, George, has been a violinist with the New York Philharmonic for thii-ty years, and his mother, Jeanne, is a pianist, formerly with the Juilliard School. He began to take piano lessons from her before he was six. At seven, he became enamoured of a small-sized violin belonging to a physician-friend of -the family, and the doctor gave it to him. His father, realizing that he had a prodigy on his hands, took him to study with Ivan Galamian, of the Juilliard and Curtis faculties, and Michael has worked with Galamian evei- since.
When but nineteen Michael Rabin made his first tour to Europe. This phenomenal violinist visited Norway, Sweden, and Denmark, moved on to -Italy for a series of fifteen concerts in eighteen days, then appeared in Belgium, i Poi-tugal, England, and France. In Lon- . don he appeared with Sir Malcolm Sargent and the BBC Orchestra in Royal Albert Hall, and made his first recordings for Angel Records of the Paganini and Glazounov violin concertos with the London Philharmonia under the direction of Lovro von Matacic.
The extraordinary aspect of Rabin’s first tour of Europe was the sweeping success he enjoyed everywhere in eight countries, i.e., most of the free Western world.
Although the 1954-55 season marked Rabin’s first appearances in Europe, it was not his first triumph outside his native U.S.A. At the age of fourteen he made his first appearance outside the ■ U. S. in Havana where he played the -Wieniawski Concerto and won from Artur Rodzinski the words: “He is mar- : velous, fantastic. He has a tremendous future!”
Since his first appearance with the New York Philharmonic-Symphony, Michael Rabin has heard the words “mar- j velous” and “fantastic” applied so often to his performances that they no longer mean very much to him. In any event, < Rabin’s whirlwind schedule of more than , seventy appearances following his return ’ from Europe gave him little chance to ' brood on his European notices.
Michael Rabin has just returned from a highly successful performance in Caracas. Following an appearance in Mexico City he will come directly to South i Bend where he will appear, as stated be- | fore, with the South Bend Symphony ! Orchestra in the O’Laughlin Auditorium, i Tickets for the season’s schedule of five ; concerts with five guest stars are only ■ five dollars for students and will be available at the door.
The Scholastic ■

Pink SUp, P^inte^:
HOW TO STUDY HISTORY
by Dr. Bernard Norling
Procedures that work well in other studies are generally useful in the study of history too. The following points might, however, be stressed.
1.	Study — History is not an intrinsically difficult subject. There is little in it that cannot be understood by a person of noi-mal intelligence. History does, however, require persistent systematic study. A typical course covers a considerable period of time and involves extensive assigned reading. Almost invariably the best history students are those who read materials carefully when assigned and do not let themselves “get behind.” One should also read outside the assignments as time permits.
2.	Take notes — History deals with a vast array of facts and these must somehow be reduced to convenient dimensions. The best way is to take notes — selectively. With one’s own textbooks it will save time to underline or write in the margins. Likewise, do not take notes in class on matters that you recall having read the night before. Notes should be taken, however, on matters which are brought up in class by the instructor’ or which arise during class discussion, and which are not in the assigned readings.
It is easy to imagine in September that memory alone will suffice but by examination time in January one will be amazed at how many details (and even major ideas) that he once “knew” have completely slipped his mind. No matter how industrious a person might be, how attentive in class, or how interested in the course, his memory is just not efficient enough to store thousands of facts in neat, accurate order for months. Some pencil-and-paper system has to make good the deficiency.
3.	Use your common sense — Perhaps the worst single mistake that many students make when they study history is to forget the common sense bestowed on them at birth. Study history in the same way you would expect to study anything else of importance. Try to learn as much as possible about the facts of history, the reasons for those facts, their importance, and their consequences.
Strive to understand the past: not merely to commit to memory a lot of miscellaneous unconnected information. For example, if one studies the Carolingian era in such a manner that he becomes well acquainted with the main characteristics of the Carolingian Empire, learns the reasons for its rise and decline, and understands its importance in the development of European civilization as a whole, then he has learned something valuable and something that will stick in his mind for years afterward. Furthermore, if one studies in order to understand he will in the process remember more details than if he deliberately tries to .memorize isolated facts. Approach a history assignment in the same spirit that you would a magazine article: to find out as much as pos-
October 16, 1959
sible about the subject and why it is of some importance.
4.	Become historically minded — Put your mind back into the past and try to look from there forward instead of thinking from the present backward. This requires imagination and practice but it greatly improves one’s understanding of the past. No man can foresee the future oi’ calculate all the consequences of his actions. Every person alive now has to think and plan and act on the basis of what he knoius now and the way things appear to him now; not what he will know 500 years from now. So it has always been in the past too.
If one is to understand, rather than merely praise or denounce, the ideasand practices of past societies and long-dead individuals he has to try to put himself “in their shoes.” Suppose an assignment concerns the medieval feudal system. Be-
(Continued on page 18)
&WTURB0W
\OPTOMKTMST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED EYES EXAMINED
PHONE CE 4-5737 207 W. WASHINGTON—OLIVER HOTEL
WILDROOT CREAM-Oil
KEEPS HAIR GROOMED UONGER!
MAKES HAIR FEB STRONGER!
“Surface” | Penetrating
Hair Tonics ! Wildroot Cream-Oil
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
*	RELIGION IN AMERICA
Cogley
*	OPERA AS DRAMA
Kerman
*	WORLD'S TEN GREATEST NOVELS Maugham
*	ORACLE O'Connor
*	ACHIEVEMENT OF T. S. ELIOT Matthiessen
*	EDUCATION OF YOUTH IN THE CREATIVE ARTS
Mearns
*	4 GREAT RUSSIAN SHORT NOVELS Dell
*	THIS IS THE MASS
Daniel Rops
*	MATTER AND MEMORY
Bergson
*	TOUCH OF THE POET O'Neill	’
*	BIBLE IN THE CHURCH
Vawter
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-the-campus
“Surface” hair tonics merely coat your hair. When they dry off, your hair dries out. But the exclusive Wildroot Cream-Oil formula penetrates your hair. Keeps hair groomed longer... makeshair feel stronger than hair groomed an ordinary way. There’s no other hair tonic formula like it
MAKE HAIR OBEY ALL DAY WITH WILDROOT CREAM-OILI
17
FOUND
Ivy league cap in front of the LaFortune Student Center. Owner may pick up the hat in room 344 Badin.

minis
LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
Pink Slip
(Continued from page 17) gin by transporting your imagination back into the tenth century: a time of general poverty and hardship, near universal ignorance, barbarian invasions, total absence of efficient large scale government and general confusion. If you do this you will be apt to understand much better such terms as fiefs, manors, homage, and investiture than if you merely sink yourself into a soft chair, switch on the electric desk lamp, and read unthinkingly about these feudal institutions.
To sum up: combine imagination and common sense, take notes carefully, and read as much history as you can.
Dr. Robert Christin, Chairman of the Freshman English Course, will write next week’s article.
KNIGHTS GATHER
The Knights of Columbus membership drive is presently open. The office, in the basement of Walsh Hall, will be open Monday through Friday from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m.
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
★
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches ★
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
to get a better shave!
Quicker .. . closer .. . smoother . . . no matter what machine you use. 1.00 plus fas
SHULTON New York • Toronto
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
IB
The Scholastic
1ALL MATTERS pertaining to advertising and circulation of the SCHOLASTIC are to be referred to the office of the Busi-

ness Manager located at the University of Notre Dame Press in the basement of Stanford Hall.

Have a WORLD off UN!
>
Jrave! with 5ITA
L)
Unbelievable Low Cost
SEtWORt SPEND
'.V
It
Many fours include college credit.
Orient
43-65 Days from $998
Europt
60 Days stumer <»<»"’ $675
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $598 up and Around the World $1898 up.
27th Year Ajk Your Trovd Agent
J*
M	332 So. Michigan Ave.
■ ■ Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
WORLD TRAVEL



Repercussions
(Continued from page 6)
which was shown in Washington Hall this (Sat.) evening. Upon opening the door, we were met by a group of big, stupid, shoving children who sometimes have the crust to call themselves Notre Dame men. I didn’t mind so much my pen being lost, my shirt being ripped, or my glasses being almost broken; but I did mind the absolute lack of sense which that crowd of very little boys displayed.
I trust that a few to whom this letter applies will “get the message.”
Bill Sheckler, 211 Walsh
Editor:
What is it that turns a supposedly Notre Dame gentleman into an “animal” on Saturday nights? What is it that makes this supposedly Notre Dame gentleman think that when a movie is over in Washington Hall, he is supposed to keep those who have just finished watching the movie from leaving the Hall?
Do we need a serious accident before Notre Dame’s “Saturday Night Animals” will become Notre Dame Gentlemen or do we have enough logic, intelligence and patience to stop these Washington Hall “Riots”?
Robert G. Streit, Frederic J. Bremer, Robert A. Cech 322 Zahm
SCHOLASTIC office hours are from 7:30 to 11:15 p.m. Sunday and Monday evenings. Deadline for most copy is 10 p.m. Sunday. At times other than office hours contact the department editors.
a Swingline Stapler no
(Including 1000 staples)
SWINGLINE “TOT
Millions now in use. Unconditionally guaranteed. Makes book covers, fastens papers, arts and crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Available at your college bookstore.
SWINGLINE Cub" Stapler $1.29
INC.
LONG ISLAND CITY. NEW YORK. N. Y.
Announoinp'Rambler for "60
New high style! Low, low cost!
NEW RAMBLER AMERICAN 4-DOOR SEDAN
New styling . . . models . . . features! New 3 seat, 5 door station wagon! Bigger windshield for greater visibility. High, wide doors for easier entry. Save on price, upkeep, resale. At Rambler dealers.
Thriftiest, most maneuverable sedan in U. S.—now with 4-door convenience! Room for 5 big adults.
SAVE WITH RAMBLER—The New Standard of Basic Excellence
October 16, 1959
19
Vienna
(Continued from page 13)
We found them convinced that they have a new and a great faith. They are fighting for a new order and they believe in it most sincerely. They are Marxists and dismiss criticism of Marx
by saying that the West does not understand him, and that time will solve' the seeming errors. The horror of Hungary, the massacre in Tibet does not phase them. As one Pole said, “We’re bringing about a new order. Not everyone is going to understand it. If they don’t understand it they’ll fight it. If
ifc:
OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP attractive, exclusive suits and sportwear for college men and prep schoolers
Our interesting Fall selection of clothing for undergraduates wearing sizes 3 5 to 42 is now ready. Included are good-looking new worsted suits in distinctive colorings, new designs in sport jackets and rugged new outerwear... as well as traditional favorites. All reflect our quality, styling and taste, and are as moderately priced as we can make them. Our "346” furnishings are also designed for undergraduates.
We invite you to come in and enjoy the expert service and expanded facilities of our University Shop. Fall catalogue sent upon request.
Suits, $60 to $70 • Worsted Flannel Trousers, $ 19.50 Tweed Sport Jackets, $45 • Tweed Topcoats, $75
Our Own Make "346” Cotton Oxford Shirts^ from $5.75 vsttausmoxmk
l^ens JFumisMngsJSata
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK. • CHICAGO « LOS ANGELES ■ SAN FRANCISCO
they fight it, we’ve got to annihilate them.”
Nonetheless there are chinks in the <<r armor. We talked to four Ukranian students who had come to Vienna through Budapest, Hungary. They remarked that the city was still partly destroyed from the war. We corrected them and said since the Revolution. Incredibly enough they knew nothing of the revolt and would believe nothing of it till we pro- 4, duced the UN Report on Hungary.
Generally, too, we found them envious < of many of the things we have achieved and possess. Their desire for peace—freedom from war — seems sincere, but the peace they wish is a peace on their terms. I
In the main this part of the Festival was not successful. It failed to impress v those from the Middle East, South America, and Asia, those they had hoped to f impress. These people resented the dogmatic insistence on only one system. They remember the young Scotsman who raised a sign “Remember Tibet,” and received a fractured skull. They remember the young girl who was slugged for dis- 4 tributing agricultural pamphlets. They remember the pregnant American who 4 was kicked for her anti-Soviet sign.
The great lesson of Vienna is a student lesson. We have much to learn from Communist students. We would do well to emulate their devotion to their own ( faith, their diligent study of other lan-guages and other cultures. We would do well to think through what we our- 4 selves believe, to be sure that we are / not merely anti-Communist, but believers ! and exponents of our way of life. We must seek to understand and spread our own concept of freedom, justice, democracy.
The meaning of Vienna is not to be found in the strong, dusty heat of those X July days. Its meaning is deeper, some- 'i times hidden, wherever we find evidences « of the universal and climactic conflict. V It lies in the words of the Pole who saw ’ wrong in the brutal massacre of Tibet. j It is in the machinelike but inhuman J performance of the Czech gymnasts, ro- I botlike in their efficiency. It is in the * broken bones of those who sought to j sound another ideology and were ruth- j lessly suppressed by club and fist. |
And it is farther from Vienna itself. 1 It is evidenced wherever men honor and I seek to preserve freedom. It is present r where the dignity of the individual is y maintained and protected. It exists where governments are not an end in themselves, but a tool of the people. It is wherever men clearly see their univei- ■ sal brotherhood, their dignity, their C greatness under the fatherhood of God. | For there are the signs of difference in 1 that universal, inevitable conflict.	|
The future is death dark or glory S bright as we choose to make it. If we I allow the torch of freedom, the light of J individual dignity to be extinguished, f the days ahead are indeed dark. But if I we resolve never to allow our defeat by default, if we pride ourselves on our work to bring about universal standards of justice, ideals of freedom, the dignity of every man, tomorrow will be our day, a day glory bright. That is the meaning of Vienna.
20
The Scholastic
SfMU PietaM
' GRIDDERS MEET MSU IN NATIONAL TV GAME
by TOM WALSH
Coach Joe Kuharich’s Fighting Irish, sparked by last week’s victory over California, invade East Lansing tomorrow with high hopes of handing Michigan State Coach Duffy Daugherty his second defeat in as many weeks. Last week the Spartans were soundly trounced by Iowa, 37-8. With theii‘ previously heralded running attack held to 43 yards by the Hawkeyes, the Spartans should exhibit a varied and more effective attack against the Irish.
The Spartans have 23 lettermen returning from last year’s Big Ten cellar squad, with only six having seen as much as one third total playing time. Losses like All-American end Sam Williams, guards Ellison Kelly and Arch Matsos, tackle Cliff Larose, quarterback Mike Panitch, and halfback Jimmy Wolfe will be hard to replace.
Backfield speed. Along with an extremely light front wall, averaging only 205 pounds, their backfield speed is exceptional. Such speedsters as Dean Look, Tommy Wilson, Herb Adderly, Jon Marx, Sophomore Gary Ballman and the incomparable Blanche Martin are all capable of going for touchdowns at any given time.
Look, last year’s top scorer with four touchdowns, has been moved from left
BLANCHE MARTIN TURNS RIGHT END IN 1957 IRISH-SPARTAN BATTLE
Blanche Martin missed MSU’s 1958 season, but back in 1957, he was a terror on offense and defense for State. In this shot from the Notre Dame game of ’57, Martin (31J rolls into high gear after taking a handoff from Jim Ninowski while Bob Bercich (43) and John Middleton (61) lead the way. Irish players in the background are Monty Stickles (80) and Allen Ecuyer (60).
Spartans won here, 34-7.
halfback to quarterback, and now controls that position with Wilson. Look missed State’s spring practice, as he was a star outfielder for State’s baseball team.
Martin was a star left halfback on the 1957 squad, having gained 528 yards rushing in 100 carries and scoring seven touchdowns. Missing the entire 1958 season with a bad knee injury, but now fully recovered, Martin is now ready to make his mark as a great fullback and a top candidate for All-American honors. In 1957, Martin was named to the All-America Scholastic team, carrying an A— average in predentistry. Park Baker, a senior from Seanor, Pa. will provide the major relief for Martin at the fullback position.
Sophomore right halfback. Gary Ballman, hailing from East Detroit, is a probable starter tomorrow. Ballman has played exceptionally well this year. To make room for Ballman, experienced Junior Herb Adderley moved over to first string left halfback. Adderly averaged 3.8 yards in rushing in 1958. The Spartans have also found a promising defensive halfback in sophomore Bob Suci, who ran his first interception back for 93 yards against Michigan, whom the Spartans rolled over by a score of 34-7.
Art Brandstatter, Freddie Arbanas and Davey Northcross should all see
DON WRIGHT
Captains 1959 Spartans
considerable action at the end position against Notre Dame. Brandstatter is considered an outstanding prospect while Arbanas, playing behind Williams last year, will move into the first string left end spot.
Senior Palmer Pyle, thrown out of the Spartan-Hawkeye game last week for fighting, will play a lot of tackle for State. Pyle, one of the team’s biggest linemen, played 256 minutes last year. Junior Ed McLucas is slated to start at the other tackle position.
Senior Captain Don Wright, speedy lineman returning from last year’s squad, has been switched to right guard from center. He is the Spartan’s top candidate for All-American honors. Senior Mickey Walker, a 190-pounder who will start at left guard, is quite important in State’s multiple offense with the imbalanced line. Walker played 224 minutes last year.
Coach Daugherty has stressed the double-wing in his multiple offense this year, overshifting his line, and frequently setting a man in motion.
More than 77,000 fans are expected to watch the game tomorrow and millions more will watch it on television as the TV Game of the Week. Michigan State and Notre Dame have met 24 times since the inaugural game in 1897, with the Irish holding a 16-8 edge in victories.
Notre Dame will have to compete for the coveted “Megaphone Trophy” without the valuable services of Myron “Moe” Pottios, tough first-string guard who was lost for the season last week against California.	’
21
October 16, 1959
ODDS and ENDS
Tom Hawkins is doing a good job so far with the Minneapolis Lakers. Last Friday night the former Notre Dame star poured in 27 points as the Lakers downed the world champion Boston Celtics, 117-114. Previous to this game the Celtics had beaten the Lakers 34 consecutive times. . . .
The Michigan State-Notre Dame football rivalry began back in 1897. It has grown to be one of the focal points of the football year. Notre Dame and the Spartans have attracted full houses the last nine times- they've met. More than 500,000 people have seen the last nine games. Michigan State has won the last three contests. . . .
Last Saturday was not the first time that athletic teams from California and Notre Dame have met in competition. Prior to World War II, the Irish and the Bears had a baseball series at Berkeley. . . .
There is coast-to-coast representation on the 1959 Irish freshman football squad this year. Ohio and Pennsylvania, states traditionally rich in football stock, each have eight players represented on the squad. Neighboring Illinois is the home of seven frosh gridders, while distant California has furnished six players. Other states represented: Kansas (3); Florida (2); Georgia, Kentucky. Masschusetts, New Jersey, Texas, Virginia and Washington (1). . . .
Last week end our fair campus was honored by the presence of Stan (The Man) Musial and his family. The famous Cardinal slugger, holder of more batting titles than any other active player, was here to visit his son Dick, a sophomore who is an outstanding sprint candidate on the track team. . . .
North Carolina State’s outstanding sophomore end, Nick Maravich, is a transfer student from Notre Dame. He weighs 236 pounds. . . .
For the second week in a row at the State University of Iowa, (Missouri and Michigan State were the opponents), rival coaches complained that their press-box to field communications and spotting had been intercepted and listened in on by Iowa Coach Forrest Evashevski. Iowa officials merely said the wires got crossed because of heavy rains. ...
Purdue in three games has yielded the meager total of 212 yards rushing, an average of 70.7 yards a game. Small wonder they are undefeated, although UCLA held them to a scoreless tie. Incidentally, the only points scored against the men from Lafayette this season were Jim Crotty’s touchdown and Monty Stickles successful conversion foliowring Crotty’s tally. . . .
Clyde Lovelette of the St. Louis Hawks showed a tremendous improvement in his defensive play by holding Wilton (the Stilt) Chamberlain to a scant nine points in an exhibition game with die Philadelphia Warriors last week. - Clyde, who can score with die best of them, has never been known for his defensive prowess. . . .
Jordanmen Open Practice; Depend on Sophomore Help
Basketball practice began yesterday in the Fieldhouse. Coach Johnny Jordan and his assistant Jim Gibbons face a rebuilding task this year.
Despite the fact that only three seniors were lost through graduation, the loss of these three, Tom Hawkins, Gene Duffy, and Tom Reinhart, will be keenly felt by the 1959-60 Irish eagers. Hawkins is now playing professional basketball with the Minneapolis Lakers.
There is a bright side to the outlook, however. Leading rebounder of last year, Mike Graney, returns as captain at center or forward. Graney was also the second leading scorer on the team with a 10.3 average.
Other leading senior returnees are Emmett McCarthy, Bob Bratke, Don Mc-
JOHN TULLY
Key man in Irish cage plans
Gann and Mickey Bekelja all of whom earned letters last year. McCarthy and Bekelja are forwards while Bradtke and McGann are guards.
John Tully, a junior center and sometimes a starter last year, is a key man in Jordan’s plans. Tully could develop into a truly outstanding college center. Juniors Bill Crosby and Bill Noonan are also back from the 1958-59 squad.
Coach Jordan will also have five topflight sophomores who will undoubtedly figure in the coming season. Heading the list is Eddie Schnurr, a six-foot ballhawking guard from Louisville, Ky., and John Dearie, 6-6 product of New York’s Bronx. Armand Reo is another 6-6 boy from Albany, N. Y., who features a fine jump shot. Roger Strickland, a Florida boy standing 6-4 plays a fine all-around game. Karl Roessler from Fort Wayne is another outstanding sophomore. Roessler is the tallest of the sophomores at 6-7.
Notre Dame will play such outstanding opponents as Kentucky, North Carolina, Bradley, Illinois and Northwestern.
Patak Ousts Grace As Campus Golf Champ *
Ray Patak, a junioi- from Dallas, i Texas maintained his lead in the Notre 1 Dame Open last Saturday to win the 1 title with a four-over-par 288. The 29th I annual tournament’s final round was * severely hampered by the weather. The L final nine holes were played in a steady f‘ downpour.	'j
Entering the final round of play, 11 Patak had 214, a five stroke lead over sophomore and last year’s winner, Tom j Grace. Patak shot a 39 on the front nine and birdied twice, on the 14th and 1] 18th holes, for a 35 on the back nine jll and a 74 for the round.
Second place in the tournament went J to Terry Lally. Lally carded nines of 38 and 34 for a one-over-par 72 and 296	\|
for the tournament. Lally advanced from 1 fifth to second position in losing to Patak I by eight strokes. Lally is captain of the 1960 golf team.
Bob Skrzycki advanced from sixth to I third place with a 72, finishing with | 297. Tom Grace dropped from second to fourth position with a 79 for the round and a 298 finish.
Three men tied for the fifth position. Pete Bisconti, Bruce Odlaug and Jack ‘ Whitaker each finished play with 299. J Bisconti shot a 79 last Sunday to drop from the third position. Odlaug had a 76 and Whitaker a 75.	>
Patak achieved national golf headlines ; this summer when he fired a 68 in the V opening round of the National Public | Links tournament. He was a member of the Dallas team which won the team title at the national tourney.
The leaders: (1) Ray Patak, 72-7072-71—288; (2) Terry Lally, (Capt.) 296; (3) Bob Skrzycki, 297; (4) Tom Grace, 72-71-76-79—298;	(5) Bruce '
Odlaug 72-75-76-76—299; Pete Bisconti, 75-77-68-79—299; Jack Whitaker, 72-7478-75—299; (6) Al Highduchek, 75-75- I 74-78—302; (7) Phil Schuster, 304; (8) Bill Wetzel, 75-75-80-75—305; (9) Jack < Valicenti, 307; (10) Bill Aggresta, 7178-84-79—312; (11) Jim Kenny, 318. J
HOMECOMING
As I walked to the circle, I could ’ hear the sirens blare in the crisp Indiana night. I quickened my pace M and looked for fellow students, but the darkness was empty.	x1
Peering down Notre Dame avenue	I
I detected bright red lights of a police escort. The buses rolled in, stopped and the team got off. They got off quietly, stiff from the six-hour plane ride from San Francisco. Myron Pottios got off gingerly, on 4 crutches. Coach Kuharich whispered / to someone and left for home. Silently the players split into groups and filed back to their halls and rooms. And I was alone with “the Notre Dame Spirit.”
— Tom Barthel
22
The Scholastic
Cotton Leads Harriers In Win Over Marquette
Strengthened considerably by the return of Ron Gregory, the Irish crosscountry team takes on Indiana’s longdistance men today at Bloomington after whipping Marquette, 26-31, in the season opener last Friday at Milwaukee.
Gregory, who as a sophomore last year placed second in the IC4A Cross-Country meet, missed the Warrior encounter because of a bad knee but should be ready to run this week. He will join seniors Dave Cotton, who placed first in last week’s meet, and Captain Galen Cawley, a close third a week ago, to make up a strong veteran trio for Coach Alex Wilson in the Hoosier contest.
Coach Wilson was well satisfied with the squad’s performance against Marquette last week, as the Irish captured first, third, fifth, eighth, ninth and tenth places for the 26-31 win. Dennis Johnston picked up the fifth place, while sophomore Tom Dempsey, junior letterman Dan Rourke and Dave Whelage took the remaining Irish places in the first ten.
The finish was close, as Marquette turned out to be a bit stronger than expected, and the first nine finishers in the competition came in within a minute of Cotton’s winning 20:43.0 clocking for the four-mile Washington Park course. Marquette’s squad was paced by John Kotsubka who finished second, eight seconds behind Cotton.
After today’s competition, the Irish face a schedule of six triangular, dual, sectional and national meets, including the NCAA meet to be held at East Lansing, Mich., on November 23.
Sailors Capture Fourth Place In Orchard Lake Competition
The Notre Dame sailing team traveled to Orchard Lake in Detroit, taking fourth place among the nine teams represented at the regatta. Wayne University was the host for the week end of racing.
Mickey Pavia skippered “A” division for the Irish with Jim McCarthy and Charles Kremer crewing. “B” division had Dan Schuster at the helm with Jim Kuras and Frank Bohlen running the sheets.
The competition was close, even though the sloop rigged Y-boats were a change in pace for the skippers used to the single sail tech dinghies. Michigan State took top honors with Wisconsin, Wayne and Notre Dame following close behind.
Notre Dame was tied for second place with Michigan State and Wisconsin after the first twelve races sailed Saturday. The calm, fluky breezes on Sunday morning, contrasted to the disturbance of the day before, proved fatal for the Irish as they dropped back to fourth position by the end of the 18-race regatta.
October 16, 1959
TIME OUT
Tomorrow the nation gets its first look at a Joe Kuharich-coached Notre Dame football team. With the memoiy of last year’s lowa-Notre Dame game still in their minds, the nation-wide TV audience will expect to see a wide open game with plenty of passing by George Izo. The more discerning viewers will be watching to see whether Notre Dame’s defense can contain Duffy Daugherty’s multiple offense. Defense was the weak spot in the Irish performance against Iowa’s last year and the Spartans’ multiple offense has given Notre Dame trouble in the past. (1957 MSU 34-ND 7, 1956 MSU 47-ND 14).
Against Iowa last week the Spartans appeared to be of somewhat lower caliber than then* 1956 and 1957 teams. But, as always, the Spartans are a fast squad which can strike quickly. The secret to controlling the Michigan State attack is relentless pressure. The Hawkeyes proved this last week as their hard-charging line caused numerous mix-ups in the intricate Spartan backfield maneuvers.
INCENTIVE NOT LACKING
The Irish should be eager to beat the Spartans. Notre Dame has not won a game in the series since 1954 when Guglielmi and company edged the Spartans, 20-19. In fact Michigan State has won six of the last seven games. A victory tomorrow would be most satisfying to the seniors of the student body, many of whom will be up in East Lansing on the Senior Trip and all of whom bitterly remember the lopsided defeats which the Spartans handed the Irish in 1956 and 1957.
Last Saturday’s win out on the West coast was paid for at a great price. Of course the loss of Pottios for an indefinite time cannot help but weaken the Irish both offensively and defensively. In the Purdue game, after Purdue’s quarterback Ross Fichtner had run the rollout play for 50 yards in three plays, Coach Kuharich assigned Pottios the job of covering the enemy quarterback on rollouts. From this point on the rollout was ineffective.
FULLBACK SITUATION CRITICAL
Jim Crotty, probably the most consistent runner on the team, will probably miss tomorrow’s game also. Geny Gray looked impressive against California but he suffered a concussion. So Frank Gargiulo will probably see plenty of action tomorrow. This situation leaves the fullback corps dangerously thin. If Norb Roy’s ankle is in good shape, the guard spot should be adequate.
Right now the injury situation is most critical. Any crippling injuries against the Spartans tomorrow would be devastating. It is amazing to me that injuries, the headache of a college coach, are much less of a problem in pro football. Many players go season after season without missing a game, even with those 270-pound linemen.
On the brighter side of the fence, Izo and Mack should be in top form tomorrow. The poise with which Izo stiff-armed an onrushing California lineman while throwing a touchdown pass to Bob Scarpitto at the same time was very impressive. Izo is still as accurate as ever. His presence will prevent the defense from using a seven-man line and hence increase the effectiveness of Scarpitto, Mack, Sefcik and Dabiero to the outside.
MACK NOT FULLY EFFECTIVE
Although he tackled as hard as ever, Mack seemed a bit hesitant on offense against the Bears. But with a full week of contact the “Road Runner,” as his teammates have labeled him, should be as sharp as ever.
In both wins this year the Irish have looked very impressive the first half, only to have a barrage of penalties mar their second half effort. Perhaps this can be attributed to the overanxiousness and lack of poise of a sophomore team. If the Irish are going to beat Michigan. State tomorrow and if they are going to become a mature team, they must learn to maintain the pressure throughout the game. The really good team is the one which wins going away. If Coach Kuharich’s gridders are going to win the dose games, they’ve got to be a fourth quarter team.—T. R.
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
ARMY-NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
SPECIAL—A Used Alpaca Lined
Parka—Only 57.95
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
N ABICHT CAFETERIA
REASONABLE PRICES
A
1415 Lincoln Way West
SHIRTS EXPERTLY LAUNDERED 5 for $1.00
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
Air Force over Oregon Texas over Arkansas Pennsylvania over Brown UCLA over California Syracuse over Holy Cross Illinois over Minnesota Indiana over Nebraska Iowa over Wisconsin LSU over Kentucky North Carolina over Maryland Notre Dame over Michigan State Northwestern over Michigan Oklahoma over Missouri Penn State over Boston University Pittsburgh over West Virginia Southern Methodist over Rice USC over Washington Tennessee over Alabama
GAME OF THE WEEK
Auburn over Georgia Tech
UPSET OF THE WEEK
Ohio State over Purdue
LAST WEEK
13 right, six wrong, one tie 68.4 per cent
TOTALS TO DATE
26 right, 12 wrong, two ties 68.4 per cent
Kampus Keglers Begin New Bowling Campaign
Operating under the direction of a new set of officers and the control of a new constitution, the Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame opened their 1959-60 season last week. Despite a four month layoff from league competition, the keglers appeared in peak form as the high scores of the week indicate.
The Kampus Keglers Klub officers for this season will be: Ed Silliman, president; Dan Halloran, vice-president; Ron Dvorak, secretary; and Jim Flannery, treasurer. Each of the Kampus Kegler leagues will be managed by a secretarytreasurer. Barry Merril, John Rafferty, Joe King and Fred Hoey are in charge of the Red, White, Blue and Yellow leagues respectively.
At present there are only four Kegler leagues, but the officers are endeavoring to form a fifth league at 6:30 p.m. on Fridays. Anyone, teams or individuals, interested in bowling in this league should contact Ron Dvorak, 258 Dillon, or appear at the Notre Dame alleys tonight at 6:15 p.m.
As was the custom last year, the Scholastic ■will carry a synopsis of the week’s bowling scores along with a short column dealing with the happenings down under the Notre Dame Bookstore.
The Stars of the Week portion of this column will give a rundown on the leading teams and the top bowlers in each league, with the emphasis being placed on the top series and games rolled during the previous week.
'	—Ed Silliman
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Tenth Year
I
V'-
r
H
4.’
i
J
•	1,500 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
•	See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
•
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel

24
The Scholastic
MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE
All Airline Reservations Anywhere at No Extra Cost
•
LA SALLE HOTEL SOUTH BEND CE 2-2253 — PHONES — CE 3-1181 Open Saturdays
>.> Millions of times a year drivers and students keep awake with safe NoDoz
Let NoDoz® alert you through college, too
NoDoz keeps you alert with caffeine—the same pleasant stimulant you enjoy in coffee. Faster, handier, more reliable: nonhabit-forming NoDoz delivers an accurate amount of dependable stimulation to keep your mind and body alert during study and exams until you can rest or sleep.
P. S.: When you need NoDoz, it’ll probably be late. Play safe. Keep a supply handy.
The safe stay awake tablet— available everywhere
Keglers' Korner
Kampus Keglers—Red Detroit Club “C” .......... 4	0
Glee Club “A” ............. 3	1
Five J’s .................. 3	1
Rochester Club ............ 3	1
Averages: Don Dvorak, 199; Ron Dvorak, 190; Walt Hill, 165.
Kampus Keglers—White Firehouse Five ............ 4	0
Sixty-Niners .............. 4	0
The FFGR ................... 4	0
Averages: Don Prairie, 178; Terry Beacon, 170; Earl Mossner, 168.
Kampus Keglers—Blue Detroit Club	“A” .......... 4	0
Handycappers .............. 3	1
Fouls ..................... 3	1
Detroit Club	“B” .......... 3	1
Averages: Fred Hoey, 190; John Sears, 184; Bud Franz, 172.
Kampus Keglers—Yellow Shady Grove All-Stars ..... 4 0
Latin Lovers .............. 4	0
Cleveland Club ............ 4 0
Lucky Strikes ............. 4	0
Averages: M. Kubia, 195; M. Daley, 180; T. Nekis, 177.
EXCLUSIVE
NOTRE DAME DANCE CLASSES
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
CE 2-3339
October 16, 1959
25
summer in
by DAVID O’BRIEN
David O’Brien, writer of this week’s “Back Page” is a senior history major from Pittsfield, Mass. Last summer O’Brien attended the annual Institute of World Affairs, a seminar of students from various foreign nations.
In this article O’Brien discusses some of the problems which arose at this conference, some from a viewpoint quite different from that we usually hear.
An organization known as the Institute of World Affairs this summer held its thirty-fifth annual seminar in international relations. Forced in 1939 to abandon the Institute’s original home in Geneva, Switzerland, the sessions are now held in a scenic section of rural New England: Twin Lakes of the Connecticut Berkshires. Each summer students from all sections of the free world gather in this peaceful setting to spend seven weeks living together and exchanging ideas. Through these last three and one-half decades the Institute has sought to promote the cause of world peace through international understanding. This year thirty-nine young men and women from twenty-one countries met under the direction of Dr. Arthur Smithies, professor of economics at Harvard University. The title of the seminar was, “A Search for Peace in a World of Tensions.” In order to give themselves a framework for discussion, however, the students decided to concentrate on the problems of E.U.C.’s (Economically Underdeveloped Countries).
PERSONAL CONTACT
The idea of personal contact to increase student realization of the nature and scope of international affairs is an important concept. The reasoning which should lead us to an interested awareness of world problems is clear and forceful and has been presented to us many times. Unfortunately, however, the speeches of our leaders and the often dull newspaper accounts of seemingly distant events do little to stimulate this consciousness. It seems that we awaken to the weight and immediacy of world problems only under two sets of circumstances. The first occurs when a particularly important event presents itself to us in a dramatic setting: thus, the Hungarian Revolution made a greater impression on American students than any event of recent years. The second circumstance occurs when a particular problem is presented to us in a personalized situation.
It is this second characteristic upon which the Institute of World Affairs is based: a sympathetic understanding of
26
the forces at work in the world can significantly be promoted by personal contact of students from diverse backgrounds. Illustrations from this year’s seminar- may support this belief.
The impression a person has acquired of Arab nationalism from a New York Times analysis is bound to be radically altered when he hears the case presented by a pretty Lebanese girl or a Jordanian boy who studies at the University of Arizona — particularly when these people are his friends. Anticolonialism ceases to be regarded as the misguided emotion of an ignorant mob when one becomes the companion of a young Pakistani newspaperman, who can recall his father being dragged off to prison in the middle of the night by British soldiers for the crime of desiring and working for his country’s freedom. The Korean graduate of the University of California, already, at 26, a veteran of five years in the Korean army, including combat at the age of 17, and the young Argentine lawyer who fought in the revolution against Peron bring to their companions the surprising realization that there do exist people willing to fight, and even to die, for their country and their freedom.
MULTIFEROUS PROBLEMS
As for the E.U.C.s themselves, many questions were raised concerning their present policies and future prospects. The problems faced by these countries are by no means identical but analysis suggested much that was common. Lack of capital and technology and untapped or inadequate resources are problems which all must solve. All are experiencing in some degree an ideological and spiritual vacuum brought about by the conflict of traditional and Western cultures. Almost all face the problem of establishing political stability in order to carry on a long range program of development. AU feel the pressures of the cold war and their response is conditioned by past experiences and present needs.
In the economic realm it was found that all these nations have a very strong desire to develop as rapidly as possible. The reasons why this is so are manifold and complex. Part of the answer is to be found in the sphere of international economy, where power and prestige are measured by the extent of economic growth. The backward country is often at the mercy of external trade conditions and the trade policies , of the more advanced nations. The E.U.C.S feel that the only way to survive as free and independent states is to develop a high de-
Connecticut
gree of economic self-sufficiency. This feeling is supported on the national level where the challenge of self-government and the intense feeling of nationalism combine to further strengthen the drive to develop.
The problems which these nations face appear at times to be insurmountable. The success of Western medical techniques has led to a population explosion of astronomical proportions, making economic development not only desirable, but imperative. The growth of the Chinese economy has convinced many that communist methods hold the best means of assuring development. While unwilling at the present time to make the sacrifice of human and traditional values which a Communist system implies, they may be forced to do so in the face of mounting population pressures.
The aforementioned lack of capital and technology have led to a dependence on the more advanced nations. This dependence raises very difficult problems. As the seminar report states: “the relation of helper and helped is a most difficult one ... To restrict the element of inequality solely to the disparity of wealth while maintaining a complete political equality is one of the most difficult states to achieve in both human relations and international relations.”
OUT OF THE DARKNESS
The situation of the E.U.C.s (and perhaps of mankind in general) was illustrated by the seminar in the final section of the report by means of an image. Pictured is a cave, projecting from the dark water. A small boat is floating in front of the cave. A man stands in the boat, armed with only a small oar. He must pass through the cave to reach the light beyond. He stretches his hand to the darkness—rto the unknown. Whether he can pass through the cave is unclear to us. Whether he can phrase and answer questions about the darkness, the light and the voyage is unclear.
“We think perhaps he can; we know he will try. . . . Being convinced of the human creativity by the rich heritage of the countries we have studied, we anticipate the future, if not with radiating optimism, so at least with interest. We anticipate tomorrow, if not with assurance that the peace which fathers human creativity — and the unity which shares it — is likely to be gained and kept, so at least with a determination compounded of hope and opportunity that it will be.”
The Scholastic
I see a brilliant

future for you
Week—NBC TV—sponsored by ARROW.
^1^0^
To carry out this prediction and see you through college into the graduate world—Arrow recommends the sturdy good looks of Basketweave oxford cloth. This luxurious “Sanforized” fabric promises perfect fit, lasting comfort. Carefully tailored with the flattering, arched buttondown collar.
$5.00.
years of distinctive wear in Arrow Oxford Cloth
Our new Arrows have everything you want in a shirt—the perfect fitting collar, in favorite buttondown and other collar styles—quality '‘Sanforized” fabric, in white, solids, and classic stripes—and above all, the oustanding workmanship typical of Arrow. $5.00.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
-fAa/- cou^/s/
FILTER-BLEND upfront!
FILTER-BLEND
If you’re a Winston smoker, you fcnow that the big difference in filter smoking is ahead of the filter. It’s FILTER-BLEND, the Winston secret of tobaccos specially selected and specially processed for filter smoking. FILTER-BLEND up front is a mighty good reason for anybody to smoke Winston. So, next time you buy cigarettes, enjoy America’s best-selling filter cigarette!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
WINSTON TASTES GOOD like a cigarette should 1