
^he cNotre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
EDITORIAL
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Acting Editor-in-Chief
RALPH ABELL
Associate Editor, Marines
EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
HAROLD BERLINER -BILL WADDINGTON -DICK MURPHY BOB O'TOOLE
Managing Editor
Sports Editor Circulation Promotion
"Scholastic" Under New Editor
Due to the withdrawal, last week, of Dave Condon from the University to assume a full-time position with the South Bend Tribune, the Scholastic was left without an editor-in-chief. A slight alteration in the existing editorial staff had to be made to meet this condition.
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty advisor for the magazine, announced that Al Lesmez, junior in aeronautical engineering from Jackson Heights, N. Y., would take over the duties of editor, pro-tem. Harry Berliner, senior, of the College of Law, was named new managing-editor.
Ever since the coming of the service to the campus, the Scholastic has continually seen many changes. It has passed through a rather crucial period, but due to the intelligent handling by those in charge, it has come out of this crucial period in good form.
There are problems existing, however, that require more cooperation. The Scholastic claims that it cannot continue to be a true representative of the various groups on campus without a more active participation by the members of these groups in reporting what is of interest. There is great need for men who are interested in writing; men who want to acquire experience in reporting. The Scholastic invites these men to attend its meetings Sundays through Tuesdays at 7:30.
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -
LIEUT. a.G.) J. I. COLLINS
JIM CASEY -
JIM REGAN
BILL CARNAHAN
ROBERT RIORDAN
JIM FENNELLY
Observations Know Your Navy The Green Banner Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters
NEWS STAFF
THOMAS PAYNE
ARTHUR WAGNER
STEVE LOYACANO
BILL THOMPSON
JOHN KNUDSON
BOB STEVENSON
CHUCK RUSS
DON FORGAYS
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member. of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 121 Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
2
Congratulations
Aside from the excellent sportsmanship on the part of the Bengal finalists, and of the cooperation of the various groups to make this affair a truly entertaining one, there was something else that night that will be remembered by the hundreds who attended.
The reception which the three Chinese .soldiers received on entering the Old Gym is something to be remembered; something of which to feel proud.'It was a gesture that demands respect, and everyone who helped with the option is to be congratulated. As the Chinese officers themselves expressed it, it is this quality and this spontaneousness and good-will that has made them love America.
In the recent visit of Col. Carlos P. Romulo, of the Philippine Islands, something of the very same nature occurred, and backstage the beaming colonel expressed his extreme pleasure at such an outward show, of respect and acknowledgment. One solitary figure had risen right after the colonel had completed his talk, and shouted at the top of his voice: “He’s a man.”
It is these simple shows of inward emotion that inspire. And aside from inspiring, creates friendship. and good-will.
'	' —-Al Lesmez
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 81
MAY 5, 1944
NO. 7
Engineers Dance Tonight to Art Kavelin
250 Couples to Attend Affair at Indiana Club; Decoration Theme Novel
Chinese Bishop Paul Yu-Pin Visits Campus
By PAUL W. SMITH
By ROBERT RIORDAN
Weeks of feverish preparation and anticipation will reach a climax tonight as Al Kavelin and his “cascading chords” start “sending” for 225 Notre Dame students and their guests at the Indiana Club.
No effort has been spared by the committee to make this a superb dance. Elaborate decorations have been planned under the artistic eyes of Lou Borghi and Bill Hendrick. In accordance with the symbol of the first engineer, Mr. Borghi has made possible, a huge, antique locomotive, which will make up a major part of the decorations — revolving wheels and all!
For the graduating seniors this dance will serve in the capacity of the annual Senior Ball, and for many of the lower-classmen, who are attending. the armed forces, it will prove a fitting memory of their college days under the “Lady of the Golden Dome.”
Miss Jeanette Pape
Although prevailing conditions discourage the customary white ties and tails, this affair is evidence that ihe engineers’ efforts can also be successfully applied to social functions.
Miss Jeanette Pape of Lorain, Ohio, will be queen of the Ball, being guest of general chairman Raymond V. Smith. Chairman Smith has devoted much time to handling the various details of the Ball and these efforts are expected to be well rewarded in a “never-to-be-forgotten” evening.
George Charters, publicity chairman, will have Miss Julia Case of Chicago as his guest and the head of the transportation committee, Matt Bajorek, will escort Miss Gloria Bates of South Bend.
Tickets were placed on sale last Friday at §3.90 in Sorin Hall. Mr. Bob Dunn and his ticket committee deserve much credit for the success of the Ball, for it was indicated that about 225 couples will be present.
Al Kavelin and his 12-piece orchestra will come from such well known spots as the Rio Cabana Club in Chicago and the Blackstone Hotel in New York.
South Bend residents will- be asked to , help make the Ball a success by refraining from using taxicabs during the times that they will be most needed by the Ball goers. The Ball itself will start at 9 o’clock.
Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, has granted two o’clock permissions for the night of the Ball, and 12:30 on Saturday evening. For those who find it possible, the use of cars will be permitted for the week-end, providing that the cars are registered with the prefect of discipline’s office. And so the stage is set; the rest is up to the Ball goer.
China, because of her conviction in morality and belief in the brotherhood of man, is logically one of America’s leading partners in the assurance of a world peace, according to Bishop Paul Yu-Pin prominent Chinese religious and social leader, in his address to the students and faculty of Notre Dame in Washington Hall on Sunday night.
Bishop Yu-Pin, who has studied politics and social conditions in Europe, the United States, and China, spoke on “China’s Crucial Role in the World Today,” stating that a just and lasting peace must be based on “morality and the brotherhood of man.”
The Chinese as a nation, the bishop stated, have a firm conviction in morality in politics, economics, and diplomacy. China was the only nation to formally protest the partitioning of Poland by Russia; and Generalissimo Chiang has repeatedly told his staff that unless they fight for justice, their struggles are in vain. The bishop also stated that the Chinese as individuals are firm believers in the brotherhood of man, regardless of their religion. As evidence of this belief the bishop pointed out that 60 million Chinese evacuating from the coast into western China “shared their bread, and shared their suffering.”
The bishop reminded his audience that full employment and full production are requisite to peaceful living, and that China’s 500 million citizens will, in postwar times, be a broad and diverse market for American products. “The Chinese people have been customers of Japan for some time, but they would rather be the customers of the United States,” he said.
China was the first nation to fight .the aggressor nations, and has been fighting them for many years, the bishop pointed
(Continued on page 27) .
Death of Secretary Knox Shocks U.S.
Entire Campus Holds Memorial Services While Flag Flies at Half-Mast .
On Monday afternoon, at 1630, all hands of the naval station on the campus repaired to the Navy drill hall for memorial services in honor of the late Secretary of the Navy, Frank Knox. Captain J. Bichard Barry, commanding officer of the Naval station eulogized Mr. Knox, and Chaplain William Craddick offered prayers. Fr. O’Donnell was also present.
After reading a telegram from the Bureau of Navy Personnel, Captain Barry lauded the late Mr. Knox for the part he had played in building up America’s great Navy. In the course of his eulogy, Captain Barry read a message from the Commander-in-Chief of the United States Fleet, Admiral Ernest J-King, as follows:
“When Frank Knox died, the nation lost a great patriot, the Navy a great leader. The Navy will long remember his strength and confidence during the critical days of the war; and his drivingforce, his foresight and his wisdom during the better days that followed. But most of all, we shall remember his deep devotion and loyalty to his Navy and his Country. His leadership will ever serve as an inspiration to the nation’s men and women, in and out of uniform. He understood the Navy, not only its problems, its achievements, and its personnel, but also
Rev. Hu?h O'Donnell, C.S.C.
its shortcomings. Of all his great qualities, I should place first his stout and valiant heart. He was a strong and fearless fighter and he always fought fairly for his convictions. Throughout the war, he has been a stout reliance of all those charged with the conduct of military operations. Every man and woman in the Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, will sorely miss him. All hands bow our heads in deep esteem and heartfelt sorrow. He has given his life for his country. We say to him, ‘Well done, Frank Knox.’ We dedicate ourselves, one and all, to what would surely have been his last order, ‘Carry on’.”
On hearing of the death of Secretary Knox, telegrams of sympathy were sent to Mrs. Knox, to Vice-Admiral Jacobs, and to Acting-Secretary Forrestal, by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University. At the funeral, in Washington, D.C., the University was represented by William J. Cronin, executive assistant to the Postmaster General, Frank C. Walker. At the same time, Father O’Donnell issued the following statement : -
“Helped Notre Dame Cooperate"
“Notre Dame will always hold the Honorable Frank Knox in grateful memory. His death last week ended a happy association that began when as Secretary of the Navy he was largely instrumental in establishing the N. R. O. T. C. on our campus—the first of many links with the Navy Department that have helped No-' tre Dame to cooperate more fully in the war effort. Mr. Knox was an occasional visitor to the University, for which he had more than a passing appreciation. Frequently, he expressed a deep interest in her welfare.
“In his chosen field of journalism, he achieved distinction by dint of hard work and self-discipline. As a patriot who served in the Spanish-American War, World War I, and the present conflict, he proved his eagerness to serve his country at any personal sacrifice. As we extend our sympathy to his devoted wife, we ask the Lord to have mercy on his generous soul.” .	.
Colors on the campus were displayed at half mast from the announcement of the death until the time of interment.
Had Active Life
Frank Knox was born in Boston, Mass., attended public schools in Grand Rapids, and was graduated from Alma College with the degree of A.B. On June 4, 1898 he enrolled in the First Regiment U. S. Volunteer Cavalry, known in history as the “Rough Riders.” With that distinguished organization, he participated in the actions of the Spanish-American War. After that war, he entered the field of journalism, and in 1903, ' became publisher of the Sault Ste. Marie Evening News. In 1912, he established the Manchester Leader and later became publisher of the Manchester Union Leader. During World War One, he served in France as major in the 303d Ammunition Train of the 78th Division, participating in the St. Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne offensives. After being transferred to the Field Artillery Reserve, he was promoted on Oct. 15, 1923, to lieutenantcolonel, Officers Reserve Staff Corps, and in July, 1937 to the rank of colonel.
Colonel Knox’s outstanding career in journalism included successively the office of general manager of the Hearst newspapers, publisher of the Hearst Boston newspapers, and since 1931, publisher of the Chicago Daily News. On July 11, 1940, Col. Knox took the oath of office as Secretary of the Navy.
Capt. J. Richard Barry, U.S.N.
4
New Short Story Anthology Honors Four Faculty Members as Midwestern Authors
since 1939. He taught at the College of St. Thomas before coming to teach at Notre Dame, and taught also at Saint Catherine’s college, St. Paul, Minn., and at the University of Minnesota.
Four faculty members of the University shared honors last week, in the publication of Out of the Midivest, an anthology of short stories edited by John T. Frederick who, for many years, was professor of English on the campus, and now on leave of absence.
Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C.
Besides the author and compiler of the volume, the three other faculty men honored in the publication are: Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., Professor Richard Sullivan, and Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
Mr. Sullivan, whose story “The Women” appears in the anthology, is the author of the novels Summer After Summer, and Dark Continent, and has written short stories for the Atlantic Monthly, Columbia, Scribners’, Thb New Republic, Mademoiselle, Accent, and the Nezu Yorker. “The Women” was also chosen to appear in the 1943 edition of O’Brien’s Best Short Stoz-ies.
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
“New Neighbors Looking for Land” is the selection of the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., in Out of the Midivest. Father Ward’s contribution is taken from his book, Holding Up the Hills. Professor of philosophy at Notre Dame; he is president of the American Catholic Philosophical Association, and has written The Philosophy of Values, and Values of Reality. He has also written God Izi An Irish Kitchen, and Nova Scotia, Land of Cooperatives.
Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., head of the English department at Notre Dame, is represented in the new anthology by his “Black Purple In the Corn.” In addition to short story writing, he collaborated with Mr. Frederick on Good Writing, which appeared in 1934, and Reading for Writing, which appeared in 1935.
Prof. Richard Sullivan
Mr. Frederick, now on leave of absence from Notre Dame, has been a member of the faculty since 1930. For the past six years he has broadcast a weekly program, “Of Men and Books,” over a national hook-up. He is the former editor of The Midland, a post which he held for 18 years. He has also taught at Northwestern, State Teacher’s College, Moorhead, Minn., University of Pittsburgh, and the State University of Iowa.
John T. Frederick
Front-page reviews in both the Chicago Tribune and the Chicago Sun Sunday book sections were accorded the anthology on its appearance last week.
Prof. Birder is Guest
Last Thursday, Prof. Cecil Birder, head of the speech department at the University, was a guest at the inauguration ceremonies of'Rev. .Vincent J. Flynn, new president of the CoHege of Saint Thomas, St. Paul, Minn.
Mr. Birder is a graduate of Notre Dame, and has been with the faculty
Bishop O'Hara Confirms Twenty-seven on Campus
Twenty-three civilians, marine and naval trainees at the University, and four civilian nurses from St. Joseph’s hospital, South Bend, were confirmed, last Saturday morning, in Sacred Heart Church, by Most. Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., military delegate, and former president of the University. ;
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara. C.S.C.. D.D.
Included in the group were two wearers of the Purple Heart award, Louis E. Scott, a member of the marine corps reserve, and William George Pearson, a -member of the naval reserve.
The event marked th$ second occasion on which Bishop O’Hara has administered the Sacrament to military groups on the campus.
Veteran Placement Setup
Thomas F. Byrne, president of the Alumni association, announced this week of the formation of a committee within the Alumni association of the University to study the personnel placement activities.
The committee will aim to outline a program for veterans returning from military service. Bernard J. Voll, of South Bend, heads this committee, and points out that the Alumni association has been active in personnel "work since 1938 when a placement bureau was formed. The committee will review what has already been accomplished by this bureau and make recommendations for its future operation.
5
News of rather Dupuis Reaches N.D. Through Delayed Dispatch from the Pacific Theater
(The following story was written by Captain William P. McCahill, of 340 S. Highland, Pitts-bunrh. Pa., a Marine Corps Public Relations Officer and former Milwaukee newspaperman.)
An Advanced Pacific Base, Easter Sunday—(Delayed)—To the Marines of the Fourth Division, the celebration of the newly-risen Christ had new meaning this year. Besting here after their invasion of the Marshalls, these Marines
Rev. J. M. Dupuis. C.S.C.
tempered their Easter joy with a sober sorrow in memory of their comrades now buried on the narrow sand spit between Roi and Namur.
Whether in the windswept chapel tents with decks of dirt or in the beautiful, ahnost-like-home churches of this island, chaplains and ministers alike stopped in their telling of the Easter story to ask for prayers for the men left behind.
At a nearby Protestant Church a kindly and venerable minister of God held services for pew after pew of Marines.
Back at camp the otherwise drab church tents took on new spirit in the riot of white flowers banked on the altars. Some Masses were celebrated within the Camp area, and half as many Protestant services. The division newspapers devoted two front page columns (Continued on page 15)
4./.E.E Business Meeting
The last meeting of the student branch of A.I.E.E. was held Monday, April 24. The business meeting was held before Mr. George Mayoral gave a talk on Aircraft Ignition Systems. Plans for the Engineers Ball were discussed, and Robert Meulman was appointed to organize some softball teams. James Maguire was appointed as official representative of the A.I.E.E. to the student council. Since Jim Sixsmith, former vice-chairman of the organization, had left school, Chuck Sar-tore, junior from Memphis, Tenn., was appointed to fill the office.
Mr. Mayoral was well qualified to give his talk since he has been leased to'the Studebaker Aviation Corporation for the past year. The chief point of his talk was the consideration of spark plugs as diodes operating in a gaseous field instead of operating in a vacuum. He also spoke on magnetos, and on the effect of high altitude on electrical wiring. Mr. Mayoral emphasized the close relationship between the field of aviation and the power field of electrical engineering.
May Brings Hymns at the Grotto After Supper
Aero Club Holds Meeting
Perhaps one of the clubs that has received the least publicity, but which nevertheless continues its work of holdinginteresting and educational meetings is a group which boasts the largest membership among the engineering societies on campus, the Aero Club. Some 60 members are enrolled, and although this is a most impressive figure, possibilities exist for an even larger membership.
Last Wednesday the club held its meeting, showing a movie of the production methods of light construction planes. There were free smokes to all those attending (some took a few back to their room-mates) and there were soft drinks and cookies to go around.
President Bob Dunn opened the meeting officially, while Vice President Jim Dugan assisted. Fred Fahrendorf, secretary-treasurer, read the minutes and told the club that the financial aspects of the club were “healthy.”
Senior Phil Myers, of South Bend then presented a paper on the intricacies of the smoke tunnel, emphasizing in particular, the two smoke tunnels which are the property of the University aeronautical department, and on which he, and Mr. Frank N. M. Brown, faculty director of the club, and head of the aero department, have worked. He has been assisting Mr. Brown in numerous experiments and was thus in a good position to be of worth in this presentation.
The club later formed a softball team which promises to be one of the real threats of the coming “Student Council Series,” and it complimented its bowling team for placing second in the present league.
Editor Bill Hannon, of the Burble, asked for a few reporters to take the place of departing men, and then the meeting was formally closed.
Churches and chapels alike, both Protestant and Catholic, were crowded beyond capacity. At camp the overflow groups stood silently as showers came and went during the services. In the nearby towns the natives were outnumbered and almost lost in the surge of khaki that came to pay tribute to their God.	*
At one stately Catholic church Marines of the artillery regiment formed a guard of honor and marched between rows of weapons but lately used in battle. Their chaplain, Father James Finnigan, of 314 Walnut Street, Peekskill, N. Y., assisted by Rev. John M. DuPuis, C.S.C., of Notre Dame University, now with the engineers, celebrated a solemn high mass.
6
Knights of Columbus Exemplify Patriot Degree
A class of more than 160 received the
Fourth Degree of the Knights of Columbus in an exemplification held Sunday
afternoon, in the Indiana club. The initiation was preceded by a formal ball on Saturday evening; and on Sunday evening a reunion dinner was held in honor of the newly initiated. .
Indiana State Master, 0. D. Dorsey, of Laporte, supervised the program. Chairman of the affair was Mr. Bernard O’Neill. The initiation marked the largest class in Indiana ever to receive the pa
triotic degree. The last time South Bend was host to the reunion and exemplification was in February, 1924. The degree • team," Sunday, consisted of Supreme Master Galvin; Rev. Paul A. Deery, pastor of the Old Cathedral parish in Vincennes, Ind.; Judge Dan C. Flanagan of the Indiana state appellate court, Indianapolis; State Deputy Henry Hasley, of Fort Wayne; C. Byron Hayes of Fort Wayne; Gilbert E, Powell, past state deputy of the Knights of Columbus of New Albany, and W. James Mallon, state marshal and treasurer, of Michigan City.
Principal speakers at the dinner, Sunday evening were: Harold S. Vance, chairman of the board of directors of the Studebaker corporation, and Timothy P. Galvin, of Hammond, Ind. The musical part of the program was under the direction of Prof. Louis W. Peil, professor of music at the Fort Wayne cathedral.
Campus .members admitted to the ranks of the Fourth Degree included: Rev. Cornelius J. Hooyboer, C.S.C., Rev. Walter McInerney, C.S.C., Brother Mein- . rad, C.S.C., Thomas Halligan, Ben Mam-mina and Bernard Teah.
"Irish Pennant" off Press
Today the May number of the Irish Pennant, official organ of the NROTC on the campus, is being distributed.
• The magazine is published every six weeks, and contains in addition to the news of the unit, all the gossip current in the USS Walsh.	_
Featured in the May issue, is a story about Notre Dame’s first naval hero, John Henry Shillington, who went down with the Battleship Maine in 1898.
Editors of the Pennant are Harry J. Gilligan and Joseph D. Usina.
V-12 "Weekend Maneuvers” Tickets on Sale Tonight; Bids $3.75 for Weekend
By ARTHUR L. WAGNER. USNR
Three weeks from tonight the V-12 Ball will inaugurate “Week-End” Maneuvers,” the first three-day festivity of the Notre Dame V-12 Unit. Bids for this event will go on sale tonight, and since only a limited number will be sold, trainees are advised to purchase them as soon as possible — first come, first served.
TICKETS WILL BE SOLD
Friday afternoon, at the American Trust Bank for Navy V-12's; in pay line for Marines.
AND Throughout next week at zero deck of the cafeteria.
Jerry Wald and his 19-piece orchestra, well known to those who freqeunt Chicago’s famed Panther Room, the West Coast along Wilkshire Way, and to New Yorkers at the Ice Terrace of the Hotel New Yorker, will also be known ’to every seaman and marine aboard. Columbia and N.B.C. channels have frequently aired his theme from the better clubs about the country. In an amazingly brief span of months,
Lieut. J. J. Collins, Welfare and Recreational Director; Private Thomas Young. General Chairman, Week-end Maneuvers; Seaman William Ferrick, General Chairman of the V-12 Ball.	.
Jerry Wald has risen to fame in the musical world. The critics like his clarinet, and dancers like his smooth sax section. He has styled his orchestra after Artie Shaw. Wald will bring along an adept little songstress by the name of Ginny Powell, who has played a large part in the orchestra’s success.
When each trainee gets his ticket he will receive a printed invitation to send to his date. Favors and programs will be distributed at the Ball. Saturday morning a military review will be held as scheduled to afford- the guests an opportunity to see the trainees on parade.
According to the questionnaire which was distributed, a great number of those who are going to the Ball are in favor of the picnic and the tea dance. The picnic, which is to be held at Pot-towotamie Park, will begin at 4:30 Saturday afternoon. Games and contests of various kinds will provide entertainment until 6:15, at which time, weiners and soft drinks will be served. After dark, the stage will be set for a show, “Nights and Daze.” A 16-piece orchestra is to be featured. After the program the night will still be young, and indi-
’	(Continued on page 29)
7
gXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXZXXXXXXXZXXXXXXXXX
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
recital in the drill hall. Johnny Fleaka, catcher for the Politicians, and the La Raza sluggers, tried to save home plate, but finally lost the decision to a group of music lovers in a 1931 Chevrolet.
TOP HATS TONIGHT .
Headlining the events, this week, is the Engineers’ Ball, and a lot of bawling the Engineers will do if they don’t clear expenses. . . . Kindly check your slide rules at the door. . . . Two hundred-odd couples will swing out. Also a few sane ones, but not out the doors because the Prefect of Discipline will lock the entrances at ten o’clock and re-open the doors when the dance is over. . . . Who’s turn is it to report him to the fire commissioner? O.K., “Tree,” that’s your job. . . . Some of the boys are importing dates, and some are dragging from St. Marv’s. A. few of the lads are having a terrible time finding a girl who will buy a ticket. . . . It’s a semi-formal dance, Coleman, but the Committee in charge would appreciate your wearing a shirt underneath your sweater. . . . ’Tis said that the modern wall flower is the girl who dances all the time, tsk, tsk. . . . With the increase in liquor tax, the University has decided that it would be easier on our finances if drinks containing alcohol were not served. The students will be pleased to know that the University is looking after their financial welfare. ... Al Kavalin will play for the dancers; his band will be along assisting him. . . . The corsage is always a problem, especially for those attend-" ing the Engineers’ Ball and the spring formal at St. Mary’s tomorrow night. Creighty Miller believes he has a solution to this problem. “Send artificial flowers,” says he. . . . Well, the dance should be good for a lot of laughs. Here’s wishing you luck in the race for cabs.
❖
THE DOCTOR'S ADVICE
“Doc” Gillespie says: “The spinal column is a long bunch of bones. The head sits on top; and.you sit on the bottom.” In regard to breathing, he claims that, “Respiration is a handy thing to know how to do, especially if you live some distance from a doctor.” He also has a cure-all for toothaches, and he gladly gives the following advice to Panner; . readers free of charge: “Take a mouthful of cold water, and sit on the stove unti it boils.”	,
~ ~
• HOUSECLEANING TIME
The maid asked Lou Borghi if he would like for her to beat the dirt out
of the small rug beneath the sink in his room. Lou said: “That’s no rug; that’s my roommate’s towel.” . . . It’s all right, Freeland; if you had another towel, you’d probably have a luxury tax placed on it.
CAFE SOCIETY
In the cafe, the other day, one of the profs was overheard saying: “The trouble with most freshmen is that they think the University is a place to come to and play. This also applies to the sophomores, juniors, and seniors.”
IN THE LATIN QUARTER
The La Raza Club will have a well-balanced ball club out on the diamond, when the campus softball league gets under way. In a practice game, Monday evening, with the Sorin Politicians, they had the game tied up with two-down and the bases loaded, in the last of the fourth. But the game had to be called because the ball field behind the . Chemistry building on which they were playing was being used as a parking lot for the patrons of Vivien Della Chiesa’s
Is there anything else you don't quite understand about politics—or anything?
BELIEVE IT OR NOT
Larry Reynolds, Frank McManus, and Frank Goodman, all. Sorin seniors, were filling out employment applications last Tuesday aftenoon, but ran into some difficulty until they borrowed Tony Bristol’s dictionary. They were not sure of how to spell “competent.”
HERE AND THERE
We wonder if Ziggy Czarobski has been elected mayor of Parris Island yet. . . . Staff Serg. Leo Rumley, ex. ’44, was on campus last week-end. . . . Who’s the lad who portrays the “Hunchback of Notre Dame” in Breen-Phillips? And how many pinkies -will you receive? Nice going, Murph — the girl friend came all the way from St. Louis, and you spend the week-end in Chicago. ... A new • campus band is being organized; the feature attraction will be four vocalists. . . . Frank Kent is off his latest “campus” . and odds are being placed as to how long his new-found freedom will last. . . . Bob Meenan, Harry Ryan’s roommate in St. Ed’s, expects to enter Annapolis with the next class. Your
(Continued on Page 30)
St. Mary's "Mixer" is a Huge Success
A movement, instigated some weeks ago to better the social-relations between Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame, has met with the approval of several interested groups on the campus, and has produced gratifying results. Last Sunday afternoon one of the most successful “mixers” in many years lured more than 150 trainees to St. Mary’s Social Hall. George Finn’s band provided music for
the occasion, while student talent improvised entertainment. From the opening downbeat until the final strains of Sol Perez’s rendition of “Stardust,” there was never a dull moment. Two novelty dances, the blindman’s shuffle, and a clever dance trading set were equally popular innovations.
The smooth arrangements of George Finn’s music-makers, piano renditions by Johnny Clark, the ballad crooning of Sol Perez, and the clever repartee of K. C. Snyder, M.C. extraordinary, added variety throughout the afternoon, and created a definite mood in the Social Hall.
The success of the dance was a compliment to the initiative of several groups on campus. The program was promoted jointly by the V-12 Ball Committee and the Student Council at St. Mary’s. The V-12 Ball Committee represented in its personnel members from several other campus organizations who were eager to lend assistance to the project. But success in the undertaking was largely due to the generous cooperation which these men received from the St. Mary’s Student Council.
x Thus far, two more “mixers” have been scheduled for May, one of them designed especially for civilians. Details will appear in future issues of the Scholastic.—Seaman Jack Keleher
THE DANCE IS THE THING
Yes, tonight at 9 sharp the Indiana Club will open its doors to welcome students and theii- guests to a bigger and better- Engineers’ Ball. And yet this is not just another dance; in fact for many of us, it’s our last. So tonight, while you are marveling at the novel decorations (which only an engineer could dream up) and when you’re dipping to some soft melody with the one and only, think back to the other balls and cotillions and then make every minute of this one count. ...	„
WHAT WOMEN WON'T DO...
According to. the' Daily Orange, student publication at Syracuse, a certain feminine on that campus caused quite a disturbance by keeping an unusual pet locked in her closet. Suspected for some time because she carried raw hamburger to her room each night for no apparent reason (except that she said she used it to remove freckles) she was exposed one night when a tiny green tail appeared from beneath her closet door. The closet occupant was a six-inch baby alligator.
But where did she get the meat?
AND MY NAME IS CHARLES BOYER
The roadster skidded around the corner, jumped three feet in the air, knocked over a lamp post, smashed two cars, smacked a stone fence and stopped. A girl climbed out of the wreck.
“Darling,” she exclaimed, “that’s WHAT I CALL A KISS.”
WHICH HAS'NO BEARING ON THE FACT THAT:
The student (male, you dopes) at Santa Ana College have had a beard growing contest. For four weeks they suffered the ridicule of the coeds, and then came judgment day. Prizes were awarded for the best-trimmed beard, the scrawniest, and that which best resembled that of a dog with a mange.
UNCLE'S EPITAPHIO
Beneath this stone, a lump of clay Lies Uncle Peter Danniels,
Who too early in the month of May Took off his Winter flannels.
PHASKA JR.
“Who is that fellow with the long hair?”
“He’s a sophomore from Yale.”
“Oh, yes, I have often heard of those Yale locks. . . .”
‘—Indian Joke
ODE TO THE HYPOCHONDRIAC
You have two chances:
One of getting the germs and one of not
And if you get the germs
You have two chances:
One of getting the disease and one of not
And if you get the disease
You have two chances:
One of dying and one of not .
And if you die—
Well, you still have two chances. ...
—Cormorant
Switch to Postum, dearie.
ABBA DAMMA DU
Voice on the phone: “John Meyers is sick and can’t attend classes today. He requested me to notify you.”
Professor: “All right. Who is this speaking?”
The Voice: “This is my roommate.”
THERE'S ONE IN EVERY CROWD
Professor: “I won’t begin today's classes until the room settles down.”
Cosmo (from the rear): “Go home and sleep it off, old man.”
Receives Purple Heart
Midshipman Monte Hale Bradford, now in training at the University of Notre Dame Naval Reserve School, was presented with the Purple Heart medal by Captain J. Richard Barry, commandant of the school, in ceremonies on the campus, last Saturday morning.
Midshipman Bradford, a veteran of naval action against the enemy, was granted the award for wounds received last July 21 during a naval engagement. His ship received a direct hit in the action. He was fireman, first class, and had served for some time as an enlisted man in the navy. He also received a citation for meritorious service under fire in the same engagement. He. entered the midshipman school at Notre Dame last Feb. 1.
Former Student Ranks With Leading Air Aces
Lieut. Col. Francis Babreski, a student at the University from 1938 to 1940, today stands revealed as a leading American ace, and a member of one of the most famed fighter squadrons in the war —the Zemke outfit., or Wolf Pack.
At last count, when the Zemke outfit had run up a record of 347 German planes blasted from the sky, Gabreski’s score of enemy planes downed stood at an even 20. According to Stars and Stripes, the overseas newspaper for servicemen, there is only one other outfit that has come within 100 planes of the Zemke kill record, and that is the American Eagle outfit, comprised mainly of former American members of the Royal Air Force.
Col. Gabreski, who was a pre-medical student at Notre Dame and roomed in Brownson and Carroll halls while on campus, came from Oil City, Pa. After .recently completing his required number of hours in the air, Gabreski received a 50-hour extension, thus making it possible for him to better his record.
A brother of Col. Gabreski, Major Thaddeus Gabreski, also attended Notre Dame and graduated from the University in 1934. He is now on duty with the medical corps in India.
The Navy Come and Go
Chief Robert Robertson, formerly of Southern California; lately of the celebrated Bengal Bouts faculty, left the campus, this week to take up duties in the South. The amiable and athletic gentleman leaves behind a host of admirers who are grateful for his cooperation in campus programs, and for his genial personality during the many months he was stationed at Notre Dame.
On Wednesday evening, officers and their wives attended a roller-skatingparty at Playland park. Serious casualties -were kept at a minimum.
This week, a hearty welcome was extended to all the new officers who have just reported aboard, namely: Lt. (jg) I. Posdro, Lt. (jg) W. W. Woods, Ensign L. J. Om, Ensign J. R. Winship, and Ensign T. R. Hansing.
Visitor of the week on the local station might well have been Lieut. (jg) Gordon Hardy, former recreational officer at the Midshipmen’s school. Lieut. Hardy has just returned from action, and, wears campaign ribbons surmounted with three engagement stars.
Official Photo, AAF Training Command
Former teacher and student in civilian life at the University of Notre Dame. 2nd Lt. Devere T. Plunkett, '30, and AC Frederick O. “Dippy" Evans, '43, again are in the same position at the Enid, Okla., Army Air Field. Here, Lieutenant Plunkett, navigation instructor in the EAAF ground school, explains the intricacies of a navigation computer to Cadet Evans.
Fleetman Describes His 72-Hour Holiday
Wake! For the sun, who scatter’d into flight, the stars before, him from the field of night, drives night along with -them. Yes, wake to another- day, you serviceman, wherever you may be. Perhaps it may be your last. Ah, now melancholy daubs your face with grey. What is it you are thinking of — home? Yes, home. You’re remembering those Sunday mornings: a floating wisp of your mother’s voice echoed through the rooms downstairs; bounded step by step up the stairway; slipped into your room, where it tinkled musically off the walls; so gay was the melody that it drowned out the drowsy sound of sleep and you awoke. Those mornings seemed so sort of special; the sunbeams, still fresh from their Saturday night bath ( a rain shower) slid bannister-like down the long fingers of light from the sun, bounced to a stop on the floor of your room, got up and chased each other, leaped onto your bed, played hide and seek among the shadows, and some peeped into your eyes, their faces so shiny-bright that the blinds of your eyes flopped down.
And so you lie there, striding heroically and gallantly through the halls, the great rooms, and the accompanying domain of your castle in the air. What? So they are. .Your feet and toes have been ‘ incessantly moving, writhing — like a baby’s, you say.. And somehow,

$
perhaps, instinctively, perhaps because you like her so much, your mind sneaks down the stairs and stands unseen in the kitchen watching your mother fix breakfast; you tip-toe behind her; “Boo!” She squeals, half with fright and half with joy; wheels about; an eyelid arches; and in a mock-serious tone she starts to scold, but you seal her saucy lips with a kiss and say, “Hi, mom.”
Your dream-world vanishes as a crescendo of tiny explosions reaches your ears, a sound as of exploding strings of lady-finger firecrackers. Fried eggs! Breakfast must be ready! Being a rather madcap youth, you seldom do things in the orthodox way, getting out of bed is no exception; so you jam one edge of the blankets under ,your side and roll across the bed, winding up like a cigar; then thud to the floor. After unraveling yourself from the mess, you fling the sheets and blankets oh the - bed, slide your, feet into the cool recesses of a pair of moccasins and start down stairs, pausing just long enough to jab the pillow (which reminds you of a personal foe) . with a mighty right. Forget it, Mac. You’re in New York on a seventy-two hour holiday of freedom. Get up and . have a good time.
The heat of a Virginia summer day lays its fevered hands on you; streams (Continued on. page 31)
Miss Vivian Della Chiesa Stars in Concert
w	*5* **♦ ♦♦♦	& *5*
Navy Drill Hall Crowded As Singer Performs "Masterfully"
❖ The Science Library is open tom ❖
7 to 9 p. m. on Tuesdays and Thurs- ❖ ❖ days, providing a nice, quiet place ❖ ❖ to study.	❖
Before an audience of five thousand “ or more music lovers from the South Bend and Notre Dame areas — one of the largest crowds ever at Notre Dame for a single evening’s concert — Vivian Della Chiesa displayed her lovely lyric soprano voice and its many potentiali-' ties. Skilled in projecting true tones over many thousand heads, gracious with her curtain calls and encores, Miss Della Chiesa lost little time in capturing the sympathies of every heart assembled in the Navy drill hall last Monday evening to hear her sing. Right from the k start she was ever confident of her magic voice and its meticulous production of tones. Singing thus at ease her f > smile and gracious manner drew as much applause as did her songs.
Miss Della Chiesa is a Chicagoan by t birth. In a Scholastic interview immediately after the concert she admitted it was her favorite as well as native city. Both hex’ parents were Italian, coming to this country many years ago and - marrying here. Her mother was a pianist and organist. Miss. Della Chiesa smiled broadly when she said , she had been singing since her cradle days. She *" began intensive training under Forrest ■ Lamont at the age of fourteen. Five years later she made her professional - debut over a C.B.S. coast-to-coast hookup. That happened in 1935 and since - then she has been heard in many other radio programs and in concert recital * work the country over.
To say that she is versatile would be unjust. She has sung in musical com-
THE CO-HOPS ARE BACK!
First of the new series will be held
Saturday, May 13, at the Progress Club. Girls — Dancing — Refreshments. . Meet your, friends there a week, from tomorrow night.
edy and light operetta. She has been the star of many famous radio programs. She has sung in the St. Louis and the San Francisco opera companies. Plus her recital work, which she enjoys most of all, she has appeared with such orchestras as the New York Philharmonic, the N.B.C., (under Toscanini by special invitation from the maestro himself) the Philadelphia, the Chicago, the Minneapolis, the San Francisco, and the Los Angeles. She looks forward to more work in even other fields and admitted in the interview that she had been signed by David 0. Selznick for coming films.
Miss Della Chiesa said frankly that young singers would do well to take advantage of every musical opportunity and not hold out for one certain field. She herself has sung in most everything and that is no doubt a significant factor in her success. She hopes some day to crash the Metropolitan of New York, but for the present is most content in riding high in other, and perhaps more profitable fields.
In the Italian numbers of her first group she demonstrated a great deal of power, yet her tones in the upper register were neither true nor clear. Her lyric voice became strident in the heights and, though it may have been the fault of the acoustics in the hall, had a raucous pitch underlying the real tones. In the French group her charming nasal inflections were perfect. She used them with artistic discretion and to great advantage. Evident at all times was the range and fullness of her voice. Her songs were strikingly contrasted against one another’ and the consequent wealth of color, shade, and restraint was more than pleasurable — it was deeply satisfying.
It is significant that Miss Della Chiesa is a homemade artist: Not only is she a promising young singer with abounding talent, but she is an American singing for Americans. That feeling of fraternity was not. a little expressed in her satisfying renditions and in the audience’s warm response. As a great American artist she is but one more assurance that our country will have great voices — plenty of them — in the near future.—Seaman George Nesbit
Faculty Director on Visit to Mexico
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., faculty director of the ’ University, de; parted last week for a five-week trip to the southwest, anti Mexico. ’
Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C.
Points of special interest in Father Cunningham’s trip are San Antonio, Dallas, Austin, and Mexico City. While in Mexico, he will make a study of local educational systems and will act as advisor to several Latin-Amei*ican groups.
Movies of Notre Dame, accompanied by a sound track in Spanish, will be shown at the meetings which: Father Cunningham plans to hold with the educators of the capital of Mexico.
Father Cunningham has long been interested in Latin-American affairs, and is recognized as one of the Catholic authorities in this field. His previous trips touching all but one of the South American countries have made him understand the language, customs, social life, and culture of the neighbors south of the Rio Grande. He is the faculty advisor for the Notre Dame La Raza club.
South of the Border
11
"Scholastic" Reporter Interviews C. Arrau
In an exclusive interview for the Scholastic, before his appearance as guest artist with the South Bend Symphony a week ago last Monday, Claudio Arrau was as interesting as his career has been startling. At the age of four he began to play around with the piano, didn’t bother taking any lessons, and in a year’s time, he turned out so promising that his native country, Chile, gave him a ten-year scholarship to the Berlin Conservatory of Music in Germany. Under the ■ tutorship of Krause, a former pupil of Franz Lizst, he was giving public recitals at the age of seven, and playing concerts with symphonies in the city of Berlin. As he continued his studies, his ability waxed, and, at 17, he was a finished artist. He appeared a good deal in England during the summer months of his student years and never failed to excite the musical circles there with his virtuosity and fire. Soon afterwards he came to the United States for the first time, and he has appeared since in recitals the country over with all the major symphony orchestras.
It was the fantasticalness of America that impressed him most. The buildings, in particular, seemed to him out of the future. He enjoyed the fast and rising pace of the Americans and found that he, too, was rising with it. Married now, with two children — a boy and a girl — he is most philosophical about it. He feels that in America, where a newcomer is always graciously accepted, there is more security than in Europe, where, once the newcomer has established himself — a process of some 15 years — he is seldom forgotten.
Arrau has many hobbies, among which are reading and bridge. He likes philosophy, sociology, and experimental psychology, and plays with the experts in the Culbertson system. For his exercises he takes avidly to Medicine Ball and claims it is one of the best conditioners for anyone. Though he is no authority on the subject, he thinks Notre Danie has the best football teams of the country.
When questioned about some of his musical opinions he stated that Gershwin was fine but his place was not the concert hall. He believes that the movies, by the use of concert music in their background scores, have stimulated an = interest among Americans for a greater .understanding of classical music. In speaking of American music, he mentioned that so far we have depended almost entirely upon .German and Russian sources, and that our. popular music re-. -fleets a considerable South American in- . fluence.	.
Arrau speaks several foreign languages fluently and his English is as articulate as is his technique at the piano. He is a young man, congenial and reserved. He loves America and has made it his home. He says he is not worrying about being forgotten.
Oh yes, when asked if he had seen “Oklahoma!” he replied, “Not yet, fortunately.”—Seaman George Nesbit
NROTC Unit to Hold Boll;
Fifth Affair for Corps
On Friday evening May 12 the members of the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps and their guests will inaugurate the Fifth Naval Ball to the . music and refrains of Chuck Eaton and his New Yorkers. Dancing is scheduled to get underway at 2100 and continue to 0100 with the spacious Palais Royale rigged from stem to stern as a nautical motif.
General Chairman Al Wade and his assistants have announced that every detail is prepared, and the committee assures a pleasant evening to the cadets and their guests.
Miss Judy Merrifield, guest, of Chairman Wade, will be the Queen of the Ball. Miss Merrifield will arrive for the festival occasion Friday afternoon, from her home in Howe, Ind.
Captain J. Richard Barry, USN, commanding officer of naval activities at Notre Dame, and his wife will head the receiving • line. Commander Butcher, USNR, Chairman Wade and Miss Merrifield, Battalion Commander John Caron and Miss Pat Lawless from St. Mary’s College, guest of honor, will also receive the cadets of the Naval ROTC as they come aboard for an evening of dancing.
David Champion, chairman of bids and favors, will escort. Miss Florence Mickly of South Bend. Miss Janos Murray from St. Mary’s College and Ft. Wayne, Ind., will attend as the guest of Bernard E. Gotta, head of the orchestra committee.
Decorations are in charge of Herbert C. Daiker, and a nautical plan of signal and semaphore flags will add to the salty . atmosphere. Chairman Daiker will escort . Miss Harriet Arnold of Mishawaka.
. Chuck Eaton and his New Yorkers have gained a big reputation around South Bend for their smooth orchestra-
. tions and fine vocal renditions. .	" .
. Invitations to the Ball have been extended to the officer instructor staff of . the Naval . Reserve Officers’ Training-. Corps as weir as to unit friends in South Bend.	.	;	. .
Politics Review Ready
With the Spring Issue
The spring issue of Review of Politics, edited by members of the faculty at the University of Notre Dame, will come off the press, this coming week, it was announced today.
Prof. Waldemar Gurian
Articles included in the new issue of the quarterly are those of the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., of Notre Dame; W. Lednicki, former professor at Krakow university, Poland, and now a member of the faculty at Harvard university; Professor N. Timasheff, Russian scholar who taught at the University of Leningrad, and who is now on the faculty at Fordham university.
Editor of the Review of Politics, Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of politics at the University of Notre Dame, reviews Mortimer Adler’s new book, How To Think About TFa?' and Peace. Dr. Gurian points out that Adler’s proposal to create, a world state in 500 years is not based on sound foundations.
Dr. Mortimer Adler, author of the volume, is professor of scholastic philosophy at the University of Chicago. He lectured at St. Mary’s College, last week.
Next month, Dr. Gurian will be among the guest speakers at the annual convention of the Catholic Press Association, to be held in Milwaukee, Wis., May 11,12,13.	-	*
It's a Boy for the I jams
Chief Specialist William E. Ijams is the proud father of a seven pound, two dunce baby boy born April 23, 1944. The latest addition to the Ijams’ domain has been christened James Edward.
William E. Jr., four years old firstborn of the. Ijams, eagerly awaits the time when his new brother will be able to join, him in play.
’ The baby was born in St. Joseph’s hospital in South Bend. Chief Ijams states that “as long as the baby had to arrive in a state other than California, Indiana is as good as any other.”—Bob Watson
12
Amphibious Expert Visits
Lieut. Commander William C. Eacho, veteran of amphibious service at Casablanca, Sicily, Salerno and Anzio, visited the Notre Dame naval station last week. Now designated as an amphibious expert representing the Atlantic fleet training command in Washington, Commander Eacho served on a destroyer at Queenstown, in World War I, and was on the U. S. S. Sacramento at Archangel when the war ended, fighting bolsheviks with United States forces on the side of General Wrangel.
At the beginning of World War II, Commander Eacho again took up Navy life, re-entering the service as a lieutenant in the amphibious forces. Aboard the U. S. S. Brooklyn off Casablanca when the allies invaded North Africa, he later came back to this country, only to leave again in April, 1943, in command of 1ST No. 374, which as a part of a United States task force took part in amphibiious landings on Sicily and at Salerno. Again returned to the United States, he went back to the Mediterranean area by air to take part in the amphibious operations at the Anzio beachhead.
Lauds Spirit of Youth
Commander Eacho, who came to Notre Dame to tell the trainees some of the things they must expect when they go to war, is a firm believer in the youth of today, and was loud in his praise of the spirit manifested by the present generation of fighting men. “The part these kids are doing in the war, the way they stand up under pressure, kind of does something to you when you get the chance to work with them,” he declared. “It is a certainty that to serve with the young men whom we have now is the greatest restorer of faith that we could have in this country.- My feeling is that civilians all over the United States will do very well if they give a little more thought to these young men being sent out to do an all-important job. A year ago, if they had been thinking of making a trip to England, they would have debated as to the relative merits of the Queen Elizabeth, or the Queen Mary, as being the safest ship in which to make the crossing.
“But they have braved the Atlantic in craft that lacked even the refinements of the Queen Mary’s riding lights. They have gone in darkness, uncomplaining, to turn in a beautiful job, to bring glory to their country and themselves.”
Unassuming as to his own part in the war, Commander Eacho was wounded in the Sicilian landing. In an interview, he
failed to mention this detail until asked to explain the occasion for his meriting the Purple Heart award which he wore. His visit to Notre Dame was enlivened by a meeting with Ensign Thomas R. Pansing, of Omaha, Nebr., who arrived at the training station this week, as an instructor. Ensign Pansing was in a landing craft directly behind Commander Eacho’s in the convoy that left for the Sicilian-Salerno operations. The ensign, who also wears a Purple Heart, was injured at Salerno.
By ROBERT RIORDAN
Joe Murnane._______amiable president of Student Council and Commerce Forum ... a product of Fenwick in Oak Park... is in Bookmen and Wranglers and writes for Scholastic. ... first try at campus politics was last semester.... rumor has it that he may be planning to fill Pat Nash’s place in the Kelly-Nash machine .... has been known as “Hobie” (his middle name is Hoban), “The Blocker” (once blocked a man through a window in Walsh), and “Britannica” (because he has an abundant storage of knowledge).
One of the best liked men on the campus.... makes friends easily... their luck got him and Mike Smith a free ride, free meals, free tickets, and a hotel room at last year’s Michigan game____wishes new N.D. men could know the old Notre Dame.... particularly likes the religious aspects of N.D__________________played freshman baseball, captained Sorin tennis team, played on an undefeated touchball team, sang in glee club, plays golf and baseball, and also swims and fishes...., particularly enjoys riding.... lived in Cavanaugh, Dillon, Walsh, and Sorin.... roomed three years with Joe O’Keefe.-A*, found out that dances involve many problems when he was co-chairman of the K. of C. dance last year.
He’s fancy-free where women are concerned. __likes to dance but last three lessons got lost in the mail. /.; friends say that he has covered the Chicago woman front.... once fell asleep when he was . on a date.
Likes to read and travel..'. took a trip. . to St. Louis and . Memphis. between semesters. .. . has .fun on canoe trips in , Wisconsin.... thinks he read too many sport stories when he was younger. — now reads novels and biographies. . .'.
absent-minded at times—once rubbed ink on a roommate’s chest and thought it was Vick’s______prefers piano playing band leaders.... once stopped a Negro from stabbing a man on the bus___does not brag.... likes to work on his father’s farm.____________________________inclined toward brown suits and oxford cloth shirts._________pet peeve: career-women..................... Believes that prime factors for success are humility, intelligence, and amiableness. .
Co-Hops to bo Resumed
Once again plans are being laid for a series of Co-Hops, the first of which will be given Saturday, May 13 at the Progress Club.
According to Dick Walker, dance chairman, the program will feature a novel type of entertainment composed of both feminine and campus talent. In addition there will be countless refreshments and, since over 600 young ladies have been enrolled there will be a sufficient number of les femmes.
These dances are open, to both civilians and servicemen and those lucky individuals who can provide their own dates are encouraged to do so, although this will not be necessary.—Bill Carnahan
More Notre Dome Men Die in Service
*91 Word was " 1 received at
the University, this tveek of the death of Lieut. Theodore. Jenke, ex ’42, of Oak-mont, Pa. .
-^09 Lieutenant Albert A.
Wallace, ex. ’32, just returned from service with the Seabees in the Aleutians,
was killed while home on furlough in
Davenport,. loiva.
❖ <•
❖	CORRECTION	❖
❖	-—	*
❖	*90. Lieut. James Riley Veeneman,
♦	J* USMC, reported killed in an airplane
accident in El Centro, Calif., on April ♦ ❖ 10, attended Notre Dame horn 1936 ♦ & until 1938. He was the son of Mr. and ♦ *2* Mrs. Harry Veeneman of Chicago, Hl. ❖ The SCHOLASTIC previously listed ♦ ❖ his home address as South Bend. ♦ «£• ❖
Latest returns of war casualties con- • ceming Notre Dame men reveal the following statistics: Killed, 92; captured, 11; missing in action, 22.
13
Hard Working Architecture Department Holds Prominent Position in American Field
Commerce Forum Meets ' By HARRY LEBIEN
By JOHN MARTIN EVANS
Standing on the east side of the campus, midway between the Commerce Building and Science Hall, is the building housing the Department of Architecture. Perhaps the least known of all schools in the College of Engineering, the Department of Architecture has risen from a humble start 46 years ago to a leading position in American collegiate architecture.
Founded bjT Mr. Henry Schlacks, a Chicago architect, in 1898, the Architecture Department graduated its first pupil in 1904. He was Eugenio Rayneri, a native of Cuba, who later won fame as architect for the government buildings at Havana. As the department developed, the quarters were expanded until half of the top floor of the main building was occupied by the Department of Architecture. In 1909, Professor Francis W. Kervick joined the faculty, and began his 35 year record of service to Notre Dame. When in 1930, the new building for the College of Law -was completed, the old law building was given over to the architectural school, and it is here today that the Notre Dame architects spend their days.
Under Professor Kervick’s leadership the department rapidly rose in prominence among the architectural schools of the country. It has become affiliated with the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture, and with the Beaux Arts Institute of Design. It is to the latter that the student’s projects are sent in monthly competition.	’
The work of the architectural student at Notre Dame is both difficult and
Quiet and unassuming it stands._
painstaking. Long hours of study are necessary if the difficult problems issued by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design are to be solved. But to the student this work is lightened by the environment in which he does his work. There is no. place where the relationship between teacher and pupil is so personal and productive of results. Between the students the “work together” feeling, that exists whenever men -work for a common end, is apparent to any visitor’ who happens into the Architectural Building.
So, despite the changes the war. has brought, the Department of Architecture carries on. There is no sluggishness, no lack of enthusiasm. Toughened by the demands of war construction, American architecture promises a brilliant future. The post war world shall have an open place for the architect of Notre Dame.
The bi-weekly meeting of the Commerce Forum was held Tuesday evening, May 2, in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. Seaman Harry Lebien gave a talk on “The Coming Socialism in the U. S.” In his address Seaman Lebien pointed out that ...
For the past 100 years the world as a whole has tended toward the socialistic form of government. Since the first. World War these same trends, with increasing clearness, have been discernible in the United States.
There are many facts which point this country’s path towards socialism. A few of the more.obvious are these:
1)	The continued mass unemployment of men.
2)	The agricultural depression.
3)	Inability of private enterprise to absorb new. capital investment.
4)	Concentration of control and ownership in the hands of a few, with the resulting inequalities of wealth distribution.
The distance to which state ownership and control will go in this country is indefinite. There is evidence to show it will not go to the extremes of Karl Marx. There will always be a certain sphere of private business.
The new economic age will definitely be one of the advancement of the common man. It should be anticipated with knowledge, intelligence and hope; not with panic or fear.
A very lively discussion followed the address in which all members participated.
Day and night the men work on class problems or on Beaux Arts contests.
14
Marine Murmurs
(■JlIlIiniUlllllllUIIUlllllllinillllllllllKIIIKIllllllllKIIIUKIIIIIIU E
PV'T. GIZZMO
Every outfit in the Marine Corps has its “Pvt. Gizzmo” and we’re no exception. The real trouble comes in the selection of this distinguished member. We feel that no one member of our detachment could fill all the qualifications of this traditional character. So in order to get a true likeness we were forced to call upon several members to fill out our “Gizzmo.”
Here he is:
Head—Morris Lubarsky
Eyes—Bill Manly	.	.
Nose—Sammy “Smooth” Unshuld
Mouth—Eldon Little
Chest—Willie Bollaert
Stomach—Werner Hass
Legs—Gunnar Hald
Feet—Albert “Big Boy” Williams
WE HEAR
that accordion of Frank Amato going night and day. It seems the former Bengal Boutist has suddenly turned to. the finer arts. The reason for this sudden swing from punching to pushing is still a mystery; However, from the quality that. is produced from the “pushbox” he must be trying hard for a berth with the w-k “Muskrat Maulers.”
that the “clip joint” which hides itself under the roof of ol’ Badin Hall has received a new set of bowls. If your hairneeds cutting badly, run over; they’ll see that it gets cutting badly..
that all, except one, of the N.D. Marines who went directly from P.I. to Quantico received their commission the other day. Hmmm, it seems funny that our former roommate and buddies now rate a salute from us. But one thing for sure — they have set an example that will be hard to follow.
BOUQUET AND BOO-QUET OF THE WEEK
The bouquet of the week to those scrapping, leather slinging leathernecks who were in there, all the way for the Corps in the Bengal' Bouts. Also to “three-striper” Santos for his excellent training and handling of our. boys. To you, THE BEST IN THE HOUSE^
The boo-quet of the week to those • “Yardbirds” who “mouth off” about the plans of the V-12 Ball when they-actually know nothing about it. To you, BOO!
HEAD-LINERS
If he parks his little flivver	■
Down besides the moonlit river
And you feel him all a-quiver
He’s a wolf. .
If he says you’re gorgeous looking
And your dark eyes set him cooking
But your eyes ain’t where he’s looking He’s a wolf.
If by chance when you’re kissin’
You can feel his heart missin’
And you talk but he don’t listen, He’s a wolf.
But if his arms strong as sinew
Stir the gypsy deep within you
And you want him. close agin you
You’re the wolf.
Doc: “You have acute appendicitis.”
Wave: “Listen, Sir, I came here to be examined, not admired.”
Here lies my sergeant, Let him lie, He’s found rest And so have I.
DAFFY-NITIONS
Nazi—A hot Aryan.
Newspaper—A portable screen behind which a sailor hides from the women who are standing on the bus.
■ Secretary—A pretty girl who - can’t add but who can certainly distract.
Self-made man—A horrible example of unskilled labor.	.
FROM THE COMPANIES
An extra detail of shore patrol has been assigned for next Saturday night. Why? Company A’s three “Night-riders” are coming outafter four enjoyable weeks of life on the campus.
BEDLAM struck - when Sgt. Santos called out for whoever was expecting a letter from a certain girl and two lovely privates made a . mad dash for him. Could it be that some sweet South Bender is “snowing” the troops?
CALAMITY! “Tiger” Rathburn has finally decided to become a social “lion.” . The “Tiger” is now one* of the boys! As yet we are unable to say how, he takes to party life, but it is understood that he amazed the group by dropping the hint that E=IR.	.	.
- '' * ' .' ON THE BALL
IT’S EMBARRASSING to be stopped at the gate with a date. Of course, it’s just as bad to be stopped at the gate without a date, but our point here is
that bids for the V-12 Ball will be limited. Bids go on sale Friday, May 5. The sailors will be paid by check, so some tickets will be sold at the bank. The Marines will be paid in cash and may buy their tickets in the pay line. Everyone gets an equal chance however-but opportunity knocks only once. Only a certain number of bids are to be sold, so get yours early. .	,
P.S.: §3.7-5 takes you to the V-12 Ball, the picnic and the tea. dance.
SCUTTLEBUTT OF THE WEEK
Soon we will have liberty on week night from 1200 Saturdays until 2400 Sundays.
Student Council Meets
Last Wednesday night the Student Activities Council met in the Rockne Memorial Lounge for the third time. President Joseph Murnane presided, and there were ten members present.
The Softball league, being organized now by the clubs and halls of the campus was discussed, and further plans made for its success. Five full teams were already made up with full rosters, and the others were to be completed in the next few* days.	.
Joseph Murnane congratulated the council in general for their help in supporting the Bengal Bouts, and Robert O’Toole in particular, for his splendid job of promotion.
Tw’o new members were admitted to the Council: Robert Morrissey to represent the Bookmen, and Chuck Russ, from the Band.
A.proposal was made that a new mascot should be secured to augment Clash-more Mike. The idea being not to oust Mike from his time honored post, but to obtain a young dog capable of tricks, and the duties a mascot must assume. A motion was made to this effect and carried, and a committee was appointed to make the necessary arrangements.
.	—Robert Morrissey
NEWS OF FATHER DUPUIS (Continued from page 6) and a lead editorial to the Easter services. - -	.
The editorial in The Sun Setter, official division weekly, said: “At Easter time . .men far from home can turn their thoughts and prayers back to their gray haired mothers, their loving wives, sisters, and daughters who fill the pews in the churches we knew as boys and as men.... Easter provides a necessary time for ’ thoughtful reflection and for self-analysis, while also holding promise of more blessed days to come, memories of home and our loved ones.”
15
Diamond Victories Halted at Four Straight;
Purdue and Freeman Field to be Played Next
BY HANK SLAMIN "Scholastic" Sports Writer

Notre Dame's diamond nine, playing away from home the last two weeks, notched twin victories over Wisconsin at Madison, while dropping- a pair to Michigan at Ann Arbor last week.
Friday afternoon, April 21, Bill Martin took the hill against the Badgers seeking his second win. A pitcher’s battle developed for seven innings with neither outfit scoring a run, but Notre Dame broke through for the game’s first tally in the eighth. Len Scarpelli scored the run after collecting his third hit, stealing second and scampering home on a single. Tom Sheehan marked up the second and winning run in the ninth on a hit and an infield error.
■Wisconsin perked up with three singles in the closing frame to score a run, however, Martin, chalking up his No. 2 triumph, set the side down without any further damage, giving the Irish a 2-1 advantage.
The following afternoon, the local aggregation annexed their fourth consecutive win, walloping the red-stockinged Badgers, 8-1 on ten hits. Joe Zieminski drew Coach J ake Kline’s pitching assignment. He gave the Badgers a mere trio of hits and would have had a shutout but for his own wild pitch, enabling Wisconsin to score in the fifth. After three runless innings, Houston Gormon, Badger hurler, was solved for three runs on three hits and a few miscues in the field in the fourth. Three more tallies were added in the fifth and one each in
Not last enough. . . . the man's safe!
the eighth and ninth. Wisconsin’s bobbles, seven in all, helped the Notre Dame cause considerably.
Sorry Week-end
Last week-end, Coach Kline’s charges took the field against Michigan’s Wolverines at Ann Arbor. Friday afternoon’s encounter found Bill Martin on the mound for the Irish seeking his third straight triumph. The Wolverines halted the Fighting Irish victory string at four, however, and extended their own to three. Behind the seven hit pitching of Elroy Hirsch, football, basketball and track letterman at the Michigan institution, the Wolves bested the Irish with a two run rally in the ninth, winning, 5-4.
Notre Dame jumped to an early lead on the strength of four hits and three enemy errors, giving the Irish a run in the first and second innings and a pair in the third. Hirsch settled down and was touched for only three hits over the rest of the route while the Michigan bats began pounding Martin’s delivery, getting one in the fifth and two in the sixth. In the ninth, with Notre Dame on the long end of a 4-3 score, the Wolverines loaded the bags. A hit baseman forced the tying run across the plate and then Bill Gregor singled, driving in the winningrun.
Saturday’s game was a sad story for (Continued on page 28)
Coach Frank Leahy Co ri i to Princeton for
■
Lieutenant Frank Leahy, USNR
>■
Contrary to rumors of various and fl sundry sources, Coach Frank Leahy will report to Princeton University, May ] 25, for an indoctrination course of 60 'O days. Of course, much speculation as to : his destination thereafter still remains in contention but for the most part, ; where Mr. Leahy himself is concerned, f he knows nothing more than Princeton, f point of disembarkation on his first stop,Y destination thereafter unknown. A
I

I 4
Having been sworn into the Navy . early this week as a full lieutenant, ; j Coach Leahy thus leaves the scene of-wjv, three successful giidiron seasons, three schedules that saw his teams winninger'' 24 games, losing three, and tying three.? His first year on the Golden Dome cam--K * pus saw his club go undefeated in nine) !
S '
•4 ?-
16

o missioned; Reports
* ie Indoctrination Course
Netmen Beat Northwestern and Wisconsin;
Will Attempt to Take Michigan Tomorrow
encounters although they were tied by Army. In ’42, the Fighting Irish opened and closed with stalemates, and dropped a pair while winning seven. In his third and climactic season, his team went undefeated for 599 minutes and 32 seconds, finally succumbed to Great Lakes in the final 28 seconds of play on a freak pass that made gridiron history. In spite of that, this squad was considered by many as the greatest Notre Dame aggregate ever to take the field and were unanimously voted the National Champions of ’43. Coach Leahy was more than pleased with the outcome of his last year inasmuch as he expected to drop at least four or five contests when pre-season comments were floating about.
Leahy, a regular tackle on Notre Dame’s unbeaten national champions of 1929 found his first coaching job at Georgetown under the late Tommy Mills. He later moved to Michigan State under Jimmy Crowley and accompanied the latter to Fordham in 1933 when Crowley became head mentor for the Rams.
After six seasons as line coach at Fordham, he became head coach at Boston College in 1939, his teams amassing 20 victories in 22 games during his two years stay before coming to Notre Dame.
Employs the "T"
Abandoning the Rockne system in ’42, Leahy inaugurated the “T,” another concoction of Rock’s that has since seen major emphasis put on it, the latter having not developed it to its present-day perfection, although every Rockne play was a potential touchdown.
As a result of Mr. Leahy’s induction into the Navy, and on recommendation of the Faculty Board of Athletic Control, Father O’Donnell, as president, appointed Mr. Edward McKeever as acting head coach and director of athletics for the duration. At the same time, Mr. Clement Crowe was appointed acting head coach of basketball and assistant coach of football. Any other changes in the athletic personnel will be announced by Father O’Donnell at a later date.
After successfully annexing the first two matches of the season to the win column, the Langford net men will try to add more to their prestige in a match with Michigan on the local courts tomorrow.
Having ventured into Evanston and Madison on successive days last weekend only to leave victorious in both cases, the Irish tennis team has already established itself as a strong contingent. Decisive wins over- Nor th western’s Wildcats and Wisconsin’s Badgers by respective scores of 8-1 and 7-2 are evidence of the potency possessed by the racketeers.
Sparked by Chuck Samson, a V-12 trainee and transfer from Ohio State, and Jerry Evert, brother of last year’s Irish ace, the netmen have had little fear in their opening two encounters. Samson and Evert are proving to be two of the best tennis competitors that the college ranks will see this season. Coach Langford says that in spite of the abbreviated practice period prior to the opening match, the squad has come along to where it can be called “quite good” at such a premature stage in the season.
Eager for Michigan
This week’s home contest with the Wolverines should mark the best Midwest set of the season and the best match that will appear on the Notre Dame home schedule. To date, Michigan has won over Western Michigan, Minnesota, and Chicago and all by the same onesided score of 8-1. In the 1941 and ’42 seasons the boys from Ann Arbor took it on the chin from the locals but last year the process was reversed. Naturally, Coach Langford is anxious to get back to winning ways—in fact, who doesn’t enjoy beating Michigan?
The opposition will probably be led by Jinx Johnson, a veteran who defeated the Irish No. 1 man last season, Bob Faught. However, Samson should be more than a capable match for his opponent. On the basis of what has gone before, Bill Tully, Jim Griffin, Sanford Warshawsky, Joe Wood, and Darrell Black, along with the possibility of a few others, should see action.
This match should shape up as a 5-4 affair or a 6-3 contest at most from prognostic sources of Coach Langford, and the team who wins will probably go undefeated for the remainder of the card.
“If we get by Michigan, we will be practically unbeatable the rest of the way, barring an upset.”
In beating Northwestern last Friday, the netters gave the Purple and White one of their worst lickings in the past decade. The Irish have administered defeat to the Wildcat mob for three straight years now after having their faces rubbed in the mire for a little over ten.
Competition Is Keen
Summaries of last week’s matches:
Northwestern
Singles: Samson, ND, defeated Hall, NU, 6-2, 9-7; Evert, ND, defeated Roper, NU, 7-5, 6-3; Tully, ND, defeated Burns, NU, 6-1, 6-2; Griffin, ND, defeated Meyer, NU, 11-9, 6-3; Warshawsky, ND, defeated Fortenberry, NU, 7-5, 6-2; Wood, ND, defeated Harris, NU, 4-6, 6-4, 8-6.
Doubles: Samson and Evert, ND, defeated Hall and Roper, NU, 6-2, 6-3; Tully and Griffin, ND, defeated Burns and Meyer, NU, 6-2, 6-2; Fortenberry and Randolph, NU, defeated Warshawsky' and Black, ND, 9-7, 2-6, 6-4.
Wisconsin
Singles: Samson, ND, defeated Park, W, 6-0, 6-2; Evert, ND, defeated Hanson, W, 6-2, 6-4; Griffin, ND, defeated DeLong, W, 6-3, 6-4; Warshawsky, ND, defeated Putterman, W, 2-6, 7-5, 6-3; Wood, ND, defeated Maclnnis, W, 6-1, 6-4; Edmondson, AV, defeated Black, ND, 8-6, 7-5.
Doubles: Samson and Evert, ND, defeated Park and Hanson, W, 6-3, 6-2; DeLong and Putterman, W, defeated Griffin and Wood, ND, 3-6, .6-2, 6-1; Warshawsky and Black, ND, defeated Maclnnis and Clayton, W, 6-3, 6-1.
17
Student Council Sponsors Campus Softball League
By JOE MURNANE "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Yes, here it is at last, softball lovers— The Student Council has announced the formation of a big inter-caihpus softball tournament. Two teams from each civilian hall on the campus, as well as teams made up of the combined membership, whether servicemen or civilian, of each recognized club, are eligible to play. The dead-line for entries of teams is Wednesday, May 10. Play will begin within a few days following the deadline, probably May 12.
The Physical Education department, under the direction of Mr. John Scannell, will draw up and post schedules, and the tournament will be run under the department’s efficient guidance. Mr. Scannell has made a grand success of these tournaments in the past, particularly the all-campus basketball tournament. A match between the V-12 championship team and the champion intercampus team is a strong possibility.
Enthusiasm is rampant on the campus. Teams have already been formed by the Chemical Engineers, Mechanical Engineers, Commerce Forum, Sorin Hall, St. Edward’s Hall, and two Breen-Phillips groups. The Law Club Civil Engineers and the off-campus students are also in the process of forming teams, and any other eligible groups are invited to do likewise.
Managers Not Silent
Bay Smith, manager of the Cherns, when asked to comment on the strength of his team, said: “Our star Chern pitcher, Jack McAndrews, will gas ’em out.” Jim Casey’s Sorin Hall Politicians includes such powerhouses as Creighton Miller, Herb Coleman, and Jim Thomas. Herb, who is confident of Sorin Hall’s ability to win the tournament, was heard (Continued on page 22)
18
This one has to count.... I hope this guy can't hit!
By JIM REGAN
This week “Introducing” presents two members of the baseball team who have played important parts in helping Notre Dame to compile the fine record of four wins against two defeats. . . . Both of the men hail from New England, were four-letter athletes in high school, and. played on the “informal” baseball team last summer...........The boys, who are both battery-men, are Joe Zieminski and Tom Sheehan.
JOE ZIEMINSKI
Joe Zieminski, Marine V-12 trainee, is in his seventh semester but only his third at Notre Dame. The other four he spent at the University of Illinois where he matriculated upon graduation from Springfield (Mass.) Commerce High School. ... Joe is a member of the physical education department here. . . .
In high school Joe earned varsity letters in baseball, basketball, football and hockey. . . . He pitched in baseball, played guard in basketball, fullback in football, and was a defenseman in hock-ey. . . . He was graduated from high school in 1940 and he enrolled in Illinois in the fall of the same year. , . . Joe gained much valuable experience in baseball in performing in many “fast” amateur circuits in Western Massachusetts during summer vacations. ... He
played at various times with the West Springfield Brownies, on which team Angelo Bertelli also performed, Maher’s All-Stars, Westinghouse, Holyoke Knights of Columbus, and others. . . . He was also a- member of the AllWestern Massachusetts schoolboy baseball team, which was chosen by the sportswriters of that section. . . . This team played all-star teams from Connecticut, Boston, and other cities.
Joe. pitched in several of Notre Dame’s baseball games last summer and he emerged victorious more often than defeated. . . . One of the two teams to defeat him was the Great Lakes nine, composed of many former major league stars. . . . Notre Dame was beaten by the service nine, 6 to 2. . . . Considering the fact that Great Lakes defeated many major league teams, this is a very low score for them to be held by a college team... . . So far this season Joe has won two out of the three games he has pitched... . .In the third game he was defeated, by Michigan when the Wolverines touched his delivery for a few hits which were coupled with several .miscues to bring about Notre Dame’s defeat. ...
Joe takes delight in listening to music — but only the-best. Unless the strains of a pleasant symphony come forth from the radio, Joe will refuse to listen. . . . His favorite dish is Irish stew. . . . The fact that a Polish boy has Irish stew for his pet dish may be accounted for by the fact that his family was the only one of Polish, descent in a:strictly Irish neigh-, borhood in Springfield. ... Joe’s favorite athlete is : Angelo. “Bert”.,.Bertelli, whom ;he has ;.often : played -with and against in many sports ;in :high school and amateur ball.	.
Following the;.war Joe hopes’ to. become a coach.. If he is able to teach his pupils to play as well’as he'does, he. certainly should be a success. .-. . Besides being able - to coach the four f sports
which he played in . high. school — Joe might also .beYabjettd coach a billia
team — that is from the good form he displays at that sport in the “Ree” in his few spare moments. . . .
THOMAS SHEEHAN
Behind the bat in all of Notre Dame’s baseball games this season has been Tom Sheehan. ... Tom is in his fifth semester at the University, two of which were as a civilian student. . . . He is following the A.B. course here arid his favorite subject is history. ...
Tom makes his home in New Haven, . Conn., where he attended New Haven High School; ... In high school Tom performed in basketball, football, hockey, and, of course, baseball. Baseball has always been Tom’s first, love and he hopes to play professional ball after the war. . . . He has already been approached by several major league clubs but as yet he has not accepted any offers. ; . . One spring, however, he did take part in the Boston Red Sox’s drills. . . . If Tom does make the major leagues he will be the third member of his family to accomplish this feat, for his two older brothers, Ed, an outfielder, and Jim, a ■ catcher, both were members of the New
York Giants. ....
Besides playing sports in high school, Tom also performed in amateur circles in baseball and basketball throughout New England. . . . He played freshman basketball as a civilian student, and last season he was a member of the varsity squad here. . . . He was the regular catcher on last season’s summer nine. . . . Tom is strong in three essential departments for a ball player — hitting, fielding, and throwing. . . . Last season in about 12 games he batted. above .420 which , is good hitting in any league. . . . Among his many hits were several of the extra-base variety. . . .
His favorite orchestra is that of Bernie Cummins. ... He likes a typical Irish, dish as his favorite food — corn beef and cabbage. . . . One of the achievements in sports that he likes to remember happened when he was in high school. ... He was named to the Connecticut all-star team and played . against: the . Greater-Springfield team which. included as a .member a pitcher by the name of Joe Zieminski. . . . Well, Tom takes pride. in the fact that. he . managed to secure two base hits off the offerings of this pitcher whose name is .Zieminski.
Chaplains on Marshalls
Two C.S-.C. chaplains with the armed: forces were with United States troops who made landings on the Marshall Is- , lands earlier in the year. They were : Rev. John Dupuis and Rev., Franci? D.
. Bridenstine. .
Frank Marfin Wins 2-Mile Event; Team Faces Great Lakes Tomorrow on Cartier Field
A crowd of 9,000 people witnessed the 35th renewal of the Drake Relays last Saturday at Des . Moines, Iowa, as Claude (Buddy) Young, Negro speedster, helped himself and the University of Hlinois to two individual and two relay championships. Notre Dame’s entry . of 18 men led by Frank Martin brought two titles back to South Bend.
In addition to annexing the two-mile crown with a last lap burst of speed to nip Bill Chappel of Drake, Martin performed in two relays. Following Dale Wares, Frank Eck, and Mike Kiely, he brought home the distance medley relay team a step in front of Bill Arlen of Iowa State in 77:21.3. Shortly before, Arlen had fought off Martin’s home stretch bid in the four mile relay, after Kiely, Roger DeWolfe, and Bill Tully had run the first three laps.
Illinois’ mile realy team had a little too much for the Irish team of Fred Jones, Don Lundergan, Dale Wares,, and Robert “Ace” Purcell, whose 49 seconds for the second quarter .fell just short of catching the Illini. The 880 yard relay team (Purcell, Frank MacCauley, Jones and Brad Bennett) garnered fifth place while the 440 yard team of Bob Cain, Roy McCall, Bill Crilly and Bennett placed sixth, both of which were won by Illinois.	,
Two Place in Shot
In the field events, all three Irish entries placed. Joe Kelly and George Sullivan took the second and fifth places, respectively. Phil Anderson tied for fourth place in the pole vault behind Cornelius Warmerdam who established a new re-. lays record of 14' 7%", but disappointed the gathering who expected him to clear . at least 15 feet. . . ' . .	- .
. Dale Ware deserves a lot of credit for his performance. Saturday.- Running, in college. competition, for the first time, Dale led off for the championship distance medley relay team and also _ ran on the second place mile relay- team.' .
A dual meet-with. Great Lakes on Cartier. Field Saturday finds two former . Irish, trackmen returning to the campus wearing ’ Navy colors. Jim Tharp will compete in the shot- put and John Cawley will run the hurdles against his former mates'. Coach Handy expects “the
-' Lakes”:< to ‘ field a. good .team and 'they : are almost, certain to come.up with some r good ; athletes if strength • in . numbers
means anything because they’ve certainly got them on their north Chicago station.—Jack McGrane
Herb Coleman is Back
This .week “In again—out again” Herb Coleman returned to the campus once more. Herb, the varsity center on the 1943 National Championship team, is a member of the V-5 program. At present he is awaiting a medical discharge from the navy, because of knee and back injuries sustained in football.
Herb Coleman
Those who were here last season remember him as the man from Sorin Sub with accurate centering and powerful -line backing ability. Those who didn’t see him play last fall will see him help to carry 7 the Irish banner to new glory this season.
Coleman, a native of Chester, Va., distinguished himself in sports throughout his entire school career. In high school he captained his football and basketball . teams, and won four monograms in baseball. .	.
In 1940 he was on the All-Ohio Valley football team. In 1942 he won his varsity : letter and last season he moved up to the -first string center position on the N. D. championship team.	-	. :
, He is now at home to his friends at 326 Sorin, a rise in the world of three stories since-his days in Sorin’s unsinkable sub.-—John O’Hara
19
Seven Champs Crowned as Bengal Bouts End
By BILL WADDINGTON "Scholastic” Sports Editor
Amid a thundering bunch of Marines that wouldn't be denied a voice in the matter and a strong chorus of Navy vocal chords, the Thirteenth Annual Edition of the Bengal Bouts has added another brilliant chapter to an already grand and glorious volume. Complete with a new set of champions that add the gilt-edge to the newly contracted pages, the 1944 renewal thus becomes the first time in which Navy and Marine trainees were participating in this fistic event.
Barney Boss, former lightweight and welterweight champion and a recent hero at Guadalcanal, was on hand as honorary referee. It was Barney’s second appearance in that capacity.
The fighters, under the expert tutelage of Chief Bob Bobertson, former All-American back with Southern California, and Sergeant Joe Santos, ex-pugilist who fought in eastern welterweight circles under the name of “Billy Marshall,” had the best conditions under which to work. Their training quarters in the fieldhouse were well equipped with all the necessary paraphernalia, and with the phy ed program that was already a part of the regular routine, the contestants were able to round into the best of fighting trim.
And so with all due respect to the men who made the classic possible, to the fighters who gave their time and effort, the Scholastic savs, THANK YOU!
Summary of the Finals:
128 lbs.—Ed Dwyer vs. Ernie Rauscher
.Marine Ed Dwyer, substituting for Jack Green, took this closely contested bout away from Civie Ernie Bauscher. Both contestants fought evenly throughout with Dwyer getting the advantage in the third and also the judge’s nod.
135 lbs.—Jack McGrath vs. Jim McCormick
McGrath, a shift boxer who had plenty of class during the three sessions of the tourney, severely pounded his opponent in all three rounds while the best his competitor could do was only that of warding off blows. McGrath easily took the decision.
145 lbs.—Ray Engberson vs. Tom Burns
Both boys started off with speed, each hoping to connect early in the game
20
Barney Ross, Honorary Referee, Tendered Warm Ovation; Marines Welcome "Buddy"
When Barney Ross entered the ringside, along with Captain Barry, Captain Finney, and other notables, on the night of the Bengal Finals he received an ovation befitting the champion that he was.
While navy men manifested admiration, the marines, grouped solidly in the north stands, made special efforts to acquaint Ross with the fact that he was at home in their midst, and that he was very welcome.
and take home the bacon. Engberson took the first, Burns the second, but with the deciding third up for keeps, it was Engberson who came back rejuvenated to keep Burns on the ropes for the title.
155 lbs.—Frank Amato vs. Bob Blair
These two Marines turned out to be a couple of smart boxers, held each other in check for two rounds, both looking for sizeable openings, hoping to land the blow that might spell knockout. Blair, with the fistic prowess that he exhibited on the other preliminary, came through with the needed leather-swinging and got the 155 lb. belt.
165 lbs.—Bill Roemer vs. Don Kinney
Bill Roemer, native South-Bender and southpaw, came well recommended and from start to finish he gave plenty of body-punching to Kinney. His wicked left continued to pour out punishment to his opponent, momentarily flooring his ring aggressor. There was no doubt when the announcer signaled the winner, it was Roemer, decisively.
175 lbs.—Jesse Ashley vs. Mike Cut!
Ashley came out of his corner "with a salvo of flying fists that landed solidly on Cutt. The latter, who waited to get in some straight punches, was thwarted in his attempt as his opponent kept to a low crouch throughout. Several good pointing punches were further administered by Ashley in the second frame but Cutt’s annexation of the third round still found him short. Ashley took the bout.
Heavyweight: Jerry Ford vs. Dale Venning
Ford found early openings that paid off in points. Both boys played cagey throughout, trying to take advantage of the holes that appeared while doing cautious glove-work. Ford got in some flying fists in the third round and nearly canvassed Venning a couple of times. It was Jerry Ford, the new heavyweight champion of the 1944 Bengal Bouts.
Those in charge of the evening’s festivities found the former marine and welterweight champion very eager to cooperate in any way that he might be of help to the Notre Dame affair. He arrived from Chicago eirly enough to accommodate Joe Boland, local sports announcer on WSBT, and to appear on the six o’clock sports broadcast. In the interview, Ross displayed a thorough knowledge of Notre Dame sports, proving that he has been a follower and an enthusiastic supporter of Irish teams for many years. He was warm in his praise of No'.re Dame accomplishments.
Barney Steps in to Break Them Up
Ross, now prematurely gray, but still trim, confessed that he had taken on 35 pounds since he returned to the States from the war zone. He is fast responding to treatment for various injuries, though his malaria continues to recur periodically. Nevertheless, he moved about the ring with agility during the bout which he refereed.
To show his appreciation for the honor accorded his being selected as honorary referee, Ross refused to accept even an expense account. His only request came in the nature of an appeal that Masses be said for his esteemed friend, Dr. Deno O’Connor, who died last week. Dr. O’Connor is remembered on campus as a loyal patron of Notre Dame, and Notre Dame athletes. His funeral accounted for the absence of head coach, Frank Leahy, who acted as a pallbearer.
N. D. Stadium, Home of the Fighting Irish, Carries on Work of National Fame 14 Years
By JACK McGRANE
As early as 1924, the need for a foot-hall stadium at Notre Dame was recognized. The wooden stands in Cartier Field, where home games were played could accommodate at the most, 30,000 people, only a part of the number who would have liked to have seen the Ramblers in action.
Not only was there an insufficiency of seats, but those who were fortunate enough to gain one, found themselves in the open stands or on the ground surrounding the playing field.
Notre Dame was a power in the football world, and as such, she required a stadium which could meet the demands of all those who so rapidly followed hex’ teams. Notre Dame was a university, too, however, and a growing one at that. Hundreds of students were compelled to live in South Bend because there were no available rooms on the campus.
Recognizing the more pressing problem which the University faced, Father Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., president at this time, prudently declared that no stadium would be built until sufficient facilities had been erected to house and feed the students. During the next five years, Morrissey, Lyons, and Howard hails were constructed at the west end of the campus, and the University Dining Halls were put up across the quadrangle from them. Again, the clamox* for a stadium was raised. This time it was heard. Plans and bids were submitted by prominent contractors from all parts of the country. The Osborn Engineering company was selected and excavation was begun in the summer of 1929.
Opens in 1930
Spectators approaching the campus to witness the Southern Methodist game on
Oct. 4, 1930, saw for the first time, off to the east of the University proper, the Notre Dame Stadium. An impressive edifice of dull red brick trimmed with limestone, measuring 670 feet by 480 feet, this colossal amphitheatre had cost $800,000.
The distance around the building is a half-mile, within which -56,000 people can be seated. No posts or girders mar the view of the onlookers—not a seat in the house remains in obscurity, all are immune to obstructions. The original sod of Cartier Field, where Notre Dame had not lost a game in 23 years, was moved and finally crusted itself to the terra firma of the new site. It was upon this grass that the Irish won the first game played in the Stadium, as they defeated Southern Methodist, 20-14, that afternoon.
On the following Friday night, a crowd of 20,000 persons were present in the Stadium at the .official dedication ceremonies. Father Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., then president of the University, Knute Rockne, and Reax- Admiral S. S. Robison, superintendent of the U. S. Naval Academy conducted the solemn services in the gathering twilight. Notre Dame then proceeded to whip Navy the following afternoon, 26-2.
Rockne's Last
This 1930 team continued its auspicious initial victories over Southern Methodist and Navy by bowling over every opponent they faced that fall. They were proclaimed National Champions—the toast of the nation. Football enthusiasts argued that this team was better than “Rock’s-’ 1924 combination of the Four Horsemen and the Seven
Mules, better than any team that ever played the game. Whether or not it was doesn’t matter—it was “Rock’s” first and last year in the new arena.
Thirteen schedules have been played through since his death in 1931, years in which, win or lose, Notre Dame teams have carried on with his spirit and love for football. The Stadium has been the scene of 60 grid classics in which the Irish have been victorious 48 times as against nine defeats and a single tie. The Stadium pressbox, glass-enclosed on the west sidelines and towering over the top row of seats, is the delight of newspapermen, announcers, and cameramen. There are facilities, considered the best in the country, for 37-5 people. Hot coffee and sandwiches are served to members of the press as they disseminate their information to the outside world. Small wonder news gatherers are pleased upon being assigned to cover a Notre Dame grid classic.
But One Soul
Having but one purpose to fulfill, the Stadium is used exclusively for football as it does not have a track surrounding the 100 yards of green turf as is common at other* universities, thus bringing the spectators even nearer to the heated action on the field. The carefully tended piece of landscape extends right to the edge of the grandstand. Stadium personnel for each game amounts to nearly 800 persons. The parking lots are immediately adjacent to the arena and can accommodate 1-5,000 cars. Policing the contests are state and local officers, and private detectives whose chief duty is to see that the activities of enterprising pick-pockets and gamblers are curbed.
Visitors to Our Lady’s campus never fail to be impressed by the grandeur of the huge Stadium—a fitting edifice to a great and glorious game that has so successfully achieved nationwide recognition at the home of the Fighting Irish.
The "Playground" where the Fighting Irish have made a reputation.
21
"Wildcats" to be Next
Opponent of Golfers
Opening the season away from home, the Notre Dame golfers lost a closely contested match to Purdue’s Boilermakers last Saturday at Lafayette, 9% to 8%. The Best-Ball foursomes, generally played in morning, were reversed and the singles matches were played in the a.m. hours.
Despite the four point advantage that Purdue held going into the afternoon round, the Irish linksmen bounced back with typical Notre Dame fervor and spirit to garner 4% out of a possible six points in the p.m. play.	_
Dick Seidel and Jack Fitzpatrick, both playing their first intercollegiate matches, turned in creditable scores as did Capt. Mel Wilke and Jim Bessenfelder, however, Fitzpatrick, the freshman in the crowd, shot two under par for the .final seven holes in the Best-Ball foursomes to take the 18 and back nine. Jack missed a six foot birdie putt on the 18th do-or-die green which would have tied the match, 9 to 9.
T' ' '	-	.	,	*
Keep Your Eye on the Ball!
When the boys showed that they had the right kind of stuff to come back in the afternoon, knowing that they had a four-point deficit to account for, that was pleasing to Coach Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C. He believes that the will to win and the determination that his boys exhibited null prove to be a heavy factor throughout the remainder of the season.
Spectators Invited
Tomorrow, Northwestern’s Wildcats . come to town and the morning foursomes will get underway about 8:30 with the afternoon round scheduled for 'one o’clock. All those desiring to see the match are extended a cordial invitation by the golf committee. If Saturday is filled on your personal schedule, then
22
there’s a match with Michigan on Sunday on the William J. Burke Memorial Course, with the same times prevailing. Sunday’s match, originally proposed for another date, moved up to May 7 at the request of the Michigan coach.
Father Holderith expects a strong caliber of competition from both squads as has been a feature of these two outfits in the past.	.
Summaries of last week:
Singles Matches
Culp, Purdue —   ......;....42 35 77—3
Wilke, Notre Dame .........44	38 82—0
Harrison, Purdue ..........41	34 75—2
Bessenfelder, Notre Dame 39 37 76—1 Lamb, Purdue ..............41	34 75—2%
Fitzpatrick, Notre Dame 42 35 77—% Radavick, Purdue ........  42	40 82—%
Seidel, Notre Dame........42 38 80—2^
Best-Ball Foursomes
Culp, Purdue...............38	37 75
Harrison, Purdue ..........41	39 80—1%
vs.
Wilke, Notre Dame .........39	39 77
Fitzpatrick, Notre Dame 39 36 76—1%
Radavick, Purdue...........40 41 81 Lamb, Purdue ..............40	40 80—0
vs.
Bessenfelder, Notre Dame 39 38 77 Seidel, Notre Dame ........40	40 80—3
Football Drill Ends Today
The grand finale of the spring football drill period will be staged in the Stadium Friday afternoon, May 5, in the form of the annual spring grid game. Not so typical of other days will be the missing name of “Old Timer’s game.” Since the football outlook for the ’44 season tends to be a hazy one at present, pitting a strong veteran team against a weaker inexperienced club would only tend to confuse matters all the more, so a variety of young and old football experience should be a keynote of this year’s closing drill.
Of the men returning from last year’s championship squad, there is but Dance-wicz, Adams, possibly George Sullivan, and one or two others that can be counted on as definite returners when the fall season gets* underway. Fellows like Lu-jack, Kelly, Earley, Ford, Perko, Ryko-vich, Statute, and others leave a questionable status where future succeeding semesters are concerned. .
Many new faces will be given a chance to exhibit their talent at the closing festivities, among them being, Fred Rovai, a fullback from Hammond, Ind. converted to center, Frank Scafati, Joseph Tasparcelli, Joe Fitzsimmons, Joe Gerity, Don Murphy, John Mastrangello, Jack Agnone, and others.
Clem Crowe to be Coach
Announcement was made this week by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, of the addition of Clem F. Crowe as acting head basketball coach and assistant football coach, for the duration. Crowe, a graduate of the class of 1926, having captained the 1925 grid squad, is presently the athletic director and head basketball and football coach at Xavier University in Cincinnati, O. He will be given a leave of absence from Xavier.
Crowe won three monograms in football while playing end from 1923-26, and a trio of letters in basketball at a forward post. Crowe is the first of seven brothers who count a 20 year span of athletic history at the Golden Dome campus.
Upon graduation, he became football - and basketball mentor at St. Vincent’s College at Latrobe, Pa. After spending six years in that capacity, he moved to Xavier in 1932 to become line coach. A year later he was named head tutor for the cage squad at that institution, finally moving into the driver’s seat in 1935 when he was named athletic director and head football coach, in addition to already being head basketball coach.
The record that follows Crowe to Notre Dame is a compilation of 47 wins, 22 defeats, and one tie in football at Xavier while accumulating 93 wins and 72 losses on the hardcourt.
Not only does he come to the Fighting Irish campus, thus adding another “famous son returned home,” but he brings with him five potential Irish athletes all bearing the name of Crowe. At 41 years of age, he also is a proud father of four daughters, totalling nine children in all.
SOFTBALL LEAGUE (Continued from page 18) saying, “Bring on the V-12 for the campus championship.”
Bob Gantner, off campus squad manager, was heard admonishing his men, “Stay out of Rosie’s and get in shape for the big tournament.” The Commerce Forum, with such players as Marines Larry Carr and Pat Wilson, look strong on paper. Their indomitable manager, Frank McManus says, “Once we get going, the other teams will only be statistics.”
Those desiring to try out for one of the eligible teams should see the follow. ing managers: Bob Marshall or Fred Ro-bout, Breen-Phillips; Jim Casey, Sorin; Ray Smith, Chemical Engineers; Bill Hendrick, Civil Engineers; Bill O’Connell, Law Club; Bob Gantner, Off-Campus, and Frank McManus, .Commerce Forum. Team rosters should be submitted to the Physical Education department as soon as possible;
HOSTESSES
We had the pleasure of overhearing several of the Service Men’s Center’s own morale builders in a very intimate conversation last Sunday.
Says the first young lady to her companion: “How do you like that new Marine that just cut in?”
“He’s like the fourth man in a conga line,” confides the budding young thing.
“Yes? What do you mean.”
“You know, one, two, three, jerk!”
PO-UM
We know it’s kind of out of place, but a certain Seaman was inspired last week with this chef-d’oeuvre:
There was a little Daschund once,
So long it had no notion,
How long it took to notify, Its tail of its emotion.
SPIRIT OF '44
The maze of conflicting cadences about the Cafeteria each meal time, when there are about five separate counts you could follow, and each Company looked as if it was trying to, has been finally corrected by the drum corps. Whether for the better we are not yet ready to say. K. C. Snyder acted as a spokesman for this energetic little group last week. All members have had experience he claims, himself being a veteran of the Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin, Coast Guard Legion Drum and Bugle Corps. The outfit is to be increased with the addition of bugles as soon as a sufficient number of individuals with courage and a hom can be located. He formally states the aim of the corps thus:
“To make the middies look sicker than they already are.”
Incidentally, the character who really has courage is Gerald Stout, the lone
flute player, who • stoutly solos, such marches as Good Night Ladies against a backdrop of six snares and. a bass drum.
Chief Barbes is the coordinator of” the Unit.
UNQUOTABLE QUOTES
Then there was the Seaman who winked at the elevator girl and she took him up on the ninth floor.
Prof: Deverl Demerit Osborn! Why are you late?
Deverl Demerit Osborn: The .class started before I arrived.
A kiss that speaks volumes is seldom a first edition.
What the average Seaman likes about the average girl is his arms.
MANEUVERS
And we do mean maneuver’in. The stratagems going on for the coming V-12 dance are second only to the scuttlebutt about it. Here is some of the straight dope.
The Band. Jerry Wald has got 19 pieces of the smoothest dance orchestra in the country. He has played at the Panther Room in Chicago; the Palladium; the New Yorker; all along the West Coast. He is nationally known.
(Continued on page 29)
And so it was that as its eyes, Were filled with woe and sadness, Its little tail went wagging on, Because of previous gladness.
—Uncle Walter
❖
AN AUDIENCE
Without a doubt the most prolific source of conversation is a week-end liberty in South Bend. If it weren’t for this bottomless well of interlocution there would be practically nothing to talk about during the week, as the first three days. are usually spent discussing what happened on the past liberty, and the last two days in what is going to happen on the next page. The plight of one Louis Singer of Dillon Hall made good talk this week. _
The affable Louie was pleasantly engaged in carrying his girl across the river (he swears her. feet hurt) when the Notre Dame bus lumbered by.- With his mouth open, the 220 pounds of femininity in his arms, and her elbow in his stomach, Lou spent a horrible few minutes as the sardines in uniform jammed within said vehicle sent forth a hundred wise cracks. People say they heard a big splash in the river when the bus had passed.
KIRALY U5NR
WUDDYA WAM’T - MORE ?
23
"Up In Arms" Found "Tolerable" by Critic
Hollywood is 50 years old this year. It seems that age should bring wisdom, that years should ripen raw talent: at least that is the usual pattern of life’s progress. But, when considering Hollywood as an institution and not as an individual, it may be that it will take it generations, even ages, to grow wise and fruitful. When compared to a similar institution, the stage, Hollywood is as yet unborn. Maturity at the 50 year mark may be too much to expect.
At any rate the film capital has had much experience in the field of musical comedy, and should by this time be able to produce such a show with, some originality and freshness. In “Up in Arms” neither are there. The plot is drawn from an old stage play found on Broadway about the time that the present draft boards made their first appearance. Danny Meeves, whom Danny Kaye does admirably in spite of the plot, gets drafted quite against his will. But in the Army he goes to stay, along with his bosom buddy (Dana Andrews). Their sweethearts turn up in uniform shortly after, and all four wind up on the same transport for the South Pacific area. Once there, Danny turns into a Bob Hope and the picture takes on a frightening resemblance to “The Road to Zanzibar.” While you are still waiting for something new and clever, the end comes.
However, “Up in Arms” is interesting from other points of view. It is Kaye’s first screen venture and as the enervated hypochondriac he is not unfunny. He has the pep and enthusiasm which the American public devours. (Others are: Red Skelton, Bob Hope, and Jimmy Durante.) He has a good voice and, what is better still, he is intelligible even when he sings at the incredible rate of speed at which he does. A Gilbert and Sullivan patter song would be pie for Danny. Like his contemporaries, Kaye uses a thesaurus of facial expressions, and, unlike his contemporaries, he has a catching air of simplicity and innocence. His punning at the Army sergeants was his cleverest contribution.
Dinah Shore can sing too._____Dana Andrews was an exceedingly plain nobody, as Kaye’s chum. And the very, very Goldwyn girls could have been given a more plausible background than the deck of the transport? Who ever heard . of Wacs in “undressed” beach uniforms strewn across a quarterdeck?
In short “Up in Arms” goes like this: music, good; jokes, funny; situations, tolerable.—Seaman George Nesbit
24
George Finn Has Good Start, Plays at Center
By WILLIAM FRIDAY
Early this semester several aspiring musicians assembled for a serious jam session in the back room of “Kelly’s Pool Hall” (Washington), wondered if their brand of jive might fall favorably on the public ear, and decided that they should take the first opportunity to find out. Accordingly, under the competent direction of George Finn, they started practicing; then worked on special arrangements made by Finn, and with more practice they were ready to see how the public would react.
The group includes: Seaman George “Never No Lament” Finn, cornet; Seaman Johnny “88” Clark, piano; Seaman “Slappey” Bud Brownson, bass; “Paradiddle” Joe Kenney, who still doesn’t know which of the armed services is going to get a break when he goes in, drums; Seaman Roy “Slush-Pump” Lang, trombone; “Shoeless Will” Friday, guitar. Sal Perez, (Who is this guy, Sinatra, anyway?) handles the vocals in a manner that really “sends” the chicks.
Mrs. L. L. Mathews, Chairman of the Entertainment Committee, South Bend Service Men’s Center, kindly agreed to give the band the chance they wanted, and arranged for them to play for the dance on Saturday afternoon, April 29.
After solving a minor difficulty concerning the transportation of the instruments, (did you ever try to put a bull fiddle and a bass drum in the same taxicab?), the gang “showed” at the Center, ready to turn on the heat. The performance was duly performed, and (Continued on Page 27)
AT THE THEATRE
COLFAX
Desert Song.- Today through week.
PALACE
Government Girl & Henry Aldrich, Boy Scout. Today through Wednesday.
GRANADA
Miracle of Morgan’s Creek & Memphis Belle. Today through week.
STATE
Moonlite in Vermont & We’ve Never Been Licked. Today through Sunday.
DRILL HALL
Cover Girl. Time 2000.
STAGE (Palace)
_ Tomorrow the World, Thursday evening performance only.	1
Drill Hall Swallows Navy Early in the Morning ?
By SEAMAN TOM PAYNE
It was a minute before six, And all through the hall, . Not a sound was heard, There was no noise at all.
Quiet reign eth supreme at 5:59 every morning in Dillon Hall. No noise is heard except an occasional snore oozing < from one of the rooms. Then like the clap of thunder, the bell rings its reveille doom. Your roommate sleepily raises his head, opens one eye, and attempts to gaze out the window in hopes that he will see it raining, snowing or storming. Doors start slamming down the hall and a seaman dashes out of his room and hollers, “No calisthenics.” Another seaman runs down the hall screaming, “Calisthenics in ten minutes. ’ Fall out in dress hats, fur lined ear muffs and neckerchiefs.” This leaves everyone in a state of confusion, so at 6:05 you drag yourself out of the bunk (this is done by rolling over and falling-on the deck). You then unconsciously put the left shoe on the right foot, while ” grabbing for the ends of your sweat suit. Then in true Dagwood fashion you dash out of the door half-dressed with a sock in one hand and a shoe in the other. Jogging akng the way to the Drill Hall, you are passed by some ambitious fellow doing about 20 knots. His speed is soon lost, however, since running afoul of the wire fence, he lies scuttled on the ground (the price of ambition) .
Upon .arriving at the Drill Hall, you and twenty-five other sailors squeeze through the door and begin groping . your way towards your company. After falling in with your company, you shuffle your feet, extend ranks and start looking around for some big fellow to . hide behind. Whereupon you go through the motion of calisthenics. After this • brilliant piece of goldbricking, you are more worn out than if you had done the exercises.
Coming back to the hall eleven hun- . dred other guys and you make a lazy attempt at double timing in three quarter time. Once back in your room, you look wistfully at the bunk and then pray that it will be snowing tomorrow morning so the fellow can run through the halls shouting, “No calisthenics” and , mean it! Who wants to have a Charles Atlas physique anyway?.
OBSERVATIONS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY. USNR
1.	Book on Aviation:
A Guide to Naval Aviation, by Lt. Wallace W. Elton, USNR, Lt. Alfred H. Driscoll, USNR, Lt. Robert N. Burch-more, USNR, Lt. (jg) Gray B. Larkum, USNR.—Instructors in Naval Training School, Indoctrination, U. S. Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, R. I.
This interesting new book is a brief guide and elementary introduction to Naval Aviation for those who wish to know or need to know more about the background, organization, equipment, and operation of the United States Navy Air force.
The text was written as a result of the authors’ experience in teaching their course, “An Introduction to Naval Aviation,” at the Naval Air Statioon, Quonset Point, R. I., and is designed for the indoctrination of naval aviation in general, plus military topics relating to naval air power. It includes an excellent chapter on aerology also, one of the upper' level specialties to which men may be assigned during their second semester in the basic prescribed curriculum of V-12. The book may be signed for at the course officer’s desk in the Rockne Building for two days. reading and return. This 1944 first edition of the book costs $2.50, and is published by the McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York.
2.	Two Students with 5 Terms Advanced Standing to be Eelected for Training in Aerology:
The demand for officers trained in aer
ology has caused a concentrated program to be set up for this specialty at the California Institute of Technology. The requirements for eligibility are: exceptional aptitude for mathematics and physics; completion of five (and only five) terms of college by 1 July 1944; interest in aerology; and pre-requisite courses already completed so that by the end of his eighth term the candidate will be able to complete the minimum requirements listed in the following summary. One year each of English, physics (including lab.), mathematics through differential and integral calculus, synoptic meteorology, and dynamic meteorology; one-half year of meteorological instruments, including laboratory; and one and a half years in meteorological laboratory. If more than two men on this station are qualified, they will be listed as alternates and considered in case there are additional numbers required. Interested students who are qualified should report to the course officer.
3.	New Opportunity for Physics Majors with Advanced Standing:
An announcement dated 13 April 1944 states that all bona fide physics majors who have had previous college work before entering V-12, regardless of whether they are enrolled as basic or engineer-
ELLSWORTH'S
Qifai fa* MOTHER'S DAY May 14th
Gloves	Perfumes
Hosiery Colognes Jewelry	Powders
Lingerie
Greeting Cards for Mother’s Day and other dates you want to remember.
STAnONERY and SUPPLIES
NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STQRE
SOUTH BENO. INDIANA
ing students, shall be treated as engineering specialists, and thus given a total. of eight terms since their first matriculation in college. It is not necessary that a student have been described as a physics major heretofore, but it is necessary that he have met the minimum requirements which are these: “Unless a sttudent has completed general physics by the end of the fourth term and is ready to begin calculus at the start of the fifth term, he cannot be considered for the physics major candidacy.” Such a major will be expected to complete in the total of eight terms a minimum of twenty (20) semester hours of physics, of which at least six (6) hours must be in courses for which calculus is a prerequisite and in which calculus is used in the presentation of the subject matter. This is a minimum standard for admission to this classification and is not intended to be an outline of an optimum physics major.
4.	Civilian Teachers for Army and Navy Illiterates:
The Army needs civilian teachers immediately to replace military personnel as instructors in primary education for illiterate soldiers and expects to employ from 3,000 to 5,000 men and women by midsummer, the War, Department announced 15 March. The Navy has a similar plan in operation at Great Lakes now, using Naval personnel to date.
5.	High Percentage Insured in NSI:
From the Army and Navy Register: “Of all Army personnel stationed within continental United States, 96 per cent are covered by Government Insurance, the average amount for each soldier being more than $9,000. A recent check of military personnel leaving one of the Nation’s largest ports , of embarkation, covering a three-month period, revealed that 98 per cent of all officers and enlisted men destined for overseas duty were covered by National Service Life Insurance. The maximum coverage of $10,000 was owned by 90 per cent of the enlisted men, and by 97 percent of the officers and warrant officers going over- , seas, while the average protection for enlisted men was $9,500, and for officers and warrant officers, $9,800.”
6.	V-12 Alumni Invited to Inspect and Address Their Former V-12 Companies:
Here is an invitation and a promise to upperclassmen in V-12: When you receive your commission and return to Notre Dame on your first leave after becoming an ensign, you will be invited to inspect your own former company and 26
to give a special greeting to the trainees in it. Ensign John Whitely inspected and talked to Company C last week. He was trainee company commander of C last summer. Upon his graduation from Midshipmen School at Columbia University, he was assigned to scout raider school.
7.	Eligibility for V-7 or V-12 or for direct commissioning after failure in V-7 or V-12 or in the Army or the Marine Corps O. C. S.:
On 7 April the Officer Procurement Division of the Bureau of Naval Personnel wrote a letter answering inquiries concerning the eligibility of former of-fier candidates, Class V-7 (midshipmen candidates) and Class V-12 for reassignment to officer candidate classes or for direct commissioning. The answer states that former Reserve Midshipmen, V-7, may be reappointed to officer candidate classes or may be considered for direct commissions if they meet the qualifications, provided in either case they have had a minimum of six months duty afloat, with favorable recommendation of the commanding officer. For V-12 men the answer is exactly the same for reappointment to V-12, with the further comment: “Enlisted men separated from the V-12 Program will not be favorably considered as candidates for transfer to Class V-7 until such time as they will not be commissioned prior to their successful former V-12 classmates.” Should qualified men be considered for V-7 or for direct commissions if they have failed in O.C.S. in either the Army or the Marine Corps? “Only if they are considered to be outstanding candidates for appointment as Naval Officers, and have served a minimum of six months duty afloat.” In applying for re-entry into the V-7 Program, may the active duty acquired at a V-12 school be considered? “Yes, if such consideration does not permit applicant to be commissioned at an earlier date than his successful classmates.”
❖ ❖, ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ <♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ •> ❖ ❖ K. OF C. ELECTIONS ❖
❖ All members of Notre Dame Coun- ❖ ❖ cil, 1477, Knights of Columbus, are ❖ requested to appear at the Council's
* office, in the basement of Walsh Hall, ❖ ❖ on Monday, May 8, beginning at 4:30 ❖ ❖ p.m„ to elect officers for the coming ❖ term, and local delegates to the state ❖ convention. The elections will close ❖
❖ at 7:30 p.m.	’♦*
❖	ERNEST HOWARD, ❖
&	Financial Secretary . ❖
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
J	OFFICER'S - FAK
U	Navy or Khaki
Weight under 6 Pounds
$21.30
U	(Tax included)
Also available at I. B. SIMPSON, Inc.
205 N. Main St.
Carries necessary uniforms and accessories.
NAME IN GOLD FREE
HansARintzsch
Michigan and Colfax At a Notre Dame Bus Stop

,o. NIX 7m! VITAMINS
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B,-B> (G)-C-Bo
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minim’-ri Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Nine-Vitamin Tablet Contains— AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “C” as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “B2”
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Be_
AS MUCH “Be” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as ¥> lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS™ $3.50
The New Pattern
The campus is well established by now i in the new pattern of things. The preponderance of uniformed students is taken for granted. “Hup, two, three, four” is accepted without a second thought. We can hardly remember the days when the Dining Hall had waiters. It’s been all cafeteria for such a long time now. The coming and the going, every four months, of new classes of midshipmen are taken in stride by the “natives.”
But we can’t quite settle down and get used to one thing—girl clerks in the Huddle and women repairing shoes in the campus shoe shop. It just isn’t—it just isn’t the old place any more.
Gift from J. P, Cullen, '22
The University has announced the acquisition for its increasingly valuable collection of a letter signed by Hannibal Hamlin, vice-president of the United States during the Civil War. The letter is a gift of John Paul Cullen, ’22, executive of the Hines Memorial Hospital, Hines, Ill. Hamlin at one time also was governor of Maine and senator from the same state.
CHINESE BISHOP (Continued from page 3) out. Some authorities believe that because China has diverted the energies of some one million Japs, she may have kept them out of the continental United States. He noted that the Chinese fighting men want and need more equipment, adding that an example of what properly equipped Chinese can do is to be seen in Lt.-General Joseph E. Stillwell’s three American equipped divisions of Chinese troops, who have never suffered a defeat.
“China is marching toward Christianity,” the bishop said. The .leaders of China have publicly asked that missionaries be sent into China, and although China is now at war with their native lands, Italian and German missionaries are not interned, but allowed to continue their work among the Chinese. In asking that we pray and work for a Catholic China, he pointed out that if China were made Catholic, over half the population of the world would be Christian.
Bishop Yu-Pin was consecrated titular bishop of Sozusa and vicar apostolic of Nanking in 1936, but was forced to leave his see by the invading armies. He has traveled over 100,000 miles by plane, has crossed both oceans eight times, and has visited the United' States twice before. He served as secretary on Chinese affairs for the late Pope Pius XI, and also served under the present pontiff, Pope Pius XII, when the pontiff was papal ■ ’ secretary of state and the bishop was in the secretariat.
GEORGE FINN’S BAND (Continued from page 27) while they haven’t been signed to any long-term contracts by N.B.C., or WSBT, they must have done a “fair-to-middlin’ ” job of giving the jive-hounds what they wanted.
Next day, five of the boys supplied the music for the “Mixin’” over at St. Mary’s. As yet they haven’t received a report from under-cover agents there, but from what we could see, they seemed to like it well enough. (That’s the trouble with women, though — you can’t tell by their faces what they’re thinking.) It might be added that Perez really knocked ’em off their feet, and vice versa. Yes, we’ll bet that this group will be heard again, and soon. A gang like that you can’t shut up.
Meanwhile, not satisfied with the work involved in handling a small group, Finn is at the moment busily engaged in arranging music and plans for a larger band of 15 members or more, to play for the next “Nites and Daze” show. Most of you will recall the swell job done last semester by John Stehlin, and you will be wondering if this band will get as “groovey” and be as excellent as John’s. With a musician like Finn at the helm, our guess is that the band will turn in a noteworthy exhibition.

Remember Your Mother
on
Mothers Day
WILLIAMS
West of the Oliver Hotel
PHONE 3-5149

□rZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXZXXXXXXXXXXXZXXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXD
T would only take a CARD — but she would know you remembered her on MOTHER'S DAY — and her day would be as complete as it could be . ... with you away.
Badin Hall
rxxzxzxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxzxxxzxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxzxi

27
l+'s lovely
to give
on
MOTHER'S DAY
For the loveliest of all gifts, see the •wonderful selection of Mother’s Day remembrances at Wyman’s- . . . You're sure to find what she herself -would choose in our quality-high collection.
Eisenberg Perfume Sticks
Startling and Exciting $1.50 plus tax
Hartnell's Perfume
in lovely rayon satin case
Menace and White Shoulders
$5 plus tax
Nonchalant
By Varva
■ Perfume
$ I, $2. $3.75
phis tax
Dusting Powder
$ | plus tax
Joan Navarre, Wyman's store shopper, -will gladly help you in making your selection. Call her at 3-5101.	.
WYMAN'S .
| Know Your Navy
Classes of sea-going men-of-war about 1S00. Not considering variations, there were three classes of sea-going men-of-war.
(1)	“Ships-of-the-line” w ere heavy vessels of two or three gun decks, carrying from 75 to 125 guns. These .were the battleships of the period.
(2)	“Frigates” had only one gun deck below the spar deck. These were the heavy cruisers of the era. The American frigates were the finest ships of their type in existence.
(3)	“Sloops of war,” the smallest type, were distinguished by the fact that their armament was mounted on the spar deck. These were the light cruisers or perhaps the destroyers of the period.
All guns were mounted on wooden carriages; the recoil threw the gun inboard as far as the breeching would . allow and, when reloaded, it was run out again by hand tackles. Firing was usually done with a priming quill.
Monitor and the Merrimac. The day before the famous battle, the Merrimac (which was manned by volunteers from the Confederate Army) demonstrated her prowess by sinking or burning several helpless Union ships. The next day, however, she faced the newly-arrived Monitor. The battle which was fought at close range (a few yards to about one-half mile), lasted less than four hours. Each ship was hit approximately twenty times and while no one was killed, many were stunned. Hundreds of enthusiastic spectators from ashore and aboard other ships cheered the con
For MOTHER'S DAY, May 14th
•	CUT FLOWERS
•	PLANTS
•	CORSAGES
Rena tylvud Campana
Phone 3-8227	114 South Michigan Street	South Bend
testants during the struggle.
The terror caused by the Merrimac may be judged from the words of Secretary of War Stanton', (on the day of the battle) : “The Merrimac will change the course of the Avar;, she Avill destroy — every naval vessel; she will lay all the cities on the seaboard under contribution. I have no. doubt that the enemy is at this minute on the way to Washington, and that we shall have a shell from one of her guns in the White House before we leave this room.” The nervous Secretary did not know that even then the Merrimac had met her
The careers of both ships ended before the year (1862) had expired. The Merrimac was burned by the Confederates at the evacuation of Norfolk while the Monitor was sunk with her crew in a gale off Hatteras.
The contest between ordnance and armor, of course, still goes on. The Hood’s armor let the Bismarck’s shells through, yet the 6-inch deck of the later Rodney took a bomb heavier than a torpedo with no more damage than could be repaired at sea. The Graf Spee’s armor, which should have been only a little less than that of a battleship, fatally opened before the 6-inch shells of light cruisers.
IRISH WIN TWO, LOSE TWO
(Continued from Page 16)
the frustrated Irish. Joe Zieminski pitched an excellent ball game but the flimsy defense of his support gave'Michigan a five run fifth inning. Both Zieminski and Bliss Bowman hurled five hit ball. Notre Dame held a brief lead in the third as they notched their only two runs of the game on a hit and two Wolverine errors, but Michigan, tallying one in the fourth and sixth coupled with their five rim fifth, Avon a 7-2 verdict.
The Irish travel to Lafayette Saturday Avhere they-meet Purdue’s Boilermakers in a single contest and then hit the road again on Sunday, making the jaunt to Seymour, Ind., Avhere they meet Freeman Field.	.
28
V-12 WEEK-END DANCE (Continued from Page 7) vidual plans can then be made for the remainder of the evening.
There will be a strict observance of the no corsage rule. Something special in favors will take the place of flowers.
The tea dance Sunday afternoon, to be held at the Indiana Club from 2:00 until 5:00, will round off “Week-End Maneuvers.”
The V-12 Executive Committee has chosen the committees to handle the necessary arrangements. The listing of the. committees for the Ball and the committees for the week-end in general follows:
Week-end Maneuver Committees
Ball General Chairman. — Bill Fei'-rick, Navy. •
Refreshments — Chairman: Bruce Sumner, Marines; Bob Engelbrecht, Marines.
Decorations—Chairman: George Nesbit, Navy.
Favors — Chairman: Dave Caplin, Navy; Bill Ruoff, Navy.
Transportation — Chairman: John Kuntson, Marines.
‘ Orchestra — Chairman: Bob Fanning, Navy.
Invitation — Chairman: Melvin Kruger, Navy; George Gaskel, Navy.
Tickets—Chairman: Jack Leahy, Marines; Bill Grafe, Navy.
Week-end General Chairman—Thom- . as Young, Marines.
Publicity—Cochairman: Joe Brennan, Marines; Cochairman: Jack Schneider, Navy; Bob Worth, Navy; Dave Ardito, Navy; Bill Byington, Navy; Charles Kiraly, Navy; Bill Abbot, Navy; Par Stanton, Navy.
Entertainment—(picnic) : Chairman: Casey Snyder, Navy; Bill Braun, Navy; George Finn, Navy; Jerry Stout, Navy.
Refreshments (picnic) — Chairman: Joe Thornton, Marines.	.
Hozising — Chairman: Larry Smith, Marines; Bob Tarver, Marines; Don Wiebel, Marines.
Transportation (picnic) — Chairman: Pat Wilson, Marines.
Tea Dance — Chairman: Joe Ziemin-ski, Wally Yakey.
Dates—Chairman: John Keleher.
Photography—Joe Haller.
THE PERISCOPE—Continued from Page 23
Tickets. They go on sale pay day at the bank, May 5- Get your tickets then, for the sale is going to be limited to 700. That is very important, for those ducats the week before the dance are going to be as scarce as a seaman who has never . received any demerits.
The Weekend. In order to participate in any of the extra weekend activities you must buy a ticket to the dance. It’s definitely all or nothing at all.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of
Desirable Gifts
on display. •
| Use our lay-asvay plan. f [Bjtiiiuiiniiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiii>iiiiiiiimimini»iumim»Himn»A
Have a Coca-Cola = Muchas felicidades
(MANY CONGRATULATIONS)
It’s natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
.. .from Caracas to Cleveland
To strike up friendship, your Yank oil-driller in South America says, Have a “Coke”, and he’s said, I’m your pal. World-wide, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become the genial gesture of friendliness everywhere... just as .It is at home with Coca-Cola in your refrigerator.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
the
hi^h-si^n
72 HOUR LEAVE
(Continued from page 10)
of sticky, salty sweat torrent down your face; a fly slogs in tickling steps across your neck. A sudden shove rocks you as a ponderous matron, reeking with sweat, onions, and beer, bounces into you as an LCT is sometimes bounced off a pier. This has partially roused you from your torpor. You glance at her face. It is flour-powdered; severely-plucked eyebrows hunch across her forehead; hex- skin hangs in flabby folds; two blobs of brilliant rouge glare like the red lanterns of a caboose in the night; a too-small mouth shellacked with flaming lip stick completes the advertisement of what she is. Nothing is so cheap as a cheap woman. But' perhaps she is only patriotic. The lurch of the starting street car' snaps the cheap tinsel ribbon of thought in your mind. The clickety-click of the wheels on the rails, the contrasting themes of clean, white bungalows and the squalid, unpainted negro shantys, combine with the murmur of voices in the Norfolkbound street car to create a drowsy symphony in your mind, whose recurring theme repeats and repeats “Janie, ■ Janie” — that was her name, wasn’t it?
Only a few weeks ago, you said goodbye. Your robe of, nonchalance slipped from off you that evening; and there you were, a youth hopelessly in love. She helped you along with the words you wanted to say. Remember? Oh, forget it! What has sentiment to do with a service man; live up to the stereotyped picture of a sailor. On to Norfolk — dogs and sailors not allowed — Southern hospitality — into the stores and clip joints that find their bonanzas in the money belts of sailors. What is there to do in Norfolk? Nothing. Per-* haps, you should get drunk, forget about home, the Navy, everything. Get drunk, and with each shot in the smoky, reeking tavern shout loudly to convince yourself and everyone that you are having a great time. There’s a girl; (Do you see her?) ; get her; and — Oh, it disgusts you, does it? Yes. But most of all, what would that girl of your memory think? And so out into the night you go to walk along the streets with your memories. A drunk stops you for a light.
It’s quieter now; the blare of noise, and the glare of lights, gone. Only the soft, warm lights of homes smile out on the passerby. Soon you find yourself staring into the lighted rooms of each house, wishing someone would rap on the window and invite you in; perhaps, if you were to knock oh the door and ask — no. Go. back to the base and hit the sack. You doze on the dimly-lighted
Navy bus jolting its way back to Little Creek.
Things were going all right today, until—. It happened while you were browsing through the papers in the reading room—The Seattle Post Intelligencer. Home. Again those thoughts of home. The paper was only a month old. You merely glanced at the war news, and then dove inside the paper. You studied the advertisements carefully; prices were written in dollars not shillings. Frederick and Nelson, The Bon Marche, magnificent stores, not like the grotesque, twisted skeleton that lies in this city at-the foot of Mount Pleasant Street. Up and down the streets, up and down. Magnin’s, Friedlander’s, and Harry Hartman’s, the blind bookseller, and that florist shop (Do you remember the evening you stopped there and left with a petite cluster of violets for your mother?). Here, amid the red brick buildings of bombed Liverpool, you found a newspaper from home.. Why?
And so the business of war goes on, and so the even harder task of trying to forget confronts you. Servicemen are lonely men, even though they won’t admit it. Servicemen are strangers; are always among strangers; are even strangers to themselves. You sentimental sop. Oh, yeah! Listen, mate, you’re ashore now; you’re not out there, or over there, or under there where men’s lives suddenly cease, and only the splash of water marks a buddy’s grave. You decry sentimentality as cowardice. I call you liar, then. For I have seen brave men with wet eyes. I have come down from the signal bridge in the chill of a black night and heard, above the muffled sob of the engines, sobs from a sailor’s sack. I have seen, shipmates suddenly stand and walk robot-like from the crew’s quarters. Those same fellows have herded their LCT through seas that split the seams of other ships in the flotilla; they held their breath when the skipper was informed he was off his course and was in a minefield; yes, they even thought about home, that time aboard the transport while they stood in life jackets waiting while the destroyers were dropping ash cans on the steel head salmon slipping along in the waters beneath the convoy. Sentiment. The Nazis had no home life; .Hitler was their father,, a military camp their home. The Jap, maybe they were reared in the stink of a dung hill. Perchance the love of home and country kept alive by. memories makes the American the fighter that he is. A. thing remembered or a person longed for reminds the Yank of that, for which he is fighting and some day he will be going home to them — perhaps.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D-D.S-CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bld?.	South Bend. Ind-
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M- S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton. M.D.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.--Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR
TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. ..TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN’S SHOP
31
THE GREEN BANNER (Continued from Page 8) many friends wish you luck in your final physical, Boh.
BIRDSEYE VIEW
We can just picture Weetie Pfaff, these days, high in her tower with the other- lyrical Lils across the Dixie, braving the unpredictable, outrageous, and invariably wretched Indiana weather, to compose triolets and quatrains redolent of tulips, lilacs, and the returning war-belrs. Surely, the spring issue of Chimes will appear this week! Oh, we can hardly wait!
We are of the opinion that our country cousins who inhabit suburban Holy Cross (Go west, young man; go west!) Indiana, are continually on the road. It used to be that we could take a qu’et Sunday afternoon stroll, and then sit down peacefully in a quiet corner to share a crust of friendship with a comrade in gentle surroundings. Now, the unwary finds himself caught in a net of circumstances at every turn in the road. And if you try to keep the conversation on an intellectual level, you’re the meanest man in town, for the obvious reason that they can’t follow you. It’s a fact!
❖ .
WE BOW TO BARAT
We had always labored under sleazy impression that Barat was the ne plzts ultra abode of the feminine elite, suave and sophisticated, a class apart from the ordinary Elks such as inhabit Mundelein, Rosary, the Woods, and our own beloved St. Mary’s, and teeming with a streamlined, country club schedule and atmosphere. Now, thanks to Mary Herlihy (week-end commuter between Lake Forest and Notre Dame) we discover such is not the case. On the contrary, Barat is a hive of scholarship, and possesses a rugged mental existence comparable only to the Spartan mode of life which is their unfailing daily routine. Why, according to the lovely young lady, social life is secondary to such vital things as home economics (on this they are adamant). And a student there no more than gets settled than she has to declare herself a Thomist or a Molinist. Furthermore, no one has ever cut a class — it just isn’t done by that intellectual set, ever, at all. That’s why we love Barat — we have so much in common. And please Mary, fell the girls that when they feel the need of a little, intellectual gymnastics, to me:t us down at the Blackhawk, and we’ll kick around a few Greek roots or, ethical datives. With St. Mary’s, we have never been able to get beyond minor logic (of course,. we’re forever getting involved over there.) Blit now to Rosie’s, then home early, and to the books — as usual.
30
0....................          g
i Campus Centenary [ i Publications j
: Notre Dame—100 Years____$4.00 i
j Collected Poems of	.	=
:	Charles L. O'Donnell__$2.50 =
| ... at the Bookstore i
e..............................a
rCLXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXZXZXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX^
JOSIE and JIM'S
H M H
H H
M
M M
HJNNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
CATE
PLACE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
5OUthsehore
H
M M
M
M
H M
K

H B
Copyright 1944, Liggett & Mras Tobacco Co.