^he SNotre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
«■ ■« i •••	m ■ itt« 111 itti 11 tt»i i it... mi tiiiiiti tin.............ulmin..............................  minimi..........
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT -	-	-	- Managing Editor
GEORGE COLLINS -	-	- Navy Associate Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH ----- Sports Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
LOUIS ALMASI -	-	-	-	- The Crow's Nest
ARTHUR MOSHER, RAY FRANKLIN - - - The Shillelagh JACK STEWART ----- The Green Banner ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE JACK TINKLE BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM JOE RENINGER W. O. MILLER JIM REGAN . JAMES BURNS SAMUEL HAZO PAUL RAGAN ROGER CAHANEY JACK HUMMEL RALPH HAYMAN TOE LANG FRANK TYCHSEN' DAVE OLSON
JUSTIN CICCONETTI JOHN C. THOMAS JAMES JOHN BILL PFAFF
DAVE WARNER-., JOHN GUNTHER . BILL BRAUN. -
RUDY SCHREITMUELLER WALTER S. BUNKER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY
JACK SULLIVAN JOHN WALKER LAWRENCE METCALF ARNOLD ANDERJASKA CLARENCE ZIMMER
JAMES FERSTEL -ARTHUR COUGHLAN -REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C.-M. E. VARGA -	-
- Photography
Circulation Manager
Faculty Advisor - Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
From the Christmas issue of the St. Mary’s Static, decked out in green and red (green to denote the operating status of the average SMC stude, and red to depict their faces after thinking what N.D. lads think of them), we discover some pertinent information. Two St. Mary’s sophs have been elected to Mademoiselle’s College Board. (Mademoiselle', to you, uninitiated, is the female Esquire.)
❖
Our nomination on the worst joke of the week—
Customer: “I would like to have a pair of alligator shoes, please.”	•
Salesman : “What size does your alligator wear?”
❖
Federal Agents swooped down on the Tulane athletic department recently and carried off a machine used to treat "charley horses” and other football field mishaps on the ground that it was a misbranded article. The Hullabaloo is in tears, as they claim that this was the secret weapon used in the first half of the N.D. game.
The slow movement of G.I.’s back to this country has caused many coeds to wait for the “paws that refreshes.”
—Boston U. News ❖
Loyola’s Maroon comes up with the perfect method of insuring that all students keep their noses buried in the books. —Print them on Kleenex.
♦
The Ohio State Lantern carried a piece lately about a fellow who announces a radio program which is on the air 286 hours weekly. Personally, we’d rather operate in Indiana where the weeks are only 168 hours long — But then, it might be those long winter nights we’ve heard so much about!
❖
Some girls are not afraid of mice—others have pretty legs.
—Ball State News ❖
Down at Georgia Tech there is a real system for handling girls. Advice is passed on to the students thus:
How to Give A Giri A Surprise Party—
Place arms around her, draw hei- close, start to kiss her. When she says, “Stop, how dare you!” release her unkissed. Note surprise on her face.
P.S. ’Tis rumored that this will go over big at St. Mary’s.
❖
Culled from the Auburn Plainsman:
Speedometer—an instrument by which you can’t , always tell how far a couple have gone in a car.
Professor—a man who is paid to study the sleeping conditions among students. .
❖
Down in Bloomington, Ind., students have received forms with which to rate their professors. Ratings are given on such items as type of exams given, attitude toward students, ability to interest classes, personal appearance, etc.
♦
Against her will, a kiss was stolen from her by her fiance’s pal. \
“Don’t,” she cried, “My lips are for another.”
“Sure thing, beautiful,” he murmured, “pucker up and I’ll give you another.”—Utah State Student Life
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana, Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88	JANUARY 11. 1948	NO. 7
The Sophomore Cotillion
Pull the tuxedos and tails out of the mothballs — the Sophomore Cotillion is again taking its place on the Notre Dame social calendar- after an absence of four years.
At a meeting held before the Christmas vacation, the Sophomore class decided that the Cotillion will be held on Feb. 8 and 9. Plans already formulated for the festive weekend call for a formal ball on Fridayevening, Feb. 8, and a tea dance the following afternoon.
The Cotillion will be the first formal class dance since 1942. In years past the Cotillion was always one of the highlights of the social year at Notre Dame. It was usually held in late October or early November, but because of final exams and the start of a new semester this year’s dance was moved to February.
It had been originally planned to hold the formal ball in the Palais Royale or the Indiana Club, but both had been previously booked for Feb. 8. Arrangements are now being made by the dance committee to hold the dance in the Rockne Memorial.
Several well-known band leaders have been contacted, and the committee reports that a name band will be booked within the next few days. The orchestra booked for the dance will be announced in The Scholastic as soon as arrangements are completed.
Even a rainy weekend won’t dampen the spirit of the Soph s Gala affair.
Bids at §6.00 per couple (tax included) will go on sale at the end of January. The bids will include admission to both the formal ball and the tea dance. Open only to Sophomores, upper classmen, and graduate students, the Cotillion will start at nine and end at one.
The Sophomore class, in taking the lead in bringing back to Notre Dame the traditional class dances, is determined to outdo the pre-war affairs and has promised that the Sophomore Cotillion of 1946 will be an affair to be long remembered.
John Defant, chairman of the highly successful dance sponsored by the Veterans’ Club, is general chairman, and Art
Coughlan co-chairman of the Cotillion. The various committees include: Arrangements Committee, J. H. Conway, chairman, Jerome Dubbs, Mike Gray, and Joe Fraught; Publicity, Bill Leavey, chairman, Larry Madigan, Henry Delacensere, and Bob Marquardt; Music, Warner Stoll, chairman, Jim Corcoran, and Lou Janssen; Decorations, Bob Schmid, Bill Wenzel, and Gerard Hekker; Tea Dance, Tom Kerrigan, chairman, Joe Reninger, R. S. Underwood, and Tom Kiley; Tickets, John Moorhead, chairman, Don C. Palermini, Phil Lyons, Tom Higgins, and Dan Sutolovic; Program, Roger White, chairman.—Bill Leavey
Convocation to be
Held on February 27
Acting on a petition presented by a committee of members of the February graduating class, the Executive Committee of the Academic Council has approved a resolution to hold a convocation foi" awarding of degrees on February 27, 1946.
Degrees will be awarded to about 53 students at that time, and in addition 24 members of the R.O.T.C. who were commissioned in October will be awarded in absentia the Bachelor of Naval Science degree.
3
N.D. Radio Club is
Target for Criticism
The Radio Club officials who were flattered by the publicity they received in a past issue of the Scholastic should be troubled by the criticism leveled at them recently by the student body. The Notre Dame campus students, according to a Scholastic survey, are not the Notre Dame Radio Club’s most ecstatic fans.
During the past week, the Scholastic has interviewed some 200 students, checking their likes and dislikes on the Radio Club. Here are the results of our inquiries:
The majority of the students have expressed the opinion that the type of programs presented by the Radio Club are not the type they want to hear, that the current production, “The Melting Pot,” holds no interest for them, and that “even some horse operas have better dialogue than the Club productions.”
Other students expressed their desire to hear a comedy show developed on the idea of the annual Variety Show and suggested that the co-producers of that show write the scripts.
Among those interviewed, a minority told your reporter that they had auditioned and even written scripts for the Radio Club but had been rejected because of the club cliques.
One student who wishes to remain anonymous gave us the following account of his audition: “I went over to Washington hall, one afternoon, to audition for the next broadcast. I had won radio auditions before in my home town and knew a lot about the techniques of radio. I was sure that I would win a part. However, the moment I entered the studio, I noticed the directors were playing their favorites and assigned only the cheapest parts to the newcomers. This struck me as being too individual, because I knew that some of those auditioning for the first time were really stars in their own right. I was next to face the mike, so I read over the script. The script itself was simple in plot as they have to be, but the thing that struck me funny was the poor dialogue and the grammar of the script. The script would have been all right, if it were in the rough, but this was supposed to be polished and it wasn’t. I took my turn and was surprised not to win the part. I had used every trick to win and did a good reading, and this is why I think the club is made up of cliques, the director gave the part I wanted to another who I found out later was his roommate.”
What most of the students were trying to say was: The Radio Club is showing signs of mortifying and needs a shot in the arm—J. Hummel
4
' THE VETERANS AT NOTRE DAME
The Veterans are on the march again. This time it is the march back. Back to home and work and school. Back to all those little things they dreamed about during the dark days of the past few years.
Another Problem?
Obviously, a young man does not go into the tremendous machine of war, turn at high speed under abnormal tension for several months or years, and return to civilian life exactly the same as he left. But we miss the point if we take it for granted that he is coming back worse. He is coming back with some needs, but the needs are negligible as compared with the new potentialities he has acquired to take on a difficult job and see it through. He does not want to be coddled. Yet he does want to be given a decent break, and a chance to prove himself.
The local picture here at Notre Dame is a case in point. Here the Vets are given an initial break that you have experienced—a quiet peaceful atmosphere that breathes of God, a sympathetic corps of men who are available and helpful in the many individual problems incidental to a new way of life. Given that initial break, the Vets are carrying on by themselves. They have banded into a club, to do the job together, in peace as in war, with that same spirit of sacrifice and comradeship so typical of life in the Service.
Vets Answer a Vet Need
A group of them who sparked the Vets Club last semester came back from their short vacation a day early to help their new, incoming buddies. Sizing up their own difficulties on arriving here, they procured hundreds of campus maps and printed simple directions for registration on the back of them. Information booths were set up and manned by Vets at the main entrance and administration building during registration.
A super smoker was planned and executed by the old Vets a few nights later. It had everything—a real Notre Dame welcome by the powers-that-be, a challenge to Vets by Vets to carry on the best of the Notre Dame spirit now that they are a part of Notre Dame, entertainment by the school band, a film showing this year’s Notre Dame-Navy thriller, and a round of refreshments that exhausted the small but willing treasury of the Vets Club. 575 Vets were on hand for the smoker. They felt welcome too, because the old Vets had written a letter to them while they were still at home, awaiting the D-Day of registration.
The new Vets have risen to the occasion too. Already they have sensed the need for a revival of the pre-war Notre Dame round of activities. Their first thought is for the boys who were here and won’t be coming back. That calls for an all-out monthly Mass and Communion for deceased Notre Dame Vets, with a word of sympathy to their folks back home at Christmas.
Then there are these post-war problems, too—politics, labor, race, family, education. Many of the faculty are well posted on the right answers, so the Vets are arranging discussion groups to get the word, and later to pass the word around by campus Town Hall meetings.
New Guinea, Iceland and all those other outposts where the boys lived and fought these past years were not especially noted for their social life. So now they dicker with the Palais Royale, the girls at St. Mary’s, the school swing band, and there you have it. The Vets club is sponsoring, dances for the school. Plays and minstrels are in the offing too.
In their spare time, the Vets are taking a hand in reactivating the old familiar intra-mural sports program. It does not take long to get the feel of a basketball again, and it is more pleasant to the touch than the controls of a bomber.
Give Them a Break
Badin Hall (veteran of wars) has practically all Vets. When they found that an unpainted floor was delaying the opening of our Chapel, they swarmed down Saturday afternoon and painted the floor themselves. The job would have been a credit to the Seabees! The benches had not yet arrived Monday morning, but they all came down for Mass any way, knelt on the bare floor, and flocked to Communion in such numbers that only four hosts were left in the ciborium consecrated that morning.
You never met a more mature, cheery —yes,- even studious group of men. They have come back to start college at 23, or 25, or 28, and they mean business. One boy’s father was killed in an accident last week, and without a word from us, they raised a huge spiritual bouquet, and wired flowers. They surprise you every day with gems like this that never appeared in the scandal sheets: “Do you like this picture of Our Lady, Father? We had it tacked up in our Flying Fort. The ship was named after her; we called it the 'Queen of Queens.’ ”
—Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.
Pontiff Names Four American Cardinals
Neatly-timed to make it a very merry Christmas for American Catholics came the endlessly-speculated news that Pope Pius XII had filled the depleted Sacred College by designating thirty-two prelates to the cardinalate effective with the public consistory at St. Peter’s, February 18th.
Among Americans, the papal choice fell on Archbishops Francis J. Spellman of New York, Edward Mooney of Detroit, Samuel A. Stritch of Chicago, and John J. Glennon of St. Louis. This appointment brings the United States total of cardinals to five, highest number so far.
For the first time since the great schism of the fourteenth century the traditional majority of Italians in the Sacred College has been reduced to forty percent of the total membership of seventy. Pope Pius, inclined to establish precedents, has introduced a number of significant changes. With internationalization of the College, for the first time historically every continent will be represented by a red hat. The unwritten custom that a few vacancies should exist in the College has been discarded. The new list of thirty-two .cardinals is probably the largest ever compiled. Greatest single creation before were the thirty-one named by Pope Leo X at the consistory of July 1, 1517. Pope Sixtus V set the maximum of incumbents at seventy in 1588. The College swelled to seventy-six under Pius IV (1559-65).
The Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch
Of immediate mid-western interest is the designation to the cardinalate of Archbishop Stritch of Chicago. Proven friend of Notre Dame and of the Congregation of Holy Cross, he has long been regarded as a brilliant ecclesiastic. He was the youngest member of the American episcopate when he took possession of the See of Toledo, on Nov. 30,
1921, being only 34 years of age.
He was born of Irish parentage in Nashville, Tenn., on April 17, 1887. A child prodigy, he finished grammar school at the age of ten and earned his Bachelor’s degree from St. George’s College in Cincinnati at sixteen. As a candidate for the doctorate in Sacred Theology in Rome he became a warm friend of a young student priest named Eugenio Pa-celli one day destined to be Pontiff. He distinguished himself as curate and pastor of St. Patrick’s church in Memphis. In recognition for his able services as chancellor of the Diocese of Nashville he was named domestic prelate in May, 1921.
No less a builder than a scholar, he erected Toledo’s fabulous $1,000,009 Catholic high school and set the tempo for the subseqeunt expansion of the church in the diocese. On Aug. 26, 1930 he became the Archbishop of Milwaukee and approximately ten years later was called to succeed the late George Cardinal Mundelein in Chicago.
Fearless when he feels that he is right, he publicly trounced the Nazis as “tyrannous and savage” as far back as 1938. Spiritual leader of 1,652,587 Catholics, the largest See in the United States, he does not forget that he has poor among them. Annually at Christmas he outfits 100 boys from top to toe at a Loop store. Retiring in his personal life, characteristic was his modest statement to youngsters who came to carol him during the pre-holidays: “It pleased me greatly that our Holy Father has so signally honored the archdiocese of Chicago.”
The Most Rev. John J. Glennon
Oldest member of the American hierarchy in point of service, Archbishop Glennon, 83 years old, is Irish born. Ardent follower of all Notre Dame activities, his friendship with the University
dates back many decades. Having served under five Popes, he has passed 61 years in the priesthood and a few months less than 50 years as Bishop and Archbishop. One June 29, 1896 he was consecrated Coadjutor Bishop of Kansas City. On April 27, 1903, he was transferred to St. Louis as Coadjutor and became Archbishop on Oct. 13, 1903.
Being a renowned orator, for almost a quarter of a century after his promotion to St. Louis the Archbishop was represented at every Catholic event of importance. He has addressed three International Eucharistic Congresses—in Chicago, Dublin and Buenos Aires. He inaugurated the building of his stately $4,000,000 Cathedral which was dedicated in June 1926, by Cardinal Bonzano, who came as the Legate of Pope Pius XI.
Outspoken in his views on public affairs, Archbishop Glennon has been for many years an articulate advocate of Irish independence. Hoping to avert war for America, once it was inevitable, he was among the first to sign the document of Catholic loyalty which was sent to President Wilson on April 19, 1917. Vitally interested in the bettering of social conditions among his people, he has fostered many charitable projects. Internationally famous are “Father Dempsey’s Hotel” for the roving homeless and “Father Dunne’s Newsboys Home” for newspaper small fry and bootblacks.
The Most Rev. Edward Mooney
Tall stately Archbishop Mooney, first Archbishop of Detroit, has seen ecclesiastical service on three continents. Honorary LL.D from Notre Dame in June 1936, he has always been counted among: the University’s warmest supporters. He was boim in Mt. Savage, Md., on May 9, 1882. After his ordination in Rome in 1909, he was engaged in teaching and pastoral duties in the Diocese of Cleve-
(Continued on page 18)	•
AT BANQUET ON OCCASION OF BISHOP O'HARA'S CONSECRATION
5
I
Council Opens Drive for Carload of Milk
The executive committee of the Student Council met on Sunday, Jan. 6, to announce plans for a campaign to help relieve the starving peoples of Europe. This campaign, which will be in progress from Monday to Thursday during the week of Jan. 13, has as its objective the purchase of a train-carload of canned milk. To achieve that end the Student Council has set for its goal the sum of $1,000.00; each student, it is hoped, will give at least 50 cents to the ’hall representatives who will call on them during the campaign week. It will be remembered that the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the Uni-versity, asked as a personal favor that the students contribute generously to this charitable cause.
By this donation the student body of the University of Notre Dame will be sharing in a nationwide campaign sponsored by the War Relief Services—National Catholic Welfare Conference in conjunction with over 100 archdioceses and dioceses throughout the country. Concerning this campaign, His Holiness Pope Pius XII cabled His Excellency the Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicog-nani, Apostolic Delegate, a most encouraging message. The cable, personally signed by His Holiness, said in part: “Receiving daily .. . pitiful appeals from every corner of the earth . . . and knowing therefore the depths ... of the desolation caused by the war throughout the world it is . . . with a heart overflowing with affection that we bestow our apostolic benediction on this latest evidence of the zeal and charity of our beloved children in the United States.”
Social Life Moves
Into Campus Spotlight
Social life at Notre Dame has been the recent concern of the Student Council. Suggestions for three dances this semester were considered by the Council at a meeting on Dec. 19 in the Law Building. Plans for the Sophomore Cotillion to be held on Feb. 8 were approved, and the Sophomore committee, headed by John Defant, was advised to keep the Council informed as to its progress.
The Council approved the arrangements made by Richard Pearse, of the V-12 unit for an informal dance sponsored by the Aeronautical Engineers. This dance is scheduled for Jan. 18 in the Rockne Memorial, but a number of difficulties may necessitate -a postponement.
The Veterans Club wanted to run a
ABOUT CHARITY
Men on the Notre Dame campus are presented a chance to display the greatest of Christian virtues, Charity, next week when the Student Council opens its di’ive for funds to purchase a train carload of milk for the starving children of Europe.
The goal is not excessive. The price of a movie or a couple of packs of cigarettes is all a student is expected to contribute to this noble cause. So little can mean so much, if the entire student body cooperates. Set aside that half-dollar right away; the Council representative will be calling on you soon.
* * *
The Scholastic has received a leaflet from the Italian Welfare League, Inc., expressing thanks for charitable work done in their field in recent months. The League is asking for young men to adopt an Italian war orphan by contributing five dollars which will purchase a package which is being prepared individually and especially for the children of Italy who have lost their parents in the war. You may adopt a war orphan, a child whose name you will receive and with whom you may become intimately related, by addressing the Italian Welfare League, Inc., 1008 First Avenue, New York, 22, N. Y. You can become the real godparent of a truly needy child.
dance at the Progress Club on Jan. 4 in conjunction with the Co-Hop organization but this was not approved because of University regulations concerning dances.
Meanwhile, the Council has been coordinating its efforts with the Student Council at St. Mary’s College in drawing up plans for the forthcoming Winter Carnival scheduled for Jan. 19. This date may have to be changed, however, depending upon weather conditions.
At a special meeting of the Executive Committee held on Jan. 6 plans were made to conduct a campus-wide collection for food for the starving people of Europe. This door-to-door collection will take place next week.
The results of sale of Christmas Seals on the campus reveal that John D. Johnson, representative from Zahm Hall, sold over thirty dollars worth of seals to lead all other hall representatives in this campaign.
Bookmen Meet
The Bookmen’s Club, composed of students interested in literature, held its first banquet of the year at the Oliver’s Venetian Room on December 18. Bill Pfaff presented a paper on the techniques of radio writing. A short discussion on radio in general followed. Attending were President Wilbur Puhr; John Murphy, secretary; John Hart, Bob Reinders, Frank Hieber, Bill Pfaff, and Faculty Advisor, W. D. Nutting.
Philadelphia Club to Honor Alumnus
A Communion-breakfast in memory of the late John H. Neeson, Notre Dame, ’03, who was Director of Public Works in Philadelphia and a member of the Notre Dame Associate Board of Lay Trustees, will be sponsored by the Philadelphia City Club. Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will celebrate the Mass at nine o’clock in Sorin Hall chapel on January 13.
Club members and their guests will have breakfast in the Oliver Hotel dining room at 10:30 o’clock. Joe Boland, sports commentator, Bernard Voll, president of the Sibley Machinery & Foundry Co., of South Bend and member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees; J. Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations at Notre Dame; Professor Paul Fenlon of the Department of English; and Edward Meehan of the South Bend Tribune will be the guests of the Club.
Other guests will include James E. Armstrong, national Alumni Club secretary; John H. Hinkel, University publicity director; Frank Grimaldi, Scholastic editor; and John Defant, Scholastic managing editor.
Matt Siedlicki, chairman of the Communion-breakfast, is being assisted by Art Coughlin and William Zehler. Ralph Hayman is president of the Philadelphia Club.
6
Holiday Railway Jam Anything but Sweet!
Begin Construction on New $400,000 Dormitory
Anyone who went home over the holidays farther than Mishawaka had what might be called off-handedly an adventure. The traffic jam, without a waste of superlatives, was a mile-wide over colossal. To buy a ticket one needed a package of iron rations, a fervent hope to get to the top of the line by June, and get over the feeling of being just a page in a book.
Most Notre Dame men qualified for merit citations in getting home. One plucky freshman rode the couplings so long he still walks as if striding a barrel. A craftier one managed to wangle plane reservations within three hundred miles of Columbus, Ga., as far as any self-respecting plane would go. The plane covered a thousand miles in six unruffled hours. A bus inched him home for nine hours. His father on opening the front door found him navigating the last block on his hands and knees!
Another gentleman having nowhere to go decided to try holidazing in Toledo. Seeing its decaying station he refused to get off, stubbornly insisting no one was going to shunt him off to the roundhouse. An intrepid little traveller fresh from the east and going back the same way clutched his reservation for car sixteen. Ahead of the crowd, he tried to meet the train around the bend, saw
SOUTH BEND UNION STATION—DECEMBER 22
The smiles are strictly for the Cameraman. This group of N. D. men sustained a great deal of uncomfortable waiting and traveling.—Photo by South Bend Tribune.
only ten cars and promptly fainted. In Chicago, a top-heavy woman fell over a Texan’s travelling bag, threatened to sue but glancing down at the N. D. emblem on the bag decided it wasn’t worth it. In South Bend, a soph, gentler than most, asked when the Paul Revere would be in. The ticket agent glanced, over his glasses and said in a voice as dry as Matzoh, “Didn't you hear, Bub? It’s going around the country yelling the British are coming.’’ In Chicago, a navy man lifted his hand in the air, was asked if it was a sign of distress. “No,” he replied, “just wanted to adjust my hat and can’t get my hand down again.”
Breen-Phillips’ best beloved fashion plate known to the racy set on the third floor as “Pretzels” saw three trains bound for Cincinnati pass him by. Determined to board the fourth, he got the bright idea of taking a stranger under the arm and asked the conductor if he could find space for his aged mother. The Baltimore and Ohio, known far and wide for its southern gallantry, got both a place with something just less than fanfare. The pay-off came when he got home. Entering the front door he found the house crowded with strangers. One looked up from a foaming Tom and Jerry and asked politely if he lived there! And so a Merry Chistmas was had by all.
Extensive post-war expansion of housing and other facilities at the University has started with the construction, already begun, of a new $400,000 residence hall on the campus, it was announced this week by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
The new dormitory, as yet unnamed, will be located in the Freshman Quadrangle in the Northeast section of the campus. Collegiate Gothic in design, it will harmonize with the architecture of the three other residence dormitories in the Freshman Quadrangle, Cavanaugh Hall, built in 1936, Zahm Hall, in 1937, and Breen-Phillips Hall, in 1939. It is expected to be completed in time for the Fall term at Notre Dame, opening next September.
Planned to accommodate 200 students, the new hall will include latest building improvements, and will be one of the most up-to-date structures of its kind. Among its major features will be a spacious foyer and a chapel seating 200 persons.
The architectural firm of Maginnis & Walsh of Boston, Mass., which has designed many new buildings erected at Notre Dame in the last 20 years, drew up plans for the new dormitory. The Thomas F. Hickey Construction Company of South Bend, is the builder.
The new unit will help ease the housing shortage at Notre Dame which is nearing its pre-war enrollment peak of 3,200 students. At present nearly 2,900 students are enrolled, including 600 war veterans. The student body also includes 800 naval trainees preparing to become naval officers.
A. S. M. Observe
Officers Night
Last Wednesday was National Officers’ Night for the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals. After dinner in the dining hall, the members heard Dr. Charles H. Herty, Jr., president of the American Society for Metals, speak in the engineering auditorium. He • talked on steel making practice as it affects properties of interest to the user. Preceding Dr. Herty was Mr. William S. Eiseman, national secretary. .
Dr. Herty, a graduate of the University of North Carolina and of the Massachusetts Institute of .Technology, is assistant to the vice-president of the Bethlehem Steel Co., Bethlehem, Pa. He has been responsible for valuable research in the physical chemistry of steel making.
/
John V. Hinkel Takes Reins as Head of Notre Danie's Department of Publicity
A former editor of the Scholastic, Lieut. Colon?! John V. Hinkel of Washington, D. C-, Notre Dame ’29, currently on terminal leave from the Army of the United States after five years’ service —took office as Notre Dame’s new publicity’head last week. ’
Colonel Hinkel was appointed by the Very Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, to succeed J. Walter Kennedy as Director of the Department of Publicity at Notre Dame. Mr. Kennedy, one of the best known university publicists in the country, resigned on December 15, 1945, to become Vice-President of Scholastic Sports, Inc., of New York City.
Mr. Hinkel, who served as correspondent for the New York Times from 1931 to 1940, when he entered the Army, returned from overseas in November., During his 26 months overseas he saw service in North Africa, Sicily, Italy and Australia.
Before joining the News Staff of the New York Times, he served for one year on the Sports Staff of the Washington Post. While with the Times he also was, from 1935 to 1940, New York correspondent of the National Catholic Welfare Conference News Service.
In 1938, as a Special Correspondent in Europe for the New York Times, the N.C.W.C. News Service and other newspapers, he covered major news events in Hungary (International Eucharistic Congress), Spain (Civil War), Austria (effects of Nazi invasion) Italy (Hitler’s visit, the Vatican), and in England and other countries. He is the author of Adolph S. Ochs, a biography of the late publisher of the New York Times, and is a contributor to America and other Catholic and military publications.
Entering the Army in September, 1940, as a lieutenant, he spent 15 months in the War Department Bureau of Public Relations, most of that time as an assistant to the director. Subsequently, he served in the Military Intelligence Service and then in Allied Military Government. While overseas he served on the Headquarters Staff of the Allied Commission for Italy, and later helped to administer tens of thousands of ex-concentration camp inmates, slave laborers, ex-prisoners of war and other displaced persons in Austria.
Following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1929, Colonel Hinkel received a Master of Science Degree in Journa
8
lism at the Columbia School of Journalism in 1930, and continued his graduate studies in Government at the George Washington University in 1930 and 1931. He also is a graduate of the United States School of Military Government at the University of Virginia and of a British Paratroop School.
Colonel Hinkel edited the “Scholastic” in 1928-29. He still maintains a deep interest in this publication. Sincere cooperation between the Department of Publicity and The Scholastic is pledged by the new Publicity Head.—J. English
Press Club Hears
Talk by Towner
At a reorganizational meeting held the evening of January 2, the University Press Club, composed of men interested , in journalism, mapped its plans for the coming year. A sizable number of students attended the meeting—all being members of the Scholastic staff or in the department of journalism.
The Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C., faculty advisor, stated that at a staff banquet to be held at the end of the semester prizes in the form of plaques would be awarded to the writers of the best stories of the year. Weekly meetings will be held on Friday evenings. Men prominent in journalism will speak on alternate Fridays, and the other meetings will be devoted to discussion of the week’s edition of the Scholastic.
Mr. John V. Hinkel, Notre Dame’s new director of publicity, will address the club on Wednesday evening, January 23, since he will be unable to appear next Friday because of a previous engagement. All students of the University are invited to hear Mr. Hinkel’s talk which will be delivered in Room 116 of the Main Building at 7:30 p.m.
At the first meeting this year Mr. Robert Towner of the South Bend Tribune, and formerly of the public Relations Office of the 101st Airborne Division in Europe, spoke on his experiences .covering the war overseas. He told of being present at the interrogation of Julius Streicher, the infamous Jew-hater of the Nazi party. A lieutenant standing near Towner murmured under his breath that he hated “that man” bitterly. Upon questioning, Towner found that the lieutenant had been personally persecuted by Streicher when the officer had been a boy in Europe.
KNOW Your Notre Dame
When the bells rang in the New Year, many people stopped to think. This new year, 1946, is the first year of peace in over four years. So many people began to look around in search of those things that used ot be. And the people at Notre Dame did just that.
So your reporters decided to do some research. The Dome for 1941 proved our best source of information.
The Sophomores have started the ball rolling by formulating plans for their annual formal, the Sophomore Cotillion, a war-time casualty for the past four years. We can look forward to the Juniors and Seniors responding with their Prom and Ball. Some of the other events where the fellows could display their tuxedos' and tails were the Monogram i Ball, the K. of C. Ball, the Engineers’ Ball, and the Law Ball. We hope their presentations are not too far distant.
The Scholastic has weathered the storm and has come through the violent ■ war years. We hereby extend our congratulations to all who helped to guide its course. Some of the other University publications succeeded in overcoming the difficulties of the war years. They are the Religious Bulletin, the Review of Politics, and the Alumnus. But here are a few that were greatly missed: the Notre Dame Laivyer, the Catalyzer, Scrip, and of course, the highly valued Dome. It won’t be long before we see them in print.
A week or so before the Christmas vacation started, some enterprising fellows put on a variety show. They have kindled the spark that -will start the fire burning. After that we expect to see a revival of those briliant theatrical performances, and a return to life of the characters from Gilbert and Sullivan. The Glee Club and Band have kept the musical tradition alive at Notre Dame. The Notre Dame Symphony is now holding rehearsals, and they will make their appearance soon. The Glee Club in prewar years would rival the football team in miles traveled. This was an old campus saying, “If you want to see the world, don’t join the Navy but the Notre Dame football team. If you can’t make the team, try the Glee Club.”
These are a few of the happenings of the past. We hope that we have given a few people some ideas. With God’s help and some enterprising persons these things will come to pass.
.	—Paul Abraham & Gerard Hekker'
Dining Hall Changes Made Over Holidays
Presaging the probability of better things to come, the University dining halls underwent changes during vacation that were immediately discernible to all students upon their return, despite the fact New Year’s eve was only shortly past.
Elimination of Navy trays, to which many objections were voiced by students, was the major improvement. Trays are ‘ still used by the 3,000 students who crowd the dining halls three times daily, but only as a means to an end—that of getting the food, now served on real (and breakable) china, to the tables.
Change in the after-holiday menus was • noted. Each student now receives a greater quantity of meat and milk. Mr. D. C. Ford, manager of the dining hall, reported that each student now gets two and one-half pints of milk per day, which is greatly above the accepted health standard. In addition to this, large quantities of milk are used in the kitchen in preparing meals.
Mr. Ford said food shortages are still a great problem, with some items’ becoming increasingly hard to obtain. He also pointed out that due to heavy student consumption of sugar, the University is 3900 pounds over its allotment. As a consequence, the student’s sweet tooth may suffer before long. •
Like the rest of the nation, Notre Dame faces a meat and butter famine. The current production of butter is 27 % beyond the fantastically scrape-bottom levels of a year ago. Government price controls create a situation where butter retains a wholesale price ceiling of 46 cents a pound, although the cream used to make it costs 60 to 72 cents a pound. Bootleg butter in New York commands §1.25 a pound.
Lack of help, both student and general, is another factor with which dining hall personnel must cope. While the University at one time employed as many as 20 cooks, today only eight of these culinary artists are on the payroll. Similar wartime casualties among students to carry out the duties of busboys has forced other dining hall employees to lend a hand in clearing tables and performing other tasks usually assigned to waiters.
Although the University is expecting a greatly increased enrollment next semester, which will serve as a guide in determining dining hall procedure for- the immediate future, Mr. Ford held out hope for further improvements as soon as they would be possible and practical.
—J. Tinkle
Pistol and Rifle Teams to Compete in Matches
2nd row, left to right: D. Wooley, F. Normant, J. Foley, W. Trent
2nd row, left to right: L. Biscomb. B. Fitzpatrick. G. Creedle, W. Belavic
1st row: R. O'Connor, E. Soergel, H. Swanson, K. Carrol
CGM A.
1st row: F. May, J. Keys, G. Bruda
The Notre Dame Pistol and Rifle teams will pit their marksmanship against that of leading teams from colleges throughout the nation when they enter the Wm. Randolph Hearst Trophy Match and the Naval ROTC Trophy Match.
The rifle team, which placed tenth in . the Hearst Trophy Match of the preceding season, is out to better that record and they show promise of finishing in first place. The team this season has suffered only two defeats, both by a small margin, while they decisively defeated all other teams they met. Lieut. Cmdr. M. A. Censale is highly confident that this season’s team will lead all others in the competition. The Hearst Trophy Match is given much publicity by the large string of newspapers owned by the sponsor, so to capture the top spot in the contest would be a notable accomplishment.
The Naval ROTC Trophy Match has keen competition. Pistol teams from all Navy ROTC units will be competing against one another. The Notre Dame pistol team has kept pace with the rifle team, although it fired in a fewer number of matches. The pistol team has dropped only one match.
The matches will be fired at the home base and the results sent to the judges. Mr. Censale will act as the official wit-
F. Putman
ness for both teams. Northwestern University and the Illinois Institute of Technology have been invited to Notre Dame for the firing of the Hearst match, which will take place February 15.
Debate News
The Notre Dame Debate Club has completed its organization and now stands as one of the many fine clubs on the campus. In the last meeting the constitution was drawn up and restrictions were placed on the number of members that may belong to the group. It was decided that 25 members should be the maximum number of the Debate Club. From the club will be taken 10 debaters who will compose the Debate Team of Notre Dame. The team, under the personal direction of Mr. Leonard Sommer, will take various tours during the season, the longest being planned to New York City. Debate pins will be awarded the members of the team, and it is hoped that scholarships will be granted later in the year. The members of the Debate Club, the general organization, meet each Thursday evening at 6:30 in Room 327 of the Administration Building. If you are interested in becoming a member of this group or having your name recorded on our files, come by some Thursday evening. We can promise you a lively evening, full of interesting discussion and stimulating reviews.—Frank Finn
9
Dr. O'Grady. Professor of Philosophy. Returns
Dr. Daniel O’Grady has returned to the Department of Philosophy after a three year leave of absence, during which he served in the Army.
When Dr. O’Grady entered the Army in July 1942 it was as a buck private; when he was discharged, three years later, it was as a Captain A.G.D. While in the service, Dr. O’Grady was a clinical psychologist and personnel consultant. He also served on the staff of the Adjutant General’s School at Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.
Dr. Daniel O'Grady
Dr. O’Grady collaborated with Father Miltner, C.S.C., now president of Portland University, in an Introduction to Metaphysics. This work, which is widely used in Catholic colleges and which, in addition, has been reprinted twice, is also used in England. In 1932, Dr. O’Grady also wrote a textbook on Cosmology which was published in Ottawa, Canada. In connection with this work, he studied at the Dominion Astronomical Observatory at Ottawa, Canada.
. Included among the magazines for which he has contributed articles and book reviews are New Scholasticism, Thomist, Proceedings of the American Catholic Philosophical Association, University of Ottawa Review, and America. A lecturer and luncheon speaker of no mean ability, Dr. O’Grady has spoken to Alumni Clubs throughout the nation, the Calvert Club of the University of Chicago, the Newman Club of the University of Illinois, and numerous Ki-wanas and Rotary clubs.
Within the last five years, Dr. O’Grady has experienced three new events in his
10
Dean McCarthy Advocates Use of Newspapers and Advertising to Further Industrial Peace
Vigorous use of newspaper and other advertising media to educate the American people as to the achievements of American free enterprise and so further industrial peace, understanding and prosperity, is advocated by James E. McCarthy, dean of the college of commerce at the University of Notre Dame.
“Actually, the Herculean task that American business has performed since 1941,” Dean McCarthy declared at the annual banquet of the National Retail Dry Goods association Monday night in Hotel Pennsylvania, “will probably be recorded as the greatest industrial achievement of all times, and were it not for the performances of American industry, there is good reason to believe that the bird of victory might be perched on the banners of our enemies.”
In asserting that the failure of management to tell of the achievements of industry and of the partnership concept every worker has in the structure of industrialism has resulted in “an appalling low state of economic literacy,” the speaker said the following “basic truths” should be made clear:
“1. That the elements of all productive economies are contained in three understandable classifications, raw materials, tools of production and human energy.
“2. That corporations came into existence basically as institutions to provide more and better tools for the fabrication of raw materials through the use of human energy.
“3. Thus, the corporation is nothing more or less than a consolidation of tools
life: he became an American citizen, went off to war, and a short while ago married a St. Mary’s graduate right here at the Sacred Heart Church. Dr. O’Grady, who received his Master’s Degree from the Catholic University of America and his Doctor of Philosophy degree from the University of Ottawa,-was in the Department of Philosophy from 1927 to 1942. He is a member of the American Society for Advancement of Science, the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada, the Medieval Academy of America, and the American Catholic Philosophical Association.
into a cooperative effort to produce more and better goods and services.
“We must tell our people that corporations are only trustees for the owners of the tools of production;” Dean McCarthy went on, “that the owners of the tools of production are men and women, like you and me, who pooled their savings to create cooperative ventures; that these savings were used to buy land, buildings, tools and raw materials; that men and women were engaged to run the tools of production to fashion finished units which could be exchanged with customers.
“That savings, ranging from §5,000 to §50,000 per worker were necessary to provide a job for a single worker; that the person whose savings made possible the job is entitled to a reasonable and adequate return for his risk contribution to the corporation; that whenever the savings-inventor in a corporation fails to receive an adequate return or wage for the tools he is being cheated, just as surely as though he failed to receive rent for the use and occupancy of a house he might own.
Dean McCarthy said he was convinced that a campaign to promote economic literacy must start with a marshaling of all forces of advertising such as newspapers, magazines, radio, billboards and direct mail to point out “the false economic concepts that have gained circulation and tell a constant story, of how we live, of the sources of our wealth, of the part tools play in giving us better food, shelter and comfort goods than any other people, of the rights and obligations of both the workers and the owners of tools, to explain what a dividend is and the part it plays in our commercial system, to explain in understandable terms what depreciation, depletion and reserves actually are and how they are made to work for the preservation of jobs, and to explain taxes and why we pay them.”
The dean of the Commerce School contended that the lack of economic insight is shown by disputes in the last decade between management and workers, between contesting labor organizations, between so-called liberals and conservatives, between leftists and traditionalists and between those professing conflicting political faiths.
—The South Bend Tribune.
The Knights of Columbus
Grand Opening of Campus Chambers
is Set for Next Tuesday
Elaborate plans for the gala grand opening of the Knights of Columbus Council chambers in Walsh Hall are being completed this weekend and the stage is all set for the festive affair which will take place next Tuesday evening, January 15, beginning at 7:30. Bill Schmid, Senior commerce student is chairman of the committee on arrangements.
Schmid has announced that all is in readiness. Virtually all repair work has been completed and the chambers reflect their pre-war class. James R Luken, council lecturer, has collaborated with Chairman Schmid in securing entertainment and refreshments for the evening. The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., will be on the entertainment program which will include various acts. Fr. Burke is well known on the Notre Dame campus for his ability to capture an audience while sitting at the piano. The chairman and lecturer promise an abundance and a variety of refreshments for the Notre Dame Knights. Only those men who have been initiated into the K. of C. are eligible to attend, as a regular council meeting will precede the program for the evening.
Grand Knight Robert Sullivan has announced that the reopening of the
Ten Trainees
Claim Discharges
With the critical score for discharge from the Naval service lowered to 36 points, ten men from the naval units at Notre Dame are breaking out their civvies in preparation for their return to civilian life. Five of the future civilians left the campus Friday; their destination — the separation center at Great Lakes. The men who left Tuesday were: M. M. Neil, with 40 points; W. H. Beav-erson, 39 points; W. V. Morava, 37% points; M. C. Hoglund, 37 points; and T. H. Doherty with 36% points. Five other trainees expect to be discharged in the near future. They are: T. B. Sparks, A. S. Konzen, W. B. Hayes, A. L. Lupo, and J. M. Turek.
The navy has announced two further lowerings of the discharge score. The number of points needed for discharge will be cut to 34 on Feb. 2 and will be further reduced to 32 on March 2.
chambers in Walsh Hall coincide with the advent of a renewed and revitalized program for the Notre Dame council.
The January program as outlined by the Grand Knight is just a sneak preview of the extensive outline of activities being worked out for this year. It is highly important that all Notre Dame Knights attend the council meeting on next Tuesday at the grand opening of the chambers because matters of great importance, including plans for future activities, will be presented and discussed.
Sixteen N.D. Men
Take K. of C. Degrees
Sixteen Notre Dame men were initiated into the First Degree of the Knights of Columbus recently in the South Bend Council Chambers with a South Bend degree team reciting the rites, as the Notre Dame Council held its annual Christmas party for more than 70 members in its final meeting of the year, Monday, Dec. 17.
Grand Knight Robert Sullivan presided and a brief business meeting was held preceding a post-initiation luncheon which culminated the evening’s activities.
Candidates who received the first degree order into the Notre Dame Council were John M. Applebe, Louis Almasi, Donley Brady, Joseph L. Brady, Richard M. Cullen, James H. Essick, William Flaherty, Jack Gallaway, Wiliam P. Gill, Frank Kowalski, Martin A. Maniscalo, John Morrison, John Power, James D. Sullivan, Thomas Trixler and Leo F. Wrenn.
Under the leadership of Grand Knight Sullivan, who has recently' returned to Notre Dame, and with an ever increasing number of Knights on campus, the council has been placed on a much firmer footing for its increasing activities, which until recently had been severely effected by wartime exigencies. As part
of this expanding activity it was reported that the Walsh Hall chambers, until this semester occupied by the Navy, were being readied for occupancy and a great opening has been set for Tuesday, Jan. 15 when the Council will conduct its initial meeting in the chambers. William Schmid was elected to serve as general chairman for the occasion.
A report on the War Memorial was given by Ralph Hayman, general chairman of the committee. Plans provide for a solemn requiem Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Jan. 20 at 9:60 a.m., followed by a Communion breakfast in the Upper Dining rooms of the University Dining Halls. This is to be the first of a series of Masses in memory of the departed brother Knights killed in World War II.
Other business of the meeting consisted of the appointment of James Sullivan as council publicity director.
It was announced that another first degree initiation will be held on Jan. 14 at Mishawaka. Transportation details will be furnished through the Council office in Walsh Hall which is open from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m., daily except Saturday and Sunday. Information relative to the Knights may be procured at the Walsh Hall office.
Noted Alumnus
Dies in London
Robert J. Sweeney, London financier and a graduate of the University of Notre Dame in 1903, died on December 16 at his residence in London, according to word received at the University.
Mr. Sweeney who also was well-known in New York City, recived a Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre Dame and after continuing his law studies at Harvard university received a Bachelor of Law degree from that institution in 1907.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, cabled sympathy to Mr. Sweeney’s family in London.
Survivors include two sons, Charles and Robert Jr., and a brother, Charles. The latter, who also attended Notre Dame, gained world-wide fame during World War II when he organized the Eagle Squadron of volunteer American Flyers who constituted Squadron 71 of the Royal Air Force. Mr. Sweeney’s wife died in New York City in 1941.
II
Quintet Starts Year
Right at Purdue, 50-48
The Notre Dame quintet, starting the new year in proper fashion, resumed its winning ways by again defeating the agressive Purdue eagers, 50-48, in an exciting game that was almost a stereotype of their previous encounter two weeks ago.
As the game neared its close, the 8,000 frenzied fans packed in Purdue’s fieldhouse saw Notre Dame attempt to freeze the ball with a 48-40 lead, but three successive baskets by the boilermakers made it 48-46 with a minute left to play. This necessitated a change in Notre Dame’s strategy, resulting in a two-pointer by Klier that nullified Mosser’s last-second field goal.
Purdue got the jump on the Irish five and were leading, 18-11, late in the first half, when N. D. forged ahead to end the half on top, 25-22. But the Boilermakers once again came to the fore early in the second half, leading 32-31. It was then that Capt. Billy Hassett with his famous “set shot from way out” put the Irish ahead, where they remained till the final gun.
Accuracy from the free throw line proved the deciding factor of the game, for while Notre Dame made 14 out of 19, Purdue was missing 14 of 23. Vince Boryla, Notre Dame’s big man for the night in the point column, made all six of his free throws while Johnny Dee had 3 for 4. Klier, Dee, and Boryla each racked up four buckets from the court. Neither of the big scorers of the game, Boryla with 14 and Hoffman with 13, was around at closing time, both having gone out via the personal foul route.
"Moose” Krause Returns To Coaching Position
Edward “Moose” Krause has returned to the University following his discharge from the Marine Corps. Krause is the head basketball coach and assistant foot-bal coach on leave of absence.
Krause entered the Marine Corps in 1944 as a first lieutenant. He will not take over the basketball coaching reins until the end of the current season. Elmer Ripley will complete his one-year tenure in that capacity while he is on leave of absence from Georgetown University. Krause will initiate his duties with the football season this year. His return plus the signing of Bernie Crimmins as backfield coach and return of Head Coach Frank Leahy gradually is giving the Irish coaching staff an air of pre-war days.
12
By Paul Weyrauch
It could never happen again! Things like that just don’t happen more than once in a lifetime. But in the Notre Dame fieldhouse on Saturday night, Jan. 5, it happened. Notre Dame defeated DePaul, 43-42, in the last five seconds of a basketball game on a long, looping shot by Captain Billy Hassett. That shot was remarkable for several reasons. First of all, it won the ball game. Secondly, it was the first basket that Hassett had made all evening after’ 11 unsuccessful tries, and third, it put Notre Dame ahead for the first time in the game—and the only time that mattered to the 4,500 heart-weakened fans who jammed every inch of space to see the game. Lastly, that shot touched off one of the wildest victory scenes ever enacted at a Notre Dame athletic contest. Students mobbed the team as they left the floor, kissing Captain Hassett and carrying him on their shoulders while those who could not get to the floor, burst forth with the “Victory March,” a song that carried truth and loyalty as never before.
What preceded those final seconds are hardly worth repeating. Notre Dame experienced a frigid night for three quarters of the game. The boys couldn’t make free throws or field goals while the Blue Demons of DePaul, sparked by big George Mikan, were hitting quite consisr tently. DePaul built up a halftime lead of 26-15, a lead that made even the most staunch Irish rooter wonder just how badly the boys would lose in the end. •
The Demons went on to a 31-17 lead shortly after the second half got under way. Then the cheers began to boom forth from the Irish rooting section and the team began its game-winning surge. With 10 minutes to play, they trailed by 10 points and at the six minute mark, they were six points behind. Three minutes and 30 seconds were left when DePaul was stalling to protect a 39-37 margin that resulted from a 14-point barrage by Notre Dame while the Demons made only two. Gene Stump scored for DePaul to make the scoreboard read, 41-37. Vince Boryla made one of the three Irish free throws out of 18 attempts. Score, DePaul 41, Notre Dame 38, with three minutes left. Ernie DiBenedetto made the last DePaul point on a free throw to give the Demons a 4239 lead with two minutes to go.
Notre Dame fans pleaded and the team responded. Leo Klier finally made
Notre Dame 43 -
These two pictures show outstanding fee tin height and the under-the-basket play of Se
|!
a free throw on Chuck Allen’s fifth foul. I c Leo had missed nine charity tosses before • hitting the one to make the count 42- ; 39. Mikan called for a DePaul timeout, J1 an excessive one, that was a technical foul. Boryla missed the free throw but Notre Dame retained possession of the j ball. In a scramble under the basket, ; George Ratterman tipped one in—42-41 in favor of DePaul with 30 seconds to go. J DePaul passed the ball in but it hardly : went 20 feet upcourt before Hassett had ; tied up a DePaul player. In the jump J ball that resulted, Hassett took the sphere and sent it on its journey through ! ; the hoop. That journey may not have been sentimental, but it certainly was , victorious.	■
-♦
Mikan topped all scorers for the eve- ' J ning with 19 points but he made only two of.those in the second half as Coach ( Ripley sent both Hassett and Boryla to j guard him. Leo Klier, who was sensa- । ( tional ball hawk all evening, and Vince ] Boryla rightfully divided Irish scoring ( honors with 13 points each.
This One Tops	’ ]
All as Thriller ;
The Fighting Irish. Many years have j. « elapsed since that term was first ap- ; plied to Notre Dame. If there were any * among those who entered the campus j fieldhouse last Friday night, freshmen / 1 or outsiders, who wondered, perhaps, if j y that term was merely an empty phrase or whether it really stood for something, | they certainly must have been convinced ,j t as they were borne along in the midst - h
- - De Paul 42
once. In the second half, 14 minutes elapsed before he tallied his first field goal.
'ec lures of the game. At left, the dominating of. Seorge Mikan. Right, the keen floor play.
|!
t of that jubilant throng of humanity
3 marching out to the masculine strains of
1 the Notre Dame Victory March at the end of the game.
There have been hundreds of thrilling, j last-minute victories in the annals of ' sportsdom, but few of them could have . approached the tremendously highs pitched yet human climax of that game.
Trailing by 11 points at the half, com's pletely outclassed by the visitors and j their skyscraping star, George Mikan, ' i unable to find their own scoring range, • it wasn’t until the final period that the Irish found the spark that enabled them to all but sweep the Blue Demons off the floor in an indescribable Dick Merriwell ; finish.
And in those final five seconds it was Capt. Billy Hassett, a Billy Hassett who had been unable to score throughout the j entire game, a Billy Hassett playing his । heart out, who looped in the set shot that | changed defeat to victory.
I	•
I An overflow crowd of students, clergy, J and nearby residents had packed the old fieldhouse to see the Blue Demons of De Paul and their famed center, the be' spectacled George Mikan. The visitors ! promptly put on a show as they ran up < eight consecutive points before Vince ; Boryla hit the net for Notre Dame. The J Demons continued their pace throughout the first half as big Mikan, using his height to great advantage, tapped in re-/ bound after rebound. The Irish, mean-A while, just couldn’t seem to find the scor-j ing touch. De Paul led 26-15 at the half.
| We don’t know what Elmer Ripley said j to his boys during that intermission; per-1 haps he, didn’t say anything. He didn’t i
have to. Defeat was staring them in the face and they knew it.
Inspired as their play was, however, they found the going tough as De Paul undertook a slow, deliberate, stalling type of play. As they saw their lead dwindle point by point the De Paul players tried to regain their scoring edge, but Corley and Hassett refused to let the ball be worked in, Boryla kept Mikan tied in knots, while Klier and Ratterman recovered possession of the ball again and again. The Blue Demons, though noticeably tired, were still a great team, but they weren’t the Fighting Irish.
Ratterman, Boryla, and Klier cut De Paul’s lead to four points. A foul shot by Klier and a basket by Boryla reduced it to one. And then, as the clock hand swept towards the two-second mark, Ray Corley emerged from the confusion with the ball, set, then flipped it to Hassett. Billy sank it, bless him!, as the crowd went berserk.—Dick Dietz
Box score:
DE PAUL
FG FT PF TP
Stump, f _____________________ 5
DiBenedetto, f _______________ 2
Furman, f  0
Mikan, c  7
J. Allen, g __________________ 2
C. Allen, g ________________   0
Starczyk, g ....~-------------- 0
1	3	11
13	5
0	10
5	2	19
13	5
2	5	2
0	0	0
16	10	17	42
NOTRE DAME	FG FT PF TP
Klier, f ----------------------- 6	1	3	13
Dee, f ------------------------ 10	0	2
Corley, f _____________________ '1	0	1	2
Boryla, c ______________________ 6	1	3	13
Hassett, g ........................  10	0	2
Gilhooley, g __________________ 10	12
Ratterman, g ------------------ 4	12	9
20	3	12 43
Halftime score—DePaul 26, Notre Dame 15.
Officials—Nick Kearns and Jim Enright.
Irish Beat St. Louis,
Purdue Before Holidays
On December 19th, the Notre Dame basketball team racked up its fourth victory against no defeats when it trounced St. Louis University, 60-45. The game proved dull and uneventful to the 1500 fans, because poor shooting plagued both fives.
Leo “Crystal” Klier, although he led the scoring with 15 points, experienced one of the toughest games of his collegiate career. His first nine shots from the floor missed before he rustled the cords
Vince Boryla had an equal degree of trouble as six-foot, seven-inch Ed Macauley stuck to him like fly paper. Despite such expert guarding, Vince managed to garner four field goals and five free throws for 13 points. Capt. Billy Hassett hit for four set shots and two close in for 12 points.
The Irish were forced to play without the services of regular guard Frank Gilhooley, who was sidelined "with a knee injury incurred during a practice session. George Ratterman subbed for him.
It was Marvin Schatzman who kept the Billikens in the game by his pivot shots. His efforts accounted for 13 points on the losers’ side of the ledger.
Notre Dame’s superior play was not the deciding factor of the contest; it was St. Louis’ inability to register from the floor.
The Notre Dame juggernaut kept rolling along to run its string of victories to five straight the following Saturday night. Purdue invaded the fieldhouse, and 4500 jam-packed cohorts of both teams say the Ripleymen eke out a 49-47 victory. It was the Boilermaker’s first de- . feat of the current season.
Leading 39-18 at the half, the Irish increased their margin to 40-18 five minutes after play was resumed. Then what appeared to be. inevitable victory, exploded like a firecracker. Purdue began to move the ball, control the rebounds, and score from every angle. It took the final gun to avert what might have been a startling upset.
With two minutes remaining in the game, Vince Boryla threw in his lone field goal of the evening to make the score 49-40. But Purdue was not vanquished yet. Paul Hoffman, one of the better men on the floor that night, led his mates in a seven-point rally before Notre Dame gained control of the ball, and began a “freeze.”
Highlight of the Irish offense was Capt. Billy Hassett’s phenomenal outside shooting. Five of his seven field goals were from far out. These, coupled with two “lay-ups” under the hoop and three free throws, gave him the scoring honors with 17 points. Defensively, Johnny Dee reached the pinnacle of his fame as a ball-stealer.
The contest was a rough-and-tumble one from start to finish punctuated by flare-ups between the players.
—J. M. Wieman
13
1
Undefeated Irish Clash With Hot Great Lakes Team Tonight; Play St. Louis Monday
By DAVE WARNER
fore being transferred to Great Lakes. At the forwards are Tony Orlando, Stuyvesant High School, New York City product and No. 2 high scorer of the team and Sammy White, an all-stater from Seattle, Washington.
One third of its season already completed, climaxed by that pulse-punishing thriller with DePaul last Saturday, the undefeated Notre Dame basketball team lays its clean slate of seven victories on the line as they go on the road for their next three engagements. Tonight the
—U. S. Navy Official Photo
Mel Riebe
Irish eagers face a slow starting but much improved Great Lakes quintet at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station. Then on Monday the 14th, Coach Elmer Ripley leads his crew to St. Louis for a return game with St. Louis University, and on the 18th they will meet Great Lakes again in the Chicago Stadium.
The Bluejackets, who this season are coached by Lt. Wilbur C. Ewbank, have compiled an amazing record of 130 victories against 16 defeats since the 194142 season. Of course, during those years the Great Lakes line-up looked more like an All-American collegiate basketball team. Nevertheless, the Sailors ran up against the best outfits in the Middle West night after night. During the 1942-43 season George Sobek, former Notre Dame star and older brother of Joe Sobek, a Notre Dame reserve this year, aided the Bluejacket’s fine record considerably. Ewbank and his boys started very slowly this year, winning only from Michigan State (overtime) in the first five games played. Suddenly
14
finding themselves they came back to knock off Wisconsin twice, Minnesota, and Purdue. After Northwestern halted their winning streak they added Bowling Green to the win column.
There are several good reasons why Notre Dame will want to take the Sailors into camp. One is to somewhat ease the sting of that jolting football defeat. Then, too, there remains that matter of breaking the deadlock which exists in the records. Of their eight meetings since the 1941-42 season each club has won four games making everything even-steven. And finally this is probably what is hoped to be the last basketball season at Great Lakes and the Irish courtmen want to end relations in winning fashion.
Ace scorer and all around handy man in the Lakes’ line-up is blond, stocky, 29 year old Mel Riebe who also lends his talents as an assistant, coach to Head Coach Ewbank. Last year- while playing pro ball for the Cleveland Allman Transfers, Riebe hit the hoop for 606 points in 30 games for a neat single game average of 20.2. In 10 games for the Bluejackets this year the high scoring Riebe, whose position is guard, has rung up 175 points. The other guard is Bob Sullivan. Starting at center is Floyd Magnusson, the 6ft. 3in. Fort Dodge, Iowa boy who played in five games for Notre Dame last season be-
—U. S. Navy Official Photo
Bob Sullivan
Ripley will most likely start his usual five, Dee and Klier at forwards, Boryla at center and Hassett and Gilhooley guards. Due to see much action in tonight’s game are George Ratterman and Ray Corley. Both turned in good games against DePaul and Coach Ripley was especially impressed with Corley’s ball handling and general savvy.
St. Louis U. at St. Louis Monday should not be too much of a problem, but then you can never- tell in basketball. The Billikens have had only a so, so season so far and we had little difficulty beating them here on Dec. 19.
Bernie Crimmins to
Coach N. D. Backfield
Frank Leahy, director of athletics and head football coach, has announced the signing of former Irish grid star, Bernie Crimmins, as backfield coach for the 1946 football season, succeeding Joe Sheeketski who recently resigned. Crimmins was recently discharged from the Navy where he served as a PT boat commander. He was wounded in battle, and received the Silver Star and Presidential Citation.
Bernie Crimmins was an All-Ameri-ican guard on Leahy’s unbeaten eleven in 1941. He started his collegiate career as a fullback in 1939 but then he was merely an understudy to Milt Piepul. He moved over to halfback in 1940 and then into the line where he earned his greatest honors. Crimmins played varsity baseball for three years, being a catcher. He was captain of the team in his senior year. He also played basketball but never won his monogram.
Following graduation, Crimmins and two of his teammates, Paul Lillis and Bob Hargrave, went through the Navy midshipmen school on the Notre Dame campus, receiving their commissions as ensigns. All three volunteered for the PT Boat duty.
Coach Crimmins will begin his new job at once, having been discharged from service last fall. He finished the 1945 football season with the Green Bay Packers but turned down pro offers for the coming season to return to his alma mater.
INTERHALL SPORTS
The interhall athletic program is rapidly getting under way in five sports with considerable interest being shown. In addition to the interhall basketball league already started, an overflow basketball league with at least 10 teams is scheduled to start tonight. In the other four sports, wrestling, swimming, handball, and volleyball, competition has also been started or will start in the next several days.
A large number of students signified their intention of competing in the annual campus handball tournament scheduled to open late this week. More than 20 will compete for the championship but it was not announced whether Bill Tully would defend the title he won last year.
Two swimming meets are scheduled for this semester. The first, a relay event, open to teams whose members must come from the same hall, will be on January 17, while the second, an open event, will be held on February 12.
Practice sessions for wrestlers have already started at 4:15 p.m. in the old gym. Actual elimination bouts are scheduled to be held later- in the month with the starting date set for January 21.
Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the physical education department, also announced that a volleyball interhall tour
nament will be held starting Monday. Al entries must be turned in to him before that date.
Interhall League
Basketball Schedule
Morrissey Hall will be seeking its second straight win of the season tonight in the western division of the Interhall League when it collides with Badin Hall’s five in a 7:15 game tonight. Meeting in the other first game are St. Edward’s and Walsh, while the other two games at 7:45 have Zahm facing Cavanaugh and Dillon playing Lyons.
The Interhall League is divided into eastern and western sections this year for the first time in history. The six halls on the eastern side of the campus comprise one league, while the three most western civilian halls compete in a league with the three Navy halls. The schedules for the rest of the round:
Eastern Division: Jan. 14, Breen-Phillips vs. Walsh, and Sorin vs. Zahm; Jan. 16, Cavanaugh vs. St. Edwards, and Breen-Phillips vs. Zahm; Jan. 18, Cavanaugh vs. Walsh, and St. Edward’s vs. Sorin; Jan. 21, Breen-Phillips vs. Cavanaugh, and Zahm vs. St.- Edward’s; and Jan. 23, Sorin vs. Walsh.
Western Division: Jan. 14, Alumni vs.
Badin, and Howard vs. Dillon; Jan. 16, Morrissey vs. Lyons, and Alumni vs. Dillon; Jan. 18, Badin vs. Lyons, and Howard vs. Morrissey; Jan. 21, Alumni vs. Lyons, and Dillon vs. Morrissey; and Jan. 23, Badin vs. Howard.
Rough and hard-fought games featured the opening four-game program of the Interhall basketball league Monday evening in the Rockne Memorial Building. Sorin, Breen-Phillips, Morrissey, and Lyons Halls were the teams to score victories in the initial contests as Cavanaugh, St. Edward’s, Alumni, and Howard Halls met defeat.
Trailing at halftime, 14-12, Breen-Phillips rallied to defeat St. Edward’s, 25 to 24, in a hotly contested tilt. In the other all-civilian games, Sorin Hall proved too strong for Cavanaugh, downing the freshman five, 36 to 30. Two Navy Halls opened their seasons with wins as Morrissey trounced Alumni, 27 to 18, and a very strong Lyons combine walloped Howard, the third Navy quin-ted, 42 to 15.
The games of Wednesday were played too late for publication in the Scholastic, but Zahm-Breen-Phillips opened their seasons facing each other. In other games Breen-Phillips played Sorin, Badin met Morrissey, and Dillon clashed with Lyons.
Thomas Layden, Father of Elmer, Dies in Iowa
Although the Notre Dame campus was humming with returning students, old faces at N.D. were touched with sadness Jan. 3, when the news of the death of Mr. Thomas Layden was heard.
Mr. Layden was a familiar figure on the campus for a long time, especially while his son, Elmer Layden, was serving as head coach and director of athletics at Notre Dame. Elmer is now commissioner of the National Football League.
The elder Mr. Layden made almost every trip with the Irish while his son was coaching here. He died at his home in Davenport, Iowa, at the age of 80, following a long illness. His funeral was held Saturday, Jan. 5.
Mr. Layden is survived also by two other sons, Mike Layden of Indianapolis, . Notre Dame track and football star and now a prominent official in the Western Conference, Clarence Layden of Long Beach, Calif., and two daughters, Mrs. Jerry Spahr of Tipton, Ind., and Mrs. Alden Lewis of Watertown, N. Y.
BOB KELLY AND JOHNNY LUJACK ARE RETURNING TO NOTRE DAME
Bob Kelly and Johnny Lujack will be in the Notre Dame backfield when the 1946 football season opens according to information obtained and released by Jim Costin, spoils editor of the South Bend Tribune'. Costin, after hearing rumors concerning the entrance of Lujack and Kelly into Cornell University, called the latter personally and was told that he (Kelly) and Lujack have already made arrangements to room together at Notre Dame.
The following are the words spoken by Kelly to Costin in their conversation: “I was as surprised as anyone else when I read in the papers that I was supposed to go to Cornell. I never told anyone that I was going any place but to Notre Dame. Naturally, I like Ed McKeever very much, as do all the fellows who played for him at Notre Dame, but that doesn’t mean that I’m going to follow him to Cornell. In fact, just to show you how silly that story was, I have already
made arrangements with Johnny Lujack to room with him when we both get back to Notre Dame. That doesn’t look like I planned on going to Cornell, does it? If I get out of the academy in time I’ll be back at Notre Dame for the semester starting in March, and I know Johnny hopes to be back by then, too.”
Such news is good news to Notre Dame students and fans alike. These two boys were standouts on the 1943 National Championship eleven. Kelly also starred with the 1944 team before entering the Naval Academy. He was in the V-12 program at Notre Dame. Lujack is stationed at a naval base in Florida. He was commissioned as an ensign at Columbia in 1944, and has been in the service for nearly two years.
There is also a good possibility that Jim Mello will be back for the coming football season. Jim expects to be discharged from the Navy before the fall term opens.
15.
Splinters from the Press Box
By PAUL WEYRAUCH
Notre Dame’s victory over DePaul in the fieldhouse last Saturday night provided a journalistic field day for eloquent phrase-making. Not pretending to be a journalist, no such will be attempted in this column. But what else could a Notre Dame man talk about this week except that DePaul victory?
Never before have the words, “what though the odds be great or small,” been more applicable. Notre Dame athletic teams are famous for their hair-raising victories and the old never-say-die spirit. No Irish sport enthusiast will ever forget that last-minute football victory over Ohio State in Columbus in 1935, nor the stirring victory over the Iowa Seahawks in 1943. There are countless other events in the Notre Dame sport annals that merit praise for their thrilling climaxes. But the basketball victory over DePaul will be hard to top. Frank Merriwell would never have dared to attempt such a finish in a sporting event. No one would have believed it.
The remarkable feat was the comeback made by the undefeated Irish. The team was colder than an iceberg for 30 of the 40 playing minutes. The boys couldn’t even make free throws (three successful attempts out of 18). The floor play was sensational. While Leo Klier was unable to hit a bucket to save his life until the closing minutes, his recovery of rebounds no doubt kept the Irish in the game. Billy Hassett, who usually scores when no one else can, was having no luck until that game-winning shot—but after that one, no one cared whether he ever scored again. Yet Captain Billy’s calm but spirited play was essential to the victory.
Vince Boryla contributed to the win by his brilliant defensive play in holding Mikan. Big George made only two points in the second half. Vince tipped in one of the much-needed goals in the final minutes of the game, too, but as for basket scoring, every single point made by a Notre Dame man from the beginning to the end was equally important. The DePaul game was won by team play and not by individual stardom.
Ray Corley entered the game in the second half, and the 17-year-old freshman burst forth-with some stellar playing. He was out there snaring rebounds and even tossed in a basket. George Ratterman helped considerably to offset the Demons’ height advantage. Johnny Dee
was his usual self—fighting hard all the way. Johnny is a mighty clever basketball artist. Frank Gilhooley did not play much in the second half but his folks, who saw the game, certainly must have been proud of him.
Without exaggeration it can be said that the Irish victory was 50 % team and 50% student body. Such support as was shown by the students at the game would make any team go all out to win. Whenever the yells became louder and more ferocious, the team would pick up the chant and play more ferociously. That “go—go—go” echoed and re-echoed time and again throughout the evening and the Irish did that very thing. It was go— go—go from the opening whistle to the final gun and that steady drive brought the hard earned prize. As for the end of the game, Billy Hassett received more acclaim than Rita Hayworth would have had she been at the game. It was a great sight to see the students carry Billy on their shoulders.
WELCOME MR. HINKEL
John V. Hinkel has been appointed publicity director for Notre Dame, and the Scholastic takes this opportunity to welcome Mr. Hinkel back to his alma mater. Mr. Hinkel has a very pleasing personality which goes a long way toward making a successful public relations man. He has Avasted no time in becoming acclimated to his new duties.
Kinkel’s two predecessors, Joe Petritz and Walter Kennedy, have moved on to new jobs. Petritz is now public relations director for the newly born All-American Football League, while Kennedy is working for the Scholastic Sports Institute.
THE ROAD AHEAD
With six successive victories chalked up thus far, the Irish quintet seems well on the way to a great season. But the road ahead is not an easy one. For exanr-
INTERHALL ATHLETICS
Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the physical education department, has announced that all official announcements for interhall athletic activities wil be posted on the bulletin board in the locker room of the Rockne Memorial Building.
pie, tonight the boys meet Great Lakes on the station court and the Sailors are always tough on their home ground. Besides, Great Lakes seems to be a jinx for Notre Dame. Kentucky, Michigan State, Northwestern, and a return game with DePaul stand out as the obstacles to be surmounted.
Dick Dunkel’s basketball ratings on teams in the nation including games of January 1, placed Notre Dame as the sixth ranking team in the nation with Northwestern seventh, and New York, another Irish opponent to be met, as tenth team.
It will be no surprise if the Irish lose a game or two before the end comes. It is a rarity indeed in basketball for a major school to go through a schedule undefeated. But you may be sure that Ripley’s boys will come pretty close to the mark.
INTRODUCING...
By John Gunther
LEO KLIER
Offensive sparkplug of the 1945 Irish basketball team is left-forward Leo Klier. Before coming to Notre Dame in 1941, Leo played two years of varsity ball for Washington High, in Washington, Ind., his home town. In his senior year- of high school he was an overwhelming choice for a forward spot on the Indiana All-State first team. Leo was a standout on the ’41 N.D. freshman team, and the next two seasons saw him on the varsity. His excellent play throughout the ’43 season won him a berth on • Chuck Taylor’s All-American team.
Soon after the closing of the 1943 season Leo, who had been a member of the Navy V-12 program for several months, was commissioned an ensign. Ensign Klier spent the next nine months patrolling the high seas aboard a sub-chaser. At the war’s end, Leo was placed on an inactive status, and he re-entered Notre Dame at the start of this term.
Leo, a senior, is a Business Administration major in the College of Commerce. He ranks among the better students who occupy the first floor of Alumni Hall. His choice of the greatest alltime basketbailer is Hank Luisetti, the great Stanford University forward. Leo’s greatest thrill in sports was breaking the Notre Dame individual scoring record in 1943. (The record set by Klier was broken last year by Boryla, present N.D. center.) Leo’s spare time is spent swimming in the “Rock” pool; his favorite food is hamburgers. He attributes his success to drinking milk.
16
No. It Isn’t The
"Last Chance Cafe"
On returning to the Golden Dome, the Home of the Irish, the City of Beautiful Buildings (and Washington Hall), the students had a glimpse of a new abortive claimant hard by the golfing green where the Notre Dame bus makes an elephantine curtsey before it stops with a spasm.
Immediately the well known N.D. propagandists started to get things rollin’. Freshmen from B.-P. were gloating over the thought of “that new poolroom.” Men from South America felt mighty proud to think that their continent was to be represented by this wonderful new structure. The H.H.A.O.D. (Happy Hoboes Association of Drunkards) could not control their palates as they visualized “The Last Chance Cafe” under the co-ownership of George and Sweeney. Those lucky men who hit the jackpot and got two of those pretty pink slips saw a great many pleasant evenings ahead in the new “Rec Hall for Delinquents” in which 10:01 permissions and a weekend will be granted every four years. Sad rumors were also sent forth: “The University bought the building, plus the equipment, from the Tower of London and is going to utilize it to hold those brazen ‘Dillonites’ who dared to visit St. Mary’s when only the ‘Zahm-bies’ were scheduled to attend.”
Ziggy was pleased to think that the students, out of appreciation for the Goldblatts Special (chinaware), had built him a new home so near to his work.
Well fellows, it hurt us no end to have to inform you that the shack at the bus stop is not, as a certain young actor from Boston claims, a theatre for “Banned Actors,” but a shelter for people waiting for the “Toonerville Trolley.”
—Ray Chamberland
Burglar Nets Wgidow
Pane at Bookstore
Using a glass cutter to cut away the glass, an amateur thief attempted to burglarize the Notre Dame bookstore.
The would-be burglar was not very well acquainted with the store, according to Brother Meinrad, C.S.C., the store’s manager, because he tried to make his entry by one of the front doors. He was obviously after some of the jewelry or pen and pencil sets. The entry was attempted very early in the morning, Brother Meinrad said. The thief did not gain entrance to the store because the lock is of the type that is unlocked by a key only. The burglar’s only booty was a piece of glass, and the small window now has a new pane of glass.
tytaih ...
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
The following conversation is reported to have taken place in the car of a certain freshman during the Christmas vacation :
“Are you comfortable, Dottie?”
“Yes, Bobeee.”
“The cushions are soft and cozy?”
“Yes, Lambie.”
“You don’t feel any jolts? There isn’t too much of a draft on you?”.
“No, Honey.”
“Then change places with me — I’M freezing!”
Note—This is true, ask your nearest McShane.
❖ CAMPUS QUIPS
Steve Oracko, noted for his rather large feet, asked his date if she wouldn’t please get off his feet.
“. . . I’d be glad to,” she replied, “if I could walk that far.”
❖
And as Bob Olcese of the “Cavaliers” remarks about his orchestra, “Nobody can wear a derby like a trombone.”
❖
We think that it was Gus Cleary who recommended the following as an epitaph:
- Here lies an atheist—
All dressed up and no place to go.
One of the off campus men contributed this sparkling gem of -wit: It seems that this fellow—boarding in town—called up his landlord and complained that there were two mice fighting in his room. To which the landlord replied, “What d’ya want for the rent you pay? A bull fight?” ❖
Was that Joe Maloney we saw last Sunday shoving South Bend girls away from the bus he was boarding?
❖
Overheard in the Caf:
“Hey, who’ya shovin’?”
“I don’t know. What’s your name?” ❖
Don’t worry if your job is small, And yoxrr rewards are very few. Remember that the mighty oak Was once a nut like you.
❖
This week’s daff story has to do with the man who rushed into a hardware store screaming, “Gimme a mouse trap, quick! I gotta catch a bus!”
“I’m sorry, sir,” said the dignified clerk, “but our mouse traps only catch mice. They can’t catch buses.”
No doubt our readers—such as they are—have noticed that this week our column is unusual. This week, still bubbling over with Christmas Cheer, we have neglected to take up our swords against either St. Mary’s or the Dining Hall. Could it be that we are becoming soft and sentimental? Perish forbid!
❖
Conversation at 6:00 A.M.
Tino Sierra: “Did you hear the bell?” Don Stoner: “Yep!”
Two minutes later:
T.S.: “You going to get up?”
D.S.: “Don’t know.”
Two minutes later:
T.S.: (Diving back under the blankets) : “Well, here goes... .”
Silence until mid-morning.
❖
We found the following in a college paper, and don’t know whether we are bragging, complaining, or apologizing. You can tell a Sophomore by his wide and vacant stare;
You can tell a Junior by his high and mighty air;
You can tell a Senior by his caps and gowns and such;
You can tell a Freshman—but you can’t tell him much.—The Index
Two RO's to Receive
Unit Commendation
Captain J. Richard Barry, commandant of the Notre Dame naval units, will present the Navy Unit Commendation Ribbon to Burt Apker and Jerry Field tomorrow in a formal ceremony in the Navy Drill Hall.
The Navy Unit Commendation is awarded to outstanding naval units. Before reporting to Notre Dame Apker and Field served on the USS Pennsylvania, one of the Navy’s mighty battleships. The Pennsylvania and the men aboard her led a colorful, exciting life, participating in the battles of Guadalcanal, Kwajalein and the invasion of the Philippines. The Pennsylvania was caught in the Jap sneak attack at Pearl Harbor and was damaged extensively. With the gallant spirit that characterizes a fighting ship, however, she came back into the fight and played a major role in the defeat of our enemies. Because of the valor and bravery of her crew the Pennsylvania was awarded the Unit Commendation.
17
Pontiff Creates Four American Cardinals
(Continued from page 5)
land. In 1923 he was named spiritual director of the North American College in Rome.
In 1926, the first American priest to hold a major diplomatic post, he was appointed by Pope Pius XI as Apostolic Delegate to India where he aided and befriended Holy Cross priests in the mission Diocese of Dacca. Interested in expanding the Indian church, he added 11 new mission territories and saw three native Indian Bishops take over sees. In 1931 he was transferred as Apostolic Delegate to Japan. Returning to the States he became Bishop of Rochester, N. Y., and on June 1, 1937 when the Vatican announced that the diocese of Detroit was elevated to the rank of an archiepiscopal See, he was appointed its first Archbishop.
Having made the N.C.W.C.<a powerful force for good in the fabric of American morals, the Archbishop directed his attention next to the working man. Under his guidance the Association of Catholic Trade Unionists began to weed out communist infiltration in the unions. When the CIO first began protesting by sitting down on the job ardent Coughlanites asserted that a Catholic could not join such labor organizations. Archbishop Mooney sided with labor and urged Catholics to unionize.
The Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman
An honorary alumnus of Notre Dame, three times a visitor here, as baccalaureate speaker, June 2, 1935, a member of the entourage of the then Cardinal Pacelli on the occasion of his visit to the University, October 30, 1936, and as con-secrator of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., as Bishop of Milasa and Auxiliary of the Army and Navy Diocese, the mild-mannered Archbishop, has left a lasting impression of graciousness and genuine interest in the school. As first American priest-attache to the Vatican, editor of The Pilot, strong Boston Catholic newspaper, and later as the able leader of a huge diocese, Archbishop Spellman, one-time grocer’s boy and champion horseshoe pitcher, has been in the public eye for many years. He is best beloved for the four dangerous tours he made around the globe in an effort to effect a personal visitation to all the Catholic chaplains in the Armed Forces. He celebrated Mass under hair-raising conditions and endeared himself to the men on the field by taking down their names and promising to contact their folks back home. Winston Churchill struck the keynote for the
little prelate’s restless bustling around for God by suggesting the title for “Action This Day.”
Widely exploited by American newshounds was the heroic mission which he undertook for* the late Pope Pius XI, in his official capacity as attache to the Secretariate and translator into English of papal broadcasts and encyclicals. The aging Pope wrote an encyclical on Catholic Action diametrically opposed to Mussolini’s Fascistic regimentation, but feared it would be suppressed in Italy. It was entrusted to the young American, who left Italy for Paris in such a hurry that he had to translate the document on the way. Escaping a Fascist bullet at one place, he finally read the Pope’s letter to the world over the wires of the Associated Press.
The Archbishops will travel by air to accept the tasseled, shallow red hat, sign of their new office, from the Pope’s hands at the consistory of February 18. Amid anciently-appointed pomp and splendor, the public will witness a ceremony which heretofore was very private. They will also see a marvellous spectacle of fraternization as all the cardinals embrace one another in the liturgical kiss of peace. To all of them, the Scholastic humbly wishes a fervent, Ad Multos Annos.
Clothes Famine
If your talior asks you to wear sackcloth for spring, don’t think that he is trying to make a monk out of you. The recent snarl in clothes production may make partial nudism a fashionable necessity. The eagerness of the returning veteran to chuck khaki for snappy herringbone and the new upswing in civilian buying has created a huge demand on a market where resources are at the bottom of the bin.
The Civilian Products Administration, one of the late comers to the alphabet family, says that the current demand for men’s suits is about 40 millions. Only 10 million were stitched together last year and less than 20 million were produced in 1941. And that is why the least literate haberdasher on Maxwell Street cries out mournfully: ex nihilo nihil fit.
While the average civilian’s future is a panhandler’s vision of rags and patches, the picture for the veteran is a little brighter. The CPA issued a tentative ukase to all retailers to reserve all available clothing for veterans. It proposed that men’s suits, overocats, shirts and other articles of wear be set aside exclusively for veteran trade. To assure itself of veteran gratitude, the CPA did not fail to remind the country that virtually all worsted materials went to keep the soldiers warm during the war.
18
Indianapolis Club
Forms, Elects Officers
After four years absence from campus activities, one of the most progressive clubs—the Indianapolis City Club—on the campus has resumed its functions.
Some 35 members were present at the first meeting, and the club wishes to extend cordial invitations to other students within 50 miles of Indianapolis to attend the next meeting of the club. The date of this meeting has not been definitely set as yet, but sufficient notice of it will be posted on the bulletin boards in the halls.
The meeting was formally started with Paul Ragan acting as moderator. After a short period of formal introductions, the main purpose of the club was set forth by Bill McShay in the following words: “It is the purpose of this club to create within its members a spirit of comradeship and mutual helpfulness and to promote friendships that will last as long as a life time will permit. It is also the purpose of this club to remain in intimate contact with the alumni of this University from Indianapolis and to keep in their hearts that spirit that became so much a part of them during their memorable days of residence on the campus.”
Following this Paul Ragan, commerce senior student, was elected President; Joseph Fitzgerald, vice-president; Charles Kasberg, secretary; and William Shine, treasurer.
Plans are under way for a gala get-together of the alumni and present students, sometime during the summer months. Included in this summer program so far is an afternoon golf tournament to be followed by a formal dinner and dance.
•
Dr. Paul Beck Joins
Metallurgy Faculty
The appointment of Dr. Paul A. Beck as associate professor in the University’s Department of Metallurgy has been announced by the Office of the Director of Studies.
A naturalized citizen of the United States, Dr. Beck was born in Budapest, Hungary. He attended the Royal Hungarian University of Engineering and acquired his degree in Mechanical Engineering. He received his master’s degree at the Michigan College of Mining, and since then has been employed by various engineering concerns in the United States and Hungary.
Prior to his appointment to the Notre Dame faculty, Dr. Beck was superintendent of the Metallurgy Laboratory of the Cleveland Graphite Bronze Company in Cleveland, Ohio.—Jack Sullivan
Fr. Mark Fitzgerald Receives Citation
Father Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., of the Department of Economics, has recently received a citation from the United States Government “in recognition of the meritorious service pei-formed —in the furtherance of the work of the National War Labor Board during World War II.”
As a public member of the Sixth Regional War Labor Board, Father Fitzgerald served as chairman of tri-partite panels representing labor, industry, and the public. It was the responsibility of Father Fitzgerald to preside at hearings of cases before such panels, write summary reports, and make recommendations to the Regional Board for definitive action.
During the war years, in addition to his service with the National Labor Board, Father Fitzgerald also acted as arbitrator in union-management disputes involving companies in New York State and in Illinois.
Three Go to Meet in Chicago Today
Notre Dame will have a delegation of three faculty members at the meeting of the Indiana-Illinois section of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education to be held today-in Chicago. Dean Schoenheer, Father* John J. Lane, C.S.C., and Mr. W. W. Turner, will represent the University.
This S.P.E.E. session will devote most of its time to a study of problems of engineering education brought about by returning veterans. These include enrollment, housing, and academic readjustment of the veteran. Their postwar plans also include revision in the engineering curriculum.
Boy Scouts Will Meet in Drill Hall
Notre Dame men had better shine up their merit badges as the University will be host to the St. Joseph Valley council, Boy Scouts of America, on the occasion of the annual meeting and appreciation dinner to be held in the Navy Drill Hall, Thursday night, Jan. 24. The music for the event will be provided by the Notre Dame band under the direction of Mr. Lee Hope.
Facilities of the Navy Drill Hall were made available to the Scouts through the cooperation of Capt. J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
State Government
Clinic to be Here
The Clinic on State Government will be held by state officials in South Bend on Thursday, Jan. 17, Governor Gates presiding. The Clinic actually brings the functions of state government to South Bend for the day. It is being held under the sponsorship of the South Bend Tribune, the University of Notre Dame, and the Extension Divisions of Purdue and Indiana Universities.
The meetings during the day will take place in Central High School auditorium. In the evening, the Attorney General, the Tax Commissioner, Commissioner on Veterans Affairs, the Commissioners on Labor and on Health will hold informal talks and discussions in the Law Building at eight o’clock on Jan. 17.
Attorney General and Tax Commissioner
In Room 101 Law Building.
Veteran’s Affairs
In Moot Court Room. .
Commissioner on Labor
In Room 103 Law Building. Commissioner on Health
In the Auditorium Law Building.
—Jack Sullivan
Winter Carnival at
"Rock" on January 19
The Sophomore class at St. Mary’s College, working in conjunction with the Student Council of Notre Dame, will sponsor something new in the social activities of the two schools—a Winter Carnival. This is scheduled to take place on Jan. 19, but a postponement may be necessary if weather conditions are not favorable.
Plans call for ice skating in the afternoon and evening, informal dancing, a buffet supper, games, contests, and a number of other activities to be announced soon. It is emphasized by Ann Kimber, general chairman of the Carnival, that recreation will be provided for non-skaters as well as those who wish to use ice skates. Informality will be the keynote of the affair.
Invitations will be sent out by the girls, but students who wish to attend “blind dates” are urged to arrange this through friends who have received invitations.
Daily bulletins will be posted on the campus to keep the student body informed on progress of the Carnivalplanning committee.
19
THINGS TO COME . . .
O tempora! 0 mores! Most of us were dumbfounded when on coming back from Christmas leave, we found that the chow hall was serving its latest mistakes of nature on china plates! Assuming improvements in our local eatery will continue, we look into our crystal ball and for next semester we see . . . Old John, nattily dressed, cheerfully directing patrons to flower-adorned tables; Ziggy waltzing up to the table with consomme, caviar, and a heaping plate of mystery stew as the piece de resistance; Harry, of “Swing and Swoon With Harry the Goon” fame, making with the dinner music while Clio, Pat, and Sadie give out with the vocals; and here we see . . - no, it.can’t be . . . wait a minute . . . hey roomie, call Harry Nicodemus! Our crystal ball must be on the blink. I just saw Specialist Dick Eggers and Lou Rymkus swishing around in grass skirts, selling cigarettes!
❖
MAKE 'EM AND BREAK 'EM ...
1946 brings with it the usual quota of New Year’s resolutions. Here are a few typical examples:
Bill Tully: “I’m going to stay true to my girl back home and not go out with any girls from town.” (We hear this one was broken Jan. 2).
“Beano” Gudkese: “When riding downtown on the bus, I’m going to point out the empty seat to all ladies before racing them for it.”
Jack Lindsey: “I’m going to be as conservative as possible this year, especially in my dress. No more flashy ties.”
Thurman Coss: “I promise to study faithfully and diligently for all strength tests.”
. *
NEWS AND VIEWS
FROM ME TO YOUSE ...
Burt Apker was a little late reporting back from Christmas leave—four days, to be exact. Burt explained to Lt. Censale, “My train was late, sir.”
The greenest of green bananas to Jack McDermott. He’s the blood-thirsty creature who spends his spare time dislocating his wrestling partner’s shoulder in phy ed. Phooey to you, Mac!
Marty Trueblood was telling the fellows about the beautiful 150-piece afterdinner set he bought his girl for a pres-

ent—then someone spied the box of toothpicks on his desk.
ONE GOOD DIP DESERVES ANOTHER
Jimmy Rice tells us that he spent a very calm and sane New Year’s Eve but we refuse to believe him. One of his friends tells us that while at a party that night, Jimmy went up to the host three times to complain about the weak condition of the punch. It took Jimmy a whole hour to discover that he’d been dipping his cup into the goldfish bowl.
❖
EXPANSION . . .
A fair amount of speculation has been making the rounds as to what the building being put up at the circle is going to be used for. There are a number of different opinions. Some claim that Brother Conan of the Book Store is going to open a hot dog stand. Others say that it’s going to be a powder room for the convenience of the chow hall damsels, and a few think that Winterrowd is opening up a branch office. We think it’ll be a waiting room.
Navy Exceeds Quota
W. Robert Walton, general chairman of the recent Community drive, expressed his appreciation to Captain J. Richard Barry and the personnel of the Navy at Notre Dame for their generous contributions to the Community Fund. In his letter Mr. Walton stated that the quota for the navy units, set at $300, had been exceeded by $231.20.
NROTC Unit to
Remain Until July
Public Law No. 228, recently passed by Congress and approved by the President, extended the duration of the V-12 and NROTC programs until July 1,1946. Shortly before the passage of this law the men enrolled under the V-12 and NROTC programs were scheduled to be placed on an inactive duty status because of the lack of funds necessary for the continuation of their training. The appropriation of $10,000,000 which was granted the navy will insure the existence of the NROTC and V-12 units in colleges throughout the United States until July.
An authoritative estimate placed the number of men to remain at Notre Dame next semester at 600.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661 702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
SO3 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON, M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
20
TOP OF THE WEEK
Saturday nights with 12:30 (a.m.) permissions.
EDUCATION
So many pink slips were handed out on fourth floor Walsh that the fellows have decided to go into the lingerie business. Instead of a white Christmas, many fellows had a blue one thanks to the transmission of the ‘pinkies’ home during the holidays. A freshman with three of them saw a rainbow-like hue at home; he was a sickly green, his father red with anger and purple with rage, and the poor mother white with fright. It may be better to give than to receive, but not pinkies during the holidays.
IT CAN'T BE DONE HERE
(With apologies to Sinclair Lewis)
There was a young man of Munich Whose appetite simply was unich “There’s nothing like food,” He contentedly cooed,
As he let out three tucks in his tunic.
ST. MARY'S *
During the holidays the inmates of that institution were reading, each and all, “How to Get a Notre Dame Man.” A number of them were heard to have attended an Army surplus disposal sale where booby traps were on sale. They have ropes, nets, boomerangs, bazookas, and miniature atomic bombs. The more primitive still resort to Elizabeth Arden, Rubenstein, bows and arrows, and money. That last one can offer some good arguments.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
While on the subject of money, let’s take Bill Jann for an example of the rate of exchange on Christmas gifts. While home he went to a C.P.A. and found he had been even up until he received a k-y ch-in. It wouldn’t be fair to say what it was. Bill has decided to major in Accounting so as to insure a profitable Christmas hereafter. While he is at it, he may as well discard Joe Flood as financial adviser. Rip De Galan came out fourteen and a half beers to the good.
MUSIC	*
Music-wise Vince Meli can’t see why
feawieJi
By JACK STEWART
Kate Smith puts up such a big front; he doesn’t think she is such a good singer.
SIMILARITY *
The repetitious Senator Claghorn of the Fred Allen show has his counterpart in what professor, in what professor, that is. Quien sabe?
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Sunday mornings.
Me gustan hombres: Carole Landis at her last marriage.
The boys should be in good spirits after that long, restful holiday vacation
for those you want to remember
Traditionally
The place where
Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt, courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
We now have a nice selection of
* Pennants
* Pillows
* Greeting Cards
* Stationery
BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
21
Dr. Gurian Speaks at Student-Prof Smoker
The first of the post-war series of Student-Professor Smokers was held on the evening of December 3rd in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. An impressive, mixed gathering of civilian and naval students was on hand to hear Professor Waldemar Gurian, of the Department of Political Science, open the series with a timely lecture on “World Crisis after World War II.” Professor Gurian discoursed principally upon the establishment of the United Nations Organization as a requisite basis for maintenance of world peace. Difficulties of an international nature confronting the United States on all principal “fronts” were analyzed by Professor Gurian. .
Voicing an encouraging opinion on the seemingly insolvable problem of world peace, Professor Gurian stated in effect that the establishment of the UNO constituted a positive step toward peace; that the impasse existing since
NOTRE DAME JACKETS
SWEAT SHIRTS
PENNANTS
GOLF CLUBS
HAND BALLS
and GLOVES
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE &S O. BEND R. R.
the London Conference is due to a mutual distrust among the major powers and their individual desires for absolute sovereignty; that while the situation is serious, it is by no means chaotic, and that agreement providing an equitable basis for peace can be reached.
An extended “question-and-answer” period followed, during which questions of individual and collective interest were answered by Professor Gurian.
—Roger Cahaney.
AIEE, ACS Meetings
Professor M. S. Coover, head of the Department of Electrical Engineering at Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa, and vice-president and fellow of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, led an open discussion on the subject of “Professional Advancement for Engineers” at a meeting of the South Bend section of the institute Tuesday night in Room 212 of the Engineering Building.
The St. Joseph Valley section of the
SONNEBORN’S Sport Shop
121 West Colfax Ave. Phone 3-3702
American Chemical Society, which met in the Chemistry Building Thursday, was addressed by Mr. W. H. Slabaugh, of the Allied Research Laboratories of the Sherwin-Williams Paint, Co., Cleveland, Ohio.
JEWELRY GIFTS
for All Occasions
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
Leading Credit Jewelers BLOCK BROS. Corner Michigan and Washington
Est.
1900
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
|	* Greeting Cards	|
|	• Artists’ Supplies	=
:	• Picture Framing	E
I	I. W. Lower Co. |
1	DECORATORS	J
E 128 North Michigan Street E
QniiaititiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuitiiiuituiiiiiiitiiiniiiiuiiiiuiltiitirA
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Coin
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lefts or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
22
LULLABY CAROL
Lullaby little pearl. Dear Baby Jesus; Lullaby little pearl. Dear Baby sleeping; Lullaby Little One, Dear Baby Jesus; Mary is holding you, guarding and keeping. Close your eyes Little One, Your tears to cover;
Close your eyes Little One, Heavy with crying;
Calm your lips Little One, Where joy should hover; Resting in Mary's arms. Hush all your sighing.
—English version by Margaret Wilkinson of a familiar Polish carol.
Fr. McAvoy Addresses Historical Conference
The Bev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Notre Dame department of history, spoke recently at the Indiana History Teachers’ Association session of the Indiana Historical Conference in Indianapolis, Ind.
Father McAvoy chose as his topic, The History of Catholic Education in Indiana, treating particularly the opening phases down through the years to the Civil War.
“The early history of Catholic education is simply the story of the English Catholic minority increased by a nonEnglish group striving to perpetuate its faith and practice, and to improve itself in a non-Catholic milieu amid the hardships of the American frontier,” Father' McAvoy said.
He outlined the main factors important to the inauguration of Catholicism, namely the continental European culture brought by immigrants and the effect of America’s geographical and physical scene on this culture.
A good portion of his address concerned the early development in the settlement of Vincennes, including the appointment of Father Simon Brute as Bishop of Vincennes, giving the Catho-. lie religion an important minority role in Indiana.
Telephones
on Wheels
and Afloat
The Bell System plans an extensive trial of two-way radio in providing telephone service to vehicles in a number of large cities.
Connections with other telephones will be made through the nearest of several receiving and transmitting stations operated by the telephone company. It is generally similar to the existing ship-shore radio telephone service for vessels in coastal and inland waters.
The main job right now is making more telephones available for those who have been waiting for reemlar service. But as soon as the new equipment can be built the Bell System will begin extending telephone service to vehicles.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
23
CbpyiHjht 1946, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.