Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DISCe-9VASI-SemP6R-yiCTVRVS- VIVS^VASICRASMORITVRVS-
Vol. XXXVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, August, 1903.	No. 1.
Class Poem—1904.
I.—Socialism: Its Economic Phase.
MICHAEL J. SHEA, A. B.
THOMAS D. LYONS, LITT. B.
'’pHE youthful mind is prone to ponder o’er
The joys and griefs that long have passed away, Unmindful what the future has in store:
No thought of morrow while ’tis yet to-day.
’Tis sweet to peer through fancy’s mystic veil, Searching for truth beneath the mantled time That naught but years reveal; lo! truth’s dull tale Can never with dim speculation rime.
The sphinx-like future holds its riddle fast Concealed beneath its dark and cloudy cope;.
No CEdipus can loose its grasp. The Past
Alone can cheer our hearts and bid us hope.
Fair Clotho’s comrades never weary grow;
Her droning wheel fast spins the woof of life, In which dark -threads and bright alternate glow, Sweet peace commingling with our dole of strife.
Full many a year of toil a sculptor spends
Before he finds “the angel in the stone,” Long must we court success before she bends
With smile of favor from her gilded throne.
The shadows of our life still westward fall
Retreating slow before the morning sun;
Life’s trumpet notes to each, one call
Bravely to start the race which all must. run.
May courage never fail in us; ne’er dim
Our faith or love when chastened ’heath the rod, Until’ a cloud o’ershade the sun’s red rim
And shadows vanish in the light of God.
“Whatever tends to preserve and develop our being gives pleasure. Hence generous emotions are agreeable, hence a virtuous life is the happiest,” .
HE most brilliant picture has its reverse. The landscape painting aglow with the glories of the sunset, the portrait breathing forth a human soul, the war scene bristling
with the intensity of conflict, delight the eye with a richness of color and an accuracy of drawing that awaken the finest sensibilities of man’s intellect. But the reverse is
a meaningless blank, hideous and disgusting to the vision dilated with the pleasures of the tints and hues from which it has just turned. The civilization of to-day has brought about marvelous improvement: its scientific discoveries, its diverse inventions, its progress in the material arts of war and peace, its trend for the fuller liberty of man, have been the theme alike of orator, novelist, historian and poet.
But there is a rift within the lute. Invention, machinery and the force or movement we call co-operation have conspired to cause a social condition for which all men agree there must be found a remedy. The fact that ninety-five per cent of the wealth of the country is centred in the hands of five per cent of the people, that out of every twenty men, nineteen own one-twentieth, while one man owns nineteen-twentieths of their proportionate share of the world’s wealth, is pregnant with significance for the present, ominous in its foreboding for the future. While one man is fostered in luxury that, ofttimes proves baneful, the nineteen in too many cases dwell in overcrowded hovels, which menace alike morality and health,.
z	NOTRE DAME
receiving for nourishment food innutritions, ill-cooked and unwholesome. Where the one is compelled to seek means to lighten the time hanging heavv on his hands, the nineteen sweat, summer and winter, in an atmosphere tainted with dust and steam, breathing in the very seeds of death, even while seeking to earn bread to prolong their miserable existences. Nor can the future lighten the gloom with even one small ray of hope. The tendency of wealth under the. present system, says the socialist, is to centralize: the rich become richer and stronger, the poor, poorer and weaker. The ballot and the court-room offer no "redress. Their decisions can be bought with gold, and gold has centralized. The poor have not wherewith to buy .bread for starving children, much less to purchase justice.	■
So it is not at all strange that with such an existing condition—existing at least in the minds of manv thousands of intelligent men—that desperation, the offspring of hope deferred till the heart has grown sick, has driven men into proposing a system whose tenets appear sublime in unselfishness, divine in almost universal philanthropy. This is the common ownership of the means whereby wealth is produced, and the equitable distribution by the state of that wealth, to the end that each individual’s material welfare will be assured,—the system of socialism. .	-
The socialist proposes to increase the production of wealth, and to increase the average man’s wealth by an equitable distribution. Butifit canbe shown that under a socialistic scheme the production of wealth will' be very much decreased, then it matters not how equitably that wealth be distributed, the great majority of men will receive less than thev do now; and the change from the present system of individualism will have been at best radical, surely purposeless and probably ruinous.
This I propose to show by proving, first that any system of co-operation demands that fourth agency known as directive labor, the entrepreneur; second, that socialism, an essentially co-operative system, has no means of discovering this agent because it can furnish him no: motive to~ act; that therefore, under the socialistic scheme, labor
SCHOLASTIC.	I
will be disorganized, great waste will be unavoidable, • the result will be a much-decreased production of wealth, which however equitably distributed, will not give the individual as'much as he receives under the present system. Socialism then from an economic view will .be fundamentally and absolutely a failure. :
The agencies of production which the • socialist would have the state acquire arc the first topics to demand discussion. The old economist classified them as land, labor and capital. But to-day when the hand loom has given way’ to the power loom; when a giant factory has replaced a thousand petty' shops; when persons of . all degrees of intelligence and skill have gathered in one factory, contributing to a result which scarcely^ one of them comprehends imperfectly; when a few simple stydes have given way to fashions, eveiy varying in form, c.olor and material; when machineiw has been introduced w^hich deals with the most intricate designs, the softest lace, more delicately^ than can a woman’s hand, and crushes stone and iron ore with the force and swiftness of the lightning blast; when costlv materials are searched out from Peru to	i
Persia, and finished products are distributed	|
to China and Argentine, there has come into	I
being a fourth agenev, which, though some-	r
times included under the term labor must be	i
distinguished as directive labor, the agent whom- the French economist called the entrepreneur.
The armies equipped for Avar are impotent and useless without a general; how much more necessary is the commander to the armies, of peace (which is longer than all war), the army of labor. The possession of , capital is erroneously' deemed to be the sole qualification requisite for a director of industry. True, he must have the capital, comprising tools, food and material; but what is vastly more important, he must furnish technical skill, commercial knowledge and powers of administration^ He must organize industry, shape production and direct distribution. Though he have capital in abundance, if he does not possess these qualities, he will never become what a great French philosopher calls a captain of industry. If he does possess them the lack of capital is but the slightest 1
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
hindrance to him. Statistics show that more than half the employers of labor in England to-day have risen from the ranks of labor; and not the least interesting chapter of our own history is the rise of our self-made directors of industry. The time has long ceased when a man is an employer of labor merely because he has capital; to-day the essential thing is high, organizing directive and administrative ability. The development and rise of the entrepreneur is the triumph in the great field of modern industry of the human intellect over -the brute power of gold, of man over matter.
There are towns in New England that to-day present the aspect of villages almost deserted. The streets which but a year ago were alive with traffic, are now unpaved; the public buildings wherein affairs of greatest moment were then transacted are now in a state of decav; the homes that once shone with prosperity and peace are the nurseries of discontent and want. Has some evil magician woven his spell here? Other villages are still thriving. The mills and. machinery of this one which were wont to give employment to the townspeople, still stand; the laborers themselves, those who have remained, are clamorous for work. The product of the mill is still in demand. What then is the cause of this stagnation? Question anv laborer on the streets and he will tell you that since Mr. X, the owner of the mill, died it has not paid. Successors have attempted to conduct it and have failed. Capital was present, labor was knocking at the door, raw material could be had in abundance, for the product of the factory there was a healthy demand, but no one could be found who possessed the rare and peculiar talent ot organization and direction. There was no captain of industry, no entrepreneur; and the result was industrial rain to a village and untold hardships to its inhabitants. If in every city and village in the country the director of industry were by some means destroyed, the result would undoubtedly be universal panic and financial disaster. Cooperation has evolved this fourth agent,— to any industrial system of co-operation he is essential and vital. Any such system which destroys him or is unable to produce him lays a mine beneath its own foun
dations, dooms itself from the outset to rain, fore-ordains the economic world to chaos.
Any system of co-operation requires directors of industry, and socialism demands universal co-operation. To socialism then the director of industry is absolutely essential. If it destrovs him or furnishes no mode of producing him it can have but one result: universal paralysis of labor and capital, decreased production, destraction of present wealth, and finally economic disaster.
Men strive to-dav in all fields of action because they seek a reward, and hope to attain it. Occasionallv the soldier who charges to the cannon’s mouth, or the sailor who gallantly goes down with his ship, does so because he desires glory or a deathless name; but the earthly reward which practically all men seek zealously is wealth. Nor does a man seek this usuallv for mere selfish purposes, the furtherance of his comfort, the power to command luxury. The wants of all men are essentially the same. In the last analysis, the cottager’s hut turns the rain as well as does the baron’s hall; a banquet serves a hungry man . but little better than plain fare; homespun protects the body against the chills of winter better than purple raiment and ornaments of gold.
A man’s main motive in striving after wealth is not for his own personal good, but rather that his children—those “who with smiles make bright his hall and cheer with song his hearth,”—those in whom his present joys and future hopes live, move, and have their being, may be provided for when he is no longer able to provide. But the state will make provision for them; and his effort, zealous and untiring, or negligent and purposeless, can not in the remotest degree affect their future wellbeing. Furthermore, the director of industry can not give to charily, for the socialistic commune admits no poor; he can not forward the cause of education by endowment or bequest, for the state is sole patron and director of schools; he can indulge no taste for art, literature or science, for these things are not concerned with the production of wealth, and have no place in a system of socialism. He would not desire monev to invest in material comforts, for the state has supplied these. Money would be of no more value to him than to a man
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
shipwrecked and cast upon a desolate, uninhabited island. And he would no more seek or desire it than would a shipwrecked man the sands of his desert prison. The director of industry could receive no more remuneration for his effort than would the poorest digger of ditches; and the digging of ditches is the easier occupation. Socialism has no means of discovering men gifted with this talent of organization and direction. The only way to search them out is to let men attempt to exercise it, and that the}’ will not do under a socialistic system which has destroyed all incentive. Behold then the folly of expecting an arch to stand without its keystone, of expecting a system to exist without the agent most necessary and vital to it; of hoping that socialism can carry on production without directors of industry.
It remains but to examine the effect of putting into practice such a system. The greater portion of the wealth in the United States to-day is in the form of food and other perishable materials. It has been produced within the last year and will be destroyed within the next. Nearly all the wealth in the world to-day has been , produced within the last ten years. Were production to cease to-day at the end of an equal period there would exist in the world not one dollar’s worth of wealth. Put socialism into practical operation; give it command of this field of wealth. If it is going to preserve it by replacing it as fast as destroyed, it must—for it is the system of co-operation—furnish directors of industry. It can do this in but one way: no one will volunteer, so the state must thrust the duty upon some one. At the present day out of every ten men who undertake the duties of this position, assuming them gladly and cheerfully, believing themselves thoroughly capable,—out of this ten, nine fail; fail hopelessly and completely, as the records of your bankruptcy courts can testify. Now picture if you can the results of unwilling, to say nothing of incompetent effort in this branch of activity, upon which hinges the support and sustenance of seventy millions of people. Labor can not be properly organized and directed to produce wealth hence the wealth in existence must soon be destroyed, and then to whom shall the multitude turn for bread? Who sows the
wind reaps the whirlwind. The socialist government may point out that the wealth produced is equitably and equally distributed ; but altruistic beneficence has little weight with a starving mob. There is but one course possible, the overthrow of government, the whelming of civilization into chaos, and the rise of a despot who will be compelled to restore the present system,—a people will then have purchased knowledge at the price of liberty, have learned wisdom at the cost of happiness. Such prophecy is not vain or idle; it is the only inference that can be justly based on fact and human nature.
A house built upon sand can not stand; a system constructed upon false principles is just as surely doomed to destruction. Socialism proceeds from the proposition that man is constitutionally unselfish, whereas, hard as it may seem to our ears, history, philosophy, and religion concur in asserting the contrary. The means of correcting evils that arise from human greed is not to establish a system which gives that greed the fullest scope; and that is what socialism makes possible, putting a premium upon inactivity and mediocrity, placing an unrelenting hand upon energy and genius.
There are evils in the present system—evils that cry out for redress to heaven. But they are evils sprung from the depravity of man’s nature, not from the just right of private property, nor the honorable exercise of private enterprise. It is true that oppression thrives, and synonyms for greed have become business maxims. But to remedy these evils socialism would pull down the pillars of law and libertyreason and religion—merging itself even in a universal catastrophe.
The fault of our society lies in lack of sympathy for fellowmen, in hardness of heart. The remedy—for in that plan which runs throughout the ages, there must be one—can lie only in the teachings of Him whose divine wisdom saw clearlv the needs of men, whose infinite love made Him their great physician. The single shining hope of society is in the fuller practical application of the great truths of Christianity; in an universal,. humble emulation by men of Him whose first and highest law was love.

Graduating Class, 1904.


6	NOTRE
II	.—Socialism- Its Political Aspect.
GALLITZEN A. FARABAUGH, A. B.
From the dawn of human history there has been no ideal more cherished among the sons of men than individual freedom. Those that possessed it have given all they had to preserve it; and those that had it not never despaired in their efforts to obtain it. Liberty has been the cause of the bloodiest wars; it has had its martyrs as well as its heroes. By common consent the basest of all creatures is he who is content to be a bondsman. And this is so because liberty is an inalienable right of man, and any restriction upon its free exercise interferes with his dignity as a responsible and moral being.
Now one of the gravest indictments against socialism lies in the fact that it tends by its seizure of universal political power to absorb the individual and his rights in the unit of the State. At first thought this may not appear to be true; but it can be shown that if ever socialism comes practically to rule the affairs of men from that date personal freedom shall have vanished and civilization rolled-back beyond the davs of feudal tvrants.
Socialism implies the enslavement of the individual under the despotic rule of the state. That which fundamentally distinguishes a slave is that he labors under coercion to satisfy the desires of his owner. It matters not whether his owner be one man or a body of men, a community, his essential condition remains the same. Under socialistic arrangements a person would be compelled without option to labor for the community, and in return would receive from the general stock such portion as the community might award him. The state would dictate what he should eat, what he should wear, how he should live, how. large a family he should have, what employment he should engage in. The state would sav to a man “You must become a doctor.” The man answers, “I have no desire, no ability to become a doctor; I wish to be a lawyer.” The State insists: “You must Bpme a doctor or starve; we have enough
wers now.” And such forcible imposition
’ SCHOLASTIC.
of the state’s willppon the individual’s will is a positive infringement of the individual’s libertv. What the.motive may be is of no consequence. Aggression that is criminal when committed by a single person is not sanctified when perpetrated by a. host. No system that the brain of man has ever devised carries the tyrannous repression of individual choice which Aristotle calls despotism as far as socialism.
The bulwark of the .socialistic position is common ownership of property. The rights of the individual to property have from the very dawn of civilization formed the foundations of human liberty. They rest on the strongest and deepest instinct of human nature, the love of the individual ford his family. The most productive of all the springs of human progress is the desire of men to labor and save for those that are near and dear to them. Through countless ages, religion and long-established custom. have consecrated and fortified these nobler- aspirations of the human heart. In all free countries to-dav the securitv and preservation of property are deemed the first end of government, and have been the main object in the establishment of law.
To affirm that God has given the earth for the use and enjoyment of the whole human race is not to deny that private property is lawful. For the earth, even though apportioned among private owners, does not thereby cease to minister to the needs of all. It is only through man’s labor, through 'man’s effort, through man’s skill that the soil yields its fruit. And to say that man has no right to that portion of nature’^ field upon which he has'expended his energy and his strength, upon which he has left * the impress of his individuality, is to deny that such a thing as justice ever existed.- Liberty means the power of man to make the most and the best of himself, to develop fully his personality; and however much private property may be abused, it is in itself realized liberty:
Socialism would rob for public ownership. . But who is so simple as. to believe that men who have labored and striven a life time, expended their sweat and their blood that their loved ones might enjoy a little peace and comfort, would.ever consent to hand over their dearly-bought earnings to a slothful

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I	community, and be satisfied with a ribbon
i	of distinction? The fundamental law of any
society is'to protect its own members. Its first principle must be “Let justice reign, though the world perish.” True, socialists '	characterize themselves as the vindicators of
:	justice. But whence have they the right
:	to claim to be the vindicators of justice,
:	and to brand past ages and modern society
;	as entirety unjust?
!	Their main position seems to be in coni	flict with human nature itself. They propose
■	to make all men equal, to endow them
’	with equal rights. In what respect are men
equal except before the law and in the eyes of God? They are equal in this: they are । ' all human, all creatures of the same Creator, ■	living under the same moral law, destined
for the same end. They are equal in the abstract, according to their nature, apart from all concrete circumstances that must of necessity attend their existence. Taking men as thev reallv are we find manv o'
varieties, from which arise a great diversity of rights and duties. Some are in helpless infancy or tender youth; others enjoy the strength of manhood; others again are tottering toward the grave. Should helpless children and imbecile old men possess the same privileges and labor under the same obligations as men in the prime of life? Should the infirm have the ■ same rights as the strong, women the
same rights as men? Shall we say that the man of talent, of perseverance, of physical aptitude should have no reward for the right use of these endowments? Should the man of meagre ability, little ambition or industry receive equal remuneration for his effort? Equality among men is a fanciful dream of the socialist: but inequality . is an inexorable law of nature. The advocates of socialism contradict themselves. They sing of liberty, and make the individual a slave. They clamor for justice, and destroy the most fundamental principle of justice. They boast about fraternity, and sell their brother into bondage. Equality in slavery is not liberty. Even the fox in the fable would not have his own tail cut off for the joy of seeing other foxes in the same plight. Yes, bind us down in chains, restrain us from the exercise of our faculties, drive us in a common herd to eat and be clothed,
7
and we shall all be equally wealthy and equally happy.	-
But politically the most objectionable feature of the change demanded by socialists is government control of industrial activities. Their aim is to identify the industrial and political community. The result would be a government with powers far greater than those any ruler has ever wielded, with duties far more difficult than the highest political prudence has ever dared to undertake. In addition to its ordinary functions, the state would be sole merchant, sole manufacturer, sole landlord, sole capitalist. Along with these additional activities must go an immense army of public officials. You all know the evils of increased officialism. Our government to-day can not carry out its duties without discord and corruption. Could it do so when those duties are multiplied? We are told these functionaries will be men so wise to discern their own best good in the good of the community, so utterlv unselfish, so verv unlike all men in our experience—the members of our city councils included—that there will be no fear of over-legislation, partisanship or corruption. In estimating the worth of socialistic proposals we are requested to view human nature and its weaknesses as perfected, to discard all lessons of history. By what other canon are we to judge except the experience of the past? “What is it .that shall be? The same thing that hath been.” “There is no political alchemy by which you can get golden conduct out of leaden extincts.” Not until angelic attributes descend on earth shall we find a cure for present evils in manifolding the functions of government and in permitting the sovereign multitude to possess, administer and hold swav.
Socialism by destroying individual initiative and enterprise would inevitably end in the decline of progress and the ruin of prosperity. The moving principle that spurs men to-day to any labor, to the exercise of their intellects and their genius, to great feats of engineering, to deeds of valor and noble ventures of all kinds is the hope of reward, personal gain, advanced social position. “It is not steam, it is not electricity, it is not any of the forces of nti&fffe that make the earth, the air
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the slaves of human will; it is human selfinterest.” The hope of being able to cease toiling is the chief influence that sweetens toil. The ambition to see his family well provided for, the desire to make his own old age as bright and happy as possible, are the only inspiring forces in a workingman’s life. Take these motives away, as socialism would do; persuade men that by superior work they will obtain no superior reward, and you remove the very mainspring in the production of the world to-day. Once industry is diminished in quantity or lowered in -quality there is no possible scheme of redistribution or social combination that will prevent material decadence. For a nation must move ever onward, ever forward ; must not relax a single muscle of industry if it would hold its place in the categorv of the living.
The best we can say for its advocates is that they are dreamers, Utopian visionaries. There are a great many minds that can not withstand a brilliant picture displayed to their imagination. Then* intellect is fascinated, their reason dazzled. They grasp • what is set before them without argument; they hold it in spite of argument. It is so airy, so fanciful, so romantic it must be true. But who of us would say that a system having for its ideal the total abolition of the fundamental and essential ■ rights of man; a svstem in which all men would be reduced to the common standard of slothful ease, and the individual become but an atom in the aggregate mass; a system that would exchange for the worst of all forms of slavery, the slavery of the state, those principles and institutions for the preservation of which thousands of human beings have offered up their lives,—who I ask would say that such a system will ever obtain in a liberty-loving, prosperous land like America?	.
Yet there is a possibility that even American workingmen be deceived by this siren of national ruin with its soothing songs and enticing promises. There is need for even us to beware. The socialistic storm has broken over Europe, and has for a time severed nations from the safe moorings of stable government. Germany has suffered most, and from her shores the broken currents have swept beyond the seas. But
socialism is doomed to utter failure where the people are Christian and the government popular. And I believe that deep down in the hearts of the American people there is still implanted an enduring faith in the principles of their Republic. I believe that the eight millions of families that are landowners in the United States .to-day, and the eleven millions of families that enjoy wealth and peace and happiness, will never consent to have their properties confiscated or their liberties sacrificed.
But we should not be overconfident in our pride. Through the dazzling splendor of our prosperity we may detect a cloud that hangs lowering over the horizon, o	o
Corruption in municipal politics, usurpation of the ballot box, slothful citizenship must now and forever cease if our zenith is not to be overspread and the future of our nation darkened. “If we nurse the serpent we must endure its sting.”
III	.—Socialism: Its Ethical Outlook.
GEORGE J. MACNAMARA, A. B.
ws
Little bv little through manv ages the present system of society has developed into great perfection through the practice of Christian virtues. When modem philosophers began their false teaching, and faith in the Church of Christ became less ardent, the wheels of moral advancement were clogged, and it became evident that human nature would grope its way into darkness and discontent. To-day the sowers have reaped their reward when the materialism of ancient Rome has been placed above that God who set anew the workings of a worn-out system, and society is as restless as the heavings of the untiring sea. When Calvary’s cross drove pagan bondage to the world’s end, a new day brightened for society; but when man turned from his God to the golden calf of hatred and greed night came with the storms that have tormented centuries.
From the heart of Europe, where classes are more radically defined than here, after many struggles again, comes the triumphant cry that capital is on the wane, and again
Graduates in Law, 1904.

IO
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
even the laborer of our own country, where the poor have never hated the rich, turns a prayerful eye to the clouds that lower on r the nation’s horizon pregnant with angry flashes and muttered rumblings that foretell nothing but calamity. Socialism, unable to ease the oppression of man by its economical reforms, or to purify society by its political upheaval, can no more cope with the cravings of our own moral natures than could all those systems that have seen their setting star.
States may have labored on economic L byways more impractical than those of socialism; they may have toiled in meshes of governmental turmoil more tangled than those that socialists would weave; but states have never opposed the individual consciences and succeeded in living in aught but the memory of long-forgotten lore:
Never in times past has moral improvement been fostered by the belief that material “ production was the chief aim of man. Never has there been a heart without the cravings that the so-called system of bread and butter ran not satisfy. And man created to struggle onward toward the goal that the death of the God-Man made possible, can not be satisfied with the ephemeral pleasures of
the present life; he can not be as a mere and the stem will of a pagan father unit in the mass that knows no individual
traits. He must seek another morality than mother the development of the men of
that offered by socialism.
Whatever moral progress civilization may
lay claim to has been due to the efforts of listless men unwilling to recognize the truth individuals to overcome the inconveniences
of life and to uplift themselves above the unknown mass. Socialism with its unrecognized rewards and communistic herding opposes every influence that in the past made public worth the - outgrowth of private virtue. Socialism unmindful that it was the hand of God that raised mankind from the clutches of a Nero when social advancement was strengthened by the acquisition of private morality; unmindful that it was the hand of God that rent the banner of the feudal despot when the Church of Christ
impelled men higher than the.sluggish stream of serfdom; unmindful that it was the hand
battle for bread be not fruitless, she must of God that modeled society into what it is > give to the care of a heartless state the
to his fellow, himself and his Creator. It would destroy that teacher which insists on individual and collective morality.
. Under socialism’s reign there are no incentives to that development of character, that nourishing of private and public virtue which in all ages made life worth living. Under socialism there are incentives for nought but to grind from the toil of a day a joy of the present. Socialists would destrov religion, and thus remove those strong props that have sustained morality for man and have met the demands of nature by furnishing the necessary gradation of societv with its artists and its geniuses, its dullards and its workers. They would deny religion, the sole factor, in the moral make-up of the world, and they would fail as they would fail to balm the oppressed or to ease the weight of nations. Religion o	o
dead, and with it the stimulus to higher life, all those bonds and ties that Christianity and civilization had made sacred must vanish also.
When Christianity placed woman in economic dependence on man and sanctioned with the seal of a sacrament the lasting bonds that held the family unified, the day came when home meant something noble
ceded to the warm heart of a Christian
to-morrow.
Socialism, its blood coursing the veins of
that there are in life cravings not to be satisfied by bread alone, and seeing but bondage in the solidity of the marriage tie, would undermine the home and blast one of Christianity’s boasts; it would raise woman to economic equality with him who should keep everything but joy from her life. It would deny that the purity of a Christian mother is any longer her pride and would free her from the bonds of marriage, leave her free to 19ve and wander free from all dependencies and restrictions to raise herself only so far as the toil of her own hands will permit. And in order that her efforts in the
more than what it was, Mould destroy that children that nestled at her breast.
religion; which. God. fdunded\fyd‘.^lace an In days of slavery it was cruel ^indeed to unswerving finger on the duties inan Owes tear a-black mother from Ker babe; and' the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
barbaric slaves cringed in sorrow when silver tinkled away the family ties; but civilized man does not think of the heart’s throbbings when he chases the phantom of freedom.
At present the sun’s rays never fall upon a man so poor but that the love of his children outmeasures the treasuries of nations, nor a man so sunk in the toils of life but that evening brings a joy which a system of bread and butter can not provide. And yet there are those so anxious with the greed of wealth that thev would advocate a svstem under whose moral demands the little cottage in the shaded lane would be locked and the merry laughter of romping children would no more echo along the streets by day and by night. The •winds would no more be burdened with the lullabv that- an affectionate mother croons at the cradle of her love.
LHow could the authority of a father or the pure love of a mother move mankind to nobler ends when the family is severed and the mother is free from the marriage state? How could the respect and obedience of the child be kindled when he knows not his father, and his mother and sisters are herding in a way that the present system of divorce would blush at? What answer shall the pitiful cry of those little ones receive when the mother, alone in the mass, shall pray for the days of long ago when home meant much and the care of her children was her joy?
We may reasonably wish for a change in the existing conditions of society. We may deem despotism political corruption and the tyranny of wealth; but we shall never bargain awav the honor of our mother or the home of a child. If we cast our lot with socialism we must run the full course of its ruin. It has no remedy for existing evils that does not bring on countless others. Inequality, socialism will certainly level awav, but at the cost of whatever can rightly be called perfection. Prevailing conditions are bad enough, but if we accept socialism we must surrender everything in life that has moral value—God, home, free-■ dom of worship and individuality. There are not in its waste oases where man could relieve the flaws of to-day; and when society falls in its barren plain, socialists would
stay its decay by driving the intellectual genius with the lash of a slave. .
In the parade of unethical systems, socialism, too, must place its monument among the tombs that line the way. And when it has died awav mankind shall return again to the true knowledge that God alone, working through His Church, can direct the labors of centuries to higher things and heal the wounds of the oppressed with a balm that soothes. The Catholic Church guided society into channels that led to political and economic security. The Catholic Church ever held a firm finger where right and wrong diverge; it ever opposed an iron hand to the haughty and a helpful one to the weak. And until men again return to the principles of justice and charity there still shall remain the yawning chasm between the masses, there still shall exist the lack of fraternity, that class hated by class, and the rulings of the lordly a thorn in the side of the lowly. The Catholic Church alone can save suffering humanity because she alone exercises a moral authoritv over the actions of men; she alone can stifle the smoulderings of hatred, avarice and revenge; she alone can bring about a state of things in which equality of men is not a stain and freedom means not societv destroyed. Present social evils can be traced back to religious revolt for their origin: they can not look to socialism for their remedy. If society is ever to reach perfection it must do so by conforming to the teachings of the divinely guided Church. Por though legislators have exerted their all they can not keep back the storm; but there is one power—the cross of that Church grounded high on the Hill—that can rip the advancing clouds and allow God’s sunshine to kindle anew the joys of an oppressed people.
Socialism is doomed, and, as with all the false systems of its past, the Church. shall consign it to its tomb “unwept, unhonored and unsung;” but before its strength has been wasted we -in America must stand face to face with its teachings. Its advocates have sprung up in our midst. Its writings have been spread far and wide, and through the influence of foreign citizens America has become futile to the spread of its doctrine. When it shall rear its head the countrv must
12
NOTHE TA JIE SCHOLASTIC.
rely on strong minds to guide her course. She must need strong hearts to preserve it uncontaminated, and in her hour of
struggle she shall look to the great body of Catholic laitv as her saviors. These are
the ones that shall save the country from socialism; these are the ones whose duty it is to stand intact, for theirs is the strength that alone can save the nation. ■
The late Senator Hanna a short time before his death veiw prophetically declared : “There is a crisis coming which will have
Valedictory.
JOHN M. OVINLAN, A. It.
The members of another graduating class have completed their collegiate studies here; and now they are about to go into the outer world to assume all the obligations of manhood. It was natural that we should look forward to this Commencement day with much pleasure; yet as it approached

GRADUATES IN CIVIL
to be met and the sooner the better. There is no place, and there must be none, in this country, for anarchy and treason. In this connection I once said that in the day of trouble the United States must look to the supreme court and to the Roman Catholic Church. I will go further now and say that I believe the best friend and protector the people and the flag shall have in its hour of trial will be the Roman Church, always conservative and fair and loyal. This is the power that shall save us.”
ENGINEERING, 1904-.
nearer and nearer our delight was blended with sorrow, for we had alreadv begun to feel the sadness of farewell. Friends whom we have loved, instructors whose deepest interest was oui* welfare, old haunts, old games, old pleasures—all these we must now leave.
And yet, though we part with them today, never shall they be blotted from our memory. Each year we have become more and more attached to them. It was among these dear old haunts that we
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
met our truest friends, our closest companions in whom we could readily confide, whose comradeship we eagerly sought. It is sad to feel that we must now take leave of many of these for the last time. Other farewells also must be made; but of these none do we make more reluctantly than that to our painstaking and patient instructors, to whom we are so signally' indebted. For they' have borne a large part in the molding of our characters by' their edifying example as well as by' their patient and unremitting instruction. In more than one sense they' have prepared us for the weighty' duties of life.
In this solemn hour we realize that no longer arc we students of Notre Dame, that henceforth we are her alumni. As such she expects each of us to do a man’s work in the world. Whatever our vocations be she looks to us to render some useful service to society, to the Church and to our country. She has not only' introduced us to the arts and sciences; she has also developed us morally. Hence we ought to be the better prepared to lead a helpful as well as a happy life.
With such opportunities for preparation we face the future full of courage and determination. We feel that thus fortified failure in the real sense of the word is impossible. For to strive for the best and to keep forever striving even in the face of adversity' and discouragement—this of itself is to succeed. No man is defeated until he acknowledges it bv ceasing to struggle. Much less should we, who have been given special opportunities to acquire superior education, dread failure if we live up to the sound principles which have been taught us here. On the contrarv, the world has a right to expect us to win honor for ourselves and for our Alma Mater.
Gentlemen of the Faculty: We owe you an unforgettable debt of gratitude. It now remains for us to prove ourselves worthy’ of the care and attention bestowed upon us. Whatever successes may' come to us
in the future may' properly' be attributed in a large measure to vour untiring zeal and to the friendship which has existed between you and the members of the class of 1904-. And when in after years we return to Notre Dame we hope to be greeted by the same professors and by' the same President whom we knew of old. With this hope in our hearts, and on our lips a pledge of unfailing loyalty to Notre Dame, Gentlemen of the Faculty, we say' farewell!
Fellow-classmen: A few moments still
GRADUATES IX PHARMACY, 1904-.
remain before we go in different ways into the world’s great competition. Our life at Notre Dame has been a happy' one; and hence we are the more reluctant to part, for in this hour we meet, perhaps, for the last time. But carry’ing with us fond remembrances of our college days, let us prove ourselves worthy’ of the honors conferred upon us here. Though distance divide us in the time to come let us always cherish that cordial spirit which has heretofore bound our lives together. And now to you, too, Fellow-classmen, farewell.
*4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $J.5O per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, August 13, 1904.
—During the present month especially, many parents who have decided to give their sons the benefit of a higher education are face to face with the problem of selecting a college. If they live up to their responsibilities they will choose a school that combines as nearly as possible the comforts and discipline of a good Christian home with the best system of instruction. That' these desirable conditions obtain at Notre Dame in a marked degree is evidenced by her catalogue and by the testimony of her numerous distinguished alumni throughout the land. To these gentlemen Notre Dame points with pride, and this year, as in years past, she depends largely on their example and influence for new students. It is gratifying to record that even now the prospect is highly encouraging, that most likely the number of students registered next session will be the largest in the history of the University. We need hardly state that every available means which experience and solicitude can suggest is being used to meet the forthcoming demand and to sustain and improve the reputation which Notre Dame deservedly enjoys. The faculty has been increased, the standard of scholarship raised in some departments, and the fullest provision made for the moral and physical welfare of the student. The young man who is earnest, conscientious and industrious may rely on receiving at Notre Dame the most efficient co-operation ■ obtainable. With this assurance we wish our students, old and new, a pleasant vacation, and to those who will be with us in September we bespeak a cordial welcome.
The Baseball Record.
Notre Dame has alwavs been fortunate in the matter of baseball material, and during the past four or five years has succeeded in maintaining a position near the top among the Western college teams. This year was no exception. The strongest teams of the West fell victims to our prowess, and although we lost games, our record is cleaner and higher than that of any other team. Illinois again Avon the coveted title of Western Champions, but the tAvo games played Avith our men proved beyond a doubt that Notre Dame is clearly entitled to second honors. As to the Indiana championship, our fellows clinched it by winning every game. Their trip through Indiana was the most successful that has ever been taken by any college team, and they drew the largest and most enthusiastic crowds ever seen at these games.
The members of this vear’s team Avere for the most part veterans, and to this fact may be attributed their success. Team work was their stronghold, and attention was given more to good, scientific style of play than to individual work. In this department it is no exaggeration to claim they Avere far ahead of any other college team. In the hitting department they were lamentably Aveak. This is a fault peculiar to all college teams, and is due no doubt to the great attention given by them to the scientific side of the game.	.
Prospects for a winning team were bright from the start. Captain Stephan Avas placed in charge of the candidates, and during the long winter months he kept them continually at work, and succeeded in having them in first-class condition by the time of the opening game of the practice series with . South Bend. His hardest task was to develop a corps of pitchers, a sub-catcher, and to choose between. the candidates for second base. For all these positions there was keen competition and especially so for the twirling staff. Ruehlbach, the crack of last year’s team, came out early, and then Avhen South-paw Alderman and “Deacon” O’Gorman were discovered among the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
new candidates, the Varsity’s stock went soaring and the rooters .were jubilant. With such a pitching staff we would be able to hold our own with any of the college teams. And so we did. *
The schedule for the past season was the best a Notre Dame team ever had. The season opened up with a two weeks’ practice series with the strong South Bend team of the Central League. In this series the two teams broke even. Five college games were lost—two to Illinois, two to Beloit and one to Nebraska. Erratic work accounts for the loss of the Beloit and Nebraska Lanies; but in the Illinois games we went down to defeat only after the best exhibition of baseball seen on a college diamond during the year. The following is the record of college games won and lost, also a brief sketch of each player:
April 30 at Notre Dame—Notre Dame, 4; Wisconsin, 3. Ruelhbach pitcher.
May 2 at Notre Dame—Notre Dame, 1; Illinois, 2. Ruelhbach pitcher.
May 3 at Notre Dame—Notre Dame, 4; Nebraska, 5. Aiderman pitcher.
May 7 at Notre Dame—Notre Dame, 18; Wabash, 7. O’Gorman pitcher.	’	.
Ma A' 10 at Beloit—Notre Dame, 1; Beloit, 4. Aiderman pitcher.
May 11 at Wisconsin—Notre Dame, 6; Wisconsin, 0. Ruehlbach pitcher.
May 12 at Minneapolis—Notre Dame, 13; Minnesota, 3. O’Gorman pitcher.
May 14 at Evanston—Notre Dame, 9; NorthAvestem, 1. Aiderman pitcher.
May 21 at Notre Dame—Notre Dame, 18; Aiinnesota, 1. Aiderman pitcher.
Maj’ 25 at Notre Dame—Notre Dame, 2; Indiana, 1. Ruehlbach pitcher.	'
MaA’ 26 at Notre Dame—Notre Dame, 11; Purdue, 2. Aiderman pitcher.
May 30 at Notre Dame—NorthAvestern forfeited.
May 31 at Wabash—Notre Dame, 6; Wabash, 2. O’Gorman and Ruehlbach pitched.
June 1 at Greencastle—Notre Dame, 12; DePauw, 5. Alderman pitcher.	"
June 2 at Bloomington—Notre Dame, 5; Indiana, 2. Ruehlbach pitcher.'
June 3 at Lafayette—Notre Dame, 13; Purdue, 4. Alderman pitcher. .	’
June 4 at - Champaign—Notre Dame, 0; Illinois, 1. Ruehlbach pitcher.
June 7 at Notre Dame—Notre Dame, 0; Beloit, 1. Ruehlbach pitcher.
Total games won—13; lost, 5. Per cent, 722.
Standing in Indiana Championship contest:
Games won Lost Per cent
7	•	0	. 1000
From the above records, it can be seen that the Varsity made a very good showing during the season, and with a little more good fortune in some of the games would have had an enviable record. Batting and fielding averages follow:
Players	Times at bat	Hits	Per cent
O’Neill	8	4	.500
Shaughnessy	66	23	.348
Salmon	70	21	.300
Stephan	65	18	.277
Aiderman	19	5	.263
Antoine	53	26	.414
Ruehlbach	30	7	.234"
Geoghegan	-53	'	12	. .226
Kanaley	64	14	.208
McNemey	63	13	.206
O’Connor	59	.12	.203
Farabaugh	10	2	.200
O’Gorman	8	1	.125
Fielding	averages were:	- -	
Players	Chances	Errors	P.C.
O’Neill	7	0	1000
Farabaugh	15	0	1000
Antoine	161	2	.987
Stephan	140	3	.978
Ruehlbach	30	1	.967
Shaughnessy	‘ 21	1	.950
Salmon	18	1	.944
McNemey	62	5	.920
Geoghegan	52	• 7	.867
O’Connor	57	.	10	.	.825
Kanaley	10	2	.800
Aiderman	13	3	.773
O’Gorman	3	1	.667
The above averages do not include the Indiana, DePauw and Purdue games, as complete records were not obtained up to time of writing.
Anton C. Stephan (Captain and 1st Base).
This is the captain’s third and last year on the team, and his loss will certainly be felt next year. A more earnest and conscientious player never donned a Notre Dame uniform. He works continuallv, and his splendid fighting spirit has often revived the spirits of his men when defeat was near. In hitting and fielding he is up near the top. He is always quick to take advantage of his opponents, and more than once have his daring and head-work turned the tide • in our favor. This year in addition to his arduous duties of Captain were added those of Coach, and the great success achieved by the team showed how efficient he was in this capacity.	.
16	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i
I
L. AI. Antoine (Catcher).
Antoine was the main dependence behind the bat, and he certainly did his part well. He showed great improvement over the past season, being more reliable and steady. His arm was the terror of would-be base pilferers, and but few succeeded in catching him napping. He is a good sticker, ranking near the top in hitting, and practically leading in fielding. This is his third year on the team, and as he graduated this year we may lose his services next season.
Louis J. Salmon (Right Field).
Salmon wound up his brilliant career as a college athlete in a blaze of glory on the diamond. The same persistency that characterized his work on the gridiron marked his work on the baseball field. He was the surest and most reliable man on the team, and his hitting and fielding were of the sensational order all season. He was also a daring base runner, and in fact a “plugger” from start to finish. This is his last year in athletics.
Byron V. Kanaley (Left Field).
Kanalev fell off a little in the beginning of the season, but towards the end he more than made up for this deficiency by hitting the ball hard and often. He is a hard, conscientious player and a good man to depend upon in tight places. “Kan” may also be lost to us through graduation.
Edward Ruehlbach (Pitcher).
The man who mowed down the heavy hitters of the best Western college teams like so maiw straws certainty deserves to be classed as a great pitcher. ‘ ‘ Nig ’ ’ established a reputation that is hard to beat, and his work in the box all season was wonderful. Six hits was the highest obtained off him in anv one game. In the matter of strike-outs he broke all previous records. He has a world of steam, a good assortment of curves, and this, coupled with splendid control and his remarkable coolness and quickness, made him the mainstay of the team. This is his second year on the nine. His team-mates unanimously selected him to captain them next season—a very popular move. Success, Captain 1
Francis J. Shaughnessy (Centre Field).
“Shag” was the strongest batter on the o	o
team, and his heavy hitting was responsible for manv a hard-fought victory. He has always been noted as a clever fielder and base runner, and in the latter department it is doubtful if he has an equal on the team. This is his third year.
Dan O’Connor (Third Baseman).
“Dan,” the fast guardian of third bag, deserves unstinted praise for his work the past season. A glance at his fielding record would not impress one very favorably; but “Dan” stops at nothing, and it is his willingness to go after everything in his territory that costs him errors. He believes in working for the team and not for individual glory. He is very fast in scooping up bunts, covers a lot of territory, and displays good head-work. This is his third year.
Harry J. Geoghegan (Short Stop).
“Giggles” is one of the fastest little short stops in the business. Like his team-mate on third, he works to win, never shirking' anything in his territory. His fielding and all-around work on the Indiana trip was of the sensational order. This is but his second year. .
Laurence McNerney (Second Base).
McNerney was a new man this season. What has been said of his team-mates in the infield mav also be said of him. He is a worker. He is a brilliant infielder and displays good judgment. In the beginning he slumped in hitting, but later on got his eye on the ball and hit at a good clip. We hope to see him with us next season.
Dallas Alderman (Pitcher).
When the problem of finding material for the pitching corps was troubling Captain Stephan, Aiderman stepped forward and the breach was filled. Aiderman is young and inexperienced, but his work all season was not far below that of Ruehlbach. He is a south -paw, with plenty of steam and curves and a good head. With a little more experience he will become a very valuable man.
Samuel O’Gorman (Pitcher).
O’Gorman is also a new man. He was a little later than the others in developing
Base Ball Team, 1904.
i8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
form, owing to an injury received in his pitching arm during winter practice. In his games, he displayed plenty of cunning and head-work and held his men safe at all times. He will be with us again. .
J. C. O’Neill (Utility Man).
O’Neill suffered a very bad injuiy to his finger earlv in the season which destroved whatever chance he had of making the team. His abilities as a sticker, however, caused Captain Stephan to give him a trial in the Purdue and Beloit games, and in these he handled himself well.
Gallitzen Farabaugh (Sub-catcher).
“Gallitz” did not have very many chances of displaying his abilities as a ball player, but in the few he did have he made a good showing.	,
Byrne AI. Daly (Manager).
And now a few words about Manager Bvme M. Dalv and his assistant Louis M. Fetherston. During Manager Daly’s two vears of office he has worked wonders. Through his tact and diplomacy, all prejudices against Notre Dame bv members of the “Big Nine” have been swept away, so that now whenever any of them have a date, Notre Dame is the first to secure it. His office is no sinecure. In addition to arranging games, supplying the different. teams and looking after the financial end of the business, he must also manage to secure and keep firm the harmony and good feeling that should exist between the members ot the different athletic teams. All this Daly did and in a manner highly creditable to himself and the University. The assistant manager, L. M. Fetherston, must also come O’	1
in for his share of the credit, as he was ol very valuable assistance.. Their season was a very successful one.
’ * * *
In closing, the Scholastic congratulates the gentlemen of the Varsity and the management upon their success. We hope it wall always be Notre Dame’s good fortune to succeed as she did this year on the gridiron and diamond, and that the students of the future will ever endeavor to keep the Gold and Blue floating at the peak as it does to-day.	Joseph P. O’Reilly.
The Track Team of ’04.
Since the famous track team of ’02, there has been a decided slump at the University in this branch of athletics. No one seems able to account for such a rapid decline, and although attempts were made time and again to revive the old spirit, they -were useless. Interest in the sport seems to have been killed, but we trust it is onlv for a while.	-
Years ago the Gold and Blue was feared more on the track than in any of the other branches, and our fleet runners and crack field men always carried off the honors and laurels. The past few years, however, we have fallen off lamentably, and while making great strides in baseball and football seem to have lost our bearings altogether in track athletics. There is one consolation, however, we are not alone. It has been a noticeable fact during the past year, especially, that, outside of the big conference meet, there was no enthusiasm or interest at all in the work of the athletes. This state of affairs will not continue to exist. The sport has simply reached a point where reaction is bound to set in one wae or another, and we believe it will by ahead. When it does come, we mav look for Notre Dame to resume her former proud position among the top-notchers.
' Of this year’s team but little can be said. There were but four contests during the year, and in these our few representatives did all that could be expected of them. They participated in four meets, two of them being with Indiana University and the last one, the State Championship event, which was pulled off on Cartier Field. No training was done until after the Christmas holidays. T. E. Holland, who worked such wonders with a small squad last year, was again engaged as coach. He labored hard and industriouslv to arouse some enthusiasm among the students, but when he issued his call for candidates six men responded. This was a very encouraging outlook after such strenuous efforts to rebuild. Doubtless in most cases the work would have been thrown up altogether, but for Holland.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*9
The first meet of the season was held indoor on March 4 Avith Indiana. The state ..representatives were a very speedy aggregation and easily defeated our fellows. The feature of the struggle was the all-around work of Capt. Draper. The St. Louis Invitation was the next affair in which our men participated, and in this contest they did the best work of the year, carrying off the principal honors against a large field of competitors. The Relay team, composed of Murphy, Keefe, Gormley and Daly, easily defeated the St. Lotus cracks,
candidates who remained out all season and strove hard to help are deserving of praise. Their loyalty to Notre Dame under such circumstances proves them to be possessors of the proper spirit, and as long as there arc such fellows we need have no fear for the future.
The men who composed this year’s track team were Capt. Draper, W. Daly, J. Keefe, H. Murphy, D. O’Connor, F. Scales, N. Silver, G. Gormley, R. Bracken, T. Welch and Pat Bcacom. Capt. Draper was a host in himself. During the year he captured most
TRACK TEAM. 1904.
while Capt. Draper equalled world’s records in- both the fifty'- yard dash and the fifty' yard hurdles. The third meet was held at Bloomington in May, the Indiana' men again triumphing over our lads. In the Annual Indiana Championship field and track games, we had but four representatives, and at that succeeded in capturing third place. Taking everything into consideration, the lack of enthusiasm and the limited number of candidates, the season’s work was verv ‘creditable. Certainlv those -
of the points credited to the Gold and Blue, and in almost every meet was usually good for fifteen or more points. He is an all-around athlete, and in fact one of the best Notre Dame has ever had. Walter Daly, quarter miler and half miler, did good work the past season, although he did not come around into as good form as was expected of him. His stronghold is the quarter. He also did good work on the relay team at St. Louis. J. Keefe is a new man in track athletics who bids fair to develop into a
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
speedy quarter miler. He was one of our few point winners the past season. Murphy is also a new man on the team; he is stron<r in the mile and two mile, and has the best form of any of the runners. The surprise of the year was the work of Dan O’Connor, the clever third base man of the Varsity. He entered in our first meet with I. U., and without any preliminary training succeeded in landing; second place in the high jump at five feet six inches.
G. Gormley was a member of the relay team at St. Louis, but could not find time to train consistently. Silver, Scales, Bracken and .Welch are all new men at the sport, and will no doubt be heard from next season. Pat Beacom came out rather late for the weight events, but under Coach Holland’s careful guidance he proved an apt pupil, and handled the weights in a very promising manner. J. P. O’R.
—While returning from a . trip to Baltimore, Washington, and New York, Colonel Hoynes, Dean of the Law Department at Notre Dame, stopped off at Esopus . to pay his respects to the Hon. Alton B. Parker, whom as chief Judge of the Court of Appeals he has known long and favorably. Colonel Hoynes met with a veiw cordial reception, had luncheon with the Judge and his family, and is very agreeably impressed with the presidential , candidate’s striking personality. We are delighted to learn that. Judge Parker, in response to an invitation from Colonel Hoynes, has promised to deliver a lecture to the law students at Notre Dame.
This courtesy was largely in recognition of the ideals of the society and the splendid work which it has accomplished. Founded little more than ten years ago, it is now one of the most influential and flourishing of its kind in the country. The membership, which is upward of ninety thousand, coinprises many of the best and most intellectual of America’s Catholic women. Its growth and power in the East may be inferred from the fact that in New Jersey alone eighty-two branches, with a membership of nine thousand, are established. The organization is benevolent in its object, and aims above all to inculcate religion and morality, ends which have been faithfully striven for and furthered during the comparatively short period that it has been in existence..	.
The visitors had started from New York early on Saturday and reached Notre Dame soon after nine Sunday morning. Breakfast was immediatehr served in the college refectory, after which the entire part}’ attended Mass, celebrated by the Very Rev. Dr. Zahm in the Church of the Sacred Heart. An appropriate sermon was preached by the Very Rev. President Morrissey, who in the course of his remarks greeted the visitors on behalf of the University. '
After Mass an -interesting half hour was spent examining the church, whose beauty appealed strongly to all. Soon afterward a reception was held in. the college parlor, at .which Mrs. M. .E. Costelloe, of Brooklyn, on behalf of the guests, made a very graceful and appreciative address, accompanying it with a beautiful souvenir of their visit to the University. Father Zahm fittingly responded, expressing his gratitude and the pleasure which their coming had afforded Notre s Dame, which he assured . them was delighted to tender its hospitality to ladies inspired with such lofty, motives for God and country. A few hours were then pleasurably spent visiting the college buildings. Groups might be seen here and there, in the corridors, library and halls admiring the pictures and curios;’ others betook themselves to Science Hall, the gymnasium, the university printingoffice and the Grotto of . Lourdes. The kodak was . in frequent use, and ho doubt the . results will serve as interesting mementoes of what seemed, despite the intense heat, a ven.' agreeable experience for the tourists.	=
It was a matter of regret for all concerned that - the time at their disposal was so brief, for at twelve a start was made for St. Mary’s Academy, where the Sisters of the Holy Cross had made elaborate preparations for a hospitable reception. The halls, the beautiful church and the many objects of compelling interest to be seen at this splendid institution could receive little more than a passing glance, for soon luncheon was served and the delegates were on their .way to' catch the train at South Bend. '	.
Two Hundred Delegates to St. Paul Convention Visit Notre Dame. .	'
. Recently Notre Dame had the privilege of entertaining; for a short time the Eastern; delegation of the Catholic Ladies’-Benevolent Society of America: The two hundred . members included in -the. party were on : the way .to attend ; the triennial convention in St. .Paul, . and.'.having -heard .much, of the, great Catholic college expressed a desire to .see it to Mr._ Frank Dwyer, the New York representative of the Grand Trunk, the road over which they travelled. Mr. Dwyer,kan1, old J student of; Notre Dame, communicated v’itli -Vem’ Rey. Dr. Zahm,-Provincial of the Congregation-of. HblyTCrpss,' who promptly. extended an -invitation tand arrahged/for, a suitable reception.
—Visitors’ Registry:—J. H. Gardiner, Mrs. Gardiner, Florence Gardiner, Dr. Gardiner, E. T. Collins, Miss Katherine Sheridan, Anna Hodgkiss, Mrs. M. Weitekamp, Mrs. Margaret McCook, Mrs. M. E. Costelloe, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Mrs. J. Doherty, Miss M. Neaiy, Mrs. M. Quinn, -Miss Anna E. Holt, Newark, N. J.; Rev. Dr. Flossaic, Rome, Italy ; C. M. Simmond, Colombia, South America; L.F.Berutich,Gibraltar,Spain; M. Fello y Valderamma, Cuzco, Peru; Mrs. Mary Sailer, Prague, Bohemia; Olga Mayerhaefer, Munchen, Bavaria; Miss Mabel E. Henry, North Cambridge, Mass.; Miss Mae L; Long, Chicago, HL; Miss Winifred B. and. Marie Leavy, Albany, N. Y., and others.