
Have An Event You Want The Whole Campus To 
Know About? 
Put It In Scholastic's Calendar 
Brings Items With Times And Dates At Least Two Weeks In Advance To The Scholastic Offices On Third Floor LaFortune 

Contents 
September 25, I 986 Volume 128, No. 3



Scholastic 

Cover Stories 


Clubbing In The Windy City by Tim Adams, Keith Harrison and Bob Winn 
5 
From New Music To Folk Music, Chicago's Clubs Offer An Alternative 
To The South Bend Blues 
8 
Beyond The FiYe Points by Scan Nealon For An Evening Of Fun 
The Second City's Drinking Spots Are Second To None 
Alternative Entertainment In Chicago by Phil Coghian 
11 A Few Suggestions 
Of What To Do In Chicago Besides Shop And Barhop 


News 
17/ A Matter Of Responsibility 


Sports 
20/Another Near Miss 


Departments 
4/Week In Distortion: But My Friends Got In!? 12/Calendar 16/On Other Campuses: Prank Backfires At Clemson 19/Music: Rapid Ear Movement 
24/Final Word: An Open Letter To Father Hesburgh 

Edrtorial 


'mfs~~~tt~d!: rt~ti~6!7~1!:.·: Jt~r::ai:W:, ri?t;t~b:iiil~~il~6t~11~~f:11~:fj~
Student Center, for instanc9, itwas.discovercd thatqoffcp$i~!1:s(lnd spilli;shafcauscddamctgcJo··.··
ncwvar?ish and paint·· Th.~re was ..;i... dispqte.betwijgp-RAS.I1;'.aridt'hc Officc9fStud<!pJ·ActJvi/ 
t:·.\t.i§ht~0tB!~a:~~sfr~~1riJ~~-A~(JJ1d1c~c!11i~it~~J~!~~.!~ilttcbo:J/?§tt;~1ha,~~r~;{~~[J;~.~J{,J~• ·... organizers of• the eyent they .were firianciaJly liaple for: a.n,y age occurring tb'.er~; ·· 
,~~lilllli'ed~e~~s'TA1i®f;e;o1~~~·n~t1,~~ilit~~,{,$~, .;,t~~9 5:,~~IE;i\t:~
j#p'n$·•._iri•two.years:.·.•·13esid§f:furid·•raisi11g, ~A.SJA.als ... l'.?QA50red·.·.cujtqral cy~11ts s,yhich cxposecL'<t~e: J\fotre Dame·'commurttw to African ~t!;,Jjrnusi cl society Af'.a'schoolf!whereXaJ.vcrsity';TS"}>q.': l#cking, su.ch events shoulq;be ·applaudeq. Ji?is}ls9( < tcnf~gi!to. scd:'ft·-~iudcr{tl~t~a11i.£~ti6n s,y1ii~i{ •.. · · .is ~gt. ~fraid to maintain its. idcalisITI. RAStAwas f91.1pci8.d ·.. during the first s,yavl! 9f the aid-tcv ... · /6-frica movementsJ.ike l.iye, Aid ~I?-ccl Ban.d•f,.•id. . .?thou such .:rnovcmc c~rc n9Jqngcr1Jlie.··trend,·RASTAseeksto.cpijfihuci~s:\vork.h'i}iM1 ;;•:';•:f: . ,,.·····. ;:,'.~.; 
'; Alfo, Neal's ·odgin~I• Jetter wa~ cII1isJeading.•. 1tfj ;~~ that ih~ ~6le,: r<!ct~qkfqrn\:ftrl}i~~na······nlJNtg.O·.. ·•···..ter·.••.·er i: >.·•·• •···.·
;gfsi:-A .was Jhe. problc111s,c~t thyi~aY 3+¢Qll,Cert'. ha~;i#.tpce s,~i hat . ... 
l~~i~~Q1f~t?fl!!i~lli~~ll~~:~:~li}t~!l}2iv!!taJ!!1:'~f' 
fori of the decision shouid%c stMctl in . ·e grdupi' Otherwise urtne essar§Confus1on
..... ,.·. , .....,,:,,.::·, ., ·.. ··:··.···. ·.· .. ,..: ··.. ·.. -::···· .. ·:·.:··:.:·,:..:.... ·: ::., 
Letters 
Editor-in-Chief 
Maher Mouashcr 
Managing Editor Keith Harrison Jr. 
Design Editor 
Alex Peltzer 
Production Manager 
Matthew Bradley 
General Manager Phil Coghlan 
Editorial 
Larry Burke/Sports Catherine Coffey /Departments Frank Lipo/News Greg Miller/News Lucian Niemeyer/Photography Aimee Starin/Copy Chief Bob Winn/Student Life 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Matt Dolan/Advertising Mike Hoban/Circulation 
Layout 
Kathleen McKernan Jim Doerfler Anne Ranaghan Susan Serrato Diane Ricker 
Art & Photography Sharon Dow Mary Murphy Peggy McDonough 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­
torial board. 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1986 Scholastic. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be 
reproduced without permission. 

What Do You Think? 
If you have an opinion about something in Scholastic, write us a letter. LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 
Letters to the editor must be typed and must include the author's name, address, and phone number. 

But My I Friends Got In!? 


By l\Iike Keegan 

As the sun goes down, you sit at your desk slowly nodding off while trying to study organic chemistry. It is Thursday night and the week has already been two days too long. Suddenly from down the· hallway, there comes a roar of laughter that sounds too inviting to ignore. Needing a study break, you creep from your hole to find out who could be laughing on a Thursday night. Remember that at Notre Dame, on weekday nights, laughter between 7 and 11 p.m. is not conducive to a proper studying environment, violations resulting in a substantial fine. 
When you finally reach the _door, four of your friends, intoxi­cated not by beer but by breathing in too many ethanol fumes, rush into your room. Peeling yourself off the back of the door, you rc'gain composure only to hear this warlike chant echoing in your ears: "Dollar -Cokes! Dollar Cokes! Dol­lar Cokes!". 
You knew it was going to hap­pen sooner or later. One of the most pressing issues that the aver­age Notre Dame student will have to face during his college career has surfaced: Does one go out to a bar and inhale ten sodas with his buddies, or does one stay home, study his organic chemistry, get a 
4.0 GPA and turn into a social mistake? (If anyone considers himself or herself to be a social mistake, don't read any further; you won't be able to comprehend the term "fun" anyway.) 
Of course, you want to go out, but you don't have a note from your mother telling the nice off­icer at the door that you really are 21 years old. In a state of panic, you search the dorm for someone who looks like your beloved ~-other, you get him to forge the 
note, and off you go for an  even­ 
ing  of  fun.  (There's  that  word  
again.)  

Once in the car, you keep read­ing the nofo in an cffort to memorize the date on which it was · 

written. Memorization of this fact is key because the gentleman in blue at the door will ask you to tell him when the note was written. Finally, you arrive at your desti­nation, Uncle Bridget McQuire's Family-Style Restaurant and Soda Fountain Drinking Establishment. You begin to become nauseous as you picture that first lukewarm beer, I mean root beer, slowly going down your throat. 
Because you have to look older, you don't really walk to the door, you strut in a way that makes John Wayne look like a sissy. In actual­ity, this famous bar-entering strut makes you look like a cross between Daffy Duck and Mork from Ork. Once you get to the door, you watch as your four friends hand their notes to the off­icer who only glances at them and lets them enter. You're next. 
As you hand the officer at the door your note, you stare him in the face, trying to make yourself look older and more credible. The officer carefully scrutinizes the note and says "On what date was this note written?" As you answer, a sudden rush of panic comes over you because you have forgotten the date. Taking a stab in the dark, you say Oct. 16, 1964. The officer seemingly nods his head in approval. Your sense of panic gives way to a sigh of relief. But as .the joker hands you back your note, he tells you that it looks as though someone wrote over the date with white out and a number two crayon. You think to yourself, "Brillant deduction, Sherlock!" Then you walk away rejected and demoralized. Through the window you see two of your buddies chug­ging a pitcher of root beer apiece, while the other two sit quietly in a corner playing an intense game of PacMan. 
Feeling rejected you walk around for hours, and then finally return to the hall. Your buddies are wait­ing in your room to ask you what happened. You try to tell them that you got shot do'wn but the only words that come from your mouth are · "abauit catgut". Translated, "I'm not a social mis­take, it's an election year!" 
September 25, 1986 

Student Life 

Clubbing InThe Windy City 
From New Music To Folk Music, Chicago's Clubs Offer An Alternative To The South Bend Blues 

By Tim Adams, Keith Harrison Jr., Bob Winn 
"O 
(1) 
c,q 
~ ~ 
(> 
t:I 
0 
::, 
0 
C: 
c,q 
::,­

Chicago clubs are a great place to catch local talent. 
For live music fans, South Bend basically offers two options. Major rock bands like AC/DC and Loverboy occa­sionally do shows at the ACC, and local Top 40 cover bands like Lake Effect play regularly at Cheers on U.S. 31. 
But what about other kinds of. bands? Where can Notre Dame students go to see less popular rock bands, or live blues, reggae or folk music? The answer lies 90 miles west, in Chicago. The clubs in the Second City cater to nearly every musical taste -the key is knowing where to go. 
NEW MUSIC 
Cabaret Metro (3730 N. Clark) ­Located just a block north of Wrigley Field, Cabaret Metro (or the Metro, as most people call it) is the mainstay of the Chicago new music scene. Its 900-person capa­city makes it a perfect spot for up-and-coming bands to play. The 
September 25, 1986 

Student Life 

atmosphere can be a bit intimidat­ing for a first-time visitor, but the Metro always offers a safe musical experience. In the past year, bands as diverse as the Knee Trcmblers (formerly Foghat), the Cramps, Einsturzande Ncubaten, the Circle Jerks, Sonic Youth and the Ramones have performed here. 
Ticket prices for shows featuring new bands are incredibly inexpensive sometimes. T/;le BoDeans, for example, recently performed there for $3. But then again, a top draw like the Ramones can cost $15 or more. Regardless, the Metro is the one place offering all-ages shows just about every night of the week, and that alone makes it invaluable. 
Exit (1653 N. Wells ) -With its exterior painted baby blue -com­plete with cute little bunnies ­Exit openly displays a cynical atti­tude toward its surrounding affluent environment. Seeing some of the bands who perform here makes that readily apparent. Exit is certainly one of the most unique-looking clubs in the city, with the inside walls decorated with weird paintings and various neon tubes and reflective decora­tions hanging from the ceiling. 
Bands perform on Sunday and Wednesday nights and the cover is around $5. The groups are mostly underground in nature, but so is Exit's clientele. Capacity is 400, so the atmosphere is cozy enough to really enjoy a show here. Exit even has a dance pit, which is a dance area several f cet below the club's floor level. For those whose. tastes run from the outrageous to the avant-garde, a visit to this interesting club is essential. 
Gaspar's (I 359 W. Belmont) -This bar quietly has been putting on "live music for the living" for awhile now, but that seems to be a well-kept secret among most sccncstcrs. 
Gaspar's is a great place to meet some friends and share some drinks; the live music that is played here seven days a week makes it that much better. With capacity at approximately 300, there is plenty of room to roam around from the bar area to the tiny stage. 
The bands that play here arc usually new and interesting groups which arc just beginning to develop a following. Recent visi­tors include the Electric Love Muffin (from Philadelphia), the Hollowmcn (from Iowa), and Chicago's own Precious Wax Drip­pings. Cover is $5. 
"playground of the stars." Bob Dylan, George Thorogood, Led Zeppelin's Jimmy Page and porno star Seka all have been sighted at the club lately. Like the ad says, "this is the place to hear blues, drink booze and talk loud." 
Biddy Mulligan's (7644 N. Sheri­dan) -Biddy Mulligan's is an eclectic club. It features far more than just strict blues performers, although most of the acts which perform there have roots in rhythm and blues. For example, Koko Taylor, who is widely regarded as the best female blues singer alive, plays there on a regu­lar basis, although Bo Diddley, Dr. 

BLUES 

Kingston Mines (2548 N. Halsted) -Kingston Mines is probably the premier blues club in a city known for having the best blues scene in the world. This is the place to go to see unadulterated blues -be it top local musicians or nationally renowned acts. Harmonica wizard Sugar Blue and guitarist Son Seals both bring their bands to Kingston Mines on a regular basis, while legendary bluesmcn like Junior Wells play occasional dates there. 
The club's unique . two-stage setup allows for continuous live music; when one band takes a break, another band starts playing on the second stage. The only disadvantage to this is that it limits the seating capacity of the small club. Consequently, when major blues acts play there, it is a good idea to arrive early. 
But Kingston Mines attracts more than just quality blues musi­cians. It is also, its ads claim, the John and the Beat Farmers arc more typical of the acts which appear at Biddy Mulligan's. 
It is a medium-sized club, much bigger than Kingston Mines. Biddy MuUigan's is located in the North Side of Chicago, a good drive from the N. Halsted blues section of town. But for R&B fans, it is a trip worth taking. 
FOLK 

Holsteins {2464 N. Lincoln) -For followers of folk music, Holsteins is the Chicago club that comes closest to recreating the coffee­house atmosphere of Greenwich Village in the early 60s. It is a small club with soft lighting; this is a fine place to spend a mellow, relaxing evening. 
Most of the acts which play at Holsteins are local musicians, although better-known· groups appear on occasion. Jonathan Richman and the Modern Lovers played there several weeks ago to a 
Scholastic 
Student Life 


capacity crowd. This Saturday, 60s folk heroes Fairport Convention will appear at Holsteins as part of a reunion tour. Cover charges are generally moderate, although there is usually a two-drink minimum. 
Orphans (2462 N. Lincoln) -Right next to Holsteins is Orphans, another Chicago club which features folk music. Like Hol­steins, Orphans has a comfortable atmosphere. Although Orphans is a bigger, more spacious club, it manages to retain a sense of intimacy by not having an elevated stage. Instead, musicians stand on the floor, on the same level as the audience. 
Another difference between the two clubs is that Orphans is not as folk-oriented as Holsteins. Folk musicians frequently play Orphans, but local R&B singer Vanessa Davis, for example, also performs regularly. 
REGGAE 
The Wild Hare (3530 N. Clark) ­Chicago does not have an abun­dance of reggae clubs, but the Wild Hare more than makes up for that. Located across the street from Wrigley Field, this club attracts a diverse crowd of 

September 25, 1986 
'U 
ct> 
oq 
~ ~ 
n 
t:J 
0 
:::, 0 C: 
oq 
::,­

dreadlocked Rastafarians, shabbily-dressed hipsters and ner­vous suburbanites. 
The Wild Hare is a very, very dark club; the only bright things in the whole place are the Bob Mar­

ley posters and Jamaican flags on t_he walls. The music lives up to this cool atmosphere. It's all reggae at the Wild Hare, from interna­tional groups like the Itals to local favorites like Dallol, the band which played at RASTA's contr­oversial concert at Notre Dame last 
year. Even the booze is cool at this club, where the drink of choice is Red Stripe, a tasty Jamaican beer. HOUSE MUSIC 

The Music Box (corner of Wash­ington and Laurel) -Bands do not 'play at the Music Box. Instead, the DJ is the main attraction at this dance club. The featured music is house music, a type or dance music which originated in Chi­cago. It is a mixture of old disco hits and new beat music which the DJ mixes together to provide a sound which keeps the crowd moving to the funky beat. Most house clubs feature records made by Chip E, the DJ who is con­sidered the Godfather of Chicago house. music; the Music Box is no exception. 
The decor at the Music Box is not elaborate; No fancy furnish­ings, no blinking lights. Just a big, darkly lit dance floor and an adjoining room to cool off· in when things get too, hot on the floor. Dress is also casual; a t-shirt and jeans will suffice. 

Another thing that makes the Music Box different from other clubs is that it does not serve alcohol. Because of that, the club is is not restricted to an over-21 clicntele, and anyone older than 18 is admitted. The club's capacity is approximately 500. More than anything else, though, going to the Music Box is a great time because the music is loud, the crowd is "live" and the environment is electrifying. 
Those are· the top music clubs in Chicago, but there arc other clubs which feature good local musicians or top national acts on occasion. For the names of these clubs and the dates of major shows in Chicago, it is a good idea to check the Reader, a free weekly newspaper in the city, or the arts section in the Sunday edition of the Chicago Tribune or the Chi­cago Sun-Times. 

Student Life 
Beyond The Five Points 

.or many Notre Dame stu­
F

dents, the city of Chicago 
means drinking. This is not too surprising, because the Second City has bars to suit most any taste. From the rowdiness of Rush 
Street  to  the  trendiness  of  
Limelight,  Chicago's  bars  are  
tough to beat.  

By Sean Nealon 
"ti
.. 
1111 
-~ 
::: 
n 
t:, 
0
:, 
0 
c. 
1111 
::r 

First some directions. To get to Chicago take 80/90 West (the toll road), which eventually becomes 80/94 West. Then take the Chicago Skyway and the Dan Ryan Expressway. Get off the express­way at Lake Shore Drive, which has exits for many of the major streets in the city. 
Scholastic 
Student Life 

In the Rush Street area, one major bar is Muldoon's Saloon, a Notre Dame tradition which is older than many dorms on campus. It is located on a cross street of. Rush, one block south of Division. On a typical Wednesday night, the bar is packed with casually dressed quarter-beer drinkers, most of whom arc under 25. The cover is $3. 
The people arc the main attrac­tion at Muldoon's, because the bar itself is unimpressive. There arc two main floors, each with its own bar, and a beer garden in back. It is almost always impossible to find a scat inside, because there arc only five or six tables. The bar is decorated with mirrors, neon beer signs and posters of famous Chi­cagoans. It is in tcresting to note that the conversation is 111uch louder than the contemporary music played. 
Meeting Domcrs is no coin­cidence at Muldoon's. It is a favor­ite hangout of current students and recent graduuates. Happy hour lasts until 9 p.m. Monday through Friday with 75 cent drafts and $ 1.50 mixed drinks. The bar normally closes at 4 a.m., although it stays open until 5 a.m. on Satur­days. 
··· ...



celluloid in the film "About Last Night," which starred Rob Lowe and Demi Moore. The bar is below street level and its main entrance ­a set of descending basement steps -gives Mother's a distinctively dark, cave-like atmosphere. 
There is no fixed cover at Mother's, and sometimes there is no cover charge at all. There is frequently some type of theme, for example Circus Night fcaturcs balloons, clowns, free peanuts and 
25 cent hot dogs. The music played there is generally trendy pop; Mother's is suggested for mixed groups which enjoy dancing to artists like · Madonna and Frankie Goes to Hollywood. 
It also tends to be a singles' meeting place for urban profes­sionals ranging in age up to mid­thirties. The only specials are Thursday nights when women can buy drinks for 75 cents. 
Butch McGuire's is another popular bar in this area. Located at 20 West Division, it is a welcome 
change. McGuire's is one of the 
· only bars in the area which can truly claim pub status. The antique bar, permanent St. Patrick's day decorations, the varied selection of beers on tap, and the no cover pol­icy all contribute to the bar's pleasant atmosphere. 
As an added bonus, Guincss Stout is available on tap. It is no wonder that McGuire's is said to be the favorite hangout of Cubs broadcaster Harry Caray. 
Perhaps the classiest bar in the Rush area is the Snuggcry. What makes the Snuggery special is its antique atmosphere. The bar is made of marble and mahogany. Stained glass, brass fittings, classic ceiling fans and exotic plants arc everywhere. There are areas for dancing on both the first and second floors of the Snuggery, and a skylight on the second floor highlights the Chicago skyline. 
The patrons at the Snuggcry, on the average, are somewhat older than those at other bars in the 

Student Life 
Shenanigans may be familiar to some ·students, because the bar has been featured in several movies, including Tom Hanks' "Nothing In Common." 
The main attraction is the Cage, area. Attire is mostly semi-formal. The bar rarely has a cover charge before 11 p.m. and on weekends 



the cover is only $2. On Tuesday and Thursday_ nights, women receive free drinks and do not have to pay a cover charge. Snuggery's closes on 4 a.m. every day except Saturday, when the bar stays open until 5 a.m. 
Right next door to Snuggcry's is Bootleggers, where the emphasis is on raucous fun rather than classy reserve. Typical Bootleggers stunts include using a man in a bear suit to lure potential patrons off the street and into the bar. The noisy crowds often make conversation impossible, but most of the patrons are too busy dancing to worry about talking. TV screens replay last seasons Bear's games, but this seems true of all Chicago bars. 



The house speciality is the "screaming orgasm," a nasty mix­ture of Amaretto, Bailey's Irish Cream and vodka. As is the case with many Chicago bars, Bootleggers plays tapes of last year's Bears football games on several televisions in the bar. Going to Bootleggers on weekdays can pay off, because there is no cover until the weekend. 
Another hot spot in the Rush area is Shenanigans, the world famous sports bar. The interior of a regulation size basketball hoop on a narrow hardwood court. Chi­cago sports memorabilia covers the walls and ceilings around two large circular bars. Televisions abound in Shenanigans, so there arc always a multitude of sporting events for patrons to watch. The employees at this sports-crazy bar even wear referee, ruggcr and cheerleader outfits. 


As new bars and nightclubs like the Hard Rock Cafe continue to appear in the River North area of 

the city, the previously exclusive Limelight, 632 N. Dearborn, is becoming less extreme. Arty types and New Wave fashion plates still abound, but the air of affectation has thinned somewhat as a result of the competition. One unique attraction remains the same; the performance · artists posing in display cases around the perime­ters of the club are as bizarre as ever. 
A powerful sound system rocks . the dance floor, while the Dome Room lounge provides a quieter area to relax and drink. For the timid, an upstairs gallery allows vicarious enjoyment without the possibility of being injured by an especially radical New Wave hair­style. 
Limelight is open nightly at 9 until 4 a.m., 5 a.m. on Saturdays. There's a $5 cover 'Monday through Thursday and Sunday, $7 on the weekend. 
. Scholastic 



Student Life 

Alternative Entertainment 
When students arrive in Chi­cago, the first place they usually head for is some kind of watering hole. What few realize is that Chicago offcrs much more than the bars of Rush Street. It is in fact a city that hosts a huge variety of cultural possibilities. 
Topping the list is the newly renovated Chicago Theater. Once a classy music hall, it had been con­verted into a moviehouse special­izing in karate films and was scheduled fo_r demolition until a citizens' group protested and the theater was saved. Now, after extensive construction work, the Chicago Theater has been returned to its old form. Frank Sinatra per­formed at the reopening celebra­tion, and Bill Cosby and · Liza · Minelli are scheduled to appear in the coming weeks. 
Chicago has a thriving theater community. There arc several crit­ically acclaimed musicals and stage productions currently in perfor-
September 25, 1986 
In Chicago 
B\ Phil Coghlan 

A Few Suggestions Of What To Do In Chicago 
Besides Shop And Barhop 
mance. One of them, "Pump Boys and Dinettes," playing at the Apollo Theatre, has been called the world's most cleverly staged country music concert. It started out playing bars, then moved off­Broadway and on to Broadway, where it was nominated for a Tony award. The Apollo is located at 2540 N. Lincoln. 
If a comedy musical is your prefere nee, "Little Shop of Hor­rors" is showing at the Candlelight Dinner Playhouse Center. Based on Richard Corman's weird 1960 movie of· the same name, "Little Shop'_' is the story of A udrcy, a carnivorous plant. Tickets can be purchased to include dinner and the show or the show only; the Playhouse is at 5620 S. Harlem, in S11mmit. 
For those who like their humor with a political bent, Doonesbury's Garry Trudeau has written the musical satire "Rap Mast~r Ron­nie, A Partisan Revue," which plays at the Theatre Building through Sept. 28. "If you've been fcciing uncomfortable about being a social democrat type lately, 'Rap Master' may be the antidote you need," says The Reader, a weekly Chicago newspaper. The Theatre Building is at 1225 W. Belmont. 
Chicago is also home to Second City, one of the nation's premier comedy clubs. The improvisational comedy troupe where . John Belushi, John Candy and Gilda. Radner developed their skills is now featuring its 67th revue, "How Green Were My Morals." A backup troupe performs "The Best of Second City" Mondays at 9 p.m. Special improvisational sessions at 11 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and at 1 a.m. Saturday are free. 
If you love Bach and Mozart and cannot find enough in South Bend, . Chicago has what you want. Thanks to great facilities and strong patronage, Chicago has a variety of offerings in classical music, opera and dance. The Chi­cago Chamber Orchestra season is 
Continued on page 14 
. 11 

reen Were My Values" City ,28 9 p.m. ,27 8:30 and 11 p.m. 
Lane, Oakbrook Terrace 25,26 8:30 p.m. 27, 6 and 9 p.m. 
SPORTS: 

heatre ct. 1 7:30 p.m. 
ter Ronnie, A Partisan Revue" uilding 6 8:30 p.m. 
7 and 10 p.m. 

Boys and Dinettes" Theatre Center 25-30 8 p.m. 
COMEDY: 
In The Rain" 
o Theatre 0, Oct. 1 8 p.m. 
or Godot" epertore 8 p.m. 

andard of Living" DANCE: eater ov. 2 8 p.m. 
CONCF.RTS: 

"Angels Fall" Withe Northlight Theater CablI Sept. 25-26, 8 p.m. Sept. Sept. 27, 8:45 p.m. 
Tai!C
Oct. 1, 1 p.m. 
Sapp~ "Night Must Fall" Cabar Theater Building Sept. open run, 8 p.m. 
Dr. Jc "Little Shop of Horrors" Biddy Candlelight Dinner Playhouse Sept. Sept. 25,26 8:30 p.m. 
TheFSept. 27, 5 and 10 p,m. 
West· Sept.·
Cubs vs. New York Mets Wrigley Field Big Ti Sept. 25 1:20 B.L.U 
Sept.'
White Sox vs. Twins Comiskey Park Fairpc Sept. 26 7 p.m., 27 6 p.m. Holste 
Sept.:
White Sox vs. Mariners Comiskey Park TheB Sept. 29 -Oct. 1 7 p.m. Biddy 
Sept. 
Rodney Dangerfield Cro-M
Arie Crown Theatre 
CabarSept. 26 7:30 p.m. 
·Sept. 
Orlando Reyes, Comedy Host MinistWho's on First Rivie~Sept. 24-27 9:00 p.m. 
Sept.' Cl ,udgate-Taipei Contemporary Dance Theater Centre East Sept. 0'f'E:C;f;.:,5ffC:'::hr:-·::::·J?.·/''·c.·:·::.rr:·::.:..:;. 

--~-.9=-==-=E.,ia~nap_ol-'---is_---=-~-9____;:___ut_h_B-:-----e_nd_ 
mt Warning :et Metro 25 
:a tors 
1ires (special guest) ·et Metro 26 
>hn Mulligan's 26 
CONCERTS:

eelies End 26 
ime Sarah .E.S. 26,27 8:30 p.m. 
>rt Convention 
dn's EXHIBITS: 
27 
luesbusters Mulligan's 27 [ags SPORTS:
t:Metro lry 
·a 28 
"A Chorus Line" Beef & Boards Dinner Theatre Sept. 25 -Oct. 1 
"Agnes of God" Repertory Theatre Sept. 25-28 8 p.m. 
"Huck and Jim" Indianapolis Civic Theatre Sept. 26-28 
Jim Snidero & Phil DeGreg: Jazz The Place to Start Sept. 26, 27 9:30 p.m. 
Sherban Lupu & Aileen James: Piano Indianapolis Museum of Art Sept. 28 3 p.m. 
Afric;m Arts Atrium Art Gallery Sept. 25 -Oct.I 5:30-8:30 p.m. 
Indianapolis Colts vs. New York Jets Hoosier Dome Sept. 28 3 p.m. 
WERA Motorcycles-Road Racing Indianapolis Raceway Park Sept. 27-28 "New Art of The American West" 
Midwest Museum of Art, Elkhart 
Sept. 25 7:30 p.m. 
"All About Eve" IUSB Little Theatre/Recital Hall Sept. 27 8:00 p.m. $1.75 
"Carmen" 
IUSB Little Theatre/Recital Hall Sept. 28 5 & 8 p.m. $1. 75 

COMEDY: George Carlin Morris Civic Auditorium Sept. 26 
CONCERTS: Willie Nelson and Family Holiday Star Theater Sept. 25-28 8 p.m. 
TICKETS TO MANY OF THE ABOVE EVENTS MAY BE PURCHASED THROUGH: 

Student Life 



in full swing at Preston Bradley Hall, located in the Chicago Public Library Cultural Center, 78 E. Washington. Sept. 28 the Chamber Orchestra will present a program of Bach selections. 
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra has a long, colorful his­tory; they opened their 96th season last week and will continue through Sept. 27 with a program featuring Beethoven's Ninth Sym­phony. Beethoven composed this symphony near the end cif his life, when he was almost completely deaf, and it is considered by many to be his finest work. The Orches­tra Hall, where the CSO is per­forming this series of concerts, is at 220 S. Michigan. 

;;, 
~ 

E:: 
~ 
0 

g 
~ 
One of the great things about 
Chicago's classical music scene is 
that it attracts some of the biggest 
names in the world. Renowned 
soloists and conductors make guest 
appearances throughout the season with various Chicago groups, and most touring ensembles include the Windy City on their itineraries. This month's star attraction will be a performance by rising young cellist Yo-Yo Ma at the Edman Chapel, Wheaton College, on Sept. 
26. That same night, the Sistine Chapel Choir will be at the Chi­cago Auditorium at the corner of Michigan and Congress. 
If you appreciate good opera, it's very likely that you've heard of the Lyric Opera of Chicago. If you've never seen an opera before, this fine opc_ra company is a good place to get your first taste. Their season opened last weekend with 
an ideal "first opera," Mozart's 
"The Magic. Flute." Lively and cntcrtamrng, with an casy-to­follow plot, "The Magic Flute" is highlighted by a soprano solo writ­ten in an incredibly high register. This opera will be performed again on Sept. 26 and 29. On the 27th and 30th, the company will prcscn t Puccini's "La Boheme," the classic melodrama of the strug­gling artist and his ill-fatcd romance. The Lyric Opera per­forms at the Civic Opera House, 20 N. Wacker. 

The Chicago City Ballet opens its season this Sunday, Sept. 28, with a performance of Glazounov's "Pas de Dix" and Gershwin's "Who Cares?" at the Werner Auditorium of Concordia College, in River Forest. Of spe­cial interest to sports fans is the second performance, in which Chicago Bears wide receiver Willie Gault makes his professional ballet debut playing the role of a bear. Willie's performance with the company can be seen at the Francis W. Parker School, 330 W. Webster, on September 29. Proceeds from this show go to 
14 
Scholastic· 
Student Life 

benefit the Better Boys Founda­tion. Chicago's d:rncc rcpctoirc docs not just stop at ballet; the city 
is  also  the  home  of several  con­ 
temporary  dance  groups.  For  
example,  this  week  the  

Cloudgatc-Taipaci Contemporary Dance Theatre will present a per­formance of Chinese-inspired dances of various origins. The Joseph Holmes Dance Theatre is another contemporary troupe active in Chicago. 
The thing to remember when visiting Chicago for dance, opera, comedy or music is that besides the regular season schedules of the local groups, there is always a large number of touring groups in town. If you arc going to Chicago, consult Chicago magazine or a current Chicago newspaper. for the most up-to-date information on cultural entertainment in Chicago. 
Perhaps the most forgotten places when students visit Chicago arc its museums and exhibition halls. It is unfortunate because Chicago has some of the best around. 
The Art Institute of Chicago, located on Michigan at Adams, is recognized around the world for its extensive collections. The col­lections of works by the 19th cen­tury French 'Impressionists is one o\ the largest in the world. Their modern collections as well arc out­standing. The Art Institute often 
hosts travelling exhibits, for exam­ple, the "1986 Chicago Chapter of the American Institute· of Archi­tects Awards Exhibition" will be on display through Nov.2. Ongo­ing exhibits include: "Theodore Gericault: Romantic Realist of the 19th Century," "Early French Lithography" and "Night Thoughts: Dark Manner Prints fro:m the Permancnt Collection." 
September 25, 1986 
If you would rather push but­tons and sec things move, then The Museum of Science and Industry is the place to go. Nick­named a "u-scc-em," this museum puts an emphasis on spectator par­ticipation. Located on Lake Shore and 57th, everything you ever wanted to know about science and industry is here under one roof. They even have an authentic Ger­man U-Boat from World War 11. One of the biggest draws at this museum is the "Henry Crown Space Center," featuring NASA artifacts, hands-on displays and a film, "The Dream is Alive," which takes the audience through a day in space with the astronauts. 

The John G. Shedd Aquarium is the world's largest indoor aquarium. It has well over 7,000 aquatic animals in recreations of their natural habitats and is well worth the visit. Currently, the "River Otter Exhibit" can be seen there. The aquarium is located at 1200 S. Lake Shore. 
Next to the Aquarium is the Field Museum of Natural History. As the name implies, this museum houses specimens that relate to the natural . sciences: anthropology, botany, geology and zoology. In fact it houses literally millions of these specimens. Featured this fall is a photography exhibit of the great mountain ranges of America and Asia entitled "Mountain Light: The Photography of Galen Rowell." An ongoing exhibit, "Gems," conta ins more than 500 pieces from the museum's original gem collection. 
A zoo is traditionally an enter­taining place to spend an after­noon, and Chicago has two notable ones. The Brookfield Zoo is the larger of the two, and houses an extensive variety of animals, from apes to zebras. One major attrac­tion at Brookfield is the dolphin show, featuring Ncmo, Windy, Shana, Stormy and Angie the dol­phins. The Brookfield Zoo is at First and 31st in Brookfield. Lin­coln Park Zoo is more limited in size and scope but has the advan­tage of a petting area, for those who like "hands on" experience. It is located off Lake Shore at Full­erton. 
The first planetarium, in the United States, the Adler Plane­tarium, is one of the best of its kind. Showing until Nov. 30 is "Stonehenge to Space: A Telescope Sky Show." This exhibit follows the human quest for understanding from prehistory into the future. There is also a full schedule of lec­tures on various topics planned for thr fall season. The planetarium is located at 1300 S. Lake Shore. 
In short, Chicago is a great place to spend a fcw hours, or a whole weekend. Whether you go to sec a specific event, or to wander around and gaze at the incredible 
architecture, the point is that you should not let your tour of the Second City begin and end at Rush Street. 
15 · 




Qi· . •..... 
Or
'ti> .· 
xif1!ifl~~ 
News 

A Matter Of Responsibility 
By Frank Lipo RASTA Seeks To Reorganize Itself And To Regain University Recognition 
After A Wayward Reggae Concert 
The Ethiopian reggae band 
Dalio! stepped onstagc at 
Stepan Center last May 3 in 

front of a predominantly non­
student crowd. The band's appear­
ance on campus was its second in 
two years; both shows were spon­
sored by the student group Rally 
Against Starvation as a way to 
raise awareness of African culture 
and raise money for hunger relief 
and long~tcrm development of 
agriculture in Africa. 
The event did more than raise $2,400 for African development, though. It resulted in the with­drawal of RAST A's status as an official University student organi­zation and in a permanent ban of Dalio! from campus. 
"I don't think that RASTA set out to have an evening of reggae music, drugs and alcohol. In fact, I know they didn't," said Joni Neal, director of student act1v1t1es. Instead, according to Neal, the concert was just one more in a series of events which showed the disorganization of the student group. 
The former members of RASTA admit that the group needs better organization, but disagree that banning the group is the best solution. Therefore former RASTA members ar; appealing the decision to Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. They say the deci­sion was an overly harsh one, given RASTA's past history of fund raising and consciousness­raising. 
"(The University) should have taken action against individuals and not against the group," said t\.fargarct Key, who would be a RAST A co-leader. "Also, the decision didn't take into account our past record," she said. Key said the organization organized 23 C\'Cnts last year, including guest speakers, coffee nights, Masses, folk concerts, movies, rallies and a0 African food and slide show. 
In two years RAST A raised approximately $6,500 toward African famine relief and African development. RASTA's final con­cert raised $2,400, which was sent to CODEL Inc., for development work in Sierra Leone. 

Three Notre Dame students formed RASTA almost two years ago in reaction to the wave of public support for victims of fam­ine in Ethiopia and neighboring African countries. But according to Neal, the humanitarian cfforts of the group have gone hand-in­hand with organizational prob­lems. 
Neal said she has had two major problems with the RASTA: lack of organization in all facets of the group's Operations and the poor choice of certain events. The problems at the concert, although serious violations of University policy, were just the tip of the ice­berg, according to Neal. "That was the kind of spark that set (the ban) into motion," said Neal. 
Neal said that although the goals of the organization were admirable, its past disorganization greatly hampered its effectivcness. "(RASTA) left here in May, still not having signed any registration forms to be a club this year," said Neal, despite the much publicized requirement that each student organization do so each spring. RAST A left bills unpaid each summer, said Neal. Although they were eventually paid, this showed RAST A financial disorganization, she added. 
RASTA has not properly han­dled other events besides the 
concert, Neal said. One example was a RAST A Java night last spring in the newly renovated basement of LaFortune Student Center, she said. Varnish and paint was damaged during · the fun­draiscr and RAST A initially refused to pay for the repair costs, she said. The organization eventu­ally paid $50 and the balance of the $180 worth of repairs was taken from RAST A's budget allo­cation, Neal said. 
"Organizationally, we arc looser than the norm," said Scan Evers, who would be co-leader of 
September 25, 1986 

News 




RASTA. "We've got to get the organization more structured," he added. He said mcm bcrs of the group admit that work is needed if the organization wishes to win the , appeal and regain status as a stu­dent organization. But, Evers added, the fund raising and cul­tural education which are the backbone of the group arc impor­tant. "We also have a lot of posi­tive aspects about ourselves that seem to get overlooked," he said. 
Evers said RASTA always has paid its bills. He said that while it is true that some bills were left unpaid during the summer, those bills had been invoiced after the spring semester had ended. The primary reason that the group refused to pay for damages caused at the RASTA Java night was the high cost of repairs, he said. The group's opm10n was that the repairs should have cost less. 
If RASTA wins its appeal, the group would attempt to sponsor events of more general interest and would try to work more closely with other student organi­zations that have similar goals said 
Evers. 
But the events of the Daito! 
· reggae concert may make that impossible. "I have real problems with what actually occurred last 

. May," said Neal. "They did not live up to their responsibilities as a sponsoring organization," she added. 
Neal said RASTA has lacked the structure of other student groups, a disorganization . which allowed the events of the May 3 concert to occur. "They're a very loosely structured group," said Neal. The claims of RASTA members that they were too busy during the .concert to realize the problems that were occurring are ridiculous, according to Neal. 
"You don't (become too busy to control the crowd) as a responsible student organization," said Neal. 
18 
She said other campus organiza­tions that run large events, such as the classes and student govern­ment, arc able to control the crowds at their events. 
Communication between RAST A me m bcrs and Security was also partially to blame, said Neal. Although at least one RASTA member said she asked Security to inform her of any problems, RASTA members should have approached Security during the concert and asked if there was any way they could have helped, 
according to Neal. 

"Security, on the other hand, from the tone of the report, should have found one of the members of RAST A and said -'We have a real problcm,'" Neal said. 
"It wasn't a case where a few people were creating a big stink," she said, citing a confidential Security report on the incident. The report mentioned the confis­cation of several cases of beer, wine, hard liquor and several marijuana pipes. Members of the crowd were drinking alcoholic beverages and using illegal drugs, according to the report. Members of the band Dallol were smoking marijuana and drinking backstage, the report said. No student names were cited in the report, although names of non-students were. 
Less than one-third of those in attendance at the May 3 concert were students, according to Neal. She said this non-student crowd was mainly responsible for bring­ing in the alcohol and drugs which led to the joint decision of the Office of Student Activities and the Office of Student Affairs. "Maybe they (RASTA) need to look at the way it was publicized," said Neal. If ever reinstated, the group should seek to run events more in tune with the student body, Neal added. 
"I am not at all in favor that they (RASTA) be recognized for the current academic year," said Neal. The goals of RASTA are worthy, said Neal, but each stu­dent organization, whether it be one with humanitarian goals or otherwise, must have a certain businesslike structure and conduct. "There arc g uidclines everyone should follow," she said. "I guess what I'm asking RASTA to do is conform a little." 
Neal said she felt the best thing for RASTA to do would be to dev­ise an organizational . plan and a pl::in of attack to reorganize the group. She recommended that the group could then come back stronger next year, perhaps becoming incorporated into the Center for Social Concerns. She said in the interim period students could devote their energies to groups such as the Charity Ball and the Overseas Development 
Network. 
"I think what they need is more continuity from year to year," said Neal. "If they want to appeal, they're going to have to look at their structure." 
Scholastic 


Rapid Ear Movement 
Reviews Of The Latest Tracks From R.E.M, The Feelies And Squirrel Bait 
By Tim Adams 

Collcgc music~ like fine din­ing hall food, comes in all shapes and colors. But the one common denominator for most collegiate favorites is that they arc the bands commercial radio won't play. What would we do without them? Here's a look at recent releases by three college bands, who range from big-time popular (R. E. M.) to cultish (Squirrel Bait). All three arc fine records, and all will find their biggest audiences on college campuses. 
R.E.M.: Lifes Rich Pageant ­Definitely the hot disc of the moment. While it isn't nearly R.E.M.'s best record, it's a shade more sunny and listcnable than Fables of the Reconstruction. Credit should be given to producer Don Gehman for cleaning up Michael Stipc's mushy vocals, or at least making him enunciate more clearly. Musically, the band's nei­ther here nor there; they just recy­cle their sound as they've been doing since Chronic Town, throw­ing in the forced, artificial song "Underneath the Bunker" just to keep everything from getting too familiar. Stipcs's words come out pretty much intact, though that doesn't exactly signal any great revelations --the lyrics to "Radio Free Europe" have been out for three years and people still don't 
September 25, 1986 
have a clue as to what it's about. The best song on the album is "Begin the Begin," in which Pete Buck's protopunk-ish chords lead the band through a vague call-to­arms to America. Angrier in tone than any R.E.M. song before, "Begin" seems to address this country's basic inequality and our tacit acceptance of it: Life's rich demand/ Creates supply in the hand of the powers/ The only vote that matters. 
R. E.M. has touched upon these subjects before: equality, in the song "Little America" with the 1 inc "The biggest wagon is the empty wagon," nostalgia in "Cata­pult," ("We were little boys/ We were little girls/ ... Did we miss anything?"). "Begin the Begin" score because it's relatively direct and it rocks. 
" 

Fall on Me," a good choice for a single, pulls some emotional strings, yet its ultimate effect is to leave the listener feeling some­thing genuine. It's not clear what that something is, and that's one reason it's a bad idea to analyze R.E.M.'s lyrics too often. Confus-· ing group, good album. 
The Feelies: The Good Earth -As of right now, I like this album more than R.E.M.'s. When listen­ing to this, one envisions five peo­ple getting up on a postage-stamp stage in a puny bar, putting on their instruments, and just getting into the music --strumming away acoustic-based tunes so airy and pleasant that you forget the sim­plicity of the stuff. Not a whole lot of room for heavy words or meaning --who needs it? This. is great low-key music that will have to win fans over by quality alone, not hype. 
Squirrel Bait: "Kid Dynamite" b/w "Slake Train Coming" -Five teenagers from Louisville, Ken­tucky, who seem determined to outlast power rockers Husker Du (whose guitarist, Bob Mould, pro­claimed Squirrel Bait's first EP to be as good as anything they have done) in a battle of roaring guitars. If the final tally were taken now, this band would have the edge (especially after the relative tame­ness of Hu Du's latest record). Guitarists Brian McMahan and David Grubbs share the sheening, hard-edged sound that typifies this band's aggressive music and has earned them the Husker Du com­parisons, while singer Peter Searcy howls out lyrics in a hoarse voice that recalls the singer of another great Minneapolis band, the Replacements. Despite these measuring sticks, don't expect a Husker Du/Replacements hybrid; this band is as cager as any to avoid those comparisons. What you can expect is a jumpy, tuneful rocker ("Kid Dynamite") and a passionate thrasher on the B-side. 
While R.E.M. and the Feelies will undoubtedly gain more col­lege fans because of their notoriety, Squirrel Bait fits the category of the "college band" best. Why? Because three of the band's members are currently 
enrolled  at  other universities.  
Really, it's tru e.  
19  

t-< 
C: 
!:!. 
o> 
::, 
z
;;;· 
Cl) 
'< 
,.,Cl) 


Defensive tackle Wally Kleine stood with one foot on a chair in the Irish locker room. The .6-9, 274-pound senior had just played an excellent game, recording eight tackles, including one for a four-yard.loss on Michi­gan State's talented running back Lorenzo White. 
But Kleine was not totally pleased with his own effort or that of the Irish defense. "We let up 13 points," he said. "Our goal every game is never to let up more than 10 points. You know, I'm tired of being close. I've been close around here for so damn long, I'm sick of it." · 
20 
But after expressing the frus­trations of three seasons, he demonstrated the new attitude that Head Coach Lou Holtz has instilled in his Notre Dame players. "When we say the fight is back in the Irish, we still mean it," Kleine said. "I think we per­formed well out there today. In certain areas we've got a lot to work on. We're not giving up. I hope you all are not giving up already." 
Nobody was giving up on the Irish during last Saturday's game against Michigan State. But the scenario· was much the same as 
that of Notre Dame's 24-23 loss to Michigan the week before: the Irish scored on their first drive of the afternoon, the opponent missed a field goal on its first drive, then took advantage of Notre Dame mistakes to pull ahead. Notre Dame tried to win it in the final minutes, and just like the Michigan game, with the fans .on the edge of their seats, the Irish came up short. This time it was an interception instead of a missed field goal that marked Notre 
Dame's last gasp. · 
Holtz, his voice straining from a cold, tried to find words for this repeat performance. '•'What more 
Scholastic 
Sports 

can I say?" he asked. "It's disap­pointing, certainly. We knew it wouldn't be easy. Our players did not quit, they did hang in there. 
We did have our chance, but once again we came to the brink, and we came away empty-handed. And that's all that matters." 
The difference between this game and the Michigan game could be felt in the locker room. This time there were no statements on how the Irish had beaten their opponent on the field. "You have to give Michigan State a lot of credit," said Holtz. "They played inspired football, and they played very well." 
Quarterback Steve Bcuerlcin was aware of the differcncc. "Last week we felt we beat Michigan," he said. "Coming out of the lock­er room at the end of a game where you feel lik;c you outplayed the other team, you can hold your head up. And we'll hold our heads up coming out of here too, but it's a little bit harder. 
Beuerlein had a respectable game passing, completing 19 of 36 for 259 yards. But his two inter­ceptions probably left Beuerlein with a Krumm-y feeling in his stomach. The interceptor, Spartan cornerback Todd Krumm, used the first pickoff to give Michigan State the lead at 7-3, and the second to end the Irish comeback attempt. 
Krumm was keying on Bcuer­lcin, as well as the receiver, to make the interceptions. "Notre Dame is known for their quick out routes -we saw that in the Michi­gan game," Krumm said. "The way (Beuerlein) stepped back out of the line I kind of realized what the play was. Same thing with the other interception. If he would have pumped, it would have been six for (Notre Dame). It's not his 
...
., 
>,
., 
s
., 
z 
C 
·;:; ~ 
::, 
..... 


Yarcma wasn't outstanding, but he managed to stay a step ahead of Cedric Figaro and the Irish. 
defense made the adjustment." 
It would be easy to pin the blame ·on Bcuerlcin, a favorite scapegoat of the fans over the last two years. You just have to forget the dropped passes, the blocked punt, the missed field goal and the personal foul which forced the 
Irish offense to begin the second half with a first-and-25 situation. "Beuerlein just didn't have the chance," said Holtz. "If you want to blame it on Beuerlein, if you want to blame it on this guy or that guy, that wouldn't be fair. Let's just say that Notre Dame didn't win, and let it go with that." 
Kleine also realized that the trating. Like (Holtz) also said, you certainly can't point fingers at anybody on the team. If we could have held them to no points, we would have won. If the offense would have scored a little more we would have won." ' 

Of course, the Irish did not just sclf.:-destruct. The Spartans were ranked 20th in the pre-season, and their tailback is a top Reisman Trophy candidate. Notre Dame may have displaced Michigan State in the rankings last week, but the Spartans earned that ranking back Saturday. Michigan State took the No. 19 spot in this week's Associ-· ated Press poll. 
Spartan head coach George 

fault  at all.  It's  a  designed play,  loss goes down against the  team  Perles  centered  his  play-calling  
and  it  just  happened  that  our  not individual players.  "It is frus~  around his main weapon ­Lorenzo  
September 25, 1986  21  


Sports 


Ingram (11 ), White and the Spartans came out on top, but Wilson's Irish gave it everything they had. 

White. In its first offensive series, Michigan State ran 12 plays -10 of them were rushes by White. He did clear the 100-yard mark, some­thing he did not accomplish in the season opener against Arizona State. But it took him 41 carries to gain 147 yards, a 3.6 yard-per­carry average. 
Holtz knew what was coming from the Michigan State offense, and he had prepared his troops accordingly. "I figured they'd give it to him about 32 times," Holtz said. But when told the actual 

1i. number was 41; Holtz said, "That doesn't surprise me. He doesn't even take off his warmups and he's got 15." 
The Irish defense was most fearful of the big play from White. But the defense beared down, and 
22 


White's longest gain was only 12 
yards. In fact, the Irish caught him 
behind the line for 24 yards in 
losses. In the second quarter, for example, Kleine wrapped his huge frame around White on a draw play for a loss of four yards. "He's a hell of a back," Kleine said of White. "We tried to string it out ­he's real good on cutbacks: He had 140 yards, so we didn't do too well. Nobody should ever have that much, as a team." 
But the Irish could not focus on just White. Spartan quarterback Steve Yarema was also a force to be feared. He had breezed through the Arizona State defense the pre­vious week, completing 26 passes on 33 attempts for 258 yards. He demonstrated his sharp-shooting abilities against the Irish with a perfect 40-yard touchdown pass to Mark Ingram at the beginning of the fourth quarter. But for the most part, the home team's passing game was ineffective. Yarema ended the day with just seven completions on 18 passes for 114 yards and one poorly-thrown interception. 
Much of the credit goes to the Irish secondary which, besides containing White, blanketed the Spartan receivers. Cornerbacks Marv Spence and Troy Wilson combined for 16 tackles. And it was Wilson who intercepted Yarema and also broke up one pass. Free safety James Bobb also knocked down two passes, contri­buting to Yarema's poor passing performance. 
Unfortunately the Irish offense still remains a mystery. At times 
Scholastic 
"! 
Sports 

spectacular, at other times slug­gish, a fan needs a strong heart to watch the offcnsc on its roller­coaster drives. This time around, the Irish could not establish the running game, and the result was the near-total abandonment of the wishbone formation. "Our offense didn't have the consistency we like to have to blend the pass and the run," Holtz said. 
Tailback Mark Green ended the day with 13 carries for 30 yards, most of them coming in the first and third quarters when the Irish were trying to move the ball on the ground. But the run gave way to the· pass, which did move the ball downfield, though incon­sistently. 
"You have to set up the run­ning game with the pass, and vice-versa," said the sophomore tailback. "If we started passing well, we could have opened things up and we could have run the ball a lot better." Green ended as Notre Dame's leading receiver with six catches for 53 yards, most of them on screen passes where he could use his outstanding moves in the open field. 
Flanker Tim Brown also ·had a good day receiving, catching five passes for 7 5 yards. He was also the unfortunate recipient of a bone-jarring Dean Altobelli hit in the fourth quarter. 
With the Irish driving, Beuer­lein threw for Brown over the middle. Brown reached for the the slightly high pass, tipping it in the air. As he tried to bring it in, he could . not get out of Altobelli's way. Brown coughed up the foot­ball when Altobelli slammed into him, and the fumble was recovered by Michigan State's John Miller. "I was blank after that," said Brown. "All I remember is tipping the ball. After that, I don't remember any­thing.'" 
September 25, 1986 
At this point the similarities to the Michigan game were once again evident. The Irish defense held, forcing Michigan State to punt. Beuerlei.n fumbled on a second-down play, but the Irish recovered. Anxiety then turned to optimism as the senior quarterback connected with Brown Jor a first down. Then Beuerlein found Willi­ams on the sideline, moving Notre Dame to the Spartan's 31. 
The crowd of 79,859 figured it was over. The Irish fans waited for what never did transpire the previous weekend. Beuerlcin dropped back and saw Milt Jack­son open on the sideline. He fired a pass and it was caught, not by Jackson, but by Krumm. It had happened again. 
Will the problems continue? Notre Dame hosts Purdue this Saturday, and the Irish could undoubtedly use a decisive win. 
But to do so, Notre Dame needs to break out of its rut. 
"I think overall, as a team, we've come a long way, but we've still got a ways to go," said Kleine. "We're coming real close, but we've got ·to get closer. And we've got to work on that." 
The Boilermakers are 1-1 after a season-opening victory against Ball State and a loss to Pittsburgh. The team is led by freshman quar­terback Jeff George, who has done a capable job but has already thrown eight interceptions this season. And there are a lot of holes. Only eight seniors are on the Boilermaker roster, and 13 starters were lost to graduation. 
All things considered, a 

matchup with Purdue in Notre 
Dame Stadium could be just what 
the doctor ordered for the winless · Irish. 



An Operi Letter To Father Hesburgh 
By Peter Walshe 

A Notre Dame Professor Sees A Conflict Between The University's Policies And Its Actions Concerning Divestment From South Africa 
Since May of this year, when the Board of Trustees met to reassess the University's South African investment policy, the situation in that country has deteriorated catastrophically. 
Given the current South Afri­cari situation, I ask the administra­tion -once again -to change this stance and to move Notre Da·mc into a policy of systematic and complete divestment from all cor­porations that continue to function in South Africa. In fact, · Notre Dame's public policy, as articu­lated by the trustees, requires that this be done. As of October 1985, that policy called for an end to apartheid and for negotiations with legitimate black leaders. It

I: also stated that Notre Dame would: 
1: "not invest in any company, lending institution or government (agency) if such an investment would support the policy of apartheid. Such support would include, .but not· be limited to, selling goods or services to the South African police, mili­tary or government." 

The policy was revised earlier this year in the aftermath of the faculty and student refcrenda which approved divestment, as had the Faculty Senate. The new clause added in May read as fol­lows: 
"The Executive Committee and the Administration arc empowered and authorised, after consultation with the Investment Committee, to divest immediately any and all holdings if in their judgement those companies doing business in South Africa: 
a. 
arc not influencing the dis­mantling of the system of apartheid, or 

b. 
should circumstances war­rant this action because of further deterioration with regard to conditions in South Africa. 


Our University's reputation is being damaged by the administration's refusal to imple­ment this policy. Apartheid is not being dismantled and legitimate black leaders are being hounded by a totalitarian racist state. Notre Dame, in conflict with its own declared policy, continues to hold stock in corporations whose pro­ducts arc sold to the South African police, military and government. In spite of the most recent pledge made in May, the University has not divested even though there has been a dramatic deterioration with regard to conditions in South Africa. 
Recently, in an interview with the British Broadcasting Corpora­tion, Dr. David Owen, leader of the Social Democratic Party in Britain, made the point that those institutions and governments that are resisting full scale sanctions and divestment arc guilty of racism. These may sound like harsh words, but they go some way toward explaining why the voices of black political leaders in South Africa and in the United States are not being heard. I some­times wonder what the reaction would be if the twenty-eight mil­lion being oppressed in South Africa were white and their over­lords black. 

The Final Word is an editorial page that gives people on campus an opportunity to express their opinions on a particular subject. The ideas presented here are not necessarily the opinions ofScholastic; they are those of the individual author. Anyone interested in contributing an opinion column may submit it to the Scholastic of/ice, third floor LaFortwze. 
24 
Scholastic 


Watch For Scholastic Every Thursday 






