PROVE
TO YOURSELF
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER when you smoke PHILIP MORRIS I
A. -A -a
t
♦
HERE'S ALL YOU DO!
PHILIP MORRIS
IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING than the brand you’re now smoking!



€
‘ A?





I* • • light up a PHILIP MORRIS
2. ..light up your present brand
Do exactly the tame thing— DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
THEN, ivst take a puff-DON'T INHALE — and »-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. And NOW . . .
NOW YOU KNOW WHY YOU SHOULD BE SMOKING PHILIP MORRIS.I
GAU.
FOR
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure.
And Philip Morris is the ONE cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any other leading brand. NO OTHER CIGARETTE CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.
PHILIP MOR RIS
2
The Scholastic
Bouquets
Editor:
In behalf of the Y.C.S. committee charged with promotion of the recent between semester’s retreat at Gethsemani, we should like to express thanks for the J kind notice of our venture in the Jan. 13 issue of the Scholastic.
We are sure that said notice was of great aid in the successful operation.
Donald Bartnett Jack Maher Alumni Hall
Nice Trick
Editor:
,.-x In Al Laporte’s “She Loves Me Not?” (Feb. 10), how come Dan wishes.he was a “up in Chi” when his Windy City gal is, three paragraphs later, in “some Eastern girls’ seminary eight hundred miles away?” That kind of traveling’s all right for Columbus but this is 1950.
Jim Kingsley Jim Carrig Alumni
Writer Laporte maintains he left out the important explaining sentence tvhen retyping the article.—Editor.
>> -----------------——•------
* Next Week Is Designated National Brotherhood Week
Next week, Feb. 19 to 26, is being celebrated as Brotherhood Week throughout the country. Sponsored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the campaign intends to promote respect for people and human rights.
In a statement prepared for the conference the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, I C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, said:
“A return to peace and harmony among men, like charity, begins at home. The modern world is an unhappy one because too many people, including many Americans, are suffering from man-made economic, racial and religious tensions.
“Although at first thought, removal of these tensions may seem completely quixotic and utopian, let us suppose that ' we Americans were to resolve to reaf-l firm our faith in the philosophy of the Declaration in the light of the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, to become as scrupulous in our duties as we are zealous of our rights, we could do much, this Brotherhood Week of 1950, to help shatter the barriers of international and inter-religious misunderstanding that man in his blindness or perversity has permitted to arise.”
$ Feb. 17, 1950
MEN GET FONDA AND FOND J OF /
Here’s Henry Fonda, star of “Mr. Roberts,” one of many well known men who prefer Arrow shirts. Men like the good looking, cc_nfortable collars (Hank is wearing the widespread PAR), the trim Mitoga fit and the fine, long wearing fabrics in every Arrow shirt.
ARROWshirts & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
The Place to Go
for the Names You Know
GILBERT'S
for 4RROW
College Parade
Unforgivable to Lose
In an article appearing in the Tiger
Rag of Memphis State College, certain “big time colleges” are censored for “operating under the impression that it is an unforgivable sin to be defeated in an athletic event.”
Notre Dame gets off rather easily in the story, however, since the writer censors those teams which refuse to play teams which can’t be beaten.
The article ends with the old quotation, “It’s not whether you win or lose, but how you play the game thaws' im-’ portant.” It might have been added that the best way to play is to play to win— against the best opposition.
Basketball Student Trip
Three hundred students and the ROTC band from Creighton University hired a special train to take them from Omaha to Des Moines, Iowa, for their annual basketball game with Drake University. The migration is an annual affair.
No Doze Is Good Doze
“The idea of taking drugs during exam periods is basically wrong from an educational and physical standpoint,” says Dr. William Fitz Patrick of the Northwestern Student Health Service.
Most students who feel a need for keep-awake drugs are in the wrong place explained Dr. Fitz Patrick. They should be out earning their living instead of trying to cram under the influence of NoDoze or benzedrine.
Concentrated three hour study period is the solution offered by the health service. Studies have proved that the saturation point is reached after three or four hours.
TV vs. Football Receipts
The athletic board at Ohio State University is worrying about television and not the other Big Ten teams at the present. The problem wasn’t serious last season, but the OSU people fear that the future may hold as much trouble for
that University as it has for some other organizations.
Athletic Director Richard C. Larkins said some of the universities on both the East and West coasts have been hurt by television, but he cited Notre Dame and Michigan as teams that draw well in an area that has 50 to 60 thousand TV sets.
‘Fatal 14 th’
In an article listing the 1950 football schedule, the Tulane Hullabaloo, the paper has this to say about next year’s game with the Irish:
“High spot of the schedule, naturally is the fatal 14th of October game with Notre Dame.”
Spartans Finally Top Michigan
The Michigan State News celebrated the Spartan victory over the University of Michigan swimming team with a banner headline. The victory for State was the first in 26 meets with their state rival.
Phillyites Hold Meeting
The Philadelphia Club held a meeting last Thursday night at 7:30 in the Law Building. Plans for the Mardi Gras and Christmas dance returns were discussed, a
Now AvailaMe . .
Winter Issue
of the
JUGGLER

4
The Scholastic
is
i
THE WEEK
by flack McGoldrick
Top of the Week
Indiana winter has finally caught up with us. . . .
Stars and Stripes Forever
Next Wednesday, close to one thousand seniors, attired in caps and gowns, will march like fluttering crows to Washington Hall for the annual Class Day exercises. Wednesday, George Washington will celebrate his 218th birthday, and he may well do a couple of fast turns in his grave trying to figure out the meaning of this ceremony on the Indiana plains, apparently in his honor.
In an attempt to clarify matters, the WEEK’S research staff has come up with some interesting historical data that may help explain things:
The first record of any February 22 exercises hereabouts indicate that in 1844 there was a free day granted. (To give you an idea of how long ago 1844 was, Sorin Hall hadn’t even been built yet.) On this particular- day, Father Sorin, the faculty and students gathered in some spot on the campus for speeches, readings, poems, odes and plays of various kinds.
And it’s just as well. Had the custom been kept up, you can imagine nowadays, the entire senior class out in the quadrangle every morning, tugging at Old Glory in caps and gowns, at $3.75 per cap and gown, per moi-ning. It would be kind of nice for the cap and gown company, though.
Although everyone knows that the class of ’50 (1950, that is) flag will be presented on Wednesday, there are a lot of questions on the subject to which no one seems to know the answers. For instance, what happened to the old flags?; how often do they wear out?; who pays for them?; how much do they cost?
Who knows? For that matter, who cares?
Life at Notre Dame
With all the fuss about George Washington, last week we let Abe Lincoln and St. Valentine’s Day slip by almost unnoticed. In a few history classes, Lincoln got some eulogistic pats on the back, and Valentine’s Day was celebrat
ed mainly in the post office, with a notable mail increase. In keeping with the times, Valentine wires increased in popularity this year. Western Union form No. 227 was the favorite. It read: “At miles between us we can laugh; our hearts entwined by telegraph.” Isn’t that sweet?
Famous Last Words
What can they do to you if you don’t show up on Wednesday morning? . . .
Bottom of the Week
Many are cold, but few are frozen.
EASTER RETREAT
Tentative retreat plans are being considered for the Easter Vacation at Our Lady of Gethsemani Abbey, Ky. The proposed retreat would run from Holy Thursday through Easter Sunday. Transportation would be by bus. All students who are interested in such a trip are requested to get in touch with Bob Brandel, 120 Sorin Hall.
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY
Joe the Jeweler
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
'	This annual affair was carried on for
some 50 years. Then, in 1894, one Samuel T. Murdock, ’86, bought an American flag for the occasion. When February •v 22 rolled around, Mr. Murdock had come lz down with a bad case of the mumps, >« and was unable to appear. In his behalf, a Professor Ewing, also of the class of hi! ’86, presented the flag to the University, with the provision that it was to be flown on all legal holidays.
:	Probably all would have gone well, had
not the Scholastic, even then a disturbing influence, reared its editorial head.
. Scholastic wanted the flag to be flown daily. Mr. Murdock said no; holidays only. The Scholastic scratched its head, i	and made the brilliant suggestion that
jy	the senior class present the school with a
/	flag to be flown every day except holi-
j	days. In 1897, the seniors did buy a flag,
and the Scholastic had won its first
! battle.
History is not clear as to whether or not the seniors raised and lowered the flag daily, or not. If they did, the custom was probably dropped with the advent of the Maintenance Department.
feb. 17, 1950
It’s fun to DANCE
... when you learn the exclusive George Davis way!
PRIVATE STUDIOS ...
For those who wish to learn in strictest privacy, only George Davis offers private studio instruction in addition to our beautiful main ball room.
South Bend Elkhart
New LOW RATES to NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Call 3-8229 for FREE LESSON
NORTHERN INDIANA’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
106 W. Monroe at Michigan 215)6 S. Main Street
Phone 38229 Phone 24333
Entertainment
4UVS EUROPE
ItegfeaHg
FEBRUARY 17
PALAIS ROYALE—The Junior Class plays host tonight to the entire student body at the opening of the Mardi Gras celebration. The semi-formal dance will be held from nine until one.
e. c :.;.e o'a — c'c
:	- t.-cc*	D’ "'C’c*
m e x i c o
4:	W35
RLRSKR
3C sc^oo-e- ac»enture $295
THE LUEST
35 33)	S395
ic ' forenwr Ofgcni20''oc ‘o’ Eau<c'’Or'C Tro»e
SC*, t t »• t s t s■*• .1
SITA, 141 W. Jackson, Chicago, III.
. STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL ASSOCIATION SITA • Santa Barbora Californio • Bookie' I OH
COLFAX (through Feb. 22)—Danny Kaye is up to his old scatterbrained tricks in the technicolor musical, The Inspecter General (Legion of Decency Rating A-l). The only fault with the rather lengthy pic is that it becomes too corny too often. Kaye’s material is not up to his usual standards, either. But, if you’re a Kaye-fan, then this is your meat.
PALACE (through Feb. 22)—Jane Wyman and Dennis Morgan team up in The Lady Takes a Sailor (B) and turn it into a first rate slapstick comedy. It’s pretty silly going part of the way—but, at least, you’re sure to get some good laughs out of it. Alias the Champ (A-2) is the co-attraction.
STATE (through Feb. 18)—Flying Wild and Pride of the Boivery. Where do they get them?
FEBRUARY 18
WASHINGTON HALL—Sand (A-l) is an adaptation of Will James’ book about a horse who runs away from a circus and his ensuing adventures. Mark Stevens and Colleen Gray star in the technicolor film. It’s a pleasant way to spend a few hours.
AVON (through Feb. 21)—Johnny Eager, that taut melodrama of several years back gets a rerunning. Robert Taylor, Lana Turner and Van Heflin are the top players. Heflin gives a stand-out performance as the gangster’s dypso confidant.
FEBRUARY 20
DRILL HALL (through Feb. 21)—For the third annual year the monstrous Mardi Gras carnival gets under way for a two night stand. With booths cramming the Navy barn to the gunnels, with crowds yelling and losing money, with smells and noises galore—this will undoubtedly be one of the highlights of the year. The climax will be the awarding of the two prize cars.
FEBRUARY 22
AVON (through March 3)—Hailed as one of the best war films ever made, Battleground (A-l) comes to South Bend for an extended run. It’s a superior* film, even though Dore Schary’s habit of putting speeches into his productions mar it a bit. Van Johnson, John Hodiak, James Whitmore and George Murphy are among the players.
FEBRUARY 23
COLFAX (through March 1)—Although Malaya boasts a top picked cast (i.e., Spencer Tracy, James Stewart, John Hodiak, Lionel Barrymore, etc.) it is disappointing fare. It gets off to a good start but then disintegrates into a mediocre melodrama.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St, South Bend, Ind.
Notre Dame Students
Come in and see the hundreds of outstanding titles on our shelves. Hundreds of pamphlets, religious greeting cards, outstanding ©O’	o
religious art. Make Aquinas your shopping center in South Bend. We package and mail gift books.
AQUINAS Book Store
110 LaSalle Ave.
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A rare opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to Spanish Student Tours 500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 February 17, 1950 No. 15
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI  News JOHN J. POWERS __________ Assistant News
ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE ___________ Features
JOHN F. MEANEY _____ Sports JACK R. VARLEY _____ Assistant Sports
RICHARD CULLEN _____________ Photography
LEON GARDNER _________________ Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER ____________ Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO  Advertising By EDMOND FOLEY _______________ Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE  Circulation DALE FRANCIS _________ Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, Bob Butler, Don Carbone, Jim Clark, Jay Conlon, Ray Doherty, Dave Driscoll, Charley Dullea, Carl Eilbergcr, Bob Finney, Tom Kelley, Joe Lang, Dan McCarthy, Lou Meece, Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy, Jim O’Brien, George Otott, John Quetsch, George Schwartz, Bill Shidaker, Don Smith, Roger Vorce.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin. Bill Delaney, Jack Economou, Jack Keane. Ted Prahinski, Frank Ronnenberg, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES: Jim Carroll, Jim Kingsley, Larry McDermott, Robert Romaker, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The oriental atmosphere de” picted on this week’s cover comprises one segment of the annual Mardi Gras Carnival which is now in frantic preparation for its Monday and Tuesday night run in the Drill Hall. The anxious-looking, beturbaned young man is in charge of a westernized version of an old oriental parlor game known as Open Sesame. The demure onlookers are only plaster atmosphere, despite any guesses to the contrary.
$ Feb. 17, 1950

From the Editor’s Desk..
The Council Grows Up
With more than half the school year gone by, it seems fairly safe to make a few comments about the Student Council.
Reorganized and revamped under its new constitution, it is doing well. During the year it has sponsored such things as the student trip, dances and, now. the Mardi Gras carnival. All these things were handled almost exclusively by the Student Council, with only a minimum of guidance by the Administration. All of them turned out pretty successfully.
The council members have taken a realistic view of the student government situation here at Notre Dame. Previous Councils have been inclined to think that the student bodv should be given much more power immediately, while the Administration, rightly enough, seems to have believed that the students must prove that they are capable of governing themselves in any degree. The result was a stalemate that prevented any real accomplishment, since both sides maintained their views.
This year, the councilmen have accomplished more things than has any other Council of the last few years. We believe it is due largely to that body’s newly-found attitude. Instead of sitting back and asking for more power, it has begun to effectively use what it has at the present time.
The results of this attitude have been consistently good. Perhaps the biggest place where the Council has lagged is in its office administration. The revision of the Council constitution (to provide for the appointment of an office manager) passed at last Monday’s meeting should clear up the entanglements that many of the campus organizations fell into whenever they had business with the Council.
If the Student Council continues to work in the quiet, efficient wav it has thus far in the vear, we believe that the result will be an ever-increasing handing-over of power by the Administration to the students in the matters of student affairs. The students only have to prove they are capable.	.
A Job for You
Just about every week in the year is designated as “National Some-thing-or-Other Week.” If it’s not babies, it’s cherry pies. There’s one week, however, that doesn’t exist primarily for money-making, promotional purposes.
February 19 to 26 is National Brotherhood Week, a special time set aside for all Americans to take inventory. At Notre Dame we have a special obligation to check up on our “brotherhood quotient.” Have we been faithful to our Christian principles in our relationships with other people? Have race, creed, color, and national heritage become obstacles in our judgments of others?
Prejudice is fondled by ignorance, misunderstanding and fear. It destroys the ideal of peace and democracy by clinging to economic standards that subject groups of people because of their skin-color religion or ancestors’ birthplace.
Sermons on brotherly love and high-powered propaganda for antiprejudice in our nation usually fail to reach the individual as an individual. The problem of brotherhood is a personal problem, and it’s your job to find out where you stand.
7
let gone om TUSK and fHUMTbe the judge/
There’s never . a rough puff in a Lucky .
Became tackyBuike Meant Fine 'fekaeca/
ROBERT MONTGOMERY says:
''Luckies are really smooth.
That’s why I smoke them regularly!”
You’re so right, Bob... you can always count on Luckies to give you the real smoothness and deep-down smoking enjoyment you want.
And, smokers, you can depend on Luckies because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco—ripe, light, naturally mild tobacco that’s always smooth. Yes, let your own taste and throat be the judge. Find out for yourself—get a carton of Luckies today!
COrR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
Lucky Strike. ..so round, so firm, so fully packed-------------------so free and easy on the draw
8
The Scholastic

The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 15
FEBRUARY 17, 1950
Mardi Gras Fever Grips ND Students
Miss Dora Brooks Smoot
Miss Rosemary Stapleton
N'Orleans Flavor Permeates Palais Royale At Tonight's Junior Class You-AII Dance
Tonight at nine o’clock two young gentlemen in gloves of white and faces of black will tip their hats and swing- open the doors of the Palais Royale to ignite the splashy glamour and gay abandon of Mardi Gras time. From cars and cabs will stream bow ties and formals, arrow shirts and soft fur capes, into a fourwalled world of Southern hospitality where Virginians and men from Louisiana show the Yankee how to live through the purple somber of Lent on the memory of one evening.
In a motif as colorful as it is Southern, the Palais ballroom will feature a tremendous paddlewheeler reminiscent of Mississippi river days, complete with cotton bales, mammies and even the perennial Colonel. The 16-foot Natchez will bask against a shoreline of blue floodlights, underneath a phosphorized Southern moon. Hundreds of balloons in
scribed “Welcome to the Mardi Gras
and attached to the tables will dance against the ceiling, and gaudily colored crepe-paper will complete the background of a Mardi Gras evening. Dress is to be semi-formal, les belles wearing swishing formals and the Notre Dame rakes wearing newly-pressed Sunday suits with a tie as loud as any true Southerner in New Orleans at festival time. No corsage" is the ruling of the Student Council, so the ND man won’t have to borrow on next month’s allowance to finance one evening. Any girl wearing a corsage will be asked to remove it.
Co-Chairmen Frank Crovo and Jim Hennessy will escort their dates in a grand march participated in by the whole Confederate throng and climaxed with the crowning of the Misses as Queens of Mardi Gras time. Miss Rosemary Stapleton, who is the date of
(Continued on Page 16)
Annual Carnival Runs For Two-Night Stand
As you pass through the main entrance of the Drill Hall next Monday or Tuesday night for the third annual Mardi Gras Carnival, you wil see a display not unlike that of an automobile showroom. There, amid potted palms and smiling committeemen, will stand two gleaming, glorified flivvers.
The sedan which looks like a convertible, a two-tone Buick Riviera, will soon belong to the holder of the winning ticket in the Student Council—NFCCS charity Drive. The soft-colored Chevrolet is a convertible. The student who sells that ticket gets the Chewy.
At 11:30 Tuesday evening the drawing will take place: Before that, the crowd will leara which student wins the autographed football for selling more tickets than anyone else. The next nine runners-up, who receive N D blankets,-will also be announced.
Students will not be eligible to win the convertible unless their books are returned by the first night of the carnival. However, tickets on the Riviera will be on sale at the carnival.
The car display is only the centerpiece of the carnival setting. Down the center and along the walls will be 22 novelty decorated booths, built and managed by the voluntary labors of members of several campus clubs. Carnival chairman Ed Farrell has charge of operations. Architect of the layout is Ed Noonan, Farrell’s assistant, who devised the floorplan.	'
Dimes for Dollars
First stop is at the cashier’s. There, Blue Circle men will exchange your dimes for dollars—bogus dollars—with which to try your luck at the various wheels and dice games. Such activities have been officially sanctioned.
Foreign Student Relief will receive (Continued on Page 17)
9
Feb. 17, 1950
4
Mr. and Mrs. Fred J. Fisher
Mrs. Fisher Explains Reasons Behind Loan
America is the land of opportunity if young men and women would only realize it and take advantage of the opportunity offered them, according to Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, donor of $1,000,000 to the University of Notre Dame.
Mrs. Fisher, widow of the founder of the Fisher Body Company in Detroit, Mich., provided $250,000 of the $1,000,000 gift to “present an opportunity for the young man who is willing to work” in the form of a revolving student loan fund. The remaining $750,000 is to be used to build a dormitory, which will be known as “The Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial.”
Mrs. Fisher, whose gift resulted in the receipt of hundreds of messages praising the philosophy underlying the gift, pointed out in an interview that she firmly believes in “providing an opportunity for the willing young man to work his way through school, rather than direct subsidization by the government or by the university.”
Asked if the “opportunity philosophy,” a unique project in modern education, was a new idea, Mrs. Fisher replied: “I believe everyone will agree, although it is sometimes forgotten, that the United States was founded as a land of opportunity7. Those who came to America in the early days were not benefited by subsidies as they fought to develop this nation; all they asked was an opportunity. That also was the philosophy of my late and beloved husband, Fred J. Fisher, who was a man who made the most of his opportunities. Rather than being a new idea, the philosophy underlying my gift to Notre Dame is an attempt to re
turn to the principles upon which the United States was founded.”
Mrs. Fisher observed that she has visions of the revolving loan fund, established at Notre Dame by her gift, increasing steadily after the fund has been in operation for several years. She believes that students who are benefited by the Notre Dame fund will, as they repay their own loan to the University, realize the opportunity provided them by the fund and will further contribute to the fund in order to provide the same opportunity to a greater number of students in the future.
Joseph P. Savage, attorney for Mrs. Fisher, reiterated her belief in the “opportunity loan fund” established at Notre Dame.
“I can remember several times while chatting with Mr. Fisher about various topics, he would say: 'You know, Joe, I believe the ideals on which America was founded have been almost disregarded. During my7 life time, all that I, and those men whom I knew, asked was a fair opportunity. The trend now is becoming more and more toward people expecting to receive something for nothing. The sooner we return to the principles of those who founded America and provide more opportunities and fewer subsidies, for our young people, the better off they will be and the country as a whole.’ ”
Mrs. Fisher summed up her gift by saying that she “believes that the University of Notre Dame, which was founded and is administered by the Holy Cross Fathers, bolstered by this philosophy of opportunity, will receive many worthwhile students who are willing to work and who otherwise would be deprived of the Christian education provided by Notre Dame.
Itinerary Announced For Rome Pilgrimage
A new itinerary has been announced for the student pilgrimage to Rome. Lasting 30 days, this tour allows ample time to visit places of interest not among the scheduled stops.
As now planned, cost of the specified tour would not exceed $700. Of this, $355 is the fee for air transportation to and from Europe. The bill covers first-class hotel accommodations, but includes only7 breakfast. Other meals, incidentals, and unscheduled excursions are extra.
The tour is open to all Notre Dame students, faculty7 members, and their wives. However, applications should be made to the Prefect of Religion as soon as possible, because the number of tourists must conform to the seating capacity of the planes. Unmarried students need parental permission to make the trip. An immediate deposit of $100 is required of all.
Trans-Atlantic flight will be via 50-passenger DC-4’s of Federated Airlines, a certified, well-insured firm.
Departing from New York on June 10, the group will fly to London, where two days of free time will permit a side trip to Ireland. Many will journey to Oberammergau for the Passion Play7 during their three free days in Paris.
After stops at Lucerne and Venice, the pilgrims will head for Rome. Highlights there, will be an audience with the Pope, a canonization ceremony, and two more days of liberty.
The tour will stop at Nice, Lourdes, Madrid, Lisbon, and Fatima before returning to Paris for the voyage home on July 9.
This itinerary need not be followed. Those wishing to form their own tour can accompany the group merely on the trans-Atlantic flight to Europe and back.
Wranglers Choose Four
The Wranglers recently reviewed applications for membership and four applicants were admitted to the organization. They were Joseph M. Dukert, junior in the College of Arts and Let- 0 ters; Edward A. Goerner, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters; Robert Owen Murphy, junior in the College of Arts and Letters; and Charles Fahy, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters.
The new members were formally introduced to the society at a banquet held at the Oliver Hotel last Wednesday evening. Mr. O’Malley, the moderator, delivered a paper at the dinner.
10
The Scholastic
' Council Amends By-Laws Affecting Vice-President
Two amendments to the by-laws of the Student Council were carried at the last meeting. Proposed by Ed Farrell, Blue Circle representative, the changes dealt with Sections I and II of Article III.
In Section I, concerning the duties of the President of the Student Council, an J additional task was added to that office, as follows: “He shall appoint one of the Council members to act as manager of the Student Council office.” By the alteration of Section II, the Vice-President was relieved of his post as manager of the Student Council office.

The acceptance of the cheerleaders’ constitution also commanded considerable attention in the evening’s business. Stating that the captain of the cheerleaders acts as spokesman of the squad on all occasions, it also provides that a member may be discharged by the Student Council upon recommendation of a majority of the rest of the squad.
According to the document as ratified, the school mascot shall be an Irish terrier and the Student Council is delegated authority to name said animal.
Following a brief statement by Charles A. Hinchmann, president of the Econ-t. omic Round Table, of their plans to attend a meeting in Carbondale, Ill., the organization was voted $79.20 for purposes of the trip.
Jim Garvin of the NFCCS announced that construction work for* the Mardi Gras would begin Saturday noon in the Drill Hall.
NOTE TO SUBSCRIBERS
All new students and students who have changed their address and who did not receive last week’s issue of the SCHOLASTIC should report their new addresses to the SCHOLASTIC office, Main Building, as soon as possible.
Sixty Students Join ND Speech Workshop
The first meeting of the Speech Workshop was held last Wednesday, in rooms 341 and 345 of the Main Building, opening a semester-long program.
Sponsored by the YCS with the cooperation of the Department of Speech, the Workshop will stress the less academic side of speech instruction. Emphasis will be on enjoying speech development.
Response to the program has been enthusiastic with more than 60 students having enrolled and being divided into three groups. Each meeting lasts approximately one hour and a half.
Says Speech Department head William Eisen, “The workshop is not a substitute for regular speech courses here at the University, but it will help to suppiemen the speech instruction of those who have not had time for speech training.”
Dates for the programs are as follows: Feb. 15, 16, March 1, 2, 29, 30, April 19, 20 and May 3, 4.
Students are invited to audit any
meeting of the workshop. Because of the large number already enrolled, however, it is too late to register. Another workshop is planned for next semester and also under consideration is an advanced session for those who complete this year’s program and will desire further training.
Washington Hall Movies
Washington Hall movie enthusiasts should be well content with the new film schedule. Adventure, comedy, romance, all fill a well prepared slate. The 8:30 rush will be almost eliminated as a result of the new half hour break between the early and late evening shows. The following preview will carry up to the first of April:
Feb. 18; Sand, Cartoon, News; at 2:00, 6:30, 8:30
Feb. 21; Easy Living, This is America, News; at 6:30, 8:40
Feb. 25; Big Steal, This is America, . News; at 2:00, 6:30, 8:35
March 4; Gung a Din, Disney Cartoon, News; at 2:00, 6:30, 9:10
March 11; Special Agent, Sport Reel, News; at 2:00, 6:30, 8:35
March 18; She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, Disney Cartoon, News; at 2:00, 6:30, 8:55
March 25; My Friend Irma, Popular Science, News; at 2:00, 6:30, 9:00
April 1; Roseanna McCoy, Disney Cartoon, News; at 2:00, 6:30, 8:55
Over 270 Couples Enjoy Student Council Donee
The first Saturday night, informal dance at the Palais was a jam- packed success. Kampus Keglers were co-sponsors of the affair.
I Feb. 17, 1950
11
Fathers T. J. Brennan—Junior and Senior— Confuse Students, Alumni and Secretaries
By JAY CONLON
Way back in 1914, a young redhaired Irishman by the name of Thomas James Brennan journeyed from Peru, Ind., to enter the Holy Cross priesthood at Notre Dame. After spending eight years with Horace, Vergil, and Cicero, and seven with the Odyssey and the Anabasis, he graduated and sailed for Rome to spend nine years studying theology and philosophy at Gregorian University. After a short sojourn at Portland University, he returned to Notre Dame, where as Father Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., he began teaching philosophy.
Another Gaelic Brennan
Nineteen years later another Gaelic Brennan, Thomas Joseph, came from New York City to don the cassock of the Holy Cross. After majoring in philosophy at ND, he studied theology for four- years at Holy Cross College in Washington, D. C. Ordained in 1943 at Sacred Heart Church, he spent several years in graduate work before be
Coach Krause Talks at Marriage Institute
Coach Edward "Moose" Krause gives an informal lecture at the Marriage Institute while Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, Rev. Paul Bailey, and Mr. John Armstrong listen'. 12
ginning to teach.
The two Fathers Thomas J. Brennan first discovered each other on a baseball diamond in 1934 during a close game between the seminarians of Moreau and the priests of Corby. Father T. Joseph Brennan, then a seminarian, was on the mound for Moreau while Father T. James Brennan, “the Casey of Corby Hall,” was in the batter’s box. Although there are no records extant, tradition has it that there was no joy in Corby that night.
In recent years, rife confusion has developed from their similarity of names. With both having the initials “T. J.” and both philosophy professors, it is almost impossible for the neophyte student, the returning ND alumnus, or the football weekend “subway alumnus” who has instructions to “look up Father Brennan,” to tab the right priest.
Mutual Friends
They have developed a huge circle of mutual friends through reading each
others mail and answering the wrong '' ' telephone calls, and can be seen any Sunday afternoon exchanging mail and accumulated telephone messages on the Corby porch.
A confusion about class schedules brought out the one and only distinguishing feature that tags the two Fathers Brennan. A hurried secretaryin the office of the Director of Studies was perplexed when faced with two " Father Thomas J. Brennans, c.s.c., both teaching philosophy, so with tongue in cheek, she knighted Father T. James Brennan from Corby “Senior” and Father T. Joseph Brennan from Alumni, “Junior.”
Although accepting the nom de plume, Father T. James Brennan has declared ex cathedra that he is only 15 minutes older than Father T. Joseph Brennan, * while the lattei- states that the only * mistake is in using minutes as the time unit.
Both Play Handball
While both are handball players, Father- Brennan Senior reputedly holds the ND championship. The Senior Brennan, a close friend of campus athletes, can be found any night attired in a bright blue jersey sweater over in the old gym taking free throws with the basketball squad, or watching the track team. He plays a mean game of golf, and is a fiend for fishing winter or Summer, in warm water or through ice. Despite his gruff exterior, he is a great and close friend of the students.
Father Thomas Joseph Brennan Jr. is sometimes called the “Great Books Brennan.” He is chairman of the Great Books Committee in South Bend which sponsors the program in adult education.
Many Praising Letters
He has received many a letter from friends lauding him for banquet speeches that he didn’t give. Before the ’47 Army game at ND, Father Brennan Senior gave a pep rally talk. Jim Powers, sports editor of the New York Daily News, mentioned the “very excellent” speech given by Father Thomas J. Brennan, philosophy professor. Father Brennan, Jr. was consumed with dismay when he was flooded with laudatory letters from friends in New York complimenting him on his talk.
So, the two Fathers Brennan, Senior in Corby, and Junior in Alumni continue their nominal intimacy, their mutual correspondence and their common press clippings, until someone devises a-way to get them out of it.
The Scholastic
Eight Nationally-Famous Authorities Talk On Soviet Union in Two-Day Symposium
and France just before the Nazis arrived, is a noted authority od backgrounds of Church-State relationships in Europe.
Dr. Timasheff told the Notre Dame,
/
A deeper understanding of the nature and policies of the Soviet Union was achieved during the two-day symposium on Soviet Russia held in the Law Auditorium Feb. 7 and 8.
The symposium, entitled “The Soviet Union: Background, Ideology, Reality,” was sponsored by the Committee on International Relations, which is partially financed by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. Treating many aspects of the complex Soviet regime—from economic plans to terrorist system of thought control—was intended to aid students, faculty members and other educators in forming accurate opinions on world politics today.
The symposium featured addresses and discussions by eight of the nations foremost authorities on various aspects of Soviet Russia. All of the speakers have had first hand experience with the Soviet regime and their methods.
Tuesday discussions were summarized in last week’s Scholastic. Report on the Wednesday session follows.
Five-Year Plan Results
Speaking on the results of Russia’s Five Year Plans at the Notre Dame symposium was Dr. Naum Jasny, former Soviet statistician who now is a member of the Food Research Institute of Stanford University. Dr. Jasny formerly was a member of the Supreme Food Board in Russia.
He observed that the Soviet Union today is expending more than sixty per cent of its income on state investment and armed forces. Dr. Jasny said that today the concentration of financial resources in the hands of the Soviet state is accelerated by sales tax on consumergoods amounting to more than fifty percent of retail prices.
“The taxes are so effective in keeping down private consumption and concentrating financial resources in the hands of the state that, in addition to their main task of providing the large means for new investment and the armed forces, they permit lavish expenditures on education and health services,” he stated.
Dr. Jasny explained that the official Soviet indices exaggerate the expansion of all economic activities to such an extent that they are useless in explaining the developments in Russia to an analyst, who must find his own through the manipulations involved in such statistics.
“Although the industrial output of the USSR has expanded much less than officially claimed, the idea of industrialization as such may be believed to have
been reached,” Dr. Jasny obseiwed. “However, accompanying the industrialization of the country was a two-fold increase in urban population, with its normally higher consumption demands. Added to this, collectivization of peasant farming failed to bring about a substantial increase in agricultural output.”
Expansion of Education Expense
Dr. Jasny ventured that “the only major item, which in a sense can be considered private consumption and yet showed a large expansion during the peace years of the Plan era, was the expense of the state on education, including a lot of propaganda and health seiw-ices.” He pointed out, however, that “while the increase in these expenses was large on a percentage basis, it was too small absolutely to offset the decline in other consumption items.”
Dr. Nicholas Timasheff, of Fordham University, and Rev. Francis Dvomik, of Harvard University, addressed the concluding session of the Symposium on “Church and State in the Soviet Union’’ and “Church and State in Central Europe” respectively. Dr. Timasheff, a native of Russia, formerly compiled systematic data and firsthand observations on the Soviet experiment in government. Father Dvomik, who left Czechoslovakia
Symposium on Russia speakers were: standing I. to r.: Dr. Jasny, Dr. Kertesz, Dr. Dvomik, Dr. Gurian, Dr. Petrov; seated I. to r.; Drs. Timosheff, Karpovitch, Mosely.
gathering that freedom of religion in Soviet Russia is still just a hollow myth. Despite Communist propaganda, no church group now enjoys more than a shaky “tolerance” by the Red government, he said. He discounted the importance of recent Soviet, concessions to the Russian Orthodox Church. The government is still basically anti-religious, he explained, but “for reasons of expediency it is now waging war against religion by means of patient ‘enlightenment’ of the people on the basis of natural and social sciences.”
Even though the Russian Orthodox Church stands at the top of the ladder in the graces of the Soviet regime, Dr. Timasheff emphasized that its condition could not possibly be described as “religious freedom.”
Church and State Compromise
“It is obvious that a compromise has been reached between the Communist government—which -remains atheist— and the Russian Orthodox Church— which has changed nothing of its dogma or rites, but which is compelled to utter statements in line with the government’s foreign policy,” he said. “The government chooses not to interfere too much with religion, though legally it could do so. The situation is precarious. Both par-
(Continued on Page 25)
Feb. 17, 1950
13

MUNICIPAL AUDITO1
<
Glee Club Captures Hearts of Southwest
In 3,300-Mile Trip
By JOHN H. JANOWSKI
5
Youngsters from each of the San Antonio Catholic grade schools gather outside the Municipal Auditorium after listening to the Notre Dame Glee Club's informal morn-
CARMEN
F‘GAP.0 GRAND OPERA “
?	.-K 5 5	1 X % f- ‘vt c V <7
NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB
" '	FFB. 3V ■■ F "	'	- _ ' ■
jan.30. 31.^ GOLDEN glove tournament
FEB.b 2' ^n<iai s: - EXPRESS-NEWS ATHLETIC ASSN.


The Notre Dame Glee Club recently completed their annual between-semes-ter’s concert tour successfully, thus carrying on their attempt to acquaint people all over the United States with the cultural assets of the University.
Thirty-nine singers under the skillful and capable direction of Daniel H. Ped-tke, Dean of the Department of Music, journeyed more than 3,300 miles through eight states and performed before audiences that exceeded 10,000.
This year’s Southwestern trip was no novelty for the singing organization. Ever since its formation in 1915 the Glee Club has been the “travelingest” non-athletic group to represent the University. Last year, for example, they travelled to Florida, Alabama, and Mississippi between semesters, and East to New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio for concerts at Easter time. During this time they sang to more than 20,000 enthusiastic listeners.
This year’s tour began Jan. 26 and was officially over Feb. 6. The entire trip was taken via a chartered Indiana Motor Bus staffed by two very efficient drivers, Bob Wilson and Mac McFarland. The big diesel job was equipped with just about everything, including “jumpseats” in the aisles. This feature made card-playing a little easier and standing in the aisle unnecessary.
With a dinner stop in Joliet, Ill., and the first of many all-night journeys be-
ing concert. That evening the songsters thrilled more than
A group of Glee Gubbers are joined by their director, Daniel Pedtlce, to present an informal songfest at the Elks, St. Louis.
2,000
music lovers.
The sorrowful faces of Richard DeGraff, Richard Basgall, and William Sahm indicate poor cards in a typical bus-ride game.
14
The Scholastic
hind them, the Glee Club gave their first informal (no white tie and tails) concert at St. Mary College, Xavier, Kansas. This was also the first girl’s college concert on the club itinerary. Such stops are usually arranged between major appearances with the group singing a few songs in exchange for a free meal.
First Formal Concert in Kansas
Jan. 27 and 28 were spent in Kansas City, Mo., with the first formal concert at Memorial Hall, Kansas City, Kans., on the first night. Highlighting this program was Jack Powell, junior second tenor, soloing before a home-town audience with Notre Dame We Hail Thee.

Powell’s solo went over so well that he sang the solo at each concert thereafter.
With a “free day” in Kansas City, the majority of ND men went sightseeing, partying, and meeting new friends. Ir was also a good time to rest up for the long ride to Greenville, Miss., with a stop in Little Rock, Ark., overnight.
Greenville, the Queen City of the Delta, heard the Glee Club last year during their Southeastern tour and welcomed them back eagerly. The formal concert was presented Jan. 31 after the group sang over two local radio stations. Immediately after the formal stint, the entire club got a taste of real “Southern Hospitality” at a parish house reception. It was a distinct treat and the singers and their friends renewed acquaintances and exchanged “thank-yous” over refreshments galore.
Departing from Greenville at 5 a.m., Feb. 1, the sleepy-eyed but well-fed group headed West—to Houston, Texas. On this leg of the journey the weather was typically southern with roses and
(Continued on Page 27)
Between a hurried concert schedule in San Antonio, the Notre Dame group visited an historic site, The Alamo. The two pseudo-Texans with Stetsons are Dick DeGraff, followed by Gene "Gusher" Fanning. Jack Labee is partially hidden by Alamo fence.
Maestro Jack Laboe tickles the ivories after an informal concert at St. Mary College in Kansas as his admirers look on.
Singers Jack Powell, Jack Shanley, and Phil Finnegan relaxing after strenuous concert engagement with newly-formed friends.
Feb. 17, 1950
15
Your Future
9: As a Social Worker
By BOB ROMAKER
‘‘Unlimited,” replied Mr. Anton Vleck, executive director of The Children’s Aid Society in Mishawaka when this reporter asked him about job opportunities in social work.
“As you know,” Mr. Vlcek continued, “probably two-thirds of America’s social workers are women, and the field is still wide open for men. There’s a definite shortage of adequately prepared and qualified men in child welfare work, community organization and planning, group work organization, probation and parole, research and s.atistics on slum conditions and housing, veterans administration and international social work.
“International social work is the newest phase of this profession and offers some of the finest opportunities for young men. The turmoil of World War II uprooted thousands of refugees who need guidance, assistance, and resettlement before they can again become useful citizens. Our government realized this need and recently appointed welfare attaches to the various foreign embassies and consulates to study welfare conditions and recommend the kind of aid to be given by us through E. C. A. These men also advise governments on their social problems and obtain scholarships for foreign students to enter the United States for the purpose of studying social work and methods in American universities.
“In addition, the American government needs men for the various commissions and agencies established by the United Nations; men’acquainted with international relief and rehabilitation to work with refugees and displaced persons.
“Besides the government, private agencies are active in international social work too, providing more job opportunities. Catholic Charities, Lutheran organizations, the Quakers, the Bed Cross and Y.M.C.A. are only a few of these.
“Like teaching, it’s not material gain that means the most to the social worker, but the knowledge that he is engaged in a profession which helps other peo-
16
pie; people who can’t help themselves, whether they be little children, aged grandmothers and grandfathers or the sick and lame. In helping these unfortunates, the social worker gets a feeling of personal satisfaction that money alone can never give.
“It’s a comforting feeling for him to know that his efforts are directed toward the achievement of a better democratic society. I stress democratic society because you can’t have social work in a communist country. Why? Because the whole scope, of social work focuses upon the brotherhood of man and upon the essential dignity of the human personality. Social work is concerned with the economic and spiritual welfare of man. It strives to assist him in adjusting to the situations in which he lives and make him realize his potentialities to the utmost.
“Communism on the other hand laughs at this conception of man and rejects any such philosophy. Communism depends for its existence and spread on an environment of chaos and confusion, not an environment in which well-clothed and well-fed men exist with well-integrated personalities in harmony.
“Lest one get the impression that social work is completely devoid of monetary compensation, let me reassure him. For a man with a master’s degree just beginning in the profession, the starting salary is about $3,000, depending on the area in which he works. With a demonstration of skills and experience a man can command between $6,000-$8,000, generally in supervisory or administrative positions.”
Mr. Anton Vlcek was graduated from the University of Chicago with a Master’s degree in Social Science Administration. He has been in social work for 17 years and is currently Executive Director of the Children’s Aid Society, Mishawaka, Ind., a non-sectarian private children’s agency serving dependent and neglected children.
During the war Mr. Vlcek served on General Clay’s staff in Berlin and was Chief of Child Welfare Service in Sicily, Italy and Germany.
Mardi Gras Dance
(Continued from Page 9) Frank Crovo, is from Sturgis, Mich., and a junior at St. Mary’s, and her reigning contemporary is Miss Dora Brooks Smoot, the date of Jim Hennessy. Miss Brooks is a junior at DePauw University and a native of Washington, Ind. Following the ceremony, the Queens will be given the traditional bouquet of roses.
Mardi Gras music will come from the mellow baton of Bob Lewis who, although he hails from Chicago, is certain to develop “Copperhead” leanings for the occasion. Bob will have on hand a ten-piece orchestra plus a vocalist and promises that soft, slow and dreamy music.
From Freshman to Senior, Notre Dame men have been given 2 a.m. grace for the dance, and car- permissions are for the asking. St. Mary’s has granted 1:30 a.m. permissions to the girls who have Mardi Gras dates.
Proceeds from the dance which is under the sponsorship of the Junior Class will go entirely to the Student Charity Fund, and bids are still obtainable from the Student Council representative in each hall.
Door prizes will be awarded to the couples holding lucky bids. Co-chairmen Frank Crovo and Jim Hennessy wish to extend their thanks to the various committees, members of the Junior class and Student Council for their help in planning the dance.—Jay Conlon
Forty Hours Devotions to Open Sunday Morning
Pre-Lenten Forty Hours devotion will begin next Sunday morning at 9 o’clock Mass. Two services will be held on Sunday and Monday evenings. The first service on each of the two nights will begin at 6:45 and will be for the East side of the campus only. The second service will be at 7:15 and will be for the West side of the campus.
The evening services will be held in the Main Church. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., will preach. No sermon will be delivered Tuesday night.
The solemn closing of this three-day devotion will take place at 6:45 on Tuesday evening in the Main Church. There will be only this one service Tuesday evening. Both East and West sides of the campus are expected to attend this one devotion.
Mimeographed sheets outlining the responses will be given out to all students attending the devotions. All students are asked to use them and to participate in the responses.
The Scholastic
The tux-attired Junior Promers line up, with cups in hand, Junior Misses of St. Mary's and their invited ND beaux dance at the world-famous St. Mary's punch bowl: one swig per man. at annual Junior prom across the highway, last Riday night.

Second Marriage Forum Treats ‘Meaning of Love1
At the second Institute on Christian Marriage last night, the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., spoke on the subject “The Meaning of Marriage Is Permanent Love in the Plan of God.” On another aspect of the same subject, the Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., spoke on “The Meaning of Marriage—Permanent Love With Protective Rules and Glorious Ritual.”
This forum marks the second in a series of talks on Christian Marriage to be given this semester. The practice of holding these forums was initiated last semester by the Department of Religion.
Next Thursday night, the third forum will feature Dr. S. L. Egan, M.D., who will speak on “Completing a Man and Woman in Mind, Heart and Flesh.” The other speaker for this meeting will be the Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, c.s.c., who will talk on “Completing a Man and Woman in Christ and the Church.”
These forums are open to graduate students, June and August graduates, married students, and faculty members only. No women are permitted to attend. They are held at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Residence Halls Sponsor Daily Lenten Devotions
Daily adoration during Lent is to be conducted in a new manner this year. Each two weeks two halls will sponsor the devotions.
As usual, adoration will consist of half-hour periods from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Sundays, and holidays. .
The Knights of Columbus will canvass
Feb. 17, 1950
the halls for adorers. The students are to choose any suitable period for adoration during the week assigned to their hall.
More details have been announced in the Religious Bulletin.
Carnival
(Continued from Page 9) $10,000, while the remaining proceeds will constitute a Notre Dame Charity Fund to answer all requests for charity made to the students.
The booth judged to be most original will be awarded $50; the two which return the highest profits will earn prizes of $50 and $25.
Most popular of all may be the refreshment stand. There, you can buy, in addition to the usual “coke” and icecream, cakes made by Vetville wives and meatball sandwiches supplied by the Italian Club.
All profits from the Vets’ booth and cakes -will be retained for their own Maternity Fund.
Hams, cakes, and cigarettes can be won at some booths, but the majority will feature cash prizes.
On both nights, doors will open at 7:30. Although the carnival must close at 11:30 Monday evening, it may remain open even after midnight Tuesday because of the Feb. 22 holiday.
The carnival is open to all, and many townspeople and St. Mary’s girls are expected to be present.
At the east end of the hall, dance music will be provided. After every two numbers, the floor will be cleared and the fee collected.
The Mardi Gras Carnival will climax the whirl of pre-Lenten social events.
—Don Carbone
SMC Junior Prom Has Cinderella Theme
Some 40 couples danced to the music of Gene Hull at the St. Mary’s Junior Prom last Friday night. The formal dance,- themed “Cinderella’s Ball,” was held in the Louis XIV Ballroom from 8:30 to 11:30.
A life-size, decorated, paper Cinderella highlighted the decorations. To round out the theme, a grandfather’s clock glared down at the couples, a mute reminder that all good things come to an end. Silver stars blinked from the lights, giving a Starlight Roof atmosphere to the dance.
Dance Chairman Mary Anne Mouch was identified as Cinderella-for-a-night by a presentation of a corsage in a china slipper.
Hull’s five-man combo played good and danceable music throughout the evening. The inevitable deadline rolled around and the Cinderellas ran off, leaving the Princes Charming to trudge the path back to ND and sign-in lists.
Uticans Hold Banquet
The Utica Club of the Mohawk Valley held its annual banquet on Tuesday, Feb. 7, under the chairmanship of Bernie McMahon. The banquet consisted of a steak dinner at Rosie’s, followed by a short business meeting with president Tom Walsh presiding. Announcement was made at this meeting’ of the success of the club’s Christmas Dance-The group decided to donate the proceeds from an autographed foothall sale to the Student Council at the Mardi Gras.
17
adies of 1
wal:
By
W’
Wives’ Organizatioi Helps Promote
In 1934, the wives of some of the Notre Dame faculty members banded together to form an organization known as the Ladies of Notre Dame. This organization grew out of a tradition of faculty parties and get-togethers that had been extant for at least a decade earlier. Notre Dame was growing in 1934. New faculty members and their wives were moving into town. The need for such an organization as The Ladies was omnipresent.
Seventy-five women totaled the membership of that 1934 group. Today the organization has close to 300 women, including wives of the faculty and administration officers of Notre Dame as well as all the women, such as Librarians, who are listed as faculty members.
The purpose of the Ladies of Notre Dame is primarily to promote the social and cultural welfare of the women connected with the University. Its secondary purpose is to make new faculty wives feel at home by acquainting them with the older residents of the Notre
Dodson, prepare re-
out the social and cul-of the organization, the
Dame Family.
In carrying tural purposes
Committeewomen, Mrs. A. G. Strandhagen and Mrs. Edward freshments for the meeting. The organization, comprised of professors' wives and women who are rated as members of the faculty, meet first Tuesday of every month.
Chit-chatting while drinking tea are Mrs. Bernard B. Finnan, Mrs. Lawrence Baldinger, Mrs. Steven Ronay, Mrs. C. Belmont.
IS
Mrs. Harold Ellithorn, president of the organization, calls the Ladies of Notre Dame to order for their monthly meeting.
The Scholastic
Sixteen Years Old, Anong Its Members
'LL I NS
Ladies of Notre Dame present various worthwhile programs. They hold monthly meetings at the Y.W.C.A. on the first Tuesday of each month for informal social gatherings.
A partial list of the activities already given and planned for the present school year will indicate the nature of their programs. At one of the early meetings last semester, a lecture, movie, and discussion on psychiatry was given to the group by the Citizens of Mental Health. A Family Christmas Party ranked high on the social register for the month of December. In January, Mrs. Kenneth N. Campbell presented a paper on cancer research. Rounding out the semester’s accomplishments of the group were folk music and dancing sessions.
Even more imposing is the program for the coming months. At the April monthly meeting, a two-act play to be given by the University dramatic department has been scheduled. In May, some performers from St. Mary’s will entertain the group. A Spring dance at the Indiana club and a picnic complete the Spring outlook.
The present officers of the organization (Continued on Page 2S)
Mrs. Belmont, Mrs. Thilman and Mrs. Cartier leave a recent meeting of the club.
Mrs. James Dincolo Counts Club Intake
Feb. 17, 1950
Mrs. J. A. McCarthy pours tea while Mrs. William Eisen and Mrs. John Broderick enjoy a period of informal talk after the business of the meeting is completed.
Officers confab: Mrs. Charles Price, Mrs. Harold
Ellithom, Mrs. James Dincolo.
19
ND Debaters Win Invitational Tourney
By defeating the University of Vermont in the final round the Notre Dame debate team won first place in the fourth annual National Invitational Debate Tournament. The tourney was held on Feb. 10 and 11 at Boston University with 26 colleges and universities competing. The Notre Dame team consisting of William Carey and William Dempsey, and under the coaching of Mr. Leonard Sommer of the Speech department, won nine straight debates including a victory over Dartmouth College, a recent winner of the Eastern Seaboard Debate Tournament.
The topic of debate was “Nationalized Basic Industries” and Notre Dame successfully defended the affirmative side against all opponents. When the final score was tabulated it showed that Notre Dame was seventy points ahead of their nearest rival and that their team average for every debate was 29 out of a possible 30 points.
By attaining victory in this tournament Notre Dame won a year’s possession of the Austin J. Freely Trophy. A certificate of merit was also awarded to the Notre Dame debaters for having the best speaking team. Carey and Dempsey were both given gold gavels as the two members of the winning team. Among the other schools attending this tournament were Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Army, Navy, Pennsylvania, Boston, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and McGill University of Canada.
As an anti-climax to their victory Saturday Notre Dame defeated Boston University in an exhibition debate Sunday. This debate was staged in the Boston Public Library before a crowd of 600.
Next weekend at the Eau Claire State Teachers College Notre Dame will try to win third leg of the sweepstake trophy and thus win permanent possession of that trophy. Schools from eight states will compete in this tournament.—Bob Butler.
Evansville College Group Opens Annual Photo Salon
The Evansville College camera club has announced its second annual Salon of Photography. The exhibition will be held March 8 to 15 at Evansville College. All students and faculty members of colleges and universities in Indiana are free to submit photographs for this exhibition.
Only black and white and toned prints will be accepted for considera
20
tion. A limit of four prints a contributor may be entered for one dollar entry fee. Prints must be mounted on standard mounts.
The pictures will be judged on the basis of interest, composition, and technique. The theme of the salon is the presentation of campus interests.
Closing date for all entries is March 20. Further details may be obtained by writing to Salon Committee, Evansville College Camera Club, Evansville College, Evansville, Indiana.
Laporte Succeeds Murray As President of Met Club
The days of the Roaring Twenties may be revived this Monday and Tues-
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
I. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad, AH clues are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers from different students win a carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each.
4- Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimile must accompany each entry.
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue’s publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners will appear in the next issue.
7. All answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges will be final.
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS & WINNERS
A FRANK CAPRA. Honest or without guile is “frank.” A beautiful isle, Capri, with a change of a vowel, gives Capra.
R CROSBY. Crops of the birds are “craws;” and insect that hums is “bee." Run them together and you have CRAWSBEE (CROSBY).
Q SEA, SEE, C. The “Sea” of Green Sea, the “ See” in the phrase “See Bing in his latest Picture,” and the C. of “S. C.”
WINNERS...
JACK WARD
2 Morrissey
w. e. McClinton 324 YMCA, So. Bend
JACK McGINNESS 161 Alumni
GERALD BEGLEY 270 Dillon
MATTHEW ROMANO
270 Dillon
day for a short but hectic reign. It has been rumored that the Met Club plans to bring eight “one-armed bandits” to the Drill Hall for the two-day Mardi Gras, legalizing for those nights at least, a highly profitable but illegitimate trade of years gone by. Though there has been no official confirmation of this move from Club officers, don’t be surprised if those ma- . chines appear in a good cause next ‘i week.
At the last official meeting of the Met Club, Bob Murray handed in his resignation as club president, explaining that he did so with regret but that the work of a Law student must take precedence over all else. Al Laporte, Club Vice-President, succeeds the departing prexy.
RICHARD NOONAN
918 N. Elmer, So. Bend
PETE KOBLASH
438 Howard
T. ROMER
246 Farley
AL ZMIJEWSKI
266 Dillon
JIM PEORSE
313 Lyons*-'
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
De Paul, St. Louis Next for Irish Netters
Bill Fleming clears barrier on way to equaling world’s record for 60-yard low hurdles with a 6.8 clocking in meet with Missouri. Irish downed Tigers 66 1/2 to 47 1/2.
Fleming Ties World Low Hurdle Record; 0 Track Team Dumps Missouri in Home Debut
Featured by Bill Fleming's equalling of the world indoor low hurdle and a hair-haising sweep of the half mile, Notre Dame dumped a highly-favored Missouri team by a wide 66% to 47J/2 score last Saturday.
Unfortunately Fleming’s 60 yard low hurdles time, 6.8 seconds isn’t likely to be accepted as a world record since the timers were not AAU certified, but it Q will go down as the meet, the field house, and the Notre Dame record. During the afternoon six other meet marks were set including a 7.3 second 60 yard high hurdle time by Fleming that equalled the school and fieldhouse standards.
Despite the records in the other events, the day’s biggest thrill came in the half mile when Notre Dame’s Jerry Johnson and John Mohar drove down the home stretch with Gene Madden of Missouri. Johnson won with a sizzling
Feb. 17, 1950
1:57.3 time, and Mohar was second. The Missourian had the tough luck to collapse five yards short of the tape enabling ND’s Joe Riley, right behind him, to take third.
Another event that brought the crowd to their feet was Vai Muscato’s quarter mile triumph. “Muzzy” got off first at the start, dropped back to third for most of the way, and then kicked off the final turn to nip Missouri’s Elmer Klein at the finish. Paul Schwetschenau, by tiring the Missouri runners with a torrid early pace, contributed much to Muscato’s victory.
Record setter Fleming also took the day’s scoring honors from Missouri distance man, Bill McGuire, 10% to 10. Fleming’s points came by reason of his two hurdle triumphs and his tie for third in the high jump. McGuire had an easy
(Continued on Page 25)
ND Battles Demons Tomorrow in Chicago
By JACK KEANE
De Paul’s in-and-out eagers will again try to trip Notre Dame when they tangle with the Irish hoopers tomorrow night in the Chicago Stadium. Having had their previous efforts smothered by a 58-53 count, Coach Meyer’s Men are aiming for vengeance with Moose’s Mates the target.
About the only basketball the Blue Demons have played that would lift any eyebrows since their last encounter with the Irish was a 74-68 upset over highly touted St. John’s in New York’s Garden. Outside this win and an early 70-68 decision over Ohio State (later avenged 70-62), the Windy City Crew has enjoyed at best a mediocre season.
De Paul is expected to be at full strength for tomorrow’s tilt and fans remembering how the Irish staved off a last quarter spurt of the Demons in their January clash with the Irish realize that this will be no pushover for the Notre Dame lads.
Bills Here Next Thursday
Following De Paul’s invasion of Notre Dame will be that of the St. Louis Billi-kins who will close out the Irish home season next Thursday.
Coach Hickey has brought his revamped squad along fast this season as the Irish, who were caught and dumped by a 55-45 count last Feb. 11, can attest to.
Although All-American Easy Ed Macauley left a 6’ 8” gap at center, Coach Hickey seems to have capably filled that gap in the person of Bill Gardiner. Rounding out the first five are Sonnenberg, Lehman, Ossola, and Schmidt. The latter two have been starters in every game since their sophomore days. For second line duty the Billikins have five lettermen and aren’t likely to suffer from lack of depth.
It remains to be seen whether the Billikins will enjoy as much success in the Girder Gardens as they do in Kiel Auditorium in St. Louis where they have been dropped but three times over a two
21
year span. However, if past St. Looie thrillers are any criterion, they will not.
This contest shapes up to be a lulu in view of Notre Danie’s recent 55-45 setback by the invaders and the fact that this game rings down the curtain on the home hardwood appearances of Irishmen Kev O’Shea and John Foley in Notre Dame jerseys. Both, by wartime eligibility rules, have contributed four years of basketball to Notre Dame.
Irish Split Pair
Canning only three field goals the second half, Loyola saw their 27-24 halftime advantage dwindle to a 56-41 decision in favor of the Notre Dame invaders as the Irish copped their eleventh win in 17 starts at the expense of Loyola.
A cold Chicago crew and a hot O’Shea were the second half combination that spelled defeat for the Loyola Lads. John Foley’s adept hook shot and Dan Bagley’s overall play were also determining factors in the Irish win.
In the scoring department O’Shea was top man with 14 while Bagley and Foley garnered ten and nine respectively. On the loser’s side of the box score, Klair-ich was high with 10 while Dawson and Earle each contributed nine to theii"
cause.
Although the Irish and the Loyola quintet had not met in 25 years, Notre Dame continued their mastery over their Western rivals by making it five out of five in the series to date.
It was a case of field goal famine for the Irish, as they experienced first a six and then a ten minute period when they were unable to thread-the-needle once, which ultimately led to a 55-45 defeat by the St. Louis Billikins. This coupled with Strasser, Leslie, Foley and Bagley leaving the game via the foul route provided the margin of victory.
The Irish were never really in the ball game as the Kiel Kids jumped to a fast start and poured it on throughout the first half, walking off the floor with a 29-20 lead under a thunderous ovation.
The Missuri lads continued their waltz in the second half with O’Shea’s everpumping right arm proving to be the only thorn in the Billikin’s side. Notre Dame’s captain netted high honors for the evening, sinking 18, while Gardiner and Ossola, center and forward respectively for St. Louis, hit 13 for the ■winners.
(In Tuesday night’s game with Loyola, the Irish whipped their Chicago rivals to maintain a perfect record against that team. Winning 67 to 60, the Notre Dame netters were sparked by O’Shea, who broke the three-year scoring record and hit his 998th point.)
Interhallers Warm Up
Interhall eagers get in last warmups prior to annual Interhall Championship Tournament, won by Farley last year.
Trackmen Will Face Purdue in Dual Meet
By TED PRAHINSKI
The Purdue track team will be Notre Dame’s guest tomorrow afternoon in the local fieldhouse. The first events will get under way at 1:00.
Both teams will bring one meet winning “streaks” into the contest. Last week, the Boilermakers opened their dual season by dumping Northwestern, 64-50, while Notre Dame was doing the same to Missoori, 67% -47 %.
The West Lafayette, Indiana, school is an unpredictable rival. Last season the Irish trounced them severely in an indoor meet here, but a few weeks later, Purdue beat Notre Dame by a point and a half for the team title at the Illinois Tech Relays. Last Fall in cross-country, the two schools crossed paths in three different meets, each winning one with the third ending in a tie.
Top attraction on the Purdue roster is a mile relay squad that beat Notre Dame two weeks ago while winning at the Michigan State Relays. Ronald Koons, Dave Wagner, Frank Harder and Ronald Meyer, who make up this combo, are all threats in the open quarter mile.
Miler and two miler Bob Rodibaugh is well acquainted with the South Bend runners. Last year’ Notre Dame’s Jim Kittell beat him several times, but only by inches. This fall, however, Rodibaugh turned the tables on Kittell consistently in cross country meets. What’s
more, Kittell won’t be in the best of shape tomorrow. Ben Almaguer should give Rodibaugh a fight in the two mile.
Purdue has come up with a Sophomore hurdler named Bob Mostrovitch, a double winner against Northwestern, but he doesn’t figure to be a match for Bill Fleming who has now moved into the world’s record class.
Harold Omer was the Big Ten 60 yard dash champ last year as a sophomore and that should make him the favorite tomorrow, even though the Notre Dame captain, Bob Smith, beat him in last season’s dual meet.
The high jump is another Boilermaker strong point. Ed Jones, Tom Rice, and John Shafer are all returning lettermen. Among the other outstanding men on the varsity team are half-miler Jim Weisflog and broad jumpers John Blair and Jack Barnes.
Spring Practice Date Set for Irish Nine
Maybe you haven't seen the first robin of the year and we’ll agree that the flowers haven’t begun to bloom, but Spring is just around the corner. It arrives officially on or about,the 23rd of next month. One month earlier Coach Jake Kline will inaugurate the spring- ’ training grind for this season’s diamond hopefuls.
Pitching and catching aspirants have been working out at the fieldhouse since Monday. At the moment it looks like the Irish nine will open the season against Iowa on either the 11th or 12th of April at the Hawkeye bail-park. However, these are just tentative dates.
It’s too early to start making any predictions concerning the success or failure of this year’s club, but it is certain that much will depend upon the performance of some of the boys who have moved up from last year’s freshman team. Dick Giedlin, at first base, is all that remains of last year’s infield. Coach Kline has some experienced men, notably Joe Judge returning to take care of the second base situation, but there’s a large gap in the left side of the infield. Shortstop is the biggest problem. At the moment, Jim Manning, one of the standouts on last year’s freshman nine, looks like -the man most likely to get the nod at this position.
Third base is the unknown quantity. Ernie Zalejski will attempt to make like Jackie Jensen this year and take over guardianship of the hot corner. Although this will be Ernie’s first try at the game on the collegiate level, he’s
(Continued on Page 25)
22
The Scholastic
K of C Plans Annual Benefit Ring Classic

The Bengal Bouts, Notre Dame’s annual contribution to fistiana, will be held in the Old Gym on the nights of March 27, 28, 29, 30, and April 1. This 1950 edition of the 18-year-old classic is once again sponsored by the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, under the joint chairmanship of Dick Cullen and Bob Savage.
Eighty aspirants, including five returning titleholders, have answered Trainer Dominic Napolitano’s call to the squared ring. Of the eight divisions, ranging from 127 lbs. to heavyweight, three will be without defending champions, but “Zip” Roemer (heavyweight), Mike Merrigan (light heavyewight), Ed Smith (157), Vic Roblez (147), and Joe Sterret (137) will be striving to retain their coveted crowns.
Roemer, the grand-daddy of the tournament, will be seeking his fifth consecutive title. The South Bend law student had already notched one middleweight, and two light heavyweight crowns, when he decisioned Gus Cifelli, the grid tackle, for last year’s heavyweight title.
17,371 fistic fans attended the five-day festivals in 1949, with an all-time field house attendance record of 5,271 spectators at the finals. All profits from the Bengals, Northern Indiana’s best boxing card, go to the Holy Cross missionaries in India.—Jack Economou
O'Shea Far Out in Front In Cage Point Race
Captain Kevin O’Shea is way out in front in the race for top scoring honors with sophomore Leroy Leslie a distant second. Dan Bagley and Don Strasser are fighting it out for the third place spot. Strasser has the edge in points scored but Bagley boasts a higher average, having played in one less game.
O’Shea also leads in free throws, making 77 out of 104 charity tosses for a .744 percentages. John Foley, who prior to the St. Louis game had missed on only seven free throw attempts, made only three out of his seven attempts in the Billikin contest to drop him into a tie with O’Shea for percentage honors.
STATISTICS FOR 18 GAMES				
	FG	FT	T	AVG.
O’Shea 			101	77	279	15.5
Leslie 			 82	48	212	11.7
Bagley 			 61	47	169	9.9
Strasser 			 70	32	174	9.7
Foley 			 43	32	118	6.6
Neumayr ...	....;. 32	12	76	5.4
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by fact Maney
Hats Off
Congratulations to Bill Fleming for his blue ribbon performance in the track meet against Missouri. It’s unlikely that Bill’s world record tying effort of 6.8 seconds for the 60 low hurdles will be accepted since the rules require that timers be AAU certified, which the timers of last Saturday’s meet were not. We hope the next time Bill ties a world’s record, or makes one of his own, the AAU boys will be around to give him full credit. And from the way he’s been running lately, that could happen at any time.
Like Kevin O’Shea, Fleming has been troubled in the past by injuries. In the Sugar Bowl meet of 1948, Bill’s performance was sub-par because of these injuries. This year, however, he went down to New Orleans in perfect condition and walked off with first prize, beating such outstanding tracksters as NCAA and AAU title holder Craig Dixon of UCLA and Jim Gehrdes of Fenn State in record breaking time. Also like O’Shea, Fleming is having his greatest year. We’re looking for more records to fall before the timber topper from Providence, Rhode Island graduates this June.
Curtain Going Down
Get out your red pencil, take your calendar and draw a large circle around Feb. 23. That night, the 1949-1950 basketball team makes its farewell appearance on the barn floor. But there are a couple of other reasons for being on hand that night. It will be your last chance to see record-breaker Captain Kevin O’Shea in a Notre Dame uniform. O’Shea’s been playing for Notre Dame so long its kind of hard to believe that next Thursday night will be our last chance to see his fancy dribbling and his patented one-handed push shot.
“Eagle-eyes” John Foley will also be hooking in his left handed shots for the last time for the Fieldhouse audience.
Here’s the other reason for being on hand—St. Louis will be our honored guest. The Irish just didn’t have it when they played the Billikins on the Kiel Auditorium hardwood last Saturday night. They got more shots off than the Bills but the Irish didn’t get many closein shots. Ed Hickey had such a high regard for the Notre Dame team that he
personally scouted them twice and the Notre Dame offense, with the exception of O’Shea, and Strasser, was pretty well bottled up.
Last week we took’a look at the Kentucky record; now let’s take a look at how we stand with St. Louis. Notre Dame won the first six games of the series but the Bills have come back with five straight and a win next Thursday will put them even up. St. Louis seems to be the exception to the rale that the Irish can beat anyone on their home court. Never has a Krause coached Notre Dame quintet beaten a Hickey coached St. Louis five. Never has O’Shea or Foley played on a team that has downed St. Louis. They get their last chance next week.
The crowd has a lot to do with the play of a team—it usually helps the home team and hinders the visitors. The 11,000 fans who jammed Kiel Auditorium weren’t the friendliest the Irish have met; as a matter of fact, they were the most hostile, and it showed up in the play of Notre Dame.
If O’Shea and the team get the kind of support they got in the Kentucky game, we feel quite certain that the team will nlay like they did against the Wildcats. Nothing would please O’Shea, “Moose” Krause and the team more than to close out the home season with a long overdue win against the Bills.
Time Out
Nothing definite as yet on negotiations with the University of Missouri for a home arid home grid pact. . . . North Carolinians are looking forward to a Notre Dame appearance at Chapel Hill in ’51. As per custom, there is no confirmation at this end since Notre Dame follows the policy of not releasing schedules more than a year in advance. However, since this is the Tarheels’ home game, there is a possibility that it might be shifted to Yankee Stadium.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 18—BASKETBALL at DePaul
Feb. 18—TRACK, Purdue, here
Feb. 18—FENCING at Illinois
Feb. 23—BASKETBALL, St. Louis, here
Feb. 17, 1950
23
4
Captain Bob Schlosser (right) and Dob Bosler watch teammates work out prior to taking on Illinois tomorrow at Champaign.
Coach Herb Melton instructs embryo fencers in winning ways. Under Melton, the Irish have compiled a 25-5 won-lost record.
Captain Bob Schlosser Is One Big Reason Why Fencing Holds Own With Minor Sports
By RUDY UNGER
In the spring of 1947, when fencing coach Herb Melton undertook the task of reviving that chivalrous sport after a wartime layoff, the student body didn’t turn any flip-flops. Student response was less than a meager 20 candidates, and their attitude toward the sport was captured in a Scholastic reporter’s commentary on the revival: “Though hardly ever classed as a major sport at any school, fencing, nevertheless, is making a . . . comeback here at Notre Dame, so that it may at least hold its own with the minors after taking a breathing spell during the war years.”
Under the nattily dressed young Melton’s direction, fencing has not only held its own as a minor sport but it has become the minor sport here at Notre Dame, from the viewpoint of both achievement and public attendance.
One of the big reasons foi* Melton’s success is a young, blond Commerce major from Springfield, Ill., who responds to the name of Bob Schlosser, and who so far this year has captained the “parry one, reposte two” boys to four straight victories.
Schlosser, at present, possesses a 10-1 record, losing only to Wesley of Chicago, and along with southpaw Bob Bosler, his sidekick, makes up a one-two sabre team punch that spearheads the Irish ,^quad,.r and is its most potent factor. ■
Schlosser is in the process of earning his fourth letter, which will make him the first Irish fencer to earn more than three. Likewise, he is on his way to com
piling the finest senior sabre record, which will be old stuff to him, since he already owns the all-time Frosh (he was the first Freshman to earn a fencing monogram in the school’s history), Sophomore and Junior sabre records. If he continues in his victorious ways, he may become the top sabre man in Irish history by beating Johnny Gavan’s record .727 percentage.
Bob came from Springfield in the fall of 1946 with a host of letters in basketball, baseball and football. In the latter he received all-State mention, but he had no particular desire to participate in any sport. He had come to earn a degree.
One day, he and five other Freshmen were browsing over a hall bulletin board when they noticed a fencing sign calling for candidates. None of them had ever* seen a match and knew nothing more about the art than the fact that Errol Flynn swung a mean sabre in his buccaneering exploits. The six decided, just for laughs, to try out and see what the carving craft was all about.
Five of the fellows dropped out. Bob, fascinated by the game, stuck, and it was like ham meeting eggs. He clicked from the start, knocking off opponent after opponent; it wasn’t long before the score sheets read: Bouts won—Schlosser, 3-0, Schlosser, 3-0, etc. And as Schlosser clicked, the team also clicked and after an inexperienced 1947 season in which a 4-3 record was compiled, the squad foiled, epeed and sabred its way to 17 victories and two setbacks in 1948-49 to replace
the University of Chicago as the fencing power of the Midwest.
Schlosser attributes his great development to Coach Herb Melton, in the main, and also to his former teammate, the great toiler, Michael DiCicco, who holds Notre Dame’s individual season record of 29 wins and one loss, as well as the all time record of 63 wins and 20 losses.
Melton considers Bob “as the greatest < sabre man Notre Dame has ever had. Bob’s greatness springs from his great sense of timing, good pacing, coolness under fire and a fast wrist.” Melton further commented that “Schlosser is equally adept on offense and defense and, above all, he is a hard worker who constantly strives for perfection.”
Schlosser’s greatest bout came last season against the Illini in a game here at Notre Dame. The squad were tied at g 13-all as Schlosser took on Illinois’ Stuebe in the final and decisive match. Stuebe proceeded to take away the play from Schlosser as he drove to a 3-0 lead. Then Schlosser, cool and calm, recovered and systematically slashed to foui* straight points and then, with a lightning fast parry and reposte, thrust home the bout-winning point and the match winning game in a whirlwind finish that left his opponent stunned, the crowd raving, and Melton with a heart , condition!
Bob is looking forward to the March 24, 25, NCAA Tournament at Wayne University in Detroit. Last year at West Point he, along with Lou Burns and Ralph Dixon, the other representatives, -came down with injuries and were forced to drop from the Tourney.
If Bob and his mates are successful in their Detroit quest and if the squad goes through its remaining six games without defeat, which would give Notre Dame its
24
The Scholastic
first undefeated season since 1936, it would qualify them as undefeated national fencing champs, an accomplishment which is highly possible under Schlosser’s capable leadership.
After graduation, Bob hopes to be accepted by some college as an accounting teacher and, if a fencing coach’s job were thrown in as an added inducement, that would be just fine as far as Bob Schlosser, an all time Notre Dame fencing great, is concerned.
All-Time Record Set In Loyola Contest
Captain Kevin O’Shea, who has already scored more points than any other eager in Notre Dame history, may add the single season record to the three-year record he set last Tuesday night against Loyola. From here on in, every point O’Shea scores breaks his own three-year record.
Due to relaxation of the freshman rule during the war, O’Shea is playing his fourth season 'with the Notre Dame varsity and in that time has scored 998 points. No other Notre Dame eager who was eligible for four seasons has come close to this record, and the three season mark O’Shea broke was 780 points set by John Moir between 1935 and 1938. With five games remaining on the Irish schedule, O’Shea’s scoring total will easily exceed the 1,000 mark.
The four season record should stand for some time as the freshmen rule was reestablished in the Spring of 1947 so that none of the current crop of basketball players will have the opportunity to play four seasons.
Having already broken the three-year record, O’Shea has his sights set on the one-year high of 355 points set in the 1945-1946 season by Leo “Crystal” Klier. The Irish captain must get at least 14 points per game to equal Klier’s record.
O’Shea’s remarkable comeback after all the knee trouble which slowed him down last season could be climaxed by his becoming the first Notre Dame basketball player to hold three seasonal records simultaneously.
Track
(Continued from Page 21) time picking up his ten in the one and two mile races. Jim Kittell did a nice job taking second in the mile despite leg tendon trouble and Con Tetrault, in the third place, also ran a fine race. Ben Almaguer was only about forty yards behind McGuire in the two mile.
John Worthington and Jim Miller both set marks in winning the broad jump and pole vault respectively. Miller
< Feb. 17, 1950
cleared 13 ft. while Worthington sailed 23' 1", the best leap of his life, to get their names into the record books. Ray Espenan pulled in a third in the broad jump.
The mile relay also came into the Irish bag when lead off man Bob Smith, who was second in the 60, gave second leg man Bob Boyle a big lead which he promptly doubled. Jim Bollas and Vai Muscato then coasted in to an easy 3:25.7 victory. Missouri might have been a lot closer in this race and the meet if two of her best quarter milers had not been laid up with pulled muscles they picked up in the heats of the 60 yard dash.
The other Irishman to grab a first place was shotputter John Helwig. Second place went to Bob Toneff, sophomore football tackle, who was trying his hand at shot putting for the first time this season.
Leo McKillip, though overshadowed by Fleming, still gave an excellent performance in taking second in the high hurdles.
Baseball
(Continued from Page 22) been playing on the South Bend ball lots the past few seasons, and the townsfolk claim that he’s a pretty good boy to have around, equally proficient with the stick and glove. In case this experiment doesn’t work out, it will be remembered that Tom Martin, hard-hitting leftfielder on last year’s club, seiwed a hitch at third during his sophomore year and, if things don’t turn out too well, he may once again become an infielder.
Dick Maher and Tom Boland will probably divide the catching chores again this season, and a few of the new men show promise.
The pitching department was probably hardest hit by graduation, but a few experienced flingers will be back for action again this season. Notable among these are Tony Lipton, Mike McGrath, and Jack Hillbrick. In addition to these, Bill Froats, hottest thing on last year’s frosh squad and one of the finest prospects to come along in a coon’s age, will be in there chucking this season for Kline’s crew. Other prospects include Ruckelshaus, Kelley, and Gilson.
The outfield seems to be in better shape than any other department. At present it stacks up with Martin in left, Gillis in center, and Ferryman in right. That is, of course, if Martin is not moved to the infield. If that should happen, Sjoberg, Grieve, and McHale will fight for the vacant position.—Jim Brislin
Symposium
(Continued from Page 13)
ties hate the compromise, but do not see any way to modify it.’
Discussing the “privileges” of other religious denominations in Russia, Dr. Timasheff said: “At the very bottom one finds the Catholics. They are granted no . right of public worship in the USSR except in Lithuania, although even there the episcopate has been driven underground.”
Father Dvornik went one step farther than Dr. Timasheff, in attempting to demonstrate the historical basis for Church-State straggles within what are now the Iron Curtain countries.
He traced the center of difficulty to the origin of the Rex-Sacerdos (King-Priest). theory, which granted the ruling monarch an important share in the administration of the Church. Convinced that it was the mission of the state to supervise the well-being of religion within their domain, rulers in Russia, Hungary, and Czechoslovakia gained increasing influence in the temporal affairs of the Church . . . until the reins of power fell into the hands of the atheistic Communist regime in Russia. w
“In liquidating the last remains of the Uniate Church . . . the Soviet regime simply followed in the steps of the Tsars,” Father Dvornik said.
“It was clear to any objective observer and student of Communist methods that the Vatican’s hopes (of a morally acceptable compromise on Church-State authority) were in vain, and that the Communist regime would in due course be established in Czechoslovakia as it was in other countries under Soviet influence. It was foolish to expect positive results for the Church from collaboration with the Communist Party and to surrender to them—in the hopes of some concessions—the most important political positions in the state government.”
But some hope for the survival of religion under Communist persecution was advanced by Fathei- Dvornik, who praised the “living faith of the simple people.” In conclusion, he urged a crusade of prayer to “help the simple faithful beyond the Iron Curtain to bear their crosses patiently, and to inspire their religious leaders to find the right way in a most difficult situation.”
Speakers for the first day’s sessions on Tuesday included Dr. Waldemar Gu-rian, who opened the symposium with an address entitled “From Lenin to Stalin;” Dr. Michael Karpovich of Harvard University, Dr. Stephen Kertesz of the Yale Law School, and Dr. Philip Mosely of Columbia University.
25
Frericks Will Address NFCCS Marian Congress
Art Frericks, senior member of the Liturgy Club, will represent Notre Dame at the first Marian Congress of the Chicago Region, National Federation of Catholic College Students. The program will be held on Sunday, Feb. 26, at the College of St. Francis, Joliet, Ill.
The symposium will be divided into three panels concerning Marian doctrine and devotion. Themes of the panels are: Marian Liturgy, Mary in the Modern World, and Mary in the Modern Family. Frericks, chairman of the Chicago Region’s Liturgy Commission, will discourse on The Power of Mary in the Modern World.
To spread knowledge of Our Blessed Mother and increase devotion to her is the purpose of the Marian Congress, sponsored by the Chicago Region’s Mar-iology Commission.
Each panel is comprised of three speakers, students from each of the nine schools active in the region. In addition to Notre Dame, the colleges and universities participating are St. Francis, St. Xavier, DePaul, Mundelein, Rosary, Barat, Loyola, and St. Procopius.
The Very Reverend Romeo Blanchette, chancellor of the Joliet diocese, will act as general chairman of the congress. Each panel will be aided by a priest of the diocese.
May Concert Planned by Notre Dame Symphonette
Plans are already being made for a concert by the Notre Dame Symphonette to be given in Washington Hall on May 17, Mr. Charles A. Biondo announced last week.
The program will commemorate the 200th anniversary of the death of Johann Sebastian Bach. Accordingly, instead of the usual opening overture, the program will begin with some appropriate, but as yet unnamed suite or fugue by Bach.
The group will also present the Symphony for Orchestra and Organ by Stamitz, whose works are seldom heard, ■ but who is famous in musical circles for his great influence on Mozart. This will be followed by Cimbrosa’s Oboe Concerto featuring as soloist Hugh Baker, Engineering senior from Muskegon, Mich.
Also featured in the first part of the program will be a woodwind quintet playing one of Haydn’s works. Their encore will be an original composition by Thomas Goodpastor of the Graduate School.
Brother Jacob Eppley, C.S.C., will be
26
Names Make Netos
Three members of the Notre Dame debating team were judges of an elimination contest held in South Bend to determine the Boy Scout “officials for a day” in city and county offices. The judges were PETER NINNEMAN, WILLIAM E. KERWIN, and HUGH R. BRAUN.
Twelve Irish footballers were honored guests at a communion breakfast in St. Stanislaus auditorium, sponsored by the Holy Name societies of six South Bend parishes. The guests were ART PERRY, JACK LANDRY, JOHN MAZUR, JACK BUSH, BILL WHITESIDE, DEL GANDER, ERNIE ZALEJSKI, DICK COTTER, JIM HAMBY, JIM BARTLETT, JIM MUT-SCHELLEA, and GUS CIFELLI. . . .
LEON HART was tended a bachelor’s banquet last week by Bill Wightkin, several businessmen from South Bend and
Hart and Rolling-Pin
Kalamazoo, Mich., and 30 of his teammates. Hart is marrying Miss Lois Newyahr today in Turtle Creek, Pa.
An alumnus, now a South Bend attorney, ARTHUR M. DIAMOND, became engaged to Miss Dagny Marie Lenon of South Bend not long ago . . . EUGENE THOMAS CORCORAN, Jr., a commerce student, of South Bend, recently announced his engagement to Miss Rose Mary Taylor, also of that city, . . . Married last Saturday in Our Lady of Hungary church in South Bend were DUDLEY DAMIEN BIRDER, a senior, and the former Miss Mary Bar-
featured soloist in the second portion of the program performing Haydn’s Cello Concerto. As a finale Mr. Biondo has selected Beethoven’s Egmont Overture.
any. Both are of South Bend. . . . RICHARD HAHN, ’51, of Wilmette, Hl., became engaged to Miss Barbara J. Nugent, of Hempstead, N. Y. . . .
Dr. WALDEMAR GURIAN, head of the Committee on International Relations of Notre Dame, which recently sponsored the Symposium on Russia, left for Europe last Wednesday, Feb. 8. Representing the committee, he will do research work on different phases of French, German, and Swiss political thought. He will be abroad for three months.
Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of the University, is the author of a plea for a return to peace and harmony among men, which was distributed to all weekly magazines in the country by the National Conference of Christians and Jews in the interest of furthering national brotherhood week. . . .
Professor THOMAS J.' STRITCH, head of the department of journalism at Notre Dame, was “Roastmaster” at the first annual Gridiron Banquet sponsored 3 by the South Bend Press Club. Many prominent personages attended the banquet, including Democratic Gov. Henry Schricker of Indiana, Senator Homer Capehart, Republican of Indiana, and Jack Dempsey, former heavyweight boxing champion of the world. FRANK LEAHY, head football coach at Notre Dame, also attended. . . .
This week . . . ten years ago. ... S
Notre Dame, Ind., Feb. 12, 1940.____ Rev. FRANCIS T. WENNINGER, C.S.C., dean of the college of science, died in his office in the biology building at 9:15 a.m., today. Father Wenninger was one of the leaders in the long programs which gave the college of science its standing among the schools of the country. . . .
ROBERT J. LALLY, former guard of Notre Dame’s All-American football £ team, will exchange marriage vows with ~ his home-town sweetheart, Miss Elizabeth Jean Koch tomorrow at Gesu Church, University Heights, Ohio.
Lally, a three-time monogram winner, is a former president of the Cleveland Club and formei’ junior class officer. The newlyweds will reside in South Bend while Bob continues his studies at Notre Dame where he intends to enter Law School.
The Scholastic
Glee Club Trip
(Continued from Page 15)
gardenias in full bloom. T-shirts were
the uniform of the day.
The Eyes of Texas
In Houston’s San Jacinto High School Auditorium the Glee Club introduced a jh special arrangement of The Eyes of Texas, which brought the native “fans” to their feet with shouts of approval and clamoring for more. After the concert, the parents of Louis LaMair, senior tenor and club librarian, gave a party for the club at the Shamrock Hotel, unequalled in the long list of Glee Club parties.
The next day brought the songsters to Corpus Christi, Texas, and the rain F decided to accompany the Irish travellers making sight-seeing impossible. The performance there was held Feb. 2 and the next morning the Glee Club received Holy Communion on First Friday and had their throats blessed at St. Blase services. Then it was “Onward, to San Antonio.”
The day in San Antonio was probably the biggest day the Notre Dame Glee Club had ever experienced while on tour. They sang at two girls’ colleges, Our Lady of the Lake and Incarnate Word, over an Armed Forces Radio network program, for patients at the Army hospital at Fort Sam Houston, and to the Catholic grade school children of San Antonio in Municipal Auditorium before appearing formally that evening. Somehow they managed to visit the historic Alamo between hurried bus-rides from one end of the city to the other.
The bus drivers and passengers held up remarkably well, as Rev. Edwin A. Juraschek, the most eager promoter- ever to handle a Glee Club appearance, escorted the group from place to place. His escorting consisted of going full speed down every street no matter how busy, through stop-signs with only a black-gloved hand protruding from the side window of his car and the other-hand heavy on the horn. The colleges were hosts to the Glee Club for dinner and supper.
Departure time from San Antonio was 2 a.m. Saturday morning and it was then that the real “test of endurance” began. To those whose opinions infer that Glee Club tours are leisurely, fun-packed sojourns without worry or work, the bus ride from San Antonio to St.
Louis, Mo.—1050 miles with only short stops for meals and refuelling—can be pointed to as evidence to the contrary. The ND men passed the 28% long hours talking, reading, playing cards, and try
Feb. 17, 1950
ing to “sack in.” Director Pedtke was spared the bus-ride. He took the train to St. Louis.
Arriving at 6:30 a.m. Sunday the group attended Mass and went immediately to the hotel for breakfast and nice, soft beds. Some of those who managed io get some sleep on the bus, attended an Elk’s Club reception that afternoon in the Elk’s Lodge. The evening concert in mammoth Kiel Auditorium marked the final public appearance of the tour. After the concert, it was back to ND.
When the bus pulled up behind Washington Hall at 9:30 a.m., Feb. 6, the travellers rushed to pick up their class schedules and attend the remainder of their Monday classes. Thanks to the Director of Studies office, everybody was back into the routine of ND campus life in record time. It did take some time, however, for the singers to recuperate fully from the trip.
Throughout the tour the Glee Club received the kindest receptions and highest praise for their talented singing and fine character, reflecting the Christian gentlemanliness of true Notre Dame men. In Kansas City a headline read: “Notre Dame Students Excel in Singing as Well as Football.” In San Antonio the Mayor and other distinguished persons and organizations extended an official welcome to the Glee Club with a full-page greeting in a local paper.
Trip Entirely Successful
The trip was successful from all accounts and Glee Club president Allan Gavan and business manager Paul Owens are to be congratulated for a tremendous job well done. The other officers of the group, Robert Reutz, vicepresident; Leonard Costantini, secretary; Raymond McGrath, treasurer; and Richard Gorman, publicity chairman, contributed greatly to that success.
Piano soloist James Effing’s brilliant between-act selections at the concert grand thrilled each audience. Baritone soloist Roy O’Neil sang with power and mastery. Robert Reutz, tenor soloist, with precision and pure tones captivated listeners at every Glee Club performance. All three of these arists did more than their share to make the tour one of the best in the history of the group.
It reflects on the teaching ability of Mr. Pedtke when students from every college in the University join together in a fine concert group such as this to thrill audiences from all over the nation. It also shows that the members of the Glee Club are doing just a little bit more to bring honor and fame to Notre Dame.
Bill Rich Elected President Of yCS for Coming Year
At recent elections four YCS members were chosen to head the Federation’s activities at Notre Dame for the coming year.
Taking effect immediately, the results place Bill Rich, a junior, as local prexy. Rich, formerly head of the Arts and Letters section, succeeds Jim Poat in the presidency.
Vice-president James F. Kelleher, a sophomore in Arts and Letters succeeds himself while AB junior Gene Myler retains his post as secretary. Ray Martin having graduated, Jerry Soden, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, will fulfill the duties of treasurer for the next 12 months.
Singers Appear Here Before Chicago Show
Appearing before a full house the Notre Dame Glee Club presented an informal campus concert at Washington Hall last Wednesday night. This was the first campus show by the singing group this semester.
Monday the Glee Club will go to Chicago, Ill., to sing in the Chicago Stadium at a benefit performance sponsored by the Dominican Fathers. Proceeds of the benefit will be used to build a new Dominican seminary.
The 40 Notre Dame singers under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke will be on the program with numerous stars of stage, screen, and radio including Ann Blyth and Jimmy Durante.
The Glee Club will be the guests of Rosary College, River Forest, Ill., for dinner at the college.
Clevelanders Formulate Plans
The Cleveland Club greeted the new semester with a business meeting and election of new officers. Bernard J. Endres heads the new group as president; others include Ray T. Miller, Jr., vice-president; William T. Beargie, secretary; John C. Roy, treasurer, and Richard O. Gaeckle, public relations.
Plans for the club's Mardi Gras booth were laid by chairman Kenyon F. Snyder, who suggested that the duck-throwing contest, which did so well last year, again be employed this year. Emphasis, however, was laid upon livelier ducks for this season.
It was also proposed that" there be an average of two meetings per month. In order to stimulate the attendance, many will be combined dinner-meeting affairs.
27
What’s Happened to the Scholastic?
This serious study of the Scholastic attempts to show how this magazine is failing in its purpose. The questions raised are timely and intelligent. Our answer to them will appear in next week’s issue.
By TOM KELLEGHAN
“The college paper is the mirror of the undergraduate sentiment, and is a truer index to the condition of the college than its catalogue or other official publications. It is, in fact, the outstanding member of the college faculty.”
Baylor University Lariat, 1881
More than 80 years ago a college paper was established at the University of Notre Dame, situated then in the heart of an Indiana primeval forest. The paper was necessarily a small one, fol* the school it represented had yet to increase to a size justifying even the title “university.” Yet this little weekly exhibited a cultural maturity and mentality far superior to that of its flashy, sterile counterpart of today. What is this change that has so radically affected the Notre Dame Scholastic? Why did it come about? And what is the significance of the vital differences these almost totally divorced issues of the same magazine display? The answers to these questions reveal a story of great concern to all those interested in any way with university education.
Today’s Mag Informative
Possibly the easiest way to clarify the distinction between the Scholastic of yesteryear* and that of today is to describe the former as “educative” and the latter as “informative.” Seventy-five years ago the students of Notre Dame used their newspaper as a medium for a type of creative thought and original expression which has all but vanished from the modern students’ magazine. Reading through old issues of the Scholastic one realizes that the ability to write analytically and critically was highly developed in the student body, up to the turn of the century. The student writer’s interest was very broad, he displayed a knowledge and study of the fine arts, natural and social sciences, and of current events, national as well as international, that indicated intensive study, serious thought, and most important of all, a sense of future responsibility to society for the benefits of a college education.
In today’s Scholastic, nothing strikes
the casual reader more forcefully than the almost exclusive concentration of the magazine on the purely “calendaric” activities of the university — an introverted solicitude revealing the loss of original student thought, the loss of a student culture integrating the various colleges and far flung interests, and the loss of critical, analytical writing and reading which Clifton Fadiman has dubbed in the larger field of secular journalism, “The Decline of Attention.”
Change in Purpose
A change in purpose has been responsible for the decay of Notre Dame’s student magazine. Before 1900 an editor of the Scholastic wrote, in reference to the purpose of the magazine:
“Its main object is to offer the students of the university opportunities of forming an English style, of acquiring readiness and accuracy in writing.” The editor did not find it necessary to state what all understood — that the subject matter of such writing should be rich intellectual food, not bantering, witless comments on strictly local affairs. Moreover, the general tenor of the magazine exposes the realization that all students had foremost in their minds — the college must create the environment, not reflect it.
But today the situation is reversed. The Scholastic’s modern student journalists believe the college should reflect the environment, hence they act accordingly. College to them is not a preparation for changing the world along Christian lines; rather it is a preparation for changing Christian customs in order to get along easier in the world.
Consequently a new purpose has evolved. As the journalist does most of the influential writing for people in the world, the college paper, he reasons, should be an aid to his training alone. As a result, there is now an almost complete exclusion of writing by anyone who is not officially on the staff of the newspaper. This of course has greatly aided in the destruction of the student culture which existed until some 40 years ago, for in the student paper of
the late 1800’s the members of the various colleges exchanged ideas and became acquainted with one another’s work, an intellectual activity so essential to a true student life and to the formation of educated, Christian college graduates.
Having succeeded in removing intellectual affairs from the scope of the la-college paper, the journalists were obliged to fill the void with inane thoughts about meaningless events around the campus — the calendaric activities mentioned previously. The modern Scholastic is devoted to the glorification of the mediocre. To consider anything above this level, for surely the discussion of common, insignificant events is the lowest level in the scale of intellectual activity, is absolutely beyond the ability of today’s student journalists.
Falls Down on Job
To argue that other student magazines are also controlled by specialist groups, and only publish material that deals with their particular field. At Notre Dame the expulsion of purely literary writing from the Scholastic has resulted in the creation of a purely literary magazine with a necessarily limited appeal, the JUGGLER; the expulsion of engineering writing has created the Technical Review, also possessing a limited appeal, and so on with other student interests. Thus the action of the Scholastic, while making it difficult for these new publishing ventures to survive financially, has aided in widening the already yawning gulf between the concept of the true university and the special student vocational interests. Integration, understanding, and common interests are lost causes in today’s student body, and the most effective means of restoring such a status in the university — the Scholastic, the universal student organ — has fallen down on the job disgracefully.
$
The Scholastic, concerned primarily with the student’s four “fat” years, has aided immensely in the annual production of a body of men totally ignorant of political, economic, and social
28
The Scholastic
' ' conditions of even the town next to which they are located. Larger issues are anothei' question. The university student papei* could at the very least attempt to give its readers a knowledge of the nearest town, but does this happen? No. The appearance of articles concerning local institutions is directly connected with student activities related to them. Thus a recent SCHO-lastic would write up a drug store where students spend their evenings occasionally, colorfully and wistfully describing the aimless, time-wasting shenanigans of its habitues, and ignore the cut-throat price war which that particular drugstore was carrying on with its competitor across the street, something which could not be missed by the average student, as one phase of it included the selling of cigarettes at below cost prices. In this manner do ™ provincialism and social ignorance seize the student .body in their tenacious grasp.
The example of the drugstore price war illustrates a broader failure of the Scholastic. It is not doing its part in applying the theorizing of the student life at least in a minor way to the practical aspects of real life. The paper misses a great opportunity to acquaint the student at Notre Lame with the methods of the modern world a —the methods which his Catholic nrin-” ciples should change. The student cannot learn to combat them, as he should while in school, if he has no first-hand information about them. And what better opportunity is there than studying the town in, or outside of which, the school is situated?
Disdain for Crisis
The paper demonstrates an astounding disdain for Western Society’s great Rj crisis, which the Pope has said is the most serious in Christendom’s history. An elementary knowledge of the nature of the crisis should be dispensed through the student organ — not even the classroom can be as effective. The extent of the consequences of the Scholastic’s scorn for this subject, and for its neglect in cultivating student thought about it, will be incalculable.
And last but not least, what about the condition of our secular press? If Ph the student paper must remain in the hands of the journalists, should it not display some signs of reform in methods and technique? Must it eternally follow the same news pattern of the secular* press — sports, sex, and human interest? How much longer must the student body await a reform in the concept of journalistic responsibility among the editors of the Scholastic?
In summary, an item from the Vassar Miscellany, written in 1881, can
t Feb. 17, 1950
best exemplify the essence of this criticism :
“It is certainly an open question whether light, gossipy atricles can reflect the life of the true student. There is something incongruous in the notion of a light, gossipy, true student life.”
This seems very well to be the unfortunate state of the modern Scholastic.
The student paper, if it wants to overcome these defects, must reconstruct its expressed purpose to include the four following aims:
1.	It must strive to create a student culture, i.e. integrate the many interests of the students so that all may understand and evaluate each other’s knowledge and problems.
2.	It must develop analytical and critical readers, in order* that the careless use of theory, fact, and language common today in the secular press may be circumvented and eventually reformed.
3.	It must educate its readers in respect to concrete application and thorough investigation of the classroom theories every student learns.
4.	It must act as a dispenser of local information pertaining to the activities of the university in an intelligent manner indicating its relative importance in the field of legitimate journalism.
Ladies of Notre Dame
(Continued from Page 19)
are Mrs. H. E. Ellithorn, president; Mrs. Gerald Cosgrove, vice-president; Mrs. Charles Price, secretary; Mrs. James Dincolo, corresponding secretary; and Mrs. Bernard McMahon, treasurer. The executive end of the organization includes a Board of Directors and an Executive Board.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
Some of the “Founding Mothers” of the club are still active in its programs. Among the women who were included in that 1934 membership and who now form part of the 1950 membership are Mrs. George Wack, Mrs. Edward Meehan, Mrs. R. W. Rauch, Mrs. William Roemer, Mrs. J. E. Armstrong, and others.
The Ladies of Notre Dame are an integral part of the University. Through their excellent work in keeping interest and esprit de corps alive and active among the women connected with Notre Dame, they have done a service to the school and to themselves, to say nothing of the admirable service rendered to new members of the group.
============]
N. D. Reversible Jackets $11.95
N. D. Blankets $7.50 and $19.95
Our complete line of Fielder’s Gloves, Basemen and Catcher’s Mitts are in stock for your selection.
SONNEBORN’S
SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ave.
South Bend Phone 3-3702
"Rosie’s." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 NORTH NILES
29
Music
The violin-harpsicord concert given by Alexander Schneider and Ralph Fitzpatrick on Tuesday evening got off to a rather bad start. Perhaps the size of the audience in Washington Hall was due to the three other affairs scheduled for the same evening but it is difficult to find an excuse for the blaring jukebox on the first floor. Late-comers kept the first part of the concert rather lively and the loud talking from the back of the hall hardly added to the beauty of the music.
The concert, however, was well worth hearing from the beginning. The program consisted of sonatas by Bach and Mozart, and these particular works have been recorded on Columbia TP’s by the pair. The four selections were played with ease and skill and while the audience seemed to prefer the lighter Mozart to Bach, the latter’s sonatas were played with depth and beauty.
Mr. Fitzpatrick and Mr.- Schneider have given concerts throughout the United States and are regarded as one of the great teams of music. Mr. Schneider has a reputation as an exacting artist and Mr. Fitzpatrick is rated as one of the two great harpsichordists of today. As a team, they never fail to give an enjoyable musical evening and judging by the concert on Tuesday this reputation is well deserved.—Jerry Morris
Pat McAteer and Don Grobmyr (facing camera) play in preliminary bridge match.
Eliminations Begin For Bridge Tourney
After a preliminary session tomorrow afternoon to acquaint contestants with some of the finer points of tournament bridge, the eliminations to select eight contestants to play in the 1950 National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament will be held Sunday afternoon at 1:30 in the K of C clubrooms in the basement of Walsh hall.
These eight finalists, who will represent Notre Dame, will play eight prepared tournament hands in competition with undergraduates from other colleges in the Great Lakes area. The resulting scores will then be sent to the Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament Committee.
The two highest-ranking pairs from each zone will travel to Chicago on April 21 to play in a two-day, face-to-face championship contest. In Chicago the finalists will be quartered in the Blackstone hotel, with all expenses paid.
Mr. John Turley, local tournament director at Notre Dame, says, “It’s not too late to enter the tournament. Come to the K of C clubrooms tomorrow and Sunday afternoons at 1:30, alone or with a partner, and join in the competition.”
The finals will be held in the Vetville Recreation Hall on Wednesday afternoon, Feb. 22, beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Averages of some of the leaders in the practice sessions to date: For two ses
sions—Klink-Schreitmueller, .546; McA-teer-Grobmyer, .524; Stuhldreher-Stuhl-dreher, .510; Amrhein-Beinter, .495; Stimming-Schafer, .483; Mansfield-Murphy, .475; for one session—Birmingham-Mar g e t, .579; Edmundson-Wittrock, .579; Lansing-Russel, .495.
VA Warns Gl Applicants To File Bonus Claims Early (
Any ex-GI at Notre Dame who has not yet applied for his Veteran’s Bonus must do so quickly or be caught in the last-minute rush.
According to the Indiana Department of Veterans’ Affairs, only half of the state’s veterans have filed claims. Unless the rate of applications increases, a “gigantic jam” is expected during the last three months of the year. Deadline for claims is Dec. 31, 1950.	t
Last-minute applicants, will not be able to get their original discharge papers back for several months, the department warns.
At present, most of the claims filed have been returned. But only 80,000 have been approved. The remaining applications are delayed because of errors in filing, insufficient information or proof of eligibility, or failure to answer the Bonus Division’s letters requesting additional information.	fl
Forty-Hours Will Open With Solemn High Mass Sunday
Forty-Hours Devotions will be formally opened next Sunday morning at a Solemn High Mass at nine o’clock in Sacred Heart Church.
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., will preach the sermons at evening services fl Sunday and Monday. Two services will be held on each of these nights, at 6:45 and 7:15. Final services and the procession at 6:45 p.m. Tuesday will close the devotions.
The entire student congregation will chant the responses to the Litany of the Saints and sing the Pange Lingua. Mimeographed copies of the hymn will be distributed.
FREE DAY
According to the University Bulletin, there will be no classes Wednesday in observance of Washington’s Birthday.
It will also be Ash Wednesday. Ashes will be distributed in each hall chapel at Mass time and also in Dillon and Cavanaugh hall chapels from 12:30 to 1 p. m.
30
The Scholastic
® WND's Program Listings Announced for Semester
WND, Notre Dame’s campus radio station, boasts a number of new and special features this semester.
“Requestfully Yours” returns daily from 8:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. This program is handled by Jack Hynes and Joe Shelly. A program of classical music, written and announced by Lynn Marshall, is presented from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m., Wednesday. This is similar to the program on Sunday from 8:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
“Radio Workshop” under the supervision of Mr. Jerome A. Fallon of the Department of Speech, is a dramatic presentation written and produced by the students in the workshop. It is aired from 5 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Tuesdays. W' As a special service to the students WND hopes to broadcast the Notre Dame-DePaul game at Chicago on Saturday, Feb. 18.
A program of music on Sunday morning from 9 to 12 is an addition to WND’s air time. It is on the air also from 1 p.m. to 10 p.m. daily and from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Sunday.
The station announces a new chief engineer, Bob Murphy, who is replacing Dick Hahn, recent January graduate, r	———
Lay Faculty Club Dance To Be at Indiana Club
Tonight carnival-loving Lay Faculty Club members will drop their red correcting pencils, close those blue-backed exam tablets, and forget about Saturday class lecture preparation for a pre-Lenten celebration.
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, of the Department of Political Science, chairman of the annual Lay Faculty Club dance, expects the third floor dance hall of the Indiana Club to be jammed with about 100 couples. Connie Sykes and her band will provide the music for the affair. A midnight buffet luncheon will also be featured.
Dr. John D. Mizelle of the Biology Department is chairman for the dance. Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the y College of Science, is in charge of refreshments, and Fredrick S. Beckman of the Art Department heads the decortion committee.
The semi-formal dance will be held from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
The Club also sponsors faculty square dances in the Vetville Recreation Hall. Dr. Russell Williams, of the Department of Chemistry, is the caller and instructor in these affairs, which are held every two weeks.
® Feb. 17, 1950
EllsmorUj's
YOU'LL MAKE A HIT IN THE
DON’T WAIT another minute to learn to dance “The New Arthur Murray Way.” Even a beginner can learn the secret to good dancing in just one lesson thanks to Arthur Murray’s wonderful discovery, “The First Step To Popularity.” Put yourself in the hands of one of his talented experts and see how quickly you will become a sought-after partner. Bring in your favorite partner and learn together at half the price. Come in or phone 2-3339 now.
Seems everybody likes the Arrow Par with perfect-fitting widespread collar! Par is comfortable, modem—smart-looking with all your suits! Mitoga cut for that body-tapered fit and Sanforized, of course (shrinkage less than 1%). Come in for your Arrow PAR today!
WIDESPREAD COLLAR!
SAVE50N0W
ARTHUR MURRAY RANCE LESSONS
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne Street, South Bend, Ind.
COME IN FOR FREE TRIAL LESSON TODAY.
31
NOW . . . for the first time in its history, the Notre Dame Bookstore is
“Dealing in Diamonds”
• FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE • TO HELP YOU SAVE
The BOOKSTORE has been able, through the L. G. Balfour Co., to obtain beautiful matched sets of Bluecrest engagement and wedding rings. This market is EXCLUSIVE WITH THE BOOKSTORE in this vicinity and, most important of all, we are able to pass them on AT A CONSIDERABLE SAVING to you.
I You are familiar with the Balfour Company through your purchase of Notre Dame Class Rings from them. It has dealt in diamonds on an exclusive basis for years and now brings this service to the whole world. Their diamonds are produced according to these FIVE POINTS OF QUALITY: purity (clearness and freedom from flaws), color (the famous bluewhite), cut (in correct proportion), fire (refract maximum color), and size. Each diamond is selected by Balfour’s expert Gemologist and fully guaranteed to be a perfect stone of the finest quality.
We have in our office a glistening display of six beautiful rings which we invite you to see. For beauty, price, and quality we know you will find no better. Thus we display them with full confidence in the integrity of the merchant — L. G. Bafour.
THE N. D. BOOKSTORE
32
The Scholastic
How to Save $4.78 a Day
An Essay by FRANCIS KING
Some newspaper columnist recently asked, “Do people learn anything at ™ college?” and answered himself, “No.” They don’t go to college to learn, and once they get there they just sit, “dreaming over notebooks.”
Maybe so. After three dreamy years on this campus, I can’t kick about that second claim. Notebooks seem jus; about perfect for dreaming over; they’re so inoffensive and never distracting. But I feel bad about it sometimes. At $600 per, I figure my daily dream is running about $4.78 in hard money — and I wouldn’t pay a dime for the one I had yesterday.
So I have figured out why people dream over notebooks and get nothing done. It’s not because they’re deadheads; it’s just because they don’t know when to study and zvhen not to study. It’s a case of misplaced vitality. They don’t know how to channel their daily energy to make studying easier.
Everybody knows the commonest activity of college students, especially in their first year or two, is making noise. You can’t shut yourself off from it. Shouts and guffaws are the only acceptable way of saying anything; if you talk in anything lower than a roar you get tabbed as “peculiar” and are reproached for “keeping to yourself so much.”
Some freshmen, in that respect, make me think of collegiate-style George Babbitts, only their gods are the Rock, ' the Pool Hall, Bull Sessions, Funny Stories, and Wit (to be distinguished from humor). Now all these are good things, in fact excellent things, if used right. But these Babbitts don’t use them as respite from studies. Instead, they waste theii- most vital and -wideawake hours on the gods, and then at 9 p.m., when the desk is littered and it’s too much trouble to clean it off, they prop up their pillows and settle down with that book, determined to * study unless — unless they get . . . too . . . sleepy. . . .
Someone should tell them about cycles.
A person’s temperament, if charted over a month’s time, would look something like a cross-sectional topography map: a lot of little gullies and hummocks climbing up to a magnificent crest, then falling, then rising again, at regular intervals. The tops of the big hills represent the person at his
Feb. 17, 1950
ambitious best. The valleys are times when you don’t feel like doing much.
A big hill, if you are lucky, might last three or four days. But the hill is always a rippled one, meaning that you do your best work at a certain time of day, and ought to relax during the gullied hours. Maybe you get sleepy, after lunch. Sleep, then, as you wovM anyway. But find out when your vitality is highest — and work then I Lock yourself up, ball-and-chain yourself to the floor, and get it done!
Unless you are a college freshman. Then that is the time, when you are feeling great and could lick the world, to open your door and bellow,
HEY, BERT!
HAH?
HOWZA LIDDLE HANDBALL?
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
THIS may look like your roommate, but don’t be deceived. The Schmo in this picture has lots more brains. He has the Wildroot Cream-Oil concession in a side show. And incidentally, if you’d like to ape men who get ahead, with women of course, start grooming your dome with Wildroot CreamOil. It’s the non-alcoholic hair tonic containing soothing Lanolin. Grooms you hair neatly and naturally without that plastered-down look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes embarrassing loose dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic at your drug counter today. Don’t swipe your roommate’s ... it may be unsanitary. Besides, he’s liable to grunt and growl if you do. And next time you visit your barber, have him give you a professional application.
* of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N.Y.
HANDBALL SCHMANDBALL!
HAR, HAR!
AWRIGHT, LE’S GO!
Imagine, if such fearful vigor were concentrated on required courses, what studies could be mastered. Plato in one easy lesson, Accounting Fundamentals at a glance. I am scared to try it, it’s so terrifying.
Noise and handball are just examples. Talking, horsing around, Prefectpriming, going downtown — they fit nicely in the gulley hours that you can always anticipate. Those $4.78 dreams belong there too, and come plenty cheaper that way. Some day I’m going to give it a whack — take out a book in one of my keener hours — and see what this “academic life” business is all about.
33
STORKCllfi




nd H.B. Herring™
P&?CO FARMER saF-TO B ACC	r tobaccos.-
Chesterfield buyS f on the market-
been rn_y c,9'
I find Cheste It’s
satisfy>n9
uuU'N5,
,nd always
.arette f°r
JOLSON SINGS AGAIN"
A Sidney Buchman Production A Columbia
Technicolor Production
>Mhesterfield
The Best Cigarette for YOU to Smoke
Copyright 1950. Liggett & Mn«s To»*cco Co.
J