£
$
B
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
A GROWING FIELD—
Instrumentation
Paul D. Kohl (left), B.S. in M.E., Purdue *46, checks the assembly of an experimental cont-ol instrument.
Modern manufacturing trends at Du Pont bring ever-increasing opportunities for technical men
Do you think of instrumentation as applying only to work in electricity and electronics?
Or would you also include problems in chemical processing, materials of construction and materials handling, as well as application of equipment — both mechanical and hydraulic—for measurement and control systems?
At Du Pont, instrumentation is applied to widely diverse areas of manufacturing operations. It calls for many different technical backgrounds. In a typical instrument group there may be men whose formal training has been in mechanical, chemical, electrical or metallurgical engineering, or in physics, etc.
Frod R. Stroder, B. Metal W., Rensselaer P.I. *50, examines a pressure strain recorder with Allen R. Furbeck, E.E., Princeton *39.
Instrumentation is becoming more and more important in the chemical industry. In fact, many of today’s processes and products would not be possible without modem measurement and control systems. The trend toward continuous processes means challenging and constantly increasing opportunities for instrumentation men.
Du Pont’s instrument program includes research, development, design, and supervising installation of process control equipment. Some of the work is done in the central Engineering Department at Wilmington. However, most of the major plants across the country now have their own organized instrument groups.
Richard G. Jackson, B.S. in Ch.E., Columbia *42, and Gregory L. Laserson, Ph.D. in M.E., Columbia *49, test an infrared gas analyzer.
So you may visualize the scope and diversity of the work, here are examples of instrumentation recently developed and designed by Du Pont technical men:
1.	A device to measure flow of approximately 30,000 lbs. per hour of gas at more than 10,000 p.s.i. To give 1.2% accuracy and be responsive to flowchanges of five cycles per second.
2.	A device to monitor continuously 1200 similar temperatures. Equipment to record temperature and sound alarm at a deviation of 1°C. from desired point.
3.	An automatic control system to maintain a predetermined pressure-temperature relation in a large-batch autoclave during spontaneous reaction between two chemicals.
Thus it can be seen that Du Pont instrumentation is limited to no single avenue of engineering. Men with an aptitude for the work get experience in many phases of the Company’s technical activities—and anexcellent background for positions in management and administration.
ASK FOR "Chemical Engineers at Du Pont.” New illustrated booklet describes initial assignments, training and paths of promotion. Just send post card to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
•w U.S. MX Off
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Watch “Cavalcade of America” on Television
]/Mr
'	on Miert y™
hfa Club seen
True • Esquire • Argosy • American • Legion
Sport •
There's a trim, smart appearance to City Club Shoes. It comes of well-formed lasts, perfect styling, and the kind of shoe construction that insures enduring good looks. Yes, and you'll like the price—it's just right, too.
$8’5 to $14’5
Citv Gub
SHOES OF W DISTINCTION FOR MEN
half price shoe sale
Gilbert’s famous half price shoe sale is now in progress . . . famous name brands drastically reduced . . . it’s the greatest collection of nationally advertised footwear ever to be put on sale . . .
Scotch grains, smooth finishes, rough finishes . . . all perfect for that “mirror shine” . . . oxfords, loafers, casuals, dress . . . light or dark coloring, with three, four and five eyelets . . . elastic or natural bands on the leafers . . .
stop in now for the shoe of your choice . . . perfectly fitted to your foot.
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
DRRWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
---OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces”
---EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel	4-5777
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
April 17, 1953
3
Lively Arrow Sports Shirts Add “Local Color” To Campus
Look for a highly-colored style picture this season — thanks to the new crop of Arrow sports shirts. Smart solids in rayon gabardine, checks and plaids in “Sanforized” cotton and other fabrics, will be seen on campus from coast to coast. Available at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW
»»--------------->•
— SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS « SPORTS SHIRTS —
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Seeks ND Men in Korea
Editor:
I would like to contact all the men over in this area if I possibly can. I do know that there must be many Notre Dame men over here fighting for their country, so I wonder whether or not, if something like this starts it out, I might be able to contact some of the men who might be right next to me in this Korean country.
On March 22 I arrived here in the capital city of Korea, and so far I’ve met four ND men. On my re-assignment stop I met Jim Farrell from New Orleans and the class of ’47. I also met WOJG Flanigan who attended ND back in ’32. Another man who is stationed here with the Medical Detachment of Correspondents is Tom Madden, who presently has a brother studying for the priesthood at ND. Tom has about three more months to go on his 16-month stay in this land.
Right now, the writer, Russell E. Skall, of the class of ’50, is just starting his tour of the Far East, and expects to stay in Korea for the next 12 months. My job is with the 8th Army Hdqs. Special Services Section, A.P.O. 301, San Francisco, Calif. This is the last part of my two-year stay in the army.
Many of my former classmates here sent in their addresses and whereabouts, so by doing this I do hope to find out where some of them are.
Hello to all my old friends at the University and the best of luck to all at the school.
• . • The work over here is very demanding at all times. We are just about 50 miles from the front lines, and with the war still going strong one never knows what will happen. We are all hoping to get out of here as soon as possible with the coming peace — we hope I	Sincerely yours,
Russell E. Skall, ’50
HEALTH I 5P0T I
SHOES
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
Top of The Week
The blood drive beginning in 17 days.
Use caution. Follow Directions on package.
Local epicures who patronized the dining halls a week ago Friday, were handed several little samples of a famous “after-dinner” mint as they went in for dinner. This tasty confection has been nationally advertised for years now, having been scientifically designed, and scientifically manufactured as a scientific aid “for the tummy.”
As usual there were a few nasty cynics who made remarks that suspiciously linked Ziggy’s Friday night cuisine with the appearance of the samples. As a matter of fact, we would like to quote a few words from a package of the samples to prove that not only were these remarks made in the wrong spirit, but that the connection between Friday night’s meal and the samples has been aborated.
“The better the food, the more we may need ------- (above mentioned con-
fection), as we are often-tempted to over-indulge.”
Take me out to Badin Bog
The baseball season finally started last Monday afternoon to wash away the roar of 16 major league managers who screamed that they were going to get the pennant this year or bust. The pitching, hitting, catching, infield, and outfield were “much improved,” they said. Old veterans were performing like kids again, and the kids were performing like old veterans. Every manager had robbed his fellow managers blind in the brisk pre-season trades, and they wouldn’t even get investigated by a senate sub-committee. If the weather would only get nice enough to get the infield grass growing.
Especially in Milwaukee (where the Braves expect a cessation of snowfall by mid-July) they could display their winning form.
On campus there was no problem about getting the grass to grow. As the Week brilliantly predicted last Fall,
there is still no grass to be found on Badin Bog. It was only a matter of getting the hard mud ruts smoothened out a little before the informal twilight league would swing into form. As a matter of fact, several seasoned outfielders announced that they preferred the early part of the season as they lost fewer long fly-balls in the left field trees.
“Noisy Pneumatics’’
A pneumatic air-hammer is an especially emphatic, loud-sounding machine employed in most contemporary sidewalk destruction and construction. From the viewpoint of contractor and laborer, it is a noble instrument capable of a glorious amount of noise and utility. Local college instructors do not hold the instrument in such esteem.
Now that the Spring construction activity is upon us, the chattering of the air-hammers must be with us, too. In the face of the steady rat-tat-tat-tat, an instructor may
(a)	throw himself to the ground in desperation, pretending that the noise emanated from a machine gun which has wounded a mig grievously;
(b)	try to outshout it;
(c)	dismiss class.
The noise really disturbs only the instructor, as many students claim the noise emitted by the teacher and the chatter created by the air-hammer are indistinguishable anyhow.
Bottom of The Week
... is 2,000 pledges short.
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
PIZZA SPAGHETTI FRIED CHICKEN Every day but Sunday
You’re always welcome at...
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
‘SCHOLASTIC’ GETS TOP
honors
The Scholastic was recently awarded All-American honors by the Associated Collegiate Press of the National Scholastic Press Association for the first semester of the 1952-53 school year.
Every semester a critical survey ' of college news magazines and papers is conducted by this group, and ratings are awarded to the various publications to aid them in producing better, more comprehensive papers and magazines.
By the use of scorebooks, every phase of a publication—> news, features, editorials, sports, —is evaluated with suggestions presented concerning each.
The “All-American’’ citation is the highest award of its kind in this critical analysis system.
THAT REAU
DESERVES A ROOT
OVER IT—OR
he who hesitates sleeps in the station
Once a Smart Sophomore named Herman trekked to a Big City for a Big Weekend. So did thousands of other People. (Big convention in town.) Thus, arriving at the hotel of his Choice, Herman found a Line stretching from here to There up to the Room Clerk. He was dismayed to hear the clerk bellow to Number One Man in Line: “only ten rooms left.” Herman counted the Heads in line. Thirty heads.
Grey cells seething, our Hero detached himself from the Group and scurried to the Western Union desk across the lobby. “I want to send a Fast Telegram to the room clerk.” he said. “Where?” queried the Girl. “That one, right there,” said he, pointing. The Girl nodded ...
Two hours later, refreshed by a Lavish Dinner, Herman again ambled into the Lobby. No crowd. Confidently he confronted the Man Behind the Register. “You have a room for me,” he said, “I wired ahead for a reservation ...”
A very Nice Room it was. too.
Lining up reservations is an easy Trick for Telegrams ... and one they do well. They are equally efficient at tapping the Resources of a Reluctant Parent, setting up a Meaningful Meeting, flashing Good News about Grades, or saying Something Nice to Someone Nifty. For any-type Communique, your words Mean More by Western Union.
105 N. Main St.
Telephone	3-6101
April 17, 1953
5
Micro tomic
APRIL 17
CARTIER FIELD (3:30)—Notre Dame’s win-happy nine takes on the University of Illinois.
ERSKINE COUNTRY CLUB (9-1)—The local Knights of Columbus go stepping to the music of Don Gels and his band.
AVON (two more days)—Barbara Stanwyck, an old hand at emoting, does well in the implausible Jeopardy (B), but Ralph Meeker as the killer outdoes her.
COLFAX’ (through April 29)—Hollywood rewrites the Bible into a burlesque show with Salome (B), alias Rita Hayworth. We still prefer the original version—of the story, that is.
PALACE (one week)—Ma & Pa Kettle on Vacation (A-l) is a prophetic title. The Marjorie Main-Percy Kilbride duet may drop the Kettles before they go to pot. Blades of the Musketeers at least adds variety to the program.
APRIL 18
NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL (11:30)—The Science Fair will feature a color movie on Glass for Science. Synthetic rubber and aluminum will be the subject of two more films at 2 p.m.
CARTIER FIELD (2:30)—Baseball again—a rematch with the Illini.
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM is the busiest spot on the campus’s busiest day of the year. Juniors and their visiting parents can view movies on “life at Notre Dame” from 4:30 to 6, while the Tri-Regional Conference on Inter-American Action will convene there at 3 and again in the evening.
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30, 6:20, 8:30)—Clifton Webb drops Belvedere in favor of Sousa in Stars & Stripes Forever. There’ll be a Brazil travelogue, too.
PALAIS ROYALE (8:30)—The Student Senate continues its Spring hops with music by Gels. With your activities card, one buck.
CHOW—excuse us—DINING HALL (7:15)—“Dinnah with the President” for the juniors and their bill-payers, with the Glee Club to aid digestion, will cap Parents-Sons Day.
APRIL 19
DRILL HALL (8:15)—Famed Violinist Isaac Stern will be featured soloist in a concert by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra.
AVON (a three-day filler)—Claudette Colbert tries her luck with a British film, Outpost in Malaya (A-2).
RIVER PARK (three days)—Another emoter, Olivia de Haviland, in the film version of the best-seller, My Cousin Rachel (A-2). With it: Has Anybody Seen My Gal?
APRIL 20
WASHINGTON HALL (6:30 and 8:40)—The Foreign Film Series goes Spanish with Alla en el Rancho Grande, which we think means Gone in a Great Big Ranch. Anyway, it’s a musical romance in color. Admission: two bits.	.
APRIL 22
CARTIER FIELD—Notre Dame faces another Big Ten team, Wisconsin.
RIVER PARK (four days)—The River is an excellent British film about a family in India. Hollywood’s contribution to the color double bill is Hangman’s Knot (A-2) with Randy Scott. .	.
AVON (one week)—The Girls of Pleasure Island is “the misleading title of this actually quite proper island romance.” We don’t know about the girls but the movie’s a big bust.
The preferenee of leading Engineers and Draftsmen
Microtomic^ the finest example of research in drawins pencils. Designed to stand the most rigid drafting room comparisons. Test them today!
Only Microtomic offers you
HI-DENSITY LEADS
Lines are absolutely opaque to actinic rays.
ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM
Every Microtomic of the same degree marking is identical.	.
NEW DUSK GRAY
Professional men acclaim it the best color for a drawing pencil.
BULL'S EYE DEGREE MARKING Easier to read — easier to find — positive identification.
ALSO
Choice of holders and Microtomic leads.
EBERHARD
FABER
TRADE MARKS REOzU. S. PAT. OFF.
Earn *1000 this summer
Investigate this opportunity -for summer employment with a Marshall Field owned organization. Many college men and women have found this a profitable and pleasant occupation working in or near their home cities. Complete training given.
A representative will be on campus Tuesday April 28 to interview students. Openings are available in or near your own home city. Mr. Smith will be in the Placement Office on April 28 •from 9 to 12 and 2 to 4. Group meetings will be held at 9, 10, 2 and 3 o’clock, and all interested students should attend one of these meetings. Individual interviews will be scheduled for those who will not be able to attend the group meetings.
The Scholastic
6
Vol. 94 April 17, 1953 No. 21
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE PATRICK C. CARRICO .................News
FRED C. ECKART __________Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE _________Features
JOHN F. SAND _____________________Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ..............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bosse, Dick Callaghan, Jerry Campbell, Irv Carrig, Doug Cole, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Tom Hartzell, Jim Mason, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Tom Caplet, John Cywiniski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine. FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Maliason, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier. CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
No Blood, or No Guts?
What’s the matter with 3000 Notre Dame “Men?”
As we go to press only slightly over 2000 students have pledged to donate a pint of blood in the forthcoming blood drive. Only approximately one-third of that number have had the necessary parental permission slips signed. Thus, with the blood-letting starting in 17 days, there are enough pledges to keep the Red Cross busy only one day—they’ll be here five days.
It’s a puzzlement! The Notre Dame student has always seemed to enjoy being in the national limelight. When people pour into South Bend to see the football Irish uphold a long tradition of fight, spirit, and victory, he cheers himself hoarse to prove that he’s chock full of that nebulous, exalted quality, the Notre Dame Spirit.
Notre Dame is again in the national spotlight in this blood drive, a matter which might be construed as more important than a football game. Everyone connected with supplying blood is watching, because 3000 pints is the largest quota ever set for a single donation period—not this year, not in Indiana, but anywhere since people started bottling blood. Harvard is watching, because it claims to have deposed us as collegiate blood donor champs. A national magazine, famed for photographers and missing-teeth detectives, might also be watching. And every mother with a son in Korea or a polio-stricken child will be figuratively in the cheering section.
These not-so-conscientious objectors defy analysis. It couldn’t be that they are afraid of a needleprick: everyday they sardine their way into buses without fear and put their lives in the hands of NIT drivers. It couldn’t be that they feel underprivileged; everyone here has deferred draft status. It couldn’t be that they have no blood; even in grade school we were told that Notre Dame Men are the epitome of red-bloodedness. It couldn’t be that they are too busy: just look around you. It couldn’t be that the men who set an intercollegiate pledge record last year have all graduated; there were over 3000 of them.
Maybe they think giving blood isn’t important.. Granted, it won’t make the world safe for democracy, but helping to save a human life is still one of the most noble and rewarding acts around. Could there possibly be 3000 people here who wouldn’t walk a block to save a life?
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVEE: Some seniors say the things they like best about Notre Dame are weekends away from the University. Events like Joe Van Devere’s weekend at Marygrove College in Detroit illustrate this fact completely and adequately. Cover picture and those on pages 17, 18, and 19 were taken by Bob Huddleston, who also enjoyed the weekend.
Looking Over An Investment
The Scholastic wishes to extend a hearty welcome to all parents who will be attending the Parents-Son Day here tomorrow, and also to congratulate the juniors for their initiative.
When this event was first announced, many of us were a bit skeptical. We thought that such festivities would be more successful in the Fall on a football weekend. This could serve as the drawing card and the weekend could be built around it.
After a little thought, however, making a football game the drawing card might defeat the whole purpose. This way the parents are here entirely because they want to get a good look at their son’s school, and the University can devote all its energies to them.
Tomorrow the parents will be seeing the everyday Notre Dame, not the festive Notre Dame of football Saturdays. They will meet the teachers and administrators, and will even eat in the Dining Hall with their sons, we are told.
Again, welcome, and thanks to everyone who is helping the “stockholders” to appraise their investment.
April 17, 1953
7
Anyone here named “Cannonball” Frobisher?
Bases full. Fat part of the opposition batting order coming up. The manager needs a new pitcher —fast!
So he did what most everybody does in an emergency —reached for the telephone. It connects bull pen and dugout. “Cannonball” was elected to put out the fire.
Ever wonder why people place so much faith in telephones in time of emergency? It’s because they know it is dependable —a real friend.
This dependability is a tribute to the men and women of the Bell System. They are forever working on new ideas or improving old ones to give the nation the best telephone service in the world.
The interesting and rewarding work they do could be yours as well. Your Placement Officer will be happy to give you details about the many opportunities for employment in the Bell System.
Bell Telephone System
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Blood Drive Lags by 2z000 Pledges
Leaders Devise New
Juniors Dust Spots and Tails for April 24
Ways to Sign Donors Dance Edition of 'Lamplighter's Serenade*
“The whole nation is watching the Notre Dame blood drive, because never before have 3,000 pints of blood been taken in one such drive anywhere in the country.”
Mr. Blair Bronstad, executive director of the South Bend Red Cross, has thus sounded the battle cry for Notre Dame’s second consecutive record try. He also announced that plans have been completed providing facilities for taking over 3,000 pints of blood, which total will make Notre Dame national champs for a single donation period.
However, coupled with this encouraging and inspiring announcement is the statement of the drive leaders that pledges are lagging seriously. No cause had been determined for the apparent apathy toward the drive, but the leaders stressed that almost 2,000 pledges must still be obtained if the 3,000 pint total is to be realized before the drive opens May 4—17 days hence.
Latest figures show only slightly more than 2,000 pledges received. Only approximately one-third of these are accompanied by parental permission slips, necessary for all those under 21.
Student blood bosses have set their sights on a pledge total of 4,000 to allow for medical rejections and other contingencies. So far the residence halls have averaged only 40-50% of their students pledged, and the off-campus students have barely been-heard from.
Recognizing the difficulty in reaching off-campus students, the drive leaders plan to establish pledge sites in the Dining Hall lobby and possibly at the circle. Another proposal is to have off-campus students get pledge cards from their professors. Meanwhile, off-campus students are urged to obtain blood pledge cards in 17 Sorin and sign them immediately.
Under a “Lamplighter’s Serenade” atmosphere, the junior class will present its annual promenade next Friday in the converted Rockne Memorial.
John Reidy, decorations chairman for the dance, has announced that Buddy Morrow and his band will be on hand to supply their danceable strains in an atmosphere reminiscent of the gay ’90’s.
The dance, which extends from 9:30 until 1:30, will take place in a setting of an 1890 park scene, complete with stone wall and an old fashioned country bandstand.
Old fashioned street lamps, soft lighting and a false blue ceiling supply the outdoor theme. Under the light of the lamps will be scenes in each of the corners of the ballroom adding to the setting.
THE DECORATIONS COMMITTEE IN A FORMAL MOMENT
Their job: To Convert “Rock” into an 1890 Park
Reidy has also announced that additional effects for the park atmosphere are to be contributed.
Buddy Morrow and his band will play from the community type, canopied bandstand, added to form a part of the atmosphere.
Soft drinks and a place to “sit one out” will be provided in the light and heavy apparatus rooms. Designated as the Blue and Rose Rooms, the walls will be covered by the appropriate colors.
The sun deck, weather permitting, will serve as an additional attraction to those in search of a more pleasing scene. Another setting in the Lamplighter’s and park motif will adorn the converted sun deck.
Working under Reidy on. the decora-(Continued on Page 33)
April 17, 1953
9
SAVE A LIFE
DeCrane, Buckley, Reedy, Finney Named Senior Recipients of Annual 'Dome' Tributes
The winners of the 1953 Dome Awards, which are annually presented to four- outstanding seniors by the Notre Dame yearbook staff, have been officially announced by Fran Meaney, editor of this year’s Dome.
Tom Reedy, Al DeCrane, Ernie Buckley, and Bob Finney were chosen by an eight-man committee comprised of leaders from the various campus societies.
These four candidates, considered the outstanding members of the graduat-
TOM REEDY
AL DECRANE
ing class, were chosen on the basis of their academic record and contribution to the student body and to the University.
Serving as the president of the Student Senate for the last year, Tom Reedy has especially distinguished himself by initiating the drive for the new Student Center and by putting the Student Senate on a sound financial basis.
In past years, Reedy has been equally active in campus activities. He was elected president of his freshman class and vice-president of his sophomore class. During ’51-’52, he acted as secretary of the old Student Council and played a major role in the revision of Notre Dame’s student government.
The TFAo’s IF Ao in American Colleges for this year will include a write-up on Reedy who is also a former member of the Blue Circle. He will be graduated with a B.S. from the College of Commerce in June.
A native of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, Al DeCrane will be graduated magna cum laude from the College of Arts and Letters. As salutatorian of his class, DeCrane delivered one of the major addresses of the year at the Washington Day Exercises.
During his senior year, DeCrane served as president of the Debate Team, and was honored by having his name appear in Who’s Who in American Colleges. In 1952, he won the National Singles Debate Championship.
DeCrane is also an active member of the Blue Circle and a former delegate to the NFCCS; during his freshman year, he acted as secretary of the class.
Ernie Buckley, hailing from Portland, Me., has made his contributions to the University primarily through work in the Blue Circle of which he is chair. man this year. One of the organizers of the Kampus Keglers, he is now president of the organization in addition to being president of the Irish Club.
Buckley is also included in the 1953 TF/io’s Who in American Colleges. Last year he was the Index Editor of the Dome.
Having majored in business administration here, Buckley will be graduated cum laude from the College of Commerce in June.
ERNIE BUCKLEY
BOB FINNEY
The editor of the Scholastic, Bob Finney from Kansas City, Mo., will be graduated magna cum laude in electrical engineering. He is included in the Who’s Who in American Colleges for 1953 and the recipient of the Engineer of the Year Award annually presented to the leading man in his college.
Besides holding a General Electric Engineering Scholarship, Finney is a regular in the -NROTC, and won the University Navigation Award in his junior year. This year, he was chosen one of the ten top senior engineers in the national NROTC command.
Finney was honored with the Chicago Tribune Naval Science Award and is also a member of the Concert and Lecture Advisory Committee.
GIVE A NNT OF BLOOD

10
The Scholastic

BREAK HARVARD'S RECORD
Tour, Movies and Dinner Will Color Initial Parents-Son Day on Notre Dame Campus
Three hundred Notre Dame parents will join their sons in the junior class on campus tomorrow morning to inaugurate the first Parents-Son Day in the history of Notre Dame.
Parents from as far away as Oregon to the west and Texas and Florida on the south will attend the series of campus events beginning with registration in the lobby of the Morris Inn at 8 a.m.
Members of the Blue Circle Honorary Society will conduct morning tours throughout the campus, affording the parents first-hand sight of the newly completed Nieuwland Science Hall,
Law College Preregistration For June Class Ends Today
Today is the last day for preregistration in the College of Law for all those enrolling in the forthcoming Summer and Fall Sessions. All eligible students wishing to be admitted to the Summer Session commencing June 19, and the Fall Semester commencing September 14, must have preregistered before today.
Those students eligible for admission to the College of Law must be seniors who will graduate in June, 1953, or juniors with the following requirements: only those juniors will be admitted who have secured the required semester hours of credit in the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, Commerce or Engineering of the University of Notre Dame in a prescribed combination course. Recent regulation changes will enable students under the combination program to obtain two degrees in six continuous years of studies.
All veterans who have had a minimum of three years of college work, all of which have been applied toward a degree, are also eligible for the Summer and Fall sessions. These men must have preregistered during the required period.
Any further information pertinent to enrollment in the College of Law can be obtained in Room 108 of the Law Building.
Fisher Hall, and the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, along with a tour of the famed LOBUND Institute.
At noon the parents “with tray in hand” will join their sons for a typical noon-time meal in the Notre Dame Dining Hall.
A variety of events will be offered the parents in the afternoon: the golf course will be open to fathers and sons; receptions will be held in each of the colleges with the deans and faculty members; a baseball game is set between the University of Illinois and Notre Dame at Cartier Field (2:30 p.m.) ; and movies of campus life and the “Football Highlights of 1952” will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium at 4:30 p.m.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh will be the main speaker at the president’s dinner at 6:45 p.m. in the University Dining Hall. James J. Richards, Berwyn, Ill., president of the Junior Class, will be toastmaster. Musical selections will be rendered by the Notre Dame Glee Club.
Costs for the Parents-Son Day will be $1 per person for the luncheon, and 82 for the dinner.
Parents desiring to remain Saturday night may make reservations at the
MR. AL N. SEARES “Opportunities Unlimited”
Morris Inn. On Sunday morning, a section’ of Sacred Heart Church will be reserved for parents and their sons at the 9 o’clock Mass.
The project will be handled jointly by the Junior Class and the University administration with Thomas W. Carroll of the University’s Department of Public Relations acting as supervisor.
Seares, Weiss Talk ; At ND Sales Meeting
Mr. Al N. Seares, vice-president of Remington Rand, Inc., New York City, and Mr. Edward H. Weiss, president of Weiss and Geller, Inc., Chicago advertising agency, will address 400 midwest advertising and sales officials at the first annual Advertising and Sales Conference to be held here next Thursday.
Seares will speak on “Sales Management Opportunities Unlimited.” A member of the board of National Sales Executives, he will present a charter in the organization to the Merchandisers Club of the St. Joseph Valley, which has joined with the University and the Advertising Federation of America in sponsoring the conference.
Weiss has chosen as his topic “New Approaches to Ideas.” He was pioneer in the application of social sciences to advertising, in addition to establishing a social science library at his advertising agency.
Mr. William K. Beard, Jr., president of Associated Business Publications, New York City, will be the conference keynote speaker. He has chosen as his topic “Advertising Responsibilities Today and Tomorrow.”
Mr. Meyer Kestnbaum, president of Hart, Schaffner and Marx, Chicago, and chairman of the Committee for Economic Development, will speak at the banquet session of the conference. His topic will be “Management’s Plan for the Future.” He will be introduced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Kestnbaum joined Hart, Schaffner and Marx in 1921 after receiving a degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. He became president of the company in 1941.
Conference sessions will be held at the Law Auditorium, Engineering Auditorium, and the Morris Inn. G. Herbert Time, assistant professor of marketing at the University, is conference chairman.
-----------------SIGN UP TODAY---------------
April 17, 1953
11
SAVE A LIFE
NFCCS Throng—300 Strong-to Invade ND Tomorrow for Inter-American Conference
More than 300 young ladies, with a few fellows sprinkled in, will invade the campus tomorrow for the Inter-American Conference sponsored by the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
Held annually in observance of PanAmerican Day, the conference has for its objective the betterment of relations between the United States and the PanAmerican countries by achieving a fuller understanding of “the fellow on the other side of the border.”
A theme, “The Question of Central American Confederation,” has been selected for the conference, and will be developed in the various panels to be held tomorrow and Sunday.
Tomorrow’s activities will begin with registration in the Engineering Building at 2 p.m., which will be followed by a general session in the Auditorium, at ■ 3 o’clock. A panel will welcome the guests and set the purposes to be achieved by the conference. Sister Laurine, O.P., of Siena Heights College, Adrian, Mich., will serve on the panel along with Dr. George Prieto, M.D., and Prof. John J. Kennedy of the Department of Political Science here.
The delegates are free to take advantage of the campus tours following the discussion until 5:15, when supper will be served in the Cafeteria.
Evening activities will start with the usual Saturday night movie in Washington Hall at 6:15. A dance will close the day, lasting from 8:15 to 11:45. The YCS has a limited number of tickets and dates available for the affair; tickets are 50 cents.
Sunday’s activities will begin with Mass and Communion at 8:30. The sermon will be delivered by Rev. James E. Norton. C.S.C. Breakfast will follow in the Cafeteria and then the delegates will move to the Law Building, where panels will be held.
Three general topics will be open to the delegates. Cardinal Stritch College, Milwaukee, Wis., will conduct a panel on “Historical Aspects” with colonial days, independence, and modern times as the chief subjects of discussion. A panel on “Economic Development” will trace the advancement of Guatemala, Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and
Costa Rica, economically, and set forth the advantages of a union of these states. St. Francis College of Fort Wayne will lead the discussion.
The third panel under the direction of Siena Heights College will treat the “Social Aspects” which include: ethnological backgrounds, cultural activities, way of life, and education. Each college group has put extensive research into its subject in order to be able to present a complete and comprehensive picture of the situation.
Frosh Grab 360 Bids For 'Serenade in Sea'
Freshman Frolic ticket sales Manager Mike Kiley has announced that 360 bids for the May 1 dance were sold by Tuesday night, and he added that approximately 100 additional bids will probably be available to upperclassmen if the Freshman demand is satisfied before the weekend sales deadline.
Meanwhile, Dance Chairman Nick Mavigliano has begun to direct his efforts towards the decoration of the Rockne Memorial Gym. Ornamentation will follow a seaside motif in keeping with the Frolic’s theme, “Serenade in the Sea.”
Bob Kirk, who recently took over the baton of the Griff Williams orchestra
BOB KIRK
Launches Off Men of ’56
when its leader retired, will make his local debut at the annual Freshman affair.
The new maestro is a graduate of Northwestern University and during his college days was an active member of the NU band. After leaving school, Bob became affiliated with the aggregations of Charlie Straight, Barney Richards, Jim Garrigan, and Charles Gaylord.
Kirk explains his popularity with the devotees of dance music this way: “We have always striven to achieve the ulti- ’ mate in dance music and to attain the kind of rhythmic style that will appeal to all types of musical taste — Latin American, Viennese watzes, and American ballroom.”
The big Frosh weekend will be highlighted by the 9 to 1 Frolic on Friday night, followed by the Varsity-Old Timers football struggle at the Stadium on Saturday afternoon.
Brute Farce, the 1953 ND student musical, will also be presented over the weekend for the enjoyment of the couples. A Sunday morning Communion Breakfast for 90 couples at the Morris Inn will wind up the gala Freshman Frolic.
'Coronation Ball* Theme Rules St. Mary's Frosh Ball Tonight
St. Mary’s annual Freshman Formal will commence regally tonight at 8:30 in the Louis XIV Ballroom of LeMans Hall.
A “Coronation Ball” theme has been selected and authentic decorations provided for the royal occasion.
The coronation, a bit premature, will take place when Miss Eileen Hennessy, Prom chairman, is crowned queen by her date, Ray Moran, who is this year’s co-chairman of the Notre Dame Junior Prom. A grand march will follow the crowning.
Music for the affair will be provided by Johnny Lewis, currently engaged in Chicago.
An attendance of 200 couples is expected. Sister Mary Alma, dean of Freshmen; Sister Dolorosa, dean of Women; and Miss Chmiel will act as chaperones.
Assisting Miss Hennessy are Joanne Dunagan, decorations; Kathleen Kiley, bids; Jackie Smith, hostess; Abby Foley, refreshments; Jagoe Brown, finances; and Kay Dale, Marjorie Hempel, and Mary Carey, orchestra.
--------------;----------GIVE A PINT OF BLOOD------------------------------------
12	The Scholastic
--------------BREAK HARVARD'S RECORD--------------
Knights DanceTonight ToOpen Social Season
The Erskine Country Club’s knotty pine interior is the setting for the annual Knights of Columbus semi-formal dance tonight, where approximately 80 couples will dance to the music of Don Gels and his band. Two a.m. and car permissions have been granted for all knights and their guests who attend the dance.
Chairman Joe Sassano and his committeemen Joe Toole and Joe Clancy, tickets, and Jerry Smith, publicity, have pointed out that this is the first social event of the Spring. Sassano, a junior physical education major, hails from Stamford, Conn. He was chairman of the junior prom at Stamford High School. Toole, Clancy, and Smith are seniors active in the campus council of the K. of C.
Carl Fulnicki, past Grand Knight of the South Bend council, will be a guest at the dance. Other notables will include Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., local council chaplain, and Grand Knight Paul Rupp.
The weekend doesn’t end with the dance. There is a Communion breakfast in the upstairs dining room of the dining hall Sunday morning. Mass -will be at 8 a.m. in the Dillon Hall chapel. The breakfast is free. All knights are invited.
Sunday afternoon there is a second and third degree initiation at the Mishawaka council. It is the last third degree initiation of the year. Buses leave the circle at 12:30 p.m.
Kuskowski Bests Competition In Rambusch Design Contest
Jerome Kuskowski, a junior in the Department of Architecture, was recently awarded first prize of $50 in the 1953 Rambusch Contest. Project for the third and fourth year students competing in the contest was to design a chalice, a ciborium, and a monstrance.
The jury consisted of Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., Department of Religion; Paul J. Grillo; Robert J. Schultz; Vito A. Girone; Ernest H. Brandl; and Dr. Frank Montana, head of Notre Dame’s Department of Architecture.
The second place award of $35 went to David Miller.
LADIES OF ND IN DRESS REHEARSAL . . . “More than Eccentric”
One-Act Play Spices ND Ladies' Meeting
The Ladies of Notre Dame, a club composed of wives of faculty members, held its monthly meeting Tuesday afternoon, at which The Madwoman of Chaillot was performed by some of the members, and officers elected for the forthcoming year. The meeting was held in the Faculty Lounge.
Directed by John Tumpane of the Department of Speech, the one-act play concerned a number of overly eccentric old ladies who, for nothing better to do, wandered about talking to invisible people. The short drama was written by Jean Giradoux, and was adapted by Maurice Valency.
Mrs. Wayne Anderson played the title role, while Mrs. John Tracy, Mrs. Louis Bernard, Mrs. Milton Peach, and Mrs. William Burke supported her. Minor roles were held by Prof. Edward Cronin of the Department of English; Mrs. Alex Wilson; and Gene Kelly, a junior majoring in biology.
The new officers who will administer the affairs of the club are Mrs. William Shanahan, president; Mrs. Lawrence Stauder and Mrs. A. R. Caponigri, first and second vice-presidents; Mrs. Gustave Strandhagen, recording secretary; Mrs. Edward Dodson, corresponding secretary; Mrs. C. J. Fagan, treasurer; and Mrs. Roger’ Peters, parliamentarian. The immediate past president, Mrs.
'Brute Farce' Opening May I For Frolickers
The opening night of the coming student musical, Brute Farce, has been moved up to May 1 to supplement the activities of the Freshman Weekend. The show will now run from May 1-5 with a matinee on Sunday.
Tickets are priced at 50 and 75 cents, and $1.
Additions to the cast of 75 were announced recently by Walt Swift, scripwriter and well-known director. Jerry Godwin and Bill Bleakley have been added to abet the capers of the cast of campus comedians.
Jim Kinnane, choreographer for the show, has begun timing the dances and fitting, them in with the general scheme of each scene. “The girls are all right, but I’m beginning to wonder if some of our guys don’t have two left feet,” he said, regarding the dancers.
Swift is having no trouble developing the quasi-hoodlums for the show. “There’s a little of Dennis the Menace in all of us,” he said, philosophically. Joe Sassano, Frank and Martin Brennan, and Fred lonata are proving that they have a little to spare in this department for their roles as gangsters.
With the first curtain looming only two weeks hence, the players are feeling the stepped-up pace of the rehearsals. Hildegarde Vargyas, a veteran of quite a few performances around South Bend, has been urging everyone to “get busy or w'e will flop.” It is the general opinion around the evening rehearsals that she may be right, and the resulting bustle of activity can clearly be seen.
Don Gels’ Lettermen will get the nod from Swift in a few days, and the production will be coordinated with the band. The score for the Lettermen has been written by freshman Pat Tobin.
Richard Thompson, will remain in an advisory capacity.
Mrs. Richard Burke will represent the University Administration on the Executive Board. Other members of the Board are Mrs. Vincent Smith, College of Arts and Letters; Mrs. Joseph Miller, Commerce; Mrs. Frank Montana, Engineering; Mrs. Edward Barrett, Law; and Mrs. Bernard Waldman, Science. All represent the colleges of which their husbands are Faculty members.
SIGN UP TODAY
April 17, 1953
13
--------------------SAVE A LIFE
'Operation Chowhall' Gets Big Shakedown As Student Complaints Blast Many Abuses
BY PAUL. FULLMER
—and at this point, nothing seems to have been accomplished.”
The courtesy angle has long been a favorite “beef” among the Chow Hall patrons. Those few who wish to digest their portions are continually pressed to relinquish their positions to the next
Line cutting—long waits—smoking— rudeness—quality of food, and so the gripes go.
With the advent of Spring, student complaints concerning various phases of operation in the Dining Hall have risen across the campus.
Although the hours of serving have been altered slightly this year, ever-increasing violations are prevalent and the student body has slowly passed the simmering mark.
The complaints run the gauntlet from evident disgust to utter indifference. George Riordan of Cavanaugh Hall feels that, “It has become not only a privilege, but the right of anyone and everyone around here to break in line in front of any fellow whose first name they happen to know. Cutting in is OK for the sake of companionship—never as a time-saver. The old ‘the line forms in the rear’ gives everyone a fair break.”
TYPICAL SCENE IN CHOW HALL
Line-Crasher Spots Opening, Moves in for Kill
An anonymous statement contends that the crux of the matter lies with the athletes. The contributor acridly relates that, “The worst offenders are the athletes or so-called athletes. They should wait in line like the rest of us.”
A recent Scholastic carried a letter from Bob Karlsberger, a resident of Alumni, who believes the efficiency and courtesy of the Dining Hall employees leaves much to be desired. He asks directly, “Now who is serving whom?”
So far the Dining Hall situation has been a favorite between-class topic of the vociferous critics at the Huddle and other campus debating spots. Student Senate committees have been appointed to investigate the alleged violations of etiquette and management in the past.
The typical comment to these perennial investigations, commissions, and reports is aptly expressed by Joe Hegner, of Cavanaugh. “A lot’s been said by angry students since the start of school
wave of diners. This “give us a chance” attitude is especially apparent when the side tables are left unused, and as a result the others are crowded and sometimes improperly cleaned.
Those veterans who file slowly to the front fondly recall the faster service of the army crews. There is also wide consternation at the “continual grumbling of the student servers and their seeming indifference to the job.”
Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, has announced that, “There is nobody more aware or who feels more strongly concerning these abuses than myself, and I sympathize with those who are being delayed by the line crashers. I believe, however, that the disposition of the matter lies in the hands of the students, and not primarily upon my office.”
Father McCarragher also has expressed himself in an official notice to be against place-saving in line, smoking in the Dining Hall, the loaning of meal card, and the refusal to present I-D and meal cards.
Throughout this labyrinth of charges, countercharges, etc., Freshman Jim Callahan of Zahm expressed complete disregard.
Jim quipped, “No comments!”
*53 Bengal Bouts Attract Largest Gate in History
The 1953 version of the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts turned out to be one of the most successful stagings ever held. Promoter George McCourt estimates that the net profits will total around $5000 in comparison to last year’s net of $4500. The exact sum will not be known until around May 1 when the books will be closed.
“The large turnout resulted from the large-scale promotion campaign which was conducted downtown,” McCourt said. Student response generally was poor. The NCAA playoffs and the Marriage Institute talks were the’ two factors that kept many of the students away from the Bengals. However, despite the competition the fights drew more fans than in ’52.
-----------------------GIVE A PINT OF BLOOD----------------------------------
14	The Scholastic
BREAK HARVARD'S RECORD
ATTENTION JUNIORS!
All those who have exchanged ownership of prom bids, contact Jack Rosshirt in 416 Walsh before Wednesday noon, April 22, to clarify late residence hall permissions.
Fr. Gabriel to Talk At Mediaeval Meet
Rev. Astrik L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute, will be a featured speaker at the 28th annual meeting of the Mediaeval Academy of America in New York City today and tomorrow. Father Gabriel will give an illustrated address on “Miniatures Illustrating the Mediaeval University Matricula” tomorrow morning at The Cloisters Museum, Fort Tryon Park.
Among other mediaeval scholars who will present papers during the two-day sessions are S. Harrison Thomson, University of Colorado; William A. Nitze, University of California (Los Angeles); Sidney Painter, Johns Hopkins University; Lynn Thorndike, Columbia University; and Eirik Vandvik, University of Oslo.
An authority on the early universities, Father Gabriel will describe the artistic and symbolical ornamentation of the official books of the mediaeval institutions. The matricula was an official book in which the students inscribed their names when registering. The matricula and the statute books, which contained the university regulations that students swore to uphold, often were liberally illustrated with colorful representations of student life in the Middle Ages.
Father Gabriel will soon publish the records of the University of Paris on the accounts of the English-German nation.’ He collected the material in European archives and worked on it while a member of the Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton, N. J., in 1950-51, and since then at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute is a center for specialized research, historical investigations, and advanced instruction in the life, thought and culture of the Middle Ages. It offers the Master’s degree and doctorate in mediaeval studies.
ND Blue Circle Names Tuesday Deadfine For Officer and College Senator Nominations
Tuesday will mark the last opportunity for the filing of nominations for the positions of class officers and college senators with the Blue Circle election chairman.
No nominations will be considered after Tuesday for the election of officers of the 1953-54 sophomore, junior, and senior classes which is scheduled for May 5 in the Dining Hall. The class positions that will be contested are president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer.
This schoolyear has witnessed the initial participation of college senators in the Student Senate activities. Five new college senators will be elected, one each from the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Commerce, Engineering, Science, and Off Campus. The law senator will be elected individually by the law students.
For those aspiring to a class office, a scholastic average of 80 or above, and a clear disciplinary record are required. A college senator must possess an average above 85 and a spotless disciplinary record.
Although nominations have been received throughout the past two weeks, the election committee has announced that there is still time for party tickets to be nominated. Application by party
REV. A. L. GABRIEL
Artistic and Symbolic
is encouraged by the placing of parties at the top of the ballot. All independent candidates will be listed at the bottom of the ballot.
It has been pointed out by the election committee that when a party is nominated, a name for the ticket must be included along with the names of the members and their respective offices. These rules must be complied with if the nomination is to be considered.
College senators, however, will not be permitted to run on a party ticket. They must be nominated and campaign as independents. Any party affiliation will nullify their application. Any man in a particular college, regardless of class, is eligible to ran for the senatorship of that college.
Nominations for all candidates must be made by mail to Election Chairman, 208 Walsh Hall. Any further information desired concerning eligibility, nominations, or other election regulations can be obtained at the above address.
The Blue Circle, campus honorary organization, will conduct the elections as it has done in the past. Student I.D. cards are a requisite for voting, as they will be needed in voting for senator and in the checking of records.
ND Grad Dempsey Chosen For Yale Moot Court Finalist
William H. Dempsey, Jr., a Notre Dame graduate of 1952, has been selected as a finalist in the annual Moot Court session at the Yale University School of Law.
While attending Notre Dame, Mr. Dempsey was a member of the debating team and the WND staff. He was the highest ranking senior in the graduating class, and was elected to “Who’s W’ho Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.”
With one partner and an alternate, Dempsey will argue for the steel companies in the case of Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company vs. Sawyer.
This was the highly controversial steel seizure dispute of 1952, in which former President Harry S. Truman ordered Secretary of Commerce Charles Sawyer to take over the steel mills to prevent a strike.
----■-------------------SIGN UP TODAY----------------------------
April 17, 1953	_____ 15

Science Show, Chariot Race Highlight Second Annual Engineering Open House Next Week
In recognition of the 101st year of engineering in the United States the Notre Dame College of Engineering will present its Second Annual Open House next Friday and Saturday.
The weekend festivities will begin at 2 p.m. on Friday with a science novelty show in the Engineering Auditorium by R.C.A. Concluding the Open House at 1 p.m. on Saturday will be something out of the ordinary around the ND campus—chariot races.
Along with these two events will be the usual Saturday night Student Senate dance at the Palais Royale. The dance will be sponsored by the College of Engineering with the good wishes of the Student Council.
Gene Zimpfer, chairman of the Open House, states that the affair is being sponsored by the Student Engineering Advisory Board to display the various types of engineering carried on at ND to the local high school students, interested people from the South Bend area, and students on campus. Participating will be the seven departments within the College, and the Army Corps of Engineers.
Festivities get under way Friday with Dean of Engineering, Karl E. Schoen-herr, opening the afternoon program with a short talk and introduction for the R.C.A. novelty science show.
After this, guided tours of exhibits and displays constructed by the various departments will stem from the lobby of the Engineering Building. The Friday tours will be primarily for high school students, while the Saturday morning tours—from 10 until 1—are open to the public.
At 5:15 p.m. Friday, movies of the chariot races and Open House activities will be shown in the Engineering auditorium.
The Rome of Nero, Ciro, and Pogo will come to life on campus Saturday as a parade of seven chariots proceeds to roll toward the road west of the Stadium.
There will be at least seven time trials, a semi-final race, the championship run, and the booby prize for consolation effort. The winning driver will receive a handsome gold trophy, and some sort of congratulations for his two very tired “horses.” The department sponsoring the best-designed and best-looking chariot will be' given a smaller trophy.
Another trophy will also be awarded for the best departmental display de
16
picting a particular field of engineering. An added attraction to the displays will be a scale model of the Chicago waterway system made by the Army Corps of Engineers.
Assisting Zimpfer in staging the various activities are: Dick Lyon, chariot races; Bob Wagner and Neil Scarlett, tours; Jim Loonam, program; Jack Nashert, publicity; Ken Stead and Bill Carson, information and publications; and Lee Brockway, decorations.
Center Profits $11,800 From '53 Mardi Gras
Net profit from the 1953 Mardi Gras came to $11,807.78, according to Jim Britt, finanical chairman of the fundraising festival. Britt and Mardi Gras General Chairman Brian Kelly presented their reports before the Student Senate Monday night’s meeting.
The approximate proceeds from the Mardi Gras activities were $189 from the jazz concert, $577 from the Mardi Gras ball, $3,711 from the three-day carnival, and $7,097 from the sale on the auto.
Although the Mardi Gras committee lost $77.25 on an informal dance jointly sponsored with the Senate, an unexpected income of $310 was received from the bank. Last year’s Mardi Gras committee had neglected to withdraw that amount from its account.
The top booth at the carnival was the Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club which grossed $1,042.60. Second place went to the Commerce Forum with $818.40, and the Chicago Club with $585.
The proceeds will be allocated to the proposed Student Center in the Old Science Building.
Acting upon a suggestion by Kelly, the Senate voted to appoint the 1954 Mardi Gras Chairman before the end of the present semester. Kelly and his aides were asked to recommend capable men for the' job.
“There’s no reason,” Kelly said, “why the Mardi Gras can’t realize a profit of $25,000.” He laid the failure to reach that amount this year to a late start in preparations (the committee was not formed until November) and to competition from other student activities at carnival time, including a basketball game in Chicago.
Kelly hoped that such conflicts could be avoided in the future by earlier Senate action on the Mardi Gras. -
Kohn’s 'Pan-Slavism' ND Press Releases
All the problems which the West faces today with Russia and its Slav satellite nations are brought into focus in PanSlavism: Its History and Ideology by Hans Kohn which was published recently by the University of Notre Dame Press.
This fascinating story of Slav nationalism is the sixth in a series of international studies sponsored by Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations.
Many quotations from great Slav thinkers and writers are being published for the first time in English in Kohn’s book, giving American readers a better understanding of the complex? relationships between Russia, its satellites, and the West.
Nationalism, in Professor Kohn’s opinion, is the decisive factor in modern history. A native of Prague, he was a Russian prisoner in Siberia during World War I and later spent a number of years in Paris and London and almost a decade in Jerusalem, where he wrote several books on the national movements of the Middle East.
Seniors Rush Ball Plans; Seek Dates, Bids, Tuxes
With the Senior Ball only three weeks away, an unusual amount of hustle can be detected in the class of ’53. Some men are still searching for dates, others for bids, and most for money to carry them through the final fling socially before graduation.
The Ball Committee, too, is speeding-up operations. The decorators are on daily duty, the program has gone to press, and Co-Chairmen Jim Pfohl and George Higgins are busy consoling all who failed to get one of the 610 bids sold for the May 8 formal.
Speaking of formal attire, white dinner jackets are running slightly ahead of the midnight blue tuxes in popularity, according to Logan’s, tuxedo headquarters for the ball-goers. ‘
A special discount on dress suits is available to seniors. A double-breasted midnight blue tux (coat and pants) rents for $5.50, while the single-breasted model with satin collar is two dollars more. White jackets (with dark trousers), single or double-breasted, are $7.50. Shirt, tie, suspenders, and jewelry may be leased for $1, shoes for $1.50. The suit prices have been substantially reduced from last year.
Discount cards for suit rental may be had from Seniors Jack Dilenschneider, Gerry Voit, or Walt Werner.
The Scholastic
RIGHT: Rita and Joe, after the customary signing oui-, are off for a sightseeing tour of the Motor City.

Weekend
at Mary grove
Photos by Bob Huddleston
desk, too.
much different from for women Joe is . . It has a reception
Marygrove isn’t another college acquainted with.
Taking a weekend isn't without its disadvantages. . . The first is the cost of transportation. . . And that's only the beginning.
Marygrove College, no strange name to many Notre Dame men, is a Liberal Arts school for over six hundred young women in Detroit, Michigan. Like Rosary, St. Mary’s of the Woods, or even our own St. Mary’s, a weekend at Marygrove can be a pleasant affair. Acknowledging the kind hospitality of Marygrove in these pages is Joe Van Devere who with his date, Rita Hoefer, spent a weekend at Marygrove. Perhaps there is no such thing as a “typical” Notre Dame man, or a “typical" Marygrove girl, but you can follow Joe and Rita on their weekend date and form your own opinion.
ABOVE: Rita invited Joe to lunch at the Marygrove cafeteria; Joe would testify to the adage ‘‘Excellent cuisine and pleasant surroundings."
BELOW: After lunch relaxation was found in the recreation room, and despite the fact that Joe is nc George Shearing, there's nothing like music and song.
ABOVE: With the Liberal Arts building in the background, Rita and Joe take a Iasi stroll around campus. .
Senate-Inspired Drive for Student Union Stimulated by Student Design Competition
The plan will remain substantially as • pictured, although minor changes might be made in the potential, formerly very elusive, Student Senate.
BY VAL CHUN
Publicity Chairman, Student Senate
After several futile attempts at renovating the Old Science Building, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., announced that the building would be turned over to the students to be used as a Student Union.
To date, little has been accomplished in spite of such fund-raising attempts as the Vetville Baked Goods Contest and the Mardi Gras, although the building itself has been cleared.
After the idea was disclosed, the Student Senate was given the task of completing the project. A committee, headed by Mr. Francesca Montana, head of the Architecture Department, was organized to prepare the plans and investigate the problems of equipping such a Student Union.
Mr. R. J. Schultz headed a contest of fourth year architecture students who competitively redesigned the building. According to the results of the contest, which were announced prior to the Easter vacation, Robert Karlsberger of Columbus, Ohio, was awarded “First” by Mr. Montana and a Board of Judges. A close “second” was awarded Thomas H. Stahl of Madison, S. D. Judgment of the contest was made under consider
ation of competition regulations and beauty of design.
According to architect Karlsberger’s plan, the building will undergo a complete change. The “well” or opening between the first and second floors will be filled. Another addition will be the installation of collapsible walls in several of the meeting rooms on the second floor which will provide a dance floor for a maximum of 500 couples.
The present enclosed court in the center of the building will be made into a terrace accessible from the main lounge. This has been indicated as a permanent lounge and lobby in the present blueprint. The north section of the building on the first and second floors will house the offices of many of the campus organizations, while the east section on the second floor will provide meeting rooms for the different geographical and other campus clubs.
Subordinate lounges will border the main lounge and study on the second floor.
The interior will be of the latest styling. The ceilings will be lowered and surfaced with acoustical ceiling tile with recessed lighting.
Senior Grozier Proxies ND
At National Econ Conference
Michael L. Grozier, senior pre-med student, is currently representing Notre Dame’s Economic Round Table at the sixth annual national conference of the Association of International Relations Clubs. The conference began Tuesday at Midland College, Fremont, Neb., and will continue until tomorrow. “Reevaluation of United States Foreign Policy—1953” is the subject of the conference.
Grozier was elected conference delegate at the Midwest Regional Convention early in February at Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Convention delegates are chosen by each of the 14 IRC regions within the United States, Canada, and Mexico.
Among the many prominent educators and statesmen who have addressed the gathering are Col. George Lincoln of the U. ,S. Military Academy, and Prof. Hans Morganthau of the University of Chicago. Their topics included The United Nations, United States Economic Policy, Asia, The Near East, and Europe.	•
The “Voice of America” is recording these student discussions for rebroadcasting overseas at a later date.
An Artist’s Sketch of the “Permanent Lounge and Lobby” Which Will Be Located on the First Floor of the Proposed Student Union. Note Lowered Ceiling. The Center Door in the Background Leads to the Terrace.
20
The Scholastic

A Haunted House?
BY V. ROGER FERNANDES
“Do ya live there, Father? The fellas and I thought it was a haunted house and one night some of us shot a flaming arrow at it.”
Those were the awesome words that a young Notre Dame priest heard one night a few months ago when he gave a talk before a Christian Family Group. For while there he had engaged in a conversation with the 10-year-old son of one of the Notre Dame “profs,” and it was this lad who had led the fearless band of flaming arrow shooters.
The “haunted house” in question is the Andre House, that lonesome brick building just south of the Stadium. It serves as a six-month stopping-off point for young men who want to become Lay Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Group Includes Veterans
After listening to the boy’s exclamation, the young priest, Father Glenn Boarman, who presides over Andre as the Father-Director, could only conclude that “we’ll have to do something about livening up the appearance of this place.” But despite the haunted atmosphere that characterizes the exterior of the house, it has a warm and human group associated with it — a warm human group from Father Boarman to Brother Claudius, who form the Andre House’s “Administration,” to the ten postulants who are studying and train-
Father Glenn Boarman has been in charge of Andre since September.
ing there today.
Most have just finished high school. But among the “boys” is a 24-year-old veteran of the Marine Corps, a 42-year-old former major of the British Air Force, and the dean of the postulants, John Shulte of Detroit, who is 43. Two others also come from Detroit to give the Motor City the largest representation among these apprentice-Brothers. Two more hail from Chicago while the rest of them come from such widely separated places as Gloversville, N. Y., and Denver, Colo.
If you should meet any of them on the campus, and they frequent it daily for classes, work or play, you would not be able to distinguish them from any of your other fellow students. For they dress in “civilian” garb and fit in with the daily throng of more than five thousand quite easily and readily.
Some of the postulants are taking training classes in the Engineering Building or working at different clerical jobs in the Main Building. On weekends and during their hours of recreation they use the “Rock,” take in the Saturday afternoon movie at Washington Hall or attend the plays and other activities that are presented there.
A Hard Schedule
But whether their activities consist of work, class or play they are all directed to their primary purpose to become
Everyone shares in the duties at Andre House—KP is just one of many duties.
Making vestments is an important duty.
members of the Brothers of the Priests of the C.S.C., the coadjutors or helping Brothers as distinguished from those whose primary task is teaching. When Father Sorin first came to found Notre Dame seven of these Lay Brothers were his only companions.
On campus today they handle a variety of tasks from running the Bookstore to serving as the engineer at the Steam Plant. The boys studying and preparing at Andre will be the ones who’ll take their place. After a halfyear stay at Andre they will go on to the Novitiate in Jordan, Minnesota. For the time being, though, their stay at the Andre House is a pleasant one as they go through their .basic training under the capable guidance of Father Boarman and Brother Claudius. After their morning high Mass at 6:40 the boys have breakfast and then do their dishes and a few chores around the house. The rest of the morning they spend on campus in classes, at work, or in training.
They return to Andre House for lunch and- devote the afternoon to work, study and recreation. At 5:15 they have their daily religion class with Father Boarman . . . then spiritual reading, a visit to the Blessed Sacrament and supper. At 9:30 it’s “lights out” for these “trainees.”
The Pride of Andre House
Father Boarman has been in charge at Andre’s since last September when he left his studies in St. Louis to return to Notre Dame. He had graduated from here in 1946 and was ordained in 1950. Besides his work with his “boys” at Andre he also teaches several Ethics classes on campus and appears on a weekly show over WNDU each Tuesday night called “Let’s Get Going.”
Brother Claudius does the cooking, directs the keeping up of the house, grounds and garden, and also finds time to train and lead the boys’ own choir.
(Continued on Page 32)
April 17, 1953
21
o
Signs of Spring. . .
Around campus, bleary-eyed students are ambitiously rousing themselves from the lethargy of winter hibernation to the more comfortable languor of spring-fever. Only last Sunday we noticed a few of the more hearty inmates of Sorin Hall chalking off choice seats on the front porch, in eager anticipation of the gala social weekends coming up. With the Senior Ball and the Junior Prom as standout attractions, the men of Sorin will again assume their traditional reviewing stand on Sunday mornings to ogle and pass judgment on their fellow students’ beauty selections from such worthy institutions as Vassar, Trinity, Smith, Marymount and Mount Mary, Rosemont, Indiana, St. Mary of the Woods, Barat, Rosary, Bryn Mawr, De Paul, the U. of Detroit, Notre Dame (of Cleveland naturally), Manhattan-ville, Stephens, Marygrove, and, oh yes! what was the name of that little girls’
Mt . . •
“Believe me, grades don’t mean a darn thing!”
school we heard about when we were east for the Penn Game—Chestnut Hill, or something to that effect.
Frolickin’ Frosh. . .
For all of the dignity and ceremony of the upper class dances, it seems the first year men have fallen upon the most active weekend of the spring semester. No matter what band they may have (compliments to a well known column also appearing in this magazine), there will be plenty of entertainment for them around May 1. That’s the ■ day of one of our most beautiful and inspiring traditions, the candlelight May Day procession to the grotto. Furthermore, on that same weekend, the students make their annual pre-Broadway splash with the campus opening of the 1953 Student Musical. Still this isn’t all. For the past few weeks you have probably noticed rather brawny but bruised individuals limping around campus. In the afternoons these individuals become lads
who go out to growl at and maul each other in preparation for the Old Timers Game, scheduled for May 2. Freshmen should thank theii' class officers for falling into so opportune a weekend—or is it a vast plot to keep them out of trouble’s way?
(Continued on Page 30)
WMII Mike Chatter
A couple of weeks ago, I studiously sat down to write a column about our favorite subject at the station these days, the new facilities in the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building. But, the editor loused me up and ran one of his periodic “short” issues that week. It’s still our favorite subject, so I think I’ll condense that column and try again.
For the past few years, WNDU has been operating out of what we like to call “temporary” studios, always hoping to some day find something better. This year, the University exceeded our fondest dreams and gave us space in the tower of the new building. In fact, the space as first allotted to us was one floor, 30 feet high. That was a little impractical for us, especially if we wanted any good acoustical quality in there, so they put in another floor for us, giving us our studios on one floor, and offices on the other.
Plans for the new facilities have already been approved, and work on them has been started. On the first floor, we’ll have two studios, a control room, a record library, and a news room. The second floor, or the sixth floor of the tower, will house the general offices, the manager’s office, the technical workroom, and a combination storeroom and technical department office.
The first studio, or Studio A, will be our largest studio, and will be used for live music and discussion programs. The second studio, Studio B, will be very similar to our present Studio B, in that it will have a small control board and two turntables, but will be somewhat larger. The control booth, besides containing all of the master control equipment, will have a microphone and two turntables, so that some programs may be operated completely from there. Most of our programs will originate in Studio B and the control room.
The record library will also double as a workroom and gathering place for announcers who are on duty but not currently working a show. The news room will be a rather small room con
22
The Scholastic

taining the teletype machine, and a small desk where the news announcers may edit and arrange the news for their shows.
Less glamorous, perhaps, but more needed at the moment, is the additional oilice space up stairs. We are currently so cramped for office space that we often cannot do our work.
And that, briefly, is what Notre Dame radio will look like next September. But my successor will have a number of Open Houses next semester so that you can get a better idea of what we look like. We’ll be looking forward to seeing you.—Bryan Coughlin
Srad Zhotes
A belated “thanks” is due to Father Charles Cady for conducting the graduate retreat. It is only unfortunate that he was not presented with a larger audience. . . .
It was just in our last column that we gave Chris Cunningham our own “once over lightly.” Meanwhile Chris was taken seriously ill. He was rushed to the hospital, put in a cast, and, finally, taken back to Ireland. Before he left he asked us to thank all those who helped him in his stay here, particularly the St. Mary’s girls who offered to put on a dance to cover his hospital expenses. Chris will be bed-ridden for a long time to come. Our prayers and best wishes for a fast recovery go with him............ .
Our good friend, Father Anthony Deye, is deserving of a hearty congratulation now that he has overcome the hurdle of qualifying exams. He has been an avid participant in all graduate association affairs, save dances (seems he has trouble getting dates), and our best wishes go with him as he goes on for that coveted Ph.D. . . .
John Arthur from the Gold Coast says everything is relative. When on a hot day people in the Western world get down to the “bare minimum” they say it is “convenient,” or — if it concerns a shapely young lady — “sexy.” If they do the same back in Africa the comment is: “barbarian,” or “how uncivilized.”
Wednesday night the Graduate Student Association presented its second reception sponsored by the Committee on International Relations. The speaker for the evening was Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of political science and a member of the committee. Faculty members, graduate students and foreign stu-
. . . Around the Campuses
Compare and contrast your lot with these stories coming out of other universities :
Students at Harvard University have been warned that the use of ‘No-Doz’ is partially responsible for the nervous collapse of many students around exam time. Dr. Arlie Bock, hygiene professor, terms the taking of ‘No-Doz’ pills “selfinflicted injury.” He adds, “If a fellow can’t do his work without resorting to such drugs, I would say he doesn’t belong in school.”
‘No-Doz,’ sold without prescription, is claimed to be standard equipment for many students who feel the need to cram the clock-around for final exams at Harvard. A Food and Drugs Administration representative puts it in the same class with aspirin, since the stim-
dents from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s attended. . . .
On April 26 Father Hesburgh will speak at the graduate students Communion Breakfast. You can see your departmental representatives concerning tickets and the time and place of the Mass. The breakfast itself will be held in the Golf Lounge of the Morris Inn.
Preparations are under way now for a picnic and a dance both to be held in early May.
Bob Wray
Ivan de Huszovsky
ulant caffeine is its only active ingredient.
Harvard University has announced it will not accept absentee’s excuses or fatigue and collapse if ‘No-Doz’ is the partial cause. . . .■
After Easter vacation, a student at Wyoming University remarked, “It isn’t so bad to sleep through all your classes, but when you start to wake up automatically every 50 minutes during the night—you’ve had it. . . .”
As a result of a campus-wide vote, the Social Standards committee at Duke University has ruled that students going to and from gym classes and field trips will no longer need to wear raincoats over blue jeans. . . .
“The only trouble with getting to class on time,” comments the Cavalier Daily, University of Virginia, “is that there is seldom anyone there to appreciate it. . .
A psychology professor at Bristol University, England, puts his students at ease by serving free cocktails before each lecture. The professor, who serves as bartender, says he’s testing his-students on the effect of small doses of alcohol. . . .
An American history prof at the Richmond Professional Institute asked his class for a list of the 11 greatest Americans. While the students wrote, the teacher strolled around the room. Finally he paused at one desk and asked the youth if he had finished his list.
“Not yet,” said the student, “I can’t decide on the fullback.”—Bob Finney
April 17, 1953
23
National Chemical Firms Place Mechanical, Metallurgical Engineers on Demand Schedule
On Monday, the U. S. Gypsum Co. will interview A.B. and Commerce June graduates interested in sales, and accounting majors. Chemical, mechanical and civil engineers, and chemists interested in sales, research, and production will also be interviewed.
The Universal Atlas Cement Co., a subsidiary of U. S. Steel Corpi, located in Buffington, Ind., will interview mechanical and metallurgical engineers.
Metallurgical and mechanical engineers interested in metallurgy and who have some training in metallurgy, strength of metals, or metal testing will be interviewed by the Granite City Steel Co., Granite City, Ill., on Tuesday.
The Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, Bremerton, Wash., will be here on Thursday, looking for physicists and chemists and civil, electrical, aeronautical, chemical, metallurgical, and mechanical engineers.
On Friday, Associates Investment Co., a large automobile finance company with headquarters in South Bend and offices in 140 cities, will interview A.B. and Commerce graduates for their training program.
The Vita Craft Corp., maker of alu-
Religious Symposium Slated Wednesday
Six Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish scholars will participate in a symposium on “Religion and the Crisis of the Twen-tienth Century” to be held next Wednesday in the Law Auditorium, under the sponsorship of the University’s Committee on International Relations.
Rev. Philip S. Moore, vice-president in charge of academic affairs, will preside over the symposium.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, director of the Committee on International Relations and editor of the Review of Politics, will .open the symposium at 9 a.m. with a paper on “The Church and the Twentieth Century.”
Dr. Gurian will be followed by Prof. Frank O’Malley, member of the Department of English, who will speak on “The Church and Modern Literature.” Managing editor of the Revieiv of Politics, O’Malley is an authority on the philosophy of literature.
Dr. Goetz Briefs, professor of economics at Georgetown University, and Dr. Will Herberg of New York City, and regular contributor to Commonweal and Commentary magazines, will share
minum kitchenware, has Summer opportunities in selling, and will assign the territory according to the wishes of the individual salesman. On Tuesday, the company will conduct a group meeting at 4 p.m. in the Placement Bureau for all interested students. Individual interviews will be arranged at the general meeting. Further information about the company and its selling plan are on file in the Placement Bureau.
Junior mechanical, electrical, and metallurgical engineers, and accounting majors will be interviewed for Summer-jobs by the General Motors Corp, on Tuesday and Wednesday.
This will be a “screening’’ interview whereby the applications of qualified applicants will be referred at once to the various General Motors plants for appropriate action. In this connection, it is to be remembered that GM plants, while widely distributed, are mostly in the Middle West.
Those juniors who are qualified for, and interested in these interviews should sign up at once in the Placement Bureau. A GM informational booklet is to be read in advance of the interview and a GM qualification record filled out.
the speaker’s platform in the afternoon session beginning at 2:30.
Dr. Herberg, whose' recent article on the Catholic Church in the United States drew wide attention in the Catholic press, will speak on “Religious Communities in Present Day America.” Dr. Briefs will discuss “Catholic Social Thought Today.” He is a student of Catholic social movements and is the author of The Proletariat.
The evening session will begin at 8 o’clock with a lecture on “Protestantism in Present Day American Society” by Wilhelm Pauck, professor of church history at the University of Chicago, and outstanding Protestant church historian.
Canon Bernard Iddings Bell, whose recent book condemning secularism in America, Crowd Culture, has been subject to a great deal of controversy in both the religious and the secular press, will speak on “Religion and Education.” Canon Bell is a consultant to Notre Dame’s Committee on Self Study.
Discussion periods will follow all three of the sessions of the symposium.
Moot Courtiers Vie In Briefing Contests
Competition among 28 men will mark the Law School’s annual Moot Court Freshman Arguments on Wednesday and Thursday, April 29-30.
Participation in the arguments will be on a voluntary basis, but must be' completed in order to be eligible for the senior arguments.
Paired off, two on a team, the freshmen will be given the facts of a case, from which they will prepare their briefs.
The teams will present their cases before three judges: one faculty member, one attorney of the St. Joseph County Bar Association, and one senior student. The freshman will benefit thus from the experience of presenting his case before a member- of the Bar, while the senior will gain from the experience' of working beside the lawyer through listening-to the cases in the capacity of a judge himself.
The Moot Court, originated on campus several years ago through the efforts of former Dean of Law Clarence Manion, is also preparing for the Junior Argument semi-finals on Tuesday. The winners of this competition will receive the Dean Manion Award and the right to represent Notre Dame in the National Moot Court finals next Fall.
Members of the Moot Court Executive Board this year are: Director David M. Thornton, Executive Director Hugh Henry, Director of Public Relations Ab-dahllah S. Adello, Freshman Chancellor Edward Burke, and Junior Division Chancellor William Nesbitt.
Dr. Maritain Opens 12-Day Lecture Set Here Next Week
Dr. Jacques Maritain, noted Thomis-tic philosopher, will present a series of eight lectures at Notre Dame within the next 12 days.
Seven talks on “Theoretical Approaches to the Existence of God” will form the nucleus of his speaking engagement. Presented under the auspices of the Medieval Institute and the Department of Philosophy, the lectures will be intended primarily for graduate students and the faculty of those departments.
The Rockne Memorial Lounge will be the site of the talks at 3:45 p.m. on April 20-23 and 27-29.
“Relations Between the Liberal Arts and the Humanities” will be the topic of his public lecture at 8 p.m., April 27, in Washington Hall. This will be Dr. Maritain’s only open public speaking appearance on this tour.

24
The Scholastic

Klinemen Host lllini Today, Tomorrow
Irish Win First Six, Lose to OSU, Tie Iowa; Braun, Reilly, Konopka Star; Ridge Injured
Irish Resume Drills;
Blue Wallops Green
The booming bats of left fielder Roger Braun and shortstop Hal Reilly, together with several superb jobs by the pitching staff, were the main cogs in the Irish baseball machine that rolled through its first six games before being derailed by Ohio State last Saturday. Four straight wins on the southern swing plus victories over Indiana and Ohio State preceded the first loss.
The home debut with Iowa last Monday ended in a stalemate with the game being called at 4-4 after 10 innings.
Coach Jake Kline’s ace, Stan Konopka, shut the lowans out for eight innings but weakened in the ninth, permitting four Hawkeye runners to cross the plate.
.• Notre Dame scored in the first without a hit. Dave Costigan reached first on an error and was safe stealing on Iowa catcher Jerry Hilenberg’s wild throw. He went to third on Len Le-
DICK COLLOTON
Key to Keystone Sack
Rose’s grounder and scored on Dick Colloton’s infield tap.
The Irish were unable to touch Hawkeye starter Bob Diehl again until the seventh when they added what seemed to be an insurance run. Reilly singled to deep short and was sacrificed to second by Dick Farrell. From there Reilly scored on Costigan’s Texas League double, to make it, 2-0.
The game seemed to be on ice going into the ninth, for Konopka had limited the lowans to four hits in the first eight frames and was growing stronger as the game progressed. However, wildness and three Iowa hits in the ninth proved to be the big Irish starter’s downfall.
Notre Dame rallied to tie the count in their half of the ninth with two runs. With two away Costigan singled and moved to second when LeRose walked. Both were advanced to scoring position on a wild pitch. Colloton’s single through the hole at short scored both with the tying runs.
Both teams were set down in the tenth stanza without a run and the game was called because of impending darkness and frigid weather.
The Irish opened the season on March 30 against the Memphis Naval Air- Station. Konopka set the Navcads down with two hits as his mates won, 7-1. The Irish then turned on Arkansas State Teacher’s College and swamped them on successive days, 11-2 and 9-0. Sophomore Jerry Donnelley was the first day’s winner, and Jim Gibbons and Bob O’Neil shared the second victory. Gibbons was forced to retire after six innings with a blistered finger.
The last game in the South proved a little more difficult, however, as Kline’s crew was pressed to win a 6-5 victory over the University of Mississippi. 01’ Miss gathered more hits (12) but Jim Pavis and Konopka kept them well scattered. Notre Dame’s five hits were coupled with six Rebel errors, which made the difference.
After a short respite for the Easter vacation, Coach Leahy’s grid forces again got back to some serious work, breaking into their second week of spring practice last Friday in Cartier field. Leahy divided his attention be-
CAPT. DON PENZA
Leads Blue in Scrimmage
tween the backfield and line, the offensive backs, concentrated on down-field blocking while the linemen pounded away on blocking assignments.
Saturday the Irish turned again to the familiar practice games, holding a lengthy scrimmage in the stadium. The Blue team, made up mostly of last year’s veterans, ground out a decisive victory over an aggressive Green team, composed principally of freshmen with a sprinkling of lettermen. Ray Lemek, freshman tackle on the Green squad, suffered a severe sprained ankle midway through the practice and was carried from the field.
The longest run of the day came on an 80 yd. punt return jaunt by freshman back, Dick Hendricks for the third Blue tally. After grabbing the punt, Hendricks headed towards the side and sprinted the remaining yardage down the sidelines behind some good blocking.
(Continued on Page 26)
April 17, 1953
25
Captain Matey Leads Notre Dame Linksmen In 18-12 Win Over Detroit; Winds Hinder Play
BY ERWIN ALFONSUS
With an 18-12 victory over the University of Detroit, the Notre Dame golf team opened its 1953 season at home on the Burke Memorial Course. Rain and wind hampered play, but failed to stop the Irish as they took a 7-2 decision in doubles competition, and edged the Titans, 11-10, in the singles.
Irish captain, Tom Matey, was the low man in the match with a four-over-par 75. Notre Dame’s number two man, Joe Moresco, was next in line with a 77. Ron Stetler was low man for the U. of D. with a 78.
A summary of the match:
Doubles.—Tom Matey (75) and Bob Filipiak (83), Notre Dame, defeated Mike Andonian (79) and Ron Stetler (78), 2%-21/6; Joe Moresco (77) and Paul Minnick (79), Notre Dame, defeated Dan Fraser (83) and Ray Conlan (79), 3-0; Jim Terry (79) and Larry Eaton (82), Notre Dame, split with Charles Walton (80) and Bill Huette-man (80), 1^-1%.
Singles.—Matey (75), Notre Dame, defeated Stetler (78), 2%-%; Andonian (79), Detroit, defeated Filipiak (83), 21t2-%; Ray Maisevich (80), Detroit, defeated Mike Doyle (81), 2-1; Minnick (79), Notre Dame, defeated Fraser (83), 2-1; Moresco (77), Notre Dame, defeated Conlan (79), 2%-%; Terry (79), Notre Dame, defeated Walton (80), 2^-^; Huetteman (80), Detroit, defeated Eaton (82), 3-0.
This meet marked the opening of the 24th season of intercollegiate golf competition at Notre Dame. Coached by Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., golf mentor since 1933, the Irish linksters hope to at least equal the 8-3-1 record of last season.
Six monogram winners return to bolster the 14 man squad. Captain Tom Matey, from Warren, Ohio, last year advanced to the semi-finals of the National Intercollegiates at Ohio State. He is a senior and has earned two previous monograms, besides winning the individual team championship the past two years. Senior Joe Moresco is a double-monogram winner also. He hails from Staten Island, N. Y. Larry Eaton, a senior from Greeley, Colo., has two years of varsity experience and earned a N.D. monogram in 1952. Senior Mike Doyle, from Morristown, N. J., holds the
distinction of scoring the only hole-in-one on Burke Memorial golf course last season. Though only a sophomore, Bob Filipiak, from Toledo, has a year of varsity competition behind him and a monogram to show for it. John Powers, from Peoria, HL, is a senior and the remaining monogram winner from 1952.
Other squad members include junior Ed Brown from Evanston, HL; sophomore John Foley from Indianapolis; junior Ed Gschwind from Reedsburg, Wis.; senior Joe McInerney from River Forest, HL, playing his first year on the
CAPTAIN TOM MATEY
Whips Weatherman and Detroit
Irish golf squad; senior Jim O’Connor from Crystal Lake, HL; junior Tom Schwietz from St. Paul, Minn.; Paul Minnick, a junior from Lorain, Ohio; and the tallest member of the ND squad, 6-7 junior, Jim (Slats) Terry.
Monday, April 20, the Irish travel to Louisville, Ky., to face the University of Louisville in a dual match. The remainder of the schedule is as follows:
April 25—Valparaiso at Notre Dame May 2—Bradley at Peoria
4—Michigan State at N.D.
9—Indiana at Bloomington
16—Wisconsin at N.D.
18—Purdue at N.D.
23—Iowa at Iowa City
25—Northwestern at Evanston June 21-27—NCAA at Colorado Sprgs., Colo.
APRIL SPORTS SCHEDULE
April 17 BASEBALL—Illinois at Notre Dame
18 BASEBALL—Illinois at Notre Dame
TRACK—Purdue and Indiana at Purdue
20 BASEBALL — Wisconsin at Notre Dame GOLF—Louisville	at
Louisville
22 BASEBALL — Wisconsin at Notre Dame TENNIS — Wisconsin at Notre Dame
24-25 TRACK — Drake Relays—Penn Relays
25	GOLF — Valparaiso at Notre Dame
28	BASEBALL—Purdue at Notre Dame
29	BASEBALL — Northwestern at Evanston
Irish Resume Drills
(Continued from Page 25) the quarterbacking chores for the Blues, Guglielmi guiding the winners to three of their scores. The Blue team tallied the first two times they were on the offense. Paul Reynolds climaxed a 75 yd. push, smashing over the final three yards. Bob Arrix’s first conversion was good. Shortly after, a 25 yd. Guglielmi-Walt Cabral heave netted a second Blue touchdown.
The defenses battled back and forth until a Green fumble put the Blue in position for their fourth and final score. After the Blue moved the ball from midfield, John Lattner skirted end for the remaining 10 yards. John Gaffney, freshman fullback, failed in his try for the P.A.T. Fullback Neil Worden scored the only Green touchdown after three successive plunges through the middle of the line.
Other members of the victorious Blue besides those mentioned included: Capt. Don Penza end, Tackles Joe Bush and Art Hunter, Guards Sam Palumbo and John McMullin, Center Jim Schrader, and Fullback Dan Shannon.
Gene Kapish and Don George, Ends, Lemek and George Nicula, both freshmen tackles, Jack Lee and Menil Mav-raides guards, Dick Szymanski center, along with Backs Worden, Dick Washington, and Fran Paterra rounded out the Green squad. Bob Martin and Don Schaefer alternated at quarterback.
26
The Scholastic
ND Fencing Trio Cops Seventh in NCAA Meet
On March 27 and 28 in Philadelphia, Notre Dame’s brilliant fencers finished seventh among 37 teams from the Midwest and the East in the annual NCAA championship tournament. Pennsylvania took first place with 94 points; Navy was second with 86. Illinois who had edged the Irish, 14-13 for the Midwest championship was sixth with 70. The Irish total was 67.
Three Notre Dame fencers represented the Irish. Jerry Finney displayed his ability against the country’s best sabre duelers by finishing seventh in individual competition with a brilliant 24-9 record. Penn’s Bob Parmacek won the individual sabre competition by winning 32 of 33 bouts. Parmacek’s only defeat came when Finney beat him by a 5-2 count.
John McGinn of ND finished eighth in epee competition with a record of 22-12. Jack Mooney, with 21 wins and 13 losses, was 12th in the individual foil standings.
Notre Dame’s best record in the NCAA tournament was in 1950 when the team, considered the Irish’s greatest squad, finished sixth.
Interhall Baseball, Softball Loops Begin Spring Season
The 1953 Spring Interhall Baseball season got under way last Monday on the diamonds south of the tennis courts. As has been the case for several years, Mr. Ernie Szekely is in charge of the tourney. There are four teams in each of the three leagues as follows: Gold—Dillon, Zahm, Connecticut Club, and Lyons.
Blue—Cavanaugh, Dillon, La Raza, and Howard.
White—Air Cadets, Morrissey, Cavanaugh, and Zahm.
The following rules and regulations are to be observed concerning the tourney:
1.	A complete roster for every game, which cannot be changed after the second game, must be turned in to Mr. Szekely.
2.	No frosh letterman or former varsity squad member can participate in interhall competition.
3.	Any member not appearing in the first or second game cannot play in the play-offs.
The Softball Tourney also is underway under the direction of Mr. Maxwell. Some 30 teams are playing but no results are in as yet. Most of the clubs on campus are entered as well as all the halls.
By Jack Sand
Notre Dame's Golf Pros
Directly behind the Rockne Memorial is a small faded blue and gold sign shaped in the form of an arrow. Painted on it are two words—Golf Shop—the abode of most Irish golf addicts, but in particular the home of Notre Dame’s intercollegiate amateur whizzes. Listening in on the conversation you might find out that Notre Dame has been swatting the golf ball around for the past 24 seasons, and that since 1930 their all-time record shows 144 wins, 45 losses, and nine ties. Since the Rev. George L. -Holderith, C.S.C., was appointed golf coach in 1933, ND has won 125 matches, lost 43, and tied nine.
FATHER HOLDERITH
Golf Coach
Father Holderith, former President of the Association of College Golf Coaches, has been instrumental in the growth of interest in the game at Notre Dame by conducting annual interhall golf tournaments in the fall from which come many of the varsity linksmen. Joe McInerney, a senior on this year’s squad, is a good example. Over the past few years a special golf clinic each spring has been sponsored by Athletic Director “Moose” Krause and Father Holderith, with instructions given to those interested at a very small fee. A tentative clinic was set for this spring last year, but as yet no word has been .received on whether or not it will be held.
If anyone wants to know just how good the Notre Dame Golf team is let the above records speak for themselves. In addition you might mention to anyone concerned that in 1944 the Irish won the NCAA golf title at Toledo Inverness. Two other times they finished second, four times coming in third and twice finishing fourth. Individual honors have also come to the men coached by Father Holderith. Two years ago Captain Tom Veech equalled Win Day’s record set in 1934, by reaching the quarterfinals in the 1950 National Amateui- Tourney. Tom Matey, present Irish captain, went to the semi-finals of the NCAA tournament in 1951.
Regret and Surprise
Jake Kline’s baseball forces would no doubt have exchanged their 4-4 tie with Iowa last Monday in return for the services of Captain Joe Ridge, who will be sidelined for at least four weeks with a broken fibula in his right leg. Including last Monday’s contest, centerfielder Ridge had the identical batting average he wound up with last season, .323.
Surprise package of the season thus far has been leftfielder Roger Braun, a transfer student from St. Thomas (Minn.). Last spring Braun played interhall baseball for Morrissey Hall, where he did quite a bit of pitching besides his regular outfield chores. So far this season, the soft-spoken man from Wisconsin, who seems to save all his choice words for the diamond, has connected for 13 hits in 34 times at the plate to lead the Irish with .382. More important is the fact that Braun has clicked in the pinch with 15 RBI’s.
Closely behind Braun is shortstop Hal Reilly with a .375 average on 12 for 32. Reilly could be tabbed as another fine surprise in ND’s goodlooking baseball campaign.
Every so-called baseball expert couldn’t miss the excellent play of Dick Colloton, Kline’s sure-fielding second-sacker. Besides hitting a respectable .303, Colloton has accepted 50 chances in the field without a miscue. At this rate he’s almost certain to break some kind of a Notre Dame record.
April 17, 1953
Father Lange's Champion Muscle Men
BY TOM WELLY
A new national team championship has been added to the trophy room at Notre Dame. It stands with the illustrious elevens of Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy and the George Keogan-coached basketball champions of the thirties as another emblem of Notre Dame’s sports supremacy. This latest edition of outstanding Irish athletic squads is directed by Rev. B. H. Lange, C.S.C., and recently won the national weightlifting championship.
This year’s weightlifting tourney was sponsored by M.I.T. which conducted the tournament under A.A.U. supervision. s The top 30 teams of the country competed under “mail order” rules. Each squad performed before A.A.U. recognized judges, and the results were forwarded to M.I.T. to determine the winner. Although individual winners have not been disclosed as yet, the team trophy was awarded to Notre Dame on the basis of its winning total of 15 points. This enabled the Irish lifters to edge Ohio State which closed with 14 points. M.I.T. completed the top three, the host school gathering in 9 points.
Fourth Strongest Mon
The national championship stands out as one of the high points of Father
ADLER, COACH FATHER LANGE
Big Boss Sports Winning Smile
Lange’s career. Father started lifting weights in 1911 and has sponsored the Notre Dame Bar Bell Club for the past 15 years. In 1928, after his entrance into the seminary, he was proclaimed the fourth strongest man in the world, and many of his recorded feats of strength have never been duplicated.
Open To All Students
Weightlifting is divided into two main categories, lifting for strength and lifting for physique. Both of these divisions have many enthusiasts among the Notre Dame students who work out in Father Lange’s gymnasium behind the Main Building. The muscle building has taken over part of the gymnasium that was used before the erection of the Rockne Memorial. Over 150 men take advantage of Father Lange’s facilities which are open to all students of the University.
The competition in which Notre Dame won national honors was in the strength division. Competing for the Irish were: John Strickroot, Featherweight 132140; Vic George, Lightweight 140-148; Jerry Adler, Middleweight 148-165; Leon Dulion and Al Oraisbach, Lightheavy • 165-181; Dick Campbell, Midheavy 181-198; and Walt Bernard, Heavyweight 198 and over. In the recent Central A.A.U. Senior Open Championship, Jerry Adler took first place and Vic George third in the middleweight division, while in the novice section of the same tournament, Wally Bernard took first among the heavyweight entries and Leon Dulion finished second in the Mid-heavy class.
On the other side of the picture in the “body beautiful” class, the leading Notre Dame exponents are John Delaney, Joe Gores, Don Rampalla, and Frank Kwack. The physique builders use lighter weights with more repetition of the basic drills while the strong men specialize in the use of heavier weights and less repetition. Both groups stress speed, coordination and form over pure brute strength and claim their- attributes will outshine the fabulously strong at every turn. To validate their claim, the weightlifters point out the electric impulse tests given to all athletes at
JERRY ADLER
Displays Championship Form
last year’s Olympic Games in which lifters, John Davis of the U.S.A, and Shams of Egypt were found to have the fastest reflexes of any athletes entered in the historic contests. Because of the many attributes developed by the lifting of weights, countless sports stars indulge in this activity to further" their ability in their chosen sports field. Among these are Frank Stranahan, amateur golfing whiz; Bob Feller, Roy Campanella, and Jackie Robinson, of baseball fame; and Rev. Bob Richards, the nation’s top pole vaulter.
Campus Championships May 2
The next big date on the bar bell agenda is May 2, on which the annual campus championships will be’ determined. This year’s championship run has for its main objective the breaking of all campus records. If you can beat Jerry Adler’s records of 280 lbs. in the clean and jerk, 220 lbs. in the snatch, or 230 in the press, or feel qualified to best Wally Bernard’s 25 lb. bench press, or can lift 520 lbs. of dead weight as can Leon Dulion, then the second of May is the date for you to compete with Notre Dame’s newest national champions.
28
The Scholastic
JOE SPRINGER, JIM HARRINGTON
ND’s Top-Notch Duo
Irish Vaulting Aces Seek Outdoor Marks
After a successful record-breaking siege on the collegiate indoor pole-vault records, Notre Dame’s ace vaulting twins, Joe Springer and Jim Harrington, turn their attention to the outdoors. Tomorrow, together with their Irish track teammates, Springer and Harrington will compete in a triangular meet at Lafayette with Indiana and Purdue.
Harrington, a Mountainside, N. J., resident, holds the season’s top college mark in the pole-vault. He achieved this at the fieldhouse in the Central Collegi-ates with a leap of 14' 3%". Springer, who hails from Princeton, HL, did 14' 1" at Chicago in the last indoor meet to put himself third among the nation’s 1953 college vaulters. A UCLA man holds the number two spot with 14' 1%".
The Irish vaulting duo performed creditably when matched with the nation’s best in the three big indoor meets at Cleveland, Milwaukee and Chicago at the tail-end of the season. Springer finished third twice and Harrington once, behind the world’s two top vaulters, Bob Richards and Don Laz.
Naturally the two ND juniors presented no serious challenge to these vaulting veterans, but it is interesting to note that both Notre Dame vault stars have marks comparable to those of Richards and Laz at similar stages of their respective careers. Laz, in his junior year at Illinois in 1950, climbed 14' 6", while Richards, in 1946, also as an Illini junior, did 13' 8" for his best mark at that time.
Prospects for Coach Alex Wilson’s
outdoor squad are about the same as they were for the indoor team. In some spots the Irish fleet-feet are very strong, but in others quite weak. After the Purdue meet tomorrow the Wilsonmen will take part in the Drake relays and fhe Penn relays on April 24 and 25.
The remaining outdoor schedule:
May 2—Missouri at Missouri
9—Pittsburgh HERE
16—Marquette at Milwaukee
20—Michigan Normal at Ypsilanti 23—Big State Meet HERE 30—Closed CCC HERE
June 6—Open CCC at Milwaukee
14—NCAA
SAILING SCHEDULE
April 18-19: Michigan Invitational at Michigan University.
April 25-26: Indiana Championships at Purdue.
May 2-3: Area eliminations for Midwest Championships at Michigan State College.
May 9-10: Notre Dame Invitational at University of Notre Dame.
May 16-17: Midwest Championships to be held at Ohio State University.
to be popular!
Come in to Arthur Murray’s now and learn the secret of good times and popularity in almost no time.1'
You’ll be amazed and thrilled how easy it is to become a popular dance partner the Arthur Murray Way. Thanks to his basic discovery, "The Magic Step To Popularity” all dances are simple to master. And, best of all, you can learn this secret in just one lesson. So don’t be a "Sideline sitter” . . . come to Arthur Murray’s and you’ll be the most sought-after partner in your set.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE 2-3339—OPEN TILL 10 P.M.
Angyal, Smith Lead Netters In Opener Against Badgers
The Notre Dame tennis squad, under the tutelage of Coach Walter Langford, opens its Spring campaign next Wednesday against the University of Wisconsin on the Irish courts.
Led by Co-Captains Ken Angyal and Ray Smith, the Irish are out to better last year’s record of seven wins and three losses. Angyal from Detroit, and Smith of Chicago are both seniors and two-time monogram winners. Langford is also counting on Wally Clarke, a sophomore from San Francisco, Calif., to bolster a squad of nine returning lettermen. Clarke was the nation’s seventh ranking junior tennis player in 1951.
Other returning monogram winners include: Seniors Matt Tuite, a navy veteran and another double letterman, and Jaime Saenz, Cali, Colombia; Juniors Joe Crowley, Middletown, O.; Chuck Gallagher, Lakewood, 0., and Dick Simons, South Bend, Ind.; Sophomores Maurice Reidy, Denver, Colo., and Bill Reale, Mansfield, O.
Of the 11 match schedule, seven are against Big Ten opponents.
April 17, 1953
29
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
CANOE TRIPS
into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $4.85 to $5.40 per person per day. For free information write,
CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, BILL ROM, Box C, Ely, Minnesota
Prepare for an Executive Career in RETAILING—in just One Year!
From New York to New Zealand, college graduates converge on “The Retailing Center” to train for an exciting, rewarding career—in just one year! Retailers need you—and look to our graduate school—for future advertising managers, buyers, merchandise managers, fashion executives, store managers, personnel administrators, researchers. Prominent retailers send their sons and daughters to the N. Y. U. School of Retailing to help carry on the family business successfully. Our one-year Master’s Degree program includes courses in all branches of retail-store management, under well-known specialists, plus 10 full weeks of supervised executive training, with pay, in leading New York stores, plus valuable store and market contacts.
For details, write for BULLETIN CJ
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY	SCHOOL OF RETAILING
100 Washington Square East,	New York 3, New York
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
"LISTEN, BIRD-BRAIN, don’t get soar, but I cooed never love you,” said Sheedy’s little chickadee. "Your hair’s strictly for the birds! Better remember the tree cardinal rules for social success so you won’t be an also-wren. 1. Hop to a toilet
goods counter. 2. Peck up a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s Favorite Hair Tonic. Contains Lanolin. Non-alcholic. Grooms the hair. Relieves dryness. Removes goose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. 3. Use it daily and peeple will love you.” Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil for himself and a diamond wing for his tweetie-pie. Better buy a bottle or tube today. Or ask for it at your barber’s. If you don’t you’re cookoo!
ft
aOMSMkUt numsMTHis UMVH west
* of 131 So. Hams Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Once Over Lightly
(Continued from Page 22) “Sumer is a-cumen inne:”
From the shady depths of Suh-Sorin, John Elson, editor of The Juggler, announces that his magazine goes to press today. “It should make the news-stands by Wednesday,” said editor Elson, “but with the Ave Maria Press, one can never tell.” Business Manager W. Leo Cahalan would not venture any comment concerning the publication date of the magazine, or even about its contents.
However, reliable sources indicate that the magazine will contain four short stories and three essays, plus a number of book reviews and poems. Two of the stories, we believe, can be ranked with the best writing appearing in undergraduate publications. These are “Maria and Her Brother” by Joseph N. Gores and “Estrangement” by John S. Hellman.
When interviewed concerning his work, slovenly aging John Steele Hellman (known to friends as “Grubby-
Junior Lamplighters your date for the Lamplighter’s Serenade deserves the very best in flowers . . .
you can be sure of getting the best when you order her corsage from South Bend Floral . . .
our corsages are fresh, fragrant and perfectly made to put that sparkle in her eye without putting a dent in your wallet.
We’ll be glad to assist you in choosing the perfect corsage for her dress.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan 3-8227
30
The Scholastic
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, April 20—Ferial Monday.
Tuesday, April 21—Feast of St. Anselm, Confessor, Pontiff, Doctor of the Church.
Wednesday, April 22—Solemnity of St. Joseph, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Patron of the Universal Church.
Thursday, April 23—Feast of St. George, Martyr.
Friday, April 24—Feast of St. Fidelis of Sigmaringa, Martyr.
Saturday, April 25—Feast of St. Mark, Evangelist; Greater Litanies.
chubby”) shouted, “A story’s a story: I don’t care whose guts I spill.” Commented Editor Elson, “I wish he’d spill his own.” Mr. Joe Gores, the educated beachcomber, whose story, “Sand,” was printed last semester in The Scholastic, declared this latest work to be, “almost a still-point.”
In addition to these two feature attractions, The Juggler will include essays by Milt Fisk, Joe Imbriaco and Pete Stavis. Freshman James Mitchell again appears with a short story and John Burns contributes most of the poetry.
Well edited by John Elson, this forthcoming issue will substantiate our point that The Juggler ranks high, if not the highest, among undergraduate literary publications. It will hit the Caf newsstand Wednesday and will cost 25 cents.
At Random. . .
A fitting touch was effected ovei- at the chow hall last Friday night when samples of “Turns for the Tummy” were distributed to those going in for dinner. Especially grateful were the harried seniors who now labor under such shiny outlooks as thesis deadlines, comprehensives, and a summer or so with Uncle Sammy. . . . Which reminds us, those who have found a home at Notre Dame and intend to spend another glorious winter in the sunny north can simplify matters by applying early for college reservations — to your local draft board, of course. Forms for this purpose can be found somewhere around campus, at least they were available last year. . . .
In case some of the literary minds around campus are looking for an excuse to have a celebration, remember, Thursday is the birthday of a certain WTilliam Shakespeare. ... To make their day complete on the 23rd, they can also
see T. S. Eliot’s Murder in the Cathedral which will be on the Washington Hall screen for afternoon and evening performances on both the 22nd and the 23rd.
Walt Werner Gerry Voit Jack Dilenschneider
Fitzgerald, Ford Appointed To Summer Writer's Meet
Robert Fitzgerald, noted poet, translator and journalist, has been appointed to the staff of the Fifth Annual Writer’s Conference to be held at the University of Notre Dame, June 22-27.
Fitzgerald, who is a faculty member of Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, N. Y., will direct the poetry workshop, according to an announcement by Prof. Louis Hasley, conference director.
Assisting Fitzgerald in the poetry workshop will be Rev. Harold C. Gardiner, S.J., literary editor of America.
Another appointee to the staff of the conference is Anne Ford, associate editor in charge of public relations for Harcourt, Brace and Company, New York publishing house. She will work principally in the fiction workshop, which will be directed by Richard Sulli-
GRADUATE ENGINEERS
An invitation to go in
AERONAUTICAL * MECHANICAL • ELECTRONIC
places
STRUCTURAL * PRODUCTION
ENGINEERING
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and an excellent starting salary await you at Faibchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft engineering; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military -program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxcars and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
Faibchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is scheduled.
Ml IKME MB SMHME CBBNBSnM
i AIRCHILD Ai/unaADwuim
HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
Please write to:
Clarence E. Giese, Director Institute of European Studies Incorporated, Not for Profit. 7325 South Maryland Ave. Chicago 19, Illinois^
I
van, a member of the Notre Dame faculty.
Richard Sullivan and John T. Frederick, both members of the Notre Dame faculty and members of the Writer’s Conference staff since its beginning in 1949, will direct workshops in fiction and the teaching of creative writing respectively.
Further information on the Writer’s Conference can be obtained from Prof. Louis Hasley of the English Department.
April 17, 1953
31
Are You This Mon?
The VitaCraft Corporation is now selecting ambitious college men who would like to earn more than $75 per week this summer and have a chance to earn a $100 to $250 scholarship. . .
Interviews will be held at the Placement Bureau, Tuesday, April 21 at 4:00 P.M. sharp.	Please Be Prompt
Sensational New Advance
in Golf Clubs

Using an entirely new and exclusive scientific formula, Spalding creates these clubs with centers of gravity in absolutely coordinated sequence. Every wood, every iron, has identical contact feel. . . gives you amazing ease of shot control!
Every club has identical contact feel... amazing ease of shot control
They will do more to save you strokes than any clubs you ever played.
You make tough shots look easy. Your timing is uniform. You get the ball away straighter. You shoot for the pin instead of the green. You get lower scores, consistently.
See your Spalding dealer or golf professional.
A Haunted House?
(Continued from Page 21)
Father Boarman and Brother Claudius will tell you that the pride of this spacious, comfortable home is its former sun porch which is now a neat and plain little chapel, beautiful in its simplicity. Father Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., who teaches sculpture in the University’s Art Department, designed the chapel and its lovely altar of three rectangular slabs of Indiana limestone. This chapel, St. Joseph’s, was built and furnished with gifts from the relatives and friends of the late Rev. John M. Ryan, C.S.C. — long a popular teacher and rector at Notre Dame.
That sun porch was not always used for such a holy and solemn purpose though. Once it provided the setting for many gay parties. But those scenes belong to another chapter in the long history of the building that became Andre House.
The house was built in 1915 by Daniel J. McNamara, a retired insurance writer and friend of Notre Dame. In 1928 the University bought the land back. For many years it rented the house to various students and employees of Notre Dame. The last occupant under this arrangement was the former N.D. track coach—Elvin “Doc” Handy.
But in January of 1951 a new phase of the old house’s existence began. Tt became the Postulate for the Brothers of the Priests’ Society of the Congregation of Holy Cross with Father George Schidel, C.S.C., as its first FatherDirector. The house was quite suitably named after Brother Andre Bessette.
That worthy patron for the Postulants was born in Quebec, Canada. Despite poor health, he managed to be accepted by the Congregation as a Working Brother. In 1872 he was sent to the College of Notre Dame in Monteral and there he remained until his death in 1937.
Because of his lack of education his superiors assigned him the most humble and menial tasks. For forty years he served, at one time or another, as a dishwasher, handy man, porter, doorkeeper, barber, and messenger. He performed all these assignments willingly and cheerfully—grateful for the chance to serve God in any capacity.
Brother Andre had a special devotion to St. Joseph and prayed to that great saint often. Soon it was discovered that cures and requests would usually be granted by St. Joseph if Brother Andre did the interceding for you. Thousands came from all over Canada and the U.S. to ask his help.
The good Brother received permission
32
The Scholastic
to build a small chapel on Mount Royal across from the College with the donations from those he had helped. That chapel is now the famous site of many miraculous works and cures — St. Joseph’s Oratory. In 1911 his superiors relieved Brother Andre of his regular duties and permitted him to devote all his time to meeting and comforting those who came to him for advice and solace.
A Scholastic of two years ago relates how Brother Andre on his second visit to our Notre Dame, around 1920, was instrumental in curing one of the Community’s priests who had tuberculosis. The priest asked the good Brother to pray for him. Brother Andre rubbed the Father’s chest and told him not to worry, for he would soon be all right. He soon was.
Who could ask for better models than the two the Postulants have in that humble saintly Brother and his patron, St. Joseph? Perhaps that is why the visitor is impressed by the quiet happiness that fills the large, tidy rooms of Andre House.
Junior Prom
(Continued from Page 9) tions committee are the following men: Bob Perkins, Rich Shea, Tom Parsley, Walt Schneider, Tom Moore, Larry Corbett, Dick Robison, Jerry Turley, Dave Devlin, John Mahoney, Bob Adams, Leroy Bazany, and Buz Helfrich.
Although the decorations committee is unusually large and active, Chairman Reidy has mentioned the need for added workers during the assembling stage of the decorations. He has requested that all interested juniors come to the Rockne Memorial after 10 a.m. on Tuesday.
Need Money For Next Fall?
Summer Jobs For Male Undergraduates at GARY SHEET & TIN MILL United States Steel Corp.
Starting rate, $1,435 per hr.
Many opportunities to earn $2 an hour. Time and One-half for overtime. Excellent working conditions. Placement on jobs related to your studies—where possible.
For Further Information: contact your College Placement Office or write:
E. C. CLYMER
GARY SHEET & TIN MILL North Buchanan St. Gary, Ind.
According to Bill Guilfoyle, dinnerdance chairman, final plans for the Saturday afternoon and evening affair have been made. This affair will take place
How to bring on Spring Fervor
Actually, you slip it on, because the j weaker sex has a strong yen for the j man in a Manhattan gabshire sportshirt. This good-looking gabardine is deftly tailored—styled as only Manhattan can style it with pickstitching on collar and pockets. Available in a wide range of smart colors, equally handsome with or without a tie.
$
from 3 p.m. to 12 p.m. at the South Bend Country Club. The meal will consist of ham and turkey. Don Gels and his combo will supply the dancing music.


April 17, 1953
33
By Paul Zalecki
Whenever the name of some teacher arises in a student discussion, it frequently is to find out whether he is easy or tough, interesting or dull, — high marker or low. Outside of these considerations it is very easy for the student To overlook the faculty.
Still the teacher obviously can have a tremendous influence upon his students, even though he may see them no more than three hours a week. For one thing it is the faculty of a University who set up the curriculum. Though a student may choose his own major, he has little choice in the selection of courses within that major.
More directly, the student has to rely upon his teachers for the day to day implementation of his courses. In a very real sense the professor can make a particular subject worthwhile or worthless.
University Faculties
Recently the nation has become more aware of the crucial role played by the faculties of our universities. Recurring Congressional investigations have accentuated the fear that some faculty members might be subversive and as such constitute a real danger to our national security.
This possibility has led to an increased interest in the question of academic freedom. Educators, law makers, and the public in general have tried to clarify the meaning of this much-used phrase.
The week prior to Easter vacation the Association of American Universities issued a statement entitled “The Rights and Responsibilities of Universities and Their Faculties.” For the preparation of this report Dr. Harold W. Dodds of Princeton University, president of the association, appointed a committee of five headed by Dr. A. Whitney Griswold, president of Yale University.
The others who served on the committee were Dr. Arthur H. Compton, chancellor of Washington University, St. Louis; Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, chancellor of the University of Kansas; Dr. John E. W. Sterling, president of Stanford University; and Dr. Henry W. Wriston, president of Brown University.
Statement of Educators
The final statement which this distinguished group of educators issued was quite brief. Running throughout the article was the implicit understanding that the faculty is the group who constitute a university and give it its prominent position in society.
Their very definition of a university, for example, was that it is an association of individual scholars. The historical development of the university in the Middle Ages was attributed to the faculty.
As might be expected, the report introduces their definition of a University with some words on the glorious role of the university in American life. They are the standard bearers of our system of education and the mainstays of the professions. They are the indispensable instruments of cultural progress and national welfare.
Having made this point, the report passes on to its chief concern: establishing the position and duties of a university faculty. It states that scholars have to be united in loyalty to the ideal of learning, to the moral code, to the country, and to its form of government. Little other restraint theoretically is placed upon them in their professional role.
Academic Freedom
What is defined as academic freedom is the right of such men to develop their individual desires for knowledge and to communicate it to others.
In this respect it is the duty of a university to be hospitable to an infinite variety of skills and viewpoints. The university then does not have the right of intellectual coercion, as it were, upon its faculty.
It also follows, as the report states, that a university cannot take a stand on disputed questions of scholarship, on political questions, or on questions of public policy.
Basically then the university is a guarantee of standards, for what it endorses is not its members but their capacity and integrity. All in all, the university has to be a free institution, for freedom is necessary for advances in scholarship. The ones who enjoy this
freedom most directly are the members of the faculty.
Interestingly such a view of a university relegates the student to the secondary. He comes to a university, as it were, to enjoy the benefits that can be obtained from its most distinctive element, the faculty of that institution.
The man who heads the class thus emerges as an important person. The one who has chosen scholarship and teaching as his profession can play a vital role not only in the lives of his students but in society as a whole.
"The House of Jazz”
EOR RECORDS TRY
C'>r:	t‘ Luk Of
JAZZ ■ DIXIELAND • POPULAR CLASSICAL - BLUES On AL, Three Speeds
Mali unv w here in the Country 1 rre Catalogs
412 So. Mich. South Bend. Ind.
BOTH NICE! Chrysler and Plymouth at MOULDER MOTOR COMPANY 215 So. La Fayette A Suggestion—Why not drive a new car home for the folks. The purchase price in South Bend is probably much less than at home. See . . .
Jack Moulder, Class of '38
Aquinas
Library and Book Shop
HAS
Mother’s Day Cards
BOOKS FOR MARY’S MONTH
110 E. LASALLE ST.
34
The Scholastic
Hold on a minute before you go charging out among the tulips and listen
to the old, old tale about the woes of the April sun. It’s a sly fox this time
of year. It has lured men for centuries right into an oxygen tent. . . even the strongest of them. And the reason is the same today as it always was: not enough protective clothing.
What we’re thinking about is the hat, or lack of it. Plunge into a hot shower then rush out of the gym without a hat and you’re on the first leg ' of a trip to the infirmary. The head is vulnerable, terribly vulnerable, to
the breezes and sudden chills of April. Thick, long hair helped the Neanderthal, but there aren’t many of them around any more. The rest of us need hats.
A hat has one purpose: protection. It protects the head from wind and cold and sun and rain. It protects the eyes and the sinuses. And on top of all this, it improves everyone’s appearance. Any way you look at it, it makes good sense to wear a hat.
Take a look at some of the new styles designed for young men. They’ve come a long way since grandpa’s day. They make you look better, just as they make you feel better. Hats are “as healthy as they are handsome.” "Wear a Hat-lti as Healthy as Its Handsome!^

' ' ' -
Divisions of Hat Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats for Men and Women
NOW... 10 Months Scientific Evidence For Chesterfield
A medical specialist is making regular bimonthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.
After ten months, the medical specialist reports that he observed ...
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.
MUCH MILDER CHESTERFIELD IS BEST FOR YOU
Copyfght 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
20