^otkeWSehdij^til
^ISCE-QU4SI-SEHpj^.yiQTUKUS •
’	QUASI • CRAS -MORITUHUs.
Vol. XXII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 4, 1889.
No. 35.
May.
Sweet Month of Mary, Month of May, What pale pure flowerets strew thy way— Bellissima!
Low lilies press about thy feet, With violets changing kisses sweet— Dulcissima!
While through the snow that latest lingers The Mayflower thrusts her fairy fingers— Rubentissima!
As through the Virgin’s holy mood
Struck tender joys of motherhood—	’
Sanctissima!
Even thy moon, so cold and clear, Shines with a beauty half austere— Splendissima!
While chill pure winds from eastern seas, Enfold no dream of tropic breeze— Purissima!	’
But, Month of Mary, Month of May, Still with our love we’ll strew thy way— Bellissima!
"For, O sweet Maiden of the year, We cannot choose but hold Thee dear—
Carissima!
—Jean Ingeloiv.
America a Century Ago.*
BY R. C. NEWTON,’ 89
The last grain of sand in the century-glass has fallen, and the American Republic to-day honors the centennial of her first President. The glass is reversed and a new era begins. On the eve of such an event our minds naturally go back one hundred years. We there see a country just clothed in the prerogatives of sovereignty, numbering thirteen feeble states and
* Substance of an Oration delivered at the Centennial celebration at Notre Dame.	-	-
with but three million inhabitants, occupying the small familiar strip of territory lined on one side by the Atlantic ocean and on the other by the Alleghany ridge. Now her vast outlying boundaries are watered by the Pacific, the Gulf of Mexico and the Arctic ocean—comprising, in fact, a continental chain of zones sweeping in hemispheric magnitude from the mountain crests of eternal snows to the region of perpetual flowers; its census of population, too, with similar strides of amazing augmentation rolling up a free, intelligent citizenship of seventy round millions.
A century has passed since the youngest of the British colonies threw the gauntlet of defiance at the feet of the mother country. Monarchs crowned with kingly diadems stood awed at the august manifesto, and at the solemn arraignment of King George before the judgment of mankind, and parliaments and cabinets started in dismay to their feet; but the people, the American statesmen of a hundred years ago, as they descried the Eagle of Liberty spreading her wings, and soaring proudly aloft, breathed freer and took stronger heart, as the clear ring of her voice sounded through the air, declaring with grandly rounded enunciation: “All men are equal!”
Grand and impressive, beyond all that is yet written in the volume of human history, will be that transcendent chapter which shall unfold . the biographies of those men who a century ago planted the seed of the Republic of these United States.
After the War of Independence the sons of liberty, having declared their freedom, found it necessary for them to adopt some permanent form of government. Though the close of this war resulted in the establishing of a free nationality, it nevertheless brought anxious solici-
566
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tude to every patriot’s mind, and this state of apprehension and disquietude augmented with each succeeding year. The state debts, which had been increased in anticipation of prosperous times, operated severely after a while on - all classes in the community; to meet the payment of these debts at maturity was impossible, and every relief act only added to the difficulty. This and kindred troubles, financial and governmental, impressed the people with the gloomy conviction that the great work of Independence was onlyffialf done.-	•
It was felt that, above all things, a definite and.organic form of government—reflecting the will of the people—should be fixed upon to give energy to .national power and success to individual and public enterprise. So portentous a crisis as this formed an epoch for the display of the intellectual and political attainments of American statesmen, and the ordeal was one through which they passed with the highest honor and with ever-enduring fame.
A change was now to be wrought by the sturdy sons of America, the grandeur of which would be acknowledged throughout all lands, and its importance reach forward to the setting of the sun of time. The same hall which had resounded with words of patriotic defiance that shook the throne of King George and proclaimed to an astonished world the Declaration of Independence—the same hall witnessed the assembling of such a body of men as, in point of intellectual ability, personal integrity and lofty purpose, had perhaps never before been brought together.	.
o	-
With Washington at their head, aided by such men as Franklin,Morris, Adams,Roger Sherman, Jefferson, and a. host of other equally eminent statesmen, they adopted the Constitution of this fair country and therein stated that a president should.be chosen to be .at the head of the na- ■ tional affairs. All eyes were directed towards Washington, and without party spirit, without a dissenting voice, he was called upon to take the helm and guide the newly-launched ship of state. His actions and. conduct during his administration give us a good illustration of the . character of the American statesman of a century ago; for his noble qualities were found in a somewhat modified degree in his contemporaries.
He was the ideal man both in war and in peace. In war he was a Spartan;, in peace he was upright, just and noble. He never tired of obeying his country’s will, and ambition was an unknown fault. And his illustrious deeds and sublime character were golden-tipped by a Christian spirit; for he ever bore in mind, during his event
ful life, that there was a higher end to be reached; which was not to be attained in this life. •
Associated with this grand man in the build-iiig of our country were such men as Benjamin Franklin, one of the profoundest philosophers of the world, Robert Morris, the great financier, —of whom it has been said, and with much truth, that “the Americans owed, and still owe, as much acknowledgment to the financial operations of this .man, as to the negotiations of Franklin or even to the arms of Washington;”— John Adams, America’s sturdiest patriot and first minister from this country to England; as well as Patrick Henry, Roger Sherman, Jefferson and we might mention a score of other unblemished, untarnished, able and true- characters which composed the ranks of American statesmen a century ago.
The work accomplished by these grand individuals has been sufficient guard against all perils; and after a century of national existence our country still stands glorious as when it first received from their hands the stamp of its nationhood in its immortal Constitution. Under the restraining and directive influences of this greatest piece of statecraft the people have been cemented together, growing, expanding, developing until they have become a great and mighty nation, foremost amongst the nations of the earth. And it is not only to do homage to the man that first formed and governed this great nation that we solemnize this day, but it is to honor the memory of our fdrefathers with Washington seated on the throne of fame, and surrounding him—the American statesmen of one hundred years ago!
America of To-Day.*
BY H. P. BRELSF0RD, ’91.
The anniversary that to-day we celebrate is the commemoration of an event that has marked an epoch in the history of a government born of the devotion of patriots. And while for a	I
few hours we lay aside the cares of business,	I
surely it is fitting that we reflect not only upon	I
the vicissitudes of our past, but also upon the .	I
greatness of our present.	-	|
A hundred years ago and the Alleghanies, | like great grim sentinels, opposed their rugged J peaks to the westward progress of colonial en- I terprise; now the locomotive, swiftly dragging I the chattels of trade through the devious defiles =	I
* Substance of an oration delivered at the Centennial	|
celebration.	.	...	|
THENOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	&■
of those mountains, surmounts their granite barriers and shrieks defiance to their echoing cliffs. Now a hundred cities sit in regal splendor where then the lodge of the Indian, or the cabin of the missionary priest nestled in a wilderness of forests. Yet our government ranks to-day first among the commonwealths of the-world; not because of the extent of its territory, but on account of the constituent elements of its people. The whole earth has contributed to our population; and at present we are a composite race—a nation of diverse characteristics united by a community of interests. Britain has given her tongue, Ireland, her enthusiasm, and Germany her industry and thrift; while France, and Italy, and Spain, have added their artistic instincts and keen intelligence.
A century ago and our country comprised a few straggling colonies fitfully clinging to a hostile shore, while now not a coast, but a continent is ours. Then conflicting interests engendered sectional jealousy, and Southern prejudice clashed with Northern bigotry; to-day we are possessed of all the rugged integrity of New England divested of its intolerance; and the dogma of religious liberty, first advanced by the Maryland colonists, has become the accepted tenet of the nation. Our present eminence suggests the inquiry, what have been the factors of our development? I answer that, first of all, our progress springs from the spirit of liberty that dominates our institutions.
There is a subtle something in the genius of freedom that stimulates invention, fosters talent, and incites learning on to higher accomplishments. And not until other governments learn that in restricting liberty they are throttling progress, will they be able to point to a national growth approaching that of our land in the bygone century. Nor is our idea of liberty a narrow one. It comprehends not alone freedom of action, but freedom of conscience and of speech as well. And it is above all on this account that we are to-day a nation vigorous, progressive and prosperous; while other governments across the seas that have desecrated the hallowed altars of God, that have persecuted the priesthood of His Church, are now rent with civil disaffection, or stamped with the imprint of decay.
We owe much to the kindred forces of edu- ■ cation and religion; for in this land, as in no other, learning flourishes and the sentiment of faith is unrestricted. Then, too, our exalted station is due much to Nature’s kind provision. She has given us fertile soil and genial climate, ■ widespreading forests and exhaustless stores of mineral wealth. She has channelled our
plains with rivers, indented our coasts with harbors, and offered them to commerce; and she has given us a geographical position in the heart of a great and growing continent. '
And in enumerating the elements of our national development, we cannot close without acknowledging our debt to those sturdy spirits, -those pioneers and missionaries who, with no -other resources save their valiant hearts or their trust in Heaven, braved the perils of a wilderness to prepare the way for succeeding civilization/ And it is with a pleasure peculiarly our own • that we number among ns one who forsook not only home and friends, but native land as well/ that he might build an altar to the Faith in the frontier wilds of an alien earth. And to-day, Protestant and Catholic alike, we yield our reverence and admiration to that grand priest—. the venerable Father Sorin—who wrested from a forest the foundation of an institution, the impulse of whose culture is felt throughout the land. As to our national vitality, it is attested by the fact that a quarter of a century has nearly effaced the scar of the most disastrous civil war recorded on the pages of history.
But while our present is so flattering and our • future rosy-hued, yet there are clouds upon the ■ horizon of the coming years. Already the “arrogance of caste” trenches upon equal rights.-• And to-day, incident to the centennial celebra-' tion in New York City, there is presented a scene that is certainly a travesty on the event which ‘ it commemorates. For while preparations were • in progress that the centennial anniversary of Washington’s first inauguration maybe suitably observed, suddenly the affair was interrupted by a dissension among the “select 400” of New York society arising not from differences con--cerning the proper conduct of the patriotic tes-: timonial, but solely from a strife among the7 parvenu aristocrats as to who should have precedence at the banquet or the ball.- It is true that in itself the matter is of small moment; but as-an indication of the “ spirit of the times ”• it forebodes a relapse into the snobbery and pseudo-' aristocracy of kingly courts that is to be depre-! cated and feared by all who would maintain in its purity the doctrine of man’s equality. Then,7 too, the degradation of our electorate is another' evil that must be soon eradicated; for the well-being, aye, the very existence, of our Government demands an honest suffrage. And, again, • capital must learn to yield and labor to be moderate.
But knowing these abuses w.e may hope that-they are evils which time7 will rectify, and their reformation will mark an era when the last dark
$68
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
menace of our Republic shall have ceased to be.
The existence of our nation is an eloquent testimony of the permanence of republican government; and while we glory in our country’s past and esteem its present, we may likewise trust with confidence to its future. Columbia! thy power lies not in thy soldiery and thy fleets upon the sea, but in the contentment of thy citizens; thy defense is not thy armored fortresses, but the patriotism of thy people. And> until the Niagara’s waters cease to fall, may our land be what it has ever been—the covenant of freedom, the refuge of the persecuted, and the asylum of the oppressed!
Thoughts on War.
When mankind became so numerous that many could no longer live together in one community they spread over the world and settled in different parts of the earth. Their various modes of life naturally brought them into independent bodies which soon developed into nations. As time went on, jealousy and hatred sprang up between them, which at first were satisfied by invading one another’s territories. Afterward it became necessary for nations to defend themselves against such social disorder, and to settle their disputes by a mode called war.
War is the state of nations adjusting their differences by material force. Hence war has been called a lawsuit between two nations, the one declaring war being the plaintiff, the other the defendant, and the battlefield the tribunal. Warfare is divided into offensive and defensive. When undertaken to punish injuries done to the social order it is an offensive war, and when its object is to repel the hostile attacks of another nation it is a defensive war.
“The essence of war is material force regulated with justice and carried on with prudence.” The end of war is peace, and is just when it is undertaken to defend or to repair the social order, when it is carried on by the social authority and for a just cause.
'There have been serious objections made against such a method of restoring peace as by cruel war, for it brings upon the people many and great evils which can never be wholly remedied, no matter what is gained, no matter hqw prosperous a country may afterwards become. But those who make these objections forget that just as great and even greater misfortunes would befall the nation if war were not resorted to, and that without war there would be no hope of ever again obtaining peace.
It is a well-known fact that our country suffered great and most oppressive grievances during the Revolution. But who would dare to assert that it has not escaped these, and that it is not in a more prosperous state than it would have been under the despotic sway of England? It is true that in war innumerable lives are destroyed and many valuable men perish by the cruel hand of the enemy; but there is consolation in the thought that their lives have been sacrificed in their countries’ cause. Everyone feels within him that it is something good, patriotic, and even sublime, to die in defense of his country on which depends the safety of his relatives, friends and fellow-citizens. In extreme necessity no man ought to hesitate in risking his life to save his country, and be inspired with as patriotic feelings as the Spartan women of old, who rejoiced over the slain bodies of their sons, exclaiming that they had given them to the state; but who were inconsolable when their sons had fled and saved their lives.
When nations war against one another and are actuated by ah intention from which results no violation of the positive law, no moral evil will arise, though physical evils will appear everywhere; but these are not to be confounded with each other. Never may a nation defend itself by committing a moral wrong, because the end does never justify the means. These are the disadvantages of war, and cannot be avoided.
By its very nature war is the defense of the social order, and is often the only means that will restore peace; but this is not bad. Hence war is not an evil. Moreover, society, being composed of moral beings, is a moral person, having all the rights as such to defend itself, so that it may be able to reach that end for which God established it. But war is often necessary for society to attain this end; therefore it cannot be an evil.
Society obtained authority when its members agreed to live together for the common welfare of all. They may retain this authority or transfer it to delegates whose duty it is to direct society and prepare for all emergencies. These delegates are bound by laws, both human and divine; and as long as they do not transgress the laws, they possess authority. But when they violate these rights the authority reverts back to society and not to any other individual. Hence no one has a right to act for the people but the one possessing this authority, for such actions would destroy the social order and make the result unlawful.
When a war is carried on by anyone not vested with the social authority, it is not a war between
	
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	569
two nations but a private fight between the individuals of two nations; and iflstead of defending this social order they violate it. A war carried on by social authority is a social act, and ought to be undertaken for the common welfare of the whole community and not for the benefit of a few. It would be absurd and extremely unjust to shed the blood of thousands of citizens only to satisfy the revengeful feelings of a few—although it sometimes happens that the insults offered to a single individual must be punished and avenged by the whole nation to vindicate the honor of the entire country. Was it the insult offered to the individual that caused that long and bloody war in which so many valiant and able men perished at Troy? No! It was because the social order had been violated by not observing the laws of hospitality. This was a grievous injury in those days and had to be punished at the expense of the whole nation. And only the one having the authority could carry on the war. But even then there must be a just cause, for otherwise it would be to act with a bad intention, and the agent would - be guilty of an immoral act which alone would make the war an evil.
The extension of national power is not a just cause for war. It is true that the social order is endangered by the weakness of power and the existence of the state is uncertain; but conquests are not the only means calculated to extend the boundaries and enrich the public treasury. It is to be done by the industry of the people and not by the destruction of another nation. A country is to be enriched by an advantage being offered for a diligent culture of the arts and an increase of commerce. These will induce foreigners to leave their homes for a better country, these will bring wealth to the nation, and these civil ways of progress will not interfere with the prosperity of any other country. It was national wealth that bought Louisiana from France and added Alaska to our territories, but neither country suffered socially. This extension of power is not a just cause for declaring war.
It can never be legitimate to undertake war through fear of future suppression. If a powerful nation becomes involved in difficulties it would not be right or just to allow a weaker nation to attack it, because it is not necessary; there are other means provided for them to protect themselves. Besides the stronger nations do not always suppress the weaker ones. Carthage longed for the possession of Sicily, but the careful eye of Rome watched over its safety, and lent the strong arm of protection to
defend it in time of need. The smaller powers are often better situated than the greater nations because they need not depend upon their own means for safety. When they are molested by another nation it is only necessary for them to enter into a friendly alliance with any of the more powerful nations who bind themselves to protect the weaker one. Moreover the stronger country is not liable to break the alliance treaty; for if they would, other nations would side with the weaker.
Whenever a nation becomes so greedy that it no longer obeys the laws of justice, it endangers the welfare of other countries and must be subjected to the same treatment as pirates. They are only highway-robbers shielded with the cloak of national authority. The poor condition of a country cannot be a just cause for undertaking war, because as long as the social order has not been broken there is no cause for war, and the depraved condition of the state does not disturb the social order. Utility is not the standard to measure just actions. There is a common rule by which all are regulated in their actions and directed in their progress: this is the light of reason. And reason has never corroborated the statement, that mere utility was a sufficient and just cause to suppress nations, to destroy lives, and commit atrocious deeds.
Much less is the safety of nations to be hazarded in order to gratify the ambitious desires of a few leaders and to encircle the brows of the victors with laurels of valor. Alexander is said to have wept because he had no more worlds to conquer. But could any fair-minded man say that his were just causes for war? Caesar has made for himself a name that will live in ages to come. But is not Caesar responsible for so many lives that were lost only to gain for him glory. It is beyond human comprehension to ascertain the truth. And only He, who is able to look into the heart of man and there judge from his motives, is able to know whether those actions were really prompted by ambition or not.
When two nations wage war against each other, it is impossible that the laws of justice should favor both sides, because it cannot happen that contrary rights exist at the same time. It is often the case that the disputed question is doubtful and the safety of the country is necessary on both sides; but then their actions should be directed with good faith. Those bearing arms must have a good intention, or an unjust end will be the object of their cause. When a citizen firmly believes that he is fighting for an
'57°
. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
: unjust cause he must desist or he will commit a moral wrong.
War. is the violent defence or vindication of ■ the social order. But order cannot be defended or restored by means contrary to the dictates ■ of reason; therefore the cause of war ought to be in conformity to the dictates of reason. But what is in conformity to the dictates of reason • is just, therefore the cause of war ought to be just. If the cause for which the war is undertaken is not just, both the nation and the individuals for whom the war was declared would suffer injustice, and many lives would be lost and great evils would fall upon society. There only exists a just cause for war when the damages that are to be repaired are greater than the evils which are brought on by the war. For war is calculated to repair injuries, not to bring on . evils and leave the nation in as bad if not worse condition than it was before. Before a nation declares war against another it ought to try all other means better adapted for settling the dispute before resorting to the destructive means . of war. And it is necessary to consider whether the injuries inflicted prevent the existing au. thority from exercising this right to preserve the social order.	L. M.
The Colorado Canyon.
The Denver, Colorado Canon and Pacific RR. has recently been incorporated in Denver with the design of penetrating Utah. “When the . Lord finished making the world,” said a Mormon of standing, “ He threw all the fragments He had left over into Utah.”. It seems probable that the people, of the United States will, . ere long, have a chance to observe the justice of this figure of speech. A new railroad company has been incorporated, which proposes to build . from Grand Junction down.Grand River and on .to the marvellous Colorado River,..and the . Pacific coast. What new Morans and Bierstadts . will come to gain fame , by portraying the region traversed by it, is yet a subject of speculation. If California is the Italy, this section : is the Syria of America. Those who have looked breathless at the wonders along the Rio Grande , RR., the Royal Gorge, Marshall, Pass and the Currie Canti Needle, will have new sensations . before them. The cations of southern Utah are awful in their depth and fascinating in their riches of color. There are walls of salt and springs of iron; there are columns of ruby, crags of alabaster, castles, domes and tdwers of :agate , and crystal, of crimson sandstone and golden
clays, that glimmer and shine in the changing lights like a labyrinth of fairy palaces. There are tombs of lost races and painted caverns; there, in short, is the mysterious heart of the great Southwest with its dark secrets arid undeveloped wealth. Groups of mountains, beautiful as Colorado’s Alpine peaks, are along its course, and valleys that water transforms into gardens of delight. Hardly a plant can be named, from the strawberry to the olive, that does not find here its congenial soil and climate. All climates are to be found from the treeless altitudes of the high Sierras down through belts of timber and natural meadows .to the warm exposures where Burgundy and Muscat grapes hang their glowing clusters in profusion. Mormon colonies have partially improved the country and shown its suitability for homes, but there are still wide areas unoccupied. Mulberries and eucalyptus, maple and poplar, pear, peach, prune and apricot, walnut and chestnut trees, cane, cotton and tobacco have been planted with wonderful results.
There is the breath of winter to tone up the system, but no severe cold. Coal arid all the minerals are to be found in plenty. When, I wonder, will Catholic settlements send the chimes of the Angelus through these now lonely vales ? Who can tell; it soon will be too late.
M. M. R.
Books and. Periodicals.
—Wide Awake for May closes Trowbridge’s popular serial, “The Adventures of David Vane and David Crane,” to give place to Charles Talbot’s story of “Sybil Fair’s Fairness; ” it brings to a pause, too, Margaret Sidney’s “ Five Little Peppers Midway,” to go along with them next month . however in the fresh tale of “ Five Little Peppers Further On.” Mrs. General Fremont has a long story in this number, entitled “ Besieged,” a tale of the wild mining days of 1840 in California; a stirring, breathless tale of her own experiences. “Teddy” is a story by E.S. Thornton of two beautiful dogs, real dogs, known to many Boston young people. “ Little Cy Downer’s Ride” is a swinging civil-war ballad of a brave little , chap, by Mrs. Clara Doty Bates. “An English May Day,” by Mrs. Frances A. Humphrey, gives an account of last year’s May Day celebration which the author enjoyed with the children of a little English village. A chapter of the Children of the White House series, by Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton, is entitled “The Household of Andrew Jackson,” and is full of anecdotes and pictures, twenty illustrations being given; it throws, a ruddy firelight glow over the grim old warrior-President. “ Men and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Things” is delightfully readable, full of original anecdotes; notable among them is “Tad Lincoln in the White House Kitchen in 1862,” and “John G. Whittier’s little dog and the Singer.”
’	—Scribner's Magazine for May will interest
readers of many and varied tastes. Men of letters, lovers of good fiction and poetry, railway men, amateur and professional photographers and sportsmen will find articles which will strongly appeal to them. The variety and excellence of the engravings will delight those who appreciate good art. The leading article, on “The Land of the Winanishe,” begins a group dealing with different kinds of Fishing. The Winanishe is the land-locked salmon of Lake St. John, Canada—a region which has but recently become easily accessible to sportsmen. “ Photography,” by Professor John Trowbridge of Harvard, brings together in a most ' interesting way the remarkable achievements which the dry plate and instantaneous processes have made possible. The illustrations are from photographs taken under unusual conditions— showing objects photographed under water, by lamp and candle light, by lightning, and by flash powders; and illustrating the method of photographing the values of colors, surf and waves, men in motion, and the vibrations of spoken words. The text is a clear and untechnical commentary upon these topics. The End Paper, by Charles Eliot Norton, on “The Lack of Old Homes in America,” recalls, with delicacy and feeling, the sentiments, grace, depth and charm of life which we miss by our migratory habits and rapid changes in material affairs which lead to the abandoning of homesteads.
—The Art Amateur completes its tenth year with the May number, although it modestly refrains from even mentioning the fact. It is almost impossible to overestimate the good influence this able magazine has had in popularizing art in this country. There is hardly a place in the United States where it is not felt. The current issue,-which is only a fair sample of the general quality of 'The Art Amateur, is filled with all kinds of artistic designs, mostly full working size, and practical articles on Oil, Water-color, Tapestry and China Painting, besides others on Wood Carving and Church and Home Embroidery, all clear enough for any novice to understand. The strong point of the magazine is its very practical tone. One of the colored plates, which accompany each number, is a superb study of “Tulips,” by Victor Dangon; and for china painters, besides other designs in black and white (with directions for treatment for all), there is a charming Fern Decoration in green and gold for a tea service, which is very easy to execute. The well illustrated articles for the benefit of young artists who wish to become illustrators for the magazines are continued, and the Home Decoration and the Amateur Photography departments are well kept up. The National Academy of
Design, the Paris Salon, and other important picture exhibitions are critically noticed, and “Montezuma,” in his “Note Book,” as usual lets out various trade secrets which picturebuyers and the art-loving public generally ought to know.
Happiness consists in the possession of an object capable of entirely satisfying our desires; unhappiness is the privation of this object. We have then the conviction that this thirst for the highest happiness, which is common to us all, •will be one day quenched, if, faithful to the laws of the Creator, we offer no obstacle to the designs of His love, and are content and happy to live in the blissful condition in which we are placed by His providence. Our miseries all arise from the disproportion between our feelings and our thoughts, our power and our will. There is no harmony in our being, and no happiness so long as our heart is unequal to our intellect, and our arms are less extensive than our desires. Look at the countenances.of most people, is it there that happiness is wont to diffuse its purest joys, its sweetest serenity? What is this life, in which it is proposed, that I should find time to be perfectly happy: it consists, it can only consist of the present moment; it is that mathematical, evanescent point of time . that separates the past, which is no longer in our power, from the future, whose enjoyment nothing can guarantee to us. It is less than a moment, less than a second; for of the sixty second portions which compose a minute, fifty-nine belong to the past or the future; and is it on this needle’s point, under the scythe of death which is always threatening us, in the presence of awful mysteries which universal belief leads us to see beyond the tomb, that we can expect to be perfectly happy?
To be a brute, though possessed of the power of not being so, is to be lower than the brute. The intellect being the faculty of discerning truth from falsehood, good from evil, is only made use of in proportion as we know the truth with regard to the points that are most important to us, and as we conform our conduct to it. According as I recognize in myself an immortal spirit, or a handful of organized dust, w’hich will be dispersed at the first breath of death, I shall give to my thoughts and actions a very different direction. Uncertainty as to what to believe on this subject, causes confusion, ignorance as to whether one is doing right or wrong. Following only the impulse of my appetites, I shall be like the animal, and even in a worse condition. The appetites of the brute, regulated by a superior reason are laws, and never cause his destruction; mine, on the contrary, are false and perverse if reason does not restrain and direct them.
SI2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MW serac.
tbtrg Saturbaj Suring JErrnt Etinr at N. S. Snibrrsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.-
NotreDame, May 4, 1889.
Centennial Day.
Tuesday, April 30th, was the day set apart by Congress as one on which to celebrate the centenary of the Constitution and the one hundredth anniversary of the inauguration of Washington as President of the new United States. Truly the day was one of importance; for on that day, a century ago, had a nation been born and a President had taken the oath of office before a grateful people in whose loving hearts he stood enshrined as the Father of his Country and the greatest hero of his time. It is needless to say that the occasion was observed at Notre Dame with befitting ceremonies. The day was fair though somewhat chilly, becoming warmer and more pleasant towards the after- noon. The University buildings were gaily decorated with bunting, while from every corner and window floated the glorious Stars and Stripes of crimson, white and blue. The portico of the main building especially presented a handsome appearance, while from Sorin Hall and the Minims’ Palace long streamers floated softly with the breeze. At half-past eight in the morning the large bell in the college church pealed forth its deepest notes summoning all to perform the most fitting duty with which to begin the celebration of the day—to offer the service of adoration, praise and thanksgiving to God the great Giver of all good.
SOLEMN HIGH MASS was sung by Very Rev. Provincial Corby who participated in the war fought for the preservation of the Union. Rev. Father Stoffel acted as deacon and Rev. Mr. Conners as subdeacon. Father Corby made a short address to the congregation, reminding them of the blessings enjoyed under a government that had ever felt the protecting hand of a most kind Providence guiding it through trial and vicissitude to prosperity and greatness.
THE DRESS PARADE was held on the lawn in front of the main building shortly before ten, the battalion being composed of Companies “A,” “B,” and“C,”Hoynes’ Light Guards and the Sorin Cadets. After the
parade, which was the finest of the year, the companies marched in review before Col. Hoynes, the Commandant of the military department. After review the Cadets gave an exhibition of marching and drilling, and concluded with the firing of salutes. The o	.
DINNER, which is always a feature of such festive days, was served in the refectories at twelve o’clock.
The exercises in
WASHINGTON HALL began at half-past one o’clock in the afternoon. The opening piece of the programme was a chorus, “America,” sung by about twenty of our leading vocalists. This was followed by an oration, “The America of a Century Ago,” by R.C. Newton, ’89. Mr. Newton went back to the time of the colonies; spoke of the condition of the country as it existed one hundred years ago, and compared it with the United States of to-day. A century has wrought many and wonderful changes. What was once a sparsely settled strip along the Atlantic coast is now inhabited by millions. What was once the trackless forest and the boundless prairie of the West now presents all the activity and prosperity of a land rich in agricultural products and large manufactories. The speaker paid a glowing tribute to the sagacity and wisdom of the statesmen of the last century, who founded a government based upon the principle of the equality and freedom of mankind. The Constitution, which guarantees to us our liberty and our rights, stands as a lasting monument to the genius and patriotism of our forefathers. Mr. Newton’s delivery was fully up to his usual standard of excellence.
The University Quartette sang “Hail to Washington!” and in response to a hearty encore rendered a farewell song.
The next speaker was Mr. Homer P. Brels-ford, ’91, whose subject was “America of To-Day and of the Future.” “We are assembled in commemoration of an event full of the deepest significance to the American people. We turn aside for a few hours from the cares, the troubles and toils of every-day life to honor that immortal hero—the Father of our Country. America of to-day is not the America of our colonial ancestors. Now hundreds of cities sit in regal splendor where once stood the Indian cabin and the breezes whispered softly through the forest wilderness. Proudly and honestly say we to-day that we rank first among the commonwealths of the world. From East and West, from North and South,.from every country and every clime have come the people who now constitute our population. England has given us her tongue,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Ireland her enthusiasm, Germany her thriftiness, France her genius and learning.” The speaker mentioned some of the problems that confront us to-day, and concerning the labor question he said that capital must learn to recognize the rights of labor, and labor must not be extravagant in its demands. What the future may be, we cannot exactly say; but we feel confident that it will be brighter, if possible, than our glorious past. Mr. Brelsford’s production was one of the best it has been our pleasure of listening to for some time. The audience testified to their appreciation by long continued applause, which caused Mr. Brelsford to appear a second time and bow his acknowledgments.
The “ Oration of the Day ” was delivered by Prof. John G.Ewing. His subject was “The Day We Celebrate.” This day is one of the greatest in the annals of our fair land. Every step taken by the early legislators seems to have been directed by a providential agency. With grateful hearts we recount our nation’s history, and appreciating the work of the past century, we turn with favor to the coming year. One century ago the national government began its career. Prof. Ewing dwelt at length on the causes leading to the Declaration of Independence and the formation of oiir government which was in great measure the creature of necessity. The bullets of Lexington called Massachusetts into the struggle for freedom, and then the Confederacy arose. Resistance to the crown destroyed all loyalty to the king. The Revolutionary war left the country in confusion, and no common interest then bound the colonies together. Shea’s rebellion showed the necessity of a union and a strong system of national legislation. Then came the adoption of the Constitution on the 30th of April, 1789, the centenary of which we are celebrating to-day. The speaker made an exhaustive review of the nation’s onward march to its present greatness, and summed up the reasons why the day should be observed with fervor and thanksgiving. Prof. Ewing’s effort was an able one, and we regret that we have not been able to give a more perfect synopsis of his remarks.
The programme closed with the rendition of the “Star Spangled Banner” accompanied by the University Orchestra. Thus ended the celebration of Centennial day at Notre Dame; everyone was filled with enthusiasm and one vied with another in doing his utmost to commemorate fittingly the closing of a most glorious epoch in the history of the greatest nation of the earth.
G: H. C.
A Century of Progress*
A great and solemn occasion has called us together to-day. We meet to proclaim the praises of great men and to celebrate the birthday of a great government. There is an instinctive feeling in all men which prompts them to give honor to whom honor is due. Those to whom it has been granted to perform great and arduous deeds can always count on the gratitude and admiration of their fellow-men. A Richelieu, for instance,whosegenius and strength of character were the means of casting the destinies of a great nation into a channel in which they flowed for nearly two centuries; a Shak-speare, the creations of whose master intellect will be the delight of all generations till the language which he spoke will be a thing of the dead and burned past; a Franklin and a Morse, who made the mysterious forces of nature and the lightnings of heaven subservient to man’s purposes and interests; these are all men whose claims to recognition and admiration we are only too happy to acknowledge, and to whom we cheerfully pay tribute and erect monuments.
But if it be a safe rule to estimate the greatness of men according to the “ footprints which they have left upon the sands of time,” or, in other words, according to the depth and permanence of the impression they have made upon the world and their fellow-men, what names in all history, we may justly ask, deserve to rank higher than those of statesmen and patriots like Washington, Adams, Jefferson and Hamilton, to whom may be ascribed the principal credit of having laid deep and strong the foundations of a mighty nation, and whose lessons and example have remained for a century and will remain through all time indelibly inscribed on the minds and hearts of their fellowmen.
One hundred years ago these great men, the fathers of our country, erected the edifice whose strength and symmetry and usefulness will be the boast of their descendants while time shall last. One hundred years ago the sages and heroes of the Revolution put the finishing stroke to the series of great works which justly entitle them to the gratitude of all future generations of Americans by the adoption of a constitution under which the nation has achieved results which are the wonder and admiration of the world.
Political constitutions are not mere theories which states should adopt or discard according to the greater or less degree of abstract excellence which they may be supposed to contain. The best political constitution for any nation is that which is best suited to its circumstances and requirements. A constitution, like a tree.
* A report of the Address delivered by Rev. President T. E. Walsh on the occasion of the Centennial celebration at South Bend, Ind., Tuesday, April 30.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
must be judged by the fruit which it bears. If a constitution can secure for a people the blessings of a wide liberty without imperilling public order: if it can guarantee to all men equal rights . under the supremacy of just' laws; if it can supply to all citizens incentives to put forth their best energies for the good of the state by laying open the dignities which men surround with the deepest esteem, not to caste or class but to merit from whatever class it may spring—if it can secure contentment and a large measure of prosperity to the governed and the blessings of ' peace without any sacrifice of national honor;
if it can do these things, it is a constitution which should inspire the deepest reverence and which should be handed down from generation to generation as a priceless heritage. Now it . is precisely because the constitution left us by the revered fathers of the Republic has been able to bring about the grand results just mentioned that this, the centennial anniversary of its inauguration, calls forth throughout the land such enthusiastic demonstrations. Who can cast a glance, however brief, over the record of Amer. ica during, this first century of. her national existence without feelings of gratefulness and o	o
patriotic pride.
. (The speaker then reviewed briefly the most salient points of American history and spoke substantially as.follows:)
. One hundred years ago thirteen scattered . colonies lying on the seaboard proclaimed them. selves a nation. The seaboard has since ex, panded into a continent. The infant among the nations has become .the. peer of the greatest nations of the earth; her. flag is respected in
, every land and on every sea.. Her population of three millions has .increased to sixty millions. Queenly cities, have sprung up as if by magic in the heart of what was then a desert waste; her harbors throng with the commerce of the world; her hills and plains resound with the busy hum
, of the useful arts. Never in all the ages has a . land.been more distinguished than she for brill. iant applications of science to industry, for discoveries and inventions which have revolutionized all industrial pursuits and the whole com-
. mercial intercourse of the civilized world... A ’ transformation, which a century ago would . have appeared as improbable as. an Arabian .tale, has become a mere matter of fact. We . may review the social, industrial and commercial revolutions of the nations during the six thousand years of human history, but we shall
. nowhere meet an onward march of progress that can at all compare with hers. Peace, prosperity and abundance have during the past century smiled upon her people, as upon no other
‘ people on earth. No impassable barrier sepa, rates class from class within her limits. Intelligence and integrity are the only passports of nobility that she has ever recognized. Her test of the value of men has never been the accidental
' distinctions of birth or station, but capacity to promote the.general good. She has valued no
man for what he professes to be, but all men for what they really are and prove themselves to be.
She has opened wide her protecting arms to the oppressed and down-trodden of every race and clime, and she has so linked them to herself by bonds of affection stronger than steel that she may justly consider them among her most devoted children and her. most stalwart champions in the hour of need. Nay, more: not only has she always gloried in offering a home and a welcome to the victims of oppression; her moral influence the world over has been exerted in favor of those who are battling for freedom and human rights. Her voice has rung out with no uncertain sound on all questions in which the rights of men are concerned. She had words of encouragement and sympathy for the Greek in his struggle against Turkish tyranny; she stands pledged to prevent the chains of European despotism from being again riveted on any free nation in our western hemisphere; it is her moral and material support that to-day nerves the courage and upholds the hands of a gallant people across the sea in their struggle for just government and constitutional rights, o
She has courted peace and honorable friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none. When peace with honor was no longer possible, when it became necessary to submit vital questions to the arbitrament of arms; she did not shrink from the struggle. The close of every foreign war saw her flag wreathed with .new. lustre.
The seeds of internal dissensions lay within her for years like an inherited taint; when the violence of the evil made heroic treatment a necessity, she was equal to the emergency. Civil war—the most gigantic of which history has preserved any record—resulted in favor of national unity and national honor. That which at one time must have appeared the most hopeless of evils has merely served to show to the world the strength and energy and fixedness of purpose of a free people, to bind more closely together all sections of this nation, to blot out the stain of a great moral wrong, and to bring all elements of the population into closer harmony with the principles that underlie our civil Constitution.	_
No thinking man can contemplate the issue of the great civil strife without finding his belief in the sublime destiny of the nation strengthened, without finding himself impelled to look forward to the future with brighter hope, with serener confidence. In no other land does man enjoy fuller opportunities to work out the prob. lems of his temporal and eternal destiny. We have not so entirely centred our thoughts and energies on the struggle for material prosperity as to have overlooked the moral and spiritual wants of man. As a nation we have realized that “man lives not on bread alone”; that there are wants and longings of his nature which, no material advancement and prosperity will satisfy,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	J 575
In few other lands is religion—man’s most precious possession—more honored. In spite of the doubts and errors that sometimes show them, selves, in spite of the cold blasts of unbelief and skepticism that sometimes chill the atmosphere, “there is a religious instinct deeply imbedded in ' the American heart—there is a love of religious ' truth in the American mind that will guard the . nation against the grosser forms of irreligion and impiety.” Wehave no Church by law established, and we are grateful that such is the case: but as a nation we have always showed the conviction so repeatedly and so emphatically expressed by the first and greatest of our chief magistrates . in regard to the vital necessity of religion.
America is Christian at heart; any work which has for its object the upraising and bettering of humanity can always count on her sympathy and support. She leaves Christianity the fullest liberty to perform its divinely appointed mission, and more than this Christianity does not and will never ask.
Such is America at the close of the first century of her national existence. Who can wonder that the hearts of her people beat high with - enthusiasm and justifiable pride and overflow with gratitude to the Giver of all good as the . panorama of her onward march is unrolled before them. Who can wonder that they proclaim ; the greatness and far-sightedness of the fathers of the nation and sing the praises of the Con-■ stitution which has enabled it to reap so abundant a harvest of blessings. But a celebration . of this day would be incomplete if it confined itself simply to a commemoration of the past, and if it served merely to put before our minds ’ the self-evident truth that we enjoy an inestimable blessing in the privilege of American : citizenship. It should serve also to remind us that privileges always carry with them respon-- sibilities, and that upon the citizens of to-day rests the task of perpetuating the glorious - memories and traditions of the past one hundred
years.	•
The republic, more than any other form of government, is based on the intelligence and . morality of the masses; if these props be weakened the whole fabric of our republican institutions will soon crumble in the dust." It is well, therefore, that the virtues of the great citizens of bygone generations be placed before our eyes that we may draw from the pure fountain of their example lessons of patriotic devotedness, of incorruptible integrity, of rugged independence of character—of all, in a word, that goes to fit men for the duties, privileges and responsibilities of American citizenship. Not mere tools of party, not slaves of passion, prejudice or appetite, the citizens of to-day should be ready to put forth all their energies to the task of eradicating from the body politic the evils which threaten the stability of the insti-..tutions that are our glory and our pride. The . purity of the ballot-box, the sacredness of the marriage tie, on which the very existence of
the family spirit depends; the vital necessity of education—based on precepts of. sound Christian morality—these are among the causes of which every good citizen should be a sturdy and uncompromising champion. This the country has the right to expect; with less than this it will never be satisfied; and, neglecting this, in vain would we flatter ourselves that we are worthy of the great heritage that has been transmitted to us. To sing the praises of America’s great men without being ready to imitate them in their willingness to make sacrifices at the call of country or of duty; to proclaim the greatness of the nation without being ready to combat the evils which ■ threaten to poison the fountains of the national life would be the emptiest and hollowest of mockeries and delusions.
A second century lies open before the.-Republic. She claims and receives from us the tribute of our loyalty and our love. She bears within her the brightest hopes of the human race. Her mission is to prove to the world that man is capable of self-government, and-that there is no boon more precious than liberty— when liberty is properly understood. Our heartfelt wishes go out to her and our most fervent prayers ascend for her prosperity and her-grandeur. We are proud to do her homage, and from our hearts we pray that her glory may never be dimmed. And when the second century of her existence shall have closed, may she find among the three hundred millions who will celebrate this anniversary, as she finds today, no hearts that do not cherish her name; no tongues that do not proclaim her praise; no arms that would not be gladly-and proudly uplifted in defense of her institutions and her laws!
Personal.
—The Hon. Mr. Crooker, of Mendota, Ill., spent several days at Notre Dame this week-.
—Mr. Meagher, of Mankota, Minn., and Mr. P. H. Kelly, of St. Paul, were at the College last week.	-
—Mr. W. J. Stange and Mr. Jos. Sbkup, junior students of ’83, of Chicago, Ill., were recent visitors.	.	' :
—The St. Paul Globe informs us that Attorney George H. Sullivan, an old law student of Notre Dame, was married this week to a young lady of Madison, Wis.	•
—J. E. Bretz, one of the promising .members of the Columbian Society, has left for his home in Springfield, Ill. He will be greatly missed by his companions.	.
—Among recent visitors was Mr. E. W. Robinson (Com’l) ’78, Lansing, Mich., who was warmly greeted by many old-time friends. He was accompanied by Mr. Geo. Kintz, a distinguished artist and architect of Chicago, who . was delighted with his visit to Notre. Dame.
576	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTICS
• —Hon. William J. Onahan, LL. D., ’76, has the congratulations of many friends at Notre Dame on his appointment as comptroller of the city of Chicago—a position which he is so eminently qualified to fill.
—Rt. Rev. C. H. Borgess, D. D., was a most welcome visitor to Notre Dame on Monday last. He dined with the students in the College refectory and addressed them in kind and instructive words. The Bishop, we are glad to say, is now in the best of health, and we hope he will find time to repeat his agreeable visits.
—Among the recent visitors registered were: W. Lonergan, Mrs. M. A. Morton and son, the Misses McNulty, H. W. Hoyt, B. W. Dodson, Mr. and Mrs. J. Cooke and Miss I. Cooke, Mrs. M. E. Adams, Mrs. M. Richie, Mrs. Bryson, Col. W. Rend and daughter, Miss N. Quill, Miss Wagner, Chicago, Ill.; J. J. Farrell, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs. L. J.Willien, the Misses Johns, Mrs. D. Bronson, H. A. Pritchett, Terre Haute, Ind.; Mrs. Judge Hammond and daughters, Rensselaer, Ind.; W. F. Cooney, Miss Alice Cooney, Miss V. Moore, Toledo, Ohio; P. A. O’Donnell, Louis Germain, East Saginaw, Mich.; Mrs. A. Smith, Miss A. Harbine, Enon, Ohio; Miss S. Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Miss F. Waterbury, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Stephen Bond, New York City; Miss E. Boyle, Chadison, Neb.; S. H. Minor, Aurora, Mo.; Mrs. J. B. Noe, Ligonier, Ind.; Mrs. John Gappinger,‘ Kendallville, Ind.; Miss N. Harriman, Mrs. J. L. Forkner, Miss H. G. Makepeace, Anderson, Ind.; Dr. and Mrs. W. Fosdick, Michigan City, Ind.; M. Baltes, Mrs. Mayer, Fort Wayne, Ind.; S. Churchill, Rockford, Ill.; Mrs. E. H. Lansing, Mrs. J. M. Ayer, Henry Snee (Prep.), ’78, Chicago; Hon. B. F.Shively, Washington, D. C.
—The Kansas City Times of April 22, contained a long account*of the organization of the Kansas City Boat Club, and biographies of its leading members among whom are two old Notre Dame boys, Donald Arthur Latshaw and Attorney Frank H. Dexter. Messrs. Latshaw and Dexter, who were two of our crack oarsmen in their college days, are the captains of the Kansas City Club. Old members of the Lemon-nier Boat Club will remember the races in which these two participated, and the victories which they won. They were at the same time prominent students in the University and were also members of the Scholastic Staff, Latshaw being one of the editors of ’86 and ’87, and Dexter belonging to the editorial board of ’85 and ’86. A sketch is given in the same paper of the life of William L. Sullivan, another Notre Dame boy. We congratulate the Kansas City Club on their good luck in counting among their members such able athletes as Messrs. Latshaw, Dexter and Sullivan, for they will certainly add much to the efficiency and reputation of the organization. Being personally'acquainted with Mr. Dexter’s ability as an oarsman and having rowed with Mr. Latshaw, we can say that the club’s crews will be the leading one in the West.
Obituary.
Brother Columbkille, C. S. C.
Many an old student of Notre Dame will learn with deep regret the sad news of the death of Brother Columbkille (Patrick Carmody), who departed this life after a lingering illness bn the 26th ult. For the past twenty years his occupations in the college buildings had brought him into close contact with the Faculty and students, while his quiet, reserved manner and gentle, obliging disposition and kindness of heart had made him esteemed and respected by all. His life was that of a good religious, and was fittingly crowned by a calm and happy death. May his soul rest in peace!
Local Items.
—Centennial.	'•
—’Rah for the American Flag!
—Notre Dame is nothing if not patriotic.
—Knoblauch and Reedy are the Senior second nine scorers.
—C. McGinnity and F. Wade are captains of the Senior third nines.
—Appropriate salutes were fired from Sorin Hall early Centennial Day.
—Leonard and Brown are official scorers for the University Reds and Blues. .
—The Total Separation Society’s banner waved from the smoking room.
—The decorations of the post-office on Tuesday were worthy of special notice.
—The illumination at Sorin Hall was like the flash of a meteor—brilliant, but brief.
—The Minims’ gym. was handsomely illuminated Monday and Tuesday evenings.
—B. Paul was in Chicago Saturday last making purchases for the Base-ball Association.
—It is rumored that “Dubuque” and “Allen County” will organize a band for Oklahoma.
—The handsome decorations of the main building were the work of Bros. Francis and Raymond.
—Those rather noisy or so-called “ night-owls ’ ’ will be sat upon severely if they persist in their disturbance.
—The Class of ’89, Col. Hoynes’ Staff, and the Quartette attended the exercises in the Bend on Tuesday.	.
—Thursday was a national holiday in Mexico, and the Mexican students took a trip to the St. Joseph Farm in honor of the day.
—Two tennis players from the yard tackled the champions from Sorin Hall on the 28th ult., and covered themselves with defeat.
—The captains of the Senior fourth nines are R. O’Hara and P. Dinkle. The contest for honors between these teams will be exciting.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
----■ -- _ _ ■

—-With Kelly and Tewksbury in opposing teams there will be some fun in the championship games between the two leading ball nines.
—Well! Snow’ on the 2d of .May and the thermometer within 29 degrees of zero on the 1st: we wonder what kind of weather is being ordered for this locality.
—For a year or so past there has been talk of a nafatorium at Notre Dame. We trust decisive action in favor of constructing such a desirable thing will be taken this summer.
—The devotions of the month of May were begun on the evening of the 30th ult. with an impressive sermon by Rev. Father Hudson, followed by the Solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
—The most beautiful statue of the Sacred Heart we have ever seen will adorn the new St. Patrick’s Church in South Bend. It is from the Atelier of Froc-Robert, Paris, about ten feet in height and a masterpiece of art.
—The Ann Arbor nines are desirous of playing the Notre Dame team either here or in South Bend. No game will be arranged, however, as the Senior Association would have to stand the expense which would come to a sum altogether too high.
—The Juniors are much indebted to Bro. Felix for the handsome manner in which he arranged and decorated the statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary in the Junior studydiall. The present appearance of the statue reflects credit on the artistic taste of the decorator.	•
—The following are the players chosen for the Senior second nines: Blues—J. McCarthy (Capt.), Woods, Combe, W. Cartier, Reynolds, L. Chacon, Madden, R. Fleming, Beckman, and J. -Fleming; Reds—Brewer (Capt.), Roberts, Kenny, Freeman, Conway, E. Coady, Bunker, Carroll, Cooney, Becker, F. Long.
—Law Department.—The subject of Taxes occupies the attention of the morning class.— The lectures on Negotiable Instruments have been finished.—The Moot-court held a short session Wednesday evening, the case of the People vs. Scott still occupying its attention.— The afternoon class is studying Equity.—The Debating Society is not dead, but sleeping.
—Bishop Borgess made a short address to the assembled students on Monday afternoon. His speech was pithy, to the point, and was received with the most enthusiastic demonstrations of applause. The remarks of the Rt. Rev. Bishop were brief, and to the effect that the students had best enjoy themselves that afternoon with a half holiday. ,’Tis such good men as Bishop Borgess who delight the college student’s heart.
—A Requiem Mass was sung by Rev. Father Regan on Thursday last for the repose of the soul of the late George Archambault. The students attended in a body. Through an oversight we failed to mention last week that at the funeral of the deceased student the remains
were escorted from the city by Company “A,” Hoynes’ Light Guards, of which the deceased was a member, to the cemetery south of the University where they were interred. The ceremonies at the grave were impressive, and a parting salute was fired over the corpse by the cadets.
—Friday morning, the Feast of the Finding of the Holy Cross, was the day fixed for the laying of the corner-stone of the new seminary building. The exercises, which were conducted with unusual solemnity, began by the celebration of the Holy Sacrifice, during which all the students received Holy Communion. At 10 o’clock, Very Rev. Father General, accompanied by a goodly number of priests, theologians and students, proceeded to the southeast corner of the foundation where the corner-stone was blessed with all the ceremony of the Ritual. At the suggestion of Rt. Rev. Bishop Keane, the old name was discarded, and the institution will hereafter be known as Holy Cross Seminary. A more extended notice of the exercises will be given in our next issue.
—Wednesday, May 1st, being the first day of the month devoted to the honor of the Blessed Virgin, moreover the Feast of St. James the Apostle, the students of St. Aloysius’ Seminary, gave a short entertainment with the following
programme:	’
Address, (to Rev. Father French).......J.	Clarke
“Rowing Swiftly Down the Stream”........Quintette Messrs. Hyland, Meyerhceffer, Crumley, Cavanaugh and Sauten.
“ The Miser’s (Will ’’—Recitation.....J.	Maguire
“Little Pet Waltz ”—Violin Duet—J. Clark, J. Cavanaugh Oration..............................M. Donahue
“ The Little Fisher Maiden—” Song.... G. Meyerhceffer “The Little Shoes did it”—Recitation..H. Sauten
“ Colleen Avarra,” J. Hyland and Seminary Choir— Accompanied by Professor Liscombe.
At the close of the entertainment Rev. Father French proposed that a vote of thanks be tendered Professor Liscombe, which was unanimously carried.	.
—It was too cold to play ball Monday afternoon, but the Senior first nines tried it and worried through six innings. D. Cartier and H. Jewett were the battery for the Blues, while Hayes, Cooke and Fleming occupied the points for Kelly. The Reds were at bat first, and while their apponents were making muffs and errors knocked out four runs. One more obtained by Kehoe in the third gave them a total of five. The Blues did better than this by getting a tally in the first, three in the’ second, two in the third and another one in the fourth, giving them the game by a score of 7 to 5. The Juniors came over to see the game in the second inning and the bats were removed at the solicitation of Tewks. to the other side of the diamond. “Sullivan’s grand stand” was well filled. H. Smith umpired for three innings and Robert Newton finished the game. The umpires assisted in getting several runs.
57S	NOTRE bAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Columbian Entertainment.—The Columbians gave their second entertainment of this year in Washington Hall last Saturday evening before a large and appreciative audience. The exercises opened with a selection, quite classic in its nature, by the Notre Dame String Quartette, consisting of Prof. Paul, C. Burger, B. Basil and B. Leopold. This was followed by a recitation, “Thanatopsis,” by Mr. J. Toner, who acquitted himself quite creditably. Mr. Ross Bronson did well in his declamation. “Breezes of the Night” was sung by Messrs. F. Jewett, W. Lahey, A. Eugene O’Flaherty and H. Smith of the ’Varsity Quartette, in a manner deserving-of praise, for never did the Quartette sing so well as on this occasion. Their effort was duly appreciated, and they were forced to respond to an enthusiastic encore. In response they sang a local song,in allusion to recent events, entitled “I’ve Lost my Dannie; BowWow!” This excited considerable mirth.
Then came the debate question: “Resolved that the President of the United States should be elected by the direct vote of the people.” The first speaker on the affirmative was Mr. J. Hepburn , who spoke of the importance of the subject under consideration, and explained at length the workings of the electoral system. He maintained that it is a useless and expensive manner of conducting the elections, and that it is in direct opposition to the spirit of a true Democracy. He cited cases to show that the will of the people is often defeated, and closed with a strong appeal for an election by the popular vote. His manner was somewhat embarrassed owing to its being hisjirst appearance as a public debater, but he proved himself to be the possessor of those qualities which go to make a good speaker. He was followed by Mr. J. B. Sullivan for the negative. The present electoral; system has stood the test of a century, and in those one hundred years has proved its excellence and stability. It is the method endorsed by our forefathers, and is in entire harmony with the spirit of the Constitution. Its merits: are well known, and it is far preferable to a direct popular vote. Mr. Sullivan presented his side of the question in an able and effective manner and was perfectly at ease on the stage. Mr. Mithen followed for the affirmative speaking in much the same strain as his colleague. - He dwelt upon the fact that while Tilden and Cleveland had a large plurality of the popular vote they were prevented from filling the presidential chair by the electoral college system. If the proposed change was made, New York and Indiana would no longer control the.election. His delivery was good. Mr. M. Howard closed the discussion, speaking strongly in favor of state sovereignty as it now exists. He was opposed to an election by the direct vote of the people as it is repugnant to the intentions of the founders of the Republic. He spoke clearly and forcibly in support of the electoral college. The arguments. on each side ■
were displayed in a strong light, and it would be difficult to say how the debate should have been decided.
The debate was followed by an overture rendered by Prof. Paul and L. Scherrer, accompanied by W. Meagher. The closing piece of the programme was the farce, “Cherry Bounce.” , The characters were: Mr.Oldrents,H.McAlister; Gregory Homespun, H. Barnes; Gammon and Spinage (Farmers), J. Welch, F. Mattes; Doctor’s Boy, F. Brown; Mr. Homespun, J. Bretz., This excited roars of laughter, and was an agreeable ending to an excellent entertainment, o	o
Roll of Honor.
. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Adams, Alvarez, Ahlrichs, Burns, Burger, Barnes, Brewer, Barrett, Burke, Beckman, C. Brown, C. Brookfield, Cassidy, S. Campbell, E, Chacon,-Casey, T. Coady, E. Coady, Chute, P. Coady, L. Chacon, Dore,, Dougherty, Darroch, Davis, Dinkel, Eyanson, Finckh, Fehr, Franklin, Fack, Goke, Goebel, Giblin, Gallardo, Garfias, Gallagher, Guillen, Hayes, Hacket, Hughes, L. Herman, M. Howard, Hill, Hummer, Heard, Jennings, . H. Jewett, Kinsella, F. Kelly, J. Kelly, Kenny, Knoblauch, Lane, Lahey, Lesner, Lozana, Lappin, F. Long, L. Long, Larkin, McErlain, H. McAlister, Mackey, J. T. McCarthy, Jno. McCarthy,. Madden, McAuliff, McGin- -nity, J. Meagher, L. Meagher, Melady, McLeod, H. C. Murphy, K. Newton, Nester, A. O’Flaherty, E. O’Brien, O’Hara, L. Paquette, Prichard, Prudhomme, C. Paquette, ~ Reynolds, Rorke, Rothert, C. Roberts, Stewart, Steiger, • Schmitz, J. Sullivan, G. Soden, C. Soden, Spencer, Toner, Tieman, V.Vurpillat, F. Vurpillat, Woods, C. Younger-, man, Zinn, Zeitler.	;
'	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters J. Allen, W. Allen, Aarons, Adler, Brady, Blumenthal, Bryan, Bradley, S. Cleary, Cunningham, Crandall, Ciarcoschi, J. Connors, E. Connors, Case, Connelly, A. Campbell, Collins, Cauthom, Chute, L. N. Davis, Des Garennes, Devine, Daniels, Duffield, Ernest, Elder, Erwin, Flannigan; Falvey, C. Fleming, P. Fleming, J. Fitzgerald, C. Fitzgerald, Ferkel, Green, Galland, Heller, Hesse, Hinkley, Hoerr, Hughes, Hanrahan, Hague, Hartman, Hahn, Joslyn, Krembs, A. Kutsche, W. Kutsche, Lamon, Lenhoff, Moncado, Maurus, Mainzer, Malone, Morrison, J. Mooney, Mackey, Merz, McCarthy, McIvers, ’ J. McIntosh, L. McIntosh, McDonnell, F. Neef, A. Neef, Nockles, Noe, G. O’Brien, W<O’Brien, O’Donnell, Pe-cheux, Prichard, J. Peck, F/Peck, Palmer, Quinlan, S. Rose, Reinhard, I. Rose, RiedYriger, Sheehan, C. Sullivan, A. Sullivan, Spalding, Sutter, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Shear, Smith, Staples, Tetard, Towne, Thom, Wright, Walsh, Welch, Weitzel, F. Wile, Williams, Wood, Wil-lian, Wilbanks, Young.
. MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bates, Blake, Barbour, Bruel, T. Burns, J. Bums, Brown, Blease, Connelly, Cornell, Cohn, C. Connor, W. Connor, Crandall, Crane, Cudahy, W. Crawford, Clark, Carter, Durand, Doherty, J. Dungan, Dorsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dench, Dodson, M. Elkin, E. Elkin, F. Evers, Eckler, Elder, Finnerty, Falvey, Foster, Fanning, Grant, Greene, Goodwillie, Gregg, Goodman, Girardin, Gerber, Gray, Gilkison, Hendry, F. Hill, Hagus, Hedenberg, Johns, Kane, Kroolman, Kirk, Keeler, Kaye, Koester, Kehoe, Levi, Livingston, Londoner, Lonergan, Lee, Lyhnberg, A. Marre, McPhee, McDaneld, McGuire, Mooney, Mayer, Montague, C. McCarthy, Miller, Marr, C. Nichols, Neenan, Oppenheimer, O’Neill, Parker, L. Paul, C. Paul, Powell, Quill, Seerey, Stone, Stephens, Stafflin, Stange, Thornton, Trujillo, Wit- • kowsky, F. Webb, R. Webb, Wever, Washbume, Wilcox, L. Wilson, Watson, Waterman.	.
THE-NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	579
Sfe. Mapy’S HsadewiY-
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Thanks to Mother Superior, many privileges rarely enjoyed were allowed the pupils on the 30th;
—Prof. Egan delivered another of his inter- ’ esting and instructive lectures on Monday last. His subject was “Novels and Novelists.”
—Misses Gavan and Donnelly read selections at the Sunday evening meeting in their usual pleasing style; Very Rev. Father General presided.
—May devotions opened on the eve of May 1st; the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was preceded by a hymn, and the Act of Consecration read by Miss Donnelly, President of the Society of the Children of Mary.
—At the High Mass on Tuesday, Rev. Father L’Etourneau spoke of the merits of Washington and the necessity of thanking God for His wonderful blessings on the country, after which he read the beautiful letter written by the Cardinal Archbishop of Baltimore regarding the celebration of Washington’s centenary. .
—The Seniors showed their patriotism on the 30th by indulging in a fancy dress ball; at least such was the name given to the evening’s performance. Lady Washington, a Japanese, “Aunty Sam,” Bopeep, the Goddess of Liberty, a Quaker, two Newspapers,two inimitableTopays, and a host of other characters formed a grand march, after which dancing and singing made the evening pass most pleasantly.
—A delightful visit from Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess was the event of the week; he delivered the sermon at the High Mass on Sunday and celebrated the Community. Mass each morning while at St. Mary’s. After the points on Sunday evening he made a few.pleasing remarks, and on Monday, after an. address of welcome read by Miss Van Horn, he had what he called “a talk” with the pupils. All were charmed and hope to have the pleasure of another visit soon.
—The Juniors gave a little entertainment on Tuesday last in honor of Washington’s centenary, but of course dedicated their efforts to Very Rev. Father General who honored them with
his presence. They presented “New Arts,” and all gave satisfaction. The programme was as follows:	. , .
.	“NEW ARTS.”
Prologue.   ..........................L; Leonard
Dramatis Persona.
■ Miss Eastlake................................R.	Campbell
“ Holmes.............................M. Patier
“	Wright...................................M.	McHugh
“ Carson.............................L. Reeves
“	Everett..................................M.	McPhee
“	Copeland.................................M.	Northam
McPherson..........................F. Soper
Miss F araday ...........................M. Geer
“ Clark..............................L.	Farwell
" Fairbanks........................;... .L.Dolan •
“ St.Clair.............................M. Hoyt
“	Hale...........................I.Stapleton'
“ Jennings ..........................'.. S.' Crane ■
“	North...............................M.Kelso.
SCENE EIRST.	.
Essay—“Our First President”..............E. Balch
SCENE SECOND. “A Word or two from the Minims.........L.	McHugh ' ,
SCENE THIRD.
Essay—“ Fleur-de-Lis and Stars and Stripes,” M. Rend Peak Sisters..........................The	Juniors .
Chorus—“ Star Spangled Banner ”......The Seniors
Much merriment was caused by the “ Peak Sisters,” who gave a concert after an original plan of their own. At the close of the entertainment Very Rev. Father General and: Rev. Father Zahm made a few remarks suitable to the day and the occasion.	-
Self-Control.
Engraven on the pages of history, there is no more ludicrous picture than that which rep/ . resents Xerxes in his wrath chastising the sea. To this betrayal of his lack of self-control the mind clings with more pertinacity , than to all his wonderful exploits on the field. We smile . with contempt as in fancy we behold that monarch, livid with rage, standing on the shore . as his soldiers lash the offending waves; .yet scarcely has that smile left our face before we, . at some slight annoyance, lose control of our temper and figuratively, if not literally,, repeat the actions of Xerxes. Self-control is holding in complete subjection the instincts and passions which are forever warring in our hearts/ to obtain the mastery. Such a victory places . man above the brute creation, and invests him with a dignity entirely wanting in those whose passions hold sway.over their.lives. A man of self-control leads thousands safely through dangers where a man of impulse finds but death. A man may be a Nelson on the high sea, an Alexander on the land, and yet he may be unable to resist the enemies he daily meets. A petty annoyance arouses his anger; an interrup-. * tion in the ordinary routine of life makes him irritable; he has more power over a man-of-war or a company of men than he has over himself, and his inclinations. Long and arduous is the-way to self-control, and home and school dis- • cipline are the first requisites in its attainment.
Industry and self-denial are as reins to. hold in check -the qualities that tend to drag-one to-ruin. Numerous are the examples we meet each day which prove the necessity of self-govern^
580	THE NOTRE bAME SCHOLASTIC.
ment. In the school-room we find those who lose their temper at the slightest correction; others who give way to indolence and find it impossible to apply themselves to study; others again, battle against natural inclinations and obtain in addition to the attainments of a scholar that greatest of acquisitions a knowledge and control of self. In the family circle a want of restraint on the temper is the source of untold misery; and whether it is shown by old age qr youth it is deserving of severest censure. One member, especially, requires strictest control, and that is the tongue. Who can number the evils whose origin was an unbridled tongue? True indeed is it, that “The mouth of the wise man is in his heart; the heart of a fool is in his mouth.”
Outside of home demands how many instances are there not where coolness and selfpossession are needed. The engineer, the seacaptain, the leader of an army, the fireman,— how could their duties be fulfilled if the excitement of surroundings influenced them? A common occurrence in cities is the sight of a runaway horse attached to a light vehicle from which a woman is making frantic preparations to jump in spite of the shouts of remonstrance from all around. She leaps out; is seriously injured, and the horse is brought to a stand a few rods further on. As mental superiority over the accidents of daily life is so necessary, it should be inculcated in the youngest child, and it will be to him a more useful inheritance than money and lands; and should these be at first denied him in life’s struggle, he will be the possessor of that which raises him above the under currents that render poverty so dangerous to many, and will eventually lead to success.
Maud B. Clifford (Class '8g}.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ansbach, Anson, Ash, Bates, Burton, Bescha-meng, Butler, Barron, Bush, M. Beck, C. Beck, Clifford, Curner.E.Coll,Caren,Connell,Donnelly,Ducey,Dempsey, Dorsey, M. Dunkin, N. Dunkin, Flannery, Fursman, Flit-ner, Fox, M. Gibson, N. Gibson, Hertzog, Harlen, Hurff, Healy, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hutchinson, Haight, Irwin, Hubbard,Henke,C. Keeney, A. Keeney, Ledwith, Meehan, McNamara, Moran, N. Morse, Moore, Marley, McCarthy, H. Nester, Nicholas, Prudhomme, Piper, Parker, Rent-frow, Rend, Rinn, M. Smith, Spurgeon, Schiltze, Tress, Violette, Wright, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Barry, E. Bums, M. Bums, Campbell, Cooper, M. Davis, B. Davis, Erpelding, M. Fosdick, G. Fosdick, Griffith, Goke, Graves, L. Hamilton, K. Hamilton, Kaspar, Kloth, Kelso, Lauth, Miller, Northam, O’Mara, Patrick, Patier, Quealey, Reeves, Regan, M. Smyth, J. Smyth,
Scherrer, M. Schoellkopf, Stapleton, Sweeney, Thirds, A. Wurzburg, N. Wurzburg.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Burns, Hamilton, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, Moore, Palmer, Scherrer, S. Smyth, Winans.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.	.
Advanced Course—Miss H. Guise. .
Graduating Class—Misses M. Rend, L. Van Horn. ist Class—Miss A. Reidinger.
2D Div.—Misses E. Flannery, O. O’Brien. .
2D Class—Misses M. Barry, K. Gavan, M. Horner,
3D Class—Misses H. Coll, L. Ducey, M. Davis, A. Donnelly, C. Moran, M. Smith.
2D Div.—Misses J. Currier, C. Hurley, M. Piper.
4th Class—Misses M. Ansbach, L. Dolan, J. English, M. Gibson, E. Healy, N. Morse, E. Quealey, I. Stapleton.
2D Div.—Misses I. Bub, M. Clifford, F. Hertzog, M. Hull, M. Jungblut, E. Linneen, M. McPhee, A. Regan, E. Wright.
5TH Class—Misses E. Balch, M. Bates, M. Beck, A. Caren, E. Dempsey, M. Fitzpatrick, N. Gibson, L. Henke, E. Lewis, L. Nelson, G. Wehr, N. Wurzburg.
2D Div.—Misses T. Balch, M. Flitner, A. Koopman, M. McHugh, F. Marley, H. Nester, E. Nester, A. Penburthy, C.'Prudhomme, M. Schoellkopf, M. Smyth, R. VanJMour-ick, B. Wagner.
6th Class—Misses E. Burns, M. Burton, Bush, M. Coll, L. Dreyer, M. Dunkin, N. Dunkin, E. Ernest, M. Fasdick, M. Geer, A. Hammond, L. Hubbard, F. Kahn, C. Keeney, A. Keeney, M. McCune, M. Northam, A. O’Mara, H.Pugsley, B. Quinn, G. Rentfrow, L. Reeves, G. Roberts, L. Sauter, I. Schoellkopf, K. Sweeney, L. Taylor, B. Webb, J. Zahm.
2D Div.—Misses E. Barber, C. Beck, S. Brewer, M. Burns, S. Campeau, J. Connell, I. Cooke C. Daly, E. Davis, M. De Montcourt, G. Fosdick, C. Haight, S. Hamilton, M. Harmes, B. Hepburn, M. Harriman, M. Kelso, B. Kingsbury, J. Ledwith, L. Levy, K. McCarthy, M. Miller, E. Nicholas, L. Parker, M. Patier, D. Spurgeon, B. Smith, A. Thirds.	'
7TH Class—Misses M. Ash, F. Burdick, A. Cooper, C. Dorsey, V. Erpelding, A. Graves, S. Goke, M. Hagus, M. Hoyt, L. Johns, E. Kaspar, C. Kloth,’ J. Patrick, C. Quealey, A. Schrock, F. Soper, M. Thayer.
2D Div.—Misses K. Barry, M. Davis, L. McHugh, F. Palmer, E. Regan..
8th Class—Misses B. Davis, V. Kelly, M. McHugh, M. Rose, N. Smith, J. Smith, M. Watson.
qth Class—Misses P. Griffith, K. Moore, M. Scherrer. ioth Class—Miss E. Bums.	.
HARP.
4TH Class—Miss E. Nester.	.
.	GUITAR.
3D Class—Miss M. Burton.
jth Class—Misses L. Griffith, F. Marley.
6th Class—Miss C. Haight.
. VIOLIN.
Misses H. Studebaker,L. Johns, H. Nester,M. Northam.
MANDOLINE.
Miss S. Smith.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Misses K. Gavan, H. Guise, C. Moran.
2D Class—Misses C. Dempsey, M. Barry, B. Hellmann
2D Div—Miss L. Meehan.	•
3D Class—Misses E. Balch, F. Marley.
2D Div.—Misses O. O’Brien, I. Homer, M. Horner, M. Fitzpatrick, M. Linneen, T. Balch, L. Dolan, I. Bub.
4TH Class—Misses F. Hertzog, U. Bush, G. Rentfrow. E. Hamilton, J. English, M. Schiltz, M. Piper, C. Beck, C. Prudhomme, E. Healy, A. Keeney.
5TH Class—Misses G. Wehr, M. Anson, C. Haight, H, Nester, I.Webb,M. Dunkin, M.Thayer, M. De Montcourt.
s
I