ONE
SUIT
FOR THREE
SEASONS!
The famous
SPRING WE AVE'
Tailored by Palm Beach
Manv things make this suit the finest buy for the on-thc-go univer-sity man . . . the exclusive Fabric: a blend of Dacron1"1 polyester, wool and kid mohair is comfortable to wear 10 months of the year . . . the ivy styling flatters . . . the deep colors are perfect for the spring, summer and fall. Tailored by Palm Beach to fit perfectly, and stay that way.
$65
3
PALM BEACH WASH AND

WEAR
TAILORED BY	COMPANY
SUITS
f
$45
The easy-care suit that washes perfectly, needs no pressing
^GILBERT'S
JULY
JUNE
* J *
NO CARRYING CHARGE
EASY AS 1. 2. 3
AUGUST
Stop in the Campus Shop, select what you need from our lareje selection of famous name, top quality, university-styled apparel.
Wear and enjoy your apparel NOW when your need is greatest. You can enjoy a complete wardrobe ... be ready for any occasion. J
Pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August. There’s never a sendee or carrying charge with the Campus Shop way to buy!
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS
^GILBERT'S
3
OnC3upB>&.
(Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and “Barefoot Boy With Cheek.”)
; SCHOLASTIC
. 1-.-
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Founded 1867
A ROBE BY ANY OTHER NAME
With the Commencement Day iust a couple of short months away, the question on everyone’s lips is: “How did the different disciplines come to be marked by academic robes with hoods of different colors?” Everybody is asking it; I mean everybody! I mean I haven’t been able to walk ten feet on any campus without somebody grabs my elbow and says, “How did the different disciplines come to be marked by acidemic robes with hoods of different colors, hey?”
This, I must say, is not the usual question asked bjr collegians who grab my elbow. Ordinarily they say, “Hey, Shorty, got a Marlboro?” And this is fitting. After all, are they not collegians and therefore loaded with brains? And does not intelligence demand the tastiest in tobacco flavor? And does not Marlboro deliver a flavor that is uniquely delicious?
And am I not short?
But I digress. Back to the colored hoods of academic robes. A doctor of philosophy wears blue, a doctor of medicine wears green, a master of arts wears white, a doctor of humanities wears crimson, a master of library science wears lemon yellow. Why? Why, for example, should a mas
ter of library science wear lemon yellow?
Well sir, to answer this vexing question, we must go back to March 14, 1844. On that date the first public library in the United States was established by Ulrich Sigafoos. All of Mr. Sigafoos’s neighbors were of course wildly grateful—all, that is, except Wrex Todhunter.
Mr. Todhunter had hated Air. Sigafoos since 1822 when both men had wooed the beautiful Melanie Zitt and Melanie had chosen Mr. Sigafoos because she was mad for dancing and Mr. Sigafoos knew all the latest steps—like the Missouri Compromise Samba, the Shays’ Rebellion Schottische, and the James K. Polk Polka—while Air. Todhunter, alas, could not dance at all, owing to a wound he had received at the Battle of New’ Orleans. (He was struck by a falling praline.)
Today Californians, happy among their milch kine, are enjoying filtered Marlboro Cigarettes in soft pack or Flip-Top Box, as are their fellow Americans in all fifty states of this Marlboro Country!
Consumed with jealousy at the success of Air. Sigafoos’s library, Air. Todhunter resolved to open a competing library. This he did, but he lured not one single patron aw’ay from Air. Sigafoos. “What has Air. Sigafoos got that I have not?” Air. Todhunter kept asking himself, and finally the answer came to him: books.
So Air. Todhunter stocked his library with lots of lovely books, and soon he was doing more business than his hated rival. But Air. Sigafoos struck back. To regain his clientele, he began serving tea at his library every afternoon. Thereupon Air. Todhunter, not to be outdone, began serving tea with sugar. Thereupon Mr. Sigafoos began serving tea with sugar
w wz
and cream. Thereupon Air. Todhunter began serving tea with sugar and cream and lemon.
This, of course, clinched the victory for Air. Todhunter because he had the only lemon tree in towm—in fact, in the entire state of Alaine—and since that day lemon yellow' has, of course, been the color on the robes of masters of library science.
(Incidentally, the defeated Air. Sigafoos packed up his library and moved to California where, alas, he failed once more. There w’ere, to be sure, plenty of lemons to serve with his tea, but, alas, there w'as no cream because the cow w’as not introduced to California until 1937 by John Wayne.)	© w.4 sh-inmn
Vol. 105 March 6, 1964 No. 16
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor-in-chief
Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor
Brian Barnes
. . . business manager
Mel Noel
. . . news editor
James Morgan Callero
. . . features editor
Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor
Larry Sicking
. . . layout and art editor
Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy
Pat Ford . . . photography
E. Brian Graham . . . circulation
John Souza . . . advertising
Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
David Barrett, Jim Clare, Al Dudash, Robert Haller, Brian Jorgensen, Jeremy Lane, Frank McConnell, Bill McGuire, BRI Smith, John Twohey, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors
Al Basso, Pat Bauer, Tom Bettag, Jim Billiter, Jeff Blackwell, Jim Boland, Brian Cass, Lee Cass, Bill Cragg, Larry Dietz, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Dave Grophear, Alike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Bernard Kompare, Rex Lardner, Carl Magel, Rich McQuaid, Bill O’Grady, John Phillips, Jack Rowe, Joe Ryan, Gary Sabatte, Pete Siegwald, Frank Smith, Rick Weirich, John Whelan
. . . staff
4
The Scholastic
Curfew and Honor
The Administration asks us to design and put into practice a feasible honor system. The obvious implication is that they possess an abiding faith in us as a student body made up of mature, honest, and serious individuals. We hope their faith is not misplaced; we believe, for the most part, it is not. However, it appears that they themselves entertain certain reservations, not to say outright misgivings. How else explain the arbitrary and seemingly irrational enforcement of a dated curfew system which functions only to impose unnecessary limitations on our freedom?
Under the present system students may not remain outside their residence halls after midnight six days of the week and, at best, 1:00 a.m. on the other. This means that those who may be attending parties must embarrass themselves by leaving early; those who have been to a late movie downtown and would like to pause at Louie’s or The Flamingo for conversation and refreshment may not, but must instead engage in a frenzied dash for the last bus. But the most conspicuous and unfortunate inconvenience is suffered by those of us who wish to do some late-hour studying but have roommates who retire early and live in halls not equipped with a study lounge. Surely it would be infinitely more reasonable for such students to carry on their work
in the more congenial confines of Nieuwland Science Building than to squat in dimly lighted corridors or keep their roommates awake. But at present this is strictly verboten.
How are the rules justified? Some argue that they are psychologically good for the student, simulating a kind of parental concern for his whereabouts. But in practice the enforcement is somewhat less than fatherly. We are constantly being checked in, except, of course, when we are being checked out. Our names stare back at us from a virtual army of lists and charts. Guards rudely burst into our rooms at the most awkward hours to shine their flashlights into our eyes and frustrate our desperate efforts to rest. We cannot regard this as other than gross discourtesy. Civil police have no such license. Does the security of our academic community require the suspension of normal law?
True, there are those rectors who incline toward lenience when confronted with individual cases of violation; but they are relatively few. Hence attempts to defend the rules on the basis of “spirit rather than letter” are factually unsound. And further, we suggest that the spirit itself demands some critical review; the letter is merely its natural consequent. The very existence of the system creates an uneasy atmosphere of hostility and suspicion which tends only to prolong and heighten the tension of an already unhealthy student-Administration relationship here. If the curfew is “traditional” then we must discern between the good and bad elements of tradition.
The Administration’s position is at very best paradoxical; and we stretch the tender euphemisms of diplomatic linguistics to flatter it so, for in fact and at bottom it is plainly and woefully contradictory. We are at once told that we are men, asked to behave accordingly, and treated with the disciplinary restrictions properly applied to children. Who can comprehend such wayward logic? It should not be necessary to impinge upon basic adult rights in order to guarantee worthy conduct in the students; we are not teen-aged ne’er-do-wells who must be “kept off the streets.”
Two years ago Fr. Hesburgh laudably revised and abridged the University rule book. Now the Administration calls on us to draft and adopt an honor system. Our response would be more readily positive were we not so affronted by a clear inconsistency. If we are the mature men who can be trusted with an honor system then we may rightly take insult in the continuation of the useless and silly curfew system; if we require such checks then we can have no honor system.
March 6, 1964
brisk, bracing—the original spice-fresh lotion 1.25
-with that crisp, clean masculine aroma!
COVER
Scholastic artist John Twohey here depicts Junior-Parents Weekend in such a way that no one can possibly mistake his intent. John is a junior.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second-class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 18 East 50th Street, New York 22, N.Y. It receives its covers including the four-color back-page advertisement from College Magazines Inc., of New York City. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues of the academic year and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). The- special subscription rate for St. Mary’s students and faculty is $3.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
CONTENTS
Editorial .................... 5
Letters ...................... 7
Campus at a Glance........... 9
On Other Campuses............ 12
Seven Days in May............ 13
Sophomore Interview-.
the Hollow Tribunal........ 14
COMPLETE CONVENTION COVERAGE
16, 17, 18, 19, 31, 34
Freedom, Honor, and ‘The System'............. 20
Disarmament for Survival, Part II ................. 22
Bengals Begin.............. 25
Skiers in NCAA's........... 26
Scoreboard................. 27
Voice in the Crowd......... 27
Fieldhouse Folly.........:. 28
The Scholastic
Letters...
A LA NICHOLSON Editor:
It has often been said that the art of diplomacy is dead. One need not go beyond the walls of this institution to find living testimony to this statement. The Administration appears to be totally innocent of diplomatic ability, tact, and possibly sincerity. In the past ten months, the “Powers that Be” have given a glaring demonstration of this lack of ability on three major occasions.
The Scholastic incident last spring can be considered nothing but a monumental fiasco. The Administration seemed to try its utmost to flaunt the chain-mailed hand of authority in the face of the student body. No tact, no diplomacy, and little common sense were exercised by the authorities in attempting to handle this rupture between two supposedly equal partners. This was diplomatic disaster number one.
A new fiat faced the student when he returned to school this fall. A new grade system was superimposed upon the student body by the powers on high. No consideration was given to student opinion on this issue which so greatly affected the academic life of this student. Faced with popular outcry, the Administration was forced to negotiate the dispute under duress. This is hardly a strong position to negotiate from, and the eventual concessions did little for the image of the Administration. This was a flagrant display of a lack of foresight. This was diplomatic disaster number two.
The third disaster is the issue of the new calendar. It is impossible to explain how an Administration which is continually exhorting the student body to excellence and mature responsibility could neglect the mature opinion of the student body on such a crucial question. This was the perfect situation for the Administration to demonstrate sincerity. A committee of Administration, faculty, and students could easily have worked out a mutually acceptable solution. This cooperative move would have gone a great way to creating a workable rapprochement between the students and Administration. But, no, the Powers hand down another fiat, are pressed into another negotiation under duress, and lose all possibility of a better image. This was diplomatic disaster number three.
After these three blunders, one is led to question the sincerity of the Administration. Do they really want to lead this University onward to excellence in a cooperative venture with
the students? Or, do they want this to be a forced and artificial growth led by an infallible power?
Let us hope that these three major diplomatic blunders and a bevy of lesser ones are the products of diplomatic innocence and not maliciousness.
John J. McGrath, Jr. 103 Walsh Hall
PEN PAL PROPONENT Editor:
I feel that it is time for me to express my sentiments on a very significant issue: the proposed calendar change. In view of all the apparently ineffective, “mature” student reactions, I shall take the old-fashioned emotional reaction. Since I am a freshman, I am sure the University, the apex of all rational and infallible thought, will make allowances for my conduct.
It seems to me that the students, in a superhuman effort to act in a reasonable and mature way, have not done much to impress the administration with their opinion of the asinine calendar change. Perhaps, with this lack of reaction, the University will think it safe to make the students swallow their medicine like the good little fellows we are supposed to be. As a student, I urge my fellow students to participate in the proposed plan of writing letters to the University officials expressing your dissatisfaction with the proposed revision. Write a letter every day. Write until the University has to weigh the mail to even approximate the number of letters sent in. Please be rational and mature, however.
The only thing the University seems to have achieved is — chop up Easter vacation, shorten total vacation time by four days, then increased the tuition a hundred dollars for their efforts. I shall not jump on the bandwagon and propose a calendar of my own except to say that I am greatly in favor of the plan proposed by John Moye. If there was something wrong with the old calendar, some horrible drawbacks that caused this asinine change, why doesn’t the University tell us about it. At least they should tell me, for I am unable to make sense out of the mass of rumors that filter through the student grapevine.
James O’Reilly 114 Keenan
BREAD-AND-BUTTER NOTE Editor:
As Mock Convention Campaign Manager for Richard Nixon I was invited last Sunday evening to address the New York delegation. Arriving at
the meeting early, I waited while they transacted their business. When they had finished their routine business matters, the delegation chairman introduced me to the delegation. While I stood at the front of the room, waiting to speak, 150 people walked out of the room. I have never been more shocked and astonished in my years at Notre Dame than I was by this display of discourtesy by Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students.
The New York delegation’s assistant delegation chairman summed up the spectacle as an example of “the ultimate boorishness of the Notre Dame students.” Of 160 members of the delegation, only 10 had the common courtesy to stay in their places. In the Nixon campaign, I spoke to 28 states, and New York was the only state which ever showed anything but the most courteous behavior to me or to any of the other campaign managers.
The members of the New York delegation, by this action, have done a great disservice to their state and to their school. Even if they didn’t like Nixon, they should have had enough of a sense of propriety to be courteous to me. No New Yorker can ever again claim to me that his state has the least notion of propriety. It is a reflection on the manners of both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students that such a display of rudeness could ever occur, no matter what the time or place.
Bill McDonald
424 Lyons Hall
POTLUCK Editor:
Of all the things at Notre Dame, that which a student experiences most frequently and can do least about is dining hall food. At the end of last year a rather lengthy questionnaire was distributed around the campus to determine student likes and dislikes concerning meals.
Whether this was of any use is questionable. But whoever listed mulligatawny soup as his favorite deserves to be drowned in it. Other depraved appetizers as marinated vegetable salad and corn mush, that fools you into taking it because it looks like burned rice pudding, should also be considered.
On the whole breakfast seems to be the best meal since the most standard food is served. Why then must we put up with bizarre foods that are untried and equally nondelicious when the regular stuff will be just fine?
Anybody want my chicken livers?
Bill Sebasky 333 Howard
March 6, 1964
7
Dennis Moffatt sought a job with responsibility
He found it at Western Electric
Dennis Moffatt, B.A., Coe College, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, ’57, joined Western Electric in 1961 after two years of graduate work at the State University of Iowa and two years with the Army. Most important to Dennis was the fact that WE offered him the chance to move ahead . . . fast. Dennis started at Western Electric’s Hawthorne Works in Chicago as a Staff Trainee in Industrial Relations.
After only a year with the Company and the completion of one of WE's training programs for college graduates, Dennis became a Personnel Placement Analyst. Advancing rapidly, Dennis was recently promoted to Section Chief, Employment
and Placement, Systems Equipment Engineering.
If you, like Dennis Moffatt, want a career with a company that will recognize your skills and abilities, and have the qualifications we’re looking for —let’s talk! Opportunities for fast-moving careers exist now for liberal arts, physical science and business majors, as well as for electrical, mechanical and industrial engineers. Get the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. Or write: Western Electric, Room 6405, 222 Broadway, New York 38, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for an interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus.
Western ElectricMANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER	"
Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities • Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the U.S. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N.J. • Teletype Corp., Skokie, III., Little Rock, Ark. • Gen. Hq., 195 Broadway, New York
8
The Scholastic
111 Illi! Illi III I 1 1 1
’iramnWiR campus at a glance
Parents Weekend
The Twelfth Annual Junior Parents-Son Weekend begins this afternoon with some 750 parents participating in the activities enabling them to meet the officials of the University and become acquainted with the University as it is on days “other than on the Football Saturdays.”
Parents will arrive Friday and Saturday morning at which time they will register at the Morris Inn.
On Saturday morning tours of the campus will leave the Morris Inn every quarter hour. Also, “The Notre Story” will be shown continuously in the Student Center. Parents are also encouraged to attend their son’s classes with him. After this morning of familiarization with the University, the parents and juniors will proceed to the South Dining Hall for a luncheon.
Lobund tours will leave from in front of the Fieldhouse from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00. Also at this time each of the four colleges will have a reception to give the parents an opportunity to meet the deans and faculty members. The three R.O.T.C. receptions will be held in the Military Science Building. From 3:30 to 5:30 the parents and sons will be received by Father Hesburgh and other University officials at the President’s Reception in the LaFortune Student Center.
Father Hesburgh will be the main speaker at the President’s Dinner in the Stepan Center. The Freshman Glee Club will entertain.
On Sunday morning the parents and sons will attend a special Mass at 8:15 in Sacred Heart Church. Afterwards the weekend will close with a served breakfast at 9:15 in the North Dining Hall.
Amendments Proposed
The Law Building auditorium was the scene for the February 29 Symposium On Constitutional Amendments proposed by the Council of
March 6, 1964
States’ Governments. Three amendments were discussed and a paper on each was read to the assembled law students. These reports were presented by Mr. Albert E. Jenner, Jr., a Chicago attorney; Professor Carl A. Auerback, University of Minnesota Law School; and Professor Philip B. Kurland, University of Chicago Law School. The proposed amendments would 1) exclude Congress from any participation in the amending process in the future, 2) set up a “Court of the Union” composed of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of each of the fifty states, 3) take from the Federal Courts all jurisdiction over the apportionment of representation in State Legislatures and in the House of Representatives.
During the meeting two other documents were also presented. Professor Paul Oberst of the University of Kentucky College of Law traced the genesis of the proposed amendments. A subsequent dissertation was given by Professor Arthur E. Bonfield from the University of Iowa’s College of Law. He discussed the proposed amendments’ constitutionality.
Those attending were given concrete ideas on the feasibility of the changes under discussion. One of the most interesting facets of the meeting was the recounting of the process by which these amendments were formulated. The proposed amendments are, by their nature, very controversial. Controversy seems to be the hallmark of past symposiums and last Saturday’s was not an exception.
The symposiums are semiformal affairs beginning at 9:00 a.m., usually on a Saturday, and last until late afternoon. The afternoon session convenes at two o’clock and is followed by a question-and-answer period. Students interested should watch the Dean’s bulletin board, on the first floor of the Law Building, for times and dates.
Going, Going . . .
“Gone with the Wind” will be the theme of this year’s Freshman Formal, which will be held on the weekend of April 24, 25, and 26. The weekend will consist of a formal dance and a buffet supper on Friday night, a trip to the Michigan Dimes on Saturday and the traditional Communion Breakfast Sunday morning with Father Hesburgh as the main speaker.
This year’s committee, under the chairmanship of Mike Doucette, has arranged a number of extras to help the students keep expenses to a minimum. They have reserved 100 double rooms in the La Salle Hotel at only $3.50 per night for each girl. Tuxedos may also be rented at a reduced rate of $8.50 complete and box lunches may be purchased for the Dunes trip. There will be no competition or lottery for the bids and any Freshman may purchase one. The dance will be held in the Student Center and the bids are $6.00 per couple. Car permits and 2 a.m. permissions will be given for the dance. The first ticket sale will be held the week before Easter. Room accommodations and tickets for all the functions will be available at this time.
Radio SOS
The three-day session of the Sixth Annual Finance Forum held last week featured an impressive list of seven speakers, representing leaders in the worlds of accounting, investments, insurance, banking and broadcasting. Highlights of the program included the keynote address given by Robert Liebenow, President of the Chicago Board of Trade, at a banquet at the Morris Inn and a fascinating talk by Erwin Graham, controller of Chrysler Corp., on the “Chrysler Story.” But perhaps of most interest to students attending was the talk given by Donald H. McGannon of the Westinghouse Broadcasting Company. Because WSND has just recently become a part of the Group W broadcasting team, McGannon’s speech seemed particularly relevant.
In his talk, “The Economics of Broadcasting,” McGannon continually stressed the uniqueness of the problems of the broadcasting company in today’s business world. Radio, which works through 220 million receiving sets in this country, sells a product to its advertisers which is intangible. It sells air time to its sponsors who use this time to sell their product. Once a station has sold this time it then has to fill it with a commercial which is both acceptable to the advertiser and the listener.
Besides this need to satisfy the
9
Mr. Donald H. McGannon
what the public wants. If this apathy continues in the future, the government may well take a more active role in determining programs and the public will not have a choice of programs.
Ballots and Bunnies
More than ten per cent fewer ballots were cast in the student body elections this year than last year. Sixty per cent of the potential voters participated in the elections, in which two of the four offices were uncontested. John Gearen, who was elected Student Body President, and Bob Guenard, who was elected Secretary, were unopposed in the races for those two offices.
Steve Walther and Thomas Mc-Manmon won the elections for the respective posts of Vice-President and Treasurer by large majorities, Walther receiving sixty-three per cent of the vote and McManmon sixty-four. Walther captured all halls except two, and McManmon all except three in defeating opponents Paul Meagher and Alex Garlo.
The biggest drop in voter participation this year occurred among off-campus students; only seven cast
have the required one-year Student Senate experience.
Platform Nailed Down
After almost thirteen hours of discussion (the term is used in its loosest sense), the 53 representatives of the Platform Committee had made up their minds ... or at least a majority had. Composed of appointees of the individual state chairmen, the Platform Committee took the proposed platform, supposedly modeled after the actual Republican National Platform, and shaped it to their own liking (or to their own candidate, if you prefer). Under the steady hand of chairman Mike Dillon, the committee plowed through the platform, paragraph by paragraph.
Undoubtedly the most controversial issue was the civil rights plank. At the first meeting on Sunday, Feb. 23, the Conservatives in the group rejoiced in the discovery that with 13 persons missing they possessed a majority. Despite some authentic filibustering attempts on the part of the more liberal-minded, the conservatives eagerly suspended the rules of procedure and were home free with their civil rights plank. The liberals re-
manufacturer and the consumer, the broadcasting company has to pacify a third party, the federal government. Because the industry has not grown in quality as it has in quantity, the government has felt obligated to step in and attempt to remove the widespread complacency among the radio entrepreneurs. But this has led to a problem of excessive government interference through which a small bureaucracy in Washington could conceivably dictate what programs some listener in Idaho will be exposed to. Many broadcasters feel that such government interference is a definite curb on freedom.
McGannon offered an interesting glimpse into what the future may hold for the broadcasting industry. He sees a trend starting again for the large-scale installation of Pay TV. Although this innovation met with a cold response in the early 50’s, recent experiments in California have started the ball rolling again. But the industry is still faced with the big problem of obtaining programs which the public is so eager to see that it will be willing to pay for them.
The future could also have a dark side. According to McGannon, the public has been particularly complacent toward the industry in the past. Because of such an attitude, broadcasters have not been able to gauge
10
Ramon Murphy Counts Ballots
votes this year as opposed to over a hundred last year. 2570 students voted in the election, which was the first one to elect all four Student Body offices on a campus-wide basis. Previously only the President was elected by a campus vote, and the other officers were appointed.
In a protest against the administration’s proposed new school calendar, which eliminates a major vacation at Easter, 350 voters wrote in the “Easter Bunny” as their choice for SBP. Blue Circle members who counted the ballots were quick to point out, however, that he was not eligible for the office since he did not
grouped for the next night, but were afflicted with a perennial democratic plague: getting out the vote; a measure to reconsider civil rights fell short, 23-22. Undaunted by their lack of success the liberals were out in full force Wednesday night. But the long hours of haggling were beginning to take effect; compromise was in the air. And after a little compromising on the compromise, all was well. Civil rights was settled.
It is ironic that the actual change in the civil rights plank was almost negligible. A Civil Rights Commission, originally proposed for one year, was made permanent, and the Presi
The Scholastic
dent and Attorney General were encouraged to exert themselves fully. There was no quarrel with the elimination of discrimination in federal housing, construction, or employment, nor with the encouragement of school integration, nor with the protection of voting rights. However, there was a definite toning up of the language, which remained innocuous enough for the conservatives and yet assuaged the liberals. All in all it was an impressive display of that cornerstone of American politics: compromise.
There were some interesting changes in other areas. In the area of national defense, a somewhat nebulous clause threatening to resume nuclear testing if the Soviets develop an antimissile weapon was struck out. Under Foreign Policy, a clause clamoring for the nontoleration of Communism in this hemisphere was moderated to opposition to further extension of Communism. Also a sentence was added discrediting foreign aid to Communist nations. Right-to-work legislation as a privilege of the states was included in the section on Labor. An interesting clause in the original platform on Human Needs which withstood attack calls for the elimination of compulsory Social Security. The farmers seemed to be upset about the general tone of the section on Agriculture, for reasons incomprehensible to some of the nonfarmers.
However, there were bright spots in this sea of anguish. The original concepts of Economic Growth and Business, Government Finance, Education, Immigration, and Government Administration came through unscathed.
The platform was by no means finished or decided, however. There were still a few discontented diehards who, having barely garnered the necessary 25% of opposition, practiced their privilege of introducing minority planks. It was up to the delegates of the Convention to choose between the majority and minority planks.
There were two minority planks presented. The one dealing with Labor was practically the original Labor plank without the right-to-work clause which the Committee had inserted in a close vote. The other minority plank dealt with Human Needs. It constituted a substitution of compulsory social security for the voluntary program suggested in the original plank. Despite the slight difference of opinion on the civil rights plank, the dissatisfied faction was apparently too wearied to persevere in its struggle. Actually, they probably very wisely forestalled what would
March 6, 1964
Debate finalist
have been a nasty hassle on the Convention floor.
Rostrum Report
Larry Petroshius, a junior from Waukegan, Illinois, and Jim Cavnar, a freshman from Denver, Colorado, won third place for Notre Dame in the Twelfth Annual Notre Dame Debate Tournament. In the competition among 52 schools, first place was taken by Wayne State and second by the University of Illinois at Chicago. Notre Dame beat Southern Illinois (2-1) in the octo-finals, and the University of Kentucky (3-0) in the quarterfinals, but lost to Wayne State (3-0) in the semifinals. Individual speaker awards went for first place to Jim Unger of Boston College and for second to Mike Cronin of the University of Vermont. Finishing eighth for Notre Dame was Larry Petroshius. The tournament chairman was Dick Jaskunas; he was assisted by Jim Magagna, John Roos, Ron Kerner, and Al Dudash. Professor Leonard Sommer is the faculty moderator.
“ Germany3 s Role33 First
In the hopes of bringing a number of the more prominent foreign ambassadors to the United States to the Notre Dame campus, a new lecture series has been planned. This was the announcement of Fr. Joyce, made
before a distinguished gathering in the Donor’s Room of the Morris Inn last Monday night, March 2. The occasion was the first of the proposed lectures, presenting Ambassador Knappstein of West Germany. The topic of the lecture was “West Germany’s Role in the Free World.”
Ambassador Knappstein believes that a large portion of Germany’s role must be determined after considering four main facts: the stability of her own economic and political life; her dependence on and belief in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; the faith of the German people in the eventual reunification of Germany; and, finally, the continuance of friendly relations between the United States and Germany. But the four points are intricately interwoven.
Since World War n, tremendous economic and political changes have occurred in West Germany. With the aid of the Marshall Plan, an unmatched boom in free enterprise has been accomplished, due in a large part to the leadership of Ludwig Erhard. During the same period, former Chancellor Adenauer helped establish a government that has already outlasted both the Weimar Republic and the Nazi regime. With its sound political ideals and economy, West Germans now little fear a Communist take-over from the inside.
Although the future seems bright, one fact weighs heavily on the minds of all Germans. Today, some 17 million of them live under the command of 22 divisions of Communist troops in East Germany. The hope of all Germans is for the reunification of Germany; Ambassador Knappstein sees this desire as drawing closer to reality. Russia has been unable to coerce the West into recognition of the East German government, only nine of the world’s 117 nations having done so. With patience and perseverance, reunification will be won without the risk to Western security that many feel will come.
For many Germans, the idea of unity does not stop here. A call has been heard for a united Europe, a call answered by the Council of Europe and, more recently, the Common Market. That only six of the 13 countries of Europe are members of the Market is not discouraging. This in itself is a feat hard to believe; and the Market remains open to any country which wishes to abide by its regulations. A great advance in trade has occurred since the formation of the Market, the jump being almost as large between nonmember and Market countries as between member countries. Considering this, it seems
(Continued on page 33)
11
on other eampuses
• A few weeks ago several staff members of the Michigan State News met Alabama Governor George Wallace in Chicago and reported their impressions in an editorial. Not surprisingly. they had held a low opinion of Wallace from reports of his actions during Alabama’s race riots. But their opinion of the man changed immensely after meeting the man personally. The students came to feel that Wallace was a decent man whose actions were merely a product of his environment, and while they could not approve of those actions, they should not condemn the man for following his principles.
The next day over sixty students picketed the News office in protest against the editorial. One marcher’s sign typified student reaction: “Let’s excuse Hitler.’’ The Student Congress approved a resolution which stated that the students of MSU opposed Governor Wallace’s method of preventing school integration. The Congress passed this measure because it felt that the editorial might be interpreted as justifying Wallace’s tactics. The student government also wanted to make it clear that the News opinion did not represent that of the majority of the student body.
• Students at Xavier University have a parking problem. The university provides a student parking lot, but has been reluctant to repair its
yawning ruts and holes. After a storm the area is unsafe for small cars which are likely to capsize in its swirling waters. After a recent shower the Xavier News reported that Ohio Governor James A. Rhodes was planning to declare the parking lot a disaster area as soon as an official crest prediction became available. A representative of the News, sent to examine the scene, counted thirty-seven major lakes developing, but as the News went to press, no drownings or serious injuries had been reported. A lack of funds has prevented repairs, but one student has proposed a logical way for the parking lot to pay for itself. He suggested that the lot be leased to the U. S. Army for use as a tank proving ground. “It would make the ‘dragon teeth’ of the Siegfried Line look like child’s play.”
• Fire hoses were brought out in South Orange, New Jersey, in an effort to quench a riot by Seton Hall University students. The riot resulted from the suspension of the student newspaper, the Setonian, by the university administration. Bishop John J. Dougherty, Seton Hall president, announced the suspension at a meeting with the paper’s staff. He stated that “There has been a growing evidence that freedom of expression is being abused in the columns of the Setonian,” and added that “an unwholesome spirit of cynicism has
characterized too many of the articles.” The Setonian had been critical of what the editors felt to be hampering regulations of the university. One editorial claimed, “Catholic universities have a tendency to overprotect their students. . . . Women are prohibited in the off-campus apartments, the basketball team cannot enter any post-season tournaments, and picketing is prohibited under any circumstance.” A few hours after the announcement, students gathered in front of the administration building chanting “We want a newspaper.” Then the demonstrators moved through the town blocking traffic. A barrage of snowballs in reply to a police order to disperse brought on the fire hoses. One fireman was injured by a snowball packed around a rock.
• The Bona Ventura reports that the uniform of basketball Captain Fred Crawford, second highest scorer in St. Bonaventure’s history, will be retired if it can be decided which number should be retired. When Crawford’s road uniform was stolen, he was forced to use whatever number was available for each game, chanting, “We want a newspaper.” The paper complained, “It’s hard to believe St. Bonaventure, nationally recognized for its basketball prowess, can’t afford to dress its players for a game. Are the prices of uniforms so high the institution can’t afford to have a few extra in the event one is lost or stolen?”
feiffer
GOT HOME FROM WHAT I TfWOHT WAS A PERFECTW z LOVELY EVEMM6 &J1TH MH MEI6H-B0& AMP I RWP THAT CHARLIE WAS ABSOLUTELY FURIOUS WITH ME.
FIMP ITS BEST WITH CHARLIE MEV'ER TO LET THINGS SIMMER. SOISAIP/WHATS MH CRIME W6HT CHARLIE?! »HT WE HAP A PERFECT-W LOVELY EVEMIU6.'
ADD CHARLIE BLEW LT AT ME.'CO YOU EVER LISTED TO WRW TALK,PHYLLIS? MY HOUSE, MY CAR, MY CHILDREN f'WEVE BEEU MARRIED FIFTEEN YEARS AMP IVE DEVER HEARP YOU SAY'OUR’! ISDT THEREAMU ROOM FOR AMOURTU THIS MARRIAGE?"
MIGHT I SAT UP WORRYING WHY (OUT I CHARLIE ID Mil LIFE?
AM I SELFISH? AM I
R95SK5-|VE?AM
I A MOH-
STER?
BUT THEM TOWARD MORNING it suddenly OCCURRED TO ME-
12
The Scholastic
Seven Days in May is an interesting, occasionally fascinating, but ultimately disappointing motion picture that attempts to do too much in too short a time. It is based on a book (by Fletcher Knebel and Charles W. Bailey II) that crackles with tension and excitement as it describes a military plot to overthrow the U.S. Government. Unfortunately, however, most of this tension cannot be translated to the screen and director John Frankenheimer has created not a fast-paced thriller, but a slow and initially artificial one.
The plot of the story is simple: the Joint Chiefs of Staff under the guidance of their Chairman, Air Force General James Matoon Scott, plan to seize the Administration on the 19th of May and repudiate an inspected nuclear disarmament treaty President Jordan Lyman has concluded with the Kremlin. Seven days before the planned coup a Marine Colonel of the Joint Staffs discovers the plot and reports it to the White House, which then acts to frustrate the plan.
Director Frankenheimer and screenwriter Rod Serling appeared to be ideal men to transfer this story onto the screen. Frankenheimer’s credits include Birdman of Alcatraz (in which he obtained a brilliant performance from Burt Lancaster, who
reappears in Seven Days as General Scott) and The Manchurian Candidate. This last picture was a satirical political thriller that sang with tension, cinematic imagination (the revolving cameras of the blacked-out brainwashing episodes), excellent dialogue (“Are you Arabic?”), and fine performances (especially Laurence Harvey as the automatic assassin and Angela Lansbury as his protective power-mad right-wing communist-agent mother). Screenwriter Serling was also competent in making unusual motion pictures: on television he had created the successful Twilight Zone and last year he rewrote his play Requiem For A Heavyweight for what would be a critically acclaimed movie.
The attention of these two men for detail and realism have made their story as authentic and faithful to the original as it could be. But, like other mediums, the motion picture has its limits, and most of the power of Bailey’s novel comes from sources exclusive to prose literature. Much of the action in the novel involves verbal infighting, plotting, and other actions which alone cannot usually form the substance of a film. In addition, the book had a historical perspective and rhythm that could not be transferred to the movie without making a film four to six hours long.
rT'His loss of structural rhythm is most evident in the opening sequences when Colonel Casey (Kirk Douglas) is faced with a whole series of suspicious comments and situations instantly following one upon the other with almost nothing in between. These episodes cover 66 pages in the book, but the film makers (at a loss for time) had to set them next to each other and created a noticeably artificial introduction to their story.
In the scenes that follow, the President gathers his forces and sends them out on critical missions all over the planet. They are so few, however, that they can only engage in what is largely a cat-and-mouse game of sounding out the intentions and powers of their opponents. While all of this is interesting, it never reaches the pitch of excitement Frankenheimer obviously desired. When Colonel Henderson suddenly disappears in the El Paso airport his absence is disturbing, but not ominously threatening as it should have been.
It is only when Presidential Aide Paul Girard (Martin Balsam) boards Admiral Barnswell’s flagship to accuse him of treason, and when Senator Clark (Edmond O’Brien) is captured and then freed from ECOMCON’s secret base that the film throbs the way it was intended to. The success of these scenes illustrate why the film as a whole is disappointing. The clacking helicopter suddenly appearing out of the silent desert and Senator Clark’s escape across the light-studded runways of the rebel airfield are, above all, cinematic images, pictures proper to and most successful on a wide screen. This cannot be said for the rest of the story.
The acting, as could be expected, is excellent. Burt Lancaster’s General Scott is a sincere and compelling portrait of a man tainted more by his associates than his own fanaticism. Fredric March’s President is a haggardly true picture of the man in the White House (ironically the personality and arguments of Scott surpass those of his commander-in-chief — making us wonder if Scott isn’t right after all). The other performances are also effective, and were it not for the nature of the book, Seven. Days would have been a very impressive movie.
Frankenheimer’s next film, The Train (United Artists), will be out this summer. It is another thriller (of The Great Escape type) starring Burt Lancaster and Jeanne Moreau, -and promises to be everything Seven Days In May is not.
March 6, 1964
SOPHOMORE INTERVIEW:
THE HOLLOW TRIBUNAL
“The student is apparently a mental cripple and,, at least, is not visibly capable of the type of work involved in the academic situation.”
'T'he demoralizing and cynical attitude apparent in many of the
Sophomore Interview profiles is stripped to its blatant worst in the above-quoted piece of slander. This year’s letter to the Arts and Letters sophomores, however, states that the “aim of the interview is to further the social, personal, and academic growth of the student.” The obvious contradiction between the stated purpose and reality is what has given rise to this article; it is frightening to some that the often undeservedly denigrating reports should go in a student’s permanent record for “use in future appraisals of students for professional and graduate studies, placement agencies, armed services, etc.” These reports, I might add, are made solely on the basis of a thirty-minute interview and a “candid and as informative as possible” letter in which the student analyzes his own “total educational development.”
by Joe Wilson
In an attempt to determine the cause — and possibly a remedy — for the apparent ill effects of the present system, I talked with the dean and the assistant deans of Arts and Letters, various department heads, and prominent faculty members. Dean Thompson gave me an insight into the previous history of the plan. The “Sophomore Comprehensives,” as they were called, were intended to find what the student had learned from his first two years of college. Along the lines of examinations, the comprehensives attempted to assess the student’s retention and integration of knowledge, but this became obviously impractical; emphasis was then placed on a less objective basis and, that the student might be gently introduced to the “interview situation,” the present procedure was developed.
The “new way” supposedly provided an atmosphere where students could meet the faculty off the “classroom level,” and was intended to show student interests and the general aptitude of the student body. Father Sheedy, elaborating, said that the in
terview-letter method will prove its efficiency only insofar as the student is intellectually honest with himself and is interested in the outcome of the interview; the idea behind the profile (the report given to the dean, the student, and interested department heads) is only a little less obscure: it is ostensibly valuable to have a carefully considered judgment about the student made by capable judges who have spent time setting the student’s strengths and weaknesses down in writing. The interview is exploratory. Teachers are not supposed to proselytize for their departments, but to find what had proved intellectually “stimulating” to the student. The interview itself should indicate where a student will “fit,” where he will major, from an examination of his interests; contained in his letter, the student’s choice of a “Book-That-Has-Influenced-Me-Most” is an indication of the value and the strength of his intellectual commitment.
Dean Plunkett told me, when questioned as to the value of the interviews, that a faculty member, Mr.
14	The Scholastic
Richard Stevens, had prepared a thorough statistical study evaluating the program. He gathered his data from the letters and profiles — it was concluded that, in general, the program was of proved value.
As long as you are in the deans’ offices you can’t help being influenced by the aura of right that surrounds all the reverential talk of the Sophomore Interview. You feel as if any approach that is less than favorable is somehow leaning towards some vague but dogmatic heresy. Outside in the world where effects are felt directly, however, the faculty and students are willing to give opposing views — as long as they aren’t quoted directly.
One point of contrast, indicative of the basic interests of each segment of the trichotomy, goes to the very heart of the program: there is no general agreement as to the purpose of the Sophomore Interview. It is rather basic to say that a uniform goal is necessary for effective communication and effective action, yet the absurd contradiction does exist. It consists merely in a choice of emphasis and is entirely natural: sincere students generally expect to use the interview as some sort of a “guide” for an as yet undetermined future course of academic action; the faculty seems to hope that they will be able to see what students have learned in their year and one-half — how the average person is developing under the Notre Dame faculty; the deans expect the students to profit from their self-analysis and plan to use the “profiles” when making out future recommendations. All of these goals are valuable, but to achieve even one of them some sort of standardized procedure is necessary. In this respect it is obvious that the organization of the program is at fault — the instructions to the students are too vague, too brief, too idealistic, when speaking of the goals to be attained. Among the faculty, some mentioned that they had received no instruction whatsoever while others spoke of a very vague briefing session. Perhaps since Dean Sheedy is back on campus this year he will be able to remedy some of these organizational faults.
Something that has not become apparent to the organizers of the program in their enthusiasm is that the faculty members that make up the boards just don’t have the correct materials with which to work. Obviously, a board that consists of teachers of philosophy, military science, and economics will have varying interests, look for different qualities in students, and — logically (for we are good Thomists) — produce differing opinions of students in the final “profile.” But this disparity in interest is not the chief weakness of the organization of the boards; I find it questionable whether any economist, or historian, or etc., is capable of performing a valid psychoanalysis, especially of someone as confused and fluctuating as students usually are. The personality analysis shows the “total educational development,” educational motivations, and the strength of the educational commitment; one finds the image of a military science teacher with a couch a little ludicrous. And not only are these specialists out of their own element but they are expected to perform this task in the matter of a mere half-hour, under rather tense circumstances, and with only student’s self-analysis as a basis.
But the worst part of the program comes during and after a student appears before some of these 200-odd professors who are sitting on the boards. Then the situation leaves the realm of the ludicrous and becomes sickening. Perhaps less than one-third of the Notre Dame faculty is to blame, but that minority, however small, is very effective in its obvious condescension and vociferous disparagement. The extreme statements in some of the profiles are simply undermining; for example, a student is told he:
.	. . doesn’t deserve to live.
.	. . certainly shouldn’t be in college.
.	. . won’t ever make the honor role [sic].
.	. . should drop out of school to stop wasting your parents’ money, your time, and our time.
Admittedly, this is the extreme. The
attitude that is frighteningly frequent in many — the majority — of others is more subtly disparaging. One student was told that he would never raise his low-C average because his attitude was wrong, with the implication that he was not intellectually capable — that same semester he got a 5.2 average. Another was told that he should not be an English major because his powers of expression were not adequate and his writing ability showed little development beyond the high-school level — the sentence criticizing the student was grammatically incorrect, and he is now getting above average grades — as an English ' major. And then: “He should have gone to a good business school where he could have relaxed in his comfortable lethargy and not have been bothered by any deep thinking.”
This cynicism has affected even more than those who are unfortunate enough to be plagued by one of these Caesars of the intellectual world. The word has spread and upcoming students see the bitterness and the disillusionment of those who have already run the gantlet; their reaction is to regard the whole program as a farce — idealistic and unrewarding. And, as we have said, what terrifies many is the thought that these irrational miscarriages are put into one’s permanent record for “use in future appraisals of students for professional and graduate studies, placement agencies, armed services, etc.”
But the situation is not quite so bad as the letter to the sophomore implies or as rumor has testified. Father Sheedy, Mr. Thompson, and Mr. Plunkett were all anxious to explain the obscurity of the policy. Copies of the profile are seen only by the dean and interested faculty members: only complimentary, and not pejorative, sections of the profiles are used in making recommendations. Thus we can even question the objective value of these profiles — there is an implied recognition of their inadequacy by the deans’ refusal to use the critical remarks of the board members. Father Sheedy possibly implied his now distrust of the results
(Continued on page 32)
March 6, 1964
15
MOCKMANIA '64
I
by Joe Wilson, Pete Siegwald. Rick Weirich, and Dave Grophear
Monday Afternoon
As convention time drew near, speculation ran high on all issues, from platform to voting to what the keynote speakers would say. At 2:30 on Monday, all the speculation reached a peak with the start of the convention assembly in Stepan Center.
The convention opened with an invocation and welcoming address by Fr. Joyce, setting forth the purpose and aims of the next few days’ activity: to gain experience in politics and political thinking by selection of a candidate that would embody our preferences. Next was Dave Ellis, adding a second welcome and emphasizing the dependence of the convention on its delegates and alternates.
The first principal speaker of the convention was Mayor Lloyd M. Allen of South Bend, who presented an enthusiastic picture of a clear Republican victory in 1964. He based his optimism on the example set in South Bend last fall, when the underdog Republicans, ignoring the defeatists, mustered a strong, organized effort which overcame the advantages held by the “other party — Brand X” re
16
suiting in a victory for the Republicans for the first time since 1951. Allen feels that the Republicans can do the same on a national level by presenting an honest, sincere candidate and platform. The mayor kept neutral as to the best choice of nominee, but some of his remarks, noting that the Republicans should not oversimplify the country’s problems, might well be construed to imply a slap at Barry Goldwater.
The major speaker of the afternoon, Rep. William Miller, presented a completely impartial pro-Republican, antiDemocrat speech. Representative Miller based his predictions for victory on the results of the 1960 race. At that time, the Republicans had every hope of success, yet suffered a close defeat. Looking back, the reason is obvious — Nixon carried more states, more delegations, and more counties than Kennedy; his loss was due entirely to six or seven large cities. The fault in 1960 was poor Republican organization in the big cities — this has been corrected, and it has been shown that the necessary support is on tap for ’64. The Republican
party has never been stronger than it is today. The party can now support a candidate rather than require the candidate to support the party.
Miller’s presentation of the issues for 1964 was kept on grounds common to all the aspiring nominees, pointing out only the advantages of any Republican over the Democrats. As he sees the issues —
Balance of Budget: The Democrats have failed and have increased the national debt. At present $20 billion of American paper is held by foreign powers, while we have only $5 billion in gold to back it up.
Unemployment, the farm program dilemma, Medicare, and federal aid to education all await solution. The Republicans can’t be blamed, for the Democrats have a clear majority. Yet nothing is done.
Civil Rights: The Democrats waited two years until riots and demonstrations forced them to act. Indeed President Johnson is inconsistent on this matter, claiming valid support now, but having a record of voting against civil rights proposals con
The Scholastic
sistently when he was in the House and Senate.
Berlin, Cuba, Panama, Viet Nam: The Democrats have failed to provide a sound, strong, consistent foreign policy.
As a result of these issues the ’64 election may well be “the last hope for free men.” The Republicans are assured of victory unless they throw it away themselves. In building up one potential nominee they must not tear down others, but should concentrate on the many areas of agreement which unite the party. This is all fine as far as it goes, but Rep. Miller does seem to make light of the fact that the convention must choose one candidate from the field, and thus some differences must be shown. Despite his statement, it is quite probable that these differences will be the major items of interest to the convention.
The afternoon session was concluded with voice-vote passage of routine business matters such as temporary officers, temporary rules, and appointments of committees. All these flowed smoothly, and the session ended early. The Monday evening session of the convention concluded the preliminary speeches, with keynote addresses by Sen. Leverett Saltonstall and Student Keynoter Lee McCarthy.
Monday Evening
Sen. Saltonstall’s address was another explanation of the Republican superiority to the Democrats. He took the point of view that both parties are seeking essentially the same ends, and the voter must ask himself which party is best recognizing the problems of the day and which will handle them best. The Republicans are the ones, of course, for several reasons. Evidence for Republican superiority is not in the new planks of the Democratic platform, but the age-old Republican planks of fiscal responsibility and economy in government. In another instance, it is the Republican party which was founded to deal with the slavery problem. The first major civil rights advanced since Reconstruction were made by a Republican President in 1957 and 1960. Even today it is only with Republican leadership that the civil rights bill is moving through Congress.
The Democrats have, in effect, endorsed Republican policies. Though they espouse the same ends, they aren’t making a very successful effort to reach them. Irresponsible and petty criticism hurt the country, but the Democrats have such a record of errors and missed opportunities that
the Republicans must assert themselves to avoid a steadily worsening situation. If the people vote on past performance, the Republicans will be assured of victory.
Saltonstall, like the other speakers, refrained from promoting any specific potential nominee in his address. However, in an interview afterwards, he told WSND that he would support Lodge in Massachusetts.
The other speaker for the evening was Lee McCarthy, the Student Keynoter, who concerned himself with the convention itself, and the role of the students participating. “The convention is intended not only to promote a particular candidate for President, but also to bare before the American people, and the world, the feelings, the hopes, the desires of a generation of Americans who have thus far in their existence remained silent.” The delegates and alternates participating have not had to care about national and world problems in the past; but before the administration elected next November completes its term of office, each of these students will be part of the voting populace, and will have to care. This convention offers our generation its first chance to exercise its voice in shaping the foundation for the future.
Our generation will be the one which does the fighting if a conflict develops. We must choose a man who will not view history as inevitable, but who will stand fast against force or threats. On the domestic scene, we should look for a man who will cut back the government’s deficit spending, a man who will keep up our defense, including the conventional, nonatomic forces needed to handle “brush fire wars,” who will further the cause of civil rights, for if we fail to recognize the principles of freedom and equality in the Constitution. we deny the purpose for the existence of a United States.
The remaining activities for the Monday session were the presentation of a “gavel of appreciation” to Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, organizer of the Mock Convention, and the Academy of Political Science and the voicevote passage of Committee Reports. The one bit of controversy for the day came with the Credentials Report. Tom O’Brien had switched, with the permission of the chairmen concerned, from the New York to the Massachusetts delegation, and no objections had been lodged with the Credentials Committee before the deadline (noon Monday). When the report of the Credentials Committee came up, it was immediately the object of loud objections from Connecticut and Massachusetts. Since no resolution
had been made before the deadline, temporary chairman McGuire ignored the objectors, who were seemingly out of order, and went on to other business. When the motion for adjournment came up, the vote was clearly a veto, yet McGuire declared it an “aye” and adjourned the session. The objections to adjournment were a result of the continued protests of Conn, and Mass., and McGuire was within his powers in declaring the vote an “aye.” However, it would have been better to recognize the objectors and call them out of order, or, when adjournment was vetoed, to call the parliamentarian to explain the situation. •
As a result of all this, the first day closed in a state of excited confusion, setting off much speculation about the course of the remaining sessions. In an effort to determine what moves would be made, the campaign managers were polled for their strategies at this point.
Goldwater: His backers were spreading news of other candidates’ weak moves, especially Scranton’s declaration that he would only accept a sincere draft and would not consider the vice-presidency. They planned to hold back their forces, committing the votes bit by bit in successive ballots to create the illusion of a bandwagon forming for Barry.
March 6, 1964
17
Photos by Pat Ford and Tom Hoobler
Lodge: Supporters felt Scranton had come out too strong too early and should peak and fall off. Goldwater was felt to have insufficient support to carry the convention. Rockefeller’s support was considered unstable, and Nixon was not considered. The proposed strategy was to wait for Scranton and Goldwater to peak and then snare their supporters as they fell off.
Nixon: Similar to the Lodge position, waiting for the leaders to fall off, with hopes of picking up their supporters.
Rockefeller: The Rockefeller men felt their support was solid, and that they simply had to wait until the less stable front-runners fell by the wayside. They were considering Hatfield as a vice-presidential choice in an attempt to gain extra votes.
Romney: This camp was ready to admit that it was out of the running. They knew Romney was not ready and would probably have to go another term as governor. Their plan was to throw their support behind Lodge, Nixon, or Scranton on the third or fourth ballot.
Scranton: Small deals were the chief order of business. They felt they were hurt by rumors that Scranton was out of the race, which they blamed on Goldwater’s supporters.
They countered this with their own releases about Scranton’s willingness to run and a couple cutting Goldwater. Their strategy called for an all-out effort at the start — if they don’t make it in six or seven ballots they’re sunk.
One other item to be considered in the upcoming sessions was the platform. The gymnastics of parliamentary procedure in the committee had produced a platform with three minority planks, all of which will probably be the subject of considerable debate, and all of which are expected to meet defeat.
This was the picture at the end of Day One of Mock Convention ’64.
Tuesday Afternoon
Tuesday afternoon's session, easily the liveliest and most interesting of the convention to date, is ended. It was a session enlivened by a formal apology from the parliamentarian to the convention, the first roll calls of the convention, and the turning of a politically minded horse from the convention doors.
An unusual opening of the session featured an apology by the convention parliamentarian to the convention and the Connecticut delegation, acknowledging that the chairman had “misinterpreted the move by Connecti
cut,” and clearing up the problem of the switch of Tom O’Brien from the New York to the Massachusetts delegation. The “official” opening then followed with the pledge of allegiance, the national anthem, and the invocation.
Representative Donald C. Bruce of Indiana, informed moments before his speech of the death of his father, took the platform to deliver a scathing attack on the present administration. Calling President Johnson “Bobby Baker’s boy, Lyndon,” he claimed that “the teller of tall tales from Texas” had “repudiated the law of gravity, rejected any theory of relativity, and ignored every rule of logic and reason,” Bruce attacked the failure of the administration to balance the budget, its utilization of “poverty as a political gimmick,” the defeat of the Ribicoff amendment, its silencing of General LeMay, and numerous other moves. He, of course, proposed the Republican Party as the party to alleviate these evils, and in general left the convention delegates with the firm conviction that Goldwater’s campaign was under way. A moment of silent prayer for the Representative’s father and family followed, providing a sharp contrast to the tumult and shouting of the rest of the day.
Michael R. Dillon, the permanent
18
The Scholastic
convention chairman, took over from this point and introduced Mike Albin, the chairman of the platform committee, who was to read the platform. On a motion from Connecticut, however, and voice-vote acceptance by the convention, the reading of the uncontested part of the platform was waived and only the minority planks read. The first of the contested planks involved the majority inclusion of support for right-to-work legislation. As a voice vote proved inconclusive, and a stand-up vote settled nothing, Mississippi’s Dave Ellis proposed a roll-call vote. Georgia, North Carolina, Virginia, and Alabama unanimously, and Arkansas with one dissenting vote, seconded the motion, and the delegates had their taste of the convention’s first roll-call vote. The early balloting indicated a victory for the majority plank, and the final result confirmed the acceptance of the majority plank by “over one hundred votes,” and enough, one Goldwater supporter noted wryly, to nominate Barry on the first ballot. The second plank, that on human needs, contained a majority proposal for the abolishment of social security for those able to meet their needs by private means. A voice vote ostensibly proving inconclusive, a stand-up vote was taken indicating a marked
majority in favor of the minority’s stand of keeping social security. However, Ellis, again trying to push Goldwater’s conservative platform, and for time, asked for and got a rollcall vote in a very unpopular motion. The vote was close for a while, then turned against the majority plank by the overwhelming majority of 718466. The final plank, advocating an amendment to the Constitution allowing prayer in public schools, passed by voice vote, but an attempt by the ubiquitous Mr. Ellis to make the vote unanimous failed decidedly. This voting ended the session.
Politics, of course, still went on with all campaign managers confident of their own particular candidate’s nomination. In interviews Pete Clark denied that the AP’s story had accurately reported Scranton’s feelings, and that he is still open for a draft, said he was unsure of how many ballots it would take to get a nominee, and affirmed that no candidate now has a sufficient majority for nomination. While for Goldwater, Jim Houff reported a pickup of support in the North for his candidate, and said that the government’s decision to go ahead with the new “A-ll fighter” will not hurt Goldwater in the least.
As for the upcoming balloting, the prediction still seems the same. The
appearance of more and more favorite sons — Morton, Taft, Hatfield, Wilkinson, Anderson, etc. — further indicates that nothing will happen on the first two ballots. If no one is nominated by about the fifth, the real fun should begin when all commitments are finished and the delegations go over to the every-man-for-himself procedure.
Tuesday Evening
Tonight saw the eruption of a riot of color — or more properly, eight riots of color — as the 1964 mock convention gave itself over to nominations for President of the United States. Despite the plea of the convention chairman to hold all speeches and demonstrations to eight minutes, the demonstrators, carrying on far into the night, gave no evidence of even hearing him.
The session started out calmly enough with the routine presentation of colors and the national anthem, but, strangely, without an invocation. Then the convention secretary, Kathy Hubbard, began the roll call of states for nominations, and it was the very first state, Alabama, which started the pattern of convention tactics for the evening, as Alabama yielded the floor to her “sister state from the
(Continued on page 31)
March 6, 1964
19
Freedom, Honor, and 'The System’
by Doug Lovejoy
That the University of Notre Dame has undergone a change in the past few years is an unmistakable fact, and the major reason for this change has been the student body. The watchwords of this change have been “excellence,” “freedom,” and “maturity.” The growth of excellence is undeniable, although, as the Dome pointed out, “there is still a long way to go.” The growth of freedom and maturity is still questionable and will remain so until either the student body or the administration decides to remove the stigma of paternalism; the students, by accepting the responsibility of adults in a university, the administration, by recognizing us as such.
In the past few years, the idea of an Honor System has been considered as a means for students to accept the responsibility for governing themselves. There have been many and sometimes just accusations made against the maturity of the Notre Dame students, especially in the matter of cheating, which at times is rampant in certain courses. The problem of maturity and freedom are no more acute than in the cheating that does go on and the student attitude toward it here at Notre Dame. Perhaps the greatest disillusionment to many freshmen when they first come here is when they realize the extent of cheating in some classes. That the ideal of Notre Dame and offices rifled before exams exist together is a contradiction difficult to pass over, and the question is why does the one happen despite the other?
There are as many who feel that a Catholic university and an Honor
20
System are mutually exclusive as there are who believe that if an Honor System can’t work at Notre Dame, it can’t work anywhere. From the relatively large number of Honor Systems which do work in schools through the country, it would seem that the former are right and they place the blame on the Catholic “attitude” that although cheating is a sin, it can easily be forgiven. This is an attitude many students bring with them from high schools, where they were taught well the supernatural virtues but at the expense of the natural ones such as personal honesty and integrity. How valid this argument is remains questionable, yet there is only one major Catholic college in the United States with an Honor System, Santa Clara.
Whether Notre Dame is seen as a great Catholic university or as a center of secular learning where a young man can go to get a degree, the problem of cheating nevertheless exists. The question, then, is whether an Honor System would solve the problem of cheating and at the same time demonstrate a newly found maturity in the student body. Could the attitude of “beat the system” which now exists in many classes because of an externally strict proctor system be changed to a disrespect for the student who is not confident or honest enough to do his own work? To answer these questions it would be necessary to ask first what is an Honor System and how would one apply to Notre Dame? Most schools with systems in operation define their Honor System as a way of life in which the student is responsible for
his own personal integrity, with a sense of responsibility grounded in a mutual trust that his fellow student is as honorable as he is.
The advantages of such a system almost seem too self-evident to enumerate but of special note is that the sense of personal integrity and trust that each man feels for his fellow student instills a high sense of the ideal in a student body. In a few classes here at Notre Dame where tests are given on an honor basis or in cases where individuals have been trusted to take exams alone, this sense of personal trust has left an undeniable impression. Even more understandable is an elimination of overburdening proctor systems such as the one in AB sophomore Physics last year where a ticket and ID card were required just to get in to the final and where a student was thrown out of that same exam before it began because of some inane remark he made, thereby violating the “no talking” warning written on the board. This is an extreme certainly, but eventually an Honor System would eliminate this and other types of proctoring and the cheating that makes them necessary. Primarily, however, the aim of an Honor System must be high, one of ideal convictions which can be understood in practical terms.
There is a feature in each school with an Honor System which marks it as distinctly its own. The military academies are, of course, the best examples of this. The University of Virginia bases its system on the “code of the gentleman”; California at Davis, on a community spirit. As a
The Scholastic
Catholic men’s university, Notre Dame is unique and although at times this singular position is seen only because of night checks and guards in the halls, few would deny the deep sense of friendship that is found in certain halls, floors or wings of floors, in the whole flock of new athletic clubs, and in many organizations and intellectual groups. Friendships such as these, along with the fierce sense of personal pride which does mark the Notre Dame man, can be the only feasible basis for an Honor System. Only when reduced to the student
present greater opportunities for cheating than do small AB courses such as General Program seminars. The importance of a course to the student can also determine his willingness to cheat. A junior in Science is less likely to cheat in a major Physics course than an Engineering sophomore in a required Philosophy course.
Perhaps the greatest factor determining whether a class will cheat or not, however, is the class itself. In those where the students are only so many hostile faces to the professor, there is an open invitation to
himself, his personal standards, and his relation to those around him, can an Honor System be truly relevant to student life.
In a reply to an inquiry about the Honor System at the University of North Carolina, the Dean of Students there made it very clear that no matter how the system works and no matter how mature the student body, there is no such thing as a perfect ■ system. It would be foolish to assume at the beginning that all the students and every faculty member would un:	questionably accept an Honor Sys-
tem in full. Although it would have to be approved by the student body, an Honor System’s effectiveness could only be fully realized after its principles have been accepted and worked out by the students, and this, like any important change, would take time and a certain amount of patience. There is no deep-seated tradition of an Honor System here as there is at other schools like Virginia and Johns Hopkins, and it would take years to build one. At the r same time, the question of honor in / the classroom would have to be considered in such terms that it would ini' volve deep, personal consideration by each student, something which is’ often missing at schools where honor is supposedly taken for granted.
i In considering an academic Honor . System for the entire student body, particular problem areas become apparent. The tendency for students to cheat varies with the size of the class, the subject taught, and the relation of the students to their professor.
; Large science classes, for example, . where the material is highly objective,
beat him and his “system” by cheating. On the other hand where the professor makes a conscious effort to destroy any antagonism between himself and his students, at the same time maintaining a high standard of instruction, students are less likely to cheat out of respect for him and the trust he places in them. There are professors of this type in every department and it is not insignificant that their classes are crowded.
Another inevitable question about an Honor System is whether it is doing no more than replace one system with another in which every student becomes a “proctor” himself — creating suspicion and distrust among the student body. If an Honor System were viewed in the same light as the present proctor system, this fear is undeniably a valid one. The word, “system,” itself is admittedly a suspicious term and in some schools it is replaced with “code” or “spirit” but when considered as inseparable from “Honor” in the single phrase, Honor System, it takes on a much more positive meaning. As mentioned before, the very basis for an Honor System must be the student’s personal integrity, his trust in himself and in his friends. The defined provisions of a system’s mechanical structure are built on and reflect this trust and integrity as they are adapted to them and their particular meaning on a given campus. In an Honor System here at Notre Dame this would be particularly true in the crucial problem of reporting. The emphasis as outlined in any defined “system” must be positive and cor
rective in the sense of preventing cheating rather than reporting it in a sometimes suspicious manner. A provision for a verbal warning of some kind to stop cheating during the exam draws heavily from the friendships which especially characterize Notre Dame, and a provision for reporting cases when it does not stop insures enforcement of the “system.” Thus to protect against any unfair ambiguities when violations occur, it is necessary that certain specific details be spelled out. But beyond this, an Honor System is no more than a formal recognition of what already should exist, the ability of the students to be responsible for themselves. In this sense, “Honor System” becomes the formal expression of an attitude of personal integrity.
If an Honor System means the recognition of personal integrity, many have asked, why should it be only academic and not include all phases of student life? The first answer is fairly obvious because many of the existing rules are lightly regarded and few would consider coming in at 2:00 a.m. after a Saturday date a breach of personal integrity. The second is that it would be difficult to draw the line in a social Honor System. Taking a second pat of butter could conceivably become an Honor violation if the system were extended far enough. The one meaningful activity in which every student shares is the academic pursuit of learning, whether it is strictly for grades and a degree or for the sake of learning itself. In the classroom, there are well-drawn lines of what is cheating and what is not, what distinguishes unfair advantage of others from personal initiative. Getting through a course is “real” to any student and the classroom is the only place where an Honor System would have any real meaning. For this reason, an Honor System must be considered by each student in the light of his own goals, his purpose for being in college, and his personal standards in the means used to obtain those goals.
(Continued on page 32J
.	21
March 6, 1964
DISARMAMENT
i FORUM
"There can be no greater error than to expect or calculate upon real favors from nation to nation. This is an illusion which experience must cure, which pride ought to discard.”
George Washington
Last week it was shown that a total nuclear war would be catastrophic for the advanced countries both East and West, destroying the fruits of centuries of labor. Further, the underlying ideological conflict leaves little hope that traditional diplomatic means can prevent an outbreak of war, based as they are on fear and suspicion. Finally, the inadequacy of the other ideas leads to the necessity of considering the proposal that the United States unilaterally disarm.
The consequences of the enactment of this proposal would be profound, but, as I shall argue, not so dire or disastrous as the reader might imagine. What then would happen if America were to disarm without waiting for a treaty with Russia or any nation? Obviously the United States would gain an overwhelming propaganda victory over the Communist bloc by' showing that the principles in our Constitution could survive a free test if pitted against those of tyranny. No longer could it be said that our principles prevail only by force, but rather that we believe that these ideals can be victorious by winning the minds of men. Louder than any shot, the enactment of the proposal would demonstrate around the world that the ideals realized for Americans in two centuries of toil can be realized for all men through peace.
The massive spending on arms
22
The Scholastic
FOR SURVIVAL:
PART II
by Paul Dupuis
could be reinvested in peaceful implements to enable the underdeveloped countries of the world to progress. The ingenuity of American industry could be harnessed in a peace offensive that would sweep through the backwaters of Asia and Africa, with the current military budget of fifty billion dollars spent on tools for constructing a modern society as a necessary prelude to a true world government. Not merely in the physical but in the spiritual things — such as education, a must for any democracy — can this money be used to benefit all men. Who could calculate the good that would derive if the United States spent fifty billion annually over a period of just a single decade?
A lot depends of course on the Russian reaction, which could range from a similar disarmament to the establishment of a world-wide hegemony. The possibility of the Soviet Union’s also renouncing her weapons is not far-fetched, since for decades she has advocated total disarmament to no avail, and our taking the first step would reassure her of our peaceful intentions. Peaceful coexistence en-f/ suing, both sides could try to prove ' the worth of their systems, although ‘ little doubt exists in our minds as to v which would win. But even if capital-1 ism should not prevail, what would be lost, for would not communism or a modified socialism have shown itself superior?
This would be the ideal situation but other less pleasant possibilities could occur. Neglecting various intermediate cases and taking the worst, i.e., Soviet domination of the United States, does this rule out consideration for unilateral disarmament? This is the crucial problem, for if there
. March 6, 1964
were no hope for the continuance of our American ideals, then reason can point to no exit from a future destruction. The question must be broached, for practical problems have forced an examination of the concepts: freedom of speech, freedom of religion, democracy, and the rights of man. In general what are the values from our culture which we wish to hand on to our children? More important still, can they survive in a totalitarian environment, such as presumably exists in the Soviet Union, and later reemerge and flourish without the use of armed force?
The following words of Senator Barry Goldwater should help us to focus our attention on these questions.
“Those few among us who, because of a paralyzing fear of death itself, would rather be ‘red than dead’ need a lesson in history. The idea of freedom cannot be stamped out by the scratch of a pen. Patrick Henry said it in a few ringing words two-hundred years ago, and his ‘give me liberty or give me death’ rings just as true today.” Why Not Victory, p. 120.
If the phrase “truer words were never spoken” has any meaning, the insight displayed in this passage by Senator Goldwater should be taken to heart by all Americans.
Turning to history, a study of the facts soon teaches us that these values tend to survive when little else does. Nations come and go, but Virgil and Homer are still read. The terrors of the Inquisition and the Protestant Persecution could not prevent men from setting forth their “heretical” ideas. In France during the Enlightenment many works were circulated in handwritten manuscript to avoid the censors. Contemporary Russians having
“decadent” views still write although receiving no recognition from the authorities.
This last statement highlights an important fact, for we are prone to view the present East-West struggle as one between civilization and barbarism, yet the Russians have much in common with our own culture. The works of the past are still read in Russia (the doubting Thomas may verify this by glancing through a few issues of U.S.S.R. magazine) even though they are interpreted in a Marxian framework. This should not shock us, for the Communists have a strong historical consciousness also. Nor on the other hand should this dismay us, for Virgil was interpreted from a Christian standpoint for a long time before the pagan values were realized for what they were.
To be sure, they interpret literary and artistic freedom in a narrower sense than do we and undoubtedly a temporary decline in creativity would result while the Communist Revolution is in high tide; yet, as in the past, a fresh look at the documents of the Western Heritage will enable a few bold minds to create a new Renaissance. These men will of course fuse the insights of Marx (.Historically, he is a part of the Western Tradition) into a new synthesis. Yet it is not often realized that long periods of time are necessary for a full appreciation of a man’s work, as was the case of St. Thomas Aquinas, who, reviled for centuries, is being seen in this century as an authentic contributor to modern thought.
These are rather abstract considerations. However, if we examine the concrete evolution of a concept such as freedom of the press, the same fac-
23
DISARMAMENT (continued)
tors emerge. At first this extended to those who did not disagree with the established churches in their countries. Later, scientific concerns were exempted from censorship and finally almost all intellectual writings. Freedom to criticize the government came about the same time in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, although pacifist ideas are curtailed in times of war, especially in the twentieth century. Clearly the men of the fifteenth century did not foresee all the changes that the ideal of freedom of the press would undergo in the following centuries, no more than we can see what exactly it entails now. Yet they were led to enlarge that concept as practical problems arose which needed a solution.
Today, the practical problem is how to insure the survival of Western Civilization and culture in the face of impending nuclear disaster. An international conflict cannot solve this without destroying the very values which we wish to preserve. Yet these ideas “cannot be stamped out by the scratch of a pen,” for wherever men have heard of these ideas, no matter how poorly they understood them, they have recognized that they are worth fighting and even dying for. Those men who sacrificed their lives for freedom rather than live under tyranny did so because other men would live on to benefit from their sacrifice, and thus their action was not a futile suicide.
The threat of a war to end all wars forces us to reexamine the basic attitudes which we so casually hold. Take for instance the present ideological conflict between capitalism and communism, which so many feel can be solved only by one side exterminating the other. It is analogous to the religious situation after the Protestant Reformation, since each side views the other as evil incarnate, although both have much more in common than either is willing to recognize. We cannot afford the luxury of a hundred years of religious wars to realize that neither side can win by force, for in these matters force may gain outward conformity but never inward assent.
As can be seen, if the United States were to disarm unilaterally the difficulties facing man today would not be solved overnight, but it would insure that what is of value would be secured. The struggle for the ideals we Americans stand for would not
24
cease; rather a change in the methods used in attaining our goal would ensue. The radical disagreement between East and West could thus be settled in the only practical way, that is, through reason, and not through force and fear. The issue is truly one between civilization and barbarism, but the present childish approaches leave one wondering whether anyone is for civilization.
At this stage some may charge that this outcome is too unrealistic to expect, yet, if the drift of the foregoing arguments has at all been grasped, it is evident that idealism is the only realism. The so-called realists are the true dreamers. Actually this is too nice a word for some of them: “hypocrites” would be better. These men continue to expound on freedom, justice, and democracy, but they have no belief that these can prevail against a dictator. They continue to say that freedom and democracy are necessary for man, but at bottom they believe only the police are necessary.
Our forefathers have handed down to us these ideals in sacred trust, not to be selfishly hoarded, but to be used to unite all men in peace. The time is not yet ripe for men the world over to free themselves from the superstitions and fears they harbor towards their neighbors, but in America we must make a first attempt. Hopefully there is a rising generation of young men dissatisfied with the hollow ideals of contemporary liberalism, and they wish a return to the principles upon which this country was founded, so that this country can once again play its rightful, historic role in world affairs. Unfortunately, in our contemporary crisis the heightening tensions bring out the primitive urges within us, preventing a rational solution to our dilemma.
What then shall we say to those who disagree with us? Shall we not attempt to be calm and patiently reason with them? If they charge us with being impractical, shall we not indicate the unrealistic means they now employ? If they accuse us of deserting the ideals of our country, shall we not retort that they were never meant to serve the interests of bourgeois robber barons and corrupt labor leaders? But if they assail us as un-American, then we can only ask them to ponder that perhaps the time has come when an honest man can no longer be an American, but must become a citizen of the world.
The Scholastic
Bengal Bouts: Tradition of Excellence
Though boxing may be dying a slow death nationally, it still thrives at Notre Dame, where the Bengal Bouts are traditionally the most important intra-university athletic event of the year, and easily eclipse the interhall football championships in spectator interest and attendance.
It thrives because it is rooted in a 34-year-old tradition, a tradition which owes its birth and growth to Dominic Napolitano. Nappy conceived the bouts and guided them to their present position of national prominence by following a simple principle: “Every fight must be a contest.” Through rigorous conditioning and careful pairing, he makes certain that the principle is made manifest in every fight, every year.
Novices — fighters without previous experience — start training and learning their ring skills in mid-October, although the official Bengal Bouts training period does not begin until . February. Many veteran fighters also begin individual workouts weeks before the official practice opens.
This year Jude Lenahan and John Wyllie, both middleweight contestants, led the boxers in their six-day-a-week calisthenics. The calisthenics, which follow two miles of roadwork, generally take 45 minutes to an hour and include 1500 jumping jacks, 250 sit-ups, 150 push-ups, and various bending and stretching exercises; the workouts are slightly abbreviated, though, on days when there is ringwork (each boxer is expected to spar four two-minute rounds a week). Small wonder that Bengal boxers are well conditioned.
The 1964 Bengal Bouts tournament differs fundamentally from its immediate predecessors not so much in the quality of competition (which will be predictably high) as in the quantity. There will be more fights this year than any in the last five or six, and despite the loss of Tim Reardon and Ted Valenti, this year’s competi
March 6, 1964
tors will probably be the most experienced — five champions and four runners-up return to defend or challenge for titles.
Adding international flavor — but not passive resistance — to the lightweight division is lithe, 113-pound George Sambiani of Bombay, India. To win, however, Sambiani, Vendel Matis, and Bill Hill will have to defeat 1962 finalist Ray Siegfried. One of two varsity wrestlers competing in the 1964 Bengals, Siegfried has considerable high school experience and was voted the tournament’s Most Improved Boxer his freshman year.
By far the prettiest fighter in the 135-pound division is Cautious Clay Calhoun (a native of New Orleans, not Louisville), who hopes he’s “too fast” for Ed Armento, rugby player Gay Pang (a Honolulu native), and rookie Tony Karrat.
The 145-pound division could produce another intercontinental rivalry, for the top contenders are Pat Farrell, a freshman with Chicago Golden Gloves experience, and Tom Echewa, a Nigerian junior who was runner-up last year. Echewa’s speed and strength make him the favorite, though neither he nor Farrell can afford to overlook rapidly improving Shaun Burns.
The two fighters who met for the 147-pound title last year get a return match this year at 155 pounds. Ed Hagan, a two-year veteran, hopes to retain the title he won from John McDonald in 1963. Both will have a tough time reaching the finals again, however, because they must face two experienced juniors, Pat Daly and Barry Lynch. Jim Hynes, a novice sophomore, will make a bid to keep the title in his family: his brother was division champ a year ago.
Tim Reardon — undefeated in four tournaments, four times the Bengal Bouts’ Outstanding Boxer, only the second Notre Dame athlete in history to receive an award from his classmates — is gone (to San Francisco’s Hastings Law School), and the 160-
pound class will never be quite the same; gone, too, is Tiger Ted Valenti, who gave Reardon his toughest fight. Even so, this year’s 160-pounders — including such top rookies as Ray Flynn, John Johnson, and Kip Hargrove — will provide the sound competition which has characterized the division in the past.
The headline fights of the 1964 Bengal Bouts, and make no mistake about it, will be at 165 pounds. Twotime champ Jerry Houlihan must defend his title against Jude Lenahan, John Wyllie, and Tom Brennan. Lenahan, who as a freshman lost the championship to Houlihan in an extremely close fight, will depend on speed and skill if he meets him again, while Wyllie — an aggressive inside slugger of the Valenti mold — will rely on strength. Brennan is an experienced underdog, and could upset any of the top three.
Wrestler — and two-time champion — Dan Manion returns to defend his 177-pound crown. Pat McRedmond of Nashville, Tennessee, is also defending something: the honor of 118 Morrissey, where he rooms with Lenahan, another Nashville native. Gary Kuckel and Paul Huch will also attempt to wrest the crown from its seemingly secure position.
Rugby player John Mauro and George Kloppenberg will be the principal obstacles to Tony Carey’s successful title defense in the 185-pound class. Kloppenberg, vastly improved over last year, will rely on sound fundamentals against Carey’s speed and aggressiveness.
The heavyweight ranks should produce something more than last year’s Waltz of the Pink Elephants, because of freshman football players Ed Driscoll and Angelo Schiaralli. Schiar-alli is the favorite to meet — and beat — defending champion Jack Anton in the finals, but whoever contests the title in this or any other division, it will be a match well worth seeing.	—John Whelan
25
TOUGH RUN TO THE NATIONAL FINALS
When the eleventh annual NCAA Ski Championships opened yesterday morning at Hanover, New Hampshire, Notre Dame was represented by a six-man team — Captain John Turner, Larry Reynolds, Jim Sechser, Steve Walthers, Jack Brady and Denny O’Neill — whose run to the national finals was over anything but an easy course.
The meet, which continues through tomorrow and is hosted by Dartmouth College, consists of four events: the slalom, a two-and-one-half-mile downhill run, a nine-mile cross-country course, and the forty-meter jump. Reynolds, O’Neill and Walthers will compete in the slalom ; Reynolds, O’Neill and Brady in the downhill; Reynolds and Walthers in the cross-country; and Sechser and Brady in the jumping. Turner will enter all four events.
It is remarkable that Notre Dame is in the national championships at all, for Turner and his team have had to overcome obstacles unknown to most collegiate squads. Most competing schools have on-campus or near-campus ski facilities; Notre Dame does not, and its team has . consequently had little opportunity for practice.
Most college ski teams are school-financed, and are thus able to undertake trips to numerous and geographically scattered meets; Notre Dame’s is not, and its members have proportionately less competitive experience. Jumpers from most other teams have had access to forty-meter and longer jumps; Notre Dame’s jumpers have been restricted to twenty- and twenty-six-meter jumps, and will be at a critical disadvantage. Finally, most collegiate skiers have the benefit of a coach; Notre Dame’s do not, and hence have been without professional instruction since high school.
Despite these disadvantages, however, Notre Dame has been highly successful in competition. A team must finish in the top three in regional championships in order to qualify for the national finals, and Notre Dame qualified by winning for the second consecutive year the championship of the Central Intercollegiate Ski Association.
The Central championships, held at Duluth, were only the third meet the Irish had entered this season; in two prior invitational meets they had finished second to Michigan Tech, both times on the strength of outstanding individual performances. “But in the regionals,” says Captain Turner, “we won first place with a balanced team effort. Everybody looked good on the same day.” The top five finishers at Duluth were Notre Dame, 91 points; Minnesota, 97.5; Michigan Tech, 112; Northern Michigan, 129.5; and Wisconsin, 171.
Perhaps the principal reason for Notre Dame’s success is the prowess which the individual members of the team had attained before coming to college, for they are — as a group — worse skiers now than when they graduated from high school. Sechser, for example, was runner-up in the National Junior Jumping Championships as a high school senior in 1960; Reynolds, a Californian, is one of the three best Alpine skiers in the Midwest, despite two years of only sporadic practice; and Turner — after four years at Notre Dame — was still able to win this year’s Midwest combined individual championship.
Though such a posture has obvious disadvantages, the ski team is intent on remaining a nonvarsity organization, in much the same manner as the rugby and soccer clubs. Notre Dame’s skiers believe that the responsibility and independence open to a club outweigh decisively the advantages of varsity status. And they believe that they can win as a club. After this season, that point can hardly be contested.
—Bob Spear
26
The Scholastic
SCOREBOARD
BASKETBALL: Larry Sheffield’s 26 points and Walt Sahm’s great (27-rebound) job on Paul Silas weren’t enough to stop the NCAA-bound Creighton Blue Jays. The loss made the season record 10-14, and gave departing Coach Johnny Jordan a thirteen-year mark of 199-131.
TRACK: Bill Boyle set meet records in the 440 and 600, but strong Western Michigan ran away from the field to gain its second straight Central Collegiate Conference indoor championship.
WRESTLING: Dick Arrington continued his dominance of Midwest heavyweights, contributing two pins and sparking the Irish to victories over Wheaton and Marquette.
FENCING: Sam Crimone was 2-0 against Wisconsin, as the Irish beat the Badgers, 16-11, in one-half of a triangular meet. They lost to Illinois, 17-10, in the other, and now have a 10-2 season record.
SCORES
Basketball
Creighton 84, Notre Dame 71
Track
Central Collegiate Conference Indoor Championships: Western Michigan 104, Notre Dame 58, Southern Illinois 33, Drake 19, Wayne State 11
Wrestling
Notre Dame 16, Marquette 14
Fencing
Illinois 17, Notre Dame 10
Notre Dame 16, Wisconsin 11
Swimming
West Virginia at Notre Dame, cancelled
Hockey
Lake Forest 10, Notre Dame 1
SCHEDULE
Track
March 7, IC4A Meet at Madison Square Garden, New York
Fencing
March 6, Fenn and Oberlin at Cleveland
Skiing
March 5-7, NCAA Championships at Hanover, New Hampshire
Hockey
March 7, Port Huron Junior College at Port Huron, Michigan
Voice in the Crowd
44 T) oxin G, then, is a direct insult to the divine goodness which
JD stamped its own image upon human beings; and so it is a grievous sin for which boxers can be excused only on the basis of ignorance. And boxing is also a violation of the law of nature — sinful in the light of reason. ...”
This statement from Joe Breig’s article “What’s With Prize Fighting?” — excerpts from which were reprinted in this column a week ago — is tantamount to an assertion of dogma. Breig, it is true, is a Notre Dame graduate, a respected author, and a well-informed Catholic layman; but he is definitely not a moral theologian, and he is definitely out of order in stating his personal opinion in such absolute terms.
Indeed, the Church has no official position on the morality of boxing — though the majority of contemporary moral theologians have damned it in its professional form, others have defended it, and popes have even commended it as a healthy sport — and it seems to me presumptuous that Mr. Breig should think he has arrived at an absolute answer to the question.
His dogmatism aside, however, Mr. Breig’s argument against boxing is invalid because it is illogically presented and insufficiently documented. The primary and readily apparent fallacy in the argument is that Mr. Breig fails to recognize — or fails to distinguish — the difference between prise fighting and boxing.
“You can and have to make a distinction between boxing and prize fighting. The rules are different,” wrote George Bernard, C.S.C., in an article titled “Are Some Sports Immoral?” (Ave Maria, May 21, 1960). Not only does Breig fail to make the distinction, but he actually equates boxing with prize fighting with the “manly art of self-defense”: “. . . prize fighting, or boxing, or the ‘manly art,’ or whatever you choose to call it. . . . ”
While I suspect that — illogic and lack of evidence excepted — Mr. Breig’s argument might apply validly to prize fighting, and while parents are far better qualified than I to judge whether boys ought to be taught how to defend themselves, I do not believe that his argument applies to all boxing, and in particular to such carefully controlled boxing as that in Notre Dame’s Bengal Bouts.
Breig’s condemnation is built on the hypothesis that “Boxing is the only ‘sport’ in which the prime objective is to inflict injuries, and above all injuries which have as their consequence the reduction of the victim to a state in which he is unable to reason or will, so that what is most human in him has been made inoperative, leaving, for the time, only that which he possesses in common with wild beasts.” This may be true in prize fighting; it is simply not true in the Bengal Bouts, which are a contest of skill, not destruction. In fact, once it is clear that the match is no contest — that one boxer is superior to the other — it is stopped, even if the outclassed boxer has not been knocked down and is not in serious trouble.
Another of his arguments is that repeated blows can lead to brain damage and punch-drunkenness. While it is true that a vast number of punches absorbed over a considerable period of time can cause brain damage and punchiness, the chance of this happening in an amateur tournament like the Bengal Bouts — where a boy boxes a maximum of 24 minutes a year — is negligible. Safety precautions — helmets, heavy gloves, short rounds, long rest periods, and careful pairing of the boxers to prevent a mismatch — reduce the chance even further. The Bengal Bouts’ record speaks for itself: not a single serious injury in 34 years.
Mr. Breig also fails to consider the positive effects of boxing (not prize fighting). In addition to its obvious value in physical conditioning, it teaches the boxer some important lessons: confidence, discipline, courage, respect for one’s opponent, the dignity of the human person. If such boxing as the Bengal Bouts is “a perversion of all that being human ought to mean” then being human may not be such a noble thing.
— Terry Wolkerstorfer
March 6, 1964
27
Incident one: a young, well-known and vigorous football coach was nearly spiked to death by a young, well-known and even more vigorous miler.
The fieldhouse folly
Incident two: the same well-known miler was almost annihilated by a wildly thrown baseball, loosed by some less-known pitcher.
Incident three: said pitcher was, almost as if in retaliation, nearly impaled on the fiberglass Skypole of a prominent pole vaulter.
Incident four: the prominent pole vaulter, on his way to the locker room, narrowly escaped death at the hands of an overenthusiastic fencer.
Incident five: no near-miss this time. The overenthusiastic fencer, himself on the way to dinner, was felled by a left hook, the work of an eager Bengal-Bouter shadowboxing in a corridor.
Obvious conclusion: Notre Dame’s nineteenth-century Fieldhouse becomes ludicrously overcrowded in the months of late winter. Indeed, had the Fieldhouse collapsed — a not entirely improbable phenomenon — on any recent weekday afternoon, nearly every Notre Dame athlete of note — and assorted coaches, managers, and transient spectators as well — would have been permanently entombed.
Through the spring and summer months, the Fieldhouse slumbers in total inactivity; in the fall, its slumber is broken only by an occasional pep rally; and even during the early winter, the basketball players and trackmen practice in relative peace. But comes the late winter, and every Notre Dame athlete worth his sweaty green T-shirt descends on the Fieldhouse.
Not only is what Bob Hope called “the barn” jammed with winter-sports athletes — basketball players, trackmen, and fencers — but with Bengal Bouts boxers, and with spring-sports athletes engaged in pre-season drills: baseball players, tennis players, golfers, rugby and lacrosse players, and even Ara Parseghian’s football players, who run through pre-pre-season sprints.
It’s true that these activities are all worthwhile in themselves, but to cram them all into the Fieldhouse at the same time is sheer insanity (although, for the present, insanity without alternative). The result is chaos, a comic family feud which is not so much over who gets the john first as who gets the recreation room.
The conglomerate activity of the Fieldhouse on a typical afternoon closely resembles that of a circus, albeit a rather poorly organized circus. There are the side-ring performers — the fencers, making futile stabs at string-suspended balls; Nappy’s boxers, contentedly pounding hell out of the heavy bag and each other; the golfers, caroming range balls off the concrete walls of the handball court — who emerge into the spotlight only long enough to take a few laps around the track and compound the confusion.
The basketball and tennis players, too, spend most of their time in a sideshow on the hardwood floor of the basketball court, disrupting the activity around them only with an occasional jump shot or volley that goes astray.
In the center ring, though, is a sort of Lion-and-Christian affair between the baseball and track teams. Though the baseball team is allegedly engaging in such innocent activities as pitching practice, pepper, and infield drills, it seems more likely that it is involved in a giant conspiracy to Get the Trackmen; one basebailer was even so rude as to let a teammate have it full in the mouth with a wildly thrown ball. The trackmen, being unarmed, have little choice but to run for their lives. And even this can prove inadequate: it is very hard to dispel the feeling of insecurity brought on by a baseball whizzing past one’s ear.
But what if pole vaulters should soon become so proficient that they become entangled in the rafters, enmeshed in the toilet paper from old pep rallies? What if a desperate save by a tennis player finds him taking an unplanned trip down the locker room steps? What if spectating becomes a participant sport? Perhaps the chaos of the Fieldhouse is part of the charm of Notre Dame sports.
—Bill Cragg
28
The Scholastic
if
ONLY FORD-BUILT CARS MEET THE CHALLENGE WITH
TOTAL PERFORMANCE!
Something wonderful's happened to Ford Motor Company cars! Under the freshest styling seen in years, there's a new kind of durability and vigor that more than meets the demands of today’s and tomorrow’s high-speed turnpike driving conditions.
What’s the secret? Quality engineering for total performance. Quality engineering so outstanding that Ford Motor Company received the NASCAR Achieve-
ment Award for engineering excellence which "superbly combines the prime essentials of great automobiles— performance, reliability, durability, comfort and safety.” Total performance makes a world of difference. Bodies and frames are solid and quiet even on the roughest roads. The ride’s so smooth, so even-keeled, it seems to straighten the curves and shorten the miles. And nothing matches the spirit, sparkle and stamina of advanced Ford-built V-8’s and thrifty Sixes. Total performance is yours to enjoy in all our 1964 cars—from the frisky Falcon to the matchless Lincoln Continental.
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP BRINGS YOU BETTER-BUILT CARS
March 6, 1964
29
& P p p p p ft?
0)
&
s? CD
A new volume for the student of romance languages
$7.95
ft ft
p
4w
GILBERT'S
<:s«»
Hi
} *5t
13 ' *
«*’4 ”***
From the region made famous in history and poetry ARROW brings this distinctive shirting ... Khyber Cloth. Woven on native looms and dyed with the incomparable vegetable madder hues, it is tailored in our own impeccable ivy styling. Here is a sport shirt for your wardrobe that because of its distinguished appearance might end up being your favorite of them all.
You’re invited to browse around and look over our extensive collection of these handsome ARROW sport shirts. There’s a wide selection of prints and patterns to choose from in long and short sleeves.
** iiii


Contact Lens Specialist
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
BROKEN LENSES DUPUCATH) BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED “fast service” DR. M. MITTERMAYER Optometrist 228 S. MICHIGAN
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
— TYPING — Papers — Theses
PATTY FENELON CE 3-1892
REASONABLE RATES QUICK SERVICE
212 S. Michigan
CE 4-4874
30
The Scholastic
Mock-Mania, ’64
(Continued from page 19)
South,” Kentucky, which in turn nominated the convention’s first favorite son, Senator Thruston Morton. The signs were unfolded and the demonstration was on; this was a sizable one indicating a large bloc of Southern states which will supposedly vote together for Barry Goldwater after their favorite son is finished. The sergeant-at-arms caught the Morton surprise — a live pig — at the door.
Alaska was the next to take the floor, and she yielded that floor to Pennsylvania which in turn gave the floor to Nevada’s Steve Walther who gave the nominating speech for Pennsylvania’s William Scranton. Cowboy hat perched firmly on his head, Chairman Walther took a firm stand and delivered a sixteen-minute speech, which ended amid boos and gunshots, but which set off one of the two largest demonstrations the convention saw. Bands, “Super Scranton” posters, horns, confetti—all broke loose for Scranton. Though campaign manager Clark had “some doubts about how it would go off,” it “went off perfectly.” But one seconding speech was cut off to penalize the long nominating speech, although the actual seconding was completed, and parliamentarian Engler said, “Instead of penalizing the seconding speech, we should have grabbed Walther right off the stand!”
No sooner had cries of “We want Scranton” died down than they were replaced by “We want Barry.” John Lyons gave the nominating speech, two giant pictures of the Arizona senator were unfurled, and the second of the two big demonstrations was under way. It rivalled Scranton’s and seemed to confirm predictions that these two will be the chief competitors for Notre Dame’s nomination.
Following this, Tom O’Brien took the platform to nominate Henry Cabot Lodge, thus ending one of the convention’s early fights, in favor of the Credentials Committee. Lodge’s demonstration was surprisingly large, and it is probable that should either Goldwater or Scranton falter, Lodge will be the one to benefit. Following Lodge’s demonstration, Oregon’s chairman took the floor to nominate Mark Hatfield.
Connecticut, the next state on the roll, accepted the pattern of the evening and quickly yielded to Wisconsin. After a quick “thank you,” the speaker from the “Dairy State” delivered the nominating speech for Senator J. W. Byrnes of Wisconsin. Once again, before the seconding speeches were
delivered, a motley mass of convention delegates (no disrespect intended) paraded, yelled, and raised the dust of the convention hall floor.
It was now Rockefeller’s turn. Receiving the floor via a yield by Delaware, New York made the nomination of Governor Nelson Rockefeller. What proved to be the last big demonstration of the evening followed; starting a new trend that was to carry over to the last, cheering Rockefeller backers proceeded clockwise about the floor. Only a special effort by the Convention Chairman was sufficient to produce enough quiet for the seconding speeches of South Carolina and New Mexico.
The final state to be called for this session, the sunshine state of Florida, also yielded. The Oklahoma Chairman, Mary Donovan, accepting the floor from Florida introduced her
state’s favorite son, Mr. Bud Wilkinson. The spirit and ability of a winner were the main points stressed in both the nominating speech and the seconding speeches. Followed by a brief benediction, the session adjourned for the evening.
This is the view seen by the normal observer at the convention. Those
more closely involved see much more as facts, liberally mixed in with rumors, fly constantly about the floor. As we picked them up they formed a picture of the fluctuating power game that was going on.
Morton presented our first point of interest. Both North and South Carolina reported that they planned to back him on the first ballot, South Carolina having been “persuaded” to change from their original choice of Rockefeller. It was then learned from Dave Ellis, the leader of the Southern bloc, that his group was to back Morton for the first ballot. After this, Southern votes were “expected” to turn to Goldwater.
From reliable sources, the rumor was quite frequently heard that
Florida planned to yield the floor to New Jersey for the nomination of Richard Nixon. Mr. Nixon has yet to be nominated. For, as we have said, Florida yielded instead to Oklahoma’s Bud Wilkinson.
Another rumor was perhaps indicative of the way the game is played. First, Indiana was to back Wilkinson on the first ballot, in return for which Oklahoma was to back Halleck for Vice-President. Arkansas and D.C. were to act as seconds to the nomination of Wilkinson. In the same agreement, the backers of Hatfield and Morton were to demonstrate for Wilkinson, with a reciprocal action guaranteed by Oklahoma. Along the same lines, it was rumored that Ohio’s nomination of Taft was to be seconded by Indiana and Alabama. Indiana’s contradiction will be settled tomorrow.
Then, Illinois has no “majority” favorite or even more than 20% of the delegation’s votes. Even more indicative of the state-that-likes-elec-tions-at-large, was that they were not able to gather enough support from within the delegation to nominate Dirksen, as had been rumored for some time previous.
Wednesday Afternoon
As we await the beginning of the fifth and sixth sessions on this, the third day of the convention, a word of explanation seems appropriate. The final section of this article is being written as information is received directly from the convention floor. Upon the completion of a full page of material, it will be taken directly to the printer. The presses will roll at midnight, hopefully with full coverage of Notre Dame’s 1964 Mock Republican National Convention. The Chair called for order, and the fifth session opened.
The first order of business was the recognition of Arizona, which yielded (Continued on page 34)
March 6, 1964
31
“Honor System''
(Continued from page 21)
This consideration is the key to the solution of the problems which will certainly become evident once an Honor System is adopted, as well as the key to certain advantages which should become evident at the same time. An Honor System would undoubtedly be a major step toward a much freer academic and social atmosphere. Almost out of necessity, many courses would have to be reevaluated and hopefully improved. No longer could a professor, suspicious of the Honor System, get by with the same exam semester after semester, or even period after period. Simple, rote objective exams would be extensively replaced by those which challenge more than the memory and, at the same time, teach more than extract. The emphasis in learning in many cases would hopefully be shifted from the examination to the class
Easter Vacation? See our man on campus if you want to save money and see the world.
The Sheraton Campus Representative will give you free a Sheraton Student ID or Faculty Guest Card. With it you can stay at any of 90 Sheraton Hotels round the world at special low discount rates... even in single rooms! Save even more with 2 or 3 in a room. Group rates for clubs and teams. Wherever Sheraton is, there’s a world of things to see and do. For more information and your ID or Faculty Card, contact this Sheraton Campus Representative:
RICHARD McCarthy, 205 Walsh Hall Notre Dame, Ind. (Phone: CE 4-6690)
Sheraton Hotels & Motor Inns
Coast to coast in U.S.A.; in Hawaii; Canada; Nassau; Jamaica;
,	Mexico; Puerto Rico; Venezuela; Tel Aviv, Israel.
HONDA
OF MICHIANA, INC.
OPENING MARCH 7«i 2531 LINCOLN WAY WEST
MISHAWAKA —3 BLOCKS EAST OF SHOPPER’S FAIR
PHONE: BL 5-2388 — 30 MODELS ON DISPLAY
itself. A re-evaluation of the cut system might also be considered in a spirit of greater academic freedom. Perhaps the greatest advantage would be closer student-faculty relations stemming from the greater mutual trust between the two.
An Honor System is a complicated matter involving more them one student telling on another. Its considerations become highly sophisticated and it can easily become entangled in a mesh of “what if’s.” There certainly are many definite advantages as well as valid objections which must be considered. Not the least of these is the problem of adapting to the increased freedom, patience, and trust that an Honor System would demand of each student. Despite its complications, advantages, and objections, an Honor System is ultimately reduced to the individual and his relation to those about him. It is a challenging thing and should be accepted or rejected only with a great deal of mature thought.
“Sophomore Interviews”
(Continued from page 15)
of the system when he termed it an “educational device”: “Every educational device is nothing but a device. The Sophomore Interview may even be a waste of time for some students — those who have already bothered themselves with self-analysis — but the program is intrinsically good for its basis of self-analysis.” We have arrived at the point where the value of the program can be seriously doubted: the boards are of doubtful competence, by their demoralizing effect the profiles are resulting in more harm than good, the profiles may even be useless for they are not used for their objective information, and the whole program is a waste of time for “thoughtful” students. I even wonder if it is profitable for those who are not thoughtful; we would have to assume that students who seem to be inhumanly disinterested in their own future will miraculously transcend their lethargy and become intellectually resurrected.
Assuming, however, that certain students feel such a program would be of personal benefit to them, the interview must, at least, be revamped. The purposes of the interview must be defined so that there is a common purpose and procedure. One of the faculty members has suggested that, to nullify the asininity of cynicism, a few professors who are interested in the students might be able to prorate the interview procedure over a period of several weeks. Finally, it seems absurd to require disinterested students to participate in the interviewprogram; involved students are the only ones who will benefit from it.
In any case, as the Sophomore Interview stands now it is at best practically useless and very possibly harmful. If the procedure is not revamped, then it should obviously be abolished. There is no viable argument for continuing a program that, by the attitudes it generates from its uselessness, can only prove to be detrimental.
Keepsake Diamond Rings
BULOVA, HAMILTON, OMEGA & ELGIN WATCHES
JEWELRY
R. K. MUELLER INC.
JEWELERS
218 S. MICHIGAN STREET
South Bend, Ind. * Phone: CE 3-4200
32
The Scholastic
THE ENGAGEMENT RING WITH THE PERFECT CENTER DIAMOND
Campus
(Continued from page 11) possible that political unity of a sort may not be far off.
With its economy booming and its government stable, why is West Germany not able to defend itself? Presently, the West German armed forces are composed of twelve divisions of troops — all of these are under the control of the NATO command in Europe. Perhaps some feel that Germany receives the greatest benefit from the NATO troops, but this isn’t so, contends Ambassador Knappstein. The logical position for the troops of the combined countries of NATO is that location closest to the enemy. This is in West Germany. But the protection is not for Germany alone, and indeed is for the benefit of all the members of NATO. To back this statement, the Ambassador pointed out that by percentages, West Germany spends only slightly less than America for defense and foreign aid.
In concluding, Ambassador Knappstein pointed out that America has been of great assistance to West Germany since the war. With America’s continued friendship, it is assured that this growth and prosperity will continue at its present fantastic rate.
True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond engagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond ... a perfect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut.
The name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the tag is your assurance of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. Your very personal Keepsake diamond ring is awaiting your selection at your Keepsake Jeweler’s store. Find him in the yellow pages. Prices from $100 to $2500. Rings enlarged to show beauty of detail ®Trade-mark registered.
Welcome all
NOTRE DAME MEN
^HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING^ I Pteose send two new booklets, "How to Pion Your Engage- | | ment and Wedding" and "Choosing Your Diamond Rings," j i both for only 25c. Also send special offer of beautiful 44 . I page Bride's Book.	’
J Nome------------------------------------------------------- I
Addreis..........................................         |
| City,________________________Co__.______State------------- |
I KEEPSAKE DlAN^fW^RUMGS.^SYRAClJSE^NEW^ YORK_j
YOUR HEADQUARTERS for KEEPSAKE Diamond Rings FROM $50.00 to $1,000.00
CREDIT AND LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
121 W. Washington CE 4-1311
March 6, 1964
33
Mock-Mania, ’64
(Continued front page 31) to Maryland. Under rule sixteen, Jack Gaine asked that he be allowed to give his seconding speech for Scranton, a speech that the chair would not hear last night. The permission was granted and the speech followed, only to be denounced by six states at its completion as completely unnecessary.
Hawaii, however, returned to form after Georgia passed and yielded the floor to Michigan. Their state chairman nominated Romney, later seconded by Texas and a speaker from Michigan — bands again and more bedlam. The demonstration was noisy, but stopped precisely at the eightminute deadline. The same pattern was followed for the nomination of Senator “Maggie” Smith. A pass from Idaho led to the yielding of the floor to Maine by Illinois. A suprisingly large demonstration followed the nomination speech of the state chairman, large perhaps because everyone from Goldwater to Arch. A. Moore was marching.
Ohio’s own Tom Hoobler was the next person to nominate, with notably uncontrolled rhetoric, a candidate: the Senator from Ohio, Robert Taft. He was seconded by delegates from Indiana and Alabama. Still another favorite son was nominated as the roll call continued. After receiving the floor from Iowa, Sue Thomas of Kansas placed before the convention the name of their favorite son, Gov. John Anderson. A watered-down demonstration followed both nominations, noisy and enthusiastic though small. During the last of these demonstrations, a rumor circulated concerning the Scranton movement. Believing that their strength had recently been waning, it was reported that they were planning to try to stretch the voting to at least five or six ballots. In this way, time would be allowed to pick up the votes of the candidates who were to drop out of the voting early. This was vehemently denied by the heads of the Scranton campaign.
Another political move was seen soon afterwards. With five states passing, the roll call finally came to New Jersey. The long-awaited nomination of Richard Nixon followed. According to one of Nixon’s campaign managers, the move to have their candidate the last nominated was planned last night, when it became evident that nominations would stretch into today’s session. The move proved successful as a large, colorful demonstration ended the series of planned, though often uncontrolled, riots.
34
Without further hitch, the roll call was quickly completed. After the sometimes humorous “praise” of many state chairmen for their states, Leon Reymond of Louisiana moved for adjournment. The motion passed, and the time to reconvene was set for 6:30 p.m. Preparations for the real battle continued with ever-rising tension.
Wednesday Evening
The sixth session opened on a new note tonight, as the national anthem was sung by a female vocalist. The invocation that followed stressed the importance of the balloting that was soon to take place. Bob Engler, parliamentarian, stating once again that the convention was running far behind time, explained the balloting procedure. With this, the first roll call was begun.
The results of the first ballot were much as expected. The South, voting solid behind their favorite son, managed to grab 276 votes for Morton. Scranton pulled a total of 199 votes, within five of the number predicted
by the Scranton committee prior to the roll call. In third place was Gov. Hatfield, the favorite son of the West. After the totals had been announced, Oregon rose to contest the returns reported. The delegates were soon shown to be out of order, however.
Trends began to appear with the second balloting, some expected and some as surprises. Scranton continued to pull the support of the widest number of states and moved into first place with 327 votes. The biggest surprise of the ballot was Lodge’s surge into second place. Pulling a large number of Southern and Western votes, a trend “expected” by the Lodge Committee did indeed materialize. His final total, 319 was only eight lower than that of Scranton. Goldwater’s 281 total proved to be a
shock to no one. Also no shock was the dropping of several of the favorite sons, most noticeably Morton, who fell from 276 votes to only three.
The end of the third ballot saw the third candidate of the evening move into the lead. Scattered gains pushed Lodge into the four hundred bracket with 427 votes. A large boost came from Michigan, which announced on this roll call the shifting of their support from Romney to Lodge. The Lodge committee expected to gain support from the South and West during the next two ballots, with a chance of gaining the nomination by the sixth ballot. Scranton, now in second place with 383 votes, dropped 14 in his home state. Rumors of a Scranton-Goldwater combination were heard, but they remained unconfirmed. Goldwater remained in third place, but shocked many by becoming the leading candidate in New York. His third place total was 324.
The fourth ballot began after a:i announcement by the New York state chairman withdrawing backing from Governor Rockefeller. New York support was thrown behind Scranton of Pennsylvania, who remained in second place after the voting with 425. Still in first place and still gaining steadily in all sections, Lodge ended up with a total of 515 votes. A slight surprise occurred as Goldwater dropped eight of his previous votes. Before the final tally was announced, a flurry of vote changes took place. The overall result of this was negligible, however, and the main trends continued to develop.
Little changed during the fifth ballot. Once again it was Lodge, Scranton, and Goldwater with 554 votes, 430 votes, and 288 votes respectively. Ballot number six followed the same lines. Lodge picked up still another 30 votes, while Scranton and Goldwater each dropped slightly.
Before the start of the seventh ballot, a move to adjournment was heard. The motion failed both a voice vote and a standing vote. This proved indeed fortunate, for this turned out to be the ballot that nominated the next Republican candidate for President. Approximately 19 votes short at the end of the roll call, Henry Cabot Lodge began pulling in a number of changed votes. After recognizing 12 states, Georgia gained the floor and cast the all-important votes. The final total read: Lodge, 699; Scranton, 260; Goldwater, 222.
In the words of Paul C. Bartholomew, “The cooperation of the delegates, coupled with their realistic attitude, make this one of the finest mock conventions in the nation.”
New American Airlines reservations desk.
Wherever Brian Rhatigan is, that’s where the American Airlines Reservations Desk is. Brian is our Student Representative. (In case you miss him on campus, call 205 Sorin Hall.) If you’re planning to fly, just tell Brian where and when. He will handle all the details.
Tickets (including connecting flight reservations) can be purchased at the Book Store Travel Agent, or in Chicago at any American Airlines Ticket Office.
KC9S£Ei^KBi£3SSEi&fi$ttB&£CBG9USU3SBXSEttXM3aaaM<ffiMMtKl
sAasaaaiK2BEEKtaaE
EggS&^g
A lot revolves around GTE
Today, it takes the efforts of many people in many diverse fields and professions to build an active corporation such as GTfcE.
Because, at GT&E, we’re involved heavily in research, manufacturing and telephone operations.
For instance, we have telephone operating companies in areas of 32
states. And in manufacturing, our subsidiaries produce a wide variety of products for business, industry and the consumer.
A diversified program such as this calls for the best administrators, operating personnel, scientists, engineers and production managers. And unity of purpose.
With so much revolving around GT&E, it is small wonder that we have become one of America’s foremost corporations.
As a young and aggressive company with no limit to its growth, GT&E is an organization you may wish to think of in the light of your own future.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
730 THIRD AVENUE. NEW YORK 10017
GTE
GTSE SUBSIDIARIES: Telephone Operating Cos. • GT&E taboratories • GT8E International • General Telephone Directory • Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric • Sylvania Electric Products
