'	Che	■
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•	-	‘	s- •	-	/	•	'	• .	-
•DiSCe qA/ASl SailPGI?- VICTVI2VS- VIVG QUASI- CRAS-MO^lTV/RVS^ -4^
Vol. XEVII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 13, 1913. . No. 11.
The Peerless Squad of the Gold and Blue. -	.
QF old when brave knights in the tourney had vanquished the last of their foes	■
And were crowned by the Queen of Beauty, full sweet were the shouts that arose
Of acclaim from the thronging thousands who had witnessed their valor and. might,, . But the pride of their near and dear ones was the core of their heart’s delight; -	.	■
E’en so with our Knights of the Oval who have travelled the farthest afield Of all the squads in the country, and have forced all their foemen to yield,—	’
They have joyed in the cheers of spectators in the West, East, and South, it is true,-	.
But the praise they love best is the home-praise—	’	■.
Their home of the ,	/
.	.	.	.	Gold and Blue.	r
’ Then, sing we‘the song of their triumph, their glory, fair-shining afar,	.
And tell we our pride in their prowess uplifting oiir fame above par,— ' ;	- -	;	'
The thrill of delight that enthralled us and lingered in every breast	.	-
When West Point watched our boys meet the Army, and victory pointed west. .
Penn State was made pensive indeed by oiir score, and the “Christians” uhchristianly sad, . ■ . J ~ But our hearts only shouted Vee victis the,more, as our souls grew increasingly.glad; 2- .	.. > -
Then, to cap the fair climax of triumphs, the Longhorns bowed low to us, too, -	=	> . <
Sb, here’s to our.stars, the “All-Universe',”	"
‘	.	.. The squad.of the . ,	'	’	j;-k
.	-	-	- Gold and Blue! _	,2"
“There were brave men'before Agamemnon.” Yes, heroes we’ve had before,	\	; ?/.-
.■ Nor pluck we a leaf from the garlands they won and right worthily bore: ...	.
-■ There were Farleys..and Salmons and Dolans and “Red” Millers in the -years gone by, \ r	And their-Alma Mater remembers that they planted her.cdlors high. .	,'	. t , .?;-:’:
. But in vain will you search the.records, Brother Bona. himself.has ne’er-seen.	.	:
The equals of "Harper’s invincibles, oiir peerless df ' proud ’13.	-	,
, Their game marked an'epoch* in football, and Fame: pays..the homage due ;-' . .To Dorais and' “Eich” and Rockne, with f .	.	.	; . . .	.- - 2
'	■ ■- ,	Their mates of the	.kk?* 2k
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3 62
Notre Dame in Football History.
ARTHUR J. HAYES, ’15.
The declining sun was casting long blue shadows over the rugged slopes of the Lacedaemonian hills, and flooding in golden light the vast gathering that thronged the broad Plain of Sparta. Near, the centre of a great square flanked on all sides by thousands of alert spectators, half a hundred young men struggled in a chaotic group. Suddenly from out of the agitated mass there bounded a large leather ball, and a stocky young man, detaching himself from the rest, sent it soaring toward two upright posts at one end of the field. A mighty cheer went up therewith, for Flavius Maecinus—Olympic hero, Spartan prototype, and predecessor by twenty-two centuries of our own all-American star, Dorais—had kicked goal.
With the advent of the Roman legions, substantial modifications were made in the old Laconian game, and when introduced into Britain by the soldiers of Julius Agricola, the square had been changed to a rectangle, and of the twenty-seven men comprising a team, fifteen were designated as “forwards,” five were so-called “defensive backs,” four corresponded to our halfbacks, and the remainder constituted a trio of fullbacks. According to one chronicler of legionary pastimes, the ball was either kicked or carried between the goal posts, two fouls counted a goal for the side offended against, and goals were changed as often as points were scored. Inveighed against as an “ungodly” sport, decreed against as detrimental to perfection in archery, football continued to be popular in England throughout the centuries that ensued after the legions of Rome had first introduced the sport. Year after year, this form of play persisted without radical change or modification. Then in 1823, “Rugby” football was born of a deliberate infraction of the rules of the game by one William Webb Ellis, who violated all precedent and tradition by running with the ball in a desperate endeavor to score in the last minute of play. This spectacular feat, though palpably a foul, so commended itself, to devotees of the sport, that the practice of running with the ball was incorporated into the game.
The year 1869 witnessed the first college contest in this country when Princeton and
Rutgers played' an original game of football, partaking of the natures of both, “soccer” and “Rugby.” Columbia followed in the succeeding year and Yale in 1872. Then Harvard tutored in Canadian “Rugby” by McGill, challenged Yale to play under the same rules, and intercollegiate football in the United States was fairly launched.
It was still a comparatively recent innovation in the West in 1887, when the University of Michigan sent a team down to play Notre Dame. The local aggregation were so little conversant with the game that their sponsors had to stage an exhibition contest in order that the pioneers of the Gold and Blue might know how to proceed. But Notre Dame’s initial effort, thus inau-spiciously inaugurated, was worthy of the name she has since upheld. For the invaders were able to score only eight points against the neophytes of the Hoosier school. Two contests the following year, resulted in a double victory for Michigan by margins so narrow that the result of the game was in both instances problematical until the last few minutes of play. The following season saw but one performance on the local gridiron, a featureless contest resulting in the defeat of the Harvard Law school of Chicago.
In 1889 occurred the first foreign invasion, and Northwestern University succumbed to Notre Dame at Evanston, after a bitterly contested game in which Cartier and Prudhomme starred. After this memorable battle there was a lapse of two years, following an expression of disapproval by the faculty. In 1S92 the marvelous punting of Quinlan enabled the locals to register a tie score with Hillsdale. Four games the next season resulted in four victories for “the locals,” and then in 1894 Notre Dame was pitted against the renowned eleven of Chicago. As was the case in the Michigan game, in which the Gold and Blue may be fairly said to have made its debut, only eight points were rolled up, but they were all on the wrong side of the ledger. This defeat was retrieved by five other victories, including among them wins from Wabash and Rush Medical..	.
The annals of .1895 have inscribed in them but two games—a. victory over the Chicago Physicians and Surgeons, and a defeat at the hands of Northwestern. Two defeats administered early in the season of 1896 by Chicago and the Chicago Physicians and Surgeons augured ill for Notre Dame, .but out of the three
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
364	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
remaining games, they managed to secure two victories, losing the third by a margin of six • points to Purdue. Of the six games scheduled for 1897, but one was lost, and that to Chicago, 34 to 5. Among the victories may be noted a 4—0 defeat of Depauw, and a 34-6 win from the Michigan Aggies. Indiana and Illinois appear for the first time on the ’98 schedule, the former winning 11-5, and the latter losing ■ 5-0. Michigan appeared again as our Nemesis, gamering the protracted end of a 23-0 score.
With the termination of that year, it maybe said that Notre Dame had concluded her apprenticeship. After that there appear such schools as Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Purdue, Alichigan, and Chicago. The percentage of defeats diminishes appreciably, the number of victories expand in proportion. ' _	*
An ambitious roster of nine games for 1899, resulted in decisive defeats for Indiana, North-
his fellow warriors in 1902 were the Michigan Aggies. Indiana; Ohio Medical, Depauw and the American -Medicals met the same fate. Michigan and Knox proved the exceptions, while Purdue with its remarkable faculty for tying the locals, again held them 6 to 6.
The season of 1903 Js. especially noteworthy . because not one of the eight competing teams was able ■ to score a single point against the defenders of the Gold and Blue. Northwestern, however, held them to a scoreless tie. Against the uninterrupted series of ciphers that bear testimony to the efficiency of Notre Dame’s -defensive tactics, there, is martialled a grand total of 260 points..
The “Little Giants” led off the following year, and were forced to content themselves with four points as against the 12 registered by Notre Dame. American Medical, Ohio Medical and Depauw were easy. Not so,
western, Michigan Aggies and several, smaller colleges, and losses to Chicago, Michigan and
however, Wisconsin, Kansas or Purdue. These latter annexed the substantial end of the score
the hitherto vincible Chicago Physicians and .by margins rather too liberal to leave much
Surgeons. The year of the double cipher re-
suited in two ciphers for the Gold and Blue and taffies of 54 and 7 for Wisconsin and Michigan, respectively. Indiana turned the. tables
solace for the vanquished. .
But it remained for 1905 to sound the depths of defeat and vicissitude. Deprived of the
invaluable talent of Salmon and several of . his most noteworthy teammates, the colors
trailed” by Wisconsin, :. In partial
of Notre Dame, were
- on the locals, and they in turn reversed the count of their conquerors of the preceding year, the Physicians and Surgeons. . Rush Wabash, Indiana and Purdue _ Medical and Cincinnati also succumbed., while atonement for these, defacers of our. escutcheon, Beloit by herculean efforts earned a'tie. Arid we succeeded.in swamping.the Michigan>Aggies, this year, it were not irrelevant to remark': is Depauw, Bennett Medical. a.nd American Med- memorable for other' reasons. It witnesses ical, the last by the.overwhelming score,of; 142 to the beginning of the great career of the justly , nothing.' .	.	'
renowned Salmon,—Salmon whose marvelous -..The sweetness of revenge,*not long:deferred, . fine sriiashing was the despair of opposing elevens was experienced when Purdue was vanquished whose, wonderful , kicking averted manyA an /in a desperate encounter, 2 to o. The Michigan impending .defeat, whose football genius? was./Aggie.’ game -. was featured only by. the-small . such, as to earn him the position of fullback 6n score rolled up by. Notre. Dame. But;.the five , G. W. Axelson’s All-American selection; for .points recorded., for ike. H	the
All-Time. Apropos of the: performances.;;‘of/the'inent of? a.thousand, for they sufficed to win. ' . auburn-haired paragon, Axelsonremarks,"That . The Physicians arid Surgeons accepted defeat
Salmon was able to -carry the ball. nine _tihies'. with/the- good grace of? repeated experience, ? out/of ten; and/makeffiis? distance eypry, ,time,
. stamps him as the greatest, line plunging -full: « back in the history of the game.'’ ’A	; -A;
; ?' The;'	of? the? new? century/marked;
the recording bfi but ' one defeat; in ay series of. eight battles;/and/that by but .twoTpb^ to Ndrtfiw^	others of “ the-rmglity
JfafienJAmayLbe^/^
^aiidf ^e," Chicago yPfi^
^he first ydctims of the peerless Salmon arid
and>the? smaller, colleges1Beloit, Trankffii and Hifisdale^ (of:. 10. toj/ip. ?fairie) bowed to the -metritableAy^^	engendered -
pfdpngfpractice.?JTndiana’sJ12.to.0 victory pre-yented/the?“ up state” moleskin. heroes from boastingjatdean slate. /Again the next:season -yri^defeatedd?^	.
'andfl^pxA; Inffiaria The sinall fry went doWn hs	With the autumn of 1908	.
came the*first really good season for several
THE NOTRE'DAME SCHOLASTIC	365
' ■	1	.	*	' ‘	/ r
years. Indiana, Wabash, Marquettej • ‘ Ohio Northern and the smaller colleges; as St.Wiate'ur’s Franklin and Hillsdale, fell before the brilliant slashing onslaught of thezNotre Dame ’eleven. Only the phenomenal kicking' of Allerdice 'averted a similar fate for Michigan, and' even then the best that' Yost’s aggregation could do was to run up twelve points against our six. With the defeat of Indiana came the championship of the state, and the assurance that the representatives of Notre Dame constituted
' one of the very best teams in the entire West. In the stirring struggles of1 ’08, Miller, Dolan, Edwards and ’ Philbrook gave some intimation . of what they were to accomplish during the next' campaign.	••	1 ■
Nineteen hundred and nine! What memories it holds for Yost! What glories for the Gold and Blue! When indeed shall fade the memory of that . “practice game” when Notre Dame was'the practicer and the Wolverines to all intents .and purposes the “practicees?” Probably no line in the country could have successfully ; withstood that smashing onslaught.- Certainly Mich- . igan could not, and when Miller and Dolan, Vaughan and Philbrook had done their worst, Michigan’s supremacy was a thing of fondest memory only, and Notre Dame, in avenging past defeats, had incidentally won the championship of the West. How fitting that Notre Dame should have been initiated into the mysteries of the game by Michigan. How maddening that Longman should have been, the erstwhile pupil of Yost.	.	•	'' :
Miller was the All-Western selection for right half, and Vaughan for fullback. The. season, the men and the games will long be remembered.	• 1 J ' ’	■
Notre Dame was willfflg to repeat the . performance in 1910, but Michigan cancelled the tilt at the last hour. Then to add to our discomfiture, the Michigan Agricultural College “got the jump” on the locals in some inexplicable fashion, and won 17 to' o. ? They thereby achieved the distinction ’ of being the last eleven to defeat the Gold and Blue.? Over -the lesser lights,—and they predominated on the schedule—Notre Dame scored easy victories. A victory over Wabash and ties -with Marquette and Pittsburg featured the ^season of 1911. Last year we won the;State .Championship from Wabash, defeated Pittsburg 3-0, . swamped Marquette 69-0, and snowed? under ' the usual quota of secondary schools. ; Lichen-
laub, our marvelous fullback, was unanimous choice for the all-Westem eleven. This .year’s* greater achievements will be dealt-with fully elsewhere. , Suffice to say that- we' have conquered in the East, the West,' and the South. From the picturesque banks of the Hudson to the placid plains of Texas, the Gold and Blue has flown in triumph. In defeating the Army we exhibited the ‘-‘finest forward passing ever seen in the East.” By comparative scores we are better than Yale. By actual battle-test, the' Notre Dame team is superior to West Point, Penn State, Texas'. South Dakota, Ohio Northern and Christian Brothers. .One man graces an all-American selection as quarter. -Another is second choice for all-American honors as fullback. Three have been unanimously selected for the all-Western.., Two more Notre Dame stars are second-choice, selections; . Of all claims to the Western Championship,-ours is -probably the strongest and most logical.'
Notre Dame’s deeds on the gridiron have been chronicled for over a quarter of a century. Such names as those of Salmon, Mullen, Farley, Eggeman, Harley, Philbrook, Dimmick, Miller Vaughan, Eichenlaub, Kelly, Dorais and Rockne will not be soon forgotten. Yet they are but . a few of a list that could be extended indefinitely. Such, coaches as Hering, McWeeny, O’Dea, ' Barry, Longman, Marks and. Harper will: be long, remembered as the unseen factors in our. success.	;	1
Schedules, “stars,” and plays,.like the shin guard, the “flying wedge” and the nose guard, have gone the way of the buffalo. The football world moves rapidly. What was an innovation yesterday will be obsolete tomorrow. The great victories, the stars of the. moment, are soon lost sight of in anticipation of the. next schedule. They are merged, enveloped as it were, in the past. But the records they, have made, the reputations they have builded? up, still remain. They are the heritage of a brilliant past, making for a still more glorious future. Notre1 Dame has battled East and. West with most remarkable success. And : to those? of discernment, it will be evident that the. end-is not yet. And when other men and. other teams have achieved other triumphs, ; we who cherish the memories of ’11 and ’12 and ’13, will rejoice to inscribe the record of -their; attainments in those deathless annals of the Gold and Blue, now bright with the .names and deeds of -Dorais, Eichenlaub, Rockne, and other heroes of today.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Champions of the West.
WILLIAM M. GALVIN, ’14.
Reviewing the season of ’13 puts the writer in the same class with a swain trying to describe his’lady love. Words utterly refuse to be gathered into a combination that will do it justice. All the descriptive power of Homer added to the insight of Shakespeare would fall short. And leaving these bush-league -writers for the truly great, we believe that even the New York. sporting scribes with all their “brilliants,” spectaculars, ” “ dazzlings, ” and superbs,” that greeted our team after the Army game, must get less than a passing mark on their work. But they did their best: we can do no more than follow suit.
Here in the West, we are conceded an equal claim to sectional honors by even the most biased. Chicago critics admit that the Varsity is the equal of the Maroons and concede that we have the edge on Nebraska, Michigan, and the Michigan Aggies. Detroit critics,-in turn, admit that the Gold and Blue eleven is the equal of anything in Michigan, and believe we are somewhat superior to Chicago. Eastern critics, whose judgments .are tempered by distance, readily concede theWestern Championships to-Notre Dame. The . East .however, is inclined to place Harvard ahead of the Varsity as the all-round team of America. The West, view-ingthe same field, thinks that there are at., least a quartet of elevens
west of the Alleghenies that are ‘ better than the best in the East. All this reminds us of the vote, taken by the Greek generals after , the battle of- Salamis to determine which general showed the greatest bravery. Each voted himself first and Themistocles second. In sectional and national championship tangles, Notre Dame holds the place of Themistocles. It is awarded second by all, although, they vote themselves» first. Hence it is no idle, boast to say that we are Champions of the West.
We of the present .have no doubt that Var
Coach Harper.
sity ’13 is the greatest eleven that ever did honor to the Gold and Blue, and our belief is borne out by the “old timers” who saw the excellent work of the ’01 wonders and of the ’09 Champions of the West. It is the greatest team in many ways. It played a greater schedule, against greater foes, displayed greater team-work, won greater renown, and counted among its number greater individual stars than any other team Notre Dame has known.
• The year began auspiciously in some ways; inauspiciously in others. The schedule arranged by Coach Harper was the best ever gotten together for our eleven, including, as it did, South Dakota, the Army, Penn State and Texas. But to get these games worthy of the mettle of our Varsity, it was necessary to go a thousand miles to the east and fifteen hundred miles to the south, handicapping our men b5r distance greater, than any other team in the country did this season. It meant, besides travelling long distances and playing our strongest enemies on their own fields, that we would have to overcome the added handicaps of new water and strange weather. We had to play under every conceivable disadvantage, and when the season opened we admit we entertained fears for the Varsity.
To reassure us, we had the knowledge that most of the last year’s men would be back. Who could ask for a greater heritage than Capt. Rockne, ex-Capt. Dorais, Eichenlaub, Feeney, Jones, Pliska, Berger, Fitzgerald, Finegan, Gus-
hurst, Larkin, Lathrop, and: a generous quota of .first class reserves? It is true,, we -lost Crowley and Dolan, an excellent pair of ends, and Harvat and Yund, tackles, which losses made -room. for misgivings concerning the strength of the forwards. ,
As the season advanced, however, our confidence grew. The beautiful fighting spirit with which the Varsity played and won the South Dakota game, after an accident had allowed the “ Coyotes ” to take the lead, inspired hope that never grew less. Then when
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	367
Capt. Rockne
All-Western. End
our perfect forward passes added to terrific line - smashing trailed West Point’s colors in the dust we felt sure, as we do now, that V arsity ’13 has no equal in the country. Penn State was taken into camp by our men after we had covered twenty-five hundred miles the previous week. The score of 14 to 7 does not adequately tell our superiority over the Quakers, but it can be gleaned another way. Varsity hum
bled the Army 35 to 13; Army trounced the Navy 22 to 9; the Navy in turn defeated Penn
State 10 to o. At St. Louis the Christian Brothers were hopelessly outclassed. The field was as heavy as a newly plowed field; the reserves played most of the time, and then had
no difficulty in winning. As a fitting close to
the season Capt. Rockne led his men against Texas, Champions of the Southwest. Here
again the superb physical condition of our men
and their knowledge of the game made them-
selves apparent.
In summer weather and against men who outwcighted them, the Varsity first wore out and then scored at will on the strongest team ever developed in the Southwest.
More than ever before Notre Dame has been given the recognition that is its just due. Both in headlines and in cartoons we have taken our place with the greatest in the country.
Perhaps the most pleasing of all our ‘ successes is the recognition wrung from- the critics who have picked allsection and all - American teams. This year we have won more distinction than
Eichenlaub, All- any other Notre Dame team Western Fullback ■ in history, and more than
any other team in the West for the season just closed. Dorais, than whom there is no better football player, has grown to such a height (speaking foot-bally) that Eastern critics have been forced to see him above the Appalachians, and he has been picked by practically all who have made all-American selections. Western dopesters have been unanimous in selecting a trio of our stars for allWesternhonors: Dorais at quarter-back, Rockne at end, and Eichenlaub at fullback. There is one ridiculous exception, where a coach has picked practically his own team for all-Michigan, all-Western, and all-American. His only mis-
Dorais. AllAmericanQuarter
Line Coa ch' Edwards
take was in not awarding himself both endpositions. On second all-Westem choices we find Feeney at Centre and' Pliska at halfback, making Notre Dame’s representation by far the greatest of any school in this section. We believe that the experts are overlooking something mighty good when they pass up Jones, but it’s a great deal to ask to get half of one eleven on the all-Western. The all - Indiana critics’ opinions can’t be given much weight. Last year they refused to give Dorais an all-state berth when he came within' an ace of hooking all-Western. This year they have had to recognize our all-Westem first team men, and . they have also recognized Feeney as all-State centre (one, by the way, leaves nothing to be asked for by us, having- put “Al” on the all-State, allWestern, and allAmerican), but when such men as Jones are slighted to give place to a member of some normal school we begin to think that the state critics are no more serious than
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
36s
Lardner was when he picked eight Eastern men on his all-Western eleven.
Besides winning all this renown for Notre .Dame, the Varsity has brought laurels to the West by winning from Armv and Penn State. Coach Harper, a product of the West himself, has raised the West above the East in football this year, and to him much of the season’s success must be attributed. He found the very best of material, it is true, but he added finishing touches, here and there, developed new men, worked out new plays, inspired the never-say-die and stick-together spirit in his men, and his reward is a perfect season. He has brought Notre Dame athletics to conform to Conference regulations, by ruling freshmen ineligible for the Varsity; he has made the success of the season possible by scheduling big games for the Gold and Blue; he coached the best team that ever graced Cartier Field.
But when we search for the ultimate cause of ‘ our triumphs we must admit that it was . the-machine-like precision of the squad. No man played for himself, but all played for victory. It is true that Dorias, with his perfect forward passing, his nimble field-running, his accurate toe, and his heady generalship, was one of the greatest factors of our victories it is also true that Capt. Rockne’s catching of Ddrais’ passes, his beautiful interference, and - his deadly tackling made him the most valuable man in the line, and that Eichenlaub’s powerful line smashing made him occupy a like position in the backfield; but when all is said and done, it was the team that won the battles.
Yes, the teani won the battles, but the “subs” and “scrubs,” and their coach, “Cap” Edwards, had a whole lot to do in putting them . in condition to win. Theirs is a thankless task—the reserves’. They go out daily and withstand the knocks and bruises of - their • ’ stronger squad-mates; they work as. hard as - . the men on the Varsity eleven, but when the : day of battle is at hand, they are forgotten in . the greater glory of the regulars. But to cull a phrase from the classic vocabulary of the Texas L gallery-gods who greeted the team, “ We know . , you, Scrubs, and we appreciate your; work.”
;	x Envy.	'
..-L	—' .. - ' ';	'
y ' We do hot envy Yost his. footbalL squad, . J > .	< • .Far better-teams each one of us. can find, ■_ *
: .'But when he picked his,all-American J ...
’ L j . -We envied Mn Yost his state of mind.
~	>' \ i 7” f	’ X-'y / t	Z ~ . A .	■ * - - * r -	-	_ ’ - -	“
r -t- t, —	,< _-E - ;	•• , ' - :	'X_, ~ '<• -ZC -	’
V	A' -< r < Z -r	... — r ’ -LX , -	«•	7- • -I - . ' ' . . -
Looking Backward—1953.
HUGH V..LACEY, ’l6.
The old "gink” sat in,his big arm-chair
And never a move moved he.
There on his chest was a sweater vest
Of blue, and .bright loomed up the crest
Of a great, big, gold N. D.
His dome was bowed with the heft of years
And gray as a badger’s fur,
And in his eyes I could recognize
A "pine” for the days of the old, old guys,— He sighed for the teams that were.
Past glory’s staunch custodian,
Immovable he sate..
When I sneaked near to his one good ear
And said "We’ve got some team this year,”
Thus did he ruminate:
"Have you a 'Rock’ to lead your push?”
His croaking voice began,	'
“Or a midget 'Dory’ to cop off glory	‘
From fields with foeman’s blood made gon,
Or a single Pinegan?”
"Have you a Pliska or a Jones,
A Feeney or Lathrop, An Eichenlaub, to start the throb Of joy a-spurting through the mob
When the other plungers flop?”	.
"A Gushurst holding down the -wing,
. A Fitz, stuck in between,
A good, old Keefe, and, to be brief, Great subs?—No chaff in the wheated sheaf Of those 'Champs’—Nineteen Thirteen!”
Then reminiscent stirred his soul,	.
' He sighed- "Gadzooks/ alas, .	.	’
When they ran amuck, with that shifting buck They hit the line like a Kelly truck,
Or histed a forward pass.’’ '	.
, I harked unto the old man’s -words .
.	Then, beat it on my way.	, i
The thing I spoke seemed but a joke Beside the Ancient’s truthful croak
"How those warriors could play”,
Yea, down' in history they’ve gone;.	.
And nicked the Hall of Fame.	.
Though they drop away in the world’s decay And.afe resolved.back into clay, ■ ;
. They’ll live at Notre Dame.. . ' '	’
t	p ; /'k.; >
THE NOTRE
The Team.
TIMOTHY GAT VIN, ’l6.
Notre Dame’s unparalleled success this -year is due primarily to her team and not to any individual stars. The team is composed, however, of eleven individual stars and as many substitutes who would be stars if they were on any other team in the country. To do justice to the men on printed pages is impossible and we attempt the task only because to pass them by without mention would be greater injustice.
’ Knute Rockne, Captain, Bnd.
To be captain of the 1913 team is an honor and it could not have fallen upon a more worthy man than Knute. He was a* willing, a faithful, an ideal leader, and a team that followed whither he led could not have failed to win. The duties of leadership did not interfere with Rockne’s playing, but rather inspired him to greater efforts. “Rock” was severely injured in the first game of' the season, but he rejoined the squad as soon as possible and fought his way to all-State and all-Western honors. He took care of his end in the way that had made him an idol for two previous seasons, breaking up plays and using his wonderful speed and strength to the best advantage. It was in the open-field work, however, that Rockne starred this year. Time after time, he raced away from the line of scrimmage and gathered in the long passes from the unerring hand of Dorais, or downed in his tracks the opponent who received a punt. “Rock” gathered in a forward pass for the first touchdown against Army, and a week later repeated the play at Penn State. Our captain finished his football career Thanksgiving day. His loss to the ’14 squad will be severely felt.
Charles Dorais, Quarterback.
Alexander wept for .more worlds to conquer. Well might our “Dory” do likewise, for today he is king of the football world. For four years he has directed our teams. He has led our warriors to, twenty-seven victories, and only one defeat. Whether Fate smiled or frowned upon our incomparable general, he-was always the same. With dogged, but brainy .persistence he kept chuckling Fame under the chin, as it were, until she had to smile. Year after , year, . he has grown better, and this year h,e has attained to a perfection unequalled in the football world. There’is no department of the game
DAME SCHOLASTIC	369 y
which he has not mastered. Running a Team, A? punting, drop kicking, open-field running, for- .	1=
ward passing—at all these he is at home and', W .W admits no superior in the Bast, South, or West. 3	< ‘ f
It is hard to imagine a Notre Dame team with- . d . out a Dorais, but “Dory” will be hittingthe world with as much success next year as he. was ’ ~ football this, and we must let him go; We	. d
offer you the full measure of our gratitude,	- ’ T
Dorais, for the glory you have won for Us. . J To mention that you have been accorded W all-American quarterback ’ position by ..even- \ , :d prejudiced critics would be to repeat a Tact - TV oft told by now.	-	. d
Raymond Bichenlaub, Fullback. .	. j \ ' :
For three years, Eichenlaub has been the .	:
mainstay of the backfield. We have become -so used to seeing him there and so confident . J of liis ability that we shudder to think of the - T. time when the Gold and Blue must go on the V z. field without him. His terrific speed, his bull-dog. ■ courage, and his ability to hit the line for a . gain when everything else fails, has made him .	7
one . of the greatest players of his day. This ’ . T is the second time he has won all-.Westem honors,	:
which is some honor in itself, and “Bich” has : taken a place in Notre Dame’s hall of footbalL fame beside Salmon and Vaughan, making the . L -■ greatest trio of fullbacks any school has ever ' T produced. Bich is the heaviest man on the \ d.dd' team, weighing 195 pounds, but he is fast-as . d’ jd a rabbit, and more than once this year he-has d d d surprised opponents by getting away on long ; dd , end runs. Luckily he will be spared to the ’14	= . d-
Varsity. When “Dory” is gone, “Bich” will - , . . likely be called upon to do the kicking. If ■ - ; y. Camp will but notice what our fullback can do* d y with his trusty right toe, and then consider his id' -dd all-round offensive and defensive ability, we;, 'ddTd feel sure that he will escort Miss All-Americaz. -T on her second visit to Notre Dame. ; dd‘d d d~dv Albert G. Feeney, Centre. •
Feeney is-one of the quartet of Notre Dame, dz stars who finished their college football careers ’ d 7, V d against the Longhorns, Thanksgiving Day. That he is an exceptional centre is evidenced 7 4 by the fact that Bckersall ranks, him second’ dd’V/'V only to Des Jardien of Chicago and by the fact- dA? that he has twice been selected all-State centre, d : - dd' “ Al ” was pitted against men heavier than himself , 5 3.. T V in almost every game, but he was always^ abler ; d- a:''CC to outplay his man. -The Indianapolis youth. r-QTdddi t- -	-’--d
was the key . of the Varsity attack and defense. -VdTMl He is perfect with his passes of the ’ball, could TThTdO .	’’	-‘"‘dd- vzWLd
..	- .	--- ’TV3V dVdT
370	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
open holes on offense, and was a strong factor in our secondary defense. “Wide awake” sums up “Al” in a game. This year he intercepted two passes, which, if completed, would have meant scores for opponents. One of these at Penn State would have tied the score. We will be sorry to lose Feeney, and his memory will live with all those who have seen him play.
Joseph S. Pliska, Halfback.
Fleet of foot, a sure tackler, master of the art of receiving passes, able to pick holes in an Opponent’s defense or to make them for himself, Pliska is an ideal halfback. This is Joe’s third year in football and as his experience grows, his worth to the Gold and Blue becomes greater. Pliska struck liis real stride in the Army game. He picked passes out of the clouds, hit the Cadet line for long gains, and skirted the ends like the wind. He never plays below form, although he is spectacular at times. Pliska was Eckersall’s choice for second all-Western this year, and will have a chance to make the first pick next year.
' Keith K. Jones. Tackle.
“ Deac” is the one best bet that the all-section critics has overlooked this year. We do not believe he has a superior in the country, although all-Western, and even all-State critics have given positions to tackles who play on normal schools in preference to him. He is absolutely without fear, and although he plays a careful game, he .plays hard all the time. He is a sure tackler and impenetrable-on defense. There is not a harder man on the team. Although knocked out in the first minute of play in the South Dakota game, he came back with a grin on his face, and Capt. Brown of the Coyotes was forced to the wall. After the Army game, Coach Harper said: “I wouldn’t trade Jones for any tackle in the country; he’s light, but he can handle them all.” No wonder Coach Harper made this remark, for’ “Deac” had worn out five men in the game. In Texas he wore out three men, the first enjoying the reputation of never having been taken out of a game in three years. He will playmext year, and refusal to .award him all-Western honorswill put .the critics in a strange position.
.	■ Frederick Gushurst, End.
: In Gushurst, Rockne liad a fitrurining mate. An bld interhall selection of two years’ standing, he showed his mettle on the Varsity last season as substitute halfback. Ends’were-scarce this
Philbrdok: were. -
Emmett" Keefe,7 Guard.
Keefe was the only new man on the team, fall, however, and. “Gus” went in to fill “Chuck” He was on the squad all of last-year but had
Crowley’s old shoes. He made good with a bang. He^can gather in forward passes, and when called upon, can hit the line. He has few superiors in breaking up interference. He .was especially good against his South Dakota compatriots, and against the Army. All-Western honors were not too good for him, but critics tremble to place more than five men of one team on their selections.
Charles T. Finegan, Halfback.
We are proud of Finegan because he has been developed from interhall material. Two years ago he was a Corby star. Last year he won a monogram as a substitute for D orals and Eichenlaub. This year Sam has proved one of the surprises of the season. He was injured at the beginning of the season but returned to the game in time to take Berger’s place when the latter was hurt. Finegan has a powerful plunge and a knack of twisting as he hits the fine that carries him through for good gains. He can also catch passes, and best of all, he loves the game. Finegan will return to the squad next season, and if no new star is developed will likely be a candidate for quarterback.
Fremont Fitzgerald, Guard.
This was “Fitz’s” second year on the team, and the big Oregonian played a splendid game at guard. He was the biggest man in the line, and not an ounce of his strength was wasted. In the Penn State and Army games “Fitz” played the Eastern linemen off their feet. He stopped plays that came his way and often broke up opposing plays before they could get started. At the offensive game he is a “bear.” He played at centre in the Christian Brothers game, and may find a regular berth at the pivotal position next year. .	.
Ralph G. Lathrop, Tackle. •	:
Lathrop was drafted from interhall circles in the middle of the season last year and under the efficient coaching of Dunbar developed into a strong lineman. His work in the Pittsburg and St. Louis games won him a monogram. This season he was shifted to tackle and proved a consistent player. Long and rangy he covers a great deal of ground and is a power on defense. “Slim” is a: game fighter with plenty of football’brains. He and Jones should make another pair of'tackles such as Dimmick and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
little opportunity to show his ability in games. He is a quiet worker and few considered him for a regular berth at-the start of this season. But the down-state boy has a world of weight and strength, and he was just the man to fill the gap left by Yund. He played his best game against Penn State when he was most needed. He has two more years to play.
Arthur B. Larkin, Halfback.
Larkin, like Finegan, is a former interhall man. “Bunnie” was kept off the regular team only by such fast men as Pliska and Finegan. His expert dodging makes him a splendid halfback. He was used in every big game except the Penn State conflict, and always acquitted himself well. He will return.
Allen H. Elward, End.
Elward was the lightest man on the line, but-his playing in the South Dakota game was nothing short of marvellous. Time’ after time he spilled the interference and threw the runner ’ and it was a delight to see him pull down forward passes. When Capt. Rockne came back to the game, “Mal” had to give way, but we always felt secure because we knew he could handle the job if anything turned up.
William J. Cook, Guard, Tackle
Cook was one of the Reserves who took the kicks and cuffs of the Varsity last year without receiving any honors. This year he was one ' of the strongest men on the squad and the regular linemen had to fight every minute to keep “Bill” from displacing them. Cook got his chance against South Dakota after Jones was forced out. He went in and held Brown, the western giant, in every play. He also worked the full game against the Christian Brqthers and half of the Longhorn contest.
Albert V. King, Guard. .
King was on the Corby team last year,, and won all-hall honors. This year he was called out for the Varsity and made good. “Al” developed wonderfully under the coaching of “Cap” Edwards and surprised even his friends by his playing. King charges hard- and is in every play. . He played in all the minor games, and was-used at guard . against South'Dakota, Christian Brothers, and Texas. ;	■
• Alvin Berger, Halfback.
Berger was the most unfortunate man on • the team. Just when it seemed that he was' to have another great year at half, “Heine” was forced to leave the squad with an injured leg. He- got back. just. inLtime to put sup'- one^of—
his old-time games against South Dakota carrying the ball for many gains. Soon after this game, Berger was again forced out by injuries and he did not get into any of the games in the latter part of the season. “Heine” was a splendid back in ’n and ’12 and if he had been fit he would have been as good this year.
Edward D. Duggan, Fullback.
Duggan went out for full this year, knowing that there was no chance to displace “Eich,” but Eddie played as though there were no other fullback in the west. Duggan starts fast and hits the line low. He shoots through the line like a bullet, and seldom fails to gain substan-. tially. Eddie went into both the South Dakota and the Texas games during the last quarter,' and Coyotes and Longhorns were alike powerless before him. He will be back. •
Alfred Bergman, Halfback.
“We thought that Simmons was the fastest article alive, but when that little Bergman got into the game, he went like a streak of greased lightning.” This comment from Texas sums up the situation when “Dutch” is concerned. Not heavy, but fast and brainy, he is able to make long gains. We can never forget his feat of two years ago, when he caught the ball behind his own goal and carried it no yards for a touchdown. We shall be glad to see him back next year.	'
The Reserves.
Kelleher, one of our most valuable plunging halfbacks, was kept out of the game again this year by injuries, and he was not able to show what is in him, but with better luck next year -he ■will be one of the most valuable men on the squad. Mills and Nowers, of basketball experience, were a valuable pair at receiving passes and in playing the end positions as a whole. “Curly” snatched the ball out of the air and ^carried it over for a score in the South Dakota game, and Mills did a like feat at Texas. Both .will return: McLaughlin and Voelkers worked at center all year. The return of Feeney prevented them from securing a regular berth, but they proved efficient--understudies for the all- -State pivot cman. . Bush . and Sharp were the other men .who- stayed out all. season. The former worked at quarter and the latter in the line. “Hardy’’ and, “Art’’.are-worthy of great praise, for. their part in developing our great team,- and .we expect to hear from both oiLi-next .year’s squad.>.A________L
372
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Freshman Team;
;	. R. DOWNEY. .	..	,,
.	—/ j' i
The husky Notre Dame Freshman. squad deserves special praise because ofitlie successful work accomplished by* this neivly’. gathered eleven. It was hard trying wotkfor them all the way through the season. Father Farley who had the team in tow worked withjthem every dfternoon and was repaid by turping out one of the strongest first-year teams in; the country, one of which any coach;might be proud.
. It was the first year for a freshmans teim at Notre Dame, and on this account bnlv? a limited number of contests were scheduled, :,Dirt the showing made on every occasion was creditable, and their scrimmages with the Varsity, especially, showed the mettle of the men.
In the contest with Culver Military Academy, October n, they defeated .the Cadets by the score. 6-o. This game, however, was no criterion of their strength as the team at that time had . only recently been organized. On Nov. 8, - the yearlings journeyed to Toledo and defeated the fast Toledo High School, ip-o. .
The.-showing of the freshman teaih this year should certainly make us confident of the strength of the Varsity during the. next few years. The freshman line outweighed the Varsity forwards and was not far behind them
in fighting ability. With little coaching and another year’s experience many of these men will be able to secure berths on the first team.
The uniformity of team-work throughout the season did not interfere with brilliant in- .
>. dividual work done by such .stars as Cofall, . Bachman, Yager, Thorpe and O’Donnell. In Bachman, Cofall and King the Freshmen had three men who could punt close to fifty yards at every attempt. .
Captain Cofall, the exrEast High School star of Cleveland, is the open-field runner and line plunger extraordinary of the eleven. He exhibits wonderful skill at punting and drop -kicking, is clever with the forward pass, and one of the best defensive, players in the backfield.
King and Miller both look like comers at the end positions and if necessary Yager can easily be shifted to one of the wings. Kowalski and Bachman did most of the line ’ plunging and even the strong Varsity line was not always able to hold. them. Bachman is heralded by the knowing ones as a coming Eichenlaub. He is a powerful linesman as well as charging fullback.
Thorpe, pilot of the- eleven, used splendid judgment in running his team. He is a sure tackler, delivers the forward pass with great accuracy; and is. good at running back punts.
All in all we have nothing but praise for every member of the new team and we feel sure that the work done by them this year is work done for next year’s Varsity..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
373
Heroes All.
The above selections were chosen from lists made up by-the-men who refereed the games. . This plan was followed instead, of having the coaches select the men, as they did last year, because it was thought that the referees; being
Sing to us, Muse, who sang brave deeds at Troy;
Sing in heroic verse the warriors bold, .
Who fast end runs and the forward pass employ, Striving to triumph for the Blue and Gold. •
Tell us with pomp how Dorais’ accurate .toe' .	.	-	.	. .	,	,
Dismayed the Army and brought Penn State woe. rule guiding their selection was that no man .	/ - - should be put in a position that he had not
I’ve just had a line from-the poetic Muse	. • . -	,	"
, played regularly during the mterhall season.
With, many fond thanks for the generous invite,- —,. - - ,	.	' * .	,
. . .. • While this.is hard on such men as Thorpe, star
But saving: “I fear that it is of no use; -.-	‘	c ,,	~	, -	.•
■	.	, quarterback for the Freshmen, Capt. Riedman
Your gridiron ‘Champs’ are entirely too good. ■ r t> - '	.1 • ,,	....	* -i r - +	'
of Brownson and others, still it is only fair to
in the thick of the games, could get a closer line ' on. the performers than the coaches. The only
With due credit to them I never could write.
Besides I belong to the scribes’ brotherhood.
For my dope on football, I’d be banished, by all, In the East by Walt Camp; in. the West, Eckersall. -	'	’ W. L. C.
The InterhaU Season, 1913.
the men who worked at one place throughout the. contests.
, Batijan, at left end, is undoubtedly the best to be. found for that position. A hard, smashing tackler', a fast man down the field under punts, ■ and fully able to carry the ball when occasion
J. CLOVIS SMITH, ’15.
required, Harry put up a great game- King
•_ possessed an equally good claim to the other
'	----- •	. . . wing. His tall, powerful build enabled him to
Brownson, o; Corby, o; Sorin, 12 J Corby, 7 / break through the interference and get-the Sorin, 15; Brownson, 9; Walsh, 31; Brownson 6 runner with regularity. His special depart-Corby, 7; Walsh, 7; Walsh, 26; Sorin/r4' ment was receiving forward passes, and in this -
When Walsh and Sorin staged the last act W he gained many yards for Corby
Mc-
Queeney and Morales have been given the end positions on the second team.
At fight tackle, Bachman, the 200-pound
in the interhall football drama of 1913, -the curtain rang down on one of the most successful seasons of recent vears. The playing of the .	. -
Various teams was 'characterized io general by Englewood High star, was without a peer. On the same fast, snappy, clever work that won the.defense,-he stopped all the plays directed fame for their big brother, the Varsitv. It is at his side o£ the lme' Md on offense was no exaggeration to say that any of the interhaU able t0'make g°od holes hls opponents’ line., aggregations could defeat a good many college In O'Donnell' of Sorin he had a fit mate. .. teams-in fact, they did it during the season. - BuiIt for P0SItl0n he PIared a Powerful
The new rules enacted this year, making .Aggressive game. He was closely rivalled by freshmen ineligible for the Varsity, but permit- Redman . of Brownson and Carroll of Walsh, ting them to play interhall, greatly, strengthened both of . whom were able to hold their own the latter. Another feature of this year’s plav throughout the season.	• ■
,, , ,, ,	, 1	„ ./ Odam, plavmg right guard on the Champions,
that added greatly to the total success, was the •-	»r . & ° »	• ,	A ’ .
r , ,	, x. 11 +	' •	1	1	1 made a splendid showing. Although a new man,
fact that the hall teams were closelv matched, • r ■ . -. r ■	0	0	’ .
...	...	,	- ,	, ,	,	’ > -tr ’ -4. he developed so rapidly under the coaching of
which will contribute much to next year s varsity.-	~ v	v	,
.	'	“Deac Jones that he became one. of the best
All-Interhall Selections.. . defensive players'in-the league. At the other
Position - Second Team, guard position, Holmes had a little the edge , Left end. Morales, Brownson Oivthe .rest; although -Miller and Hayes were-Bachman, Corby Left-tackle ’ Carroll, Walsh ,^ 'r - . .. .	' ~ .	'	. . '
Holmes, Bro.wnson Left' guard-: Miller/Brownsou' ~C PS£ s^con s- . ..	r. .. . .	r ..
Meehan, Brownson . - Centre ./'A Daley,.’ Corby .' At centre there -Were thrge men to pickfromf ; Right guard - . : ■ Hayes,; Walsh ; alt of/nearly the. Jsame- calibre.; MeehanLof; Right. taclde^nedinanyB^^^	Bhaughnessv?
Right,end -McQueeney, Walsh	a.trio, anv one of. whom ,would
. A u m 1	‘	< not be out of-place on. the-first team, the
■ Right . halfback Kinsella, Corby —- . ■	• r	.	.	-	.
= Left -halfback- - “Kowalski,-Walshy- P^tionMias-^	however/
Fullback ~ •-*- Nigro, Cofb'yJ ,ron- account; p/his good'defensive work, and es-
First Team . Baujan; Walsh
' .Odam, Walsh
, r <O!-I)onnell/Soriif
• - King, Corby ’
Wright,, Walsh
Matthews, Walsh
' Cofall, Sorin J’ .Grady, Walsh ’
374
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTIJR-HAIX • CHAMPIONS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
375
, pecially his success at breaking up plays through the line. Shaughnessy and Daley were just as good on the offense.
The quarterback position presented the hardest nut there was to crack. Wright and Hynes stand out as two splendid generals, equally adept in advancing the ball and equally clever with the forward pass.' What slight superiority there is belongs to Wright for the steady, even way in which'he ran his team, and his knack of getting plays off fast. But when it came to catching the opponents off guard, Hynes was a wonder. Time and again, he tricked Walsh and Corby with some unexpected play. Wright is perhaps better in giving the runner interference.	-
Next to quarter, the fullback was" the hardest man there was to pick. Grady, Nigro and Finegan were almost equal claimants for the honor, but the place has been awarded to the former for his powerful line-plunging ability.
■ In Nigro, Corby has a man who knew how to hit the line low and hard, and could play a strong game on the defense. .
Cofall and Matthews were the unanimous choice for the halfbacks, and further than that, they were the season’s individual stars. No two men could present a greater contrast, and yet both were alike in that they possessed that rare’ attribute, football brains, and an instinct to diagnose a play. Cofall’s playing was all
-kept Sorin in the race, and when on the defensive, nothing can be said in his favor that would be an exaggeration. Very fast, and a sure tackler, he never failed to smash an}7 inter
ference and get his man. On offense his speed enabled him to circle the.ends for long gainsand his drives made his line-plunging equally spectacular.
To look at Matthews, one would never see in him a star of the first magnitude. He weighs 125 pounds, is very slender in build. An observer would sooner pick Eichenlaub as a ping pong champion, than mark “Matty’’..for the fastest, cleverest, slipperiest player in in- . terhall. His open-field running, especially on returning punts, was the treat of the season. We would not hesitate to match Matthews and Cofall against most college halfbacks.
Kowalski and Kinsella were both far above the ordinary in ability and are deprived of places only because of the very exceptional -pair they were matched against.
The following selection is made from the second preparatory7 teams. The first preparatory7 team is chosen entire for first place.
All-Star Prep Selection.
First Team R. Brown, Walsh Mcllwee Brownson Robinson, Walsh Blackman, Carroll Susen, Carroll Hubbell, Walsh McCarren, Carroll Armstrong, Walsh Barry, Carroll O’Brien, Carroll Osterley, Carroll
BY WILLIE CASE.
Position R. E. L. T. R. G.
C.
L. G. R. T. L. E. Q. B. L. H. R. H. F. B.
Second Team A. Brown, Walsh Brannon, Carroll Boylan, Brownson Berchem, Walsh Stonehill, Carroll
Casey, Walsh Ffrench, Brownson Lockard, Brownson
• Hughes, Walsh O’Shea, Brownson
Taft, Brownson
A Football Medley.
FRANK HOGAN, ’14.
Cap. Rockne came down like a wolf on the fold, And his cohorts were wearing the blue and the gold, O their unflinching grit struck such fear in the foes. South Dakota got dizzy and turned up her toes.
Then came the brave Army with inflated chest To take down the pride of the “audacious” West: “We care not for ‘Eich’ nor care we for ‘Plisk,’ We don’t even think we are taking a risk.”
Then “Dory” put over a long forward pass, While the big Army line lay asleep in the grass. There was racing and chasing to break up the stride*’ But the brave Soldiers wavered, rolled over, and died. -
O the “rep” of Penn State is now covered with dust, Time was when the Lone Star had never a care, And their record is strewn on the sands, .	And defeats for Penn State were but few.
And the “Cow-Punchers’” irons are coated with rust, But now they are certain the way players fare Since they failed to deliver the brands.	When they meet with the Gold and the Blue.
376
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Conclusive.
Mr. Camp—-Yes, I maintain that Eastern teams - arp far superior to Western elevens, principally on account of Eastern methods.
Western Coach—But, Mr. Camp, Notre Dame ’ defeated the Army and buried her under a larger score than Yale has been able to make against West Point in the six previous years, and the result was due altogether to the Western method.
Mr. Ci—But didn’t the Army beat the Navy?
W. C.—Yes, of course, and that proves Notre Dame is far superior to the Navy as well as the Army.
Mr. C.—Not at all. It simply proves the
. Arnrv was holding back for the Navy. Notre. Dame was simply practice for her.
W. C.—Surely, Mr. Camp, you count scores in the East, don’t you? Army beat Colgate; Notre Dame beat Army, and Colgate beat Yale bad—which proves—
Mr. C.—Simply’’ that Colgate was lucky. When you remember that Harvard couldn’t make a touchdown agairist Yale, you have to’ admit Colgate was lucky. y , '
W. C.—Was the West lucky in all the games played with Eastern Colleges? Eour times.they played and four times they went away victorious which gives them an average of iooo while you have simply’’ ooo for an average.	’
Mr. C—You .can’t measure football ability with a rule. .’You have to stand back and look at the teams , with a cool unprejudiced mind. A man who is everlastingly looking at scores becomes confused. vIt’s the ability of . players and teams one must take into consideration.
.. The East has aimed at developing scoring machines—perfect scoring machines.
W: C.—And as a result of these perfectly developed scoring riiachines neither Harvard . ) nor Yale was able to make a touchdowri when
. they played - Neither-Princetori nor Harvard ■ was able to make a touchdown in their game;
and neither .Yale' ridr Princeton was able to ' make a touchdown. Is that the idea? ;
. Mr. C.—Simply adverse conditions in those games,- Adverse conditions. y.; :A-	.
W: C:—TAnd the fact that N? D<rolled up. a larger score on Army in one game than Yale has done in six games 'proves conclusively that the West, knows: nothing - abbutd scoring; riiachines ? , :'CMLu.—See liere, young riian, ?dpnlt be.-ri- .
diculous. If you have such fine teams in the West why don’t more of your’meh'get on my all-American? Why is it that only one man from the West is chosen while as many as eight Yale men'"have been picked? . ,	•
TV. C.-^-Now, Mr. Camp, you’ve got me. That argument is conclusive. If you used it at first we would have had no squabble. It overthrows-scores, and games, and coaches, and methods. Now I, see that the East must be far superior to the West even ; if it isn’t. You’re like the Eastern teams. You always hold your strongest, argument till after the game.
The Immortals. .
Q. E. D—American Champions. Cause. •
Dor A is	Ro C kne
M ills	Eic H enlaub
Ke E fe	.	-LA rkin
Gushu R st	.	Berg M an	.
F I tzgerald .	.	P liska
Coa C hes	x	-FI negan
L A throp	Co O k.
Jo N es	'	-	.	Fee N ’ey'
	’	.	S crubs
- - -	Effect. ’	.	•
Ro C kne	Gush U rst !
D 0 rais	'	■ Ki N g
Eiche N laub	.	D uggan
F inegan	. Now E res.	.
- Jon E s	,	’ Pli S ka	1
Lath R op	.	.	M I Ils	.	- '
- \Ke E. fe	'	Elwa R. d	,
Fee N ey .	.	.	LA rkin ;
C. ook	■_-■	.	B ergman	|
Fitzg E. raid	'	Kei L eher '	E
.	.	.	. /	. Vo E Ikers
...	. ■ . . -	.	. J. S crubs ,
Proving that -things equal to the .same thing are
equal -to each other.- ■
. Jim Spivins..
. Stimulating Water.
Wh°. eyer heard/ohtakingywater .
Way off to a football, game?	'
But. Harper ’ said they \ really {ought’er
Cause Texas {water’s-jnot:the ;sarh^; ’
They put ;the| water'in; a barrel; y. - " . .
- It once was- full of wine, ' - : . . And every .time .they Toolea drink . /. V They {went ?right ^	the line. J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
. Dope. It Out for Yourself.
Notre Dame, 20; South Dakota, 7;
South Dakota, o; Minnesota, 13;
' Minnesota, 7; .
Minnesota, 10;
Nebraska, 7 ;
Chicago, 13;
, South Dakota, 7; ’ Michigan Aggies, 19;
Michigan Aggies, 12; Michigan, 7;
Michigan, 33Vanderbilt, 2;.
Michigan, 17; Cornell, 6;
Michigan, 13; Pennsylvania, o;
. Michigan Aggies, 12; Wisconsin', 7;
Wisconsin, Wisconsin,
Purdue, 7;
Ohio State, o;
.4
1
I
Notre Dame, ' Army, 34;
Army, 29;
Army, 7;
. Colgate,
Stevens Institute, o;
Rutgers, o;
Colgate, 6; o; Cornell, o;
Cornell, o;
Cornell, 6 ;
Colgate, 2r;
Amherst, Colgate, 46; Colgate, 16;
Carlisle, 7;
Harvard, 2
Amherst, o;
Yale, Yale, Yale, Yale,
-19;
20;
6;
7; Dartmouth,- 21;
Hobart, o;
Yale, 6;	*
Holy Cross, o ;
Layf ayette, o ;
Lehigh, o';
Wash, and Jefferson, o;
Wash, and Jeff., 17; Penn State 6;
Yale, 17; Brown, o;	.
Yale,'3; Princeton, 3;
Princeton, o; Harvard, 3;
• Yale; 5 ;
Harvard, 47;
. Harvard, 29;
Harvard, 37;
Harvard, 15;
Holy. Cross, 7;
. Penn State, o; Brown, o;
Colgate, 27; Rochester, o;
Colgate, 35; Syracuse, 13;
Army, 2;
Army, 77;
Arm}’’, 22;
Tufts, o;
Albright, o; . Navy, 9;
Navy, o; Pittsburg, o;
Pittsburg, 12 ; Carlisle, 6;
Pittsburg 20;
' Navy, 23;
. Navy,. 39;
Navy, 70;
• Navy,- .10;
Notre Dame, 14
Cornell, 7; . Georgetown, o; Lehigh, ,0;
Bucknell, 7 ;
Penn State, p; . -; Penh State, ? 7; ;
’ Notre Dame, 30; Texas, 7;.
Texas, 13; Sewanee, 7; V , : Texas, 13; . Oklahoma, 6;'
Texas, 42; ' .Kansas Aggies. '7.
Press Comments. ..
Football men marvelled at the startling-display of., open football made by Notre- Dame against the ’ Army. Bill Roper, former head’coach of Princeton who was one of the officials'of the game, said that he . had always believed that such'playing was’possible . under the new rules, but that he had never seen the forward-pass developed to such a state, of perfection.
—New York Times.
. Every Notre Dame Man Spectacular.
Dorais Makes Eyes Blink.	’ ’
Zigzag Runner First of His Grade Since Daly. . No. Stopping Eichenlaiib. ’	'
.	' Headlines in N7Y..Sun. -
. The Army folks from General Leonard Wood down to the youngest substitute on the scrubs were shocked at the way the Army team was put to rout—N. Y. Times.
Perhaps credit should be given to Western in- ‘ fluence for the Army’s success against the Navy. Four weeks ago when-the cadets met Notre. Dame they were dazzled and confounded, by the Westerners’ open attack and the lesson struck deep—N. Y. Stui.
Notre Dame played the fastest brand of football seen in the East in years.—New York Herald. .	•_
And Notre Dame you thoroughly convinced me -you were there.	.
You whipped each tough opponent with.a bunch of points to spare.	-	• .	.	.
And if ’twere up to me to pick the country’s all-star team	.	.	.
I’d have old Gold and Blue for my prevailing color -
scheme.
—W. Lardner, Chicago Tribune.
No matter what the historians may say about the . days of Greece’s glory being forever gone, there is one descendant of the Athenians of’ whom his ancestors’ might be proud. His name is Dorais and’he. plays in the backfield for Notre Dame. This Farnese Her- . cules came to life, plays marbles with 16-pound shots, wrestles with. everything, including problems - in ' -trigonometry; speaks nine languages—many of them at once, and hoists men weighing anywhere -from. . 200-pounds up over his head with one hand. ; ’He is . a bear of a football player and an expert at opening eggs at the breakfast table. It is said by a Philadelphian who has seen him in action that the whole fif- . teen eggs do not tire him a particle.—New York Sun. -
According to D. Williams the West this year has several teams that are on a par with Harvard, Prince-, -ton and Yale and it is the opinion of the Minnesota . mentor that the rest of the eastern elevens would be ? . easy victims if they were to face Chicago, Minnesota, . Notre Dame or Michigan- He further opined that ? any of the four teams named above would give'the-; West a gridiron distinction if- a game was played with < any of the three leading teams of the East. -7 ; : '
Deducting from the statements made by the! Min-, ~ nesota inventor of football tricks, Chicago,. Notre. , ' ■ Dame and Michigan lead the rest of the western teams . < -in present ability, with Minnesota but a short length ’ away.—Chicago Examiner. :	:
Credit to Notre Dame.« -‘ V^
Cadets Learn New Tricks from-Harpers Charges! The defeat of the NavyJSaturday-by'the7Army;~22 * V
2

THE-NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
’ to 9, was another victory for western football. It was one more demonstration of the worth of western gridiron methods, besides a clear avowal that one team of the West leads at least the Army and Navy and the elevens which these two teams met during the season.
While the Notre Dame players were gathered in . their dressing-rooms after their game with West Point, in which the Army had been decisively beaten, 35 to 13, Coach Harper of Notre Dame and Coach Lieutenant Daly of West Point were closeted and discussing the forward pass formations that Notre Dame had used to trim the cadets. Harper explained hoiv his men were able to complete thirteen out of seventeen passes in that game and showed Lieut. Daly the simplified method in general use in the central West.
The fact that the Army threw off the ancient ideas in vogue in the East and learned anew the more worthy formations of the West and by so doing heat a team that figured on paper at least once again as strong, is not the only rebuttal held by the West to prove that teams of this section lead the world. There still remains the fact that Notre Dame swamped the Army with ease when these two teams met.
Critics profess not to understand how Notre Dame, with a smaller enrollment than 75 percent of the schools which it wallops athletically, can turn out such good teams. Any one familiar -with conditions at Sou^h Bend can explain this. One Saturday this fall no less than eight Notre Dame teams had games scheduled. A boarding school, every class and every “hall,” as the various dormitories are called, has its own eleven and it is small wonder that out of all this material the coaches develop good players.
Again, Notre Dame is not in the habit of “playing . up” its ineligibles. Some of the Conference schools probably will be greatly surprised next fall when Charles Bachman, the former Englewood high school star, appears in a Notre Dame uniform. Virtually every school in the west and. a great many in the east were after this man’s services, but the arguments of his former teammate, Joe Pliska, were too much for him to ■withstand and he entered the Indiana school. Bachman’s case merely is cited as an example of the manner in -which Notre Dame “covers up” its ineli-gibles. Probably not one football follower in a hundred knew where Bachman was attending school, although most of them knew the higher institutions of learning have been seeking his athletic talent for tw’O seasons.
—Sullivan in Chicago Daily News. ■
All-American Selection
O’Brien . Pontius. , / Pennock - Ketchem
Browne .. Ballin Avery . . - Dorais .
Craig:
Guyon Brickley:.
Harvard Michigan ‘ Harvard Yale - , . Navy
Princeton
Yale,. .' J.
.Notre .Dame Michigan „
/ Indians / Harvard/. .
of Thorpe.
Right End
Right Tackle ' Right Guard . . 'Centre
Left. Guard
Left -Tackle
Left End Quarterback Left Halfback Left Halfback . .. .... Fullback
these players .are- unquestionably great .men in. their
.	.	.	.	,	-	respective positions and have the right to be eulogized
- Dorais of Notre Dame: is a man- who sizes ;up to. the fact mustnot be lost sight of that without assistance the quarterback situation in, much .better ;shape. than - from their fellow players' much of their, efforts would be any;-’.other. //He;;is-;a star of.-the highestymagnitude. - vain.—South. Bend/N^ws-Times:L	.
Excelling in open field play, in running back punts, and in running with the ball from his position, he has displayed ability as a general that only few quarters have ever equalled. His hurling the pigskin into the hands of one of his.ends or backs is a quality that has won his place for him.
With the above named team and with Dorais to general and Guyon and Dorais to do the punting, Brickley kicking the drops and Browne the placements, the team would not be wanting in this department.—Tom Thorpe in Albany Times.
In the western football territory, which includes Ohio State on the east extremity and the University of Nebraska on the-other end, the consensus of opinion is that the section named has developed this fall some of the greatest players it has ever known. So many • were the stars that a great variety of selections are being made by various experts.
An approach to unanimity is found in the make-up of the backfield. Critics generally award Eichenlaub, the Notre Dame fullback, his position. There is hardly a dissenting voice as to him. Craig of Michigan and Norgen of Chicago were given the halfback places, and though keener rivalry was, felt for the quarterback position, the ability of Dorais of Notre Dame to run the team and his expertness as a drop-kicker seem to make him the favorite.—Chicago Examiner.
All-Western Selection of Wathey.
Des Jarden	Chicago	Centre
Allmondinger •	Michigan	Guard
Keeler	Wisconsin	Guard
Butler	Wisconsin	Tackle
Brown	South Dakota	Tackle
Solon	Minnesota	.	End
Shaughnessy	Minnesota	-	End
Dorais,	Notre Dame	Quarterback
Norgren	Chicago	• Halfback
Craig	Michigan	Halfback
Eichenlaub .	Notre Dame	• ' Fullback
could be made between Chicago,
A comparison
Michigan Aggies and Nebraska, as they met a common enemy, andif this comparison should be made many are of the opinion that the laurels must go to Chicago, as the Maroons played the more consistent game and seemed to have a better knowledge of the rules and tricks than the other. Giving the Maroons the edge on two of the three remaining teams leaves Notre Dame the only eleven having a fight to demand any title higher than Chicago.—rChicago Record-Herald.
- Reports of results of games in the far east leaves supremacy very complex in spite of the fact that scribes in the east would, distinguish Yale, Harvard,
• and Princeton as the major body of football,
But .whatever. may be said- of them all it must be
conceded that Notre Dame -was represented by one of the most wonderful football teams, as subsequent events have. established, . east. and. west. Dorais, Eichenlaub and Rockne have .been the recipients of much complimentary/newspaper notice.. But. while

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
379
Still you’ve got to slip it to the widespread alma-matric enthusiasm of Mr. Charles E- Brickley. In his review of the Army-Navy game he said the Army victory was a “triumph for the Harvard system.” Unfortunately we arrived at the Harvard-Princeton and Harvard-Yale games too late to see the crimson machine scoring touchdowns by long forward passes over the goal line. It must have been a thrilling spectacle. Sorry we missed it.	'
The facts in the case being that the Army victory was a triumph for the Notre Dame system. A Mr. Dorais showed what a forward pass looked like. And Head Coach Daly was keen enough to absorb the situation immediately.—New York Mail.
East vs West.
“ The East is East, and West is West, 'And never the twain shall meet—”
When Kipling twanged his w. k.’ lyre He overlooked a bet—
For often have the sections named
On the gory gridiron met.	‘
Three times this year the Wolverine	•
With Eastern foemen fought,
Whose vaunted backs and stonewall line In each game went for naught.
And Notre Dame twice left South Bend To conquer seaboard teams—
This dope, gleaned from the sporting page, Proves Kipling wrong, it seems.
But Rudyard knew whereof he wrote— The East alone will stand	‘
When Camp selects his all-star team From the squads throughout the land.
—Mat Foley in Chicago Inter-Ocean
Having carefully studied Notre Dame’s gridiron and baseball records, the “big Nine” unanimously voted not to admit the Catholics to the Conference.
—Lardner in the Chicago Tribune.
Notre Dame, too, displayed a machine of speed and power. Coach Harper’s eleven ranged victoriously from the Far. West to the Army ramparts on the banks of the Hudson, and there administered -the most crushing defeat West Point has ever known. It had been stated that the open Western style of play would be ineffectual against any standard Eastern .defense. Yet against the Army, which has always held in check any Eastern attack, Notre Dame forward passed her way to five touchdowns and ran up 35 points against 13. When it is remembered that Yale has for years considered one touchdown against the Army a good, hard day’s work, the magnitude of Notre Dame’s achievement can be seen.
. . -The open Western attack scored more touchdowns against the West Pointers in one afternoon than the Yale attack had been able to score in six previous seasons of effort.—E. C. Patterson in Colliers Weekly.
WestPoint, N. Y., December 5—At last the secret is out. How did the Army beat the Navy? Was it Fielding H. Yost and his advanced form of open football, or some of.the coaches from other big schools in the country? Nix. ;	-
Listen, gentle reader, listen. It was Notre Dame
and its wonderfully coached formations of attack and defense that sent the favorite Navy eleven down before its musket-carrying opponents from West Point.
When Messrs. Dorais and Eichenlaub journeyed?to the lair of the infant infantry and beat the men of Daly, they showed the progress by which the Navy could be defeated. Dorais, the star pivot-man of the NotreDame crew, disclosed ways of making the forward pass that the Army men hadn’t realized. The Notre Dame team worked formations that they had learned from the fertile brain of Coach Jesse Harper that rent the Army line and wings. Coach Daly saw, he grabbed and conquered.—New York Evening Sun.	'
When the Soldiers were beaten by Notre Dame, the Army coaches learned something. They paid close attention to the manner in which the western players executed forward passes, and obtained a good idea of the formations from which the pass was hurled. The team then was pointed for the Navy battle and stress laid upon the execution of forward passes..
—Walter Eckersall in the Chicago Tribune.
All-Western Selection of Gilbert G. Sullivan.
Rockne	Notre Dame	Left End
Butler	Wisconsin	Left Tackle
Harris	Chicago	Left Guard
Des Jarden	Chicago	Centre
Leonardson	Michigan “Aggies	” Right Guard
Pontius	Michigan	“	Right Taekle
Solon	Minnesota	Right End
Dorais	Notre Dame	Quarterback
Craig	Michigan	Left Halfback-
Norgren	Chicago	Right Halfback
Eichenlaub	Notre Dame	Fullback
Dorais of Notre Dame outshines other western quarterbacks as the sun outshines the stars. It is . doubtful if there is another man in America who could be compared with him, for he is easily the best since the days of Walter Steffens and Pom Sinnock.
There is no part of the game in which Dorais did not show himself great. Kicking, running, passing and generalship were merely departments of his game and he shone in all of them. It was his stellar work in throwing the forward pass which gave Notre Dame both the West Point and Penn State'games and which
■put the South Bend aggregation on the top of the western heap.
His kicking was far above the average. He can average from forty to fifty yards on his punts and places them as well as any man in the west with the possible exception of Norgren of Chicago. Although he was not called upon for field goals this season he _ is accurate anywhere within the forty-yard line. -
Not only could he carry the ball himself with more than usual skill, but his judgment in selection of plays for his teammates was unexcelled by any quarter in * the division. He used his great backfield, with best ' possible results and Notre Dame was one of the few teams which found ground as easy to gain near opponents’ goal as in the centre of the field.
Fullback. First place is awarded to Eichenlaub of Notre Dame. The South Bend player is fully the equal of Julian and, Shaughnessy in plunging, and in addition is a star kicker, and as good at the open game as he is in line plunging. Defensively, and offensively ."
So
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Eichenlaub has proved a tower of strength to his team for two years and in that time has been largely responsible for his school’s assuming the role,of a championship eleven.
End: Rockne is a trackman when his attention is not occupied by football,' and his speed sfood- him in good stead in the gridiron sport. He was fast going down under punts and usually made his mates’ kicks yield every inch of possible ground. It was well-nigh impossible to circle him from any other formation, and he was one of the few wing men who
combined driving power of Notre Dame was also a News.
with his speed Gushurst good player—Chicago Daily
Dorais of Notre Dame,
one of the greatest quarter-
backs developed in the history of the game, deserves the call at quarterback, where he shone ail season for. the Catholic school. To this fast and clever athlete is due much of the success his team attained against teams of varying strength. He owes his selection to ■no one or two qualities, but to all-around efficiency unmatched in the West. ' "	’
Dorais is, first of all, a wonderful drop kicker. His goals from the field counted heavily in Notre. Dame’s total of points, and no team in the country" could have felt safe when his " gifted toe was within striking distance. The same Dorais, moreover, was the leader in advancing the ball, his generalship and speed-gaining ground in gilt-edge style. His clever-, ness in. handling the forward pass, was one of his strong points all year.	"
Eichenlaub of Notre Dame is given precedence over" the other fullbacks because of his all-around abilities. He secured attention . throughput. the country last year and repeated during the season just closed. His wonderful line plunging is his chief asset. He probably hit the line harder than any player in the section and never failed to gain when called upon.
He combines a remarkable open field game with his line plunging, the mixture giving him a unique position. In addition to these talents, he is a kicker of great merit, and is as good on the defense as on the offense. He hit low and seemed to derive pleasure from pulling several would-be tacklers with him for extra yards. He handled forward passes in glittering fashion, and sized up plays in masterly style. He is given fullback position.—Walter Eckersall’s All-Western.
Rockne, Notre Dame R. E.
Butler, Wisconsin R. T.
Allmendinger, Michigan R. G.
Des Jardien, Chicago ' C.
L. . E. . L.
Q.
R.
G.
T."
E.
B.
Leonardson, M. A. C. Halligan, Nebraska Solon, Minnesota Dorais,.Notre Dame Norgren, Chicago ' Craig, "Michigan
Huntington, Chicago
Pontius, Michigan
Gallagher, Missouri .
Feeney Notre Dame .
' Keeler, Wisconsin Gifford, M. A: C.
- Henning, M. A. C.
> Pliska, Notre Dame
L7 H.
Eichenlaub, NotreJDame F. B
- Julian, M. A. C.
Capt. Rockne,. who led the" Notre Daine eleven" through such, a successful'season, is placed. at right end.. This player possesses,-fill the qualifications = of. an ideal; end rush, arid the clever mariner in which he handled forward passes was' one of. the reasons why his teairi negotiated thirteen successful passes? . . .	'
The Notre Dame captain was quick to size up situations and directed his men accordingly. Opposing elevens seldom made gains around his end and he never failed to hit the interference on the outside, thus turning the runner to the inside, where he was stopped by either the lineman or the secondary defense. Rockne was a sure tackler in the open and never failed to drive the catchers of punts to the inside of the field. He was an ideal leader and his words of encouragement to his teammates never failed to bring forth results.
Feeney of Notre Dame is the nearest approach to the Midway player [Des Jardien], with Glossop of Purdue not far behind Feeney.
Dorais of Notre Dame is selected as quarterback, the best developed in the west since the days of Walter ■Steffen. Dorais is a great general, a sure catcher of punts, a fast and elusive runner, a great punter and a field goal kicker. His open field runs and general- "
ship were important factors in the the Army. His run from kickoff the Christian Brothers game at St. of his sensational efforts. Dorais
decisive defeat of to touchdown in Louis is only one. had the happy
faculty of finding a weak spot in an opposing eleven and kept sending plan's there until the spot was either strengthened or a fresh player .sent into the struggle.
The Notre Dame player ran his team with greater speed than any other quarter in this section, and if eastern critics care to glance over western players for All-American material they should focus their eyes on this performer for careful study.
Pliska of Notre Dame was another back who was a tower of strength offensively and defensively.
Eichenlaub of Notre Dame is placed at fullback because of his great line plunging in the Army game. The soldiers are considered to be the best defensive eleven in the country, and the way the" Notre Dame player made gains through the soldier forward wall is reason enough for his selection."
Aside from his line plunging abilities, Eichenlaub was a good end runner and a valuable man in the interference. He was of great value to the team in backing up the line and his ability to size up an opposing team’s play and direct a defense to meet the attacks was a strong feature of his play.—From the Chicago Examiner. "	,	.
The Mystery.
But this is what most puzzles me, Where football gossip flames— The East gets the All-Americans— " But the West wins all the games. . Col. Edwards is evidently among those who refused to credit the rumor that footb'allis played west of the Alleghanies, even in a’ crude, slipshod way. For example, he picks Pritchard and Merrillat, of the
Russell, Chicago ... Army, for the wonderful way in which they manoeuvred Rutherford, Nebr
the forward pass. They were both deserving. But how. about" Mr. Dorais and a’Mr. Rockne, of Notre
Dame, who showed Pritchard and Merrillat the way, shooting no less that-fourteen forward passes athwart . this astonished pair for a total: of five, touchdowns? • They, don’t; belong, .that’s all. They probably never set' foot on-eastern soil-until they began making and catching forward passes, all over it a month ago.
- —-Grantland Rice in " New Nor^Evening Mail.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Tenn at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana
VOL. XL VIL	DECEMBER13, 1913. NO. n.
Board of Editors.
WILLIAM M. GALVIN, ’14	JOSEPH M. WALSH,	’u
WALTER CLEMENTS, ’14	GEORGE SCHUSTER,	’15
ARTHUR J. HAYES, ’15	HUGH V. LACEY,	’16
MARK DUNCAN, ’16	CLOVIS SMITH,	’15
TIMOTHY	GALVIN, ’16.	
—When the final whistle blew in the Texas game on Thanksgiving day, a fitting close was brought to perhaps the most brilliant
Three Cheers for The Team.
one of the hardest
and spectacular season in the football history of Notre Dame. Finishing without a single defeat schedules a Blue and Gold
squad ever encountered, travelling east, west, and south, and always bringing the “bacon” home, the Notre Dame football team surely deserves the title of Champions. While number
ing many individual stars in its line-up the team are still in vogue there, and that the people
work of the squad was always above par and the machine like work of- the line, together with the smashing work of the back field and the ever-ready toe of the fleet and brainy Dorais, afforded a combination unsurpassed by any team in the country. Of course dope is sometimes deceiving, and a difficult proposition confronts the dopester, who tries to figure out the Western Championship on comparative scores, but even on paper our husky eleven seems to have the lead on the Michigan “Aggies,” Nebraska, and Chicago. When the South Dakota team was in its best running order, our eleven defeated them by a larger score than did M. A. C. after the “Coyotes” were severely crippled. This fact would give us prestige over M. A. C. and the teams, defeated by them—Michigan and Wisconsin.. However, our best claim to the championship, lies in our clean-cut and . decisive victories in every game
big cousins from the North. Texas, ,we appreciate your kindness and we admire your played. From the opener with Ohio Northern fighting spirit. We would like to renew our to the final with Texas our team always won .acquaintance.	r A
by a score large enough to leave no doubt as to which was the better team, and neither the Army, Penn State, South Dakota, nor Texas may be considered anything like secondary teams. It seems impossible Lo get a post season . game with any .other undefeated eleven, but our triumphs have already been sufficients We bid farewell to the season of ’13 looking forward to other triumphs of the Gold and Blue, ’ and hoping that the future may hold even greater victories than the past has brought!
—When one says Southern, the word hospitality follows as inevitably as longhorn follows mention of the
Southern Hospitality, word Texas; or, as we might say, were , we not too modest, as victory follows Notre . Dame. But we really didn’t know what hospitality was until our eleven came home to\; tell us of the royal treatment received at the-hands of the Southerners. The team, on their way to Austin, saw cultivated fields and busy towns, but in all their five hundred mile ride -through the Lone Star state they did not see a single longhorn steer, which gave them cause to think that the old order had passed away; that Southern hospitality might have gone the road of the coyote and the cow puncher. When they arrived at the capital, however, ’ they found that warm welcomes to strangers ;
of the South have earned their reputation for hospitality. Dances, theatre parties, automobile rides, banquets—all the pleasures permitted to the boys in training, and some that: are not—were tendered the representatives of the Gold and Blue. On the field Texas played : a hard, clean game and fought every minute; J they put up one of the hardest games our men met,on the schedule this year, and although they lost by a big margin, they were as solicitous. for our boys’ needs after the game as they were before it. Not only the Texas football squad, not only the university students’ but the entire population of the town ma.de an effort to make the boys of Notre Dame feel at home. They succeeded. St. Edward’s College, too, where . the boys stayed from Monday till Thursday, turned itself inside out 'to entertain their.,
,	“	'	I
382	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
.	Jones is Captain.
At the annual banquet of the football squad, held at the Oliver Hotel, Tuesday evening, Keith Jones was elected captain of the 1914 eleven. Jones’ wonderful performance at tackle, his hard aggressive playing throughout this and previous seasons, his popularity with faculty, students and squad, make his selection as captain a most admirable one. No preceding banquet has ever witnessed the close of a more memorable season, no “festive board” has ever drawn together a greater galaxy of football stars. It was certainly a glorious tribute to the men of 1913, that Line Coach Edwards, captain of the wonderful 1909 Western Champions, paid to the assembled veterans when he congratulated Rockne upon having captained the greatest team the Gold and Blue has ever mustered.
Seventeen monograms were awarded to as many participants in gridiron strife, and the recipients of the honor had the additional satisfaction of hearing the big golden N. D.’s lauded as symbolic of the greatest victories ever scored by their Alma Mater.
It was a great evening for performers and coaches alike. Eor the outgoing heroes it terminated careers of unbroken triumph; for those who received their first monogram, and for others who are veterans, it marked another notable milestone in the athletic history of Notre Dame.
The. men whom Coach Harper rewarded with monograms are Eichenlaub, Jones, Dorais, Rockne, Feeney, Pliska, Gushurst, Finegan, . Bergman, Larkin, Elward, Duggan, Lathrop, Cook, King, O’Keefe, and Fitzgerald. Captained by the greatest tackle in the West, or as Dunbar said, the “greatest that ever wore a uniform,” and numbering so many widely acclaimed performers, next year’s eleven bids fair to eclipse even the great achievements of the season, whose triumphant close has been so recently celebrated.	.	.
.	Basketball Enters.
Tonight Capt. Cahill will lead his five against" - - Xewis Institute in. the curtain-raiser of the 1913-14 basketball season. Lewis Institute has appeared here in the pre-Christmas game for several years, and although they have never before proved dangerous, they ; may do "
so this evening owing to the fact that our boys have been out in uniforms only a week.
The material for a good team this season is promising. From last year’s squad we inherit Capt. Cahill and Kenney for the fowrard positions, Mills for center, and Nowers and Finegan at guard. “Bill” Kelleher is a monogram winner from year before last who was unable to play last year because of injuries sustianed in football, but the old guard is in excellent shape now and will prove a most valuable addition to the squad. Besides these, Fitzgerald, “Dutch” Bergman, Smith and a number of others are going well in practice. We shall greatly miss our old star, “Peaches” Granfield, but a team composed of such material as we have will surely uphold the high standard set by previous Gold and Blue fives.
The schedule for this season has not been completed, but it will be one of the hardest arranged for our boys since the Eastern and Southern expeditions of the famous ’08 team. Among the games that have already been secured appear the names of some of the strongest fives in the country, including Princeton, Cornell, Colgate, and the Michigan “Aggies.”
Track Season Opens.
Now that football is over, the limelight of college sport must divide itself, giving part of its attention to basketball, the other part to track. Nothing in the line of meets will be staged until the holidays are over, but Coach Harper has his men out daily getting the stiffness out of their bones. Capt. Hennehan, Plant, Rockne, and Birder of last year’s relay team are all on hand and in good shape.
Corby, 32; Fort Wayne Friars, o.
In the annual turkey-day combat at Fort Wayne; the. Braves handed a crushing defeat to their old rivals. Though the latter were much stronger than usual this year, having in their line-up HutzeJl, an old Notre Dame man, and Baird, the former Wabash star, they were completely outplayed greatly to the disappointment of the 2500 spectators. Kinsella and Kane in the halfbacks, starred for the locals with long end runs, while Bachman, Sharp and O’Donnell, in the line, completely smothered their opponents. The kicking of the former was. by far the best he has displayed this year. “Germany” Schultz, the Wisconsin line coach; refereed the game, and afterward, the victors were the guests at a banquet given by the Friars.	~
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3 $3
Turning ’Em Down.
From the Indianapolis Star.
Time—Last Saturday.
Place—Room in the Auditorium Hotel, Chicago.
Dramatis Personae—Representatives of the various universities in the Western Athletic Conference.
President—Having transacted our other business, we will now consider the applications of Marquette, Nebraska, and Notre Dame for admission.	'
Illinois Representative—I move we admit Marquette.
Voice from the Rear (later identified as from Northwestern)—Why?
III. Rep.—Why not? They never beat anybody, did they?
Northwestern, Ohio State and Indiana—Then for heaven’s sake, let ’em in quick.
Wisconsin Representative—Well, maybe Marquette didn’t win this year—but they,—you never can tell; they might?get Jeneau back there some day. We can’t be too careful. I suggest that Marquette be refused admission and that Nebraska be accepted instead.
Minnesota Representative—I object, and have reason.
Wis. Rep.—Only one, a 7 to o reason, I believe.
Minn. Rep.—Since you feel that way about it, I suggest we request the Michigan ‘‘Aggies” to come in. (Business of glaring at the Badger representative.)
Pres.—Gentlemen! Remember-you are gentlemen.
Indiana Representative—I understand that Notre Dame also is requesting admission.
Purdue Representative—Yes, and I wish to join my Bloomington brothers in hoping Notre Dame will be admitted.
Iowa Representative (with an attempt at sarcasm)— So the Hoosier state can win a championship some time, I suppose.
Ind. Rep.—Then I presume you obj'ect to the Corn •
Huskers being admitted?	»
Chicago Representative—Reverting back to this Notre Dame matter, I suggest that we do not admit them.	-
N. W. Rep.—Oh, so you, too, have observed Notre Dame’s record?
Ohio State Rep.—I know of at least three good reasons aside from Notre Dame’s record, for Chicago’s refusal to consider that application.	.
Chi. Rep.—And, pray, what are they?	.
O. S. Rep.—Dorais, Rockne, and Eichenlaub.
President—Well, gentlemen, it appears to be the sense of the meeting that until these colleges reach our plane—
Voice from the Rear—In playing strength and purity of requirements?
President.—As I was saying, until these colleges get on our plane, we should refuse to admit them and I will instruct the secretary to so inform the press. I will consider a motion to adjourn. Thanks. .
Carlson in the Inter-Ocean.
84
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Safety Valve.
The following all-star team is not meant to expunge, abrogate or annul other selections made by critics, but is simply our honest endeavor after a painstaking search to pick out the notables from the different halls and make one luminous team.
A. Durbin	R. E.	.	Sorin
Robert Pinkerton	Cavanaugh R.	T.	Walsh
Dyer	< .	R. G.	Day Dodger
Vincent O’Conner	C.	Carroll
N. Ranstead .	L. G.	Sorin
Eugene O’Connell	L. T.	Corby
J. Sholem	L. E.	_	Sorin
G. Blount	Q. B.	Brownson
Pugnet	R. H.	'	• St. Edward’s
J. McDonnell ■	L. H.	Walsh
W. Case -	F. B.	.	Walsh
P. Yerns (Capt.)	0. B.*’	.	St. Joe
*0. B., on the bench.
A. Durbin is far superior to any other man for the position of right end. His facility for putting his foot in it, and for bawling up things without the least provocation makes us sure of his football ability. We would never have chosen him for the beginning, but we think he will be good at the end. Besides, he is a good mixer; he told us so himself. And best ' of all, he is speedy, as he proved one night between ■ Prof. Hines’ house and Sorin Hall. '
Robert Pinkerton Cavanaugh is chosen for right ■tackle. We know of no other man who would look sweeter in a football suit. His long eyebrows, too, have prejudiced us in his favor.
Eyer on account of his accurate knowledge of the
law would be a great help to this.team at right guard. He would guard his team promiscuously from being imposed upon and would be ready to answer all questions the referee might ask. Besides other critics have awarded him all-American——-pest. I
. The shape of the uppermost part of Vincent O’ Con-her when he bends in -position to pass the ball has. led to our selection of him as center. He would
. confuse all the other teams as they would not know whether he was going or coming.	.
-Ranstead was chosen as guard ’simply and solely on account, of his fighting spirit/ His readiness to engage in a fistic battle, and his eagerness for it makes him easily one of.the best men for the team. "...	.
/ Eugene O’Connell, the mighty, has-told us himself / that he is far superior to Milroy and Twining in debating, "and as. for football, Eichenlaub and Dorais are . mere squibs./ Watch him tackle things this year.
J/Sholem is indeed head and shoulders’ above all the ends' in the school/ His - proficiency at barking up	_____,
r atline, and his dogged perseverance has been.afgreat; could have licked, themTater;in the season—we im-factor in .determining bur choice;.	/-'//. proved and developed as. the season, progressed. . The
,	..G; Blount is the oifly man, so .far as/we know, who ; Aggies cquidnT^ improved with time because if
/can/sleep in-class; during a heated discussion and di-	they{cbuld;;Lwe-.wouldn'tb~e Champions of the/West.
rectly under ;the;nose of/the'teacher, -i ‘His- cool head, andunbxcitablfe disposition have led to his being, chosen. ■: He can!not punt/hasnevercaughta football ihlhis life and knows nothing about signals, blit he is otherwisea/mfifyel .at>running’r^ / i	,
Pugnet will notbe/chosen by most critics because.
thejr have not seen him in action. It is, in fact, very hard to see him in action. Anyone, however, who doubts his ability should go over to St. Edward’s hall and ask for him. He is built on the ground and
has a tendency to dig even deeper.
J. McDonnell is our choice as left halfback on account
of his superior ways. He impresses one as though he were talking from the top of some high building.. He has a voice like a hatpin and would, we think, be able to pierce any line.
To W. Case goes the position of fullback. It simply goes there of its own accord. We could not keep it away. His ability at sharpening lead pencils has been the sole cause of his being chosen. Besides this, however, it may be noted that he is the most ubiquitous man at the University and would we think bob up behind the goal posts at the most unexpected times.
The team will be generated by Peter Yerns who will sit on the left side of the players’ bench wearing a red and blue stocking, which same he will use in making signals to his team. '	-
Yielding Post Picks All-American.
Player	School	Position
Yielding Fost - Michigan	Left end
Huerta	Mexico	Left tackle

Pontius Pilate Judea	Left guard
Sylvia Pankhurst Travelling	Centre
Venus de Milo Cosmopolite . Right guard
September Morn Chicago Art Inst., Right tackle Yielding Post Michigan	Right end
Lasca ’	- Down by the Rio Grande Right end
Gunga Din • Burma	Right half back
Buana Tumba Oyster Bay Left half back
Oom Paul	Zud Afrika	Fullback.
We have tried to cover up the fact that this selection
is composed of dead ones by placing Sylvia Pankhurst at centre. But should you discover that the rest ’ are has-beens, it should not make any difference. This team was picked by. me. Therefore it ought to be accepted throughout America, and beyond. What does Eckersall know about football? What do any of them know about it, except. me? Heretofore the one great objection to all-American, selections has been/the fact that there has been too. much holding in
the line. . To prevent/this, I have selected .Venus de Milo who lias never been caught holding; Pontius Pilate and Lasca,’ being dead, need give us. nd grave cause for worry, nor September Morn for that matter. Yielding Fost promises, not to. hold during a game, but will .take, his revenge By keeping his .rivals off his all-American team. I am too modest to mention
the many, reasons why : I. have given Yielding Post both: the end; positions. . I never brag about myself. I’ve. produced the best team in the West this year? The Farmers won from us . on a fluke/ Besides, we
I haye/utterly/igribred that little; runt of a. school, .
;Nbrie;l5.a’m^^	beat’ me four years ago. -
Besides; I hate that ; red-head; Harry Miller they produced inigog. .1 give'as.myireason the fact that they
' 'do not conform to standard football playing regulations. . The .fact that this is not a fact, makes no’difference,. .