II
Hot re Dame Scholastic
• DISCE• QUASI • 5EMPER-VICTURVS- -VIVE- QUASI • ORAS • MORITURVS •
Vol. XLI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 7, 1907.	- No. 13.
The Gridiron Squad.
.■ /^AUR squad of victors, tried aud true, . . - We hail with cheers and songs.
They’re wprthy of the Gold and Blue,
They’ve fought the fight, and won it too, " To them all praise belongs.
. Well have they played the great old game;
- Extol them far and near, .	.
' ’ They are the men that bring us fame, These loyal sons of Notre 'Dame,	• •
So cheer them, fellows, cheer.	•
We praise the scrubs, hurrah again, - • They take the scoff and jeer, •
' And patient stay behind; but when ’
They’re needed, then they are the men Who know not any fear. .
Then here’s to Barry’s sturdy .team, -	. No better state eleven; .
... May bright successes on them beam, , Then cheer them, fans; they are a dream, '	' The Varsity, ’07.	'
- :	■	.	" George J. Finnigan, ’10.
Football under 1907 Rules.
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, ’OS..
As predicted, by many coaches, football, as played during the past seasdn, was most successful. The death knell of the old style has been sounded, and it will soon be a matter of history. Few colleges played that style this year, and those who did have realized their folly, and no doubt they will rectify the evil in the future.
The forward pass, the most radical change, was considerably altered this year. Last season if the ball would touch the ground on any down, it was awarded to the
opposing team where it fell. Now, however, if the ball touches the ground on the first or second down,.instead of losing it, the offensive team loses fifteen . yards, but the ball still remains in its possession. On the third down, however, in case of failure,-.the. ball goes to the opposing team- where it • went-into play.	-	• • . .
This change seems to be an improvement. . On account of it, more opportunity was : given to the forward pass, and as a result, it was much in evidence. A well -;drilled team could work this play most successfully, and-the ground gained on a clever inanip-ulation of it was considerable. It also gave, many chances for trick plays, and. these, • in innumerable forms, were frequently used.
Thatthe.tenyard rule is a necessary adjunct / to the new style, has been exemplified time and again. If. the distance were not.so great, a team would not resort to forward passes, quarter-back, ■ on-side kicks and long end runs, which, to say the least, are dangerous.
Weight has ceased to be the predominating essential, speed has taken its -place. In the . words-of a well-known coach: “We want heavy, fast men, but we will sacrifice weight for speed.” The game has so progressed that weight and strength. are;. no match _ for science, speed and agility. However, this does not eliminate weight entirely, for if-a team sees that its opponents’-line .is. weak, old-style football- will be played, and effectively played, despite the tenyard rule. So weight and speed are necessary. v
The bulk of the work rests on the halfbacks and ends. The latter must break through the opposing line to receive the forward pass. In case of trick plays, they must act quickly, and must watch the ball
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
194 continually for on-side kicks; in case of a punt they must, as formerly, be down the field with the ball. This requires speed and endurance.
The half-back, as double-line defense is now used, must be prepared either to break the interference or to do the tackling. If the man who is to receive- the forward pass breaks through the ends, the backs must prevent him from touching the ball, and they must not touch it themselves unless they can surely secure it, otherwise they lose the distance the ball has advanced from where it was put into play. They must also be able to carry the ball in the open field, to receive and make the forward pass.
The full-back, as previously, must be a line plunger. When a team has third down and two or three yards to gain, it is not going to risk a pass or an end run, as;it may be thrown back for a loss of five or ten yards.- The full-back is then called upon to make the required distance. He also forms interference for his backs, and backs up the ends rather than the line.
The quarter-back has a position of large responsibility. He must be skilful at throwing the ball for the forward pass, quarterback kicks arid runs, running back puts, and above all, -when the signal for the forward pass is called, to watch his. end and decide whether or not he should make the pass.
As regards the line-men, the tackles should be almost as fast as the end, so as to assist in breaking the interference, and to tackle in the open field. He is also often called upon to carry the ball. The duties of the three centre-men have changed very little. Football with respect to these has remained about the same.
Punting forms an important part of the game. This fact may be due to failures in end runs or forward passes; some teams have developed excellent punters whose kicks are difficult to handle. The quarterback and on-side kick do not require more risk than most of the other plays, and as they are good ground-gainers, they are extensively used.
Drop and place kicks are also much in vogue. A team within forty yards of its opponents’ goal generally tries a place or drop kick, if it has a man of ability on
the team. These kicks help to increase the total score, and some victories and defeats are traced directly to these plays.
The addition of an official, the second umpire, has done much to eliminate rough play. The referee as usual watches the ball. The first umpire watches the line and all unnecessary roughness, and reports the same. The penalties which are inflicted are very severe, especially for slugging. The second umpire watches the plays in the open, especially hurdling and holding. On punts, he decides the possession of the ball. Everything, as far as possible, has been done to eliminate rough work and to base the game on head and team work. Although the evolution has been rapid, there are still some points which require attention.
The many and serious injuries forecasted for open play failed to materialize. In fact, there have been fewer injuries this year than previously. The number of injuries to college men and trained athletes were indeed few. This may be accounted for by the fact that men have been more thoroughly coached in falling so as to break the fall as much as possible.
For the public, the game is brilliant and spectacular, even to those who know very little of the inside workings of the game. What the public wants to see is the centre of attraction, and that is the ball. As most of the plays are open the public was satisfied, especially as regards kicks and passes.
On the whole, the season of 1907 was most successful. It has shown that debrutalized football has come up to expectations; it is a great advancement over the old-style game. It has fully convinced players and public that clean football can be played without losing any of the merits and enthusiasm of the old game.
The Varsity “Subs."
A WORD of praise to the Varsity “subs,”
To whom we owe esteem,
Who get their knocks and awful rubs, But yet support the team.	.
They’ve pep galore in every play, x
They push and plunge with might, ‘
And never do we hear them sayj They’re wearied of-the fight.
.	A. A.. t Hebert,’ll
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
195
The Season’s Schedule.
On Thanksgiving Day the football season of 1907 passed into Notre Dame football histofy as one of the many successful years on the gridiron. Early in the fall things looked bad for the Varsity, and the prospects for a good team were anything but bright. But Coach Barry and Captain Callicrate set to work with what they had, and gradually a team was developed that Notre Dame may be proud of. Little by little the team improved; game after game they played stronger, until the first game of the Indiana championship was played in Indianapolis against Indiana. The most loyal Notre Dame rooter dared not do more than hope for victory; and when the Varsity played last year’s champions to a standstill, holding Indiana to a nothing to nothing score, the hard work of Coach Barry and Captain Callicrate, received its reward. The next big game came with Purdue, and for the first time in several years Notre Dame gave the . Boilermakers a good clean trouncing, winning the game by the score of 17 to 0. The season ended with St. \zincent’s College of Chicago, and Notre Dame finished the year without having lost one game, tieing two and winning six, having scored a total of 137 points to 20.
A large amount of credit for the showing made by the team this season must go to Coach Barry, for, as was said before, the material on hand when the-season.opened was about the poorest Notre Dame ever offered a football coach. Not that the. men individually were incapable, for taken separately the men were good; but instead of a division of weight, making a line and backfield possible, nearly every man on the squad was underweight for a lineman, and those who had the weight had had little or no experience. For the backfield there was a wealth of material, including such men as Captain Callicrate and Miller of last year’s Varsity. Speaking of Miller reminds us of another display of Coach Barry’s football sense. For when things were going from bad to worse about the middle of the season Barry took Miller from the backfield and put him in at centre,
a position he had never played in his life; in fact he had never played any place but in the backfield.
By nearly every critic in the State Miller was picked as an all-Indiana centre, which must prove but one thing: that in Coach Barry lay the brains that made Notre Dame’s winning team a possibility. Then, too, the many chances that the team
Coach Thomas Barry.
underwent, especially in the line, displayed Barry’s prowess. Munson was used at every position in the line during the past season. Starting him at centre, Barry was compelled to move him to guard when “Nick” Doyle left school. He vrent from there to tackle, and finally landed on end, and on defense
196
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
backed up the line. Passing, it might be well to mention that in every position Munson put up a good game and was one of the most valuable men on the team.
The . season, as a whole, was a grand success; it is to be regretted that the Indiana championship did not come to Notre Dame, but that it went to no one else is a consolation. Notre Dame has an equal claim to it with Indiana, arid is content to wait for another year that they may try again to land the championship at Notre Dame.
Captain Callicrate proved to be worthy
Captain Callicrate.
of the honor bestowed upon him when he was elected captain. A harder worker Notre Dame never had, and a cleaner, better football player would be hard to find. The many duties connected with the captaincy of the team affected Callicrate’s playing early in the seasbri, but in the three big games he was back in form, and played the game that has made for him the reputation of the best half-back in the state of Indiana this season. Callicrate’s work in the Purdue game was as-fine an exhibition of football playing as
anyone might ask to see. With his teammates his word was law, and every member of the team will remember the man who captained Notre Dame’s football team in 1907 as a hard worker, a brilliant and clean football player. .	.
In commenting on the season, Coach, and Captain, let us not forget the scrubs. As the man behind the gun is the soldier, so it is with the scrubs; for it is the scrubs behind the team that make a good team possible. Enough credit is never given the scrub, the man who day after day takes his bumps along with the regular, oftentimes taking more than the regular, for the star must be saved for the game. With nothing to win individually, as a regular, who has a chance for a reputation and a name, the scrub plods along through the season filling in any place he is asked to go, working as hard, training as hard and remaining as loyal as the best man. on the team; to him every college man owes a debt, for without him no school can turn out a football team. And so we say to such men as Dugan, Beckman, Hague, Ditton, Diener, Duffy, Schmitt, Dionne, Murphy, Dillon, Boyle, Sprenger and Keefe, it is because of such as you that Notre Dame had a winning football team, and every student at Notre Dame returns to you sincere thanks and gratitude.
Of this season’s team we will lose but two men, Capt. Callicrate and Munson. Both men graduate in June, and although both good men, whose loss will be keenly felt, the chances for next year’s team are the brightest that we have had in years. Such men as Dugan, Duffy, Schmitt, Dionne, Dillon, Boyle and a number of other men on the second team, will be Varsity caliber, by next season, and Notre Dame should have one of the best teams in the history of the school. Following is a complete list of games played this year:
Oct. 12—Notre Dame, 32; P. and S., 0.
Oct. 19—Notre Dame, 23; Franklin, 0. Oct. 26—Notre Dame, 22; Olivet, 4. Nov. 2—Notre Dame, 0; Indiana, 0.	:
Nov. 9—Notre Dame, 22; Knox, 4.	.
Nov. 15—Notre Dame, 0; Alumni, 0.
Nov. 23—Notre Dame, 17; Purdue, 0.
Nov. 28—Notre Dame, 21; St. Vincent’s, 12.
R. L. Bracken,. ’08.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Moleskin Men.
VX7HEN we stop to sing the praises v ” Of the teams of Notre Dame, Let us not forget the ball team
Which this year won us our fame.
Let each team that ever struggles For the grand old Gold and Blue
Know that Cali as a captain Had for equals very few.	.
Big “Red” Miller in at centre, And at half-back doughty “Mac,”
With O’Leary still to call on,	'
And “Bill” Ryan quarter-back;
Paine and Burke to fill the guard holes,— Tackles, Donovan, Lynch,
With our “Rosy ” alway ready, To assist them in a pinch;
“Heinie” Burdick, Woods or Munson,
Each an end-man quite supreme, Last of all—the brilliant coaches	•
Barry, Bracken—what a, team 1
Don’t forget our own “Loc” Berteling, Who Purdue’s defense did mar,
Nor Al Mertes who for Miller, Played centre like a sfar.
To the Indiana Champions, Let us then pour forth our best;
To the.team that played such havoc With the others in the West.
In the years to come, recalling	.
Every year by its “eleven,”
We may well proclaim high praises For our heroes of ’07.
-	L. Moriarty, ’10.
Varsity J907.
Cart. Callicrate (Half-Back).
This was - Callicrate’s last year on the team. To say he was one of the best-halfbacks Notre Dame ever had would only do him justice. He was picked by every critic in the State for a place on the allIndiana team, and the man who attempts to fill his place next season has an awful task before him. Callicrate is of special value to the team, for he is a combination player ; that is, a good man at the old game, where a man who can make two yards a down is a star, and at the new’ game where he is a brilliant player, a fast, open-field runner, a good dodger and always good for a couple of yards. His defensive work suffered in
197
the early part of the season as compared writh his -work of former years, but Callicrate’s physical condition this season was by nd means what it w’as in the past; moredver, the duties connected with the captaincy affected his w’ork somewhat. Yet in the tw o big games he. was back in form and played his usual star game.
Harry Miller (Centre).
This was Miller’s second vear and he earned the title of being the most valuable man on Notre Dame’s team. Formerly a back, this year Miller was used at centre; he w*as given a place on the all-Indiana team.. The spirit w’hich he show’ed when taken from the backfield and placed in the line was as fine an example of the proper Varsity spirit as one might ask. to see. His playing was brilliant; on offense he. worked at centre, and on defense was used to back up the line. The Varsity’s showing against Indiana was in a large measure occasioned by Miller’s work behind the line. He can play in the backfield and any position from one end of the line to the other. He has been elected as captain of the team for next season;
Frank Munson (End). .
Munson although having played but two years wrill graduate in June. His work this season w’as exceptionally good, and, like Miller, Munson played nearly every position on the team. He is the largest man on the squad and also one of the fastest. He has ability as a punter and a dropkicker, plays a strong tackle and a fast end. After Miller was injured Munson was used to back up the line, and in the Purdue game was a star in that position. His great speed made him a most valuable man for the team, for with his speed and weight . he could be called upon to do most anything. Munson w as also given a place on the all-Indiana team by several critics, and his work throughout the season was good.
■ Sam Dolan (Tackle, Guard). .
Dolan was a regular last year and would undoubtedly have been one this season had it not been for the fact that his knee troubled him all season, and after the first game he w’as taken to the hospital where he underwent an operation in hopes, of* being in shape for the big games; But not
/
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19S
until the Purdue game was lie in any kind of shape, and then was by no means the Dolan of old. Coach Barry used him in the last few games as a sub, and his w ork was all that could be asked for. Dolan will return for another year and with his bum knee in shape will without doubt prove to be one of the best linemen in the state.
Paul McDonald (Half-Back).
This was McDonald’s first year on the team. He v as late in getting started, but once going he proved to be one of the most brilliant men Notre Dame ever had. His work in the three big games—Indiana, Purdue and St. Vincent’s—was wonderful. The last game of the season—St. Vincent’s— would surely have been lost had it not been for McDonald. With but a few minutes to play in the last half and the score 12 to 11 against the Varsitv, McDonald tore off another long run for a touchdown and saved the day. for Notre Dame. On defense he was equally7 strong. He too was given a place on the all-Indiana team by several men. McDonald will return for another year.
William Ryan (Quarter).
Ryan stepped into ex-Capt. Bracken’s shoes with ease and played a star game at quarter throughout the season. He is a brilliant open-field runner, a dodger, a strong kicker, and ran the team with plenty of speed. Ryan had one bad fault and that w7as running back when carrying the ball. Yet at times, as in the Purdue game, he w7ould get away by this means, but as a whole, it proved unsuccessful. He was a sure man in the backfield, and his clever tackling saved the Varsity several times during the season. At handling punts Ryan w7as also a good man.
. Peter O’Leary (Full-Back).
O’Leary w7as another first-year man. He was perhaps the best man on the team to give the man carrying the ball interference, and on defense was a tower of strength. He -was always good for a first down when a couple of yards were needed to get it, and was a hard w orker and a clean player. His best work, perhaps, was his ability to help the runner, as he was always with the man with the ball, pulling him away from 'tacklers; many of the long runs made by Capt. Callicrate and McDonald were possible
because of O’Leary’s assistance. O’Leary w7ill return another year.
‘ Fay Wood (End).
“Woody” was injured in the Indiana game and was unable to finish out the season. Up to the time of his injury he played a star game at end and was a hard man to get bv, was fast and strong, and on going down on punts was a good- man and a hard tackler. Although Coach Barry did not use him to any great extent as a punter, “Woody” was one of the best punters on the Teami and early in rhe season displayed rare form in the kicking department. This was Wood’s first year on the team and he will return for another one.
Paul Donovan (Tackle.)
When things were going bad and linemen at a premium Donovan was given a chance at tackle and filled the bill perfectly. On defense he was a strong man, and late in the season he was a star man on tackle-around plays. In the last game of the year Donovan annexed many yards for the Varsity, running with the ball from tackle position. This w7as his first year on the team, and judging from his -work this season, one may say that there will be things doing when Donovan gets to work next season. He was a hard worker, a good trainer, and. in every way the right kind of a man to make a wanning football team.
Robert Paine (Guard).
“Possum” Paine was the “find” of the season. Last year Paine played with Corby Hall, and when he came out for the Varsity this year neither Rob himself, nor anyone else, thought he w7ould make the team. Coach Barry started to work bn him, and gave him a chance in the first game; it w’as then evident that Paine had the stuff in him. Game by game he improved until the end of the season, and his w7ork during the w7hole season was a good steady variety. He was always in the game, alw’ays working, never hurt, and proved to be one of the best guards in the State. Paine will return another year and has great prospects for the future.
• Henry Burdick (End).
At the end of last, season Burdick was slated for a regular position this year, but
V
200
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
work, and.does .it well. Mertes can be used at guard or tackle and iii /either place can put up a. good game/ ///’
■ . ; John Berteling (Quarter j.
Berteling was . the smallest man. on the team,: and yet proved to be one of the best. -His work at quarter, whenever -lie.was used, was good. Although not as fast a man as Ryan, he proved, able .at. any time to take Ryan Is place at quarter, and.run the team , equally as well. In the Purdue gane young ■ “Doc’’’was. given his. first : chance in fast’, company and rose to the occasion like a veteran. Itis.tobe regretted,that7Berteling .finishes school in June. He has excellent judg-; ment and the makings of a brilliant quarterback. ..■	. /■<■/.
?	• Clarence Cripe (Half-Back).
Special mention, is«made of- Cripe whose broken .arm put him out of the. running early ..in the season. Cripe was one of the most promising half-backs in the squad, and had if not been for his broken arm would undoubtedly have made good. He is a small man, but is. lightning fast, and as he will be in school next year, - barring accidents, he will without doubt be numbered among the regulars.	-	.	•
throughout the early part of the season his work was far below what he had done the year before. But once he hit his gait he came fast, and in the last few games proved to -be a star end. -His work in the Purdue game was brilliant; he was down on every punt like a demon, Tackled-hard and sure, was in every play-and put up a wonderful defensive game. He is a big man for an end and has. plenty of' speed which' makes him a valuable man for the .team.
Edward Lynch (Tackle). .
Lynch was another man of the ..Donovan . type: never saying a word on the field, always working, never hurt, and. always' in the game. On defense he' was a strong man, and on offense was - good at making ' holes for the backs and helping the runner. Two men could not be found, more alike on a football field than • Donovan and; Lynch. Both good hard , workers, clean’ players, unhurtable, and possessing wonderful strength on defense. This was Lynch’s first year on the team, and he too. will, return for another year. With such' men as Lynch and Donovan ‘ to start next season’s line, there seems little tobe afraid of.
Chester Burke (Guard). ■	; < -
Burke did not come out until, late in; .the'; season and did. not get in shape - until the? ; Purdue game. He was ^ent/into the Indiana ■ game,-and, while he lasted, ;put- up a star game, but once in condition fie proved to be . a good man both pn offense and defense. He was fast and heady and was a'hard man.-to keep from breaking through and spoiling . plays • before they were; started.< He was a, strong man on defense and was always with, the man carrying the ball, jf the .play went ; through the line. /This .was Burke’s first. year on the team and he too wiH^ another year. With such/-men.yas Burke, Lynch, Donovan and Paine to open season, we say again: Watch us next season., .
Albert Mertes (Centre). ////> ' *
He was the lightest line ;man iii the squad.-. After. Miller’s injury Mertes was put at centre, and for the rest ^ofithe ^season remained there. He weighs but T59 pounds, and yet held his own with every man he ■ met this year. He is a hard and willing worker; like Lynch and-Donovan, he never opens his mouth, but plods along; does his
:	; ■ How We. Won. f. .
IT was Franklin, that first-met/defeat;
Theirs was nought;—twenty-three yas our score;
’ And then- Olivet; done up so’ heat,—-.
*. Twenty-two we secured, they but' four;
' • Next came Knox, who most , manfully- fought,
■ x Bu^. .we made them : look awfully glum/	. ,
■' -It’ was; just a: twice .two that they, got/	‘ '
- While, our touchdowns -were , four.’ and /then some.
Indiana, was- next on the ’-roll,’ -- -	•A . I
A: very good team,'I* declare,; .-.-, y v?.	'
' They kept .us/from crossing-theirv goal;/;. '
• ’-We. did 'likewise-with ;something To/spare. . .
Then 'at last, came the. mighty Purdue/- .
- Seventeen .was the. mark that ;we. hit;; -
Wrhile‘their score ;was/-twp'less5:than ;two; ‘
. So -I/guessj now .that N. DA is/Sit.” :; -	..
■ -That was; good, ..but-1 ..must;not’forget' -
. ’The last game of all .that w/played': ’
;.St.- Vinceht/took twelve, Atwas/^	,	..
When you think...of/ the recbrd we -"made;
But we took them to tamp. like- the rest ;
.. Twenty-dnejwas/dur/ end'of the .tune; -	~
..Our season, as'all may attest,..- / /■ -.'	'	,	.
/= Has ^.record/that;won’t/be-beat/-sdoh:	-	:	.
•	:	'	:P;: E/Hebert, -’10. .	. t
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
20.7
Bert G. Maris; ;
• . • • • • ’ -
Track’ Outlook.
Prospects for .a. winning Track .team, this season, are bright. In ..the.first place a gppd coach' has been secured and already he has aroused more interest in track athletics thanffias been shown here in several years. Cartier .Field track has undergone several improvements. arid still more are to be made, i The old bicycle .track has been cut ■ away, and a: good.14 mile track will greet .The men in the rspririg ,when- they^-start •work, outside. .The straight* away is due to receive a new coat .of. cinders- which, rare on; the. way now: and everything * necessary will be ;dorie to have a good.field this year. As- yet no:-indoor meets have been settled upon; but the chances are that Indiana, Purdue and Wabash will be taken on;, it is also likely that another triangular meet will be pulled off .here this, winter, the last one - being pronounced a grand success.:	/
. Leroy Keach. is captain of the Team, and the bldi members .who will report when the season opens are: Scales,'high hurdles, high and broad jump; Moriarty; pole vault arid quarter, rnile; McDonough, high and broad jump;. O’Leary, middle distance and weights; Cripe, middle distance and quarter mile; Wood,.weights, Roth, distance runner.
The fall handicap and cross-country club brought out several -good fnen,_especially iri the dashes and distarice runs. Lri Sliafer and Hebenstreit, Coach Maris .appears to have some ‘‘comers,’-’ and ..with’ such men as Ryan and McDonald of football fame, a sprinter ..should, develop. ..Devine has perhaps shown the-best form of the half-rriilers, and Roche,' ‘who won The cross-country-'run, appears to be the bestTniler; but with such men as Parish, Shea, Lvrich, Dean. O’Brien, Fuchs and Arnold on., hand, the distance runs ought to be , cared for. Murphy, Dolan, Wood, Burke, Munson, Donovan and Mertes should do something in the weight events, and all things considered, Notre Dame should . have a strong’track team This year.
Coach Maris revived the cross-country runnirig this fall. Officers were’ elected ’as -	't «	’i '	“	**.'•«*	r .5 ■»—
follows: president, -J. Roth;' secretary and treasurer, Schafer; captain, L. Moriarty. Runs were taken daily rangirig all the way ‘from 4to 8 "miles; oarid ’ on Nov? 21 the'final race was run.* Nearly a dozen: men started, -and despite the bad condition ofthe weather the meet: proved. to-: be > very successful. Roach’s time of 28 .minutes, 40 l'-5^seconcls for a * five-inile course was exceptionally good, and . the work, of Shea, who^ proved ' to be the “dark-horse,” showed class.
; c. * ; *.jR. L. Bracken;: J08r=
.	'	'*	•	* •	'	'	• T 1;	. 'r-'i .*'
.. • > , A. S.ong; for the ..Victors.
.** .* . ■.*’-■•':• * *• ■
. LI URRAH for the- .boys, of Notre jDame! £ f.z The linesmen, tried and, true,,-
. Likea wall stood firm, when the “line-buck” came,
* For the sake of the Gcjd 'and Blue. J ’	*
•-•-* A-L* -	- V c<-	3* . 4
* Three cheers, for the backs who quickly. spedj.; . ■
* Through the hole in the hostile line, -
• And eagerly toward the goal-post fled *’	"
At the signal’s lilted-sign. '
Give three rimes three for the daring run, , . The length of the frantic field; 1 ' ’	,'-'-"'*-
' Remembering only if-'must be: won', :	‘
■ *< That:. only the weak will?-yield; * '*zT-;	.
Ah! many a team ’that boasted high ' ’ ’
■ Has seen its flbo'dride vefei* -	- - ' <	i*'?	.
. And the* victor’s laurels proudly-lie"	.
-. - --On the "heads that knowr not. fear. :
’ So cheer once more'for the Gold and Blue'; *'' ' ;
; J?nd hail her with loud acclaimpt-: .	;
- O the. spirit she" breathes .is fm/spiritjxue,;^ '
, .The spirit , of Notre ,Dame.. y -H Ledwidge.
202
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Publtehed every Saturday during Term Time at the Untverrity of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-ciass matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame. Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, December 7, 1907.
Board of Editors.
■	
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’08	WILLIAM LENNARTZ, ’08
FRANCIS T. MAHER, ’08	VARNUM A. PARISH, ’09
IGNATIUS E. MCNAMEE, ’09	JAMES J. QUINLAN, ’08
JOSEPH J. BOYLE, ’08	JAMES J. FLAHERTY, ’08
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, ’08	ROBERT L. SALEY, ’08
FRANCIS X. CULL, ’09	OTTO A. SCHMID, ’09
GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, ’10	COE- A. MCKENNA, ’10
—The stringency in the money market has probably helped to agitate the postal bank question. Postmaster-Gen. Postal Bank Meyer seems to be quite enthu-and siastic about establishing such Parcel Post a system. First of all, he thinks that foreigners would place more confidence in such banks than they do in private institutions. Hence a great part of the money that immigrants send abroad yearly,—amounting to about $70,000,000,— would be kept in this country. Again, Mr. Meyer thinks that a system of postal banks would tend to prevent a stringency in the time of a financial crisis. At present, when such a crisis occurs, depositors withdraw their money from the banks, if they can, and put it away, thus depriving trade of money at a time when such money is most needed. If there were postal banks, it is quite probable that instead of stowing away their gold during a financial stringency these depositors would remove it to the postal savings bank. In that way, it would get back into the channels of trade. Another favorable feature about such a system is that it would tend to create habits of economy and thrift among the poorer classes. This alone is a stfong argument in favor of postal banks.
Along with the introduction of postal
banks might come the parcel post system. At any rate, it is quite generally held that there ought to be a change made in the existing postal rates. For instance, one cent an ounce for merchandise seems a little too high and one cent a pound for periodicals seems too low. Some are of the opinion that the present limit of four pounds for parcels sent by mail ought to be increased to seven and some would advise making it fifteen. At the same time, the rate for merchandise ought to be changed from one cent an ounce to something like two or * three cents a pound. In the German Empire there is a parcel post system, and a package up to the weight of about 101b can be sent to any part of the empire for twelve cents. Of course, in a country so much larger than Germany as ours is, the rate would necessarily have to be higher, but even then such a system would be much more convenient than the express companies for the transportation of small packages. Furthermore, rural districts and towns not reached by express companies would be highly benefited by such a system. On the whole, we think that both the postal bank and parcel post are worthy of deliberate consideration.
—Occasionally some of the less conservative representatives of the American press go ranting in regard to the Self-government conduct of our government in toward the inhabitants of The Philippines, the Philippines. They would have immediate independence granted to the people of these islands. Concluding from the results of the elections not long since held in the islands for representatives to the first assembly constituted there, we would say that selfgovernment and not independence is the problem that confronts the people of the Philippines. The elections evidenced, and very plainly, that. these people are not only incapable of governing themselves but do not seem really anxious to make the attempt. The number of qualified voters in the island, compared to the entire population, is proportionately small. About half of the entire number of qualified voters took advantage of the suffrage held out to them. This apathy may either be the

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
result of discouragement, or may signify contentment with present conditions. We would rather believe the latter, for the attitude of the Philippines in general does not seem to be an excited desire to establish an immediate independent government. That they have proven themselves as yet incapable of self-government was shown in the choice of a leader to represent one of the main parties in the contest for the choice of members to the Assembly. There were two principal parties in the field,— the Progressives and the Nationalists. The latter, who advocated political independence, were in the majority. In their selection of a leader good judgment and high ideals of citizenship were conspicuously lacking. Their head, Dr. Dominador Gomez, is a man whose career has not been such as would make him a worthy and fit leader for a people seeking independence. As president of a workingman’s union he has been charged with a misappropriation of funds, and is under the ban of the law for contempt of court for having violated an order concerning the bankrupt union of which he is president. So far these people, otherwise enlightened and progressive, have shown themselves unable to cope with the problem of self-government, and are as yet only novices in the experiment.
—The recent panic, which has caused such an unsettled condition of affairs, is bound to leave effects which will be very The Panic noticeable. Besides making and and losing fortunes for many, it has Its Effects, opened the eyes of all; many people now know more about the financial and banking conditions of our country than they would have known in a lifetime had not this panic occurred. The most important effect will be the passing of New York as the money centre of this country. Our Western bankers and capitalists who had large sums of money invested and deposited in the East were unable to obtain any currency when they most needed it. The New York bankers, actuated by the motive of self-preservation, told the West to look out for itself, and turned a deaf ear to all calls for currency.
No longer will western money go East so
203
abundantly to be invested or deposited. The average banker after having his eyes opened by the recent panic will deposit his money in institutions where he can get it when he needs it, even if the rate of interest is not so attractive. Former Secretary Shaw in a recent speech told the bankers of the East that “the confidence of the West in the East must be restored if conditions are to be as formerly.” This may never be accomplished ; if brought about, it will take considerable time. The natural result will be that western money will stay in the West. For the reason that the largest part of our productive soil being located in the West, and on account of the natural resources of the West, the money centre is bound to move toward the West.
—There are very few people who really know the value of a good scrap-book.
Easily kept, it often saves much The Value time and trouble for persons of a	who are constantly in need of
Scrap - Book, ready reference concerning problems of recent origin. The daily papers and monthly magazines are continually discussing problems of vital interest; their columns are filled -with articles written by men who have devoted their lives to some special line of work; science, art, literature and politics, each is treated in as masterly a manner as possible, and concerns the latest phase of the facts. These publications are the histories of to-day and the oracles of to-morrow, and their discussion of these many problems are well worthy of our attentio'n. To one who takes the trouble or interest to save such clippings as he may deem of future benefit, a well-kept scrap-book rarely fails to prove of value. How often our attention is called to an article of importance that has appeared in some recently published paper; how many times we remember having read and appreciated a well-written editorial or an interesting review from one of our weekly periodicals, yet we have failed to save the paper, and its usefulness is lost. An article clipped from a newspaper or magazine and carefully filed or pasted in a scrap-book may become a source of information to which it would otherwise be difficult to refer.
204
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Manager McGannon.
T. Paul McGannon, who for the past two years acted as assistant manager, took hold of the managerial reins this year, and although compelled by unfavorable conditions to assume his duties at a most trying time, proved equal to the task
and in every way competent for the position. Few persons realize how difficult is the position of manager and how very considerable is the work connected with the office.
Owing to several misunderstandings, Manager McGannon was forced to make out his football schedule in the fall. In a few weeks’ time, however, he arranged a most satisfactory number of games. Since then he has been working on an eastern trip for the baseball team, and although incomplete as yet, the schedule is well under way and bids fair to be the best Notre Dame ever had.
With the exception of Yale, Harvard, and Princeton, Notre Dame will meet the pick of the East in baseball this spring. The three mentioned schools were unable to give him games as their schedule was already complete. All of the best teams in the West will be taken in, and with the chances favorable for a winning baseball team, this season will very likely be the year of years in Notre Dame’s baseball history. Air. McGannon graduated from the law school last June and will in all probability enter the law business next year. His work at Notre Danie, both as a student and in athletics before he finished school, marks him as the kind of alumni Notre Dame needs, and here’s hoping for more McGannons.
' Robert Bracken (Assistant Coach).
“Peggy” Bracken is a man eminently fitted for the position of assistant coach, which he held this year. He is a man adapted by nature for the present open style of play; he thoroughly understands Coach Barry’s methods, having served under him as captain last year; he is every
inch a Notre Dame man with the best interests of Notre Dame at heart. These three things, together with the fact that whatever “Peggy” does is well done, which is the greatest compliment that any man can be paid, have made him a valued man in coaching the 1907 team.
Bracken, who in his football career has played about every position back of the line, spent considerable of his time this fall in teaching the backfield men the fine points of the game. For the rest of the time he had complete charge of the “scrubs,” and, much to his credit, he turned out, from new material, a second team which gave the Varsity many a hard tussle in scrimmage. And with Bracken, coaching was not all theory. Repeatedly he lined up with his proteges and willingly took the same hard bumps as his men. A thing like this goes far toward making a coach dear to his men.
In the 0 to 0 Varsity-Alumni game, Bracken was at quarter-back for the “old-timers,” and although not in condition and greatly handicapped by a slippery field, was one of the stars of the game, and several times showed flashes of his 1906 form which won him a unanimous place on the all-Indiana team. Bracken, who graduates this year, has made 1907 a glorious finish to a stellar career on the gridiron.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
2Q5
Baseball Prospects.
When Coach Curtis issues the first call for Varsity baseball players, the chances are that there will be so many men on hand that the coach will have to make a “weeding” before they even go out. Notre Dame never had so much good baseball material on hand as she has this year. There are enough good baseball players in school to turn out two or three teams. Of last season’s team, Captain Waldorf, Curtis, Perce, Kuepping, Boyle, and Farabaugh will be out of the game, all good men and men who will be missed; but for each man’s place there will be at least two men trying to land the position. There will be the following old players with us again this season: Brogan, third base; Bonham, left field; McKee, centre; Dubuc, general all-around star, pitcher, pinch-hitter and outfielder; “Dreams” Scanlon, pitcher; Ray Scanlon, whose injury early in the season last year kept him out of condition throughout the season, and “Jimmie” Cook,catcher.
Last season the Varsity was an exceptionally strong combination of baseball players, and there is any number of men in reserve who were compelled to be satisfied with a place on the halj teams last season that could have very likely made almost any team in the West. Such men as Centlivre, Shafer, Fish, Scanlon, Burke, Boyle, Kelly, Molony, Daniels, Dodge, Philips, and a score of others, are all of Varsity caliber and will undoubtedly make the competition close for a place on the team this season.
Last year’s star backstop, Harry Curtis, has been engaged to be Coach. His reputation is so well known that it is but a waste of time to attempt saying anything more about him. He was without doubt the best college catcher playing baseball last season, and has now landed with the New York Giants. He will remain with our team throughout the season, as he graduates from the law school in June and will not join New York until after school closes. A. bench man is what Notre Dame has needed for some time. Formerly some “big leaguer” was engaged to coach the team, .and just when he was needed most he would be compelled to leave in order to
join his team on the spring training trip.
South Bend Central League team will, in . all probability train here again this season, , and will play the usual practice games with Notre Dame. Manager McGannon, although. not ready at present to announce the base-.. ball schedule, has arranged one of the .best schedules Notre Dame ever had. Not only, has he taken on every good team in th? West but has arranged games with .the. best in the East, and this year the team will make the long delayed eastern trip. Unfor- . tunately he could not get games with;, Harvard or Yale, but with nearly, every.-other eastern team of any note games have been arranged.	.. . • . . :
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 21; St. Vincent’s, 12.
On Thanksgiving Day the Varsity played and defeated St. Vincent’s College team of Chicago, by the score of 21 to. 12. Without., attempting to detract any from St. Vincent’s team, in justice to the Varsity it must be said that they by no means put up the game against the Chicago college that they are capable of playing, and although St. Vincent’s has a good bunch of men, the. score should have been about 21 to 0, had. the Varsity shown the class to which they belong. As it was, both of St. Vincent’s scores were the result of fumbles, and neither was scored by straight football. Ryan for the first time this season dropped a punt . in the backfield, and Captain Callicrate .was . guilty of fumbling on an end run. During the first half of the game Notre Dame.played like a lot of green men learning the game. They would show form for about two plays . and then would all run loose. Once they got started, as they did in the , last few, minutes of the game, there was nothing much to it but Notre Dame. The first half ended 6 to 6, and there were a few minutes in the second half when St. Vincent’s led by one point and the Notre Dame rooters looked foolish. But it was only for a moment, as McDonald got busy again and. tore around the end for seventy-five yards and a touchdown. On the way past, let... it be known that had it not been for the brilliant work of McDonald throughout the
206	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
game the chances are that the Varsity would have ended their successful season with a defeat. He was the man who undoubtedly saved the day for Notre Dame, as his two long runs in the last half practically wOn the game for the Varsity. Captain Callicrate played his usual star game until injured during the second half, and the first touchdown was in a large measure occasioned by the Captain’s efforts.
The game started with the Varsity receiving the kick off, and they went in at once to win, but after they had carried the ball half the length of the field they went to pieces; and from then on all during the first half the game put up by the Varsity was a ragged affair. Capt. Callicrate and McDonald carried the ball within striking distance two or three times, and finally, after getting to the 10-yard line again Callicrate in three bucks went over. A few minutes later Ryan dropped a punt and a St. Vincent’s man fell on it for a touchdown. Score: Notre Dame, 6; St. Vincent’s, 6.
In the second half the Varsity scored first, McDonald getting away for a long run and a touchdown. Five minutes later Burson picked up a fumble and raced sixty yards for a touchdown and Kennedy kicked goal, giving St. Vincent’s a lead of one point. But McDonald rose to the occasion again, and by a brilliant run off tackle went over half the length of the field, passing and straight-arming half of the St. Vincent team. Ryan made the game safe a few minutes later by putting a place kick between the bars from the thirty-yard line.
St. Vincent’s have two men—Burson, quarter-back, and Kennedy half-back—that would grace any team in the country. And had it not been for the work of those two men St. Vincent’s would have been in a bad way. Burson is lightning-fast on his feet, a great open-field runner and put up a grand game in every way.
Notre Dame			St. Vincent’s
Burdick	R. E.		Quaile
Lynch	R. T.		Donovan
Paine	R. G.		Roche
Mertes	C.		Selby
Burke	L. G.		Klepic
Donovan	L. T.		Hyjac
Munson	L. E.		Galovan
Ryan ’	Q. B.		Burson
McDonald	L. H. B.		Kennedy
Callicrate.	. R- H. B.		Obermeyer
O’Leary	F. B.		Obermeyer
Culver, 12; Corby, 0.
On Thanksgiving Day Corby. Hall was defeated 12—0 by the Culver Military Academy team at Culver. The Corbyites were much in need of practice and team w’ork, but made a good showing, considering the O	O’	o
fact that the Culver followers expected a score of about 40-0. The Culver team was fast and had any number of sensational plays and passes. Several times the centre was ten or fifteen yards on either side of the team when the ball was put in play. These plays kept the Corby team guessing for a short time in the first half when Culver scored two touchdowns in about ten minutes. They worked the ball up to the five-yard line, pushing it' over on a lineplunge.
The second touchdown was made almost as quickly as the first, the ball being run all over the field on forward passes till it was near enough for some one to carry it , over the goal line.
After the second touchdown the tide turned. Corby kicked off to Culver who at once tried the much-used forward pass. The pass was illegal, and Culver received the fifteen-yard penalty. Culver punted and Corby' got the ball. Schrader and Shafer * then found the wzeak spots in the Culver line and made many gains. -The quarterback kick was used with success several times, Kennedy being on hand to fall on the ball. Both teams started the punting game, Shafer doing the booting for Corby.
In the second half Corby kicked off to Culver and the ball was returned twenty yards before being downed. Culver worked the ball to the centre of the field where a forward pass was tried. Stewart, the Corby left end, jumped in front of the Culver man and got the ball. For a minute it looked ( like a score for Corby, but in another minute Stewart and a Culver tackler were rolling on the ground.
After that Culver never succeeded in making a forward pass. The ball would fall into Kennedy’s or Stewart’s hands or. be declared dead by the referee. Foley managed to get through the line and break up several plays, thus keeping the score down. The game ended with the ball in Corby’s possession in Culver’s territory.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	207
Brownson, 0; Rensselaer, 0.
It was a splendid day and an unusually fine football game, spiritedly contested and with several brilliant plays and a prospect almost any moment of either team winning. The football representatives of Brownson Hall and Rensselaer contended for supremacy that resulted in a tie. The two teams led by the Rensselaer Band were followed by about fourteen hundred rooters who made themselves heard throughout the contest. St. Joseph’s College was right there in rooting for Notre Dame, and time and again there arose from the east side of the field the encouraging cry: “Hold them, Notre Dame.” This gave Brownson the “pep” to stop the onslaught of their heavy opponents who had them outclassed in weight; but in the matter of team work, Brownson had the best of Rensselaer.
Following the kick-off in the first half by Rensselaer Brownson failed to advance the ball and was forced to punt. The kick was a poor one and this gave Rensselaer an excellent chance to score, for they secured the ball on our 30-yard line, but Smyth at centre broke through the line twice and caused the quarter-back to fumble each time; they were then tackled for a loss, and before they could recover, Brownson’s speedy backs had worked the ball down to Rensselaer’s 2-yard line. Here Brownson was held for downs. Dobbins of Rensselaer punted the ball well down the field.
Brownson was held for downs on their 35-yard line, and thus gave Rensselaer another chance to score; but Morgan’s drop kick was blocked and O’Leary’s kick out of danger. The half ended with the ball in our possession in the centre of the field. In the second half the playing was probably more spectacular than during the first, and when Fish from the centre of the field received a perfect forward pass, and carried the ball 45-yards, it looked like victory for Brownson.
That Brownson was made up of the right material, and well versed in football theory was not only shown in this game but was brought to light to their many followers when they defeated Corby a few weeks ago, and thus succeeded in winning the Inter-Hall Championship.
Personals.
—Last week the Misses Biggins, of Alton, Ill., visited their nephew Lucian Coppinger who is a student of Corby Hall.
—Mr. T. Lowrey, who was a student at the University from ’91 to ’98, returned for a brief visit on November 23d. Mr. Lowrey is married and has a son whom he intends to send to Notre Dame in due time. At present he is engaged in the practice of law at Wheeling, West Virginia.,
—Mr. Fred Strauss, commercial graduate of the class of ’06, is pursuing a course of specialized chemistry in the dye works at Philadelphia, after which he will return to Chicago where he will apply his knowledge in a practical way. His mother has control of the most extensive dye works in Chicago.
—Mr. Joseph Falomir, a student in Brownson Hall last year, has been making an extended tour through Europe accompanied by his parents. Among the notable personages he was privileged to see were Pope Pius X., the President of France and kings of England, Denmark and Spain. Joe returned to Notre Dame last Thursday.
—Mr. Halsey Boland, who was a student in Carroll Hall twenty years ago, visited the University early this week. He feels that the most peaceful place he has ever known is Notre Dame, and found the few hours he could spare from professional duties a most agreeable change. Mf. Boland is practising law in New York City.
Card of Sympathy.
The many friends of John K. Corbett, and the students of Corby Hall, desire to express their heartfelt sympathy to their friend and hall-mate, over the loss of his grandfather, Mr. John Kiley, of Marion, Ind., who was recently called to his reward. Death was due to heart failure. George Kiley, a son of the deceased, was a former Notre Dame student. The Scholastic on behalf of the University extends condolence to the bereaved family and friends. R. I. P.
208	NOTRE DAME
Local-Items.
—There will be no issue of the.Scholastic until ' December 21, when the Staff will issue ’a special double number. ;
—Found^-A pocket-book; the owner may inquire -at the .University library. : : -
—Examinations will take place on Monday and Tuesday, December the 16th and 17th.
—Notice —The person who borrowed vol-. umesix of the “World’s Best Orations” will please confer with the lender of the same.
—A number of arc lights have been installed in various parts of the campus and quadrangle, filling, a .want that has long been felt- at the University.	.
—Next Monday evening the students of Brownson. Hall will give .an entertainment to the President and Faculty of the University. The program will consist of musical and ’ literary numbers.' -	-	‘	, •
—Oh the first of the month-there was a game of football between the second team , of St. Joseph’s Hall and the Latin-Americans: result, 6 to 5 in favor of the former. Williams and Dominguez were the stars. '	■
—The! University is: again indebted to the Hon. William J. Onahan. of Chicago for a valuable gift. to ..the library.. The work is entitled. “ The Discovery of Australia ’f and the author is George Collingridge. It is a volume-*bf immense value to‘ students. • '
—The Corby Hall pool-table has been re-covered with new cloth, f much to the delight of the lovers of the. cue. The .vigor with which the balls now rebound from cushion to Cushion is a sight' which has not been witnessed- on the table for many a-day. ;	:	- ’	- -
—The-Brownson Literary and- Debating Society .has purchased six. .of Bishop Spalding’s bopks for the use of its members. -No... meeting of the society was held on Thanksgiving Day or onJast-Thursday. At the next meeting the question for the inter-hall debate will be discussed. A - ‘	. ~a 1
—The Corby basket-ball team defeated the South Bend Athletic Club, last Saturday evening by the;‘ score of 21 to 19. Seven minutes; over _ time were - required: to decide the game Next Monday the Mishawaka Athletic club will be played, and onWednes-day the Brownson Hall team;
T^The Western club, comprising the students irom the’Rocky Mouhtaiii states and-w'est 6fthe;Rockies, -was formed last Sunday evening; The officers',elected are the follow--ing: president, CoeMcKenna; vice-president, Theo^Qr;er,.Carville ^secretary, Ignatius Me- . Namee;v’ Treasurer, Frank' Walker. '
—The "talk given by Dr. Monaghan to the
SCHOLASTIC'
members ’ of- the Engineering • Society on Wednesday evening, Noy. r 28th was well attended’. Dr. Monaghan took for' his subject “Engineering and Economics,” dwelling especially on the opportunities that are to 5 be.found; in the field ;of engineering. ..	-
—Three members of the University Faculty took, prominent part in the Elks’ Memorial Exercises which were held at the Oliverv Opera .House in South Bend last Sunday afternoon! Professor Petersen had charge of the musical part of the program; Professor Farabaugh spoke- on the “ Absent Ones,” . and . Professor Monaghan gave an address .
on.“ Charity/’.	.
—The law department has organized the.. Moot- Court for the present academic year, and has already begun handling cases in a practical way. Besides the Moot Court there is also a Court of Chancery, a - Court. of Justice, a Board of Arbitration,' a,Supreme Court, a United. States District Court and. a United States Commissioner’s .Court. . The., practical work which the student, gets in these courts can. scarcely be overestimated. .
—Last Sunday evening the first of the pre-' liminary inter-hall contests in oratory’was" held in Holy Cross Hall; There were seven speakers whose names, arranged in the order of, merit as. determined by the judges, are’,, as. follows : A. Hebert, F. Wenninger and J. Quinlan tie, T. Lahey, C. Miltner, A. Heiser, and J. Toth’. It has been deemed advisable not- to hold the final contest ’ between the halls as announced. But it is likely that such a contest will be. announced for next May. ■.
—Next Thursday, jevening,.the. Philopa-trians.. will. give their annual reception to the University faculty in the parlor. The fact that'the Philopatfians have established a high standard for such functions is~.a guarantee that the ..reception . will be a. source ,of, pleasure to all- who attend it. A .further, guarantee rests in the fact that the work of the society is under the direction of'Brother Cyprian. The members of the ! Faculty are invited, without further notice, ~ to attend. The exercises begin at 7:30 p. m.
—The. .final contest for. . the University, oratorical honors.will be held, to-night in Washington Hall. Mr! j. Boyle .will speak on “Christianity and the World’s Peace.” Mr.- -V. Parish will have for his subject : “The Spirit of the Celt.” Mr: R. Parker ? has chosen to tell about “ Cardinal Richelieu, Exponent of Absolutism.” Mr. W-. Lennartz will discourse on “America and the World’s’ Peace.” The judges of the contest are1 Father G. Thompson-of Portland,' Oregon, Jerome J: Crowley ,of.Chicago, Illinois, and E. , r Honan,- of Rensselaer; Indiana.. The decision. .. will involve the ’opinions of the judges on manuscript and delivery separately;' J