Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 22, 1884.
No. 12.
Address for St. Cecilia’s Day.
Already the Indian Summer is past,—
That season so short and so sweet,— The snow is descending both thickly and fast, As if till the Kalends of April ’twould last,
And cover the earth like a sheet.
No longer the emulous crews on the lake Delight in athletic display;
No longer does baseball excite us, and make A healthy diversion to keep us awake Through the heat of a somnolent day.
The cold winter season confines us within,
Escaping exterior gloom,
And fireside amusements henceforth will begin, In sociable rounds of enjoyment to spin
And an amiable sway to resume.
And chief among social enjoyments, I’m sure, Our audience all will agree,
Must music be placed if we wish to secure Harmonious spirits, or seek to allure /Companions to share in our glee.
Thus fitly does sweet St. Cecilia’s feast
Usher in the longer Winter’s repose;
And promise delight to the greatest and least, For by harmony pleasure is always increased, As life-long experience shows.
Be this, then, oui- cordial greeting to-night,
In holy Cecilia’s name, Let harmony aid us life’s battle to fight,— To walk in the footsteps of wisdom and light, And let such be our heavenly aim.
. Some Political Principles-
(Report of a Lecture delivered by General W. S. RosECRAbS before the students, IVov. 6th, 1884^
Young Gentlemen,—
I will call you my countrymen and’ fellowcitizens,—I do not come to deliver a lecture or to make a speech, but to have a little talk, so I trust you will make allowance for any discursiveness that may occur in the course of my remarks.
I propose to draw your attention this evening to political principles, rather than political issues.
Men of my age of life are more likely to be occupied with general principles regarding the future welfare of the country than they are with those which are merely local or phenomenal. It was a pleasure to me to receive an invitation from Rev. Father Walsh and the Faculty to address you, because I prefer to speak to students rather than to popular assemblies.
In order that my remarks may be appreciated properly, we must come to an understanding about certain fundamental principles and terms, a common language, so to speak, upon which we are to agree. In the first place, I believe that modern thinkers accept this proposition: That' there is no particle of matter, however minute, or however remote in stellar space, that for one moment escapes the dominion of law. And I believe that ■ most of these modern thinkers will admit that the moral and intellectual laws are as certain in their operation as the physical laws. Many of you, like myself, have the assurance of this in our holy religion, so that we who worship Him—the Law of all laws, and the Formula of all formulas,— accept the proposition. Now, we know very well that the persons who transgress the physical laws will be punished for their transgression. They cannot suspend those laws. For instance, we cannot resist the law of gravity without continual effort. I hope you will accept the proposition in like manner with respect to moral and intellectual laws. People may transgress the moral laws, but they must suffer the consequences of their-transgression.
I would be glad to speak in detail about certain political principles, but refrain, confining myself to this simple observation: There is a law which has been in force since history began, that there can be no production without the combination, or partnership, of capital and labor. Now, as to the holders of these elements: sometimes men hold both, but in every large community there are interests of Capital and interests of the Producing Classes, and therefore I classify them in that manner. Both these—partners in production—will be inevitable competitors in the division of the profits of that production resulting from the combined work of capital and labor. This is a law, and will be true even when all who are here to-night are crumbled to dust. For all generations that law will be just as it is now. Having planted ourSelves on this principle, we will proceed further. Now, what is wanting to make the country pros
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
per is that the division of the profits of production shall be fair between capital and labor. We want justice in this division, and for this justice appeal is made to the law-making power. Informer days there was no appeal except to such sense of justice as the ruling classes might happen to yield to. The ruling classes generally have demanded what they pleased. Appeals to their sense of justice having failed, the people at last resorted to revolution, resulting^ in the wholesale destruction of life and o •	_
the general property.. The final outcome of all such appeals against the robberies and oppressions of the ruling classes in all the past has been usually that misery and starvation have enabled capital to hire some of the people to butcher and quell the others.
Now, at last, in this land of the free, in our own blessed country, we have a new way of securing justice to the people, who toil and produce for the o-ood of all, without blood-shed or destruction of property,—by an appeal to the ballot-box. But, in making this appeal to the voters, capital has the following advantages, viz.: first, it has most of the money. Secondly, it owns the telegraph system, which is an immense power. Thirdly, it owns the transportation or carrier business. Then it owns or it controls more than half the occasional literature. It owns also the periodical literature, whether quarterly, monthly, weekly, or daily. It owns the large papers, indirectly or directly. It can command the unlimited use of their columns by money. It also employs the largest share of the professional talent. With such elements of advantage in making appeal to the voters you know the case must go generally against the producing classes. Capital gets the lion’s share, and the toilers get but the crumbs and scraps of the profits of production.	.
It seems, then, even with our American and peaceful remedy of the ballot, something is required to secure its beneficent work of fairness and justice. What is it? Let us deal with things in their natural order.
Now, as to these voters: I shall repeat calling your attention to the peculiar advantages which the poor have by reason of their ballots. They need not resort to armed revolution to obtain justice. The producing classes are the large majority, and by means of the ballot will be able to effect the desired object and have a fair division of their joint profits between capital and labor. On this mainly depends the steadiness of our Government, if not its perpetuity.	-
Now, gentlemen, what, in law and equity, “ is a voter under our system of government? You know what corporations are. They are collections of people to carry on some common object or work. Corporations have their constitutions and bylaws; they elect trustees and directors. • The largest corporation in this State is the State itself, and the largest corporation known in this country is the United States. Every inhabitant in the State is a corporator or stockholder, and every vpter i is a trustee of the corporation. Take this home well: every voter is a trustee; and his’
■poxver to vote^ his right to use that trusty depends on the law and the nature of his trust. Therefore in the use of that trust he is bound to vote according to law and the best of his judgment and conscience—not for party,—not for the Democratic party, not for the Republican or the Greenback party, or any other party—he is bound to vote for the common, weal. That is the nature,—those are limitations of his trust. Now, you very well know what a trust is, in pecuniary or property matters. The law specifies what sort of crime is its violation, and how that crime shall be punished. The violator of a pecuniary trust has thus a measure by which you can estimate the greatness of his crime. The trustee of an amount of property is accountable for the value of that property; that is the measure of his trust. But what shall measure the value of the trust which the voter holds? All the law you ever had in’ the United States, and all the administration of law, whether executive or judicial, rests upon the exercise of the voter’s trust. All the safety which property and persons enjoy, all the eleemosynary institutions which sustain the blind, the deaf and the dumb; the roof you live under, and all our vast interests are secured by the exercise of that trust. Perhaps some one will say that the violation of this trust by one voter is not a great crime, and will not effect much harm. But how much harm one vote will affect the public weal is not the question. You must take into consideration the great interests that the votei' controls, and you must measure the value of that one vote by its being a concrete element in that which protects all the interests of the country, to truly measure its worth. Here comes another consideration well known to lawyers; that is, that acts of the same nature are more or less criminal under varying circumstances. Robbery on the land is not so great a crime as robbery on the high seas. Robbery on the high seas is called piracy, and is punished with death. The reason of it is the.greater difficulty of prevention and detection. So I think it fair to conclude, and I think that you will conclude with me, that the value of the trust of the voter is very great, because it is difficult to tell how much damage its violation may do; and that his trust should be guarded more carefully and considered more highly, on that very account, than it would if it were any pecuniary trust. It follows, then, that the man who violates this trust by not voting according to law and the dictates of his conscience commits a greater crime than he would by violating a pecuniary trust. When he commits a crime by violating a pecuniary trust, it is only against the person whose money or property he holds; but when he commits a crime by misuse of his trust as a voter he commits a crime against the whole country. -
Now, if we agree upon that, there are two or three conclusions that I wish to draw. The one is this, the man who would induce another to violate a pecuniary' trust is a participator in the crime; but the man who would decoy a voter and make him misuse his trust commits a piratical act
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and is a very great criminal. I have just shown that votes are of greater value than money or property; and my conclusion is, that the man who procures votes by false pretences does an infinitely greater injury than one who procures money or goods under false pretences. Such a man commits a grievous wrong, and wrong will never lead to anything but mischief. Our Divine Redeemer has said that an evil tree cannot bear good fruit, and such evil methods can never produce good results. We must never be carried away by false teaching or bad example if we want to do good to the nation. This is why I speak of these things to-night to the thinking men before me, and I hope that the force of habit and the influences of an evil custom will never be able to drive these considerations from your minds, or prevent you from acting upon them. They are principles that cannot be gainsaid.
Many of my young friends here will be voters soon, others later—many of you are already voters. When a voter is to discharge his trust, the first thing he must do is to ascertain if the party tells the truth. If a party doesn’t tell the truth it must be classed with the individual who does not tell the truth. If a man goes to a store and finds the storekeeper lying about the quality of his goods, you conclude that that storekeeper is a rascal. If a party does not tell the truth you must class it the same as you would the merchant who does not tell the truth,—such a man is a rascal, and that party is a rascal too. All this while I have been speaking to you of the duties of the voter.
But if the voter be the trustee, and the State the corporation, it is impossible for the trustee to be under obligations to the corporation without the corporation being under obligations to the trustee. I invite your particular attention to this matter. A corporation must furnish its trustees with all things needful to enable them to act for the common weal. Now, if even a small corporation is expected to do that, at its own expense, and if failing to do so its business be unsuccessful, the sentence .of men of judgment, of business men, would be that the corporation failed, not because its business was bad, but because of bad management. As the corporation becomes larger, the necessity becomes more exigent. When it gets to be the greatest corporation we have—that is, the State—the State of Indiana, for instance—the correlative obligations between the State, the corporators—and the voters as trustees of the corporation, are proportionally increased. The successful execution of the voter’s trust cannot be justly counted -upon unless the corporation perform its duty also; for to expect it would be to expect good fruit from evil seed. The State, being a corporation, must do its duty to its trustees.
I now propose calling your attention to three of these duties- which the State ought to perform, and probably most of you will testify that no State in this Union performs any one of them. I never knew a business corporation that did not keep a list of its trustees; therefore that great corporation, the State, ought to do so,, and that would be
brought about by a proper registration law. I.do not know whether there is a registration law in this State or not, but in the State of Ohio there is none. In Michigan they tell a man that he can make himself a trustee if he wants to. In some States they go like pigs—hunting and hunted—to the poles. What corporation—railroad, bank, or otherwise—can you find that would expect its trustees to do their duty properly in such a way as that? Such a way is evidently not to be commended. Therefore, the State, at its own expense, should make and keep complete and ready at all times for use this list of trustees.—which I will call registration. It ought therefore, to be divided into districts of convenient size, with a Registrar to each district. That one man, qualified as Registrar, should go to each voter and say, “You are a trustee; I want your name in the register, and will give you a certificate of registration.” When he is gone, the trustee’s wife would ask, “Father, what did Judge so-and-so come for?” “He came to let me know that I am a voter,—that I am a trustee of our great corporation, the State.” The children -would hear this, and would at once conclude that their father was something more than other men. Do you not see that by this the dignity of the franchise and his responsibility as a voter would be greatly raised in his own as well as in their estimation? Do you doubt that such a mode of registration, merely doing what is fair and right for the voter and becoming the public interests, would alone greatly elevate the tone of elections by creating a feeling of self-respect in the voter?
Next, this Registrar ought to keep the names on the Register in a public office, where he can be visited any business day in the year; where they will be convenient for reference for any man who is a voter. The Registrar should have an office, like the P robate Judge. He should enter on the Register the names of those only who are entitled to vote. If any voter finds the name of any one on the list that should not be there, his right and duty should be to call attention to it, and complain against the entry. That man whose right to vote is disputed should be entitled to a legal hearing. The Registrar should enter the names of all new arrivals who have a right to vote. In this way no one who is entitled to the privileges of the franchise can be deprived of it, and there would be little or no chance for rounders to come in and vote without right.
Having now stated the fundamental principle, the voter is a trustee for the great corporations, called the State and Federal Governments, which are the beneficiaries of his trust, and that all their mutual duties must be fixed and performed by the principles and laws governing such trusts, we have, so to speak, the nature of the machine and of the work to be done by it. We have provided for listing the trustees, for the benefit and at the expense of -the beneficiary of the trust. Now .let us look into the details of this work to be done by the voter. Let us see what he needs to do it, and what the State ought to furnish, him. The first thing is this: people haying to do anything in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	'
common must come to a common understanding as to what they are to do. They must have a conference. Suppose we have formed a plan to go out hunting. The first thing we do is to meet together and see what we want to do. This first talk about it is what I call our initial expression of preference—the development of the plan. Next, the hunting party having ascertained what each particular man wanted to do, would go into combining and reconciling divergent plans. That operation of reconciling the different views of members of the party to some common plan, which is a necessary part of the thing to be done, I will call the intermediate expression of preference. After these initial and intermediate expressions of preference they will be prepared for an act of the will—for a decision to go. Now, gentlemen, this is an exemplification of a law of the mind. You can see that process going on all the time, wherever concerted action is required. The law is inevitable, and as universal as concerted human action.
Voters must act subject to this inevitable law. They must have a common understanding as to what they are to do, and the State should furnish the means of reaching it. But you will ask hotv can the State help the voter? Wherein does the State help the voter? You naturally ask this, because the State has not helped the voter,—nobody seems to have thought the State could do anything to help the voter. It has failed to furnish him any authentic ifiitial or intermediate expressions, either of public preference or public intelligence; both and all of which are necessary that he may act for the public weal. Now, under our system of government the citizen must find out who is thought to be the most eligible for—the best fitted to hold— office. The State as yet has not done anything to help him to learn this. Who does it for the voter if he does not do it? Whenever the constituency for which his vote is cast is so large that he cannot become acquainted with everybody in it, there must be some way of his knowing, or he votes wholly in the dark—“ goes - it blind.” This having been found out early in practice under our system, the voter realized everywhere his need of help. It is evident the average voter must be busy. He has his farm to superintend, and is perhaps short of help; he has his family to support. He goes and asks his neighbor, or the first man he meets, but he finds that the information received in this way is not sufficient. It is exceedingly imperfect. You see at once to what extremity the voter is necessarily driven. The next source of information is the newspaper. But having a newspaper only on one side of the hill, so to speak, he gets only one side of the news; and he needs to have both sides to properly discharge his duties for the best interests of the public. A man who votes for a representative in the State Assembly is expected to choose for the position the best man in the Assembly district. The same for a Senator. But how is he to do it? The voter cannot spare the time or money to go hunting up information, and the State has done nothing to help him. Party now comes along, and says,
“I will tell you the best.man to vote for; he is well known to me by the means of my primaries.” You have seen the necessity of the voter having something or some one to guide him in the discharge of his duty. He knows that without needful information he is not qualified to judge for himself, and he accepts the advice of Party. What is a party? A party consists of a number of men who have a common object in view,—of a number of men who are leaders,—whose business it is to bring about common understandings among voters, and get paid for their trouble out of the honors and spoils of office—and a number of men who are followers. But from the nature of the case those party leaders are men chiefly anxious for the spoils of office, so that the nature of Party is essentially selfish. The only limitation there is to this selfishness is when the hold the leaders have on the voter is so light that they are obliged in large measure to favor the public in order to secure the party weal. Please to notice I am discussing principles which are fundamental to all parties and will operate for all time. From these principles it is obvious that unless some rational and legal restraint be put upon party influence, things will go from bad to worse. .
But in devising what is to be done you have to take everything into consideration when you think of going to work for your country. As we have just seen, a voter is now practically obliged to take the advice of the party, and when he takes the advice of one party and votes for its candidates, instead of having freedom of choice among all who live in his constituency, he is limited to choose out of the one-half which belongs to his party. Thus the theory of our Government, that he choose the best out of all, is upset by the party theory. This is inevitable. Therefore the party system is in contradiction to the theory of our Government.
I have shown how party dominance has grown up. The State has neglected its duty, to provide the voter with initial and intermediate expressions of public preference and of public intelligence, when the question is one of a principle or measure to be voted upon. This neglect has let Party in with its one-sided information, and limited the choice of the voter to one-half of what, our theory calls for. Every State should promptly correct this wrong, and furnish the voter with information of initial and intermediate expressions-of popular intelligence and preference. J ’	■
' You will observe that, after stating the fundamental duties of the voter as trustee to the State and showing that the State has correlative duties towards the voter, I. mentioned that the first and most obvious of these was that at its own expense it should have made out, and kept always complete and convenient for use, a list of these its primary trustees—:the voters. I have next shown that by an indefeasible law of the human mind the voter cannot efficiently do his duty to the public without having brought to his knowledge initial and intermediate expressions of public preference and intelligence respecting persons and questions to be
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
voted upon. I have shown that this information has not been supplied by the State,'and that this neglect of its duty shown to voters accounts for what of such information Party, for its own interests, may proffer or supply.
Butyour minds will probably ask: “Yes; but hoiv can the State furnish this needed information?” I might set you to thinking by asking “If Party can do* it,-what is to prevent the State, fully equipped with all the powers of raising revenue, making laws and enforcing' them, from doing more and better than any Party can ? ” I will answer that the State can and ought to do more than is possible for Party to facilitate the proper use of the elective franchise and has the highest interest. Let me say more: I will pledge my life that I car. write a bill, which any State Legislature can make a law, which would work smoothly from the first and could soon be perfected. Let me give you an idea of how such a law is to be put in operation. Suppose that the same Registrar, who has to make the District Register and notify the voters, as-1 have indicated, should be obliged to serve a notice on every voter, as the sheriff serves a summons, in this form:
“ Sir, On-----day of----a primary election will be held to nominate persons for the following offices (Here give a list of the offices). You are respectfully requested to insert beneath each office the name or names of those persons whom you think preferable for such office. Sign your name to this paper, enclose in the accompanying envelope, seal and hand it to the collector of the ballots who will call upon you with a sealed box. Place your ballot in the box, take the collector’s receipt for it, and on the stub, whence it was taken, you will write your name in attestation and to identify your ballot.”
Consider the wholesome incidental effect of such procedure, the elevating tendency this would have upon the voter and his family, as I have before indicated in the case of the Registrar’s call. The visit of the ballot officer would be noticed; the children would naturally look up to their father receiving such a visit -with a feeling of pride, when they asked their father why and were told, “ He came to receive my preference as a trustee of the State.” Suppose these ballot boxes are taken to the Registrar’s office, and the District inspectors of Elections, of whom the Registrar would be one, and meet there according to law—break the seal, open the boxes, and compare the ballots with the stub-book and then with the Register in order to see that both ballots and voters are all right. The examination satisfactory, the Judges make a consolidation, certify this to the Secretary of State,- and lock up the ballots. When the Secretary of State has received from the secretaries of the district Boards all the popular preferences, he and the State Commissioners of Elections make a general consolidation of the preferences of all the districts and make ample publication thereof, and, moreover, send printed notices to the Registrars, so that each voter shall get one and be made aware of the result. Thus, the voter would have an initial expression of public preference, which means something more than those who participate in primaries can get; at least more than I ever got.
After this, to get an intermediate expression of
public preference, the Registrar serves at. the proper time another notice, inclosing one of these slips, and saying:
“ On-------day of-----a primary election will be held. Enclosed is the consolidated initial expression of public preference. You will please draw a line; across the name of anyone you d > not wish to vote for, and insert the name of anyone you wish to vote for; sign your name to this, seal it, and deliver it to the collector, etc.”
Going through the same offices as before, we next have a consolidated intermediate expression of public preference, far superior to the present convention system, infinitely preferable to what we have now,—it would be a nomination in which .all the voters could participate—a nomination as far superior to the present one as the light of the sun is to the light of a tallow-candle. It would be an intermediate expression of public preference for the benefit of the whole State. Can anyone doubt the duty of the State to provide it for the voter?
You thus see how the State could do its duty as the inexorable logic of principle demands. .You see that by so doing, the whole voting population, without expense or loss of time, would be able to participate in the selection of candidates and pre- ' . liminary expressions of opinion on measures to be voted for. Thus would result a preparation for an expression of the voter’s will by the ballot, vastly in advance of anything within reach under existing modes. If you can suggest anything better than this, show us how to do it. How not to do it is the advice of weak natures. As there is no escape from the operation of law, we must conform to . principle or worse will surely happen. I feel it, everybody feels it.	.
The logic of these statements will, I think, bear examination. There remains for me only to say that in conformity with these principles it is the duty of the State to enable you to cast your votes with the least possible expense so that you may enjoy the largest benefit from the exercise of that sacred trust upon which all our liberties and all our laws depend. I will close my statement of principles with the following recapitulation:
I.	The duty of the State, in order to that facilita-	-
tion, is to obtain and hold always ready and convenient for use complete lists of its trustees, or voters, by means of registration at its own expense.
2.	It is the duty of the State to provide for them timely authentic expressions of public preference or ' intelligence.	-
. 3. To provide like intermediate expressions of public preference and intelligence based upon the former.	.
4. To facilitate to the largest extent the legal ex- . pression of the will of the voters.
T will now leave this matter, and ask your attention to some things that you know. At present it is well known that to vote with intelligence demands that the people have, a canvass. That canvass demands time, mental and physical labor, and money. Who furnishes that mental labor? Sometimes philanthropists; sometimes persons who have some selfish object in view. Most of you have seen some of the physical work. Who furnishes that and the money? You may say-that;
i8z
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
substantially, both come from the trustees. Have the trustees any more interest than the people at large in the government that they should be burdened with extra labor and expense? No. The trustees furnish the money, and we can see there is now no fair method of apportioning the expense. The liberal pay more than thejr ought; the stingy men pay less than they ought, and some people do not pay at all. Is it right for the great corporation —the State—to allow this? And if not, can we gather grapes from thorns, and figs from thistles? If we cannot, then we cannot get good results from i	o o
the plan now followed. You might as well expect pumpkins from clover-seed.
Let me call your attention to another very serious matter. You are told that they “ can carry such-and-such a State if they have the money.” That sounds as if some men sell theii votes; and the man that sells such a trust is worse than a thief. The practice is so dreadful, that if once permitted to get a foothold, our Republic will be at an end; and that is the reason I call it to your attention as students. Law—whether moral, physical, or intellectual— cannot be overthrown and cannot be contravened without mischief. So it follows that, no matter how great may be the number of persons engaged in this nefarious business, the wrong is as grievous as if alone one man did it. This buying of votes is a much greater crime than the buying of stolen goods; and ought to be, and will be punished accordingly when these things are rightly understood and a proper standard of morality established. When people talk about buying those votes—trusts— which belong to the commonwealth thev talk about
O	__ «/
committing a hideous public crime. They may get used to it, butthat doesn’t alter or lessen the crime. That is what I want to have clearly impressed upon your minds. Now, gentlemen, I say that the presentcondition of things—the use of money in putting up primaries, conventions, and in buying votes to elect candidates, is due largely to the fact that the voter cannot spare time to qualify himself to vote, and that the State, by its neglect, exposes him to this deviltry. A man wishing to hire another to talk up his case will hire the best fellow that he can. A voter will naturally give his assent to the fellow that best talks it up. That is the way things are worked.
The liability of conventions to be influenced by money, or by the simple power of activity, without regard to fitness for office of candidates, is very dangerous. The first thing you know, a man has been nominated for a responsible office who is wholly unfit for it, because the State has neglected to do its duty. The voters are compelled to do the work that the State ought to do. How are we to get right out of this wrong ? How are we to get good out of evil ? It cannot be done; it is useless to expect it. The large bodj’ of men in every party have no interest beyond the common weal, but leaders will claim their allegiance, and try to make the people believe that the bottom will fall out of things if thejT don’t get the offices and money. Those who make up primaries are the ones that profit by them.
. I might tell you of other evils growing out of-this infernal system, if time permitted. I might point out many evil fruits that result from it,—legitimate results of that fatal neglect of the State to do its duty. I remember a conversation I once had with a great iron manufacturer in Missouri who employed one thousand laborers in his foundries and rollingmills. The subject turned upon politics, and after a while he said to me: “ General, this Govern mentis too weak; we want a stronger Government.” “ What is the matter now? ” I asked. “ Here we have-----nominated for Congress;—a man in no way fitted for the position.” “ Mr.--,” I asked, “ what did you do towards getting anybody else nominated—towards getting a better nomination? ” He blushed, and answered, “ Well, I did not do anything. I gave my foreman $50, and told him to look about among the boys and fix things up with them.” “Well, sir, what better result could you expect? You, who have the largest stake in this community, have neglected the primaries.” “I have; I must acknowledge it.” “Then,” I re- ' joined, “you will never, if you run this system, have a better Government or a better state of things.”
I say that this system, if followed, will inevitably go from bad to worse; and I believe that at least one-half of my audience are now ready to, and the remainder soon will, agree with me. Burdens are imposed upon the people which are unfair, work which the rest of the community doesn’t have to do; and the way the system runs now there will be constantly increasing demands to prevent matters from becoming rapidly worse. If onefifth of the people were obliged to bear all the taxation everybody would say, “ That is not fair; they are all participators in the Government, all beneficial ies; therefore all should pay their share of the taxes.” And yet you impose upon the voter a line of onerous duties, and in addition increase his burden of taxation. All that is the'legitimate result of violating principle. I wish to establish this conviction in your minds: the principal political evils of which we complain, grow out of the fact that our system is not properly worked in accordance with principle. You would not justify the owner of one of those railroad lines for complaining that he had a poor locomotive, when handled by a boy who did not know how to run it. Of course you would not; it would be unreasonable. You would say, “Why not employ a good engineer who understands its principle and would be able to run it?” Well, it is exactly the same with our system. If I can bring that conviction home to your minds, you can work out for yourselves what its nature requires, and you will be surprised to see how under conformity to .principle the power of the party and the party system for mischief will diminish. Now, instead of being a government of the people, by the people, for the people, ours is very nearly a government of the party, by the party, for the party. Here, as the lawyers say, I will rest my case. I thank you for the patience with which you have, listened to me, and wish you good-night.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	183
Sonnet.
To His Excellency, Thomas A. Hendricks, viitha floral offering, on the occasion of his visit-to Notre Dame, ■ Nov. 2,1884:
Flowers suggest the Springtime, yet for thee Doth Autumn twine a garland fresh and fair: Nor bloom alone, but fruit for thee prepare;
The day draws nigh when thine the fruit shall be Of life-long services to Liberty.
The bonfires then shall blaze—shall boom the gun Proclaiming Indiana’s fav’rite son
The people’s choice, proving the ballot free!
And we, too young to vote, may still rejoice
To see the pow’r of force and fraud laid low;
Honor conferred on worth, the Nation’s voice
At length triumphant over freedom’s foe;
While rancorous thoughts of civil warfare cease.
To see our land redeemed, united and at peace. .
Arthur J. Stack.
Art, Music and Literature.

—Painting lace is now a fashionable amusement; it is also made a profitable one.
—Gounod is giving most of his time to religious 00	o
music. He is at work upon another oratorio, “ Mors et Vita,” which he intends dedicating to the Pope.
—Music-Director Gustav Reichardt died recently in Berlin in the eighty-seventh year of his age. He was the composer of E. M. Arndt’s celebrated patriotic hymn, “What is the German’s Fatherland?” and a number of popular songs and ballads.
—An interesting work illustrating the history of the French in northern New York in early colonial times, has lately been published at Paris. The title is “Journal d’une Expedition Contre les Iroquois en 1687, par le Chevalier de Baugy.” The writer was aide-de-camf to the Marquis de Denon ville.
—A column three hundred feet high is proposed for Lucerne, on which will be placed written bronze tablets of all the celebrated men and women of the present day. It is to be called the “ Universal Column.” The promoters have also under consideration a museum of the nineteenth century, dedicated to art, science, inventions, commerce and industry, which will contain busts and portraits of distinguished persons.
—Mr. F. N. Crouch, the composer of “ Kathleen Mavourneen,” has been for some time past engaged on an autobiography which, as he was for many years a prominent figure in the artistic society of London, will doubtless be interesting. The work-is to contain sketches of dramatic authors, musical composers, painters, singers and dancers during the present century. It is to be called “ Before and Behind the Scenes.” The first volume was completed some time ago, and the second and last is nearly ready.—Pilot.	■
College. Gossip.
—Pie-making is one of the electives at Vassar. —Ex.
—Amherst is thinking of devoting itself entirely to classics.—’ Varsity.
—Nine young women have just taken the de- . gree of B. A. at the Royal University of Ireland.
—School property in the South is valued at about $6,000,000, against $188,000,000 in the North.—Ex. .
—Of the 320 colleges and universities in the United States, but 24 have more than 200 students, and only 17 have more than 20 teachers.
—“What do you think of Fielding?” asked a Boston girl of a Harvard graduate* “ Oh, it’s important, of course, but it don’t amount to anything without good batting.”—Bates Student.
—Teacher (to Class in History):—“ What became of the Santa Maria, after Columbus had finished his voyage of discovery ? ” Bright Pupil :— “ It was turned over to the United States, and is now in the United States Navy.”—Ex.
—Before the apostles of the New Education ' proceed further they should devise some policy whereby students, on entering college, may be made to regard their college-work as seriously as an apprentice does his on entering a shop.—The Current.
—The new university at Stockholm has established a professorship of mathematics expressly for a woman. This is Mrs. Dr. Sophie Kowalevski, whose paper on partial differential equations was recognized as sufficiently important to warrant the establishment of a chair.— Crimson.	.
—A Texas steer was loose in the street at the West End, in Boston, the other day, and it is unnecessary to say more of the way things were ’ going. A sick man in the house heard the diso o
turbance, and looking up wearily at his nurse, said: “I do wish that Harvard student would go home.”—Heidelberg Monthly.
—"-Eh bien!" exclaimed Miss Kate to the tradesman, “ what is the price of your gneiss peaches ? ” “ Tufa,” he replied, laconically. “ That’s schist what I want. Give me two quartz strata away. I want to catch mica. A dole-ryte?” And Silicate bounded out of the store without paying atoll.—Herald.	• .
It wasn’t Silicate atoll. It was her sister. Stalagmite have done better, but she azurite to do as she pleases.
—A professor, who has been trying for a half hour to explain a formula on the board, turns with his finger on his nose, which is a prominent feature, and says, severely: “ Is this now apparent to you all?” (Freshmen grin.) “I am aware, gentlemen, it is long.” (Freshmen grin audibly.) “ But I hope you see the point.” (Slight pedal applause.) “ It is called fans asinorum., of which I hope you see. the application.” (Loud and con- . tinned applause.)—Dartmouth,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ,
Wiff W son aiKTic
Notre Dame, November 22, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students. '
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should taki it.-
Terms, Si.30 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—We have no doubt that to all our readers the perusal of the report of General Rosecran’s Lecture, as given in our present issue, will be of great interest. The remarks of the distinguished speaker made a deep impression upon the minds of those who had the pleasure of listening to him. Our amateur stenographers attempted to take down his remarks in full, with a view to having them printed, and thus keeping his words constantly before their recollection. As might be expected, their report was, to some extent, imperfect; and therefore the “ proofs’’ were sent to the General, with the request to “ look over them.” Amid the cares of a busy life, General Rosecrans kindly tried to comply with our request, and made such changes as his own hurried moments and the urgency of press-work would permit. We think, therefore, that, though imperfect as a verbatim report, what we have given may be considered a complete, substantial synopsis of the General’s Lecture.
*,
As the years glide by, and election succeeds election, it becomes more and more evident that a change must be effected in the present sys
tem of holding elections to positions of public trust. Living as we do, under a Democratic form of government, wherein the will of the people must be given free exercise in its potent sway, both in State and national governmental affairs, we believe that some new system must inevitably be adopted to give expression to the same; for that which at present exists is manifestly inadequate, and is attended with great evils that threaten the destruction of our country. We think that General Rosecrans has devised a theory which, if carried into execution, will provide a fitting remedy to the great evil.
— The following letter, taken from last week’s issue of the Catholic Sentinel (Portland, Oregon ), was written by an eminent divine, who favored Notre Dame with a visit while on his way to Baltimore. It indicates the pleasing impression which our Alma Mater and its surroundings produce upon all who visit here. Though the electric crown encircles the head of the magnificent statue as described by the writer, yet, we regret to say, the refulgent crescent of which he speaks has not as yet been added. It is however certainly to be among the improvements of the near future, and will complete the original design.
Cleveland, O., Nov. i, 1S84.
Editors Catholic. Sentinel:	'
On the 28th ult., your correspondent paid a visit to the University of Notre Dame. He had seen the picture which accompanies its prospectus, but was agreeably disappointed to find that for once the reality far surpassed the picture in grandeur and beauty. The institution is altogether American except in this, that there is no humbug about it. The manner in which it is advertised does hardly justice to what is found on the spot. It is not one building but a whole cluster of lofty and handsome structures, giving the institution the appearance of a little city by itself. Indeed, it is no unusual thing for train passengers unacquainted with the place to enquire as they pass by “ What city is that? ” The cupola on the centre building rises to a height of 206 ft., and on its top stands a gigantic statue of the B. V. Mary. This statue is of gilt metal, iS ft. in height, and at night is illuminated by electric light, twelve bright stars encircling the head on a vertical plane whilst a refulgent crescent sheds its rays from under the feet. This last improvement wil be added during the course of this week, and is a most pleasing instance of how science should be made the handmaid of religion.
In the church tower of Notre Dame hangs the largest bell of the United States, and when its 17,000 pounds are caused to vibrate, the listener is struck with a kind of reverential awe that makes him feel very small. .
' Your faithful correspondent,
X.
—The stereopticon entertainment given by Rev. Father Zahm, last Wednesday evening;, was one of the finest and most successful of its kind ever . held at Notre Dame. It was comprised of views of the sunny South, of statuary, works of art, etc.; together with a collection of transparencies of persons and things in and around Notre Dame. Rev. Father Zahm in his late tour through Mexico made a valuable collection of views of the magnificent and truly sublime scenery of that ancient and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	185
historic country. He showed on the canvass, with astonishing reality and correctness, the mountains, valleys, rivers, pyramids of the country, and the splendor and magnificence of the Cathedral and-public buildings of the city of Mexico. To give variety to the panorama, several humorous sketches were introduced, to the delight of the younger portion of the audience. From Mexico he carried the spectator to Europe, with beautiful illustrations of some of the grand scenery of the Old World. One of the pleasing events of the evening was the exhibition of life-size pictures of the boat-crews, baseball clubs, and other local celebrities. The audience were delighted with the entertainment and instruction afforded them, and hope to see them often repeated.	’
Volapuk.
In the last issue of the Scholastic there appeared a Literary note stating that a universal language had been invented “ at last ”—yea in-00	J
vented and spoken, not only in Germany, Holland and. Belgium, but even on this side of the ocean. A few words in regard to this universal language may be of interest.to many of our readers.
It was first heard of in 1881, and invented by the Rev. J. M. Schleyer, the Catholic priest of Litzels’tetten, in Baden. Father Schleyer conceived the idea of this language after forty-six years of constant study. Fie speaks and writes twenty-eight languages of the forty he studied; among which figure the Chinese and two African languages. This fact will be sufficient to convince anyone that he was not building.altogether on sand, when he sought to carry into execution this idea of forming a universal language. The idea of constructing a new language—even though it should not be universal—may have. come to the mind of many a one, who, after entering upon the study of a foreign language, saw the great quantity of words he had to learn by heart, and which make the first beginnings of any language so dry and of so little interest. This is especially the case when we meet with big words and difficult of pronunciation — sesqulpedalia verba. “ Could I not make a language much easier of mine own, just as wrell ? ” has been asked, hundreds of .times. The question has been answered by asking another, such as this: “What would be the use? 'Nonsense!” And the learner continued to study the big words and wras glad to know them.	'
- If the author of Volapuk had acted in like manner, how far advanced would his universal language be to-day? But no: he set himself to work at once, and at present he has nearly finished the gigantic undertaking. His Volapuk dictionary needs only some slight enlargement. In 1881 there appeared a small book entitled Ent-wurf einer Weltsprache fur alle Gebildete Erdbe-•wohner—“Plan of a Universal Language for all the Civilized Inhabitants of the Earth.” Recently it appeared in a third edition, a sure sign that Schley -
er’s labor has received merited attention.!-rAnd no wonder. Any one who considers a little attentively this small book is struck with its great simplicity and artistic composition.
The first new word we find is volapuk. Vola means “of the world,” fink means “language”; volapuk, world’s language, or universal language.. The English language lies at its foundation, but to study Volapuk with success it is not necessary at all to know English. No.one who is acquainted with Volapuk will have any doubt about the great susceptibilities and resources of this language to make it universal. A few examples will suffice to make -.this clearly understood. In Volapuk there are no articles. The declension of “ man ” in Volapuk is as follows:
Singular.
Aloni.—men, the man; Gen.—mena, of the man; Dat.—mene, to the man; Acc.—meni, the man.
Plural.
Norn.—mens, the men;
Gen.—menas, of the men Dat.—menes, to the men Acc.—menis, the men.
The pronunciation of e in men is as ai in main. All nouns, without exception, are declined in the same way. The singular receives a, e, i, and the plural adds x to these. The root remains always the same.
The cardinal numbers are: Bal, i; tel, Z', kil, 3; fol, 4; Jul, 5; mal, 6; vel, ; jol, 8; zul 9. Bals, 10; tels, 20; kils, 30; etc. Turn, 100; mil, 1000; etc. The year 1884 is in Volapuk, balmil joltum Joisefol. The a, e, i, 0 are pronounced as in German; .u sounds as 011 in you.	'
The verb is also very simple. The verb to write in Volapuk is penon; the present infinitive of all verbs ends in on.
Present Tense, Indic. Mood.
Penob—I write:
Penol—thou writest:
Penoni—he writes;
Penobs—we write:
Penols—you write;
Penoms—they write.
Past Tense.
Apenob—I wrote:’ Apenol—thou wrotest Apenom—he wrote; Apenobs—we wrote; Apenols—you wrote; Apenoms—they wrote.
The root pen does not change in any tense or any mood. To form the plural in the tenses add x to the singular; to form the past prefix a to the present. This rule holds good for all verbs without any exception. One must acknowledge that all this is very simple. We refrain for the presentfrom giving other information, even interesting. This seems enough to call attention to the study of Volapuk as a universal language. Volapuk, superficially considered, seems to be a mixture of all kinds of unintelligible compositions; but on closer consideration, the student’s attention is attracted by its great simplicity and extreme facility.
He .who knows his own native language, may with the aid of a dictionary, read, write and speak Volapuk with success in an incredibly-small space of time; any person of ordinary intelligence can easily master it in three or four months. From the latest reports it seems also that general attention has been awakened in the study of this language, and already in several colleges and public schools in some of the countries of Europe it forms a special branch.	A.
i86
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Exchanges.
— The High School Argo, a neatly arranged eight-page monthly from Manchester, N. H., shows fairly good work on the part of the students. The “ Modern Rip Van Winkle,” however, has little or nothing new to distinguish it, or to justify the omission of credit to one Washington Irving who wrote a sketch of “ Rip Van Winkle,” with which every school-boy is or should be familiar.
—Acta Victoriana, like other of the Canadian college papers—notably the King's College Record,Rouge etNoir (Trinity), University-Monthly (University of New Brunswick), The 'Varsity (University College, Toronto), and the truant Queen's College Journal—lanks far above the majority of so-called college papers in the United States, but it is not up to the standard of its sister papers in Canada.
— The Adelphian for October is a very good number. The essays on “ Thorwaldsen ” and “Behavior” are creditable. We have not been able to decide on “Pages from the Life of a Queen,”—the dates of the letters bothered us, and we don’t know what to think of the letters as a whole; they are high-toned, however, and that is some recommendation. Adelphian's frontispiece for this month—the work of one of the students— is an excellent specimen of artistic skill.
—The Concordiensis, from Union College, New York, begins the year with a new diess—new cover, new and veiy neat headings, etc. An editorial item announces that Concordiensis is again a College instead of a University paper,—that last year’s plan of making it a University paper was tried as'an experiment but proved unsuccessful. Editorially and otherwise The Concordiensis makes a creditable appearance, but as a monthly its space is too small to give more than the College news: there is no room for literary effort.
—The Swarthmore Phoenix deserves a high rank among college papers. Its editorial matter is elevated and dignified in tone; the literary efforts of its contributors give evidence of a fair degree of ability and of better taste and judgment than that usually shown by college students. In the number before us we have, in prose,-“The. Vision of Sir Launfal,” “ Young America in the Library,” “Tarrytown,” “Bibliomania” and “Chivalry,” and yet no one would dare assert that the paper is sodden or heavy. The triplet stanzas on “The Heart,” from the German of Neumann, are gracefully turned into English.
—The Columbia Spectator, published ' semimonthly by the students of Columbia College, is hardly above the average when viewed from a literary standpoint; but the illustrations help it and give it an air of piquancy. One of these is apropos, giving us an idea of Columbia students as they appeared twenty-five years ago. Like ourselves, the students of Columbia College were favored with a visit from the late Republican canditate for the Presidency, the Hon. James G. Blaine, and we
learn that they gave him a cordial and most enthusiastic welcome. Although in favor of the exelusion of partisan politics from a college paper, we heartily concur in the broad principle of general interest in government matters commended by the Spectator in one of its editorials, and touched upon, in one phase or another, by Mr. Blaine, Vice-President elect Hendricks and General Rosecrans in their addresses to the students of NotreDame. We quote this from the Spectator:
“As we had occasion to say in a former editorial, nowhere is it so desirable to see genuine interest evinced in matters affecting the government of the nation than among college men—men who may some day be called, many of them, to positions of responsibility in the service of the State, or in directing the minds of men, either through the press, or from the speaker’s platform. They should learn, too, that broadness and catholicity of feeling for the opinions of others, whether like their own or not. This alone can make them the true examples of a higher training, and fitted for the responsibility of representing all, and not any particular class. Again, it is gratifying to notice the disposition to acquiesce in the decision of the proper authorities in the momentous question affecting the whole nation. In these days of incendiary press utterances, college men and intelligent men generally possess a wide influence over the minds of their fellows; and that influence should be exerted to allay popular excitement, and to advance peaceful acquiescence to the decision rendered by the properly constituted authorities.”
—Among our new visitors we welcome the Acta Victoriana,i\-Qm Victoria University, Canada, and the De Pauw Monthly, from De Pauw University, this State. The Acta is certainly the better paper of the two (college monthlies can hardly be called magazines, in the ordinary sense of the term), but the De Pauw is not without merit. The wretched attempts at punning in the local items, however, do not by any means constitute one of its meritorious features. They are the worst that we have ever had the ill fortune to notice. The essays and editorials are above the average, but even here we observe very careless, slip-shod writing, and bad spelling occasionally. The short sketch of “ The ‘ American Rhine ’ ” is better than one or two other college productions that we have seen lately on the same subject; but we must take the writer to task for passing judgment on a matter that he evidently does not understand, of which he knows nothing positively, and of which he can form no idea except one based on the misrepresentations of writers as ignorant of the subject as himself. We quote:
“ Here is the famous West Point, looking more like a sequestered nook of Paradise than a training-school for war. Here are the Custer monument and the ruins of Fort Lee, whence stretched that notable chain that kept out the British ships of war. Here, too, are beautiful convents where the deluded devotees of religion immure themselves from all enjoyment: a tangible relic of the Dark Ages, with its counteipart in many of our churches, among those who possess that tart of tarts—sour holiness.”
We advise this writer to visit a convent or two, and he will see for himself, and be convinced, that his judgment is false. The man who can honestly write in that strain, in this age of enlightenment, in this age of books and papers that enable the scholar and truth-seeker to study both sides of every question,—a man who can honestly write in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
187
that way in a country clotted with convents has been kept in fearful darkness. Notwithstanding difference of opinion in some things, we welcome the De Pauvu, and hope that we will be better friends on a longer acquaintance.
—The Alabama University Monthly for November makes a good showing of short, well-written essays, one of the best of which, entitled “ The Practical Spirit of the Nineteenth Century,” contains many noble thoughts enshrined in a fitting garb of good English. The sentiment embodied in its -finale will find a ready echo in every Christian heart:
“The flood of science that now overspreads the field of modern thought, when it retires to its proper channel will but leave in its path an enriching sediment, without washing away the letters, the arts, and the religion that have ever been, and must ever be, the bulwarks of society. On those old landmarks, reared upon poets’ tears, heroes’ toils and martyrs’ blood, the billows of time must ever dash in vain. Their foundations rest in the depths of the human heart; their summit is in ‘the sky serene and fair,’ like
“ Some tall cliff", that lifts its awful form,
Swells from the vale, and midway cleaves the storm ; Tho’ round its breast the rolling clouds are spread, Eternal sunshine settles on its head.”
Like many other college publications at the present time, the Monthly has its moral on politics, and strongly condemns the system of electioneering. (We are confident the editors will coincide with Gen. Rosecrans’s assertion, given elsewhere in the Scholastic, that the time is ripe for a change.) The writer says:
“Fraudulent transactions, trading of offices and votes, and all the various methods of robbing the manv for the benefit of the few, have become so common among us as hardly to awaken surpri^e when exposed to the public view. There is a close connection between the dishonest practices of commerce and those of politics, and the result is a development of that spirit of greed which is debasing the minds 'and corrupting the morals of the whole community. Money has been and is still being paid by scores of thousands from public and private treasuries to debauch the elections, and to win by crime what cannot be won by honest appeals to the people.”	"
The Exchange-editor of the Monthly pays the article entitled “ The Duty of Voting,” in the Otterbein Record, a deserved compliment, and says, “ We wish it were possible that every voter in the Union could and would read it.” We echo the sentiment, and respectfully call attention to the report of Gen. Rosecrans’s talk to the students of Notre Dame, published from a stenographic report, in this number of the Scholastic.- Of our paper the Exchange-editor kindly says:
“ We have already received several copies of the Notre Dame Scholastic. We hope, dear friend, to see you often; but we should like to see you don a new apparel, and not look so much like a shorn lamb in January. True, you have that within you which is calculated to generate sufficient heat for the sustenance of life; but through pity for the ocular pleasure of your readers we beg you to dress yourself in a more wholesome garment. Again we must remind you of the abundance of egotism you display in setting yourself up as the preceptor of all whose good fortune it is to be your fellow-students. We heartily agree with you, however, in your assertion that, as a general thing, our college papers are ‘ more remarkable for their quantity than their quality.’ But there is a better time coming, we may be sure.”
We sincerely hope so. If our criticism had any
part in the manifest improvement in the Monthly we shall consider ourselves in a measure repaid for the censure it brings us. The duty of an Exchangeeditor is criticism; provided the criticism be just, and given in a gentlemanly manner, we think no one should complain of it. Thanks for your suggestion about our apparel, Mr. Monthly; but we have a tough hide, and don’t feel cold.
O	1	j
Books and Periodicals.
Original, Humorous and Dramatic Recitations for School, Public and Parlor Entertainments. Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4. By Eugene J. Hall, 11 Michigan av.: Chicago, Ill.
These “ recitations ” are published in a series of numbers in pamphlet form of some thirty pages each. They are the original productions of the publisher, Mr. Hall, and are well adapted for the purposes indicated by the title. They will be found of good service in elocutionary drill, as there is a pleasing variety in the pieces, providing useful exercise in the employment of the different kinds of voice to depict varying emotions of the-heart. It is the intention of the author to continue the series, four numbers of which are already published, and he deserves public encouragement in his work. The price of each number is 10 cents.
Catholic Christianity and Modern Unbelief. A plain and brief statement of the real doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church, as opposed to those falsely attributed to her by Christians who reject her authority, and by unbelievers in Revelation; that thus a Contrast may be easily drawn between the “Faith once delivered to the Saints,” and the conflicting Theories, and Scientific Guesses of the present Age; and serving as a Refutation to the assaults of modern Infidelity. By the Right Rev. Jas. D. Ricards, D. D., Bishop of Retimo, and Vicar Apostolic of the Eastern Vicariate of the Cape Colony. I2mo. Cloth, net, $1.00.
The Right Rev. Dr. Ricards left his native place, Wexford, Ireland, thirty-five years ago, to devote his life to missionary labors in South Africa. Years of experience, in “the vineyard of the Lord” together with an exceptional degree of learning and pious zeal have eminently qualified him for the production of a work which must be admitted to be singularly timely in view of the religious condition of the age in which we live. The great antagonist of the Church at the present time is, not P rotestantism, but a Rationalism “ in the presence of which,” it has been well said, “ Protestantism is like an iceberg gradually melting before the sun.” All who reflect upon the terrible consequences of the theories of rationalistic infidelity, as manifested by the experience of various countries within the past fifty years, will say that a work which will show minds the folly of their unbelief and check others in their headlong course towards this fatal condition, is, of all others, the one needed. Such a book is the one now before us by Bishop Ricards. The plan of the work is thus stated by the author:
“ I first endeavor to show what Catholic Christianity is as a whole, regarded from the point of view of a believer;
i88	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
how all its doctrines, mysteries, sacraments, worship, and practices, spring from a right understanding of the great mystery—God in the flesh; which forms the basis of all revealed religion. I then carefully eliminate this body of doctrine from the misunderstandings and misrepresentations to which it is commonly subjected, distinguish it from the doctrines of Christian sects, and explain fully these differences on the important questions of Justification, Free-will, Grace, and Predestination. If at times this leads me into the path of controversy, I have been careful to turn aside from the well-beaten track as soon a«s it was possible, satisfying myself with noting, in characters that cannot be mistaken'by ordinary intelligence, the essential marks of true Catholic teaching. When this has been effected, and Catholic Christianity stands forth in its dogmas and practices as I revere and love it, and as I believe it is revered and loved by the two hundred millions of my fellowCatholics throughout the world, I contrast its sublime grandeur, its venerable antiquity, and its unchanging truth with the fascinations of unbelief.”
The work is written in a plain, straight-forward manner, suited to the tastes of this country, and its logical method must carry conviction to the hearts of many, or, at least, set them thinking. The publishers have done their part well—sending out a book neatly bound, well printed and sold at a reasonable price.
—The danger of incidental harm to the comma-nity, or to certain classes of people, from the in-‘ creased use of machinery, the extension of public works, etc.,'is greatly diminished when those who make the laws, and especially those whose duty it is to interpret them, recognize that law is a progressive science; that it is a means, not an end; that when a state of things arises for which there is no precedent, a new precedent must be made. How the most enlightened jurists hold this principle constantly in view, and how the common as well as the statue law is thus made to keep pace with the general advance of civilization, is admirably set forth in the leading article in the North American Review for December, “ Labor and Capital before the Law,” by Judge T. M. Cooley, of Michigan. To the same number, William K. Ackerman contributes some suggestive “ Notes on Railway Management,” Dr. Schlieman tells what he found in his excavations of the ruins of Tiryns, in Southern Greece, and Principal Shairp supplements his scholarly article on “Friendship in Ancient Poetry,” with one on “Friendship in English Poetry.” The other articles in the number are, “ The British House of Lords,” by George Ticknor Curtis, and “ Responsibility for State Roguery,” by John F. Hume. • "	'
Personal.
—P. E. Terry, of ’80, is a successful physician at Silver Lake, Ind.	•
—Milton O. Rees, of ’68, is Deputy County Clerk at 'Rochester, Ind. -
—Geo. U. Buchanan (Com’l), ’72, is in the drug business, in Huntington, Ind.
—Robert C. Wallace (Com’l), ’68, has been elected Sheriff of Fulton Co., Ill. .
—B. F. Kratzer (Com’l), ’79, is in the jewelry business at Peru, Ind., and doing well.
—Charles A. Zaehnle (Com’l), ’80, holds the position of Deputy County Clerk at Joliet, Ill.
—Rev. E. F. McBarron, of ’63, is the popular and energetic Rector of Assumption Church, in Evansville, Ind.
—Thos. Hale (Com’l), ’79, is carrying on an extensive and lucrative business in the lumber trade at Bunker Hill, Ill.
— Sam. P. Terry (Com’l), ’72, paid a flying visit to Notre Dame, one day last week. He is now a successful Broker at Rochester, Ind.
—Rev. T. Barroux, the genial Pastor residing at Muskegon, Mich., and an old-time friend of Notre Dame, spent a few days with us during the week, the guest of Very Rev. Father Granger.
—F. W. Gallagher, A.B., of ’84, lately visiting friends in the West, passed through South Bend on the 15th, 011 his way to Boston. Being unable to stop off and visit the College, he sent a postal to Mr. Ewing, conveying regards to friends and Professors at the College.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin writes from Baltimore to his “Young Princes” at Notre Dame, and speaks of the grand ceremonial of the great Catholic National Council now in session. Owing to the great press of the work in which he is engaged, the letter of the Very Rev. Father is necessarily brief, but all at Notre Dame, in union with his youthful -proteges, are glad to hear of him, and his continued good health.
—The many friends of Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., for many years President of Notre Dame and now the efficient Pastor of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., are glad to hear that he has entirely recovered from his late illness. The church of which Father Corby has the parochial charge is said to be the largest and finest in the State. It was erected under his energetic administration, and will remain a monument to his zeal, as it is a pride to his congregation.
Local Items. _
—“ Peek-a-boo! ”	-
—O-we-go. Ta, ta!	.
—Look out for the noble Roman.
There’s room for no more.”(?)
—The Cecilians and Euglossians appear to-night.
—He said, “Duplex!” and still they did not let him in.
—Charley and Sam have returned from the future great. .	•
—Next Thursday is ThanksgivingDay; all may have “ rec.”
—The'famous “ Utica lunch” will be given tomorrow evening, o	-
—Master Sheley Jones, of St. Louis, Mo., is the latest arrival among the Minims.
—Prince Oscar is trying to find out if oranges grow in Baltimore, and if this is the season for them.	.
i,
5
t j
J,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	189
—If this fine weather continues we may expect to see the electric crescent placed in position before the end of the week.
—A beautiful statue of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception has been placed in the 'parterre behind the Presbytery.
—Lew. says he can out-wheel the best man on the road. That may be tested in 1888, Lewis de-ah. Till then, put your little barrow in the cell-ah.
—The altar-boys, accompanied by Mr. Thillman, their Director, and Mr. J. Scheier, C. S. C., enjoyed a pleasant excursion to St. Joseph’s Farm on last Thursday.
—The Athletic Club has been supplied with new sets of dumbells, Indian clubs, lifting machines, pounding bags, and other numerous gymnastic apparatus and appliances.
—The first volume of Mgr. Capel’s new work, “ The Faith of Catholics,” is missing from the Library. A favor will be conferred upon the Librarian by a prompt return of the same.
—Father Zahm exhibited several views of St. Edward’s Park and St. Edward’s Hall last Wednesday evening. The Princes, artistically grouped, added much to the beauty of the pictures.
—The writer of the “ Address for St. Cecilia’s Day ” was misinformed as to the time of the celebration. This fact will account for the reference to snow, which as vet is invisible to the naked eye.
—One of the paintings in the upper corridor is said to represent the Widow of Naim, but connoisseurs maintain that the costume is of too modern a character to suppose that any such personage was intended by the artist.
—Those interested in the verification of forecasts of the late Presidential election should read the article on “ Arithmomancy,” which appeared in the first number of the present volume of the Scholastic, wherein our astrologer again displayed his prowess.
—The 4th regular meeting of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held on Nov. 9th. Vocal and instrumental selections were given. Essays were read by L. Scherrer, and E. Berry. Recitations were delivered by Masters McPhee, O’Kane and Salman.
—McKinnery’s gold medal, which he won in the 100 yd dash has arrived, and the common opinion is that.it is a daisy. is-in the shape of a flat belt encircling- a shield, on which is inscribed his name and the race, while the belt bears the words Best record. He is very .proud of it.
—Mr. Blaine and Mr. Hendricks were both pleasantly and cordially entertained by Notre Dame University previous to the election. There could be no political significance attached to these visits, nor to the honors extended the distinguished guests. Notre Dame understands how to entertain.— Catholic Columbian.
—We have received a communication containing a number of items for our local columns, but as no name is given we must decline publishing it.
The only clue we have to the writer is the following pathetic remark, with which the communication concludes:	-	.
“ This is all, so good night, deer edditter. Youe’s until next weak.	,	_
—Blaine and Hendricks, each visited Notre Dame, during the campaign, and were treated with impartial courtesy. But we don’t suppose it made a single vote difference. The President presented them, to the students, not as partisans, but as examples of the opportunities which this country gives its youth of rising to eminence. —Ypsilanti Sentinel.	.
—One of the most exciting football games of the season was played on Thursday last week. This time Dick possessed the lucky color, Red, and claimed the victory in two straight goals. The men were better chosen and more evenly divided also, and therefore the fight was hard on both sides. After the game, the Blues succeeded in burying part of theii- disappointment in a large barrel of apples.	.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club took place Saturday, November Sth. Debate: “Protection vs. Free Trade.” Messrs. P. Howard, and J. Cartier spoke in favor of “Protection”; A. Willard and J. A. Hotaling ably depicted the grand benefits which would accrue to our glorious Republic were it once more directed by a “ Free Trade ” policv. J. Robert was admitted a member.
—Though no reports from the St. Stanislaus’ Philopatrian Society have been handed in for some weeks, they have continued to hold their regular meetings, the last two of which, held on the .3d and nth insts., were taken up with a Moot Court trial. Those who took part in the proceedings were: Masters P. Mullane, G. Tarrant, D. Tewks-berry, M. Luther, M. O’Kane, W. Morrison, W. Houlihan, F. Garrity, P. Morrison, E. Schmauss, O. Harring, W. Stange, L. Rose, A. Hoye, G. Cartier, and H. Ackerman.
—The 4th regular meeting of the Junior Athletic Club was held Nov. 13th, Mr. M. J. Regan presiding. There were nine applicants for membership, of whom seven were elected, as follows: E. Porter, J. Courtney, E. Ewing, C. Senn, G. Tarrant, D. Regan, D. Cartieri It is gratifying to know that the Juniors are not slow to take advantage of their present .opportunities for physical exercise .and development. The Club has now fortyeight members, and bids fair to become the most flourishing organization in the house.
—A valuable portrait in oil of Rt. Rev. Bishop Tyler, first incumbent of the see of Hartford, Conn., has been placed in “ Bishops’ Corridor.” This picture is the only portrait in existence of the saintly-prelate. It was painted from a daguerreotype taken in profile after the Bishop’s death. The prelate’s sister, a venerable religious, gave the artist a lock of her brother’s hair, and directions about the color of the eyes and face. Professor Grego ri has also painted a portrait of Rt. Rev. Dr. England, the first Bishop of the diocese of Charleston, S. C. • '
i9o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The St. Cecilian and Eusdossian Associations .	o
will erive their annual celebration of the Festival of St. Cecilia this (Saturday) evening, at y o’clock. The exercises will be conducted according to the following o
Programme:
Music—“Golden Leaf”........................F. Keller
N. D U.C. Band.
Address—“St. Cecilia Society”...........F.	Hagenbarth
Selections “From the Minims’ Musical Repertoire''’
F.	Crotty. W. McPhee, E. Berry, L. Scherrer, J. Piero, F. Cobbs, T. Mahon, F. Peck.
Dialogue—“The Pledge”.........W. Mulkern, G. Tarrant
Declamation—“The Toast”......................A. Hoye
“The Agitation Bill” (O’Connell)...........J- Ancheta
“The Spread Eagle”.........................P. Mullane
Music—“Overture to the Siege of Paris”. .(IF. S'. Ripley')
N. D. U. Orchestra.
“ The Soldier’s Pardon ”.................T.	Callaghan
“Erin’s Flag” (Father Ryan).............J.	Monschein
“The Captive”..............................H. A. Steis
“The Ship of Fate”.........................C. Mason
Duo—“What are the Wild Waves Saying?”... .(Glover) W. E. Ramsay and R. Stephens.
“The Gladiator”.......................  J.	J. Conway
“ Wolsey’s Farewell ”.....................J. Kleiber
“Howto Attend Conflagrations”.............A. Willard
Selection from Henry IV.................F.	W. Dexter
Musical Selection (piano and violin), Prof. Paul, R. Oxnard “McLaur’s Child”...........................C. Harris
“The Mariner”...........................J.	J. Garrity
“ Phenological Examination”...............T. Mathers
Selection from Mrs. Hernan’s works”....W. E. Ramsay La Foi—Trio (Rossini), W. E. Ramsay, R. Stephens,
G.	O’Kane, A. Marion, E. Crawford, A. Smith.
Serenade (Keller)....................N.	D. U. C. Band
Note.—Should time permit, and the entertainment take place in the Exhibition Hall, Act V, Scene I of “ Hamlet” will be given by Masters Monschein and Mason as ist and 2d Grave-Diggers, B. Wiley as “ Hamlet,” andR. Stephens as “ Horatio ”
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs.-Austin, Ancheta, Alvarez, Browne, Barbabosa, Bustillos, Felix Baca, Filadelfo Baca, Becerra, J. Baca, F. J. Baca, Burns, F. Burke, V. Burke, F. Browne, Breen, Callaghan, Conlon, Crilly, Crawford, F. Combe, Carabajal, Dory, De Groot, Donohue, Dexter, Dolan, Dickerson, Estrado, Ewing, Goulding, Gordon, Guthrie, Hamlyn, Halligan, Howard, Hausberg, Jess, Johnston, Kleiber, King, Kolars, J. Lechuga, Livingston, M. Lechuga, Letcher, McCabe, McMillian, McKinnery, G. Miller, Meyer, McErlaine, McCartney, Marquez, Mathers, C. Murdock, _S. Murdock, A. Miller, Noonan, J. P. O’Donnell, J. V. O’Donnell, O’Connell, Perley, C. Paschel, P. Proudhomme, J. Proudhomme, C. Porter, Piefer, Rothert, J. Ryan, Reach, Rice, Rivard, Rahilly, J. Smith, Sheridan, Steis, G. Smith, Troy, W. Williams, J. Wagoner, Wiley, Willard, A. Williams, White, Wilson, Warner, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	'■
Masters Arnold, Arts, Amoretti, - Adams, Borgschulze, Bearss, Baur, Congdon, Cummings, Chamberlain, Cava-roc, Cleary, Courtney, E. Dillon, O. Dillon, Dempsey, Donnellan, Daly, Darragh, Eppstein, Ewing, Finckh, Fisher, Flood, Frain, Fehr, Grunsfeld, L. Grever, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, Howard, Harring, Hieronimus, Hibbeler, Holman, Hagenbarth, Johnson, Kelly, Knisely, Kenny, Leoni, F..Long, Mulkern, W. Morrison, B, Morrison,. R. • Morrison; -Monschein, Myers, Mullane, Macke, Meehan, Oxnard,-O’Brien, Proudhomme, Regan, Real, Rose, Ratig
han, Rebori, Ruffing, Remish, Reynolds, Rogers, Robinson, Stubbs, Senn, Soden, Smith, Schmauss,* Shaw, Sed-berry, Tarrant, Vandercar, Wabraushek, W. Wagoner, P. Wagoner, Williamson, Cleveland. •
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters J. Addington, Ackerman, Boos, Berry, Bull, Barger, Comins. F. Dunford, G. Dunford, J. Doss, E. Doss, L. Doss, Ernest, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Grunsfeld, Henry, Haney, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Jones, Johns, Landenwich, McPhee, McVeigh, Morgan, J. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt, Mahon, Mason, McNulty, McGuire, Mooney, Nusbaum, Nester, O’Kane, J. Peck, Piero, Piel, Paul, Quill, Ramsey, Salman, Sweet, S. Jones, Scherrer, Stone, Shoneman, Weston.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. Rahilly, Murphy, Chapin, Austin, J. V. O’Donnell, C. Paschel, H. Paschel, Creel, J. Ryan, Noonan, E. Willard, Hamlyn, Wabraushek, Harris, Holman, Rufling, S. O’Brien, Berthelet, Myers, Rogers, Daly, Mullane. P. Johnson.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.	'
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. F. Long, Mullane, Rufling, Holman, Luther, Ratighan, Arts, Dougherty, Remish, Shaw, Darragh, Cooper, Letcher, Wagoner, Breen, O’Kane, Schaefer, White, Duffin, De Groot, Emmons, Creel, L. Kegel, McMillan, Marquez, Becerra, Ruppe, Troy. D. Baca, Sanchez, J. Hasson, Vandercar, Thurston, Zollars; Grammar—Messrs. Hamlyn, O’Brien, Congdon, E. Ewing, P. Johnson, Piefer, McArdle, Williamson, Baur, Rebori, Cartier, Eppstein, Schmauss, E. Dillon, Ratighan, R. Morrison, Warner, Leoni, Barnard, Soden, Dougherty, Rose, Oxnard, Flood, Senn, Zollars, Donnellan; Christian Doctrine—Messrs. Schmauss, M. O’Kane, W. Morrison; Arithmetic—Messrs. Macke, E. Benner, Rebori, E. Dillon, McCartney, Loomis, Dwan, T,roy, A Smith, Leoni, Reilley, Zollars, Dougherty, Donnellan, G. Hasson, Sanchez, Bates, Triplett, Zeitler, F. Meyer, Livingston, McArdle, Rivard, Marquez, Flood, Becerra, P. Proudhomme, McErlaine, ’Garcia, A. Williams, Ruffing, Mullane, Letcher, Noonan, Tully, Howard; Geography—Messrs. Hamlyn, P. Proudhomme, O. Ryan, McArdle, Triplett, G. Miller, W. Williams, Zeitler, Arts, O. Dillon, McCartney,^ Schaefer, Walter Collins, Troy, Lewis, Mullane, Menig, Tewksbury, Cooper, Wabraushek, Borgschulze, C. Brown, Dorenberg, E. Dillon, Fisher, Berthelet; United States History—Messrs. Hamlyn, McArdle, Dwan, W. Williams, G. Miller, O. Ryan, Triplett, Zeitler, Soden; Penmanship—Messrs. Quill, Flood, Remish, Monschein, Cavaroc, Clarke, Butterfield, McCourt, S. Nussbaum, Macke; Book-Keeping—Messrs. Creel, Marion, Noonan, Clarke, O’Brien; Algebra—Messrs. Harless, Ramsay; Latin—Messrs. E. Ewing, Wiley, V. Burke, Finckh.	'
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	■	'
- Arithmetic—Masters McPhee, Cobbs,Bunker,’McGuire, Rugee, Smith, C. Inderrieden,^Blakeslee, Kellner, H. Addington, R. Inderrieden; Reading—Masters E.. Kelly, Scherrer, O’Kane, Berry, Bull, Nussbaum, Peck, E. Doss; Geography—Masters Crotty, Comins, -Ernest, >Salman; .Grammar—Masters Henry, McVeigh.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JRary's Academy.
One Mile West at Notre Dame University.
—The Roman mosaic cross was won by Miss Maude Barr.
—At the regular reunion in -the Junior department the readers were the Misses Belle Snowhook and Lilly Trask.
—The monthly lecture before the St. Cecilia Society comprised a description of the old Arabic and Hebrew musical instruments.
—Books and other gifts to St. Edward’s Reading-Room are respectfully acknowledged. The name of the donor we would gladly reveal, but he modestly desires that it shall not be mentioned.
—The semi-weekly French conversations are lively and spirited. The Misses Bruhn, Call and Sheekey are to be commended for their interest and amiable endeavors to render these important meetings really improving to the numerous members of the French classes.
—To judge from the good notes received, the Directress of the Minim department should be proud of her studious little group. Fannie Spencer and Florence Johnson seldom, if ever, fall below 99 in studies; Dotty Lee and Bridget Murray, stand 98; Ella Blaine, at 96; Mary Lindsey, Alice Schmauss, and Sabra Van Fleet, 95.
—At the St. Agnes’ Literary Society reunion the excellent article on “ Valiant Women,” in the last Scholastic, furnished appropriate matter for the consideration of the members. Estelle Hagan gave a very clear and beautiful description of St. Peters, at Rome. Miss McSorley is deserving of mention for an accurate account of reading, etc.
—The Minims took a long ramble one day this week. After gathering pretty leaves and berries, they sat down in rural freedom, and a very kind friend provided the little party with a delightful feast. “The Princesses” as Father General prefers to call them, take this -occasion to thank all who thoughtfully contributed to their entertainment.	.
—The Christian Art Society was reorganized on Thursday.. .The meeting was held in St. Edward’s Reading-Room, and after a few remarks by the directress of the Art department, the members proceeded to the election of officers,with the following result: President, Miss Lizzie Sheekey; Vice-President, Miss Agnes English; Secretary, Miss Sarah Dunne; Treasurer, Miss Martha Munger, and Librarian, Miss Lora Williams.
—The literary societies were never more interesting or improving. Without exception, the members look forward to Tuesday’evening as one of the bright periods of the week. The whole world—time and space, art and literature, fact and fancy, —are laid under contribution to render the meetings entertaining as weir as useful. The in
terchange of ideas—questions proposed and answered, doubts suggested and canvassed, misunderstandings rectified, new reflections tipon old subjects—contribute to the fund of general information and exact knowledge on the part of all. The. Minims are so quiet and conduct themselves so admirably, that the members of St. Agnes’ Literary society are glad to welcome them every Tuesday evening.	'
—The exercise-books of the members of St. Mary’s Class of Phonography, having lately been submitted to the scrutiny of an expert in the mystic art of shorthand writing, we are glad to say that the report is a very favorable one. Most of the members of the class took their first lessons only the 1 st of Sept., and they now write the exercises in the supplement of the “ Teacher,” with much grace and accuracy. Before the close of the; first session they will, in allprobability, have mastered all the principles of the Phonographic art and be ready for the brief reporting style. The study is ;an exceedingly pleasant one, and the members of the Shorthand Class take great interest in their work. “ Thoroughness first, speed afterwards, as much as you will,” is the maxim, and the members of the class are satisfied that a good foundation is the only way to aquire a correct and rapid style of writing. The expert who examined the work of the class says that few phonographic exercises that he has seen were so remarkably free from the errors fallen into by most beginners. Some valuable hints on common errorsand the way to avoid them were given, by which the Phonography Class will endeavor to profit, and for which, we feel confident, they are thankful.
—A very generous friend has donated a fine lithograph of “The Madonna di Foligno” to St. Edward’s Reading-Room. Warm acknowledgments are gratefully tendered. To those who. may be unacquainted with the history of the original, it may be interesting to state that the complete picture embraces many figures. It was painted about 1516, by Raphael as a votive, offering on the part of the Secretary of Pope JuliusH, Sigimond Conti, in return for his miraculous preservation from death by a thunderbolt, in the city of Foligno. The picture in the reading-room presents but two figures—the Blessed Virgin and the Infant Jesus. To fully-understand the meaning: of the attitude of the latter, one must know the circumstances under which the Offering was designed. The Child Redeemer seems to be stepping down from the lap of His Mother and giving His command to the angelic messengers above and around them to stay the thunderbolt, which is seen falling on the city far beneath. The figures in the lower foreground of the original, now in the Vatican at Rome,—-though ordered for . the Church of Ara Coeli—are; prominently in front,.a child-angel standing with a tablet in his hands. At his left are the Secretary Sigimond Conti and St. Jerome. On his right are St. John the Baptist and St. Francis of Assissium. Many pupils of St. Mary’s visit “ abroad ’’ after leaving the-insti-
192
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tution. It stands them in hand to carefully note descriptions like the above, as they may be the means of adding real interest to their trans-Atlantic tours.
Avoid Extremes.*
While we would be far from reviving the strait-laced pretensions of puritanic sobriety—that is to say the hypocritical affectation of virtue—we would in no wise adopt as an offset the opposite extreme which excuses even the flagrant abuse of good manners and decency on the pretence of avoiding prudish and uncalled-for restrictions.
To do an evil or a heartless act cannot find a pali-ation in the plea, “ I did it only for sport;” It was for sport that Nero set fire to and desolated Rome. Is he a worthy model? To turn another into ridicule because she is not up to one’s standard of beauty, grace, or polish of manners, proves that the first principles of good manners and culttire have yet to be learned; that, if one be possessed of exterior grace and beauty, the awkwardness and ungainly features of the soul, make her far more pitiable than the victim.
To monopolize conversation may convince your auditors that you can speak fluently, and that you are not timid in the least, but, at the same time, it will prove that the lessons of politeness you may have taken, have been wasted on you. She converses most perfectly, who by her amiable consideration for the feelings of others, sets her associates so much at ease, that all take part in the conversation and all are made happy. She ignores no one. Adroitly she fathoms the capacity of the shrinking tyro in the art of expression, and before the evening is over, all are charmed with the intelligence of one, perhaps, who had been set down as decidedly lacking in social tact and brilliant powers. It is not she who attracts most attention to herself who is most useful in the social circle. It is she who quietly contributes to the kind feeling and good understanding of all.
* From St. Mary's Chimes.
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF. RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly, I. Alcott, M. Bruhn, M. Blair, N. Brady, E. Call, C. Cox, L. Carney, C. Congdon, C. Ducey, S. Dunne, A. Dwan, M. Dillon, E. Donnelly, A. Donnelly, B. English, M. Fuller, C.Fehr,J.Foster, M. Fisk, A. Gordon, A. Gordon, B. Gove, C. Ginz, O. Griffith, C. Griffith, M. Hale, B. Heckard, L. Hayes, L. Hutchinson, B. Kearney, N. Kearns, C. Lang, M. Munger, T. McSorley, A. McSorley, N. Myler, J. McHale, M. Morse, Ei O’Connell, H. Ramsey, E. Rose, M. Reinholdt, D. Reynolds, M. Scully, K. Scully, L. Sheekey, A. Schidler, M. Shea, M. Schmidt, E. Taylor, C. Torrent, L. Walsh, E. Walsh, A. White. 2d Tablet—Misses L. Blaine, F Car-mien, N. Danforth, D. Fitzpatrick, A. Heckard,' F. Henry, E. Schultz, S. St Clair, L. St. Clair, A. Shephard.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses N. Brojvri, O. Boyen, M. Barr, A. High, F. Hertzog, A. Malbreuf, L. Norris, E. Preston, C. Proudhomme, C. Richmond, G. Regan, N. Sheekey, B. Snowhook, G.. Stadtler, H. Stumer, M. Smith, Margaret Smith, G. Searls, L. Trask, L. Van Horn. 2d Tablet— Misses M. McEwen, A. Keyes, M. Murphy.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Chapin, F. Johnson, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, B. Murray, F. Spencer, A. Schmauss, S. Van Fleet. 2d Tablet—Misses Burtis, L. Johns, Lee.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Ginz, Gove, Call, Dunne, Sheekey, Ramsey.
ist Senior Class—Misses Keenan, Munger, Heckard, Carney, Danforth, L. St. Clair, Barlow.
2D Sr. Class—Misses Congdon, C. Griffith, Horn, Kearney, Fuller, Wolvin, Dillon, A. Donnelly, Adderly, Hale, Helpling, Kearsey, C. Scully, A. Murphy, Sheekey, McHale, O’Connell, Shepherd.
3D Sr. Class—Misses B. Heckard, T. McSorley, Brady, C. Cox, Fehr, Kearns, Rose, Alice Gordon, B. English, Carmien, Schmidt, Adelaide Gordon, M. Scully, Richmond, Eisenstadt, Fisk, Taylor, Hayes, Regan, Snowhook, Trask, High, Van Horn.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses L. Blaine, A. McSorley, G. Stadtler, M. Cox, F. Hertzog, Margaret Smith, Reynolds, Blair, Hutchinson, Dwan, Barry, Lauer, Mal-bceuf, Brown, Haney, Stumer, A. English.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Shea, McEwen, Norris, Searls, Quill, Schmauss, Murray, A. White, M. Murphy, Torrent, Ryan, E. Walsh.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses E. Hagen, Spencer. Lindsey, Burtis.
ist Jr. Class—Misses Johnson, Blaine, Boyer, Preston, Van Fleet.
2D Jr. Class—Misses Lee, V. Johns.
book-keeping.
ist Class—Misses Fitzpatrick, A. Heckard, Kearney, O’Connell, Cummins.
2D Class—Misses Wolvin, Dillon, Morrison, Regan, Alcott, L. Blaine, Hayes, Foster.
3D Class—Misses O. Griffith, Carmien, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, Newman, Keyes, Torrent, McHale, Reynolds, Dwan, M. Scully, Murdock.
phonography.
Misses Kearsey,’ Searls, Alcott, M. Scully, Myler, M. Adderly.
■ LATIN.
Misses L. Blaine, Helpling, Trask, C. Scully.
french.
ist Class—Misses Bruhn, Call, L. Sheekey.
2.d Class—Misses E. O’Connell, Barlow, Adderly, C. Griffith, Malboeuf.
3D. Class—Misses Richmond, Snowhook, Van Horn.
4TH Class—Misses McSorley, Faxon, Kearns, Cummins, Lang, E.. Sheekey, Kearsey, Norris, Hertzog, B. English, Campeau, McEwen.
5TH Class—Misses Johnson, Murray, Chapin, Proudhomme.
german.
ist Class—Miss Ginz.
2D Div.—Misses Horn, Fehr, Reinholdt.
3D Class—Misses Kearney, Rose, Taylor, Danforth, Schultz, Eisenstadt, Henry. . •	'
4TH Class—Misses Congdon, Myler, M. Cox, C. Cox, Schidler, Lauer, Stadtler, Carmien, Lang, A. Donnelly, N. Donnelly, McHale. . /
5th Class—Misses-Dillon, Blair, Dwan, E. Blaine, Smith,,L. Johns..	„