^he S^otre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
.............................................................................iiiHimiimiiiiiini
			
THE STAFF
' FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT -	-	-	- Managing Editor
GEORGE COLLINS -	-	- Navy Associate Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH ----- Sports Editor JAMES F. McCarthy -	-	- Feature Editor
COLUM N ISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
LOUIS ALMASI ----- The Crow's Nest ARTHUR MOSHER, RAY FRANKLIN - - - The Shillelagh JACK STEWART ----- The Green Banner ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE	RALPH HAYMAN
JACK TINKLE	JOE LANG
BILLY SLA VICK	FRANK TYCHSEN
GERARD HEKKER	DAVE OLSON
PAUL ABRAHAM	JUSTIN CICCONETTI
JOE RENINGER	JOHN C. THOMAS
W. O. MILLER	JAMES JOHN
JIM REGAN	BILL PFAFF
JAMES BURNS	DAVE WARNER
SAMUEL HAZO	JOHN GUNTHER
PAUL RAGAN	BILL BRAUN
ROGER CAHANEY	'	RUDY SCHREITMUELLER
JACK HUMMEL	WALTER S. BUNKER
JAMES FERSTEL -	-	-	- Photography
ARTHUR COUGHLAN -	-	- Circulation Manager
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI -	- Faculty Advisor
M. E. VARGA _	_	_	_ Advertising .
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
2	■	.
EDITORIAL
A Stitch in Time . . .
The old saying that a “stitch in time saves nine” is still a very worthwhile label of life. Repititious usage has not diminished its homespun practicality. At any rate, awareness of it at the appropriate time could have saved Notre Dame much embarrassment and the unedifying sensationalism of last Tuesday at the dining halls would not have occurred. There is another time-tried bit of wisdom to the effect that “one shouldn’t cry over spilled milk.” But inasmuch as a below-the-belt blow has been dealt to the spirit of Notre Dame through strong-arm methods and subsequent unfortunate publicity, it is wise to review causes and to comment on the interplay of motives.
That service at the dining halls was not up to par and that the menu was consistently unimaginative, no one denies. To anyone accustomed to the plentifulness of meals at Notre Dame before the war, the recent economizing on milk, the perennial noodles, the heterrogenous messing up of ice-cream and gravy, the omnipresent refuse wagons, were an abomination. That the student body had a right to demand that these be corrected within reason, no one challenges. But one has a right to challenge the type of mass pressure used to rush up the application of remedies.
It is assumed that Notre Dame has an efficient S. A. C. It is also assumed that it should act as the only official intermediary between the student body and responsible authority on all occasions of emergency. To carry a problem to someone who is either incapable or unwilling to cope with it, or who . at best is but an employee of the University, is like carrying coals to Newcastle. Weeks ago tension among the students could have been sensed. In the face of so impressive a crisis, the S. A. C. should have gone directly to the top of the Administration and there intelligently and maturely have presented its case. Then it could be reasonably expected that immediate, effective and authoritative action would have fol- ■ lowed. At any rate, a satisfactory explanation could have been obtained for this impasse in reconversion at the dining halls. In the event of weak representation, sensationalism germinates freely.
By now a large percentage of our friends know that Notre Dame, noted far and wide for its spirit, its unity, and the capacity to take it in a pinch, has had a food strike. Newspapers and the radio have blown up the story out of proportion. It is to be regretted, however, that our outside friends have not first-hand opportunity to witness the hag- , gard faces here, the gaunt, accordion-like structure of flanks, the bodies swaying pitifully in the wind, the ominous death rattle! The prestige of the school has been hurt. But scartissue will form and the school will be strong as ever. But one hopes that the strikers will remember who gave this un-kindest cut of all. There is an oblique redemption in the 1 admission of being wrong.	|
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1017. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 86
DECEMBER 14, 1945
No. 5
Inter-American Affairs Clubs Meet Here
All students attending the conference were served special meals in the upper dining rooms of the Notre Dame Dining Halls. Priests at left are the Rev. Wm. Cunningham, C.S.C., and the Rev. Frederick Goddard, M.M., of Notre Dame.
Outstanding delegates (left to right): Edgardo Cordoba, Ernest McCullough, Frank Foss, Robert Hasset of Loyola, Ethel Dignon of Mundelin, Janet Cunningham of Rosary, Margarita Escabar of St. Xavier and Thomas Murray.
Last Saturday and Sunday, the annual meeting of the Commission on InterAmerican Affairs Club, Chicago area, was held on the Notre Dame campus.
Following the registration Saturday afternoon, the delegates repaired to the Law Auditorium at 4:30 o’clock, where the first business session was held. “America’s Part in the United Nations Organization” was the theme of this conference.
Having been formally opened by Robert Hassett, of Loyola University, chairman of the Commission, John Powers, president of the Notre Dame Student Council, gave the welcoming address on behalf of the University. Joan E. Closs, of the International Relations Club, St. Francis College, Fort Wayne, then spoke on Anglo-America’s part in UNO. “Unity through Education” was the title of her talk. Latin-America’s part was taken by Lorenzo Medrano, University of Chicago. A question-and-answer period followed.
-- • Sunday morning, after Mass in Dillon Hall Chapel, a second business meeting was held. A quiz match between a Notre
Dame team made up of Frank Foss, Eduardo Cordoba, and Ernie McCullough, and a team composed of Ethel Dignon, of Mundelein College, Margarit Escubar, of St. Xavier College, and Janet Cunningham, of Rosary College, was the feature of the meeting.
Following Benediction in Our Lady’s Chapel, the session closed -with a meeting of the Executive Committee and faculty advisers in the Notre Dame cafeteria on Sunday afternoon.
Some 200 delegates from colleges and universities in the Chicago area attended the meeting.
Father Wm. Cunningham, C.S.C., professor of education at Notre Dame has been instrumental in the organization of the Inter-American Affairs Commission. Much interest has been stimulated in the student bodies of colleges and universities in this area.
Inter-American Officers
At its first meeting of the semester, the Inter-American Affairs Club elected the following officers: Frank Foss, presi
dent; Rolando Duarte, vice president; and Joe Di Spigo, secretary-treasurer.
The Club meets the first and third Monday of each month at 5:15 p. m., in Room 1 of the Law Building. An invitation is out for new members. Interviews for membership are .conducted at the meetings.
MASS CLUB CALENDAR
FRIDAY—Vigilary Preparation for the Third Sunday of Advent—7:15 p.m.—Cavanaugh Hall Chapel.
SATURDAY — Dialogue Mass — Octave of the Immaculate Conception — Blessed Virgin ChapeL Sacred Heart Church — 6:50 ajn. sharp.
SUNDAY — Mass Club Round Table on the Liturgy—Beginners* Group, 11:00 a.m. Advanced Group, 7:15 pun. Architecture Bldg. Library.
Any member of the student body interested in knowing something about the Liturgy of the Church is invited to attend any or all of these meetings.
3
NROTC PROGRAM CHANGED
Navy V-12 Bulletin No. 336, recently released, outlined a complete change in the NROTC program. Until the present time the trainees enrolled, under this program have attended college with the Navy paying their tuition and providing for their living facilities as well as paying them a monthly salary. If the individual trainee wishes .to remain in the NROTC program after March 1, 1946, he will have to assume the foregoing expenses himself, and will be permitted to attend any college he wishes, providing that he is entirely acceptable to the academic authorities of the institution that he desires to attend.
While attending college, the men will be placed on inactive duty and at the completion of their training will be commissioned as ensigns. The trainees who do not wish to continue in the program will be transferred to general service and will remain in this category until they have acquired enough points to qualify for discharge.
A total of eight college terms, including 24 hours of naval science subjects, must be completed by each trainee before he is commissioned. After commissioning, former trainees may be ordered to active duty, if their services are needed, or if they do not have sufficient points for a discharge. '	.
A plan was recently submitted to the Secretary of the Navy by a board of officers and civilian educators, headed by Rear Adm. James L. Holloway, which would enable the Navy to obtain a large number of officers from the NROTC program. The plan falls into four categories: (1) to increase the Naval Academy to 6,000; (2) to enroll 17,000 men in NROTC courses in 52 colleges in the United States; (3) to effect appointments to full Navy commissioned status of selected men from any college accredited; (4) to enroll 7,000 men at Federal expense at any accredited college for basic schooling in naval aviation.
The selection of the stndents for the NROTC program would be made on the basis of a nation-wide Navy-administered examination. The board recommended payment by the Navy for tuition, books, laboratory fees, and uniforms, plus §50 a month for expenses for all students concerned.
It is believed that the Secretary of the Navy approved of this plan, for in the bulletin announcing the change in the present policy of the NROTC program, appeared this statement: “Trainees who retain their enrollment in the ROTC on
4 ■
inactive duty status and remain fully qualified in all respects for further training, will be eligible for any benefits which Congress may approve for the permanent peacetime NROTC. Recommendations of the Navy Department, which will soon be presented to Congress, include payment by the Navy of all tuition charges and §50 per month to each trainee. It is hoped that the new legislation may be put into effect at the beginning of the next fiscal year, 1 July 1946.” If this legislation is approved, trainees that enter the program in March on an inactive status will have to stand the expenses of their tuition for one term only.
Sixteen N. D. Men
Listed in Who's Who
Sixteen Notre Dame students will be listed in the 1945-46 edition of Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges. Conceived twelve years ago with the idea of creating one national basis for recognition of college students, the publication makes its selection from names submitted by each university on a basis of scholarship, leadership in extra-curricular activities, and potentiality for future usefulness to business and society. Juniors, seniors, and students in advanced work are eligible.
The Notre Dame students whose biographies will appear in the collegiate Who’s Who are John Powers, Frank Bradley, Frazier L. Thompson, Edward Marshall, John J. Morrison, George Ratterman, Francis J. Dancewicz, Robert E. Lee, Jerome W. Wayno, Frank Grimaldi, Edward T. Mieszkowski, John A. Schneider, Donald L. Toker, William Tully, John Castelli, and James A. Egan.
MAIL EARLY FOR CHRISTMAS
As in past years, the Post Office Department asks your cooperation in mailing Christmas letters and parcels on or before December 15. Those students who intend to mail clothes or other things they plan to use during the holidays should also be guided by this date. Do not wait until the 19th or 20th of December because parcel post mail may take six or eight days.
Postmaster, Notre Dame, Ind.
Campus Variety Show
Being Staged Tonight
An all-campus variety show, bringing to light hidden Notre Dame talent, was held last night in Washington Hall, as funnybone ticklers Jack Galloway and Frank Kowalski made their debut here as producers of informal comedy. By popular demand, the entire show will repeat tonight at 8:00 p. m. in the Washington Hall Auditorium, and will be free of charge to all those who care to attend.
Featured on the hour-and-a-half program of comedy, patter and music, are Joe Flood and John McGuire who collaborate on ballads and ditties from the Emerald Isle. Outstanding for their unique and clever novelty act are Tom Potter, Frank Gilhooley, and Bill Hassett, who do a tricky take-off on the Andrews Sisters. From time to time throughout the performance, “Smiling” Ray Chamberland trips across the footlights in his BTO jacket to give a series of well-timed imitations, packed with punch and spontaneous wit. The musical background for the show is provided by Bob Olcese and his Cavaliers.
Watercolors by Wrobel Appear in Library
The water-color exhibit of Joseph Wrobel, which has been on display at the YWCA since last Sunday, has been transferred to the library on the campus of the University of Notre Dame.
Mr. Wrobel’s exhibit, sponsored by the Chopin Fine Arts Club, was transferred to the University library last Wednesday and will remain there during next week.
Mr. Wrobel exhibited his water colors at the Hoosier Salon, the Art Institute in Chicago, the Pittsburgh Museum of Art in Missouri, and the Kenne Bunk Museum in Maine. He studied in the Chicago Art Institute and the O’Hara Water Color School, Goose Rocks, Maine.
Navy Supports Fund
The naval units based at the University of Notre Dame have set §500 as a tentative goal for donations to the local Community Fund. Each officer and trainee has signed a pledge indicating the amount which he intends to give. The money will be collected today when the trainees are paid.
To. attain the §500 goal the average donation would have to be §0.82. It is hoped, however, that the average donation will exceed this amount.
Hackner Family Donates New Altar for Sorin Hall in Memory of Deceased Son
The new altar in Sorin Hall Chapel was dedicated last Saturday, the feast of the Immaculate Conception. The altar, a gift of the Hackner family of LaCrosse, Wis., is a memorial to Ens. James Robert Hackner, ’42, U.S.N.R., who was killed in action in the Bay of Naples on December 2, 1943.
Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, sang the dedicatory High Mass which was attended by Mr. George Hackner, the father of Ensign Hackner, and by Mr. Aug-
Celebrating Mass at the new altar is the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Vice-president of Notre Dame
ust Grams, ’28, a close friend of the family. Also in attendance were students, from LaCrosse, representatives from Sorin Hall, and veterans of World Wai’ II. Father William Craddick, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion, gave the dedicatory sermon.
The altar is the creation of designers and woodworkers of the Hackner Co., nationally-known church furnishing designers. Liturgical in style and furnishings, the altar is of black walnut. The central design is a magnificent crucifix which was fashioned by one of the woodcarvers of Oberammergau, the famous Passion Play center. A canopy, which reaches 14 feet above the floor, covers the altar.
Frequent Communion, for which Notre Dame has become renowned, received its impetus through the facilities offered in Sorin Hall Chapel. This Communion theme is symbolized in the altar by a pelican feeding its young.
THE HACKNER MEMORIAL ALTAR A Gift of the Hackner Family in Remembrance of
Ens. James Robert Hackner, '42, U.S.N.R., La Crosse, Wisconsin, Born April 16, 1920 Killed in Action in the Bay of Naples, Italy December 2, 1943
Pray For Him
Ft. Wayne Region of NFCCS Meets Here
The Fort Wayne Region of the National Federation of Catholic College students assembled last Saturday in the Rockne Memorial Lounge for its first Regional Council meeting of the 1945-46 school year. Regional president Frank Grimaldi of Notre Dame presided as delegates from the six schools comprising the region were in attendance.
The various commissions submitted reports of their activities to the group and the feasibility of a merger with the Chicago region was discussed. It was demonstrated that for the time being, a merger was not practical. Two new commissions were created. One on Inter-Racial problems was acquired by Aquinas College of Grand Rapids, Mich., and a commission on Family Life was granted to St. Francis College of Fort Wayne. It was decided that the regional presi-• flent-and vice-president Virginia Namee of "Nazareth College would represent the Fort Wayne Region at the National Council meeting at St. Louis, Dec. 28 and 29.
The member schools in attendance were Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, Mich.; St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Ind.; Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich.; St. Francis College, Fort Wayne, Ind.;. St. Joseph College, Collegeville, Ind.; and the University of Notre Dame. Also present were Rev. Arthur F. Bukowski of Aquinas, Rev. S. H. Ley, C.PP.S. of St. Joseph College, and Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., and Rev. William C. Craddick, C.S.C., Regional Chaplain, of Notre Dame. Delegates from Notre Dame were Ralph Hayman and George Igel.
Glee Club Makes Trip;
Will Sing Yule Carols
The first off-campus concert for the Glee Club this semester was given at Marion, Ind., on Dec. 2, when a group of 25 traveled there to sing at a memorial service held by the Elk’s Lodge. After the service, the Glee Club sang an informal concert in the lounge of the club rooms. The audience expressed thorough enjoyment in the program.
On Tuesday afternoon, an octette from the Glee Club, directed by Bob Schneider, gave a special concert at a party held in South Bend by the wives of the lay faculty of Notre Dame.
Radio Station WHOT of South Bend inaugurated on Wednesday night a series of choral music to be given by various musical organizations in this area. The Notre Dame Glee Club was asked to sing on the initial program and a group of about 25 under the direction of Director Daniel H. Pedtke, gave a special concert of Christmas and sacred music over the aii- on Wednesday night.
In accordance with a long-established custom, the entire Glee Club will tour the campus one night this coming week and sing familiar Christmas carols so much loved by everyone.
WRITING CONTEST
A $1,500 writing contest, open to all college students, has been announced by "Tomorrow" magazine. First prizes of $500 each will be awarded to the writers of the best article, and $250 to the second place winners.
Choice of subject matter is left to the discretion of the contestants, and the length of manuscripts may range from 2.500 to 5,000 words. The board of judges includes Allen Tate of the University of the South; Prof. William Blackburn of Duke University; Stringfellow Barr, president of St. John's College; and Dr. Elizabeth Manwaring of Wellesley College. The contest closes May 1.1946.
Entries should be mailed to College Contest. "Tomorrow," 11 East 44th St., New York 17, N. Y. The notation "Entry for College Contest" along with the name and address of the contestant must appear on the envelope and also on the first page of each manuscript and return postage must also be included. AU manuscripts, whether or not they receive awards, will be considered for publication in “Tomorrow" magazine.
5
"The Religious Bulletin" a Campus Publication for Twenty-four Years
It was as bright as a new nickel on that fall day during Mission Week in 1921. But for the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., now Bishop of Buffalo but then the prefect of religion, the clouds were all drab and not a whit of silver lining to be seen anywhere, for he was thinking of ways and means to call the students’ attention to certain irregularities he had noticed in the previous few days.
The first copy of the Religious Bulletin was born that fall day. A few copies were printed and placed on bulletin boards around the campus. Other irregularities brought out a second issue the next day, and the next. Then suddenly it stopped. Students immediately clamored for more.
For the first few years only about a dozen copies were printed daily. In 1929, about 300 were printed—20 for the bulletin boards and the remainder for priests and professors to comment upon in class.
In 1930 came the era of mimeographed copies and the delivery of a copy to each individual student. The following year alumni began receiving the Bulletin delivered free to their homes.
Today, there are approximately 5,500 copies prepared daily for the residents and the mailing list. It is mailed to nonCatholics, to seminaries, to men in the armed services, to Catholic high schools throughout the nation, to Newman clubs at various state universities, and to seven foreign universities. West Point and the Naval Academy are also on the mailing list. Parts of the Bulletin have been reprinted in Chinese, and in Spanish at various points in South America and the Philippines.
During its 24 years of existence, the Bulletin has had only five editors—Bishop O’Hara, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., the Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C., and its present very able and indefatigable editor, the Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., who is Notre Dame’s Prefect of Religion.
Each day’s mail is heavy and varied, and requests for aid are numerous: one letter included the request from an Army chaplain for the Bulletin and added obliquely that “Notre Dame seldom lost to Army, but it lost Bishop O’Hara.” An alumnus wanted a list of books and pamphlets to answer “a man he met on the train.” Another pleaded for means to convert his non-Catholic girl.
Then there was the letter from a
pretty co-ed in a Texas college telling how she used to get the Bulletin indirectly because her parsimonious boy-friend wrote her letters on the back. Once Father Lynch received a request to settle all the world’s problems “on the enclosed postcard.” Finally, there came the morbid letter from a man who understood that medical schools bought bodies for experiments, and wanted Notre Dame’s highest terms for his!
Baldinger is Second
Student-Prof Speaker
The Catholic Action Club will present Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, dean of the College of Science, as the speaker for its second meeting in the Rockne Lounge, December 17, at 7:30 p. m. He has chosen as his subject “Modern Nutrition.” Dr.
Dean Baldinger
Baldinger has had much experience in medicine and drugs and is well qualified to answer questions, which may arise during the discussion following the talk.
These smokers, informal gatherings of the students and prominent professors, are held in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. Their purpose is to aid in cementing student-professor relationships and to benefit the students by personal contacts with campus authorities in scholastic fields. Throughout the semester these get-togethers will take place every Monday evening in the Lounge with a well-qualified professor presenting some timely subject. All students are invited to attend.
Wranglers Begin
Winter Activities
The Wranglers of Notre Dame opened their activities for the winter semester with a meeting on Wednesday evening, Nov. 28.
The first paper to be presented to the club was delivered that night by Frank Grimaldi, junior architecture student, who spoke on the atomic bomb and the diplomatic complexities it has unloosed. He introduced some of the more provocative statements made by outstanding statesmen since the release of the bomb. A lively discussion followed the delivery of the talk.
Bill Carey, of Mattapan, Mass., senior student in the College of Arts and Letters, was selected by Wranglers to the club presidency, following the resignation of Luis Beltranena of Guatemala, who is carrying a particularly heavy schedule in the Graduate School this semester and had to resign for that reason.
On Dec. 5 the Wranglers held a business meeting to discuss various club matters. Plans are under way to write a new constitution, and a commitee on the sponsorship of interhall debating was set up. Mr. Frank O’Malley, professor of English, is the faculty moderator for Wranglers.
Because membership in the club is limited, there will be no interviews for new members until later in the semester.
Fr. Cunningham Travels
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., Ph.D., professor of education at Notre Dame, reported on the questionnaire on provision for higher and lower ranking students before the Indiana Conference on Higher Education held in Indianapolis on Saturday, December 1st.
Father Cunningham also attended the meeting of the board of review of the North Central Association held in Chicago on December 7th; he also attended the meeting of the executive committee of the association on December 8th.
History Prof Returning
Lieut. Devere Plunkett was separated from the Army Air Corps, Thursday, December 13, and will be back at Notre Dame to take over his history classes early next week. Lieutenant Plunkett served as an instructor while in the Air Corps.
6
K of C Initiation and Xmas Party, Dec. 17
A highly important meeting of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus Council will be held next Monday night, Dec. 17, in the South Bend Council Chambers, beginning at 7:30. This meeting will include the exemplification of the rites of the First Degree into the order in which those men on the campus who have submitted their applications before Sunday will be initiated. Following the First Degree initiation, the council will hold a short business session which will be followed by the council Christmas party, with food, drinks and entertainment galore.
The offices of the Notre Dame Council have been re-installed in the council chambers in the basement of Walsh hall and are open from 3:00 to 5:00 every weekday afternoon. Men on the campus may procure or present initiation forms at the office or may make inquiries concerning the council during the described hours.
On Sunday, Dec. 9, 12 Notre Dame men were initiated into the Second and Third Degrees of the order. Those receiving the rites were: Rev. Frederick C. Goddard, M.M., Jerome W. Wayno, Matthew J. Siedlecki, George A. Kennard, William E. O’Neil, George F. Meltzer, George La Buda, Francis J. Reyes, Leonard J. Aull, Ernest McCullough, Julian Mahany and Gerald E. Carroll. The initiation was held in St. Joseph’s school in South Bend, and a team from Grand Rapids, Mich., performed the ceremonies. Supper was served the men in the Bronzewood room of the Oliver hotel on Sunday night.
The officers of the Notre Dame council held a business meeting in the Walsh Hall offices on Thursday, Dec. 6. Grand Knight Robert E. Sullivan presided and a detailed discussion of plans for the year was held. Announcement was made that the main chambers of the council club rooms are being reconditioned and renovated, following their occupancy by the navy midshipman school. Because of difficulties in securing carpenters and workmen, the chambers will not be ready for the grand opening until after the holidays. Plans being outlined for the council during the next two semesters include: the reappearance of the Santa Maria, the council publication; the staging of the annual Spring formal dance; the formation of a degree team for the First Degree rites; the revival of the K. of C. sports program, including basketball, bowling and golf; the establishment of a memorial program in honor of council members lost in the
Student Council Roster for Winter Term
The Scholastic herewith presents the roster of men on the Student Council for the winter semester, 1945-46. Two men were elected by last semester’s Council to assume positions on this semester’s Student Council; eight were elected at large to represent the residence halls
F ear	Name
4 Charles Bartlett........
3 Brendan O’Grady.........
4 William Carey...........
4 John Cauley.............
4 Robert Rossiter.........
1 Thomas C. Murray........
1	Joseph H. Clancy.......
1	John D. Johnson........
1 Donald Daluga...........
4 John Lindsey............
4 Clyde Goebel............
4 James D. Sullivan.......
4	Brendan Biggert........
4	Thomas Schrieber.......
4 John J. O’Neill.........
3 John St. Germain........
Representing
Arts and Letters.. Old Council.... Walsh Hall................. Old Council.... Sorin Hall........ Cavanaugh Hall.... St. Edward’s Hall___ Zahm Hall.........._ Breen-Phillips Hall_
V-12 Unit........ N.R.O.T.C. Unit.. Badin Hall.......—......... College of Commerce........ College of Science.. College of Engineering..... Alumni Hall......
Student Council Elects
Officers for Semester
The Student Council has settled down to the importan business of the semester after the confused elections which saw two cabinets officiate within the same week.
On Dec. 3 the Student Council elected Rudy Lopez president, Richard Cronin vice-president, and John Lindsey, secretary. After the election had taken place, however, it was disclosed that Lopez, Cronin, and William Gompers, representative from Dillon Hall, were ineligible to hold seats on the Council because of scholastic technicalities. The election was declared invalid and a new slate of officers was voted in on Dec. 5.
Charles Bartlett was elected president in the second balloting, Brendan O’Grady, vice-president, William Carey, secretary, and John Lindsey, senior member of the executive committee. The two vacancies in the executive committee will be filled at the next meeting.
war, including Communion breakfasts and series of Masses; and the rebirth of the hilarious Knights vaudeville shows.
At the Dec. 6 meeting, 18 applications for membership were read and approved. With the influx of veterans on the Notre Dame campus, some 35 men were added to the council’s membership this semester.
(Alumni’s representative is pending); the V-12 and RO units each have one representative; and four men were selected by the deans to represent the various colleges of the University.
Representatives from the College of Law and the Villagers are still pending.
Home Town
Cuba City, Wis. New York City Boston, Mass. New Hartford, N. Y. Brooklyn, N. Y. Dunellen, N. J. Arlington, Mass. Lead, S. Dak.
Waukegan, Ill. Chicago, Ill. Alma, Kans. Helena, Mont. Columbus, Ohio Detroit, Mich, Marshall, Okla. Montclair, N. J.
N. D. SYMPHONY
After several years of absence from the campus scene, the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra has been re-organized this semester, under the direction of Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music.
In peacetime days, the Symphony Orchestra enjoyed an excellent reputation; all its concerts were eagerly awaited and thoroughly enjoyed by appreciative au-
diences. Consisting mainly of stringed instruments, the Orchestra interests itself in classical music.
Mr. Pedtke says that regular practice sessions have begun, on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, and he is delighted with the interest shown by the members. He feels very confident that the Symphony Orchestra will again be able to take its place as one of the leading musical organizations in this area.
The Orchestra, however, is still in need of more members for the string sections. Any student who is familiar with the violin, viola, cello or bass and who is interested in becoming a member of the organization should see Mr. Pedtke, after practice sessions which begin at 6:30 p.m., or at his office in music hall.
7
Notre Dame Radio Club is Presenting I Three Weekly Shows on Local Stations
BY JACK HUMMEL
During the past few semesters, the Radio Club has gained momentum at Notre Dame. Part tryouts by both old and new students have increased steadily since the war ended'.
At the beginning of each semester, Radio Club Bulletins are posted in each of the halls requesting all those who wish to gain a little experience in the techniques of radio to report at the Washington Hall studios for an audition. The response to these notices has been very encouraging.
This semester, the Radio Club is presenting a series of broadcasts entitled “The Melting Pot,” over station WHOT every Thursday evening at ten o’clock. This program features the main events in the lives of noted American immigrants. During the past seven weeks, the Radio Club has dramatized through the “Melting Pot” the personalities of such noted figures as James J. Hill, Augustus St. Gaudens, Louis Agassiz, General Thomas Meagher and Samuel Gompers.
“The men behind the mike” in the present series of broadcasts are Frank Venner, Bob Mulcahy, George La Buda, Andy McCormack, Bill Pfaff, Jack English, Joe Phillips, Dick Elliott, Bill Dawson, Sam Hazo, Jim Evans, Lou Lewis (R.O.T.C.), Fred Tansey and Don Kiene. The scripts are written by Father Burke.
Another Radio Club program is “News and Views,” heard over station WSBT every Saturday afternoon at 2:30. This program is written and announced by Frank Venner and Bob Mulcahy and features the latest social, athletic, navy and veteran news in addition to the latest song hits. “News and Views” originates in the Washington hall studios and anyone is welcome to attend.
“The Madcaps,” a group of talented merrymakers are heard over Bob Whitcomb’s “Reveille Review” program every Thursday morning at 6:30. During this show, Bob (Great Day in the Morning) Whitcomb switches directly to the Notre Dame campus from the Tribune Building in South Bend to re-enact one of the many dramas that occur daily in the residence halls, chow lines, infirmary or even at St. Mary’s. ’
All in all, those who take part in the Radio Club’s activities find it well worth their time. All of which leads us to say. if you think you have talent (and we all think we do) simply come over to the Washington Hall studios any Monday afternoon about 4:15 and audition. Who knows—you might be a star!
8
Round Table Hears
Gurian at Dinner-Meet
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Associate Professor of Politics and noted authority on world politics, spoke on “Present Day Conditions in France and Germany” at the dinner meeting of the Economic Round Table held last week at the Ramble Inn. Paul Ragan, president of the club, presided, and John Defant was chairman.
Prof. Gurian described the chaotic conditions in Germany and attributed their continuation to the separate ruling zones of the four powers and to their inability to set up a centralized political regime for Germany. France, he said, has consistently blocked all attempts to establish a central government to rule the nation. As a condition to consenting to a centralized government, France is demanding that the Ruhr be internationalized.
A general discussion of European conditions followed Dr. Gurian’s talk. In answer to a query, Dr. Gurian said that a normal Europe is dependent on a normal Germany, and until Germany — minus her arms and heavy industries to insure peace—is restored, no real recovery can take place in Europe.
Pat Nolan was chairman of the Economic Round Table’s first meeting of the semester held the previous week, at which John Defant spoke on “Journalistic Practices.” He declared that many newspapers are no longer objective in reporting the news, but instead are propagandizing, slanting the news, and attempting to mold public opinion.
The chief function of the newspapers is to report the news objectively, he maintained, and when the newspaper oversteps its news disseminating role to take over the functions proper to the grand jury and pulpit, it becomes potentially dangerous.
This week the Economic Round Table held a meeting with a St. Mary’s College group in the dining room of the Morningside Hotel. Mrs. William H. Downey, wife of Prof. Downey, moderator of the club, was the club’s guest. Charles Bartlett was the speaker and Ralph Hayman was the chairman of the meeting, following the dinner.
Speaks on 4tom
The fission of the atom to produce atomic energy was explained by Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C., of the University of Notre Dame, at a reorganization meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Astronomers in the Y.M.C.A. building, Thursday night, Dec. 6.
After tracing the history of nuclear physics, Fathei’ Baldwin discussed the fission of radioactive nucleii from the viewpoint of the release of energy. He concluded his remarks with the statements concerning the necessity of freedom of scientific research and the need of a worldwide organization with power to restrain the use of atomic energy for destructive purposes. In the discussion which followed the lecture there was brought out the need of observing the Ten Commandments by nations and individuals to prevent man from selfdestruction.
Father Baldwin is Associate Professor of Physics in the College of Science.
Vets Plan Communion for War Dead
On Sunday morning, Dec. 16, at eight o’clock, the Veteran’s Club of Notre Dame, 600 strong, will attend Mass and Holy Communion in the Sacred Heart Church to commemorate the Notre Dame men who gave their lives in World War II. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., will be the celebrant of the High Mass which will be served by veteran altar boys and sung by the veteran’s choir with the assistance of the Moreau Seminary Choir.
Acting as co-chairmen for this affair are Bill Braun of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, and Mat Siedlecki, of Camden, N. J. Serving on the committee are Jim McCarren, Bill Carey, Morris Casey, Bill McCormack, Bob Flannery, Frank Perez, Paul Pukish, and Tom Brogan.
Following the Mass, the club will attend a breakfast banquet in the west wing of the dining hall where several short talks will be given by selected guest speakers.
In connection with this first Communion Breakfast, the club has sent out a specially prepared Christmas card to the next of kin of all the Notre Dame dead explaining to them the occasion of the ceremony. It is hoped that the monthly Mass and Communion will become a club tradition on the Notre Dame campus until the last veteran has been graduated.
Philadelphia Club
Is Reorganizing
The recently reorganized Philadelphia Club convened for its second meeting to vote on the adoption of the constitution which was presented and discussed at the initial meeting. Following the ratification of the constitution, Ralph W. Hayman, pre-law senior, was elected president; Matthew Siedlicki, vice-president; Willa A. Meehan, secretary; and John Moorhead, treasurer. George Hampilos, NROTC, was elected recording secretary, and Arthur Coughlan was appointed publicity director.
Proposed plans include a Communionbreakfast in memory of the late John H. Neeson, ’03, of Philadelphia. Mr. Neeson, a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University at the time of his death, was one of his alma mater’s most loyal and faithful servants.
The Philadelphia Club sets forth its main purpose in the preamble to the constitution, which states in part: “To create a spirit of mutual helpfulness, and to seek to promote new friendships and acquaintances on an enduring and everlasting basis, carrying those principles back to the city of brotherly love, years after we have left the campus of Our Lady and the shadows of the Golden Dome.”
An invitation is extended to all students, naval and civilian, residing within a 75-mile radius of Philadelphia to associate themselves with this organization. Membership cards may be procured from John Moorhead, 306 Badin Hall. The next club meeting will be held in Room 1 of the Law Building at 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Dec. 19. Refreshments will be served and a movie shown.
Pre-Med Club Organizes
The first winter semester meeting of the “Aesculapians” was held in the Auditorium of the Biology Building, Thursday evening, Nov. 15.
The faculty advisor, Dr. J. D. Mizelle, of the Department of Biology, gave a short introductory talk on the purposes and activities of the organization.
Dr. L. Baldinger, dean of the College of Science, then presented an interesting discussion on the value of such a club in broadening the interests of science and, in particular, of pre-medical students.
Election of officers for the winter and spring semesters was held. The officers elected are: president, Arnand J. Wilson; vice-president, John Appellby; secretary, William Judge; treasurer, Gene Barnes.
FOOD FOR THOUGHT
Ill winds, from the dining hall, brings new beefs about the cuisine, and not a few fellows are worked up in a stew about it. The meat is fresh, if nothing else. Ask Joe Flood. The other day as he was cutting a lamb hock the meat wailed, “OUCH.” Bill Braun found something in his soup the other day that wasn’t supposed to be there. It was a fingernail, maybe an after dinner favor with which to pick one’s teeth, as Bill phrased it. One day we beet a ram into submission only to have mystery bawls with onions bringing tears to our eyes the next day. It may sound fishy, but to carp at the carp is but to pick a few bones. Unless the situation improves, everyone will have charge accounts at Rosie’s, The Diana, or even Kewpie’s.
We are certain though that Father Kehoe and the others who have jurisdiction over the kitchen will see that the students get better food.
A TALE OF TEARER
What do those people who work in laundry do to scare our shirts? Mine, and a great many more, come back a-frayed and tearified. Sox are returned more holey than righteous. After six washings the shirts come back and have to be used as “T” shirts with sleeves. About the buttons—well, have you ever-seen the laundry girls on the bus playing Lotto and Checkers? Look again, and you’ll see where the buttons are.
❖
HORTICULTURE IN VERSE
An indolent vicar of Bray His roses allowed to decay;
His wife, more alert, Bought a powerful squirt, And said to her spouse, “Let us spray.” ❖
A NOTE ON LAKE FOREST
Someone slipped a note under the door-informing that Tom (Baba) Schreiber and Ralph (Senator) Hayman have been spending all their spare time at Lake Forest with the Barat belles. Maybe they are planning to P. G. (Play Games) there. Hayman has been seen checking our bulletin for courses not given here so he can go there a la Amherst-Smith College combine.
♦
SATURDAY SUPPERS
Stop in at the Ramble Inn some Sat-
Batten
By JACK STEWART
urday evening and you’ll see Notre Dame’s self-appointed Croesus, “Duke” Tenge, taking supper with his R.O. friends. What a raconteur that lad is I
❖
FASHION SHOW
December 6 was the date of the Frances Shop fashion show. Ted Smith, Jack McCabe, “Rip” DeGalan, Warren Fron-rath, and a couple of others were there, as was to be expected in the light of free refreshments. The models were Pi Phis from Northwestern, and the fellows are all lined up.
❖
IN THE WAKE OF NIGHT
The erudite Oklahoman, Jim Larrick, was keeping his roommate awake at nights as he woke up and waked up his roomie, reciting passages from Finnegan’s Wake: . . . she comes, a peace-fugle, a parody’s bird, a peri potmother, a pringlpik in the ilandiskippy, with pewee, and powwows in the beggybaggy, on her bickywacky. . . . Pity the poor roommate—in the wake of night. ( It’s on reference in the library. Please take it out and keep it.)
❖
Me gusto muchachos bonitas.
—Tomas Manville
University Receives
Midshipman Flag
In a formal ceremony, Dec. 1, Captain J. Richard Barry presented the colors of the decommissioned midshipman school to Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. The presentation of the colors to the University signified the official closing of the midshipman school.
The colors were presented to the University as a token of appreciation for the cooperation extended to the navy during the existence of the school. Father O’Donnell said, “These colors will live on in the University’s library as a symbol of Notre Dame’s close and agreeable associations with the navy in the last three years.”
At the conclusion of the ceremony a color guard of four NROTC trainees took the colors to the University library where a special section will be devoted to historical souvenirs of World War II.
9
Irish Courtmen Meet Wisconsin Tomorrow and St. Louis University on Wednesday
J
Coach Elmer Ripley’s 1945-46 edition of the Notre Dame basketball squad, having launched its 22-game schedule in great fashion by drubbing Camp Atterbury’s GI Joes 56-37, will engage the third and fourth teams of its current five-game home stand this week. The Irish courtmen take on undefeated Wisconsin tomorrow night at 8 o’clock, and on Wednesday, December 19, they play host to the St. Louis University Billi-kens, this game being the first of a home-and-home game series.
It’s a well-regarded Badger quintet that Wisconsin Coach Harold E. “Bud” Foster will bring to the N. D. Fieldhouse for tomorrow night’s engagement. Foster, himself, is well regarded in Wisconsin basketball, for in 1940 he guided his team to the N. C. A. A. championship— no small feat. Thus far this season, Wisconsin has met three non-conference teams and has beaten all handily, shellacking Carroll College 67-32, Ripon 57-24, and then decisively taming a good Marquette five 42-32. Foster’s gang will be out to revenge the 57-46 defeat pinned on them last year by the Irish in the Camp Randall Fieldhouse at Madison.
The starting line-up of the Badgers includes three definite scoring threats, all forwards. One is Bob Cook, a returned Air Force pilot and a 1943 monogram winner' at Wisconsin. Cook ran wild in Wisconsin’s first two games this season, but against Marquette he was able to play only briefly, due to a recent illness. He will be ready to take his full turn again tomorrow. It is undecided who will be at the other forward position as Foster can choose between Exner Menzel or Eugene Mathews, a V-12’r and smallest man on the squad. Menzel was the big gun against Marquette after Cook left the game. Rounding out the Badger first string is Wally Niemuth at center and Kurt Grimm and Bob Smith at guards.
Coach Ripley will no doubt start the same five which opened the season against Camp Atterbury. Leo “Crystal” Klier and John “Scooter” Dee will be up front, Vince Boryla at his pivot post, with Capt. Billy Hassett and Frank Gil-hooley bringing up the rear. The immediate reserves are forward George Ratterman and guard Ray Corley. With this display of versatile talent, the Wisconsin Badgers should have their defensive hands full if the well-divided scoring honors of the Atterbury game is any indication. Any member of Ripley’s starters is capable of going off on a scor-
10
Coach Elmer Ripley
ing spree. Of particular concern to Irish court followers is the left knee of Billy Hassett which he severely twisted in last season’s record-breaking Loras College game. The knee seems to have responded well to whirlpool treatments, though Hassett always keeps it well taped.
Not much in the way of advance publicity is known of St. Louis University, a Jesuit school, which comes here the night of December 19, othei' than in one of its few games this year, it succumbed to Illinois’ crack combine 54-46 in an overtime period. So it is likely that the Billikens from the Mound City could make trouble for the Irish. Notre Dame will repay this visit of St. Louis by playing them at St. Louis on January 14.
The probable starting line-up for the Wisconsin game follows:
Notre Dame	Wisconsin	
Klier	F	Cook
Dee	F ’	Menzel
Boryla	C	Niemuth
Hassett	G	Grimm
Gilhooley	G	Smith
N. D. Man on Leyte
Bill Dillon, a Notre Dame track stai' who graduated in ’43 and is now a corporal in the 13th Air Force on Leyte, is helping put the name of the Clark Field football team in bright lights. As captain and coach of the team, he has led it to three straight victories. While at Notre Dame he broke every school hurdle record except the outdoor low hurdles mark.
NOUA
STRICTLY SPORTS STUFF	.
With all due recognition to the Varsity football squad, we would like to con- it gratulate the “scrubs” (we know them H as the “hamburgers) for helping to develop the Varsity. Those boys had the intestinal fortitude to go out on Cartier Field every afternoon and play their hearts out. Their names never appear ? in any newspaper; they are the forgotten * men of football, yet they had much to do I with developing the team. These boys | pushed the stars, made them fight for I their lofty positions, and many of them ;
will be next year’s regulars. So, to the-Yontos, Ducatos, Ricciardis, DeBuonos, ( Schriebers, Stelmazeks, et al., this col- ’ umn pays tribute. You are the immortal J spirit and backbone of Notre Dame’s « football team. And, if the immortal Knute Rockne were living, he would say, “Well done, men, you have proved your- t selves on the gridiron. Go out and show the same fight the rest of youi* lives.” j
i;
Of the thirty-nine players who won monograms, sixteen were Freshmen, li' They include Brennan, Burnett, Colella, 4 Clark, Fischer, Flynn, Grothaus, Krivik, j Leonard, Fanelli, Oracko, Russell, Van l Sumner, Vainisi, Virok, and Walsh’, jt Some of these youths have already de- 1 parted for military service, some are re- i! turned veterans, and others are suscep- L tible to the draft. When called upon, j'l these lads have performed creditably, | j often sensationally. We hope that mostlj. of them will be with us next year, forV how else are we going to beat Army? yj
HARDWOOD NOTES
Elmer Ripley’s athletes play a rigorous 22-game schedule this winter. Their opponents will include many of the nations top-flight teams (De Paul, Purdue, Great Lakes, Kentucky, New York U., Michigan State, and Northwestern).
’	I
There are three more home games before the Christmas holidays begin—Wisconsin, Dec. 15; St. Louis, Dec. 19; and Purdue, Dec. 22.	■	|
Irish Basketeers Beat Atterbury 56-37;
Take 52-45 Thriller from Chanute Field
NOTRE DAME
[I
This year’s Varsity gives promise of being the finest to ever wear Notre Dame livery. This is due to the return of such recognized hoop artists as “Scooter” Dee, “Silver Bullet” Boryla, “Playmaker” Hassett, “Steady” Gilhooley, “One Hand” Klier, and “Smoothie” Ratteiman.
! i John McCormack, noted Irish tenor, ? who recently passed away, re-dedicated the enlarged Notre Dame gymnasium on November 20, 1925. The seating capacity was increased by several thou; sand and a movable basketball floor, 50 . ' by 90 feet, was installed. Since then the ■' l	Fieldhouse has undergone little change.
1 Elmer Ripley, our new cage mentor, j was a brilliant performer with the Origins	nal New York Celtics. He was a defen'	sive and offensive player of note. Mr.
Ripley comes to us from Georgetown , where he enjoyed considerable success.
His ’43 quintet captured the NCAA eastI ern title, and on that outfit was Hassett, ■I who transferred to N. D. last year.
H; Joe Sobek, the second of the three to	Sobeks who have worn Gold and White
| uniforms, returned to school this past E' semester following his discharge from the Navy, a veteran of 50 missions over l । Germany. After earning his monogram t . in ’42, Joe enlisted in the Air Force as • an aerial gunner. His older brother, Lt. • II	(j- S-) George Sobek, ’42, was a hard. ,11	wood regular for 2 years prior to his
graduation. And, last year, Andy Sobek j' helped the family tradition along. At ; lj.	present, Andy is waiting to be inducted.
•J.	Yes, there is still another Sobek, but
T he’s in high school.
|' Quite a record this Hammond, Ind., J y	family has established, don’t you think?
• i j Last winter, Vince Boryla broke the ‘	!’	existing record for most points scored
•	।	in one season by scorching the nets for
>	I	323 points in 20 games. Leo Klier, in
>	' <	the previous year, had set the high mark
:	by chalking up 290 points. Boryla also
‘	holds the individual record for most
>	points scored in one game by virtue of
his 33-point spree against Detroit.
h	—Paul Abraham and Gerald Hekker
t I - !i
J	-
Vince Boryla left-hands an under-the-basket hook shot up to the hoop. In the background. Leo Klier.
Interhall Basketball
Opens After Holidays
At least twelve teams will compete in the Interhall Basketball League which will actually get under way after the Christmas vacation, John A. Scannell, head of the Physical Education Department, announced early this week. If the off-campus group enters a team, a total of 13 quintets will be in the league, including representatives from each of the three NROTC halls.
Since the numbers trying out for the various teams have been large, Director Scannell has decided to continue the overflow league which has been held for the past few seasons. Two important changes have been made in the rules for this league, however, over last season’s rules. All players on a team must reside in the same hall. The other change is in the starting time of the games in this league. These contests will start at 5 p. m. with the regular interhall games scheduled for the evening at 7:15 and 8:15 p. m. The way in which a team may enter this league will be announced after’ the holidays, Dr. Scannell said.
Competition in volley ball, wrestling, and handball is also expected to start after the first of the year. Volley ball will be on a hall basis with wrestling on an individual basis. If sufficient interest is shown, handball will be run both as an interhall event and as a tournament for individuals.
Camp Atterbury and Chanute Field, became the first victims of the 1945-46 Notre Dame basketball season as the Irish won, 56 to 37, over the Attaboys and then took a thriller, 52 to 45, over the Flyers. Both games were played in the Notre Dame fieldhouse.
Camp Atterbury proved a good opening game for the star-studded Notre Dame five. The soldier boys kept the Irish hustling all night before succumbing, 56 to 37. Notre Dame employed only seven men in the game. As usual in initial games of the season, there was erratic passing and shooting. The Irish piled up a 36 to 16 halftime lead. Leo Klier- paced the scorers with seven baskets. Six of these were in the first half and the seventh came in the final seconds of the game. Vince Boryla hit for 13, Billy Hassett, captain, made 11, George Ratterman 9, Johnny Dee 5, and Frank Gilhooley 3. Mogus and “Deacon” Jones led Atterbury with 12 and 11 points, respectively. Jones was particularly brilliant in his floor play.
Chanute Field came in Tuesday night, Dec. 11, and provided a large crowd with a thrilling ball game. The Irish had to stave off several rallies by the invaders before winning, 52 to 45. Leo Klier tossed the ball through the hoop from all angles as he amassed a total of 22 points on 10 field goals and two free throws.
Chanute Field got off to a 5 to 4 lead at the outset but Gilhooley and Dee countered buckets for the Irish to send them ahead 8 to 5, a lead they held until early in the second half. Chanute Field trailed at halftime, 28 to 21. The second half was hardly under way- when the Planesmen starting a fire of baskets that tied the count at 28-all. The Notre Dame cheering section then caught fire, spreading the flames to the team after Nance of Chanute scored to give his team a 30 to 28 lead. Klier hit on a fast short shot and Johnny Dee sunk two charity tosses to send Notre Dame ahead 32-30. Dee took a pass from Klier for another score and the Irish were never headed though Chanute did puli up to a 47 to 43 count late in the game.
The Planesmen presented a fast, experienced team that threw up a puzzling zone defense before the Irish. Johnny Dee turned in a fine game for Notre Dame. He scored 10 points. Boryla followed with 9, Hassett 8, Gilhooley 2, and Sobek 1. Alexander, Nance, and Fron-czak led the Chanute attack.
11
INTRODUCING...
By John Gunther
WILLIAM (BILLY) HASSETT
The captain of this year’s basketball team is All-American William (Billy) Hassett. Billy, who comes to Notre Dame from Bronx, N. Y., attended La Salle Military Academy, Oakdale, Long Island, where he played baseball and basketball. While in prep school, he was selected on the Ali-Eastem team in 1940 and 1941. As a senior, he was picked as the most valuable player in the highly regarded Eastern States Tourney.
Billy started his college career at Georgetown University, Washington, D. C., in 1942. While in atendance at that school in 1942 and 1943 he played ball under Elmer Ripley, now head coach at Notre Dame. Entering Notre Dame early in November 1944, Billy has earned the respect of basketball players and fans throughout the country. His sharp passes and phenomenal long shots earned him a place on the first All-American teams of Chuck Taylor, Sporting News, and Argosy Magazine.
Sorin Hall is the campus home of this A.B. History major, who hopes some day to return to Notre Dame as basketball coach. Billy’s greatest thrill in basketball came last fall when he was honorary captain of the N.D. team as they beat N.Y.U. in the Garden. His spare time is spent “listening to music and kidding John McHale and Frank Gilhooley about everything in general.” All who know him will tell you Billy’s favorite food is steak, steak and more steak.
"Boley" Mokes
Look All-America
In the issue of Look magazine issued nationally this week on Tuesday, Frank Dancewicz of Notre Dame is listed as one of the backs on the All-American second team selected by the publication.
Fred Rovai, Notre Dame guard, was named on the Look third team.
The players named in the backfield of the Look All-America first team were Gilmer of Alabama, Wedemeyer of St. Mary’s, Davis and Blanchard of Army.
Lucious Twins
$495
Dyed-in-wool wonders to make her happy Christmas Day . .. and every day. Boxy twin sets . . . classic as as a Christmas carol.
ND Star Leads Army Team
John Kelly, former Notre Dame hoop star, has led the Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, cage team to four consecutive wins. He has racked up 87 points in the four games for an amazing 22-point per game average.
MIK CMNEK... WOMMI (MSaMHM
12
Splinters from the Press Box .	By PAUL WEYRAUCH
Splinters from the Press Box has a new author. Phil Corboy, who wrote the column in previous issues this semester, left school for reasons of health'. Phil did a remarkable job on the Scholastic and his adeptness to writing will be missed. Besides being a fine journalist, Phil is a most congenial person to know and work with. It is hoped that he will be able to return to Notre Dame soon.
"DOC" HANDY'S NEW JOB
Notre Dame’s head track and crosscountry coach, Dr. Elvin E. Handy, has been elected president of the Central Collegiate Conference. This position is a credit to a fine man and an inspirational leader. While “Doc’s” track and crosscountry teams do not draw the headlines the football and basketball teams do, they have been equally as successful. Dr. Handy is very popular, not only with his boys on the squads, but also with the students and his fellow workers on the campus. Congratulations, Doc!
The C.C.C. includes Drake, Western Michigan, Marquette, Bradley Tech, Butler, Loyola of Chicago, Michigan Normal, and Michigan State. The main athletic activities of the conference center around track and cross-country. At the annual executive meeting, Dec. 8, it was decided that the conference would hold its 20th annual indoor track and field meet at Michigan State, March 9, 1946, and its 21st annual outdoor track and field meet at Marquette, June 9. Michigan State will be host school for the conference swimming meet, and Drake will entertain at the cross-country meet, Nov. 16.
BASKETBALL OFF TO A FLYING START
Approximately 3,000 fans saw Notre Dame open its 1945-46 basketball season in the fieldhouse last Saturday night as the Irish whipped Camp Atterbury, 56 to 37. The game was marred by the usual early season rough edges, such as erratic passing and off the beam shooting. Elmer Eilpey, the new head coach, is really on the spot this year because of the galaxy of stars on the Irish roster. However, don’t go too hard on Elmer if the Irish don’t win every game this season. Basketball records are not distinguished by undefeated seasons as are football records. A cage team that can win 18 or 19 out of 22 games must be granted top honors. Any team is bound
to have a few off nights.
There have been some vicious rumors floating around the campus to- the effect that there is a little trouble among the players on the Notre Dame team. These are only rumors. Keen competition for positions is bound to exist, particularly on a team that has so many outstanding players plus a challenging group of newcomers. No passes in the Atterbury game went wild intentionally so as to make any one player miss a sure basket. Notre Dame teams don’t play that way. The five men on the floor perform as a unit for Notre Dame and no one else. Don’t believe any more talk that may be heard about trouble on the Irish team. It doesn’t exist.
It seems a shame that a school such as Notre Dame must play its basketball games in as antiquated gym as the fieldhouse. From the spectators’ standpoint, vision is impaired by the steel posts, and only one section on each side of the court offers any kind of decent view of the game. A new fieldhouse is included in plans for proposed new buildings, but in the meantime it remains a difficulty for the fans to see the games.
THIS 'N' THAT . . . HERE 'N' THERE
Marty Peters, one-time grid star at Notre Dame, has returned to St. Benedict’s College, Atchison, Kansas, as head basketball coach. Marty was a naval officer during the war. He has a large group of freshmen working out for the squad. . . . Steve Bagarus, another former N.D. gridder, has been burning up the National Pro Football League this fall. Many non-partisans have ranked Steve with the all-time greats of the league as a ball carrier. . . . Frank Dan-cewicz, Pete Berezny, and Elmer Angs-man have been refused permission to play with the East squad in the annual Shrine Charity East-West game in San Francisco on New Year’s Day. The reason for the ban was that no more days of absence from school could be allowed. Army’s atomic athletes, Glenn Davis and Doc Blanchard, were also refused permission to play. . . . Incidentally, according to the Army football roster, about the only important men due to graduate from West Point are its four cheerleaders. That’s tough fellows! Better send some scouts out looking for new ones... .
(Continued on following page)
Last Minute Shopping Problems
. . will be solved even though there are only seven days left before you head for home . .
NOTRE DAME JEWELRY
PENNANTS
BRACELETS
NECKLACES
CHRISTMAS GREETING CARDS
Notre Dame I
Bookstore
in Badin Hall	i
13
Walter Kennedy, Notre Danie’s efficient publicity director, is leaving for New York for his new job with the Scholastic Sports Institute. The Scholastic wishes to express its thanks for the assistance received and material provided to it.. Mr. Kennedy has always been willing and ready to help. He has also maintained Notre Dame’s reputation as one of the finest schools in the country for the press, particularly at football games. Good luck, Mr. Kennedy, in your new position!
N. B., VETERANS
Fort Wayne, Elkhart, Goshen, Ligonier, Mishawa, Lakeville, Michigan City, and South Bend are among the communities served by the Veterans Administration’s facilities.
For the most part those taking the
A PERFECT GIFT FCR ALE YCLIP CI I IFTHAJ ••EVET”
tests do not intend to enroll at the University of Notre Dame but are merely seeking vocational rehabilitation. Those veterans present at the University are welcome to take the tests if they so desire.
The Office of Veteran Affairs of the University of Notre Dame through the guidance of the Personnel Office of the University has contracted with the Indiana office of the Veterans’ Administration to administer batteries of tests to the veterans from the northern part of Indiana, who are interested in and qualified for vocational rehabilitation under Public Law 16.
. The tests consist of the Otis Gamma, A.C.E. Psychological and the Ohio State Psychological examinations, Kuder Preference Record, Cleeton Personal Inven-
A smooth metal compact of sterling silver and gold finish. In many delightful patterns 5.00 plus tax
Plastic compacts in assorted bright colors and sizes_______2.00 to 5.00
Metal and plastic compacts, delicate floral patterns 5.00
Also a combination cigarette case and compact__________12.00 plus tax
tory, Primary Business Interests Test, Bernreuter Personality Inventory, Personal Audit (Form LL), Cardal test of Practical Judgment, O’Rourke Mechanical Aptitude test, Purdue Peg-Board Test, Minnesota Form Board test, and the United States Armed Forces Institute Tests Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, these lastbeing given if not already given to the veterans while in the service. These tests are to determine the interests, mechanical, musical, clerical, and artistic aptitudes, and the personality scales of the veteran. To those who indicate a prefer-ance for mechanical traits the manual and finger dexterity tests are given.
The average testee spends the entire day at the University during which time he undergoes the battery of tests and is afterwards interviewed by Mr. Bowers or Mr. Cross. These two men are representatives of the Veteran’s Administration of Indianapolis and have recently established headquarters next to the Office of Veterans Affairs, in the Main building.
At present Mr. Quinn is administrator of tests and is assisted in the scoring by Robert Hennessey, a veteran.
14
Jewelry . . . Main Floor
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE &S O. BEND R. R.
Charles Phillips Club
Begins Re-organization
The Charles Phillips Club for furthering interest in Polish culture on the Notre Dame campus re-organized Monday night, Dec. 10. Sixteen interested students attended the opening meeting of the first culture club to resume activity since all such groups were shelved in 1941 due to the war.
The club’s objective is to further the ideals of Mr. Charles Phillips, one of Notre Dame’s foremost scholars and gentlemen who died a decade ago. Mr. Phillips was a student of wide cultwe, with special devotion to Polish culture.
The group’s aim is to afford students an opportunity to broaden their cultural viewpoint in becoming acquainted with the history, literature, and spiritual heritage of a gallant nation.
Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., presiding Padre, opened the meeting with a welcoming address. Father Lisewski outlined the founding of the club in 1931, and its progress in cultural fields until it became one of the most active and prominent clubs on the campus.
He stressed cooperation among members, and concluded by reminding that anyone interested in Polish culture may become a member.
In resuming its social and cultural activities suspended during the war, the club picks up where it left off in 1941, when radio broadcasts available to the students, and guest appearances at various South Bend organizations were two of their better’ known activities.
Bruno Opela was named acting chairman, Frank Peters acting secretary, and a five-man committee was named to nominate candidates for permanent offices. The next meeting is set for Thursday, Jan. 3, at 7:30 p.m. in Room 1 of the Law Building.
Commerce Forum
Begins Weekly Meets
The Commerce Forum, one of the most active and popular organizations on the campus held its first regularmeeting on Wednesday evening, Nov. 28. Jim Luken, the speaker of the evening, gave a very interesting and enlightening paper on the “Co-operative Commonwealth.” He discussed the operation of the co-operative system in some of the countries that function under it, commented on the possibility of it being introduced in the United States, and ended, by giving an ethical basis for the movement. A lively discussion followed the speech.
On Dec. 5, Christ Cochrane spoke on the proposed “Army-Navy Merger.” His
subj’ect is currently being debated with much vigor in top army and navy circles and therefore, was appropriate at this time.
Two new members, Hugh Glasheen and Don Jackson, were welcomed into the Forum this semester.
The officers of the Forum this semester are John Castelli and Paul Regan, co-presidents; Brendan Biggert, vicepresident; Bill Schmidt, program chairman; and Jim McClintock, publicity chairman.—James McClintock.
Dr. Cross, Biologist, Returns to Campus
Dr. Aureal T. Cross, who has been on leave of absence from Notre Dame since June, has resumed his duties as assistant professor of biology.
The Notre Dame professor, during his absence from the University, carried on research as Assistant Paleobotanist at the U. S. Bureau of Mines, at Pittsburgh, Pa.
15
“To succeed in the ivorld, it is much more necessary to possess the penetration to discover who is a fool than to discover tvho is a clever man”—Cato
It is the paradox of life that the way to miss pleasure is to seek it first. The very first condition of lasting happiness is that a life should be full of purpose, aiming at something outside self. As a matter of experience, we find that true happiness comes in seeking other things, in the manifold activities of life, in the healthful outgoing of all human powers.
—Hugh Burns
OUR ACTIONS
The only things in which we can be said to have any property are our actions. Our thoughts may be bad, yet produce no poison; they may be taken away by misfortune, our reputation by malice, our spirits by calamity, our health by disease, our friends by death. But our actions must follow us beyond the grave; with respect to them alone, we cannot say that we shall go naked out of the world.—Colton
JUST A SIMPLE QUERY:
Jacques Maritain (one of the greatest philosophers of our century) said: “To turn away from wisdom and contemplation and to aim lower than God is in a Christian civilization the first cause of all disorder.”
The question we should like to ask (with no malice intended) is: How does the Commerce school fit into this definition? H’mm?
❖
ARISTOTLE'S CONCEPT OF WOMAN:
According to Aristotle—woman is to man as the slave to the master, the manual to the mental worker. Woman is an unfinished man, left standing on a lower step in the scale of development. The male is by nature superior, and the female inferior; the one rules and the other is ruled; the courage of a man and that of a woman are not the same; the courage of a man is shown in commanding; that of a woman in obeying. . . . As the poet “Plato” says, “Silence is a woman’s glory.”
Aristotle’s favorite example of matter and form are woman and man; the male is the active, formative principle; the female is passive clay waiting to be
formed. Female offsprings are the result of the failure of form to dominate matter.
❖
DEDICATED TO ROSARY COLLEGE:
To cultivate a beautiful garden you must uproot all weeds and other unlovely things. This is best done not by sitting down and studying the origin of such weeds, and ascertaining their names and number, but by patient and diligent work in pulling them up by the roots and ridding your garden of them forever. Likewise to cultivate a beautiful mind you must uproot and cast from you all mental weeds and other unlovely thoughts, such as pride, envy, impatience, fear, resentment, and selfishness. Then you must plant and carefully cultivate in your mental garden seeds of kindness, goodness, love, purity, humanity, reverence, and righteousness. As you persevere in this work, your mind will gradually unfold into beauty and fragrance, and your life will be blest.
—Kleis er
SORRY OLDE BOY:
A certain maggoty-looking columnist, known for his malicious irony and caustic remarks — in the ScholaS-IC — demanded (of us) a complete retraction of an implication made about him a few weeks past. May it be known to “him” now, and henceforth, that we never retract printed facts about columnist which are conforming to reality. Perhaps Omei- Khayyam expressed it more aptly when he said: “The moving Finger Writes; and having writ, moves on; nor all thy wit shall lure it back to cancel half a line, nor all thy tears wash out a word of it.”
❖
MORALITY:
Beautiful it is, and a gleam from the same eternal pole-star visible amid the destinies of men, that all talent, all intellect, is in the first place moral. What a world were this otherwise.
—Carlyle ❖
DEDICATED TO ST. MARY'S COLLEGE:
Then Ahnitra spoke, and said, And what of Marriage, master? And he answered saying: You were born together, and together you shall be forevermore.
You shall be together when the white wings of death scattei' your days. Aye, you shall be together even in the silent
16
Notre Dame Purchases New P-47 Fighter Plane
A dismantled P-47-N fighter plane is now the property of the University. This model, the latest of the Republic P-47's to be produced, was until recently a secret model. With a range of over 2,000 miles, the plane had equipment for pressure suits for pilots. It was one of the first aircraft to employ a waterinjection motor, which in this case was a Pratt & Whitney R-2800, developing 2800 horsepower. Radar equipment, which was removed before the plane was delivered to Notre Dame, was another of its features.
The Thunderbolt is at present in the Heat and Power Laboratory. It will not be fully assembled, but rather will be made operative to demonstrate its various components, such as the engine, and the hydraulic and electric systems. It was purchased from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, which obtained it from the Republic Aircraft Co.’s assembly lines in Evansville, Ind. The craft was never used for flying purposes, but was shipped from Evansville, knocked down, shortly after- the Republic plant there closed down.
Together with the P-47, the University purchased various electrical and hydraulic equipment for use in the College of Engineering. Several gyro-stabilized gunsights, heretofore a closely-guarded secret, were also included. Along with the Thunderbolt came an extra turbosupercharger, which will be installed on a Studebaker Champion motor in the Heat and Power Laboratory.
memory of God. But let there be space in your togetherness, and let the winds of the heavens dance between you. Love one (another), but make not a bond of love. Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls.
Fill each other’s cup but drink not from one cup.
Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf.
Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone,
Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music.
Give your hearts, but not into each other’s keeping.
For only the hand of Life can contain your hearts.
And stand together yet not too near together: For the pillars of the temple stand apart,
And the oak tree and the cypress . grow not in each other’s shadow.
—Written by the Arabian Poet
—Kahlil Gibran
Eng. Dean Makes Trip to New York
Dr. K. E. Schoenheer, dean of the College of Engineering, attended the meeting of the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, in New York on Nov. 16. At the same time, Dr. E. G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy, was present at the meeting of the Meehanite Research Institute, also held in New York.
Among the many interesting papers submitted at the S. N. A. and M. E. meeting was one on gas turbines. Because of its light weight and economy, it promises to be useful in ship propulsion. Another paper dealt with various designs for American passenger liners. This paper brought out the fact that marine transportation companies do not feel that present airplane travel will supplant passenger liners.
The Meehanite Research Institute is a development of the Meehanite Foundry Study, founded by the late Mr. Meehan, a graduate of Notre Dame. Dr. Mahin was present as a guest.
While in New York, Dr. Schoenheer inspected the 8200,000 hydraulic laboratory at the Stevens Institute of Technology. Constructed with Government funds, it is used to test seaplane floats and other high-speed craft.
BOOKS
New Novels for your winter
RU
NEWS CENTER * CIGAR STORE
127 W. Washington St
"In the J. M. S. Building"
"THE BEST FROM YANK" THE MARRIAGE OF JOSEPHINE THE BLACK ROSE CASS TIMBERLANE NORTH, EAST, SOUTH. WEST THE HISTORY OF WORLD WAR D "BEDSIDE BOOK OF FAMOUS FRENCH STORIES"
NERS
Mahin is Metals Advisor
E. G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy at the University, has been appointed a member of the advisory committee on metallurgical education of the American Society for Metals.
Membership of this committee includes representatives of outstanding engineering colleges and universities, as well as prominent industrial organizations in metallurgical fields.
A Christmas gift that's different...
give an oil painting of Notre Dame, painted by an internationally known artist.
$30.00 and up
Miss C. F. Makielski
623 J. M. S. Building South Bend
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prof Has Pneumonia
The History Department of Notre Dame is minus the services of Instructor Matthew A. Fitzsimons, B.A., Oxon., who is in St. Joseph’s Hospital with pneumonia. Members of the Department are pinch-hitting for Mr. Fitzsimons during his absence, Rev. Thomas McAvoy, head of the Department, said Monday.
Prompt Lens or Frame Rtfar service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
17
CAMPUS QUIPS
We should like to extend our congratulations to the 1945 football squad, and especially to the freshmen on the squad: Leonard, Colella, Brennan, Walsh, Fischer, Vainisi, Flynn, Gompers, Grot-haus, Virok, Zehler, Oracko, Panelli, Russell, Tripucka, and anybody else whom we might have overlooked. Nice going!
❖
Bob Stoltz, the old sage, came out with another of his inimitable remarks— a college education is like the N. D. laundry; you get out of it just what you put into it (sometimes)—but you’d never recognize it.
Tom “Waughn” O’Keefe and Joe “Bottle” Clancy were seated together-on the crowded bus going downtown. Joe noticed that Tom had his eyes closed, “What’s the matter, feeling ill?”
“I’m all right,” said Waughn, “I just hate to see ladies standing.”
❖
Nothing irks Tom Schilder more than shaking out the envelope from home and finding nothing in it but news and love.
❖
Overheard—the following conversation:
Bill Duffy: “Busy?”
Dick Kirk: “No; you busy?”
Bill Duffy: "No; then let’s go to class.”
❖
Why did the mysterious student put quotations marks around all the answers on his quiz papers? Just as a little courtesy to the man on his left?”
❖
Pinky Pastrick: What’s eating you?
Jack Hillbrich: Oh, nothing. Wlien your girl friend said she’d dig up a date for me, brother, she wasn’t kidding.
♦
We now present the advantages of a higher education:
Definitions
A tangerine is an orange that has been disappointed in love.
A skeleton is a stack of bones with the people scraped off.
A Communist is a fellow that’s given up all hope of being' a capitalist.
Diplomacy is letting someone else have your way.
18
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
ADAM FOOL REPORTS
Dear Lovers:
In a recent sheet of the journalistic masterpiece (known variously as “The Green Sheet,” Wasted Paper, and The South Bend Tribune), there was an article which should interest all red-blooded Notre Dame men such as Joe Palooka, Hop Harrigan, Jack Armstrong, et al. It was written by Dorothy Dix, and treats on the very interesting subject of courtship, and proposing, and stuff like that. For the spring violet type, (such as the fair lassies across the Dixie) Miss D. recommends the violent, caveman type (do Zahm, Cav, St. Ed’s, and B.P. qualify?). Can’t you just see some big brutes like Bob Wasson and Joe Archibald make a raid on S.M.C. and drag their victims away by the hair (in the approved prehistoric fashion) in the direction of the nearest church, while less frail girls watch enviously. Another method of which the authoress speaks highly is the old “indifferent” line. You know, the
IB
Welcomes the new students at Notre Dame.
Our food will please you.
120 South Main Street
(Across from the Courthouse)
Open 11 Al A.M. to 7:00 P.M.
Seven days a week
old disinterested “go ’way woman, I’m goin’ fishin’.” That attitude is assumed by many N.D. boys we know. As a matter of fact, they spend all of their waking hours as far as possible from dear old S.M.C.
Well, ’enough prattle — I’m agoin fishin’. . . .
Goodbye, hey,
A. D. F.—
4*
Art Cassidy was approached by a new freshman last Nov. 6, who asked—“Say, is that Rockne on top of the Dome?”
Glaring at him, Art replied scornfully, “No, stupid—that’s the first Prefect of Discipline.”
Nine more days of starvation Then we leave for the station Back to civilization Farewell to Notre Dame.
—Written by that fellow Anonymous, who is the composer of some of our best poems.
A CASE OF PURE LOGIC
Logic Prof—One of the most famous men I know said Greece was nothing but a constant bull session. More knowledge has come down to us from there than any place else.
Student—What we need is more bull sessions. — This really happened.
JEWELRY GIFTS
for CHRISTMAS
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
Leading Credit Jeweler BLOCK BROS. Corner Michigan and Washington
=	• Greeting Cards	|
|	• Artists’ Supplies	|
|	• Picture Framing	f
I	I. W. Lower Co.	I
|	DECORATORS	I
|	128 North Michigan Street	=
THE STAMP SHOP Everything for the STAMP COLLECTOR
501 Pythian Bldg.
ODE TO SIRIUS or
PHOOEY TO MY NAVIGATION PROF . . .
We’d like to begin The Crow’s Nest this week with a poem, a twenty-two word masterpiece, a work of art that will put its author on a par- with the other immortals — Poe, Longfellow, and Izzy Schwackenbach (the author of the 1904 edition of the Sears & Roebuck Catalogue) :	,
“Twinkle, twinkle, little star, How I wonder what you are— Sirius, Spica, or Bellatrix, Stand still so I can take my fix.”
"STATIC" SCORES A SCOOP . . .
We managed to snag a copy of the Saint Mary’s Static while it was floating around on the local black market and it proved to be quite interesting. One of the columnists came up with the question, “What is the nicest thing that happened to you this year at St. Mary’s?” The . answer of one of the luckier girls was, “I had a date!” As Bill S. would say, something’s rotten in Denmark. Leap year isn’t due for quite some time, wonder how she got that date?
Not by popular request (nota bene, Miss Kearney) we’re going to step out of character for a minute and say something nice about St. Mary’s. Girls, we N.D. students would like to thank you for the wonderful punch served to us at your Charity Ball (Wonder which of the ingenious females it was that tried spiking it with the janitor’s shaving lotion?)
HE MUST HAVE BEEN LIT . . .
Don Hereford, the golden voiced tenor of our Glee Club, went tearing down the stairs to sick bay one morning.
“Say mate,” he gasped, “the guy next door just swallowed my pack of matches. What shall I do?”
“Don’t worry about it, chum! Here, use my cigarette lighter,” said the pharmacist mate.
DR. ZOLTAN'S WAILING WALL . . .
Dear Dr. Zoltan,
I have a problem. I am enraged, embittered, exasperated, and exhausted and the cause of all my misery is Ed “Skinhead” Aylward. My roommate is one of
Nedt
those thoroughly obnoxious individuals who has developed the snore to such perfection that I have to stay awake half the night listening to his nocturnal concerts. Skinhead’s snore is of the Percolating Wolf Call type (a masculine form of the Adenoidal Wheeze). It begins like a bronchial block buster; shifting gears he proceeds from a throaty gurgle to a soprano hyena wail, which fades into the night like the echo of a rocket. Now Dr. Zoltan, my problem is this — should I wrap his carcass in a sea bag one night and heave him into the cold and turbulent waters of St. Joe River, or should I harness this vast store of energy by attaching a factory whistle to Skinhead and selling his services to Bendix?
Marty “Sleepless” Ris
Dear Mr. Ris,
Your problem is a difficult one, something which I feel is so important that
Est.
1900
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
LAST MINUTE SUGGESTIONS for CHRISTMAS
NOTRE DAME—100 YEARS
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, C.S.C.
THE SET —$5.00 •
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS Administration Building Notre Dame, Indiana
only you and you alone can decide. However, I have a suggestion. My roommate is also a patron of the unhonorable art of snoring. His snore is of the Laryngeal Volcanic Eruption type, the snore which begins with a melodic drone, musically trips through the intermediate stage, and bursts forth into a climactic and inspirational imitation of a Mt. Vesuvius eruption — the intermediate stage including, among other things, eight measures of The Lost Chord.
Dr. Zoltan
THE LOWDOWN ...
George Ratterman and Jim McGurk, leaving behind them a string of broken feminine hearts (Lois, Mona, Gypsy, Betty, and Mary Lou, to mention only a few), are always on the lookout for new fields to conquer. They were seen flashing their Pepsodent smiles and come-to-papa glances at the teadance Sunday. . . . Esky Eskilson spent Saturday night prancing about the local YWCA in a turban, giving a fair imitation of a Mohammedan on his way to Mecca for the annual Legion convention. What did they feed you down there, Esky? . . . The good word about inactive duty for ROTC trainees isn’t too hard to take. Drag the sport coat out of the moth balls maw, the pride of the family is coming home. And please, no blue serge!
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS TELEPHONE 4-5661 702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS 503 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2S74
19