Dotrc Dame Scholastic
•nir<ec)VAsi-semper-v.ictvruS’ • vive -ovasi-cras-moritvrvs- •
Voi,. L.	NOTRE- DAME, INDIANA, March io, 1917.	No. 22.'
The Warrior.
'"TREMBLE, O thou my soul! Now comes the strong, Deliberate warrior on a steed^ milk-white,
Round whom His veterans in young vigor throng,
Their banners glorious with prevailing light.
Heavy the siege lies round my shuttered gate,
My frontiers all are leaguered with His arms;
What have I done, this God Inviolate
So shakes my fortress with his Human charms?
The wall is breached: undone, I wait His steel,
Yet afar His armies turn, and quick depart.
Alone He enters and on bruised heel
To tread the broken ramparts of my iieart.
Speer Strahan, ’17.
National Financial Reform.*
THE American people have often been called a nation of business men. They are generally recognized as the monarchs of the industrial world. For more than a* century.the development of our business and commercial institutions has proceeded with a rapidity unrivaled in the history of the world. The cosmopolitan character of the American population has given us a distinct advantage, and in our struggle for commercial supremacy we have united the experience of foreigners with the ingenuity of the native American mind. We have had a vast, rich, and undeveloped territory awaiting the magic touch of a progressive people to transform it into a land of abundance. and prosperity. And so astounding has been -the industrial progress of this country that foreigners look upon the present stage of oiir development as an era of materialism, and upon the American people as materialists.
One would'imagine that this Republic, being a nation of ingenious financiers with expert business and financial methods, a nation with.
a banking system ranking with the best in- the _ world, a nation whose history is full of successful . commercial enterprises, a nation which, as the -present war has shown, is destined to become the financial center of the world—one would imagine, I say, that this government would . have a> financial system very nearly perfect.	‘
in its methods. One would expect that this -country would have taken advantage of the x financial experience of its citizens and of other countries. It seems natural that with . our . phenomenal development of business and trade we should have infused into our federal finances : the fundamental principles of economy and efficiency. It would be expected, too, that the responsibility for our government’s financial policy would be duly centralized. . '	.
Upon inquiry, however, we find that the very . opposite is true. We find a financial scheme . -1 in striking contrast to what would naturally be \ expected. We find a system that would bankrupt , ; any other nation that would be guilty of it. -v Our financial methods are altogether unworthy . * of being called a system. Instead of soundbusiness principles w’e find principles that no . business man would tolerate. There is no., responsibility for the money that is expended^ A and all the dictates of economy and reason are ty ignored. Such an administration of finances A can have no definite policy. It invites exfrav- J agance and sheer waste on'a large scale. It .is - '/ unsound in theory; it is vicious and un- .-L American in its practical operation.
These confused financial methods are the y result of a century of evolution. Since, in the T very origin of our system,^any member of the ty. House of Representatives could introduce an ty T appropriation bill the responsibility for : ex- . . ;; penditures was originally diffused. ' Alexander’ 'A Hamilton dominated the financial policy of the country during the first few years of the nation’s A : A
* Oration used by Mr. Oscar J. Dorwin, ’17, in -A the State Oratorical contest at Indianapolis February A 23, .1917-	-	■	.	. .	.	- tyf
.	346	THE NOTRE DA
;	existence,	but upon his	retirement the power
•j	passed to the Committee	on Ways and Means.
L	Thus . the	responsibility	was distributed still
s	more. Since then the work of this committee
>	has been divided and subdivided by the creation
!. .	’ of appropriation committees, until the responsi-
i	bility has been scattered to such an extent that
;	. it can hardly be said to exist at all. .
;	With practically no responsibility for their
: v ' conduct in this matter, our congressmen were :	free to do as they pleased in financial legislation,
i	This led, naturally and inevitably, to the
.	corruption of - our national finances. Con:	currently with the development of our financial
•	system there has grown up a perversion of that
system in the form of wholesale misappro-
I	priation of the funds of the nation. The fund
I	that is thus improperly appropriated is vulgarly
|	called the “Pork-barrel.” It is an abuse that
, has grown ever greater with the division of . responsibility. Some men in congress, anxious to obtain favor with their constituents, began *	to initiate, legislation for the improvement of
J	rivers and harbors in their respective districts.
|	During their campaign for re-election the)'- would
|	point in a patriotic manner to the appropriations
3	the}’- had secured as an argument for their
p	retention in offce. The argument was usually
.	successful, and the honest members of congress
were forced-to usexthe same method in order r	to remain in the service" of their country. The
H . abuse grew steadily; the people judged the competency of their representatives by their h	ability to secure appropriations, and the con-
ij . gressmen intrigued with one another to secure 'I v ■* the further funds, that they wished. Thus ;L	“Pork-barrel” legislation has become more
u _ ■ and more common and appropriations more i	wantonly extravagant. It . has been extended
p	- from river and harbor bills to bills for pensions,
. ; for army and navy posts, and for public build-„	ings. The abuse has developed until political
expediency has become the basis on which ।	expenditures are made. It has expanded until
I : - our nation wastes, according to former Senator . f - . : Aldrich; ,more than three hundred million dollars annually..	-	•	'
■ " ,	' Our appropriations are a disgrace to the
.	\ - American . Republic and a reflection on the-
•r - personnel of congress. < Evidently the primary ’ \	; ; object of a great many congressmen is to obtain
as much of the-federaE nidn^y as possible. In jyC.y'jy. their frantic endeavor,to secure all they can from the - public- treasurythey : < are, not ' concerned
ME SCHOLASTIC	.
about the necessity of the expenditures they make. They forget entirely that their first duty is to promote the interests of the Americ.an nation, and unscrupulously demand that the treasury be opened to. them. The details of our appropriation bills are positively amazing. More than "two million ^dollars, for example, has been spent for the purpose of making the Trinity River of Texas navigable, in spite of the fact that this project was from the first obviously impossible because of'the lack of water. Three years ago congress appropriated between six and seven hundred thousand dollars for the construction of a court house in each of twelve small towns where court had
. not been held at all recently. Congress also . appropriated two hundred thousand dollars for the purchase of a post-office site in Seattle which was under seven feet of tide water. The pension roll has been, lengthened until it has ceased to. be a roll of honor and has lost its patriotic aspects in becoming a political list. Many of the. army and navy posts that have been established defeat, by their very location, the purpose for which they were ostensibly "created. River and harbor bills have become merely apparent measures for improvement. Public buildings are erected not with regard to the needs of the service but for the exigencies of politics. Congress lias been regarding our appropriation bills as the inflated dividends from which all congressmen are licensed to draw th^ir tainted share. It has been perverting one of the greatest functions of government into a means of political ’jobbery. •
The evil of corrupt appropriations is growing-. Each appropriation is' larger, more reckless, and more glaringly dishonest than the pre- ' ceding. .The passage of each bill adds one more to the', multitude of indictments- against our financial system. Each additional abuse calls; and it calls imperatively, .for some measure that
• will prevent this ruinous. drain on the national treasury. Every dollar that is wasted is a plea
- for reform.	;	’	. *
Shall we stand idly by while this governmental function is prostituted so shamelessly ? Shall this vicious^ system be allowed to persist, lowering - our standard of representation in congress.and -depraving the mind of the elector? Or shall we destroy the agencies of corruption
. and deception which, are-perverting our national- . -government, > abolish the “ Pork-barrel, ’ ’ thus '. ' avoiding ya serious menace to the well-being of
MT EC'S’ E - *■ 'EM-".: - - -d"-. ''d	S * - - -- - - 1	_
■THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
this Republic, and free ourselves from the insidious parasite which is demoralizing our financial system and retarding our progress ?
There is but one answer. If we are to prove the superiority of the republican form of government; if we are to continue as a model for future governments, we must reform this evil. We must lift ourselves from the financial* mire in which we are wallowing. Every dictate of moral and political conscience demands it. So long as we refuse to heed the warnings of business experience,* so long shall we have inefficient financial methods. So long as there is no co-ordination of receipts and expenditures, so long will there be a lack of harmony in our system. So long sis there is no responsibility for the money that is expended, so long will corruption prevail in financial legislation. We must establish a responsible form of federal budget system. Our congressmen must be chosen because of their ability as statesmen, as real representatives of the nation’s interest. A national spirit of economy, efficiency, and honesty must displace the selfish sectional greed which is the dominating force in our federal appropriations. Our congress must rid itself of the notion that it is a mere convention of delegates from individual states, and acquire the national spirit of an assembly of representatives of . united states, with one feeling and one patriotic purpose—;the perpetuation of the American nation.
-	Another Day.
The other day I met a child, • She was just a little thing, . But I’ll never forget the way she smiled And the song I heard her sing. -
There was a church across the street; She must have been in there,—' • For she skipped along with lightened feet, While the wind caught up her hair.
It brought me back to another day,	;
' When Christ first came to me,
And made.my young heart light and gay; Ah, the joy was heavenly!	••
.	•- So I raised my eyes to the city sky, "
.	‘ - As I whispered a fervent prayer;
And blessed the child, who passing by, .
’ ' Left a sweetness on the'air. -
_	" Thomas C. Duffy,’20.■
347	•.
The Last Cartridge. -	- .
’ BY MICHAEL J. EARLY, T/.
The sun lay heavy on the desert. Sand and * ■' purple sage stretched away indefinitely over a . . rolling sea of barren land! The trail could barely be seen and the eyes of the lone horseman .	.
blinked in hesitation as he endeavored to follow the faint traces of those who had gon3 before him. - Horse and rider were far gone.	.
The animal staggered with every step and the poor dumb look in his eyes blinded with sand " and heat, was a vivid contrast to the ghastly -	.
glitter in the eyes of his master. Five merciless days of hopeless wandering—and man and beast were parched with thirst.	.	’ ;
Suddenly the inevitable happened. With a .	.
last faltering step the horse trembled and fell,—the rider was barely able to extricate him- •	'
self from the saddle as the animal rolled over = heavily. As he fell he felt the hot, rasping sand . on his bare hands. He groaned and cursed and -slowly struggled to his feet. The horse after ~ a few useless attempts to raise itself sank	'
hopelessly back and lay motionless. • The man ."	*
stood silently gazing upon his dumb friend ' whose eyes gave the only sign of the little life that was left.	.
“Poor brute!” he gasped, and his words -	. ,
came in jerks, for his tongue was swollen, and	'
his mouth gritty with sand and dirt. He drew	'
forth his’ gun and placed the muzzle against	.
the head of the suffering beast. The gaunt form gave a convulsive shudder and then stretching out lay still. The sun grew hotter and the air *’ more close, making life all but impossible in that desolate land.	'	.
He was a young man. His face was thin and- .	-y
narrow, and creased now, with the hardships . '. of the last few days. His form was big-boned	:
and powerful, but his clothes hung in loose ■	... j
folds on his body; his eyes were bloodshot . and bleary, and he could not close them.for the	-
pain. Sand was everywhere,—in his eyes, his A ' hair, his .mouth, and no water—there had been -.A sy no water for two long days, and here in this hell ' i A on earth, no water meant death. He turned his y. Ay eyes slowly from the • dead horse, and a dull,	' .?A
beaten look came into them as he saw on every'" - 3 side nothing but glaring sand. For a long time .. AA A he stood , fingering the gun in. his hand, gazing	'A'/A
with sightless eyes across the waste. He turned v ’ A.-yA the weapon and looked into the chamber A
34S	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Just one cartridge left! Well,—why not?— It was only a matter of time; anyhow! Why ' go through this torture any longer? His horse was dead. He no longer felt the heat. “Why not I?” There was no other world. All men said that now. Then why suffer? He had tried hard for life. Men could not call him coward. But yet—self-murder! Well, why
* not? He had done worse ... it would soon be over and all would be quiet and cool—no heat—no sand—no sun. “Am I like the beast?” he asked. He could barely raise the gun to his temple. Then there came a vision of his youth!
“Oh God!” he cried and threw the thing from him, and with grim eyes he saw it start a little dust cloud and half burv itself fiftv feet away. He staggered and fell to the ground.
“Coward!” he muttered, “coward!”
The sun sank lower and lower, and with its last rays cast a vindictive heat wave upon the world. Even the sand felt its malevolent breath and crackled" and burst through the desert. Over the eastern horizon the darkness of night came slowly on and with it a blessed coolness. The man on the ground pillowed his head on the dead horse and slept.	’
Time passed, and night melted into day, and again the sun rose up and its burning tongue .
■ licked the face of the sleeping man. He awoke ■ and, as he remembered, the look of despair came into his eyes. His happy dreams were only dreams' He struggled to rise, but he could barely move his limbs. The sun rose higher 'and the sand grew warm, then hot. Why had he thrown away Iris gun? He closed his eyes, ’ but they would not stay closed; the}'- were raspy with’sand. Suddenly he heard a whirring * noise; he" looked up. There, many feet in the air, swinging round and round in swaying circles, was a troop of huge, ugly birds 'with long claws hanging from their monstrous bodies. For a second the man gazed, not understanding: then came realization, arid panic seized him.
- He struggled to his knees, and tried to scream . out, but his scream was a croak: He fell prone again. His hands clutched the prickly stubbs of the purple sage, but he did not feel, for Iris hands were past feeling. He could not walk,— but:—he must get that gun. He jerked himself along the ground for a few feet. xHis skin began : to crack with the exertion; the blood came out, but ; immediately congealed. ' By a great effort - ■ .y lie rose to his feet, and stumbled on, choking । : J ; and gasping, for a few more yards. Then his
knees gave way,—his arms could not bear the fall and his face scraped along the sharp sand. He bled again and the sweat and blood and dirt formed in clots, upon his face. He was almost in reach of the gun! He tried to crawl a step farther,, but his strength was gone and he felt his life going. Above,,the vultures swooped hungrily nearer and nearer. The man raised . himself on his arms, but fell back at once into the sand.'	'	-	"
Canyon City lay 'quiet in the noonday sun. All was quiet in this desert town, for the terrible heat of the day made much activity impossible. The streets were deserted save for a sleepy dog that sunned himself in front of the dilapidated post-office.
. Down in the back room of the Frontier Hotel, however, there were signs of more than ordinary life. A noisy group of plainsmen, erstwhile cow boys and noted gun-men, were gathered about the long bar. They composed a posse that had come to town early that morning "after a certain murderer who had been last heard of in the vicinity of Canyon City, They sang and shouted and drank while they waited for their chiefs to decide what the next step should be.
Big Bob Burham, sheriff of Snake County, was in deep conversation with his chief deputy, Maine Ralston. They were seated in a cool corner of the barroom, far enough away from the bar for their Words to be unheard by any save themselves. It- was hardly necessary, however, to care about secrecy, for the group around the bar were noisy enough to drown everyone but themselves. They were certainly having a time of it. Evidently something had displeased them. “Silver City” Pete, standing at the end of the shining counter, was- wildly gesticulating to his companions.
“Boys,” he was saying, “it’s a blooniin’ shame. Who saw the kid do the killing? I’ll be darned if I think he did it,” and he accompanied this declaration with a bang of the fist on the bar. .
“Aye! aye!” cried the others in chorus, and as a proof of their sincerity ten whiskey straights went gurgling down ten dusty throats. Then ten empty glasses crashed upon the bar. -	•
“Spike,” said Pete solemnly, to the busy bar man, “fill ’em again. It’s a darn dry day. By the Jumpin’ Horned Toad! I wish we were back. ; Eh? boys?” A chorus of affirm-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
atives. “ 1-his bloom’ town reminds me,—”
“Pete,” interrupted Larry Higgins, thirstily, “bean’t you fergittin’ somethin’.”	*
“Larry,” said Pete, sorrowfully, “yer right. Boy’s, lie’s always right. Hist ’er up.” Again there was silence while their great thirst was being quenched.
Over in the corner the sheriff, grizzled by the hard life of the west, sat idly drumming upon the table. Ralston was talking. ‘ * “But, Bob,” he said earnestly, “we haven’t very much to go by. I know the old man hated him and they had just quarreled. Fred Heminway was in love with Sally Parker and she loved him, but the old fellow had it in for the kid and forbade him the place. It’s the same old story. They had a scrap Friday night; and Saturday morning Sally came crying down to Hansen’s saying that her father was dead,— been killed in the night,—stabbed, not shot. Bob, that was a greaser’s trick—and I know Fred. He—”
“Yes, so do I, Maine,” interrupted Burham, “and I also liked the lad, but he had a yellow streak, Maine, a yellow streak! and you can never tell what that breed will do. Besides he has disappeared. He left Boise Friday night, the same night of the murder,, and he hasn’t been heard of since. It points that way, Maine.”
For a second Maine was silent.
“Yellow? Bob, that’s a hard name,” he said slowly, paused a little, and then added, “but I liked him, Bob, he was a darn’good sort.” '
“Yes, I know, Maine, but we’re here to find him, and,” hopelessly, “that-seems to be almost impossible. Five days gone, and our only trace of him is his leaving Boise and coming to this burnt out hole, here on the desert. If everything was all right, what did he come here for? Maine, I’m afraid,— ”
Ralston thoughtfully , chewed his unlighted cigar. 5	.
“There was good in him, look at the boys: everyone of them liked him.”
“Yes,” interrupted Burham, grimly,' “they like him too blame well. Look at Pete, he’s leading that bunch to drinking so fast that in half an hour no one will know a horse from a bottle. Better break it off, Maine.” ■
Ralston rose and; sauntered over to the bar. “Spike/’ he said in a casual manner, “no more. Here you fellows, clear out. You ’re half-stewed now and we’re in- for a hard afternoon’s ride. Get out and work it off!”	’
^349
“All right, chief,” said “Silver City,” solemnly, “we’re the goats. Come on, boys,” and with much shouting and laughter the bunch trouped out into the hotel yard.
“Bob,” said Ralston, seating himself again, “if something doesn’t turn up soon, we’ll have that bunch roaring on our hands. They’re ’ nervous enough now to wreck a train.”	x
■ The big sheriff smiled. •
“Leave ’em to me, Maine,” he said quickly. . “If we don’t strike something soon we’ll hit the trail for Idaho. By the way, where is Dave Brennen? I haven’t seen him . all morning.”	-
“Oh, Dave. He left right after breakfast. , I told him to be back here by one o’clock. You know he andx Fred were rather thick,-and I must own, it-was Dave started me thinking that maybe, Fred hadn’t killed old man Parker. Dave pikes out early .this morning to see if he couldn’t get wind of Fred ’round here.” The big sheriff-rose.
“Well, Maine,” he said, “I hope he does. If Fred is not guilty he can prove it at the trial. I’m going up to the post-office to see if there, is any news. Keep an eye on the bunch and keep them away from the booze.” He took-his hat, and the two . men stepped out the , front door.
In the shade of the hotel the boys were idly ' lolling about, cracking jokes, and the sounds of „ -their laughter seemed to be waking the town. A few men were to be seen stirring about the different buildings and one or two women were marketing at the grocerv across the way.
As the sheriff and his deputy came out, the patriarch of the town slowly pushed the news- „ paper from his face and dropped his feet from the porch failing.	-
“Howdy, sheriff.. Heard anything of yer . party, yit?” he asked.	,
“Nothing doing yet, Dad,” answered Burham, smiling. “Flow’s the back to-day?”
“Tol’ble, tol’file,” sighed the -town seer. “Be ye goin’ out to the desert today?”	.
; “Well, Dad, that depends. If I hear from Boise and the news is right we’ll go. Besides -we have no news of Heminway leaving here. Nobody seems to know where he is or where he went.”	; y
The grizzled old sinner grinned.
“It’s a bum town, sheriff, an’ ye don’t stand ; much chance gettin’ news from the bunch ’ ’round here. But, if he ain’t in town he’s hit X -
350	. ’ THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the sand, probably making for Fort Hall—” .	“That’s right, Dad; but I got word from both
the Fort and from Riverside this morning, and no one has come there for a week past. We’ll take a run across there today, anyhow. Well, so long,'' Dad. Remember, Maine, watch the
• - boys. We . don’t want them fighting among themselves because they have no one else to fight with. By Jove! What’s this?’’
Suddenly the town had come to life. Men and women swarmed out into the street from ' every nook. A solitary horseman was galloping into the town at furious speed. As he passed.. '	. the huge water tank at the edge of the town he
was fumbling at his shirt front. Neither the sheriff nor his deputy could make him out. By this time all the boys were in the street noisily speculating as to who the rider was.
All at once “Silver City” slapped his chaps.
“By -the Jumpin’ Horned Toad!” he exclaimed, “it’s Jim Graham!”
-	Burham nodded. “He’s right,” he remarked
to Ralston. “Now we’ll know what’s to be
_ . done.” -
In a few moments Jim Graham thundered ' up to the porch, and threw- himself -recklessly from the saddle._
.	. "Bob!” he gasped, handing the sheriff an
: envelope, “it’s from Miss Parker. They’ve found the skunk who killed’her dad.”	-
: . “What!” exclaimed Ralston, “Heminway?” '	. “Heminway, hell!” exploded Graham, “Fred
had nothin’ to do with it. It was that measely
. skunk from San Diego who stabbed old man Parker. Say—-get me a drink, will you? I’ve .. enough sand in my mouth to pave a road.”
.. ‘ He wiped the sweat from his face and reached for the glass that Spike handed him.
. - :	For a moment all were silent; Then when the
:news was thoroughly , understood, that wild .. . .. .crowd, of man-hunters burst out in thundering
.	' cheers. “Silver City’’ danced 'a horn-pipe
7 \ . -on the porch-railing andLarry. Higgins waltzed
:	; across: the street in the arms of Montana Joe.
- . J In the’midst of the excitement Dave Brennen < ’; X'.' returned, just as Burham-was asking: ; X . - A c : ;. A “ Well, if Heminway, didn’t do ■ the. killing,
. where is he?”,. .-.X XXxxX-7 X ' loud enough to be ;
’ 5 XJXx heard', by; all;! ‘ ?Fred • left Canyon City two Mays', XXXX' ago jjounX
had only, one horse. He- carried noXxtfa water. NN - vjlist; got " the >news : from . ant old ;cow- :bdy Iwho .
was helping Fred by keeping, us off;.
* J > — ~	, — w.—'"*** — - -* m	• i. . >. —* • — ^7 -	J	*^*2^ -* .. . • . - -. *— ’ ' *	.
I guess he was right then. But since Jim got here things are different.”
At this unexpected information the big sheriff started. Then he drew Ralston aside and spoke earnestly with him for a few minutes. Presently he turned to' the .waiting crowd.
“Boys,” he said seriously, “you heard what Dave said and you know what it means. Fred - is out in the desert,—perhaps lost. If he has no water,—then God help him! It’s up to us; shall we go for him?”
In reply the boys turned and hurried for their horses. At such times as these men feel the uselessness of demonstration. They who had hunted Heminway to bring him to justice would now search harder to bring him to safety and to his friends.	. .	•
• Two hours later a silent group of horseirien was moving across the desert. The heat was intense, and every nowandthen a rider had recourse to the canteen which hung from his saddle. The sun beat down in merciless rays, and whirls and clouds of heat could be seen ahead rising from the'scorched earth. Now a horned toad, now a scorpion scurried from under the horse’s feet. The men spoke little. They knew their mission and they feared the result. They knew the heartlessness of the desert-to one who was helpjess. .	-
“ Lord! ’ ’ whispered ‘ ‘ Silver City ’ ’ to Montana Joe, “he’ll be toast before we get him.” ’
“Shet up!” answered Joe. . “You’ll need all yef breath’before we get out of here.”
Presently - Burham pulled up his horse and shading his'eyes gazed across the waste. The others followed his gaze. ’ Away off to the north, a slow-moving, indistinct, swaying circle was barely visible above the earth. .	,
The sheriff turned to his companion. ‘2Maine,”- he said, “what, do .you say?”
Ralston did not answer immediately. A deathly pall or. had come;oyer hisTace.	_
: ‘ ‘ Vultures! ” he; said' slowly, > ‘ ‘ vultures! ’ ’ And as he spoke/the circle on the.skyline opened and,a black streak,dike some monstrous javelin,. struck-for;the earth... With a-dull oath Burham. put. spurs to his .horse and’ rose into .the north in quest of .a friend—but the end of the quest waX; death. X.. X X ’	-	.
: -Fofjmaiiy hours the deader of the vultures -i had; led the swinging. circle over the prey on • - .the -;d^	scarce for days,
but he was an bld; experienced beast , at this.'
£
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

- game. The pack behind him were restless, but the old creature in his cunning warned them again and again as they became impatient:
. . “Not yet, not'yet! There’s danger still.’’
From the height he could see the dim figure struggling on the ground. . .
“There’s too much life,—too much. He must ' be dead first. Soon, soon!’’
' Lower and lower swept the circle, with each swoop coming closer to the victim.
All at once there came a little puff of smoke and a report. The old vulture chuckled. That was what he had been waiting for. He had witnessed it before. Now there would be no danger. “All right, now!’’ he croaked to the pack of them, and with glee he led. them straight down to the motionless figure on the sand.
Varsity Verse.
H-
The First Robin.
. Misguided. .	'
Some men there be .who never laugh Except to look sarcastic; .	>
The humorists and all their staff,. They claim are too bombastic.

Some others think a little mirth ' * Is all that man’s alive for, ,x'
Whatever else is on the earth
They’d scarcely think to strive for.
But neither should we choose the first.
Nor the everlasting joker; • Butletms choose though blest or curst, . A golden mediocre. .	- .
.	' D. P.
The Puppet King. ~
Thy dying embers fade within -	..A ‘ t
Their cloak of ashen gray ;	.	' -
The beggar wakes, ’tis his alarm •	.
' For dawning of a day—	~ '	’	. .
For naught his living cerements	;
To keep numb death away.	\


I’ve heard a song of summer
And, oh, ’twas wondrous sweet _ When meadow-larks were trilling
And a wind was in the wheat. '
But again now through my spirit Mounts a song,—lo! now I hear it;.
Spring is coming, coming after That first robin in the street.	’
- Francis T. Butler, ’ip.
„ .The Wanderer.
A streamlet wandered over the plains And merrily sang, the wildest strains. It caught the smiles of blushing skies, And held the sunrise-in its eyes.
It dreamed in meads where young winds toss Their fragile limbs, where, in thick moss • Dim bluebells felt the softest breeze,— " .And poets sang beneath its trees. ’ - - -	.
-	■	. /	G. M.- Brennan.
- Spring.
• I walked near a little tufquoise lake, - And watched its waters play;.
And saw the ripples rise and shake
. Their locks at the^break of day.
• . -Over if all the morning blew;	.	•_
. On the wind; a", bird spread wing;— ■
. . A ripple, a sweet thrush-note or two, .	- .
.	, And I heard the tread of Spring/	\	;
; - 7 _ '	-	\ Thomas C:-Duffy:.
A King of Dreams they say you are!-- .
A sleepful couch your throne, ’	. ‘	*-
And all thy warmth a plenty thing. '
But hear thy people moan *	'	'
For even freezing sleep! No king •	'
• Who shares not with his own. ’ J ,	F: Jennings Vurpittat, ’ 18.
- When my Dreams Come True. . } _■ .I know a ravine	a
* Where wild birds sing, , . • ' Where crickets chirp	.
In the nights o’spring. -	.
. There’s a little path	~
/ ’Mid grasses high,	■ A
And a tiny creek	,	- j?
Sings a lullaby.	■
There in June.	.
I’ll, wait for you, <	.	. .. A T
When my dreams come true,— > When my dreams come true! .	. A
J. Paul Fogarty,-,17..

ry
i-,
. Hit and Miss. '
-“I’m weary,” moaned the farmer lad.
“The world’s afl.gloomy now;. y
I aimed my gun at an .oriole ' , And killed my father’s cow.’’ / . . ,

IBS
"I’m happy now,” the lad remarked,' : ' yyL "The chores are soft as.silk.„ . ; . -
I. lost my gun,—but I’m merry still— /,; a.
■ • ■	'	*	*	r ■ -1 / 'j ■ ' - - *	“ a ' " ~	r' '
There’s one cow less to milk.” ?

^5^2^52^^^
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Centenary of the Reformation and Christian Unity.
BY ROBERT CUSHMAN . CARR, T6.
In this year of 1917, the minds of all men should ponder with unwonted vigor, and the ' minds of Catholics with unwonted pain, the question of the last four centuries: Why is . there but one Christ and five hundred churches » of Christ? why should those churches professedly one in origin and in aim, be so opposed to one another in teaching and practice? ~ And Math this pondering of the old question a new question has arisen, like the first ray of the coming dawn, arisen slowly indeed, and with great difficulty, but surely: Why should men rejoice at the centenary of the event which is , responsible for five hundred churches, where before that event there existed but one?
•	It is as yet but a tiny ray, it is true, but one
with promise of future brilliance. It displays . itself partly in the good-fellowship among the . members of the many churches, partly in the ’ cross above ’the door of the non-Catholic ’ church, and the stained-glass windows that are replacing the cold panes of the old-fashioned Protestantism. The cross is no longer a symbol .	of Romanism, as the old histories call it, for
", the John Endicott to cut from the English flag.	'
Quite naturally of course, one finds the new - development in the broader field of. doctrine; What was man as he was regarded by the - Reformers of 1517? An animal, less than human, totally. depraved, without free-will, forced .	hither and thither by circumstances	he could
.	not control, unable to do anything	of merit,
.	relying always-on* his sole hope, his	power to
‘	. say, “I-believe.” What was • the Church, to
t , them? A department of the State, subject to :	. such changes as the State might impose, an
institution owned and ruled bv the State? -	' Its* property was the State’s, even its voice
. J the State’s, to speak now this, now that, as : T . one ruler followed “another upon the secular “ ’ - X throne. And man, . depraved' as he was,, was superior to this churchy he interpreted ; difficult passages of Scripture; he settled con. 1/. 7 ; ■ troversies; his judgment was correct and • final, J	the court of last appeal, for- indeed' he was
yy	inspired. To' ? the reformers, what was the
S?	Catholic ?yP^
everything wicked; in short, the fulfillment oj the prophecies of the Apocalypse.
Nineteen hundred and seventeen presents a contrast. The storm has passed, and the religious world is comparatively calm and peaceful. Man is no longer an animal, driven about by forces outside himself; he can do much good; his good works are pleasing to God, and worthy of merit. It is true that one still hears semi-occasionally, as I heard in a sermon about a year ago, of the old doctrine of justification by faith alone. But whaK is faith, I ask? It is that which necessarily results in conversion, baptism, and a good Christian life. If Faith be absent, the sermon went on to say, the result is absent; if no result, no Faith. It is the age-long question of definitions. In many matters words only now separate the non-Catliolic teaching from the Catholic: Is it faith and good works, or faith which necessarily produces x and includes good works?
And what is the modern'view-of the Church?-It must be separate from the State, say nonCatholic writers, and perfectly equal to it; it must suffer no interference from the State, nor interfere with it. Each must follow its separate path in peace. The Church, they continue, is the body of all believers in Christ; it matters not by what sectarian name they go, -,-if they but believe in Christ and Him crucified. This and this only is' the requirement, but it is not mere belief without the necessity of good -Christian living. Arminianism is dead, may God be “thanked, and in a dishonorable grave. All divisions of Christianity non-Catholics would now fain ignore, for even though they are many members, they call themselves one body in Christ. -
Yet the mind, is not satisfied with a mere theoretical unity; ’it seeks a unity of visible organization. The cry of the mind in religion .today is the cry ofthe mind throughout the ' ages: for the One,, the Ultimate. It turns from the many, the > proximate, to the first, the sufficient. And-it requires no profound thought to see that the’presence of'the many in the' world religious is lamentable',' a stumblingblock, which might, if possible, deceive even.
' the elect.	....
And as it is the nature of the mind to desire unity, so is it its nature to seek it. And the nonCatholic mind of to-day is seeking unity, but with - unpractised' and difficult steps. We should not
- THE NOTRE DA
say the non-Catholic mind only, for the Catholic mind seeks unity, the unity made by converting others to the true Faith. Non-Catholic religions no longer say with Luther that secession is the way of reformation. Prompted’by inherited - prejudice, they, rejoice at the centenary of his revolt, but seek to repair its consequences. And continually they move nearer and nearer the. realization of their aim. • I speak especially of the Federated Council of the Churches 'of Christ. . It is a body composed of representatives of • thirty-six denominations, formed to promote unity among its members, and even seeks the co-operation of (to use- its own terms) the. Roman Catholic Church. It has, as I am informed, selected one member from each denomination to constitute a committee, which is to serve as a kind of ’directive board. To one who with his whole heart desires unity, a unity that may demand recognition from the world, these activities are rich with promise. Unmourned, the theory* of the sufficiency of the Bible has fallen from its high estate. Far be it from me to speak with anything but the utmost respect’ of the inspired writings. But no one could be more happy than I to see the Bible removed from a position it was never meant to occupy. It by itself and of itself will no longer, at least in theory, be the court of final decision. The’ Council through the Committee has, according to. report, already formulated a Creed, a Creed of the Minimizers, it is true, containing only the teaching of the Divinity of»Christ, -but nevertheless a Creed.
This is as far as we can go with the history of the Council. The Creed awaits the approval of the federated churches, and the future offers itself for our speculation.	-
Every being exercising power by right may, we are told by the ethicists, demand obedience when acting within the sphere of its rights, and may inflict- punishment for disobedience. Every just rule, every demand for obedience, may have a penalty for disobedience; or, as we commonly say, it may have a sanction. And experience has shown that the turbulence of the active mind requires that every law have a sanction, and a sanction proportionate to the
• seriousness of the transgression.	.
To apply this theorizing to the present case, I' ask by what right did the council through its Committee formulate its Creed? By the right given it by the federated churches. What was the extent of the right so conferred? rTo formu
ME SCHOLA STIC	'	353 ' ®
late a Creed acceptable to them. What if they . tyS do not care to accept? Ver}'- well, they may. .X refuse. What is the penalty for refusal? There .; X ? y is none. There is the rub. The Creed of the y'-.yty Council has no sanction. 'It may be rejected • at will. Why, because it is understood to be	. =.;
the fallible formula of thirty-six men.	'	; y
Then again comes the restless activity of- . y the mind, which of its nature seeks to believe X not as little, but as much. as it can, shrinking . . ever from doubt, begging ever for certitude. y It must ask: Is this minimizing the way of ? L Christ and His Church? Does the Council ’ speak as Christ, as one having authority?. . : For Christ is with the Church according to ; < ■ ’ His promise, and the Holy Ghost,-the Spirit y of Truth, is with it. Since God is’Truth, the . -yy Church, which speaks as His mouthpiece, must -	< : -
speak the Truth without error, or the possi- --yyX bility of error. The-Church must be infallible..
Possibly a rebellious mind will, as happened '. . after a similar conference in 1876, prove the ..f powerlessness of the voice of the Council by T-y bringing into existence a new-denomination; . y certainly there will be some, however few, un- . - ; J favorable comments upon the delusiveness of	< N
the new unity. Then the search for the only	Tty
possible unity will begin again. There is but . ’1 one. alternative for the honest searchers for religious truth when the voice of the Council f y'j fails, as it surely will, and that is the voice " pf Christ in His Church. And only one organi- ; y:y; zation even claims to speak as the voice of- < ytyL Christ, the Catholic Church. Then the Church, ; yf one in organization and one in doctrine, no . A longer regarded as a department of the state, .. . ty nor a co-ordinate society, will take the leader-' ;-?yy ship of the people, and teaching and governing. .1. them aright will conduct them along "the IN IN proper pathway of life to the destiny divinely < y.ty appointed.	.	<; NNNI
v Senior Thoughts.	NNIIN
Men as a rule do . not realize the value of. y advice until it is too late to take it. .	\ NI^N.
To trust one’s self is as dangerous as to gambled' NINiN - with an expert who always wins.	- • XtyXyj
There is profit in the, knowledge that we can.-always learn more than we know.	- A y CnNN
A man who advertises his personal achieve-'ty jyMy mehts usually needs the advertisement.,	’y ytytyy
. I would father be hated by my sincerest. XX^W enemy than be loved by an. insincere friend.-‘ty
1
354.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Our Basketball and -The Men Who Did-It.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC •	Notre Dame, Indiana
L.	MARCH io, 1917	No. 22.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard R. Parker, ’17	SpEEr Strahan,	’17
Edward J. McOsker, ’17	Harry E. Scott,	’17
-	’	Michael J. Early, ’17	John A. Lemmer,	’18
~ Stuart . H. Carroll, ’ 17	Charles W. Call,	’18
Delmar J. Edmondson,’ 18	Thomas F. Healy,	’19
F. Jennings Vurpill at, ’ 1S	John Urban Riley,	’17
, —Woodrow Wilson has again taken up the reins of government. In doing this he was - perfectly aware of the turbulent and' crucial _,	davs that lie before him. Prob-
Wilson’s .	x .
T , ably no other president m Inaugural. ,.	Z
the history of this country has faced so discouraging an outlook as the present one. The past four years have been troublesome enough to shake the courage of even the . most experienced statesman. Yet, Mr. Wilson evinces even in the face of interna) and disloyal opposition an equanimity that bids well for '	- his control of this government’s interests in
. the coming session. And it is this self-control in the country’s crisis that recommends him to the confidence of his people. He has performed what he had pledged himself to do. Now he asks only the support and co-operation of a :. united America and re-asserts his principles in regard to America’s relations with the foreign powers. We have passed beyond the stage of - provincialism and have taken our place as an important adult' member of the family of nations and as such can demand the respect and consideration due us. Mr- Wilson is strug- - gling for the nation’s rights , as-he sees them, .and having been placed in the presidential .	. chair by the will of the people; it is the duty
-	' of all true Americans to stand behind him. All
.	. partisan or petty prejudices should, be set aside
' and a true United States support our chief ”	. executive,—not. Mr. Woodrow Wilson, but the
-	. " .. president. Then, indeed, shall we be able to lay
. . . claim , to our name . and. in doing so can look for. „ . ward to. the respect and admiration of posterity.
KING ’
R O N C H E T T I
G R A N T FITZPATRICK	.
M c K E N N A
. M c D E R M 0 T T ' CASSIDY
'	MURPHY^
DALEY ' "
'	_	J-B.
From the opening game at Purdue on December 15th until the closing battle with Franklin. College at Franklin on February 24th, the Nitre Dame basketball team waged a winning fight against handicaps and reverses seldom suffered by an athletic troop. The number of men that answered the first call •- for candidates was discouragingly small and practice began with scarcely more than enough players for two teams. Ronchetti, King, Grant, Fitzpatrick, and Slackford had just completed a long, hard season on the gridiron, and were badly in need of a breathing space before taking up basketball. The pre-holiday game with Purdue made this impossible, and they all turned out promptly with a will to give the best that was left in them to the cause of the winter sport. It was lack of practice on the part of Notre Dame rather than any superiority of the opponents that gave _a victory to Purdue.
After Christmas, West Virginia Wesleyan was the first team to feel the effects, of improvement in the local team. The South Bend Y. M. C. A, found the'collegians the better zteam eveif on the Association floor. <:Dick” Daley was injured so badly in practice before the Y. M. C. .A. game that it was feared he would not be able to play any more. Kalamazoo College swept down on us whilst Daly was out, and managed to nose out a victory by a single basket. We gained some sweet revenge-two days later, however, beating decisively Lake Forest, a team.that defeated us the two previous seasons. Kalamazoo Normal proved easy prey soon after the Lake Forest victory.
In a game remarkable for its roughness, the Michigan Aggies” beat, us at Lansing on January 27th.' Neither Notre Dame nor any other team was able - to defeat The Farmers'in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
their - abbreviated playing space this season. Dubuque College cancelled a game to have been played early in February, and the “fans” missed a chance to see the proteges of Charlie Dorais, the greatest quarterback Notre Dame ever had.	•
St. Viator’s College proved no match for Notre Dame, but the visitors were remarkable for the amount of determination and fight they put into their play. Daley had recovered from his injuries sufficiently to play part of the game against St. Viator’s, but the gain was offset by the sickness of Grant, who was confined to his bed- with grippe.
Wabash furnished the.first big game on the home floor. The hopes of Notre Dame were dashed to pieces when Daley was carried from the court with the first half hardly begun. Stonebraker, et. al., proved too much for the disabled team. Grant put on a suit between halves and played for the first time in two weeks, but Wabash won by a comfortable margin. The Michigan “Aggies” appeared here in the week following and furnished a big disappointment to the crowd that had gathered in ex' pectation of a battle royal—since the visitors had defeated our team at Lansing. Notre Dame nearly doubled their score. .
DePauw, Wabash, and Franklin were the three teams met on the final trip of the season. DePauw and Franklin were defeated in close contests, but Wabash duplicated her previous performance at Notre Dame.
Bight games won out of thirteen is. a good account. It is somewhat more than good when it is remembered that the team was deprived of the services of its two stars, Daley and Grant, a good part of the time, and was without one-or the other of them nearly the whole time. These were only the, outstanding handicaps. Captain McKenna, McDermott, Murphy, and Ronclietti were all slowed up by minor injuries . several times. even though they were able to be in the game regularly. _	*	.
The dirt floor of our gymnasium is not the best footing for a basketball team, but at present it is the only available court. Some sort of temporary wooden floor might be devised, but any plan that would not conflict with track or military has-not yet been conceived. - -
Much credit is due Coach Harper for the efforts he put forth’ to give Notre Dame a winning team. Grant and Daley out of -the .fight, when they were needed most, he had to
355.
shift his battle front from game to game in an endeavor to find the best combination. But the Coach is long on patience and perseverance, and the strength. of the team increased with every.battle. He has-a large number of veterans available for next year, and with an even break in the luck his coaching will be repaid with even greater success next time.
Joseph McKenna, Captain.
It is always fitting that the captain of a team-should be not only a good player but a good fellow as well. Joe combines the qualifications in the right proportions. Endowed with a pleasing—and sometimes teasing accent—with which to express his strong personality, Joe is a -leader, not only among the athletes, vbut among all the students. His guarding this year eclipsed the brilliant - work that-brought him into prominence as a sophomore. We understand that the II. S. is contemplating the erection of elaborate fortifications near Joe’s home on Long Island, and were it not that we shall need him so urgently for next year’s team, we might suggest to Congress, that he would make a mighty fine guard for New York harbor or anything else.
Richard Daley.	>
“Dick” w*as captain of the team a year ago, and he gave his best services again this year. The blonde ex-captain is the champion hard-luck man of Notre Dame.' If he found himself without a bandage or a brace in a single game' he was almost sure to need both before the final whistle. Daley has played guard,- forward, and center during his three years on the team, and it was unfortunate that he could not on account of injuries reach the form -of his first two seasons. Gameness is written all over, him, and he was repeatedly surprising everybody by “coming back” when he was supposed to be dead. It is to be much regretted that “ Dick ” will be among the missing when the -roll call is read for another season.
Frank McDermott; ■ . .
“Mac” is the man who scored 175 points for the Gold and Blue this winter. One would suspect after watching him play that he must have had his hands on a basketball a time or two before we knew him. And one may wonder just how good he will be after tw'o more years at Notre Dame. Goals from the field were his specialty, and therefore it would be petty to mention his preciseness from the foul line,
1
I
i
I
356	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
kJ kJ	.
where according to the rules no one was allowed to bother him. No opponent could stop him— • it was at best a question as to how much said , opponent could hinder him. -It is good to know that he will be “ringing ’em in” for .two more years.
.	Thomas King.
Most basketball enthusiasts .labor under the delusion that a center should be an elongated biped. Reach is essential for a successful center, it is true, but it matters little whether you obtain it by your arms while standing flat or by having “a lot of spring in your heel.” ■	This is not exactly fair to Tom, for he is always
,	on his toes, and it, takes a rough-and-tumble
man to cope with him. Though not always able to control the tip-off, he played a -good game at center, and it was his clever guarding and .	constant feeding to McDermott that ran up
<	" not a few big totals for Notre Dame. King has,
we are glad to say, completed only two-thirds ■	of his basketball career.	-
.	~ Chester Grant. •
-	‘‘ Chet ’’ reported for the basketball team while
he was yet suffering from injuries received on the gridiron. To. his natural fleetness he adds a fine knowledge of the game. He is the equal of Captain McKenna as. a guard, and lie vies
. favorably- with McDermott when given a chaiice at . forward. His dribbling, pivoting, and .	• blocking were the best seen at Notre Dame this
* jrear. Grant is a sophomore. •
Peter Ronchetti.
■	' “Pete” was the heaviest man on the team,
and that was a distinction this year. He played " good ball despite his weight, *and was a big factor in the winning of a good many games. His final year will see him a better player than . ever before.	.
.	Baujan, Slackford, and May deserve no
_ little credit for their part in making the team . . what it was. Substitutes. are- often Jost sight of in the . glamor that attaches to the regulars'. It was these men that supplied most of the '	practice.that made the team “perfect.” Baujan
. .and May are to., graduate, but Slackford , will . be on hand next year. .
;.	... “Red” pla}red a fine game for his firstyear,
on the team. He plaA’-ed in a number of the . y. lafer- important games. No man bn the squad - y showed greater ; improvement as theseason
progressed. He learned the rudiments of the game at Alpena High School, where he was a star on one of -the best interscholastic teams in Michigan. Two more -years will surely make him a college star. .	.
. Clifford Cassidy.
For two years “Cass” had' threatened to “come through” as a basketball player, and this year he made good the threat. He played numerous games at forward and looked better with each performance. His lightness gave him great agility and he coulcj. move about with the fastest. He is in line for a degree June coming.
•	Jeremiah Murphy. '
“Murph” exhibited wonderful improvement this year. At forward and at center he showed well in the few opportunities that he received. He gave the best he had at all times, and it was only after keen competition that- he missed being a regular on the team. Next year will no doubt find him .one of the best men on the squad.	. c. w. c.
* --------------------
Varsity News.
—Father Foik is making a collection of the photographs of all the men who have received from Notre Dame the degree of LL. D. These pictures will be placed in a special LT. D. gallery- in the new library _
—The University gratefully ’announces that , Fdwin .Orin Wood (LL- D., T6) is offering a medal to the students of the Department of History... The medal, is awarded to the student who submits the best essay on some question dealing with the Northwest Territory. •
—“Dolly” Gray, star catcher for Notre Dame a few years ago, after spending several days at the University helping -to coach this . year’s candidates for the catcher’s , position, has. returned to Chicago', whence he will go south with.the White Sox for spring training.
—In the shoot of the college men’s division of the National Rifle Association held last week Notre . Dame took fourth place. The team ■ still. retains, , however, second rank in the division, .with'a total‘score of 3,697 out of a possible.4,000..- The -scores are as follows: , -Leo.Vogel, i93; "John Miller, 186; Jack Young, .186; Walter Navin, 184; George. Reinhardt,, 183; .total, 932.	; ' J	...	. .
—Opening the Forty Hours’ Devotions aty St? Hedwige’s Churchy South Bend, Sunday
7
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
357

morning, March 4th, Rev. Paul Foik, C. S. C., sang the solemn' high Mass, with Rev. Angus McDonald as deacon, and Rev. Joseph Burke as subdeacon. When the devotions closed on Tuesday, March 6th, Rev. Joseph McGuire was celebrant. Rev. Paul Foik deacon and Rev. Angus McDonald subdeacon.
—In the Peace Oratorical Contest held in Washington Hall last Saturday afternoon, Mr. James P. Ryan won first place and the right to represent Notre Dame in,the State Contest to be held in Indianapolis some time within the last week of March. The second and third places were taken by Messrs. Michael Mul-cair and Thomas Healy respectively.
—In consequence of recent legislative enactment on the subject, the question for the annual varsity debate has been changed again, so that it now reads: “Resolved, that the sale, manufacture, and importation of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes be prohibited in the State of Ohio by constitutional amendment.” The debate, consisting of a dual meet with the University of Cincinnati,' will probably take
You might say as a starter, that the Notre Dame - ;
.	„ Club expects to re-organize on the first Saturday of.
place on April 2Otll. As a result of the first March, in a meeting to be held at the Fort Pitt Hotel,
preliminaries thirty men were left in the fight. Of these only fifteen are to survive the second set of preliminaries now being held.
—After competitive trials in the Brownson” Literary and Debating Society the .following men were selected by the judges to oppose the teams of Holy Cross Seminary in the coming debates: Robert P. Galloway, J. Sinnot Meyers, Louis Finske, Lloyd Dent, Alfred Slaggert, and Louis Struhall. The question for debate is: “Resolved, that the constitution shall be amended to prohibit the manufacture, sale, and the importation" of alcoholic liquors in the United States for beverage purposes.”
—Fifty-four juniors and seniors, students in the school of philosophy, held their annual : banquet in the . Carroll refectory Wednesday, March 7th the feast of St. Thomas Aquinas. Rev. Candido Fernandez, 0. P., and Rev. Dominico Matallana, 0. P., were guests- of honor; besides the professors of philosophy were Rev. Matthew Schumacher; the other members of the faculty-who attended were Rev. Matthew Walsh,7 Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, Rev. Michael Oswald, Rev. William Bolger and Prof. John M. Cooney? The philosophers’ banquet is one of the few such occasions that are not spoiled by speeches.' ■	. , s. h.'c.
The Club Column. -
- We are taking the liberty of publishing for , the edification of the various Notre Dame Clubs this recent letter from the loyal secretary. . of the 'Pittsburgh Club:	"	1	;
Pittsburgh, Pa., March 1, 1917.	. .
Mr. E. J. McOsker,	.	;
Sorin-Hall,	'	= \
Notre Dame, Ind.	. ..
Dear Sir:	■	'
Your letter of February Sth has just come to my notice, bpcause of the fact that I have been absent from the city. *	•	?. .
I note that you are anxious to secure news of all - ; J Notre Dame Alumni Associations and Qlubs for ' . print in your Scholastic. I have taken up the matter." with the officers and members of the Alumni Associa-. tion of Pittsburgh, and they have all. promised their support. The Notre Dame Alumni Association and Club of Pittsburgh has been somewhat dormant in the . past, but they are rapidly awakening to the fact that? they had better get busy, for they want to keep the v Pittsburgh Alumni on the map. I assure you that I-will co-operate with you in every way to make the . . Scholastic interesting to your readers. .	~ ’
t.
and it is desirous that all old students, whether belonging to the Alumni Association or not, will.be . present.	■.	...
We note with especial interest, and not a little envy, ’ the progress made by the Alumni Associations of jather, cities, and we feel that as we have just as good timber here in Pittsburgh, there is no reason why our organi-V ; zation should not keep as prominent a place as those -of our sister cities. After all, it is “Notre Daine,? first, last,'and always.” We feel that-when we are." negligent in our activities here, we are in a measure^ slighting Alma Mater.	;' .
It is interesting to note the rapid progress made; ? by the Scholastic. I like to recall the days of the old 5 editors, such as Hughes, O’Hara, Miltner, Wenninger^ ‘ McNamee,' Dimmick, and numerous others whom I. could mention, who graced the “Staff”, about the year, . -1907-1908. I am heartily in accord with your plan ,, of securing news from outside.organizations. It will. -have a tendency to keep - the old boys in touch with j,. each-other. It will be a source of great satisfaction, for example, to know that Bill Ryan is making a-mil- . lion dollars in the law business, and that Art Hughes is writing stories for the South Bend Tribune, . that; ' George Sands and Paul Donovan-are on the bench in Chicago, and that Joe Goddeyne is possibly chasing the coyotes on the prairies of Michigan, or “Herbie” Keefe, erstwhile stenographer, office-boy, and lawyer , in'his own office, is setting the world on fire in Sioux y City. -	~	- ’ '	’ .
. John O’Neil has just-returned from Arizona, where he had the satisfaction of watching some of; his large?:; oil-producing wells, and hearing them proclaim : to;? him that he is henceforth a “son.of rest;”*


I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
358
This is about all the news I have at the present time, - but I have instructed our historian to let you have something in the hear future.
Thanking you for your .consideration and trusting that I have bored you in no way, I am
Very trulj’ yours,
Thos. A. Havican, Ti.
. P. S. We all expect to invade you in June.
Cincinnati Club Has Rally.
Notre Dame men of Cincinnati gathered in a big rail}7 and get-together at Cody’s, Third and Scott Streets, Covington—across the river— last Monday evening. The feature of the program was an address by. Captain Hill of the _ United, States Engineers’ Corps. The session was for members of the Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati and their friends. A “Dutch” lunch was served and a social evening and musical numbers enjoyed. The officers of the Cincinnati club are: Charles A. Paquette, president; Edwin C. McHugh, vice-president; W. E- Kennedy, secretary; R. E. Anderson, recording-secretary; Joseph F. Dohan, treasurer. The executive board is composed of: M. G. Burns, J. M. Manley, Hon. William Byrne, and Harr\7 V. Crumley.	*
Obituaries.
John Dixon, Sr., father of John Thomas Dixon (LI^ B., Ti) and cousin of Brother . Florian, died at his home in Connellsville,. Pa., February 25th, after a very brief illness. A Connellsville journal pays this tribute to the deceased: “He was a man of "excellent business capacity and strict integrity. His friends were legion/’ We extend our condolences to the family and promise our prayers in his behalf.
Bert .Railton, son of Mr. and Mrs. B. A. / Railton of Chicago, and brother of John Railton of Brownson Hall, passed away on February 23rd at the family, home in Chicago. Bert was for several years a student at Notre Dame, . . having resided in St. Edward’s, Carroll, and Brownson Halls. Owing to impaired health . he was unable to complete his course of studies. He. had suffered several sieges of pneumonia ‘ and this last attack was. more than, he could : withstand. Several of Bert’s ..brothers have
Lecture by Joyce Kilmer.
On Thursday evening, Mr. Joyce Kilmer, the popular young poet of the New York Times and Literary Digest, returned to Washington Hall, lecturing to the University on “The Man Without a Country.” Mr. Kilmer considered three such characters, the fictitious person of Edward Everett Hale’s story; Benedict Arnold, • who, in betraying the. Colonies, became in truth a man witho’ut a country; and George Washington, who having no country, created one by the strength of his will. Benedict Arnold, religious bigot, and the only one of Washington’s generals who expressed doubt as to his chief’s ability, afterward ■ became through ambition the arch-traitor to every sacred- tie by which he-was bound. The example of the first president, Mr. Kilmer showed, furnishes many lessons sorely needed in. a day like this, two of which are especially to be pondered. Washington’s convictions as regards religious equality, and freedom from foreign disputes and alliances. The lecturer’s most-intimate field is that of poetry and literature, of course, yet he brought to this subject a keen analytical knowledge of history. He puts into his spoken discourse the clear insight and peculiar charm which sb distinguishes his verse. He discovers in the most ordinary things rich and unsuspected meanings. Father Walsh introduced Mr. Kilmer for what he is, not merely a poet and literary critic, but one of ourselves, an admirer of the University, a loyal friend of Notre Dame.
Athletic Notes.
CHARLES W. CALL, T8.	- 1
.	'	'	'	-	-	51
-	.	♦	i
■ . ;	~—..	i
• Four solid gold watches in the vest pockets J of J-Pete ’.’ Noonan, “Andy” - McDonough/ | / ‘ Cy ” ■ Kasper, and/ “ Eddie ’ ’ Meehan, are | evidence tliat Notre Dame played a prominent
part in the First Annual Relay Carnival held at the University of Illinois last Saturday evening.:. The jewelry - and a handsome silk shield were, captured by 'the Notre Danie athletes in / the opening event of the meet— -
: attended Notre. Dame, and: two pf. his sisters the two-mile university relay.	. ' ■
. .. are at St/ Mary’s this year. The: University . - Noonan was. fortunate in drawing ..the pole /offers //its/-heartfelt sympathy to’the .family -in a? field/: of -six/ entries. Chicago, 'Kansas, '" /and/mingles/its prayers/ for the repose pf the . Michigan, Purdue and- Illinois were the- other ///squl of the deceased. I?. LP.	; ..	. teariis.to/tpe the mafk/ Nponan did not however,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
359
hold long the advantage" he gained in the draw, and at the first two-twenty mark he was running fifth; • at the quarter he had dropped back to sixth and at the end of the third two-twenty lie had regained only fifth place. At this mark, Sproul, of Kansas, started a sprint that put him well in the lead. Noonan had to run -around the whole field before he could set out for Sproul; but he caught the leader, .however, within a hundred yards of- the end of the halfmile, and then gradually drew away from, him and passed the baton with a five-yard lead to McDonough, the second sprinter for Notre Dame.	"
McDonough immediately proceeded to multiply many times his already safe lead, and at the end of his first two-twenty he was between thirty and forty yards to the front. But it was a case' of over-anxiousness and he could not maintain the pace he had set for himself. One of . his old-time rivals, Campbell, of Purdue, passed him in,the final two-twenty, and put seven yards between them by the end of the . second relay.
Kasper lost no time in grabbing the. baton mediately sprinting after Kasper, tried to:take
from McDonough and setting out after Captain Van Aiken of Purdue. Tenney, the Chicago miler, who had outrun the famous Joie Ray at the First Regiment Games the Saturday before, also was running in the ..third relay. Kasper quickly drew up with Van Aiken and trailed ■him for a lap. Once he passed the Purdue captain, but could not hold the lead, and in the final dash, fight as best he could, 'Van Aiken gave the stick to Large, the last Purdue man, seven yards before Kasper could pass the Notre Dame baton to the outstretched Meehan for the final half - mile. Michigan and Illinois were distanced, and it was easy to’ see that Chicago, Purdue,'Kansas, or Notre Dame must win.	-.	.	’ ■
. Amid loud cries of “Keep it in the Conference 1 Keep it in the Conference!” Meehan took afterLarge.- Clark, of Chicago, and Rodkey, of Kansas, were close behind him. Unfortunately . two of the greatest runners at the meet, Spink, of Illinois, and Captain Carroll, of Michigan, were handicapped so • heavily by the. runners
that preceded them that they had no opportunity of showing their- ability with the rest of the anchor men. Meehan was'soon on the
in both of which Captain Ames, of Illinois!
. heels of Large, but; was content to follow him established new records. Mulligan beat Hoyt . for the first lap. .When two laps from the tape,. the Grinnell star, in the semifinals of the seventy. with Clarke, of Chicago, and Rodkey of . yard dash, but neither placed in the finals, .
"Kansas, still within threatening distance,. Meehan -began .to gather a sufficient lead to ~ > carry him through the trying last lap. He., continued to gain thereafter, and-in the finishing straightaway his long “stretch” opened thirty ; : yards of track between . Clark and himself before he threw himself against the tape for a great Notre Dame victory. z Chicago finished, second, and Kansas, third. The time for the two miles was 8:09 3-5.
An hour later the same team, with the exception that Captain Miller was in the place : . of Noonan, entered the one-mile university ! relay. Another victory might have been won . by Notre Dame but for two.unusual and stupid ' accidents. Captain John Miller, after starting ~ ’ in fourth position from the pole, brought the V baton around the first quarter-mile on practi- , cally. even, terms with Clarke, of Chicago, . and passed it cleanly to Kasper, the second J , runner for Notre Dame. Kasper had just got started when the second man’for Northwestern by. some hallucination decided, that Kasper ....." was the first Northwestern runner and im-.
the baton away from him. Kasper- naturally was "nonplussed, and before he could" get the Evanstonian to let him proceed he had to drag him some twenty yards along the cinders. Many costly yards were lost in this fiasco, but it remained for an official of the meet to put Notre Daine completely out of the. running. McDonough was extending himself to the utmost in an effort to regain lost ground when a. man wearing a badge marked “Official,” who -was evidently checking the laps of the different runners, stepped on the track with his_ back, to the oncoming Notre Dame man. It was no fault of . McDonough’s that the - official. ’was knocked down on the track face first, but the! two seconds lost could never be regained, and 'when Meehan took, up the fourth-quarter, neither he nor. any other runner could overtake.-the' colored Chicago flyer, , Binga. Dismond.

. It was not delightful to see Michigan take second place after witnessing Notre Dame beat them by twenty yards in the same race on the Michigan track just two weeks before. y Kirkland got third in the high-hurdles, and

was very . close to third in the low hurdles.
- . »-
360
THE NOTRE DAME SCH0LAS1HC
Old Students’ Hall—Subscriptions to February 3,1917.
The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall were received by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the building committee:
$2000.00
Samuel T. Murdock, '86.	,
Si 000.00
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, P. T. O’Sullivan, '68; Right Rev. E-J. McLaughlin, ’75; AI. F. Healy, '82: John C. Shea, ’98; Clement C. Mitchell,'02; Byron V. Kanaley,’04; Daniel P. Murphy,’95; John P. Lauth, '68.
S500.00
Robert Sweeny, '03; C. A. Paquette. ’90; Rev. John Dinnen, '65: Warren A. Cartier, '87; Stephen B. Fleming, ’90; Thomas Hoban, '99; Angus D. McDonald, ’00; William A. Mclnerny, 'or; Joseph M. Byrne, '79; Cassius McDonald, ’04; William P. Breen, ’77; Student from Far West; Rev. I. E. McXamee, '09; C. C. Craig,'85; Frank E. Hering, '98; Peter P. McElligott, ’02; Janies J. Conway. '85; George Cooke, ’90. John Dowd, '99.
$300.00
’ Frank N. Alaas, '77.
•	$250.00
Fred E. Murphy, ’93; John M. Flannigan, ’94; John H. Neeson, ’03; Joseph B. Naughton.'97; Peter Kuntz.’98, John H. Fendrich, '84; John Eggeman, ’00; A. A. McDonell, ’00; Eugene A. Delaney, ■99; R. A. O’Hara. 'S9; M. P. Hannin, ’93.
. $200.00 .
W. G. Uffendell, ’01; John O’Shea, ’11; James F. Kennedy, '94; Louis C. M. Reed, ’9S; Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00; Joseph J. Sullivan, 02; G. A. Fatabaugh, ’04; Robert Anderson, ’S3; Joseph Lantry, ’07; Rev. F. J. VanAntwerp, ’14; L. J. Keach, 'oS; Rt. Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’03; Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94. F. A. Kaul. ’97; William Hoynes, ’77; Edwin J. Lynch, 'to; T. D. Mott, "95; F. Henry Wurzer, ’9S; Paul R. Martin, ’13; Timothy V. Ansberry, ’93; John M. Quinlan, ’04; Daniel Madden, ’06; Fred J. Kasper, ’04; J. S. Corby, ’9S; Thomas Steiner, ’99; John F. Cushing, '06.
$150.00
Rev. Michael Shea. ’04; Ambrose O’Connell. ’07; William Byrne, ’95; James L. Tong, ’94; W. A. Drapei, ’06; James E. Deery, ’09.
$120.00
Maximilian St. George, 'oS.
$100.00
Oliver J. Tong. *73; Hermann C. R. Piper, '11; Rev. Edmund OCon-nor, ’94; J. L. Lamprey,’03; Walter Joyce,'07; GeorgeN. Johnson; ’95; William H. Boland, '88; William J. Granfield, ’13; AL O. Burns,'86; Rev. MichaelRyan,’95; William P. Higgins, ’03; James Frederick Coll, '89; George J. Hanhauser,’01; James P. Fogarty,'00; Rev. John B. McGrath,’So; John F. Fennessey, ’99; Cyril J. Curran, '12; Ernest E. L. Hammer, ’04; Alfred J. Pendleton, ’97; Edwin Wile, ’74; Francis C. Schwab, ’02; Rupert F. Mills, ’14; William H. McCaity, ’99; Edwatd J. Glynn, ’11; Frank P. Crowley, ’09; Thomas B. Curry, ’14; James A. Curry. ’14; Harry V. Crumley, ’03; Harry S. Cahill,'oS; Walter V. Heekin,'05; William McKenzie, *88; Rev. Bernard P. Murray; Mark M. Foote.’73; Patrick J. Houlihan ’92; E. J. Maurus. '93; Thomas J. Swantz, ’04; H. G. Hogan, 04; Harold P. Fisher, ’06; John B. Kanaley, '09; James F. Hines, ’09; John B._ McMahon, '09; Rev. John M. Byrne, ’00; J. H. Gormley, ’03; Thomas O’Neill, ’13; Robert E- Pioctor, ’04; John F. O’Connell, ’13; Frank C. Walker. ’09; Rev. Gilbert Jennings, ’08; George O’Brien,’90; Vitus Jones,'02; W. A. Duffy,’08; Rev. J. H. Guend-ling, '14; Fred C.’ McQueen, ’00; Charles J. Stubbs. '88; Rupert Donovan, '08; Rev. Francis H. Gavisk, ’14; Rt. Rev. Frank O’Brien, ’95; Frank L. .McOsker, ’72; Charles E. Ruffing, ’85: James F. Foley. ’13; Rt. Rev. T. C. O’Reilly, ’09; Thomas J. Welch, ’05; William E. Cotter, ’13; John C. Tully, *n; John F. O’Connor, ’72; T. P. O’Sullivan,- '02; G. M. Kerndt, '82; Dr. Frank J. Powers, ’94; Rev. John Talbot Smith, ’07; Danitl C. Dillon, ’04; Thomas C. Butler, '08; Edward M. Kennedy, ’08; John J. Kennedy, ’09; Peter AL Ragan, ’92; James D. Barry, ’97; Fred L. Steers, ’n; Walter Clements, ’14; Edward J. Carlton, ’16 Leonard M. Carroll, ’16; Luke L. Kelly, '16; Frank E. Swift, ’16 C. P. Mottz, ’16; Samuel Ward Perrott, ’16; Edward C. Ryan, ’16 James Francis Odem, ’16; Emmett P. Mulholland, ’16; Thomas A. Hayes,'16; Frank J. Hiss,’16; Joseph J. McCaffery,’16; Walter-P. McCourt, ’16; AL J. AIcEniry, 'Sr; Thomas J. Shaughnessy, ’15; James F. O’Brien, ’13; Alichael L.' Fansler, '04; A. C. Fortin, ’01; Daniel J. O'Connor, ’05; AI. H. Miller, '10; William D. Jamieson, ’05; Grover F. Miller, ’16; Thomas A. McLaughlin, ’16; Edwin H. Sommerer,’16; Joseph O’Sullivan,’16; Jacob E. Eckel, ’16; Vincent
Alooney, ’16; John T. Shea, ’06; Edward AI. Schaack, '93; Anton C. Stephan, '04; Dr. F..B. AIcCarty. ’07; Harry F. AIcDonagh, 'io; Charles W. Lahey, ’13; Adam J. Kasper, ’95: George W. Kasper, '95; Robert A. Kasper, '07; Charles Girsch, '94; Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, ’07; John B. Fruechtl, ’04; Hugh J. Daly, ’12; Edward K. Delana, ’13; Harry Curtis, 'oS; Charles Cullinan, ’07; Daniel Cullinan, 07; Dr. W. P. Grady, ’99; Edgar Crilly, ’90; George S. Crilly, '88; James V. Cuningham, ’07; AI. H. Aliller, 'io; Frank X. Cull, 'oS; Jesse E. Vera, ’10; Walter Duncan, ’12; James W O’Hara, ’13; Joseph Collins, 'ri; Dr. H. G. AIcCarty, ’12; James Dubbs, '06; Raymond E. Skelly, ’it; William R. Ryan, 'n; William A. AIcKearney, 'oS; Alaurice J. Breen, ’09; Raymond C. Langan, ’93; Charles A. Gros salt. ’96; Edward J. Rauch, ’95; William J. Alooney, Jr., ’14; John J. AlcShanc, ’14; Henry A. Wim-berg, ’96; Gerald S. Clements, ’14; John G. Wimberg, ’96; Philip B. O’Neill, ’02; Elmo A. Funk, ’oS; Rev. J. C. Scullin, '09; Oscar A. Fox, ’06; Dwight Cusick. ’12; Paul F. O’Brien, ’12; C. P. Somers, '15; F. W. Durbin. ’13: Aithur W. Ryan. ’13; E. H.
Savord, ’12; Robert L. Fox. '01; John McKeefrey.
$75-oo
John W. Costello, ’12.
$50.00
Albert B. Oberst, ’06; Louis P. Chute, ’92; "William Fish, ’12;
J. Clovis Smith, '14; Frank B. Cornell, '00; Rev. John Schopp, ’94; A. J. Alajor, '86; Charles Vaughan, ’14; Stephen H. Herr, 'to; J. N. Antoine, ’70; Rev. Thomas Cleary, '09; Fred Stewart, ’12; Jaj’ Lee. ’12; Albert F. Gushurst, '09; Edward P. Cleary, ’09; Rev. John J. Burke, '83; Rev. AI. L. Aloriarty, 'to; Rev. John P. Quinn, ’S3; Simon E. Twining, ’13; J. V. Birder, ’13; Cecil E. Birdei; '14; AI. Emmett Walter, ’15; Ralph Eberhart, ’02; Rev. John AI. Gerenda, '09; Timothy P. Galvin, ’16; Ray Al. Humphreys, ’16; Hugh E. Carroll, '16; Jesse C. Harper; Ronald S. O’Neill. ’14; Louis P. Hari, ’16; Joseph D. Kovacs, ’16; Patrick Alaloney, ’16; J. F. Delph, '16; Hugh O’Donnell, ’16; Janies Sanford, '14; Ira W. Hurley, ’14; Emmett G. Lenihan, ’15; Francis H. Hayes, ’14; Raymond J. Kelly, ’16; Ernest P. Lajoie. ’15; Rev. P..J. Crawley, .’95; Arthur Pino, ’06; William Milroy, '13; Dr. Robert Frost, ’02; Eustace Berry, '03; A Fiiend from the South; Daniel Shouvlin, ’14; R. B. AlcConlcgue, ’00; Thomas , J. Jones, '03; Twomey AI. Clifford, ’13; Cletus H. Kruyer, ’12; Dalton B. Shrouds, '09; D. R. Shouvlin, ’09; P. W. Purcell. ’12; Carmo F. Dixon. ’09; Joseph P. O’Reilly, ’03; W. B. Helmkamp, ’11; Rev. AI. T. Griffin, ’04; Robert E. Daly, ’15.
$40.00
V.	E. Alorrison, '89; Gerard N. Krost, '04; Stephen A. Fazekas.
$25-00	:
John AT. Culligan, '15; Joseph AI. DeLone, ’02; Simeon T.	1
Flanagan, '14; W. B. AIcLain, ’04; Lawrence Janszen, '09; Rev.	|
A. A. Lambing, '83; James AI. Riddle, ’13;. Henry Hess, ’82; Dr.	?
E- AI. AIcKee, '06; Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13; Rev. John H.	1
Alullin, ’11; I. N. Alitchell, Sr., ’92; Frederick Williams, ’13; Rev.	|
Joseph Toth, 'n; Joseph M. Walsh, '14; Alax Adler, '89; John G.	|
Alott, ’95; Rev. T. O. Maguire, ’09; Paul J. Smith, ’16; C. I.	3
Krajewski,’16; Joseph P. Flynn,’16; John P. Conboy, ’16; W. W.	|
Turner, ’16; Alfred Fries, ’16; J. A. McCarthy, ’16; J. Hairy	|
Sylvestre, ’16; Harold P..Burke, ’16; Peter C. Yearns, ’16; Fred	|
AI. Pralatowski, ’16; Francis J. Kilkenny, ’12; Edward L. Figel, ’11;	g
Thomas J. Dooley, ’97; Alark A. Devine, ’10; Daniel E- Cooney,	®
'to; Fremont Arnfield, ’12; W. W. Harless, '86; Edward J. Walsh,	fl
’00; Thomas Curran, ’16; D. D. Alyers, Jr., ’00; Dennis Aloran,	g
’14; Leo F. Welch, ’12; Ralph A. Reitz, ’14; Lawrence Luken, ’02;	®
William L. Beckham, ’11; Frank C. O’Rourke, ’12; Alhrtin Hena-	S
han,’15; Robert J. Dederich,’09; Carl K. Rowlands.'06; Clarence	O
W.	May, ’06; J. S. Cangney, ’12; George Rudge, '74.	3
’	’	$20.00	g
Gabriel Davezac, '94; James R. Devitt, ’13; Albert A. Glockner, J '16; Julius AI. Hack, ’92,	•	@
’	$15-00
Bernard Dutch, ’13.	»
'	' $10.00	.	s
P. J. O’Connell,’73; PaulT. Markey,’08; Edward J. Alarkey,’c6;	8
Alfred Vignos, ’95; Andrew L. -Slump, ’91; Frank Niedecken, ’09;	8
Harry Kirk, ’13; Louis Chute, '92; J. J. Deasey, ’06; H. King, '16; g James E. Roach, '16; J. E. Hogan, ’16; Frank Alaher, '02; Frank J W. Bloom, '84; George F. Pulskamp, ’96; Joseph J. Hinde, ’09.
$5-°°	®
Robert D. Murphy, 'or; Mark Duncan, '15; Hiram Halliday, W. Bloom, '84; George F. Pulsampk, ’96; Joseph J. Hinde, ’09. ’06; Claude S. AIoss, ’95; John Bell, ’08; P. M. O’AIeara, ’09; SI A-. I. Strickfaden; A. K. Grimes, ’14.	Ml
