
CAMEL
-“"-SuleiD, jf. c
0
0
Little Connie Haines, the smooth-singing phono-fan favorite, does some tricky purring on her new click disk.
And another favorite with a great record among cigarette smokers is cool, mild, flavorful Camels.
Why? The answer is in your "T-Zone”—T for Taste, T for Throat.
Try Camels! Discover for yourself why, with Connie Haines and countless other smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the "choice of experience.”
Here’s another great record-Mote people ate smoking GAMBS


LETTERS
- SPLIT DECISION
Dear Editor:
Call this one round five if you wish, but I believe I am speaking for the majority of the Bengal Bout fans when I disagree with the annoying statement of • Mr. Scott concerning the fairness of the judges.
' In every sport there is found a minor-y ity of fans who feel it their incompetent duty to demonstrate criticism of the judge’s or referee’s decisions. Mr. Scott, unfortunately, is of this group. I will * wager that he does not know three of the five elements on which every fight ’ is scored.
We owe the judges, referees, and timekeeper of the Bouts a deep expression of gratitude for the expert services they so generously rendered.
*	Bernard Boute
Breen-Phillips Hall
TO EACH HIS OWN —VIEWS
Dear Editor:
I wish to take issue with a part of the Scholastic editorial of last week re' garding the arming of German and Jap-। anese soldiers. As a member of the Scholastic editorial staff, I do not wish »■ to be understood as endorsing in any way the view expressed concerning such rearmament.
While, on the whole, your suggestion that foreign troops be incorporated into 1 American defense plans abroad is a good one, I shudder to think of the adverse ? effect rearming of German divisions would have upon our efforts to keep France from Communism and the Low Countries within our political orbit.
*" Whether rightly or wrongly, the French, in particular, view with great suspicion any attempt to rearm Germany or Ger-w mans. Three times in the last 75 years France has been invaded by Germany, and their entire foreign policy has been aimed at “security” against future Ger-
* man encroachments on French territory. ; The Low Countries, also, which have suf-j fered from German imperialism, are in-
•» terested in keeping German arms in a state of impotence. To rearm German divisions, which invaded them not too many years ago, sacked their cities, and ' proceeded to occupy them, would certainly seem to these people a callous affront to their national dignity, and would be additional ammunition to Bed efforts to
(Continued on Page 26)
The Headquarters for ARROW
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
FOR EXTRA HEAVY
DATES
Arrow, Sussex Collar Shirts With French Cuffs
For special occasions nothing is more successful than an Arrow Sussex. Looks especially smart with a Windsor knot tie!	.
Sussex is the favorite widespread collar shirt of college men and is made in fine Gordon oxford cloth as well as broadcloth.
Sussex comes in white, solid colors, and stripes with either french or plain cuffs and is Sanforized labeled, guaranteeing less than 1% shrinkage . . .
$3.50 and up.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES »--------------------------------------------------- UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
3
TOP OF THE WEEK
Before: “Don’t worry, he’ll never catch me.”
MARITAIN SOUTH BEND BOUND?
Here are a couple of rumors to bounce around. Jacques Maritain, the world-renowned Thomistic philosopher, may teach at Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute next year. . . . And Life magazine may do a story on the Notre Dame Bacteriological Laboratories soon. . . . Los Angeles papers report Jack Zilly is being; considered for the role of Tarzan in the movies. The comedians who pro
a quarter of that—$32,000—came from Notre Dame.
It wouldn’t be smart to boast of such an achievement, but we think the local committee and the student body deserve the greatest possible praise for surpassing such larger universities as DePaul, St. Louis, and Detroit in this remarkably unselfish endeavor. The campaign runs until the end of this semester.
POLITICO DENIES ALL
Chuck Russ is wondering where the
Scholastic got the idea he’s booming MacArthur for the forthcoming mock Republican convention here. Cigarchomping campus politicians were closely watching the wily Russ for signs of MacArthur strategy after the Scholastic said he’d back the general. Then Russ shattered Doug’s last hope with a flat denial of such intentions. Issuing a special statement to the press, Russ said:
“I wouldn’t even lend MacArthur my galoshes to wade ashore at San Simeon.”
It’s still too far away from convention time (April 26, 27, and 28) to make any predictions, but one thing is sure: Wisconsin, Randy Hearst, and Chuck Russ have just about ruined General Mac. Dig-Me-Out Doug, they’ll call him.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
After: “But, Father, I thought I had a one o’clock permission!”
Remember, sophomores, ROOM RESERVATIONS ARE POSITIVELY FINAL.
duce the abysmal Tarzan series are apparently afraid aging Johnny Weissmuller will tumble out of a tree and break his neck one of these days. Charging elephants will be child’s play for Zilly after facing Doc Blanchard. . . .
There’s a hot rumor circulating among the freshmen to the effect that pre-war disciplinary restrictions will be resumed next year. Among other things, that would mean one midnight a month for freshmen and two for sophs. Great idea if you happen to have an Erector set and a few boxes of crackerjack in your room to while away a Saturday night.
OH, NO. NOT THAT!
Jim Termondt, who helps Befnie Ell operate the newsstand in the basement of the cafeteria on Sunday mornings, had a query to answer last Sunday. One of the comely damsels here for the Junior Prom asked Jim where Badin Hall is. It seems her date lived there. (Probably still does.) Jim told her Badin was right out in front of the caf; she couldn’t miss it.
The sweet young lass looked up at the burly news vendor, her eyes wide with horror.
“You mean that old place?” she gasped. “Oh, he wouldn’t live there?”
No?
—❖—	.
A BACK-PAT FOR THE IRISH
Current statistics from the National Foreign Student Relief headquarters reveal that Notre Dame has made by far the greatest single contribution to the all-Catholic campaign. So far about $120,000 has come into the fund. Over
Warren K. Vieth* Switched to Wildroot €ream-0il Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Tee’
DON'T be a pig. You’ll only end up a ham. Don’t selfishly spend all your money on your girl. Spend some on yourself. . Start grooming your hair with Wildroot Cream Oil and look doggy! Just a little bit of Wildroot Cream-Oil grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that greasy, slicked-down look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-nail Test! And Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic is non-alcoholic — contains soothing Lanolin. Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil at any drug or toilet goods counter today. And ask your barber for a professional application. Don’t be piggish — get the large economy size so your roommate can share it—(he will anyway).
* of 23 Hamilton Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
on
4
Th e Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
'siiiiiititfiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiuittiiiiiitfiiiitniiiiniiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiHtiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR. Editor
Associate Editors EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX _______________________________________________ Features
PETER BROWN ____________________________________________________ Sports
SHAUN McDERMOTT ________________________________________________ News
ROBERT T. STOCK _____________________________________ Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL __________________________________________ Photography
Editorial Associates
HARRY MONAHAN BUZZ WRIGHT KEN THOREN JOE HERRINGTON VIC DORR GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN _____________________________________ Librarian
JOHN CLARK _____________________________________   Circulation
GEORGE KORHUMEL __________________________________ Circulation
B. T. KYSER __________________________________     Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN ___________________________ Faculty Moderator
ItlilltlillltillltlllllltttitllllllllllKIttttlllllllKtlllltlllttttlllltlllltlltinilllllKIIIIIIIllIllllllintllilllttlllllt
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Don't Miss — In This Issue
NEWS
Page
CONVENTION—Campaigns Open Up ____________ 9
COUNCIL—Financial Problems Worry _____________ 9
GLEE CLUB—Cashman Presents 'Archangel Mike'._ 13
SPORTS
SPRING SPORTS—3 Varsity Squads in Action _____ 14
GOLF—Scholastic Tourney, April 26 ____________ 16
FOOTBALL—Injuries Dampen Early Sessions ______ 18
FEATURES
PERSONALITIES—Tony Makes Good Malteds  10 FEMMES—Dance Weekend Brings Lovelies _______ 11
FORE—Golfer Sets New Course Record  17
COVER
Ted Budynkiewicz tees one up high as golfers make early tours of local links. Photo by Jim Ferstel.
CALENDAR
APRIL 16	.
STATE, Last of the Redmen. This really isn’t the last of them. They withdrew to a Navajo reservation where they’ve been campused ever since. Jon Hall, an expressionless male pin-up, shares billing with Michael Shea whose name alone is not enough to prevent his sharp downhill skid. Companion feature, Under the Tonto Rim. What can possibly go on under the Tonto Eim? .
ERSKINE COUNTRY CLUB, Air ROTC Military Ball, Tony Papa giving out with the sweet stuff. Uniform mandatory. Gets under way at 9.
APRIL 18
ITALY, general elections. First time in 173 years that this date has taken on such importance in Western civilization.
GRANADA, Flight of Wild Stallions. A couple of quadrupeds put on their own Bengals. This kind of a picture never fails to please that portion of the movie-going populace that smacks and licks chops over lords of the animal kingdom clashed in mortal combat. Clem McCarthy will broadcast the hoofy struggle, nip for nip, snort by snort.
STATE, Wistful Widow of Wagon Gap. Abbott & Costello must divvy honors with Miss Marjorie Main, a bossy old gal whose voice has all the respect-inspiring qualities of a treed bobcat. Miss Main, despite her close crowding of 40, still possesses more genuine charm than a whole lotful of Hollywood’s artificially glamoured young frills. Companion feature, Ivy, with Joan Fontaine as an unscrupulous and highly-polished murderess, goaded on by the glitter of the pound sterling. Richard Ney looks as if he could use a square meal and several months at Father Lange’s.
APRIL 20
JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, Thomas L. Thomas, concert baritone, in an evening of delightful music and song.
PALACE, Love From a Stranger. John Hodiak and Sylvia Sydney. Is she still around?
LAW AUDITORIUM, History Department discussion at S p.m. Topic, “What, Historically, Is an American?” Should be very interesting. Question will be hit from religious, political, and social angle. Open forum with audience participating will follow initial arguments.
APRIL 22	G
COLFAX, Northside 777, with Jimmy Stewart. Reviewers tab this as one of the best of the current crop. An enthusiastic journalist uncovers some facts that lead to an expose of underworld creepings, and the eventual acquittal of an innocent man. Ah me! This mad, crushing, omniscient, fearless journalistic life—what other field offers such thrills and glamour? And such rewards?
PALACE, Relentless, a technicolor mystery featuring Robert Young and a lamb-eyed lush, Marguerite Chapman. Companion feature, Louisiana, with Jimmie Davis, former Governor of the Bayou State.
GRANADA, Bill and Coo. This is an Oscar-winning novelty about love birds, the real feathered ones. One bird is so outstanding that he has been assigned to replace Burt Lancaster in “Bird-Cage O’Brien Is Still at Large.” Companion feature, Springtime in the Sierras. Bring your umbrella.
STATE, Fun and Fancy Free, a Walt Disney cavalcade. Companion feature Big Town After Dark. It’s not about Goshen.
5.
SCORNER’S SEAT
Yanks and Braves Are Best of Lot, Cubs and White Sox Not So Hot
By Joe Wilcox
As a baseball fan of long standing, with a secret yearning to peck at a pressbox typewriter, I hereby grant, give and extend unto the world my prognostications for the forthcoming baseball pennant race. I am not responsible for any bets placed in reliance thereon.
AMERICAN LEAGUE:
1.	New York Yankees. An improved
pitching staff will enable the Yankees to
finish ahead of Detroit and Boston. Lopat, kindly sent to the Yankees by Chicago, should win 20 games. A new Yankee dyna sty seems to have be
dix. will and
gun.
2.	Boston Red Sox . . . provided that Ted Williams keeps his appen-
Strength added during the winter be offset by Hughson’s ailing arm other woes of the pitching staff. Better luck would have given the Sox
the pennant.
3.	Detroit Tigers. I admit partiality toward Detroit, but six of the best pitchers in baseball cannot overcome a batting weakness, a questionable outfield, and an aged or untried infield. With more hitting and a sound inner defense, Detroit could win the pennant. They ought to make it a fairly close one-two-three anyhow.
4.	Cleveland Indians. Considerably stronger than in ’47, the Indians’ pitching still fails to come up to Detroit’s, except, of course, Feller’s. A good first baseman would help, and the outfield is longer on quantity than on quality. Conceivably could finish third, but no higher.
5.	Philadelphia Athletics. First division if Feller or Newhouser are bewitched. Otherwise, weak batting power and a mediocre and slow infield consign the A’s to fifth.
6.	Washington Senators, with misgivings. From here down anything might happen. I pick Washington for sixth because Chicago and St. Louis are
probably much worse. A young team, which will probably carry off the base stealing honors but no more.
7.	Chicago White Sox. Bob Elson and Ernie Simon, who deserve it, are stuck with those Sox. The front office deserves eighth, but St. Louis seems to have a lease on that. A team of waiverlist castoffs and hopeless rookies, the Sox could and should have been improved, but weren’t. Last year the outfield in Comiskey Park looked like a clay tennis court. Perhaps the Sox would do better at tennis.
8.	St. Louis Browns. A good spring showing against the futile Cubs proves no more than Grapefruit League results usually do. Too much inexperience here, although you can’t blame the management for ridding itself of loafing vet-eians. Willing, but hardly able.
NATIONAL LEAGUE:
1.	Boston Braves. A high limb to be perched on, I know. However, excellent pitching and all around team balance, plus people like Eddie Stanky who will add fire, ought to get the Braves the bell. A long, long time without a pennant, the Braves deserve one. I hope they get it.
2.	Brooklyn Dodgers. Untried pitching, plus the loss of two key players, will keep the Dodgers in second place this year. The jittery Durocher, unhappily returned, will inspire his pitchers with little confidence. Despite what hysterical Brooklyn rooters (no .disparagement) may think, there will be no World’s Series in Ebbetts Field this fall.
3.	St. Louis Cardinals. Another limb, more fragile than the first. There are too many old men on this team to convince me that they’re any better than third. There is also a collection of sorearm pitchers, aches and pains in the infield and outfield, and a woeful lack of good catching. Stan Musial can’t win the pennant single handed. .
4.	New York Giants. All the hitting power in christendom can’t fill the gap in the Giants’ pitching. You can’t win them all 13-12. It is impossible to do much with relief pitchers working in relays.
5.	Cincinnati Reds. A steadily im
proving team, with good direction, increasing hitting power, and Ewell Blackwell. Hitting has been a traditional Red weakness, but this year the picture looks much brighter. The Reds might chase the Giants out of the first division.
6.	Pittsburgh Pirates. Little pitching, but good power, a new manager, many rookies, and a reputation for unpredictability make the Pirates’ position hard to determine. There are at least five teams which look better from here, and so, sixth place.
7.	Philadelphia Phillies. The signs of better days for the Phils two years ago have vanished. No pitching here either, unless the rookies show something. Hitting power is only fair. Eddie Miller will help the infield if he is willing to, but not enough to move the team up.
8.	Chicago Cubs. Probably worse than the. White Sox, if such is possible, the Cubs will undoubtedly field practically the same team of ancientry that stumbled into sixth place last year. The Chicago press thinks that several promising rookies won’t get a chance. The cellar has been gaping for the Cubs for a long time. This time it will be required. More front office lethargy at the expense of much too loyal fans.
GRAD STUDENTS' SOCIAL
The Graduate Student's Association is sponsoring a social at the Vetville Recreation Hall at 8:30 p.m. tomorrow. The social will include cards, refreshments and dancing. Members of the graduate school faculty and their wives, all graduate students, their wives, and friends are invited to attend.
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in Good Smoking
Larus & Brother Company
Richmond, Virginia
6

PHIUP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!
PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.
% HIP MORRIS
TRY A PACK... TODAY
tyuMn Ute-	.
For the Negro — Half a Dollar
A quick look around the American university scene will disclose that for all the veterans of World War II who have flocked back to college the Negro representation has been mighty small. This can be accounted for — thousands of Negro vets cannot take advantage of the standard GI Training Program because they have not had sufficient basic education to meet even the minimum requirements of existing high schools. The Negro education figures for the U.S. are appalling — over 41 per cent of the Negroes of the United States have had less than a fifth grade elementary school education! Only four per cent of our 14,000,000 Negro population have had a formal high school education. The chances for a colored vet are pretty slim when it comes to crashing the college gates.
There is an answer. The specialized school, where veteran Negroes, and others of his race can receive useful training in a trade or industry, is a constructive solution to the problem of Negro education.
A nationwide campaign is now under way, sponsored by the Booker T. Washington Birthplace Memorial. Notre Dame men, and friends of the Negro cause everywhere, can count themselves in on this drive. Recently Congress authorized the minting of 5,000,000 special memorial half dollars “to commemorate the life and perpetuate the ideals of Booker T. Washington.” Congress further approved the sale of these Booker T. Washington Memorial half dollar coins at premium prices, so that they are now offered to everyone at one dollar, or whatever greater sum one wishes to contribute. The difference in price — the difference between the face value (for which the coin is legal tender) and the amount of the contribution, is to be used by the Booker T. Washington Birthplace Memorial to construct and maintain a useful, working memorial that will fulfill that great American’s lifelong struggle for more and better educational facilities for the members of his race.
The campaign is being conducted for the purpose of raising funds for the establishment of industrial schools for Negroes at the birthplace of Booker T. Washington in Virginia, as well as in other localities. These industrial schools are being planned largely for Negroes who do not possess the scholastic requirements for higher education.
The idea of these specialized schools is a good deal. So is the new fifty-cent piece. They’ll be great collectors’ items. Each sale will help the advancement of colored people.
Pity the Poor Dance Chairmen
A dance without a “name band”? Don’t be a square!
That seems to be the general sentiment of college dance goers. As a result, dance chairmen run themselves ragged tracking down the top talent, sweat out the sale of sufficient bids, then discover they’ve contracted for a “show band” and not a “dance band.”
Notre Dame has been exceedingly fortunate. So far this year its two major class dances have been guided by ambitious, tireless gentlemen. The sophomore hop managers felt the pulse of the public and brought Ray McKinley to the Palais for their Cotillion. But they had to pack 800 couples into the place to make certain that he was paid. In return
Mr. McKinley put on a performance that would “send” any jitterbug “out of this world.” His musical combination was without a doubt one of the best “show bands” to ascend the local platform. As a “dance band” it reeked. With every danceable tune it tooted went at least two ear-splitters. It played the latest McKinley hit recording, “Civilization” (which Indian war tribes would probably shun as un-danceable), loud and often.
Last week end a pair of enterprising Junior Prom bosses, good showmen and eager to please, brought Carmen Caval-lero to town. To insure a satisfying dance week end, as well as the Poet of the Piano’s pay, they collected 600 couples into Eddie Makar’s dance emporium, decked out in appropriate bunting and filled with Eddie’s special brand of stale air. Mr. Cavallero, like his more blatant predecessor, turned up with a nice stage show. Frequently he transferred the platform to one of the loudest combos ever conceived for extra-long, Petrillo breaks. When things slowed down he took to the ivories and almost blew the public address system (which hugged the 88) into smithereens. Quite often, however, he did come through with a sweet, danceable number.
Who’s to blame? Certainly not the dance chairmen. They only intend to please their constituents, come boogie or Bach.
The public, meanwhile, comes to dance, finds it can’t, and p proceeds to complain. Yet every time a formal comes up these same folks are eager to scream for the big names.
Some day a sleeper will sneak into a chairmanship and, with complete disregard for his public, produce an orchestra equipped with nothing more than some scintillating, shuffle-some music and a willingness to-play as often as it rests.
A bunch of hep cats will probably hang that square! (
The Rat
While the news spotlight picks up the skirmishes in Greece, the sniping in Jerusalem, and the military shadowboxing in Berlin, a fight rages right here at home that de- ’ serves the eye of every American. This is the fight against cancer, the gnawing enemy that draws the energy out of so many bodies, burns through tissue and bone, eats its way , into vital parts, racking its victim with pain, and finally rips, ratlike, at the last strands of life.
Cancer is a feared disease. It kills thousands of Americans yearly. A lot more is known about it than was known ten years ago, but still medical science is in the jungle-clearing state of research, slashing away at the entanglements behind which lies the true discovery of what cancer is and " how to lick it.
The St. Joseph County Cancer Society is in the midst of its drive for funds to fight cancer. Notre Dame students can join in the nation-wide campaign that has been launched against the horrific and sinister disease. Donations mailed to the Cancer Society at 319 South Main Street in South „ Bend will be put to work in the battle. The Society has also made available extensive and enlightening literature that will throw the spot on the rat. You’ve got to know your enemy — then fight him.	'
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89. NO. 22
APRIL 16, 1948
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
GOP Campaigners Take
REGISTRATION AT RECENT PAN-AMERICAN CONFERENCE
Left to Right: Sheila Mulvehill, St. Mary's; Gloria Binzel, Phyllis Ford, Dolores Reilly, Nita Holsen and Marie Zock, St. Mary's of the Woods, and conference hostess.
Over 460 persons took part in the two-day session.
Council's Cash Cupboard, Like Ma' Hubbard's, Looks Bare After Convention, NFCCS Cuts
* The Student Council this week passed two motions which cut their treasury balance by more than 60 per cent. Attention was centered on the fast-depleting Council funds after the motions had reduced the treasurer’s fund to a mere $165.76.
k One motion carried unanimously granted $100 for expenses in conducting the Republican mock convention in the Drill Hall on April 26, 27, and 28, Another turned over to the finance committee a bill for $177, Notre Dame’s unpaid dues in the NS A.
। In addition, Lou Burns told members of the coming NFCCS convention to be held in Philadelphia on April 22, 23, and 24. Although it is possible to send five representatives, he recommended that the Council designate only three. Costs would be $150, $25 for each delegate, and trip expenses. Burns suggested that $75 be paid from the Council treasury.
The remainder could be taken from the balance of the Student Relief Fund. Notre Dame has contributed one-fourth of the national total for this cause and is expected to furnish the student aid leadership at the NFCCS.
A proposal was passed allowing Burns to go to the administration for permission to conduct a campus poll on UMT. He believes that Notre Dame’s NFCCS men should know the student opinion here before discussing the subject at the convention.
Last week the Council gave James Hart and Charles Carter the inexclusive and unofficial right to sell a $27.50 University blazer on campus. The two gentlemen appeared again at Monday’s session and were accorded exclusive rights to all blazer sales on campus for the next two years. This action was taken to protect the salesmen and to reward (Continued on Page 25)
to Air Waves
Next Task: Selection Of 48 State Chairmen
Campaigning for the nomination at the students’ mock convention of the Republican Party will get into full swing next week with the supporters of the major candidates taking to the air waves. At the same time the state dele~ gations will become more solidified with the naming of the 48 state chairmen.
Beginning Monday and continuing through Friday, there will be a series of five-minute programs over the campus radio station, WND, at 7:15 p.m. During these programs the campaginers will be interviewed regarding the stand of their candidates on the various current issues, each being asked the same queries.
Preparation for the convention, which will be held on April 26, 27, and 28 in the Drill Hall, are now taking more definite form. At 6:30 p.m. tonight the National Committee will meet to name the various state chairmen. In some cases the state delegations will have named their chairmen, and the committee will merely confirm these selections. In cases where the delegations have been unable to choose a spokesman, the entire National Committee will be consulted on the best man from each state for the job.
Following the naming of the state chairmen, they will attend a meeting on Monday at 6:30 p.m. in the Law Building. At this time the more detailed outline of the convention program will be explained and the duties of the state chairmen will be given.
As yet, not all the state delegations have been filled. It is therefore possible that students may volunteer for these positions. Bulletin board announcements will be posted in the near future giving the manner of becoming a delegate. The number of places open for each state also will be announced.
IN MEMORIAM
The SCHOLASTIC, on behalf of the student body, expresses its deepest sympathy to -the parents of Thomas Buono, who was found dead Tuesday.
Coal Dispute, Latin-American Music Augment WND Schedule: Tripucka Reports on Sports
By PAUL A. THEIS
Top-notch authorities speaking on the events that shape the news will feature a new weekly series on WND beginning tonight at 7:30 p. m. Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., will initiate tonight’s 15-minute session with a discussion on what to do about the annual coal strikes. Father Keller will discuss the economic reaction of the coal strike on our national economy and suggest remedial measures.
The second broadcast in this series will enable Alfred Long Scanlan, professor of law and author of numerous legal articles, to discuss from a legal viewpoint the possible legislative action which may be taken to curb further strikes in the coal industry. WND staff announcer George F. Engler will conduct the series.
Music with a distinct native beat, recorded in South American countries and presented to Station WND by the La Raza Club, will fashion a unique program every Thursday at 6:15 p.m. WND staff announcers will preview every record with tourist-guide information about the country, its customs, and even recipes for favorite drinks, compiled by native-born La Raza Club members. Distinct from the offerings of Cugat or Arnez, these recordings of rhumbas, tangos, and calypso music have an unusual native beat. Havana, Cuba, the headquarters for all the popular music of the Latin-American countries, will open the seven-week series, followed by music and chatter from Brazil, Argentina, and Ecuador.
Frank Tripucka’s Sports Parade at 7:15 p.m. Wednesday will announce for the first time the players named to make up the 1948 Notre Dame golf team.. Tripucka -will report the progress of spring football practice and interview varsity candidates.
Tony Papa’s clever four-man combo will take over WND’s Saturday night bandstand broadcast from the Palais Royale Ballroom at 10:00 p.m. Papa, whose fill-in music jammed the floor around the bandstand during intermission time at the Junior Prom, will broadcast 30 minutes later than the regularly scheduled Saturday night Palais program. Frank Venner will emcee the show and John Jones will handle the controls.
To improve broadcasts beamed strictly
for student entertainment, WND requests suggestions for new programs or methods of improving old ones. Any operas, musical comedies, or dramatic shows suggested will be attempted. Write to Program Director Frank Cronan, 329 Lyons Hall or to Station WND, Notre Dame, Indiana.
WND SCHEDULE
Monday Evening
6:00 Jumptime
6:15 One Nite Stand
6:30 Moonlight Serenade
7:15 Summer Theater
7:45 Uninterrupted Music
8:00 Sign Off
Thursday Evening 6:00 Sack Time 6:15 Latin Lyrics 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Scholastic Concert 7:45 Uninterrupted Music 8:00 Sign Off
Tuesday Evening
6:00 Sack Time
6:15 Yesterday’s Hits
6:30 Moonlight Serenade
7:15 Summer Theater
7:45 Uninterrupted Music 8:00 Sign Off
Friday Evening 6:00 Jumptime 6:15 One Nite Stand 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Classical Music 7:30 News Discussion 8:00 Sign Off
Wednesday Evening Saturday Evening 6:00 Sack Time	10:00 Tony Papa
6:15 One Nite Stand 10:30 Sign Off 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Sports Parade 7:30 Summer Theater
8:00 Sign Off ■ C I
Drake to Tip Commercemen On Personality in Business
Glenn Drake, nationally-known expert on the personal element in the commercial world, will deliver a lecture to the Commerce student body next week. His topic will be “Personality in Business.” Mr. Drake will be sponsored by the Commerce Forum, the student organization of the Commerce School.
It is the contention of Mr. Drake that sales are made or lost in the first few seconds of an interview; he therefore emphasizes in his lectures how to develop these important first impressions. He understands that to be natural and at ease in the business life is not always simple and gives concrete suggestions on how one’s personal contacts may be improved.
Mr. Drake is the founder of The Glenn Drake Schools of Personality Development and is a much sought after lecturer by both business firms and business men’s clubs. He recently spoke here in South Bend at the Kiwanis Club. He has received plaudits from such firms as The Otis Elevator Co., the Connecticut General Life Insurance Co.,-and the Du Pont de Nemours Co. and from such clubs as the Kiwanis Club of Washington, D. C., and the Rotary Club of New York City.	—L. P. Stanton
TONY LAFUCIA
Nothing ever happened
Bored with Farming, Tony Lafucia Took To Serving Malteds
Very few Notre Dame men look beyond their malteds. If they did, nine times out of 10 what they would see on the other side of the Cafeteria counter would be Tony Lafucia. Tony has been on the production end of ND ice cream concoctions for six years now and is none the worse for wear.
The Lafucia saga started on a small J truck farm outside of Louisville, Ky. “I didn’t like farming,” said Tony, “nothing ever happens.” Evidently Tony considers an automobile accident in which he had a miraculous escape from an overturned car as “nothing,” for that was one of the things that happened to him during the truck-farming days.
After a shift north and a few jobs in and around South Bend, Tony signed up at the cafeteria and started his contact with that strange specimen, “The Notre Dame Male.”
Concerning said rarity Tony is generous. “Meeting everybody makes this ; the best job I’ve had,” quotes Tony. But he does gnash his teeth every time he meets up "with, “. . . the fellow who studies the list of ice cream flavors and then asks for some flavor we don’t have.” Outside of this he has no complaints because, as Tony philosophically puts it, “The customer’s always right.”
But sometime between root beer floats and marshmallow sundaes Tony found time to roam the Cafe and find his wife who still works there.—Ted Prahinski
McGee, Benny and Morgan ; Top Radio Acceptance Poll
During the 21st week of the college student Radio Acceptance Poll conducted by St. Joseph’s College, Collegeville, Indiana, three shows, Fibber McGee and Molly, Jack Benny and Henry Morgan were rated “highly acceptable” as the \ poll passed the 50,000fvote mark.
10
Femmes on the Campus
The first whiff of spring wafted across the campus this past week end as scores of sweetly-scented, flower* decked femmes poured into town from all over to inaugurate the spring social season. The occasion for the flood of femininity was the Junior Prom and Law Ball, but all indications point to a ' further deluge as the social schedule S calls for five dances in the next four weeks.
Carmen Cavallero held the spotlight at the Palais Royale where 600 couples glided to his piano poetics. At the Indiana Club, the local legal trust was busy with its spring case with Ted Gallagan’s musical crew serving as jury.
Next day the Indiana weatherman came through with a dash of sunshine, seasoned by a biting wind, enabling the visitors to get a Cook’s tour of the campus. That night the local “places-to-go” did a land office business as eager Irish threw their budgets to the winds.
By Sunday the weather honeymoon had ended and sleepless lads hustled their brightly-dressed dates from church to the cafeteria under threatening skies. During the afternoon they ; rushed their guests’ packing to beat hotel sign-out deadlines and to catch trains.
That night, broke, tired, but happy, they settled back to wait for the next dance week end which their cash and social credit would permit.
ON MY LEFT, you have the Dome, says lack Terrio to Mildred Howson. Margaret McCormick and his twin brother. Laurence, during campus tour, a must* for dance week ends.
II
STAR WITNESSES of the Law Ball: Gloria Keegan and Co-Chairman Brady; Carole Ann Witous and Co-Chairman Girolami
i
<-------------------------------«<•
SAFETY FIRST — Maryalyce Truman leaves Sacred Heart Church with Bob McDavid and a firm grip on her hat
I
CHOW TIME and it's cafeteria cuisine for Dan Callan, Mary Ruth-Goddard,-Bob-Brennan, and; Margaret-Haley,’ who helped swell lines at the local beanery.
PROM ROYALTY after the coronation: Co-Chairman Raymond and Gloria Shellander; Maestro. Cavallero; WND's Murphy: Colleen Duffy and Co-Chairman Manning	' /
12
'Mike' Trumpets Four Bells for Cashman
The first performance of The Archangel Mike, a choral fantasy composed by Ed Cashman, graduate student in the Music School, was presented last Tuesday night in Washington Hall before nearly a full house. The Notre Dame Glee Club under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke rendered the rather lengthy cantata, but it was the ingenious music of Cashman that impressed the audience.
Soloists for the selection were Roy O’Neil and Ralph Thorson, baritones; Robert Ruetz and Nolan Sheehan, tenors; and John Commerford, bass. The story which was woven among the notes concerns a little boy who goes to Heaven with his toy trumpet, but at first isn’t allowed to play it. When he finally receives the permission on the condition that he recite his Ave, he can’t remember the prayer. He next hides on a cloud, but falls down before the group of angels and lands on his trumpet, destroying it. The Madonna notices Mike and smiles at him. Thus he remembers and recites the Ave Maria. As a result, the title of Archangel is conferred upon him. As an afterthought it might be fair to add that Gerald Hekker practically stole the show from Mike for his comedy lines which were written into the work.
In the first half of the program, the St. Mary’s Glee Club sang five compositions directed by Miss Hazel Martin, and then joined Mr. Pedtke’s boys to give out with Love Song Waltzes and Psalm 150. The girls brightened the stage considerably with their many-colored dresses. The young men wore tails.
—Verne Kelley
•
Science, Engineering Council To Plan Research Expansion
The semi-annual meeting of the Notre Dame Advisory Council on Science and Engineering which will bring to the campus some of the nation’s foremost industrialists and scientists will be held here April 23 and 24 according to an announcement this week by the Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Plans will be discussed at this meeting for the possible expansion of present research at Notre Dame on chemistry, bacteriology, aeronautical engineering, mechanical engineering, metallurgy, atomic energy and other subjects. Edgar Kobak, President of the Mutual Broadcasting System, is chairman of the Notre Dame Advisory Board.
PIANIST GIBBONS AND FAVORITE ERIE ENGINE 'Clear the tracks' in three-eighths time
Chicago Firm Plays Host To Members of Law Class
Members of Law Professor Broderick’s Office Practice class were the guests last week of the Chicago Title and Trust Company in Chicago. The purpose of the visit was to acquaint the students with the legal work done by the firm, one of the largest in the country.
Uniformed Reserves Have Military Ball
The fledgling flyers of the Notre Dame Air ROTC unit will be wearing their wings on their feet tonight as they take off to the music of Tony Papa at the Erskine Country Club on the occasion of the first Annual Military Ball sponsored by the unit. Highlighting the affair is the background of a unique date bureau which the sky boys are running in connection with St. Mary’s. 200 femmes from across the road have signed up as blind dates for the dance goers and will be available with the bid at $4. Special bus transportation to and from the dance and St. Mary’s will solve that problem.
The dance gets under way at 9 and ends at 1. Notre Dame permissions are good for 2 a.m., and St. Mary’s for 1:30. Busses will leave the circle at 7:30 to pick up the St. Mary’s dates and continue to the Country Club. The dance is being chairmaned by Tony Ray from Gas City, Indiana who is assisted by Larry Houser of Chicago.
Uniforms are the order- of the night and that goes for all NROTC Midshipmen and Reserve Air Corps Officers on campus who have been invited.
Bill Gibbons Plays Concert on Thursday
Cavanaugh Hall’s own piano playing Casey Jones, Bill Gibbons, is set to pull the throttle on a recital at Washington Hall next Thursday evening. Bill, a music majoring junior, is well known on the campus as the guy who likes to hear train whistles sounded on key. And he’s one fellow who knows how to couple half-notes with eight wheelers.
Bill has toured a great portion of the country as one of Mr. Pedtke’s Glee Clubbers, accompanying the “Ambassadors of Song” when not vocalizing himself. His fame hereabouts is based on some pretty smooth interpretations of Chopin, Mendelssohn, and Co. That’s the musical side in the spotlight, the Bill Gibbons who’s going to sit down at the “88” on April 22 and give out with Hayden’s Andante and Variations, Chopin’s Nocturne in E and Ballade in G Minor, Beethoven’s Appassionata Sonata and Mendelssohn’s Spinning Song.
But the Bill Gibbons who has to take the ribbings of his hallmates concerning the Erie R. R. can make many a veteran railroader check his schedules before comparing the running times of steam and deisel powered trains. “Smoke’s” room bears witness to his hobby of railroad photography. Around the walls are photos of trains—most of them steam— and in his desk, time schedules of almost every major line in the U. S.
But Bill has one regret. Despite his knowledge of railroad lore, he has never-ridden in the cab of a coal-fed iron horse. Someday, he hopes to don the fireman’s cap—just for size. Then the NYC’s Pacemaker will come rolling through South Bend sounding “Clear the track” in three-eighths time.
13
TENNIS TEAM'S DAVID
High winds won the serve
Since Easter there hasn’t been a safe stretch of open lawn on the Notre Dame campus as Irish athletes threw off the wraps and braved the chilly Indiana blasts in outdoor drills. Sprawling Cartier Field has been host to capacity crowds every afternoon, baseball grey flannels mixing with air-conditioned track shorts and grid moleskins.
Across campus, the rolling expanse of the windswept Notre Dame golf course lures the usual number of divot diggers to tread its fairways just as the last
traces of snow melt away. In
the
shadow of the Notre Dame Stadium and
GOLFERS SEIDEL, STUHR AND FITZPATRICK ON THE GREEN Snow was no stymie
SPRING
ar
Four Varsity Teams T^a
Open Attack On Three
the gargoyles of Alumni Hall, Irish tennis champions are chasing the lively white spheroid across the court. The thud of wood pounding horsehide echoes over the Badin Bog. Spring has come to Notre Dame.
And tomorrow three Irish squads fire the opening guns spring sports campaigns.
Coach Jake Kline’s charges
varsity in their
will un-
pack their diamond gear in Cincinnati tomorrow afternoon to meet their first test, the University of Cincinnati. After several weeks of practice in the confines of the Notre Dame Fieldhouse Kline’s boys moved onto the Cartier diamond to get a little more room to flex cold muscles.
From the 50 baseball candidates Coach Kline has been trying to find the formula which will give him a winning combination to equal last year’s .750 seasonal average. With monogram winners in profusion there is no lack of quality
tered wall, doubt
As about nent,
and the sight cf flannel-clad figures scat-
HURDLERS FLEMING Next stop
<
lo
from the backstop to the left field..., some 500 feet away, leaves no as to the quality available. -the season opens little is known. the power of the opening oppo-’^ so Coach Kline has had to con
fine his activities to putting together his ' own first team and hoping for the bestp As a starting combination the Irish will probably field Tom Coccitti, catcher; • Ray Petrzelka, first; Benny Kozlik, second; Pete Koblosh, shortstop; Gene Lav-: ery, third. In the outfield it will be a <. toss-up between Don Grieve, Tom Me-Hale, and Tom Martin for two of thp -garden spots, while without a doubt Captain Steve Pavela will draw the other I starting outland assignment.
When it comes to naming the starting pitcher Coach Kline will have to decide whether to use his big guns, Walt Ma-hannah, Bill Sherman and John Camp
bell, ox- to try to find the answers to ( some of the questions about Dick SmuR;j len, Dick Kluck and a promising new righthander, Tony Lipton. To be able to pick and choose from such a store of I material is a coach’s dream, but Coach’.;
t c i t s a o h ii t k
N’ S' d
E ti
‘ ci S h ii ti K
14
ar
SPORTS
ain Guns On Schedule
idwestern Battlefronts
will have to be wide
'*2
a i -
g le '
1-
t-' 1<L
10
:o ,
le''
»f ).
hS
n.
i-
is '
11
Kline’:
GO OVER THE TOP as Relays	'


awake to feel their way through these opening contests.
Sunday, Xavier University will give th? Irish another test as the local nine ■ concludes its Cincinnati invasion. While next week end they will have to face three days of combat, Bradley University will start the series next Thursday and Iowa University will greet the Irish on Friday and Saturday on the Iowa, home diamond. The Iowa nine has been , in action for some time and will have the advantage with its early season kinks ironed out.
Encouraged by the successful indoor season just concluded, Coach Doc Handy’s cindermen make their initial bid for outdoor track honors at the Kansas Relays. Dodging errant baseballs, the track team has taken over the Cartier cinder path for its preliminary drills. Stop watch in hand, Coach Handy gave his speedsters several weeks of critical < inspection before putting his outdoor track combination on the road for Kansas.
The Notre Dame mile relay quartet looms as the top point gatherer for the
team. Jim Murphy and Corny Styers, reliable two milers, will be counted on heavily to mark up Irish tallies. To see the Irish over the hurdles, Coach Handy will call on John Smith and Bill Fleming to follow their indoor feats with equally successful outdoor performances.
The Irish track mentor will start ruminating on his seasonal chances after he checks the Kansas Relay results.
Kentucky’s Wildcats will invade the Notre Dame campus again tomorrow, but it won’t be the sharpshooting Ralph Beard or lanky Alex Groza that the Irish will be worried about. The Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., will be field marshal in the Irish defense as his golfers tee off in their opening match. The varsity golfers didn’t wait for the Indiana snows to blow off the fairway before opening their practice sessions. An indoor driving range was set up in the basement of Walsh Hall for the divot
diggers. But they wasted little
time
SLUGGERS COCCITTI, KOZUK. McHALE AND PETRZELKA TAKE AIM Cincinnati was first
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
April 17—BASEBALL: Notre Dame at Cincinnati U.
TRACK: Notre Dame at Kansas Relays
GOLF: Kentucky at* ND.
April 18—BASEBALL: Notre Dame Xavier University .
April 22—BASEBALL: Notre Dame Bradley Tech
April 23—BASEBALL: Notre Dame
at
at
at
Iowa
TRACK: Notre Dame at the Drake Relays
April 24—BASEBALL: Notre Dame at Iowa
TRACK: Notre Dame at the Drake Relays
GOLF: Notre Dame at Purdue
TENNIS: Wisconsin at Notre Dame
once the fairways were cleared and the flags went up on the greens.
Hiking through the daily practice sessions for the golfers are four returning monogram men who promise to give Father Holderith a good foundation from which to build the 1948 edition. Captain Dick Seidel and Jack Fitzpatrick, two-time monogram winners, will get starting calls for the match tomorrow. Other likely choices to tangle with
(Continued on Page 18)
15
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Steeler Vacancy Brings Up Question: Can Big League Money Lure Leahy?
By Pete Brown
If everything runs
For the fourth time in less than a year there is a coaching vacancy in professional football, true to form, only one person will be considered for the coaching vacancy with the Pitts-burgh Steelers. That would be Frank Leahy.
When the Chicago Rockets ran out of fuel after two cellar dwelling seasons in the All-America Conference and “Sleepy Ji m”
Crowley retired from active coaching to the import business, who was the first man mentioned as Crowley’s successor? Frank Leahy! The Los Angeles Dons of the same pro league needed a new coach after their semi-disastrous season of 1947. Who was going to get the job? ■One guess. After Dorais got the bum’s rush by the Detroit Lions, who was the only man the owners wanted for the job? Frank Leahy, of course.
The press has neglected to note one thing which Leahy has said when approached about leaving Notre Dame. Mr. Leahy says that he would remain at Notre Dame as long as the University officials desire his services.
That simple statement should have been enough to quiet the press, but they "knew better. Leahy did not know whet he was talking about. Why, any man in his right mind would not pass up a chance to coach a professional team. Professional teams are the zenith of the coaching profession. All the players know the fundamentals; you don’t have to coach them. You just show them plays.
All that looks good on paper, but if it is true, why do professional teams lose games? The answer lies in the attitudes of the players. They don’t give a darn, that check still comes in. However, in college football the picture is different. A good college coach is an artist just as much as Picasso or Whistler. The good college coach gets raw unfinished material, and with time, pa
tience and work, he develops the material into a unit which can give pleasure not only to himself, but to thousands who watch the unit in operation.
Leahy does just that. It is true that the material he receives is better than average, yet no one can deny that it is through him that this good material develops into great material. Through his skill he forges the Notre Dame material into a unit, but he does not make the component parts ol his teams. The players are still individuals, but they know by Leahy’s teaching how to use their individuality towards team strength.
For that reason we do not think that Leahy will leave Notre Dame to coach professional football just because it is professional football. A man of his talent gets too much pleasure in coaching championship teams.
Handball Tournament Award Captured by Badin's Conley
Badin Hall’s Tom Conley captured the Interhall Singles Handball Tournament Monday, April 12, by defeating Hank Tomczyk, of Howard Hall, 21-7, 17-21, 21-18. A field of 64 contenders was entered in the tourney which was under the supervision of Mr. Ernest Szekley.
Conley advanced to the finals by winning over Don Begley, of Morrissey Hall, while Tomczyk earned his way to the final match at the expense of John Daly, of Sorin Hall.
Annual Paddlers' Tourney Ready to Tee Off Monday
The Interhall Table Tennis Tournament will get under way Monday, April 19, in the recreation room of Washington Hall, it has been announced by Al Ifflander, in charge of the meet.
Defending Champion Jim Rodgers, of Dillon Hall, and a host of other formidable paddlers have entered the tourney, and the competition is expected to he keen. Entries may be made before April 19 in Washington Hall.
Scholastic Tourney Beckons All Golfers
“Calling all golfers!! Calling all golfers!! The Student Golf Tourney will get under way on April 26. Get your entries in now!”	■*
That was the call issued this week by Scholastic’s golf committee. And the committee means all golfers, whether they shoot in the 70’s or in the 140’s. Everyone has a chance to win a trophy competing against golfers of his own caliber. About the only requirement is “ that you are able to get your clubs lugged around the eighteen holes. Of course, you cannot be a member of the -golf squad, who will be busy enough with intercollegiate foes.
When the tourney was held last year under the sponsorship of the Veterans’ Club, some eight flights of golfers competed for eight beautiful trophies. To give you an idea of the scores, the man who won the trophy in the last flight qualified with a 120. The Championship flight had 32 men with scores below 85. But the flight trophies are all the same, and are not marked to designate what J your winning total was.
TOURNEY ENTRIES
The entry fee of $1.00 may be filed at any time with Harry Monahan, 311 Lyons; Bob Stock, 202 Zahm; Joe Doyle, 100 Howard; or it may be mailed to: Scholastic ; Golf Tourney, Room 118, Main Building. ( Qualifying scores can be turned in at the * Golf Shop.	।
The tourney is being set up on about the same scale as last year. Thirty-two men will again compete in the championship flight and the remaining flights will each have 16. The number of flights will depend on the number of golfers entered, but if you do enter, you will be assured of a shot at a fine trophy. Son-neborn’s of South Bend are again putting up the large 16-inch championship trophy, and the other trophies will be purchased with the entry fees.
To enter the tourney, one must file his entry and qualifying cards before April 26. Pairings will be made on that date and posted on the Golf Shop bulletin board. Match play will begin on Tuesday, April 27. Sufficient time will be given everyone to complete each round. Complete details on dates and scheduled opponents will be posted.
Mr. John Turley, professor of Latin, and Joe Doyle, associate editor of the Scholastic, are chairmen of the tourney.
16
T71!	Golfers Take Over,
T VJUIj;---------Gophers Take Cover
BY BILL LYMAN
A hush hung over the house as big Bull Budynkiewicz bent over the ball. He tapped it. Slowly it slid across the smooth surface, hit a hill, curved and cruised down toward the cup.
Plop! — it dropped in.
The crowd went wild, crazy, stark raving mad. Bull had set a new course record—204. In 18 holes he had helped the brothers in Dujarie with their spring plowing, dug three graves in the cemetery and gotten even with a few of the screwball drivers on Homicide Highway.
Bull is typical of Notre Dame’s 800 golfers. He’s out for the fun in the game. He likes the exercise; he likes the sunshine when there is any; he likes the feel of a good shot now and then. Why, he got the course record without even trying.
“Awww, it wern’t nothin’ any red-blooded American boy couldn’t have done,” he said with a modest grin, as he leaned dangerously hard against the window of the candy countei' in the pro shop after the game. “From what I’ve seen of these Sunday golfers around here, any darn one of ’em has a chance to break my record before the season’s out.” ‘	*
As a matter of fact, Notre Dame students play about 24,000 rounds of golf every year on the William J. Burke course. “Chet” Keeley directs ten to
THE SAND STORM To set a course record . . .
THE DIVOT DIGGER ... it took ploughing . . .
fourteen men who do nothing but keep the course in shape. He says it’s quite a job, too, since there’s been an average of about 300 golfers a day for the last three weeks and every indication has it that the number will go up with the thermometer. Chet claims that there probably isn’t another course in the country that gets such heavy play so early in the season.
The Scholastic polled thirty fellows waiting to tee off on the first hole. All but one had played the course this year. Of the remaining twenty-nine, eighteen said it was in good shape, eleven said fair and no one said poor. But all agreed the course is tops for this time of year.
The poll shed some light on the Budynkiewicz affair, too. Of the same twenty-nine fellows who had already played the course this year, twelve broke a hundred their first time out, twelve were over a hundred and five didn’t complete the full 18 holes. One fellow said he usually shoots in the 70’s, four said 80’s, eighteen said 90’s and six honest men admitted they’re usually in the hundreds. But more important, not one had ever come near 200.
Bull’s record looks pretty secure.
Even members of the golf team who move into action tomorrow against Kentucky can’t give him much competition. Captain Dick Seidel, Jack Fitzpatrick, George Stuhr, Tom Dore and a few more of the boys are down in the 70’s by now — but they couldn’t touch Budynkie-wicz’s record if they played thirty-two' holes.
“Sure, I’ve ben approached several times about joining the golf team,” said Bull, as he moved away from the candy counter munching on a chocolate bar. “But football is my game . . • and I wouldn’t miss spring practice for the world.”
Bull says he’s going out after Gene Fehlig’s record low for the course if he gets time when spring practice ends. Fehlig, onetime member of the golf team, shot a 6-5 in 1942, and Bull figures he can beat that by working a little at the game. He only plans to play nine holes, though.
Like many other fellows at Notre Dame, Bull got his start in golf back in his home town — Chicopee, Mass. When the Bull was just a calf, he used to hang around the local links watching the old-timers. Then one day his father handed him a club for his own. With this trusty little weapon, Bull went out and broke fifty. The next day his father took the club back; the price of fifty plate glass windows was high even in those days.
But Bull kept on. Before coming to Notre Dame, he slashed all marks at the Chicopee Country Club, and his score still stands at near-by Springfield Country Club. Then, of course, he reached his peak here. He doesn’t think
(Continued on Page 21)
THE POOL SHARK . . . and precision
17
Pesky Injuries Plague Early Practice Sessions As Leahy's Lads 'Smack with Old Thumperoo'
By HARRY MONAHAN
Flowers aren’t the only things that burst into bloom when April storms in. The bruises being sported by Irish football candidates are as good a harbinger of the month as the rain. The casualty lists published by Hugh Burns, muscle maintenance man for the Notre Dame grid machine, also announce that the spring drills have reached the scrimmage phase.
The familiar names, however, which have appeared on the early injury releases have raised the blood pressure of Irish supporters. “Pep” Panelli was out of action for a week or so with another shoulder injury. South Bend’s Ernie Zalejski hit the injury list again as the jinx which plagued him last season came to life. Bill Walsh, reliable centerpost of the line, was forced to forego contact work during last Saturday’s scrimmage due to injury.
Actually, only the broken hand of guard Johnny Frampton is serious enough to effect the price of Irish stock on next fall’s football market, as all the above injuries either have healed or are responding nicely to treatment.
While the spring crop of halfbacks and quarterbacks has been making long runs in the intersquad scrimmages, the play of the Irish line has been buried under a squirming pile of humanity. But no one can fail to note that the Wen-dell-Fischei- combination, bolstering centers Bill Walsh or Walt Grothaus from the guard spots, has been boring the holes for those scampering backs. Cap
SITKO TRIES TACKLE SLICE DURING SATURDAY SCRIMMAGE April's showers only brought bruises
tain Fischer sustained a gashed leg during the early combat, but was back on the line last Saturday.
Leon Hart and Jim Martin have had to fight off stiff competition for the flanking spots, but still seem to have the edge. Hart has been a little slow getting under Tripucka’s passes, while Bill Leonard has been snagging them from every position including flat on the ground. Ray Espenan has been mowing down line backers in rib-shaking manner to let Coach Leahy’s ball packers scoot into the clear. Martin and Hart have the edge, but the competition is pressing them.
The battle for starting line positions still centers around the critical tackle slots. Ralph McGehee, Gus Cifelli, and Ted Budynkiewicz are strong contenders for the call. But Frank Gaul and Jim Mahoney aren’t to be ruled out of the contest yet. Gaul has gotten the first string call during several of the recent scrimmage sessions.
With Frampton on the sidelines. Bob Lally and Dick Kuh have monopolized the second team guard spots. Kuh is one of the capable newcomers who moved up from last season’s Frosh squad and is giving a creditable account of himself against the veteran Irish linemen. If the line situation is giving the Irish mentor sleepless nights and bad dreams about Purdue, the backfield material should be causing him no concern. “Red” Sitko, Coy McGee and “Scooter” Coutre must think they are playing Southern
California the way they’ve been pouring on the speed and drive.
But the one back who has been attracting attention with a shifty broken field technique is a guy named Brennan and we don’t mean Terry. While brotherTerry sits this one out, Jimmy has been breaking through for scrimmage touchdowns with ease. Should Terry be unable to suit up next fall, Milwaukee will not lack a representative. They won’t even have to change the headlines, just the picture.
While the veteran backs startle no one by turning in the performances which are expected of them, the ball carriers from the Frosh squad are giving spectators at the afternoon practice sessions cause for optimism. Coach Leahy may have his 1949 first string quarterback in one Bob Williams. The Baltimore lad’s pitching arm has been picking off receivers well enough to resemble Tripucka’s Navy game performance last year. His ball handling behind the line needs some polish, but he will have a season to work on it before the quarterback situation calls for a replacement.
Jimmy Caras, Billiard Expert To Give Exhibitions Monday
Billiard fans at Notre Dame will see one of the greatest trick shot players in the game when Jimmy Caras, former world’s pocket billiard champion, demonstrates his skill Monday, April 19, in the recreation room of Washington Hall. There will be two exhibitions, at 4:00 p.m., and 7:30 p.m.
Caras, who has twice held the world’s pocket billiard championship and is rated still as one of the great players in the game, will give personal instruction in the art of billiards, demonstrate his versatility in all cue games and give an exhibition of his amazing trick shots.
Caras comes here under the sponsorship of the Association of College Unions and the Billiard Association of America, which groups, incidentally, conduct the annual college billiard tournaments in straight-rail, pockets and three-cushion billiards. Jimmy has been appearing before college groups during the last two seasons, and he has done much to stimulate interest in competitive collegiate billiard events, both intramurally and inter-scholastically.
Last spring he was head referee of the pocket billiard phases of the intercollegiate billiard tournaments held at Purdue University in Lafayette, Ind. His current tour will take him to universities in all parts of the country.
—Tom Adams
18
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
/ No one can deny that spring is definitely here when he takes a look at the sports calendar. Tomorrow will see the official opening of the Notre Dame golf, baseball, and outdoor track seasons. The golfers will be the only home performers, Father Holderith’s lads entertaining
• the Wildcats of Kentucky over the local j links.
| The dash and discus boys will hold F forth at Lawrence, Kansas, in the Kansas Relays, while “Jake” Kline will send 1 his proteges against both Cincinnati and :	Xavier this week end down in the Queen
r. City.
. And for those skeptics who still aren’t ; convinced, the major leagues will lift ; the curtain on Monday for what is tritei ly hailed as “the greatest baseball sear son in history.”
। Perhaps one reason why there has i been no rush in selecting a tackle coach t to succeed Ed Krause, recently elevated i to the assistant athletic director’s posi-i tion, is that Krause, himself, has been out working with the tackles in spring ? drills. If the Moose decides to stay | with his beefy charges, the prospects for = next fall will be considerably brighter. ! Any coach who can turn out Lou Rym-kus, Jim White, George Connor, and Ziggy Czarobski can be considered as more than a novice at coaching tackles.
The first home bowling match in Notre Dame athletic history will be held in Waters’ Alleys at 922 South Main street tomorrow evening at 7:30. Four five-man teams will represent Notre Dame against the invading Crusaders of Valparaiso University. In a previous match bowled at Valparaiso, the Irish were defeated, 13-7. The home alley angle might give Notre Dame a slight edge in this second match.
If scrimmage sessions held this spring are any indication, several Notre Dame backfield stars are due for their best season this fall. Emil Sitko, who has led regular Irish ball carriers in 1946 and 1947 with 6.4 and 7.1 yard running averages, respectively, has been flashing plenty of speed along with his usual bull-like aggressiveness. If injuries keep a respectful distance from the redhead this fall, he might be that long-looked-for breakaway man.
Another standout so far is Mike Swis-towicz, “the Leo Barnhorst of the grid-ders.” Mike has been shifted around to both halfback spots in addition to his fullbacking chores the past two years, consequently getting little chance to earn a regular berth. The under-publicized Chicagoan is one of the hardest workers on the squad, and his efforts might pay off in 1948.
Football Numerals Awarded To Forty Frosh Hamburgers
Forty first year men have been awarded their numerals by the Athletic Board in Control of Athletics for tha 1947 football season. The Frosh did not play a regular schedule, but were used mainly to scrimmage the varsity
Numeral winners are: Phil Cantwell, Tom Carter, Richard Cotter, Robert Crump, Charles Feigl, Gerald Groom, John Murphy, Martin Hayes, Steve Herr, William Higgins, Tom Holmes, Tom Huber, Raymond Jonarci, Ben Klepek, Leonard Kroll, Richard Kuh, John Landry, James Mahoney, Leo Mahoney, Leo McKillip, John O’Neill, Frank Palmisanto, Lyle Pearson, Louis Polman, Phil Schwartz, Paul Schafly, Vince St. Marie, Dean Thomas, William Whiteside, Robert Williams, Ray Yanics, Phil Yanoschik, Eugene Smith, Tom Logan, Frank Kennedy, John Voit, Bruce Bishop, William Kirchner, Joseph Harmon, Ray Miller and Edward Smith.
Spring Sports
(Continued from Page 15) the Kentucky squad are monogram men George Stuhr and Tom Dore. From the remaining candidates Father Holderith will have to find the men to prevent the Kentucky Mountaineers from avenging their cage loss at the expense of the Notre Dame golfers.
Notre Dame’s netmen will wait a week before they touch off their bid for another undefeated season. Coach Walter Langford is welcoming the extra time in which to augment his winning trio of Jim and Jerry Evert and Bob David. The varsity tennis men appropriated the clay courts as soon as the winds subsided enough to permit practice. Since then it has been a smashing, volleying struggle to pick men for the remaining squad positions from four additional returning lettermen and a host of untried newcomers.
The wraps come off spring sports tomorrow and the Irish are going to be slugging balls — tennis, golf and base — all over court, fairway and diamond in their bid for national or sectional titles. They are going to be grinding cinders underfoot and hope to do likewise to any and all opposition.
Villagers, Vetville Take Bowling Lead
By BOB CASUBELLA
St. Louis dropped three straight games to the Villagers last week at the Bowl-Mor Alleys to send the local boys into first place in the Gold League standings. The Missourians, who had knocked off the Italian Club for three games the previous week to put the Villagers into a first-place tie with the Romans, completed their cousin arrangement by standing by while the hometown team rolled them into the boards. The Italian Club ran into the stubborn Inter-American Affairs outfit and came out with only one game in the win column to two for the I-AA boys. The Romans are now two games behind the Villagers and have only three weeks left to get them back. The Inter-American Affairs Club is in third place five games behind the Villagers whom they meet next week. This match could decide the Gold League title.
In the Blue League, Vetville’s five old men continue to dominate the play. Vic Gulyassy’s 519 series paced the Vets to two wins over the Aero Club. Toledo took three games from the Chemists but are still three games behind Vetville. Fox River Valley increased their hold on third place by taking three games from Texas. The lads from the Valley arc a full eight games behind the league leaders.
GOLD LEAGUE STANDINGS
W. L. Pts.
Villagers  28	14	38
Italian Club------------------------ 25	17	36
Inter-American Affairs 25	17	33
Rochester 23	19	31
Boston 23	19	31
Detroit  22	20	31
Buffalo 23	19	29
Jet Propulsion 19	23	24
Rockford  19	23	24
St. Louis 18	24	24
ASME  15	30	16
Youngstown  12	30	16
SCHEDULE FOR APRIL 18
Villagers vs. Inter American Affairs Detroit vs. Jet Propulsion Rockford vs. Boston Italian Club vs. Buffalo Rochester vs. Youngstown ASME vs. St. Louis .
BLUE LEAGUE STANDINGS
W. L. Pts. Vetville 31	11	42
Toledo 28	14	39
Fox River Valley 25	17	34
Met Club 22	20	28
Chemists-------------------■---- 21	21	28
Pittsburgh_____________.________ 21	21	26
Monogram 19	23	25
Syrian Lebanese 19	23	25
Aero 19	23	23
Texas 17	25	23
Milwaukee 15	27	22
Columbus 15	27-	21
SCHEDULE FOR APRIL 18 Milwaukee vs. Monogram Texas vs. Toledo	‘
Aero vs. Chemists Columbus vs. Fox River Valley Syrian Lebanese vs. Vetville Pittsburgh vs. Met Club
19
HAIL THE CONQUERING HEROES
Band members Carl Apone and John Fitzpatrick, sporting new monogram sweaters, display trophy (lump of coal) from Scranton, picked up during recent tour
Quintin Marlow Cops Frosh Oratory Medal
Quintin Marlow, of San Antonio, Texas, is the champion of freshmen orators. His forceful comparison of Andrew Jackson and Franklin D. Roosevelt, entitled “1832 — a Powerful Hand,” gained the judges’ nods over five other contenders Monday night in the annual Freshman Oratorical Contest.
Marlow has been active throughout the year in the field of public speaking. He was a finalist in the interhall debate tournament and was a member of the ND varsity debating squad. The Freshman Oratory Medal will be presented to him at the Commencement exercises in June.
Other contestants included Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C., who spoke on “The Vision of the Blind”; Lou Duerinck and his “Peace or Poverty—1968?”; Joe Shelly in an appeal for Catholic Action, “Ford’s Out Front”; Joe Dukert, with his startling “I Am a Bigot”; and Brother Walter Davenport, C.S.C., who presented his ideas on “The Whole of Man.”
Mr. Fred B. Govern, of the Notre Dame Speech Department, acted as chairman. Dr. Bernard Vodny, of the South Bend Toastmaster’s Club, announced the decision. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Mrs. Burnett Bauer, formerly of St. Mary’s Department of Speech, and Mr. Vodny were the judges for the contest.
Goodyear to Sponsor Visual Merchandising Meeting Here
A unique Visual Merchandising. Conference sponsored by the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company will be held at Notre Dame April 22. The Conference, demonstrating the latest methods of sales promotion, will be shown to Commerce students, who will have no classes that day.
Lectures, movies, charts and photoquizzes will be used to show the history and growth of Goodyear and the rubber industry, the tire market situation, manufacturing processes and selling techniques. Modern ideas for store planning, and display will be discussed and the correct handling of customer complaints outlined. Specially produced films will show commerce students interested in salesmanship how to win customers through sales psychology.
The Visual Merchandising Conference is being arranged by Brooks Smeeton, Assistant Professor of Marketing at Notre Dame. The program will be under the direction of J. A. Lewin, manager of the Goodyear dealer department, who will be assisted by members of his staff.
LOST!
RONSON WHIRLWIND LIGHTER Engraved "M. A. M.”
Room 336 Walsh — REWARD
Crime Group Forms Notre Dame Chapter
Hugh P. O’Brien, Director of the Curriculum in Correctional Administration, announces plans for the formation of a Notre Dame Chapter of Correction Service Associates. The overall objective of this newly organized group is the correction of all phases of crime and delinquency prevention and control.
Among the chief aims of the Associates are: (1) organizing of regional groups and chapters to stimulate professional and scientific participation and aid younger workers in the field; (2) encouraging local organizations to participate in local and national projects; (3) through national and local organizations, assisting in the development of high standards of professional work, and providing leadership for the interpretation of the work of the public.
College students who have completed a basic course in criminology and are preparing for a career in the correctional field are eligible for membership. Particulars regarding applications for membership may be secured from Mr. O’Brien in Room 127, Main Building.
Correctional Service Associates offers the student an opportunity to engage in the endeavor to find solutions to common correctional problems. It provides a testing ground for new ideas and a means of improving old techniques and procedures.
Dr. Bruhn, Purdue Air Head, Addresses I.A.S. Meeting
Continuing its aggressive program of meetings, speakers, and movies for this semester, the Notre Dame Institute of Aeronautical Sciences will have as its guest speaker at the next meeting on April 22, Dr. Elmer F. Bruhn, head of the School of Aeronautics at Purdue University, who will address the group on the responsibilities of the colleges in preparing their students for their technical duties in the aviation industry. Dr. Bruhn also heads the Purdue Aeronautical Corporation, a non-profit affiliate of the university, which operates the campus airport at Purdue.
The most recent guest speaker for the Notre Dame branch of I.A.S. was Mr. J. J. Clarkson, engineering representative of the General Electric Company, Fort Wayne Division. Mr. Clarkson spoke on The History and Background of Jet Propulsion.
Other club activities include tours of various industrial plants associated with aviation products, and a semi-annual banquet. The banquet has been arranged to take the place of the usual beer brawl, and will be held May 13.
20
Abandoned Ideals Lost Peace—Jordan
America’s failure to live up to the ideals proclaimed at the beginning of the second world war has lost the peace, Max Jordan, fourth speaker in the Aquinas Lecture Series, charged this week in the University Drill Hall. His subject was, “Germany — Touchstone to World Peace.”
Jordan, highly successful NBC foreign radio correspondent who has covered most of the major European news stories of the last decade, outlined and vigorously condemned America’s part in the disruption of German post-war economy.
He pointed to the starvation which exists in Europe today and the folly of maintaining forced German labor in France in the face of present conditions in Germany. He decried the dismantling of German industry which stemmed from the mass indictment of the German people for the Nazi crimes.
Added to these factors, Jordan said, is the effect of Russian occupation upon Germany. The Russians have easily been able to enlist former Nazis in the ranks of Communism, while suppressing the democratic elements in Eastern Germany.
To save the peace, Jordan submitted, a four-point program, including a strong stand in the cold war for Germany, determined opposition to further Russian advances, the building of German confidence in our purposes, and the restoration of Germany’s industry so that she become self-sufficient and fill her place in European economy.
Germany must be enabled to build her future alongside ours, Jordan concluded. “If we build a bulwark based on justice and the dignity of man it will be so morally and spiritually strong that we can still win the peace.”
The last lecture in the Aquinas Series will be delivered next Wednesday night in the Drill Hall by the Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, o.p., theater director of the Catholic University of America. These last two lectures in the 1948 series are jointly sponsored by the Aquinas Library and the Notre Dame Conceit and Lecture Series.
CONVENTION CAMPAIGN PROGRAM
Next week supporters of the following major candidates for the nomination at the mock convention will be interviewed on station WND at 7:15 pun.
Stassen ------------------   Monday
Dewey ____________________  Tuesday
Warren _______________    Wednesday
Taft ______________—_______ Thursday
Vandenberg ------------------ Friday
Retreats Receive Overwhelming Approval In Student Poll Take By Religion Prefects
The Prefects of Religion this week released the results of a poll taken among students who attended the retreats held on campus last month. The purpose of the poll was to determine student reaction to the retreats and to compile student suggestions as to features of future retreats and religious activities at Notre Dame. As might have been indicated by the retreat attendance the poll showed an overwhelming approval and praise of the whole program. Some typical answers to the question: “What is your impression of the Retreat?” were:
“I’m very glad that I did make it. I was one of the gripers but this retreat gave me a deeper insight into Notre Dame and the reasons for which I came here” .... “Terrific!” .... “Most impressive!” .... “A great help” . . . . “It has helped me to get into this spiritual ‘huddle’ ” . . . . “The selection of priests was inspired” .... “It provided just the necessary pause from the daily grind for me to stop and think where we’re rushing to in such a big hurry” . . . . “Now I feel I belong to Notre Dame” ....
Asked “What suggestions would you make to improve the retreats?” students replied thusly:
“Smaller groups of men, longer lasting” .... “None, I think it was just long enough and interesting enough, not to bore anyone” .... “Make them last longer — three-fourths of a day isn’t long enough” .... “If possible, ascertain the number so as to prevent overcrowding the retreat” .... “Institute Missa Cantata or Recitative Mass as retreat exercise” .... “A little more time for the forum” .... “Make the marriage conference longer” .... “A longer discussion of marriage” .... “Don’t overdo the thanking of the men for making the retreat. I think it somewhat embarrassing to be thanked for doing something we should do, anyway.”
Retreat goers were almost unanimous in calling for more regular retreats. A high percentage of these thought monthly retreats would be a good idea. The outdoor recitation of the rosary and the marriage conference were voted the most popular phases of the retreat.
To the last question asked, “What suggestions have you to improve the Catholic life of the student on campus?” there was an avalanche of unique and varied ideas expressed. Here are some of the more outstanding:
“Student-body participation in a silent Hail Mary with the team as they say their Hail Mary. If in the stadium, the students could stand as the team hud
dles and offer a silent Hail Mary; that her team may be a credit to her in the contest. Such a custom might become a tradition wherever and whenever Notre Dame had its team in action” . . . . “Symposiums of educators and students on an informal discussive plane and concerned with current Catholic views of problems” .... “More gettogethers of students whose Catholic life would be discussed” .... “Make morning check voluntary. I know for a fact as it is now it discourages many guys from going to Mass” .... “Late week-day Mass in more halls” .... “Have more retreats and play them up.”
Opposing Views Will Feature Closing History Discussion
The final meeting of the History Department discussion series will be held on Tuesday, April 20, at 8 p.m. in the Law auditorium on the subject “What, historically, is an American?” Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., Professors Devere Plunkett and Aaron Abell will lead the discussion while Professor Thomas Stritch, head of the Journalism Department will be the chairman.
With sharp disagreement among the participants, this promises to be the most interesting discussion of the series. Father McAvoy will attempt to answer the question from the viewpoint of religion. Mr. Plunkett wall attack the problem from the angle of the political historian, while Mr. Abell will deal more particularly with the American notions of education and social ideals.
As in the past discussions, which have been on the general subject of “‘The Notion of the Educated Man in the Various Periods of History,” there will be an open discussion of allowing the presentation of the three views.
Golfers
(Continued from Page 17) he’ll ever better 204; he doesn’t ever hope to.
“I’d never have been able to shoot that kind of golf without the expert coaching of my good friend Floyd Simmons,” Bull said guiding his 210' pounds out the pro shop door. “Be sure you give him full credit; he witnessed every shot to keep this thing on the level. Good old Floyd!—he only cost me ten cents a hole.”
The Bull was gone. Was he a typical Notre Dame golfer?
21
DECORATORS GALLAGHER, BARBER, CHOPIS AND ST. GERMAIN 'Dancing in the clouds'
Loyola Completes Survey Among Students On What Makes the Nation's Perfect Prof.
Howard Wilson of the Department of Economics of Loyola University, Chicago has just completed a nation-wide essay survey among the students in the American colleges and universities on “what is the good college professor according to 1948 standards.”
The survey, in which all 48 states were represented, has had over a thousand essays and from the results the theoretical ideal professor has been constructed.
1.	The professor would be a young man and should have a thorough knowledge of his subject and should be adequately prepared to teach it.
2.	He should possess a sense of humor and should laugh with the class; he should laugh with the class when they laugh at him.
3.	He must recognize the student as an individual both in and out of the class, rather than merely as a name on the class list.
4.	He must come to his class fully prepared knowing what he is going to say. He should say it in an interesting manner without extensive reference to notes, and should clarify and illustrate the important material from the readings.
5.	He must express enthusiasm and must like his subject so that his enthusiasm is transferred to his students.
6.	The good professor attempts to correlate his course with the world of reality and should use up to date examples.
7.	He uses simple, clear language rather than language that attempts to impress the student with his large vocabulary.
8.	He treats the student as his equal and should recognize that occasionally the student too can be right and can express ideas that are sound but different than those of the professor.
9.	His class is. friendly and is conducted in an informal democratic manner.
10.	His office door is open to students for help in their subject, or for help in personal problems.
11.	The curve system of marking in which 8 or 10 per cent of the class must fail is not used. The good college professor rates each student individually on effort as well as growth.
12.	He recognizes that the students are taking four or five other courses and makes assignment and demands with this in mind.
13.	He gives frequent announced exams rather than merely a final, or a mid-term and final.
14.	He dresses in an up to date fashion which sets an example for his class.
15.	He must be the type of person who could be a leader of men if he should leave his cloistered existence.
16.	He is sincere in his work and in his relations with his students.
17.	He uses impersonal fairness in his treatment and grading of students.
■ 18. He expresses a like and interest
Seniors to Try Gas At Classic Fantasy
Sophisticated decorations, cloudy vapors and the smooth music of Sonny Dunham’s orchestra will provide the basis for a Senior’ Ball that has been aptly titled a “classic fantasy.”
Pat Gallagher, chairman of the decorating committee and an architecture major, says of the decorations, “We hope to create an effect of fantasy — formal but light. We think this is the best way to make the dance a memorable one.” Pat is being assisted by four other students in the architecture school: John Chopas, John St. Germain, Tom Barber and Earl Carlson.
The dancers at this year’s ball will literally “be dancing in the clouds.” A heavier-than-air gas will fill the Palais Royale at some strategic moment on the night of May 7th. This is something new at Notre Dame dances and will add considerably to the fantasy effect.
The senior officers announced that the deans and members of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees will be the patrons at this year’s affair. They also stressed that anyone who expects to attend the dance should contact his hall representatives as soon as possible, so that orders for favors may be placed.
Parole Head to Address Sociology Majors Here
Frederick A. Moran, Chairman of the New York State Board of Parole, has accepted an invitation of the Sociology Department to lecture to students of the University on Tuesday, April 27.
Commissioner Moran is recognized as one of the nation’s foremost authorities in the field of probation parole and youth correction. Details regarding time and place of Commissioner Moran’s lecture will be announced in a later issue of The Scholastic.
for his students and a hope of their mastery of the subject and of life.
19.	He knows other subjects rather than just his own specialty. He is well versed in sports, music, literature, popular fiction and the comics.
20.	He does not dodge the students questions. He answers them when they are asked and admits if he does not know the answer.
21.	He places his students first and not lecturing, writing, or research.
22.	He varies his voice tone when lecturing and moves freely around the room.
23.	He is not prejudiced regarding races or religions.
22
Band Completes Tour With Home Concert
From the campus of the Green, Director H. Lee Hope and his cohorts in concerts under the spiritual direction of the Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., swung around the circle and back again to many tunes and rhythms which after a latent beginning echoed a firm refrain and an enviable finale.
The grand finale came Wednesday in the Navy Drill Hall when the Band entertained the home folks, but the ears of players were still full of applause from the enthusiastic audiences of Shenandoah and Mt. Carmel in Pennsylvania, New Haven, Conn., and a small western New York population hub called Medina. Children at the matinees screamed their appreciation of the Clarinet Polka and Gremlin Ball. Adults were more subtle . in their reaction to the heavier musical literature of the evening performances.
Band members saw parts of the country they thought were fable. From the soft to the hard coal regions of Pennsylvania; the canyons of lower Manhattan so dependent on the steel of Pittsburgh; The Eli city of New Haven and Universal Notre Dame Night with John F. Shea, author of lyrics to the Victory March; The Mohawk Valley and Niagara Falls, Canada, Port Huron, Detroit and home.
Highlights of the tour were five-fold: The Shenandoah Pennsylvania Ameri
FATHERS MOORE AND PHELAN AT GRAD SCHOOL RECEPTION A piano, a glee club, and an LL.D.
can Legion Anthony P. Damato Post No. 792 presented the Band with a Dome shaped piece of anthracite coal highly polished and enscribed appropriately; the dance given by the CYO at Our Lady of Mt. Carmel High School; beating a few Low Sunday morning paraders to the punch on the long jump up Fifth Avenue: tour through Yale and lastly the visit to Niagara Falls and Canada.
—Phil Shea
Grad Students, Profs Mix At Party Honoring Fr. Moore
Cheerful conversation and informality keynoted the first of a series of get-togethers last Friday between members of the graduate school and the faculty. The occasion was the return of Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School and head of the Department of Philosophy, from a meeting of the National Catholic Education Association. While attending the meeting Father Moore received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from St. Mary’s College, California.
Many members of the faculty and students in the Graduate School were on hand to congratulate Father Moore in the Vets Recreation Hall. They were entertained by Ralph Becker, a graduate student in the Philosophy Department, who played the piano. A group from the Glee Club under the direction of Dr. Pedtke presented a musical program.
The reception gave many students an opportunity to meet and talk with representative faculty members from almost every department on the campus.
—Dick Rosengarten
LEARN HOW TO DRIVE
Lessons at Your Convenience
INDIANA AUTO DRIVING SCHOOL
202 Lincolnway East South Bene, Indiana Phone 4-0879
Once-in-a-Lifefime Opportunity! STUDY... TRAVEL...
In SPAIN
68-DAY Tour—$798 ALL Expenses
By Ship from New York JULY 2 Sponsored by the
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
For descriptive folder, write: DEPT. "C" SPANISH STUDENT TOURS 500 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 18, N. Y.
STYLE! QUALITY
For the College Man who cares
Clothes of refinement are bom with a heritage of fine tailoring. Clothes of refinement feature fine woolen fabrics and are tailored by expert craftsmen. As the result, our made to measure or ready to wear suits, coats or sport coats have many years of tradition back of them — all reasonably priced.
N. D. men mag uie their credit.
Parker-Winterrowd
115/2-117/2 N. Main, upstairs (North of Oliver Hotel}
Clothiers	Tailors
23
Names Make News
Destruction Feared By Dr. Morgenthau
DR. MITCHELL AND FATHER CURRAN Of the team
Mind & Matter
“Psychosomatic Medicine” will be the subject discussed tonight by Dr. John Mitchell and Rev. Charles A. Curran, of Columbus, Ohio. The lecture, sponsored by the College of Science, will be held in the Law Auditorium at 8 p.m. Dr. Mitchell is one of the foremost allergists ulty at the Ohio State University School in the country and a member of the fac-of Medicine. Father Curran, who holds doctor’s degree in psychology, is on the teaching staff of St. Charles College, Columbus. They have been working together as a team for several years and have presented their message at medical conventions, as well as to private groups throughout the country.
In the spring issue of the Dublin Review, Dr. WALDEMAR GURIAN, professor of political science at Notre Dame, scores the century-old Communist Manifesto as “a religious document . . . the creed of absolute secularism and social atheism ... a mythology presented as science.” Dr. Gurian, who is the editor of the Notre Dame published Revieiv of Politics, points out further that the fundamental shortcoming of the Manifesto is its partial concentration upon partial aspects of men and society. In the famous Yearbook of World Affairs published in London. Dr. Gurian was honored this year by having his article “Permanent Features of the Soviet Foreign Policy” chosen as the lead piece. . ..
Work & Play
The former captain of Notre Dame’s 1946 basketball squad, little FRANNIE CURRAN, was recently named as the most valuable player on the Toledo Jeeps team in the National Professional
Basketball League. Curran, one of the most dependable Irish hoopsters while he was here, was also selected to the National League’s all-star team for first-year men. . . .
For self-defense, the young women of South Bend’s YWCA are learning the manly art of jiu-jitsu. Their instructors? Two Notre Dame students, exmarines PAT CUNNINGHAM and BOB (RED) BLAIR. Every Tuesday evening they spend about an hour or so teaching the intricacies of judo to their eager pupils. Both are officers in the Marine Reserve. Cunningham is a senior journalism student from Carlinville, Ill. Blair, also a senior, is a sociology major from St. Louis, Mo. . . .
The third play of the season to be presented by the Catholic Theater Guild, Junior Miss, will be directed by Professor LEONARD SOMMER, coach of Notre Dame’s debate team and instructor in the Department of Speech. This production, one of the more successful comedies in recent years, will be presented late in May in St. Patrick’s auditorium. . . .
Love & Kisses
Engaged to CHARLES C. HANEY, of South Bend: Miss Rosemary Davidson, also of South Bend. The wedding will be in the late summer. . . .
Engaged to LEO B. KUNKEL, graduate student from Kew Gardens, N. Y.— Miss Elizabeth Kershaw, St. Mary’s College junior from Muskogee, Okla....
The modern machine age may “beget its own destruction,” warns Professor Hans J. Morgenthau of the University of Chicago in the April issue of the Revieiv of Politics. Discussing “World Politics in the Mid-Twentieth Century,” Dr. Morgenthau gives an evaluation of * the present trends in international affairs.
The nationalism of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries which recognized international law, a balance of power and alliances to keep that balance has r now given way to “a nationalistic universalism” in which the great power tries to impose its peculiar notions of government on the whole world. The one international society “has been replaced by a number of national societies which provide for their members the highest principle of social integration. In consequence, the international morality which in past centuries kept the aspirations for power of the individual 1 states within certain bounds has, except for certain fragmentary restraints, given way to the ethics of individual > nations which not only does not recognize any moral obligation above and apart from them, but even claims universal recognition from all the world.”
Along with this change in power politics is the growth of total war with the use of modern mechanical inventions to -carry on the conflict. This mechanical A progress, he says, “may also beget its own destruction. Total war waged by . total populations for total stakes under i conditions of the contemporary balance -of power may end in world dominion or in world destruction or in both.”
Also in this issue, Father Philip Don- r \ nelly, S.J., calls Father Henri De Lubac’s ! book on the supernatural one of the most remarkable books of our era. The book	M
written by the French Jesuit is two	i
years old, and is already beginning to at- ! tract well-deserved attention because of s “its almost overwhelming array of eru- * ; dition.” It has attracted wide attention ’ among students of philosophy and theology. The book deals with the question, “Whether the Beatific Vision is in any	i
sense or term the only possible goal of	(
human existence?”	j
v
Other articles in the April issue inelude “The Presidential Elections” by j Jerome G. Kerwin, “World Politics in I the Mid-Twentieth Century” by Hans J. Morgenthau of the University of Chi- >' cago, “The Protection of Human Rights in British State Practice” by Georg Schwarzenberger.	. ।
24
' N. D. Comm. School
Sponsors Trade Meet
. Letters from leading traders and manufacturers have been pouring into the office of Mr. Wesley C. Bender, accepting the invitation of the College of Commerce to the First Notre Dame For; eign Trade Conference of May 13.
Through this conference the Univer-j sity feels that it can help fulfill its obligation both to the student body and to the outside world by giving the students and the smaller midwest manufacturers an opportunity which they otherwise T probably would not have — that of discussing the possibilities of foreign trade B with experts in the field. The confer-| ence is to be held in connection with National Foreign Trade Week which the . government has proclaimed to be from f May 16 to May 22.
Mr. Bender, the general chairman and ‘ head of the department of Marketing, which is sponsoring the conference, announced the various committee heads, ( professors of the Commerce School, to be: Mr. Eells and Mr. Murphy, Finance; |	Mr. Pelissier, Invitations; Mr. Bott,
J	General Arrangements; Mr. Wallace,
|	Publicity; Mr. Manning, Housing.
I	—L. P. Stanton
INSERT
The insert found in this issue is distributed by the YCS. Suggestions turned in on these sheets will be used by the YCS to advocate changes, improvements and innovations on the campus.
Boxes will be placed in all residence halls to facilitate collection. This poll has been approved by the Director of Student Activities.
Council's Cash Cupboard
►	(Continued from Page 9)
them for their initiative. It will also prevent the cropping up of a variety * of “official” blazers.
Two projects of the social committee met a stone wall. Proposed on-campus dances have been thwarted by a full ' school calendar. Summer storage possibilities looked just as bleak; one lone storage agent (who charged-high prices) » has room, but he can accommodate only three halls.
After approving a Law Club smoker for April 23, the Council made final arrangements for the annual Council dinner. A well deserved, University-sponsored banquet for all members will be * held at the Ramble Inn Tuesday, April 20.
Tickets on'Sale in Walsh For Knights' Spring Formal
Tickets for the 20th Annual Knights of Columbus Spring Formal, which will be held at the Progress Club on April 30, are now on sale at the council offices in the basement of Walsh hall.
This dance, the culminating event of the local knights’ social year, is open to all students. Par value of bids is four dollars.
Robert Luther, dance co-chairman, announces that St. Mary’s and Notre Dame students will have two o’clock residence permissions as well as the usual car piviPges.
Music will be furnished from 9 ’til £ by Myron Walz and his orchestra.
Committees for the Spring Formal include: Co-chairmen, Robert Luther and". Thomas Broden; Programs, William Soos; Tickets, John Noonen; Publicity,. Patrick Weishapl; Welcoming, Robert McCoy and Paul Corey.
YCS DAY OF RECOLLECTION
All YCS members and interested students are invited to attend the YCS Day of Recollection next Sunday, April 18. The program will begin with a High Mass in Howard Hall Chapel at 8 ajn.
25
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3) prove that America is trying to rebuild Germany at their expense. It would almost certainly win more votes for the Communists than any moves they themselves could make.
Further, the idea of using Japs to further American aims in the Far East would make good Red propaganda, particularly in China, and would also produce cynicism in the minds of Americans who still, with good reason, regard the Japanese as anything but “democratic.”
I do not like to see the Scholastic committed to a policy which could only make capital for the Communists in Europe and Asia. While nobody likes the idea of donning a uniform again, we certainly cannot allow our national policy such a gross error. I suggest, therefore, that so much of the editorial of last week endorsing the rearmament of Germans and Japs be repudiated and withdrawn.	Joe Wilcox
EAST SIDE. WEST SIDE
Dear Editor:
I wonder if you could give me information as to how I could reserve a room in Dillon, Alumni, Walsh, Sorin, Badin, or Howard, for the fall of ’49. I’ll be a senior then, and I have great hopes of getting just one little double within sight of the dining hall.
You see, I came here in the fall of ’46 as a freshman non-vet. I was assigned to Breen-Phillips and liked it. Now I am living in Zahm, the sophomore hall. All very well and good; why not let the freshmen and sophomores live in Breen-Phillips, Farley, Zahm, Cavanaugh, and St. Edward’s? Then the juniors and seniors can have their choice of rooms on the other side of campus.
Anyway, I went over to preregister this morning. They quickly grabbed my $50, and, a half hour later, I stepped up to the other window and meekly asked if I might have a room somewhere on the west side of the campus. “Sorry, Morrissey and Lyons, the West halls, are reserved for sophomores. The others on the west side are taken by seniors, and juniors with 95 averages. But we do have a nice room in Cavanaugh.”
Now Mister Editor, in a year from now I will be preregistering for my senior year. I promise to work hard — maybe I can even get a 95 average. Do you think that I can get into one of the west side halls then, or do you think, by that time, because of the greater influx
it’s Adlers
FOR
VAN HEUSEN
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
smart collars
Van Edon
Van Preen
You’re the man most likely to succeed in
0 Van Heusen Shirts
TIES • SPORT SHIRTS . PAJAMAS
Van Carson
Van Bntt
for smart scholars
Van Ciro
Button-Down Ace
Van Heusen puts variety into collar design—gives you shortpoints, long-points, wide-spreads, button-downs ... all featuring new low-setting "Comfort Contour” collar styling. These and many more campus favorites on fine white broadcloths and oxfords and in exclusive patterns all boasting Van Heusen magic sewmanship. Sanforized—a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! $3.50, $3.95 and $4.95. Phillips-Jones Corp New York 1, New York.
26
of freshmen, we will have to do away with upperclassmen altogether?
Harold R. Imbus
Zahm Hall
Dear Editor:
After wading through last week’s report ;of Student Council proceedings regarding telephone arrangements and bus rates, we noticed that they are making the attempt to alleviate the confused conditions surrounding room registrations. We would like to laud Student Council for the attempt, because we believe this problem to be more grave than those surrounding busses, telephones, etc.
Certainly the pre-registering procedure could be handled much better than it
was this spring. Why should students who have formed friendly relations with each other be forced to separate? Why should any student be forced into a room without any say-so regarding its location or who his roommate will be? Why should upperclassmen who have lived in the Gold Coast’s Morrissey or Lyons be shunted back to Cavanaugh to make way for Sophomores. A better analysis of the room question by the directors of pre-registration before the actual procedure of picking rooms could have prevented such queries.
A poor room (or roommate) will dampen a student’s spirit for the entire year. We feel soaked already. All praise to Student Council for attempting to solve the problem.
(Signed) Tom Kenney, W. B. O’Connell, Jack Dettling, Jim Farrell, Robert J. Joyce, Hugh Mulligan, Davey Lieb, Donald Corsano, Paul Leamy, John Don Smith, Dick Frankel, Dick Vollstedt, William Spencer, E. J. Kelly, William J. O’Connell, Roger Hosbein, Verne Kelley, Joe Herrington, Mike Judge, P. M. Schaefer, Herman Hamilton, Robert R. Gavin, Jack Finnegan, all of Zahm Hall.
MARVIN JEWELERS
(Inc.)
126 N. Michigan St SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
GENERAL ELECTRIC
CHEMIST...RESEARCHER...AIR CONDITIONER
For each, General Electric has assignments to his liking
General Electric is not one business, but an organization of many businesses. Graduates of American colleges and universities are
finding that the 97 plants of General Electric offer opportunities to all degrees of specialists, all sorts of enthusiasms, all kinds of careers.
TRANSFORMER CHEMIST
There’s plenty for the chemist to do in the building of transformers. Five of nine sections of our Pittsfield Works Laboratory deal with chemical problems relating to transformer manufacture. Add to these the company-wide opportunities in plastics and silicones, and it’s clear that young men like Fred Torrisi, now working on silicon steel, are finding room for careers at General Electric.
LAMP RESEARCHER
Lighting in America has become a §200,000,000 business, but experts think it has only begun its growth. For example: 30,000,000 American homes need four times more light. At General Electric’s Nela Park many returned servicemen—like Con Bechard (Union ’41), doing research on new types of lamps—are shaping careers that have meaning in terms of interest, opportunity, and achievement.
AIR CONDITIONING ENGINEER
At Bloomfield, N. J., General Electric makes store coolers, automatic heating equipment, commercial refrigeration products, remote room air conditioners. With every survey showing that the vast majority of home-planners want some form of air conditioning or automatic heating, specialists like Bill Knaus (Washington U ’30) are riding a mounting wave.
For your copy of "Careers in the Electrical Industry," write to Dept. 237-6,
General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.
GENERAL H ELECTRIC
27
Copyright 1948, Licctrr & Mms Tobacco Co.