Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 15, 1884.
No. 27.
Salutatio*
AD
I. I. et R. R. J. L. Spalding, Peoriensem Episcopum,
IN VIGILIA S. T1IOM2E AqUINATIS,
AB ALUMN1S NOSTR/E DOMIN.'E,
Anno Domini, MDCCCLXXXIV, GRADES ACCEPTURIS
Oblata.
Alma lux Nostne Dominie'nitescit, Dulce quum nomen resonat per redes: Ridet at vultus, tua quum benigna
Risit imago.
Jam Bonum grato juvenes salutant
Ore Pastorem;—Pater atque amicus
Hie ades, cujus nequeant loquendo Addere laudi.
Non quidem invictos animi labores.
Nec gregis curas, neque vim tenacem Efteram: toto celebrantur orbe,
Magne Sacerdos!
, Sed tuum lobur memorare suave est:
Pro Deo pugnas, Fideique causam
Advocans, sacro domitas superbum
Lumine pectus. •
Doctor et Christi populo fidelis,
In viam recti revocas juventam:	.
“ Non parit pacem vitium, dat ima
Qaudia virtus.”
“ Gloriam quieras?—Dedecus voluptas Reddit et vulnus tacite remordet.
Arduus vitie labor, est viro mors
Dulcis honesto”. . . .
Ut pater natos, patiens docendo A dm ones, Veri faciem severam Temperans, nostrosque animos superno ’	linbuis igne.
* This beautiful address was delivered by N. H. Ewing, ’84, and presented to Bishop Spalding, on the eve of the festival of St. Thomas Aquinas, Patron of the Philosophical Academy. It is an ingenious specimen of acrostic, written in saphic stanzas of four lines. This graceful metre is looked upon as the most harmonious of all rhythms, both in Greek and Latin. The address itself had been beautifully copied __or, rather, engrossed—by Mr. W. Ramsay, of the Senior department, who deserves great credit for his taste and artistic talent.
The Angel of the Schools.*
While recalling the deeds of illustrious heroes of the forum and battle-field, such as a Cicero or an Alexander, we are sometimes compelled to pause in our enthusiasm and bestow our fair admiration on some less brilliant blit certainly more worthy characters. For, above conquerors, and even founders of civil and political liberty, rise those intellectual geniuses who grace the pages of human history, who are to be looked upon as the greatest benefactors of mankind. It is of one such that I intend to speak: briefly considering him as a pupil, as a master, and as a saint.
In the same year that St. Louis became king of France, and St. Francis of Assisi died, Theodora, the wife of Landulf, Count of Aquinas, gave birth to a child who received in baptism the name of Thomas. Though issued from a noble race, and having in his veins the blood of three royal houses, that child was destined by Divine Providence to be far more illustrious than his ancestors, and to shine forth like a luminous torch through the Middle Ages, owing to his eminent learning and virtue. Born a prince of the world, St. Thomas of Aquin was to be known in all future ages as a Doctor of the Church, and to receive forever the glorious title—“The Angel of the Schools.”
Thomas was not quite five years old when his parents sent him to Monte Cassino, the MotherHouse of the Benedictine Order. In doing this they were likely actuated by a pious desire to see their youngest son raised according to Christian principles, but, at the same time, blinded by a worldly ambition, they hoped that Thomas, once made a monk, would be appointed Abbot of the monastery, and sooner or later become master of immense possessions. Whether their too human hopes were frustrated or not I will not examine here, but only say that the child in growing up became more and more acquainted with the admirable rule of St. Benedict; and feeling daily a greater veneration for’ his masters, exhibited a sincere love for. prayer, mental labor, and punctuality. There, indeed, he learned obedience and self-sacrifice; there was born his noble passion for solitude, silence, and meditation. Even at this eaily period of his life his genius and strength of character o	o
* Oration delivered by Elmer A. Otis, ’84, at the students’ reception to Bishops Spalding and Ireland, March 6, 1884.
4i8	.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
were manifest. His companions, while looking-on his broad, tranquil brow, his placid, meditative eves, his commanding though modest countenance, would tacitly acknowledge Thomas’ superiority, and in spite of themselves yield to his precocious wisdom. But notwithstanding the great influence he had over his school-mates, there was one mysterious thought which seemed to oppress his youthful mind: though still a mere boy, Thomas was continually asking his masters, Quid essct Deus ?— “What was God ? ” A question which gives the key to his character—to the whole history of his life. And, knowing this, it will be easy to understand that an education which formed both the heart and intellect must have left upon the noble youth an indelible mark. These were, indeed, for the youthful Aquino bright and fruitful days—“days of growth, just as nature rests in the first warm days of early spring, before it bursts into leaf and flower.” Thus it is that the boy, placed under the direct influence of a holy atmosphere, breathing, as it were, the pure air of heaven, was slowly preparing himself for his future life.
But a movement soon took place which gave an unexpected direction to the career of young Aquino. A storm which had been threatening for many years at length broke forth, and turned a shrine of piety and learning into a nest of thieves, desecrated the monastery, dispersed the monks, and forced Thomas to take refuge with his family at Loreto. It was' during this period that a remarkable incident of his gentle charity occurred, which I cannot forbear mentioning. On a certain occasion, when carrying his cloak full^of provisions for the poor, he unexpectedly met his father, who wore a very severe look; greatly disconcerted, he let fall his precious burden, but in the place of bread, a shower of roses covered the ground at his feet.	■
Sent to Naples soon after, the young student succeeded in preserving spotless .his innocence, though in the midst of the most beautiful, but, at the same time, the most corrupt city in the world. Of his sojourn at Naples we have, unfortunately, scarcely any information; but from a statement of Malvenda it will be seen that here, as at Monte Cassino, he showed the most wonderful ability. The students were required, after a professor’ had delivered his lecture, to repeat it before theii’ fellow-students. When it became Thomas’ turn, he not only, reproduced the lecture with an equal perfection—which would have been surprising enough —but he surpassed the original compositions, repeating them with greater depth of thought and lucidity of method than even the learned professor was enabled to command. His fame, consequently, was spread amongst all the schools of the university, and, indeed, throughout southern Italy. But while Naples was ringing with the praises of the young nobleman, the gentle youth himself was occupied with a more serious and important thought, viz., his vocation. Should he choose the world with the fascinating life held out before him, sure, as he was, to be favored by the emperor, and to hold a h’&h position in the State? or should he select the
Church —that great principle which gives laws of order to the social system, and directs the noblest energies of man towards a higher ideal? And if he chose the latter, should he join the Benedictine Order, with its characteristics of silence, poverty, and self-denial, or the Dominican Order, whose specialties of eloquence and learning were to manifest the perfection of Christianity in a world full of the secret canker of misbelief?—The issue was as might have been anticipated. Thomas expressed a wish both to abandon the world and join the Dominican Friars. To the meditative stability and solitary sacrifice of the Benedictine he was going to add the solidity, eloquence and liberal steadiness of a Dominican; and thus, as Cardinal Newman says of St. Philip, “after learning from St. Benedict what to be, he was to hear from St. Dominic what to do.” _
Of Thomas’ joyful reception of the habit, of his being taken prisoner soon after by his brothers, of the cruel imprisonment he suflered for two years by order of his own mother, of the terrible trials that assailed his vocation during this period, of the arts practised upon him even by his sisters,—whom he at last succeeded in converting,—and of his final escape from his guards and seducers, and happy reunion with the Friar Preachers, I may not speak here as it is apart from my purpose. Soon after rejoining the mendicants, however, we find the young religious at Cologne, under the tuition of no less a teacher than Albertus Magnus. If Thomas had surpassed his professors at Naples, he nozv met his match. Albert the Great had not only attained a high reputation as a professor, but as a lecturer he was unrivalled; and, moreover, when it is remembered that he wrote ably on every then known subject that can be put under.the head of Logic, Metaphysics, Psychology, Ethics, and Natural Sciences, we.begin to get a glimpse of what manner of a giant St. Thomas had for his teacher.
After a thorough preparation under so great a master, Thomas himself is now ready to teach. He' began lecturing at Cologne when scarcely 32 years of age, and becoming more and more acquainted with human science, and having received with the greatest distinction the degree of Doctor, Friar Thomas.soon became known as a most proficient Professor, and throughout the remainder of his life astonished the most celebrated universities of Europe, especially that of Paris, by his trans-cendant genius. Yet, it is above' all owing to his colossal works that he has enriched mankind with an inexhaustible fund of learning; and it is in these that we see how strong, how deep, how marvellously gifted in heart and mind was the great Angelical. When still very young he wrote his wonderful Ojtuscula in which he treats . with great wisdom of the most abstruse questions in ■ metaphj'sics; but his stupendous work—“The Commentary on the Four Books of the Lombard ” —seems sufficient to have occupied a lifetime. A truly gigantic monument of labor, skill, and erudi-• tion, filling over 1200 pages in quarto.- And who has not heard of his Summa contra Gentiles— that remarkable storehouse of arguments'in refuta
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
419
tion of Atheism and infideiity ? Time prevents me from speaking of his well-known “ Office of Corpus Christif where a Catholic is at a loss which to admire most,—the Seraphic devotion of the Saint, the faultless precision of the Doctor, or the beautiful inspiration of the Poet. But let us hasten on, for there stands before us the grand Summa Theolooica, which one might venture to com-pare to one of those immense cathedrals of the Middle Ages, built up by an epoch of faith, finished with an art incomparable, and having all its parts ingeniously cemented by the vigorous hand of syllogism. Here we find the whole Christian religion reduced to a scientific form; it is in three principal divisions: in the first, the Godhead, surrounded with angels; in the second, man, and the third, crowned with Christ.
Thus it is that the “Prince of Theologians,” all imbued with the traditions of the holv Fathers and the surest tenets of Greek philosophers, composed, in. honor of the Creator and Redeemer of fallen mankind, a vast encyclopedia of religion, written with exactness, lucidity, and depth of thought. Thus it is that both theologians and philosophers have a means of instructing themselves in the lawful development of the intellect, in all the deductions of reason, and in the sublime intuitions of Faith. Though the holy Doctor died before being able to take part in the Council held at Lyons, he obtained a glorious compensation, four centuries after, by having his Summa Theologica placed side by side with the Bible in the Council of Trent. True it is, the Summa, was never completed, but it remains practically uninjured, as it abundantly suffices for the end it was intended to fulfil. This great work of the Angelical was. indeed, his one life’s labor,—his legacy to sacred Science; and, having accomplished God’s will in the most perfect manner, he was taken from this earth to enjoy forever the reward promised by Christ to one that had so well written of Him.
But to appreciate tine true worth of the work performed by Thomas Aquinas requires the high intellect and sound judgment of God’s ministers; and one who has but begun the study of Philosophy must confine himself within the limits of a silent admiration. A few words on the mighty author as a Saint, and I have done. Throughout his whole life, Thomas ever- manifested, in the highest degree, that purity, patience and humility which are the characteristics of the true children of the Church; he never trusted to his own genius—however powerful it was—in the production of his works, but, continually kneeling down at the foot of the crucifix, he earnestly prayed to God for grace and light. He was often seen lifted up in ecstasy; in his last days especially he had extraordinary visions of the world unseen, and was frequently entranced. When there was question of his canonization soon after his death, and some objected that few miracles were proved to have been performed by the Angelical, Pope John XXII exclaimed : “.Thomas alone has enriched the Church more than all the other doctors taken together!” Arid*another Pope went so far as to say that“ there
are in the Summa as many miracles as there are articles.” And consequently we dare say, in the words of Cardinal Newman and our Rt. Rev. Lecturer, that “ by living one-year with St. Thomas we would have profited much more than by reading all the text-books of modern speculations.” Washington is rightlv called the “Father of his Country,” but St. Thomas is the founder of true, Christian Philosophy. Truly did Albertus Magnus predict of “the dumb ox of Sicily”—and well may we say of him—that so loud had been “ his hellowings ” in doctrine that they have “ resounded tin oughout the whole world; ” and in vain will sub-sequent generations or so-called modern science endeavor to attack his mighty production; the magnificent edifice still stands erect, rearing its head aloft, and, like the great Pyramid of Egypt, ■ is unshaken by the ravages of time or the futile assaults of men.
Joseph. Haydn.
SUGGESTED BY READING THE EXQUISITE TRANSLATION OF VON SEEBURG’s “STORY OF JOSEPH HAYDN’S LIFE,” BY REV. J. M. TOOHEY, C. S. C.
Respectfully Inscribed to Professor fosefh A. Lyons, op the University of Plot re Dame, Indiana.
O great and gifted one, like all great souls, Simple and guileless as a little child, Thy name, thy fame, an angel undefiled, ’ ’Mid God’s immortal choristers, enrolls.
—What tho’ the world its grudging pittance doles To thy young genius? What tho’ want and care Fetter the fledgling’s wings? Celestial scrolls Writ with the music of Seraphic prayer.
And tuneful with angelic symphonies, Float thro’ thy dreams.
The hand which clasps the beads
Hath drawn from Heav’n its matchless melodies;
And Prayer hath sown in Song its winged seeds!
—Blest be the loving pens which here perpetuate
Thy prayer-begotten songs, O Haydn, good and great!
Eleanor C. Donnelly’.
—The Catholic Chronicle.
William Caxton.
Of all the ages in the Christian era, the fifteenth century will ever hold a prominent place in the history of mankind. Three events of unusual magnitude and importance to the world distinguished the century.
In 1440 the art of printing by movable types was invented.
In 1453, Constantinople, the great capital of the eastern empire, the treasury of what was left of the arts and literature of the Old World, and of the accumulated riches and spoils of the East, fell before the savage onset of the hardy sons of Mahomet. Constantine Paleologus, the last survivor of a glorious line of Byzantine emperors fell fight-in° at the head of his army in defence of his-im-o	«*
420
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
perial city. It seemed to Christendom as if at last the tide had turned, and that the ruthless Turk, now that he had made good his footing in Europe, must, before long, be the master of the holvcitvof Rome, as he had already conquered that of Jerusalem.
And, again, before the century had run its course, the minds, arid imaginations of men had been fired by the wondrous news that the adventurous Christopher Columbus, sailing across the unknown and trackless ocean, had discovered another world, with other races of men, and the traces of an old civilization.
These three events alone are sufficient to mark the fifteenth century as a turning point in the history of mankind; as the region in which arose the sources of those mighty streams which were destined to alter the face of the world, and the history of its inhabitants.
In this paper we shall confine our attention to the invention of the art of printing by movable types, and its introduction into England by William Caxton.
Many Protestant writers, untrammelled by the narrow prejudice which so often characterizes their utterances, have borne testimony to the great work done by the monks in the Middle Ages to the cause-of civilization. Let us listen to the testimony of Mrs. Jameson as an example:
“ But for the monks of the Middle Ages the light of liberty and literature and science had been forever extinguished: and for six centuries there existed for the thoughtful, the gentle, the inquiring, the devout spirit, no peace, no security, no home but the cloister. There learning trimmed her lamp; there contemplation ‘ preened her wings; ’ there the traditions of art, preserved from age to age by lonely, studious men, kept alive in form and colour the idea of a beauty beyond that of earth—of a might beyond that of the spear and the shield—of a Divine sympathy with suffering humanity.”
It was owing to the fostering care of the monks that the flame of learning was kept alive during ages which were devoted more to war and pastime than to thought: great numbers of the monks were employed in copying and illuminating works of literary excellence. Many of these manuscripts still remain to us, treasured up in our public and private libraries, as examples of a fineness of taste and of art which are the wonder and the delight of _	_ o
connoisseurs. The time devoted to the beautification of a missal or a breviary was thought well spent. The labor was a labor of love, and was in itself the truest proof of the maxim '■'■laborare est orare?'	.
But the very slowness of the process by which these manuscripts were copied and reproduced, rendered their possession impossible to any but nobles or men of wealth. It is recorded that the Countess of Anjou gave for the Homilies of Hai-mon, Bishop of Halberstadt, 200 sheep, five quarters of wheat, and the same quantity of rye and millet. One work, the “ Book of the Passion of our Lord Jesus Christ,” consisted of sheets of the finest vellum, the texts being cut out, instead of being inscribed on each leaf, and being interleaved with blue paper, it was read with ease. For this curiosity the- Emperor Rudolph II, of Germany
ofl'ered 11,000 ducats. In St. Paul’s Cathedral, London, in 1295, there were found twelve copies of the Gospels, all adorned with silver, some with gilding, pearls and gems, and one with eleven relics which were let into the plates of precious metal surrounding each page.
As it became fashionable for men of wealth to possess copies of the classics and religious authors, manuscripts soon became a regular staple of commerce, and were bought and sold by the class known in Caxton’s days as Mercers, or, as we should call them, merchants. It may be imagined therefore that the news of the discovery of a means by which works could be multiplied with far greater speed, correctness and cheapness than by manuscript copying, was hailed with enthusiasm by the learned throughout Europe.
The inventor of the art of printing by movable types was Johannes Gutenberg, a native of May-ence, who was born towards the end of the fourteenth century. In 1438 he erected a printing press at Strasbourg, with the assistance of some moneyed associates, and ten years later removed it to Mayence, his native town, where, in partnership with Johannes Faust, a wealthy goldsmith, he issued many valuable 'works, chiefly psalters, breviaries and missals. At first the processes of the new art were carefully guarded from public gaze, and the workmen who were initiated were strictly sworn to secrecy concerning them. For about thirty years the secret was so well kept that Germany and the Netherlands preserved the monopoly of printing for the world. .
The first types used by the early printers were of wood; but it was soon found that metal ones were superior for strength and endurance, and for a long time, even down to the time of Queen Anne, the type founders of Holland supplied the English printers with type for all the best works.
William Caxton was born in 1412, a period when England was in a very unsettled state. Henry IV had, a few years before, seized upon the crown. The disastrous “ Wars of the Roses ” were still raging, and the whole of England had been devastated by the warfare of the contending armies of York and Lancaster. It has been alleged that these were times of intellectual darkness, but it is an assertion without any foundation in fact. True it is that the system of education was not the same as that which prevails now. In Caxton’s boyhood, printed books were not known, and manuscripts were scarce and costly. The children were taught by word of mouth, and by eye and ear. But the men of those days were still religious, and had good common sense, and the child received such training as fitted him for his position in life and imbued him with the knowledge of his duties to God, to himself and to his fellow-man.
Caxton alludes to his schooling in the preface to the “Histories of Troy,” published by .him in later life. He says:—
“I was bounden to pray for my father’s and mother’s souls, that in my youth sent me to school, by which, by. the sufferance of God, I got my living, I hope truly.” .
In 1441 Caxton was admitted a freeman.of. the
THE NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC.
421
Mercers’ Company, one of the greatest of the London trade guilds, and was qualified to trade on his own account as a merchant.
The next we hear of Caxton is a few years later, when he was sent over to Bruges by the Mercers’ Company as their agent, and appointed by them to the important and responsible post of governor of the “ English Merchant Adventurers” there. This fact shows that even at that early period of his life he must have distinguished himself by no ordinary qualities of intelligence and probity, for, as governor of the English colony at Bruges, he would necessarily be entrusted with the control of great financial interests.
In 1454, we find his name enrolled as a member of the Guild of St. John the Evangelist at Bruges. This guild consisted of men and women belonging to the various trades connected with the reproduction, etc., of books, whether in manuscript or print, such as copyists, printers, bookbinders, dealers in parchment and paper. It is probable that Caxton was admitted into the guild on the ground of his being, as agent for the English merchants, a dealer in books and manuscripts. Upon any other grounds it would be difficult to account for his admission, as the trade guilds of the Middle Ages were very strict in their exclusion of persons not connected with their “ mystery.” These guilds were institutions of the greatest value to the working classes, uniting as they did the qualities of modern confraternities, trades’ unions, and benefit societies. The funds of the guild were devoted not only to the relief of the sick, but also to defray the expenses of religious services, the beautifying of the altar and the burying’ of the dead.
During the period of his residence at Bruges, the city was filled with authors, scribes, translators and illuminators, for it had become a species of mart for literary productions of all kinds, to which scribes and copyists from all parts of Europe sent their manuscripts for disposal.
Caxton must have been thrown much into the .society of the classes we have named, as an agent in purchasing books for the English nobility. We find it recorded, for instance, that he bought for Lady Margaret, Duchess of Somerset, a copy of the “Romance of Blanchardy and Eglantyn.” Among those whose acquaintance he made at this time was a scribe named Colard Mansion, who had attained some distinction as a copyist of manuscripts. This man had been employed bv Gutenberg in his printing-office at Mayence, where he learnt the new art, and returning to his native town, established a printing-office in a room over the porch of the Church of St. Donatus. He got into great financial difficulties later, and was obliged to decamp, leaving his printing press and types in the hands of the good monks as payment of his rent. It is said that Caxton gave him shelter at Westminster.
Books of Caxton’s publication are very rare; out of 94 works known to us, 33 exist only in single copies or in fragments. The books most liable to destruction seem to be breviaries and prayer books; this may arise in some cases from
frequent use, but in most cases from the ravages of bigotry.
The last book he printed was entitled “The Art and Craft to know wel to die.” It begins'thus:— “ When it is so, that what a man maketh-or doetn, it is made to come to some end, and if the thing be good or well made, it must needs come to good end: then by better and greater reason, every man ought to intend in such wise to live in this world in keeping the commandments of God, that he may come to a good end. And then out of this world, full of wretchedness and tribulations, he mav go to heaven unto God and his saints, unto joy ever durable.”
As a tree must be judged bv the fruits it produces, so, also, must the arts be judged. It is difficult to decide whether more good or evil has been produced by the art of printing. The printing press has undoubtedly been an engine of immense power, and it has been used to terrible effect by the enemies of God and of His Church. How many souls have been lost by the dissemination of the impious and immoral literature which has for centuries poured from the press! It has been chiefly by its means that the pernicious doctrines of the religious rebels of the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries have been propagated, and the minds of countless millions of unhappy men inflamed and incited to rebellion against the authority of their Creator.
But we must not be unmindful of the fact that, on the other hand, the printing press has been the powerfid organ of religion also. By its means the lives and teachings of the saints have been made known to the nations of the whole earth, and their writings have penetrated to millions who would otherwise have lived and died in ignorance of the truth. The beneficial effects of the invention, in relation to the material world, are less uncertain. By means of books, the spread of knowledge of all kinds, and in particular of the discoveries of science, and their application to useful arts, has been accomplished, and the comforts of human life have been increased in a corresponding degree.
_ A. J. D.
Books and Periodicals.
The Festival of the Most Holy Rosary at the Tomb of St. Dominic. By Miss Rose Howe. Notre Dame, Indiana: Ave Maria Press. 1884.
This charming account of a visit to Bologna, • Italy, and the ceremonies attending the celebration of the Festival of the Most Holy Rosary, which originally appeared in the pages of TJie'-'-Ave Maria'' comes now to us with renewed freshness, and cannot fail to delight the reader. It is most appropriate at this time in view of the new impetus which the Holy Father has given to the devotion of the holy Rosary, and must commend itself to the Christian reader. Besides the very interesting narrative, it is replete with instructions’ and reflections upon the devotion which cannot fail to produce much fruit. It is printed in neat pamphlet form, with good, clear type, and sold at 25 cts. a copy.
—Louisa M. Alcott’s third “ Spinniug-wheel Story,” entitled “Eli’s Education,” is a leading
422
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
feature of the March number of St. Nicholas, and paints a true picture of the struggles of a country lad.to obtain an education in the early years of the present century. Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney contributes a brightly written story, called “ Girl-Noblesse,” which is not without “ boy interest,” however, and which, while possessing its full share of incident and adventure, is a clever study.of character as well. “ Among the Mustangs ” -is the title of an entertaining paper on the wild ponies of the plains, by Noah Brooks, author of “ The Boy Emigrants,” who ogives much information in regard to the origin, life, habits, and fate of the mustang. “ Blown Out to Sea,” by C. F. Holder, is a collection of anecdotes, recounting some of the curious resting places made use of by weary birds which are driven bv strong winds out of their course in their long migratory flights, often extending many thousands of miles. Lucy Larcom has a bright little March poem, called “The Wind-Flower”; Palmer Cox tells and shows how the adventurous “ Brownies” went up (and came down) in a balloon. Mayne Reid’s serial, “ The Land of-Fire,” and W. O. Stoddard’s “Winter Fun” increase in interest as they grow in length.
—The Century Magazine for March is a superb number of this popular monthly. The illustrations are undoubtedly the best we have yet seen, in this or any other magazine. The frontispiece, a splendid portrait of General Count Von Moltke, engraved from a photograph by Schaarwachter, by permission of the family, is a masterpiece of workmanship both in the engraving and printing. It is accompanied by a ten-page biographical sketch of the General’s life', by Helen Zimmern. The leading article, “The New Washington,” is illustrated with nineteen engravings, one of which, the i 5th street Front of the Treasury Department, and a view of Pennsylvania Avenue from 15th St. to the Capitol, are masterpieces of perspective. J. Rankin Towse’s Sketch of Henry Irving is illustrated bv Whitney with a full-length portrait of the renowned English tragedian in “Hamlet,” from the statue by E. Onslow .Ford. The writer on the “ Christian League,” in “ Topics of the Times,” is so stu pidly ignorant and prejudiced against the Catholic Church—or “Romanism,” as.he calls it—that he sandwiches it between Mormonism and the Liquor traffic,—this although the Mormons draw all their recruits from Protestants and Protestant countries, ; and Presbyterian Scotland consumes more whiskey . in proportion to population than any nation distinctively Catholic. In the “ Open Letters ” department “ Organs and Orchestras in Church ” are talked about at some length, in a rambling ‘way, bjr Chas. S. Robinson. J. B. Peterson writes a very strong article, and a sensible one, questioning the right of' Congress to levy taxes for the support of the public schools. The author of the “Bread Winners” publishes in this department a long and very strong letter against the harsh and unjust criticisms to which he has been exposed.
Could the pitcher of a base-ball team be spoken of as “ the power behind the thrown? ”
Art, Music, and Literature. .
—Queen Victoria’s new book will be translated I into French.	|
—Rosa Bonheur’s health has been completely 1 restored. She is at work on unfinished pictures,	।
at her favorite Chateau de By, Fontainebleau.	|
—The Vossischc Zeitung surmises that when t the Prussian Government some time ago demanded | 2,000,000 marks for art purposes it had in its eye | the purchase of the Duke of Marlborough’s Bien- | heim pictures.	|
—Mlle. Nevada, the . American ■prima donna | now so popular in Paris, has become a Catholic.	|
She was instructed and received into the Church	I
by the Rev. Matthew Kelly. M. Gounod and Mrs. I Mackey served as sponsors at her baptism.	|
—Frederick Cowie, the painter of “ The Finding	I
of the Body of the Prince Imperial” and “ The	|
Last Hours of Lord Beaconsfield,” has nearly fin-	j
ished a huge canvas representing the front of the	s
house at the Lyceum as seen on a first night of	j
Irving’s. There are a great number of portraits .	i
of well-known habitues.	|
—“John Bull and his Island,” a book which | has had and is having.an immense run in England, is now republished in this country, and will undoubtedly net a round sum for the “enterprising”	>
publishers,—ever ready, as usual, to appropriate	J
the property of scribes across the Atlantic, who	,
under existing circumstances have no protection	!
from the law. The author of “John Bull and his	i
Island” is a Frenchman, and gives the name of	i
“ Max O’Rell,”—a non de j)lnme, of course. The book is a strange mixture of the grave and the I ludicrous, in the short-clipped paragraph style in-	i
troduced by a Paris journalist some years ago, and	|
now generally adopted bv French writers and	I
their imitators. Among the other things of note,	I
Max O’Rell devotes a part of his book to what	I
he calls “the Salvation Agencies” of England,—	|
that is, the religious sects, of which he enumerates	I
a hundred and eighty odd, with the remark, “ If	I
John Bull does not go straight to Paradise it will	|
not be his fault.” Out of a population of 81,000,-	|
000 souls in the United Kingdom and the Colonies,	i
18,000,000 belong to the Anglican Church; 14,500,-	<
000 are Methodists; 13,500,000 are Catholics [not- ■ withstanding aggressive laws and centuries of per-	|
sedition,—what will be the number half a cen-	I
tury hence?!; j0,250,ooo’are Presbyterians; 8,000,-	|
000 Baptists; 6,000,000 Congregationalists; 1,000,-	'
000 Unitarians; and about 10,000,000 are divided	T
among the other one hundred and eighty sects	i
enumerated.	|
—Meissonier is painting a large picture which I represents.Francis I and the Chevalier Bavard in | the midst of a gorgeous company. This now fam- | ous painter is about 72 years old. He lives in	1
magnificent style in his superb hotel on the Boni-	s
evard Malesherbcs at the Parc Monceau, Paris, ■ where he now spends most of his time. For B years he lived in a charming villa at Poissy, and ’ 1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
423
painted there the greater number of his most remarkable works. In person—“ a powerfully built torso mounted on a pair of short, thin legs, and surmounted by the head of Michael Angelo’s Moses, superb in its profuse grey hair, flowing beard, and piercing'-eyes.” In tempei, peppery and irascible. It is fifty-three years since Meissonier first came to Paris to study painting. Of the first five or six years of his life there he does not willingly speak. The trials and sufferings that he underwent during those years are almost beyond belief. He executed any kind of work that came in his way, in order to earn a living. He painted copies of the pictures of the Louvre at the rate of one dollar a square yard, decorated tops of bonbon boxes, painted fans, executed marvellous drawings for the wood engravers, etc. Some of these attracted the attention of Johanot, one of the leading draughtsmen of the day, who did his best to bring his young colleague before the public. Meissonier is wrapt in his art; he is said to be the most un-courteous member of that most refined and courteous race of men—the painters of France, but the power of his genius has overridden the prejudices caused by his personal characteristics. As a portrait painter—which he has latterly tried in obedience to the popular demand—Meissonier does himself a great injustice. His portraits, though marvellously colored, lack individuality, charm of expression; but in his other works Meissonier is probably the greatest of living painters, and his pictures command a higher price than those of any other living artist.
College Gossip.
—Last year Columbia’s total revenue was $342,-/	000; total expenditure, $555,000.—Herald-Crimson. .	'
. —John Guy Vassar has given $10,000 to Vassar College for the purchase of additional physical and chemical apparatus.
—The Harvard Medical School is reported as much embarrassed, owing to the difficulty created by Governor Butler in obtaining subjects for dissection.
—A new thing in educational ideas is a Greek Kindergarten, with cards and games. It is the invention of the Rev. Alfied A. Wright, dean of the Chautauqua School of Theology.
—Harvard College has lately come into possession of the largest private collection of meteorities in the world. It was the property of Professor J. Lawrence Smith, and is valued at ten thousand dollars. Professor Cooke raised the required sum by subscription.	.
—“The stars and stripes floated over the green on the 22d,—Washington’s birthday—but that was about as much of the holiday as we got here.’’
So says the Cynic, of the University of Vermont. Would it not be a good idea to’call a convention of students and formulate a “Prayer for Patriotism and the Conversion of College Facul
ties,” to be used on the Day of Prayer for Colleges?. What does The University Cynic say to this proposition?
—“The Educational Association of Friends in America” is an organization for the promotion of higher education among Friends. The first meeting of the Association was held in Baltimore, in 1877, where a partial organization was effected. The next meeting was held at Haverford College, in 1S80, where the organization was perfected. Last year the regular meeting of the Association was held at Earlham College. The regular meeting occurs every five years.— Collegian.
—The arrangements of the Inter-collegiate Press Association are at length completed for giving and receiving reliable reports.—Herald-Crimson.
Very good; but really until many of the college editors become possessed of common sense enough to keep trashy clippings out of their papers there won’t be any room for “ reliable reports.” The Herald-Crimson, however, is a noteworthy exception; it is always fresh and newsv, and we do not see much room for improvement in its present space.
—The Princeton students lately circulated a document charging the Faculty with espionage, opening desks, keeping a watch upon rooms, and pumping a barber in reference to conduct of students, etc., and called a meeting to take action in the matter. The meeting was held in a town hall; and resolutions adopted referring the matter to the trustees of the college, but at the latest accounts the students found their position too weak to be held. An apology was made by the students, and the matter has been settled quietly. ■	-
—The examination of the school children of New York City, by Dr. Ely, revealed the fact that forty per cent, were near-sighted. In the schoolrooms in Boston test-types hang upon the wall for testing the acuteness of vision of each child. The letters of this test-type are square, and their- size increases at a definite ratio, so that each number is seen at a visual angle of five minutes, the visual angle being that inclosed between two lines drawn from extremities of an object to the optical centre of the eye. The utmost distance at which the types are recognized, divided by the distance at which they appear at an angle of five minutes, gives the formula for the acuteness of vision.
—Mr. AV. Mather, the English Commissioner appointed to inquire into the systems of technical and scientific education in America, in his report to his Government says: “ There exist in America-a number of high-class institutions for technical and scientific training in mining, civil and mechanical engineering. I am of opinion, founded upon my own observation, there is nothing better in Europe. The character of the training in the best of them is its practicability. The students feel that careers are open to them, if only they have acquired the art of applying their knowledge; hence their ambition is excited, and everyone of them appears to be working for a definite purpose.” —Pennsylvania University Magazine.
424
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, March. 15, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
■ choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art. Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well'as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, ‘ above all,
Old Students should take it.
■ Terms, Sr.jo fer Annum. Posffatd.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing
J. A. McIntyre, ’84. Elmer A. Otis, ’84.
James Solon, ’84.
Steele, ’84.
W. H. Bailey, ’84.
C. A. Tinley, ’84.
W. H. Johnston,’ 85.
■ C. F. Porter, ’85.
—It is expected that one of the most pleasing and interesting features of the Commencement Exercises will be the dedication of the New Science Hall. A full description of this fine building appeared in the Scholastic of June last year. It is already far advanced, and after spring opens, the work will be pushed rapidly forward, and, no doubt, will be completed by June. The Rt. Rev. Montes D’Oca, Bishop of Monterey, has accepted an invitation to deliver the dedicatory address. This distinguished prelate, who speaks the English and Spanish languages with equal fluency, has acquired a reputation both as 'an orator and a scientist, and an address every wav worthy of the occasion may well be expected.
—The Senior classes throughout the country are electing officers and preparing for Class-Day Exercises. Easter is rapidly approaching, and after Easter—Commencement! It would he reasonable to suppose that during the remaining few months of their college life Seniors would receive especial cour
tesy, not only from the Facuity, but also from all their fellow-students. But at many of our universities (and, we are sorry to say, Notre Dame is not an exception) there is a tendency among undergraduates to combine against the Senior Class. At Yale, not long ago, the following resolution was nearly passed by a Greek-letter Fraternity, composed entirely of grads.:
“ Resolved, Thal the Senior society system creates a social aristocracy, exercises an undue influence in collesje politics, fosters a truckling and cowering disposition among the lower classes, creates dissensions and enmity in every class, alienates the affections of the graduates from the college, stifles the full expression of college sentiment by its control of the college press, and, therefore, that the class condemns the system.”
The resolution has provoked considerable discussion from the college press. For our part, we fail to see that it affects the standing of the college fraternities; it is rather the half recognition of an unfortunate feeling or prejudice—which we had hoped could not gain control in our larger and more liberal universities. But, after all, it goes without saying, that Yale is fast dropping behind her old-time rival at Cambridge.
St. Patrick’s Day.
In the fulness of years, the tranquility of a well-spent life, and the triumph of devoted services to God and men, the Patron Saint of Ireland rested from his labors the 17th of March, A. D. 464. A high-spirited and warlike race had accepted from "him the religion of the Cross; and when his eyes last rested upon the green fields, the blue sky, and the silvery waters, they rested likewise upon a people seeking with true humility and unswerving-fidelity to deserve the crown. Under the Christian dispensation, which he did so much to establish in Ireland, the many virtues of the people found incentive to conspicuous exhibition and won for their country the designation “ Island of Saints.” Nowhere did Christianity spread , more rapidly or thrive more vigorously. The poor captive had, in the name of the Great Master, drawn to himself a whole people. Everywhere they revered and obeyed-him. His great zeal and persevering energy had been warmly seconded by their many virtues, and thus had his marvellous success been achieved. The people readily accepted Christianity, because the tendency of their lives was in accord with its teachings. They loved justice, hated wrong, abhorred oppression, believed in equality, honored manly and generous deeds, and ranked chastity and uprightness of character among the brightest of the virtues. The Christian religion could hardly have been so easilj-established without force—vvithout a more formidable weapon than a shepherd’s staff— had the temper of the people not been in general accord with its spirit and favorable to its reception.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
425
. Though more than fourteen centuries have since passed and the world has undergone vast changes, mighty empires and noted systems of religion, philosophy and laws having appeared and disappeared, yet' the’ faith established by St. Patrick has only become broader, grander and stronger.
;	Neither in form nor substance has it undergone
»	change. As steady, regular and unchangeable as
[	the sun, it has through all those centuries shed its
light and conferred its blessings upon the millions who love St. Patrick and celebrate his day.
i	But though the faith be unchanged and the peo-
ple live, unhappily not so is the political right of nationhood. For seven centuries that right has been denied to the people of Ireland; and the denial has been persistently and cruelly enforced by the fraud, violence and treachery of a powerful and malignant enemy. Not unfrequcntly human affairs are so ordered that the more generous, candid and confiding people are, the more likely they are to be made the victims of avaricious and dishonest neighbors. And so it has been with the people of Ireland. For centuries, their natural generosity and freedom fiom distrust have been turned to their disadvantage. Had thev been of a sordid and suspicious nature, they would not have scrupled to employ the weapons used by their enemy; and with those weapons they wotdd not have been at such a disadvantage, and could hardly have been conquered. Thev could hardly have been made the victims of perfidious schemes and brutal stratagems disgraceful to humanity. In this connection, an incident related by Vattel, may be repeated, inasmuch as it serves to illustrate the perfidious conduct of the enemy with whom the Irish people
I	have had to deal. Says he:
|	“ In 1756, an English war-vessel appeared off the coast of
3	Calais and made signals of distress to indicate that it was
I	disabled and on the point of sinking. However, while exI	hibiting these signals it kept out of the range of the shore
s	batteries. A number of courageous persons manned a
I	bark and went to the assistance of the war-vessel, with a
I	view to rescuing its crew from the peril and death that
|	seemed so imminent. But the war-vessel was not disabled,
I	nor was it in danger. It had merelv resorted to this ruse
a	to decoy some of the French ships beyond the range of the
a	batteries. The bark was captured, and the rescuing party
I	were made prisoners and taken to England.”
No wonder Vattel pronounces such conduct unlawful and brutal in the extreme. No wonder he views it as odious perfidy calculated to make men shun the performance of the offices of humanity.
R	But by snares and stratagems no less cowardly and
reprehensible English power was established, and |
.	for centuries maintained, in Ireland. More withering
than the fiery breath of the sirocco, that power has blasted the land. More fatal than epidemic or earthquake, the graves of its victims are everywhere. Its policy has periodically entailed famine upon the people. It has employed force, bribe, I promise and deception to divide them into hostile factions and provoke them to internecine quarrels. It has ever aimed to misrepresent the Irish character. It has studiously sought to belittle the people and bring them into disgrace and reproach before the world. It has persistently represented them as little better than savages and wild beasts,
and as such it has many and many a time treated them. Never, in English circles has pity found genuine expression in reference to Ireland. Never has the British Government voluntarily done even simple justice to that unfortunate country.
On St. Patrick’s Day the Irish people may appropriately join their voices with the inspired words of the psalmist and exclaim: “Flow long, O Lord; how long?” How long is sorely oppressed and greatly wronged, though ever faithful, Ireland to be denied the right to nationhood? The answer rests with the Irish people themselves. It may be summarized in the advice “ Organize—agitate to organize—but above all things oiganize!” There are great possibilities in the mutations of time; and no one can know the mutations and vicissitudes of even the immediate future. In periods of national upheaval and governmental confusion.organized force may step into the front rank of events and shape to its purposes the pliant elements of political transition. In the field of war or amidst the storm of revolution, organization may accomplish great achievements. And in the firmament are many clouds that denote a storm. Over Ireland, Egypt, India, Australia and Southern Africa they appear. And the mutterings of discontent throughout Europe also presage a storm. Should it come, a thorough organization judiciously managed could safely claim independence and nationhood for the sorely-tried land of St. Patrick. The testimony of common observation is to the effect that a strong and persistent determination to succeed in an undertaking, no matter what it is, rarely fails to accomplish its object. It is the life of action ; and when action—instinct with strong and unyielding purpose—is wisely directed, its power is invincible. Its dominion extends over land and sea, and is recognized in great achievements throughout the material world. Steamships, railroad’, and the telegraph bear witness to the possibilities within its reach. It has raised men, in spite of almost disheartening adversities, to the highest stations in the world, making them rulers in states, leaders in the forum and arbiters in the marts of trade. And having accomplished so much for particular men, what may it not accomplish for hundreds of thousands of men acting in concert? Practically, unconquerable is the might of a great organization, the members of which are animated by a common purpose and steadfastly devoted to its accomplishment.
In the ceaseless shifting and mutations of human affairs, in their ordinary course of development, nearly all views and conditions of things have their day and flourish for a time; and the thoughts, hopes and purposes of a powerful combination, immovably fixed in its plans and course of action, cannot fail in time to be fully realized. Unpopular opinions and purposes are vindicated by the lapse of time, if men only remain firm in adhering to them. And the purpose of the Irish people to achieve their independence— a purpose so steadfastly entertained for many centuries—cannot in the nature of things fail, in the near future, to be realized and rewarded with the full measure of success.
H.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC..
Exchanges.
—The High-School Growler, from Lancaster, Ohio, is a very small but fairly well-edited paper.
— The St. Marv's Sentinel is an excellent little • paper. The article on “Wendell Phillips,1’in its issue of February the. 29th, pays a tasteful and sympathetic tribute to the great agitator.
— The Columbia. Spectator, as usual, “yanks the bun.” Its engravings, with running comments beneath, leave Punch and all his family far behind. You are always looked for, always welcome, Spectator !
—Poly, has only just now arrived for February. The articles on “Puns,” “Cribs,” and “A New Student’s First Declamation” are all very good. It is, perhaps, unnecessary to explain that Poly, is “short” for The Polytechnic, from Brooklyn, New York.	'	“
— The Cornell Daily Sun comes regularly to our sanctum. At present it is doing a great work by publishing, piecemeal, the lectures on “Tariff,” delivered to the university students. Once in a while, however, we are compelled to take a section for granted when a copy of the Sun is non cst.
— The College Message, from Cape Girardeau, Missouri, is generally up to the standard. As one who speaks from expci ience, we may be permitted .to say that “The French Revolution,” at its present rate of progress, will not be concluded till March, 1901 ; our successor will then review the production.
—57. ViateuPs College Journal, from Bour-bonnai Grove, Ill., is generally deserving ofc praise. Mr. Turner’s “Letter from Rome” is very interesting and well written; while the story entitled “Two Friends” is in much better taste than the majority of school-boy-or-girl novelties. The exchange column is always well written.
— The College Record (Merom, Indiana,) for February shows a decided improvement within and without. The article on “Nihilism,” like Artemus Ward’s “ Central Africa,” has no particular reference to its subject; but the essay on “Civil Service Reform,” though written in a style entirely too jerky, shows both study and thought on the part of the writer.
—The Cosmopolitan Shorthand Writer, of Toronto, Ont., has been recast into a new form and improved in many respects. Mr. Frank Yeigh now assists Mr. Thos. Bengough in the editorial management of the magazine, which is printed partly in typography, partly in phonography. The Brothers Bengough, J. Kelly, and Georgina A. Fraser, cartoonists of Grip, do the comic picture business for the Cosmopolitan.
—-The Herald-Crimson, complains that the subject of music is neglected in the lectures at Harvard, and wonders why the talent at hand does not volunteer lectures on, or recitals of, music. The Herald- Crimson says justly that the influence of music—good music—is .elevating and refining. We have more than a fair share of good music
here at the university soirees, entertainments, etc.; but would it not be a good thing to have a lecture or two on painting and music before the lecture season closes?
—Perhaps the very best of our Canadian exchanges is the Rouge et Noir, the last two numbers of which are on our table as we write. Through both there has been running an essay entitled “ Conduct and Manner,” which, for clear thought, sensible reasoning, and graceful style, cannot be too highly commended. “ A College Dav,” and “Bores,” both by T. B. A., ’84, are written in a very pleasant, humorous style. We must, however, beg leave to criticise the Latinism in vogue at Trinity, which prefaces the subject of every essay by “On,” “Of,” “Concerning,” etc.
— The Vanderbilt Observer for March has some excellent contributions. “Some Inaccuracies in Speech” shows considerable research—original or not, we can’t say. The poem on that time-honored subject, “ The Sounding Shell,” is really not bad; still, unless a man lived to the age of Mathu-salem the following would hardly apply:
’	“ It will mock at the flight of all time.
And will sound through the ages that roll (?) Still and small is its voice, but sublime—
’Tis the God-given voice of the sou!.’'
— The Otterbein Record for March is a verv queer kind of paper. In the Exchange (?) column we find the startling announcement that Mr. Lowell has resigned the rectorship of St. Andrew’s; while under the head of literary we are given a letter from Washington Territory, wherein a Mrs. B-----breaks out into the following gloomy prediction :
“ Perhaps a few years more may find you in one of the many whiskey-cursed towns of the Pacific slope, where scarce!}’ sufficient Christian light and warmth can penetrate the poisoned, liquor-fogged moral atmosphere to keep alive the slender plants struggling in such stony ground. (/) ”
The opening poem—a satire on Cornell’s course in teaching both free trade and protection—is really very good.
—Perniris Monthly Stenographer—a neat 16-page magazine published in the interest of the Pernin-Duploye system of shorthand, by H. AI. Pernin, of Detroit—closes successfully the first year of its existence with the March number. It contains in ordinary print ten pages of interesting matter pertaining to shorthand, and six pages in neatly lithographed stenography. The magazine is ably conducted by its gifted editor, and deserves success. However a few of the letters to the editor, which are published, convey a false impression of another deservedly popular system of shorthand that antedates Duploye’s by many years and is certainly briefer, while it can be as easily learned as any other. The writer of this notice has studied the leading systems and modifications of shorthand, and after a careful examination gives Duplove’s the second place for brevity and simplicity,—Isaac Pitman’s being first, unless we except Longley’s, a recent modification of Isaac Pitman’s, for brevity. Such a good system as Duployd’s needs no such clap-trap to ensure sue-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cess as is resorted to by many of the mushroom so-called “ inventors,” or torturers of Isaac Pitman’s phonographic principles, in order to deceive the public and get a following. Mr. Pernin would do well to clip the effusions of his flighty correspondents; otherwise he will be liable to severe criticism. In all other respects Pentin's Monthly is a model of neatness and good editing.
o	c.*
.	.	Personal.
—Ed. C. Larkin (Prep.), of ’82, is distinguishing himself as a Shakesperian interpreter at Wheeling, Va.	-
—Rev. fames Gleeson, C. S. C., returned on last Saturday from his missionary labors in which he had been engaged for several months.
—Joseph P. O’Neill, ’83, writing from his present post, Fort Sydney, Neb., to a friend here, men. Lions the name of his old Professor in such affectionate terms, as to show his lingering" love for Alma Mater and old friends.
—Last week the case of Fouke vs. The Town of Lake was tried in the Superior Court at Chicago. The plaintiff is the wife of Geo. W. Fouke, night baggage master at the L. S. & M. S. depot, in South BenJ. Over a year ago she sustained an injury by stepping from a defectively constructed sidewalk on Swan St., in the Town of Lake, just south of the corporate limits of Chicago. Gen. Gibbons, of Chicago, and Prof. William Hoynes, of the Law Department of the University, were retained as counsel by the plaintiff, and they secured a verdict for $1,018.75 in her favor.
—Mrs. Margaret F. Sullivan, the distinguished writer of Chicago, accompanied by Mrs. J. D. Sullivan, of the same city, visited Notre Dame during the week. The former lady was a resident at St. Mary’s during the fall and winter of ’74, and contributed in various ways to the* literary publications of Notre Dame. Iler many occupations since that time prevented a visit to the University. She expressed unbounded surprise and admiration at the new buildings and the many improvements made since the great fire of ’79. Mrs. Sullivan’s good works, as also those of her excellent husband, in the Irish cause, have commended themselves to all who love liberty and deerv injustice.
"	--------1 — *---■---
Local Items.
—“ Erin go bragh 1 ”
—General break-up!
—Hurrah for spring!
—Columbians to-night!
— Monday is St. Patrick’s Day.
—It is evidently a case of “stamping out.”
—The lantern will soon be laid on the shelf.
;—The Juniors are organizing their baseball nines.
—The Philosophs are preparing a public disputation.
—The astrological predictions have turned out “O.K.”	'
—The Surveying Class were out as monarchs, •z O	7
last Thursday.	•
—President Walsh granted a half-holiday, Tuesday afternoon.	-
—Why not elect permanent captains for the football games?
o	__
—Many of the Juniors have procured badges for St. Patrick’s Day.
—-The first robin of the season was seen last Thursday morning.
—There is no mistake about it this time—winter has taken its departure!
—Old Science Hall is in process of demolition to make place for the western wing.
—The members of the Boat Club are patiently waiting for the opening of navigation.
—The Campus is now entirely free from snow, and the out-door exercises have begun.
—Lost:—A bunch of keys. The finder will please leave them at the printing-office.
—It is rumored that several cases of Spring fever have broken out among the Juniors.
—The Band serenaded Prof. Paul at his residence last Sunday, the occasion being the Prof’s bii thday.
—Our friend John says that Aqua pura, at a temperature of 2000, Fahrenheit is an excellent therapeutical agent.
—The Columbians will give to-night their entertainment in honor of St. Patrick’s Dav. See programme below.
—To-morrow, 3d Sunday in Lent, Mass No. 12 (p. 67), Credo No. 2 (p. 97) will be sung. Vespers, of a Confessor, Bishop.
—The Campus is enlivened, these beautiful mornings, by those believers in the motto,—“ The wise for health on daily walks depend;”
. — Black Coal, Chief of Awahpahoe Indians, Fort Washakie Reservation, Wyoming Ter., has presented his sword to the Museum of the University.
—The first baseball game of the season of ’84 was played last Thursday, between the “ Blues ” and “ Reds” of the Juniors, and resulted in a victory for the former. ...
—-The Ave Maria office has secured a new big safe. The process of elevating the monster to its quarters was watched with all due propriety and decorum by vast throngs.
—The best skating of the season was enjoyed on Wednesday. The great thaw of Tuesday, followed by the freeze of Wednesday, made the ice on the lakes like crystal. But, alas! it lasted but fora day.
—To-morrow week is Icetare Sunday—the middle of Lent. The Lastarc medal will this vear be presented to one distinguished in Christian architecture. We shall present the address in a future number.	.
42S	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Crescent Club Entertainment St. Patrick’s Dav, promises to be one of the pleasantest of the year. Tickets can be secured by applying to the committee of arrangements.
—The Senior students are under obligations to. A. B. Miller, of the Tribune, C. N. Fassett, of the Register, and J. B. Stoll, of the Times, South Bend, for the valuable papers sent to the readingroom each week.
I had arrived. The figures are life-size and natural, j and well-portrayed amid the greyish- twilight of ! the hour—3 a. m. We hope to present a critique. ' next week.
—The Philopatrians, after mature deliberation, have decided not to burn Bertrand this year, as no members can be found who are suitably adapted to the characters of the “ Duke of Goshen ” and the “ Barber of Mishawaka.”
—The Orpheonics will give a musical soiree next Wednesday evening. We regret that we cannot present the programme in this number; but we can assure all lovers of music, who may attend, of a most enjoyable time.
—-Small Junior to medical student at Greek play:—“ What did he say ? ” Med. S.:—“ Why, he said 'the oemeba and oesophagus are spheroidal and hepta.’” The remainder was lost in the applause which followed the finale.
—Mr. and Mrs. Antonio E. Cartier, of Ludington, Mich., have the thanks of the Curator of the Museum for specimens of Florida moss, shells from St. Augustine, concrete 300 years old from Fort Marion, and relics of the great fire at Ludington.
o
—Another old landmark gone! What was once the sacristy of the old church, and more recently the Chemical Laboratory, has been demolished. Old Science Hall itself will soon follow to make way for the western wing, work upon which will begin before many days have passed.
—The Philosophs celebiated the transferred festival of St. Thomas. Many ventured upon a sleigh-ride in the morning,—but a proper regard for historical accuracy compels us to state that they came not back as they went forth; in other words, there was no sleighing worth mentioning when the time came to return home.
—“Jimmy,” the famous canary of the Pres-bvterv. took advantage of an opened cage and the fine weather, on last Tuesday, to see the surrounding country. A few hours in the outer world satisfied him that “there is no place like home”; and, after executing some delightful manceuvics, 7	o	0.2
condescended to re-enter his cage.
—We have received from the old Travellers Insurance Company, of Hartford, a copy of the official engraving of the Bartholdi Statue to be placed in New York harbor. It is the only correct picture of that noble gift, and faithfully represents to the eye the enormous statue, completed and in the midst of its magnificent surroundings. --
—Signor Gregori has completed the new mural painting in the Columbus’ series. The subject is “The Departure from the Port of Palos,” and represents the great discoverer receiving the blessing of a Franciscan monk at early morn, just as the long-expected, propitious moment for departure
—The Crescent Club Orchestra gave a concert i at St. Joseph’s xA.cademy, South Bend, Thursday ' I afternoon. After the concert, the members of the
Club were royally entertained by the Directors of the establishment. An impromptu entertainment was gotten up in honor of the visitors bv the young ladies of the Academy, and consisted of music, instrumental and vocal, declamations and recitations.	j
The entertainment was very pleasing and interesting, and reflected great credit upon the young ladies.
—The eighth regular meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held on Sunday evening, March 9th, Rev. T. E. Walsh presiding. A	-
short instruction was given by Rev. Father Fitte.
Mr. T. Fenlon read a paper on “The Devotion to the Sacred Heart”; Air. H. G. Smith’s paper on “The Rise of Catholicity in the United States in the Present, Century ” was deferred till the next meeting. Mr. T. J. McKinnery was appointed to read a paper on “ Lent, from an Historical Point of View.” There being no other business to transact, the meeting adjourned.
—A very interesting Moot Court case was tried before Judge Hoynes, Saturday evening, Alarch the Sth. It was an action in Assumpsit; one G. Blue being the plaintiff, and White and Son the defendant. Witness for-the plaintiff. J. Geiser; witnesses for the defendant, F. Madden and H. Steis. At-	|
torneys for the plaintiff, J. J. Conway and V.	I
Burke; for the defendant, J. Wilson and H. Fitzger-	.
aid. The case was well argued, and the jury—con-	j
sisting of Messrs. Alahoney, Farrell, and Daily,— after a few moments’ retirement, brought in a verdict for the defendant.
—The Senior branch of the T. A. U. held an enthusiastic meeting in the reading-rooms on Thursday evening. An able paper was read by Mr.	|
J.Farrell “On the Best Means of Stemming the	I
Tide of Intemperance”; Mr. J. T. Carroll and J.	!
A. Ancheta delivered addresses containing excel-	?
lent suggestions couched in eloquent language.	.
Air. J. Rudge delivered a fine declamation. The Corresponding Secretary read the official Bulletin of the State T. A. LL Arrangements are being made for a “ Grand Rally ” after Easter, under the management of Alessi's. Solon, McKinnery and Rudge.
—The St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Association was reorganized on March 9th, the following officers being elected: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. W. Hoynes, President; E. A. Otis, Vice-President; T. J. A'IcKinnery, Recording Secretary; W. H. Johnston, Corresponding Secretary; H. Steis, Treasurer; J. J. Conway, 1st Censor; AZL Dolan, 2d Censor. A committee on constitution was appointed, consisting of W. H. Johnston, J. Solon, E. A. Otis, T. J. Mahoney. The question for debate next meeting is, “ Resolved that Universal Suffrage is a Benefit to the Country.” Affirmative, E. A. Otis, and J. Farrell; Negative,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	429
T. J.e Mahoney, and W. H. Johnston. After a few remarks by the President, the meeting adjourned.
—The Entertainment this evening- in honor of St. Patrick’s Day, by the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club, is made complimentary to the Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Vice-President of the University. The introductory celebration of this day for the past eleven years has fallen to the Columbians; and right well have they done their duty. To-night, as usual, the exercises will be musical, literary, and dramatic. The following is the
PROGRAMME:
part 1.
Music—“Irish National Airs”.........N.	D. U. C. Band
■Song—“ The Last Rose of Summer,” Solo, Trio and Chorus
T. Cleary, G. Schaefer, J. Murphy, and Orpheonics.
Address................................F.	E. Mathers
Song—“ The Very Latest,”...............W.	E. Ramsay
Oration of the Day.....................F.	T. Callaghan
Song—“ Norine Maurine.” Solo and Quartette, G. Schaefer, T. Cleary. II. Foote, and J. Murphy.
Duo—Violin and Piano........Prof. Paul and W. Schott
Prologue...........•	• ••.............F.	Ei Combe
M usic........’...........................Orchestra
PART 11.
“ RETRIBUTION.”
(Ah Original Drama, in a Prologue and Three Ads, Arranged for the Columbians.)
Squire Hilton (one of the olden time)...W. Rogers
Marmaduke Hilton (his son)................D.	Reach
■Alphonsus (an unscrupulous villain)......L.	Gibert
Dick Harvey (an assistant of Alphonsus).	P. Galarnean Major Lookout (a jolly good fellow,you know,) P. Howard Teddy O’Neil (a chip of the old block)	P. Warren Captain De Balzac (commander of a frigate)... W. Dennis Andy)	f W. Mahon
Tom I
Joe ) ’	.
John Jennison (an old Irish servant)
J F. O’Kane
1 J. McMurrav
J ‘ W. Bowers
....J. Wagner
Sergeant Dundreary (an officer under Lookout) J. Shields Ta RLE A UN.
The Band and Orchestra will discourse appropriate music during the Play.
During the last Act of the Drama (by request), “The Handful of Earth” will be sung by W. E. Ramsay.
If time will permit, the evening’s Entertainment will conclude with the laughable farce entitled
“The Egyptian Mummy.”
Closing Remarks........................................
Retiring March........................N.	D. U. C. Band
Roll of Honor.
'	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Aguilera, Baca, Banigan, Bowers, Barron, Becerra, Bailey, V. Burke, F. Burke, F. Combe,* J. Carroll, Coll, Cass, Cartier, Jos. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Crawford, Callaghan, Creel, Dunn, Delgado, De Groot, De Wolf. Dolan, A. Dennis, Danielson, Delaney, Ewing, Feltz, Fogarty, Farrell, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, P. Frain, J. Frain, Grothaus, Gibson, Gooley, Gonser, Goulding, Gonzalez, Guthrie, Geiser, Gutierrez. Gray. F. Gallagher, Howard, Hafner, Hellebush, Hausberg, Hamlvn, Johnston, Jackson, Kelly, Kolars, Kleiber, Lucas, McCarthy, McErlaine, W. Mahon, McKinnery, Mathers, Marquez, C. Murdock, McIntyre, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, Jno. McCabe, McLaughlin, Mahoney, Neeson, Ott, .O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, O’Kane, O’Connell, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Quinlan, Ryan, Rogers, Reach, Solon, Steis, Slattery, Steele, E. Smith, G. Smith, J. Smith, Sanchez, Tinley, J. Uranga, F. Uranga, Whalen.
- JUNIOR DEPARTMEKT.
Masters Arnold, Anchondo, Aquilera, Borgschulze, Barela. Baur, Breen, Cohen, Courtney, Curtis, Chaves, Clarke, Costigan, Coleman. J. Devine, Dorenberg,.Dexter, Deaderick, Duffin, Eisenhauer, Fehr, Finckh, Fendrich, ’Garrity, Gerlach. Gimbel, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, E. J. Howard, Halligan, Huestis. W. Henry, Houlihan, Hagen, Houck, Holman, Hagerty, Hilliard, Jensch, P. Johnson, J. Kelly, Lane, R. Lewis. Leony, Luther, Mulkem, Monschein, Mullane, Martinez,-Miller, Menig, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, G. Moye, J. McDonnell, C. Metz, Mug, McCabe, Major, McCullough, Norfolk, O’Brien, J. P. O’Donnell. Plischke, C. Porter, Quill, Rogers. Regan, Reynolds, Ryan, Ruppe, L. Scheuerman, Schott, Saunders, Shields, D. Tavlor, Terrazas, Uranga, Wabraushek, Weiler, . Wilkes. "	-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, H. Addington, Amoretti, Boose, Bunker, Butterfield. Benner, Brown, Crawford, Crotty, Cole, Costigan, Cummings, M. Coad, Delaplane, Devine, Dungan, Devereux, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Fulwiler, Garrity, Grunsfeld, Henry. Harris, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Johns, Kraus, J. Kelly E. Kelly, La Tourette, Landenwich, Lewis, B. Lindsey, Loya, W. McCourt, M. McCourt. T. McGuire. J. McG'rath, E. McGrath. McGill, McPhee, Murphy, Manzanares, Meehan, Morrison, Morgan, F. Mullen, A. Mullen. A. Nester, Nathan, Nusbaum, M. O’Kane, O'Connor, Otis, W. Prindiville, D. Prindi-ville, R. Papin. V. Papin, Padden, Quiggle, Quill, Studebaker, Stange. Schmitz. Salmon, Spencer, Schoneman, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Servis, Uranga, West, A. Welch, J. Wright. Weston, Muessel, Thomas.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Class Honors.	-
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. H. Smith, Coll, Reach, T. Fenlon, McIntyre, C. Murdock, S. Murdock. Farrell, Otis, V. Burke. Dolan,' Saviers, Bailey, Ancheta, Tinley, Dickerson, Gutherie, Kolars, H. Porter. Mathers, Steis, Johnston, McKinnery, Ewing, Gotdding, Callaghan. Bannigan, Solon. W. H. Mc-McCarthy. Taylor, Fendrich, Mug, S. Smith.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters W. Welch, Stange, Morrison, B. Lindsey, Wright, W. Prindiville, Spencer. Otis, F. Nester, J. Addington. C. Scherrer. L. Scherrer. Noonan. Curtis. Crotty, E. Kellv. B. O’Kane. Ernest, Grunsfeld. Fitzgerald, W. Henrv. Bunker, Dirksmever. McPhee, La Tourette. Shone-man, Padden, C. ’.Inderrieden, Cole, D. Prindiville, Dungan, Uranga, Lova, Lewis.‘Fulwiler, McVeigh, A. Nester, Johns, McGill. E. Scherrer. Benner, O’Connor.
List of Excellence.
.	COLLEGIATE COURSE..
Latin—Messrs. T. Fenlon, Burns, Kolars, Mahoney, Dickerson. Reach, N. Ewing, McIntyre; Rhetoric—Mr. Ancheta; English Literature—Messrs. Mug, C. Murdock, Taylor; Criticism—Mr. Mahoney: Algebra—Messrs. Ancheta, Fendrich: Geometry—Messrs. Ancheta, McDonnell, Hagenbarth, Wagoner; Trigonometry—'Messrs. V. Burke, Coghlin, Jones. Madden, S. Murdock, J. Smith, Fendrich; Surveying—Messrs. Dolan. Mug:Calculus—Messrs. Guthrie, Tinley; Astronomy—Messrs. Dickerson, Geiser:Physi-ology—Messrs. Reach, Callaghan, Strauss, McNamara, J. Smith; Botany—Mr. Ancheta: Zoology—Messrs. Mug, Kolars, Fendrich. F. Burke; Geology-—Messrs. Johnston, Kolars; Physics—Mr. Guthrie; Chemistry—Messrs. C. Kolars, Porter; History—Messrs. Hagenbarth. Dexter, Halligan, Spencer, Saviers, C. Murdock; Composition— Messrs. G. O’Brien, Ott, Hagenbarth, McNamara, Mahon, Mulkern; Moral Philosophy—N. Ewing: Logic—Messrs. McIntyre, Otis.
43°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint jflary's Academy.
One. Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Mary Ducey received 100 in lesson this week.
—The names of M. Chaves, M. Dillon and C. Richmond were accidentally omitted from the list of those who drew for the Cross last week.
—The friends of Miss Jessie Owens, a pupil of ’8q, who died in Chicago, on the 28th ult.. offer their heartfelt condolence to the afflicted parents.
—Miss Virginia Johns received the gold prize. Those of the “ Princesses ” who had an almost equal right were the Misses M. Lindsey, J. English, E. Chapin, M. Reynolds, G. Papin, S. Van Fleet, and B. Murray.
—The Roman mosaic Cross was drawn for by the Misses Bailey, Chaves, Dillon, Eldred, Fehr, Helen, Ella and Sibyl Jackson, Keyes, McEwen, Richmond, Roddin, Sheekey, and Snowhook. It was won by Mar}’ Dillon.
—The Junior French Classes are making excellent progress. The Misses Moshier, Snowhook, Lord, Lucas, Regan, Van Horn, Barry, Brown, Richmond and Duffield drew for the prize, which was won by the last named. Long life and prosperity to the French Classes!
—On Tuesdav evening, the unexpected pleasure of an instruction from Very Rev. Father General . awaited the pupils upon assembling in the chapel for Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. The subject—one most appropriate to the young-—was “ The Beauty as well as the Necessity of Obedience.”	’
—The funeral of Sister Mary St. Rosa, on Thursday afternoon, was mournfully beautiful, and proved ah edifying occasion not soon to be forgotten.. The Children of Mary, with their blue and white banner heavily draped in black, borne by the officers, walked just after the pall-bearers and the bereaved parents of the deceased ; they were followed by the Children of the Holy Angels, with their pink banner also draped in black; the remaining pupils of the Academy preceded the Community in the procession. The magnificent tenor of Rev. Father L’Etourneau rang out thrill-ingly in the mournful chant of the Vcs'persfor the Dead. Floral offerings—the gift of the Juniors—were scattered in profusion. The Prefect of Studies gave an exquisite anchor of tea-roses and calla lilies, which rested upon the remains as a fitting type of a hoped-for reunion beyond the grave. Father Shortis preached the sermon, which was full of consoling reflections.
—On Sunday evening, in the study-hall, at the regular Academic reunion, for the second time since the Christmas holidays, Father General presided. To welcome his presence, Minims, Juniors and Seniors assembled. After, the distribution of weekly rewards, a member of . the court of St. Mary’s Princesses, Alice Schmauss; rendered
“Little Titian’s Palette,” by Alary J. Preston, in a beautiful manner. To represent the Junior department, Hannah Stumer, recited one of her excellent selections. Two In Memoriams—the one published in the last Scholastic, and that in the present issue—were read as a mark of affection to the dear teachers, Sister Mary St. Blanche, and Sister Mary St. Rosa, whose long-expected yet sad departure from this life lias cast a gloom over the young hearts who owe so much to them. The readers were the A'lisses AI linger and Alurphy. Father Shortis in flattering terms of commendation spoke of the literary and elocutionary performances of the evening, praising the sentiments of devotedness and gratitude which found expression in the tributes paid to the dear departed.
—On Tuesday, a “spelling match” embracing all the departments, took up the latter part of the day. At 3 p. m., the Afinims tested their skill in Orthography, and bravely did they sustain the honorable contest. The palm of victory was borne away by Jessie English.
At four o’clock the Preparatory* Classes gathered to try their skill. Their efforts were less satisfactory, taking the classes together, than those of their younger sisters in the Afinim department; but a certain number proved that they had spared no pains to prepare themselves perfectly. Winnie Moshier defeated the classes, amid the cheers of the vanquished.
At five o’clock the Senior Classes took possession of the field, and victory was in the hands of nine, when the Angelus announced the hour of adjournment, after a close engagement of one hour and a half.
In the English langyage, long and persevering practice in oral and written exercises is necessary to make one an accomplished speller. Where there is a doubt, the student should never think she can take too much trouble to assure herself of the true method of spelling any given word, or words. Slovenly spelling is all too common,—in fact, it is often observed that foreigners who have acquired our language from laborious study, and in advanced years, even, not unfrequently prove to be far better spellers than many Americans who pretend to be educated. Be this as it may, no one should excuse herself from making determined efforts to perfect herself in the art of spelling.
—The reading of St. Mary's Chimes, the manuscript paper—which is issued alternately with Rosa Mystica, being composed and arranged by the Second and Third Senior Classes, while Rosa Mystica is the work of the Graduating and First Senior Classes—entertained pupils, teachers and guests at the regular Academic reunion, on Sunday, the 2d inst. The readers were the Misses Munger, Anna Alurphy, and Margaret Reynolds. The paper was pronounced to be the best of the scholastic session. The readers chained the attention of all present from the beginning to ,the end. Two poems are worthy of mention, on account of their smoothness and real poetic beauty. One was in Spanish—“Za Casa de Loretto ”—and was
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
431
read by the young authoress herself, Miss Reynolds. Visitors present, well versed in the Spanish language, expressed their admiration and surprise that one so young should write so well. The other was an eloquent expression of devotedness to-a beloved teacher, and was written by Mary Dil. Ion, a member of the Junior department.
The Third Senior Class has no small amount of literary talent, which is proved by this issue of the Chimes (No. 2, Vol. IN) which is chiefly the work of that Class; No. 1 having been prepared principally by the members of the Second Senior Class. One very spicy article was entitled “ St. Mary’s Chimes.” It opens thus: “The grand chime of Notre Dame is composed of just twenty-four bells. St. Marv's Chimes to-day rings out from the Third -Senior Class, and that is likewise composed of just twenty-four bcllesT Then each belle is delineated in alphabetical order, the remarkable characteristics of each being presented in a manner to delight everybody, and to offend no one. The wit and humor which pervades the article would almost tempt us to give it in print, but the interest is so completely of a local nature that we forbear.
In Memorjam.*
A tribute of love, dedicated to Mr. and Mrs. David Condon, Laporte, Ind., the esteemed parents of Sister Mary St. Rosa (Julia Condon), to her afflicted brothers and sisters, and to the wide circle of devoted friends who deplore her loss, by
The Pupils of St. Mary’s.
Youthful forms now bend above her, Maidens fair, who knew, to love her, Gaze upon her calm -repose! •
Weep they for the dear departed,
Weep in anguish, broken hearted, Clustering round our Sister Rose.
4
She had known them long; had guided;
O’er their mirthful ranks presided,
Watched them with unfaltering zeal:
Won their straying feet to duty
Bv the rare resistless beauty
Of a heart with power to feel *
By what occult strong attraction.
By what talismanic action
Did young hearts .obey her skill?
Ah! the power that held and bound them,
The celestial force around them,
Vanquishing the wayward will,
Was a grace sublimely tender, One that God alone can render—
Grace which made Him “meek of Heart?
Kinclness wins the young:” no favor Bears to souls so sweet a savor,
And no skill shows such an art.
* Sister Mary St. Rosa was the Prefect of the Juniors, and during her protracted illness her devotedness found vent in expressions like this: “ Oh, be kind to the children! there is nothing like kindness! ”	•
Father, mother, bend above her— More than they ah! who could love her?— Yet God claimed their treasured one.
She by them was consecrated,	.
And their faith has not abated,
How His holy will be done!
Sister Rosa, tears are flowing, But devotion’s fires are glowing!
Hearts now look beyond the tomb To the Home of Love undying— Where there are no tears, no sighing.
But where, flowers immortal bloom!
Roll of Honor. •
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY. CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Adderly, Ashton, Beal, Black, Billings, Bruhn, Burgher, Call, Campbell, Carney, Cirkel. Crawford, Cummings, Dowling, J. Duffield, Dunn, Fen-drich, Fitzpatrick, F. Fisk, Fogerty, Gavan, Ginz, Gove, A. Gordon, Alice Gordon, Hack, Hale, Heckard, Helpling, B. Johnson, Kearney, Kearns, Keating, Kearsey, Keenan, Kenny, King, Legnard, Lintner, McCarthy, M. Murphy. Mooney. Mennan. Neu, O’Connell, Peak, Platte, Quill, j' Reilly, Ramsey, Reynolds, Rosing, Ryan, Scully, Sear, Sheridan, Sheekey, S. St. Ciair, Stacker], Taylor, Thomas, Todd, Tynan, Udall, L. Williams. 2d Tablet—Misses Q Babcock, L. English, Leahigh, McHale.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
rst Tablet—Misses Allen, Chaves, Cox, Dillon, Eldred, Fehr, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S.Jackson, Richmond, Shephard, E. Sheekey, B. Snowhook, Voradenburg. 2d Tablet —Misses Best, Bailey, Durlacher, Keyes, Lord, Morrison. Moshicr. Metz, Otis, Roddin, Wolvin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
1st Tablet—Misses E. Chapin, English, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, B. Murray, M. Paul, G. Papin, M. Reynolds, A. Schmauss, S. Van Fleet. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Ducev, L. Johns.	'
Glass Honors.	■
[The following are the names of the young ladies best in classes—according to the competitions held during the month.]
Astronomy—Misses Call, Duffield, Gove, Ginz, Dunn, Todd, Papin, Ramsey, Cummings, Sheekev; Rhetoric— Misses Danforth, Heckard, Munger, M. Ducev, Carney, L. St. Clair, S. St. Clair, L. English, Black, Rosing, Williams, Keating, M. Dillon, E. Horn, Kearney, Kearsev, M. Adderly, C. Sheridan, E. Sheekey, Ella O’Connell;' Literature—Misses Jennie Duffield, Belle Gove, S. Dunn, N. Kennan, Call, Papin. Ginz, .Ashton, Rosing, Ramsey, Sheekey : Arithmetic—Misses Heckard, M. Ducev, Carney, Danforth, S. St. Clair, Williams, L. English, Campbell, Black, C. Sheridan, A. Murphy, Kearney; History— Misses Call, Keenan, Papin, Dunn, Gove, Cummings, Ginz, Ramsey; .Ancient History—Misses Legnard, Horn, Kearsey, Sheridan, Gavan, Wolvin, E. Sheekev, Keves, A. Duffield, Reynolds, A. Murphy. Kearney, A. Babcock, B. English. Orthography—Senior Classes: Misses Johnson, Papin. Campbell, Keenan. Dunn. Cummings, Tynan, Kearney, Hale. Orthography—Preparatory Classes: Misses Moshier, Cox. Campeau, Stumer, Van (lorn, Regan, M. Chaves, Best, M. Fisk, Addie Gordon. /Mice Gordon, H. Jackson, Richmond. Junior Classes—Misses J. English, L. Johns; Arithmetic—Misses Jessie English, McEwen, M. Ducey, M. Murphy. Schmauss, Eldred, Murray, L.
' Johns.
432
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKEiWORF,
The Minim Department.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS ON HAND.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BEND. IND.
This is a separate Department in the institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P.O., Ind.
EUGENE E. ARNOLD (Class of '78).
W. H. LANDVOKH’.
ARNOLD & LAND VOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law.
470 Lou isiana Avenue, N. W., WASHINGTON, D. C.
L 8. & I. 8. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 18, 1883. trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.; Cleveland. 1.57 p.m.;
* Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.
10-54 a-m-, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo. 5.07 p.m.: Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
S.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo. 3.31 a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 1000 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 5.41 a.m.
4.2S a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m. Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m. Chicago, 10.11 a.m.
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.: Chicago, 4.31 p.m.
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte.
4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt.. South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt, Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. Pl WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
[OHN NEWELL. Gen’l Mger, Cleveland.
® MAH
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THtS COUN-
TRY WILL SEE SY EXAMINING THIS MAP THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND&PACIFICRT Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison. Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Declining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri Hiver Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A N iw and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between BieHmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, NashviUe, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada. •
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE,	E. ST. JOHN,
Vice Pres. & Gen’l M’g’r,	Gen’l Tkt. & Pass. Agt.
CHICAGO.