Real flavor-that's WINSTON I

WINSTON
GOOD !
TASTES
LIKE A
SHOULD 2
K 1 Ji G v
1
3 3-'-
R. J. Reynolds Tub. Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C.
eASY-DM^'^
Join the switch to WINSTON and
enjoy filter smoking!
■ If you haven’t tried Winstons yet, you have a most pleasant surprise in store. This filter cigarette tastes good—like a cigarette should! No wonder Winston is already America’s first choice among all filter cigarettes.
Winston brings you full, rich, tobacco flavor. What’s more, the exclusive Winston filter works so well the flavor really gets through to you. Try Winston!

Smoke WINSTON the filter cigarette America enjoys most of all!
* WOULD YOU THINK OF GOING HOME BY FREIGHT?
IT might be fun at that—if the railroads would allow it.
Because now the railroads are making the same big improvement in freight trains that made crack streamliners practical. They’re equipping freight cars, like passenger cars, with Timken® tapered roller bearings.
Timken bearings permit sustained high speeds, make on-time schedules possible. One reason: they end the hot box problem—No. 1 cause of freight train delay.
"Roller Freight”—freight cars mounted on roller bearings—is the next big step in railroading. It’s a step the Timken Company is pioneering to speed the nation’s freight and save railroads an estimated §190 million yearly in operating costs. And a step that’s already under way as more and more railroads are making the big switch to "Roller Freight”.
"Roller Freight” is the latest example of how the Timken Company works hand-in-hand with all industry to keep America on the go—by pioneering improve
ments in machines and machinery to increase speed and precision, decrease wear and maintenance. We’re the world’s largest manufacturer of tapered roller bearings and removable rock bits and a leading producer of fine alloy steel.
Because the best place to keep going—up—is with a company that’s on the^o, you may be interested in what lies ahead for college graduates at the Timken Company.
For details, write for our booklet "This Is Timken”. The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6, Ohio.
TIMKEN
TRADE-MARK REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.
TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS

Timken bearings keep America on the GO... and
you keep going up when you go with the Timken Company
April 20, 1956
3
BUY NOW...PAY THIS SUMMER WITH YOUR
JUNIOR EXECUTIVE CHARGE ACCOUNT
The Campus Shop Junior Executive Charge Account was created by Gilbert’s to give young professional men,, college men and junior executives a method of accumulating a fine wardrobe on a budget . . . without the penalty of extra charges. So, come in and say “Charge it, on my Junior Executive Charge Account” ____and there will be nothing to pay ’til summer, -then, you pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August.
di
The Scholastic^
NO ONE IS HARD TO FIT AT THE CAMPUS SHOP
Are you taller or shorter than the average man? . . . stouter or thinner? The Campus Shop can fit you perfectly. We not only offer you the choicest Brand-Name clothing and furnishings, but we have your size in a selection of colors, models and patterns. Come to the Campus Shop where the combination of a large selection and expert tailors means that no one is hard to fit, here.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
April 20, 1956
4
GENERAL MOTORS
INTERVIEWING
for SUMMER JOBS with GENERAL MOTORS
April 24, 25 and 26
Our College Representative will visit your campus shortly to interview applicants for summer positions with the many decentralized divisions of General Motors.
Vacation-time jobs with GM and its divisions — besides providing a source of extra funds—serve as
extremely valuable experience. Frequently they lead to rewarding permanent positions with GM.
We cordially invite you to arrange an interview with the GM College Representative through your Placement Office on one of the above listed dates.
GM Summer Positions Available in:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING • CHEMICAL ENGINEERING AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY • PHYSICS
MATHEMATICS
GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION
Salaried Personnel Placement, Personnel Staff, Detroit 2, Michigan
6
The Scholastic
It


it happens
by William M. Malloy
every spring
Soon after the feast of fools we put away winter into a closet along with gigantic galoshes, growing fur, old men | belonging to paper mache overcoats and SJheir overcoats; we stick in there strange ^l^ttic-things bounded in frames, pieces of Ionce-upon-a-time children, boxes of dominoes and winter games that now seem like chores, several yards of stained carpet and bushels of snowtread footprints. We bind them in bundles tied with cellar clothes-line snug against sea-Isonless cans and chests of civil war, old-world, or other-world for all we know, that are scrupulously marked, but nevertheless definitely unread.
To make room for these we take out. slightly rusty golf clubs, musty work clothes, a warped but usable tennis racket (as if we’d ever use it), four or five screens that never quite get put up, and after looking with regret upon a once-noble bicycle with un-pneumatic tires and broken sprocket we close the door to officially open the season of Spring.
Meanwhile Spring, not wholly trusting man’s punctuality, makes warning phenomena. She gathers her dominion of ^ear-breaking tree buds, the surprising mnse of shoots by garden, the rediscovered grass; she wheels her craft in the quickened pace of students to dinner or St. Mary’s, on Easter-stained faces, in father-filled wallets, and in songs bearing the odor of alleluia that tide across our chapel-studded campus.
This knowing activity of green-from-within-all pushes and oozes, or hails and rains from the weather without, covering and causing a dangerous and magnificently green rust; and after infecting ^ren the cracks of walls, rolls itself into less watching cupboards of the campus to spontaneously generate summer bites and itches. Meanwhile, the lines and
classes grow longer, and both are covered with twitching. Meanwhile the study halls are empty, or if occupied at all by some failure or parent-threatened pupil, some mast-tied Ulysses, the walls grow oven-hot and bake his brain to crack. For upstairs and outside even the clowning and jolly dogs are disturbed with an unfair and inexplicable itch which makes them wag and bark like mid-winter jazz musicians.
Now is the time of lake and Indian foot, of bow and arrow loves and miniatures and more miniatures and another miniature for another. Now is the witness of the infidelity among the tribes of uncombed trees, scandalous to the regular birds. Now will our librarian go mad, sick with books; and bookkeepers, tabulators and bookkeepers’ keepers scratch a seven and despair, scratch a three and despair again.
Rockne Memorial will be artificial, second best.
The big-mouthed Huddle jukebox will jump and babble and sweat sweet streaks of coffee and doughnut tissue, or be stared through by Mary-minded freshmen, or money-minded seniors, or tired professors, or no one. But Huddle-cups, silver sticky tutti-frutti gear, butter knives and can openers, dark brown cigar-smothered shelves of pipes and crackers, packages of cigarettes and pipe cleaners, chewing gum, both before and after, pocket-lites and pretzel bags huddled together will smirk in weatherless contempt; only they will be saved from Spring.
Cailier Field, for a time untrodden, spared bruises from football feet, now prepares the pits and tracks for bats and Spring-mad feats. Boys, flying the pole, gliding the hurdle, hurling a flying saucer or shot, dressed to pitch the strike
or strike the well-pitted pitch . . . and the running; good lord, the running. Going spikes that bite the cinder so that quickly they may be where they were, and breathing the fire of what is surely from one of Dante’s infernal circles, steadfastly journeying the ring where' only the mind, all godly and laurel, wanders, and too soon filled with painful body, wonders. Coach Wilson, tell-tale clock in his palm, checks and scolds.
And Spring, giving good example to art, tempts the lecture-bound gaze to window, the painter and his gaudy brush to lawn classes in the water color. The Dome especially will not go unpainted. And on one of these temperately sunned afternoons the teacher and the taught will tread like an immigrant family on a Sunday excursion with queer gear tucked knowingly under arm to plant three-legged giraffe-looking creatures in the rectangle. Totally oblivious to catcalling minds passing by (their work comes first) they make camp directly behind the what’s-its-name tree that blows and blooms every spring like a Moses-bush. Then the smears and dabs. And little what’s-its-name trees begin to grow on easels while the huge original bends over- their shoulders to look in incredulous wonder like a father upon his first born. Scholastic covers gradually take shape to torment the very reason for the instructor’s existence; the brave man nods once sympathetically at the victoriously uncaptured original, and then dismisses class.
But now we are to wait for a more mature, a more serious season in which freshmen will celebrate their newly grown bodies like the yet wet-winged moths, and graduates, all shining in seersucker-land, will polish to perfection their school-made virtues and vices.
April 20, 1956
7
Donkeying Around
Editor:
At a moment when the Republican party is extending its efforts to sustain Eisenhower in office even to Democratic primaries, I would like to ask for candid explanations of two things:
1)	When the Scholastic has heretofore never engaged in the discussion of public affairs, what justification was there for the recent article on Richard Nixon? Not only is Nixon typical of the new generation of smooth-talking demagogues for whom any end justifies any means and all realities are shed in the outer chambers of television studios, but there was no explanation indicating that this was the first of a series of articles on Machiavellian politicians or dishonorable careers or why our government seems ignorant of the Great Commandment, the Ten Commandments, the Seven Virtues, and the Eight Beatitudes.
2)	Why did Paul Harvey, a news commentator dear to the heart of Joe McCarthy and his ilk as well as all lovers-of soggy rhetoric, address the mock Democratic convention this week? There is no doubt where Harvey’s sympathies lie and so it was perhaps appropriate that he should have spoken at Notre Dame in the hour of the “Great Crusade” in 1952—before the mock Republican convention. It was bad enough when General Motors’ Henry J. Taylor spoke to a mock Republican convention here in 1948 . . . but three such fiascos at a University which can boast of a publication as politically mature as the Review of Politics is too much. Or is there no desire to bring American politics within the ken of Christian social ideals?
My query about Paul Harvey might well be directed to Dr. Bartholomew who seems to be pulling the strings of these conventions. If his hand was apparent in 1952 when both national conventions appeared to be wide open and the decision was made to hold a second Repub-
(Continued on page 33)
Iamb r e Ila
Big Wheel On Campus
More fun than a barre! of monkeys and "x” times as practical. Takes you anywhere at about 40 m.p.h., gets over 100 miles to the gallon, rides like a dream: torsion bar suspension. Mechanically magnificent, down to the last sub-assembly. Really something to write home about... or for!
to get places on campus get a
Jamb re 11 a
INVENTORY
Entree  ........—-.............   7
Repercussion  ................    8
View ____________________________ 9
Campus Scene .................... 11
Folio ....................       16
Showcase ---------------------—. 19
At a Glance______________________ 22
Irish Scene ______—............  27
Back Page .................      38
Write for illustrated literature. Dealer inquiries invited.
43 W. 61st New York 23, N. Y.
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 97
April 20, 1956
No. 20
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate o.r postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS	€ *
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK . ..News Editor
ED JOYCE ....................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN..........Production Manager DAVE KUBAL ..........Assistant	News I
DAVE THOMPSON ............Assistant	Neu^ 1
JAMES McDONALD ...........Assistant	News
JIM STEINTRAGER .........Assistant	News
JIM O’BRIEN ............  Feature	Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN ................Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON ..........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON Circulation Manager j JIM FITZGERALD. ....Photo Co-ordinator
JOE NORTON ...............Sports	Editor
JOHN GLAVIN .......... Assistant	SporS
RAY LESCHER ............Assistant	Sports
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, Joe Heimoskl, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe M> carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield, David Schwartz, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.
SPORT STAFF: John Barthel, Andrew Carnazoia, 1 Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford, James Merz, Robert ; Parnell, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff. J BUSINESS STAFF: Bob Parker and Loran Sheffer^- {■
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated. Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published .weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
ON THE COVER Artist John Nizick puts the engineers right at home a prevue of the big event of then year, the Open House.
8
The Scholastic

criticism
prestige
Much yammering has been done in this magazine and in others about the “something extra” that Notre aDame students are supposed to have. When someone throws ^this idea out for consideration the students themselves are usually prone to chuckle a bit up their shirtsleeves—a quick look at themselves and their buddies assures them that there can’t be much to this idea, they’re just like about ninety-nine percent of the other college students in the U.S., essentially.
This is actually a rather odd attitude—college students and young people in general are usually inclined to be world-beaters, and rarely as a group do they play down their potentialities. Most of the ND students are aware that they are looked upon with a sort of awe by high school Ejiris and parents of high school boys who someday hope to attend the University, but this they attribute to the golden haze that surrounds the Dome during the football season.
The fact of the matter is, though, that there is a lot more to this “something extra” than ga-ga or golden haze. The great mistake that the students make in evaluating themselves is to think that what Notre Dame has and what they get from it is commonplace—it isn’t. And there are a great many more people with mature outlooks on college students who hold the Notre Dame student in the highest regard than the student himself would ever believe—these people recognize that what Notre Dame has for its students and gives ^o them is not the ordinary thing.
" Over the Easter holidays I had the chance to travel with the Glee Club through the Eastern states. No more graphic illustration of what I have been talking about could have ever been given to a person than I got on this tour. Everywhere we went—restaurants, receptions, hotels, business offices, beaneries, private homes—people would be overly cordial, really roll out the carpet, and sit and watch us for seemingly hours on end. Curiosity? Yes, but of the kind that wants to find out what makes something tick. And admiration . . . even in the courtyard of the Ivy League . . . this was the most evident of all.
At first you think it’s sort of funny, then you want to •ry to live up to what they think you are—but how do you go about that? What do they think you are? You’re sort of confused and so you end up by being yourself. Apparently, this is what they admire.—J.A.
April 20, 1956
Gripes are necessarily a part of the life of collegians.
Students here at Notre Dame are no exception. We gripe about school work, profs, discipline and regulations, dining hall meals, library service, bookstore policies. South Bend, laundry, social life, physical facilities, etc. etc., ad nauseum.
There’s something wrong with the fellow who doesn’t gripe, at least mildly. He either is totally oblivious of the things to be griped about or, worse, he may be one of those nice old complacent souls who wouldn’t mutter a word of protest if he found a frog in his Friday night soup.
We think gripes are a good thing for a university—so long as they are channeled in the right direction. Granted, you have to ignore a certain percentage of these gripes which are purely destructive in their nature. But others are legitimate ones and they serve to remind everyone that progress cannot be achieved without growing pains. Constructive criticism can be the basis for real advancement.
With these points in mind, the Student Senate recently authorized its Student Welfare committee to “laud and thank the Administration for what it has done and offer constructive criticism as to what could be improved.” The committee intends to accomplish this objective by polling some 200 “student leaders” for their constructive criticisms and then drafting a composite report to be presented to the Administration.
The proposed report can help both the student body and the Administration of the University. The students will have the strength of unity behind their criticism. Such unity is lacking during the year when grievances are brought one by one to the Administration’s doorstep. The report can be a kind of sounding board—something otherwise not available to the student body.
In the Administration’s favor will be the fact that their mere acceptance of such a report, even though no action be taken, adds at least temporarily to the goodwill needed in Administration-student government relations. The Administration will have the summer months to ponder the recommendations put forth in the report and decide whether action is appropriate on any of the suggestions submitted.
We hope the report will be taken seriously by both the Senate committee and the Administration. . If either group fails in this respect, the whole thing will have to be chalked off as just so much hogwash masking as “student government” at Notre Dame.—P.L.	-
9
“Gay” Moss wants to know:

At what location would I work for DuPont?
a
Gaylord E. Moss expects to receive his B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Tufts College in 1957. His interest in electronics was aroused, in part at least, by summer work in Du Pont’s Photo Products Plant at Parlin, N. J. But Gaylord’s interest in technical work goes much farther back. He received the Bausch and Lomb Science Award at his high-school graduation.
Clayton Hill answers:

Where would you want to work, Gay? The choice isn’t quite so wide as that reply indicates, but if you have good reason for preferring a given area, and Du Pont has an opening there for which you’re qualified, your choice will certainly be considered. We have 69 plants and over 70 research and development laboratories scattered through 26 states. So the odds are pretty fair that you can work in an area you like.
Most of the Du Pont units are situated east of the Mississippi, but some of them are as far west as the Pacific Coast. Right now, new plants are under construction in Michigan and California, providing even wider choice in those two states.
Of course, a man may be transferred after a time. The chemical industry is a growth industry, and transfers are generally associated with progress and promotions.
So you see, Gay, the geography of the United States is pretty much an open book for Du Pont professional men, adding a lot to their interest and enjoyment on the job.
Clayton B. Hill, Jr., joined Du Pont’s Jackson Laboratory at Deepwater, N. J., in 1940 and left for the Air Corps in 1942. After military service he obtained a B.S.Ch.E. from Pennsylvania State University (1949), and returned to Jackson Laboratory. Clayton was assigned to Du Pont’s Atomic Energy Division for a period before transferring to the Personnel Division. As a representative of this Division, he currently visits many colleges and universities.
WANT TO KNOW MORE about where you’d work with Du Pont? Send for a free copy of “The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” This booklet contains a complete listing of plant and laboratory locations, by state, and describes work available. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
OBJ
RE6. U.S. PAT. off-
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Enjoy "Du Pont Cavalcade Theater” on Television
10
The Scholastic |
Scene
•ENGINEERING HOUSE OPENS FOR WEEKEND INSPECTION
Engineers to Reveal 'Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow'
♦ By Annual Chariot Race, Air Exhibit, Auto Show
The 1956 Engineering Open House will officially begin this afternoon at 4 o’clock with an address by Arthur Loughren. An auto show, chariot race, air show, and exhibits on all phases of engineering will round out the Open (House program.
The Open House will continue tomorrow and Sunday with a crowd of more than 20,000 persons expected to attend.
Presented by the students in the College of Engineering, the show aims at telling what the engineer is and what
PANORAMIC THEME . . .
Yesterday, today . . .
he does. The theme of this year’s Open House is “The Engineer—Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow.”
Bill Brehl, chairman of the Open House Committee, commented, “Without a doubt this year the students have prepared the most interesting engineering show ever to be held at Notre Dame.”
First on the schedule of events is the welcome by Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of the College of Engineering. Following this, Mr. Loughren, president of the Institute of Radio Engineers and vice president of Hazeltine Electronics Corp., will present his address “Engineering and Times of Man.” The Tech Review “Engineer of the Year” awards will then be presented by Mr. Raymond Schubmehl, assistant dean of engineering.
Tonight from 6 to 9 o’clock, Saturday and Sunday from 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., the auto show will present 12 sports, experimental, antique, and foreign cars in the Navy Drill Hall. To bring out the theme of the Open House, an antique Chrysler represents the past, a stock model the present, and the Chrysler Flight Sweep I and Flight Sweep II portray the cars of the future. Also on display are the Pontiac StratoChief and the Ford FX-Atmos.
In the sports car class will be the Ford Thunderbird, the Chevrolet Corvette, and the Studebaker Golden Hawk. Completing this group are the MG model A, a special Crosley sports model, and the Jaguar XK-120. A model of the Studebaker test track and the Chevrolet Futurama display will also be shown along with exhibits of chassis, engines, and other automotive equipment.
Saturday afternoon at 2:45 p.m. the field behind the Aero Building will assume the aspects of a small airport as 20 assorted planes put on the 1956 Open
. . . HIGHLIGHTS OPEN HOUSE . . . and tomorrow.
House air show. Chairman Pat Sweeney announces that planes of the Civil Air Patrol and Army Aviation will demonstrate landings and takeoffs. A helicopter, an L-19, a Cessna 170, and a Piper Cub will be exhibited.
At 2 p.m. Saturday, Cartier Field will become the scene of a grudge contest as teams of the seven engineering departments vie for* honors in the annual chariot race. The winner’s trophy, currently held by the architects, will be awarded to the winning team. At the end of the race, Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president of Student Affairs, will award the trophy for the best departmental display and a plaque for the best individual exhibit.
In front of the Engineering Building there will be a large general display, constructed by Orlando Maione. This exhibit will portray the role of each branch of engineering in one structure. Also a special guided missiles display has been set up through the combined efforts of all departments.
Members of the Open House committee include John Dyon, auto show; Jack Scriba, business manager; Ed Lynch, chariot race; and Dick Jacob, displays and tours. Others are Don Carlin, programs; Al Karnath and Henry O’Bryan, publicity; and Tom Schriher, secretary.
11
Logan Outlines Program for 1956-57 Term; Emphasizes Practical Benefits for Students
Pat Logan, recently elected president of the Student Senate for the 1956-57 school term, has outlined a program for the coming year which stresses “practicality.”
Commenting on the election and his plans Logan said: “I want to thank all of the students for their personal interest in the election, and commend the other candidates for the high, level on which they waged their campaigns. I intend to show my gratitude to the student body for the confidence they have placed in me. Realizing a very grave responsibility to the student body, I will do my best to represent and serve them well.
“In general, I plan to unite the Student Senate in striving for more practical benefits for the students. This represents a change towards a more positive attitude of stressing things of benefit to the students, rather than just theoretical ideas. An instance of this is reduction to a bare minimum of time spent debating parliamentary procedure and constitutional points.
“As for the remainder of this year, the big project will be Spring Festival week to be held in early May. It will be a culmination of student activities in the spiritual, academic, and social fields. This will touch upon every phase of student life. There will also be name performers to provide entertainment designed especially for the stag fellows on campus.
“This year the Student Senate will run the summer storage service, and it will be handled by the students through a Senate representative. These stricter
PAT LOGAN . . . toward practicality . . .
requirements will help insure the students of getting all of their property back in good condition. Also, a Senate committee will work on special student rates for theaters, tux rentals, and bus service in the South Bend area. This committee should do much good by negotiating in a business-like manner with South Bend merchants.
“Other activities for next year include class, hall, off-campus, and college funds provided by the Senate tax, to promote more action from these groups. There will be an attempt on the part of the Physical Facilities committee to improve Dining Hall eating conditions by installing a new P.A. system in order to have music played during dinner, and suggestions will be presented for a more appetizing, varied menu.
“Through such things as movies, legitimate productions, and top name entertainers, the Senate will provide more entertainment for stag fellows. Social activities will be planned on a hall, club, or class level, in order to have smaller groups and a more informal basis.
“With regard to my commissioners, all of them will be picked by personal interview. I’d be very happy to talk with any man who is seriously interested. I am trying to consider those men most capable for the job and who are willing to work hard.”
Foundation Drive Receives Support of 98.4% of Students
The results of the Notre Dame Foundation Drive for ’56 show that, “The guy that gave a nickel has 98.4 per cent of the student body right along with him,” said Vick Clesi, chairman of the drive.
“The goal of the student drive was to inform the Notre Dame man of the work that the Foundation is promulgating. In view of the final tally, that aim was achieved,” continued Clesi.
Of the 1,364 freshmen, 100 per cent backed the drive with their nickels. Sophomores fell in with 99 per cent, Juniors with 95 per cent, and the Seniors came across with 98.6 per cent participation of their class.
It was not intended according to Clesi, that the drive here on campus should make any profit other than inform the student and pay for the expenses incurred. Yet the drive netted $100.69 profit which the committee plans to return to the students by a donation of the money to the Student Center.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the University of Notre Dame Foundation, has reached $17,000 in the outside drive from alumni and friends.
MISS PAT ROWLEY
Reigns at “Knights’ Nite.”
Local Knights Revive Spring Dance Tonight
“Knights’ Nite,” annual dance of the local Knights of Columbus, will be held tonight from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the^ K. of C. Hall on N. Michigan Ave. Council members and their dates will dance to the music of Tony Rulli and his band.
Miss Pat Rowley, a sophomore preLaw student at Loyola University in Chicago, will reign as queen over the Knights and their- dates. Favors will be blue-flowered corsages.
From 80 to 100 couples are expected at the dance, which five years ago was on<^' of the more popular events of the social season. It was discontinued due to the numerous class and college dances oc-curing at this time of the year.
According to Dance Chairman, John Woulfe, it is not being revived principally to regain its former status, but rather as a social event for the K. of C. here on campus. The dance was planned this year on the basis of an interest poll taken last December by the K. of C. council to see whether’ the members wertf" in favor of continuing the annual dance. ‘
Chaperones at the dance will be Council Trustee Eli Shaheen, South Bend Grand Knight John Hritzu, and Mishawaka Grand Knight Frank Mattasits.
Committee for the dance in addition to Woulfe are: Roger Bennett, tickets; Ron Francis, publicity; and Bob Loeffler, refreshments. The usual 2 a.m. residence and car permissions will be granted.
The K. of C. will hold their last sociaJT event of the year on Ascension Thursday, May 10, when they sponsor their annual picnic.
12
The Scholastic
Frosh Use Boats, Knives, Brooms, Golfballs, To 'Bag' Elusive Raccoon in Two-Hour Chase
i Social Commissioner Pat Logan needn’t worry about trying to provide more stag entertainment on campus if the antics of a group of wild-eyed fresh-^men April 12 are any indication. Approximately 350 students were ably entertained for about an hour arid a half by the efforts of the frosh in capturing । a frightened raccoon, perched at the top ' of a tree in front of Cavanaugh Hall.
I It all started around 4:15 p.m., just i before the passing of classes, when Cavanaugh residents Bob Marso, John Boyce, and Brud Prock spotted students eyeing a raccoon minding his own busi-Vness up in the treetop. Boyce, who had never hunted raccoons before, rose to the call.
Equipped with a laundry bag, leather gloves, and some golfballs, the trio, joined by Duncan LaVigne and Rusty Byrne, who also brought along a big red blanket, went out to catch the coon.
The Art of Coon-hunting
While the rest held out Byrne’s blanket beneath the tree, Boyce and Leighton
Young of Breen-Phillips climbed up the tree after the raccoon. When the golf balls failed in their purpose of knocking the raccoon out of the tree, Boyce and Young began shaking the tree limb back and forth, attempting to roll it out onto the open blanket below.
By this time, a large crowd had assembled and the windows of Cavanaugh and the other freshmen halls were lined (i^vith students laughing and yelling at rhe hard-working pair shaking the limb.
When the shaking failed, a knife was passed up to the adventurers, although it was dropped several times in transit, bringing even more laughs from the growing crowd. After several minutes of feverish hacking, the limb was cut and the raccoon was lowered to another limb. This was cut too, and the coon again descended. The tree shaking process was renewed, along with some pokes -from a severed limb. The raccoon held •on desperately, but one large combina-tion-shake-and-poke sent him down.
The crowd surged in on the raccoon but he quickly scooted over to a nearby tree and, to the enjoyment of all but the hard-working freshmen, scampered up to temporaiy safety.
This stay was rather short, however, as Paul Keyes of Breen-Phillips used a broom to again push the raccoon out and onto the ground. Byrne and his fire-net gang were more successful the ^econd time in coming fairly close to vvhere the raccoon landed.
Another wild scramble ensued with students shouting and laughing, two
photographers being knocked down in the rush, and general confusion reigning until Cavanaughite Mike Rivas picked the coon up and stuffed it in the bag.
With the raccoon captured, Boyce and the rest weren’t quite sure just what to do with the animal. It was finally decided to put it in St. Joe’s Lake. Unfortunately, Keyes, the broom hero of the second tree episode, who was helping to get the raccoon out of the bag and into the water, wasn’t wearing gloves and the maddened animal bit his finger.
This necessitated going back after the tired raccoon, slowly swimming out in the middle of the lake, as it had to be determined whether it was rabid or not for proper treatment of Keyes’ finger. Young led a two-boat expedition out for the second capture. The two boats caught up with the raccoon, Young clubbed it to a dazed condition, and the raccoon was brought in to the biology building for observation.
As of last Sunday night, there were no indications the raccoon was rabid and Keyes is probably saved from undergoing an extensive series of shots.
ND to Offer Courses In Nuclear Fission
A new sequence of courses in nuclear engineering will be offered by Notre Dame’s College of Engineering beginning in September, Dean Karl E. Schoenherr announced this week. The courses are being added to the engineering curriculum, he said, because of “the rapid development that has taken place in the application of nuclear fission to industrial uses.”
Intended primarily for mechanical engineering students, courses totalling eighteen credit hours will be offered in “Chemical Physics,” “Modern Physics,” and “Nuclear Engineering.” Mechanical engineering students and others with the necessary pre-requisites will be eligible to begin the nuclear engineering studies in the second semester of their junior year.
Students enrolling in the nuclear option courses will work under the direction of Dr. Marcel Newman, head of the department of mechanical engineering, Dean Schoenherr said.
Dr. Newman, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1950, was educated at the Polytechnic (Institute of Hanover in Germany, at the Universities of Kentucky and Pittsburgh, and at Columbia University where he received a doctorate in 1950.
Kennedy Gives Views Of Soviet Colonialism
Seventy-five law students and the faculty of the Law School heard Robert F. Kennedy, special counsel to the Senate subcommittee on investigations, speak of Russia’s brutal policy of colonialism in the Soviet Central Asia Republics, at the third annual Notre Dame Law School Honor Banquet April 12.
James E. Murray, editor-in-chief of the Lawyer, the law review at Notre Dame, announced the appointments to next year’s Lawyer staff at the banquet. Robert P. Gorman, of Tiskilwa, Ill., will head the 1957 staff.
Other staff members named are Thomas S. Calder, Worcester, Mass., associate editor; Jack Economou, Poughkeepsie, N. Y., articles editor; Edward S. Mraz, Chicago, Hl., and John C. Rogers, Dallas, Tex., note editors; Ralph R. Blume, Fort Wayne, Ind., and Vernon 0. Teofan, Zion, Ill., case editors; Paul M. Kraus, Toledo, 0., book review editor; and John F. Chmiel, Niles, Mich., managing editor.
Ronald P. Mealey, present director of the Notre Dame Moot Court, announced the new officers who will take over the Moot Court next year. Patrick J. Berrigan, of Lewiston, N. Y., was appointed to the head post of Moot Court director.
Chosen for the Moot Court executive board were David L. Barnes, St. Clairs-ville, O.; Lawrence A. Kane, Cincinnati, O.; Michael V. Maloney, Niagara Falls, N. Y.; and Thomas G. Ryder, Bronx, N. Y.
Co-chairmen of the honor banquet were Richard Benne arid Edward Broderick, senior law students. George Sullivan, another senior, was toastmaster for the evening.
GORMAN, BERRIGAN, CALDER Moot Court, ‘Lawyer’ appointees.
April 20, 1956
15
Stevenson Passes Johnson on Third Ballot As Support Switches From 'Favorite Sons'
Amidst the blare of trumpets and in an atmosphere of “deals and counterdeals,” Adlai E. Stevenson, former governor of Illinois, led the balloting for Presidential nominee at the Mock Convention in the Drill Hall as the Scholastic went to press Wednesday evening.
Pressing Stevenson at the time was Sen. Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas who had won over the support of another strong candidate, Gov. Frank Lausche of Ohio.
The Convention opened Monday night with the keynote address by Edward Robinson of Dearborn, Mich. The highlight of the evening was a speech delivered by Democratic National Chairman Paul Butler.
A hassle arose Monday when the Alas-
Weekend Tourney to Decide Notre Dame Bridge Champs
The annual tournament to determine the bridge champions among Notre Dame students will be held Saturday and Sunday, April 21 and 22, at 1:30 p.m. in the Student Center. The tournament is open to all students of the University and those who intend to take part must enter at the first session on Saturday.
At stake for the contestants is the Gerity Trophy, donated by Mr. and Mrs. James Gerity, Jr. Winners of the two-session tournament will have their names engraved on the large permanent trophy housed in the Student Center. Individual trophies, suitably inscribed, will likewise be awarded to the winners. Other trophies, including clocks and fountain-pen sets on onyx bases, will go to the pairs who finish second and third.
In addition to the trophies, winners will also share in Master Point awards, since the event is sanctioned by the American Contract Bridge League as a club championship. Top Master Point award will be 2.50 for 12% tables or more, with other master points being awarded down to fifth place.
Two players constitute an entry, but an effort -will be made to pair up those unable to find a partner before the game begins. The entry fee is $1 per player for the entire tournament. The contest is limited to Notre Dame students and no others are eligible for trophies or master points.
GOLF DRIVING RANGE
The new golf driving range, located near the Stadium, will open Sunday at 10 a.m.
kan delegation submitted a minority report of the Rules Committee asking that the territories be included alphabetically in the roll call of states instead of being placed at the bottom of the roll. The motion was defeated.
On Tuesday evening, Radio Commentator Paul Harvey delivered an address to the convention in which he proclaimed a “high-kicking donkey has a better chance to escape political strife, than an overfed elephant.”
After Harvey’s talk the nominations for Presidential candidate for the Democratic Party began. Twenty-four hours later when the roll call had been finished some 13 men had been nominated.
LEADER STEVENSON
Watch out, Ike.
Several loud and lengthy demonstrations followed the nominating speeches. The camps of Russell, Stevenson, Lausche, and Johnson each stormed about the Drill Hall adding more confusion to the Drill Hall seating arrangement and to the delegates’ bewildered minds.
An afternoon session held Wednesday-finished up the nominating speeches and the first ballot was taken that evening.
On the first roll call Sen. Johnson led by some 60 votes over Sen. Russell of Georgia. Stevenson polled only 94 votes on this ballot.
On the second go-round both Johnson and Stevenson increased their strength as Sen. Mike Mansfield of Montana made a strong bid.
On the third ballot, however, the Southern delegation switched to Johnson helping to put the Texan’s total over the 500 mark. Stevenson picked up his strength throughout the roll.
Navy ROTC Receive * Orders for Summer
The Naval ROTC units have received orders for summer training cruises which will take the students to ports from Copenhagen to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Over 100 prospective Navy officers will be divided among threes-cruises.	"
Cruise Able, will consist of the Naval Academy and certain ROTC units. Twenty-four juniors and approximately 47 freshmen from ND will participate in this cruise.
The following ports will be visited on this cruise. They will embark at Norfolk, Va., on June 2; arrive at Copenhagen on June 19 and leave there June 26; arrive at Portsmouth, Va..^ July 3 and depart on July 11; arrive at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, July 25, and depart July 28. Cruise Able will return to Norfolk on Aug. 2. Some of these ports will vary with different ships participating in the cruise.
The general itinerary for Cruise Baker, NROTC units, extends from July 8 through August 31, and includes two cruise ports and a training period at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Cruise Charlie, which involves 28w junior contract students, will last from July 15 through Aug. 24, including two cruise ports and a training period at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Those taking aviation-amphibious training will report to Little Creek, Va., on July 11, for amphibious training. From Aug. 1 to 3, those participating will take an airlift to the Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi, Tex., where they— will receive aviation training and indoc^ trination until Aug. 23, at which time they will be detached.
Marine Corps training is scheduled from July 30 through Sept. 8 at the Manne Corps School, Quantico, Va.
SOCIAL ACTIVITIES
Three social activities have been planned for this weekend, according to Social Commissioner Pat Logan.
Tonight the Aesculapians will hold a party in the Rathskeller of the Student Center.
On Saturday night the Student Senate is sponsoring a dance in the Student Center. This dance will follow the theme of the Engineering Open House Weekend. Providing music will be Ed Pistey and the Lettermen. This affair, for couples only, will last from 8:30 to 11:30.
On Sunday afternoon, there wilL be a Pangborn Hall party in the Rathskeller of the Student Center.
14
The Scholastic
^WSND Renovates Master Control System; Transmission Work Set for Fall Completion
Sailing Team Cleared In Student Court Case
In what Station Manager Pat Mc-Cartan described as the final stage in the expansion of its physical facilities, WSND is presently in the midst of a complete renovation of the present master control and transmission systems. Begun around March 1, it will be completed in time for next year’s broadcasting activities.
At considerable expense, WSND is attempting to make its present installation as complete and permanent as possible. It took three years of planning and designing by the station’s engineering staff, headed by Charles Casale, chief engineer, to undergo this expansion and development which will insure flawless transmission within WSND’s radius.
When the campus station moved into its present quarters in the tower of O’Shaughnessy in February of 1954, the
Spring Law Ball Scheduled For April 27 at Country Club
The Notre Dame Law School will hold the annual Spring Law Ball at the South Bend Country Club next Friday from 9:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. Music for the semi-formal dance will be furnished by the Spotlighters.
Co-chairmen of the dance committee are senior law students Dean Jennings and Gene Volk. Miss Mary Claire Cleveland, of Rosary College, River Forest, Ill., the date of Volk, and Miss Betty v Meskimen, of Benton Harbor, Mich., the date of Jennings, will be crowned queens of the Ball by the co-chairmen.
No corsages will be wom at the dance. Favors will be given out, and bids may be purchased by law students for $3.50.
Other members of the dance committee are: Jack Rosshirt, tickets; Pat Foley, publicity; Otto Hilbert, transportation; and Tim O’Hara, blind date bureau.
JUNIOR PROM BIDS
Bids for the Junior Prom, Friday, April 27, will continue on sale in 258 Dillon through next Tuesday. The price of the bids is $8. Hotel rooms and tickets for the Communion Breakfast may still be had. However, the Dinner Dance Saturday evening, April 28, has been sold out. Anyone who wishes to resell his bid must do so through the committee or else 2.-30 permissions for the Prom will not be given.
equipment was temporary, enough to get the station on the air. Lack of funds and time prevented replacing this equipment which, after four years’ use, was due for replacement.
This year, WSND undertook to replace their present set-up with a unique transmission system which few colleges, because of expense, have at the present time. A brand new transmitter, a second tape recorder, new amplifiers, and a monitoring oscilloscope have all been included in the new equipment additions. One and one-half rack cabinets of electronic equipment have been increased to four.
New Wiring
In the control room installation, of which all the work was done by Casale during Easter vacation, over 80 percent of the control room wiring has been replaced to accommodate new facilities.
The radically designed transmission system, which will be finished during the summer, will use 13,000 feet of coaxial cable and a total of forty amplifiers. Casale and his four-man staff did all the designing and engineering and are presently doing all the installation of the transmission system.
Primary benefit for the student listener will be the fact that each individual residence hall will be insured of complete, independent reception from other halls. In the past, certain halls have received interference in the reception of WSND from others. Next fall, this will no longer be the case.
TWO OF THE LEADING CANDIDATES for the nomination at the Mock Convention were Sen. Lyndon B. Johnson (I.) of Texas and Gov. Frank Lausche of Ohio. Supporters of both candidates joined camps late Wednesday night in an attempt to block the nomination of Adlai E. Stevenson.
A verdict of “not guilty” was handed down by the Student Coui-t in favor of the Notre Dame Sailing Team. Suing the Sailing Team was the Student Senate for alleged violation of a summer storage agreement.
Acting for the Student Senate, Dave Collins, concessions commissioner, held that the Sailing Team violated their summer storage contract in that they failed to place identification slips under the door of the student to inform him that his article had arrived.
The defendant was Ray Nelson, commodore of the Sailing Team. Counsel for the defense consisted of Ned Gordon, Joe O’Neill, and Tom McDonald. Prosecuting attorney was Bob Calliazzi and judges were Paul Kearney, chief justice, Joe Mulflur and Conrad Conway.
In April of 1955, the Notre Dame Sailing Team submitted a five page bid to the Senate concessions committee for last year’s summer storage contract. This bid also sei-ved as the contract and covered all phases of the concession. Section “d” of pai-t one stated: “Third stub: tom off and slipped under the door of the student to inform him that his article has arrived.”
The committee rejected this bid because the prices were too high. Another price bid was then offered by the committee to the Sailing Team. This one was accepted by both parties. The second bid was the main issue of the trial.
In the course of the trial the defense brought out the fact that there was actually no binding contract between the two parties.
April 20, 1956
15
tyolia
The Scholastic continues its series on current topics of international interest with this contribution of Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, of the University’s political science department.
Dr. Niemeyer, who is a specialist in political theory, especially communism, came to Notre Dame last year, leaving a position at Yale University.
He is a consultant on the Council of Foreign Relations, a member of the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations, and was formerly planning advisor to both the United Nations and the State Department. He has done extensive lecturing in the East and over the Voice of America.
Dr. Niemeyer took his doctorate at the University of Kiel, Germany.
WHAT ARE WE TALKING about when we discuss co-existence? It seems hard to come by a good definition of co-existence these days. People quarrel over it, but usually don’t stop to make clear what they quarrel about.
May I begin by saying what the term means to me. Co-existence means pretending that the Soviet Union is not engaged in a life and death struggle with the power centers of the free world.
Now one might say that this definition is loaded. I am willing to concede the point. When I say “pretending,” I imply of course that there is such a struggle. Moreover, I imply that the struggle springs not from a mere misunderstanding, a series of unfortunate accidents, or a number of unsolved diplomatic problems, but from the very nature of Soviet society on the one side, and free society on the other. This is what I hope to show, and if established, this thesis would seem to justify the conclusion that a free society cannot without becoming untrue to its own nature pretend that this life and death struggle does not exist.
I do not mean to say that the problem is a conflict between two opposed ideologies. The problem is a struggle between two great powers, between the nations, each of which is armed for purposes of security—and nations find themselves in a struggle with each other mostly for reasons of security—ultimately because they feel threatened.
When is it and why is it that nations feel threatened? For one, there is no threat unless a nation has reason to assume that another nation is hostile to it. So the animus of hostility is the first element in any threat. And the second is capability. A nation hardly feels threatened by,the hostility of another unless that other nation has also the capability to inflict serious harm and to
co-exist in dishonor
«
by GERHART NIEMEYER
destroy. A powerj a mighty nation with hostile designs, is what constitutes a threat.
In this sense the Soviet Union must feel that the United States constitutes a perpetual threat to its security. And the United States that the Soviet Union constitutes a perpetual threat to its security. Why? Because both of these nations are capable of doing each other mortal harm.
As far as power goes, they are in each other’s class. This, by the way, explains
DR. NIEMEYER
why the struggle between the two did not become acute until the Soviet Union, by means of its post-war expansion, became so powerful that only the United States had still enough strength to challenge it. Henceforth, as far as capability is concerned, these two powers are the sole rivals of each other. Each of them need fear only the power of the other.
If we would pretend that these two powers can exist without struggling with each other, and if we cannot deny that they are capable of destroying each other, we must needs dispute that they have to be hostile to each other. Let us see, therefore, if the mutual hostility can be helped.
Most people at this point turn to the Soviet Union and try to discover reasons why the Soviet Union is not as irrenconcilably hostile to us as we imagine, or at least show signs of becoming less hostile as time goes on. I do not pretend to have that kind of knowledge about the Soviet Union.
I propose that instead we turn to something we do know from first-hand experience, and ask ourselves whether we are hostile to Soviet Russia and can help being hostile to it as long as it continues to be what it is.
Let us look for instance upon those proposals and ideas about Soviet-American relations which represent the most peaceful intentions, the utmost in good will, the most optimistic view of Soviet Russia.	.
Yes, these proposals say to the Russians, “We are willing to live in peace with you, and we believe this is possible.” And then, what do the proposals add? “Provided you change your heart” or “provided you liberalize your regime,” “provided you cooperate in the U.N.” “provided you agree to inter-1 national control of atomic energy,” “provided you lift the Iron Curtain.”
Even in our most conciliatory mood we thus approach the Soviet Union with a characteristic assertion of our own values, values which it is quite clear the Soviet government cannot accept without endangering the foundations of its power.
What do people dream about when they advocate, for instance, a non-ag-gression pact with the Soviet Union?) They foresee that the disappearance of the external enemy will bring about internal changes in the Soviet regime, changes that will then lead to a collapse of the dictatorship.
Or again, immediately after the war, having in fact conceded Russia a sphere of influence in Eastern Europe, we insisted on free elections there, thus intervening in what the Soviets considered their own affairs. Later we supported Tito in his hostility to the. Soviet Union, launched Radio Free’ Europe, encouraged the rioting workers in East Germany, delivered food to East
16
The Scholastic
^Germany, proposed a U.N. investigation of forced labor camps. We have held the U.N.—based as it is on essentially Western and free world concepts of right and wrong, law and order, majority rule, and civil rights—to be a standard of behavior the Soviets ought to accept. Our disarmament proposals have implied, in fact, a negation of the Soviet z type of society.
In summary, even when we have nothing but universal peace and harmony in mind, we cannot show or feel respect for the interests of the Soviet regime by giving up our objections to the Soviet police state, Soviet oppression of neighboring peoples, and the Soviet policy of ruthlessly destroying all opposition groups.
I do not mean to criticize our policies Wfor their hostility to the Soviet Union. The truth is that we cannot act otherwise. We belong to a society in which values like free elections, open information, contractual labor, majority rule, civil rights, international law, and toleration of differences are the very basis of our existence. We cannot move outside these values without ceasing to be ourselves. It is our very nature that is hostile to the Soviet regime. And our ^language, our actions, our policies reflect this hostility.
We may mean no harm at all, but every time we seek to realize goals that are patently decent, human, and just, we issue a declaration of war to the Soviet rulers.
This, then, is the struggle neither we nor the Soviet Union can escape. Here we are, a great and numerous nation, with mighty forces, great productive ^power, and many resources, and this nation, based on the proposition that government of the people, by the people, for the people shall not perish from the earth, cannot help talking and behaving in a way that is innately hostile to the interests of a system like that of the Soviet Union.
They know their system must elicit this hostility. They have known it from the beginning. Can they help feeling threatened by our might? Can we help ^j^eeling threatened by what we must ®Know to be the fears and the sinister energy of their fears? Can the wrongdoer help feeling threatened by the avenger? Can he help threatening him and seeking his downfall with every fiber in him? And can we, being faithful to ourselves and to the truth, deny that this is so? And that between these two powerful nations there is a struggle to the end?—the end not of the nations but of their regimes.
If co-existence means pretending that Whis struggle does not exist, then coexistence is not a policy of which this nation in decency and honesty is capable.
Football placers are not the only ones in training these days. Unknown to the rest of the campus, for the past three weeks 21 dedicated students have been carefully preparing themselves for a grudge contest. The contest is the fifth annual engineers chariot race, to be run in Cartier field at 2 p.m. tomorrow.
This week the. preparations reached final fervor with practice runs and a training table diet. Thursday, Friday and Saturday the charioteers and their “horses” are eating with the other athletes upstairs in the dining hall.
The chariot race is the lighter side of the engineering open house. Trophies, awarded to the department which the winning team represents, are the symbol of supremacy in the College of Engineering. Each of the seven engineering departments has entered a team, consisting of driver, two student-horses and a Roman type chariot.
The track distance is about one-half furlong or 100 yards. With dry turf and clear* skies predictions are that the track record of 17 seconds set in 1954 will be broken. Official timepiece is a genuine Roman sundial.
Commenting on the contest, Ed Lynch, chairman of the local chariot racing commission, asserts, “In the past there has been discussion about the ability of the judges. This year we
Charioteers Claude Sarphie (left) and Bob Calabrese (second from right) prepare to stoke up with training table fare for tomorrow afternoon’s annual engineers’ chariot race.
the glory that used to be rome
have ended all controversy by selecting two outstanding chariot judges. What they don’t know about chariot racing hasn’t been written.”
Rev. Lawrence Broestl and Edward K “Moose” Krause will be the judges. John Massman is the master of ceremonies and "will fire the gun that starts the race.
Rules for the Notre Dame version of the ancient Roman sport are quite explicit and must be followed closely. All chariots are to be built by local artisans, and the body of each vehicle must be three-quarters enclosed. Drivers must be dressed in togas, preferably white, and must sweat* allegiance to Julius Caesar before and after the race.
A ten-yard setback is the penalty for false starts. It is not permissible for drivers to whip the horses nor may they drag their feet. Chariots are not to be overturned during the race, and horses must run in a straight line.
The reward of the team which reaches the scotch tape finish line will be a trophy and free cokes. Although the chemical engineers have been warned about .exceeding the 15c per man per day expense limit, the AAU has informed track officials that contestants will not jeopardize their amateur standing by competing in the race. A second trophy will be awarded to the department with the best designed chariot.
17
| April 20, 1956
Street scene.
Beaux Arts
Back already?
1956
Bock to the gay nineties.
Reminiscent of another well-known couple these days, a local twosome captured the Architects’ Ball grand prize ivith a dashing representation of a Mediterranean Prince and his Gracious Lady. The men who labor constantly over the drazuing boards, worked just as well in turning out for this most festive, fun-filled evening. Grace and her charming prince had nothing on the local homebuilders.
Mood architectonic.
Aw, it can’t be THAT bad.
The Scholastic
W | j'SSEN is like many other urban 1L areas, swarming with people on weekdays and usually barren on weekends. For a small and remote village, Essen is bounded by many friendly neighbors who absorb most of the suburban business. The outlying areas include Volcania, Capridocia, Frankiefort, Rocco Island and Rosieland.
There are two sexes in Essen: eggs wand nogs. The eggs (sometimes known as egg-heads) are the intellectuals; the nogs work. You may wonder why it is that such odd names were chosen for the two genders. The eggs got their name from their habit of eating eggs, powdered or hardbqiled, in the early morning and twice on Friday. The nogs derived their name from the eggs.
• The eggs are an interesting specie. They are seen standing behind one another while the nogs and a few industrious eggs serve them. For an egg to eat, a certain set ritual must be followed. An egg must survey the line of fellow eggs waiting to eat and stand in front of the first egg he sees. Those who go to the end of the egg file must wait longer for their food and are known as good eggs.
The egg then approaches a panel of <^six napkin dispensers. He is allowed ^to take as many as he wants but he takes only two. He is then confronted with six boxes from which he must take three implements (sometimes four). Some eggs, if they are alert, put down one or more of their implements and take substitutes.
The egg now approaches a panel of six people, assorted eggs and nogs of various sizes and descriptions. The firsr ^is a friendly gentleman with a pencil "who doodles over six charts. He wants
by JOE ACCARDO
you to make sure that you have your wallet so that you know where it is when you pass by the nogs. If you have one you get a good conduct mark.
Next you are required to take a physical test. Most eggs have at least two hands. With these they must 1) put their wallet into their pocket, 2) grab a tray, and 3) place implements on the tray. All eggs who can pass this test are eligible for food eating.
The egg is then given a plate with a hump of mashed potatoes by the second of six people, assorted nogs and eggs of various sizes and descriptions. No one is allowed a plate without potatoes on it. The egg used to get a dimple in his mashed potatoes, but recently the Titular Turkey of Essen, Dwight D. Crane, and the Student Turkeys (sometimes affectionately called Chicken) including a Young Turk by the name of Jack Feedsack decreed “no dimples.” This is an example of democracy in Essen.
The third of six people, assorted eggs and nogs of various sizes and descriptions, presents the egg with the main

essen: an allegory
course of the day (known affectionately by the four letter word which describes it—meat, fish or eggs). This one usually will give gravy for taste.
The fourth of six people, assorted nogs and eggs of various sizes and descriptions, offers the egg a choice of vegetables, beans or peas, corn-or tomatoes. The fifth of six people, assorted nogs and eggs of various sizes and descriptions, gives salad or hay. The sixth of six people, assorted nogs and eggs of various sizes and descriptions gives dessert. The seventh of six people gives milk, two glasses, one in the morning unless you like empty bowls of cereal. The eighth of six people gives coffee or tea.- The ninth of six people won’t give, doesn’t give a darn. His name is Diggy, or Piggy, or something.
(It has been brought to my attention that you cannot have a ninth of six people. I don’t agree with these attention bringers. They are troublemakers and secularists). (Many people have told me that the food makes them Six). (So there). (These troublemakers don’t realize that reasoning is an argument in which, certain things being laid down, something other than these necessarily comes about through them, either-by proof dialectically, that is, from opinions which are generally accepted, or by demonstration, that is, from the certain thing as proved undeniable since they are performed in nature always, for only by dialectics and demonstration are we able to prove anything, except those things which we take on faith usually from oi- in virtue of a higher nature than ourselves, like God for example, remembering always that at one time we reasoned to a God, Who since He is all-perfect cannot lie, and therefore, believing Him is no hardship).
A few words must be said about the nogs who serve, clean tables and chatter on busses (someone told me they chatter on busses). They come and go. They are used quickly. When they have . served their usefulness they are cooked alive. This is why Essen has ham so' often for present day Essen is full of z cannibals and Essen has no past.
April 20, 1956
19
exhibit
Steve Fok
John Caster
Is photography an art? Most rabid camera fans contend that it is, maintaining- that the essence of photography lies not in the mechanical or chemical processes involved, but rather in the mastery of camera technique, and a discerning eye for the beauty as it might appear on film.
The Notre Dame Camera club here presents a fezv exhibits in the defense of this thesis, selected from the display appearing in the student center recently.


Ai a QlaMce
AVON
Storm Fear (Sunday through next Wednesday) A-2. A good movie by United Artists, billing Cornel Wilde and Jean Wallace, and Dan Duryea. Worth the while but nothing exceptional. (Rest of the week’s billings are not available at this printing.)
COLFAX
Forbidden Planet (all week) A-2. Can you imagine finding Anne Francis living alone, except for her father, on a planet in space? Despite this and all the usual unrealities of these super science-fiction productions, this movie employs, besides Miss Francis, Walter Pidgeon, some fine acting, disciplined effects, and Robby, the kindly robot, in molding a sure box-office attraction. If you pride yourself in being a connoisseur of science fiction flicks, you should find this considerably above recent attempts to exploit your interest in this field.
GRANADA
The Swan (all week). Throw away your newspapers and magazines, fellas. The Grace Kelly Fan Club, once boasting many campus members, has dwindled. Most students have become so satiated with the barrage of Monacan literature forced on us by untiring newsmen that our interest in Grace has turned to disgust and boredom. We must push aside this boredom and again view Grace in the light of what she really is—a fine actress. She turns in another tremendous role in the very recent release, The Swan. The ironical coincidence is that in the film she marries a prince too. Grace’s portrayal of the shy and retiring daughter of some minor king in Europe is one of her better performances on the screen. The popular British star, Alec Guiness, plays the lover and Louis Jourdan is the fencing instructor. Despite unquestionably fine performances from the entire cast, and a somewhat stereotyped story, Grace’s fine execution of her role overshadows everything else and injects life into the story. Be sure to see this movie and the membership in the Kelly Fan Club will undoubtedly soar once again.
PALACE
Backlash (through next Thursday) A-2. Richard Widmark shoots his way through another action-packed western. Though the story has some gaps in parts, the shooting is loud enough and the action is fast enough that these are obscured. Besides, lovely Donna Reed, a typically un-western looking girl, decorates the already beautiful Arizona scenery. In color, yet.
Joe Macbeth, B, is on the same bill. Now here’s a neat piece of filmed beef for you pseudo-intellectuals on campus to chew on. The script is definitely a New York gangster story—and a good one at that. Now here’s the gristle: Willie Shakespeare’s gory tragedy, Macbeth, is kind of rubbed on the film. A soothsayer subs for the original witches, the ghost of Banky (Banquo) appears, the star (Paul Douglas) murders a guy named Duncan, and Ruth Roman commits suicide, a la Lady Macbeth. The Macbeth bit is definitely out of place and doesn’t add to the story, but aside from that, it’s a good movie.
RIVER PARK
Bad Day at Black Rock (Friday and Saturday) A-l. Spencer Tracy got an Academy Award nomination for his performance in this western, but we don’t know why. Maybe it was because he could lick pot-bellied hoodlums with one good hand and managed to keep an interested look on his face through the whole film. You’ll find the latter quite a task if you deem it worth viewing.
To Catch a Thief, starring GracA’ | Kelly and Cary Grant is a rerun telling / a story about a burglar who was a cat. | The cat turns out to be of the feminine i variety. Grace turns in a fine perform- j ance as does Cary. The color, scenery, i and plot are all first class.	(
African Lion (Sunday through Wednesday) A-l. This is another colorful true life adventure filmed by Walt Dis-^. ney, which has been receiving good^^ notices.	j
Lady and the Tramp (Thursday) A-l, is a full length cartoon feature by I Disney on dogs. The workmanship is I wonderful and very much not childish. j It is a wonderful example of how adult . emotions may be evoked with a cartoon feature.
Southwest Passage is another saga of the old West which is billed with the^) -above. Disney’s People and Places, a short series, will also be shown.
STATE
The Littlest Outlaw (Friday and Saturday) A-l. An excellent movie starring Pedro Armendariz and Joseph Calleia. This is a rerun.	!
Last Frontier, A-2, is being shown on ; the same bill. This is another western , starring Victor Mature and that guy^? t that’s always a cowboy, Guy Madison. He’s ridden so many horses he’ll have natural bow legs pretty soon. The reviews dub this one, “very good.” Con- | sider the source!	.
Uranium Boom (Sunday through j Tuesday), Dennis Morgan and William Talman star as two firm buddies with I opposite personalities, who eventually ! fight over a girl (Patricia Medina), and uranium.
The Crooked Web, A-2, is the second top run film on the double bill. A black and white, for a change, starring Frank Lovejoy and Mari Blanchard. This is a good double feature for the money.
Shack Out on 101 (Wednesday and Thursday) B. The plot revolves around a simple-minded short order cook on Highway 101, a minor love story, and the pilfering of secret government information, with a shack being used as headquarters for the operation. Terry Moore i is the only woman in this low-budget 0 i production, but she serves the purpose. A rerun.
WASHINGTON HALL
Svengali (Saturday, 1:10, 3:20, 6:40, 8:30). Out of the dim and distant past comes the engrossing story of Trilby, the beautiful and talented, at the mercy of her evil genius, the hypnotist Sven- I gali. The Du Maurier tale has survived two movie tellings in ’13 and ’33, and . receives its reward in this fine British a production. Hildegarde Neff, not often " | seen on these shores, fills her part to the brim, as the saying goes, and all
22
The Scholastic
^casting in the show reveals typical British concern for this important detail.
SENATE SPONSORED
Taxi, Mister (Sunday, every hour on the half hour from 12:30, sans 5:30). In this corner (Center Amphitheater) Bill Bendix in a familiar role, whatever it may be.
• The Green Pastures, (Engineering Auditorium, Wednesday, April 25; 3:30, 6:45, 9:00). An excellent screen adaptation of the Pulitzer Prize-winning play. It deals with the American Negro and his spiritual beliefs. Ders de Lawd and his heben with all de watermelon you can eat and grat big homes lahk de white foks have. Both comical and uplifting, this movie is a theatrical experience you aren’t likely to forget, ft	—Reviews by Terry Plunkett.
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches
11 — 1 -.30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS*
KEEP ALERT FOR A
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c	_
e
'/vopoz
AWA KE NE RS i
It’s a pleasure to get to know Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Each time you shave you can look forward to something special: the Old Spice scent—brisk, crisp, fresh as all outdoors... the tang of that vigorous astringent—banishes shave-soap film, heals tiny razor nicks. Splash on Old Spice—and start the day refreshed!
Add Spice to Your Life... Old Spice For Men
SHULTON
New York • Toronto
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photos 2y2x3'/2 in.
20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos . from your negative. Minimum order $1.00
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
Sunny Italy Cafe A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Mies Avenue
April 20, 1956
21
When the guys see my crazy hat, or when they hear my accent, they ask me:
“Where are you from?”
“Belgium.”
“Well, uh . . .”
Or:	.
“What state is it in?”
Or, for the more geography-minded of the troops:
“Do you have jazz and television over
Highlighting Belgium	*
the key to europe
by ARN VAN PETEGHEM
ft
there?”
I am always happy to answer questions like this, but I think Belgium holds the key to a few other questions, and more vital ones, at that.
I may be biased, but Belgium is a pretty influential place. It was the first world-wide commercial and cultural center under the Counts of Flanders. Today it neighbors on most of the powerful nations of western Europe; its main port, Antwerp, is the third largest in the world; it controls the richest undeveloped area in the world, the Belgian Congo; it has the highest population density of any country in the world with 285 people per square kilometer (the U.S. figure is 19); and the capital, Brussels, has been chosen as the site of the International World Fair of 1958. Located here, the world-renowned Catholic University of Louvain.
“But . . .”
Don’t say another word. I know Belgium is small! A triangle of 30,000 square kilometers, to be exact. However, despite its size, I still think Belgium is the heart of Europe. And a witness to this is the fact that, in the past, 655 major battles between various nations, have taken place on her soil—famous battles such as Waterloo (1815) and the Battle of the Bulge in World War II.
Today Belgium still occupies her key
The Church is dominant in the lives of Belgians.
position. The growing Communist party in France, reconstruction in West Germany under Chancellor Adenauer and the Christian party—the roots of these phenomena are reflected in little Belgium. Recently, newspapers and newsreels have commented on street riots between socialists and Catholics in Belgium. This local conflict is one result of the general situation now dominant in Europe, a situation born near the time of the French revolution and reaching adult proportions after the World Wars.
In the United States, the prevailing anti-church attitude is secularism, an indifferent attitude which divorces God from daily life—“life ivithout God.” In Europe, however, the great dividing line is the religious question, and there is no indifferentism to be found.
In Europe, the anti-church faction is socialism, which means “life against God.” These are the left-wing, noncommunist parties of Europe. In the free world today we group all non-com-munist forces readily as anti-communist, as potential allies in the common struggle.
We forget that socialism, penetrating the political life of all countries in Europe and particularly in Belgium, is a relative in the Red family, and is morally so close to its kinfolks that the
frontier between the one and the other is not always discernible. The father is Marx, the son is communism, the daughter is called socialism.
Theoretically, socialists would substitute state monopoly for private ownership of the sources of production and means of distribution. In practice, socialism’s sole purpose has been the 4L undermining’ of Christianity in Europe, creating- a world against God, preaching a religion of pure materialism. This Marxian socialism is represented in Belgium by a 40 per cent popular vote.
Belgium’s history reflects a predominantly Roman Catholic background; Belgians have always considered the Church as the center of their lives, and the church is the dominant building in Belgian cities. The traditional religious f processions and the frequent Flemish country fairs are high spots in the life of this freedom-loving- people.
Socialism began its attack on this way of life by means of cunning propaganda: "... going to church is for women and children; it has no meaning in a modern world.”
Soon, the miners and factory workers had accepted the principle of “Proletarians of all countries . . . unite,” without realizing the implications of what they said. This process is still in progress today.
The Belgian people may have realized the danger rather late, but the popular street riots of today are the latest reactions of protest against the socialist system.
In 1950, when King Leopold III was expected to return to his throne, socialist opposition accused the king falsely about his heroic policies against the enemy during World War II. When A the Catholic majority returned the king to power in 1950, the socialists instigated riots across the country. Possessed of an unreasoning anti-clericalism, they opposed Leopold because he was a Christian king, a religious father and a churchgoing Catholic. The socialist approach is more evident because socialist representatives in the Belgian parliament unanimously opposed a renewal of a concordat between the Vatican and the Belgian Congo.
Another indication of the socialist at- w tack on the Belgian Christian way of
(Continued on page 34)
©
24
The Scholastic

deaMtet due..
THE TASTE IS GREAT!
■c-x-x^ ■>»*<••
0
I.
T. CO
SMOKING
FILTER T1pTAREYTON
%


TT	.
Xlere you have the best in filtered smoking—* Filter Tip Tareyton, the filter cigarette that smokes milder, smokes smoother, draws easier... the only one that gives you Activated Charcoal filtration. All the pleasure comes thru... the taste is great!
PRODUCT OF
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
April 20, 1956
25
Looking for daring
engineering?
where BIG things are happening for YOU
t
A-1097
Here are a few of the many projects Westinghouse offers the young engineer or scientist interested in daring engineering and research:
•	First homogeneous or liquid-fuel reactor for full-scale utility power plant (see sketch at left).
•	Guided missiles—seeker head and ground control for "Bomarc,” in new Electronics Laboratory.
•	First steam turbine to operate at 5,000 lbs. pressure, being developed in new $6 million laboratory of Steam Division.
•	New uses for Magamps and transistors such as . . . controls for aircraft power .... automation for industry.
•	Research in nearly perfect vacuums, and near absolute zero temperatures, at new multimillion dollar Central Research Laboratories.
•	Transistorized ultrasonic control systems for torpedoes.
•	Pioneering in development of new metals and alloys, and metallurgical techniques, at new $6 million Metals Development Plant.
•	Development of world’s first industry-owned testing reactor (cost, $6J^ million).
Today, more than ever before, Big things are happening at Westinghouse, and Big opportunities are wide open for you in the field of your choice. And, you can take graduate study, leading to Master’s and Ph.D. degrees at 22 leading universities ... at company expense. Location is no problem, for Westinghouse has 98 plants.
Before you make your decision, phone collect to C. H. Ebert at Westinghouse Educational Center, Pittsburgh .. . EXpress 1-2800, Extension 353 ... he will answer any questions. Or write him at Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Educational Center, Ardmore Boulevard at Brinton Road, Pittsburgh 21, Pennsylvania.

WATCH lUfKtTINOHOUfK!
26
The Scholastic
OniAk Scene
FIGHTING IRISH SPRING PREVIEW UNDERWAY

^Brennan Not Optimistic About Season Outlook; Filling Line Biggest Problem for Irish Coaches
Terry Brennan remains anything but optimistic about next year’s grid outlook after having completed nearly two full weeks of the five week spring practice for Notre Dame’s 68th football season. With only 14 lettermen among some 81 candidates, Brennan and his staff face the burdensome task of building up a varsity team to face such veteran squads as Oklahoma, Michigan State, and So. California.
The big job during this short 20 day spring practice session Brennan states “will be to get a good look at the team and find the 22 top football players to build the two best teams tor the fall.”
“We’ve got to be two deep, because with our schedule it would just about be impossible to finish the season if we had just 13 or 15 players.”
Concerning the starting berths at this early date, Brennan said, “though we have lettermen available for some positions, I’m -willing to be fooled in finding somebody who can step in and take them.”	.
Taking the squad as a group, inexperience seems to spell out the biggest problem.
56 IRISH MACHINE READIES FOR REHEARSALS At this point — it's a long road ahead.
“Due to the fact that last year’s varsity was composed of nearly all graduating seniors, there will be about five and possibly more positions wide ope.i for juniors or sophomores,” said Brennan. “As a result, this year’s work will be the foundation for 1957 because the majority of our ballplayers are sophomores and juniors.”
Heavy Losses in Line
The line as a unit appears to be hardest hit by graduation with only returning regular, and that being Dick Prendergast. However, senior
the one end let-
termen Bob Scannell and Paul Schramm, and burly sophomore Bob Wetoska have looked impressive in practice at end.
Brennan has some experience to rely upon in the guard slots with lettermen Bob Gaydos and Gene Hedrick. On the other hand, sophomores must fill the tackle positions. Coach Brennan has been juggling the new faces of Angelo Mosca, Don Lawrence, Frank Geremia, Bronko Nagurski, and senior George Groble at the tackles.
Inexperienced lettermen Lou Loncaric and converted tackle Ed Sullivan are
JIM
AND TERRY
Ready for spring drills.
figured to be the top prospects for the center berth.
The backfield, as was the case prior to last season, is powered with more experienced players. All-American Senior Paul Hornung remains the key to the Irish attack with his triple-threat talents, while his understudy Larry Cooke and sophomore hopefuls Bob Williams and Mike Dugan have been pulling some eye-openers and looking vei-y good.
Halfbacks Plentiful -
A fine array of experienced personnel are battling for- the halfback berths. Among these are Capt.-elect Jim Morse, and returning letter-men Dick Lynch, Sherrill Sipes, and Bob Ward. Jack Murrin and Nick Pietrosante are promising sophomores. Speedster halfback Aubrey Lewis, also a letter-winner last year, is trying out for the Olympics. He may not play next season if he gains a berth on the U.S. Olympic track team.
The fullback slot, left vacant by graduating All-American Don Schaefer, remains the big question mark in the backfield. The top candidate considered as Schaefer’s replacement has been Dean Studer, a former halfback. Junior Chuck Lima, who saw limited action last season, and sophomore Bill Toth are also struggling for the open position.
Coach Brennan concluded his analysis of spring practice session by saying “This is, after all, a tryout period. And because many of the players are lacking experience, we may move them around. The final test will be in the Old Timers’ game on May 12.”
April 20, 1956
27
JOHN CASTELLANI West coast bound
Castellani Appointed To Seattle Position
John Castellani, assistant basketball coach at Notre Dame for six seasons, will become the new Athletic Director and Head Basketball Coach at Seattle University. The announcement of the appointment was made during the Easter vacation by Rev. Robert Rebahn, S.J. who will step down as Athletic Director to return to his duties as dean of men at the University.
Castellani who resides in New Britain, Conn., goes to Seattle after serving under both “Moose” Krause and Johnny Jordan. In addition to his coaching duties, he has been chief scout for the Jordanmen.
Tough Job Ahead
Two major problems confront the new coach in his two-fold job. “So far, I’ve only got a 13 game schedule and I’ve got to weave a ball club together to meet whatever schedule I can get,” indicated Castellani.
In respect to the latter, he also added that “the overall prospects are not too bright except for Elgin Baylur, an incoming sophomore, who is currently ranked with the best on the Coast. My job will be to find talent to go along with him.”
Castellani has a bachelor of science degree from Notre Dame and has had two years of law school. He has been working for his master’s degree at Indiana in the off-season.
He served in the Navy during World War II and was stationed in the South Pacific and the Philippines.
28
Ne+men Take Four Of Six in Trip South
During the Easter vacation the Irish netmen, under the direction of Coach Charlie Samson, traveled south to meet the top southern powers, at the same time giving Samson a chance to test all the members of the squad in hope of finding a combination to better last season’s record of ten wins and eight losses. The team won four and lost two, while a match at Cincinnati, scheduled for April 14th, was snowed out.
First stop for the Irish was Huntington, West Virginia on March 29th where for the second year in a row they defeated Marshall College by an 8-1 count. Two days later they took on V.P.I. in twelve matches, emerging victorious in all the contests. Their third consecutive win came Easter Monday against Wake Forest when the Irish came out on the long end of a 9-0 score.
Samson and his men tasted defeat for the first time on April 3rd when, at Durham, they lost to Duke 6-3. However, the following day they bounced back to overpower North Carolina State 6-3 at Raleigh. At Chapel Hill April 5th a strong North Carolina U. team defeated the Irish for the second consecutive year.
Especially pleasing to Samson throughout the trip was the play of Captain Harry Smith. The 20-year-old junior from Staten Island, New York, won every singles match he took part in with the exception of one against North Carolina, which was decided in the third set, which Smith dropped 7-5. He and Chuck Vanoncini, a sophomore from Fresno, California, teamed as the number one doubles combination and they too lost but one match, also to North Carolina and also by a 7-5 count in the third set.
After returning home for a few days, the squad last Saturday traveled to Bloomington where Indiana defeated them, 8-1. The Hoosiers swept the six singles matches, with everyone except the first between Smith and Mike Field going but two sets. The lone tally for the Irish came in the number one doubles when Smith and Vanoncini defeated Field and Bill Petrich, 6-2, 6-4, after the two Indiana men had just finished defeating Smith and Vanoncini in the singles.
This afternoon the Irish netmen are in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, taking on Marquette. Samson doesn’t anticipate too much trouble from the Warriors, but he is reflecting mainly on past performances.
Tomorrow afternoon the team will be at Madison, Wisconsin, to take on the U. of Wisconsin. Badger Coach Carl Sanger has a team which has lost four
men through graduation and his number" I 5 man is ineligible. Two returning let- j termen, John Wingstrom and Captain- । elect Bill Ziemer, who shared the number six spot last year, will form	the	।
nucleus of a squad which meets all	but	!
Ohio State, whose spot is taken by	the	|
Irish, on a schedule of Big Ten foes	for	.
dual matches. Last year the Badgers bowed to the Irish by a 5-4 count whiles the Irish hold the edge in the lifetime™ log, 14-1.
Golfers Open Tomorrow Against Purdue, Indiana
The 1955 Notre Dame golf team will open its schedule tomorrow at Bloomington, Ind., where it will play Indiana and Purdue universities. This year’s r j squad makes up in depth and balance^ II what it lacks in individual standouts, I and will be out to improve on last	I
year’s 5 and 5 record. In 1955, the Irish	|
defeated Indiana 19-17, but lost to Pur- f due 25-11. Notre Dame golf teams hold a 6-2 overall record with Indiana, and a 12-9-1 record with the Boilermakers. j
Rev. George F. Holderith, C.S.C., beginning his 24th season as golf coach, I has five returning lettermen, headed by / Captain Leo Matt, a senior from Cher-^ I okee, la. The other monogram winners । include seniors Joe Mulflur of Sault Ste. Marie, Canada, Charlie Gordon from Flushing, N. Y., Felix Park from Tulsa, Okla., and junior Bill McGuire from Rocky River, 0. The 1955 Co-Captains, John Foley and Bob Filipiak were the only monogram losses.
MONSTER
Below is a denizen of the deep, St. Mary's Lake style. This fearsome-looking leviathan, sometimes known as a bass, weighed in at seven pounds three ounces and was captured by Rich Lombardi of Farley Hall. Rich, who also belongs to the hands in this picture, took first prize of five dollars in last week's competition of the Father Baldwin Fishing Tournament. His catch set a new record for the annual tour-
nlinemen Split With Indiana in Home Opener; Travel to Iowa City to Face Hawkeyes Today
Stepping off to a shaky start in the Florida spring practice tournament, the Notre Dame baseball team journeys to Iowa City this afternoon to meet the Jlawkeyes in a pair of games today and "tomorrow. The Irish split their first two contests with Indiana, dropping the season’s opener last Friday, 7-6, and then hammering back on Saturday with a 145 victory.
Coach Otto Vogel of the Hawkeyes will pit an experienced club against Notre Dame this afternoon, with seven of his starting nine returning from last year. The Hawkeyes started slowly this pring, but a benchful of sophomore tal
ent promises improvement over last year’s 6-18 record. Iowa perennially boasts a strong mound staff, which will be bolstered by three lettermen, Bill Schoof, Don Dobrino, and Ken Meek. Leading the squad with 36 strikeouts, Schoof turned in a 3-4 record last year. Second sacker Ken Kurtz, a lethal hitter with a .316 average has been switched from the hot corner to speed up the hdouble play. Kirby Smith also started ^last year at first base, batting .297. Other lettermen include Ted Jensen at third, Don Bock behind the plate, and outfielders Les Hawthorne and Sharm Scheuermann.
Next Tuesday afternoon Notre Dame faces a dark horse Purdue team at Lafayette. Purdue, operating under a new coach, lost its mound-might from last year, Denny Blind. The Irish split their two games with Purdue last year. P The next day, Wednesday, the Irish
JIM CUSACK CLOUTS ONE AGAINST INDIANA Irish break even with Hoosiers in home debut
return home to meet Northwestern. Coach Freddy Lindstrom has only three starters returning to action. Captain Ed Broeker led the Wildcats last year with a .385 average. But football practice will hold the services of mound-ace Dale Pienta, who racked a 5-1 skein last year, until May 5. Catcher Chuck Lindstrom, the coach’s son, is a major league prospect.
Notre Dame turned in a dismal 2-5 record in their spring training tournament at Tallahassee, Florida, during the Easter vacation. Jim Cusack and Elmer Kohorst paced the Irish at the plate. Cusack belted ten hits, collecting a team-high average of .322. The Irish catcher, Kohorst, batted .310, with two triples and five runs-batted-in. On the hill, Tom Bujnowski, the top Irish hurler, and Ron Jebavy pitched the two Notre Dame victories, both going the distance.
The Irish opened the tournament on Thursday, March 29, against West Virginia. Jim Heise, the national collegiate strikeout king in ’55, allowed the Irish only three hits to stop them, 4-0. On Saturday, March 31, North Carolina flogged the Irish, 14-4. Although Notre Dame outhit the Tarheels 11-10, the winners bunched their hits to cash in. Later that afternoon, Florida State handed the Blue and Gold their third straight setback, 12-5. Once again Notre Dame outhit their opponents, but Florida tallied six runs in the first with five walks.
Monday Notre Dame squeezed past Illinois, 6-5, for their first -win. In
the last of the ninth the Irish were trailing, 5-4, but rallied to load the bases with one out. Ed Hurley lofted a sacrifice fly to knot the score. After Illini chucker Jerry McKinney reloaded the bases with a walk, Bill Frentz took over on the mound. His first pitch went wild, and Bill Teschke raced home with the winning run.
After losing a twin-bill to Wisconsin on Tuesday, 9-2 and 5-3, Notre Dame returned to winning ways, walloping Brown, 18-8. A 3-2 pitching duel was split at the seams in the sixth inning when the Irish exploded for 10 runs on six hits and five walks. Nespo and Steve Johnson each belted four hits for the Irish.
In the regular season opener against Indiana at Cartier Field, Notre Dame fought an uphill battle, only to lose it in the ninth, 7-6. Triples by Mike Lesso and Jim Carideo fanned a four run blaze in the seventh inning to narrow a 6-1 Indiana lead. In the eighth the Irish finally drove Smith from the mound, tying the score, 6-6. But afterloading the bags in the ninth, reliefer Joe Finn hit Neal Skeeters with a pitch to force in the winning run.
But Notre Dame bounced back the next afternoon, April 14, to rout the Hoosiers, 14-5. A nine run rally in the seventh, sparked by singles by Lesso, Johnson, Lavelle, Cusack, and Kohorst, and a climactic home-run drive by Nespo, crumbled a 5-3 Indiana lead. Hank Bretting relieved Ron Jebavy to get the Irish win.
To date the Irish have looked especially strong at bat and in the infield. However, the outfield has been weak, made up of converted infielders who lack the long, powerful throwing arm. And, true to pre-season indications, the main weakness has been in the pitching department, where only Bujnowski has been able to turn away opposing batters effectively.
Relays at Columbus Next for Wilsonmen
The Notre Dame track team will participate in the Ohio Relays tomorrow after-noon at Columbus, Ohio.' Coach Wilson plans to enter his lads in twelve events.
Frank Hall, Joe Foreman, Alex Pestri-chella, and the speedy Aubrey Lewis will run in the quarter mile relay. The same combination plus Bill Keegan will carry the Irish hopes in the half mile relay.
In the distance medley Keegan will run in the quarter, Dale Vandenburg in the half, and Dick DiCamillo in the three quarter. The versatile Bill Squires will run in the mile, and Vandenburg, (Continued on page 32)
April 20, 1956
29
Murray and Paul after each other’s scalps.
“Now you boys know the rules . .
“. . . and keep that right hand high!"
25 Years of Combat —For Bengal
This year was the Silver Anniversary of the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts. For the' benefit of those who aren’t familiar with the Bouts, they are a boxing contest promoted annually by the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus to raise funds for the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, East Pakistan.
Every year around the middle of March, a number of strong young athletes enter the ring in the Fieldhouse to do battle. Two at a time, they take turns in trying to knock each other’s ears off. They do this not only for the pleasure derived from the sport of boxing, but for the glory of God and His Bengal Missions.
This year’s Bengals were among the best ever held. Fifty-three boxers battled in nine weight divisions and by finals night eighteen top fighters were ready to maul each other for the coveted trophies. From the beginning of the first bout, when John Palumbo and Gene Reaux squared off in the 125-pound contest, until Heavyweight champion John McGinley accepted his trophy, the crowd knew that they had seen some real fighters and some top-notch boxing.
Palumbo won the first bout, outpointing his opponent on the strength of a good left hook and aggressiveness. In the second contest, John Rodgers put together aggressiveness, some good combinations, and a hard right hand to take the 130-pound title from Jim Connelly. The 135-pound decision went to John Reiss over Leighton Young. Reiss displayed speed and a hard right counter punch as he defeated his opponent.
In the 145-pound class Sal Profaci and Jim McDermott went after each other like a couple of head-hunters, with McDermott coming out on the long end of the decision. His freeswinging combinations and hard right won him the nod. Jim Brunot made the outstanding comeback of the night as he took the 155-pound decision
30
The Scholastic
. and he didn’t hurt me
at all.”
The men who have done the most for boxing.
Murphy halts Mulrooney’s onslaught.
McGinley fires away at Connor.
away from ’54 champion Sars Brennan. Brunot was on the ropes in the first round but came back to clout Brennan with solid rights and win the decision. Mike Mulrooney and Dick Murphy battled hard in the 165-pound class and Murphy’s reach and quick hands won him the title.
• Tom Murray took the 175-pound decision from Joe Paul in a fight that resembled the legendary Pier Six brawl. Murray’s aggressiveness and right hand gave him the needed points. Pete Noznesky took the 185-pound decision from another ’54 champion, Dick Shulsen. Noznesky boxed well and made good use of a lethal overhand right to win the title. The Heavyweight title was won by John McGinley on the strength of a good left hand. McGinley defeated last year’s champ, Charlie Connor.
In addition to the title trophies, the Sportsmanship Award was presented to Bob Miller and the Father Ryan Trophy went to Ray Barnes.
Jim Crowley of the Pennsylvania State Athletic Commission was given the Bengal Bout Award as the “man who has done the most for boxing in the past year.” Awards were also given to Dominic Napolitano by the fighters and by the Knights, and to Father Tom Brennan for their assistance and encouragement given to the Bengal Bouts in the past twenty-five years.—Joe Norton.
Logic can do wonders for a fighter.
April 20, 1956
31
i
'I
WHEN YOU
NEVER A
Travel Europe with the
STANDSTILL
Onthe ALL-INCLUSIVE Vespa Tour... Drive through Southern Europe, visiting Italy and France; then steer this mighty Vespa up and over the Alps and live in Switzerland, Austria and Germany for a while.
ALL THIS: a 64-Day European Vacation; A Vespa—Your Vespa to take home—always at your disposal; Round Trip Passage to Europe; All accommodations arranged and included for a total cost of $995.00.
—less than $14.00 per day—
And ... The VESPA is yours free; free of transportation; free of duty; free of any obligation when you travel the Vespa Tours.
Think of the pleasures afforded by the Vespa Motor Scooter while on Campus or as the Family’s Second Car ... and, think of the economy, more than 100 miles per gallon.
The thrills of going—when you please— with whom you please—where you please—and, how you please—are yours.
Write for complete and detailed information.
•OUR
under exclusive arrangement of
. FUGAZY TRAVEL BUREAU, INC
Celebrating our 86th Anniversary
351 Ave. of Americas • N. Y. 14, N.Y. • AL 5-1800 554 Madison Avenue • N.Y. 22, N.Y. • PL1-3434
Sailors Fourth at Navy; Invitational Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s young sailing team performed more expertly than any other collegiate crew from the Midwest has ever done against the traditionally strong Eastern competition in Navy’s spring invitational regatta at Annapolis on_ April 14 and 15. The Irish finisheoW fourth, only three points out of third place in a field of twelve teams.
Only Navy, Kings Point and Northwestern placed ahead of the Irish, who outclassed squads from such powers as Georgetown, Princeton, Rutgers, Boston College, and Michigan State. Notre Dame’s dinghies were skippered by Bernie D’Almeida, who was the third highest scorer in the meet, Ray Nelson, and^ Louis Morgan.
Previously, on a wet, cold and windy afternoon, the determined sailors breezed to victory at Eagle Lake, Michigan on March 25 in the Indiana Collegiate Sailing Championship Meet. Notre Dame scored 35 points compared to Purdue’s 31 and Indiana’s 26 points.
Showing- consistency and depth in their first start of the season, the Irish were led by Ray Nelson and Tim Rice,^ who both won two races. Ron Meissner”
and Bernie first place, six out of a
Tomorrow
D’Almeida each took one In all, the squad captured possible eight first places, and Sunday the Irish are

host to Michigan, Washington of St. Louis, Michigan State, Xavier, Wayne of Detroit, Illinois Institute of Technology, and Hillsdale in the Notre Dame Invitational.
The team then travels to Cincinnati where they will participate in the Cin-R i cinnati Intersectional. Cincinnati, । Xavier, Indiana, Ohio Wesleyan, Purdue, and Ohio State will provide the competition.	j
(Continued from page 29) DiCamillo, Squires, and Ed Monnelly ■will be Notre Dame’s combination in the two mile relay.
In the other events, big Byron Beams, Frank Kauffman, and Ben Zajeski will^ represent the Irish in the shot put. Beams, Kauffman, Lewis and Hal Blakeslee will participate in the discus. Bernie Allard and Tom Sanfacon will compete against some of the nation’s best in the high jump. Jack Cote will be Notre Dame’s lone representative in the broad jump and pole vault.
In the pre-Easter Chicago Daily News Relays at the Chicago Stadium, March 24, the Irish relay team composed of Keegan, Foreman, Lewis and Squires^ tied with Iowa for first in the No. 4 University Mile Relay in the time of 3:20.2.
32
The Scholastic
1
University of Notre Dame BLAZERS
• Ligthweight Wool
• Custom Tailored
• Full Range of Sizes

Just the thing to wear at your Dances and Parties
e
Notre Dame Bookstore
Repercussion
(Continued from page 8) lican convention in succession at Notre Dame “because of greater interest,” is not possible that again he simply cannot restrain his own Republican zeal? To say the least, I know of no honorable Democrat interested in what Paul Harvey had to say.
I would suggest that in at least these two places—the Scholastic office and wherever the Harvey “it was announced this week” originated—there is little evidence at present of scrupulous impartiality. And in both instances it seems that such impartiality is in order.
William Slavick English Department Graduate School
Plan June Symposium On Synthetic Polymers
Plans for a Notre Dame chemistry symposium July 16-17 on recent advances in the field of synthetic polymers were announced recently by Dr. G. F. D’Alelio, head of the department of chemistry. Sponsored by the W. R. Grace Chemical Research and Development Co., the symposium will be open to industry officials, university scientists and technical leaders.
Six internationally recognized authorities in polymer chemistry are scheduled to participate in the two-day sessions. They are Prof. Giulio Natta, Institutio diChimica Industriale del Politecnico, Milan, Italy; Prof. Charles Sadron, Centre de Recherches sur les Macromolecules, Strasbourg, France; Dr. William B. Reynolds, assistant director of research, Phillips Petroleum Co., Bartlesville, Okla.; Dr. Arthur P. Lien, division director of research, Standard Oil Co. of Indiana, Whiting, Ind.; Prof. Herman Mark, director of the Polymer Research Institute, Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, N. Y.; and Dr. D’Alelio, who will serve as chairman of the symposium.
Symphony Brass Ensemble To Present Concert Tonight
The Chicago Symphony Brass Ensemble will play in Washington Hall at 8:15 tonight, as part of the University’s Concert and Lecture Series. Tickets are free, and may be obtained this afternoon from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. in the Washington Hall box office.
The ensemble, composed of men who have mastered brass, is intended as a medium for education and entertainment. This group is distinctive because its music is written especially for the ensemble by contemporary composers, such as Robert Sanders and Florian Mueller.
OFFICIAL
Class Rings
University oF Notre Dame
Manufactured exclusively by the L. G. Balfour Co.
the Authentic mark of si Notre Dame Alumnus
available only at the
Notre Dame Bookstore

April 20, 1956
Debaters to Compete At West Point Tourney
During the last three days of next "week, Notre Danie’s top two debaters, Dick Schiller and Rick Ninneman, will be competing in the National Invitational Debate Championships to be held at West Point.
In previous eliminations at Purdue, attended by 24 schools, Notre Dame was one of five from this region to advance to the West Point tournament.
Other schools from this region selected to participate were the Champaign and Navy Pier blanches of the University ■of Illinois, Augustana College, and Greenville College, which has beaten Notre Dame twice this season.
For Your ‘’Crew Cut”
kru-hut
HAIR TRAINER
WITH LANOLIN
Ha
Keeps th* Hair , in that k "Stand-up* B Position
If you have stubborn hair to comb, KRU-KUT will keep it in place. At Drug Stores and Barber Shops.
In order to make the eastern trip, the local pair had to defeat Northwestern in a final run-off. The Northwestern team was the same team that went to the National finals a year ago.
A recent tune-up for the Irish debaters in preparation for the West Point tournament was the Xavier Marx National Invitational debate tournament held in Cincinnati on April 13 and 14. In competition with 23 other schools, Notre Dame took third place. The pair lost one debate in seven but that was to Greenville in the semi-finals.
Prior to Easter vacation, Schiller, Pat Curran, Paul Coffey, and Jack Martzell went to Washington, D. C. for the Georgetown Cherry Blossom tournament, where the Irish affirmative team of Coffey and Martzell tied for first place. Schiller and Curran were awarded individual prizes for first and second best speakers on the negative side.
SENIOR BALL TICKETS
Ticket sales for the 1956 Senior Ball officially ended on April 12, but ticket spies have been extended until May 4 according to Chuck Vandegrift, ticket chairman. The favor stubs will be removed from all tickets purchased after April 12.
Tickets for the dinner-dance will sell for $7, while Communion Breakfast tickets will sell for $2.75. Tickets can be purchased from Vandegrift in 144 Fisher Hall.
Chicago to Host YCS Group For Summer Discussions
Young Christian Students on campus will be given an opportunity to learn more about the lay apostolate in a summer session to be held in Chicago between June 13 and August 31, according to an announcement by Paul Krapp, YCS president. Students employed or'l studying in Chicago will meet in the evening and on weekends to study their responsibility in the Church.
Room and board expenses are estimated at .$10 per week at facilities provided by the Chicago chapter. Interested parties are asked to contact Krapp at 231 Pangborn or visit the YCS office located in the mezzanine of the Student Center.
The group has already planned a series of lectures to supplement their discussion sessions. Confirmation of applications will be made on May 10 for those applying by April 30.
Journalism Awards Banquet Set for May I at Shrine Club
The annual journalism awards ban-'^ quet for the Notre Dame Press Club will be held this year at the South Bend Shrine Club on Tuesday, May 1.
Mr. George Harris, head of the midwest bureau of Luce Publications, will be the featured speaker at the dinner. .
Six cash awards will be given to junior and senior students who have excelled in practical journalism.
Bob Ruhl, St. Louis, Mo., and Ed | Joyce, Elgin, Ill., will serve as co-chair-.® | men of the banquet.
Opportunity in Banking
On April 26, an officer of The Indiana National Bank will be on campus to meet with June graduates inter-

ested in a banking career ... especially in the areas of loans, investments and branch management.
Indiana National, the state’s largest bank, has an outstanding growth history. Its personnel expansion
program is designed to continue serving a growing city with exceptional banking services.
The Indiana National Bank
Key to Europe
(Continued from page 24) life is revealed in the state-controlled school system. Since Catholic youth go to religious schools, anti-clerical youth attend state supported schools. The two were of equal status until last year. A bill introduced by the socialist minister of education cut off the Christian ( schools from state support, and even refused recognition to the diplomas granted by these schools. To Belgians, this meant supremacy for a non-Chris-tian system of education. Significantly enough, this legislation was vigorously supported by the small Belgian Communist party.
This socialist tactic had proved too much for the Belgian people. All over the country, people held spontaneous, public meetings in the streets. A general (| school strike was followed by a “march on Brussels,” on March 26, 1955. This was a demonstration by a whole nation
34
The Scholastic
Wor freedom and democracy, for Christianity in their nation.
Socialist (Achille) Van Acker banned the demonstration and took military measures to make the ban stick. He canceled trains bringing the people to the capital, forbade the meeting of groups of over five persons, ordered Brussels to be cordoned with barbed wire, «".nd made police permission necessary to nter or leave the city.
Even these stern measures were unsuccessful as a quarter million Catholics and students from Louvain demonstrated, cheered, and indulged in skirmishes with the police. Over 800 were arrested, and ten severely injured in the rioting.
The government, as might be expected, was unshaken by the disorganized ^})ut impressive demonstration, and the socialists continued their anti-Christian campaign. With the support of the communists, the Collard law was passed and enacted.
In reply, the Belgian Catholics have taken up voluntary support of the religious schools and so keep the cause of God alive in their land. More immediately, Belgians hope, in the coming election, to show the socialists that Belgium Ms still a Catholic country, loyal to the ^^faith of their fathers, and willing to take any measure necessary to defend that faith.
O’Connor to Visit Campus;
»* Schedule Dinner for Author
Edwin O’Connor, the author of the Book-of-the-Month Club selection, The Last Hurrah, will visit the Notre Dame ^campus this coming week.
W O’Connor, an English major of the University class of ’39, will be the guest of the English department.
Mr. Rufus Rauch of the English department ■will handle the details of O’Connor’s visit, which will include a dinner in his honor and a reception in the book store.
The dinner sponsored by the English majors is scheduled for the Sunny Italy Cafe on Tuesday, April 24. The dinner is open to the faculty, graduate and M English students.
“ On the following afternoon, at 4 o’clock, the Notre Dame Book Store will hold a reception and autographing party for O’Connor. All students and faculty members are invited.
OFF-CAMPUS SOFTBALL
All Off-Campus students who are interested in playing on a softball team this spring must report to 218 Fisher in order to A sign up.
The off-campus teams will be entered in the interhall league.
Something new ... all steaks, chops and hamburgers charry broiled . . . m-m-rn good
CE 3-OM
Make your pick
the “pick of the pros”—SPALDING
You’ll stop a lot of horsehide with either of these fine Spalding gloves. These are the very same gloves used by two great names in baseball—Alvin Dark,* shortstop captain of the New York Giants and Phil Rizzuto* veteran shortstop of the New York Yankees.
Both these gloves are made with the finest leather, deep grease pocket and solid web in trap. You don’t have to break them in; Spalding does that for you. You can see the complete Spalding line of fine gloves at your Spalding dealer’s, now.
♦ Members of Spalding's Advisory Staff
Spalding
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
For Coming Proms . . .
Louie’s Tuxedo Rental
222 Laurel
Special Student Rates
April 20, 1956
35
J. Paul Sheedy* Was Always A Scapegoat Till Wildroot Cream-Oil Cave Him Confidence
It got Sheedy’s goat the way everyone kidded him about his messy hair. Even his girl horned in: "Sheedy, you shaggy stinker, you lack confidence —you’re pasture prime.” Well J. Paul felt pretty sheepish about this, so
he tried Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now he has confidence in nanny situation because he knows his hair looks healthy and handsome, the way Nature intended ... neat butt not greasy. Wildroot Cream-Oil contains the heart of Lanolin, the very best part of Nature’s finest hair and scalp conditioner. Try it yourself. Butter get a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil today. With Wildroot on your hair, the girls will goat to any lengths for a date with you.
WILDROOT »
CREAMOIL ■
LANOLIN
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence
cioo»sIM Man llutw MrMH Know XOO$t D«9»UH
ND Appoints Hagertyt To Board of Trustees
The appointment of Harry C. Hagerty, financial vice president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., New York City, as a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees was announced recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University^ president. Members of the board invest and administei- the University’s endowment funds and advise school officials on fiscal matters.
Father Hesburgh also named seven new members to three of the University’s advisory councils.
Appointed to the College of Commerce advisory council are Charles J. Curley, president of the First Trust Company of St. Paul, St. Paul, Minn.; Alwin F. W Franz, president of The Colorado Fuel and Iron Corp., New York City; Otto A. Pfaff, president of American Wheela-brator and Equipment Corp., Mishawaka, Ind.; and Fred B. Snite, president of the Local Loan Co., Chicago, Ill.
Named to the advisory council of the Notre Dame Law School are attorney J. W. Mullin, Jr., Hollywood, Calif., and Joseph L. O’Neill, Jr., Midland, Tex., an independent oil operator. O’Neill cur- w-rently is serving as president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
John J. O’Shaughnessy, Chicago attorney, has been appointed to the Advisory Council for Liberal and Fine Arts at Notre Dame.
Sculptor Show Continues
wins
IJRR1RY ani ROHR SHOP
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
Featured in the sixth annual student sculptors’ show during April are a group < of images of St. Dymphna. This saint, « little known in America, is very popular- in parts of Europe as the patron of those with mental afflictions. The student sculptors at Notre Dame, after-some study of her life, executed a number of figures of the Saint, standing, seated, and kneeling. The final works were done in fireclay and then baked in the studio kiln.
The exhibition of student sculpture is now in the Art Gallery of the O’Shaughnessy, and will continue there through April. The Gallery is open from 2 to 5 p.m. daily.
Other work by the student sculptors’ group, under the direction of Father Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., include wire sculpture; desk plates in wire, board, and majolica; mosaics cut and colored by the students of ceramic materials; holywater fonts in majolica; and a number of bas relief plaques of liturgical subjects. This exhibition represents the best of the work that has been done within a one-year period, by the almost W 50 students who take up the study of sculpture each semester.
36
The Scholastic
Rioted Basso Here Monday;
To Appear in Song Recital
Andrew Foldi, noted basso, will be presented in a recital Monday in Washington Hall at 8:15 p.m. Tickets are free, and will be available today from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m., and Monday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and from 3:30 |^b.m. to curtain time, in Washington Hall. Robert Lodine will be the accompanist.
The recital program includes songs by outstanding composers: Lieder by Franz Schubert and Modeste Maussorg-sky, and a religious piece by Ernest Bloch. Commemorating the bi-centen-nial of Mozart, one of his arias will also be presented on the program. Programs ^.vill include an English translation for '^all foreign language selections.
Dr. Eugene J. Leahy of the- music department commented on the artist, “Part of Mr. Foldi’s unusual quality lies in that he is basically a thorough musician who also sings very well.”
Pay 4 Times the Price*
YOU STILL CAN'T MATCH HOLIDAY PIPE MIXTURE
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.

Why Not?
Drive a ’56 Chrysler or Plymouth home this Summer! Save the cost of freight to your home town.
BUY NOW!
See Jack Moulder, ’38
Moulder Motor
215 So. Lafayette, South Bend Chrysler—Plymouth—Imperial
DRRWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated
“Bring in the Pieces”
— EYES EXAMINED -----
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Custom Blended -for MILDNESS
More men every year switch to Holiday, because it contains these five famous tobaccos from all over the world skillfully blended into a mixture of unequalled flavor, aroma and mildness. Each tobacco adds its own distinctive flavor and aroma, to make Holiday America’s finest pipe mixture. Try a pipeful—enjoy its coolness, flavor and aroma—and see for yourself why more and more men who smoke mixtures are switching to Holiday as a steady smoke.
*PROOF from an EXPERT
A sample of Holiday Pipe Mixture in a plain wrapper was shown to the custom blender in a nationally famous tobacco shop. “Can you duplicate this tobacco?” he was asked. After careful examination, he said, frankly, that he couldn’t. Although he could identify the types of tobacco used and could supply them in a S6 a pound mixture, he couldn't guess ' the secret of the blend!
AMERICA'S FINEST PIPE MlXTURE.^Canada's Finest Too!
GOLDFISH BOWL TEST
PROVES HOLIDAY’S FRESHNESS
If moisture can't get in, naturally freshness can’t get out. Holiday’s heat-sealed wrap-around pouch is flavor-tight— for a fresher, cooler smoke. Easy to carry, too—no bulky corners.
LARUS 4 BROTHER CO., ING RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

April 20, 1956
37
Hack Pa^
by Curt Matthews
seventeen years, in the jungle
Those who complete college have spent about seventeen years cutting their way through the jungle known as formal education. At the age of five we begin, quite informally, in kindergarten where we learn the fundamentals of group play. At twenty-one or twenty-two we’ve progressed to the university level. Here things are more formal, you take courses (the age of specialization) like Greek and Roman Games.
At any rate, as you cut your way through this jungle you’re expected to learn two things: one, how to make money, lots of it; and two, how to live with the money you make. The second is becoming less important all the time and soon may not carry any significance at all. As one employer recently told a young man fumbling with his degree, “I can’t use you. You’ve been too busy going to school to learn anything.”
It was almost seventeen years ago that I unsuspectingly walked into a little red school house back in Missouri and boldly exposed myself to the elements of this jungle called education. Since then the old school system has been through quite a lot. The curricula has been integrated, the pupils de-segregated and the teachers investigated.
Education has become tremendously more popular since I began fooling with it. I don’t mean more people want education but more people seem to want to tinker with the system of it. And it’s not just idle old ladies with nothing to do. This tinkering is done by organized groups with goals, standards, ideas, innovations and even (pardon the expression), ulterior motives. Parents get into the act through the PTA, non-parents through the School Association, business men through the C of C, janitors through their Union, and the citizens group through the mayor.
But juggle the system and louse it up any way you like you still need three things to have formal education: one, something to teach; two, someone
3«
who can teach it; and three, someone who wants to learn it.
Now I could have said that education demands subjects, teachers, and students. But that would not, I’m afraid, have been entirely correct. Not every subject is something to teach, not every teacher can teach, and not every student wants to learn. And besides subject and teacher are terms no longer used. The subject has become project or exercise (like how to build a three-story bird house) and the teacher is now an instructor who demonstrates the intricacies of woodcarving without mutilating the fingers.
We still have students but -without subjects and teachers they too may soon grow extinct. The only reason they have lasted this long is that man is bora with a natural curiosity that sometimes takes 15 or 20 years to dull. It’s being worked on, however.
It seems to be getting harder to find that “something to teach” all the time. In order to fill this need we have invented such new and imaginative courses as the Social Distinctions Between the Fad and the Craze, and the Rise of Monaco as a World Power. Then too, we have package deals called The Big Education as offered by the Warehouse of Surplus Knowledge in Chicago. It’s “a goldmine of liberal education.” This same deal is offered in many schools, too, under the heading Progressive Education. Everything but discipline is taught and this can be picked up in extra-curricular gang activities.
Even more difficult to find these days than the “something to teach” is the .“someone to teach it” according to most school boards. The reason most often given is that the pay is too low to attract many into the profession.
This argument may hold some water but not quite as much as the average local school board would like you to believe, in my opinion. I think there are still some people, in spite of modern education, who are interested in things
other than making a lot of money. Th^ reason these people don’t get near 9 class room is simply that they don’t want to get messed up with the messed-up system. Everybody, from the football coach to the janitor, has more voice in “education” today than the lowly teacher. They’ve taken away the one I thing a real teacher needs: authority— both disciplinary and scholastic.
If this situation isn’t enough to dis- : courage even the most enthusiastic^ young educator he only needs to remind^-1 himself that he must not violate the principles of “academic freedom.” Since the threat of communism on the American frontier there’s been a growing ten- ! dency to blame every wrong, every deficiency and every injustice on the , Red influence. The easiest way to do	!
this is simply to call someone a	I
communist.
I may be wrong but it seems to me ; a rather ambitious undertaking to try® teaching Communism in our schools. ~ How are you going to teach Communism to a student who drives to school every day in a Ford convertible and finds no one stepping on his blue suede shoes once he gets there. The atmosphere in our schools just isn’t right to instill Communist thought. It’s like trying to farm in the middle of New York , City.
Of the three things needed for education the easiest to locate seems to be the^ students. In fact, they are too easy to" find. Nobody knows where to put them. The question to ask is: Are they really students—should they be put anywhere? There may be a few too many monkeys in our jungle.
As someone nearing the end of his seventeen years in the jungle I can’t help but reflect for a moment on just where I’ve been. Much of it has seemed like an academic merry-go-round of hairsplitting, like a useless montage of trivialness, like an unending train o^ J monotonous repetition—but this too is ■ education, of a sort, I guess.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
he makes the grade
wwMWwwMeM***XM*vw*******At*^M^'v^'
V*A**A« • **e?**R*****«W******rw*®(t^w» ....
...... . L11 .........................

We don’t mean just at exam time, either. The comfortconscious guy can tell at a glance that these smart Arrow gingham shirts are the light-weights that make warm weather a “breeze.” The medium-spread collar and fresh patterns are just right, alone or with a casual jacket. Arrow ginghams, in a variety of fine patterns are only $5.95.

CASUAL WEAR
—first in fashion

There's nothing cooler than our ARROW ginghams
A crisp gingham is the unbeatable warm-weather fabric. And, we have ginghams in fine conservative stripes, checks, and plaids that are beautifully tailored for Spring and Summer comfort. The time to see them is right now. When hot days come . . . our Arrow ginghams go fast! Prices start at $3.95.
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South BetuT)

I
KING SIZE & REGULAR
The more perfectly packed your cigarette, the more pleasure it gives... and Accu-Ray packs Chesterfield far more perfectly.
lips.. . mild yet deeply satisfying to the taste — Chesterfield alone is pleasure-packed by Accu-Ray.
To the touch ... to the taste, an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satisfies the most... burns more evenly, smokes much smoother.
1 _
Firm and
pleasing to the






Xnw
Satisfy Yourself with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray
CHESTERFIELD
Liggett & Myeu Tobacco Co.
^"5 Tobacco^
MILD, YET THEY