
-~;s;~;;~~--=~~L
..:.)100l:,­
1~. : Jr:..-'i:'---. . • • . 
·-, ,...,.r:=~i! ~~ xchiis-1M · -'.' ·otety.i~_-',
',,• •" .•·tft· ,. 
S·>l,J< F ..R·" ---;:,: 1 . """·­
_.. Jf~\Cit51i;~-·,i~)l~\ •! '•· ~i:.eSf:~!f·;.~_,,,_ 


Bruno's Pizza 
ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $12.00 EVERY DAY 
119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in 11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch 
4:00 
to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday 

4:00 
to 11 :00 Friday and Saturday 


273-3890 

"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Start next school year off right: 

Get your job now. 

is now hiring: 

Business/ Advertising Manager · Distribution Manager 
Call 1-5029 or stop by the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall for more information. 
U N 1. V E R S I T Y 
A G A z N E 
Over the Edge e 
For the second s_traight year, Notre Dame paid a fine for the high levels of dangerous emissions from its power plant. Scholastic explores the university's efforts to clean up its act. 
by Tina Zurcher 
The Gipp's Last Words 41) 
Every year, the Gipper passes his literary baton to the next poor soul foolish enough to take the position. Between.the tears, this year's Gipp brings us a final sampling of tips and discards his pseudonym, revealing the man behind the controversy. 
by The Gipper 
"My Heart's at Notre Dame" G) 
Our own Lou Holtz, now head coach of the South Carolina Gamecocks, returns to his beloved Notre Dame and shares some memories with Scholastic. byChristopher Hamilton 
Resumes Wanted by Jared Mar.x  6  
Pump Up the Volume  8  
by Jacklyn Kiefer and Tina Zurcher  
The Great Escape by Heather Hogan  9 · ·  
Power Struggle  
photos by Brian Christ and Michael Griffin  10  
Procrastinator's Pride  
by Elizabeth Burnett and Meg Reynders  12  
Corporate Takeover? by Katie Rak  23  
Party Like It's 1999 by Jim Bilek  25  
Departments  

From the Editor  2  
ND Notebook  3  
Campus Watch  18  
Splinters from the Pressbox  24  
Ouf ofBounds  26  
Week in Distortion  28  
Comic  29  
. On Other Campuses  30  
Calendar  31  
Final Word  32  
DAME•APRIL  29,  l 9 9 9  


a::: 
0 
l­
o 
w 
w 
I 
I­
~ 
0 

a::: 
u.. 




Good Intentions 
very evening, just before he goes to 
bed, my roommate roots through the 
trash and removes all the aluminum cans. For most of the first semester, he would set them on top of the television as a monument to his good intentions. 
Finally, after months of cleaning circular rings ofresidue offthe TV, I asked him what he was doing. He replied simply, "I'm recy­cling." Somehow, I don't think much recy­cling was really happening. Every morning, I would take the half-crushed cans of Sprite and Sunkist off ofthe TV and put them in the trash can again. When I told my roommate that all his garbage-picking wasn't really accomplishing much, he told me that he al ways had the intention of recycling them, but he always just decided to wait until the morning to walk them all the way to the recycling bins. 
I think my roommate's actions mirror those of many on campus. Nearly any one you talk to will tell you that it's a great idea to care for the environment. However, many people don't do their part simply because it requires extra effort. They'd rather set the cans on the top of the TV to be taken out with the morning garbage than walk the extra couple of feet to the recycle bins. They'd rather throw their cigarette butt on the ground then walk it to an ashtray. 
The university administration doesn't dif­fer much from the general population. I'm 
E 
sure all administrators agree that taking care of the environment is important. Some­times, though, it's just easier not to bother. 
For whatever reason, the power plant was not up to EPA specifications, and the uni­versity was forced to pay a large fine. Though strides have since been taken to help the power plant meet standards, the plant and the new golf course pose potential threats to the environment. 
I bought my roommate a recycling bin for Easter, and ever since we have been recy­cling cans passionately. Sometimes, all you need is a little push. With any luck, the fine Notre Dame had to pay will force the ad­ministration to take car of their environ­mental problems. 
Tina Zurcher examines Notre Dame and its treatment of environmental regulation on page 16. 
The end is near 
This our last issue of the school year, so· we included a few more comic strips, a longer Gipp and OOB just to keep you satisfied for at least the first couple ofweeks of the summer. Be sure to check out Scholastic Magazine's web site. Thanks to the hard work ofMichael Gonzales, our web admin­istrator, we have a great new web site that includes many of the great things from this issue. You can checkitoutathttp://www.nd.­
~ 
Editor in Chief 

100 Years Ago: 
Cheer, Cheer for O'ld Noire Dame 
Astory in the April 29, 1899 edition ofScholastic describes the response of South Bend residents to Notre Dame athletics: 
It is a pleasure to note the friendly 
spirit that now exists towards our ath­letic teams among the people ofSouth Bend. Not long ago it was customary for everyone from the city to cheer for opposing teams and count it a glorious victo,y whenever Notre Dame lost.Hap­pily things have reversed, and the people in the Bend are realizing that victo,y coming to Notre Dame is victory for South Bend, since our teams represent this portion ofthe collegiate world and must call South Bend our town. Last Tuesday, at Springbrook, the attendants were unanimous in cheering for our team.We thank you citizens of South · Bend, and invite you to share in the 
glo,y ofour victories. 
With more than 20,000 people at the Blue-Gold scrimmage game, it seems that South Bend residents are proud to be associated with Notre Dame and its students. Well, except maybe when we're lighting things on fire. 
-JJP 

2 

SCHOLASTIC APRIL 29, 1999 
MAGAZINE 


FROM YOUR GROCER'S FREEZER 


Express Yourself 
Freedom ofexpression reigns in performance poetry
Three people take the stage and the opening notes of the national anthem fill the Lafortune Ballroom. Another artsy event. Normal enough. But then the performance continues, progressing to pro­fessional wrestling and ending with a girl in a flesh-colored leotard, covered in paint and wrapped in Saran Wrap, being carried off the stage. This, apparently, is what happens when poetry and 
performance art  times we're embrac­ 
meet. And it's all  ing themes and  
for a grade.  concepts. This time  
"This is our final  we 're taking these  
exam," Laura St.  themes and concepts  
Marie says of the  and performing our­ 
performances,  selves."  
which were held  And they did so  
April 25 in the  creatively, with per­ 
Lafortune Ball­ formances featuring  
room. "Each group  everything from  
has about 15 min­ Irish dancing to the  
utes. We have to  Wheel of Fortune.  
write, act and cho- The members ofone  
reograph for our 15  group spoke to each  
minutes."  other only in lines  
The class, en­ fromsongswhilean­ 
titled Poetry · and  m  other demonstrated  
Performance, is a . :<i,/,0'/t":~~tzI.~",{;",,1;7<:i'i\:::rJ~ how professional  
400-level English  :i:mmm;.~~"',;:;,:...£.~._:::;:;,:,,."',c.::,:::.:.:::,,:::0c~=< wrestling is a great  
course taught by  TO EACH HER OWN. Laura Vanderberg,  sourcefornewdance  
Professor Stephen  wearing a flesh-colored leotard and wrapped in  moves. The groups  
Fredman. "The idea  Saran wrap, eats paint  trulyperformedtheir  

is to look at contemporary poetry and con-own poetry, putting in all sorts of media in temporaryperformanceart,"Fredmanstates. order to do so. · "We look at people who are doing cutting-"It's ·not meant to be read but experi­edge poetry and cutting-edge performance enced," St. Claire says. "The poetry really art alongside each other." Well-known ex-does come alive." amples inc.lude the work of David Byrne of -Kathleen Corte 


:g111t;ttiiti~~;ii!i~~~~;;~~ii;#f;~ti 
.•.Qpµ.g~s:1.st:.· :.•·.·.··•···:;·i . .··••·•'ti:fJJtte1fwinJfa,t.•tliibox.·.office,\rgii~~tq}~a;b~·Daui's·:.
·Mdvie),>. > / . 
I!:il&~~,~i;~,,~~~~1~~~~~lki~~,~i!1~1
l•v· .··.·.. '.: '(' :,, . : ; l)·' ,yzrlfS, 1vh:ch strflC~ ~01zday. It's'the. biggest virus to hit l 
Ll~~~as_;_,_,,,_:_.._:.·_. :~.· ·campus~~,z.~e.R1~~!~!~.[l§~.~: •·.,· .· ' ::¾ >>r ..·J 
the Talking Heads and William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet, starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Claire Danes. 
The students did other performances throughout the semester, with each perfor­mance corresponding to a particular unit being covered. The final performance was a little different, though. "It's the only time for expressing ourselves," says Chris 
Goddard. "Other 

Q&A 
10ues · 
Erin Cowell 

Irish Superfan 

The baseball team likes her. Parents cheer for her. Students come to games just to see her, and she was featured at Tuesday's Breast Cancer Awareness game against Illinois-Chicago. Who is she? Hailing from Chicago, she's Notre Dame baseball's ne'west supe1fan, who does her own version of the YMCA at every game -sophomore Erin Cowell. 
Why is your dance so popular? 
I tllink what's funny is that I'm the only one who dances. It's nothing too special, it's just the fact that no one else does it -I guess you just have to be there! 
How did you become the baseball team's YMCA girl? 
I first did it at tlle opening game, and every­one thought it was tlle funniest thing. Now tlley just expect me to be there, I think. 
Has the team been pretty supportive of you? 
Yeah, they always come out of the dugout when I start to dance. 
Why baseball and not basketball? I've always loved baseball, I'm a Cubs fan . But maybe next ye¥ I'll go to all the sport­ing events. 
A lot of athletes have game-day rituals. Do you do anything special to get ready for games? 
Notreally,IJustshowup. It's a tradition tl1at they play the YMCA at the top of the sev­
continued on next page -. 
z 
0 
z 
0 
-I 
m OJ 
0 0 
7\ 

APRIL 29, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

~ 
0 0 
c::c 
w 
l­
o 
z 
0 
z 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 
enth, so that's when I dance. My goal for the end of the season, even though I don't think it will ever happen, is to get the whole team to do the dance with me. 
Any plans to take the show on the road? 
No, I haven't gone anywhere with the team. I wouldn't mind, though. 
Do you get recognized around campus now? 
Well, there are baseball groupies who are at all the games, and they all know me. Parents usually stand up and cheer too, but no one else really recognizes me. 
What do you see as being your future career? 
I'm not sure yet, but I'll tell you one thing, I'm not doing the YMCA for the rest ofmy life unless I get paid a whole lot of money! 
If Notre Dame played the Yankees, who would win? 
Notre Dame, are you kidding?! If I was doing the YMCA, especially, ND would win. 
What's the Celebrity Death Match you'd love to see? 
Idon'tknow ... IthinkBigMacandSammy Sosa, and Sammy would definitely win! 
-Kimberly Blackwell 

A BULL MARKET 
Students Flexing Spending Power 
The first year ofFlex 14 saw sales at campus vendors more than double 

The push toward a paperless monetary system has been in the works for a while. Check cards are replacing checks, direct deposit is replacing pay­checks, credit cards have already replaced loans from the mob. This year Notre Dame Food Services entered the era of "plastic money" with the Flex 14pro­gram. The basis of the program makes sense: the average student eats less than 14 meals a week in the dining hall but 

pays for 21, so why FLEX IT. Flex 14 became the payme~t'----~·,-< ?aving more variety not trade those method of choice at the Huddle Mart. mfood, and not wor­
"wasted" meals in for credits at other food services? Voila! Flex 14 was born. 
After a year of experience, the Huddle Operations Manager Jim LaBella believes that the program has been well received by students, and the numbers seem to back him up. "In the first year the Huddle saw its sales volume more than double, almost 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
.o·. o· b . ' . . ' ,' .... ·. 
·_ ut Of.•_•· ... _--..· SC ur1ty..·._·_.· ·._• .· .· _· . . . . . . 


Versatility lived up to its narne on the cou_r__ .·t . 
. Although Versatilityrnay have lo~fin . a thrilling Cinderella run:.. . . .•.._•. .. . . .·. . 
the_ Bookstore Basketball final game to Malicious Prosecution, its improbable tour"' namentrun was anything but disappoint~ ing. The originally unranked teani _"versatized" fiverankedopponehts enfoute to-.the.fjnal.. inclilcllllg:· #4EnFuego; _#29.-·· Jumbalaya,#5(afforreseedirig) WatchO.ut 
Mostiinpressive v,,astheirdethroning of reigning champion and heavy favorite Prillletime intheJinal four. "Our biggest win was agairistPrirnetirne.Th~y are a great 

. team; and we have a lot of respect fof.them ·and.their past -··success,".saysLillis, who received SecondTeaini\11-Bookstore hon~ 
. 

triple," LaBellanotes. Having a Burger King in LaFortune for the first time hasn't hurt either, but sales growth has not been limited to BK. The Huddlemart, for exampJe, saw bulk candy consumption go from 40 to 50 
pounds a day to more than 200 (for all of those concerned with nutrition, milk con­sumption has also gone "through the roof'). 
The bottom line seems to be conve­nience. The conve­nience of not need-
to carry cash, 

rying about dining hall hours is ultimately winning students over. What had been dead hours in the late afternoon at the Huddle now see a steady stream of consumers. On weekends, the post-parietals rush at Reckers is often com­posed of students who, although they may be unable to walk in astraight a line or even stand up unassisted, can easily "flex it." 
-Seth Fabian 

line and seethatthe guys were behind us . all the way,"·says Childress. For the last fo11r games, the painted fans-spelled ouf ''Yersatility," '.'You'vebeenYersatized''. 
and"Hoo-ah." · As this year was thelast for many top-. 

. ranked teams,versat11ityhas_alegitiinate! claim to th~ #lseed fornextyear's tour-. nament. ''W~ should be even hungrier. next year,'' says James Cochran; "With . ' the experience weg~inedthis yea~. w~'ll . 
.definitelytakeaimto winitall11extyear,'; ·.•.__ ye,rsatilitis. inspiring.run err1bodied 
,for the._.· Hook, ·#4 The Chosen and #1 · ors. JohnHiltz 'and C.aptain Chris . Pillon What bookstore is all about: five friend,s .' Primetime, Theteam consists offive .. werep_ameciio the Firnt1,'eam. ·_--... ·._--•· .\ : ·. playingtqgetherin· exciting, nail~biting keouglue~idents,foµr ofWhom l.ivein the:, '· /Versatmty's,fru1s also._. deserved honors'. games, arnongstrabid fans.Ifyou didn't•·.• 
·same section. Members Jason Childress. • They made their presence felt.every gaine getthC! chancetq ~eethem playJhis year, · (soph.),James Cochran Gun.), Chris DiU.on . byyellirig and paintingJhei~ clie,sts. ·, "Tlle . don;t~Off)\They'hope 'to .be backnext •, ' (soph,), John _Hiltz (fresh.) and Jo.e Lillis ... fans 'N,ereJmge, Everytime.-we got flitHe .·' ye~i:.to "\lersatize;' all compe,titbn,: . : ' (sC>ph.) engineered victory 'after vic.tory in nervous \Ye coullalways)oolc to the, side~ , · · · · -·.> B.a,·,y ¥cIJondl4 
SCHOLASTIC APRIL 29, 1999 
MAGAZINE 





APRIL 29, 1999 
5 


New college grads wanted for
upward career .· ········· move. 
Save$4QO.

llltrepid Caravan 
Drive a great vehicle. Intangible benefits. 
Right now, recent college graduates get $400 off eve,y new Dodge.* Combine that with other current offers on some ofthese models, and you could save even more. Ask a salesperson for details. 
)> 0 
< 
m ;;c -I
-
(/) 
m 
~ 
m 
z 
-I 



The Career & Placement Center's new system is ready and waitingfor students to use it 
BY JARED MARXJust when it seemed that another play on the word "Irish" could not be possible, along came a new one. Notre Dame's Career and Placement center has a new web-based career development package called IRISH, which stands for "Internet Recruiting, Interviewing. and Scheduling Hotlink." This new system has more sig­nificance than just anothei: catchy acronym, though. IRISH will change the way that Notre Dame graduates and undergraduates look for internships and jobs. And for Ca-

directly through the Internet using a stan­dard browser. Once logged in, Mark sub­mits his basic personal data -,-address, phone number, etc. His next step is to create or upload a resume that employers can ac­cess over the Internet. Because IRISH is web-based, Mark doesn't have to buy any special resume software to do this. He then selects companies oremployment fields in which he is interested and submits his resume,along with the customary cover letter (or e-mail, as the case might be). As a result, the companies Mark selected, as well as other companies and organizations that browse the resumes available on the system, can look at Mark's qualifications and decide whether they would like to set up an inter­view with him or even give him a job. The 
reer and Placement Services, IRISH 
represents a first· step that will 
change the way the department 
does business. 
The goal ofIRISH is to provide 
aforum in which students atNotre 
Dame can gain access to job and 
internship opportunities across 
the country. IRISH replac~s 
an older system called 
Resume Expert, which 
had the same basic aim 
as the new system. 
The way IRISH 
works is as fol­
lows: a studentat 
Notre Dame 
(let'ssay,Mark) 
is interested in 
internship and 
employment 
opportunities. 
Mark begins 
by logging 
onto the 

iJ IRISHsystem 
:1 
H 6 SCHOLASTIC 
. MAGAZINE

')i 
I' 
____.,,__..-., 
APRIL 29, 1999 


"Ifa company doesn't recruit here, l,efs do something about it:'-Dr. RussellKitchner 
ultimate financial charge to Mark for all of 
this comes to the grand total of $0. 
How is IRISH different from the way the 

old system used to work? To begin with, its 
implementation should remedy what many 
viewed as the inefficiency ofthe old system. 
Jenny Choi speaks for many seniors when 
she says, "I was frustrated with the time the 
old system took. I felt like it should have 
been a quick walk-in service, but it wasn't at 
all." 
The first problem was that the Resume 

Expert system used by many of this year's 
juniors and seniors had to be individually 
purchased. In addition, Resume Expert, an 
archaic DOS-based system, required stu­
dents to put their resume on a disk and bring 
it to the Career and Placement center in 
Flanner Hall. Junior Carrie Kronk notes, 
"Every time I wanted to change anything on 
my resume, I had to actually go to the Career 
and Placement Office. You couldn't even e­
mail changes to them." IRISH is thus more 
cost-efficient and convenient than Resume 
Expert. 
Also, Dr. Russell Kitchner, acting direc­

tor of Career and Placement Services, says 
that under the old system, Career and Place­
ment acted more like a broker between 
students and companies rather than linking 
them directly. The newer technology of 
IRISH allows students to access companies 
without an· intermediary. In addition, its 
web-based style updates the campus tech­
nologically. As Kitchner notes, "Our stu­
dents are very technologically savvy, and 
this system was not." 
The most critical difference between the 

two systems is the flexibility that the new 
system offers. With IRISH, a student can 
upload up to eight different resumes empha­
sizing the different aspects iri which a par­
ticular company or group of companies 
would be most interested. More importantly, 
the new system allows students access 24 
hours a day and seven days a week, whereas 
the old system relied on the nine-to-five 
schedule of the Career and Placement of­
fice. 
The catch to IRISH is that it is still a very ·new system. Before companies will be in­terested in students' resumes on IRISH, they need to be made aware that there is a database of student information already present. So before anyone can benefit, a good numberof students have to put resumes on the system. This makes the timing of 
APRIL 29, 1999 .· 
implementation a somewhat difficult issue. Kitchner says, "There is no really 'good time' to implement any new system. But rather than force a mid-year change on this year's seniors, we decided to implement the system in April, so that it will be working well by September." The hope is that enough students will join the system now so that next year, when there is no Resume Expert system to fall back on, IRISH will be func­tioning effectively. 
As for the future of IRISH, Kitchner be­lieves that the system will be long-lived. He compares the situation to that of the Model T Ford and a new Mercedes-Benz, saying that "Both of these cars do essentially the same thing, but the Mercedes-Benz is much nicer and a better car. The system we have implemented now does what we need it to. As technology progresses, the only signifi­cant changes we will probably see will be in performance." But in addition, Kitchner envisions a future where technology like teleconferencing will allow students to in~ terview with companies across the country without leaving Flanner Hall. 
The implications of this new system are 
' t, l! time the old system took. een a quick walk-in ll." -Jenny Choi 

more than technological, though. Kitchner, who has been the acting department head for only a short time, is careful not to sound too critical of the way the Career and Place­ment office used to operate. But he says that the department is striving to be "more cre­ative, innovative and responsive" to stu­dents than it has been in the past. Kitchner believes that the Career and Placement of­fice has all too often been seen as only a placement office. Many students, he s~ys, regard the office only as a place to go as seniors in need of jobs. While he doesn't want to downplay the significance of this role, Kitchner emphasizes that the Career and Placement office is also interested in helping all students "envision their futures." He says, "The happiest seniors that I know are the ones who did an internship between tbeir sophomore and junior year and be-the ability to interact through the web in the same way that students will soon be able to network. Through the new system, a gradu­ate in San Francisco could conceivably put a resume on the Internet in search ofa job in the same way that a current student could. 
More than anything, Kitchner wants to· make Career and Placement Services more relevant to those who use it. He notes that one ofhis concerns with the Resume Expert system was that there was little input from other "key institutional players," such as the OIT, the Alumni Association, the business school or even students, in its selection. In developing the new system, he notes there was an emphasis on obtaining input from these and other groups. Now, the question will be whether the implementation ofIRISH will help lead to the future that Kitchner tween their junior and senior year, went back to the company, signed on the dotted line and then had their last year of college paid for by that company." 
envisions.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  7  
MAGAZINE  

For the Career and Placement office, IRISH represents a first step toward the different philosophy that the office hopes to espouse. Kitchner notes that he is striving to work on what he calls the supply and de­mand side ofcareer and placement services. By offering the more accessible IRISH sys­tem and beginning to work with students earlier in their academic careers, Kitchner hopes to help Notre Dame students make themselves more marketable. But at the same time, he says that he doesn't want to limit students only to the companies and. organizations that actively recruit on cam­pus. He notes a focus on bringing more companies to Notre Dame: "If a company doesn't recruit here, let's do something about it." 
Kitchner also expresses a desire to ex~ pand services to Notre Dame alumni by computerizing the already-existing network of alums in the workplace. In the future, IRISH will give alumni around the country 



. 

.

u 
The Hall Presidents' Council works to improve pep rallies for the 
(/) upcoming football season 
~ 
w 
BY JACKLYN KIEFER
z 
AND TINA ZURCHER 
The recently elected 1999-2000 Hall President's Council, made up of the presidents from each dorm, is setting new precedents in addition to bringing back old traditions. One of the council's major goals for the next school year is overhauling the present pep rally format, making the 1999 season rallies more like the livelier ones ofa few years ago. Members hope that the changes will increase student interest and combat decreasing attendance at the i: rallies. 
• 1 
An old tradition which HPC is trying to bring back is the appearance of speakers and skits at the pep rallies. In the 1998 foot­ball season, students at the rallies were able to see few speakers and skits because, according to Brian Rigney, co­chair of HPC, "Bob Davie wanted to keep the focus on the team." However, many students felt that part of the attraction of the rallies was lost with this change; they felt that part of the "pep" in the rallies was gone. 


The co-coordinators of the pep rallies for next year are juniors Cathy Scroope and Shaun Desmond. So far they have met with people from the football office and ob­tained permission to do what­ever they wish with the time . slot from 6: 15 to 6:50 p.m. before the pep rallies. They plan on arranging for better , speakers at the 1999 pep ral­lies. Some of the names being discussed include Spike Lee, Joe Montana, and other Notre Dame players who are inter-
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

ested in coming back to speak. "There are always interesting people around this area who could speak," says Rigney, but the problem with arranging for speakers is get­ting them approved by the university, which has to approve any.speaker an organization wants to bring to campus. 
HPC is . trying to further revitalize the rallies by taking suggestions from students. Rigney says, "A lot of people complained that there was not enough student involve­ment in the pep rallies this year, which is true." Another major effort ofHPC to bring the students back to the rallies includes arranging for special student skits at each pep rally. 
Besides just getting students to the JACC or the stadium for the pep rallies, the council hopes to "bring back the enthusiasm and promote more hall spirit," says Scroope. HPC as a whole noted that one of the main problems with this year's rallies was the lack ofdorm spirit shown there. To improve this, hall banners will also be allowed for the next season, provided that they are in good taste, Scroope says. 

Another action of the HPC co-coordina­tors is talking to Adidas to-try to persuade the company to give pep rally T-shirts to each dorm like it has done in the past. They are still negotiating the details, but one idea that could help persuade Adidas is to have students pay one dollar per shirt. Another possibility is that dorms could get personal­
ized T-shirts by paying half tlie cost to Adidas while the student pays· the rest. 
As an organization, the main purpose of HPC is to "motivate the students and coordinate com­munication between student gov­ernment and the dorms," says Rigney. The hall presidents are the ones responsible for providing the ·information at section meet­ings, for informing their respec­tive dorms of activities planned for. each· week, and for planning dorm wide and campus wide activi­ties ,sponsored by,each dorm. For the next school year, the budget 
c?mmittee has allotted :he_cou?-. 
..., . cil an extra $5,000, brmgmg Its total}? $18,000, which Rigney says It will allocate to the 27 Notre. Dame dorms. The council is fur­ther trying to get students active on campus by asking hall presi­dents to plan activities now rather than next year since they will have to tum in their budget for the year by the first week of_ school. This 
. should allow the presidents to plan more exciting activities for next year. 0 
APRIL 29, 1999 


BY HEATHER HOGAN
The air is a. little thicker and warmer, classes are more tedious than ever and finals are rapidly approaching. 
The weather is now celebrated rather than lamented, and summer is right around the corner. Soon the last paper will be turned in and the last test will be graded, and those summer plans you made two months ago will finally become a reality. 
For some students the drudgery of the daily grind of the workforce will not begin right away. A few lucky Notre Dame students have made alternative plans for summer that go beyond the typical summer internship or summer service project. 
Whilefriends are attend­ing summer classes or waking up early in the morning to start the day's commute to work, Lizzie Bracken, a first-year ar­chitecture student, will be putting on her uniform. Unlike her paper-hatted peers, however, Bracken will be dressing as the av-· erage Irish tavern worker from the late 17th or early 18th century. Employed with the "Town Criers," a theater group in Philadelphia, Pa., Bracken will be perform­ing in historical skits and providing infor­mation to tourists in the city's historical town square. After reading an announce~ ment for the position, Bracken auditioned and won the character role, which she will perform until Labor Day weekend. . 
Some of the most interesting jobs are the · ones far away from home. Tony Lusvardi, a freshman who plans to major in English and philosophy, will be exploring Europe 
throughout the summer. His plans include . working in a friend's restaurant in Spain for Balbort is not the only student taking her 
APRIL 29, 1999 
\ 

a few weeks and eventually moving on to Italy to visit family and friends. 
Patrick Schlehuber, a senior finance ma­jor, will also be traveling abroad. Fulfilling a lifetime goal before starting work in the fall at Arthur Andersen in Chicago, the California native will be bartending in Killarney, Ireland. "It's my dream job," says Schlehuber. "I'll be working the rest of my life, so there's no hurry [to start]." 
Liberty Balbort is staying stateside this summer after having spent last summer in 
Jerusalem, where she worked in rudimen­tary village health clinics along the West Bank of Israel. As a· biology major with plans of attending medical school after graduation next year, Balbort is going to gain more medical experience this summer as a camp counselor in Texas at Camp Sweeney, a camp for young children with diabetes. As head fishing instructor Balbort says, 'Tm looking forward to working with children in the great outdoors, and it helps that it will be in a medical setting. It should be a lot of fun." . 
n 
)> 
~ 
7J 
(f) 
r 
'"TI 
m 

career into consideration when making sum­mer plans. Aaron Cook, a second-year ar­chitecture student, will be working at Mid­west Putting Greens in Naperville, Ill., as head architect, designing golf courses throughout the midwest. "It will give me good practice for Rome next year, and bet­ter yet, I get to be in charge," says Cook. 
While everyone else is off searching for jobs, five daring women from Lewis Hall will be trekking across the country. Karen Housler, Courtney Keck, Kimberly Megna, 
Sarah Shirey and Jen Kaminski, all seniors gradu­ating in a few weeks, will be road-tripping to Shirey's house in Yakima, Wash. The five women, who intend to get CB radios and· learn to talk like true truckers, have been planning this adventure for a while now. They leave the day after graduation. Says Housler, "It'll be one last hurrah before we all go our different directions." Shirey adds, "Graduation would be so sad otherwise. This way we have something else to look forward to." 
Not everyone has such bold and adventurous plans for the time between the end of school and the start of 

work, but it may be an opportune time to fulfill a dream or two. Derek Betcher, a senior in Morrissey, says, "I wantto take my grandmother to see the Cubs play at least a couple of times before I start work, if pos­sible." 
Though not all .of us will be fortunate enough to see the Cubs play this summer, three months of summer do await us all. Whether it's chasing after that pot ofgold or selling lemonade on a nudie beach, summer is a great time to try something new and chase a dream. What are you doing this summer? 0 
SCHOLASTIC 9 
MAGAZINE 


~?cfiif,st 
jf£ji~-4,:::~;::.: _;__·f0.'lf,~;r_:,:-"-;:;:j,•c;\ 




BY ELIZABETH BURNETT AND MEG R.EYNDERS 
It's 6:30 a.m. on a typical Tuesday at Notre Dame. The familiar sounds of the waking campus fill the air. The birds chirp, the wind whistles through the trees, and the construction crew revs up the ma­chines for the day. Nearly lost in this com­motion, though, are the faint noises of stu­dents frantically typing away at their com­puters and the distant hum of printers spit­ting out the last pages of papers due in half an hour. Often overshadowed· by athletes and overachievers, these select students fail to receive the attention they deserve. Keep­ing in mind the struggle they endure to maintain their. status on this campus, 14 short hours before this article is due, we sit down to write and honor the few, the proud, the delirious -the procrastinators. Those of you out there know who you are -be honest with yourselves. You know all too well the names of the late-night deliver­ers at Wolfie's and Papa John's, and you could write the biography of the security guard downstairs with whom you've shared many a late night waiting for the food you ordered. You are way too familiar with the clicking noise of your coffee brewing in the backgrour1d of your dorm room, and you don't even notice anymore that the coffee you make is so strong it's chewable. You experience Mountain Dew and Jolt with-. drawals, and you even wrote the Jolt com­pany to thank them when they came out with the new cherry and citrus flavors.The candy wall at the Huddle seems to have eaten away 
12 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

all your flex points and you've used your· Huddle Coffee Card more times this week than your meal card. 
Okay, okay, maybe you haven't reached these extremes of procrastination yet. Per­haps you 're still in the closet procrastinator stage. You have good intentions of getting your homework done at a leisurely pace ­at least thinking about the paper a couple of times before the due date. You even act like you're going to finish it at a decent hour the day before it's due by surrounding yourself with notes and having your name and date on your computer screen before you leave for dinner. You stay optimistic, thinking it's only 7:00 now and you can surely crank this paper out within a couple of hours. 
Alas, those poor computer games keep you simply must hear before starting your work. 
Many overachievers question the justifi­cation for such delays. Some procrastina­tors view it as a skill. Almost everyone can take their time and do well on an assign­ment. Yet how many can put the assignment off until the last minute and still do well? Procrastination serves to "separate the men from the boys" in a competitive academic environment. 
·"Some peopldike to call it procrastina­tion, but I consider it an art form," says freshman procrastinator Tracy Prochaska. "It takes a certain talent to keep yourself occupied while constantly being within mere inches of your work, yet never quite reach­ing for those books." 
"Some people like to call it procrastination, but I consider it an art form. It takes acertain talent to keep yourself occupied while constantly being within mere inches of your work, yet never quite reaching for those books." 
begging you to play them, and it would be rude to ignore the names of friends appear­ing on your Instant Messenger Buddy List. By the time midnight rolls around, you've accomplished nothing and the screen that at least had your name and the date on it is somehow lost in your search for "that one song" on theNetworkNeighborhood which 
-Tracy Prochaska 

RA Jared Pulver sees procrastination as a necessity in his academic experience. "Frankly, I don't find the work to be chal~ lenging [on] its own, so procrastination pro­vides me with that extra pressure," he says. 
As if these justifications aren't convinc­ing enough, senior AndreaAllocco explains that she ends up saving herself a lot of time 
APRIL 291 1999 

in the end because she finds that her best work is done quickly and under pressure. Allocco went as far as the Kentucky Derby two years ago on. the weekend before finals. Not only did she have a great time, but she saved herself a weekend of agonizing over studying while not actually studying. 
"[Procrastination] has just become a part of my life," she said: "I only keep getting better at it." In a show of true procrastinator spirit, Allocco will venture to the Ken­tucky Derby once again next week, just three days before her CPA exams. 
While we might not take procrastination to such · extremes, we have re­alized during the course ofwriting this article that we have be­come true pro­c r as tin at ors since coming to ND. Sadly, it's 2:51 a.m., 12 hours before this article is due. We're sit­ting on the floor with the laptop in front of us, empty Diet· Mountai~ Dew bottles to our left, the coffee pot on the desk well within reaching dis­
tance, an~ our 'i'°""lllllijlllll-¦-.;•1-,­r o om mate mumbling peacefully in her sleep· from her bunk.' Four days af-________. 
ter receiving the as_sign~ent . for LalllinL Wb//this article, eight . . ·.. hours after putting ·our names and the date on· a Microsoft Works screen. and 17 minutes after promising ourselves that we'd never procrastinate this much again, here we are. After one Tae Bo workout, two Wolfie's sandwiches, three cups of cold black coffee, two orders ofbreadsticks ( over a meaningful conversation with three girls in the dorm), four chats with friends on 
APRIL 29, .199? 
Instant Messenger, six interviews for the article, two phone calls, two rounds of the hallways by the security guard (who has become one ofour better adult friends here) and four rounds of that mindless "Same Game" (that our roommate sadistically in­stalled on the computer), we are finally coming to the realization that we are prime examples of procrastinators. 
Staggered by this epiphany, we realize 

that we have neglected to do the calculus homework that's due at 10:30, which has somehowbecomeameresevenhoursaway. Our words from this afternoon come creep­ing back to haunt us as we remember saying ·· that the writing would flow . once we got 
started,. which would have been· good be­cause we could really have used the sleep after last night's battle with homework. So much for that sleep thing! 
As guilt starts to overcome us in the midst of the chillingly silent dorm, we rejoice. to hear the faint sounds of a printer across the hall. It's comforting to know that we're not totally alone in the procrastination syndrome -in fact, we start to feel almost proud that we've completed this article despite the pressing distractions of the evening. It is probably time that we wrap this up, though, 
and move on to that calc assign­ment. 

But; heck, it's already this late -howharmful can a couple more Same Games be? Anditcan'ttake us that long just to flip through the MP3 files quickly to see if they have that one '80s Whitney Hous­ton song that's been in our heads all day long. Besides, there is al­ways coffee at the Huddle, and tomorrow we can get a free one with our combined Coffee Cards. Further­more, any of you who are reading this are probably pro­crastinating right now. Fi­nals .are next week -we suggest you start looking over notes for the philo p~per ·you have ·to writeormemo­rize a few mathematical equations for your calc final on Monday. On second thought, go to the Kentucky ~--•-Derbyordo something en­tertaining to occupy your time. . Take comfort in knowing that somehow, sometime, your work will 
get done. Putting off work only helps you maintain your highly regarded status as one of the few, the proud, the delirious -the procrastinators. 
So be strong and remember: "Hard work often pays offafter time, but procrastination always pays off now." D 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

I ; ! ; 




n explosion. A power outage. Directly related or not, recent campus events have dragged the power plant into the center of attention. The university, meanwhile, has been doing everything it can to keep the power plant -and its recent violations -_ out of the news. Administrators hope that the focus will shift to the measures being taken to keep the university in compliance with environmental regulations. 

'1/1 otre Dame had to pay a quarter-million dollar fine in f 1,Ianuary 1998 for violations of the CleanAirAct when the power plant exceeded acceptable levels of emissions. The. viola­tions occurred when three of the university's five boilers failed a series of emissions tests. conducted between 1991 and 1995 which showed excessive particulate matter and sulfur dioxide output. In 1996 the EPA cited Notre Dame for these violations. Administrators took stepsinorderto comply with EPA standards, but earlier this school year, the university had to pay another fine 
for a new infraction. 
-,--his second violation was less harmful 
V thanthe first one, and the accompany­ing fine was less expensive. Jim Lyphout, associate vice president for Business Op-. erations, describes the newer violation as resulting from a "mere technicality." The violation occurred when the power plant operated a boiler at a level above the permit­ted Iii.nits. Notre Dame had agreed upon these limits as part ofits stricter compliance with EPA regulations following the citation iri" 1996. 
The power plant currently runs five boil­ers which bum different mixtures of oil, natural gas and coal. The consent decree resolving the power plant's violations set limits on two factors of the boilers: their load limit, which is th~ level at which opera­tors run the boilers, and their opacity, which ·is the amount of particulate matter emitted from the boilers. Boilers 2 and 3 must bum below a 90 percent load limit, while the other three boilers can run at 100 percent. For calculation purposes, the limits are taken as hourly averages: ·thus Boilers 2 and 3 can be run over 90 percent at times, as long as they average 90 percent or less per hour. 
APRIL 29, 1999 , 
The opacity level must remain below 30 percent. 
Ed Keve, the assistant director ofutilities, says these limits are "comparable to speed limits." While a vehicle on a highway may thing the university doesn't want to release at this time," says Keve. 
Excessive emissions from boilers such as those at Notre Dame can be harmful to human health. Lloyd Ketchum, associate professor of Civil Engineering and Geo­logical Sciences, says that the problems with emissions stem from "primarily sulfur dioxide and particulate materials." When sulfur dioxide enters the respiratory tract, it can damage respiratory organs and cause infections. It can also impair breathing by causing coughing, wheezing and shortness of breath. In addition, when sulfur dioxide penetrates deep into the lungs, it can alter their lining, reducing the lungs' ability to remove foreign particles. 
Particulate matter can be harmful as well: when inhaled, it can carry toxic substances into the lungs, causing infections and dam­age to the organs. Heart and lung disease 
-Clu eJlA~t Anio-unt b.f tlu fine i.s 11.so-nietl,,in'3 tlu univer.sity_ vio-e.sn't w11,nt to-re(ett,.se 11,t tl,,i.s tinie.'1 -£,vi -/<,eve, 1t.s.si.st11,nt viire~to-r o-f-uti(itie.s 
maintain an average speed of 55 mph, it generally fluctuates above and below that. 
According to Lyphout, the violation that took place earlier this school year resulted from an operator's mistake. The operator ran a boiler above the 90 percent hourly average for too long. Lyphout says the op­erator did this in order to "clean" the boiler, an action arising from the operator's misun­derstanding of the agreement about load limits. 
The exact amount of the fine is "some­can result from excessive particulate inha­lation. 
Environmental problems can also arise from the emission of sulfur dioxide and particulate matter. In excessive amounts, visible emissions of particulate matter can result in "black soot settling all over the area," Ketchum says. Furthermore, sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere can contribute to the formation ofacid rain. The combination of particulate matter wi_th sulfur dioxide is particularly bad because it can heighten the 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
consequences of sulfur dioxide pollution. 
As a result of the more recent violation, Notre Dame has self-initiated some mea­sures to ensure its continued compliance with EPA regulat_ions. In several ways, it has changed how power plant personnel interact. Six months ago, an environmental engineer was hired to focus on air quality and monitor the running of the boilers closely. This engineer acts as an objective source to evaluate the power plant, remain­ing outside of the plant's operations and reporting directly to Paul Kempf, director ofutilities. This way "he can be as open and honest as he wants," says Lyphout. A sec­ond improvement is increased training for boileroperators to prevent future misunder­standings. Also, the power plant adminis­trators have taken different approaches to to utilities administrators, enabling them to respond promptly to any problematic situa­tions. This information is then tabulated into a quarterly report and given to the lndianaDepartmentofEnvironmental Man­agement (IDEM) as an Emission Inventory Statement. · 
Right now, representatives from IDEM and the EPA come to witness tests and make reports at the power plant about two times a year, though "they have the right to show up any time and check up on operations," says Lyphout. If the power plant passes two or three stack tests, the degree oftesting will be reduced as Notre Dame's continued com­pliance becomes more assured. 
In an important development, the power plant's administrators are "looking at more ways to reduce emissions, because in order 

7'ne llf1et'A.t/Jt'J llf tne f1/JWet' pfA-nt fl4V~ A.(JIJ v1Jtunt4rity lfetun t/J llper-A.te Plliter~ A.t A.n A.rtificiA.tty (IJW (ifftit t/J enJure C/JH4f1!iA.nce witn tne.c1JnJent decree/ 4 Jllrt "fJetf­tH4f1ll~eA lh/Jntt/Jrtnff JyJtefft. 
management by invoJving more people in decision-making, according to Keve. They 


I! 
have adopted a team approach to problem­solving in which operators and administra­tors working together, and they hope that this new approach will help them find the 
. most reliable ways to keep the plant in compliance with regulations. 

! 
In addition to the management changes, 

I 
I 
different ways were developed to physi­cally decrease and track the amount of the[ power plant's output. The ratio of the fuels burnt in its boilers was changed in order to 
!:i,' 
use more natural gas. Of the three fuels the boilers use, natural gas is the cleanest-burn­ing, so using more of it than the others results in less pollution. The operators ofthe power plant have also voluntarily begun to operate its boilers at an artificially low limit to ensure compliance with the consent de­cree, a sort ofself-imposed monitoring sys­tem, according to Kempf. Several alarms have been installed to warn operators if the boilers approach the limits. In addition, a daily tracking and analysis system of boiler loads and opacities is now available hourly 
\· 
16 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
to continue growth we have to reduce emis­
sions," Kempf says. As Notre Dame grows 
and requires more energy to run, the power 
plant will have to find ways to minimize its 
operations in order to remain in compliance 
with the regulations set by the EPA. 
Recently, the Utilities Department has 
initiated the formation of a 25-year master 
plan under study by the organization Black 
and Beech, according to Keve. "This is our 
own response -we master-plan every­
thing else around here, so why not do the 
same for the power plant?" Keve says. The· 
organization will conduct assessments of 
the power plant, evaluating the conditions 
of its operation and the abilities of its staff. 
Its findings will also help the administrators 
at the power plant look ahead to corning 
environmental changes and new laws which 
will affect the plant's future operation. 

Whatever changes may be made to the . power plant in the future, the pollution load 
will never increase, says Lyphout. All ac­
tions being taken will decrease emissions, 
regardless of whatever happens when the 
amount of EPA testing is reduced. . 
~tmi!}f

··•·.·..·...·.·.•·>:~~JJ; 
·'·. ' '-.· _::_'..:. .';--~-·\:.~:::.. '. ~ ·, 


/.Notre.. DaIJ:J.e'.s: plilrifrers cons_idered. a·_.. \ ·: '.
,:;:zttt:~i;ef1t::~0ltib~;:!~:!:\:,J:t):~ 

·. r,bttting th~ci:eek, says ~on,ld IIeiµ~rithal, ·_..·• •\ :: --..... 
··-: '.,\:~-~ 
.,,,{ 
' .·,,;. 
..:·\)) 
.·,:'.·.'·~-./; 
·._.._.:.:•.; 

bem0 cqn~tructed. . _; , · ... , . .·.·..
::r4~;;;,1a!i~riii ;~ 
ing site'fo~ browri·troui.Biit'from)98$:t.o : : ·~:"
:~bo~fa9.~i:J11~li~~f~-~h~qeea,~A~~ ·. :·\{
her ofsetbacks·, Diie1tc>: seditnentand·ero~·• 

APRIL-29, 1999 



,Th~y bave t6 present ·eviderice.::beyond a 11otbe treatedWithpesticides;which v.rould ,monitoring proces~fr has_ beg~n. .· .' . ' .-'ri~soriable do.ubt tliat'the'bodY<of\Vatet and . run. into.the.'stre~m, an:d ske~ its:ecologic;u'·. '..•··.. Itis too early totelLwhether the cfomges'<othe{"ecol~g'ica(syst;ni{ wil{riot ~e ~a; balarice.: . . .. ·. _·.. ·. . _ . . .-have ,be;en succ;es~fuL ''.Ican'ttell you it's 
¼er~ely 'affecte1;r by' th~ mo~e~ After the }\:ccording/J~ JI(:)llenthal/<Notre D,~e' arngiilg sgccess;'' Hell,e:mthal says. ''We'll 
changes, the groups are required'by law to ''.gaye beyoncl what the' law reqµif¢d, ;; both.have: tb chec~.back in. a'f~w year,s." ' . . . ',foon.itcir the_ body of ·~afof extehsiveiy"io 111 its renovatfolJ.Clf the. stream arid iri the ·· ·_·. . .~Tina Zurcher 
;'if:ttrs ~o~t~?~~n,genvirnrurieritar ... ­
; ' >After obtaining' these permits,· ·._ Notre Dame allottt!d nearlY·Iialf a> ·., Ynil1iondollars'f9r'the readjitstrrieni ',,of.Judiy'Creekand commissioned 
,;(,tliis;':the'·foam us'ecf•amultifoid,·af ·;-:
)i[:\ltifitr!li~ki~lt1, 
. , ,,-:\ipdprotec~ivewrapar6ul}dth~b!l,Ilks '• ''. ·.. ' ·. 'o(th~ stream:to:encou,rag~ the,gi:o'wth ': 
APRIL 29, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

----< ---------------------~---~ 

>­
~ 
TIP THE 0 I P P . OIPPER. l@ND.EDU 
~ 
z 
w 
~ ~ 
0 
u 
V) 
:) 
CL 
~ 
<( 
u 
:I 

I W
ell, this is it: this particularGipper' s dents got an e-mail from the advising office last appearance in Scholastic. The telling them that their behavior had been Gipp will try not to get all mushy unacceptable. From now on, MCAT-takers 
and sentimental about it until the last couple · will be closely monitored, and may even of paragraphs. Before that happens, he's have to drive to Chicago or Indianapolis just actually rather excited to be able to bring to take the test if Notre Dame decides to you a special expanded farewell column, to cancel MCA Ts· here. thank his loyal readers for send­ing in all those tips all year. He's sorry he couldn't have had an­other page to fit everything he received, but he'll have to blame that one on his editors. Anyway, without further ado ... 
If Not Here, Where? If Not Now, When? 
When the Gipp finishes with 

Scholastic, he hopes he can cel­ebrate with as.much style as the -~~tle"ao 0. future brain surgeons who took 1/7II;/, ~ , the MCAT a couple of weekends .,....,....,1/,..../l/_/J.,,,1/LI, ~"=' ago. Immediately after the mara-ij,ljj thonexamwasover,relievedtest-q; takers unwound by throwing a Jl!IJ,((L.r{J.IIJ,J' party outside of DeBartolo ­complete with kegstands. 

Our tipper reports that Notre Dame security was there the whole time, but didn't step in. Not that the administration would let the scene -straight out of some plaid-wearing alumnus' treasure trove of "Notre Dame in the '70s" stories -go unpunished. The "We cannot have such behavior at Notre following Monday, all pre-professional stu-Dame," the message said. That's odd. "Such 
18 SCHOlASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


behavior" is about all the Gipp remembers from his four years here. 
Maybe Kegstands Would Have Been More Appropriate 
The Gipp doesn't think he' 11 be emulating the less-conventional celebration ofanother test-taker. For a reason only this future healer knows for sure, he poured a bottle of liquid detergent down the front of his pants. Then he left it there, for the next six hours. At that point, he decided that the stinging was getting too painful, and tried to make it stop with a two-hour shower. That didn't work, so he tried dipping it in milk and treating the whole area with baby powder. Finally someone had to call the infirmary. 
The Gipp wants to take a .moment to formally apologize to anyone at the infir­mary whom he has ever been too hard on. Anyone willing to handle the problem of this guy's Tide-and milk-soaked Johnson deserves all the credit in the world, and a set of heavy-duty latex gloves too. 
Where Have You Gone, Pat Garrity? 

The Gipp was glad to see that Matt Doherty, the classy new basketball coach, played in the bookstore tournament this year. Too bad not all his players are as good 
at dealing with non-athletes and other peons. 
One tipper reports that a couple of bookstore fans inno­cently trying to go about their business ofyelling mean things at the players got some un­wanted attention from a fresh­man varsity basketball player when they started picking on a · buddy of his. He followed the guys -all of whom are a foot shorter than he is -around the court, threatening to "kick their asses." He also allegedly told a 5'6"; glasses-wearing Asian fan, "Go back to your com­puter. ... In a couple of years I'll be making millions, and you're still going to be in a lab." 

The Gipp is not usually one to wish injury on the first half­way-decent basketball talent to come through here for a while, but he does think it would be pretty funny if this guy ever had to rely on his intellect to get him through life. Well, funny for the rest of us, anyway. 
·APRll 29, 1999 


That's More Like It this story: first, ifyou ever get a bike stolen, 
The Gipp wants to applaud another group check the rack next to the practice field. And of guys and girls for their bookstore behav­second, if you're a football player and you ior, which was much more suitable to the wonder why people don't treat you like occasion. Rather than determining posses­everybody else, ask our favorite stone-fin­sion ofthe ball with the traditional coin toss, gered wide receiver. 
they played a spirited game of cups. At half­time, they set the table up for a couple more rounds of fun. 
Call the Gipp a hope­less romantic ifyou will, but he almost gets tears inhiseyeswhenhethinks about the wonderful place Notre Dame would be if we had a few more basketball players like these ones and a few less like that freshman. Ah, to dream. 
Fringe Benefit #1: Public Revenge 
The Gipp knows some people who say he's too hard on football players, thatthey'rereallynot bad guys, and that they don't cause any more trouble than any other students. Seriously. Maybe it's because the· spring weather has been improv­ing his mood, but lately 
he was beginning to think that maybe it was 
all true. 
The Gipp wants to take a moment to thank 
one of the wide receivers for snapping him 
back to reality. 
A couple ofweeks ago, this football player 
stole _the Gipp's bike. The G_ipp's stupid 
roommate took it to campus and didn't lock 
it, and it disappeared. A couple ofdays later 
the Gipp heard from his vast network of 
sou_rces that this guy had lifted a bike strik­
ingly similar to the Gipp's. He refused to 
give it back even after the Gipp found out 
about the whole thing, claiming that he had 
los~ the bike shortly after taking it. 
Later, the Gipp found the bike sitting unattended and unlocked next to DeBartolo, and took it home. At this point, he began to feel glad that a football player had taken it, · because only someone like that would be dumb anci/or cocky enough to steal a bike 
and then not even bother locking it. 
The Gipp )pinks there are two morals to 
. , 

APRIL 29, 1999 

The Thrill of Victory. Of Def eat 
Too, For That Matter. 

The Gipp doesn't know ifyou've noticed, but the column has been completely sex­free so far. That's a violation of the Gipp' s personal code of conduct, so he finds him­self forced to tell you this: 
At the beginning of the semester a group of·12 girls from BP split into two teams, competing to see who could hook up the most before Mardi Gras. There were some ground rules (the participants wouldn't want to seem like sluts or anything): no guy could participate more than twice, and each girl could only score two "points" per night. 
The prize was a keg of beer, which Te.am Pheromone took home by racking up 124 points, compared to the 96 points of Team "That's A Wall I Want To Climb." 
The Gipp isn't sure which team to con­gratulate, because it seems like they both competed gamely, and tried their hardest. And after all, that's what really counts. 
By The Way ...  
It would be a mistake if the Gipp let the year end without mentioning that many of  :,;I  
the tips and compliments he has received  
have come from university employees.  
Be nice to them, kids. More often than  
not, they're the ones clean­ 

ing up after the dumb pranks we all love to read about. That they usually do so with­out complaining is almost superhuman, as any regular reader ofthis column should know. 
Attention, Groupies 
The Gipp wouldn't want his legions offans to have to go through the rest of their lives longing to know his real identity. So, just this once, he's going to tell you a secret. His real name is Jake Mooney. 
Jake used to be Scholastic'snews editor, but that job didn't involve enough naked or drunk people for his tastes, so he was forced to branch out. 
Gipp scholars should take note of the fact that, like the last two Gippers, Jake is a PLS major. There is a simple reason for this: PLS majors are smarter than most people. 

Except for people in the honors program, but PLS majors are cooler than them. 
If any of the athletes, administrators or others whom Jake has offended (including the anonymous glee dubber who e-mailed a threat ofviolence) are interested in revenge, Jake feels obligated to warn them that he is seven feettall, bench-presses Volkswagons, has won the last three national arm-wres­tling championships and eats people like them for breakfast along with his bagel and coffee. 
Jake hopes that you have enjoyed his column, and wants to thank everyone who sent kind words. He hopes that he has been funny at least some of the time, and that when he has failed to be funny he has at least been tasteless or offensive. 
He leaves you with a reminder to keep those tips coming. Try not to take your­selves or your school too seriously and ­most important -'-always laugh at those who do. 0 
SCHOLASTIC 
19 
MAGAZINE 


''My Heart's
V) 
I­
0 ~ 
a.. 
at Notre Drune''
V) 

INTERVIEW WI TH LOU HOLTZ• BY CHRISTOPHER HAMILTON 
Not much will change for Lou Holtz this fall when he returns to the field on football Saturdays as head 
coach of the South Carolina Gamecocks. He will still roam frantically up and down the sidelines. He will still crouch down during critical third-down situations and methodically pick at the grass. After a bad play, he will still grab ahold ofthe facemask of a player twice his size and see to it that the mistake does not occur again. He might even put a referee or two in a headlock. 
-But he will be the first to tell you that life won't even come close to being the same as it was under the Dome. 
"There's nothing like being at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame," reflects the first­year South Carolina head coach during his trip to South Bend last week. "I was here 11 years and loved the place and loved the students. I didn't think I'd ever coach again after I left Notre Dame because where do · you go from Notre Dame except, accord­ing to my mother, directly to heaven and sit next to the Pope?" 
Holtz has just arrived at the Morris Inn, where he is staying during his brief trip to South Bend. Spring practice recently wrapped up for his Gamecock squad.As he sits on the edge of the couch during the interview, one cannot help but notice the prominently featured Notre Dame insignia on his gold watch as he discusses his fond­ness for the university. 
"Notre Dame's special and there's no place like it," he continues. "But, Ialso feel blessed to have the opportunity to be in coaching because that's all I am is a teacher. But; you don't compare any place with Notre Dame-no place." 
That's not to say Holtz is unhappy with 
APRIL 29, 1999 

his new position at South Carolina. For a coach who has made a career out of reviving ailing programs, he readily greets the opportunity to tum the Game­cocks into a contender. And the state of South Carolina could not be happier that he is the man leading the way. o 
"The people have been great in South :cti Carolina," Holtz says in earnest. "I told a. ~ the people there that I am not doing u: . 
them a favor by being there. Yeah, we DEEP IMPACT. Notre Dame loved Lou almost as 
b. . 1. b ·ct much as Lou loves Notre Dame. 
have a 1g mountam to c 1m an a · difficult challenge ahead. We didn't have their loyalty to Notre Dame, their love of anybody drafted in the NFL, we won one Notre Dame, all of it." game [last year]; but I'm just glad to be part "The students here are fantastic," says of the family. !just want to be part of the Holtz, nodding his head. "I was absolutely family that pulls together and somehow overwhelmed today with the student reac­enjoys success there." tion. I was not ready for that." 
Holtz took his first step to realizing suc­He is referring to his one-hour lecture that cess by selecting a top-notch coaching staff, was held in the College of Business that includes three former Notre Dame Administration's 350-seat Jordan Audito­coaches: tight end coach Dave Roberts, rium on Tuesday, April 20. An estimated defensive coordinator Charlie Strong, and 600 people, comprised almost entirely of his son, assistant head coach Skip Holtz. students, packed into the lecture hall to 
While teaming up with Roberts and Strong hear the legendary coach offer his words of again excites Holtz, it is his reunion with his wisdom. son, who was the head coach ofConnecticut "That thing wasjammed with students," last season, that really makes his return to says Holtz, who was still in shock at the coaching a gratifying experience. tremendous turnout. "I thought there would 
"It really is special because he's not only be 20 to 30 students there." my best friend, but he's a great football He then launches into a story about a coach," he says about Skip's presence on conversation he had with a student earlier in the staff. "And I think the job he did at the the day. During this conversation, he had University ofConnecticut proved he can be told the student about his plans io take his a head coach." wife to Jerusalem this July. 
"He emphasizes the pass a little bit more "Somebody said, 'How's your wife do­than I do," says Holtz with a grin. "So, we're ing?'" recalls Holtz, beginning the anec­right back to the same arguments we had dote. "I said, 'Fine. I don't pray for her, I here [at Notre Dame]. But, I will say this: pray to her.' And I said I promised her for he's made a lot of nice improvements in our our 38th anniversary this summer that ifshe offense that we've incorporated .... He's an gains a few more pounds, that I'd take her to excellent coach." the Holy Land for our anniversary." 
Perhaps Holtz' s reason for constructing a "And the student said, 'Gee, that's great,"' coaching staff with such a strong Notre says Holtz, trying to contain his laughter. Dame influence involves his desire to recre­"'She's coming back to Notre Dame!'" ate the magic he had at the university, the "I miss that cleverness, the friendliness of same magic that erupted in Notre Dame them," he says immediately after, still laugh-Stadium during his final home game as Irish ing. head coach. Or maybe these coaches simply His appreciation for students was evident fit the needs of his overall scheme. Either throughout his one-day trip to Notre Dame. way, it is evident that Holtz looks back at his Despite a very hectic schedule, which in­Notre Dame days with a degree ofsentiment cluded giving the lecture, having lunch with that he believes he could not have for any­the management faculty, visiting with old where else. friends and acting as emcee at a dinner in 
"I miss many things," he starts. "I miss honor ofFr. Hes burgh, he still found time to being able to run over and go to church, go interact with students. to confession, go by the.Grotto, and just the For example, he visited a group of stu­beauty of this place .... I'll miss Bookstore dents in Keenan who had dedicated their Basketball. I miss a lot of things about this dorm room to him. Also, he happily sat place ... but the people are what make it, down for an interview with me upon enter-
APRIL 29, 1999 
ingtheMor­ris Inn, even though he had less than an hour to unpack, get changed and travel over to the Joyce Center for the Hes burgh dinner he was emceeing. 
Though Holtz generally saw the students as his allies, for a couple of weeks in April, they were his competitors in the annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament. "I played in the tournament four years," he tells the Keenan residents who dedicated their room to him. "I got to the final 16 the first, the final eight the second, and the final four the last two .... What I did was I recruited -I got Tony Rice and Kent Graham, and then we got Bubba Cunningham, who was really good. I finally end up, my wife told me to give it up, she said, 'Honey, when you play against the engineers you are okay, but when you get up against the athletes you embarrass yourself.' I love Bookstore Bas­ketball." 
Holtz' s competitive nature also displayed itself on the gridiron at Notre Dame, where he led the Fightin' Irish to a 100-30-2 record, a school record 23-game winning streak, and the 1988 national championship. 
There are many who argue that his Irish teams deserved national championship rec­ognition in 1989 and 1993. 
"Oh, I don't think there's any doubt about that," replies Holtz to the question ofwhether or not the '89 and '93 squads should have earned the national title. "I don't care what criteria you use. I do believe this: I believe 
SCHOLASTIC 21 
MAGAZINE 
that we were denied the national champion­ship [in 1993] by backlash in the voting because of our NBC contract. But, I also believe this: the NBC contract is one of the best things that happened to Notre Dame. If that cost us the national championship, so be it. ... I felt that in '89 or '93 we really truly deserved it by any stretch." 
"And who knows who would have been number one if they didn't call a clip on Rocket Ismail's [kick return] because Colorado beat us and ended up being number one," says Holtz in reference to the possibility of earning the na­tional championship in 1990. 
But he refuses to let all this bother him. "You go back and look at it and you say, 'People make decisions,' and you move on." 
Holtz also does not allow himself to get caught up with the big wins and disappointing losses that he experienced with the Irish."All the losses are painful. Particularly the ones you lose in the last second or in overtime. I don't think about great wins and losses. You think z 
0 
about people, you don't think f1i ­
about accomplishments." Q 
But, ever the self-critic, Holtz ~ is clearly disturbed by his ~ team's decline in the mid-'90s ~ 
CJ) 
and assumes all the blame for 
~ 0 "I look back and think we ~ 
I-­
stopped dreaming and tried to ~ 

maintain once we reached the a.THE LOU HOLTZ ROOM. James Gibson, Nate Hickey, Edward top, and that was a mistake," he Popit and Michael Seeley of Keenan Hall named their social says. "In hindsight, that's one room after Lou. To thank them, he stopped by during his thing in my life that I truly recent visit to campus. 
regret. We should have set our standards to something that no one ever thought was possible. Once you stop dreaming and set­ting standards, or feel you've reached the top, you stop being the hunter and you become the hunted. You try and maintain and nobody ever maintains anything with any enthusiasm ... but you learn." 
After leaving Notre Dame at the conclu­sion of the 1996 season, Holtz took a two-year hiatus from the hectic coaching world of college football. Unable to stay com­pletely away from the game, Holtz signed on with CBS as an analyst of the game he has spent almost half of his life coaching. During this period, he also ·spent more time 
22 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

with his wife Beth, who was fighting throat of all time. And they can only hope that cancer. Holtz will lead them for many years to 
"I enjoyed CBS," remarks Holtz. "It was come. also very hectic because that was the time But that still remains in question. How my wife was going through cancer ... as well long does he plan to coach? as 83 radiation treatments, and that was my "As long as my wife's health is okay, first obligation. CBS was a great company that'll be my first priority," he says. "As to work for. I really thoroughly enjoyed long as my health is okay, and as long as I 
them. I had offers to go back into coaching feel I can contribute." 
but didn't feel I could do that with my wife's 
health. I turned South Carolina down three times and she's the one that talked me into taking it." 
Holtzeventuallyacceptedtheheadcoach­ing position at South Carolina last Decem­ber, much to the delight of Gamecock fans, and seemingly, the entire state. 
Upon arriving in Columbia, S.C., he was greeted by a sign that read, "Yes, South Carolina, there is a Santa Claus. Welcome Coach and Mrs. Holtz." 
After enduring the worst season in the program's 106-yearhistoryandhavingwon only one bowl game ever, it is easy to see whyGamecockfansaresoexcitedaboutthe acquisition ofone ofthe winningest coaches 
Gamecock followers have no question that Holtz can contribute. In fact, join­ing Holtz on the journey to South Caro­lina are the lofty expectations many had of him at Notre Dame. There has even been talk of an SEC championship or, unbelievably enough, a national cham­pionship down the road. But it doesn't faze Holtz. 
"My expectations are,to build it [the program] as firmly and soundly as we can," he says. They're good people in that stadium .... I don't have any great expectations, just go do the best I can, and hopefully I can contribute. I am not a miracle worker. We'll just see how long it'll take before we can tum it around." 
After putting his team through a rig­orous series of spring practices and hav­ing a relatively successful recruiting class, the program is starting its turn­around. And Holtz is quick to point out that there is enough high school talent in South Carolina to put together a formi­dable football team. 
"South Carolina's been awfully good to Notre Dame," he reports, indicating that the state has its fair share of excep­tional players. "We had many fine ath­letes ... and there are now three defen­sive starters from South Carolina [on Notre Dame's team]: Lance Legree, Lamont Bryant, Deveron Harper." 

"Fr. Joyce is from South Carolina," Holtz continues, smiling. "Nathan Hatch was born and raised in Columbia, South Carolina." 
The glow in his eyes when making these references leads one to wonder why he ever left Notre Dame. He even recently pur­chased two cemetary plots on campus that have a clear view ofthe stadium, for himself and his wife. 
And while there are still doubts as to why he left Notre Dame, there remains no doubt as to his feelings toward the university. 
"Let's just say that my heart's at Notre Dame," he says, almost forgetting to add, "But iny commitment right now is to South Carolina." D 
APRIL 29, -1999 




' ' -·r,;/ ·:~ 
1//

I,/ .
T.i

1; / ~;:-' 
,
. 1! 

L; "-~-:> 1.L; . 
Commercial sponsorship is giving Bookstore Basketball 
BY KATIE RAK E..,very year there's something differ­
ent. They have wrapped themselves 

, .. -" induct tape. They have smeared them­selves in peanut butter. They have stripped for every point the opposition scores. They have worn wigs, Speedos, bow ties and fish­net stockings. Some have even come in their underwear. 
The tradition of Bookstore Basketball 
includes not only high-flying dunks and 
tenacious defense, but also creativity when 
it comes to outfitting a team. While some 
teams just opt to wear the same color T­
shirts, others spend more time getting their 
body paint just right than working on their 
give-and-go's. 
Just Within the past two years or so, team sponsorships have moved on to the 
In the past few years, however, a new type of uniform has emerged. These uniforms are not too flashy or terribly creative, but many teams jump at the chance to wear them. They are jerseys emblazoned with a corporate logo. In past Bookstore Tournac ments, teams have been sponsored by local businesses such as Corby's and BW3 's, but just within the past two years or so, sponsor­ships have moved on to the corporate level. 
Probably the most obvious case of this comes in the form offive guys from Alumni Hall called keyplay.com. Keyplay.com is not just a catchy name that they came up with while shooting hoops one day. It's actually the name of an Internet site run by five '97 Alumni Hall/Notre Dame grads. The site matches fans trying to sell sporting event tickets with prospective buyers. Mike Stanley, one ofkeyplay.com's partners, has a brother, Brian, who still lives in Alumni. Through this conne~tion and even more so 
APRIL 29, 1999 
a new face 

because the partners and the players are old friends, keyplay.com decided it would be a win-win situation if they sponsored their old pals. 
"The five partners approached Alex [ Gese] and asked him if they could sponsor their team," said Brian Stanley. Keyplay.com, a young company, would get some excellent publicity, and the Bookstore team would be sponsored. 
Although keyplay.com may be the most noticeable example of corporate sponsor­ship, it is not the only team that has made the connection with the corporate world. Mali­cious Prosecution, a team of law school students, may have been the first to make the jump when they teamed up with Adidas as a sponsor during last year's Bookstore 
corporate level. 

Tournament. This year, though, because of late notice and budget constraints at Adidas, they had CollegeHire.com stitched across the back of their shoulders, instead of the famous three stripes. 
"Had we contacted Adidas earlier, maybe it would have worked out, but we felt fortu­nate to have another company sponsor us," says Jeremy Cole, this year's Bookstore MVP. That other company, CollegeHire.com, which will be visiting campus in the fall, matches recent college grads with high-tech companies. 
"CollegeHire.com was looking to spon­sor a Bookstore team. They were just look­ing for a team that would be around awhile in the tournament, and we were just fortu­nate to contact them first," says Cole. Al­though they weren't looking to sponsor Malicious Prosecution specifically, it looks like they couldn'thave made a better choice: Cole and his law school teammates won this year's title. 
Bookstore Basketball provides an ideal way to advertise a company. Throngs of people migrate out to Stepan courts to watch teams battle it out for the title, and they can't help but glance at the players' jerseys. In addition to that exposure, the partners from keyplay .com came to the semifinals to watch their namesake -and to pass out 300 free T-shirts and other things to make sure no one missed seeing them. 
"They figured with the Blue & Gold game and the Bookstore Final Four, this would be the perfect weekend to get their name out there," said Brian Stanley. In exchange for the advertising opportunity, both compa­nies provided their teams with jerseys, and in the case ofMalicious Prosecution, shorts 
as well. 
· One of the most important things a spon­sor looks for when seeking out a potential team is how good the team is. It is no wonder that the team from Alumni or Malicious Prosecution were approached -they win. Obviously a sponsor would not get the pub­licity it was hoping for if the team loses in the first round. These two teams, however, have served as excellent human billboards, since both reached the Final Four before Malicious Prosecution defeated keyplay .com and eventually captured the Bookstore title. 
As more and more companies catch on to this method of advertising, you might see some of those traditional catchy names and uniforms replaced with corporate names and logos. But Bookstore fans do not have to worry about this becoming like the corpo­rate takeover of sports arenas because there will always be those five guys from Zahm 
who prefer to play in their underwear.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  23  
MAGAZINE  

i\ 
:1 
I l 
(/1 I
7J :, 
01I 
;::;o .! 
-I 
(/) 





i'',. 
(/) 
r­
e:::: 
0.. 
(/) 
SPLINTERS 

FROM THE PRESSBOX 
Edited by Christopher Hamilton 
Women's Tennis • 1999 Record 22-6 Streaking: The 10th Irish have won 11 consecutive matches. Prime Time Performer: Senior Jennifer Hall clinched the 
Big East Championship for the Irish, with her win over Miami's Katia Bogomolora. Did You Know? Notre Dame and Miami have met for the Big East title the past four years. On the Horizon: The Irish earned an automatic bid into the NCAA Championship's 64-team field, which will be announced May 5. 
Men's Tennis • 1999 Record 17-7 Streaking: Freshman Javier Taborga is 4-0 in dual matches this year. Prime Time Performer: Ryan Sachire, who was named the Big East Championship's Most Outstanding Player, went 3­0 in singles matches during the tournament. Did You Know? For the second straight year, head coach Bobby Bayliss was named Big East Coach of the Year. On the Horizon: The Irish will participate in the NCAA Championship, which begins May 15. 
Baseball• 1999 Record 32-10 Streaking: Last Sunday versus Seton Hall, freshman centerfielder Steve Stanley extended his hitting streak to 12 games. Prime Time Performer: Junior Scott Cavey pitched six innings in relief, allowing one run last Sunday in Notre _ Dame's 17-8 win over Seton Hall. Did You Know? Notre Dame has already clinched a spot in the six-team Big East Tournament and can finish no lower than fourth place. On the Horizon: The Irish take on Oakland (Mich.) tomorrow at 4:05 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
. <.· ... · 

... ·. ·••.·· ..··' ll~ss·.youcould can it;'in the s)'ste!ll." ·. 
ity .ofMicliigan ticketmandgerAf d!'tinB_od1za{-uponfi~1di ifte)'· run_n ing a .~hec:k·o1J.theirsoc:lq!·sec;b-itf11unib.ets... 
. •.. ··....•... ·.· ·· ...... ··.... ·•·· ..•..•. :·.• ·.. ·..·. _.·
... , ..· > .. ·.· .... /. :,·.·.···•··········. II;upjlton'{Ilunch ....·.· .. .· < ·.· .· ··•·····•··.·:·••·•.•ii·.··> ·;.•..·•.< ·•·· ....· i..• ·•··· .> <.,
. On I\1ay 11th .and 12th/the Irish basebalL teaIUJedeerns itself ,againsf Mi_ami after having'been thoroughly embarrassed by the ...· Hurric,anes.fastyear,··NotreI>arrlywins'the·fiisjgame'.in·a11ail~b.iter;8cJ;and:then·comesbacktl1e_rtextdaytoctushMiaini;i6°.S'.,:;
-··. .-. :,.,,-.-·_ '·: ,, , .. ·•··/ '•. 
. ... ; ,, 
­
·'·... > .. ·..·. .• . . . ·. .• .. •.·· • ·..•.•. . .···.. :> > : ' Salisbury'~ Stak{ . . < : > . ·.. .·. ··• .•..• 
.. .. .Jheyankees encounter .a few°probl.erris .in.early'Jl.1af agair{s( th~.'.f:wins; bufhythe t{ni~:•tl1ey:plcty tlie 'ReffSox/onivlayls;•···.·.·.··· ·. ·. ·.·. •·· · .they're back ~ntheir winning· str~aJLNew Y:cfrk thiishes Bosfon)ujd _..X,1ll evintuajiy' go ()fi to win· the SeriesJor-the. second. year> : 
'jnarow:•. ·. . ''" . ., 
24 SCHOLASTIC APRIL 29, 1999 
MAGAZINE 

Irish Eyes On o,,,.,,""_,. 

. u~ 
7J 
I 
~ 
.Q 
() 
0 
55 
. -i 
m 
(/) 
-< 0 
'Tl 
<.. 
m. 
:a 
m 
;;:: 

T 0 -< 
() 
r 
m 

he Keough Hall Assistant Rector displayed his domi­nating form, reminiscent of his days at Kalamazoo College, as he led Malicious Prosecution to the Bookstore 
Basketball title over Versatility, 21-17. The third-year law student tallied eight points and seven rebounds in the championship game en route to claiming the tournament's Most Valuable Player Award. 
Softball • 1999 Record 34-17 Streaking: Notre Dame has been perfect in Big East play this 
.year, going 12-0. Prime Time Performer: Irish pitchers Jennifer Sharron, Michelle Moschel, Angela Bessolo and Melanie Alkire 
combined to shut out Providence during a doubleheader last weekend. Did You Know? After sweeping the Friars on Sunday, Notre Dame clinched a spot in the four-team Big East Tournament. On the Horizon: Tomorrow the Irish host St. John's for a doubleheader that begins at noon. 



m 
z 
--f 
m 
iC 
z -. 
~ 
m 

With the names at these concerts, the party is just getting started 
z 

BY JIM BILEKWith the summer quickly ap­. proaching and finals almost out ofthe way, it's time to think about summer concerts. Scholastic takes a look at the rriore prominent summer music festivals. All offer an interesting variety of bands, some offer culture; and at least one gives you the opportunity to contribute to a 
worthwhile  
cause:  
"'{\bet.at\ FREEDOM  For the past three years,  
Concert  the Tibetan Freedom  
concert has  

brought attention to the plight ofthe Tibetan people and their exiled leader, the. Dalai Lama. The Beastie Boys, in addition to founding the Milarepa Fund, have orga­nized the past concerts and will play at this year's Chicago concert. 
The entire event, advertised as 24 hours of music, consists of four separate concerts held around the world on June 13. One will be at the Alpine Valley Music Theater, located 90 miles outside ofChicago, and the others will be held in Amsterdam, Sydney and Tokyo. . 
Chicago.will include Blondie, Live, Biz Markie, OutKast, The Roots, Otis Rush and the lead singer of Pearl Jam, Eddie Vedder. There is also speculation that Sean Lennon will be involved. The son of John Lennon and Yoko Ono, Lennon has campaigned heavily with the Beastie Boys for United States government action concerning hu­man rights-violations in Tibet. 
The Tibetan people and the Dalai Lama wan~ autonomy ,.not independence, for. their province that was invaded and seized by the Chinese government fifty years ago. For more information, check out the website, WWW. tibet99 .org. 
APRIL 29, 1999 
I 

Milwaukee SummerFest is one of the largest outdoor festivals in the country. This 10-day event takes place from June 24 to July 4 and in­cludes not only various
M\\wau\<ee 
musical acts on four

SUMMERFEST 
stages, but 

also comedy, rides, vendors and the absolute height of . Milwaukee culture, beer. 
But in the midst ofdrink, the musical acts are definitely the highlights. Headlining this year's self-proclaimed "Party of the Cen­tury'' are Bob Dylan and Paul Simon, BoDeans and Chris Isaak, R. Kelly, John Mellencamp, Lauryn Hill and Alan Jack­son. Sideliners include the Village People, REO Speedwagon, Foreigner, Eve 6, Joey McIntyre, SemiSonic and Buddy Guy. 
The main acts, which take place at the Marcus Amphitheater, have a surcharge in addition to the SummerFest entrance fee. The other concerts are held on side stages along the shore of Lake Michigan and are included in the entrance fee. Tick­ets are available now through Ticketmaster. 
According to student and regular atten­dant Anne Fox, "SummerFest is a great, cheap place to go to experience some cul­ture-music, people, tradition-andsome summer. There's something.for everyone." 
For more information, see www.sum­merfest.com. 
The Fleadh returns as the musical event sponsored by one ofthe infamous aspects of Irish life, Guinness. The festival will be in San Francisco on June 5, Chicago Guioness onJune 12, Bos­ton on June 19
-tLl:ADH 
and New York on June 26. The 
--f 

event includes Irish, American and world groups. Headliners include Van Morrison, famous for "Brown-Eyed Girl," Elvis Costello and Hootie and the Blowfish. The list of acts changes from place to place, but The Cardigans and blues legend John Lee Hooker will make appearances at some of the stops. 
Besides the main stage, the Fleadh has three other stages. The Premiere Tent fea­tures up-and-coming acts from the United States and Ireland, while the Heritage Stage focuses on traditional Celtic sounds. The Irish Village Stage is a cultural celebration of Irish drama, literature, dance and other artistic forms. 
Tickets are available through Ticketmaster, and more information can be found at www.guinnesfleadh.com. 
The 30th anniversary of this famous festival brings about a new concert in the town ofRome, New York. The plan­ners are hoping to avoid the 
doC't"'C\( deluge that

,&loO ;;,-Q plaguedV~' 7 the 25th anni­versary cel­ebration. With music beginning at noon on July 23, the festi­val promises to offer a large selection of popular rock and roll music. Aerosmith will headline the show, and other performers include Bush, Sheryl Crow, Rage Against the Machine and Canadian band Our Lady Peace. Ticketmaster plans to offer tickets as well as bus passes from cities across the country. But if you really want to have an authentic experience, rent a Winnebago. The music ends around midnight on July 25. More information can be found at www.ticketmaster.com. D 
SCHOLASTIC 
25 
MAGAZINE 



26 SCHOLASTIC · APRIL 29; 1999 
MAGAZINE 


.... J~miiiJ~Wf'io\t'~afiCoffJb;1fff~#•·~J,i;\:~~~~~'.o;~$;i[~~t~~ttf 
..·· •'.,fr~mSoup Crirly~t;,buf~rr urifiuriilhirJ1um-,, .IJt?rini~J1t';VitJ1Hbrazy picl<-ups qnlY· Sowe ·pl~k~vpiArtist:Linc Sochrmt ·•· ... <\: ·ber did.shpw iip>qg:hisc;nef;r:d.;thi ofher>:'fqldecfup••~.·cranif?(Peteex[C!ly1ike the·· 
•ii ;','I'r11 the'most un-~mO()ttjperson in.the;•.... :day. A1i~ly:bi(ofinvesJigatiqnled hl111 to .. oneJ.hadd~Ii,v~req yar,iier,Jh~_t. ev~niilg, 
:world,";l,:-in? said to me in apre~ini~siori believe tlfatthe myst~ry' immber bblongs''to,,,_' But he still wiisn't·satfsfied. -.·. ' .. 
tvr~::;;~;tr?::t~Itriil:e··.".1;('fi~g~ft~;~·;,, "½:#·~~.rW~lI12;.::~;!1?i!!~fti~,tt:fr;ttit~k(·
.,ft~~::-~0;?[m\up f6;.10ything.'' <'. '·.' . so4p• Ciirl,''give~him ariothei-ririg:' ··.~d mark reverse pyschqlogy. "We'll gq home 
···•:\\lhile,w~'saffoHe:itdquaiters~•red8ver_-'.·•. ·• .··•·.·...•. tyto.. :u··... v.•_·.t.·..·.~.;.w·c········o.a.·.:_d$.:.·.l.th.;,n~l~.fgh~~.1.:t,•:~~itt}ii~1.• th;t;:~hqught:.a11d~fthafforf~ittlp·;hile·
_i11ifr~iri'th~ ex~ftem/nt of~h~e)'ttst.picf : .•. ,. arid.said; ''No;'tliatwoufcfBi worse.'\: C11pa1teihpr;·Li.ncptdce,ededt.6j:>racticehis••·.·.·.·..·•··•··•·.-.i1·.:-, ~ ~•1·.ii)':. . Hefianded offthe'crane to a•girl alone at ?f1Io. ;_,,,,:: ·;: ·; .. /· : :/• Ci•-:•··•/ .. :_• ._:.-1,: : :~i~i ... /1. _a_table with' abox of WheafThiri_~ and· aj
•. ''SI19uldipe like,/Hi,~o,rsh?uldlgo· > -.·· •' . •·· -' b9ttle:o.f Gatorad~: Arid·tllen he· made a I for'n10'.r(9fJ'.•II.9Y!)?L,ik~i\A.hoy!;:y,ou;< Pick_-U_p:0Artis!: f>e~e Coch~an : .. clean··escape.through the'stacks.' '.' . l Jmp\V?_()rn1ayqe·Jsh'oql4jrnig9 ilp°toii:'r .. Wpile we were discussing theSoup)nc~: TheAft,ermath: ·,·· ' l :girl.and asfhefi:quisti6~:Like;'Wl16dd ; , d§ntbackiitHeadqu~~.fs;J?etlst~r'tid.vav~< . ' Upohieceiving the crane; the gir~ placed I 
ii(.afo~,;hef.~.c#of.Wn~ar·Tliips:.:Afapat.,.. · ~ntly;.sh~thoughtit\vairso~~kindofjci,ke/ ·••···cFriehds who/Werd'attlifn'extiable .•. as·~i 
, >iJ<>•· t'~iit!t!tiltt~i.~~]1 
·:f pen··. <-•. {S.\,:/():· 
Tli'.e··ift~~k:.'/?J.. '\· ).,·.. 
· After abunch of.convincing from Greer· · and 'mysel(Linc' agreed ~to 'approach 'a 
APRIL 29, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

z 
i. 0
L 
.1· 
i· 
Can't We All Just Get Along?
' I-­
·'I• Q::'.
:l 
Athletically-challenged students need recognition 
0 
I-­
{/)­
start off just fine, but within minutes they less how to protect it. What's more, she BY KIMBERLY BLACKWELL are sweating like the pilot at the end of didn't really care. So she took a step away here's been a lot of talk lately about "Airplane!" By the time they finish quite from her partner, but since he was taller, he z Tunderrepresented minorities at Notre some time later, they have a glazed look in kept on jabbing. This tragic jabbing inci­Dame. Itis true, most ofthem deserve their eyes and are gasping like fish flopping dent shows the lack of student awareness more notice than they actually receive. But around on the floor of a boat. about the difficulties faced by AC-ers in LU there is another minority on campus that Come to think ofit, fishing is a sport AC-trying to integrate into "normal" life at ND, LU gets virtually no recognition at all, and it's ers could probably handle. All that I and other AC students are ask­time the university does something about it. AC students suffer terribly in gym class. ing for is a little understanding from the rest ~ What is this tragically overlooked group of Unlike the majority ofND students, AC-ers of you. We aren't lesser Domers just be­students? I refer, of course, to athletically can't do triple axels on the fir~t day of ice cause we may reflexively jump out of the challenged (AC) students. skating, don't quite know how to execute a way when a frisbee flies towards us, or 
They are your friends, your roommates, defensive lob in tennis, and don't have the because maybe we duck when a volleyball your RAs -but you may not even know it. weight training appropriate to those old Soviet is hurtling over the net. We can't help the As such a small group, surrounded by ~ou-Olympic weightlifters. AC-ers would get a way we are! In fact, we want to help you sands of gifted athletes, AC students are negative score from the East German judge. understand us. If you want to understand oftenashamedoftheirstatusatNotreDame. It's been tough to acknowledge, but now your AC friends better, try doing some of They look at the numbers that say, for in-Ij~stacceptthatI'msomewhatofanAC-er. their activities -activities that focus more stance, that more than 90 percent of this During this past rotation of gym class I've on mental exercise than physical exercise. year's freshman class played varsity sports been in tennis. It's a fun sport, and my For example, a popular form of exercise in high school (and possibly in the womb). partner and I have generally kept to our­among AC-ers involves thinking ofways to They try not to make eye contact with the selves, playing casually and not worrying be able to take more than the three allowed Ultimate Frisbee players darting around on that much about the rules. (For AC-ers, it's cuts in freshman gym class. the quad. While the Adidas-warm-up-suit-clearly unfair to be required to play strictly · In the the eternal words of Dennis the clad athletes will immediately start pick-up according to-the rules.) This was all fine and peasant from Monty Python and the Holy basketball games at the beginning of gym good until last week, when we were told to Grail, "Help! Help! I'm being repressed!" class, AC~ers will shuffle around and try to play doubles. Now, the other team members . All that AC students need is some help and look like they're having fun stretching. were good sports for athletes, but I don't recognition so tha,t, the violence inherent in 
Speaking of gym, this is a highly dis-· think they could stop themselves from snick­the system will come to end. We are creat­criminatorypractice imposed upon all fresli-ering when I double-faulted. Four times in a ing a new support club, AC Pride, and we men with no consideration for AC-er spe-row. Would it sound silly to claim the sun was hope to receive official university recogni­cialneeds. The mile-and-a-half run? Major-in my eyes? tion soon (pending a vote from the Board of ity oppression. Really. Athletes will com-· My AC friend had a similarly tough time Athletic Trustees, currently on vacation at plain about being "out of shape" before the in fencing last week. Near the end of class the NBA Finals). ND is also planning to run, but then they will effortlessly cruise she thought she and her partner were fin­start sensitivity courses for incoming. stu­around the track and glide to an easy . stop ished, but he kept jabbing at her with his dents to encourage them to think about it just 12 minutes later, with only a fine sheen ·sword, complaining,. "You're not protect­from the little, non-athletic students' points ofperspiration glistening ontheir foreheads'. ingyouroutside line!" Mypoor friend didn't of view -to walk(not run) a mile in their The AC-ers face a different story. They even know whatthe outside linewas, much shoes; ·D 
~ 


28 SCHOLASTIC APRIL 29, 1999 
MAGAZINE 


() 
$ 
() 


H-ow +o stv 
~ fest. 

Jelf Spoonhower is a se­


nior Film, Television and Theatre and CAPP double major.He just completed a computer-animated film and otherwise entertains himself by laughing at ­er, with-people. As he is graduating in May, this will beScholastic'sfinal install­ment ofHERD. 

HERD ON THE WEB: http://www.nd.edu/~jspoonho/HERD.html APRIL 29, 1999 , 
SCHOLASTIC 29 
MAGAZINE 

(./) 
w 
(./) 
::J 
a.. 
~ 
<( 
u 
0::::: 
w 
I 
l­
o 
z 
0 
i 
I 
Ji 

Can You Feel the Love Tonight? 
The Independent Florida Alligator reports that those who attended ESPN host Roy Firestone's recent lecture received far more than they expected. Maybe even too much, some might argue. 
According to those who didn't leave within the first 10 minutes, Firestone began his show with what appeared to be a one-hour Las Vegas lounge act. It drove nearly 400 ofthe 500 attendees from the University of Florida's O'Connell Center. 
"That's a $12,000 karaoke show," said one Florida senior who left 45 minutes into the show, as Firestone began his James Taylor impression. That Florida senior was somewhat off the mark, though. Accent, the UF group responsible for bringing guest speakers to campus, actually paid $17,500 for this particular karaoke show. 
Firestone did eventually begin discussing his experiences and tales gathered over nearly 20 years ofhosting his sports talk show, but not until he had wowed the crowd with The Lion King's "Can You Feel the Love Tonight" and his imitation of Neil Diamond singing the "Star-Spangled Banner." 
"I hope I've made people laugh, made them be entertained," Firestone said. "If that is a moment I can give to somebody, then I'll truce any criticism I can get." 
When SUB heard about Firestone's impromptu concert, they immediately contacted him to see if they could bring him to Notre Dame to perform a similar show. Firestone was excited about the idea, and agreed to discuss the idea with SUB. However, plans fell through when he realized that he would have to perform in Stepan Center. "The acoustics are too bad," he says. "I will take my vocal stylings elsewhere." , 
30 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

The Art of Fake Funerals and Dead Goats 
Last week, as part ofOhio State's Hispanic Awareness Week, the school brought in Coco Fusco, a New York based artist. Fusco was to discuss her work, including a study on what she termed the "necrophilia attraction" to the deaths ofLatino women such as Eva Peron and Selena. According to OSU' s Lantern, Fusco ran a slide show of herself, "[dressed] in black, in a white-interior coffin outlined by dozens of white roses, and pretending to be a dead Latino woman." 
During her presentation, Fusco also described her re-creation of a country-style wake in Havana that she performed for Cubans who are unable to die in their native land. It was all part of Cuba's biennial celebration, which bore the theme "Personal and Public Memory." In the performance, the artist lay down on a piece ofcloth in the middle of a road with flowers and candles placed around her still form, while, for 45 minutes, her friend wore a dead goat, split open and draped across her chest. 
Well, golly, we've all done this kind of thing, right? But do we all run around to Ohio State with a slide show about it? I don'tthink so. That's the sort of thing, dear readers, that shouldn't leave the living room.. 

On Other Campuses by Andrew McDonnell 
APRIL 29., 1999 


, APRIL 29, 1999 · SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


Both Sides 
by Mary Beth Ellis 

<( 
z 
u.. 
of the Street 
I'm always mentioning that! grew up in Cincinnati, butI'mrarely specific as to precisely where. One's placement along the banks ofthe Ohio is a thing of 
great importance -to Cincinnatians. The rest ofthe world generally wants to know what brand of crack we were smoking when we elected, as our leader, Jerry Springer. 
But down by the riverside, there is a West side of the city, where you cannot throw a bowl of chili without hitting either a parish festival or a bowling ally, and there is the East side, where what passes for a good time is a pplitical fundraiser in the form of a themed tea party. Our main drag, Vine Street, serves as a.buffer zone, separating the beer from the brie. 
For all this vivacious nose-thumbing, when we escape the gravitational pull oflnterstate 275 and are questioned as to our place oforigin, we say, "Cincin­nati! Great place to live! We apologize to whichever minority group Marge Schott has most recently of­fended!" There is none of this West side/East side business. Because deep down, we are united by a 
single, deeply held real­

It simply never occurred to me to limit ity: We all reillly, really hate Cleveland. 
my relationship with my brother school 
This was what I ex­

to merely wedging myself 
pected from Notre Dame into sweaty dorm parties or hailing and Saint Mary's when I enrolled one Lou Holtz
a sea of golden helmets. 
and a President Hickey 

Mary Beth Ellis can be seen sporting a Notre Dame coat and a Saint Mary's hat. She is the former campus life editor ofthis magazine. 
32 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

ago. Here I could envelop myself in the one-on-one, liberal arts academics that a writer's education de­mands while enjoying the invigorating array ofextra­curriculan>pportunities that only a school of Notre Dame's size can provide. I would find two distinct siblings, I thought, but surely, from the depths of North Quad to the top ofLe Mans tower, a swell sense of community would be enjoyed by one and all. 
But I soon discovered that over the top ofmy head, the two sides of the street insisted upon having the following intellectual discussion: 
"Stupid whores," said Notre Dame. 
"Arrogant shobs," said Saint Mary's. 
(Perpetually repeat.) ··• 
I am a creation of both schools; my education has taken place on ~me huge nasty-weatherinfested cam­pus; The orange security gate· on the avenue that divides the sisters and brothers of the CSC never stood as the Berlin Wall, but was merely a landmark to bejogged past and Rollerbladed around. It simply never occurred to me to limit my relationship with my brother school to merely wedging myself into sweaty dorm parties orhailing a sea ofgolden helmets. There were classes to take, clubs to lead, publications to write for. 
But blood is not always thicker than SAT scores. It is virtually impossible to stand in the middle of State Route 33 without finding oneself run over by the occasional semi. As a sophomore, I went before Saint Mary's student government to propose a SMC sec­tion at football pep rallies to promote school unity and to rescue uncomfortable Belles who felt dis­placed by Notre Dame's by-dorm seating chart. And one ofmy elders snapped, "Why don'tyou try getting Saint Mary's people to go to Saint Mary's events first? Ifyou love Notre Dame so much, transfer. They don't want anything to do with us in the firstplace­don't you get that yet?" 
At the· same time, I fear we will never be rid of the Parasite Theorists. ANotre Dame student, at the time a high-level editor at The Observer, was once thusly unsisterly: "Ymi can't have the best ofboth worlds," she informed ine via'a non-punctuated, completely uncapitalized e-mail. "At the end ofthe year, do you buy cardboard boxes with an ND on the side so you don't have to use ones that say 'Saint Mary's'?" 
A toast to my disgruntled fan, for I've managed four splendid years of simultaneous cake having and cake eating -and neither Saint Mary's nor Notre Dame is the lesser for it. 
Itwas my first day as a news broadcaster at aNotre Dame radio station when I reported that the President had been accused of committing certain Acts of Congress with a White· House intern, but it_ wa_s a Saint Mary's professor who placed a reassuring hand on my shoulder as I wilted under the terrifying frustration ofwriter's block. It was on a Saint Mary's stage that I sang Carmina Burana alongside the South Bend Symphony Orchestra, but it was in Notre Dame's Basilica that I stood with my server's alb brushing the altar steps, presenting a just-baptized Catholic·w1th the Precious Blood for the first time. 
I could have lived quite happily within the bound­aries of one school and ignored the other, and many do; but my way, instead of setting Dome against Tower, harmonized the best both have to offer. I graduate a more complete person because of it. D 
APRIL 29, 1999 



STEPMOM 
CUSHING AUDITORIUM $2 ADMISSION 
THURSDAY 10:30PM FRIDAY 8 & 10:30PM SATURDAY 8 & 10:30PM 
·7,; :C;,.-.... i;J)'_i· .:,I: c:,.r{~__ \ t./'..'••--· ....t_,_..·.... :·t-.<-;··'..J..... 
~~'¥Fl SiffJ1S·;:()ff'Wl$JiiJ.l(JF ffifl.::· 
't'~~. ' ·. ·.· -<·:: t;': '.. y·: \ :·:•;'' :.. ; -.?,:'..:::· ; ::< /\ . -·-;\' 




