Campus Wolf Looks Over Underwear Situation!
“GRRRR!” says Lupo Leer, notorious roue and famous library lover. "Yes, GRReat is the word for those comfortable Jockey brand Shorts! Don’t overlook a good thing...get Jockey and comfort is in the books for you!”
Ves. college men choose Jockey comfort/
You don’t have to be a wolf to appreciate the snug-fitting, tailored-to-fit comfort of Jockey brand Shorts! Jockey comfort goes for everybody, because...
13 separate contoured pieces are carefully crafted into one smooth-fitting garment.
Newly-developed heat resistant rubber in waistband outlasts other leading brands.
Nobelt® strip rubber in leg openings eliminates sag or bind around the legs.
all underwear gives you coverage but
Unique Jockey front opening never gaps
Jockey^ gives you full comfortb f/V
Made only by
Kenosha, Wisconsin
Jockey Shorts
Jockey T-Shirts
^GILBERT'S
Has the Largest Selection of
COOPERS
JOCKEY
UNDERWEAR
of all styles in
South Bend
Shorts.... $1.20up
T-Shirt....$1.25 Sleeveless
Undershirt . - $1.00
Your best buy in underwear is Coopers from
^lbTrfs
813-817 S. Michigan St. -Open Every Evening till 9
Entire Student Body Agrees New Arrow Radnor Is “Hit!”
New Rounded-Point Collar, Small-Knot Tie, Smart Campus Style Note
The rounded-point collar is rapidly winning new converts among well-dressed collegians. Most popular of these new shirts is Arrow Radnor.
ARROW SHIRTS
»»-------------------
— SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS —
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
DRRWTURBOW \OPTOMETRIST ----OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces” ----EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	4-5777
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
Want to travel and study abroad?
Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel
Visit the countries ot your choice . . . study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 80 East 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.
musimumvm
March 13, 1953
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
“Rosie's." Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
Srad cNotes
ENGINEERING GRADUATES
NEEDS YOUR TALENTS TO DEVELOP TOMORROW'S AIRCRAFT
CONVAIR'S expanding interests in the fields of conventional, unconventional, and nuclear-powered aircraft offer exceptional opportunities for Engineering Graduates.
H. J. HILLAKER
P. A. AUDANO
of CONVAIR, Fort Worth Division, Will Be On Your Campus
Friday, March 20, 1953
For Interview Information, Contact Your STUDENT PLACEMENT OFFICER
Beginning next Friday evening the Graduate Student retreat will carry through the weekend, terminating with 9 o’clock Mass on Sunday morning. Farley Hall chapel will be the place in which the “intellectuals” will gather to contemplate the spiritual aspect of life.
Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., will be retreat master, and March 20, 21, and 22 will be the dates.
How little we know about our fellow students was shown us the other day when we were guests of Messrs. Ed O’Connor and Walt Gray.
Beside their devout attention to world political and historical trends, they are recipients of wide acclaim for their expert. cookery. Mr. Gray is the author of such well known works as “The Decline and Fall of Russian Dressing in the 19th Century” and “Jaures and the Tossed-Salad Caper.”
Mr. O’Connor, however, is considering leaving the kitchen for the card table, where his renown as a bridge expert is worthy of note. His theories on the game will appear soon in a series of articles entitled “The Impact of Bridge on Proportional Representation in the Indian Elections.” . . .
Dialogue overheard in the Library:
Grad Philosophy major (approaching one of the girls with a Thomistic smile on his face): “May I have some information?”
Girl: “Yes.”
Philosopher: “The tall blond you were just talking to, is she married?”
Girl (considerably confused by the philosophic approach): “Well, no, but____”
Philosopher (very obviously pleased): “Engaged?”
Girl: “No, but . .
Philosopher (while the Thomistic smile changes to a Platonic grin): “What’s her name?”
At this point Ed Wehrle barged in and asked us how we liked his new suit. The suit was really sharp, but we missed the girl’s answer. What was her name, Dick? . . .
While the poor philosophers are quite busy getting orientated, the chemists have no troubles whatsoever. Bill Bridg-eo is one of those who always have a smile on their faces. Of course, facing 30 beautiful damsels day after day is enough to make any man happy about life. It must be a lot of fun teaching freshman chemistry across the road. . ..
—Bob Wray
—Ivan de Huszovzsky

4
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
Working that into a trans-oceanic voyage should be a bit of a challenge to the girls.
But seed or no, Herr Flyboy must abandon the Bengals for North Atlantic or. get the you-just-don’t-love-me-any-more treatment from his Woman of the Western World (fashionable journalism for an SMC girl).
Top of The Week
All the fine talk about room registration policy . . . and then finding a second floor room with a golf course exposure and 100 square feet of floor space . . .
■
The Poor Man’s Claudia Cassidy
Unless there is a change of theme in the next University Theatre production, Washington Hall had better- get an alcoholic beverage license from the State of Indiana. Reminiscent of Cocktail Party, an earlier University production, the 56 individuals in the Vile Bodies cast spent most of the long hours of the play slurping up the nonalcoholic contents from some strictly high-proof bottles. Between the sips of make-believe firewater, the cast said their lines. Occasionally somebody would try to produce a British accent, but most of the time they were satisfied with simply remembering their lines. Fortunately, the fine and funny performances of a few Washington Hall stage veterans kept Vile Bodies from dying with the snakes in its boots.
■
A Digression
Let us not forget the eight girls who made their entrance in the new and fabulously chic St. Mary’s uniforms; and who later ran about the stage tittering, singing God-fearing songs, and trying to look like the physical embodiment of some sort of virtues. Several St. Mary’s bit players showed up in the older, but more functional uniform of previous years. Functional, according to our SMC reporter Vera Vogue, because in their long and useful service, the wiping of one’s pen point on the 18-ounce blue-black serge has never been known to produce a messy smear on milady’s sleeve.
■
At Home and Abroad
It has been a rugged week for the super-patriots of Notre Dame sport. Especially Tuesday. Torn on the one hand by the local Bengal bouts, and on the other by the NCAA bouts in far-off Fort Wayne, many waited till the last southbound bus in hopes some metaphysical freak might sanction their attendance at both events. But despite a respectable showing from Bengal
first-nighters, and the necessity for hiring a side-order of NCAA-trip busses, no two-places-at-once miracles were reported.
■
A Flyboy's Woe
A similar dilemma confronts local flyboys tomorrow night. The Bengals will have to share Saturday night’s limelight with the second performance of SMC’s North Atlantic. Flyboys will be expected to abandon the “barbaric, Neanderthal” exhibit in the gym and squire the girls to the Big Show.
As usual, SMC is presenting their variety show in the little theatre off Chimes Square (Smoking in the outer lobby, please). In this year’s production over a hundred of their most hardy stock will cavort about the stage of St. Angela’s auditorium and try to prove that when ten girls get together on a trans-oceanic voyage, a ducky time is had by all.
If the script resembles last year’s at all, it will be full of private little jokes just among the girls, and have a sub-theme based on the proposition that all Notre Dame boys are seeds.
How is the New Razor Working, Winthrop?
I Love A Mystery
Next Wednesday the lines for Senior Ball ducats will begin to form. Because of a continuing observance of brotherhood week by the ball committee, graduate students will also be in the line.
To prepare the seniors for their postgraduate work in Korea, the ball will have an oriental theme—replete with Chinese lanterns, Ray Anthony, and a mysterious something behind the bandstand. Confidential reports have led us to believe that the mysterious something may be Committeeman J. P. attired in red feathers and a hooley-hooley skirt augmenting the exotic atmosphere.	■
A bigger mystery to some seniors is where they are going to get the nine bucks for the bid — with no liberal finance plan in sight. The Student Senate and Loan Fund, they tell us, is located in room 122, Main Building.
■
Bottom of The Week
. . . but you still need that average, Dad.
March 13, 1953
MARCH 13
AVON (through March 18)—Rosemary Clooney, Anna Maria Alber-ghetti, and Lauritz Melchior in The Stars Are Singing (A-l), which is just what the title says and little more.
COLFAX (through March 18)—If it has no other worthy purpose, Niagara (B) complements the Marriage Institute—or: What Can Happen If You Don’t Follow the Book. Marilyn Monroe plays the kind of wife every bachelor dreams of—in his nightmares.
GRANADA (through March 18)—Gunsmoke (B) is another Audie Murphy horse tale, with Susan Cabot to smooth out the rough spots. Girls in the Night (B) tries to get realistic about Gotham’s east side but strays far afield in the end.
PALACE (through March 19)—Cornel Wilde, probably bare-chested, fights his way through various villains in Treasure of the Golden Condor (A-l). With it is something ominously entitled The Spider and the Fly.
MARCH 14
WASHINGTON HALL (1:20, 3:25, 6:20, 8:35)— The Iron Mistress, about Jim Bowie and his all-purpose knife, with Alan Ladd and Virginia Mayo. May be a real howler for the “kiddies.”
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—Several handy campus gentlemen will settle by means other than arbitration the question of who will enter the Bengal finals.
MARCH 15
STATE (two days)—Every college man who feels sufficiently educated should see Bedtime for Bonzo. Gene Autry’s Winning the West (A-l) sounds like something from a history book. Actually it would never make the grade.
RIVER PARK (four days)—The neighborhood bandbox perks up with the fair drama Above and Beyond (A-2), but spoils it -tith The Secrets of Monte Carlo.
MARCH 16
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30)—Session No. 5 of the Marriage Institute gets particular, with Father Sheedy discussing “Moral Problems in Marriage.”
MARCH 17
FIELDHOUSE (7:30)—To celebrate St. Paddy’s day, a bunch of Irishmen (with names like McAngus and Roblez) will pair off to fight it out for the campus champeenships in the Bengal finals. We suspect they’ll even outdo the annual brawl at Sweeney’s.
MARCH 18
WASHINGTON HALL (4 p. m.)—The Department of English will show The Titian, the extraordinary picture of Michelangelo’s life and works. Price: two bits.
MARCH 19
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30)—How to get along with the little woman will be the gist of the sixth Marriage Institute Session. Dr. Dan O’Grady’s subject will be “Masculine and Feminine Psychology,” while, panel of the Dooleys and the Armstrongs will treat of “Practical Problems of Married Life.”
GRANADA (five days)—Two pictures have the best chance to cop the Academy Award. The Granada will let the audience decide for themselves: High Noon (A-2) and The Quiet Man (A-2). Which would you pick?
WASHINGTON HALL (4 p.m. and 8 p.m.)—Repeats of The Titian.
NO EXTRA CHARGE! for all
Airline Reservations and Tickets
MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE
LaSalle Hotel - 2-2253; 3-1181
SHRIMP IN THE BASKET $1 with all the trimmings
B-M HAMBURGERS
25^ with or without
Complete Home-cooked Meals at all times
BOWL-MOR GRILL Across from South Shore
What to do Ml
the Dough comes
or
When it’s
Springtime on the Campus maybe Auntie will start Springing too
A certain Senior, who shall be Nameless, was all
tangled up in an Unfortunate Situation. The Big Spring Weekend was just three days away; his Number One Girl was lined up; the blueprint called for Substantial Resources—and he was, to put it bluntly, Busted. Furthermore, his Credit Rating was Strictly Slow Music.
Nameless, however, being a man of Considerable Ingenuity, even though Insolvent, was nothing daunted. His strategy was simple: a quick reconnoiter in his book of Family Statistics, two minutes of inspired composition, and a fast call to Western Union.
The Big Weekend went like a Breeze. Our Boy cut a Super-Swath—and paid for it. Cold Cash. Sunday night he escorted his Dream Girl down to the 10:12, then headed for his Cubicle, tired but happy—pausing only long enough to throw a Heartfelt Kiss toward the windows of the local Western Union office, and to gaze fondly once again at a crumpled telegram. It bore this wallet-warming message: “Thank you for your Telegram and for your sweet thought. Even an old lady iikes to have her birthday remembered. Hope the money order will prove useful.” Signed “Aunt Jane.”
As we said, a man of Considerable Ingenuity.
One of the Nicest Things about a Telegram is that it does More than you Expect of it. Whether you’re Prying Open the Parental Purse, Greeting Your Gal (or Guy) or Jockeying for a Job, anytime you want “Yes” for an answer, ask the question via Western Union.
105 N. Main St Telephone	3-6101
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 March 13, 1953 No. 18
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ................News
FRED C. ECKART ........Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ........_Features JOHN F. SAND .......... Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ..............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bosse, Dick Callaghan, Jerry Campbell, Irv Carrig, Doug Cole, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Tom Hartzell, Jim Mason, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Tom Caplet, John Cywiniski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Maliason, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier. CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Evelyn Waugh mentions a costume party in Vile Bodies; the University Theatre carried it a step further. Jean (Agatha Runcible) Richards and Bill (Archie Schwert) Santoro do an African Charleston straight out of WNDU’s Zulu Warrior- show. (See picture feature on pages 18-19, review on page 14.)
—Photos by Dana Weithers
Memo For Would-Be Class Officers
Although class elections are still almost two months away, the notices have gone up on the bulletin boards of the nominating procedure and the requirements for the candidates. Because that time is approaching, perhaps a few remarks directed toward potential candidates would be in order, admitting that said remarks are based only on observation and not on experience.
To begin with, we think the predominant emotion of your term of office, if you are elected, will be frustration. You will work and work, and talk and talk, going back and forth between administration and students. You will finally convince all necessary people that what you are proposing is correct and should be done. Then you will find out that most of your classmates won’t even notice what you’ve done, or if they have they will just shrug it off.
The first time you make a plea for any kind of united action, unless it be to cheer at a pep rally or to say the rosary, you will find that people are difficult to jolt. As long as they get three meals a day and get into South Bend often enough to avoid a complex, don’t expect them to follow your fiery- cross of reform.	.
Our first recommendation to you, then, is to realize that, Father Keller to the contrary, you can’t change this particular world. It will be your job to try to modify that world somewhat in the way you see fit, but keep your feet on the ground.
You will find that being a class officer consists in much more than sitting around waiting for a Dome photographer to take your picture for the class officer pages of the yearbook. You will be attending every Senate meeting, serv-‘ ing on countless committees, making arrangements for everything from student trips to keeping the auxiliary coffee station in the caf open on Sunday mornings. But the people who make use of the arrangements you have made will think they happened spontaneously.
Your main function, it would seem, will be that of a buffer and a scapegoat. You will be a buffer between the student body and the administration. You will take orders from both sides, try to keep both sides satisfied, and, if you have any time left, try to carry out worthwhile programs and activities. And, make no mistake about it, you will be the scapegoat when a plan to serve beer in the Sorin sub is vetoed.
But, and make no mistake about this either, you’ll be much better off if you don’t try to push beer for the Sorin sub, or anything similar. It might be very logical to you, but that veto power is always there. You will make much more progress if you do all things gently, for, while radical revolutionary talk will endear you to the troops, it usually won’t accomplish anything, and it will possibly ruin your chances of accomplishing anything else.
However, in spite of all the above, you will reap much enjoyment and satisfaction from service as a class officer. That satisfaction will come in part from a picture in the Dome and another line on a job application, but there will be much more. You will get experience in getting along with all kinds of people, which is always valuable, and you will know more, and understand more, about the inner workings of a large University than the great majority of your compatriots.
But, most of all, we think, you will have the satisfaction of having tried to improve your lot, and you will have earned the right to gripe. It takes no intelligence to sit around the room and expound on what’s wrong with this and that. It does take intelligence—and ambition, perseverance, and fortitude—to try to correct this and that. Talk is very cheap, and talk which will not be backed up with action has no validity. Only constructive criticism, from someone who is wiling to act on his beliefs, carries any weight. The rest is just a rattling, and an empty wagon can do as well.
In any event, think before you run. After all, you will get your picture in the Dome.
March 13, 1953
7
it’s a short story ... short collar SHIRTS for SPRING in 5 new short-collar styles
In oxford cloth, pique or broadcloth . . . in white or solid shade . . . button or
French cuffs ... in the 5 styles illustrated above. 1, button-down round point, 2, Round point; 3, Short point button down;
4, Short point Kent, and 5, pin through
collar shirt with pin included. $4.50 and $4.95.
Michigan at Washington
WWDU Nike Chatter
In a “disc jockey”, any disc jockey, one of the most important, and certainly the most difficult, skills that must be learned, is that of putting your own personality into a cold metal microphone, so that it comes out as a warm and real person on the other end of the listener’s equally cold, fabric speaker.
As with any other person, you may not like the disc jockey's personality. Some will like him and others won’t. But a disc jockey has to sell his show and his product to an audience who finds it easier to ignore the radio than listen specifically to what it is saying. A good disc jockey, by projecting himself into the listener’s room, almost compels him to listen closely.
Two DJ’s on WNDU, besides the Zulu Warrior, have particularly mastered this art. They are, of course, Al Wood and the “Old DJ, KJ”, better known as Kevin Joyce. Again, you may not like them, as you may not like any other person, but if your dial is set at 640 kc when they are holding forth, you can hardly ignore them. And, if you met them on the campus, and talked to them for a short time, you’d immediately recognize them. Why? Because they have been completely themselves on the mike. By listening to them, you get to know each of them personally.
For instance, when I told K. J. that I was going to write about him this week, and asked for his actual height (an important factor whenever you speak of him) he gave it as 5’ 9”. Maybe his naturally interesting personality and his experience with WLNH gave him an unfair advantage over the rest of us, but Al Wood had no experience before coming to WNDU, so the art can be developed by one who wants to bad enough and is willing to work on it.
Maybe that is why I’m prejudiced towards announcers like Al, D. J., K. J., and the Zulu.
People like “gimmicks,” so WNDU has come up with the gimmick to end all gimmicks for this Spring. With everyone vieing at this time of year for the Scholastic and Dome “Men of the Year” awards, Al Wood has come up with the “Oddball of the Year” contest. Any student is eligible except the judges (probably the only rule of this contest that is similar to any other contest), and any student can nominate any other, your best friend, worst enemy, some one you just know, or even yourself.
A few of the fabulous prizes that the winner will get are an all expense paid
(Continued on page 22)
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 18
MARCH 13, 1953
Junior, Senior Bid Sales Next Week
Juniors Start Monday With 500 Bids Open
Buddy Morrow, a popular newcomer to collegiate bandstands and a prominent recording artist, will replace Jimmy Dorsey as lamplighter for third year men at the Junior’s “Lamplighter Serenade” on April 24.
Dorsey, who was originally signed up by the Juniors, disbanded to go into a musical partnership with his brother, Tommy Dorsey.
Five hundred tickets for the Juniors’ extravaganza will go on sale Monday and Tuesday at noon and evening meal hours in the lobby of the Dining Hall. Price is $8 per couple, including bid and favor.
Weekend plans also include, besides the Prom on Friday night, a dinnerdance at the South Bend Country Club Saturday and a group Mass followed by a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn on Sunday morning.
Reservations for each of these additional weekend events will also be accepted at the time of ticket sales on Monday and Tuesday. However, accommodations for only 175 couples will be available for the Saturday dinner-dance and attendance at the Communion Breakfast will be limited to 90 couples.
Flower purchases and arrangements for blind dates may also be made at the time bids are bought. Bill Woodward, chairman in charge of blind dates, may also be contacted in Room 315 Sorin.
Room reservations for weekend guests are not available at the Morris Inn, but arrangements for downtown hotel and private home accommodations will be handled along with bid sales, Woodward said.
Phil Bolin and Mickey Moran are general co-chairmen for the Junior Prom. Other chairmen include: tickets, Jack Rosshirt; decorations, John Reidy; breakfast, Ron Mazzoli; general weekend, Bill Guilfoyle and Joe Springer; business, Gene Howley; entertainment, Jack Ryan; and publicity, Jack Sand.
JIMMY DORSEY
Replaced by Buddy Morrow
English Dept. Features 'The Titan' Next Week
The Titan, another in a series of films sponsored by the Department of English, will be shown in Washington Hall next Wednesday and Thursday.
There will be only one showing on Wednesday at 4 p. m. There will be two showings on Thursday—at 4 p.m. and at 8 p.m.
The Titan is reputed to be one of the finest productions of its kind in recent years. Produced by Robert Flaherty and narrated by Frederic March, the movie depicts the life and works of Michelangelo, the great Renaissance artist. The movie was filmed in Italy.
The film has drawn plaudits from many critics and reviews in this country. John Mason Brown, in the Saturday Revieiv, called it an “extraordinary masterpiece.” The Neiv York Times described it as “a film of incomparable excifement.”
Prof. Rufus W. Rauch, of the Department of English, is in charge of the series. Subscription is 25 cents at Washington Hall one-half hour before each showing.
Wednesday, Thursday Dates Set For Seniors
“Bam!” Another seasoned sophisticate of the senior class bursts another balloon.
The seemingly senile behavior of the men of ’53 began last night after the Marriage Institute session in the Engineering auditorium had concluded. Senior Ball publicity men distributed 500 toy balloons to their classmates.
An advertising gimmick to remind seniors of tickets sales for the May 8 formal, the balloons — in red, pink, orange, yellow, green, and blue—bore the inscription: “Get on the Ball—SENIOR BALL—May 8 . . . Drill Hall.”
Circulars bearing additional information about the seniors’ big weekend were also handed out.
Next Wednesday and Thursday are the days set for Senior Ball bid sales. At noon Wednesday 600 tickets at $9 each will be up foi' grabs in Walsh Hall and in the lobby of the Dining Hall. Noon sales will continue till 1:30, bids will again be available from 6 to 8 p.m. What bids remain—if any—may be had at the same times Thursday.
The two selling stations were set up to alleviate the long lines which have perennially congested the Dining Hall lobby.
At the same time in both places seniors may also purchase tickets—at $3 per couple — for the May 10 Communion Breakfast for the ball-goers in the Morris Inn. The Breakfast will be limited to a scant 100 couples.
Hotel reservations for the weekend guests may also be made at the time and place of bid sales for either the Morris Inn or the Oliver Hotel. Forty rooms will be available at the Inn and approximately 125 downtown. Nightly rates vary from $4.67 to S8. Lists of private homes furnishing rooms may he consulted.
Bids and breakfast tickets must he paid for in full when purchased and none may be reseiwed.
March 13, 1953
9
Blue Circle Seeks to Replenish Club Roster As Chairman Announces '53 Member Drive
The Blue Circle Honorary Society is now accepting applications for membership, Chairman Ernie Buckley announced today.
The Blue Circle is composed of students selected for outstanding qualities of leadership and initiative. As Chairman Buckley aptly puts it, “We want fellows who will work.” The main purpose of the club is “to promote school spirit.”
To become a Circle member, the student must submit a letter of applica-
ERNIE BUCKLEY On a Selective Basis
tion to Duke Rank, 214 Dillon, stating why he wants to join and also what high school activities he has participated in. The applicants will then be interviewed by a board of Blue Circle members and later selected on this basis.
Preliminary requirements are as follows: the applicant must have at least an 80 average, no disciplinary record, and at least one completed semester at Notre Dame by the time of application.
The Constitution of the Blue Circle limits membership to 45 — with, nine sophomores, 13 juniors, 17 seniors, and six others selected at large.
The Circle works hand in hand with the Student Senate which provides the Circle with funds. The Freshman Orientation Program during the first two weeks of the first semester was handled by the Circle. Other projects include pep rallies, tours for visitors on football week-ends, ushers at the Concert
and Lecture Series, class and college elections, and a very successful mixer held at the Drill Hall earlier this year. Vice President of Student Affairs Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., serves as club moderator. Officers include Ernie Buckley, chairman; Jack Bradshaw, vice-president; and Art Lewis, secretary-treasurer.
The Blue stands for the Blessed Virgin, while the Circle, for the unity of the group. The Blue Circle “offers invaluable experience in working with people,” Buckley added.
Most of the members have outside activities other than the Circle. This year they hold such important campus positions as Editor of the Dome, Dance and Carnival Chairman for the Mardi Gras, President of the Debate team, cochairman of the Junior Prom, and many other notable positions.
Any student who can meet the requirements and wishes to join must apply to Duke Rank, 214 Dillon Hall.
Award Father Steiner Prize
To Best Engineer April 27
The Father Steiner Prize of $50 will be awarded to the most qualified junior or senior in the College of Engineering on April 27.
The award is conferred annually on the basis of scholastic average, participation in extra-curricular activities, qualities of leadership, and proficiency in English composition and speech.
Selection of the winner ’.nil be made at a public speaking contest in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30 p.m.
The award was instituted in 1949 when the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner received contributions from several of his former students toward the establishment of this fund. Father Steiner specified that it is not to be based on scholastic average alone, but on other activities which would indicate and promote leadership.
Father Steiner was graduated a Civil Engineer in 1900, and for several years was a practicing engineer with the Big Four Railroad until he took the vows of the priesthood. He then served as a professor in the College of Engineering, latei- becoming its dean. Soon afterward he was appointed the Provincial of the United States Province of the Order of Holy Cross, a post he held until 1951.
Hafner, Burrell to Lead YCS Activities For '53
At a recent meeting, the Notre Dame Section of the Young Christian Students Movement elected its officers for the year ending February, 1954. Yates Hafner and Dave Burrell will serve as co-presidents, Joe Imbriaco will assist as vice-president, and the posts of secretary and treasurer will be filled by Tom Donahue and Dick Snee, respectively.
The officers, together with Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., chaplain, and Student Advisers John Houck and Buck Hennigan, form the Planning Committee, which coordinates the various activities of YCS on campus.
Hall spirituality, recreational facilities, and study conditions are under constant consideration by the Freshman, Sophomore, and Upperclassman groups which meet weekly. Conditions are remedied or improved whenever possible.
Services rendered by the YCS include: the Book Exchange; Campus Press; Anima; National Catholic Action Study Commission; a spiritual library at the YCS office in the Law Building; and annual retreats.
YCS is not an organization in the strict sense, but a movement whose most important activity is carried on in small groups throughout the campus. The vitality of the movement depends on the activity of these small sections on the “grass root level,” which are given central direction and unity by the Planning Committee.
Recent ND Gallery Additions Boast Famous Eakins Work
A painting by Thomas Eakins, proclaimed one of America’s most distinguished artists at the turn of the century, is among recent acquisitions of the Wightman Art Gallery at Notre Dame.
The painting is a portrait of Reverend Philip R. McDevitt of Philadelphia, who later became Bishop of Harrisburg, Pa. It is a gift of Miss Mary R. McDevitt and the late Helen C. McDevitt.
Eakins painted the portrait in 1901 and exhibited it in the Pennsylvania Academy in 1902. It is listed in the Academy catalogues and in the most recent biography, Thomas Eakins, His Life and Works, by Lloyd Goodrich.
Eakins was a candid and detached realist, sometimes compared to the Frenchman Courbet.
10
The Scholastic
Early Subscription Response Hurries Debut Of 'Jubilee,' National Catholic Pictorial
The first issue of Jubilee, long-awaited national picture magazine for Catholics, will appear next Friday, according to Peter J. McDonnell, business manager. Jubilee’s highly successful direct mail campaign, with an average return of 4.7%, has made possible immediate publication, McDonnell said.
Releasing the information from Jubilee’s recently opened offices in New York, McDonnell stated that editorial production has been in progress for some months and line-ups for the first three issues have been determined.
Included in the early numbers are stories on the New York waterfront, and the Church in the Cold War. The story of a priest exiled to Siberia by the Reds and the Pax Christi movement and many others.
Jubilee will be printed on coated paper in color and black-and-white, and features a special art insert. Regular departments include sections on books and the entertainment field, a children’s “make and do” department, and a monthly salute to an outstanding personality.
N.D. Grad Is Managing Editor
McDonnell also announced additions and revisions in the staff. Edward Rice, former managing editor, becomes executive editor. Robert Reynolds, former editor of the prize-winning Catholic magazine, Today, and a Notre Dame graduate, replaces Rice as Managing Editor. Robert Lax continues as roving editor and is currently on assignment in Europe. Anthony J. Ballo, formerly with the New Yorker, Newsweek, and McCall’s, is Jubilee’s new production manager.
McDonnell also announced that Jubilee’s initial press run has been set at 50,000. In addition to mail subscriptions and bulk orders for church and school sales, cities with a Catholic population of 20 per cent or better will also be tested for newsstand sales. The first cities to be tested will include Greater New York, Newark, Rochester, Buffalo,-Boston and Baltimore, as well as smaller communities such as Westchester and parts of Long Island.
Jubilee’s unique charter subscription packages, by which initial subscribers receive one share of Class A stock in Jubilee, are still on sale. Only 60,000 charter packages at $5 each have been offered.
Regular subscriptions for the maga
zine are $4 a year. Single copies are priced at 35c.
Promotional efforts will be a consistent, continuing basis with daily newspapers being used to supplement efforts in the Catholic press. Advertising will be concentrated at first in the cities where distribution is heaviest and eventually extended on a national scale.
Management personnel for the new publication plan an extensive trade campaign to push the magazine as an advertising medium. Trade magazines' and newspapers will be employed to back up direct mail efforts.
“We believe that our circulation growth will be too rapid to hold our rates at a low level,” McDonnell said, “so we have pegged them on a medium scale with protection offered to initial issue contract advertisers only.”
McDonnell announces that Jubilee’s Advisory Board is now complete as follows: Rev. John M. Oesterreicher; Rev. John J. Hooper, S.J.; Rev. Robert W. Hovda; Sister Julie, O.P.; Sister M. Madaleva, C.S.C.; Mother Eleanor M. O’Byrne, R.S.C.J.; Sister M. Therese, S.D.S.; Joseph A. Duffy; Hugh J. Kelly; Charles A. Powers; Robert E. Rambusch, and Godfrey P. Schmidt.
A brochure describing the subscriberownership plan may be obtained from Jubilee, at 377 Fourth Avenue, New York 16, N. Y.
International Relations Group Plans April 22 Symposium
Plans for a symposium on “Religion and the Crisis of the 20th Century” have been announced by the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations for April 22.
Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs, will be chairman of the symposium, another in a series of discussions on world affairs.
Speakers for the symposium have been drawn from various leading universities throughout the country. They include Notre Dame’s Prof. Francis J. O’Malley of the Department of English, and Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science.
Prof. Goetz Briefs of Georgetown University will also appear, along with Canon Iddings Bell, W. Herberg, and Prof. W. Pauck, all of the University of Chicago.
Complete details of the symposium will be announced later.
Father Hanley Gives Aquinas Talk Sunday
Rev. Philip L. Hanley, O.P., of the Department of Religion, will deliver the fourth talk in the Aquinas Lecture series at 8:15 pjn. Sunday at the Progress Club.
Father Hanley, formerly an Army chaplain and currently a writer for religious periodicals, will discuss “Religion and Maturity.”
On March 22 the final talk in the series will be given by Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz, J.D., of the Department of Political Science. Dr. Kertesz will incorporate his personal experiences into his discussion of “How Stalin Conquered His Satellite Empire.”
REV. PHILIP L. HANLEY, O.P. “Religion and Maturity”
Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., Mr. Otto Bird, Ph.D., and Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., have addressed the Aquinas Library group on previous Sundays.
Jaycees Plan Annual Exhibit In Drill Hall March 27-29
The annual Junior Chamber of Commerce sports, hobby and travel showwill be held in the Notre Dame Drill Hall and Field House March 27, 28, and 29, Milton Brooks and George Lehr, co-chairmen announced last week.
Business men of the Michiana area, will sponsor 85 sporting and travel displays, the chairmen said. Prizes in a bicycle mileage-guessing contest and free entertainment will be provided spectators.
Display hours will be from 6 p. m. to midnight the 27th, and noon to midnight on the 28th and 29th.
March 13, 1953
DOHERTY, PROF. SOMMER, AND HANK ADMIRE TROPHY
Something Worth Debating Over
Nation's Best Debaters Vie For Bolger Trophy At Invitational Tourney Opening Here Friday
Twenty of the nation’s outstanding collegiate debating teams will participate in the first annual University of Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament to be held here next Friday and Saturday. They will compete for the new Rev. William A. Bolger Memorial Trophy which will be awarded to the top team in the tourney.
Named an honor of the late Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., coach of Notre Dame’s outstanding debating teams from 1912 to 1928, the trophy has been donated by alumni whom he trained for forensic competition. It will be awarded to the tournament winner each year.
During Father Bolger’s tenure as debate coach at Notre Dame, the “arguing Irish” won 83 per cent of their debates in sixteen years of intercollegiate competition.
In recent years, the winning tradition has continued under debate coach Leonard F. Sommer, whose teams have engaged in more than 200 debates each year and have won a number of individual and team championships.
Handsome bronze plaques will be presented to the four teams reaching the semi-finals of the Notre Dame tournament and a fifth award will go to the outstanding individual debater in the preliminary competition. In addition, ten certificates of merit will be awarded
to other top ranking speakers.
Alfred C. DeCrane, Cleveland, Ohio, senior, is manager of the Notre Dame tournament.
The Irish debaters have also qualified for the National Championship tournament to be held at West Point sometime in April.
Professor Sommer, commenting- on the recent success of his qualifying team, said that “These qualification rounds in the Midwest include some of the toughest debate teams in the country. This makes our team’s accomplishment something more than ordinary.”
The qualification rounds, held at Michigan State College two weeks ago, covered the states of Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin. The better teams from these states, 24 in all, debated for six rounds.
In addition to Notre Dame, Case Institute of Cleveland, Augustana, Michigan State, and the University of Illinois at Navy Pier also qualified from this district.
The Irish speakers attained superior point totals in the process of winning five debates.
Charles Doherty, a sophomore, from Pittsburgh and William Hank, a junior from Chicago represented Notre Dame at the meet.
Xavier Concert Choir Sings Here March 23
Xavier University’s Concert Choir will give a performance in the Navy Drill Hall, beginning at 8:15 p.m., on March 23. The renowned group from New Orleans will appeal- under the auspices of the Concert and Lecture Series Advisory Board.
Tickets will be on sale at the Washington Hall ticket office next Monday through Friday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. Prices are $1.50 and $1 for the public, while student prices are 75 and 50 cents.
The group, which is conducted by Mr. Norman Bell, is composed of 29 Negro voices. They are serious musicians, taken from all four classes of the university.
The choir offers one of the greatest collegiate ensembles in a program that features selections from the Gregorian Chant, folk songs, spirituals, and music of the masters—past and present.
The concerts are given for the benefit of the Sisters of the Blessed Sacrament, a congregation of religious women dedicated exclusively to good works among American Negroes and Indians.
The choir has appeared on radio and television and has done recording work, as well as opera and concert work.
Last year their tour carried them throughout the East and Middle West, where they received excellent reviews from most leading- newspapers. In St. Louis, 425 people paid $50 a seat to listen to this choii- present its difficult repertoire.
Fred Waring, famous band leader, who was guest director of the group in Philadelphia, says this of them, “One of the very finest choirs I have heard . . . anywhere.”
CBEA to Consider Catholic Grad, Labor in April 9 Talks
The Catholic Business Education Association’s National Convention being held in Atlantic City, N. J., on April 9 will present a panel discussion on “The Catholic Business Graduate and the La- bor Movement.”
Topics which will be included in the discussion include: “The Church and the Labor Movement,” “The White Collar Worker and the Labor Movement,” “What Has Been Done to Interest Our Students in the Movement,” and “Practical Problems Confronting Teachers.”
Chairman of the panel will be Brother Justin, F.S.C., of the Department of Labor-Management Relations at Manhattan College in New York.
The Scholastic
Class Halls Assigned For March 18 Pick
Knott Replaces Ryan as WNDU Station Head; New Sales, Traffic Managers Also Appointed
Definite assignment of residence halls to segregated classes for September, 1953, was announced by the Office of the Prefect of Discipline, under the return to the old system of halls allocation. Pre-registration will begin in the Office of Student Accounts on March 18, lasting through March 27.
Pre-registration with the Office of Student Accounts will include both campus and off-campus students, excepting those in Graduate school. A $50 deposit will be required at this time.
Three halls have been allotted to each of the upper classes. Seniors will room in Alumni, Fisher, and Walsh Halls, while juniors will reside in Dillon, Badin, and Sorin Halls. The entire fourth floor and rooms 142, 143 and 243 of Fisher Hall have been reserved for law students.
Second-year men move into Morrissey, Lyons, Howard, and St. Edward’s Halls. The frosh halls are Zahm, Farley, Breen-Phillips, and Cavanaugh Halls.
Each eligible student has been sent a notice designating a particular date and time for pre-registration. If the notification was not received by today, the student should report to the Office of Student Accounts immediately.
Registration will be handled according to the students’ class standings and scholastic average. This will be based on the average as of June or Summer session, 1952, excepting students who entered in September, 1952. These will be arranged according to the January, 1952, average.
If any student wishes to live off-campus, he must have a parental letter of permission forwarded directly to the Office of the Prefect of Discipline before Monday, unless 21 years of age and responsible for his own education.
Any student who will be employed at Studebaker Corp., or any other individual plant where work will keep him after midnight must live off-campus.
Marine Corps Personnel Seek Reserve Enlistees
Lt. Paul F. Stephenson, Marine Corps Recruiting Officer, accompanied by a navy doctor and his assistant, will be at Notre Dame on Tuesday and Wednesday. They will be in the Dining
Thomas J. Knott was appointed to the position of station manager foi-WNDU this week. Knott replaces William J. Ryan, a senior who has resigned because of a job he holds with WSBT in South Bend.
Knott, a junior in music, will manage the “Student Voice” for the rest of this year and all of next year. He has been program director of the station for a year and a half, and was made the assistant station manager about a month ago when it became obvious that Ryan’s job made it impossible to continue taking all the responsibilities of the campus station.
Knott has been the obvious choice to succeed Ryan for many months. He came to the station in his Freshman year as a writer and announcer. He has been writing “Story of Storyville” for the past two and a half years, and now does the same show for WJVA. Since September, he has been writing, announcing and producing “New Sounds.”
Tom’s interest in music on WNDU has not been only along the jazz lines, as his work on the “Stbryville” might indicate. He has also been mainly responsible for the increase in classical
Hall both days from 8:30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
The group will explain the two plans offered by the Marine Corps, as well as administer physical examinations to applicants.
Both plans, the Platoon Leaders Class and the Officer Candidate Course, are designed to allow the applicant to finish college. These programs in no way interfere with studies. Given a draft deferment, the student must serve two years as a Second Lieutenant after graduating.
The Platoon Leaders Class accepts undergrads. They enlist as Privates, then receive a temporary Corporal’s promotion.
Enlistees must take two six-week training periods during the next two summers. Transportation, living quarters, uniforms, and medical and dental care are provided. Pay for the training periods is about $142 and $176, respectively.
Upon completion of both Summer courses, and reception of the bachelor’s degree, the students are eligible for a Second Lieutenant’s commission in the Marine Corps Reserve.
music programming, and the development of the classical music library at the station. Most of the programming innovations for the past year and a half have also been attributable to his direction.
Besides his activities on WNDU, Knott is also a member of the Notre Dame concert orchestra.
Ryan moves into the position of “executive advisor,” a position which gives him supervision over traffic problems and arrangements for the new studios to be installed in the O’Shaughnessy Building next fall. He will also, of course, advise Knott until the new manager becomes familiar with his new position.
Two other department appointments were also announced this week. Dick Beeman, a sophomore who intends to major in speech, becomes the sales manager to replace John Kelsch, who was appointed business manager a few weeks ago. John O’Meara takes over as the head of the new traffic department, which replaces the old traffic and continuity branch of the station.
Beeman has been the top salesman for the past three months. O’Meara has been a staff announcer up to the time of this appointment, and it is expected that he will give up his announcing duties.
Both men have shown the necessary qualifications to handle their new positions and help the station in its rather rapid advancement that has been seen the past two months.
TOM KNOTT
After ‘New Sounds,’ a New Job
March 13, 1953
13
Gnitici Scuf...
Ambitious 'Vile Bodies' Leaves Out Waugh And Original Satire Becomes Hilarious Farce
character exposition (which took up practically all of act one) seemed largely unnecessary; cutting out at least two of the scenes and several pages of dialogue would have turned the play into what Tumpane may have intended it to be—a fast-paced farce.
An adaptation of Evelyn Waugh’s satire by John Tumpane of the Notre Dame Department of Speech and Rev. John Walsh, S.J., of Marquette University, Vile Bodies, was certainly one of the most ambitious dramatic productions ever to appear in Washington Hall. It was also a spectacular and erratic disappointment—a loose, rambling satire which mixed scenes of great humor with long stretches of flat, aimless dialogue.
Mr. Tumpane, who also directed the production, deserves a great deal of credit for culling some order from the chaotic drama that lurched its way across the stage of Washington Hall last week. However, much of the responsibility for the faults of the play, as well as for its successes, must be borne by its authordirector.
Very briefly, Vile Bodies is the story of Adam Fenwick Symes’ attempts to secure enough money to marry Nina Blount, his rather diffident fiancee. After seeing his volume of memoirs burned by three customs officers, he gains and loses a small fortune, and finally discovers that Nina has decided to marry an officious army captain, Ginger Littlejohn.
FIVE ‘VILE BODIES' IN A RACING PIT Agatha Was The Spare Driver
Closely allied to Adam’s misadventures are those of Agatha Runcible, supposedly a typical product of London’s mid-thirties Mayfair set, and her hard-drinking friends. In act three, Agatha dies after having smashed up a car in an auto race. At the end of the play, Nina seems hopelessly mired in a disastrous marriage, Agatha’s friends have disappeared; only Adam, a drunken major, and a trollopish young lady are left to drink to the happy ending.
Although Mr. Tumpane’s script presents a fairly literal transcription of the events of Waugh’s novel, he seems to have captured very little of the acid spirit of the original satire. The play should have been a bitter and savage comedy of manners; in the local production, the final result was a wild and frequently hilarious farce in which the meaning was generally lost by director, actors, and audience.
Technically, the scrip left something to be desired. Nine scenes were far too many; and the artless device of having telephone conversation between Nina and Adam cover the transition between scenes proved both awkward and tiresome. Likewise, the vast amount of
How Broad Is Satire?
As it was, Vile Bodies was too slow for farce, and too broadly played for satire. The most glaring weakness was probably its lack of cohesion and dramatic unity.
Acting styles were unfused, too much dialogue and business seemed thrown into the play without purpose; as a result, the viciousness of the satire was lost in the horseplay.
What compensated for this was the singular brilliance of individual scenes and individual performances.
As Adam Symes, Jim Nichols turned in a performance in some ways superior to his characterization of Edward Chamberlane in The Cocktail Party. St. Mary’s Nancy Driscoll made an attractive and extremely competent Nina. For once, her interesting collection of mannerisms seemed fully appropriate to the role she was playing. The other principal, Agatha Runcible was entrusted to Miss Jean Richards, whose blithe and wild-eyed performance was one of the real comic highlights of the play.
Are Actors Too Human?
However, while all three leads were well cast and well-acted, the force of Vile Bodies depends upon the bland inhumanity of Adam, Nina, and Agatha. In Director Tumpane’s conceptions of these roles far too much sympathy for-the characters portrayed was permitted: Adam was naive and friendly, Nina well-tailored and well-mannered, and Agatha, not nearly “bogus” enough.
Where Tumpane demonstrated a real touch for casting was in the supporting roles. Particularly good were Bill Santoro as Archie Schwert, F. P. Jackman as the Drunk Major, Hildegarde Varg-yas as the American evangelist, Mrs. Melrose Ape, and Jeanie Dosmann as Mary Mouse. Everyone—including Bill Bleakley, who moped and postured through three acts as Ginger Littlejohn —played his role adequately.
Michael Casey’s semi-abstract sets were uneven, but the best of them, as in the jail scene, fit the mood of the play remarkably well. All in all, Vile Bodies, if not up to the high standard set by the University Theatre production of The Cocktail Party, was a valiant attempt to do something original and exciting. What resulted, while not satire, was still good comedy well worth the ticket price. — John T. Elson, John S. HeUman, John A. Nelson.
14
The Scholastic
I
Harvard Should Be Proud
A Notre Dame student and a Harvard student once Were discussing the relative merits of the two schools, according to a campus story. The Harvard man asked, “And what do you think of the ! Review of Politics?” The N.D. student, (after deep thought, replied: “I think it’s a fine magazine—Harvard should be L proud of it!”
Unlike this fictional student, most Notre Dame men at least know that the Revietv is published on this campus, but few realize that it is considered to be I one of the outstanding achievements of the College of Arts and Letters and has I a national reputation as one of the | finest publications in its field.
A Few Opinions
*	Walter Lippmann, noted columnist,
t said on the occasion of the magazine’s l tenth anniversary, “I regard the Review I of Politics as having very few equals '	and no superiors in the serious discuss-
;	ion of international politics,” and re-
cently praised the latest issue of the ; magazine as a “most distinguished number.”
Samuel Cardinal Stritch called the quarterly “an outstanding learned > periodical of our times.”
Canon Bernard Iddings Bell, well-known educator and consultant of the / Notre Dame self-study committee, said । “the Revieiv of Politics is, in these days ■ of confused political thinking, an exceedingly useful journal. I find that I must read it and that I enjoy reading | it.”
!	Jacques Maritain called it “one of the
Text By ED GIACOMINI
most remarkable and enlightening publications in political science.”
Articles in the Revietv are often reprinted by other American and foreign periodicals; for .instance, a recent article on Lamennais by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, the editor, will be reprinted in the May issue of Perspectives, U.S.A., the quarterly of the Ford foundation which is published in four different languages.
A Small Staff
But despite its solid reputation and wide influence, the quarterly has none of the usual physical evidence of a successful publication. An editor of the Dublin Revietv, in speaking of the Revietv of Politics, once theorized that its success was undoubtedly due to “the great staff and physical facilities that make such achievements possible.” The editoi- would have been surprised to learn that the magazine’s staff consists of only five professors: Dr. Gurian, Frank O’Malley, Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., M. A. Fitzsimons, and F. A. Hermens—who publish the magazine in addition to their regular teaching duties, and that the “physical facilities” consist of a small section of a crowded office in the Social Science building.
The small staff and meager facilities date back to 1938 when Dr. Gurian, Professor O’Malley and Father McAvoy first saw the need for a magazine which
would help bring about a deeper philosophical and historical understanding of political realities. Archbishop O’Hara, who was then president of the University, approved the idea of publishing the quarterly and agreed that the University would start the new publication.
A Successful Venture
Gradually the list of contributors grew, and now includes such famous names as Jacques Maritain, Hannah Arendt, Professor John Nef of the University of Chicago, and Professor Barg-horn of Yale.
Regular contributors on the Notre Dame faculty include Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the economics department, Rev. Leo R. Ward of the philosophy department, Professor William 0. Shanahan of the history department, Professor John Kennedy of the political science department, and Professor E. K. Francis of the sociology department.
Dr. Gurian gives three reasons for the success of the quarterly. One, he says, is the support of the University, which underwrites the financial loss; another is the work of the contributors, staff and secretary; and the third reason is the lack of bureaucratic machinery in the publishing of the magazine.
But despite all the achievements of the quarterly, Dr. Gurian says that the staff has one more goal: “We hope to make more friends for the Revietv among Notre Dame students.”
Professor O’Malley, Dr. Gurian, and Father McAvoy check copy for the next ’Review of Politics.’
March 13, 1953
15
Notre Dame’s War Years
Text By JOHN SLAVICK
When the dark clouds of war settled over the United States in 1941, Notre Dame girded itself for the ensuing conflict. Almost all the University's facilities tvere put at the disposal of the government and the “speed-up'' educational program was undertaken icith many peculiar effects. This week the Scholastic brings you the highlights of the 1942-1943 schoolyear.—Editor.
The seniors, in line for graduation a semester early, broke with a longstanding tradition for the Senior Ball ... Al Donahue provided the music for the first September, and the first, and only, Centennial Ball. . . . The incoming freshman looked on in envy . . . 1,300 South Bend defense workers were also newcomers to the campus, as laboratories were used for their instruction.
The barbershop put in two more chairs when 1500 Naval trainees arrived . . . even so, you had to stand in line for the first time. . . . Sorinites were dismayed at having to stand in line in the Dining Hall after semesters of eating in the “caf” ... but the Administration said it would only be for the duration.
The tears were not “yet dry in the eyes of Frank Leahy” as he sent the '42 edition of the Fighting Irish against Harder and Hirsch of Wisconsin. . . . The unfamiliar T-formation was probably the reason for the resultant tie
While sports writers pondered the gridiron fortunes of the Fighting Irish, a makeshift varsity opened Spring practice—with a promising frosh named Lujack.
1943 VARSITY? ? ? <-	; V
j. Backfield. Lto r.: Bob Kelly, rJ& Ed Knipau Lb..* John Lujak,g.b.; Dugie Tumer.Uk. - ' Linemen. L to r.: Jack Zilly, r-e.: Ziggy Cxarobald., r.t: Bud Meter, r.gj Art Statute, c_-Captain-elect Filley. Lg.: Jim White, t.L: Paul Limont Le. .. /	• •
. . . but the team came back on successive Saturdays to trounce Iowa, Illinois, Navy, and Army. . . . Another tradition was broken when it was announced that the annual student trip was being abandoned for the duration, but 2,000 troops went by motor, train, and thumb to Cleveland for the Navy game.
Pity was finally taken on the poor freshman . . . too many were being overcome by vast numbers of upper-classmen wise in the ways of St. Mary’s mixers.
The Navy brought 1300 V-7’s to the campus . . . and two new buildings. . . The eighteen-year old draft hit the campus. . . . General consensus: “I’m ready to go.”
Sports editors believed the new T-formation complicated, but they thought the Irish could handle it. . . . Bertelli highlighted the Stanford game by throwing four touchdown passes, and Wally Ziemba was recognized as an “aggressive and determined senior ace.”
The sophomores had their annual running fight with a Scholastic columnist. . . . They thought Eddy Howard, “the surprise band of ’42,” was pretty good . . . but the columnist replied, “They ‘simply didn’t have it’ ”
Halls blossomed out in decorations for the homecoming game, and a gigantic bonfire signalled the fighting spirit of the Irish as they prepared to meet Michigan for the first time in 33 years.
si
Sign of the times! But do times change?
... It was a great game, but the score ended with the most points in the wrong column. . . . The big exodus of the student body to Great Lakes showed the team that the school was behind them. ... A resounding victory was the result.
The Golden Dome was polished and repaired for the Centennial Celebration. . . . Sacred Heart Church was the scene of a Solemn Pontifical Mass in honor of the event, at which Monsignor Fulton Sheen gave the sermon.
Students and Administration racked their brains to find ways of joining the war effort . . . there were many. . . . The K. of C. canvassed the halls for the war bond and a stamp drive. . . . The laundry finally had an excuse for late deliveries . . . they announced their policy of only one delivery every two weeks “because of trimmings on account of the war.”... This was only for the duration of the war. . . . The two Civil War cannons guarding the flag pole on the main lawn joined another war as they were donated to the scrap drive. . . . Students got into the war effort by giving up spare time and working in defense plants . . . Ball Band Co. popular choice for this lucrative and patriotic activity.
Many came back from Christmas vacation with excessive activity .in them. . . . The seniors of Alumni and Dillon worked it off in the longest snowball fight in the history of Notre Dame . . . “Dillon held off. Alumni for nineteen days.”
The Savoyards performed Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Patience” for the departing seniors . . . while the Dome staff worked overtime to get the book out in time for the early graduation. ... It was to be the last for the duration, so they made it the biggest Dome ever.
16
The Scholastic
The seniors ended eight semesters in a rush of exams and ceremonies. . . . They visited Sacred Heart Church for the last time as students, and walked down the steps of the Main Building for the first time—out into a most uncertain future.
The Navy grew larger . . . 1,200 midshipmen arrived to take the place of 1,100 middies who danced their graduation ball to the tunes of Chico Marx’s band. . . . Four official launchings took place on campus, the U.S.S. Badin, U.S.-S. Howard, U.S.S. Morrissey, and the U.S.S. Lyons were christened.... From now on the walls are bulkheads, the stairs gangways, the floors decks, and the toilets, heads. . . . Meanwhile the draft hit the campus, and enrollment dropped three per cent.
The basketball team ended the greatest season in Notre Dame’s history, with an 18-2 record . . . but the man that put Notre Dame on the basketball map never saw the end of the record-breaking season. . . . The school turned out in a body for the funeral of George Keogan, the “Rockne of Basketball,’’ who died of a heart attack on February 17. . . . Ed Krause was named to finish the season as coach.
WND, “with studios on the second floor of Alumni hall,” was started . . . the new activity gained many steady listeners over Alumni and part of Dillon, the only halls to get the station, during its six-hour broadcast day. . . . Students welcomed its no-commercial policy.
The remainder of the Centennial Celebration was cancelled “until victory”... Thus several more traditions went by the boards for the duration. . . . Class rings were made of silver . . . gold joined the war effort . . . and the upperclassmen combined for the first time in
a Junior-Senior Ball. . . . Ted Fio Rito’s “name band” played, and the decorations were “super-stupendous, colossal, and extra magnificent.”
The Air Corps Reserves were pulled out of school before graduation, and the Navy column ,in the Scholastic published some very practical advice . . . “Do’s and Don’t’s on Fighting Japs,” and “don’t divulge the name or location of your ship. . .”
The Golden Dome became a casualty of the war, as it was blacked out until “the lights go on again.” . . . The Sorin-ites also had their trouble with electricity . . . they had to vacate the famous Sub because of the extra load on the already over-worked power plant. . . . The Sorinites also received practical advice on how to grow brussels sprouts, cauliflower, and asparagus as they entered their Victory Garden outside the Biology Building in the St. Joe Valley competition.
Quite a stir was caused by the freshmen as they paraded a vote-getting horse through the Dining Hall. . . Where was Ziggy? . . . Besides horses, foodrationing also hit the Dining Hall. Student consumption was cut 40%. . . . “When we used to eat family style, you could have all the milk you wanted to drink—but we don’t think about that now.” . . . That was only to be for the duration, too.
The new class officers of the Sophomores finally got the approval of the whole school when Gracie Barrie became “the first damsel to lead a band for one of Notre Dame’s class dances.”
While the University Theater pleased appreciative audiences with “Tailor-Made Man,” the SCHOLASTic-sponsored Bengal Bouts had the biggest crowds ever ... a special Judo exhibition afterwards gave more advice to the Navy.
Qiucatjti S^iandt. in Jfoltl . . .
WELCOME
TAXI I REE!
TO THE MODERN GILBERTS
Hail am G.ib —'IVII rhe driver "Gilbert-'."
We p.n upon arrival.
$	t'WK	•’<!•!( <>r i';. n
■ EVERYTHING FOR THE NAVY MAN
r	JWf MQDCiMf
4 GILBERT'S
FOK MfK
“One man told another” about free taxis.
Notre Dame’s greatest year- in indoor track ended with several new records put in the books . . . .Ollie Hunter was called the “Second Greg Rice.” . . . The Baseball team looked good in their early games . . . and in spring practice “John Lujack appeared to have all the poise and confidence necessary for a college quarterback despite his youth and inexperience.”
“Let’s Get Going,” the first student musical in twenty-five years, featured a prefect of discipline who offered you a drink, and the army, who offered to take away Frank Leahy’s football team. . . . The New Navy Drill Hall became “a star-spangled midway” for the second annual Wai- Charities Carnival. . . . Even the Navy attended.
And then another graduation, with an (Continued on page 31)
WND began—“with studios in Alumni Hall.”
The Navy, complete with brass, took over.
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL 7s FhBRUAR^ \ 4941	NO. 2 
And Sorinites tended a Victory Garden.
T H E N O T R E D A M E |
SCHOLASTIC I
vol. *5	wu _1
March 13, 1953
17
BACKSTAGE STRIFE
Photos by DANA WEITHERS
“Will we do it?”	All kinds of props—from breviaries to booze.
Some critics said Vile Bodies was confused . . . disorganized . . . chaotic. . . . They should have been backstage. . . . Director Tumpane sitting at an organ in one of the music rooms, script propped before him on the keyboard, cutting out bits of dialogue here and there . . . the checker trying to note who’s present as the actors enter through three different
doors . . . people dashing about in various parts of costume ... a cautious knock on a dressing room door ... a halfdozen persons crowded around a tiny mirror to dye their faces a pumpkin shade of orange . . .
“Nina, be sure to wait till the phone rings before answering it. . . . Is the Drunk Major here yet? . . . Archie, when
“Five minutes to go. It’ll be a miracle if we open on time. . . . Everybody better be in the right place at the right time.”
18
The Scholastic
“We dood it!”
open.) wings.
k

Don
(Miles Malpractice) Rathgeb needs help from
the script calls for bourbon, don’t bring out the gin . . . You angels be more careful of your wings. . . .
Vivian
bottle. In the
first scene the ship is supposed to be rolling, not bouncing.... Let’s have it quiet back here when the curtain goes up. . .”
More bustle. ... A card game starts up in the back of the hall. . . . Mrs. Ape to the photographer: “Why don’t you take a picture through the dressing room transom? . . . I’ll
Delihant .. - - but the girls are old hands at the art of
make-up.
make sure the girls are ready.” . . . (The transom wouldn’t
An angel—Chastity—rushes by, all in white, sans BAM! . . . Everyone jumps. . . . The prop man
was testing Simon’s revolver. . . .
“Now everybody, attention! . . . You’re all supposed to be here at 7:30. It’s 8:20 and some aren’t here yet. . . . This isn’t a dress rehearsal; there mustn’t be any mistakes. . . . Let’s say a prayer. . . . Places everyone! . . .”
Top: “Places everybody—curtain going up!” Bottom: Even the actors get a chance to watch.


,1
March 13.
1953
Cavanaugh's Own 12-Voice Choir Will Sing For St. Patrick's Day Mass in Hall Chapel
Cavanaugh Hall’s 12-voice choir, the only student choir on campus, will sing High Mass on St. Patrick’s Day in the hall chapel at 7 a. m. Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., rector of the hall, will officiate at the Mass.
The group will sing the two-part “Salve Regina” Mass by Rev. Carlo Rossini, with the traditional “0 Sanctissima” as an offertory hymn. Father Rossini is the official music director- of .- —
the Diocese of Pittsburgh.
“I’m impressed by the choir’s generosity in giving their time and using their talents to help the hall celebrate
certain Feast days in a more solemn way,” Father Cady stated. He mentioned also that Father Barry has endured the evening practice sessions with patience. “The boys themselves will testify to Father Barry’s contribution, recalling his quip as he left the chapel one night, “Do you guys have your union cards?” Father Cady related.
Organized last November by George Krembs, with encouragement from Father Cady, the student-run and directed choir has sung the Gregorian Chant at Requiem High Mass several times weekly at 7 o’clock daily Mass.
It was only recently, however, that the group learned the Mass by Father Rossini, for St. Patrick’s Day, after practising- earnestly foi- several weeks. They plan to sing this Mass at various times this semester.
Krembs, a freshman mechanical engineer, directs the choir in the Gregorian Chant for the Requiem Masses, while Jerry Haydel, a sophomore pre-medical student leads the singing of the “Salve Regina” Mass. Though Father Cady has sponsored hall choirs in the past, this is the first one which has sung any other than a Requiem High Mass.
Business manager of the choir is Frank Florian, a sophomore majoring in mechanical engineering.
Organist Robert Moore, a Texan, gave a number of piano concerts in the Lone Star State before coming to Notre Dame last year. He is a sophomore studying chemical engineering.
Before the choir could begin in earnest they had to repair the chapel organ and buy their music. They plan to leave the music for future hall choirs.
The members of the choir are: basses —John Massa, Charles Millmann, Thomas Groden, John Battalora, Frank Lun-day, and George Krembs; tenors—Kaleel Salloum, Jerry Haydel, James Karagan-is, Frank Florian, John Queenan, and John O’Brien.
Most of the singers had choir and school experience.
Future plans include a banquet in May, learning more two-part harmony hymns, and possibly singing at campus club Masses when they hold Communion Breakfasts.
Disclose '53 Laetare Medal Winner Sunday
The 1953 recipient of the Laetare Medal, awarded annually by the University of Notre Dame to an outstanding American Catholic layman, will be named Sunday, according to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Established in 1883, the Laetare Medal has been awarded through the years to 55 men and 15 women who have distinguished themselves by exemplary Catholic lives in their chosen fields of endeavor. Soldiers, statesmen, philanthropists, physicians, writers, and scientists have been among those honored by Notre Dame.
Thomas E. Murray, a member of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, received the Laetare Medal in 1952. General J. Lawton Collins, Chief of Staff of the United States Army, was chosen for the award two years earlier.
Among other recent recipients have been Irene Dunne, actress; Frank C. Walker, former Postmaster General of the United States; Carlton J. H. Hayes, historian and former ambassador to Spain; William G. Bruce, publisher; and John Henry Phelan, Beaumont, Texas, philanthropist.
The first Laetare Medal winner was Tonn Gilmary Shea, the historian, in 1883. In the past 70 years the medal has been awarded to such distinguished Americans as Agnes Repplier, Alfred E. Smith, John McCormack, General William Starke Rosecrans, Edward Douglas White, General Hugh Drum, and Anne O’Hare McCormick.
WNDU Shows Go Gaelic In Honor of St. Patrick
On all programs Tuesday, WNDU will step out in the true tradition of the “Fighting Irish” of all lands, when it goes completely Gaelic for the day in honor of the Patron Saint of Ireland, St. Patrick.
Besides the usual Irish ballads on the disc jockey programs, the local station will be reminding all the Irishmen on
campus of their glorious ancestry with all the station breaks done in Gaelic, and the whole program schedule turned over to Irish music of every type.
“Showtime” on Tuesday will feature the play Eileen for the Irish element, and the “Afternoon Concert” will feature the Ireland program from the transcribed series of “Orchestras of the World” that has been featured this semester on Saturday mornings.
Other programs of the day will feature Irish music of every variety, from folk tunes to Irish-American ballads, from dances and native works to Irish classical music. One special program will tell the life story of St. Patrick, with some of the most familiar Irish music.
Fr. Sheedy to Discuss Morality in Marriage
The second half of the 1953 Marriage Institute will get underway Monday night at 7:30 with Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., as principal speaker at the fifth session in the Engineering-Auditorium.
Tickets may be obtained before each session in the Engineering Auditorium.
Father Sheedy, dean of the College of Arts and Letters and past head of
REV. CHARLES E. SHEEDY, C.S.C. . . . The Moral Side
the Department of Religion, will speak on the topic: “Moral Problems in Marriage.” Father Sheedy is also the author of the text, Christian Virtues, which is used in moral theology classes at the University.
The lecture, lasting about an hour, will be followed by a discussion period during which questions from the floor may be directed to the speaker.
The Scholastic
20

Thursday evening at 7:30, will feature Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, professor in the Department of Philosophy, and a panel comprised of Mr. and Mrs. William R. Dooley and Mr. and Mrs. James E. Armstrong. Mr. Dooley is the director of the Placement Bureau, and Mr. Armstrong is the secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
Dr. O’Grady will have as his topic, “Masculine and Feminine Psychology.” The second half of the evening will be occupied by a panel discussion on the topic, “Practical Problems of Married Life.” The panel group will answer-questions by Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., chairman of the Institute.
All seniors and married students are eligible to attend the informal discussions sponsored by the Department of Religion.
The final sessions of the Institute are scheduled for March 24 and 26. Rev. James P. Smyth will appear on March 24, and Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., and Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley will appear at the closing session March 26.
Gurion Doubts Russ
Will Change Policies
In a story which appeared in the South Bend Tribune on March 4, Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science, stated that “Stalin’s death would probably not mean a change in Russian policy.”
Dr. Gurian, considered one of the nation’s top experts on Russian policy, went on to say that he didn’t think the new leader — now known to be Georgi Malenkov—would initiate a policy of “direct aggression,” since World War III would probably mean “the end of the Soviet regime,” in spite of damage suffered by opponents of Russia.
Though he considered an uprising against the Red regime improbable, Dr. Gurian declared that the United States should “fully exploit the uncertainties created among Communists” by Stalin’s death in propagandizing.
Dr. Gurian thought that there would be no fight for power among possible successors. This was proven by the announcement of Malenkov’s appointment soon after disclosure of the Red leader’s death.
A long-time student of Soviet Russian policy, Dr. Gurian has written numerous accounts about Soviet Russia. He is also head of the Committee on International Relations, a campus group which discusses world affairs.
Travel Council Announces Summer Cruises; Plans Educational Program For Voyagers
The Council on Student Travel has recently announced two major roundtrip sailings to Europe for students and teachers this summer.
The S.S. Arosa Kulm will sail from Quebec for London, Le Havre and Bremerhaven June 9 and July 4. Return sailings will leave Bremerhaven Aug. 11 and Sept. 2 for London, Le Havre and Quebec.
The Council also has reserved space for students and teachers on a numbei-of other- sailings of the Arosa Kulm from May through September, and bookings are now being made on all these sailings.
One-way fares on the Arosa Kulm are $150 for space in dormitories for six to 14, and $160 and $165 for space in cabins for two, three and four.
The Arosa Kulm, which is an alltourist class vessel, was used for several Council sailings last year. Since that time it has been remodeled, making the space more adaptable for student travel. The lounge space has been doubled and a sports deck has been added. The overall capacity of the ship has been reduced to 850 spaces. Dormitories have been reduced in size; they contain from four to 14 berths, with the average containing six to eight berths. There are some 60 cabins for two.
As in past years the Council will sponsor an educational and recreational
'Brute Farce' Opens Rehearsals Monday
With a newly-counted cast of 75 members, rehearsals for the third Notre Dame student musical, set for May 3-7, will get underway next Monday evening at Washington Hall.
Brute Farce, 14 scenes of gangsters, a kidnapped football team from Peabody U., co-eds, secretaries and assorted tyros, will be directed by Walt Swift, who has written the script for the five-day musical.
Swift will be assisted by his two music-men, Geary Becker, who composed the score, and Bob Rossiter, wrho handled the lyrics.
Orchestration will be handled by Pat Tobin, a freshman from Zahm Hall. Don Gels and his orchestra will provide the musical background. Mr. John Tumpane and Mr. Michael Casey wall assume supervisory roles.
The musical score will include such intriguing ballads as Face to Face With Love, I Wouldn’t Look Good in Red, and 13 other potential- hit parade winners.
program for student travelers. The educational program on the eastbound voyage is directed toward orienting students to Europe, and includes languageclasses, discussions on European history,. -politics, art, and culture. On the return, voyage students will discuss and evaluate their summer experiences.
The Council furnishes a library, a collection of records—both classical and! popular—sports and game equipment,, and a selection of movies. In addition to the traditional shipboard pastimes such as chess, checkers, bridge, pingpong and’, shuffleboard, there will be movies, dancing, talent shows, and many other special programs.
The Council on Student Travel is composed of 37 national, educational and religous organizations, and its purpose is to encourage and facilitate international student travel.
Since 1947, the Council has provided special transportation to Europe for students and teachers duriing the summer when low-cost accommodations of regular transportation facilities were overcrowded. The membei- organizations of the Council, many of which sponsor educational programs abroad, believe that , student exchange is a sound method of building international understanding.
Further information on the trips may be obtained from the Council on Student Travel, 179 Broadway, New York, N. Y.
The increased cast has lessened the importance of leading roles, but a few of the top jobs still remain clearly defined. Love-birds Jerry Boehling and Wilma Burke will lend the romance to-the show. This will be the first appearance for both Boehling, a senior, and Miss Burke, a St. Mary’s music major.
Other principal male roles are those of the gangsters: Pig, Pug, Slim, and Doc. Cast as the crooked cronies are Pat Cannon, Martin Brennan, Fred lonota, and Frank Brennan.
Others who will also be in the spotlight are Miss Joan Crawford, Geraldine Kyrsco, Jeannine Berner, of St. Mary’s; Hildegard Vargyas of South Bend; and several such local notables as John Campagnone, Kevin Begley, John Maher, Jim Kinnane, and Bill Santoro.
Scenery will be designed and built by David Hayes, Fine Arts senior. Business manager is Lester Zaczek.
March 13, 1953
21
Friday the 13th . . .
Official DAN COLLINS DAY, thanks to Al Gazortz. And they shall be called legion. . . .
Fifty-two people, handled by two directors, made up the cast of Vile Bodies. Not to be outdone, Saint Mary’s Variety Show has a cast of eighty-five, plus three (3- count ’em -3) directors. “Once Over Lightly” sees in this startling development of huge casts and multi-directors a strong tendency toward mob scenes and C. B. DeMille productions which get everybody into the act. We don’t know how much mob scenes contribute to dramatic art, but tonight and tomorrow night at Saint Angela’s Hall, this technique will be put to another test. One question that will be answered .is whether the stage in Saint Angela’s Hall is as strong as the Washington Hall stage. At last report Washington Hall’s stage was still intact, although it is said to have sunken six feet under the impact of 52 vile bodies. Tonight eighty-five people go on stage at Saint Angela’s; here’s hoping theirs doesn’t go six feet under too.
There is a strong chance that the 1953 Variety Show will be a success, since it contains an original script and is loaded with jokes, parodies and assorted samples of talent. The enthusiastic girls, under an energetic script committee, have included a number of songs and dances in A Trip to Europe.
Bon Voyage.
■
Sticks and Stones . . .
At 5:15 p.m. every weekday, WNDU proceeds to hand fifteen minutes of time to a raspy disk jockey who calls himself the “Zulu Warrior.” According to many students and a number of Scholastic columnists, Zulu is a one man riot who just panics everyone with fifteen minutes of hilarity.
Last week we tuned in one of his shows and found that, happily for the listener’s ears, Zulu really isn’t on the air for- fifteen minutes. He is lucky if he sandwiches two minutes of talk between four records and a theme song. His talk, the day we heard him, consisted entirely of sarcastic remarks, and although his music selection is fair the sarcasm is, for the most part, unfunny and seems to require no special talent. Any student with a batch of mediocre phonograph records and a burning desire to be a tenth rate iconoclast could do as well.
Although a sprinkling of barbed humor can often be funny, Zulu in his two minutes of talk manages to run this comedy technique into the ground for he seems to dislike everyone and everything. If the Warrioi’ would now and then hqve a good word for something (or at least restrain himself from constant sardonicism), his barbs, when he did throw them, would have better effect. Right now, however, he sounds like a misanthrope ready for the psycho ward.
All in all, except for a lively theme song and an occasional gem from Zulu, the show is rather dull, a waste of time for the listener and WNDU, and a waste of voice for Zulu who seems to have little voice to spare.
Bleak Season . . .
Every so often at 5:30 p.m., WNDU gives fifteen minutes to Bill Bleakley, a high-toned fellow who has a hilarious time' laughing at his own bungling attempts to keep a program going for a quarter hour.
The afternoon we tuned in, Bleakley, a fellow who loves to hear his own voice, was playing a recording of interviews with the cast of Vile Bodies. What few banal interviews he did make were marked by his singularly inane questions. Actually, over half the show was taken up by Bleakley’s efforts to extricate himself from the microphone cord, and his attempts to get members of the cast (who seemed reluctant to approach him) for an interview.
“Mr. Tumpane,” he would say. “Oh, I say, Mr. Tumpane, come here for a moment, please. Mr. Tumpane. . .” One could picture Tumpane hastening in the opposite direction. Then, “We can’t seem to locate Mr. Tumpane, but there goes Nancy Driscoll. Oh, Nancy. I say Nancy, come here won’t you? Nancy, Miss Driscoll, Nan. . . . I’m sorry, Miss Driscoll can’t be found.” All this wasted time, mind you, is recorded on a tape recorder that can presumably be turned off when nothing of interest is taking place.
The program is called “Everyman” and proposes to give fifteen minutes of high-toned criticism. Actually it is a quarter hour of Bleakley, who in his own bungling way resembles an affected Dagwobd Bumstead, talking about nothing. Not tp be listened to before eating.
Lay on O’Napolitano . . .
On Tuesday, March 17, New York will be swathed in green and enlivened by the traditional St. Patrick’s Day parade. In South Bend, a certain well known Irishman will be featuring big shamrock decorations and—catch this— green beer. A few miles further" north, some erstwhile Fighting Irishmen will be trying to batter each other’s brains out.
Personally we’d rather be tossing off those green beers than trading punches with these Irishmen, the leather-fisted hordes of Genghis O’Napolitano. His bouters look in fine shape again this year, and we don’t even have to risk what little reputation we have in predicting a top caliber boxing card for the Tuesday night finals.
So if you’re looking for a good fight around next Tuesday night, you’ll find it over in the fieldhouse ring.
And remember, “Students lift their hands in battle, that missionaries may lift theirs in prayer.”
Garry Voit Walt Werner Jack Dilenschneider
Mike Chatter
(Continued on page 8)
trip to one of the nation’s scenic parks, an all expense paid trip to the French Quarter, a tour of the campus, a new car, a complete fishing outfit, swimming gear, a pen and pencil set, all night permissions for a week, a shrunken head, and many more. A partial panel of judges including Awful Al, Simple Simkins, Crazy Chris, Zulu Warrior, the old D. J., K. J., and Bashful Bryan will announce the winners as soon as they recuperate from St. Patrick’s Day. Entries must be in writing and submitted by Tuesday.
—Bashful Bryan
AMASS SCHEDULE
Monday, March 16—Monday of the Fourth Week of Lent.
Tuesday, March 17—Feast of St. Patrick, Confessor, Bishop.
Wednesday, March 18—Feast of St. Cyril of Jerusalem, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor of the Church.
Thursday, March 19—Feast of St. Joseph, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Friday, March 20—Friday of the Fourth Week of Lent.
Saturday, March 21—Feast of St. Benedict, Abbot.
22
The Scholastic

Thus, the strange combination of a sense of power and a sense of insecurity that has taken up its abode in the souls of modern men. . . . Today by the very fact that everything seems possible to us, we have a feeling that the worst of all is possible.”
Sociologists, economists, and psychologists delight in classifying humanity into various categories and subdivisions in order to expound certain theories. Invariably though, they succeed in proving only one thing — that modern society is extremely difficult to analyze in authoritative, irrefutable terms.
Yet, Jose Ortega y Gasset has accomplished precisely this in his brilliant analysis of modern society, The Revolt of the Masses. This book, upon which Al DeCrane commented so ably at the Washington Day Exercises, is certainly one of the most influential books of our time.
The Tragedy of Our Times
Ortega first of all sees two classes of men: “those who make great demands on themselves, piling up difficulties and duties; and those who demand nothing special of themselves, but for whom to live is to be every moment what they already are without imposing on themselves any effort towards perfection.”
It is the tragedy of our times, Ortega points out, that this first group, the select minority, is getting smaller and smaller, gradually being pushed aside and supplanted by the huge second group which he appropriately calls mass-men.
The mass-man of today, according to Ortega is essentially common, even revels in his commonness, proclaims his right to be common, looks with disdain upon anything select or noble. His ambition: to remain precisely what he is and “be like everybody else.” Ortega further notes two fundamental traits of the mass-man: the free expansion of his vital desires, and his radical ingratitude towards all that has made possible the ease of his existence. Utterly devoid of self-discipline, the massman of today is the perfect example of the spoiled child.
Specialized and Standardized
Why has this come about? It is ironic that the answer can be explained in terms of liberal democracy and technicism, the very foundation of our society, the foundation that our forefathers hoped would ensure the freedom and nobility of the individual.
Thus, the specialization and standardization arising from our industrial system has largely been responsible for
this striking transition. Without knowing it. modem man has allowed himself to extend the cult of the assembly line into his personal life as well. Consequently, he too has become standardized, losing his .individuality and with it his sense of responsibility.
The refusal of the mass-man to accept external authority and his egoistic desire to impose himself into politics is another concern of Ortega’s. The greatest danger of modern society he believes is state intervention — the absorption of all spontaneous social effort by the state in the interests of the masses. Modern governments are already beginning to reflect mass-opinion and the commonplace ideals of the masses. This is not good, Ortega believes, because the mass-man does not know where he is going.
The Strange Combination
In this respect Ortega declares that “modern man believes himself fabulously capable of creation, but he does not know what to create. Lord of all things, he is not lord of himself. . . .
Thus, under the influence of the “self-satisfied” age and blinded by the “barbarism of specialization,” man is becoming more and more unable to see beyond the narrow limits of his own horizon. Lacking a definite purpose or goal, he just goes drifting along. Where to? That is precisely the problem Ortega is afraid to answer.
A Plea to Mankind
Aside from noting the national and international aspects involved, readers of The Revolt of the Masses would do well to test themselves against Ortega’s principles, “to determine whether their lives are lived as a discipline or if they too are part of the mass, having the traits of the spoiled child, feeling that everything is permitted and that they have no obligations.”
The book serves, then, as a plea to mankind, to re-organize our thinking, to shun mediocrity, to make great demands upon ourselves, to aspire toward that which is still far above us, to have faith, and to dedicate our lives toward something honorable.
—Tom Foote
March 13, 1953
23
Construction Begins on $40,000 Bus Shelter; Donation Makes Palatial Shack Possible
Construction on a new bus shelter for the Notre Dame campus began this week after the donation of §40,000 by Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Lewis of Chicago made such an undertaking possible, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, announced today.
The one-story structure, which will be 51 by 26 feet, is being placed behind the Law Building, facing the bus route on the Circle.
Contractor for the building is Thomas J. Hickey of South Bend.
Department of Architecture head Frank Montana and Robert J. Schultz, assistant professor of Architecture, are designers for the shelter, Fr. Hesburgh said. The structure will be of a contemporary design to match the Morris Inn, and will have a waiting room enclosed on three sides by glass panels. The floor will be constructed of terrazo, and the ceiling will be covered with acoustic tile, Montana disclosed.
Facilities inside the waiting room will include a telephone, a taxi phone, and a water fountain.
A parking strip will be laid in front of the shelter to permit enough room for two buses to take on passengers simultaneously.
Entrances to the building will be
SMC Sailorettes Span
St. Mary’s College will present its annual variety show, North Atlantic, in St. Angela’s hall tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30. The ticket prices are §2 for the girls, and §1 for their invited guests.
This year’s show is the story of a group of S.M.C. students going to Europe. St. Mary’s sets the opening scene of the first act, where the girls plan a trip to Europe, and also manage to persuade their parents to finance the venture. Between the third and fourth scene, ten girls, with the participation of the audience, do a sailing song as a parody from the hit “One of the Roving Kind.”
Following this is a scene on board ship, in which the stewards give a rendition of songs in barbershop quartet fashion, and a few comedy solos.
The scenes in the second act are concerned with the humorous experiences of the girls in Europe.
Visiting Ireland, England, Italy, Spain, and France, they see the various entertainments and customs proper to
placed at either side, and covered porches will be constructed for commuters who desire to wait outside.
In addition to the waiting room, the rear of the building will be used to house offices for the University’s superintendent of Academic and Student Buildings, with more office space for watchmen and custodial employees to report to and from work.
The west entrance of the shelter will be adorned with a statue of St. Christopher, patron of travellers. Students in the Departments of Fine Arts and Architecture are designing the statue under the guidance of Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., Professor of sculpturing.
Mr. Lewis, donor of the building is chairman of the board at the F. J. Lewis Manufacturing Co. in Chicago. Mr. and Mrs. Lewis have a son now studying at Notre Dame, Edward, Jr., in the College of Commerce.
Mr. Lewis has made several large donations to the Stritch School of Medicine at Loyola University in Chicago. He has also donated over §200,000 to the Catholic Church Extension Society for the erection of more than 20 mission churches and chapels throughout the United States, and is vice-president of the Catholic Charities of Chicago.
'No. Atlantic' Tonight
each of these countries. In the finale, there is a great deal of confusion and fear, when the girls learn that the travel agency has gone out of business.
The eight girls who travel to Europe are: Pat Gannon, Mary Ann Hoben, Carol Hanigan, Elizabeth Kiley, Mary Agnes Majewski, Joan Mette, Carolyn Grieves, and Dorothy Thiel.
Rene Bianucci, Margaret Grignon, Margo Pieck, Janet Conway, and Terese Fabbri play the comedy roles.
General Chairman of the show is Mary Ann Kramer; the director is Rosemarie Oppenheim; Mary Cavaney is the producer, and Rose Marie Murphy is Script Chairman.
ENGLISH ESSENTIALS EXAM
Seniors who hove not passed the Freshman English Essentials examination may take the examination on Tuesday, March 24, from 7 to 9 p.m. in Room 254 Main Building.
Students Disavow
Segregation of Races
In a recent Associated Collegiate Press poll of students in colleges throughout the country, cross-fire occurred on the topic of racial segregation in colleges.
Polled on “your opinion of college policies which state that Negroes may not enroll there,” students from the North overwhelmingly disapproved. Seventy-six percent were definitely against such policies in colleges, while 17 percent were in favor of it. No opinion was rendered by 5 percent, while 2 percent voiced varying opinions.
However the Southern students were more evenly split on the matter with 53 percent disapproving, and 35 percent approving of racial segregation. The remaining 12 percent was split on varying opinions.
Though they approved of segregation, the students often qualified their statements, pointing to equal but separate school facilities. “Equivalent schooling can usually be provided elsewhere,” said a freshman at Agnes Scott College, a girl’s school in Atlanta, Ga.
“Negroes have their own colleges where whites may not enroll,” an engineering student at The Citadel, Charleston, S. C., stated.
A sophomore at Gustavus Adolphus College, Minn., commented, “The sooner we realize Negroes are human and will act human if treated in such a way, the better it will be for all.”
A male education student at Southeastern Missouri State Teachers College thought “mixing” would be “uncomfortable for both white and colored races.” But he added, “I don’t mean Mexican and other dark races.”
The two per cent who ducked the question by choosing “other,” usually said the decision “is up to the board of trustees.”
Sociology Series Presents Talk on Alcoholism Tonight
The lecture series recently inaugurated by the Department of Sociology will continue with a talk on “Alcoholism” on March 20 at 8 p.m. by a member of the South Bend unit of Alcoholics Anonymous. Mr. Denis C. McGenty, Teaching Fellow in the Department of Sociology, will lead the discussion. The talk and discussion will take place in Room 101 of the Law Building.
Two more Sociology period lectures will take place before Easter. Mr. John M. Martin, Director of the Graduate Curriculum in Correctional Administration, will discuss “The Sex Offender” on Friday, March 27 at 11:30 in Room 222 of the Main Building.
24
The Scholastic
ND Battles Beck-Led Quakers Tonight
Bengal Bout Prelims Assure Plenty of Action Winner to Play Either In Semi-Finals Tonight; TKO's Dot First Round Hoosiers or DePaul
BY BOB FROLICHER
The first round of preliminaries on Wednesday opened the 1953 version of the Bengal Bouts. Four bouts ended in TKO’s, while the rest were awarded decisions.
In the opening match, Brenden Cryan of Great Neck, Long Island, won a split decision over Eddie Oleo of Bogota, Columbia. The bout was halted after Cryan suffered a cut over the left eye, but he was awarded the decision.
Jim Reno, Detroit, gained a TKO after 52 seconds of the third round over Joe Muldoon of Fitchburg, Mass., in the 142-lb. class. Reno dazed Muldoon first late in the second round, then floored him twice before the referee stopped the fight.
John McGraw and John Mulvaney won a unanimous decision and split decision respectively in the two 157-lb. clashes. McGraw started Boris Mehoff’s nose bleeding in the second and made the best of this break throughout the remainder of the fight. Both boys hail from Springfield, Ohio. In the other bout, Mulvaney made every blow count as he decisioned Bill Lederer. Mulvaney staggered Lederer in the third, but he weathered the blow until the end of the round.
Both of the 167-lb. bouts ended in TKO’s, one in the first the other in the second, as the pace began to liven up as the fights progressed. Jim Curtin of Chicago scored a TKO in 51 seconds of the second round over Lou Marlin, also of Chicago, in a toe-to-toe battle. Curtin sent Marlin to the canvas late in the first round, but he was saved by the bell.
Jerry Mernin of Crater Lake, Oregon, won the other TKO in the 167-lb. in 49 seconds of the first over Chuck Mears of Waukegan, Ill. Mears started off fast and floored Mernin early in the round. However, Mernin bounced back and after shaking off the effects, tagged Mears in the middle of the ring that sent him doubling over.
Tom Murray of Toledo, Ohio, won a unanimous decision over Hugh Vergara of Stamford, Conn., in the 177-lb. class. Murray took an automatic eight count in the first round, but his height proved a deciding advantage.
In the first of the heavyweight matches, Jim Walsh gained a TKO in 1 minute and 3 seconds of the third round over Frank Lolli. Walsh’s infighting gave him the edge in the fast third round. Walsh hails from Chicago, while Lolli comes from Oak Park, Ill.
Jack Lee made use of his good left jab to gain a unanimous decision over John Happ in the second heavyweight bout. Lee sent Happ sprawling to the canvas temporarily in the second round, and this gave Lee a decided edge.
Bill Ahern of Kings Park, Long Island scored a split decision over Paul Klebba in the closing fight of the night. Ahern finished strong to erase the edge Klebba gained earlier. Klebba hails from Detroit.
jerry McCloskey
Ace in the Hole
BY BILL NOONAN
A six-foot, four-inch animate obstacle by the name of Ernie Beck blocks the path of the Notre Dame basketball team tonight as the Irish attempt to advance one step further in the NCAA tournament. Beck of course is the University of Pennsylvania’s center who has dominated the hardcourt scene in Quakertown for the past three seasons.
Penn automatically qualified for a spot in the tourney by winning the Ivy League championship with a 10-2 record. Overall, the Red and Blue has won 21 games while losing four. Maryland, No. Carolina, Pitt, Yale, Princeton, Dartmouth, Syracuse, Cornell, Penn State, Columbia (twice) and Army have been among the top quintets defeated by the Quakers. The four teams having beaten Penn are: Wake Forest, 65-61; Yale, 76-64; Navy, 62-60, and Dartmouth 65-55.
Third Leading Scorer in Nation ’
Coach Howie Dallmar, an all-time Penn great, centers his whole attack around Beck. The senior pivot man has been rolling along at a 26.8 points per game clip which places him third in the nation. In the first 22 games Beck tallied 573 points. He holds every scoring record at Pennsylvania in addition to a three game mark for the annual Dixie classic which he set last December by scoring an even 100 points as his team lost out to Wake Forest in the finals. Thus far the Quaker sharpshooter has been named on every 1953 All-American team that has been picked.
The Irish will have to be careful of the almost natural tendency to take the rest of the Red and Blue squad for granted. Though overshadowed by their great teammate, the remainder of the starting five contributed a great deal to Penn’s fine season. Dick Heylmun, a 6’1” junior has a very respectable 12.4 point average; Tom Holt, 5T0”, the other forward, has a 10.2 percent-
(Continued on page 28)
25
March 13, 1953
Harrington Sets Vault Mark; Newquist Hurt As Marquette Captures CCC Indoor Crown
BY TOM WELLY
Thrilling individual performances, upsets and injuries stole the spotlight from Marquette’s surprisingly easy triumph in the Central Collegiate Indoor Track and Field Championships held last Saturday at the Notre Dame fieldhouse. Jim Harrington’s leap of 14" in the pole vault and Drake’s Arnold Betton’s high jump of 6' 7%'' broke meet and fieldhouse records and dominated the 26th annual running of the C.C.C’s.
JACK ALEXANDER
Cops’ CCC Mile for Irish
Marquette’s running total of 56 points outclassed a nine school field. Notre Dame’s 33 was good for second spot and was followed by Bradley, Drake, Michi-igan Normal, Western Michigan and Wayne. Bowling Green and Central Michigan failed to score. Injuries to star hurdler Harvey Newquist and captain Ed Powell in the 60 yard high hurdles removed any chance the Irish had of overcoming Marquette’s early lead. Newquist was defending champion in both the 60 yard high hurdles and 65 yard low hurdles, but was injured in the former when he suffered a pulled muscle in his leg. Following Newquist’s injury, Bradley’s Jim Philbee was the whole show in the hurdle events as he captured both, with his 07.5 time equaling Harvey Newquist’s record in the low hurdles. Philbee was the meet’s only double winner.
The Hilltoppers pulled six firsts in the day’s twelve event program. Marquette
winners were John Bennett in the broad jump; Al Thomas, 60 yard dash; Bob Allen, Two mile run; Dean Mielke, Shot put; Ted Baars, 880 yard run and the Mile Relay team. Baars and Mielke were the only two of six returning champions to successfully defend their laurels. Joe Springer of Notre Dame was beaten by Harrington’s record vault and Gordan Busse of Bradley placed second behind Bennett in the broad jump. Dewey Johnson of Drake was dethroned as champion in the mile run, in the day’s most exciting race, by N.D.’s Jack Alexander. After Johnson had set a torrid early pace, Alexander gained the lead which he never yielded as Ray McConnell and the Canadian Irish star battled to the finish in a terrific stretch drive.
Arnold Betton, Drake’s classy addition to the Olympic Squad was hard pressed in the high-jump by Marquette’s Bennett who earlier had taken first in the broad jump. Betton finally outlasted his diminutive rival by breaking all existing meet records.
Notre Dame’s winning team in the relay was disqualified when a judge ruled that Justin McDonough of the
Turk Retains Handbail Title By Downing Durkin in Finals
Don Turk, Walsh Hall Senior, successfully defended his Singles handball title last Monday by defeating Joe Durkin in the final, two games to one. Turk, a southpaw, took the first game, 21 to 13, but in the second game Durkin, also a Senior, came rearing back and thoroughly whipped Turk, 21 to 5. In the final game and the championship at stake, Turk played it very cautious at first and then slammed home a hard-earned 21 to 16 win. This last game was a see-saw battle all the way. Durkin led by four points at one time, but Turk came back strong to retain his title.
For winning the Singles crown, Turk ■was presented a gold medal from Mr. Szekeley, tourney head. Durkin received the silver one for the runner-up position.
To qualify for the finals, Turk had to get past Dillon’s John Stoddard while Durkin defeated Bill Ahern of Walsh.
The Doubles Tourney has reached the quarterfinals. Sixteen teams are in the race. By Spring Vacation time the winners should be known.
Irish had cut in front of a Drake rival as they rounded a turn ,in the first lap. Jack Alexander had put the crowd on its feet by edging Marquette and Bradley’s anchor man in the final lap. In addition to Alexander, Harrington and Springer, other Irish point getters were: Tony Genovese and Al Kohano-wich, broad jump; Joe Heap, 60 yard dash; Ed Powell, high hurdles; Harry Snyder, two mile run; Jack Cunningham, shot put, and Jim Hernon and AI Schoenig, 880 yard run.
Walsh Wins In+erhall Basketball Title, 52-35
Walsh Hall threaded their way through a field of ten finalists to win the 1952-53 Interhall Basketball Championship by lacing the West Virginia Club, 52-35, last Thursday night in the fieldhouse. Walsh could do no wrong as the West Virginians found themselves on the short end of a 14-12 ‘
INTERHALL CAGE CHAMPS
Walsh’s Six Iron Men
first period score with the margin steadily increasing throughout the fray.
For two quarters the result was still in doubt as Walsh crept to a 32-25 lead in a fast, furious, and well-played first half. Marty Vieth and Don Zech led the Walshmen in their first half charge but West Virginia’s Joe Goeble, Jack Alessandrini, and Bob Hanley combined their talents to make it an interesting two periods.
In the second half it was a different story. Goeble failed to click with his spectacular left-handed jump shots; Alessandrini cooled off considerably, and Hanley was held scoreless. Meanwhile Walsh continued to demonstrate their balanced scoring power and gained con
26
The Scholastic
trol of both boards. They passed and dribbled expertly while shooting then* way through a confused West Virginia defense.
Marty Vieth of Walsh was high point man for the evening with a fine 17-point total. Teammate Don Zech was close behind with 13-points and some great floor' play. Rounding out the starting five of Walsh in their successful drive were Bill Ahern, Bob Rigali, and Jim Terry. Ahern racked up ten markers; Rigali displayed a clever floor game, and reserve Jim Nagy, together with starter Terry, turned in a good game off the boards.
Joe Goeble led the West Virginians with ten points. Alessandrini and Hanley added seven and six respectively but the whole attack sputtered and died after the intermission. The first five, which included Goeble, Hanley, Alessandrini, Lou Tabit, and Sam Tiano could manage only a five point second half production. Ultimately, however, it was the leaky, West Virginia defense, together with an inability to control the boards, which proved to be their undoing.
Walsh left no doubt that they were the better team and for their efforts each player received a gold medal. To each member of the runner-up West Virginia Club a silver medal was awarded.	•
The third place finisher .in the tourney and winners of bronze medals was the Cincinnati club which beat the New England club in a hard fought fracas, 35-32. The tilt was a furious contest all the waj* and was anybody’s ball game until the final minute.—Bob O’Malley
Weightlifters Whip Spartans In Area's First College Meet
The Notre Dame weightlifting team over-powered a strong and determined Michigan State aggregation, 28-17 two weeks ago in the first intercollegiate meet ever held in the midwest.
In last Saturday’s meet Dave Austin of the Spartans copped the honors in the lightweight class with 675 points gained on the basis of 185 in press, 210 in snatch and 280 in the clean and jerk. ND’s Vick George was second with 575 points and State’s Frank Kircher third with 515.
A State man again took first place in the middleweight division as Nick Garvilla totaled 740 on 220 in the press, 220 in the snatch and 300 in the clean and jerk. Jerry Adler of the Irish was the runnerup with 695 and Mike Higgins of ND third with 490.
In the light heavy division, Al Dreis-bach’s 510 total was tops; Joe Sevighy was second. Dreisbach picked up 175 in
Baseball Coach Talks Of Coming Season
BY JACK HEALY
This was at Notre Dame fieldhouse, last Friday afternoon. It had finally been cleared of bleachers for the basketball game, high-jumping pits and hurdles and the like for the track meets, and all the rest of the paraphernalia that collects during the winter sports season at Notre Dame—and now the baseball
JAKE KLINE Baseball—Less Than Three Weeks Away
the press, 145 in the snatch and 200 ii? the clean and jerk.
Leon Dulion of Notre Dame scored 610 points on 190 in the press, 185 in the snatch and 235 in the clean and jerk to win the middle-heavy division. Dick Campbell of the Irish was second "with 570 and Lee Wright of MSC third with 535.
Michigan State’s John Latimer totaled 710 to win the heavyweight division on 225 in the press, 205 in the snatch and 280 in the clean and jerk. Walter-Bernard and John McMullen both of ND finished in the number two and three spots respectively. Bernard’s total was 677% ; McMullen’s 665.
team was taking over for spring practice.
The Irish coach. Jake Kline, was standing by the basketball court ■with some of the managers and a couple of inquisitive persons talking about the coming season and the schedule and Notre Dame baseball in general.
Somebody asked him if this was the official opening of spring practice.
“No,” he said, “we were supposed to start three days ago, but we ran into trouble with two basketball games and a -track meet. This has been our first chance to really settle down to work.”
One of the managers made a slightly cynical remark about the spring in spring practice at Notre Dame. Kline let that go by with a little smile and began answering another question raised about the effects of graduation on the team.
“Well, we lost two outfielders, two pitchers and a catcher, but we have our infield back practically intact. By the way,” Kline added, “one of these pitchers that we will be missing is Tom Bujnowski. That boy really put in a lot of innings for us last year. And Jerry Ledwidge our rightfielder last season, is one of the outfielders that’s gone, along with his .314 average.”
Irish Schedule Four Night Games
The conversation shifted to the schedule for this year. The Irish start off on the road, playing their first game against the Naval Air Station team at Memphis, Tenn., on March 30. The eight game trip will include games with Memphis State college, Arkansas State college, Bradley U., and the University of Mississippi. Four* of these games will be played at night, the most Notre Dame has scheduled in a 'season.
Coach Kline brought up the subject of weather again at the mentioning of the opening date of the season.
“You know,” he said, “it is very possible that we will have to start off the season without ever getting outside on the diamond. Playing right out of a gym doesn’t help a team at all. But you can’t fight this weather.”
A prediction was asked for as to what the team would do in regard to last year’s record of 12 won and eight lost.
Kline said, “I think we might improve on it a little bit. We have a pretty strong team with experience, but of course things can happen between now and the sixth of June.”	.
“Right now though,” he went on, “I’d like to know yhere I can trade a pitcher and an outfielder for two weeks of good weather.”
Then a manager came up with an involved problem of supply and demand regarding baseballs and the discussion came to an end.
March 13, 1953
27
Fencers Keep Going; Chalk Up Nos. 15, 16
Coach Walter Langford’s fencers kept their undefeated record and string of consecutive victories .intact last Saturday by copping a triangular meet with the University of Chicago and Kentucky. The Irish defeated Chicago 20-7 and Kentucky 17-10. It was the 11th and 12th victory for N.D. this season and their 15th and 16th straight over a two year span.
Notre Dame whitewashed Chicago, capturing the foil, 8-1 and the sabre and epee by 6-3 scores. Against Kentucky they swept two out of three events, the sabre, 6-3 and the epee, 7-2. Kentucky won only the foil, 5-4.
Against Chicago, Rod Duff and John McGinn each captured two epee bouts with Bill Lesso and Dave McBride adding wins. In the foil Capt. Jack Mooney won three bouts; Dick Hull and Jerry Brainerd won two each and Jim Waters also gained one foil wan. The sabre victories were more evenly divided with Gerry Finney being the only double winner with Jim Hurley, Tony Mando-lini, Pat Mulrooney, and Frank Solli winning one each.
Kentucky provided more opposition for the Irish, limiting them to 17 bout victories. Duff won three in the epee while McBride and McGinn supported him with two wins apiece. Finney became the day’s third triple winner when he bagged three more sabre bouts. Man-dolini, Mulrooney, and Tom Dorwin each bolstered him with wins. In the day’s only losing venture, the foil against Kentucky, only Brainerd, Hull, Don Dixon, and Tom Beeler were able to gain wins.
Tomorrow’s meets remain on the Irish slate. Tomorrow the University of Cincinnati comes here and the following Saturday the University of Illinois will fence here in the season’s, last meet.
Coach Langford is highly optimistic about tomorrow’s meet. He “thinks we can beat Cincinnati,” but rates Illinois a slight favorite in next week’s final, however. And for good reason too, the Illinois will arrive here with 26 straight wins and four consecutive Big Ten championships, including this year’s, under their belt. Langford was not overly pessimistic however, for he said, “If we’re primed it should be a great struggle. We can beat Illinois.”
A win over Cincinnati tomorrow would tie the record of 17 consecutive wins set by the Irish fencing team of 1935. This year’s squad has already set a record of 12 wins in one season. The previous high of 10 was set in 1950. If the Irish w,in their next two meets they will become the fourth un-
Notre Dame's 1953 Baseball Schedule
March 30		Naval Air Station Memphis State College	At Base—Memphis Memphis	(night)
	31			
April	1	Arkansas State College	Base—Memphis	(night)
	9	Arkansas State College	Jonesboro	
	3	Bradley University	Base—Memphis	(night)
	4	University of Mississippi	Oxford	
	5	Naval Air Station	Base—Memphis	
	6	Naval Air Station	Base—Memphis	(night)
	7	Indiana University	Bloomington	
	8	Indiana University	Bloomington	
	10	Ohio State University	Columbus	
	11	Ohio State University	Columbus	
	13	University of Iowa	Notre Dame	
	14	University of Iowa	Notre Dame	
	15	University of Michigan	Ann Arbor	
	17	University of Illinois	Notre Dame	
	18	University of Illinois	Notre Dame	
	20	University of Wisconsin	Notre Dame	
	22	University of Wisconsin	Notre Dame	
	28	Purdue University	Notre Dame	
	29	Northwestern University	Evanston	
May	6	Michigan State College	E. Lansing	
	9	Great Lakes	Great Lakes	
	10	Naval Air Station	Glenview, Ill.	
	13	Northwestern University	Notre Dame	
	14	University of Michigan	Notre Dame	
	16	Western Michigan College	Kalamazoo	
	19	Purdue University	Lafayette	
	27	Michigan State College	Notre Dame	
June	2	Western Michigan College	Notre Dame	
	6	Great Lakes	Notre Dame	
defeated fencing team in Notre Dame history. The other unbeaten squads were in 1935, 1936, and 1950.
Terry Brennan Returns To Coach Irish Frosh
Terry Brennan, the coaching wizard of Mount Carmel High School in Chicago, and former star Irish halfback was named last week to return to his old alma mater as assistant football coach and probable head freshman coach.
Announcement of Brennan’s new post was made by Father Hesburgh, Notre Dame President, at a meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago.
A graduate of Notre Dame in 1949 the 24-year-old Brennan will always be remembered for his opening kickoff return of 100 yards against mighty Army in 1947. Since leaving South Bend, Brennan has experienced unusual success in his four years as Mount Carmel High School coach.
In 1949, his first season, Mount Carmel broke even in eight games. Since then they haven’t been beaten in league competition, and have won both the Catholic League and city titles over the last three years.
Basketball
(Continued from page 25) age. Holt is co-captain along with Beck. A six-foot sophomore, Karl Hoagland with an 8.2 average and Barton Leach, 6’4” are the likely guard starters. Leach is also a sophomore.
Pennsylvania is no newcomer to Irish basketball teams. Last season, the team split home and home contests. ND took an eight point decision in the fieldhouse but dropped a one point thriller in Philadelphia.
The winner of tonight’s Chicago stadium tussle will meet the winner of the second game battle between Indiana and DePaul for the distinction of representing District Four in Kansas City next Tuesday and Wednesday.
Indiana and DePaul are old friends to the Jordanmen. The Big Ten championship Hoosiers suffered one of their three losses at the hands of Notre Dame last December, 71-70. The Hoosiers have registered 19 victories. Kansas State and Minnesota hold two point decisions over Coach Branch McCracken’s crew. Towering Don Schlundt, the Big Ten scoring champ, paces the Hoosier offense; Bob Leonard, a proficient scorer in his own right is a classy ball-player that gained
28
The Scholastic
a berth on the Irish all-opponent team, and will bear plenty of watching by any foe.
DePaul, who nipped Miami of Ohio, 74-72 to earn the chance of meeting Indiana has a 18 won, seven lost mark. In as sharp an illustration of home court superiority as could be made, the Demons blasted the Irish, 83-56 at Chicago stadium only to be pasted in return, 93-67 when they played the men of •Jordan at the fieldhouse. Coach Ray Meyer’s team can be mighty dangerous, especially on the stadium floor. The attack revolves around the two deadeye guards, Ron Feiereisel and Jim Lamkin.
The District Four winner will probably play the team that takes the No. Carolina playoff district. Lebanon Valley plays Louisiana State, and Holy Cross plays Wake Forest tonight.
RON FEIEREISEL
May Face Irish Again
Last Tuesday Notre Dame won a convincing though not spectacular first round win over Eastern Kentucky, 7257. The Irish seemed to play as well as they had to against a team that was visibly weakened by the loss of first string center, Elmer Tolson through ineligibility.
ND fell behind at the start, 11-4, but Jerry McCloskey tossed in a couple of long ones to get the Irish going. The barrel-chested senior guard could be a major factor in the Notre Dame hopes, now that he seems to have regained his eye and confidence.
Ahead 34-29 at the half, the Jordanmen staged a sensational scoring spurt at the very start of the second half, pulling away to a 19 point lead at one time in the third quarter. Joe Bertrand, playing a great game, threw in 23 points, hitting on eight of eleven tries. Dick Rosenthal was second with 17, followed by Norb Lewinski with 12.
By Jack Sand
Fort Wayne, Chicago & Kansas City Express
While the NCAA-NIT continue to battle back and forth over
who has the better teams, Coach Johnny Jordan’s Fighting Irish con-
tinue to win basketball games without any kind of ballyhoo about it at
all. Last Tuesday night the Irish applied the 15-point plan to Eastern Kentucky as they played well enough to win by exactly that amount.
The Kentuckians minus Elmer Tolson, their leading scorer, appeared listless after doing a surprisingly good job of bottling up the center in the first half. Jordan claims that he would rather have seen Tolson in action, because without him the Maroons had no set pattern, something the Irish had counted on. “I was afraid the game was going to be a lot closer than it was,” said Jordan, especially with everyone of those boys popping from the outside. One of the main reasons why Eastern lagged so far behind was the fact that Shirley Kearns, their second highest scorer, was held to three fouls.
JOE BERTRAND
Tourney Ace
From the Coliseum floor Notre Dame’s
field goal percentage was nothing to rave about, but they did manage to outshoot the Maroons 16 times. The Irish hit 26 for 88, while Eastern netted 21 for 72. “As long as we can shoot more than our opponents,” said Jordan, “we’ll have a good chance to continue winning.” This is especially time of “jumpin’ ” Joe Bertrand who added to his fine field goal percentage (42%) with eight baskets in 11 attempts. Bertrand in our opinion should have been given a considerable amount of attention by the All-American selectors, who seem to have forgotten that there’s another school in Indiana besides Indiana.
Coach Jordan wishes to express his sincere thanks to all the students who traveled to Fort Wayne last Tuesday to help support the Irish. He further hoped that the same amount of spirit would be found in Chicago Stadium, where it will probably be needed twice as much—especially, since a guy named Ernie Beck is in town. Beck, who was tabbed by an Irish scout as “every bit an All-American” is the revolving point of Penn’s attack. According to Jordan, Capt. “Gootch” Lewinski will draw the assignment of holding down Beck’s 26.8 average to a minimum. Gootch, who did a commendable job on Indiana’s Don Schlundt early in the season, remembers last year when Beck scored only 12 points in Penn’s 67-66 win over the Irish' at Philadelphia. He also remembers that Beck tallied 27 in the fieldhouse when ND defeated the Quakers, 83-78.	'
Harrington, Springer Head for Milwaukee
Tomorrow evening the Milwaukee relays take place, with pole vaulters Jim Harrington and Joe Springei- competing for Notre Dame. Miler Jack Alexander will run the college mile for the Irish, while ND’s relay team of McDonough, Feltes, O’Keefe and Hernon will also compete. Freshman Bernie Allurd, who jumped 6’6” in high school, will probably compete against Olympic Star Walt Davis, while Harrington will undoubtedly vault up against Reverend Bob Richards, the nation’s leading vaulter.
March 13, 1953
29
V
Placement Bureau Announces 25 Companies Will Interview June Graduates Next Week
Interviews by 25 companies will be available to job seeking June graduates during the coming week, March 1620. Informational material and application blanks for these 25 companies are now available at the Placement Bureau in the Main Building.
■
Monday—The representative of the Burroughs Adding Machine Company will be here to interview commerce graduates interested in sales careers.
Kawneer Company of Niles, Mich, manufactures of doors and store fronts, is interested in graduates with a B.S. degree in civil and mechanical engineering, arcitects and commerce students for the sales training program, research and development, engineering and production departments.
Mechanical and chemical engineers for the technical training program are the main interest of the interviewer from the General Tire & Rubber Company.
The Beech Aircraft Corporation of Wichita, Kan., will hold interviews for aeronautical, mechanical and electrical engineers.
Reo Motors, Inc., Lansing, Mich., is interested in mechanical and aeronautical engineers. They are also looking for commerce men and economics majors, as well as the mechanical and aeronautical engineers who are in the top ten percent of the class, academically, and have outstanding activities records for the management trainee program.
■
Tuesday—Aeronautical, civil, electrical and mechanical engineers will be interviewed by Boeing Airplane Company out of Seattle, Wash. Boeing is also interested in Physicists and mathematicians on the M.S. and Ph.D. level only. A group meeting for candidates for this interview will be held on Monday at 3:30 p. m. in the Audio-Visual center, Main Building.
W. R. Grace & Company, a firm from New York City dealing in shipping and other allied fields, will be interviewing AB and Commerce graduates as trainees in the statistical, industrial, foreign trade, treasury or steamship departments.
Tuesday and Wednesday interviews will be held by Ford Motor Company for finance and accounting majors, mechanical and electrical engineers and metallurgists for the graduate training program.
Radio Corporation of America is seeking electrical, mechanical, chemical en
30
gineers and physicists for the design, development and manufacturing phases of the specialized training program.
O’Brien Corporation of South Bend will be looking for chemists and chemical engineers with BS and MS degrees.
Tuesday and Wednesday interviews by the Chase National Bank of New York City are aimed at finance majors, accounting majors and others in commerce and economics interested in banking work in New York City.
■
Wednesday—AC Spark Plug Division of General Motors Corp., Milwaukee, will interview mechanical, electrical, aeronautical engineers and electronic physicists.
A representative of Socony-Vacuum Oil Company will interview B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. chemists and chemical engineers for research and development and refinery engineering.
The electrical division of Fairbanks Morse & Company in Freeport, Ill., has need of mechanical and electrical engineers interested in sales, research or design.
■
Thursday—Accounting majors and Law graduates with accounting background will be interviewed by Arthur Anderson & Co. A group meeting for interested parties will take place on Wednesday at 7:45 p. m. in room 209 of the Commerce building.
AB and Commerce men who want to be salesmen will be contacted by Continental Oil Company interviewers.
Northern Indiana Public Service Co., which supplies electric and gas utility to much of Northern Indiana, has positions open for electrical, mechanical and chemical and civil engineers.
State Farm Insurance Companies, Bloomington, Ill., are interested in Law, AB and Commerce graduates as trainees for the administration program covering claims, underwritings, agency service, etc.
Architectural, civil, chemical, electrical and mechanical engineers interested in working at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard will be interviewed also.
■
Friday—The Flour Corporation Ltd., constructors and engineers, of Los Angeles, Cailf., have jobs for B.S. and M.S. chemical, civil, mechanical and electrical engineers.
Mechanical engineers with Industrial option, and commerce and economics men for production supervision training are sought by Chicago Carton Co., part of United Biscuit Co.
Consolidated Vultee Aircraft, Fort Worth, Texas, division, will interview aeronautical, civil, mechanical, electrical engineers and M.S. and Ph.D. physicists and mathematicians.
Douglas Aircraft Company Inc., of Santa Monica, Calif., is looking for aeronautical, mechanical, electrical and civil engineers.
An Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States representative will interview AB and Commerce graduates for the administrative training course covering office management and general administrative work.
Mechanical engineers interested in sales, production, and business engineering and Electrical and civil engineers for sales engineering will be interviewed by Ingersoll-Rand Company to round out the week’s interviews.
Fr. Haley Will Speak At NCEA Convention
Rev. Joseph E. Haley, C.S.C., coordinator of Notre Dame’s Institute on Secular Institutes will give the second of two talks at a special panel on vocations which will highlight the 50th convention of the National Catholic Educational Association to be held at Atlantic City, N. J., April 7 to 10. Fr. Haley’s address is entitled: “Secular Institutes: New Vocation in the . Church.”	j
The panel, which has been arranged । in cooperation with the Institute, will ' i be devoted to a discussion of various aspects of discovering and fostering vocations to the priesthood and religious life. It has been scheduled for Thursday afternoon, April 9. The specific time and place will be noted in the official convention program.
The Rev. Francis A. Barry, director of vocations for the Archdiocese of Boston and editor of the vocation mag- i azine Contact, will speak on “Vocations	I
—Real or Synthetic?” An informal	:
discussion period to follow will be conducted by Rev. Simeon Heine, S.A., director of vocations, Graymoor Fathers, Garrison, New York.
In his paper on secular institutes, Father Haley will discuss the nature and requirements of this new type of dedicated single life which has received full ecclesiastical approval in several recent papal pronouncements.	j
“In view of the shortage of reli- i gious teachers,” Father Barry said,	I
“secular institutes, founded and oper- \ ated in order to fill in where priests and religious are not available, may prove to be one of the chief elements in solving a major problem of our Catho-lie school system today.
The Scholastic
Schricker Addresses Scouters
Henry F. Schricker former governor of Indiana will deliver the main address at the first annual Scouter Appreciation Dinner of the Tri-Valley Council, Boy Scouts of America, in the Di*ill Hall on Thursday.
Schricker holds both the silver beaver and silver antelope awards for scouting activity.
TB Seals Net Total $950.05
Notre Dame students contributed $950.05 to the 1952 Christmas Seal Sale sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley Tuberculosis League. •
Executive Director Irma Collmer said “the League greatly appreciates the contributions and encouragement from students.” - ■
Captain Ellison Receives Bronze Star
Colonel Cookson of the Army ROTC unit yesterday presented the Bronze Star to Captain Richard W. Ellison for meritorious service in Korea before the assembled cadet corps. Following the ceremony, the cadet band and corps passed in review.
■
Army Hoopsters Play Thursdays
Department of Mechanical Engineering.
During the excursion the group toured a number of Detroit industries, including Chrysler Corp., Ford Motor Co., and the General Motors Technical Center. They were also dinner guests of these three companies.
Sophomores at Marygrove College sponsored a private party for the trippers.
McCarthy Attends Hartford Meeting
Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce took part in a two-day meeting of insurance officials and business administration school heads in Hartford, Conn., last Monday and Tuesday.
The meeting was sponsored by the Life 'Insurance Agency Management Association, a research organization suported by 237 life insurance companies in the U.S., Canada, and 13 foreign countries.
■
N.D., St. Mary’s YCS Meet
The March meeting of the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s sections of the YCS was held last Sunday at St. Mary’s. It was followed by a social period of square dancing and singing.
During the meeting Dave Burrell, copresident, reported on the YCS national and international levels of structure, emphasizing its place in Catholic Action.
Former President John Houck led senior members in a model religious inquiry. The inquiry subject was the Gospel for the Third Sunday of Lent.
The War Years
(Continued from page 17) extra-large Scholastic substituting for the Dome. . . . “Exams start Tuesday, graduation Sunday . . . then the Seniors prepare to don caps, gowns, and fighting equipment . . . graduation seniors and a large number of the Fighting Irish Varsity line-up for three off-tackle plays and a touchdown against Adolph Hitler’s College of Paperhanging. . . . After three days of Easter vacation, the troops were back again, going to school around the clock.	-
Many more radical changes were to come to Notre Dame. The Marines landed at Notre Dame, the V-12 program was added, and Rosie’s became the “exclusive habitat of the civilians," as civilian enrollment dropped to 300.
Women were to become a regular part of campus life as a contingent of WAVES were added to the Navy, and D. C. Ford was appointed manager of the Dining Halls.
And so it went. . . . One war down and another, it would seem, in the making.
The Army ROTC cadet basketball teams are playing league games every Thursday night in the Drill Hall. When the schedule closes, the top team of the eight entries will meet the top Navy and Air Force ROTC cage squads in playoffs to decide the campus service championship.
■
Campbell Addresses Commercemen
E. D. Campbell, treasurer of Associates Investment Co., South Bend, addressed commerce students yesterday in the Law Auditorium on “Economic Consequences of Automobile Installment Financing.” He was the fifth speaker in the Bishop O’Hara Seminar Lecture series.
ASME Seniors Go to Detroit
Twenty-six senior members of the ASME student branch at Notre Dame took this year’s annual five-day Senior Field Trip to Detroit under the direction of Co-chairmen Ed Condon and Jack Schafer. They were accompanied by Harold W. Murphy, honorary chairman, •and Professor Vanderlip, both of the
I’ll return your typewriter as soon as I’m finished.
March 13, 1953
31
Fr. O'Brien Edits New Conversion Tales Book
The Way to Emmaus, a unique and fascinating volume containing the personal stories of many noted ministers who became converts to Catholicism, has just been published by the McGraw Hill Co., New York.
Edited by Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien — noted author, leader in the convert movement, and professor at the University of Notre Dame — the book presents the intimate accounts of 21 present-day counterparts of the two disciples who walked with Christ on the way to Emmaus after His resurrection.
Each of these moderns, some of whom are noted theologians, tells the story of how he discovered the Catholic Church and describes the peace, joy, and happiness which came to him upon embracing the Faith.
Among those who tell the moving stories of their spiritual findings are Rudolph M. Lippert, a Protestant minister brought up as an implacable foe of the Catholic Church; Edward Hawks, a distinguished Episcopalian minister; Michael Andrew Chapman, a noted
Do partners avoid you at dances?
Copr. 1950—Arthur Mur/oy Inc.
120 e. wayne Call 2-3339 for Appointment
Anglican scholar; and James A. Vanderpool, whose father and four uncles —like himself—were ministers.
Unlike Father O’Brien’s earlier books, Paths to Christ, which features the stories of converts from ordinary walks of life, The Road to Damascus, which tells of the conversation of literary figures, The Way to Emmaus features men and women who have delved deeply into religion and who not only embraced the Faith but became priests and nuns. Each story is a drama in itself, filled with the pathos, travail, and splendor of the human soul in quest of God.
Father O’Brien has written an introductory chapter, a brief sketch of each of the contributors, and a closing chapter. The Way to Emmaus will help Catholics and non-Catholics alike in their search for the fullness of divine truth.
Deadline For Ulmann Contest Manuscripts Set at June I
Less than 90 days remain before the deadline for submitting manuscripts for participation in the Ulmann Awards Student Contest for 1953.
Noon of June 1 has been set as the
Don't take chances with popularity...Come to Arthur Murray's to be sure of your popularity
Popularity comes so easily to the good dancer. And you can be that sought-after partner everybody wants to dance with. It’s easy when you learn the Arthur Murray Way. Come in today and start with the "First Step To Popularity.” This basic step makes every dance a snap. And wait till you see how invitations start pouring in. You’ll never sit out another dance again.
ARTHUR MURRAY
latest date that entries will be accepted at the office of the Public Relations Department, Chicago Board of Trade. Manuscripts must be sent by registered, first class mail to the Chicago Board of Trade, Room 666, 141 West Jackson Blvd., Chicago 4, Ill.
Since the object of the annual contest is to stimulate a greater interest in the marketing of grain as cai'ried on in the Board of Trade, entries must treat some aspect of this field. Suggested topics include: “The Effects of Government Regulation on Commodity Futures Markets,” “A Case Study of Hedging Operations by a Company,” or “Effects of Speculation on Grain Prices.”
The winning entry will receive a prize of §300, second and third place awards will be §150 and §75, respectively, and four honorable mentions will be worth §25 each. Duplicate prizes will be conferred in the under-graduate and graduate divisions. Additional information may be acquired by writing to the Public Relations Department, Chicago Board of Trade.
'America1 Editor Gets June Conference Job
Rev. Harold C. Gardiner, S.J., author, critic, and literary editor of the Catholic weekly America, will be a member of the staff for the fifth annual Writers’ Conference at the University of Notre Dame June 22-27, according to a recent announcement by Prof. Louis L. Hasley, conference director.
Father Gardiner will assist in the fiction and poetry workshops. He joins two Notre Dame faculty members previously appointed to the conference staff. Richard T. Sullivan, novelist and short story writer, will direct the workshop in fiction, and John T. Frederick, novelist, critic, and founding editor of The Midland, will be in charge of the workshop on the teaching of creative writing.
A native of Washington, D. C., Father Gardinei- received his doctorate from Cambridge University, England, and currently is serving as chairman of the editorial board of the Catholic Book Club.
His published works include Tenets for Readers and Reviewers, which suggests principles for the moral judgment of literature, and Mysteries’ End, a study of mediaeval religious drama. He is editor of the four-volume series, The Great Books: A Christian Appraisal, and of the symposium, Fifty Years of the American Novel, critiques by outstanding Catholic scholars of the prominent American novelists of the first half of the twentieth century.
Two additional members of the Writ-
32
The Scholastic
ers’ Conference staff, one of whom will head the poetry workshop, will be named at a later date.
The Conference is designed primarily to afford persons engaged in writing an opportunity to meet veteran authors, teachers, and editors for advice and consultation on practical problems.
Complete information on the Writers’ Conference may be obtained by writing Prof. Louis L. Hasley, Department of English, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Three ND Contract Students Qualify For Annapolis Exam
Three contract students from Notre Dame’s NROTC unit were informed last week that they had been selected as candidates for the entrance examination to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis.
The three midshipmen are James Richard Sasso, an Engineering student from Brooklyn, N. Y.; Louis James Ma-landra, an Engineering student from Pitcairn, Penn., and Edward John Wilson, a third Engineering man from Collingswood, N. J.
All three of the men are outstanding members of the University’s Naval group. They were picked from the other-candidates by the extent of their enthusiasm and their present class standings.
The three students will compete in a field of 156 for the 10 to 15 appointments available to those taking the test. Captain Frank P. Luongo, head of Notre Dame’s NROTC unit, stated that although this is only a “possibility,” he expects all three students to gain appointments.
The test is to be taken on March 26, but as yet the place has not been announced.
Islanders Choose Officers;
Extend Tenures to One Year
The Kamaainas of Hawaii, the Islanders’ club at Notre Dame, last Sunday elected a slate of six officers to govern the club until next Spring. Formerly officers held office for only one semester in the three-year-old club.
Andrew Lum, a Badin Hall junior, was returned to the presidency, making him the first major club officer who has been returned to office for a second straight term.
Junior Dick Murata of Dillon Hall secured the vice-president’s seat, with Vai Chun, another Dillon junior, being elected secretary. The fourth junior- to gain a major office was Stephen Araki, the new treasurer.
Alex McAngus and Roger Fernandes were appointed chairmen of the club’s sports and publicity committees.
Boston Sports Lodge Selects Frank Leahy For Grid Award
Head football coach Frank Leahy received an award for “high principles and achievement in sport” from the Boston Sports Lodge of B’Nai B’Rith in Boston last night.
The presentation was made at the Lodge’s first annual dinner.
Leahy was chosen as recipient of the award for piloting the 1952 ND grid squad to upset victories over powerful
ENGINEERS
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS will be held on CAMPUS MARCH 17
BOEING AIRPLANE COMPANY
Movie will be shown at group meeting on first day of visit. See B-47 and B-52 jet bomber flight tests, guided missiles and other Boeing projects. Discussion period will follow movie.
Openings are available for graduating and graduate students in all branches of engineering (AE, CE, EE, ME and related fields) and for physicists and mathematicians with advanced degrees. Fields of activity include DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT, RESEARCH, TOOLING and PRODUCTION. Choice of locations: Seattle, Washington, or Wichita, Kansas.
These are excellent opportunities with one of the country’s leading engineering organizations—designers and builders of the B-47 and B-52, America’s first-announced jet transport and guided missiles.
For details on group meeting and personal appointment contact your
PLACEMENT OFFICE
Oklahoma, Southern California, Texas, and Purdue elevens. In being voted the award, Leahy was also acclaimed “coach of the year” by the Lodge.
Leahy’s “leadership and high principle, in addition to his football achievement, singles him out,” the lodge announcement said.
Before Leahy accepted a coaching position here in 1941, he had been head mentor at Boston College. This was his first sports return to Boston since that time.
March 13, 1953
33
By Paul Zalecki
I should like to begin by thanking the Scholastic advertising layout man for placing a Pratt & Whitney Aircraft advertisement opposite this page in last week’s issue. It might have helped substantiate the point that the major corporations are quite intent upon making themselves known to this year’s graduates, especially the engineers.
Such notices, especially when coupled with the interview lists put out by the Placement Bureau, of course do play up the Colleges of Commerce, Engineering, and Science to their full advantage. The first two in particular are geared of necessity toward post-graduate days and employment possibilities. Their very purpose is to provide the numerous technicians—the accountants, advertising men, and engineers—needed for the operation of our complex industrial system.
Arts and Letters
On the other hand, an approach which looks at the employment demands of business and industry almost has to ignore the College of Arts and Letters. Except for the smattering of companies interested in obtaining AB men for personnel and sales work, the largest professional openings for liberal art graduates will be found not through the Placement Bureau, but through the fellowships and assistantships available for graduate work.
Teaching—along with law and some allied fields in government or business —is the obvious professional career open to an Arts and Letters graduate. For this reason it would seem almost natural that the various departments in a Liberal Arts college would tend more and more to prepare their majors for graduate work and delegate the liberal aspect of education to the secondary.
Having students go on to graduate work in the same field as their major adds to the prestige of the department. It is also a very tangible way for the men in a department to see that their program has been, of some obvious worth, that there are students sufficiently interested to make a particular field their life work.
Functions of Modern College
So even the College of Arts and Letters offers the two main functions of a
modern college: professional training and liberal education. Its program combines these two ends better than any of the other colleges. In this respect .it is an unequalled success.
Consequently, the words of warning directed against the Universities for failing to produce liberally trained men is not an attack against the liberal arts school. Perhaps that is why they are usually given by AB men. It is an indictment of the colleges today experiencing the steadiest growth. The College of Engineering—the crucial core of an industrial nation—is highly and admittedly non-liberal.
Yet it is the engineer who probably has the greatest need for a liberal training. He above everyone else—except perhaps the military—is essential for the prosperity of our nation. And it would seem dangerous for him to assume merely a functional role— similar to the factory worker—and ignore or not realize, his responsibility to guide this industrial nation intelligently.
>
University Education
If it is argued that the two ends of education cannot be combined—that the predominance of one necessitates the suppression of the other—then our whole concept of a University education should be revised. Eliminate the liberal phase of college education. It might well be that there is no solution for the dilemma of modern education, and that the more a student advances liberally the more he is hurting his chances of becoming a good engineer or accountant.
If this be the case, the College of Arts and Letters should concentrate entirely upon training economists, journalists, or English teachers. Such an outlook at least would give a practical and tangible result from four years of study.
The student trained in history, for example, would go on to graduate school, become a history teacher, and train others who would follow in his footsteps, ad infinitum. And the student who did not want to teach history would not study it, except as an example, for the advertising student who took “The History of Advertising.” The same thing could happen in all departments: philosophy, for instance, could offer:
“The Ethics of Electrical Engineering,” and Economics, “Consumption in Physical Education.”
On the other hand if the engineering or commerce student has a right to expect both a professional and a liberal training somewhat comparable to the one offered by the College of Arts and Letters, he should obtain it. Along with a grounding in his chosen field, he should gain an appreciation of the humanities, an insight into philosophy, and an acquaintance with the social sciences.
There is no doubt that the technical and professional programs, since they are essential to the existence of our way of life, are here to stay. If one must suffer, it is the liberal aspect of University training. And from all that is said these days about the failure of our educational system, it appears that one is suffering.
SHOES NEED FIXING?
Why Go Downtown?
•	BETTER SERVICE
•	BETTER WORK • LOWER COST
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP
Behind Main Bldg.

Microtomic tht drawing penal that holds up underpressure Microtomic—the finest example of research in drawing pencils. Designed to stand the most rigid drafting room comparisons. Test them todayl
Only Microtomic offers you—
Hl-DENSITY LEADS lines are absolutely opaque to actinic rays.
ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM Every Microtomic of the same degree marking is identical.
NEW DUSK GRAY
Professional men acclaim it the best color for a drawing pencil.
BULL'S EYE DEGREE MARKING Easier to read — easier to find — positive identification.
ALSO Choice of holders and Microtomic leads in all degrees.
EBERHARD
FABER
trxoc ■«exs etc. u. s. w. orr.
34
The Scholastic
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildrool Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
"The House ot Jazz '
1 1 >K KF 1 "Kin IFO
REC0Rt)
JAZZ • DIXIELAND • P 0 0 U L A A CLASSICAL • BLUES
'fall	r	' - •
I । a - .1	'
41? >0. Mich.	F4.ri.i I: i
For Men Women Children
Here’s a sad cotton tale: poor Paul was in a stew about his hare until his paw wrote: "I ear you got a bun on because your girl left you. Now, lettuce look at the bre'r facts. To get in on the bunny huggin’, smart rabbits foot it down to any toilet goods counter for Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s biggest-selling hare tonic. So fuzz thing tomorrow, invest 29c in a bottle or handy tube. Contains soothing Lanolin. Non-alcholic. Grooms the hare. Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test.” Sheedy tried Wildroot Cream-Oil and now he’s a jump
ahead of ever}' Tom, Dick and Harvey. So what’re you waiting fur? Get Wildroot Cream-Oil today, and ask for Wildroot at your barber’s. You’re bound to like it!
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Welcome to
•turn gtntu tawHs M0nMM0®ir
^of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.

128 W. WASHINGTON
CLOTHIERS	TAILORS
Uniform Excellence
In Uniforms for Navy, Air Force, Marines and Army. Our garments have been approved by the uniform board of the Marine Corps, Naval Air Material Command and USAF. Certificate No. A211, etc.
We invite all future graduates who are interested in securing their requirements for June Commissioning to drop in and inspect our garments and prices.
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
No. Main St.
Upstairs
NOW... 10 Months Scientific Evidence For Chesterfield
A MEDICAL SPECIALIST is making regular bimonthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.
After ten months, the medical specialist reports that he observed ...
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.
King-Size
First and Only Premium Quality Cigarette in Both Regular and
'0? J Nt
MUCH MILDER
CHESTERFIELD 11 <
UGG’TT 4 TOBACCO CO
-kWg-size
UCCtTT 4 MVCRS TOBACCO CO.
:o'
|N:
IS BEST FOR TOU
Copyright 1953, Liggett St M>tzs Tobacco Co.
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE