The Notre Dame Scholastic
t Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing-] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
October 19, 1934
No. 5
JAMES J. PHELAN DIES
AT BROOKLINE HOME
James J. Phelan, Laetare Medalist, lay trustee of the University, prominent philanthropist, Boston banker, and the head of many national and religious charities, died, at his home
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING IS MADE NEW LEADER OF PRESIDENTS COUNCIL
Boyle’s Script Baffles Would-Be Student Campus Radio Station Announcers
ELECTED LAST SUNDAY
By Paul Foley
James J. Phelan R. I. P.
in Brookline, Mass., suddenly, Tuesday of heart failure.
Mr. Pheb.n was born in Toronto, Canada, October 14, 1871. He moved with his family to Boston where he received his education in the public schools. The entirety of Mr. Phelan’s life was spent in Boston, where through his years of success, he became known as one of the country’s most important financiers.
He began his illustrious career as a page in the Boston Stock Exchange. From this position, Mr. Phelan was received as an employee of the Hornblower and Page, (now Hornblower and Weeks), Company. From the small company that it was at that time, the concern grew with Mr. Phelan, its only employee, to one of the largest of its kind on this continent. He was received as a partner in the firm in 1900.
(Continued on Page 6)
Aspiring announcers, crooners, sopranos, and other hopefuls giggled, sputtered, and chuckled their way through the first of a series of radio auditions in the Engineering building, Wednesday evening, Oct. 10.
The Bev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., and Mr. Bob Kennett of WSBT, who were in charge of the auditions, announced that further tryouts will be held tonight at 8 o’clock in the Engineering building.
The auditions last week were “screamingly” funny, with most of the screaming resulting not from the patter of the gag men but from the incidentals of the occasion—collapsing chairs, giggling spectators, bursts of raucous laughter and “I-can’t-pro-nounce-that-word” announcers.
To facilitate matters, one helpful member of the Law School, Jim “Bowery” Boyle, was obliging enough to prepare the script for Notre Dames’ multitude of Ted Husing and Pat Flanagans. The script proved to be an exerpt from some literary source and was reputed to contain the most difficult words in the English language. The would-be “mike men” stuttered or skipped hurriedly over such words as “bedizened,” “hymeneal,” “apotheosis,” “calligraphy,” “interstices,” “chameleon,” and “tatterdemalion.”
John Ryan, campus tenoi' of Glee Club and Linnet fame, tip-toed in during the auditions. After pardoning his way through the audience he quietly seated himself in a chair which very suddenly and very noisily collapsed under his weight. This caused numerous “Guffaws” from the gallery where the radio hopefuls had been awaiting their turns before the “mike.”
After the announcers came the vocalists, most of whom tried unsuccessfully to imitate Bing Crosby. George
(Continued on Pa^e 2)
Making good their promise to eliminate politics from the organization, the Presidents’ Council at their meeting Sunday morning, elected Edward J. Van Huisseling, of Elmhurst, Ill., to the presidency of the Council.
Van Huisseling, who is president of the Press Club, is a senior in the
Edward J. Van Huisseling
Two presidencies in two days.
College of Arts and is Managing Editor of The Scholastic.
Striking a novel chord, the Presidents’ Council, by a slim margin, adopted the “grab-bag” system of balloting and chose their candidates by lot, each member’s name being placed in a hat from which three were drawn.
Van Huisseling’s opponents were: Thomas Stringer, President of the Detroit Club, and John Busichio, who heads the Italian Club.
In the first balloting none of the candidates received a majority, and a second vote was held between Stringer and Van Huisseling, who had led the first vote. In the run-off ballot Van Huisseling garnered sixteen votes, while Stringer received fifteen.
The Council presented a determined front against those who were intent upon a political battle. Even after the adoption of the “balloting by lot” motion, a wedge was tried when Ca-(Continued on Pa«e S)
October 19, 19-3 4
One
S. A. C. Selects Na-vy Game at Cleveland as Annual Student Trip
SALE OF TICKETS FOR COTILLION OPENS MONDAY
HOLAHAN IS CHAIRMAN
The S. A. C. announced this week that the Navy game at Cleveland has been tentatively selected as the annual student trip, subject to the approval of the University Council.
John F. Holahan has been placed in charge of arranging for rates, tickets,
John F. Holahan Expects two thousand.
etc. According to figures released by the S. A. C., railroad transportation will amount to $5.50 round trip, and game tickets will not run higher than $1.10.
Approximately two thousand students and members of the faculty made the student trip to the Northwestern game last year. An equal number is expected to go to Cleveland.
The last student trip to Cleveland was to the 1932 Navy game.
Notre Dame Band To Be Host To Tech. Musicians
Since their splendid' performance during the half of the Purdue game, the Notre Dame Band under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa has been practicing daily for the Carnegie Tech game during which the band is to play host to the visi-ing Carnegie Tech musicians.
The Skibo band last visited the Notre Dame stadium in the season of 1932. As a salute to the visitors the Notre Dame band will play “Dear Old Tech” and form a Carnegie Tech monogram.
RADIO AUDITIONS
(Continued from Page 1)
Miller, accompanied by Jim Keough at the piano, brought “Moonglow” into the Engineering Building while Elliot Cohn, a sophomore in the Science school, gave the only classical touch to the evening by rendering a composition entitled, “Less Than the Dust.”
No amateur night would be complete without one monologue in dialect. Frank McGahren, a graduate in the Boy Guidance department, rendered one in Jewish, but with a name like that, “Mac” could hardly fool the boys.
Two
Seniors To Hold Football
Dance At Progress Club After The Wisconsin Game
The only football dance of the season will take place Saturday night, Oct. 27, after the Wisconsin game. The dance is given with the consent of the University authorities and is sponsored by the Senior class.
The event will be held at the Progress Club from 8:30 until 11:30. The Progress Club is located at the corner of Colfax Avenue and Taylor street just five blocks west of Michigan Avenue.
Music will be furnished by the Notre Dame Collegians, a nine piece orchestra. Tickets are one dollar per couple and can be purchased in any hall and at 207 Walsh hall which is the main ticket office.
Anthony Dunning, senior in the Commerce school, is chairman of the dance and has as his assistants Paul Fergus, Dan Youngerman, John Foy, Edward Nerad and Andrew Dineen.
Those who plan to attend are urged to buy their ticekts early as a large cotillion crowd is expected.
Publication of “Lawyer” Delayed For Two Weeks
The publication of the Lawyer -will be delayed for two weeks because of some delay in receiving contributions. The first issue is rapidly nearing completion, however, and is expected to equal the fine standard set last year.
The editors are making an intensive drive for contributions, particularly among the law students themselves. It was from this source that last year’s Lawyer gained much of its distinction. Editors McCabe and Berry are hoping to emulate their predecessors in this regard. The response from outside contributors has been gratifying and the continuation of this will aid greatly in the success of this year’s publication.
Mr. William Bollison, faculty adviser of the Lawyer stated, “The work of the students last year was especially pleasing. Every indication is that it will be equally as good, if not better.”
Indiana A. E. and S.
The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., Professors Pettit, Apodaca, Downey and Riordan will attend a meeting of the Indiana Association of Economists and Sociologists in Indianapolis. Notre Dame was host to the Association last May.
Final plans for this year’s Sophomore Cotillion are rapidly nearing completion, with the release this week by General Chairman Leo J. Cormier and Class President Harold Miller of the list of patrons and the details of the sale of tickets. As announced last week, Mark Fisher and His Edgewater Beach Hotel Orchestra will play at the Palais Royale in South Bend, October 26. At present, Fisher’s orchestra is playing at the Capitol Theater in Chicago.
Ticket price will be $3.00 per couple. Sale of tickets for Sophomores will be held Monday and Tuesday afternoons; for upperclassmen, Wednesday morning. The place of the sale will be announced in bulletins to be posted on the campus. To get the special permissions granted for the dance, students must have Cotillion tickets, as the names of those who purchase tickets are sent to the rectors of the different halls by the Prefect of Discipline’s Office.
Assisting the ticket committee in directing the sale will be S. A. C. Dance Chairman William Casazza and other upperelass officials. Tickets for the special section reserved in the Stadium for those attending the Cotillion and their guests may be procured by presenting dance tickets and A. A. Books, along with $3.30, the price of the guest tickets, at the A.A. ticket office in the main building. Students are urged to get their tickets as soon as possible to avoid the last minute rush.
Notre Dame’s newly formed Art Club will be in charge of hall decorations which will consist of novel lighting effects and panel plaques.
Patrons for the dance will be:
Dean and Mrs. James McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Wesley Bender, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Pettit, Mr. and Mrs. William Roemer, Mr. and Mrs. John Turley, Mr. and Mrs. Francis Moran, Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Cox, Mr. Paul Byrne.
Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, Mr. Paul Fenlon, Mr. Alden Davis, Mr. Thomas P. Madden, Mr. Donald Plunkett, Mr. Stephen Ronay, Mr. Stanley Price.
Ji
c
Father Murray Represents The University at Iowa City
Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., last week represented the University at the installation of a new president at the University of Iowa. From Iowa City, Father Murray went to the Catholic Charities Convention at Cincinnati, Ohio, where he spoke on the subject of training social workers for the field delinquency.
The Scholastic
DR. FRANCIS J. SAEED SPEAKS SUNDAY NIGHT
Linnets and University Theater
Merged Into One Organization
By James A. Byrne
“One cannot become educated unless he is a Catholic/’ Dr. Francis J. Sheed, noted British publisher and prominent member of England’s Catholic Evidence Guild, informed those who had come to Washington Hall to hear his lecture, “The Importance Of Catholics In Education,” Sunday evening, October 14th.
Dr. Sheed defined an educated man as one who is able to find his particular place in the scheme of things, one who is able to get along in the world, as it were. He showed that if one is to find his particular place in the scheme of things, he must know what he is, that if one is to know what he is, he must know what he is for. The lecturer pointed out that the Catholic has Divine Revelation, the word of God, to tell him what he is for. Hence the Catholic knowing what he is for, and subseouentlv what he is, is in a nosition to intelligentlv understand his relationship to life, the reason for his existence.
The speakei’ stated that educated men were scholars, but that scholarship did not necessarily imnly education. Dr. Sheed contended that the mere accumulation of facts does not constitute education. He insisted that the assimilation of the facts which one has acquired is vitally important to one who is in the process of being educated, otherwise the head of such a person, like a valise which has been filled beyond its capacity,, will bulge.
The lecturer did not say that all Catholics were educated or that Catholic education was producing the desired results. He merely said that it was possible only for the Catholic to be educated. That a sufficient number of Catholics are not becoming educated he was certain. For, since the type of book which one chooses to read may be considered an index of the degree of one’s education, Dr. Sheed, being a publisher, is in a position to observe the effects of the various educational systems, Catholic and otherwise. “The average reader does not want to do anything; and yet, he does not want to do nothing; so he reads. Reading, for him, is just another way in which to kill time,” said the publisher.	.
“The English speaking people have never lived in a Non-Catholic atmosphere; they have lived in an AntiCatholic atmosphere—one not in sympathy with Roman Catholicism, but never in an atmosphere so morally different as that of the Non-Catholic atmosphere. The time is coming when the English speaking people will have
Jerome G. Vogel Is
Leader of American
B’nai B’nai Movement
Jerome G. Vogel, of South Bend, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was recently reappointed to his third consecutive term as International Director of Scouting and chairman of the Aleph Zadik Aleph, or Junior Order of the B’nai B’rith’s International committee on Scouting.
In 1931 Vogel headed the Scouting committee of only five members. Today, he leads seventeen regional directors of Scouting scattered throughout the United States and Canada. In his capacity as International Director of A.Z.A. Scouting, Vogel will supervise all Boy Scout, Cubbing, Sea Scouting, and Rovering programs of the organization.
He edits the “A.Z.A. Scouter,” a column in the Shofer magazine which is sent to all members of the A. Z. A. and Junior B’nai B’rith organizations in this country and Canada.
Plans Made For Active Season by Italian Club
President John Busichio presented the proposed new constitution before the Italian Club at its first meeting of the school year held Tuesday evening October 9, in Carroll Recreation Hall. It will be acted upon at the meeting of October 23.
The social plans discussed point to an active eason for the members. Plans under consideration are: A Communion Breakfast, an Italian spaghetti dinner, a smoker, and a brisco tournament.
Professor Pasquale Pirchio, facul-• ty advisor, thanked the organization for the hospitality tendered to • the visitors from the Italian universities. He also made a plea for harmony and co-operation in all club affairs.
that novel experience,” warned Dr. Sheed.
Closing his talk with the observation that education, on the whole, was deteriorating, the speakei’ explained that he did not think there were sufficient men of the right calibre teaching the large number of students who are in the process of being educated. He pointed out that there were many professors who did not know why they or the world existed. Such men were misleading the youths under their tutelage. After Doctor Sheed had answered several questions which had been put to him by members of the audience he concluded his lecture with the hope that he had not been “too depressing.”
COMMITTEE IN COMMAND
A new campus theatrical organization to be known as The Student Theater was formed at a faculty meeting called last week by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University. The organization, which will absorb the activities of both the University Theater and the
Prof. Frank Kelly ’
Of University Theatre fame.
Linnets, will be controlled by a faculty committee whose chairman will be the prefect of discipline, the Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C.
The other faculty members named to the board are Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music, Professor Frank Kelly of the department of speech and former director of the University Theater, and the Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C.
The theater is being organized to give a fair chance to. any student who desires to display his talent whether it be in a musical comedy or in the more serious type of play formerly offered by the University Theatre.
The first presentation of the Student Theater will be an operetta in three acts, “The Ambassador to France.” The libretto and music were written by Father Hope, who first presented the play in Portland, Ore., where it met with marked success.
The operetta, which is a satire on political life, will be presented shortly before Christmas, the music being played by the University Symphony orchestra.
October 19
1934
Three
FATHER HILTNER GIVES FOUNDER’S DAY SERMON
By Joseph Ratigan
Notre Dame began her 92nd year last Saturday, Oct. 13, when she honored the University’s founder, the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. The anniversary was observed on that day
Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C. An inspiring sermon.
because it was the feast day of the patron saint.
In honor of the occasion there was a solemn high Mass at 8 o’clock in Sacred Heart Church. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., vice-president of the University was the celebrant. The Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, acted as deacon; the Rev. Wm. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., was the sub deacon; the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, was the master of ceremonies.
The Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, gave a very interesting and inspiring sermon on “The Spirit of the Founders.” Father Miltner said in part:
“I am not concerned today with the purely factual items in the history of the foundation and development of our University—with names and dates and places and events. - All of these are available in printed form. I am concerned rather with the spirit and the ideals and the motives that animated the men who almost a century ago came and established this seat of learning. I am concerned with Catholic institutions and their Catholic mind, with the hope that we may also become likeminded.”
Not dwelling on the natural aspects, but on the supernatural, Father Miltner found the motive of all Catholic missionary activity in the words of Christ: “‘All power is given to me (Continued on Page 17)
MANY CELEBRITIES HERE TO SEE IRISH WIN
FIRST GAME
The hilarity of the first home victory in two years was not limited to the student body alone. According to Alumni Secretary James E. Armstrong, Notre Dame alumni must have had a portentous knowledge that the Purdue encounter would be the starting block for another victory march. Together with the many notables from Chicago and southern Indiana, they formed a large portion of the 45,000 in attendance.
Executives of the states of Indiana and Illinois were well represented: Governor Paul V. McNutt for the former, and Lieutenant Gov. Thomas Donovan, States Attorney Thomas Courtney, State Senator George Maypole, ’03 and Roger Kiley, ’22 for the latter.
Most Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Ft. Wayne, Rt. Rev. Msgr. Thomas Shannon of Chicago, Raymond Noll of Indianapolis and Rt. Rev. Paul Muushy, Archbishop elect of Tyre were among the many visiting members of the clergy in attendance.
The Board of Lay Trustees of the University were represented by its chairman, Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, and the following members: John P. Murphy, T2, Miles O’Brien, secretary, and Frank Hering, ’98, of South Bend, and Warren A. Cartier, ’87, of Ludington, Mich. Mr. Hering is the donator of the well known Hering Medal for proficiency in certain departments of football, and it is Mr. Cartier whose name graced the old Notre Dame stadium.
Past president of the Alumni association, Harry Miller, ’10, All-Americans Marchmont Schwartz, ’32, and Ed Krause, ’34, Clem Crowe, ’25, (of the famous Crowe family) now coach of basketball at St. Xavier College in Cincinnati, Philip (Peaches) O’Neil, ’02, former baseball catcher and National league player, Daniel J. O’Connor, ’05, Bernard Livergood, ’25, and Frank Cody, ’26, were among the many alumni who returned to the game.
Tim Galvin, T6, addressed the students on the eve of the encounter, and James S. Kearns, ’34, was again recording the 60 minutes of play for the Chicago Daily News.
The nationally known cartoonist, John T. McCutcheon, left his drawing board in the offices of the Chicago Tribune to watch his alma mater step into the ranks of winners. In 1931 an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred upon him by the University.
Beside Kearns, Wilfred Smith and Warren Brown reported the game for the Chicago Tribune and Herald and Examiner., respectively. Pat Flanagan, returned from his World Series broadcasts to air the play for WBBM.
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE c BANQUETS FR. O’HARA
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., was the guest of honor at a banquet tendered to the new administration of Notre Dame last Monday night at the Oliver hotel. Over 250 prominent industrial leaders and merchants of South Bend attended the affair, the first of a series of dinners to new Notre Dame administrations. The speaker of the evening was Mr. Merle Thorpe, editor of Nation's Business, who condemned the educational systems in some foreign countries which attempt to make universities play the role of propagandists for political interests.
Dr. Edward C. Elliot, president of Purdue university, was one of the honored guests. He congratulated Father O’Hara on his elevation to the presidency of Notre Dame, and at the same time expressed the greetings of other Indiana colleges and universities.
The dinner, presided'over by Herbert Sharlock, president of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce, was opened by the invocation of the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne.
Father O’Hara thanked the Chamber of Commerce for its kind gesture to the new administration. In his remarks he mentioned that the University was grateful to South Bend in many ways, hot the least of which was the fact that five percent of the Alumni of the University are South Bend men.
He said, in part, “Our greatest pleasure lies in the fact that the men who have come to the University from South Bend, possibly not of our religion, have found in some measure an answer to their own problems of life.”
Present also were other members of the University staff including the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vicepresident; the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies and chairman of the committee of the graduate school; Robert B. Riordan, registrar; the Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline; Brother Engelbert, C.S.C., treasurer; Francis W. Lloyd, comptroller; Kenneth Oliver, secretary; the deans of the five colleges of the University, and Elmer Layden, director of athletics.
Robert Woodward, famous publicity director of Purdue saw his colors lowered to the Gold and Blue. And “Red” Stuart, former Carnegie Tech football star, took notes on the Irish style of play. Jimmy Dykes, manager of theWhite Sox, was an interested spectator.
Four
The Scholastic
. STUDENT ENTHUSIASM IS HIGH AT PURDUE BONFIRE
NEW ALUMNUS CONTAINS MANY INTERESTING FEATURES
VAN HUISSELING PREXY OF THE PRESS CLUB
Once again Notre Dame burns high her fires to light the way to victory. Last Friday night at 6:30 p.m. the rising enthusiasm of her loyal sons j found expression in a torchlight pa-• rade, behind the University band, across the campus and down Notre Dame Avenue to the monster bonfire in the hollow. Red torches bobbed j'	everywhere in the darkness beneath
j	the trees, the band swung along in
i time to its own march tunes, and ’	3,000 exuberant voices roared support
for the Fighting Irish of 1934.
Although the rally was not as great as some Notre Dame has seen in former years, it was not outdone in the number of distinguished speakers present. Coach Elmer Layden, Timothy P. Galvin, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, Cap Ed-*	wards, former Notre Dame football
j	player, and Warren Brown, sports ed-
!	itor of the Chicago Herald and Ex-
i	aminer addressed the cheering throng
I	of students. All these men were in-
!	troduced by Thomas K. LaLonde,
'	president of the S.A.C.
Liked Plenty Of Noise
Mr. Brown claimed that he wanted noise when he made speeches and that the louder the students yelled the better he liked it. He went on to say that a pep meeting was a place for noise and excitement and not for mere words. His statements anent the fact that he had not come all the way from Chicago to see Notre Dame beaten by Purdue drew a roar of ap-L proval from the throng.
Mr. Edwards, when it came his turn to speak, said that the Notre Dame football team of 1934 was the best he had seen in years. Mr. Galvin, who was the next speaker, pleaded with emotion to the students that they pledge their loyal support to Layden and the team that his voice broke several times in the middle of his speech. Much of what the speakers had to say was lost to the audience because the amplifying system g which had been provided for the occa-> sion failed to work.
Jerry Foley’s cheerleading squad and Prof. Joseph Casasanta’s band did much to keep the rally going at a lively pace.
The silver loving cup which was to be awarded to the hall that displayed the finest decorations was presented to the Rev. James A. Fogarty, C.S.C., । and his Freshman Hall boys. It was Father Fogarty’s enthusiasm that inspired the freshmen from his hall to * . outdo the other halls in the competition for the prize cup.
In addition to a poem of some length, written by the Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., concerning the traditions and characters familiar to all alumni, the latest number of the Notre Dame Alumnus contains sev-
James Armstrong The smile is indelible.
eral articles of interest to the student body in general.
During the summer, according to Alumni Club notes, the majority of the Notre Dame city and district clubs were active. Mention is made of luncheons, dances, beach parties, golf tournaments, and dinners in almost every club news item.
Also, from the Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio comes word that the most recent list of Notre Dame men in and around Columbus has been sent for in order to inject fresh pep into that organization. It is interesting to see this club so anxious to become acquainted with those who may have been, in times gone by, associated with Notre Dame.
Two other articles well worth the attention of the student body are the story of the presentation of the Lae-tare Medal to Mrs. Genevieve Brady in Rome and the article by Prof. Alden E. Davis, instructor in Finance, concerning the breadth of the education offered by the College of Commerce here at Notre Dame. In addition to these news artcles, there is a well written editorial on the new administration.
Professor O’Grady Made
Faculty Representative
At a meeting of the faculty last Wednesday, Professor Daniel C. Grady of the Department of Philosophy was elected as representative of the faculty to the University Council.
Doctor O’Grady has been a member of the faculty for several years and has distinguished himself not only by his scholarly attainments but also by his ability as a teacher and lecturer.
Edward J. Van Huisseling, Arts and Letters senior, was elected to the presidency of the Press Club at a special meeting of that organization in the basement of the Notre Dame library last Friday morning. Van Huisseling, the Managing Editor of The Scholastic, served as junior vice-president of the club last year.
Joseph A. Bucci, chief associate editor of The Scholastic, was chosen as senior vice-president at the same meeting while James Corrigan was elected to the office of secretary-treasurer. Jack Baker, chairman of a nominations committee appointed by Dr. Cooney, presided at the meeting.
Van Huisseling, in his capacity as president, announced later that election of a junior vice-president by the Junior class members of the Press Club would take place soon. This practice of choosing two vice-presidents, a senior and a junior, was instituted a few years ago so that the Junior class journalist majors might have a representative' in the Press Club’s governing body.
Library List Includes
Several Popular Volumes
According to a statement recently issued by library authorities, the most popular book on the shelves is While Rome Burns, by Alexander Wollcott. This book is a collection of some of the author’s best stories, and is highly entertaining. Running a close second to this book is Sporting Gestures, by Stix. It is an anthology of sports, and is rapidly becoming popular on the campus.
Twentieth Century Crime, by J. E. Hagerty seems to be riding into popularity on the recent crime wave which swept the country. It deals with the application of eighteenth century methods to present day crime.
Some of the more popular books for the past month are: You Must Relax, by Jacobson; First and Last, by Ring Lardner; Shadoiv Before, by Rollins; Negro-White Adjustment, by Baker; and Road to Noivhere, by Walsh.
Library authorities state that there is a great lack of interest in some of the more technical books, and for this reason there are a great number of closed shelves. At present, a drive is getting under way to bring some of these books before the notice of the student body. Particularly in the writing of these is this neglect noticed. All that is necessary to receive help on finding any information is to ask any of the librarians, who are more than willing to render any aid they can.
October 19. 1934
Five
PAUL HOST NAMED TO POSITION IN FAIR STORE
Paul Host, captain of the 1932 “Fighting Irish,” who has been serving as publicity director of the Catholic Youth Organization has recently accepted a position with the sales department of the Fair • store in Chicago.
Host has been active in C. Y. 0. work for the past year. He was in charge of the athletic program sponsored by that organization for members of the Civilians’ Conservation Corps at Fort Sheridan during the summer of 1933. Later he was appointed assistant director of publicity by Bishop Sheil and in June of this year he was made director.
Host, a graduate of the school of Journalism, was a frequent contributor to the various campus publications while an undergraduate.
MR. PHELAN DIES
(Continued from Page 1)
During his very active life, Mr. Phelan was quoted many times as saying that he was born working, and that he was equally as willing to die working. This was evidenced by his ever ready willingness to serve on emergency commissions, whether they be of city, state, or national affairs. Mr. Phelan always accepted these burdens with the refusal to partake in political matters, or to receive any compensation for his work.
At the time of the San Francisco Earthquake, Mr. Phelan was named vice-chairman of the relief committee. Under his direction, the Massachusetts committee arranged for hospital supplies and the raising of $1,000,000, for relief work in San Francisco.
Other relief commissions that Mr. Phelan will be long remembered for are the Ohio Flood Committee, Chelsea Fire Committee, and the Salem Fire Committee. The latter committee occupied three months of his time,
At the time of the Halifax Explosion disaster, it was Mr. Phelan, together with Henry B. Endicott of the Massachusetts Public Safety Commission, who brought it to the attention of the governor of the state. Through this work, a relief train was dispatched to Halifax. It was the first outside assistance that had reached the stricken people of that area. Mr. Phelan then was commissioned with the task of raising funds for the people, which he accomplished in his characteristic efficient style.
The American Saw Mill Unit which took such an active part in the World (Continued on Page 7)
“And furthermore, gentlemen, the usher in the stadium is as important as the man on the field.” Thus concluded Thomas W. Thompson’s memorable address to the Notre Dame sta-
dium ushers of 1934; for Thomas is, as you know, stadium manager this year and firmly believes that if the stadium force is not working smoothly, if the gatemen accept last year’s or even two -year old tickets, if the ramps are crowded and the various sections confused, why all the victories in the world couldn’t give to Notre Dame a successful football season.
Tom is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and hails from Detroit, Michigan. Starting as a freshman manager, diligent work, persistent effort and unmistakable ability carried Tom to the honorable and enviable position he now holds. Stadium manager carries with it, particularly during a strenuous football campaign, many varied and intricate duties, but you may be assured they rest in capable hands for Tom is a worker.
However, besides diligence and ambition, there is another slant on this fellow Thompson. A winning smile and humble and friendly manner have earned for Tom many friends. To his pleasing personality we must attribute Tom’s success in Notre Dame politics. Chairman of the program committee for the Junior Prom, Tom was selected by his friends as their candidate for senior class president.
Despite the existence of six tickets in the field, Tom was decidedly victorious in the primaries and only after a hard, close battle did he yield the office to our present incumbent who is now one of his staunchest friends. What greater tribute can we pay to (Continued on Page 8)
MARITAIN LECTURE SET FOR OCTOBER 28 OR 29
Jacques Maritain, eminent Catholic philosopher, lecturer and author will make his first appearance on the Notre Dame campus the evening of Oct. 28 or 29, according to announcement this week from Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C.
While the subject of M. Maritain’s address will not be definitely known until his. arrival, it is expected that he will talk on “The Historical Ideal of a Renewed Christianity.”
Since his conversion in 1905, Maritain has risen to world fame in philosophic circles as the result of his writings. Among his more famous works are The Angelic Doctor, An Introduction to Philosophy, and The Things That Are Not Caesar’s.
While a professor of Scholastic philosophy at the Institute Catholique in Paris, Maritain has been the nuc-leus around which a student move- ’< ment of philosophic Renaissance has revolved.
Although he has never appeared here before, Maritain is not a stranger to American colleges having lectured last year at the University of Chicago, where his enthusiastic reception has merited a re-appearance this year. He is also scheduled to talk at the University of Michigan in the course of his present tour, and will probably make a Canadian appearance at the University of Toronto.
Considered by many to be the outstanding thinker in Europe today, M. Maritain is brought to the campus as part of a series of talks by prominent lecturers including Francis M. Sheed, noted publisher, and H. T. Strong, a well known physicist.
ROOM NOTICE
“By action of the Presidents’ Council on Wednesday, Oct. 10, 1934, the order in the choice of rooms in the resident halls of the University for the schoolyear 1935-36, at the time of pre-registration next spring, is to be according to the scholastic averages of the students to date, taken in the manner of the average for honors in graduation, as determined in Academic Regulations 93 and 95, on Page 73 of the General Bulletin. The details of procedure in pre-registration and reservation of rooms will be published early in the second semester.” —The Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies.
Six
.The Scholastic
.	H.T. STRONG TO LECTURE
ON LIGHT OCTOBER 22ND
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
DOCTOR COONEY INJURED IN AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT
Mi-. H. T. Strong, distinguished physicist, will deliver a talk on the subject of '‘Polarized Light” on October 22 in Washington Hall.
This lecture is designed to be of interest to the general student body. Scientific knowledge of light and its effects is not necessary to understand the information Mr. Strong has to give. With one of a number of instruments Mr. Strong will use for demonstration, the process by which the quality of paintings and their authenticity is detected, will be explained. By using a “black light” apparatus, he will also demonstrate the effect of polarized light on the appearance of minerals.
JAMES PHELAN
(Continued from Page 6)
War was organized and directed by James J. Phelan. During the war, he served as Executive Manager of the Massachusetts Food Administration in the State House. He carried on this work for twenty-two months. He participated in many disputes, and served on numerous sub-committees during the war period.
Other positions that won him renown were his serving as the Emergency Fuel Administrator in Massachusetts in 1922-23, at which time he originated a system of city and town price fixing that was later copied by many states. He also served as a member of the executive committee of New England on all Liberty Loan Drives, and was chairman of the Victory Loan drive for Boston. He was one of eleven members on the National United War Work Campaign.
Boston College honored Mr. Phelan in 1925 with the conferring of the degree of LL.D, upon him; Pope Pius XI conferred upon him the decoration of Magistral Knight of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, the first layman to receive this honor in the United States and later upon the organization of the American Chapter, Sovereign Military Order of Malta, of which he was elected Master. He received the highest degree of Grand Cross. In 1926, Pope Pius XI, conferred on him the honor of Knight Commander of the Order of Pope Pius IX.
Mr. Phelan was awarded the coveted Laetare Medal by Notre Dame in 1931 for his outstanding work in charities. At the time of his death, Mr. Phelan was actively connected with many charitable organizations about his home state as well as in New York and in Florida.
October 19, 1934
“Beginning this fall the freshmen orientation period is taking on a much more serious aspect than it ever has before. In order to cover a very extensive and valuable program for the freshmen the regular periods of orientation will continue throughout the first term instead of terminating in October.” — The Technique, (Georgia Tech)
“David Itkin, director of the department of Drama at De Paul University, announces that the students will present six major productions this year. While the names of the plays have not been definitely decided upon there will be one each by the following famous playwrights: OSCAR WILDE, IBSEN, CHEKHOV, PIRANDELLO and SHAKESPEARE. In addition to this repertoire which will give the students an unusually wide variety of experience, 18 one-act plays will be presented.” —The De Paulin.
(What! No “Gold in the Hills”?)
“Some time ago, a woman was asked if her son were going to be married. She answered, ‘No,’ so emphatically that the questioner said, ‘Why are you so positive?’ The answer came, ‘He’s up in some northern state studying for a bachelor’s degree.”— Fagots (St. Marv-of-the-Woods)	*
“Indiana University students, worked up to a fever pitch in anticipation of today’s football game, attempted to crash the Indiana theatre last night. The tempo of the evening became quite lively when the efforts of officers to disperse the unruly mob was met by a barrage of apples. . .
Discretion being the better part of valor, the police retired from the apple-ridden field of action. However, they assured the students that they would return. And if—when they did return, the students still were besieging the theatre—tear gas would be used!
The impending crisis was averted when the management of the theatre capitulated and admitted the students. Barely in time, however—as the police arrived but a few moments later, and they did have tear gas!” —Indiana Daily Student.
From the Chicago Daily News-
“While raiding a schoolhouse yard and an elevator in an effort to secure wood and other inflammable material ten University of Illinois students. . . were fired on and then arrested last night.”
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the School of Journalism, and Mrs. Cooney were injured in an automobile accident last Saturday while on their way to the Stadium to witness the Purdue-Notre Dame game. The auto-
Dr. John M. Cooney Speedily recovering.
mobile in which Mr. and Mrs. Cooney, accompanied by their daughter and Professor and Mrs. Hines, were riding collided at Napoleon Blvd, and Stanfield St. with a car driven by Don Howland, Oliver hotel.
The seriousness of Dr. Cooney’s injuries was not known until he had been taken to the St. Joseph’s hospital where it was discovered that three ribs had been fractured and that he might be suffering from other internal injuries. Mrs. Cooney suffered lacerations on the left side of the head but was not believed seriously injured.
“Catalyzer” Begins Twelfth
Volume With Next Issue
With the coming October issue the Catalyzer starts its twelfth volume. This issue promises a wealth of interesting material for its many readers. In keeping with the past this number contains a feature article, written by an alumnus of the Department of Chemistry. The feature article for the present issue is entitled, . “Who Says We Are Wrong,” written by Mr. W. B. Shanley, M.S. ’30.
An addition to the publication this year will be the Freshman Page, containing interesting scientific material of value to the freshman chemist.
Club news, two editorials, and a full page of “personals” complete the issue.
J1 even
EDITOR LAWTON STILL RECEIVING SCRIP PIECES
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
WRANGLERS SELECT TRE * INTERBALL QUESTION
Every Notre Dame man is eligible and welcome to make literary contributions of a prose or poetic nature to Serif). Once again, G. Albert Lawton, editor of the quarterly publication, also wishes to call to the attention of the student body the fact that two cash prizes of twenty-five dollars each will be offered this year .by Scrip, one for the best prose offering and the other for the best contribution in poetry. These awards may be competed for by all freshmen as well as the upperclassmen.
Those of the student body who wish to get some of their work in the first issue of Scrip must hand it in before Oct. 28, the dead line date. Editor Lawton will be very grateful if v all contributions are brought to his room at 125 Sorin Hall.
A column on the criticism of the drama by Mitchell C. Tackley, an article on the art of criticism by an anonymous contributor, an essay,by William Kempe, and a poem oh the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C,S.C. by Professor Engels are among'some of the contributions which should make Scrip interesting.
PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL
(Continued from Page 1)
mille Gravel petitioned for a ten minute recess. He withdrew his motion, however, when it became apparent that the Council as a whole was opposed to any rapid-fire campaigning.
Philip Purcell, who had been appointed temporary Chairman of the Council by the S. A. C., expressed himself as being pleased with the result and forecast complete co-operation between the S. A. C. and the Presidents’ Council as long as the Council maintained its present stand against politics.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 6)
our man than that even in Notre Dame politics he was a humble, honest aspirant, a good loser, and that at the close of a strenuous campaign could claim more sincere friends than ever before.
Tom is at present an English major, but after graduation this June expects to follow his father’s footsteps and enter the Law school. . . . unless, of course, he is influenced by his honorable roommate, George Demetrio to give up the idea and assist him in his plan for buying up old used Fords for fifty dollars and selling them to simple, unsuspecting, souls for a hundred dollars, plus repairs.
Eight
Then see for yourself!
Every day, a few minutes before the doors of the Dining halls open for dinner, a curious tableau is enacted at the newsstand in the cafeteria.
On the long table to the left of the stand proper, Hugh Wall places a pile of papers, unsold and from the night before, which are to be returned for credit.
Next he deftly clips a neat area from the front page of each edition with his razor-sharp knife. It is this operation which seems to get ’em.
From ten to twenty fellows line up around the table and watch, with solemn apprehension, the slicing process. Not a word is spoken. Facial expressions never vary. Hugh goes on and •on with his hacking.
When the task is done and the last paper has been ravished, the spectators fade silently away, to drift into the dining hall. There is a definite let down in the caf.
Wack!
Accepting his invitation, we let Gunner McGrath lead us. into his Walsh arsenal last week. A great surprise was promised us.
“Look,” he said, pointing towards his wall, “My cousins.”
We looked, and blinked, and then looked again. Covering half the wall space were numerous pictures of the famous Dean brothers, in various poses, all expressing supreme confidence in the Dean family.
“You never knew they were my cousins, did you?” said the Gunner.
“No,” we admitted, “we never knew.”
Thoughts while cutting—
Tom Connors, a senior lawyer, rides back and forth to classes on a bicycle. Walsh’s lumber yard. Norton’s and Monahan’s vice-versa incident on that date. Fran Dunn’s story is true, fellows. Ed Skeehan says so. Dan Hanley is losing weight; but he is going just dandy in his music appreciation course. The boys on Sorin porch all took chances in that sorority raffle. The big sissies!
I love coffee,
I love tea.
I love the girls
And the girls love the formats.
Enrollment
Mr. Robert B. Riordan, registrar, announced that the final check on freshmen enrollment showed a 22.9% gain over last year.
The Wranglers held their regular meeting last Tuesday evening in the society’s room in the Law Building, Arthur Korzeneski presiding.
Robert Schmelzle, chairman of Interhall debating, announced the question to be used by the various teams. The topic to be debated is the Phi-Kappa Delta question, “Resolved, that 4 the nations should agree to prevent ’ the international shipment of arms and munitions.” This proposition will | be used by coach, Mr. William Coyne, in his tryouts for the varsity squad in the near future.
The coaches were requested to contact the men in their respective halls that were interested in entering the Interhall debates. It is expected that there will be a satisfactory turn out in each hall as the question is pertinent especially with the seeming trou- । ble fermenting in Europe with the recent assassinations. Students seeking further advice on the matter of the campus debate season should answer the call of their coach.. It is hoped that the debating proper will begin the first week in November. A bibliography on the subject will be ready at the Reference desk in the library beginning next Monday.
Richard Ballman, the speaker of the evening, presented the matter of “Prohibition Repeal” in a somewhat different light than the Wranglers have been accustomed to hearing it discussed. He pointed out the results that repeal has brought about in the way of added employment but, in contrast to the commendable feature, the matter of greater intemperance ® among the youth of the nation was mentioned as highly detrimental.
Summing up his argument, Ballman said there were three problems facing us, though prohibition had been repealed. These problems were: first, how to distribute liquor properly with a wholesome product and a fair || return to the government; second, i how to curb youthful intemperance; ! and third, how to drive ' out bad liquor.
The speaker next week will be JamesiBoyle.	... 5.
----------------—	I
{
Knights Meet	1
Sarcastic remarks were good-natur-	i
edly passed between members of the	i
football team and coaching staff at the Knights of Columbus meeting in Walsh Hall last Monday. Captain Dominic Vaifo, Rocco Schiralli, and August Church made a few brief comments, but all refused to talk about the i victory over Purdue. ] Coaches “Kitty” Gorman and Steve # Banas gave ^hort talks.
r The Scholastic |
1
I
Voice of the Campus
KEEP OFF
Editor of The Scholastic,
Dear Editor:
This is the time of the year when bad walking habits make costly the upkeep of the campus. Many students blissfully ignore the fact that the paths are the ordinary routes from point to point. It is regrettable to note that the students of Freshman Hall cut across the lawn from the Architectural school to the new postoffice. 'And why do they do it only at night? The flagpole corner of the main quadrangle is always the worst looking spot on the campus. Cutting across this portion seems to be everyone’s privilege. Why not keep to the paths everywhere?
Sincerely, Ph. Arenough.
Calendar

Friday, October 19
Fall Handicap Track meet. October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p.m. Radio Auditions, Engineering building, 8:00 p.m. Symphony orchestra string section meeting, 6:30 p.m.
Saturday, October 20
October Devotions, 12:30. Football game, Varsity vs. Carnegie Tech, 2:00 p.m. Movie, “Come On Marines” with Richard Arlen and Ida Lupino, 6:45 and 8:15.
Sunday, October 21
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m. S.A.C. meeting, 10:30. Interhall football, Lyons vs. St. Ed’s, Morrissey vs. Corby, Sorin vs. Alumni, 9:15 a.m.; Howard vs. Brownson, Off-Campus vs. Freshman, Dillon vs. Carroll, 2:30 p.m. Benediction, 7:00, 7:30 p.m.
Monday, October 22
Senior football tickets distributed, Main office 2:00 p.m. Blue Circle meeting, Library basement, 6:30. October Devotions, 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, October 23
October Devotions, 5:00 p.m. Junior football tickets distributed. Symphony orchestra, 6:30. Wranglers meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m.
Wednesday, October 2k
Sophomore football tickets distributed 2:00. Commerce Forum, Commerce building. Patricians meeting, Law building, 6:30. October Devotions 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, October 25
Freshman tickets distributed, 2:00 p.m. October Devotions, 5:00 p.m.
October 19, 1934
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Collectors
As far as we could see, the freshmen were having a great time. The boys from Freshman would make off with Dillon’s woodpile, Brownson and Carroll would raid Freshman’s collection, and then a mob from Dillon would march on the whole northern end of the campus. Each man was his own leader, each man was doing something different; and they were all having a good time. There is nothing that does the heart so much good as that feeling of conquest when you march on another hall’s woodpile, and triumphantly and loudly cart it away.
But in the midst of all this roistering the political Blue Circle reared its head. Stop everything, it said, and give a cheer for the Faculty. Now, why in the name of every undergraduate who ever turned Socialist, should a marauding group of undergraduate pep meeting plunderers give a cheer for the Faculty? Or, for that matter, for anyone but themselves or their particular hall? And that includes the team, too. There is no sane reason why a man running across the campus with a packing case in tow should suddenly drop the box and shout “Beat Purdue! Ray team! Rah, rah, rah, rah—Faculty!” There is a time and place for organized pep meetings, just as surely as there is no special time or place for disorganized ones. And, we think, the latter type are a good deal more spontaneous, and therefore, more real and satisfying, and less mechanical.
Granted that individual and mob enthusiasm should stop somewhere short of property damage. But just what reaction on the part of the student body did the Blue Circle expect, when it sponsored the woodgathering competition? Did it suppose for a moment that the boys would confine their activities to fallen twigs and blades of grass?
Prank
This tremendous and significant event occurred quite a few weeks back, but until now we haven’t had the opportunity to record it for the benefit of those freshmen who weren’t there and who maye be poking about for such an item to help fill up that weekly letter home.
The incorrigibles of Brownson and Carroll (no one but themselves ever knows which is which) had finished their arithmetic examples and had time on their hands, so off they went in search of devilment. Ten minutes later, there was a great to-do in the vicinity of the locker room, and emphatic suggestions of “Get an ax!” “Get a hammer!” and “Get this, that
and the other thing” were noted.
Everybody within getting distance came plunging down to the ground floor, and from a secure vantage point we perceived that someone was in a locker and the lock was closed and nobody knew its combination, and while most of the assembled throng hung back in apparent glee, some few appeared desirous of effecting a rescue. He might suffocate.
Into the center of the mess came one of the rulers of B. or C., and almost immediately things took on some semblance of order. A kit of tools was forthcoming, and after a bit of hacking and a great deal of grunting, the locker was pried open, and no one came out. No one was in there. And the cheering throng dispersed to its geography lessons, and we, too, got along, sighing at the anti-climax order of things in this world.
•
Fireplace Number Three
Maybe they knew it, and maybe they didn’t, but at any rate in the cafe Sunday two boys from Walsh sat down near us and commenced to talk to a third party.
“They’re starting to razz us Finch-leys around here,” one said, with a superior (oh, much superior) tone and an amused expression on his face. “You know Alberts?”
The third party knew Alberts.
“Well, they took him and his fireplace over last week, but we think it’s silly. A fireplace is a pretty nice thing to have around. We have one—come over and see it some time.”
They didn’t ask us, and that’s what hurts—not even being asked to look at a fireplace, when we’re so interested in the things. But we have to admit we’re getting worried. It’s beginning to look like everybody has fireplaces except us, and we’ll be spending the coming winter nuddled over our miserable steam radiator, pointed out to visitors as a pinched, miserly old wretch, so turned into himself that he hasn’t a fireplace in his cell.
•
Addenda
Well, there we were, with the deadline just two hours away, and because things didn’t happen as they should have, we were faced with a shortage of nine lines for the column, and Van said to write about the two milkmen from Iowa who drink five pitchers per meal to get even with the cows, and we said no, and Moran said tell ’em about the’ four grads from last year who work in the same place and we said no, that would never pass, either, so as I said before, there we were.
^ine
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John D. Carbine.......................Editor-in-Chief
Edward J. Van Huisseling.............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors JOSEPH A. BUCCI______________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN__________________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY____________________________The Week
VINCENT Al GORMAN Jr-----------------------College Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS, H._____1____________________Art Editor
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY.---------------------Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN.................................News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN--------------------Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL-------------------Assistant Ncivs Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN---------------------JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER---------------------.HARRY A. BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS.-------------------------FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY...------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI-------------------CHARLES A. LANDMESSER
PHILIP F. WELSH----------------------JOHN A. GILLESPIE
FREDERICK SHANLEY
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST____________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER-----------------Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER.----------------ROBERT J. DONAHUE
GERARD SCHAEFER--------------------JAMES McMULLEN
JOHN L FLANAGAN------------------JAMES A. WALDRON
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY___________________________Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated ^Tollcgiate $rcss fuausMUts ar —	*
-=1934 ^Uc^inlcPiQfSf 1935 s-
MADISON	WISCONSIN
October 19, 1934
THE PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL
This week The Scholastic announces that Edward J. Van Huisseling has been elected president of the Presi- • dents’ Council in a novel non-political election. In both items may be found basis for hopes that the Presidents’ Council will cease to be a political nonentity and become, rather, a genuinely useful student organization. 1
The council has undoubtedly done much to insure its future success by eliminating political maneuvering in its election. No longer, will the council be split within itself by warring factions. No longer will appointive positions go to political henchmen. Rather they will go to the best available men.
Edward Van Huisseling will undoubtedly make an excellent head of the organization. A member of the Press Club, an academic organization and the Chicago--Club, a city club, he can fully realize the needs of both types of organizations.
Ten
The Presidents’ Council has never really lived up to its purpose—to instill more activity into the campus clubs. At least fifty percent of the city and state clubs on campus exist for the sole purpose of holding a Christmas dance. This is a deplorable and unnecessary condition. The city and state clubs, composed as they are of members from the same section of the country, could well hold smokers, banquets, and more frequent meetings.
The Metropolitan, New Jersey and Connecticut clubs recently set a fine example for other campus clubs with their joint Communion breakfast. No single function could be more symbolic of Notre Dame life. The Metropolitan venture was very successful in every way. There is no conceivable reason why the other state and city clubs cannot follow the fine example of their eastern brethren.
The Presidents’ Council under its new and very capable leadership can do much to foster such activity. The Scholastic has no doubt but what it will do much to raise the present general low standard of campus clubs. It is now the duty of the student body to give a full measure of support to the Presidents’ Council so that it may come to be all it can and will be.
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Within the past four weeks many inquiries have	I
reached the editors of The Scholastic regarding the apparent discontinuance of “Voice of the Campus.” This letter column, inaugurated two years ago, has not been discontinued. Rather it has been suspended temporarily because of the lack of letters. As soon as suitable letters are received, the column will be resumed.
The letters may concern almost anything. The only requirements are that they be in good taste and signed with the full name of the writer. Initials will be used in publication if requested.
Comments, adverse or otherwise, on The Scholastic j will be especially welcome. The .writer’s point of view in no way impairs the letter’s chances of publication although, obviously letters containing nothing but petty	h
fault finding cannot be printed.
The year’s first letter, a fine example of the purpose	I
the “Voice” should serve, appears on page 10 of this issue. It is letters like this which make the “Voice” a	4
useful and interesting column. Future letters may be	I
addressed to “Voice of the Campus.” Publications Office, | Main Building.
INTERHALL DEBATE
This week the Wranglers announced that they would again sponsor an interhall debating tourney. To The Scholastic the sponsoring of interhall debating seems to be the most commendable form of club activity on the campus. It is evident that the student body also thinks so for last year’s program was enthusiastically received. There is no reason why this year’s tourney should not meet with a spontaneous response. Interhall debating is not only, in itself, a fine activity but it also offers an opportunity for advancement to the varsity squad.
♦ *
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
CROSS COUNTRY SOUND OPENS CARO SATURDAY
IMPROVED NOTRE DAME ELEVEN HOPES TO BREAK HARPSTER JINX TOMORROW
$
Alex Wilson, the holder of several local, as well as national track records, will bring his Loyola University cross country squad here tomorrow to compete -with the Irish harriers.
The former Irish star claims he
Coach John P. Nicholson Tomorrow ivill tell.
3
has only mediocre material in his camp and Coach John P. Nicholson of the local combine, broods that all his outstanding contestants are on the injured list.
Leo McFarlane, one of Nick’s own discoveries, has been nursing a weakened arch since early in the fall and it is doubtful if he will see any competition this year. John Francis, another runner that Nick had high hopes for, will be inactive because of injuries of an internal nature.
For tomorrow’s affair, the Irish coach plans to use everyone who is in condition to run. His tentative starters have been given as McKenna, Gott, McGrath, and Hennessey, not to mention several others unknown to Notre Dame track competition. It is Nick’s hope to discover a sensation in the future, as he uncovered in Leo McFarlane last year. Leo developed himself into one of the outstanding mid-continued on Page 18)
History of Carnegie Tech Series Has Been Of Greatest Interest
1924—N.D. 40 ; Carnegie Tech 19 1922—N.D. 19 ; Carnegie Tech 0 1923—N.D. 26 ; Carnegie Tech 0 1924—N.D. 40; Carnegie Tech 19 1925—N.D. 26 ; Carnegie Tech 0 1926—N.D. 0; Carnegie Tech 19 1928—N.D. 7; Carnegie Tech 27 1929—N.D. 7 ; Carnegie Tech 0 1930—N.D. 20; Carnegie Tech 6 1931—N.D. 19 ; Carnegie Tech 0 1932—N.D. 42: Carnegie Tech 0 1933—N.D. 0 ; Carnegie Tech 7
Totals—N.D., 206 : -Tech, 78. Notre Dame won S and lost 3.
As far as tradition is concerned, Carnegie Tech seems to be a thorn in the side of Notre Dame. They hold the unique record of being the first to win over the Irish on Cartier Field—a record which had been preserved for over two decades. Carnegie Tech-Notre Dame rivalry dates back to the season of 1922, when the Irish with only a mediocre team trounced the Skibos 19 to 0. With the exception of one year this friendly hostility between the Scots and Irish has continued until the present day.
A Fitting Farewell
Although the count was deadlocked 13-13 at the half, Notre Dame suddenly found herself in the last two periods to push across four touchdowns, and end the year of 1924 with another undefeated season. It was a fitting farewell for the “Four Horsemen,” who participated in their final game as donners of the Blue and Gold.
Tech first defeated the Irish in 1926. Notre Dame had run roughshod over all opposition and appeared to be headed for the coveted National Championship. Since the Skibos had previously been beaten twice, they were considered a “breather” before the Southern California game which was to decide the gridiron supremacy of the nation. Carnegie walked off with a 19 to 0 decision tucked under their arms, and ruined the Irish hopes for an unblemished record.
Having a weak team in ’28, Notre (Continued on Page 16)
SEEK SECOND VICTORY
By James A. Waldron
On a cold misty day in the fall of 1926, the Irish of Notre Dame roared on the field to play a small but valiant team from Carnegie Tech. The game was only to be a “breather” before Notre Dame would meet Army.
Mike Layden
High stepper of merit.
The “old fox,” Coach Knute Rockne, left his team to trample over the “Skibos” while he watched Army’s game with Navy. The football world was stunned when news came that the great Irish team on its way to a National Championship had been beaten.
One man stood out on the windswept field that day, a quarterback named Howard Harpster. Two years later this same inspirational leader led his team to a 27 to 7 victory over Notre Dame. The victory was the first accomplished by an invader of Cartier Field in twenty-three seasons of play. Not content with being a stumbling block to Notre Dame teams as a player, the Pittsburgh “Harp” took over the duties as head coach of Carnegie Tech last year. With only fair material and several defeats against it, the “Skibos” revived the Harpster “jinx” and overcame a potentially powerful Irish team on a fumble and a pass two minutes after the game started.
The Tech offense this year, is centered around a pint-sized individual, Steve Terebus. What he lacks in his (Continued on Page 20)
October 19, 1934
Eleven
Interest In Interhall Grid Race
Gains Momentum; Sorin Wins
JOYCE TRIUMPHS IN
FROSH NET TOURNEY
ALUMNI TEAM IS STRONG
By John I. Flanagan
Sorin still sets the pace in the Interhall football race. The seniors trounced the sophomores of St. Edwards to the tune of 13-0 in an exciting game. Doctor Breen made the first touchdown when he picked up a blocked punt and ran 12 yards to the
Art Carey
Sorin’s Bengal Tiger.
goal. He carried three men on his back for the last few yards. The second touchdown was scored on another of those bullet like passes from Art Carey to Ed Harold.
Alumni defeated Morrissey 6-0 in a bitterly contested game. The teams played evenly throughout the majority of the game. Late in the fourth quarter Odenbach scored the lone touchdown for the Gold Coasters.
The Lyons-Corby game was rather unique because of the way the latter made their touchdown. The first half showed no scoring, but on the opening play of the second half Goine who was playing sleeper caught a pass and romped unmolested to the goal line. A short time later Lyons tied the score and went on to win 7-6 when Burke kicked the extra point. The remainder of the game was scoreless.
In group 2 Brownson and Carroll remained tied for the lead, and are fighting to keep the title under the Dome. Brownson won from Dillon by the forfeit route.
Carroll playing Off Campus who was swamped by Brownson last Sunday 25-0, outdid their dormitory mates by snowing the Villagers under to the tune of 32-0. On the first play of the game Carroll took a page from Corby’s book and scored a touchdown with the age old sleeper play. The next time they got possession of the ball they worked a beautiful pass play for another six points. Two touchdowns on two plays speak well of any team. The boys seemed to gain through the Off Campus line with ease, and the latter were a be-
(Continued on Page 16)
Twelve
Comments On Notre Dame Victory Over Purdue Are Made By Famous Scribes
“Experiencing a very disastrous second quarter similar to the amazing first period blow-up at Wisconsin several years ago, Purdue’s ’34 eleven was forced to bow for the second straight time this season when a happy Notre Dame outfit romped away with a 18-7 victory over the Boilermakers before 42,000 spectators . . . Notre Dame which has taken defeat the past few years perked up immediately following the run of Melin-kovich and from then on Notre Dame looked good instead of an eleven merely trying to hold the score down.”—Gordon Graham, sports editor, the Lafayette Journal.
“Big league football came back to Notre Dame today—and unlike a year ago Purdue did not bring it—Purdue got it, 18-7. . . A smoothly functioning manifestly alert aggregation of Irish picked up 18 points in the second quarter and so established their superiority that Coach Layden found his first strings unnecessary in the second half.”—Warren Brown, Herald and Examiner.
“Hitched to a quartet of quickstriking ball carriers, who gave every promise of duplicating the dazzling deeds of the immortal “Four Horsemen” of 1924, Elmer Layden’s Notre Dame football machine rode out of the gridiron wilderness today with a decisive 18-7 conquest over Purdue. . . . Before the lightning second quarter thrusts of the Irish backs filled the air, around the wings and through the line, had subsided, they had scored three touchdowns to clinch victory and to turn the job of defense over to the reserves for the remainder of the battle, which ended with a 66-yard Purdue touchdown march.. —Associated Press Story, Pittsburgh Sunday Telegraph.
“The victory witnessed by a record breaking throng of 45,000 spectators was scored within a space of 10 minutes in the second period when Layden turned loose his quartet of destruction spreading backs—Melinko-vich, Fromhart, Carideo, and Layden, brother of the Irish mentor.” — The Cincinnati Enquirer.
“A run, a pass and an intercepted pass, three brilliant Notre Dame plays in the second period, gave the
The most coveted of all frosh tennis honors, the freshman tennis championship, fell to the racquet of Ed Joyce who thrilled the crowd with his colorful versatility as he smashed out a 2-6, 6-0, 6-4, 10-8 victory over the lanky Oklahoman, Cyle Donnell.
It was a victory, not unexpected, but one that sapped the strength of both contestants. So bitterly was the match contested that it became a duel of stamina with Joyce holding the upper hand. The score does not indicate the closeness of the play.
Donnell unleashed a flurry of amazing lofts and volleys to smother Joyce in the first set, but after that Joyce dominated the play and won the next three sets. It was a contest between steadiness and power, and steadiness won. Time after time, Joyce returned almost untouchable placements to finally break down his opponent’s game and win.
Flashes of erratic play on the part of Donnell contributed largely to his scorching service and placements kept him in the fight. Joyce darted about the court like a Missouri jackrabbit, returning shot after shot until he drew his opponent out of position, and then passing him to win the point.
No definite arrangement has been made to date regarding the match for the University tennis championship between the winners of the Upperclass and Freshmen tourneys, Captain Frank Weldon and Joyce.
Irish an 18-7 victory over Purdue this afternoon. . . . Irish alertness, confidence, and revival of fighting spirit, accounted for the difference in points. . . Purdue might have recovered from the shock of the two first touchdowns, but Carideo’s dash through more than half of the Purdue players gave the Boilermakers the coup de grace. . .” — Wilfred Smith, Chicago Tribune.
“After reviewing some of the excerpts from Saturday’s 18-7 tiffle at South Bend, a lot of the Notre Darners around the Middle West were wondering if some one hadn’t put a leedle dream juice in their soup over the week-end... As early as the third period, substitutes came in galore. This was a sight for the hungry Notre Dame boosters. Here they had travelled to the stadium that Rockne built hoping that Layden’s boys could hold Kizer’s prospective conference champs, but instead they saw Layden taking things so lightly that at times his layout on the field was made up of fourth and fifth stringers.”—Jimmy Corcoran, Chicago American.
The Scholastic

IRISH CAGERS FINISH FIRST WEEK OF DRILL
Mink Counts Twice as Irish Beat Purdue; Carideo Scores on Pass
By Cy Stroker
The Irish basketball squad began its second week of practice Monday, with Coach George Keogan running his men through a light daily workout. It is too early in the season for any serious work or for any predictions about the prospects of the team, but the regular berths will be capably filled by men who saw action last year. These include, besides Captain Jordan, Peters, Ford, O’Kane and Mettler.
The schedule this year will feature games with Big Ten teams. Illinois will be substituted for Purdue, and tilts with Northwestern, Minnesota, Chicago, and Ohio State are also included. Keogan has also planned a game with Holy Cross to be played at Boston as previously announced.
The Irish team will be somewhat lighter and smaller this year than in previous years and it is questionable as to whether or not the quintet can keep pace with the records of its immediate predecessors. It will be difficult to fill the vacancy left by ‘Moose’ Krause who averaged 234 points a season for three years and by Voe-gele who average 194 points.
de Landero is Optimistic Concerning Fencing Team
Although practice is hardly more than a week old, fencing prospects for a good season are bright. The varsity candidates, under the direction of Coach Pedro de Landero, are shaping up well in filling the places of the graduated men.
In the saber, there is a big vacancy left by last year’s star, Harold May. Captain Carlos de Landero is virtually assured of one of the positions, while Ryan and Myron seem to be the outstanding candidates for May’s place.
The dueling division is the other very weak point, two of last year’s men having graduated. Kevin Kehoe, Delmo de Landero, Singson, or the veteran Johnny Caresio are likely men from whom the division will be filled. In the foils, there is an abundance of excellent material.
Coach de Landero is well pleased with the Freshmen who reported. There is a lot of promising men, and despite the lack of experience they are catching on with amazing speed. Another good sign is the enthusiasm displayed by the new men.
de Landero says that if the candidates out for the saber and dueling divisions fill their places capably, Notre Dame will have a fencing team which will give any opponent a very tough afternoon.
Jack Ledden Praises THE SCHOLASTIC And Raps The Daily Trojan
The destructive comment of The Southern California Daily Trojan concerning that school’s football team, brought on the following comment by Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune. The excerpt appeared in Ledden’s column, “Seen and Heard in Sport Realm,” of Sunday, Oct. 14.
“. . .The Daily Trojan has always been a booster until now. If Howard Jones should go along and win the remaining games on his schedule the paper would be in rather an embarrassing position as it could hardly criticize the team for winning and still be consistent with the policy now in force.
“Kowing how to lose is a lost art with many institutions. However, I’m glad to report that Notre Dame has proven its ability to take it on the chin and say nothing. There’s not much likelihood of The Notre Dame Scholastic calling for Elmer Layden’s scalp, even if the Irish should lose every game remaining on the schedule. You see, The Scholastic happens to be run by boys possessing a normal amount of common sense and not youths who seek fame through sensationalism.”
Valdez is Chosen Coach of La Raza Soccer Team
La Raza Soccer club elected Gonzalo Valdes coach of the soccer club Sunday. Last year Valdes captained the squad, but because of an injured knee, which renders him unable to play on the squad this year, he resigned as captain. The loss of Valdes will be felt greatly for he was an outstanding player. Vincent Singson was elected captain while Sebastian Bonet resumes the duties of manager.
A game has been scheduled for Oct. 21 at 10 o’clock with the South Bend Blue Jays at Notre Dame. The club also hopes to play a team composed of Phy-ed men. If the team shows up well in the first game it intends to accept game offers from the International Soccer club of Wisconsin, the Illinois Intercollegiate champions and draw up a regular schedule.
The team lost two men through graduation and Valdes through injuries, but have Benavides, E. Creel, S. Bonet, Capt. Singson, D. de Landero, E. Hoyos, J. Roces, J. Gomez and C. deLandero remaining.
LAYDEN USES 55 PLAYERS
By Joe Prendergast
The Notre Dame football team has again boarded the victory bandwagon; this time, taking the all around play of last Saturday’s engagement as cri-
George Melinkovich
All-American timber.
terion, for many Saturdays to come.
A huge gathering of 45,000 people watched the Irish topple Purdue from the heights as Indiana’s gridleader in the Stadium last Saturday afternoon when Elmer Layden’s “new deal, new cards etc.” aced the Kizer-men clear back to Lafayette with an 18 to 7 licking.
The last game the Irish won on Stadium soil was on the 12th of Nov.. 1932; Northwestern surrendering on this particular occassion, 21 to 0.
George Joseph Melinkovich was the spark that set the blaze a-roaring in the above mentioned Wildcat game of ’32 and it was this same George who started the ravishing of Kizer’s well trained army in the Stadium last Saturday. In the Northwestern contest of 1932, Mink took the opening kickoff and raced 98 yards to score; last Saturday Mink got loose two minutes after the opening of the second quarter to travel 60 yards for a touchdown. Three minutes later, Mike Layden tossed a 35 yard pass to (Continued on Page 15)
October 19, 1934
Thirteen
INTRODUCING
GET DOPE ON PLAYERS’ PRE-GAME ACTIVITIES
By Joe Prendergast
St. Edward’s Hall, 310 — campus residence of Fred Solari, footballer, and also his gridiron-minded roommate, Tony Mazziotti.
A hectic 1930 grid encounter between Commerce high school of Boston and English High of the same city. The right tackle for Commerce High is a standout. His team is leading by seven points and it is mainly through his efforts that this lead is
being protected. The lad is making three out of every five tackles and in general is the “sparkplug” as well as the whole defense of the Commerce eleven. This is our first picture of Fred Solari.
In the stands the afternoon of the above mentioned day was Joe Ryan, All-American end from Harvard in the playing days of Eddie Casey. Joe has always shown a keen interest in Notre Dame and its football teams. He met Fred in the locker room after the contest and asked Fred about his future plans. Fred Charles frowned on the idea of matriculating at Harvard but when Joe asked Fred about Notre Dame—that’s all there was to it. In the fall of 1931 Fred was a freshman at Notre Dame.
Twenty-one years of age, six feet, two inches in height, and 210 lbs are the Bay State boy’s measurements.
Fred was a three letter man at Commerce High, played first base and
catcher on the baseball nine, put the shot in track, though he says, “not so hot”; and lined up as regular right tackle on the football team for three years.
Under Jake Kline, freshman mentor, “Sledge” Solari was converted from a tackle to a center. He was first string center on the freshman outfit all during the fall of 1931. A week prior to the opening Haskell
game in 1932, Fred suffered a broken collar bone while engaged in a practice scrimmage. He was in the thick of the battle for the starting assignment before old man injury dealt him this unfortunate blow. Fred saw all his action from a seat in the stands for the remainter of the season.
Last season “Sledge” was chosen as second team center by Hunk Anderson. He played 30 minutes of that curtain-raiser scoreless tie against the “Jayhawkers” from Kansas. In two frays, Army and Northwestern, he saw no action—a lame ankle keeping him on the sidelines. In the Southern California duel waged in the Stadium last fall, Fred was in there battling for three periods despite a badly oversized ankle and his right leg strapped up like an Egyptian mummy.
This season under the tutelage of line coach, Joe Boland, Fred’s center play has improved tremendously. The
What do the football players do between the hours of 11:30 and 1:00? That is the time between lunch and the time to go over and dress for the game. Here are a few answers from the players themselves. Dom Vairo (captain)—“I usually lie down and rest, blit last week all the members of the squad went over to Sorin Hall where Father O’Hara blessed us with a relic, and then gave all of us medals of the Blessed Virgin Mary, to whom all of the home games are dedicated.
Rocco Schiralli—“I usually read the papers and listen to the radio. Once in a while I play pinocle with the fellows.”
Jack Robinson—“After I finish lunch I go over to my room and lie down and. rest, trying to keep my mind off the game.” George Melin-kovich—“I lie down and rest and listen to the radio. I try not to go to sleep because it makes me feel sluggish when I wake up. The main thing to do is to stay off your feet.”
Bud Bonar—“The quarterbacks get together and discuss the plays they intend to use, and the various situations that may arise during the game. Then we all rest up for the game.” Andy Pilney— “I usually take a short walk and then lie down in bed. I try to say a few prayers that we return victorious if it is the will of God, and that none of the players get hurt.”	.
Wayne Millner—“I lie down and rest. I try not to think of the game, but talk of other things to the fellows. I relax more than rest.” Don Elser— “After I get back to the hall I talk to the different fellows. We just have a light lunch, but have the big meal for breakfast. About 12:30 I go over to the stadium to dress for the game.”
starting assignment for the Carnegie Tech game tomorrow is a tossup between Jack Robinson and Fred, two worthy centers.
“Sledge’s” home is in Pembroke, Massachusetts although he spend his summers on quaint Cape Cod serving as host in his father’s Inn. During the month of August of the past summer Fred left the Inn and pick and shoveled it, to toughen himself for football.
He receives a good deal of fan mail, particularly from the fairer sex; he was the sole nominee for the presidency of the Boston Club but withdrew and substituted his fellow BayStater, Jim Bowdren. He cannot account for his nickname, “Sledge” says “Phil Arnheiter started it and it stuck.” He is a junior in the Commerce School and expects to take up law when he receives his degree.
Fourteen
The S cholas tic
IMNTCDS
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
"THE DAILY TROJAN”
The prevailing opinion today regarding collegiate athletic contests is that victory is not the only goal obtainable. There are too many other things which are as desirable, such as sportsmanship, wholesome physical exercise, the fostering of keen competition between men, and the like. This angle of intercollegiate competition, we thought, had seeped through to all parts of the country. But only recently we noticed that the University of Southern California DAILY TROJAN apparently has heard not one particle of such an assertion. If it hasn’t heard of it, messages of sympathy are in order. If it has heard, but ignores the fact, messages of sympathy in ignorance are in order.
This campus publication placed collegiate journalism on the front pages this week when it destructively criticized the Trojan football team in its editorial columns. The whole rumpus was occasioned by the loss of the Californians to Washington State, and, we presume, by their narrow margin over College of the Pacific. The editor was thoroughly displeased with the 19 to 0 trouncing the supposedly unbeatable Trojans suffered from the Cougars. As a result he editorialized on the game in this vein:
“It marked the victory of a team that plays football for the game’s sake over a team of Hollywood struck boys who once knew how to play ■ football.” Through this passage and others, the editor implies that Jones’ men aren’t capable of winning football because of their Hollywood connections. If we are correct, and we are reasonably sure we are, Trojan athletes have, during the gravy years as well as during this lean year, been the highly polished idols of the film colony. Now if the Hollywood associations are creating so much havoc with the present defeat-doused wooden horses, why was this not the case during the victorious days of Drury, Clemens, Hibbs, Saunders, and other Trojan immortals? It all makes the DAILY TROJAN look very much like an organization infested with an extreme case of sore-headedness or victoryitis.
In view of the fact that past associations between Trojan elevens and the movie colony have not caused Trojan defeats, it seems unjust to heap this further burden upon the already heavily
laden Hollywood by making it responsible for Southern California’s failure to make a noticeable impression in the victory column this year. Furthermore, it might occur to the DAILY TROJAN that this thing called material, of which football squads are composed, has a great deal to do with any team’s victory success. The least this publication might have done would be to ape The Los Angeles TIMES which has a detestably sly and distasteful manner of conjuring nonsensical excuses for every Trojan defeat.
WE PICK
Tilings could have been much worse last week, but fortunately we hit 32, missed seven, and tied Indiana-Temple. Pct.—.821. LaSalle, Chicago, North Carolina, Nebraska, Texas, Rice, and Gonzaga slapped us in the face with their victories. For the season: 85 for us, 17 for you, and six down the middle aisle for a percentage of .833. This week: 16 that might go either way and 26 that should go our way. WE PICK:
NOTRE DAME OVER CARNEGIE TECH.
East
Amherst over Rochester Army over Sewanee Boston over Bates Yale over Brown Columbia over Navy Dai-tmouth over Virginia Detroit over Villanova Fordham over St. Mary’s Holy Cross over Harvard Michigan State over Manhattan Pittsburgh over Minnesota Syracuse over- Ohio Wesleyan Pennsylvania over Rutgers Princeton over Washington and Lee
West
Chicago over Indiana Ohio State over Colgate Georgia Tech over Michigan Iowa over Iowa State Kansas State over Kansas Missouri over St. Louis Nebraska over Oklahoma Purdue over Wisconsin Rice over Creighton
South
Alabama over Tennessee Louisiana State over Arkansas Vanderbilt over Auburn Duke over Davidson Florida over North Carolina.State Tulane over Georgia North Carolina over Kentucky-Maryland over Virginia Poly Mississippi over Howard Southern Methodist over Oklahoma Aggies Texas over Centenary
Far’West
California over IL C. L. A.
Loyola over Arizona Oregon over Idaho Oregon State over Southern California Stanford over San Francisco.
PURDUE GAME
(Continued from Page 13)
Melinkovich who caught it on the three yard line and was downed immediately. Two line plunges and Mink had again registered a six-pointer for Notre Dame.
This unexpected scoring spurt by the Irish was thought to have been brought under control by the “Boilermakers” when without warning Notre Dame’s fury again struck. Purdue on a sustained march down the field, had advanced the ball from their own 15 yard line to the 28 yard marker of Layden Inc. With third down and nine to go Purvis, left halfback for the visitors, shot a pass intended for his right end, Hass.
Fromhart Misses Kick
Carideo stepped into the picture at this moment, intercepted the pass on the 25 yard line and started his trek toward the enemy’s goal, His teammates formed a blocking corps quickly so that from midfield to the goal line his path was unmolested. The gun marking the end of this second canto went off just as Fred started his 75 yard masterpiece. Wally Frommart, whose place-kick after the first counter was wide of its mark again, missed.
A punting duel characterized the third quarter with Layden and Shakespeare getting the better of Dailey, Purdue’s hooter.
In the fourth stanza of the fray Purdue managed to tally seven points. With Notre Dame substitutes being sent into the game in hordes and with a composite of the third, fourth, and fifth teams playing for the Irish, “Sleepy Jim” Carter started a one man show that brought the Purdud rooters to their feet. He started his pilgrimage on Notre Dame’s 37 yard line and eight plays later carried the pigskin over the all-important stripe. Torriello’s place kick was good, giving “Nobe” Kizer seven points as his share of the day’s proceedings. Carter piled up 40 yards single handed in this last Purdue attack, not reckoning his pass to Drake which was good for 12 yards.
By the time the “Boilermakers” had scored, Coach Layden had sent about everybody into the warfare but the cheerleaders. Out of an original squad of 72 on the sidelines at.the start of activities there were but 16 left at the end of the game.
W arren Brown
Warren Brown, famous sports writer and columnist on the Chicago Herald and Examiner, addressed the Press Club yesterday evening at 6:15 in the library. Always an interesting talker, Mr. Brown proved himself as entertaining as ever with his humorous anecdotes concerning newspaper work.
October 19, 1934
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By James McMullen
Pipe this laddies:—Riding in automobiles all summer gives the footballers charley horses . . . You can take it from a veteran trainer . . . GENE SARAZEN, famous golf pro, has bad arches and wears shoes that cost $55 per pair. He has 30 pairs . . . Rival riders swapped shirts after the first game between the polo teams representing the East and West . . . FRANKIE FRISCH, manager de luxe, now holds four world series records by wide margins. They are most series games played, 50; most hits 58; most ties at bat, 197; and most singles, 45 . . . MAXIE BAER isn’t very original. He’s accepting engagements as a referee of wrestling matches and engaging in slugging matches with the grunters and growlers . . . WILLIAM “TIPPY” DYE, Ohio State quarter-back weighs exactly 138 .. . CHARLEY COMER-RORD, former YALE star, has engaged in a daily football kicking drill for the past 14 years . . . The payoff came with DIZ DEAN begging BABE RUTH for an autograph . . . An idea fm* a theme song featuring the DEANS next spring: “Thars gold in them thar hillbillies.”
What a man—this DEMPSEY! Not only has he bought out a racing stable but he has also set up in the hash slinging racket . . . He has a restaurant right across the street from MADISON SQUARE garden ... A horse shoe pitching academy has been established in Greenwich, Conn., with 12 pits and seating accommodations for several hundred spectators . . . SEWANEE’S football team played Texas, Tulane, Louisiana, Mississippi, and the TEXAS AGGIES on five successive days back thar in ’89, and beat all five of ’em . . . PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT played tackle and fullback on the Croton school eleven . . . The RED SOX have the oldest bat boy in the major leagues. He is SHORTY SHEPPARD, aged 47, an ex-jockey . . . An average of 38 football players are killed in the United States each season . . . Gymnasts at the University of WISCONSIN use about 4,500 towels per week ... How we doing Mac? . . . The major leagues spend close to $70,000 a year for baseballs, including those that Babe autographs, and gives away ... JOE SAVOLDI was the first athlete approached by the movie people to play the part of Tarzan . . . JIM THORPE scored a total of 198 points for the Carlisle Indians in 1912 . . . The PITT PANTHERS haven’t lost a game to an Eastern team since 1928
. . . BURLEIGH GRIMES, the old spitbailer, will not shave before a ball game . . . That offer of $100,000 to DEMPSEY to again battle LUIS FIR-PO, “The wild Bull of the Pampas,” has all the earmarks of a bum steer
Last year when COACH OSSIE S0LEM of Iowa, first lamped the new negro grid sensation, OZE SIMMONS, he remarked to the kid that he looked a little small ... To which Oze replied: “Well boss, they say I’se kinda tricky” . . . The yawl Aelous, built in 1880, is still used in New York waters . . . ART CLARKSON, Minnesota’s ambidextrous halfback, is so camera shy he wouldn’t come on the field the first day of practise, until the photographers left . . . What’s he gonna’ do for clippings? . . . SCHOOL BOY ROWE’S home town, ran 16 special cars to Detroit for the World Series . . . Your old friend of the Greekie name, EPPA JEPTHA RIXEY, who retired from baseball pitching because of old age, recently played 18 holes of golf, three sets of singles in a tennis tournament, a match of men’s doubles, one of mixed doubles, and then a singles title match which he won . . . All in twelve hours! . . . COACH STAGG’S college of the Pacific has been promised a place on SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA’S schedule . . . Very generous of you, COACH STAGG . . .
The touchdown JACK MANDERS, backfield threat of the Chicago Bears scored against the BROOKLYN club last Saturday is the only one he has scored in pro football . . . He’s a -place kicker . . . GENE MAKO, national collegiate tennis champion, drinks an average of four milk shakes a day and six when a tournament is in progress . . . Infielders on the DETROIT TIGERS of 1908 and 1909 wore felt shin guards as protection against the spikes of base runners ... WALTER MILLER, once considered the leading jockey on the American turf, scored five victories in one day on three different occassions . . .PHIL WRIGLEY, owner of the Cubs, rehired CHARLIE GRIMM as manager, only after sitting in the bleachers for several days listening to the comments of the bugs.
Fall Handicap
Notre Dame’s Annual Fall Handicap Track Meet began yesterday at 4 o’clock at Cartier field.
The hundred yard dasah, quarter mile, high hurdles, pole vault and broad jump were run off yesterday. Today the low hurdles, half mile and the 220-yard dash were staged. The vanners in each event will be awarded medals.
INTERHALL FOOTBALL
■ (Continued from Page 12)
wildered bunch of boys when the final whistle sounded.
Zarontonella and Maher starred as Howard decisively beat the boys from Freshman 18-0. The former made two touchdowns, and the latter made one, running 15 yards after picking up a blocked kick. All the scoring occurred in the first half. During the last two periods Freshman put up a stiff defense and the juniors were unable to cross the goal-line.
The schedule for Sunday pits Sorin against Alumni in a game which will decide the league supremacy, and will go a long way toward determining the championship. Both have two wins and as yet have not been defeated. Morrissey plays Corby, and Lyons plays St. Edwards. All these games will be played in the morning. In the afternoon Group 2 gets into action with Howard playing Brownson, Carroll playing Dillon and Off Campus playing Freshman.
$
The Standings
Group 1.	W
Sorin ___________________ 2
Alumni ______________    2
Lyons ................... 1
St. Edwards _____________ 0
Morrissey ............... 0
Corby __________________  0
Group 2.	W
Brownson ...............  2
Carroll ...............  2
Howard .................  1
Dillon .................. 0
Off Campus _____________  0
Freshman ________________ 0
L T Pts.
0	0
0	0
1	0
1	1
1	1
2	0
L	T
0	0
0	0
0	1
1	1
2	0
2	0
4
4
1
1
0
P-.s.
4
4
•J
1
0
0
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 11)
Dame relinquished one of her cherished traditions by being subdued on Cartier Field. It was something that had not been done for 23 years, and then it took all the strength and power of a mighty Tech eleven before the Irish were crushed under an avalanche of touchdowns.
While capturing the mythical title as king of football during the suicide schedule of ’29, Notre Dame barely eked out a 7-0 victory from Wally Steffan’s bone crushers. It was largely because of a highly vaunted passing attack and the line plunging tactics of Joe Savoldi, that the Irish were able to come out on the top end of the score.
With perfect blocking, the 1932 team humbled a powerful array of Skibo backs to run up the largest score ever suffered by a Carnegie Tech grid outfit. It was Nick Lukats, who rifled bullet-like passes through the air to the waiting arms of Melin-kovich and Dom Vairo, that the count ended 42-0, a decisive victory for the season of 1932.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
I	FOUNDER’S DAY
(Continued from Page 4)
in Heaven and in Earth: going therefore teach ye all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe whatsoever I have commanded you, and behold I am with you all days, even to the consummation of the world.’ (Mt. 28, 18-20) They came therefor to extend the Kingdom of God on earth, the f dominion of Christ over the minds and hearts of men. It is this fact and this alone that explains the missionary activity of the Church, as it explains the coming of Father Sorin and so the very existence of Notre Dame.”
Father Miltner Quotes
Comparing the heroism of the pioneers with modern standards and principles, Father Miltner pointed . out: “Because it is out of the depths of divine faith that their courage and unbounded confidence sprang. Doubt, incredulity, scepticism have never planted anything but the seeds of disintegration and despair. They have never borne any fruit except disorder and disillusionment. They are but negations of fact or of principle, and
so they inhibit action through a paralysis of our rational powers. Courage is coupled with confidence, which means to have faith in someone. And when that someone is God, one’s courage may be expressed in the bold words of St. Paul: Tf God be with me, who shall be against me?’ ”
Father Miltner concluded by saying: “The present is the tomorrow of the past, and it is because those men of the past, the men who laid the foundations of this University thought of the Catholic needs of the tomorrow of their day that our needs are now cared for. And surely we could do no greater honor to them nor fulfill in a better way the purpose of this occasion than by taking thought of and preparing ourselves now for the great work of extending the kingdom of God in the future by teaching, at least by the example of a life of simple faith and the courage and the zeal that spring from it, whatsoever the Christ commanded us to obseiwe.”
Bookmen
A meeting of the Bookmen was held last Monday night, Oct. 15, and several new members were admitted. No reports were given as the club has not gotten fully underway.
The new members admitted were Paul Carrico and Robert Burke, both juniors. An alternate was also appointed but his name has not been announced.
Now
YOU WON’T HAVE TO CLIMB THE STAIRS
We’ve moved down to the first floor in Morrissey Hall— Room 156. So—tote your ailing set over to our clinic and we’ll have it strong and healthy for all the away-from-home games.
BLUEPRINTS PHOTOSTAT COPIES
SCHILLINGS, Inc.
329 South Lafayette St.
Campus RADIO Shop
WILLIAM O’SULLIVAN 156 Morrissey Hall
Theres nothing tough about my throat. that's why I smoke Old Golds' says
October 19, 1934
Seventeen
Cleveland Club
The Cleveland Club met recently and discussed plans for their Christmas dance. At the meeting they formulated plans for a Smoker to be held in the Lay Faculty Dining room. Ray Scholz and James Byrne were appointed chairmen for the entertainment. Officers of the Club are: Edward Caldwell, president; Arthur Carey, vice-president; Daniel O’Brien, secretary; Herbert Venables, treasurer. Thomas Rini was selected to represent the freshmen.
The SAFEST QUICKEST Mosf CONVENIENT WAY TO CHICAGO
Ride the
SOUTH
SHORE
LINE
All-steel cars protect you from danger on this direct route to Chicago.
Besides the safety and comfort of the South Shore Line, the low cost round trip fares save you money. Frequent service.
IT’S CHEAP, TOO!
from
SOUTH BEND
ROUND TRIP FARE
15-Day Return Limit
For more information, ask C. W. Veach, City Pass. Agt., 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE ANO
SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

______________________
Eighteen
Detroit Club Notes
At the first meeting of the Detroit club last Tuesday evening, plans were discussed for a dinner to be given in the near future. Two committees were appointed: one to select a place for the dinner, and another, consisting of two men from each class, to encourage membership in the club. The duties of the first committee were turned over to Lee Moorman and William Taylor. A number of freshmen were present at the meeting and were very cordially welcomed into the club. The officers of the club are: President, Tom Stringer; vice-president, Al McCarthy; secretary, John Ullman, and treasurer, Art Cronin. The annual dues for the members of the club have been discontinued.
Military Club
The Military Club met last Monday evening at 7:45 p.m. in Carroll Rec. As there are to be no officers this year, Sal Costa conducted the meeting. An attempt is being made to form a Reserve Officers Association which is national in scope. To foster interest and industry among the reserve officers of the R.O.T.C. is the purpose of such an organization. Ten reserve officers are needed to form an organization of this kind on the campus. It has been suggested that a similar group be organized in South Bend. Anyone interested will please see Sal Costa, 339 Alumni, within the next week.
CROSS COUNTRY
(Continued from Page 11)
die distance men in the Middle West in one track season.
The runners tomorrow will get underway on a three and one half mile jaunt at 11:00 a.m. Their journey will take them around both campus lakes and back to the starting point, the gymnasium.
Nick believes that his squad has a better chance to win tomorrow than at any other time during the season. After the Wilsonites have been met, such highly - touted opposition as Michigan State, led by the great Tom Ottey, Indiana and Pittsburgh will pile up in the path of the Irish. These squads, Nick believes, are too strong for his men.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
with only the clean center leaves — these are the
Scwi mildest leaves—they cost more—they taste better.
Nineteen
CARNEGIE TECH
(Continued from Page 11)
weight and height, this 148 pound flash makes up in speed and brains. A slippery, dangerous runner, sure tackler, a deadly passer with either hand, a kicker with either foot, and you have a word picture, of the left half dynamo of Carnegie Tech.
Co-Captain Louis Is Back
In rounding out his backfield, Harpster departed from the usual order. At the quarterback post is “Babe” Patt, a sophomore, whose 195 pounds is the heaviest a Carnegie Tech signal caller ever tipped the beams. Fullback duties are handled by Ken Spencer, built on the lines of Elmer Layden, who hurls his 168 pounds into the line with terrific drive. At the blocking position is “Roly Poly” Mihm who carries his 212 pounds with surprising speed. Harpster has able replacements in Freddy Lehman an 18 year old sophomore, Bill Spisak the best defensive back on the team, and Owen Bowser.
Men who played against Tech last year will remember Co-Captain Lib Lewis at right end, who snared the touchdown pass. On the other flank is Frank Sanford, who is capably filling the vacancy left by last year’s captain, Colin Steward. With two such ends as these and a passer of Steve Terebus’ qualities, Notre Dame will have to polish up for an aerial attack.
The kingpins of the Carnegie Tech line are its great tackles Co-Captain Croft and Doloway, both well over 200 pounds. Steve Trbovich a steady center, is flanked by two green but promising sophomore guards, Henrion and Frank Chyczewski.
Coach Elmer Layden, while pleased with the Purdue victory, sees room for plenty of improvement in the blocking and tackling departments. Fundamentals are still being drilled into the squad until the blocking of former years begins to show. With few exceptions, Layden ■will probably use the same line up that started the Purdue game.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
You speak into the telephone. Your voice, your personality, part of you is projected far and wide. In effect you are in two places and times at once— evening in New York, afternoon in San Francisco. Or you’re in Washington today and in Sydney, Australia tomorrow—at one and the same time!
The telephone’s power to put a person where he wants to be—at the psychological moment—proves tremendously valuable. In domestic and foreign business, in national and international affairs, in friendly social contacts, it permits a quick interchange of ideas and immediate understanding.
UK
'Ahv rot drop in of home • onigh• — oy telephone? For a of of pleasure at bc-ga'r r a • e s, call by number offer 8:30 P. M.
BELL TELEPHONE
Twenty
The Scholastic