										
Wednesday	Kim Thornton "Alarm Clocks Are Euil"	Brad Barnhorst "No Loue Lost"	Jeff Jotz "World of Sports"	Bucky Ciletti	Kathy Morrey	Jazz With John Austin "The Blue Wisp Jazz Show"	Keuin McDonough "1 Belieue My Throat Hurts"		Kelly Boglarsky "Just Dial 1-900-EZ-Music"	Kristen Baumler "Un Poco De Ska"
Tuesday	Karen Holderer "Top 40 (NOT!)'"	Alyson Naimoli Ritual - Free"	Mike Schwabe	Kristen Harknett	Dan Langrill "The Audio Mood Ring"	Syndicated Shows	Ted Leo	Sports	Mike Bertin/ Kathy Hardiek	Kevin Flaherty "Stooge on Women"
Monday	Marc Johnson "Podge, fl Cup of Jaua, and Thou"	Jim Doppke	Shawn Nowierskl "Songs O' Bjorn and Fjords"	James O'Brien	John Staunton "Sal O' Carlo's BBQ Paradise"	Grateful Dead	Rnne Marie Benson		Pat Ninneman "R Hint of Anesthesia"	SHAFT
	7-9 a.m.	9-11 a.m.	11 -1 p.m	E d to i	3-5 p.m.	5-7 p.m.	7-9 p.m.		9-11 p.m.	11-1:45a.m.
ELECTIONS '91:
Jeanne Naylor
MAKE YOUR
VOTE COUNT
COVER 12
Election '91 Blanco/Florenzo Farmer/Griggs Ferguson/James Kromkowski/Nigro
Lush Killing Joke
10
Movies
Godfather III
CAMPUS LIFE
20 Sophomore Literary Festival International Poets and Novelist Highlight
SPORTS
24 Basketbail Irish struggle in the homestretch
3
On Other Campuses
4
Week In Distortion
5
The Unexamined Life
27
Coming Distractions
28
Final Word
FEBRUARY 7
Specialty Shows 5 - 7 pm Daily
Monday: Grateful Dead Tuesday: Syndicated Shows
Wednesday: Jazz
Sunday: Metal
Thursday: Hip Hop Friday: Reggae Saturday: Hardcore/ Punk
of the Fighting Irish
Thursday	Friday	Saturday	Sunday
Jen Karaffa "Everybody Polka"	Bill Polking		
Greg Murphy "Loose Truth"	Rich Kurz		
		10:00 am	- 1:00 pm
John Dugan "Freight Train Willie's Secret Sausage Reciples”	Chris Infante "Uhhhhhh"	Jason UJinslade "Jazun Jetsam's Oscillating Rudio Sculpture"	Jim Maloney/Pat Finn "H couple of Creamy Coconuts"
Maria Sullivan “Manlacial Mudslinging Menagerie”	Jennifer Reiland	Mike Montrly "The Fine Line Between Stupid and Cleuer"	Chris Scherzinger "Broadcast Schlep"
Mark Bintinyer "Rural Enema"	Debbie UJunder "Premenstrual Prime Time"	Tom Fellrath "The Physics Behind the Physiques”	Rnne Seifert "Gardening Rt Night"
Hip -Hop "Funkin1 Lesson" Warrick Muldrotu/Tcra Payton	Reggae "Roots Music Karamu" Zlk Chandler	Hardcore/Punk "Out of Step"	Metal Chris Ebert "Thrashing, Bashing, and Banging"
Paul Broderick "Paul's Power Hour (or two)"	Rieu Nunez "Of black Polka Dots and Summer"	Neil Higgins "Boston Baked Beans and R Pint O' Guinness"	Tim McRdam "Assorted Varieties and Colors"
Dane McMahon	Dan Byrne "Rudie's Revenge"	Jessica Haida "Hits You Neuer Hold-a"	Matt Murphy -n-John Lane
John Streider "CBS Radio Mystery Hour"	lain Gould "Formica"	Kelly Daugerdas "I'm In Control Now - So Bend Ouer"	"Does This Mean Spanking is Out of the Question"
V)

SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 132, No. 13
February 7, 1991
Slim Pick ’Ens (But Vote Blanco/Florenzo)
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Michael C. Wieber
MANAGING EDITOR
Derik T. Weldon
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Ian Mitchell
NEWS EDITOR
Traci Taghon
SPORTS EDITOR
Jon Paul Potts
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGange
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Dave Holsinger
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Mari Okuda
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Dave Raedy
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER
Patricia Doyle
ADVERTISING MANAGER
Tony Porcelli
BUSINESS MANAGER
Jim Fitzgerald
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
a s a source of media responsible to the students, Scholastic has many responsibilities to fulfill in order to maintain its reputation for unbiased reporting and well-researched editorial positions. At times picking an opinion, or in this case, a student government ticket, to support is difficult because no option strikes us as outstanding. However, after thorough review and hours of discussion we recommend that you cast your vote for the ticket of Joe Blanco and Dave Horenzo.
Blanco’s experience in many areas and levels of student government, class government, and hall government can by no means be ignored. Such experience is invaluable when one is thrust into the position of student body president for the very limited time span ‘ of one year. There is no time to waste in learning the system. It must be understood ahead of time. Also, Florenzo’s connections. to SUB should help coordinate this organization with student government to avoid duplicate programming.
Scholastic also feels that this ticket’s concern for unification of student organizations as well as for the changes facing Notre Dame as it develops into a research university provide the proper balance necessary for success in the coming year. We applaud all
the tickets for their interest in these issues, but none were as strong as Blanco/Florenzo.
The Farmer/Griggs ticket has a solid background in multicultural affairs which can by no means be ignored. Their experience in the field is not rivaled by any of the other tickets, and if you, the voter, value these qualifications, don’t rule out this pair. They also have a good deal of experience in student government.
Although the Ferguson/James ticket has strong background in student government and HPC, we would like to have seen a more concrete plan for the coming year. Their connections will likely prove useful to student government even if they are not elected.
Finally, for those of you who feel that student government is a complete waste of time, the “philosopher king” ticket of Kromkowski and Nigro may provide an alternative. They may seem comical at first, but gave the editorial staff some points to ponder.
In short, however this was a down year for student government elections. Some urged that we did not even endorse a ticket. B ut we feel it is our responsibility, to provide students with some direction to protect their interests and campus life.
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University ofNotreDame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556and printed at The Papers, Inc.,Milford,IN46542. The subscription rate is $25.00/year and back issues are available al $125 / copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the apmionsofiheentire editorial hoard of Scholastic or of the University of Not re Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1990 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
2
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college., Faculty members should include their department. All letters must besigned. Nones will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libe-lousor obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copy fitting, grammatical ar spelling errors and Scholastic style. . Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:	. ;	«
* The Editor
■ • -Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC

-i
i
If you’ve ever wondered what the great minds at MIT do daily, here itis. They come up with new ways to coat M&Ms. TheM&M-Mars Co. gave the MIT Chemical Engineering Lab 1500 pounds of chocolate pieces, green dye, and a machine to coat the candy, according to The National On-Campus Report Their assignment was to come up with a faster, cheaper way to put the little green jackets on the little chocolate pieces. While the prof and students refused to divulge any trade secrets, they did acknowledge that results weren’t purely intellectual. The prof said they all gained weight, but wouldn’t hazard a guess as to why only green dye was sent
Gimme A Bud
Still looking for a spring break destination? Why not make the folks in Ft Lauderdale feel needed and go there? After learning that fewer than 15,000 students vacationed there last year, a local entrepeneur put together a 16-page pamphlet to lure students. Wonder what it offers? “Plenty of places to buy liquor EVEN IF Y OU’RE NOT OF LEGAL AGE!!! Don’t go to Daytona—all your friends are there! Come hang out with the old people who live in sunny Florida ALL YEARLONG!!!”
A Real-Class Act
The National On-Gampus Report may have a solution to our recent registration woes; Itseems Arizona State University was having the same problem (too many students, not enough classes) so they set up a hotline allowing students to sign up for courses at five community colleges in the Maricopa Community College District DART could
probably be rigged for this, too. Then we could take Introduction to That Big Scary Building We Call the Library at IUSB, or Why	!
Women Shouldn’t Wear Pants at Bethel College. And then the	!
university wouldn’t have to spend any money to recruit new faculty.	;
After all, haven’t they done enough for us?	!
Defining Respectable at CU	j
Reprinted in The Chronicle of Higher Education: From the [ Colorado Daily, a newspaper at the University of Colorado—“The	;
stereotype is that college athletes rarely study, get pushed through	[
the cracks of the academic system, and leave the university with little	<
to show for it But athletes and university administrators say CU’s graduation rate for athletes is among the highest in the nation. And t he average grade-point average for athletes—while lower than that for students — is respectable.” If you say so.
The Middle East Bites
A group of American biologists is rushing to publish a guidebook to	;
the reptiles and amphibians of the Middle East The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that thebook will include a section on how to treat bites by the 23 species of poisonous snakes indigenous to the region. “No handbook on this topic exists in any language,” said Kraig Adler, a professor of neurobiology at Cornell University and editor of the manual. That’s hard to believe, isn’t it? Seems like it was on the New York Times best-seller list for awhile. Or was that the guide to strange plants in Western Africa? Anyway, identifying various snakes and reptiles is sure to help pass the time as soldiers wait for the next Scud attack.	□
edited by Traci Taghon
3
FEBRUARY 7.

Fun Ways to Waste Your Life A guide to Nintendo games for the novice
1 spent three hours today playing Nintendo. Just ponder that statement for a moment. Three hours...three hours of my life gone. Three hours that I could have spent...well...some other way. I could have been out frolicking in the snow. And there isn’t a man alive who likes to frolic more than I; take my word here. Granted, our Nintendo collection isn’texactly the Library of Congress, but we do have a few:
TETRIS: From the people who brought us the Purge, the Cold War, and even worse, Baryshnikov, comes the game that is more evil than Stalin’s nightmares. Thegamethat infects your dreams and your subliminal subconscious. Even now I look at the corkboard on the wall over this desk and wonder if it would fit in a comer with one of those “L”-shaped things. Take a smoker’s advice about this game: the best way to quit is not to start.
RBI BASEBALL: The game that recreates the feeling of being a pitcher in the big leagues...and the infield and the outfield and the manager and the drunken fans and the hot dog vendor and the fat guy at the door
who rips your ticket If this was anything like what Major League Baseball was like, the players would be so exhausted that suicide would be the only way that they could relax.
CONTRA: A charming game whose name calls to mind one of the worst government scandals of the 1980s. This game reinforces the three major American rules of combat: 1) send a single man with no shirt on to fight an army, 2) kill everything that moves, and 3) jump over bullets.
TECHMO BOWL: Ah, the nostalgia of recalling a time not too far away when Cleveland was a halfway decent team. A very macho game to play, and a strong component of male bonding. One rarely hears of Techmo tournaments in Siegfried.
GOLF: The world’s most boring spectator sport become the world’s most boring video game. ‘Nuffsaid.
ANY OF THE MARIO BROS. GAMES: Acid. That’s all I can say about these games.
If the guy who wrote the programs wasn’t already on acid he must have sat back and seen what he did and immediately tried to OD.	;
MIKE TYSON’S PUNCH OUT: I’ve ! never gotten to Mike Tyson on this game, if that gives you any indication of how good I am. I have, however, surmised that the general purpose of the game is to beat the crap out of the guy who is trying to beat the crap out of you before he does beat the crap out of you. Again, very macho. Again, very pointless.
I’m sure I had a point to this story when it was conceived in my head scant hours ago. However, at the moment it escapes me. To whatever use you may put my little video game guide, God bless ya’. My buddy just came down to my room. He wants to see if we can finally save the Princess. The Japanese won the Second World War, and I’m going upstairs to play Mario. If my parents call, I’ve joined the circus. □
■ by Don Modica
Don Modica is a sophomore Vermin and a Nintendo junkie.
SCHOLASTIC
5

KETCHUP AND LOVE LETTERS
EDITOR’S NOTE: Because Scholastic’s Dr. Head is on leave in an attempt to resolve his troubling identity crisis, this week’s “The Unexamined Life” will be guest written by Dr. Head’s younger brother, Dr. Ernst Head.
Dear Dr. Head:
I am a gluttonous consumer of ketchup, and I have two questions for you about my favorite derivative of the tomato plant. Being a true ketchup connoisseur, I only eat Heinz ketchup. However, the people at Heinz seem to be cheating me—they say that they have 57 varieties, but I only know two: ketchup and pickles. What are the other 55? My other question has to do with the spelling of the-, word “ketchup.” Is it supposed to be spelled “ketchup” or ^‘catsup?”
John Kinney, freshman, St. Edward’s.
John, I feel that I must warn you about your excessive ketchup consumption. Remember that the tomato is a fruit, and keep in mind that eating too much fruit can cause problems with your bowels ... for propriety’s sake, I’ll refrain from giving you details, but be forewarned.
About your first question, though, it seems that you are rather unobservant of brand names when you go grocery shopping. Heinz not only produces ketchup and pickles, but also mustard, barbeque sauce, shrimp cocktail sauce and many varieties of baby food. I’m sure that in all there are 57 varieties — that Heinz bunch doesn’t lie like those tweips at the other ketchup companies.
./
Ketchup should be spelled “ketchup.” The other spelling was made up by the same goofballs who invented the spelling for “hors d’oeurves,” and I don’t think that spelling needs to be made any more confusing than it already is.	■
Dear Dr. Head:.
I have a most urgent need of your advice and aid. For months I have been consumed with an overriding and unwavering passion for a woman, but the only way I can express my emotion is through the pool hall. You see, she works in the Gorch Games Room in LaFortune, also known as the pool hall. In the games room, the workers keep a daily log, in which I have been covertly
inserting love lyrics and memos of my most sincere affection for the woman of my devotion. She has seen these missives and i written responses, but I cannot gauge her reaction. I do not know if she honestly requites my love or if she mocks me with her	i
responses. What should I do? Should I confront her? Should	i
I offer her a neutral sign of greeting, like a tuna fish sandwich? | What if she doesn’t like tuna fish? And before I forget, there is one more factor to consider. Both she and you only know me as-
Clubbie
Clubbie, I would think the solution should be self-evident: ASK j THE GIRL OUT, FOR PETE’S SAKE! She can’t possibly do 1 anything but refuse you and make you feel unwanted and uncared for for the remainder of your natural life. If she says yes, be sure to treat her like crap, otherwise she’ll lose interest. If she says no, I would advise you to take up a new hobby that doesn’t involve secret crushes. One more thing: if you hang around the pool room that much, don’t you think that she’s figured out who you are by now anyway? Quit being a doofus and beating around the bush.	;
Dear Dr. Head:
Who are you? Where do you live? Of what are you a doctor? , Do you know the words to “La Marseillaise?” We do. We’re i after your job.	;
Love,
Colleen, Noreen, and Mary Ellen, seniors, Lewis.
Ladies, to such a bogus question I give only these answers:
(1)	Wouldn’t you like to know.	;
(2)	I’m not telling.
(3)	If you had read the first issue of Scholastic this year, you would * know that I hold Ph.D.’s in physics, quantum mechanics, biology and phrenology, you chowderheaded buffoons.	!
(4)	I’m not French, so I don’t care. And so what if you do know all the words. I can sing “Deutschland, Deutschland Uber Alles” i backwards and in six different keys.	i
And if you’re after my job, you can pick up an application for	1
Departments Editor at the office of the Scholastic, 303 LaFortune,	?
or call 239-7569 and ask, except that I don’t ever answer the phone.
□ ' i 5 ,.J
FEBRUARY?

Strange Goings
Keenan
My friends hate me. I never have to sit in line for tickets for anything because of this great scam I have going as an entertainment critic here at Scholastic. Naturally, I was showered with degrading epithets from my friends when they found out I had been assigned to cover the Fifteenth Keenan Revue, titled “A Kinder, Gentler Revue...Or Not!”
I didn’t get to see Keenan’s “Gift to the Notre Dame/SaintMary’s Community” last year, so I asked a friend who went to give me some tips on what to wear and when to go so that I would be able to fully enjoy my Keenan Revue experience. He told me that I should go early, and that I should dress up. I had no idea that he meant to go over to Saint Mary’s at 3 o’clock in the afternoon and to dress up in riot gear.
Keenan says that they’re not making any money from this show. I think they’re lying. United Limo must be givingthem some kind of kickback for all the money they make off people riding the shuttle over to O’Laughlin. Apparently Notre Dame is lacking in facilities the right size for this event, so Revue-goers must somehow make the trek across the street in order to see this extravaganza.
Anyway, I opted to drive, so I arrived relatively free of cuts and bruises from the throng that beats its way onto the shuttles. My unbruised state was short-lived, though,
because when the ushers opened the auditorium, there ensued a fracas of epic proportions. Once my cohort had secured tickets from some poor Keenanite who was
told that I would give the show a bad review
unless we were given some tickets immediately, my companion and I fought
our way into the cavernous O’Laughlin Auditorium. Maybe it sounds like a wacko
idea, but I bet reserved seats would put an end to all of the lunacy involved in trying to get a seat. When I first tried to sit down, I was informed by a rather surly proto-yuppie that he had reserved the entire orchestra level for his buddies. When I finally managed to find a seat, I relaxed and marvelled at the impeccable late 60s decor of the auditorium.
Once the show started, I was reassured that it was going to be as strange and amusing as I had been told that it would be. After
opening with a kickline of men clad in the traditional Domer attire of navy sportcoat, red tie and khaki slacks (well, sans the bottom half of the slacks and the usual white
shirt), the show lurched into a non-stop
deluge of humor.
The skits ranged from scatalogical to
clever to absolutely surreal. On the surreal side, “Lost on the Eve of the 21st Century,”
“Jabberwocky,” and “People are Strange” left most of the audience muttering, “What the hell?” but laughing nonetheless. To be expected were the usual slams on Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s women, expressed rather well in “What’s Up?” “Wargames” continued the never-ending saga of the feud between the women of both campuses.. My cohort tells me it was well choreographed, but I don’tknow much about ballet, so I can’t say for sure whether it was
or not.
These Keenan guys are definitely a musical bunch, too. There were six musical acts in this years Revue, all of them hilarious. “SMiC the Wife” was a great send-up of both lounge,lizards and SMiC jokes (you know, I really can’t figure out why St Mary’s lets these guys get away with this on their own campus). Probably my personal favorite of the evening was “18 Wheels on a Big Rig,” but my friends tell me that I have a rather dry. sense of humor and
SCHOLASTIC
On at Revue
the
that’s why I like that skit so much. The evening’s only original musical act, “Venom Slurpee,” was the best title of any of the skits. The biggest applause of the evening came for “Ice Cold Baby,” which my cohort informed me was a spoof of a popular rap song, but I only listen to WVFI so I wouldn’t know. Anyway, it was hilarious, and right on the money. I can’t believe the line about “going solo” got past the censors, but Pope John Paul II over on the side of the stage seemed to find it rather amusing. Since this is Notre Dame, there had to be a few Billy Joel songs thrown in too, and Tim O’Neill’s “Piano Man” was a truly exceptional piece of work.
The show’s political humor was impressive — it was funny without being overly obnoxious or exaggerated. The jokes on the “Keenan Revue News” involving foreign correspondents were especially funny in light of all of the recent media coverage. “U.N. Interpreter” worked well as a great combination of outrageous physical humor and well-crafted one-liners.
Then there were the slams — Ricky Watters, Keith Tower, Patricia O’Hara and of course Digger Phelps were the big losers this year. Among the dorms, Stanford, Zahm and B.P. were ripped frequently and harshly—maybe they should get their own revue going for the express purpose of paying Keenan back. B.P. especially owes them one for the line “78% of male students
surveyed said that they would rather fight in the Persian Gulf than go to a B.P. SYR.” Then again, everyone is fair game in the Keenan Revue, and even Rocket was
spoofed in “Rocket Man” as a big Nike ad.
There’s something that I feel I must comment on at this point. Keenan put together a tape of T.V. theme songs to broadcast between skits, and it became
obvious to me that more than a few Domers
spent their childhood as couch potatoes. There wasn’t a T.V. theme song played that
Eighteen Wheels on a Big Rig" was one of the funniest skits of this year's Revue
people in the auditorium didn’t start singing Revue...Definitely.
along with. “The Muppet Show,” “The Greatest American Hero,” you name it, they sang along with it. I was scared. Very
scared.
I don’t know if I should comment on the abundance of “obscene” humor or not “Carpenter’s Crack” and “Nude Power Tool Colony” were funny, but appeared to be
simply examples of what happens when you put male bonding on stage. But hell, it’s
Keenan’s show and they can do with it what they want. It gets laughs, and that’s what this show is all about.
What the Keenan Revue really displays is
Notre Dame’s culture in a nutshell. It is one of the few chances that people on this
campus have to poke fun at the Administration and get away with what would normally be considered to be in bad taste (well, at least by them). By laughing at everything (hat people around here take too seriously, it really becomes a common bond for everyone involved. Anyone trying to censor this thing is missing the point The administration’s paranoia about the Keenan Revue just shows that what these guys do really needs to be
w heard. This is my suggestion
for next year’s show: ' A
Bolder
Cruder,
by Dave Holsinger Dave Holsinger is Scholastic's Entertainment Editor.
FEBRUARY?
7
?!

Lush entrances...
Lush Gala
There ate an abundance of “eo-ed” alternative bands about these days. From the Pixies and Sonic Youth to the Cocteau
Twins, numerous bands have broken the gender barrier of single-sex bands or woman-singer-but-male-musicians bands, but few have produced music which much reflects male/female interaction within the music itself. Lush, a new band on 4AD from Britain, may be the first alternative band to express this creative tension in its sound.
Lush’s name is certainly appropriate for the band’s
sound: thick, layered aural textures are the main attraction on theirnew album, Gala, which is actually a collection of old EPs combined with a new version of the song “Scarlet.” (The song “Thoughtforms” is also on the album in two different versions.)
Back to the idea of male/ female interaction: Lush is an interesting case because the band members are entirely split along melody/rhythm lines. The . boys are on bass and drums (Steve Rippon and Chris Acland), and the girls control the melody (Emma Anderson on lead vocals/guitar and Miki Berenyi on guitar/background vocals). Singer Emma Anderson gets most of the songwriting credits, but the “masculine” half of the band’s sound never gets lost in her sweetly ethereal melodies. In tenns of the band’s sound in general, this split between male and female manifests itself in some interesting “flirtations.” The best example of this is the album’s opener, “Sweetness
and Light.” Rippling guitars and thickly layered, breathy female vocals provide the lead-in to a verse which is driven by a percolating rhythm section, all the while maintaining the ethereal mood set by the opening few bars. The effect is unique, making the song at once sticky sweet but still digestible. This same interaction makes itself clear through much of the album, sometimes resulting in eerily beautiful tracks and sometimes in grinding, dissonant tunes.
Lush has certainly mastered the art of keeping their sound interesting without going off the deep end of experimentation. There is enough diversity of content and sound texture on Gala ’ to keep the album interesting, but all of the album’s tracks fit within certain parameters, keeping a sense of coherence. There is a wide range of guitar sounds, but the choice of textures is balanced with the music among the tracks. The album’s few three-chorders are heavily effected, most
notably “Hey Hey Helen,” which sounds like the Primitives meet the Cocteau Twins somewhere in outer space. The more musically intriguing tracks on Gala (for example, “Sunbathing”) are left undistorted, with a clean guitar sound carrying the unique chordal patterns without needing any outside effects to achieve the same ethereal feel. Most songs strike a balance between these extremes, though.
Lush has succeeded in bringing male/female creative tensions directly into their sound, when most bands only project gender diversity by placing a female vocalist, guitarist or bassist among an otherwise male band. With the even division of male and female	occurring
simultaneously with the division between melody and rhythm, this new British band has showed some exciting prospects for future musical experimentations.
8
SCHOLASTIC
...while Killing Joke terrifies
Killing Joke Extremities, Dirt, and
Various Repressed Emotions
Extremities, Dirt, and Various Repressed Emotions, brings to mind a quote from Dieter of “Sprockets” on Saturday Night Live: “Your anger is delicious.” The new batch of songs from these angst gods feeds on this “delicious anger,” and it expresses frustration and hostility in a way that inspires the listener almost to feel good about being pissed off. It seems that singer Jaz Cameron has been feeling that bl’ existential nausea during the band’s hiatus from recording- (the new incarnation of the band features
PiL drummer Martin Atkins as Big Paul’s replacement), because thehew songs reflect an eloquent feeling of alienation and anger that is seldom so well articulated.
Opening with the brutal but artful single, “Money isNot Our God,” Extremities is a tour de force of everything that goth rock loves to hate about life. As the title would suggest, the album’s tone is brooding, sometimes melancholy, and always disturbed. Greed and waste seem to be a big thing with Killing Joke: apparently they’re quite relieved that the Eighties are over (remember their single “Eighties”?), but they’re not going to let ' up on the wastemongers just yet. Environment is a big concern, as evidenced by the satiric use of an ad for beef as the opening for “Age of Greed.” On “Money is Not Our God,” as well, the environment plays a big role, with lyrics like, “Will you part with your shares for God’s clean air?” and “The best things I found in life are my birthright,” articulating a deep-seeded anger about environmental
destruction motivated by greed. Killing Joke doesn’t let up here, though: their concern runs all the way to the philosophical question of the alienation of individuals from theirown lives. Great lyrics are abundant on this theme, among them, “So busy trying to make a living I forget about life,” from “Money is Not Our God, and, “In the quiet I can come to terms with all I’ve done and who I am,” from “Solitude.”
Musically, this album is all minor arpeggios, distortion and locomotive drums. The backing for Jaz Cameron’s pained vocals are just as black and foreboding as his lyrics. Guitarist Geordie lets his guitar do the talking whenever Jaz isn’t howling about everything that’s wrong in his world, and to staggering effect Turn this album up loud, and it sounds like the whole world is caving in. This album is such a painful, homfying work that it makes you want to turn it off and think about something a little bit more pleasant (like the war), but you can’t, because it draws you so far in that you can’t get out. Played loud, the album is bound to disturb neighbors/
parents/pets/the Thought Police, but none of them are going to stop these sounds from happening.
This album is painful to consider, but the fact that these existential feelings have been expressed so artistically makes it irresistible and overpowering. Extremities is just the latest in a long string of albums from artists as far back as Richard Hell and the Voidoids that are disturbing and thought-provoking enough to provoke an almost morbid fascination in their listeners. It’s like The Stranger has been remade for the MTV generation. Of course, I don’t think the MTV generation is really going to get the point, either. Then again, I don’t think that Killing Joke cares. This kind of expression of fear, frustration, anger and violence just can’t be contained. The only problem is that once it’s out, it’s infectious. Does this mean that the Nineties are going to bring out a new breed of gothrock bands? I doubt it. But we can always hope...	□
by Dave Holsinger
FEBRUARY?
a

GODFATHER
i, “Just when I thought I was out,” mutters Michael Corleone (Al Pacino), “they pull me back in?’ Likewise, just when we j thought the Corleone family was doomed to a life of murder and family honor at all costs, Director Francis Ford Coppola resurrects our favorite Sicilian mafia family (Sorry, i Mr. Gotti) sixteen years after the second installment of the Godfather saga. Sadly, Godfather III does not live up to its :	predecessors in terms of conflicts, depth of
:	characters, and focus.
i The conflicts in this installment are not ; as personal as in the previous two films, :	which makes the film less intense. In Part I,
i we hated and feared the other New York families, and in Part II, we despised Fredo s	for betraying the families. However, in Part
; III, we have Michael versus the faceless, |	unfeeling conglomerate, and it is difficult to
:■	hate or to fear an enemy so removed from the
family.
i:	Nor are the characters in Part III as firmly
established. Aside from Michael and i Connie (Talia Shire in the best performance | of her career), the family is flat. Connie is now Michael’s razor-sharp advisor, and she j commands the viewer’s attention as the voice of vengeance in the family. Vincent shows promise as die volatile nephew in the beginning, but his liveliness appears lost in the muddincss that follows. Sofia Coppola I as Mary Corleone gets my nod for worst j performance of the year. Her incestuous relationship with first cousin Vincent and her subsequent plastic confrontations with Michael are so unemotional on her part that I wished Michael had ordered the same fate for her as he did for Fredo in Part II.
Coppola also includes meaningless J	characters that serve no purpose.
J	Investigative journalist Grace Harrison
(Bridget Fonda), lawyer B.J. Harrison (George Hamilton), press agent Don Abbandano (Don Novello, a.k.a. Father Guido Sarducci), singer Johnny Fontane (Al Martino) and priest Andrew Hagen (John Savage), son of Tom Hagen, the former Corleone attorney, all confuse us into thinking we are being introduced into another sub-plot.
The film also lacks the strong second leading man that Marlon Brando and Robert De Niro supplied in the first two. Al Pacino senses that he must carry the picture by himself and his portrayal of Michael should earn him an Oscar for Best Actor.
Michael has indeed grown up in the last film. He displays the emotions of his innocent youth in his renewed relationship with ex-wife Kate (Diane Keaton), and shows flashes of the killer he used to be, now tempered by his diabetes and his conscience. Conscience. Yes, even Michael Corleone has a conscience, and in a memorable scene, he confesses his past sins to the future pope. Michael alone is worth the price of admission.
Part III has its flaws when measured against the first two, but we only notice these flaws because the first two films were such masterworks. Coppola tries to give us more of the same with the familiar long dialogues interspersed with violence, majestic sets and the family-before-everything attitude. We, however, are like Michael, tired of the bloodshed and the family, and just want to spend our last moments with the saga remembering its past virtues and trying to forget its present sins.
by Noah Cooper
Noah Cooper is a freshman who lives in
Pangborn Hall and is a frequent contributor to Scholastic.
I
I
I
10
SCHOLASTIC
Have you been complaining about student publications? Stop complaining and do something to make them better:
Join Scholastic, Notre Dame’s Student Magazine!
Applications are now being accepted for the paid position of:
Scholastic
Editor In Chief
Applications may be picked up at the Scholastic office: 303 LaFortune Student Center.
Applications for Editor In Chief are due Friday, February 15 by 5:00 p.m.
Applications are also being accepted for all of the following paid positions: Managing Editor News Editor Sports Editor Campus Life Editor Entertainment Editor Photography Editor Copy Editor Layout Manager Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Advertising Manager Business Manager
No experience is necessary. All majors and years are encouraged to apply. Even if you have applied in the past, we encourage you to apply again. Gain writing experience and see your words in print! The deadline for these applications is
Friday, February 22 at 5:00 p.m.
Scholastic is always seeking more writers and photographers. Questions? Call 239-7569
ED-EC T LO N S 91
i> -	'	■	'
s ■ ■ ■	■'
Blanco and
Florenzo
Joe Blanco, candidate for student body president, is a junior Economics and Government major. As president ofAlumniHall, he is serving on the student senate as one of the HPC representatives. Last year he worked as publicity commissionerfor sophomore class government. He has also worked on the board of trustees report on social life and served on the sesquicentenial student committee. Dave Florenzo, running for student body vice president, is a junior government majorfromFlannerHall. Co-commissioner of the SUB ideas and issues committee, he has been on the board for three years.
What is the main goal you would like to achieve as SBP and VP? How will your background help you achieve these goals?
BLANCO: Well, we actually have two main goals. We want to unify the student body through unifying student organizations. We feel there has been a lot of infighting. We feel we’re the best possible ticket to solve a lot of the problems inside of student government itself so it can better represent the student body. Our main goal is to protect student interests as Notre Dame moves to a national catholic research university. I think that one of our main things is that the students, the undergraduates, just aren’t getting represented at all on any committees whatsoever, so we really don’t think that our input is being heard.
FLORENZO: It’s as if in the move to research, we’re getting lost. And we hope there’s a way that we can move to research without undergraduate interests being lost Just as an addendum to unifying the studentbody, one of thebest ways is to just get the student leaders on campus of all the organizations together in forums to let all the organizations know what everybody else is doing and to kind of set
12
the agenda for students so that we can speak with one voice.
BLANCO: One of the things we’re looking at is maybe getting a group of student leaders together. But the one danger of getting just student leaders together is then you lose contact with the individual person in the dorm. HPC could be used a lot more effectively, I think, to solicit student input.
BLANCO: We want to have this big overarching thing, kind of like the student leadership retreat, but we also feel that there needs to be a certain group of people, not just student government people; like student government, HPC, Scholastic, Observer, all the different [leaders]. We need the media along with all the student leaders to have some kind of group that you can actually deal with, trying to deal with 125 people and come up with some consensus is very difficult.
FLORENZO: I think the biggest thing is the large number of groups we’ve worked with — we’ve worked with a lot of people. Joe and I both feel that we’re the most qualified to get all these people together. If we say we want to have a forum to discuss these things, that people are going to come.
BLANCO: I think going along with unification of student government, I’ve worked pretty much in all the different student government areas. And one of the main reasons I went after Dave out of SUB is because I feel there has been a lot of trouble between SUB and student government, and I think that by working together wecan do a whole lot more.
Do you have any specific topics you would like to cover in the board of trustees reports?
SCHOLASTIC
BLANCO: We have four key areas that we really want to focus in on. One of them is with the review of the honor code next year. That needs to be, I think, a lot of student input, not just a university committee studying the honor code. I think Rob brought a report to the board of trustees on a student center, I think especially with women’s concerns and cultural diversity, that report might be looked at again as to whether that needs to be an off-campus thing, or an addition to LaFortune. I realize that we’re not going to be able to build a building, but I think we can give some kind of guidance towards some kind of student center. One thing we really want to look at, too, is the disciplinary process at Notre Dame. We personally feel that there should be some kind of student option, where it’s not necessary, but you could have the option of student representation on your review board with residence life. And the other report we really want to come out with is: “What is the undergraduate’s place in a national Catholic research university?”
FLORENZO: We think it’s important for the Senate and budget committee to decide these things. They should come up in the spring with the budget committee. We don’t know if the trip to D.C. was on the itinerary for the budget in the spring. But using student funds to promote political action is a good idea.
BLANCO: We kind of have problems with the process that was used— it should have gone through budget, and if not through budget, the whole senate’s opinion should have been sought— $1500 is a lot of student money to appropriate with out discussing it. I think personally if I supported one group over another group, just as a personal thing, I would encourage senate or budget committee to give equal funding to both groups. However, with the pro-life thing, there is no pro-choice group on campus, and if it’s not a club entity then it can’t get money.
What is your opinion of the SUFR list of demands?
How does the administration look at it and what do the students feel is the place? There’s so many problems right now that just go back to the whole national Catholic research university thing. Not having classes is not really a problem with DART, its a problem with not having the professors teaching. For instance, the government department is getting tons of students lately; instead of increasing the number of classes taught, they went from three to two so they could research more.
Do you plan to generate more input from the student body into student government, and if so, how?
Presidential candidate Joe Blanco (left) and vice presidential candidtae Dave Florenzo.
BLANCO: HPC, mainly. This year HPC started to become a lot more active, in soliciting student opinions, in letting their opinion be heard through different resolutions, etc. I think we can go to HPC and use it more as a forum, also, for debating, although it’s a large group it can be done if handled properly.
FLORENZO: And let’s face it, every week a dorm president, or the two dorm presidents, see a rep from every section, with the rector right there. That’s an excellent way for student input to channel up to student government, through those section reps.
BLANCO: We’d also like to do some student surveys, find some efficient, effective way to get to the students personally.
What is your opinion on the use of student funds to support political issues, such as anti-abortion rallies?
FLORENZO: We think that what has happened with SUFR has shown ; what students can do when they get together. I mean for the past two weeks, that’s been the agenda, students have set the agenda. Now as far as . their demands go, we j agree with a lot of them, some of them we don’t < want to take a stand on. The personnel decision . between the adminstra-	J
tion and the office of stu-	J
dent minority affairs: _ stay out of that, that ap- < pears to be something between the administration and the director of student minority affairs. The idea of a multicultural center: we said earlier
that there’s maybe a '
shortage of student room, especially in LaFortune, maybe it should
be expanded so that there’s a center for students to get together. Someone expressed an interest that perhaps a center for women could also be incorporated into that.
BLANCO: It would have to be studied as to whether we thought this was going to split the student body right down between the minorities and the other students. If we were to put it out in the middle of Red Field or in the comer of Green Field, I think that could be the greatest disservice we could do to the community here. If there was some way to tie in to LaFortune, like where the band building went down, if it was just a wing with a hallway...
FLORENZO: Where it’s a part of the student center, so that in fact it doesn’t give the impression of being separate. I think that’s
important that its not divisive, so I think it’s important that we make : j it a part of LaFortune.	Q
FEBRUARY?
13:
Farmer and Griggs
Presidential candidate Nicole Farmer, a junior history/Hesburgh program student from Lyons Hall has served as student body secretary, on student senate, on the campus life council, as a G.O.LD. facilitator, and on multicultural executive council. Eric Griggs is a junior pre-professionaUEnglish major who lives in Grace Hall. He has served on the student senate, multicultural executive council, executive committee NAACP as a financial coordinator, community of caring program, and AIDS education committee.
What are the main goals you would like to achieve a SBP and SBVP? How will your background help you to achieve these goals?
FARMER: I think our first goal is improving communication and there’s a couple different ways we want to go about that—first of all, after being secretary this year, the job I took under Rob and Fred. They told me that I would be secretary for student government, but they also gave me free reign in order to be active whenever I wanted to do so, so I’m a very active member of senate and campus life council. I have no qualms about speaking and getting really involved which is not what you’d think a secretary would do. So, in terms of that, I’ve really been an executive assistant. And, after watching it for a whole year, we basically would like to restructure the whole cabinet We believe communication with the administration has broken down to an extent. We’d have different people in areas like financial aid and residence life that would match exactly what the administration has, and student government lacks, right now.
GRIGGS: Along with that we would like direct contact between students and the administration possibly in the form of a forum. Every month someone from a different department come in to speak to students so they could ask questions directly from the administration.
FARMER: We’ve discussed this with Professor O’Hara and she seemed to be very receptive about that idea. I think our experiences are unique in that we do have experience with the administration and with the students. We can combine those together. Also in the student population we’ve been involved with some really diverse opportunities.
Do you plan to generate more input from the student body into student government, and if so, how?
FARMER: We hope to institute a program in which student government will have people working in positions analogous to positions in the administration. We call it the student helping students program and basically what we want is for everybody on campus that has financial aid problems to come talk to the student in charge of financial aid problems and say this is my problem and then that student could advise. We want that person to be from the business college and this way the person is also getting practical experience in what they want to go into. We also are very interested in attending Hall Councils and having input come in that way. There was absolutely no student input on the lecture series this year and we think that it is very, very important that speakers come in that the students are interested in. If we’re elected, the first thing we want to do is either get a suggestion box or get a survey out saying who do want to see next year.
Do have any specific topics you’d like to cover in the board of trustees reports?
FARMER: In terms of the board of trustees reports, the one thing that seems to be coming up this year is the effect that the school has decided to look towards the research aspect of education more than the teaching aspect and I think it’s having obvious effects on the student body in terms of class sizes, professors are not teaching as much because they have to research. I think it’s very important that we look into that as to where Notre Dame is going and is it having an adverse effect on the student body as a whole. A lot of people perceive Notre Dame as a place that really focuses on the undergraduateprogram and I know the administration really likes to focus the graduate program and expanding that a little bit, but is this research going to affect the undergraduate program in ways that in ways that aren’t helpful and what can we do to alleviate any problems. So we can become a great research university and still keep the status as an undergraduate and it’s so iniportant because that is a key to Notre Dame.
What is your opinion on the use of student funds to support political issues, such as anti-abortion rallies?
FARMER: Basically, communication with the cabinet is the most important thing and that’s one oversight that Rob arid Fred did make.
14
SCHOLASTIC
They did not talk to the cabinet before they made that decision. To us, if we’re going to communicate with the students and communicate with the administration, the first thing we need to do is communicate with our cabinet. In terms of political issues, regardless of our own personal beliefs, this is a Catholic university and we’re going to respect the Catholic tradition and the university. And, therefore, in terms of abortion or something like that, we believe in healthy debate. We’d sponsor debate and look at both sides of the issues, that’s where you really get your education and where you really grope with your ideas and figure out who you are and what you really believe in. In terms of something that we believed did not go along with the Catholic tradition of the university, I don’t think we could justify using student funds. I think if something is really important to the student body as a whole, then its something that we have to look at If two groups with opposing views
approached us, I think we’d be obliged to match funds for both groups justbecause of the fact that we believe in free speech and free slate and free ideas.
What is your opinion of the SUFR list of demands?
GRIGGS: As we said, our goal would be to bridge this gap of communication. The basis of the SUFR incidences and the SUFR demands is a lack of communication. We respect and we support the right of any student to express his opinion as part of this community and want to be heard. As far as defiance of authority goes, considering the offices we’re running for, that can’t be condoned. However, I do want to re-emphasize that we do support students, any student speaking out for the way that they feel.
FARMER: I think the important thing that Eric just pointed out is that SUFR is just one example of how communication can break down. The important thing is that SUFR is an example of one issue, but that we would support any student coming in. This is something that affects the entire student body if something is wrong or if something is harassing you that you come to student government. I think that a lot of people overlook student government as something like that and that gets back to cabinet restructuring. There will be, if we’re elected, a minority concerns commissioner who is very active, who is talking to Ken and whoever else is involved in minority affairs next year. That would apply to any student, regardless of race, creed, sex.
GRIGGS: It seems as though this list of demands is something that has built up for a while and the university hadn’t really taken notice of it. Students just want to be heard and that’s there way of expressing themselves.
FARMER: Our campaign motto is building on your beliefs.
GRIGGS: The. only way you build is brick by brick. Through communication, you’re laying a brick, a foundation. By finding out a problem immediately and resolving it right then and there, you’re
Presidential candidate Nicole Farmer and Vice presidential candidate Eric Griggs
laying a brick. Rather than counteracting it by ignoring it and let the bricks build in the wrong direction and letting itelevate to something like what has happened in the past couple weeks.
FARMER: I think a lot of people don’t understand the multicultural center in the right way. Multicultural center was something that came up in multicultural executive council before this whole thing. Basically, the multicultural center-student space, the lack of it, -is something that affects the entire student body. This not just something that happens to minority students. Multicultural student center should not be perceived as something for only minority students. The multicultural center, at least in the multicultural executive council’s vision, in mine and Eric’s vision, would be a place that had social space, that had classroom space, so that now you have the entire student body coming there. It would also house the multicultural executive council, all the ethnic clubs. It would really be a clearinghouse for people to learn about other cultures and to improve themselves and to really have their curiosity fed.
GRIGGS: It’smoreof an educational thing. You come to college to learn and it’s not merely a classroom thing. You come to learn about cultures. You have people here from all over the world yet, you find students that graduate and they’re no different culturally, as a person, as when they came in. A multicultural center would give students a chance to get that education. A lot of racial incidents and the like occur out of ignorance. Once there is that learning, you can break things down and you can deal with them on a rational and human level. [Curriculum changes are] also something that came up on the multicultural executive council before any of this ever transpired.
FARMER: In terms of, should it [ethnic studies] be a class on its own, I think the goals can be achieved by not being a class in itself. I think the goals are basically finding faculty that are capable of teaching this and finding a way to get this implemented so it’s creative and effective.	□
FEBRUARY?
15
Ferguson and James
i Presidential candidate Mike Ferguson, a junior government |	major who lives in Stanford Hall, has served as president of
J	Freshman Advisory Council. He also was appointed executive
j coordinator of student government public relations during his H sophomore year. He has just returned from Rome where he chaired :	a program through student government. Vice presidential candi-
| date Charlie James, a junior government major from Pangborn Hall, currently serves as hall president and is an HPC delegate to I the student senate. In addition, he has served as his class chairman •, for AnTostal for the past three years and currently as a dorm representative for The Year of Women.
What are the main goals you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP? How will your background help you to achieve these goals?
FERGUSON: We have had experience at every level of student government and so we kno w how to reform student government and how to change it structurally to better meet the students’ needs. That’s our main goal in student government— that’s the role of student government— to hear student needs and respond to them and to accurately and effectively be able to communicate them to the administration.
JAMES: Students seem to have a very limited voice in student government and student government seems to have a very limited voice with'theadminstration. Mike and I have split our duties. With his experience in student government, we are going to try to focus his effort on student government-student relations. With me, we are going to try to focus my concentration on student government that leads to the adminstration— specifically we’d like to meet with the heads of the administration on a monthly basis— with Patty O’Hara who the office of student government has had some altercations with.
FERGUSON: I would like to see better representation through restructuring of the cabinet and investigating the role of senate and the senators to better voice student concerns and to understand more fully what the students want and require. We want to focus those voices with the credibility of student government... and drive that on
16
to the administration. Interestingly, if you were to define student government, that’s what you’d define it as. That’s where student governments of the past, and some would say presently, lack.
JAMES: I think a good example of that is how many of you know who your senator is and what he does. Does anybody care about student senator elections and are the fairly representing campus? We have to change that. We’d like to have five campuswide senators and quad representatives on HPC because people who work on HPC are very well known throughout their dorms and if we get those people on student senate I think it will be a much more effective body.
Do you have any specific topics you would like to cover in the board of trustees reports?
JAMES: I’d have to say one of those is class size. I just spoke with Professor Hall in the government department and what her problems with class size were and she said that our faculty teach only one to two classes whereas at a normal school they teach two to three classes. Yes, Notre Dame is trying to be this great research body that it has always strived to be, but at 40 to 45 people in an average government class, how effective are your alumni going to be when they get out? She also said that if we could encourage the professors to teach two classes we could increase the government classes 30 percent In the engineering field its not as bad, but in arts and letters. Do you plan to generate more input from the student body into student government, and, if so, how?
FERGUSON: Absolutely. Vital. It’s absolutely vital. One of the things we were talking about is SUFR— it’s getting a lot of publicity. It’s a symptom of a bigger problem on campus. I can sympathize with the frustration and trying to deal wjth the administration and feeling completely shutout, Ibat’scnebf the things we were talking about before—restructuring student government and fine tuning the cabinet to respond to student needs. One of the things we were talking about was an executive coordinator position for minority concerns to act as a liaison to work with the multicultural council, to work with SUFR... and also to work with the administration...giving them student government legitimacy. This would be a student, cabinet position.
'SCHOLASTIC
JAMES: Through our restructuring of senate for better student representation.
FERGUSON: We talked about campuswide senators, but we
decided that that type of representation was better accomplished through the dorms and dorm presidents who are more in tune with specific needs of the dorms whereas campuswide senators can concentrate on campus improvements.
JAMES: I sat on HPC and senate last year. A resolution was passed by senate, but when it got to HPC, it didn’t pass. We rewrote it and endorsed and put it in The Observer, but what does that do? HPC doesn’t really have any power. We have the senators from HPC, but
it’s not like the House of Representatives and the Senate where they both have to pass a resolution for it to go.
FERGUSON: The FRED line may not have been used by a lot of
students, but we feel that with continuation of that type of policy, with very public office hours and student government open house where students would be invited in to see how it works, to meet the executive coordinators and commissioners of specific concerns. The people in these positions are highly interested in what they are doing. Bringing students into the office can serve a very basic need of bringing students into student government and voicing concerns.
What is your opinion on the use of student
presidential candidate
funds to support political issues, such as anti-abortion rallies? FERGUSON: The offices of student body president and vice president are by nature not political— they are to meet students needs, to communicate with the administration, especially on a Catholic campus. This year we saw a change in that. But when push comes to shove as it did this year, we have to rely on the fact that we are elected officers of the student body and we would have a mandate toactaswesee fit in representing students’ needs. If situations arise, we would have to act as people put into office.
JAMES: There are a lot of political clubs on campus which is going to make our office have to deal with political problems and I think the best way to do that is through our senate and our cabinet. We can ask around— how we should use this money.
FERGUSON: Constitutionally, there is nothing wrong with what Rob did.	- ,
JAMES: The student body president can spend $5,000 on whatever he wants. That’s another problem we have with the constitution. FERGUSON: The best way to approach that situation is with counsel. That’s just a responsibility to our senate, to our cabinet and
to the senate.
JAMES: [If two opposing political clubs approached us,] I think it should be left up to the senate and HPC— that’s going to be very hard
to do. But I do believe both sides should be given money. FERGUSON: And,there’sabudgetprocess. There are channels for groups to apply for funds. If they are organized, recognized student groups, that’s what student government is there for—to back students, to serve the students. If you get a ragtag group together demanding money, you can’t pander to that because you’re dealing with student funds.
What is your opinion of the SUFR list of demands?
FERGUSON: As far as Theodore’s goes, we don’t think that should be a problem [for meeting space]. They want space for an office of
minority affairs. I don’t think that should be a problem since that was planned on and the reason that they’re not there now was because there was disagreement on who was to fill the spot. I don’t think Ken Durgens should be able to hire on his own without consulting higher channels because that’s scary because it leaves a door open and there’s no accountability. If minority students think there’s-a person whose best for the job, then the administration has to weigh that but there’s never an indication that they’ve gotten to the dome.
JAMES: We talked about
this in one of our classes and apparently, the administration has a very hard time bringing minority faculty to South Bend, especially a black person.
FERGUSON: As far as their demands go, as far as their gripes go, all in all they are legitimate. And I think their group could earn more credibility and clout through the things that we’ve talked about in restructuring the cabinet with the executive commissioner for minority concerns and with student government behind them. Regarding the center, I don ’ t know exactly where they wanted it, but I would support it as a concept or an idea.
JAMES: How effective would a body like that, like the Scholastic, be without this office space. Obviously, space at the university has been a problem before but now with the addition of a new quad. As far as the curriculum changes are concerned, that could be easily woven into the sophomore core course or freshman seminar.
FERGUSON: The addition of a three credit required course, logistically and realistically...	.	.
JAMES: Are they going to add enough faculty to support that? For core, it would be easy to add another unit.	□
FEBRUARY?
17
B
Kromkowski and Nigro
Presidential candidate Mark Kromkowski is a junior PLS major living off-campus. Born in South Bend, he now lives in Baltimore and spent his sophomore year in Angers. While abroad, he ran with the Angers Hat Boys in the Junior class election. His running mate Sam Nigro, Jr. adds that he has also read a lot of Aristotle. Nigro is also a junior PLS major living off-campus. He grew up in Cleveland but wishes he were from Athens. His interests include karate, the harmonica and Plato.
What is the main goal you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP?
NIGRO: Well, we should clarify that question first. We’re not running for student body president or vice president. We’re running as philosopher kings. “The philosopher rules as king, and those who are now called kings and chiefs genuinely and adequately philosophize, and political power and philosophy coincide in the same place; so many natures now making their way to either apart from the other are by necessity excluded. There is no rest from ills of the city, nor I think of humankind, nor will the regime we have now described in speech ever come forth in nature.” (Plato’s Republic) KROMKOWSKI: I’d also like to add this from Epicetetus: “Do not seek to have events happen as you want them to, but instead, want them to happen as they do happen, and your life will go well. I guess the most important thing is to establish the aristoi—that’s Greek for best.
NIGRO: The key with getting someone in power is you want the best person, the aristoi. The best person is the one who philosophizes and can come to full knowledge and have the best qualities and virtue to run his office. Now we feel that we are the aristoi, the best equipped, the most virtuous, to be the philosopher kings. And we would like to make everyone else a full aristoi. Here’s another quote, and this is what we’d like people to be. “The one who is willing to tasteevery
kind of learning with gusto, who approaches learning with delight and is insatiable we shall justly assert to be a philosopher.” I think that’s what we are and we’d like to invite everyone else to be that also.
How will your background help to achieve these goals?
KROMKOWSKI: I think partof itis the Program of Liberal Studies. It’s a start. Socrates always talks about inquiry, and we realize we may not know a lot of stuff but at least we know that we don’t know. To realize that, to know what you don’t know, that’s the first step. NIGRO: Also, a reason I think we’re the aristoi is because of virtue. We’ve studied Aristotle’s intellectual virtues, and also taken the wisdom from Socrates and learned what a true guardian has to be. He’s got to be good at gymnastics, good at music and good at learning. My criteria is karate, harmonica, and PLS.
Do you have any specific topics you would like to cover in the board of trustees reports?
NIGRO: I guess any reports to the board of trustees would have to let them know what really is on campus. Most of the people know what is on campus proper, but what most people don’t realize what’s around is 580 acres of woods right next door to us. Notre Dame also owns a 300-500 acre plot down in Granger that nobody knows about. I think we should know that that’s there and.. .we should protect it. Over the summer they knocked down 500acres of woods and burned it up. One of the things for the board of trustees is to get them out into those woods and let them know what is there so this community will think before we just destroy what’s there. ' ■ KROMKOWSKI: There’s a certain sense that the board of trustees gets caught up in numbers and doesn’t realize exactly what the numbers mean behind the things. We’d like to report more on what
SCHOLASTIC
the groups are doing so that the board can see this money is going someplace, is being used or not being used, who’s using it, and why are they going away for weekends on this money instead of spending it on the proper club.
NIGRO: We should probably also have teach-ins for them, so they can read some Aristotle and Plato, so they can learn a little about virtue, because I think the world is lacking in virtue these days. I guess ultimately we’d get rid of the board of trustees. We want a real democracy, [like that of] Athens, an exemplar of good government It’s not the only type of good government, but we could easily get in the JACC, make it the Assembly, vote by lot, pick congressmen by lot, have a pure democracy.
Do you plan to generate more input from the student body into student government, and it so, how?
NIGRO: I think we answered that with wanting to get an Athenian democracy and draw council members out by lot from the student body.
What is your opinion on the use of student funds to support political issues, such as anti-abortion rallies?
KROMKOWSKI: This is Voltaire, and I think this truly answers the question: “The advantage of being a rational animal is that you can find a reason for anything.” Andlthink that’s just in, our nature. You can find a reason for anything; whether it’s the
Presidential candidate Mark KromkowskI (center) and Vice samNigro presidential candidate Sam Nigro (taking picture)
most just reason, whether it’s the most virtuous reason has to be examined.
NIGRO: And for something like political groups outside, how is that for the good of the community? For us to operate and make this community so we can all become philosophers/virtuous/good students, good human beings, what does that add, to go outside? The ideal of a good community is to be self-sufficient and that’s what we’d be most concerned about. Like Voltaire said, we’ll find a reason to go out and do anything but we’d really focus our ideas here, notoutside.
What is your opinion of the SUFR list of demands?
KROMKOWSKI: I think that we should have a multi-cultural center. I think SUFR should be able to gain status as a group on campus through the proper means, butl don’t think they should have their own specific place on campus. I think that promotes separatism. Obviously they can reserve rooms as all university clubs can do, anywhere on campus if it’s available, but if you give them a specific room why don’t you give all the Greek-Americans, when they formed their club that was just in The Observer justa few days ago, the Italian-Americans, the Polish-Americans, all these other
groups, or why aren’t you going to give all the people
visit 214
who
O’Shaughnessy their own room at some point? I support their goals, but I don’t think a specific room for them and only for them is a just thing.
I think if we look closely at the Program of Liberal Studies and the books that are read in that program that they do address some of those problems, but sometimes we don’t see them because of the interpretation. Sometimes we have to open our eyes a little bit, take a half step back, get out of this Western train of thought, and then go in and take a look at these texts closer. It’s not until the senior year in PLS that we do start looking at the Eastern texts because of the time frame and the way the program was established. Butl do think that [mandatory ethnic studies] is important. NIGRO: One thing about the Program of Liberal Studies is that it’s looked at as just
keeping the status quo in course of studies, but really these books and these authors have put us where we are today. To understand where we are today we have to understand what put us there. So it is beneficial in reading these books from the classic Western tradition to know what they said, to know why they said what they said, and to know in what historical context they said it By knowing that, it will show us where we are today and why.
KROMKOWSKI: It’s a foundation, then, to look at all the other different types of societies and civilizations. You must have a base
to start off with, you can’t just be all over the place.
□
FEBRUARY 7
19
S
The 1991 Sophomore
Literary Festival
On February 10-15, the SLF is featuring an international host of authors ranging from poets to novelists
by Kristine DeGange
Greg Delanty a native of Cork, Ireland, will be speaking about his life and his works. His presentation is scheduled for Valentine's Day. He is currently a lecturer at St. Michael's College in Colchester, Vermont. He has been a poet-in-residence at New York University-London University, at Robert Frost Place in Franconia, New Hampshire and a visiting poet at the University of Vermont, Burlington. His books include Southward, and Cast in the Fire. His works have also appeared in many periodicals and journals such asSouthern Review, New Virginia Review, Los Angeles Times, London Magazine, Poetry Ireland, The Irish Times, Irish Review and Stet (Cork). Delanty's list of publications entails several anthologies including Bitter Harvest, Contemporary Irish Poetry, and Marriage: An Anthology.
20
SCHOLASTIC
Barry Hannah's first novel, Geronimo Rex, was published in 1972. For this he received the National Book Award Nomination. Some predicted that he was following in the footsteps of William Faulkner.
Bom in 1942 in Clinton, Mississippi, Hannah now resides in Oxford, Mississippi. He was educated at Mississippi College and the University of Arkansas. Hannah has taught at the University of Alabama and Clemson University. Other books in publication include The Tennis Handsome, Captian Maximus, and Hey Jack!
Hannah will be appearing on Wednesday, February 13.
This is the painful story of two imaginary people, living like lions in their heads, but the world sees them as Sphinx, silent, locked into mineral, surrounded by desert and night
Women fantasize a life of love that cannot exist.
Men, the competition of games and seduction of crowds.
We set up a world no one can question: the past our private diaries.
from
"Those Mythical Silver Pears" (p. 264, 1975)
Diane Wakoske, a confessional poet of the California school has published 13 substantial volumes of poetry plus chapbooksand prose. "Fury is a major emotional engine which fuels the poet’s expression,” the Black Sparrow Press wrote. As can be seen in her works in Coins & Coffins, Emerald Ice: Selected Poems, and Inside the Blood Factory, her poetry expresses glittering imagination and vibrant metaphore.
Wakoske focuses on the magic of daily life and the vision of the individual. Because of her wry insights on loss, justice, truth and the transformation of ugliness to beauty, she is especially proualr with students.
She has been awared the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation, National Endowment for the Arts, CAPS-New York Cassandra Foundation, and a Fulbright for Writers to Yugoslavia. Since 1976, the poet has been a Writer-inResidence at Michigan State University, and in 1990 was designated University Distinguished Professor.
a
FEBRUARY 7
i
21
David Huddle’s books of poetry and fiction are Stopping By Home, The High Spirits, Only the Little Bone, Paper Boy, and ADream WithNo StumpRootsIn It. Huddle received his undergraduateeducation at the University of Virginia and his M.F.A. in writing from Columbia University. He is ■ currently a faculty member at the University of Virginia
Along with his long list of books, Huddle : has also been published in Esquire, Harper's : Yankee, Playboy, and the New York Times '.Magazine. He has received the Lawerence Foundation Prize for Fiction in Prairie ' Schooner, The National Endowment for the Arts Creative Writing Fellowships and he was the Commencement speaker at the Bread Loaf School of English.
; Paperboy, his first book of poetry, was received with accalades. The University of Pittsburg Press said "...an exceptionally accessable and moving first book of poems.
; There has not been a book ofpoems like this ; for many years. In its authentic use of local : speech, vivid characterization, its a re-: strained but highly moving narrative. Pa-. perboy reads like a novel but has power, the surface simplicity adn sense of speed and
. illumination that characterizes and authen-• tic vein of American poetry."
• He will be appearing on Monday, February 11.
"His great strengths are his honesty and directness, his refusal to look the other way... Larry Brown takes no prisoners."-Huston Post
In Big Bad Love, Larry Brown writes a book about what fuels the fires that bum in certain men. He writes about obsession His stories deal with sex, drink, fear and "all kinds of bad luck."
Larry Brown was bpm in Oxford, Mississippe in 1951. He served in the Marine.Corps adn then joined the Oxford Fire Department where he worked until he retired from his position to work as a full time writer. Brown's short stories have been published in several literary journals and anthologized in The Best American Short Stories, and New Stories form the South.
. He has received awards for his first collection, Facing the Music, and for his ovel, Dirty Work. He will be appearing at the Sophomore Literary Festival on Sunday, February 10.
In "The Kind of Light That Shines on Texas," Reginald McKnight amasses a collection of short stories that portray the American lifestyle in the West. For his collection, he was awarded the Best American Short S tories: 100 Other Distinguished Short Stories of 1989. McKnight received his undergraduate education at Pikes Peak. Community College, and his M. A. in English with emphasis in Creative Writing at the University of Denver Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. His works include The Kind of Light ThatShines on Texas, The Family (for the New York Times Book Review), I Get on the Bus, Moustapha's Eclpse, and "Rebirth" (appearing in Leviathan).
McKnight was most recently awarded the National Endowment for the Arts: Grant for Literature, The Best Stories of the New South, Outstanding Young Man of the Year, 1990, and Doctor of Humane Letters (Honoris Causa): The Colorado College.
Reginald McKnight will be appearing with Diane Wakoski on Tuesday, February 1.2.
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS
FEBRUARY 10-15,1991
SUNDAY: LARRY BROWN MONDAY: DAVID HUDDLE TUESDAY: DIANE WAKOSKI AND REGINALD MCKNIGHT WEDNESDAY: BARRY HANNAH THURSDAY: GREG DELANTY FRIDAY: JAIMY GORDON
ALL READINGS WILL BE HELD AT 8:00 P.M. IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM EXCEPT FOR WEDNESDAY'S WHICH WILL BE AT WASHINGTON HALL
22
SCHOLASTIC
The 1990 Scholastic Football Review
can be picked up by off-campus students at 303 LaFortune Hall from 3-5 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.
Extra copies are available for the bargain price of $5.00 at; the same times.
The Carnival is Coming
The Carnival is Coming
The Carnival is Coming
The Carnival is Coming
The 3r<t annual St. Bdivard's Hall Charity Carnival is coming <April 21st Watch For Details
q
Budgeteer
motor inn
$2595
SINGLE
1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 272-9000
*PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
*FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
*IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
*LAUNDRY
nsr
(D
PRIVATE IN ROOM SPAS
FEBRUARY 7.	.	23
On a
D
w
With a weekend loss to Duke, the Irish continue to struggle as they head into the homestretch of their schedule
n
h
By Amanda Clinton
TXT ith a cheering, enthusiastic crowd V V and a national television audience, the Notre Dame men’s basketball team jogged onto the court Saturday to play the seventh-ranked Duke Blue Devils for their third game in five days.
The Irish were coming off a week typical of their topsy-turvy 1990-91 season. Last Tuesday the Irish took on Dayton at the hostile Dayton Arena and defeated the Flyers 73-67. Two days later, Notre Dame camehomeandlosta79-77 heartbreaker to Big East doormats Boston College. In keeping with their season, they defeated a
team on the road that was supposed to beat them, and lost to a team that they could have beat in the friendly confines of the J.A.C.C.
“It’s tough. We play hard every game, but we’re just coming up short,” said captain Tim Singleton. “Things are bound to turn around sooner or later.”
Unfortunately for the team, this turnaround did not come in time for the Duke game. For the second time this season the Irish were beaten by the Blue Devils. Earlier in the season, the Irish took on the Blue Devils in the consolation game of the Dodge NIT at the Madison Square Garden.
That game concluded with a final score of 85-77. On Saturday, Notre Dame was stamped with another loss by Duke but this time the Devils increased the winning cushion by five points. /
“This was a mentally and physically prepared Notre Dame’team,” said Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski? “We ran the court well and we were fresher than Notre Dame.”
“We have played four games in eight days and haven ’ t had the time to get ready for each,” said Phelps. “We didn’t have the preparation we had in the fall to play Duke. We played a lot better in New York against
24
SCHOLASTIC
Duke than we did today.”
The Irish began the game at a sluggish pace. The team had a difficult time both competing with the depth of the Blue Devils and shutting down junior forward Christian Laettner, who was the high scorer of the game with 20 points.
Despite the inconsistent performance of the Irish squad, “Coach K” was impressed by an Irish squad that has been decimated by injuries and academic difficulties, “Notre Dame has played really good basketball despite the loss of LaPhonso. He was one of the better players in the country.”
Dayton was a traditional Notre Dame rival that defeated Illinois in the NCAA Tourney last spring and was marked off as a big game on the Irish schedule. This game came as a tremendous boost to the team after a disappointing one point loss to Virginia three days earlier.
“This win (Dayton) was a big confidence booster for us especially after Saturday,” said senior forward Kevin Ellery. “Coming in here it looked like we were going to give it up again, but we came through and that
gave us a lot of confidence.”
One of the deciding factors for the Irish victory was their reaction to Day ton’s press. ‘They controlled the tempo by not allow
Mari Okuda
ing us to get much out of our press,” said Flyer coach Jim O’Brien. “If you’re not scoring, you aren’t getting into your press.”
Notre Dame was led by a spectacular performance by junior center Keith Tower. With a career high of 22 points and 11 rebounds Tower was also the Irish’s leading scorer for the game.
“With Laphonso out of the lineup, it’s going to be an opportunity to work on the offensive moves I learned this summer,” said Tower.
In the past week, Tower has been filling the gap Ellis left by being a floor leader and a scoring threat
Not only is Tower’s coach noticing, but so are the fans. With a large yellow “T” waving in the student section to the rhythm of the band, the Irish
man in the middle can’t help but feel supported in his new role by the crowd.
Two days after the big win in Day ton, the Irish took on the Eagles and endured another frustrating loss with a final score of 79-77. It came down to the last four seconds of the game with Notre Dame down by two. Junior guard Elmer Bennett received an inbound pass and attempted a three-point shot at the buzzer. It hit the front of the rim, leaving the Irish short
“It was a tough one to lose,” said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. “It (the last shot) wasn’t the same play we ran against Syracuse (last year) but it was in the same area. I thought it was going in.”
In losing Ellis, Monty Williams, and several close games, Notre Dame has had a string of bad luck that does not look like it will end any time soon.
“This season is frustrating.
Christian Laettner paced the Blue Devils with 20 points.
Mari Okuda
Singleton has had to captain the Irish through an inconsistent season.
But we have some games left and we just have to play hard and hope things fall our way. If you concede losing, you will lose,” says Bennett.
Despite the misfortunes the team has had, it is important not to overlook their accomplishments. In the preseason Dodge NIT, the Irish made it to the final four. When the team played now fourth ranked Indiana, they lost by only three points. Notre Dame lost by only eight to both Kentucky (10th) and UCLA (12th). And the squad lost by only one point to Virginia, now ranked fifteenth.
The Irish seem to have made a pattern for themselves of playing up to the level of their competition. By keeping the score close when competing against tough teams, they have proven they have the ability to play with the big-time programs. Unfortunately, the team has been unable to compete consistently. And with several challenging games remaining, it is essential for the squad to strike a level of consistency.
The past week has been a true test for the Notre Dame men’s basketball team. With one of the most rigorous schedules in the country, the road ahead will continue to be a struggle.	□
FEBRUARY 7
25
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Raghib Ismail: Ismail, a junior from Wilkes-Barre, PA, may be better known for his football achievements, but this past weekend he burned up the track for the Irish. In his first intercollegiate track meet in two years, Ismail won the 55-meter dash in 6.20 seconds, breaking the record previously held by Heisman trophy winner Tim Brown.
Heidi Piper: Piper, a junior from Gold Coast, Australia, won all 25 of her scheduled bouts at a tournament held this weekend at Princeton. With her perfect weekend, Piper improved her season record to a stellar 40-1, placing her at the number one position on the all-time single season winning percentage list with a mark of .977.
26	SCHOLASTIC

MOVIES
WILD AT HEART: David Lynch’s most recent full length work will disturb and captivate you. Be sure to catch the movie that won the master of the bizzare the Palme D’Or at last year’s Cannes Film Festival at the Snite this weekend. Showtimes are at 7:15 and9:45 p.m. on Friday, February 8 and Saturday, February 9.
STRIPES and THE ADVENTURES OF FORD FAIRLANE are this week’s S.U.B. movies. Movies.will be shown at Cushing Auditorium at 8 and 10:30 p.m. Admission is $2.
AT THE SNITE: Rules of the Game will be showing on Tuesday , February 12 at 7 p.m., Un Chien Andalou and L’Age D’ Or will be showing at 9 p.m. on Tuesday, February 12, You Only Live Once on Wednesday, February 13 at 7,'p.m., and three short
features by American directors will be shown at9p.m. on Wednesday,Febuary 13.
CONCERTS
THE INDIGO GIRLS will play at Stepan Center on Thursday, February 14 at 7:30 p.m.. The concert is sold out.
SPORTS
HOCKEY: The Irish will take on University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point at the JACC on Friday, February 8 and Saturday, February 9.
MEN’S HOOPS will play Syracuse at the JACC on Saturday, February 9 and Butler on Tuesday, February 12.
WOMEN’S HOOPS will take on Butler on
Tuesday, February 12 at the JACC.
WOMEN’S TENNIS faces Purdue at 5 p.m. on Friday, February 8 and Kansas at 1 p.m. on Saturday, February 9. Both will take place at the Eck Pavilion.
WRESTLING will face Nebraska at the JACC on Friday, February 8 and Illinois on Wednesday, February 13.
MISCELLANEOUS
The International Student Organization Talent Show will be held at Washington Hall on Friday, February 8 and Saturday, February 9.
Sophomore Literary Festival will take place form Sunday, February 10 through Friday, February 15.
FEBRUARY 7/.
27
An Open
Letter
from
SUFR
Paul Webb
Robert Price Is SUFR's spokesperson.
rri o Members of the Notre Dame/South JL Bend Community:
the Director of Minority Affairs to hire assis- symbolic of the administration’s commit-tants and conduct daily operations affecting ment to the Notre Dame Band and the Notre ethnic students, a more stable financial aid Dame R.O.T.C. the ten percent ethnic-
The past few months have witnessed the emergence of Students United for Respect
on the campus of Notre Dame. SUFR is coalition of students of color seeking to end the university’s long tradition of disrespect toward ethnic-American concerns and working toward the acknowledgement, respect for, and expression of cultural diversity on this campus. The coalition is open to all those who have a strong, unyielding, and genuine interest in achieving the fruition of SUFR’s goals. In order to call proper attention to the goals of the coalition, SUFR has formulated a list of demands addressing imperative campus issues which have repeatedly been ignored and neglected by university administrators. The Notre Dame students of SUFR exercise the inalienable right to inform the administration of its concerns and promote necessary and long-awaited changes at the university.
Among these demands are priority efforts on the part of the university administration to recruit ethnic-American faculty members, the establishment of a Notre Dame multi-cultural facility, autonomy for

Students United For Respect explain their goals
structure for the complete duration of a student’s academic career, and the institu
tion of a discrimination/harassment policy.
Currently, eight of approximately 800 faculty members at Notre Dame are of ethnic-American background. It is unrealistic to expect that this small number of minority professors, however diligent, will be able to correct the cultural ignorance of the Notre Dame community at large. More importantly, eight faculty members, onepercentof the Notre Dame faculty, are not enough to service the cultural education of the ten percent minority component of paying Notre Dame students as well as the whole of Notre Dame students.
In regard to a multi-cultural facility and a proper racial harassment policy, it is an overt sign of neglect and ignorance (or arrogance) that a university of such global stature does not have an effective and concrete procedural mechanism for reporting and treating incidents of racism (on the campus of Notre Dame) nor has made any material contribution to the idea of cultural diversity. In the midst of two beautiful new buildings
American population of university students, the few ethnic-American professors, and all
other faculty members with professional and personal cultural interests have been disrespected and left to ponder why they are relegated cubicle space in the LaFortune Student Center. In short, while the university administration continues its rhetoric of commitment to cultural diversity, ethnic expression, and minority concerns, it has failed to show any progress.
We simply ask, why should students wait for justice? Why should students be convinced Notre Dame is committed to cultural diversity? Without timetables how are students going to know when their needs are going to be addressed? We press upon the University to full take advantage of their opportunity to work with students on these and many other issues, for it is the majority of the university’s students who are denied cultural diversity, not just the minority. □
by Pedro Villegas with Robert Price, SUFR members
SCHOLASTIC
Come meet the authors of today and of tomorrow.