Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disee Quasi semper victurixs; vive quasi eras moritm-ng.
Volume XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 28,1882.
Number 20.
Our Stafi.
W. B. McGorrisk.
G. E. Clarke.
W. H. Arnold.
T. F. Clarke.
J. P. O’Neill.
R. E. Fleming.
E. C. Orrick.
M. F. Healy.
Notre Dame.
When to the tasks God gives to us, we bring Hearts overflowing with a holy zeal;
And when the spirit of true wisdom guides The varying actions of our varying lives, We know that all our labors shall be blest. Here we behold the fruits of earnest love, And toil made fertile by the prayers and tears Of men who knew no love but love of God, And love for all the children of His fold.
And if in two-score years their work has wrought A monument to tell, when they are gone, That they have lived and labored here for Him Whom it has been their greatest joy to serve, Deem not it has arisen through empty pride. For all the things which speak to us of them Speak of the Master who sustained their work, And blessed it with a large perpetual growth. Nay! nay ! kind fathers! There is here uo cause For wonder or surprise, for all has come From Him who always speeds the work of those Who through the long years seek to honor Him.
Free Trade vs. Protective Tariff.
Negatively Argued.
BY EUGENE C ORRICK
Anything like an attempt to review the immense array of not very well substantiated arguments brought forward, would necessarily prove futile, in the brief time allotted to me. The argument for Free Trhde was capable of being analyzed only by an exertion of the most untiring energy, not so much on account of its length, however, as the many and wide diversions from the line of reasoning necessary to prove the stated proposition, as also the reiterated assertions of numberless facts, i. e. supposed fa'cts, each of which, if proved to be true, would have precluded the necessity of further argument. For an example of this we have the assertion that “protection is unprogressive,” after which immediately follows a conclusion, that “ as such it is opposed to the best interests of our country.” Now if we admit that protection is unpro
gressive, which seems to have been taken for granted, why does my friend go on at such length to make so many other assertions almost all equally devoid of proof? It would be unnecessary, as in admitting the truth of this one proposition, we admit enough to settle the question without further parley. However, after examining the whole argument carefully, I find, that a few points, inasmuch as they have a little proof connected with them require some explanation, more than anything else, as the proofs applied are somewhat contorted, to make them, apply to the necessities of the occasions. These points may be reduced to five headings, viz : 1st. The limitation of imports by high tariff causes a corresponding reduction of exports. 2d. The tendency to keep cities crowded. 3d Protection is false or it is impossible for our infafit manufactories.to be anything else. 4th. It aims ‘ to build up what it in reality tears down. 5th. That free trade never reduces wages. Besides these, which are the only arguments sustained by a shadow of a proof, various poetical quotations, and, in many parts of the discourselanguage still more poetical, are brought forward, which undoubtedly have much effect upon a person who listens merely superficially, but for real argument they are ineffective.
1st. “It is clearly demonstrable by the logic of facts that imports and exports mutually depend on each other, and the failure of one necessitates the failure of the other,” says our Free Trader. That the logic of facts demonstrates all this may be true, but according to the facts that I have met with, such is not at all the case. If these exports and imports depend mutually upon one another, then a rise in one will give a corresponding rise in the other, and vice versa, as is admitted in the statement that “the failure of one necessitates the failure of the other.” But facts will not bear out this assertion. In England the difference between imports and exports has been widening every year, until last year the imports had risen to £419,000,000, while the imports were only £289,000.000, at the higest valuation; this does not look very much like a corresponding increase in both. In America, however, we find directly the opposite, as our exports are every year increasing in a much greater proportion than the imports. Even if it could still be argued that there was a mutual dependence, yet every one can see very plainly that the results are directly opposite in the two countries most opposite in policy, and as the result is certainly more favorable to us than to England, it will be but just to conclude that our policy is the better of the two, notwithstanding the Free Trader’s conclusion that “ protective tariff decreases our exports and imports,” and also that “ we can only hope for foreigners to buy from us so long as they can sell to us,” which conclusions, as I have shown, are not borne out by facts.
I
i
296	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	J
________________________________________;____________________a	I
proved by the fact that mechanics and laborers in Eng-	j
land are paid twice as much as in Germany and Italy,”	j
and, he might have added, a good deal more than twice as	1
much as those of China and Japan. But if wages were	‘
twice as much as those of Italy or Germany, it is by no	।
means to be concluded that they increased under free	i
trade. This fact, however, is stated as if it were generally known and admitted, which is certainly not the case.
Why is it, I would ask, that if their wages are as high as tljey are made out to be, that there is such an emigration	,'
from the United Kingdom ? We see emigrants swarming from a free-trade to a protectionist country, and these emigrants are almost entirely of the laboring classes. Evi- . dently this should not occur; for, according to the free trader, the United Kingdom should not only give employment to-all its inhabitants, with high wages, but the rural districts should be sought after, and everything be in the most prosperous condition, while America should have her cities crowded, her farming lands neglected, her . length and breadth filled with tramps and beggars, and her workmen receiving starvation wages. This is the true conclusion to be arrived at from the argument for free trade. But, as in a preceding case, if these conclusions be reversed and then applied, everyone will at once see its truthfulness, aud cannot but be persuaded that if the wages are higher, provisions lower, and employment easily obtained, it is certainly very curious that the emigration is so large, but as these things are by no means	■
what they are supposed by the Free Trader, a conclusion is	I
easily arrived at. Now, having replied, I hope, to all the	j
arguments worthy of note, I will turn to protection as wq compared with free trade. Before proceeding to this, however, it will be well to notice the saying “ Vox populi, vox Dei," quoted by the enthusiastic Free Trader for the support of his cause. I agree with him perfectly as to the truth of the saying; but if we examine and see what “ vox populi "‘is, as regards this subject, we will find it in this shape, the voice of the people of England is for free trade;
but such is not the case with her colonies, which are protective. Not another instance of free trade among the great nations of the earth meets our eyes. England, with Ireland and Scotland, has her trade free. So this is the “ voxpopuli" spoken of, but as it cannot consist of so small a portion of the inhabitants of the earth, it would be better to say “ vox populi, vox Dei ” of tariff, in which case it would be used correctly, as such a large majority of the nations—in fact, all but one—have protection. The same	i
may be applied as directly to the United States. “ The	j
South, the East, etc., are alive to its (free trade) benefits,”	j
and "'vox populi, vox Dei," again says our Free Trader.
The different portions of the Union may be very much _ alive to its benefits, but still they prefer to live under a protectionary government, as they send each year to Congress men who will not change our tariff laws. But to re-	•
turn to the original point, let us look at the United States and see the results of tariff: we find our land covered with factories, our people producing their bountiful crops by the aid of home-made machinery; our laborers, as a class, better paid, better satisfied, and fully as skilful as those of England; our land—comparatively—almost entirely free from paupers, and our people, taken as a whole, the most • satisfied in the world. We see that we have more railroads, more telegraph lines, and more river-boats than any other	,
nation, and are deficient only in a navy—which deficiency, as I have shown, did not result from protection.	(
2d. “ It has a tendency to keep cities crowded,” continues the Free Trader. Where the facts that will confirm this statement are to be found is entirely beyond my comprehension. “ Crowded to the neglect- of the rural districts, wherein lie our chief wealth.” To show the falsity of these assertions we can again have recourse to England and America. England has free trade, America has not; now who can for a moment think of comparing the crowded condition of the cities of Great Britain with our own? Who can for a moment suppose that our rural districts are neglected when our exports of agricultural produce are so vast, not at all taking into account the immense amount retained for home consumption? Examining the effects of free trade in England, anyone can see that its tendency is to keep the cities crowded; for, importing nearly all the food consumed, a living is barely obtainable on a farm; while in the factories, from which all the prosperity of England—if she may be said to be prosperous—is derived, the great bulk of her people are employed, or at least a greater number of them than of any other nation. These people are necessarily crowded into the great manufacturing centres, wheire they live in poverty, filth, and misery; such is the exact state of the case in the country whose trade is the freest, while where the industries are protected we see results exactly the opposite.
3d. “ Protection is false or it is impossible for these infant manufactories to be anything else.” Here is another of those numerous statements which the advocate of Free Trade is in the habit of making. Here is a statement that protection is false; if it be false, taking the word false in the sense of having a bad effect upon the country, there is no use in going further; or if the infant manufactories are able to be nothing else, what is the use of going further ? As to its falsity, no proof is given, but a long dissertation on ship-building follows the latter of the two assertions. Ship-building is a solitary example of a declining industry in the United States; and out of the, we may say, thousands of industries in the country, would it be considered fair to take one single one, and the only one, as a criterion for the whole ? If one-fourth, or even one-tenth of our industries were on the decline, then it would be admissible; but to give this one example, and it alone, seems altogether too weak. But let us take ship-building and inquire into the cause of the decline, and it will be seen that it wfcs not protective tariff. “ Germany and Italy, both of which have high tariff,” have navies much better than our own, and their fleets are respected throughout the world. It is therefore clear that other causes than protective tariff have been at work. The principal of these was the introduction of iron steamers, which gave England the advantage over us, inasmuch as she had the facilities for producing them, whereas we had not; thus, as we, having had the facilities for building wooden ships, had a fine navy, so when the other kind came into vogue, the ascendancy naturally passed into the hands of the nation best prepared to build them. The laws relating to the refusal of the flag to for-eign-huilt ships are entirely irrelevant to the question, since they impose no protective tariff, but to them may also be assigned a considerable portion of this decadence of the navy. But as to the assertion that the decline of ship-building is due to protection, it is absurd. The 4th may be included in the 3d; as the same example was given to show its truth, so the same reply will suffice.
Sth. “ That free trade never materially reduces wages is
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
297
Every year, thousands and thousands of emigrants land on our shores, and they come principally from that country which should be the embodiment of everything good. Why should they emigrate when everything is so like a paradise? People emigrate, it is true, in large numbers from Germany and other places, but do they go to those heavenly regions of free trade? Certainly not; they go to that much reviled land of protection—the United States. What can be argued from these facts? The sole conclusion is that the regions of free trade have not been pictured truly by its enthusiastic admirer. As to its effects in England, I will show them by a quotation from an excellent article on the subject in Blackwood's Magazine, which expresses them much better than I would be able to do. It says: “ But let the Free Traders be of good cheer, they have done marvellous things. They have accomplished what no British statesmen, since the time of Alfred the Great, has been able to accomplish. They have stopped the growth of our population, and, for the first time'in five centuries, rendered it retrograde. They have for three years sent each year from our country, in search of food, from 250,000 to 300,000 persons. They have lowered the Irish circulation of notes one-half. They have extirpated 200,000 cultivators of the soil in Ireland. They have cut off £80,000,000 a year from the remuneration of cultivation and lowered railroad property one-half. They have destroyed at least one-half the commercial and trading wealth of our great manufacturing towns. They have made the nation in two years dependent for one-half its subsistence on foreign States,” etc.—And so it goes on to enumerate evil after evil, disaster after disaster, that followed in its wake.
Such were the effects of free trade in England. Compare them with those of protection in America, and which system would seem to be the more preferable? There is only one answer, and that is, protection. There are, however, other nations that may well be used as examples of the effects of the protective policy. France is one of the best, and it was with pleasure that I heard such a flattering description of the condition of France at the present day, in the Free Trader, as France is everywhere ranked as a protective nation, which she undeniably is. Besides the increase of over four billions of francs in her revenue, her exports are nearly once and a half as large as her imports. These increases have been made in spite of the ravages of the German war and the maintenance of an army of about 1,500,000 of men. Now if we were ■ to admit that France is partially free-trade in policy could we consistently refer all her prosperity to that small portion of her policy, as the Free Trader has done? It is evident that we could not, if we merely glance at her condition previous to the establishment of tariff and take into account the relative effects on other nations, as England and the United States. Behold Germany, a nation with “ high tariff,” and by his own admission the Ger. man flag is known and respected throughout the world. Russia and Italy might be cited as other examples; but not to detain you too long, I will conclude by saying that the strongest argument in favor of protection, and one that should outweigh every difficulty, is the position of a nation in time of war. The Russians and Americans could, by closing their ports, literally starve England to death; while England could entirely cut off our supplies of war. like implements were we unprotected. Hence we easily see that, being so dependent, the United States would not be
capable of defending herself in the slightest degree; therefore, on this account alone, if for no other, it seems that a nation should protect her industries.
College Gossip.
—The Methodist university of Boston has come into possession of §2,000,000 bequeathed it by Isaac Rich.—Ex.
—Robert A. Barnes, of St. Louis, has given $25,000 to the Methodist Central College of Fayette, Mo. It is understood that a Barnes professorship will be established at the college.
—It is said that the only professor of political economy of any College in America who is opposed to free trade is Prof. Robert E. Thompson, of the University of Pennsylvania.—Echo.	■
—The Harvard papers are much exercised over the lack of ventilation in certain lecture rooms. May their efforts to bring about a reform meet with better success than did our .—Cornell Era.
- After Mary Anderson’s performance at New Brunswick, N. J., the other night, she was hauled to her hotel by students of Rutgers College, who unhitched the horses from her carriage.—Brunonian.
— Teacher.—“ Did I not tell you to be prepared with your history lesson ? And here you are unable to repeat a word of it.” Scholar—“ I didn’t think it was necessary, sir; I’ve always heard that history repeats itself.”
—Another addition has been made to the senior electives at Amherst College. Sanskrit is offered for the second and third terms of the year, to be taught by Instructor-, Elwell, an old pupil of Professor Whitney’s of Yale.
—Degrees at English universities are becoming attainable much more easily than formerly. Cambridge does not require Greek, and Victoria University of Manchester demauds neither of the classics from its graduating classes. —Unidentified Ex.
—An anonymous benefactor has given to the Catholic University of Lille the sum of 100,000 francs (§20,000 sterling) as a foundation for a new professor’s chair in the medical school. This chair is to be called “ The Chair of St. Benedict Labre.”
—Oxford has suspended SO students who were concerned in locking some of the college officers in a room.—A number of Ex's.
It is rather singular that just that number of students were suspended for a similar offence about a year ago.
—Mr. Stephen Whitney Phoenix has left nearly $1,000, 000 io Columbia College. The gift consists of a valuable library, which will become the property of the college at once, and about $600,000.. Mr. Phoenix requests in his will ftiat the library shall be kept together and be known as the Phoenix Library of Columbia College.
—The annual report of the Treasurer of Harvard University announces the financial condition of the college proper as giving much concern to the corporation. The deficit for 1880-81, amounts to $34,460,19, and is the largest the college ever incurred. The receipts of the college itself have been $232,272,91, and the payments, $233,320,44.
—The following is a list of the colleges, so far as we can learn, that have contributed to the aid of Mount St. Mary’s, Emmittsburg: Boston College, $100; Holy Cross, $100; St. Joseph’s Young Ladies’ Academy, Emmittsburg, Md., $300; Seton Hall College. $100; St. John’s College, Fordham, $200; St. Francis Xavier’s, New York, $100; Christian Bro’s College, Manhattanville, $100; St. Mary’s Seminary, Baltimore, $100; Loyola College, Baltimore, Md., $100; Rock Hill College, Ellicott City, Md., $100. ’
—A vigorous movement against secret "societies in the State University at Champaign, Ill., has been begun by the Regent and Faculty, and approved by the Trustees. After the 1st of January, 1882, no student can pursue any studies in the University until he has filed in the Regent’s office a pledge upon his honor not to be connected with any secret society in the University, neither can he be honor
298
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ably dismissed or graduated unless he first file a statement upon his honor that he has not been connected with any such society since the first pledge was given. The matter creates a good deal of excitement among the students, as the ground has been fought over in the University for years past. .The course of the Faculty is now very decided. —Chicago Times.	■
AIK CASTLES.
Up to her elbows in flour,	■
With a dab of flour on her face, A sprinkle, too, in her rich brown hair, More spattered over her dress.
Making a batch of bread,
Her white Angers fast in the dough, ’Twas so that I caught my dearest girl; Do you wonder I loved her so?
Shaping the staff of life,
That vulgar man might live, Moulding the soon-to-be golden loaves— What more could a woman give?
Building castles of air, Lighter than fancy and strong, • Thought I, as I saw her white arms move, Keeping time with a song.
Picture of home and of love, Blessed by a maidenly kiss!
A picture of man doing what great work Would serve as a mate for this?
— Yale Record.
Exchanges.
—That excellent German newspaper the Herold des Glaubens, of St. Louis, Mo., says of The Scholastic Annual for 1882: “Late it comes, but it comes nevertheless, and it has in the few years of its existence become a well-be loved guest in many a Catholic family. Its contents are rich and varied, many distinguished and talented persons having contributed to it. The sons of the muse especially will know how to appreciate it; but other mortals, also, who have not had the advantages of a university education, will not lay it down without a feeling of pleasure.”
—One of the best features of The ’ Varsity, from the University of Toronto, is the -series of papers that generally cover its first page on University and College matters in the Dominion. “ University Affiliation, No. 5,” in the issue for January 13, gives strong arguments in favor of a scheme that has long been agitating those engaged in higher education in Canada. The “Observations by the Patriarch Student” are always readable, and sometimes entertaining, even the time-honored jokes and stories that again see the light in this department. “J. H. B.” doesn’t want any secret societies from over the border. He wishes Canadians to have independence enough to form secret societies for themselves, and to control them themselves. The' Varsity is one of the most regular of our exchanges and is always welcome.
■ —The North-American Review for February opens with a paper from President White, of Cornell University, headed with the query, “ Do the Spoils Belong to the Victor?” It is evident that a reform of some kind is needed in the United States Civil Service—all agree to this—but what this reform should be.and how far it should go, is just what few people can be found to agree upon. The paper entitled “The New Political Machine,” in the January North-American, ably advocated rotation in office as a preservative of our republican forms of government. De Tocqueville apprehended danger to these institutions from the lust for office, and feared the office-hunters would overturn the Constitution for “the sole purpose of making a clearance of places,”—which scheme Mr. Dickson averred would be defeated by the plan of ro’ation in office. He says that when Jackson introduced the spoils system, both Webster and Calhoun denounced V, yet both afterward, in power, practised it, or acquiesced in its practice. President White, on the other hand, advocates the essential features of the Pendleton bill—namely, (1) Admission to the lower ranks by competitive examination and after proba.
tion, (2) Advancement by merit, (3) Restriction to public offices having at least fifty subordinates. The second paper in the February number of the Review is entitled. “ A Rtmedy for Railway Abuses,” by Isaac L. Rice. “ Repudiation in Virginia,” by Senator John W. Johnston, explains the status and policy of the two great factions. Readjusters and Funders, into which the state debt question split the Democratic party in Virginia. The Senator maintains that the Readjuster party is in spirit and in fact a party of Repudiation. “ The Lancet and the Law,” a very able article by Henry Bergh, deals heavy blows at what the writer is pleased to term “ that hideous monstrosity, vaccination,” by which, he says, “ in the period of less than one-hundred years that has elapsed since the introduction of this practice, millions upon millions of sound and healthy human beings have been inoculated with the most loathsome pestilence, doomed to carry to the grave bodies wasted by consumption or marred and deformed by scrofula, cancer, and innumerable other ills. What is worse, they have transmitted these diseases to posterity.” But as Mr. Bergh does not pretend to forestall or cure small-pox, the fell destroyer that is now sweeping off thousands of lives from Europe, Asia, and America, it is probable that his article will have very little effect at present. “The Christian Religion—Part III— by Prof. George P. Fisher, is the closing article of the February Review, but undoubtedly the first in the order of merit. We regret that want of space prevents a lengthy review of this able paper. Prof. Fisher says justly that “ it is easy for an ingenious mind to bring forward objections, suggest difficulties of greater or less weight, and propound mistaken or half-mistaken assertions. ... It is proverbial that a question respecting any system, however well-founded, may be asked in one line, which it may require pages to answer. To reply to a med'ey of such objections, one by one, is like the business of picking up pins. And even when the work is really done, the impression left is that made by an apology, according to the fine old old maxim, ‘ Qui s'excuse s'accuse.' He shows that recent attacks upon and objections to Christianity are neither new nor novel, but often a rehash of those made by Celsus in the 2d century and sucessfully disposed of by Origen. Without yielding a foot of ground to the objections raised against the inspiration of the Scriptures, Prof. Fisher draws attention to the fact that a distinction must be made between revelation and inspiration, and between Christianity and the Bible, for, as he says, and truly, “ Christianity existed and was complete, and it was preached, before a syllable of the New Testament was written.” The Professor thus falls back upon Catholic ground, where alone he can be invulnerable against the shafts of free-thinkers.
New Books.
Ibeland of ToDay: The Causes and Aims of Irish Agitation. By M. F. Sullivan. With an introduction by Thomas Power O'Connor, M. P. Philadelphia: J. M. Stoddard & Co. 1852. 459 ppi8vo. Illustrated.
We have here a finely-written book on a subject that engrosses much thought in all parts of the world, and which, for want of being properly understood, or rather on account of the misrepresentations that have been made through the English and a portion of the American press by interested persons, has created no little prejudice. The purpose of the book, as stated in the publishers’ preface, is to present a popular, convenient, and correct account of the causes and aims of Irish agitation. The close relations which exist between the Uniied States and England on the one hand, and the United States and Ireland on the other, make a concise, impartial and complete statement of the case necessary for all who desire to inform themselves on the issue which is so vigorously contested at the present time between the English Government and the masses of the Irish people. Such a concise and impartial statement Mrs. M. F. Sullivan has given in her “ Ireland of To-Day,” and anyone who is acquainted with the author’s style of writing must know that the work is one of no ordinary merit, even from a literary point of view. Mrs. Sullivan is, perhaps, the ablest female writer living;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	299
we, at least—after scanning the literary horizon—can find no one to surpass her in the particular field which she has chosen—and it is one in which few women have cared to venture. Her chief work for years has been the writing of leading editorials for the great Chicago dailies, but she has also from time to time written articles for The American Catholic Quarterly Review and the magazines that brought her more immediately before the public in a very favorable ,ight. Her journalistic acumen, therefore, united to scholatly acquirements of no ordinary degree in a woman, hive peculiarly fitted her for the task of writing such a book as “ Ireland of To Day.” If there be anything to regret, it id that the writings of Sir John Parnell, James Stuart Mil), Burke, Cobden, Bright, and others, political economists and statesmen, upon the existing land laws in the British Empire, have not been brought forward in Mrs. Sullivan’s book. These would have shown clearly that the demands of the Land League are but the natural outcome of the semi-barbarous feudal land laws of the Empire, supplemented in the case of the Irish people by a landlord tyranny as insupportable as it is barbarous. According to existing laws in Ireland, or a custom of such longstanding that it has the force of law, the rich alonehave a right to live, and to live without labor or industry of any kind, it being considered the duty of the poor not only to support them, but to indulge them in every species of extravagance. It is considered almost disgraceful for an Irish landlord, or “gentleman” (save the mark!) to engage in manufacture or business of any kind. He has a hard grip on the land, and as the poor peasantry must live by the produce of this land, the landlord can exact as much for it as he likes, the tenant knowing that if he demurs he and his family, sick or well, will be turned out to starve and have their hut razed to the ground. And the British land laws not only permit all this, but the landlord in his exactions Mrs. Sullivan has done well in exposing the real state of affairs in Ireland, and her book will do much good. The book is rich in historical and statistical research, and that part of it that speaks of Lord Cornwallis’s doings in Ireland after his surrender at Yorktown will be particularly interesting to Americans. Cornwallis was a frank, warm-hearted so'dier, with the noble impulses o‘ a true Brilon, and the British Government’s doings in Ireland were little to his liking. In fact, such is the naturally noble impulse of a true Briton when his heart is free from the trammels of an idle life of luxury that, as Edmund Burke has truly said, “an Englishman is the unfittest person on earth to argue another Englishman into slavery.” But the nobler instincts of the English and Irish landlord are crushed; as the same Edmund Burke has said elsewhere, “his grants were from the aggregate a consolidated fund of judgments iniquitously legal, and- from possessions surrendered by the lawful proprietors with the gibbet at their doors.” What this great statesman said of Henry VIII is true of the majority of British sovereigns, and from landlords obtaining claims in such a way but little justice could be expected. The issue is plain. Such grinding oppression cannot last. Burke was a true prophet when he said: “The throne cannot stand secure upon the principles of unconditional submission and passive obedience; on powers exercised without the concurrence of the people to be governed; on acts made in defiance of their prejudices and habits; on acquisitions procured by foreign mercenary troops secured by standing armies. These may possibly be the foundation of other thrones; they must be the subversion of yours." The prophecy seems to be nearing its fulfilment, and the assurances cf the popular element in England—of Englishmen themselves—that the career of the House of Lords and the Crown is approaching its dissolution seem not to be groundless. This is not the tone, we are glad to say, in which Mrs. Sullivan’s book is written. It evinces no revolutionary spirit. The book is written in a spirit, of justice, the facts being given without any prejudicial coloring. ‘ Ireland of To-Day is,’ -as Stoddard's Review briefly explains, “ written in a dignified, simple, direct style, and the author appears to desire to keep the reader close to the path, for there are no aberrations outside the question. The volume covers the history of the two countries briefly but fully enough for all practical purposes; and the chapter-heads will serve as guide-posts to the contents. Thes are ‘ Ire-. and Pric? to the Land War; ’ ‘ How the People Lost the
Land; ’ ‘ The Reason Ireland has no Manufactures; ’ ‘ How a Lettered People was Reduced by Force and Law to Illiteracy; ’ ‘ How the People Lost their Parliament; ’ ‘ Peculiar Features of Irish Landlordism; ’ ‘ How the Landlords sowed the Seed of the Land League; ’ ‘The Men who Gathered the Crop;’ ‘A Landlord’s Agents Gets into the Dictionary; ’—the origin of the process of ‘ Boycotting;’ ‘Crime and Coercion;’ ‘The Irish Tenant Today;’ ‘The Peasant Farmer in Other European Countries,’—an interesting account of the methods by whch peasant proprietry was established on the Continent and its effects on the destinies of the people and the states in which it exists. It was necessary, of course, to enter into the religious dissensions which so long prevailed while the Reformation was making progress in Catholic countries, and the fairness and impartiality with which these wretched strifes are described are among the virtues of the volume. The collection of statistics is of the greatest importance to a thorough understanding of the economic issue, as well as to the appreciation of political questions ; and only standard authorities have been employed in their preparation.”
Art, Music, and Literature.
—The Herold des Glaubens states that that excellent illustrated magazine Katholische Missionen, which.so far has appeared only in the German language, will this year be brought out also in the Polish tongue. The editors will be the Jesuit Fathers in Cracow.
—From the 1st of January there will be published in Vienna, twice a week, a paper which is printed in at least twelve languages. By and by samples will be gradually issued in more than two thousand languages and dialects.
—That little fellow there in the corner in the rusty black suit, is the stock author of the theatre. What a leok of haggard wistfulness there is about his face as he sits there on the outskirts of the circle waiting for any scrap of conversation that may be thrown to him from the-surrounding tables. He is only a poor dog of a playwright. Watch him as he sits lingering over his modest tankard; you would not think, to look at that furrowed brow and thinning hair, that he is yet young. Such, however, is the fact; his present drudgery has compelled him to borrow a few years of his life in advance from Old Father Time, and the date of payment is rapidly coming due. The menagerial cupboard is filled with work of his, and more than half the applause which so pampers these inflated players is due to him; but you cannot make them think so. An author is but a jackal to these spangled lion?, and should be content with the remains of the feast. So let him mask his withered little face in smiles, borrow a few more years from that inexorable old creditor, and die as becomes him, in his obscure garret feeding their fame.—Tinsley's May azine.
—In old monastic days good eating was under a ban. It imagined that the brain could best be kept clear and vigorous on a low diet. Romantic young ladies in our time love to think of their favorite authors as fed on a divine ambrosia. It brings them down to a common level to associate them with roast beef and mutton. Poor Charlotte Bronte was once disenchanted of her hero-worship. Thackeray was her favorite author, and in her lonely home on the moors, her imagination invested him with all ideal graces. On a visit to London she was lifted to the summit of happiness by an invitation to a dinner where Thackeray was to be one of the guests. She was introduced to the great man and sat next to him. It was a red-letter day in her life, and memory was on the alert to retain all his bright sayings and report them to her sisters. Thackeray, however, did little talking, but much eating. He had recently recovered from a severe attack of typhoid fever, which left him with a ravenous appetite, while the dinner was exceptionally good. Charlotte looked on in wonder at his feats, and the surprise gradually changed to disgust. One more idol had turned to clay. If she had known the modern law of the conservation of forces, her charity might not have failed her.
300
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
7
Noti’e Dame, January 38, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
AU the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list ajp printed.
—We have had quite a number of very successful entertainments during the first session, and not by any means the least of the many excellences which commended them to favorable notice was the fact that they were not pro. traded to unreasonable length. Long exhibitions, however excellent the programme, are as much out of date as long sermons or long editorials. Something short, pointed, and snappy is what most men want nowadays; and few care for more amusement at one instalment than can be crowded into a two hours’ programme. “The new departure ” is a good one—let it be followed up.
—The first session is rapidly drawing to a close. Before the next issue of the Scholastic it will be numbered among the things that were, but are no more. For many reasons it deserves to be considered one of the most succes-ful—if it is not the most successful—periods of the same length in the University. It has witnessed a marked increase in the attendance. It has seen vigorous efforts made to remove several long-standing causes of complaint, and to introduce many improvements of different kinds, all of which tend materially to promote the comfort and happiness of the students. The bonds of union between students and Faculty were never closer. Expulsions and suspensions, those unpleasant necessities of college life, have been comparatively few; and yet unusually good order has generally prevailed.
Under these circumstances, and in such an era of goodwill and good-feeling, it is not surprising that a great amount of good work—as the examinations now going oo
clearly demonstrate—has been done. The students, to use one of their favorite expressions, have meant “ business” from the start, and the immense majority have reason to be pleased with the result of the session’s work. Several classes, we are informed, have crowded the work of two sessions into one, and there is reason to believe that there will be very few students blessed with so little ambition or talent as to be doomed to spread the work of a session over the whole year.
The Societies have also done their full share. The Thespians were never before so numerous or, interested in their work; the Philodemics, though a little unfortunate at first, recovered their energies in time to do good service, as the encomiums which their last public debate won abundantly' testify; the Columbian Hall is becoming too small to accommodate the enthusiastic workers of that association. The Cecilians have kept up their old-time reputation; and the youthful Philopatrians are bracing up for their struggle with the next Stacian mellow-drama. We say nothing of the Euglossians, but anyone who imagines that they are either dead or sleeping is referred for more accurate information to the dwellers on the second floor of the College building.
The coming week will witness' the reorganizing of the classes for the second session, and it will also be the proper time for good resolutions. We advise all those who are satisfied with the result of the past five months’ work to resolve to keep on in the same course, and those who are not quite so well pleased with themselves and their works should take this opportunity to “ turn over a new leaf.”
We are sorry, in conclusion, to be obliged to confess that the Scholastic has not shared in the general progress, but we trust that its contributors who have manifested of late rather too decided an inclination to let it “severely alone,” will lend their aid during the coming session to make it the fit exponent of the views of the four hundred energetic, spirited and intelligent students of ’81-’82.
—The exchange editors of the College press—“fighting ” editors they are called, although the amount of writing done by some of them might well entitle them to the cognomen of “ writing ” editors—vary in their opinions as to the province of a College paper. Some maintain that it should be mainly taken up with college news, others that it should give an indication of, and draw out, the ability of the students in something more than news-squibs. We believe in the golden mean, and although circumstances that can be well imagined by college editors prevent us from bringing the Scholastic up to our ideal of what a college paper should be, yet we receive assurances from time to time that our efforts are appreciated. The Beacon from Boston University, in a late issue expressed the opinion that we made a mistake in publishing a long (and, we thought, very interesting) article a few weeks ago, but we can furnish evidence that a still longer and less sprightly article in a later issue of the Scholastic has been read with much greater interest than a short one, however well written. Of course, the means we have taken to obtain a copy of the letter may be questioned (the recipient refused to let us have it for publication, alleging, as a pretext for withholding it, that he must first have the permission of the writer), but we take all the risks, and trust to the good-nature of both the Hon. Mr. Hurd and Mr. Arnold to forgive the liberty we have taken.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
301
Toledo, Ohio, Jan. 16th, 1882.
My Dear Sir:—This morning I read in the Scholastic of Jan. the 7th your argument in favor of Free Trade. I was sq pleased with its clear presentation of the question, with the thorough knowledge of the subject it exhibited, and with the broad, generous, comprehensive views it contained, that I cannot refrain from addressing you this letter to congratulate you upon your effort. The speech gives promise that you will be one of the leaders in the great coming struggle to overthrow the gigantic monopoly of protection, and to that conflict I in' vite and welcome you as a coadjutor. The battle will be at its hottest when you are in the first flushes of your early enthusiasm, and I know that you will be able to strike sturdy blows for the right with the earnestness which youthful vigor gives; and you will be with us, I trust, to enjoy the victory which awaits this cause of justice and humanity, which Cobden calls “God’s common law among nations.”
Again congratulating you upon your splendid effort, and wishing you many years in which to battle for the cause you have so nobly espoused, I am
Yours very truly,
Frank H. Hurd.
Wm. H. Arnold, Notre Dame, Indiana.
That is a letter of which any undergraduate might well feel proud. The Hon. Frank Hurd needs no introduction to the American public at our hands. He was acknowledged to be one of the leading Democratic members of the last Congress, both as a profound thinker and an orator. A friend of ours, when in Washington a year ago, called to see him at the House of Representatives, but Mr. Hurd was not in his seat. Inquiring where he could be found, he was told that Mr. Hurd might be in the Supreme Court or in one of the Committee-rooms; it was hard to tell. Mr. Hurd was one of the ablest men' in Congress, and was looked up to and consulted in all important matters by the Democratic members. We congratulate Willie Arnold on the warm-hearted eulogium paid his essay by such an eminent lawyer, statesman and orator as the Hon. Frank Hurd.
The Minims.
The following lines have been written by a kind patron of our young friends. We trust that they will ever deserve to retain his good opinion, warmly expressed as it is:
What are the Minims ? This is a very difficult question to answer; I doubt if I can answer it satisfactorily. Minims are called by a varietyof sweet names: in Rome they go under the beautiful designation of “piccolini in Paris they are called, atec un souris, “ les chers petitsin Vienna, “ die kinderlein in Madrid, “ los muchachitos at Notre Dame, 11 the angels of the place"; which, in our opinion, is the best of all. This, however, is a matter of taste, on which there is,asarule, no discussion admissible; but we feeicondent that every refined and loving mother will agree with us and say that if Notre Dame Minims are not emphatically and peremptorily the most accomplished, the most polite, the nicest and neatest and prettiest, in a word the most attractive little legion of their age in the world, they are unquestionably, at least, second to no others in the world; of this we are satisfied.
But what are they doing? We would prefer the negative, and state what they are not doing. They never incur any severe punishment, because they never deserve such infliction. Minims here neverjdisobey, never.lie, never steal, never swear, nor idle their time. Now, to their actual doings: 1st, they sleep 9 hours out of every 24; 2d, They eat
5 regular meals per day; 3d, They play 5 times for the important culture of their lower faculties, and never study less than 6 full hours a day; studying, learning and mastering every branch marked out in the programme of their department, especially spelling, reading, ciphering, writing, drawing, and travelling like spirits over the States, the oceans, England, Europe, and back again, among Chinese and the entire globe. Thus, our angels accomplish daily no small task; and when the evening comes, they retire, after night prayer, with a light heart and a new stock of knowledge they would feel delighted to exhibit to their dear papas and mimmas before going to sleep. Happy little beings! Who would not wish to be one of them? free from remorse, free from fear, looking up with confidence on the smiling countenance of their heavenly Father, and resting, as it were, joyously in the arms of their loving divine Mother. Alas! many will say, there was a time each night we fell asleep in the same peace of heart and mind, and the happiest of our dreams was to see and to hear our sweet Model and Master say again: Sinite parvulos venire ad Me.
Personal.
—Mr. A. K. Schmidt, *77, has been spending a few days at the College. All his old friends were glad to see him.
—We are happy to state that T. J. Byrnes, ’79, was united in marriage, on the 11th inst., to a handsome and accomplished young lady of Lima, N. Y. "Tim,” accept our congratulations.
—We are glad to learn that our good friend A.B. Miller, editor of The South Bend Tribune, who was laid up with pneumonia for some weeks past, is again convalescent and at his post in the editorial chair.
—The many friends at Notre Dame of Prof. Otto Schnur-rer (and they seem to be legion, judging from the inquiries made about him) will be glad to learn that he and his fam-ly are well, and doing well in Hanover, Kansas. Prof. Schnurrer is in the drug and chemical business.
—Paul F. Schnurrer, of ’78, is managing his father’s farm a few miles west of Hanover, Kansas. Paul was pretty good at the cultivation of Greek and Latin roots at college, but we mistake much if greater dependence may not, in an emergency, be placed on Kansas roots. But with farmers, as with pthers, things are not always couleur de rose. Mr. Schnurrer writes that " if Cicero ever had been a Kansas farmer he would not have written: ‘ Omnium rerum ex guibus aliguid acguiritur, nihil agriculturd dulcius, homine libero dignius' etc.”
Iiocal Items.
—The Junior skating rink is now in good order.
—Harry Kitz took the first skate on the Junior rink.
—“ A trade is a trade for a’ that,” says our friend Brewster.
—Harry wants to know “ are there any more apples in the black satchel ? ”
—If you want a good time, attend the Mignon Club carnival, Monday night.
—William B. McGorrisk, of Des Moines, Iowa, will deliver the oration of the day on the 22d.
—The skating has been splendid this winter. No need, as in former years,- to have the ice cleared.
—The Moot-Court held by the Columbians last week was the best undertaking of the kind ever held at Notre Dame.
—The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association return thanks to Rev. D. E, Hudson for favors received.
302
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Geo. Schaefer has the thanks of the members of the Junior German table fur eine gute gebratene Gans, over which the}' had a good time.
—Rev. Father O’Reilly, of St Francis de Sales parish, Toledo, Ohio, has the thanks of the Lemonnier Library Association for favors received.
—The gas light is decidedly better of late. We congrat* ulate the authorities on the marked improvement which they have succeeded in bringing about.
—The Columbians are flourishing. Their meetings are interesting and very instructive. Great credit is due to their worthy president, who has spared nothing necessary to their advancement.
—The smiling face of genial Sam Terry will be missed by his fellow-students. He has gone to join the great army of the outside world. May he succeed in life, as no one better deserves to do so.	'
—Our venerable friend Mr. Donnelly, of Michigan City, who is spending a few weeks at the College, was slightly unwell last week. We are happy to be able to state that he has now entirely recovered.
—The Mignon Club suppers are furnished by D. W. Russ, the well-known caterer of South Bend. Mr. Russ’s restaurant, on the corner of Michigan and Jefferson streets, is one of the best places in the city to refresh the inner man.
—The following persons will lecture before the Columbian Club during the coming month: Mr. D. J. Wile, Attorney at Law, of Laporte, Ind.; Prof. Unsworth, who occupies the chair of English Literature in the University; and Prof. A. J. Stace.
—The Scholastic Annual of Notre Dame University for the present year, edited by J. A. Lyons, has just come from the press. It contains, as usual, in addition to its astronomical matter, a large quantity ot interesting general reading-matter.—Chicago Tribune.
—If any of our readers or friends have odd numbers or old volumts of Brownson's Quarterly Review they will confer a great favor on the University by forwarding them to the”librarian. Please address Librarian, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind.
—Some of the Seniors exhibited surprising agility in trying toescape from the Junior snow-balling party; but when the Seniors came out in force the tables were quickly turned, and we saw one or two dive frog-fashion in through the windows of the new building.
—Work is progressing on the new Music Hall. The extension to the Juniors’ play hall has been occupied for some time, and the Seniors hope soon to come into possession of their long-expected reading-room. The Commencement exercises will undoubtedly be held in the upper story.
—The Thespians are very numerous this year, and there is probably more dramatic talent among them than they have been able to boast of for many years past. Their Entertainment on Washington’s Birthday promises to be an unusually good one. The programme will be published in due time.
—Prof. Edwards deserves great credit for his efforts to build up the Library. He has already secured the nucleus of a very fine collection, and is adding to it every day. He is much cramped for space in the present library-rooms, but hopes that this complaint will be remedied before the end of the year.
-Talk by telephone.—A Senior wished to speak to a stationer at South Bend, but by accident opened communications with another place. Student: “ Hello! ” Answer: “What is it?” Student: “Haveyou got Barnum’s Baby Monkey?’’ Ans., sharply: “No!” Person at other end of line departs indignant.
—There is an ominous and rapidly-growing brick-pile at the extremity of the Seniors’ Study-Hall. It presages the building of the eastern wing, which has now become an absolute necessity, and on which work will be begun as soon as the weather will permit. We hope to see both wings, as well as the dome, completed before the end of ’82.
—The winter has certainly been a very mild one, yet the ■absence of snow has given the students an opportunity to enjoy more and better skating than for many years past.
The ice on both lakes has been for some time past in excellent condition, so thatj it has not been found necessary to use the rinks, which have proven so uncommonly hard to flood satisfactorily.
—“ The Merry, Merry Maidens and the Goat,” is the title of the latest popular college song. It is to be sung to the tune of a familiar “ Pinafore ” selection. We are informed that the episode, of which it contanis a graphic description, accounting for the mirth of the maidens, will be commemorated not in song alone, but that the artist’s pencil will likewise assist in handing it down to posterity.
—Before our next issue, the Classes will have been thoroughly reorganized for the second session. And our best wish for the College is, that the last half-year may prove as successful, in every respect, as the first. The unusually large attendance of students which has marked the year ’81-82 is not nearly so worthy of notice as the unusually exellent dispositions which they have invariably manifested.
—The members of the Mignon Club will hold high carnival in Washington Hall, Monday night? Among the distinguished persons who will be present on that occasion are William Tell, George Washington, Napoleon Bonaparte, Uncle Sam, Horace Greely, Sitting Bull, the Prince of Wales, Pizarro, Columbus, Henry the Eighth, and several other gentlemen well known in historical and social circles.
—The semi-annual examinations began on Wednesday last, and will end on Monday evening. The reports will probably be read in the Rotunda on Tuesday morning, and the averages will be published in next week’s Scholastic. Good work has been done in most of the Classes during the past session, and the eximiners, as a rule, express themselves very well pleased with the proficiency of the students.
—The 18th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association was held on Jan. 22d. Masters E. Wile and E. Drendle presented themselves lor membership and were unanimously elected members. The vocal music was furnished by S. R idgers, D C. Smith, J. Gallagher, J. Devine, and S. Gibert. Declamations were given by F. Farrelly, F. Lund, E. Tappan, H Sncc, and George Tourtillotte.	•
*4-—The life-size portrait of Columbus, in the vestibule, is tne observed of all observers and the admired of all critics. It is certainly one of the finest of the many works of art with which the genius of Prof. Gregori has enriched the University. The portrait of Isabella—also life-size—who will be represented as offering her jewels to promote the success of the great navigator’s enterprise, is also rapidly nearing completion.
—The Scholastic Annual has become one of the stand ard publications of the country. Aside from its astrolog-ical^calculations, the compiler, Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, always presents such a rare literary feast that his book is as eagerly looked for as it is appreciatively read. The Annual for 1882 is the 7th in the series. Prof. Lyons will please accept the thanks of the Tribune for a copy.—South-Bend Tribune.	'
—No boys at Notre Dame are more thoroughly in earnest in their preparation for examination than the Minims. They don’t know what puzzle Father General may bring ' forward. At the last examination they found how many square inches of skin, and how many hairs there were on his Kilkenny cat, Raminagrobis. This time he may want them to count how many bricks will be required to build the dome that he intends to commence in spring.
—There is quite a- spirit of emulation created among the members of the Elocution Class in the Mmim department by a promise made them by Very Rev. Father General last Monday. Afier hearing the class read, and * giving some practical instructions on the necessity for a good elocutionist to be thoroughly trained in the inflections and modulation of the voice, the better to enable him to convey, not only the meaning, but the feeling of the author, he promised a handsome prize to the best reader at his next visit.
—Prof. Stace, it is rumored, is putting the finishing touches on his grand spectacular, mythologico-historical
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
303
drama of Romules and Remus. We are authorized to contradict the statement, which has lately been widely circulated, that the jokes with which it is said fairly to bristle, are all of the pre historic period, although the genial Prof, does not deny that there is a flavor of classic antiquity about the greater number of them. We hope to see the play brought out some time during the coming session by the Philopatrians.
—The South-Bend Tribune company have just added to their finely-equipped printing establishment a mammoth new Cottrell printing-press in order to enable them to turn out with speed and in the best possible manner the large orders for printing poured in on them by the South Bend merchants. The Tribune.company have now one of the most complete establishments in Indiana. The Register Company have also lately put in a handsome Cottrell press for similar purposes. South Bend merchants need go no further than their own city for the finest class of printing and binding.
—The sparks that issued at a rather lively rate from the chimney of the Old Mens’ Home, last Sunday evening, gave our friend John the opportunity to recall to his mind the deeds ofheroic daring that he had performed at the burning of the old College. The manner in which he had fought the flames, inch by inch, on the roof,—his saving of three lives, and his miraculous escape down the heated lightning-rod from the sixth story, were all vividly portrayed; and so absorbed was he in the thrilling tale that the muttered “ Oh, give us a rest! ” of his companions around the supper-table was entirely lost on him.	•
—The Evening Chronicle of the 24th ult. has the following criticism of a recent lecture: The lecture of Col. Copeland on “ Snobs and Snobbery ” was not an unqualified success. He told some stories that were good, and uttered some sentiments that all could applaud. There is no doubt there are snobs in this country, and there is less doubt about their harmlessness. But a lecture about th< m would be improved by less irreverence, slang and vulgarity than Col. Copeland put into it. That he was an insufferable snob himself was apparent to his audience long before his two-hcur harangue concluded.
—At one of the regular meetings of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club a Moot Court was held. J. M-Falvey, Judge; E. J. Taggart, Clerk; J. R.Marielt. Sheriff. The case was, “The State of Indiana, vs. J. H. Browne, charged with Burglary and Larceny.” C. H. Tinley and J. Kindel, procecuting attorneys; M. Healey, J. Farrell, lawyers for defendant. The jury consisted of the following gentlemen: Perley, foreman; Becerra, Smith, Murphy, Schmitt, and Vander Heyden. The council for either side handled their case in first-class style, and the judge presided with ease and dignity. The j ury rendered verdict of “ Not guilty.”
—The 9th regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin was held Sunday evening, Jan. 22J. At this meeting the Rev. Fathers Granger and StotteJ, and Bros. Leander, Philip and Marcellinus, were present. The ten-minutes’ instruction was given by Rev. Father Walsh. G. L. Deschamp explained the devotion of the Scapular; J. F. Grever gave a sketch of the life of St. Francis de Saks. A synopsis of each was given by C. C. Echlin and F. McPhillips. The following were appointed to read-compositions at the next regular meeting: A. Coghlih, M. Foote, and F. McPhillips. After a few remarks from the President the meeting adjourned.
—Lost, Strayed, or Stolen—The heavy weight ot the Thespian Association, Mr. Daniel Danahey. When last seen, he was reported to have turned his face towards the setting sun with the object of fortver settling a geographical question which has of late given rise to much heated discussion in certain circles, viz., whether the alleged town of Aurora, which most reputable atlases repudiate, exists in reality or not. “ It is not improbable that an expedition for the discovery of Mr. Danahey’s whereabouts will be fitted out by the Association of which he is an honored member, and which could with difficulty dispense with his valuable services on an occasion like the 22d.”
—The 20th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-
thean Association was held on Jan. 4th. Masters J. S. Courtney and M. Dolan were unanimously elected members. Masters E. Fishel, C. Rose and J. Courtney presented essays. Declamations were delivered by C. Porter, C. Rose, J. Grever, W. Mahon, G. Rhodius, and G. Casta-nedo. The readers appointed for the coming week are G. Rhodius, J. Kelly, H. Porter, C. Porter, E. Fishel, G. Cas-tanedo, J. Grever, A. Coghlin, P. Hoffman,W. Johnston, W. P. Mahon, W. Coghlin, and S. Murdock. Various committees appointed to transact business were then disbanded. After returning an unanimous vote of thanks to Rev. Father Walsh, the meeting adjourned.
—We notice that in - the singing of the Psalms the accent is almost invariably placed on the wrong syllable; for instance in the Gloria Patri, the accent in the word Spiritui is placed on the syllable tu .when it should be on ri. Metre and pronunciation can be observed in singing as well as in reading, and when we depart from the certain and absolute laws of pronunciation, and accent a word or syllable otherwise than in the manner laid down by general rule and custom, we only make ourselves ridiculous in the eyes of persons of common sense. Again, the last syllable of a word never has the accent, and should never be lengthened or dwelt upon as it is sometimes in singing. We advise some of our friends to look to their rules of pronunciation.
—The 13th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on Sunday Jan. 22d. A lively debate was held on the question “Is St. Louis a belter city than Chicago”? On the affirmative side were Masters Rene Papin, Philip Campau, Daniel L. McCawley, and Ryan Devereux. On the negative side, Masters John J. McGrath, Willie Miller, Tommie Norfolk, and Charlie Metz. After the question was warmly debated for an hour, the President, Professor J. F. Edwards, reluctantly decided in favor of the negative. On motion from the chair it was proposed and carried that the question be again debated at the next meeting. The president made a speech, in the course of which he complimented the members on the gentlemanly manner in which the debating was carried on. His address was received with applause.
—Lately, the members of the Spanish, French, and German classes formed a plan by which the study of these respective languages could be brought into practical effect. This was the formation of conversational circles in the refectory at meal times. Except when there is an exception made by unanimous consent, concurred in by the president of the table, a word spoken out of the language studied is a finable offense. The plan works admirably, and we may soon expect to see similar circles of Latin and Greek. The boys at the Junior German table seem to be a jolly set of fellows and enjoy the new wrinkle, and none more so than those , among them who are not Germans. Joe Courtney, for instance, is one of the most enthusiastic, and even John, the waiter, a son of the Emerald Isle, enters into the sport, and one can hear from him with a polite bow, “ Was wunschen Sie?" or "Sind Sie fertig?"
—The Euglossians were tendered a reception in Wash -ington Hall, last Tuesday evening, by their worthy president, who had invited Mr. Duer, the well-known elocutionist of South Bend, Ind., to meet the young gentlemen of the Club. Mr. Duer delivered the foltowing selections in his usual felicitous style: “Independence Bell,” “Drifting,” “Horatius at the Bridge,” a selection from Henry IV, a Parody on “ Sheridan’s "Ride,” and an Irish and German delineation. Mr. Duer’s voice has improved much since last we had the pleasure of hearing him, and we hope he will soon favor us again with a seance which can be attended by a larger audience. After the elocutionary exercises a soiree dansante was in order, until supper was announced by the ubiquitous “ Marshal.” Full justice having been done the dysters, turkey, and other national dishes, the remainder of the evening was passed irf social converse, enlivened by the singing of College choruses with accompaniment by the Mignon Club Orchestra.
—A few days ago, we paid a visit to Phelan Hall to see a very fine collection of new specimens lately obtained by the Curator of the Museum. They were very tastily arranged in large cases and presented a very beautiful appearance. They consisted principally of corals, shells,
304
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
star-fishes and echinoderms. Some of the largest and most beautiful of the corals were several fine specimens of Brain coral (diploria cerebriformis) of unusually large size, some very noticeable ones of madrefora aspera, as also some exceedingly fine mushroom-corals (Ctenactis echinata) and besides many others, all of which were about the ordinary, we noticed quite an elegant and varied collection of Sea-fans (Gorgonias). The shells that were especially attractive by reason of their size and beauty were the Tridachna Squamosa, spondylus calcifera and Hippopus maculata. Besides these, we were struck very forcibly by the large size of the collection of nutra, coni, Cyprma cassis, murex purpura, etc. Turning from the shells we saw quite an elegant lot of star fishes and echinoderms, which were especially worthy of notice. As we were leaving, exceedingly pleased with the size and beauty of the collection of corals, shells etc., our attention was called to several most beautiful specimens' of uplectilla speciosa which greatly increased in our eyes the value of the whole.
—The following books were lately added to the Lemon-nier Librarv: “ The Life and Public Services of James A. Garfield,” J. M. Bundy; “Poems,” by Alfred W. Arrington ; Michaud’s History of the Crusades, 3 Vols.; Charles Lamb’s Complete Works, Including “ Elia" and “ Eliana,’’ 3 Vols.; Father Prout’s Reliques; “The Bird of Truth and Other Tales,” by Fernan Caballero, translated by J. H. Ingram; “Catholicity and Pantheism,” De Concilio; “ Irish Faith in America,” translated from the French by Miss Ella McMahon; “Gentle Skeptic,” by Clarence Walworth; “Why a Catholic in the Nineteenth Century,” by William Giles Dix; Ars Semper Gaudendi, Demonstrata ex Sola Consideratione Divinae Providentiae, Alphonso Antonio De Sarasa, Coloniae Agrippin®, anno 1676; Commentaria R. P. Cornelii a Lapide, S. J., In Ecclesiasten, Canticum Canticorum et Librum Sapientiae, Antverpiae, 1657; Commentaria ac Disputationes in Pri-mam Partem Divi Thomae de Deo Uno et Trino, Auctore R. P. D. Francisco Suanz Granatensi, Moguntiae, 1607; R. P. Francisci Suarez, Defensio Fidei Catholic® et Apostolic® adversus Anglican® Sect® Errores, cum responsione ad Apologiam pro Juvamento Fidelitatis et Pr®fationem Monitoriam Serenissimi Jacobi Magna Britannia Regis, Mogunti®, Anno Domini, 1619. The members of the Association return thanks to Major Edmond Mallet for “ Fete Nationale des Canadiens-Fran^ais Celebree a Quebec en 1880, par H. J. J. B. Chouinard; Discours sur la Situation des Canadiens aux Etats-Uris, Prononce a la Convention Nationale de Quebec, le 26 Juin, 1880, Par Edmond Mallet de Washington, D. C.; Panegyrique du R<;v. Edouard Crevier, V. G. prononce a la Distribution des Prix au Petit Seminaire de Sainte Marie de Monnoir le 30 Juin, 1881, par Charles Thebault, Ecr. Avocat et Echevin de Montreal; “ Color Blindness,” Dr. Joy. Mr. Adam Schmitt, of Cincinnati, has the thanks of the librarian for a copy of “ Treasury of General Information,” published by Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co., of Cincinnati.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. H. Arnold, J. C. Armijo, W. H. Bailey, W. B. Berry, F. M. Bell, B. Becerra, T. Cullen, 8. G. Clements M. J. Carroll, E. V. Chelini, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, G. Clarke, N. Commer-ford, A. D. Dorsey, J. Donegan, J. Drury, A. Dehner, M. E. Donohue, B. Eaton, F. Ewing, W. Flannery, E. J. Fenlon, T. P. Fenlon, J. Farrell, R. E. Fleming, T. F. Flyun, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburne, A. Graves, W. E. Grout, W. W. Gray, A J. Golonski, F. H. Grever, F. Godfroy, M. Henoch, A. Jones, A. Jackson, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella, J. Kindel, A. Kunts-mannJG. M. Kerndt, M. Livingston, H. Letterhos, J. C. Larkin, J. M. Murphy, G. Metz, J. R. Marlett, G. E. McErlain, F. M. Monoghan, F. X. Murphy, W. McCarthy, J. Millett, C. I. McDermott, J. A. McIntyre, H. W. Morse, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, W. McEniry, W. McDevitt, J. Nash, H. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, W, J. O’Connor, T, O’Rourke, E. C. Orrick, J, N.
Osher, E. A. Otis, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, 8. Pillars, 8. 8. Perley, L. Proctor, J. P. Piefer, E. J. Ryan, F. Rettig, P. Rasche, W. E. Ruger, A. P. Schindler, J. E Schalk, W. Schofield, B. Schofield, J. Solon; E. E. Smith, C. A. Smith H. Steis. W. Vander Heyden, F. Ward, F. 8. Weber, J. A. White, E. D. Yrisarri.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. A. Browne, W. F. Bacon, W. H. Barron, F. Barnard, A. J. Campau, W. J. Cavanaugh. J. L. Castillo, M. Dolan, J. A. Drendel, W. Dare, N. H. Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, R. French, H. Fisher, L. G. Gibert, J. G. Grever, E. B. Gerlach, J. W. Guthrie, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, T. J. Hurley, W. E. Freyermuth, J. L. Heffernan, J. Halligan, W. E. Jeannot, J. P. Jones, C. C. Kolars, O. Kempf, H. A. Kitz, J. T. McGordon, W. J. Muhlke, F. McPhillips, 8. T. Murdock, M. E. Murphy. J. H. Meyer, J. E. Orchard, J. P. O’Donnell, H. P. Porter, C. F. Porter, A. L. Richmond, W. J. Ruprecht, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, D. C. Smith, H. C. Snee, C. D. Baviers G. H. Schaefer, A. T. Taggart, T. Williams, W. Warren, J. E. Zaehnle, C. Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. P. Johnson. C. Metz, J. H. Dwenger, M. E. Devitt, Ryan Devereux, W. J. Miller, J. F. Nester, W. P. Devine, J. A. Frain, A. J. Kelly D. L. MeCawley, C. H. McGordon, R. V. Papin, D. A. O’Connor, T. Norfolk, J. 8. Chaves, P. Campau, C. Campau, Donn A. Piatt. E. P. Nash, W. Walsh, W. Welch, J. L. Kose, F. 8. Whitney, W. Prindiville, L. J. Young, E. S. Chir-hart, E. A. Thomas, G. G. Gibson, W. M. Masi, J. Tong, L. P. Graham, A. P. Roberts, A. J. Otis, H. C. Dirksmeyer, J. Garrity, F. I. Garrity, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, B. B. Powell, G. Price, A. Devine. A. B. Hewitt, H. J. Ackerman, C. Quinlan, J. T. Kelly, D. Prindiville, P. 8. Gibson, F. P. Nester, W. J. Stange, J. Hopkins.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of St udies.
Reading and Orthography—F. Godfroy; Grammar—C. Echlin, T. Hurley, E. Orchard, W. O’Connor, J. Concannon, W. Ruger, F. Lund, D. Corry, W. Grout, I. Treon, H. Akin, E. Bryant, F. Paquette; Geography and History—C. Devoto, J. Kahman, A. Brewster, J. Devine, J. Halligan, S. Lipmann ; Arithmetic —E. Blackman, F. O’Rourke, H. Akin, E. Orchard, M. Dolan, W. Jeannot, 8. Katz, W. Bacon, J. Flynn, F. Lund, W. Dare, A. Brewster, J. Warner, E. Schmitt, E. Bailey, G. Clements, A. Golonski, H. Letterhos ; Latin—J. McIntyre, H. Porter, T. Healy; R. E. Fleming, J. Browne; Greek— F. Murphy, F. Clarke, W. Cleary; A'gebra—H. Porter, R. E. Fleming, F. Bell, F. Baker, J. Boose, C. Rose, A. Schiml, H. Steis, F. Ward, W. McEniry, W. Bailey, W. Johnson, F. Martin, J. Millet, C. Kolars, E. Fishel, C. Murdock, C. Fishburne.
One Mile West of Notre Name University.
—On the 19th, the Very Rev. E. Hannon, of Toledo, Ohio, visited his friends at St. Mary’s.
—The pupils will be examined in Latin, French and German on the 26th; English branches on the 28th, 30tb, and 31st.
—The examination in the Music Department commenced on the 18th. Two and a half hours a day are devoted to the same, until each music pupil has been thoroughly examined in theory and execution.
—On the 22d, all the Classes in Christian Doctrine were examined in presence of Very Rev. Father Sorin, C. S. C., Rev. Father Walsh, President of the University, and Rev. Fathers Shortis, Saulnier and Zahm, C. S. C. The examination proved highly satisfactory.
—Visitors during the week were: Miss Josephine Loche, of St. Louis, Mo.; Mrs. R. Beardsley, of Elkhart, Ind.; T. Donnelly, Michigan City; Miss M. A. Murray, and Miss M. A. Hannon, of Toledo, Ohio; Mr. Raphael Becerra, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	305
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,’' monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
Music.
[Under this head will appear, occasionally, extracts from Lectures to the St. Cecilian and Gregorian Societies, at St. Mary’s Academy. The material for these Lectures, culled from every reliable source, have during the last four years become a prominent feature of the musical instruction of the Academy.]	•
How to Listen to Music.
Listening to music, especially the higher sort, demands so much education, concentrated study, and attention, that to attempt to teach it would involve traversing the whole range of musical art, so I merely make a few suggestions, leaving the following of them out to those interested.
Many fail to enjoy the best things in fine music, either from natural incapacity or want of a cultured ear, too often deadened by exclusive familiarity with the common sensual trash with which the land is flooded.
Some of you may have reached the position of ideal listening; others represent the average listener. To the latter I address these few words, and not to the cultivated musician. You have doubtless heard fine orchestras and lesser musical associations with attention, but perhaps you were not aware that execution and vivid coloring absorbed your mind, and that real beauties remarked by others had entirely escaped your ears. The knowledge necessary to grasp the great tone-pictures, analyze their elements, and probe every detail of complex works, takes years of profound research in the realms of theoretical science and technical art. To fully appreciate and enjoy the higher classic styles, you must study the Design, Form,’ Rhythm, Modulation, and Instrumentation.
By Instrumentation, I mean the effects produced by the changing of various instruments. The amount of skill, knowledge and taste needed by the composer in thus voicing the parts is incredible, throwing the strong effect of light and color on some particular instrument, while the background, of sombre hue and delicate shading, is given to others. Yet how much of this beauty and sweetness is lost on the majority of listeners, who innocently imagine that the beauties of an orchestral symphony should be as plain to their ears as the grandeur of a glorious sunset would be to their eyes.
To learn to listen before you have acquired full knowledge of the laws governing the composition of these great masterpieces of art, we must take one thing at a time, in order to improve our observation. First, you must follow the bass. This is often extremely difficult, but unless you are able to discriminate the fundamental roots of the various harmonies, how can you analyze the other parts? and to succeed in this, you have to resolutely ignore a great deal of what is to be heard in order to concentrate your whole attention to one point. With this acquired observation you will soon distinguish the various chords and their most subtile of musical effects—modulation, for instance. While listening to a purposely bold, remote modulation, you find that many changes, equally remote, were made with such masterly insidiousness as to leave the average listener totally unconscious of change of tonality.
Minor keys are more difficult to trace than major. You
can tell you are listening to the minor mode, hut its characteristic vagueness and uncertainty render it at times more than difficult to trace its incoming and outgoing.
Of form it is not my present purpose to speak; however, it is important to know that a glee or part-song, a chorus or a madrigal, differ from one another, as much as a sonata differs from a fugue. To know to what one is listening is a help to know for what to listen. His interest in a fugue must be small who regards the first few measures as a sort of tuning-up, to which it is unnecessary to attend, and who waits in vain for that clean-cut cadence, that repose which it is the very business of the composer to avoid. If you listen to a fugue, take pains to remember the subject and watch for it always. To enjoy a good Symphony, hold the two or more subjects well in your mind; strive to trace their transformation, and be ready for their return. A score of things just now crowd upon my thoughts, many of them less technical and more asthet-ical, a branch I have not touched, as time allows me to make only a few suggestions on which you are to work. Let me ask, how many, on a single hearing, could give an account of an elaborate instrumental or vocal work ? How many describe harmonies, rhythms, noticeable modulations, or even form without a laborious examination of the printed copy? To what end do many give hours of study to mastery of details on paper, and from books, if but little of this knowledge is applied to listening. If you wish to enjoy music, make up your mind to listen for and to something; don’t listen without an attempt at discrimination, and you will be gratified to find that using this power of observation does not shut out your former, pleasure, though apparently engrossing your whole attention. For, by some process of unconscious observation* you will be enabled to notice and remember all that formerly occupie dy our whole attention.
To Veronica R---------.
When Jesus trod the doleful way That led to Calvary’s height, With tears and blood His sacred face Was streaming—woful sight!
’Mid jeers and taunts they urged Him on, They covered Him with shame, When through that impious heathen crowd A noble woman came.
Veronica, with grateful heart, Unmoved by tannts and jeers, Rushed forth to wipe that sacred face . From streaming blood and tears.
Her heart recalled the precious boon By miracle bestowed, When from His garment healing power So generously had flowed— * And now she’ll minister to Him, Butlo! oh, wondrous grace! Her kerchief holds the effigy Of Jesus’ sacred face.
Then serve, dear friend, with generous love, Our Saviour in His poor, And thus Veronica’s reward
• You’ll certainly secure.
His sacred countenance impressed
* St. Mark, v. 34.
306	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Upon a generous heart, This gives a beauty unsurpassed That never will depart.
Thoughts. (Madame Swetchine.)
I.	'
I love knowledge; I love intellect; I love faith—simple faith yet more—I love God’s shadow more than man’s light.
’ 84.
The great danger of gifted people is, that they are not much better assured than others against falling into error; while they have a great many more ways of rendering it harmful.	•
Airelles. (Swetchine.) •
66.
The labor which perfects our intellectual faculties while it develops, elevates, rectifies and clarifies our ideas, is the source of a wealth which tends to become inherent, and which positively augments our individual worth. Those acquirements which simply furnish the mind, which are imported into it without taking root, or adding anything to its power and compass, are our property indeed; but they are not ourselves, and they leave us, in point of moral value, just where they found us. Gold, tortoise shell, and ivory may embellish a lyre; but these vain ornaments can never cause it to send forth full and sonorous tones.
'	67.	-
• To have ideas is to gather flowers. To think is to weave them into garlands.
.	89.
We are early struck by bold conceptions and brilliant thoughts: later we learn to appreciate natural grace and the charm of simplicity. In early youth we are hardly sensible of any but very lively emotions. All that is not dazzling appears dull; all that is not affecting, cold. Conspicuous beauties overshadow those which must be sought; and the mind in its haste to enjoy, demands facile pleasures. Ripe age inspires us with other thoughts. We retrace our steps; taste critically what before we devoured; study, and make discoveries; and the ray of light, decomposed under our hands, yields a thousand shades for one color.	'
96.
Suspicion has its dupes, as well as credulity.
Airelles. (Madame Swetchine.)
100.
A good action leaves behind it an impression of seemingly incompatible effects. On the one hand it attaches us to life; on the other, it strengthens us against deathin the first instance, it mediates between us and our sorrows; in the second, between God and ourselves. The Christian is the man who can, logically, both love life and desire death. Have we not here the secret of that Sove reign Good which Plato sought ?
115.
Only a just appreciation of temporal things will enable us to possess them tranquilly, or console ourselves for their loss.	________________________
Roll of Honor.
FOE politeness, neatness, amiability, and corbect deportment.
Par excellence—Misses A. Cavenor, C. Claffey, E. Galen, S. Hanbury, 8. Walsb, M. Clarke, A. Dillon, M. Feehan, M. Wiley, M. Beale, M. Campbell, E. Call, E. Chrischellls, C. Donnelly,
R. Fishburne, L. Fendriek, A. Glennon, J. Heneberry, L. Lancaster, McKenna, A Nash, A Price, A. Rasche, M. Simms, E. Shickey, E Vander Heyden, H. Van Patten, K. Wall, J. Barlow, L. Black, M. Casey, Etta Call, M. Call, L. Coryell, M. Fishburne, N. Hackett, B. Legnard, A. Mowry, J. Owens, Margaret Price, V. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, A. Rulison, E. Thompson, E. Wright, Harrigan, Adduley, K. Fenlon, M. Fleming, M. Metzger, K. Mulligan, M. Newton, M. H. Ryan,- M. Reutlinger, M. Behler, A. Gavan, M. Green, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, M. Mulvey. J. Pampell, I. Smith, A. Ives, M. Watson. M. Eldridge. 2d Tablet—Misses L. Fox, C. Bland, C. Campbell, L. French, M. A Ryan, J. Butts, N. Keenan, E. McCoy, N. Mc-Gordon, Mary Price, Maude Price, S. Papin, C. Rosing, E. Todd A. Davenport, M. Garrity, A. Watson, L. Williams.	’
.	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses C. Ginz, C. Lancaster, J. Spangler, H. Ramsey, S. Semmes, A. Clarke, M. Chirhart, E. Considine, M. Coogan, M. Dillon, L. Heneberry, A. Martin, J. O’Neill, M. Paquette, F. Robertson, A. Wright, W. Mosher, J. Krick, C. Richmond, Mary Otis. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Thomann, C. Ducey, M. Fisk, M. Morgan, C. Patterson, M. Rogers, M. Chaves, E. Mattis, M. Otero, L. Robertson, M. Schmidt, J. McGrath.
‘	minim department.	.
• Par excellence—Misses N. Brown, E. Rigney, Martha Otis, M. Paul, J. McKennon, H. Castanedo, M. Barry, E. Burtis, A. Sawyer, J. McGrath.
THE SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING, AND SCULPTURE.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Second Class—Misses 8. Papin, L. Fox, L. Lancaster, C. Lancaster, L. French.
Second Div.—Misses A. Rasche, B. Legnard, C. Campbell. C. Wall, L. Fendriek.
3d Class—Misses P. Ewing, J. Owens, M. Wilkins, M.Price, M. Garrity, M. Richardson.
2d Div.—Misses E. Vander Hayden, H. Van Patten, C. Donnelly, M. Wilev, A. Rulison, A. Watson, M. Call, E. Hackett, V. Reilly.' 8. McKenna, A. Clarke, H. Hicks, J. Krick, G. O'Neill, A. Price, Margaret Price, A. Nash, H. Nash, A. Martin, M. Casey, K. Mulligan, M. A. Ryan, C. Pease, M. H. Ryan..
PAINTING in water-colors.	.
3d Class—Misses J. Owens, A. Rulison, H. Van Patten, P. Ewing, J. Spangler, M. Wilkins. N. McGordon, M. Garrity, E. Hacketr, C. Donnelly, 8. McKenna, M. Wiley, M. Call^ H. Hicks, E. Galen, 8. Hanbury.
PORCELAIN PAINTING.
Misses A. Rasche, N. Thompson, 8. Papin.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses 8. Papin, C. Campbell, L. Fox, L. Lancaster, C. Lancaster.
2d Div., 2d Class—Misses B. Legnard, L. French, C. Wall, M. Casey, L. Fendriek.
3d Class—Miss E. Vander Hayden.
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Simms, Edith Call, Etta Call, E. Shickey, E. Chris-che'lis, B. Smith, A. Richardson, M. Flemming, R. Fishburne, M. Metzger, M. Mulvey, L. Williams. J. Pampell, M. Newton.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Morgan, M. Otis, M. Otero, M. Coyne, M. Chaves, C. Richmond, M. Chirhart, M. Schmidt, M.Ducey, C. Patterson, C. Ducey, F. Castanedo, A. Wright, F. Hibben, M. Coogan, M. Thomann, F. Considine, M. Paquette, J. McGrath, H. Ramsey, A. Eager, M. Mosher, E. Burtis, M. Castanedo.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing. Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young •barges.	'
Board and Tuition—8125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.