— Che	'
Ootre Dame Scholastic
•VIVG -OVASb CRAS-MORITVRVS-'
Vol. L.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 3, 1917.
No. 21
My Ships.
HAT care I when my ships come home?
If dreams will take me there— To tropic isles and seas they roam ’Neath Southern Cross on ocean foam.
If argosies of fabled store Await me in the East,
I shall not ask they come the more With wondering murmurs as of yore.
- But I shall go in fancy’s dreams To oriental climes
A'nd follow in a path that seems
To beckon where the parrot screams.
And then across the purple seas
Behind my ships
To skirt what sunset Hebrides,—
In my cup Day’s golden lees,
And a new song on my lips.
George D. Haller, ’ig.
In Memoriam Judge John Gibbons.*
He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth. his life and flingeth it away keepeth it unto life everlasting.—Words spoken by Our Lord.
N the' Book . of Ecclesiasticus -1 read these
y beautiful words? “Let us now praise men 11 of renown, and our fathers in their genera-lion. The Lord hath wrought great glory through His magnificence from the -beginning. Such as have borne rule in their dominions, men
i	I
of great power, and endued with their wisdom,' showing tft present people, and by the strength of wisdom instructing the people in most holy words. . . . Rich men in virtue, studying beautifulness: living at peace in their houses. All these have gained glory in their generations, and were praised in their days. . . . And there are some, of whom there is no memorial; who
are perished, as if they had never been; ' and : Reprinted -from the National Corporation Reporter.
are become as if they had never been born. .
But these were deeds have not buried in peace generation and
men of mercy, whose godly failed. . . . Their bodies are and their name liveth unto generation. Let the people
show forth their wisdom, and the church their , praise.”
There are two ideals which influence the lives of men. One is the Ideal of Selfishness; the ^ other is the Ideal of Service. One calls to pleasure, the other to duty. Whoso embraces ’ the first sooner or later comes inevitably to find that the fruits of life are dead-sea fruits— , they turn to ashes in the mouth. The Master of us all, speaking once, as St. Luke (xii, 16-22), says “when great multitudes stood about Him, so that they trod one upon another,” gave to the people this parable:
“The land of a certain rich man brought forth plenty of fruits. And he thought within himself, ' saying: What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits? And he said:
• This will I do: I will pull down, my bams and will build greater? and unto them'will I gather ’
- all things that are grown unto me, and my goods: And I will say to my soul: Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many , years, take
1
thy rest, eat, drink, make good cheer. But God said to him: Thou fool, this night do they require-thy soul of thee; and whose shall those,things be which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.” .	-	- -	'	.
Here, then, is one of the ideals of life, but the* end of it is death and disappointment. It is ■ the story of most men who make pleasure or possessions the goal of their life. Busy with. > accumulation, their days and their nights pass in worry and labor, and when at length they
■ ■ - 1 „
* Sermon by the Rev. Father Cavanaugh, President of the University, delivered at the funeral of Judge John-Gibbons in the Immaculate Conception. Church, Chicago, Illinois, Wednesday, February 14th, 1917.

if
3
_ 330
TliE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
feel that they may begin to enjoy the gathered harvest, lo! death, the stern reaper, comes and mows them down. If their ideal is 'pleasure, the}7- oscillate between indulgence and remorse, believing always that the day of emancipation will come; but instead conies the awful summons to go before the judgment seat of God. It is the ideal, of those who fail, of those who have loved life and have lost it.
The history of human greatness and divine achievement is the history’ of those who have hated their lives and flung them away, in order to keep them unto life everlasting. The poets, the patriots, the prophets, the saints and the sages, have they not flung away their lives in exchange for immortality? The virgin martyr Agnes, .who gave up her life rather than abjure the-faith of Christ, has she-not attained (beside the immortality. with God) an immortality in the hearts of men through the Church, which every,year does honor to her memory? Did she not hate her life and fling it away that she might keep it unto life everlasting? ' The marvelous Joan of Arc, made holocaust on the funeral pyre of Rouen because she heeded the Voices,— did she not find eternal life. on earth through death? In our own day, Rather Damien, with the oils of ordination still fresh upon his hands,
shepherd; the lawyer, who loves justice and honor above-fees; the writer, who dips his pen in lighteousness; the soldier, who flings away ' his life as though it were a broken toy; the citizen, who for principle fights even a harder battle; the laborer, who . sings at his work because he has God in his heart; the physician, who rushes into danger without thought of health or profit;—do they not all most truly find their life, when they bestow it upon others?
And as men turn away from this ideal to the ideal of selfishness, the literature of the world becomes - pessimistic, the music of the world is written in a minor key, and bitterness and despair stalk everywhere before us; because men have sought happiness where it is not to be found. Picture to yourself the-.Czar of Russia, tossing feverishly between the silken sheets, vainly courting the peace .that will not come to him -in his turreted castle of stone, though it creeps softly into the thatched cottage of the lowliest of his. subjects. , Note the look of hatred and mistrust upon-the faces of those who serve him. See how ambition hopes for his death, and how. even those _whom he has most befriended have not an honest tear to shed upon his coffin, and then realize how helpl,ess power is to confer the happmess that the human heart craves.
■ . turned away from , home and.mother and sister . . to. bury himself upon the dismal leper islands, . going forth in the morning of his promise, z washing the sores and pillowing the heads of those upon whom corruption was feeding ' before they were dead—did he not win immor-' tality with God and man by flinging away his ■ life? Others might tarry and enjoy until death : ,	called, them away,, but Damien’ for the love of
: ,	God and the love of .God’s children, leaped
. eagerly into the arms of death. “Damien shut -to with his own hand the door of his own tomb, . and for that service-, so long as time shall last,” '7	. the world will make a path to that tomb to
. . kneel beside his ashes. .
. - And. the lesser, heroes and heroines of the. world—the patient, loyal; father, who grows' .. \ old and pinched and bent in uncomplaining , \	’ toil, wearing- the white flower of a. blameless
life amid the rankness of the world; the mother,-y?-almost divine, .who. loves and believes and hopes •	. . .. and. suffers and worries-for thei sms and the
' _ t thoughtlessness? off her dear ones ; the unselfish . daughters and the noble sons;, the priest that.
* •. - — J P dedicates all: his powers .to the spiritual welfare Jy y- yof ?the flock over which God has. made him a
See the. Roman General, ’ Belisarius, returning from his-, victorious conquests, passing under triumphal arches amid the acclamations of his people, and then a little while later a blind beggar crouching at the gates of Rome, his . eyes burned out through the jealousy of a rival; ' see Napoleon returning at the head of his victorious legions and crushing his ’ enemies before him like a very7- god of war, and a few years afterward- dying in exile on the desert island of St. Helena; see in our own day, Admiral De,wey set up on the pinnacle , of greatness,’only to be hurled down the next day by the- same, mob that had “ glorified. and acclaimed him,—and then realize what ‘ an empty thing is. honor. :
.Go think', of it in.s’lence and alone, ; .	'
' ?' And. weigh-against a rgrairi of sand the glory of
■	- a throne. .	.
On the.other hand, .the light that glows in . the face of a’devoted mother, was it not kindled on’ the; altar? of sacrifice?- -The spiritual fight that shines in the face of. the nun. in the school-.room’, is it not the outer aspect of the divine instinct of “motherhood within? - The heavenly . patience on the face of the hospital sister, is -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
it not there because hospital Sisters consecrate their lives to the. amelioration of pain—they whose hands are busy all the day long; they whose eyes' speak of mother-love, even to the stranger. See in the little dark chapel after the day’s work is done a crouching figure before the Great ‘ Healer. In that hour of prayer she finds her rest and her strength; for there at the feet.of the Master she hears the promise of the reward - that is to be hers: “ Because you have done this for the least of My children', you have done it for Me. Enter into the joy of thy Lord.” And as the light of the sanctuary lamp glows upon her face you feel that these Sisters are a living proof that, the divinest things in life can not be inherited, nor purchased with money, that they are. to be had for the asking—peace of conscience, the loving heart, the gentle voice; and that not in the pursuit of wealth and pleasure, but in the cheerful service of God and humanity lie the roots of.joy.	’
Now, if I have at all interpreted aright the philosophy of life and death, of success and failure, who can doubt but that the beloved friend whose obsequies we celebrate had won. the shining heights of greatness. The things which drew the admiration and acclaim of men he did, the things which,won for him the approval of his conscience’ and his God he did not le'ave undone. Scan however lightly the outlines of his life and I am singularly mistaken or you; will recognize the portrait of a noble . man.
Born amid’ the hills of Donegal in the very heart of Irish Ireland, John Gibbons sprang from the loins bf that sturdy middle class which in all countries furnishes in large measure the virtue, the genius and the leadership of the people. Deprived "at the age of sixteen of the counsel and the assistance of his strong Christian father, his mind opened early to the seriousness of life and to the meaning of labor. Adversity, it has been said, is the north wind that lashes • men into Vikings, and certainly it is true that it is not the son of the poor man who is handi-. capped in. the race of life. Poverty stimulates, wealth- chloroforms the energies of' youth. . Destiny had marked this boy for her own. Providence which had given him a vigorous, eager mind, surrounded him with conditions, most suitable for its development. The energy which marked his whole career drove his resistless spirit through his school work there in the private academy in Ireland, here in the pre-
paratory school, and later in the University of > TV: Notre Dame. By intense application, his vigorous mind learned to grapple triumphantly J with difficult problems, and when having completed his formal education, he was admitted v to the bar of Iowa, he rose rapidly in the pro- ; . S -■ fession of the law. At the age bf twenty-three L . yC
he was city attorney of Keokuk and three years J later a member of the state legislature.’ In his thirty-first year he took up the practice J ; > of law in Chicago, and from .that time-until he ’ TV laid his worn and wasted body down in death	; W
he was a prominent figure in the legal and	T . . .?
forensic life of the city.	'	.. .	:
Like all notable figures, John Gibbons was a \	:
many-sided man. His energetic rhetoric and V - ? his legal erudition found outlet in publishing .	- N:
the Chicago Law Journal. He edited volumes of . V legal text. He wrote a masterly exposition of '	_
the Rights of Property and of Labor. *He .. . A lectured in schools of law and medicine. His . z. X voice was heard'upon the platform in dignified . and eloquent argument and exposition: He 1 -: did not imprison his intellectual interests within, J ■J the narrow lines of his own profession. He had a ? L sensitive’ appreciation of the gentle ’ graces - of ; L- -X -literature; he was a lover of the poets and " philosophers and the. historians. His university education had given him an bpen-minded hos- CX pitality for all forms of human thought, and he built on the sure foundations of scholarship the. superstructure of his great legal learning; , / . _ When, therefore, John Gibbons was called 'to -y ; i ■ the high dignity and responsibility of a judge- . .-.XW ship in Chicago, he had been brilliantly prepared -	. J -
by genius, by temperament, by scholarship and. - - , experience for the lofty duties'of the bench. J . . J. -
In the theory of the law the judge is an oracle.	--XL
In his person, he embodies the. .majesty of- LL-X justice. His judgments under this ideal have.the ~ XX inevitableness of geometry or: logic. - Human . : X? passion which sways the special pleader has 'XJX no place in his work. Human prejudice which \.;X< blinds and confuses the partisan is alien to his -XX spirit. Freakishness and radicalism which XXV distort the mind of the propagandist are incom- .5, patible with his duty. No laborer within , the •	. X?
.vineyards of the world requires a - nobler - LrJI endowment of qualities than does .the adminis- : NA& trator of justice. . Learning .is his mantle,X. L wisdom , his sceptre, virtue is his crown, and justice is his throne. Ignorance in him is as . J X detestable as vice in a priest. Cowardice in him = J L X-L is as hideous as contagion in-a physician.. Xy .X
332
* ' - - - $ .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Corruptibility in him is as monstrous as infidelity in a mother. When he- fails, justice fails. If he is venal, he is a violated sanctuary. If he is ignorant, his words are sacrilege. If he can be reached and influenced by briber}’- or political interests, or the siren voice of popu-
larity, or the meretricious beguilements of newspaper fame, or the. alluring accents of personal friendship, wounded justice staggers from her throne and the ermine is trailed in the. mire. In the idealism of mankind the judge is the supreme .incarnation of civic righteousness. His court is the last sanctuary in which human justice takes refuge.	.	.
And as the genius of Judge Gibbons was ' mellowed and sweetened by long .familiarity svith the culture of the schools, sb he was learned in the codes and processes of the law. He had the instinctive judgment- and the luminous intuitions of a great jurist. His influence was strongly felt in the highest -courts of the land, and his memory survives as one of the brightest traditions of the Chicago ban Without ever . compromising" the legitimate rights of wealth, he was a lover of the poor. He was a gentle" judge! the bruised-reed he.did not break, and Z the smoking flax he did not extinguish. He was - a charitable, judge! he was an eye to the blind . and a foot to the lame. He was an incorruptible judge! his sensitive conscience had been refined
and strengthened by his own disciplined .life.
He measured up to the*admonition of the Book
• of Wisdom: “Dove justice, you that are judges . -of.the earth! Think,of the Lord in goodness
and.seek Him in simplicity of heart.”
' He was a religious man. The roots of Catholic ' • faith struck down deep into the friendly soil of his Irish nature. He; was learned enough to . . appreciate- the beauties and splendors of the ' ancient Church;-Regularly, he-knelt among his .- brethren at the Communion table, regularly he
7 knelt in humble contrition to receive the sacra- .
no reason for your being , a. humbugger. -
Some- seem-to regard examinations as. a time -.............. to prove that two-heads are better than one. .
ment' of penance. The great Chief Justice -	The.;schooTyear is. only a forty-yard dash:
Taney knelt one evening, as .was his- custom' go your best the whole way if you want to win.: amid a group of simple-neighbors around the _ Many a Z wealthy/ young “blade” would - little confessional in hisparish church .and; the starve were;it not for .his fond papa’s money.
priest /observing him •far down the line of. . Culture is not so much a question of caste and. : penitents went to, him and invited him to come blue blood as of personality and development.
nearer,'.saying, that it: was not fitting that, the - ; It is granted, that women always “scoop.”. Chief/ Justice should be kept waiting. Taney , the Associated. Press when , it comes .to getting .
“Not. Chief/Justice/here,/}Father,	news.. Z.T/D; T-;./;; N// .	■ ; . < _•
/ but the/criminal at the/bar.”/With suoh a Many a man would have missed his step up
doubt not but that he had a clearer vision of human justice and a finer sympathy for human frailties’ because of the stern judgment his conscience pronounced- upon his own conduct before the bar ofthe Supreme Judge.
[The sermon concluded with an exhortation
to those prese'nt to remember. death and be prepared for it, and with an appeal for prayers for the deceased Judge.] '	_
- . ---------------' .
Junior Thoughts.
The poet says, starvation is the mother of inspiration. .	. ;	.
The pessimist looks at the sun and sees only the dark spots.	p.	-
An opportunist is a man who always wants to be oh the winning side.	’
Tack of funds keeps . many a one to the straight and narrow path.	-
To be always insisting on our dignity is to afford a deal of merriment.	•
Books are food for the intellect, but it requires a brainy man to digest them. .	,
1 'A grumpy disposition has a "hard time finding friends to show it a good time-.
Man’s schooling comes early in life. Don’t wait until old age to realize it. ~ '
Cupid causes not a few marriages, but cupidity deserves a share of the blame.	'
Wemay’expect anything—now that'dranges are being fed to the early risers.	.
“It is not being done this .year,” is the last word for what’s what in society. .	-
The reformation of the.rake is too often only the sldughingofthe-serpent’.s skin.
.A man’s fortunewill be "judged soon by the number of .eggs he eats for breakfast.
, Because Americans, like .to. be humbugged- is
faith ,and?"such^a humflity,TZJudgep.Gibbons tEedadderZof ffamb/iff his; better-half had not approached hi§ simple refigious duties. And I lighted; the/way ; for him. Z /	.Z ’


THE NOTRE DAME
Varsity Verse.
Juvenile Philosophy.
Last night, when all the day’s hard work was q’er, And I lay dozing on the kitchen floor, _ With Clement tickling me, that he might, see If I were in a mood for jollity, „
While I was thinking flesh could stand no more— Our.. Jap, the collie, rushed in through the door.
He ventured to circle the twenty foot space Without mixing in with a stand of the race;
When smash!	.
A crash
Of shivering glass! .
And planets mixed with a clattering clash, . With fixed-stars,	*
.	Meteors,
.	- Suns, en masse,	' _
While the Milky Way was a blue streaked flash Of dazzling light on a ten-yard-dash.
I saw through the mist, as I.rose from the floor, .
The tail of the dog, as he whisked through the door;
' And putting my hand to my collar—by'heck!
The rest of that fish-bowl was there, round my neck; But all I could see, at the angle I stood, .
Were two little fish, on some very wet wood.	'
Then out of a corner, he moved into view, With arms folded tight, as philosophers do;
And asked me in words, uttered wondering and slow: "Say, Ambrose, where did-all those big noises go?” , . .	'	'	B. F.
s	A Real Distinction.	■
. Paradise.	’
.	.	A shaded room,	.
-	- An open fire,	,	.
.	A cozy nook.	-	*
. — - And your heart’s desire. -
■	\ Purgatory.	■ ’
.	The self-same room .	.
' With me and Sue; . ■	7 -	- .
The self-same nook	,
But with Ma there, too. -	.	.
. "Obiter Dicta.”	.
. When February’s cruel-blasts -	’
Have raged with.March’s'rainy season, -
' And;all the storms of winter-passed, ;	.
There crop up poets without reason.	.
They sing-of spring, of buds; of flowers, ,	‘
-	, In lyrics, odes, and lively sonnets,. .. >
SCHOLASTIC	\
Of men and maids in leafy bowers, .	7"-77''77
Garbed in spring suits and-Easter bonnets. .	‘	. 7
But when I read their petty verses,	’’
’ Though I admit that some sound well,	. . . ’ ‘J
They’re meant, I fear, like problem stories,	.	7-
Not to be read, but'just to sell.	'	>7
•	. J. A. Gibbons, ’i?	; .7 .7.
' Prohibition.	; - 7-
Whence comes this tide of prohibition? '	. 7
I leave to you the definition,	.	7
And stand in strongest opposition,	7 - -1-;
To such a ruinous transition,	.'	~
That checks one half man’s appetition. '	P'
Is’t not a terrible perdition,	■	. ‘	7
To curtail people’s just fruition	/	.
Of a wholesome good nutrition; . •	7 . < >
. As if man had no volition,	,
To refrain from a submission	7 ,
To a drunken exhibition?
. Temperance is a requisition; . y	.	'	'
Dare not say that in addition	...	- -
- - - , - < ■ ,
We heed the ban of prohibition.	.	'
If you’re of this disposition,	-	.. ..
Whether suffragette or politician,	- J ~	7.
Be sure to see a good physician,	- - /	,	/
And listen to his admonition.	.	.
Keep up, if need, the repetition!	,	'
Beware of lengthy intermission.	' ■ .	'	-.7.
You’re in a critical position.	-	7 -7
. It’s worse than any superstition, .	-
Or lack of common erudition. '	, •	7 ..
’.Twere best to use some ammunition,	777
And check this flow of"'dry” ambition, '	. ..
But grant this dreadful suppbsition, : ,	1 7 *77
National in its abolition, . -	’ .	- - 7/7
How fares it then? I fain petition. .	7: . =	, ; :7.
Would not our-taxes need revision?	*7 .-	7 . 7
Would water do for competition?	7 ’	'7'7/
’Twould surely stop us from a fishin’.	7 PP
And wine would flow without permission, -	7 7,7
With hypocrites for exposition,— '	77'-7 ”'77
And a nation in a bad condition	:,;7-,/7-7
. While people rise in great sedition. -	7. ' 7 7 * 7<
Believe; not the biased statistician, ,	.. /7 ;‘7r^
Nor any other poor logician,	,	7 " . 7 /777^
NorJBryan, Sunday; Carrie Nation; • "	. 77 :77
But the Bible, aye,.and all tradition. _/7 . 7
. Censure ye .then this prohibition, ;•. /7-.	■ 7.
7As sure an awful proposition, . 7. 7	-7//--77T77
For any. sane man to be wishin’. 7	/ £	y-=7g;7.~
. Frank C. Brown, lif.: -
334
THE .NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Lyon’s “Flame.”
-	'	BY LEO J. JONES, ’iS. ■
Giles, Rooney, and the “Duke” were idling •	away a wintry Sunday forenoon in the living-
room of their suite in Holworthy Hall, when Lyon, immaculate in frock coat and white waistcoat, breezed in to borrow-a pair of gloves.
“Come, tell us about it,” Rooney greeted -	the caller who roomed across the corridor.
“Is she pretty, blonde or brunette, tall or short, and does she like you very much indeed?”
_	“She doesn’t dike you, that’s certain,” re-
torted Lyon. “The last time I telephoned to her you came into the room and swore out- rageously, .and as a result she thinks you a :	perfect bear.”	.
’ “So I am,” said Rooney, “a perfect bear. .	It must be nice to be polite and gentlemanly,
. to take-nice" little girls to lunch, and for long ”	walks in the afternoon; to drink tea, and to
,	discuss higher thoughts with, their mothers.
-	.But I should hate to wear so much war-paint,-
’	to sit still, and to smile well-bred smiles f and
I could never learn to drink tea.” • • ’ The “Duke” had looked over all the music on the piano. • .	-
; “There’s not a single religious selection here,” , - he announced,- “and all I know is the ‘Palms.’ , ‘ I’ve even forgotten the words to that.” .
- “I know the words to ‘Watchman, tell us of the night,’” declared Rooney.
.	. “But they are stupid,” said the “Duke.”
T . “The words to hymns always seem to be dull. . ' - , They’re not comforting. They always suggest L 'unpleasant predicaments, and make one feel - absolutely good. I don’t know anything worse _ than feeling absolute^ good: It seems just as
-y though there Was nothing, more to live for. A >L fellow has to. go and fall’ into trouble to keep
-. y ' his self?respect.” •*.	...	.
- \ j.'-	- “I wonder how ministers feel?” queried
Rooney. y -	;	” '. ’ .	.
. • y? “I used to wonder, too; so I asked one once, . ;y y.' ■ 1- and he said he.had a cold arid felt'very stuffy.”
' Lyon picked up his hat and dusted it carefully: yy - “Give her my love,” commanded Giles, “and ': .Ly.i y tell her l’m corning to call.” - .J. - . '. y-ryyy'yyy	get nervous,” advised the “Duke, ”
Llyyi' - L V tell . her< you’re subject To fits, and that you y	one .coming .dri”.	V ' :'	? L :
:; yyy,y-" t y ’ TI’ll: telephone to. you about :dinner; time,” I r-'2'	:	\	,
• -T - .‘J — *	“	__ .
L’'	-’T yy 4 l
sy. —* - -,r—'ry	> A <:
.TL? yvy.-'i y yy	‘• 7-J-- -**	*
T ? •-- L k-‘"	' *. *	-3
offered Rooney, “and ask you if you rieed any help.”	’
“Don’t be a pig and_eat all the ice-cream,” . contributed the “Duke.”	;
“You fellows think you’re mighty funny,” said Lyon, “but if happens I know the family very well, and I do just as I please.”
. “Poor family,” sighed Giles. “Could anything be worse than having Lyon-do just as he pleases? I suppose he smokes cigarettes all during the dinner, and puts his feet on the drawing-room chairs.”	.
“When, you are older you’ll be wiser,” was all that Lyon would vouchsafe as he left the room. ■	"	.
After the Sunday dinner-Rooney remembered that Lyon had a new graphophone; so he bribed the janitor to let them into his room where they settled down for the fest of the day.
'Several of the neighbors dropped in during the afternoon, and the. “Duke” volunteered to accompany the machine on the piano.. Someone suggested that all sing for a new record to surprise the unknowing host. The “Duke” took off his coat, rolled up his sleeves, and began. A man-in a bath-robe climbed on top of the piano to be nearer the music. The others crowded about the machine in the middle of
•	*	’	’	s
the room, and howled and howled and howled.
A gentle knock sounded on the door which no one heard.	.
“Hit it up!” cried the “Duke,” and-the uproar swelled higher:	.
The door opened, and a young-looking woman entered. She took a step forward, then stopped.
“Is Mr. Lyon here?” she asked sweetly.
The “Duke” arose.
“Mr. Lyon is in town fussing, but this is his • room, and these,” waving his hand at the men,. “are his friends.’ Can we do anything for you?”
“I think I will wait- a little while for him,” the woman said! “I’ll wait in here,” pointing to a door. .	.
'.“That’s his bedroom,” volunteered the “ Duke. ” “ Wouldn’t you rather wait out here? ” 1 “I won’t .disturbi you,” she answered as she tripped quickly into the bedroom.
- “Wheiw!’’ whistled the man in the bath-robe, ■ • coming down frorri the piarid. “She’s a peach! ”
“Lyon, Lyon,” murmured the ‘‘Duke” to himself; slippirig on his. coat; “Your taste is excellent.”	” -
: Silently the ineri stole away, all but Rooney, .
-the “Duke,” and - Giles, who sat together on
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	'	335-
Av
the window seat, wondering whether the visitor was stealing Lyon’s photographs or mending his socks.	"	.
At last, the" Duke” could stand it no longer, and going to the door he cleared his throat.
“Won’t you come out here?” he petitioned. -“Ohly three of us left.” .	' .
_ The stranger appeared smiling.
“I don’t mind meeting.three,” she admitted, “but I was frightened by the .roomful.” •
“If you know Lyon,” advanced the “Duke,” “you may have heard him speak of us. This is Rooney, this is Giles, and I'm the ‘Duke.’”
Rooney and Giles rose and bowed.
“Lyon was foolish to go into town to dinner. He could not have known you were coming, but I am very glad you did.”	'
“Verj' glad,” said Rooney. ' “Extremely glad,” echoed Giles.
. “If you’ll sit down,” said the Duke drawing up an armchair, “we’ll- do anything you suggest.” .	.	.	■ . ’
“I’d like to hear the graphophone,” prompted the visitor. . -	. '
“Be careful,” warned - Rooney, as Giles, jumped for the machine. “Be sure you read the labels first.”	. -
“The labels are jumbled, and we can’t understand them all,” explained the “Duke.” .
“Don’t mind then,” the stranger said. “Let’s just sit here and chat.”	_ •	.
After that they did chat, or rather the visitor and the “Duke” did, and’sometimes Rooney. Giles sat still and admired.
" When it began .to grow dark, the “Duke” wondered what would happen next. - He found he had said a good deal about Lyon, and that .the stranger had said -very little -of herself. ’
“Won’t you tell us. something about yourself?” he asked. “I know we are all anxious to hear.” .	-	.
. She laughed. “I’m very fond of the man you call Lyon,” she said.	•
“Lucky dog!” exclaimed Rooney. '	-
. “And I’ve known him ever- since he was a little boy.”‘ " ■ . .	*
“That’s queer,” wondered the—“Duke: ” “I don’t remember him'ever speaking of you.” ' “Does= he speak of everyone he knows?” • she .asked.- ;
■ ..“He’s likely to—especially of his -flames.’” Again she laughed,, and the Duke ” was quite.
enchanted.- -.	..	—	. .	•	•	*
“If I’d been in Lis -place;” he remarked
gallantly, “I’d have had a good deal to say.”.’ . \ “.Would you?” she asked. .“That’s very - L-nice of. you. If you don’t mind, I’d like to call ""/-jy/ you what Lyon does—what is it, the‘Count?’” - ' “I. wish you would,” he returned fervently.
- “I wish you’d call me Rooney,” requested . that youth/	“	'	~	_
.“And me Giles,” said the third. '	‘
“That’s very nice, indeed,” she said	’
laughingly. •.	'	x ..
“ What may xve call you? ” asked the “ Duke.”	y - i
It was so dark he could not see her plainly.	. ;,
“Well,” she said, “you might call me—” . *	y
There was a heaxw step outside, and'the door .	V
was pushed open.	A
“There’s Lyon now,” said Rooney. -	. - -
. “What on earth are you doing in the dark, _ and who'hax-e you there?”
He went over to the armchair. “Why it’s	-
Mother!” -	.	'	.
■	Senior Thoughts.	. ‘ \
. If some people knew as much-as they pre-. . In tended, ..education xvould not be such a crying .	- •
necessity.	.	.	.' - >
• Sooner or later we grow tired of evrything but . - < God, and everybody but God grows tired of us.	; / -
When nations lose sight of the. cross of sacri- J /; flee they hold tighter to their swords.	. / -
A “pal’-’ is a man who lends you money when - / you’re broke—and is never broke when you need .	■
money. ■	. ~ : 7
The xvorld is made poorer by the many who	/. T"
talk xvithout thinking and the-few who think	“ ;
without talking.	• -A:
The-greatest consolation for the inequality - /- Z around us is that all must, go “the dusty way ,	./ /’
to death.” ’	.	-	¥
. Offerings. .	‘
Could I distill the fragrance of the flowers, Catch their perfumes and sweet radiance; ;	.	: ~
Or steal the light that plays at dawn	.	- " / //-/
At the glowing borders of the sky:	'	~	~ CNN
T would bring and offer them	.	- //< ; /;/
To make my love more lovely. ’ .	.	... V
But T being poor have none such.	“ ' . j , \ ? - ?
_ I have only dreams of youth;	’ f - / . V-ST
Dreams that shuttle all the night	'	' r
To weave soft folds of unrealities:	.■	T/-/A.
’"T have clothed her in these dreams,—	-'. y A
None else can be.so lovely. F:S. Farrington, TlS. - . .//V// , • ,,	-	.	'	i>.	- .	* - , _	y'r*
*	- I
336	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC ______:______k_______________________________ , Entered as Second-Class Mail .Matter,
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum, Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Noire Dame, Indiana
/ L.	MARCH 3, 1917	No. 21.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard R. Parker, ’17 Edward J. McOsker, ’17	Speer Strahan, ’17 Harry E. Scott, ’17
Michael J. Early, ’17	John A. Lemmer, ’iS
Stuart H. Carroll, ’17	Charles W. Call, ’18
Delmar J. Edmondson,’18	Thomas F. Healy, ’19
F. Jennings Vurpillat, ’ iS	John Urban Riley, ’17
—In a sermon delivered in the University Church on Founder’s Day last fall, the Rev. John Cavanaugh said, “At the very foundation of this University lies the Help the Bengal missionary spirit. It will Mission. deserve to die the moment that spirit is lost.” Recognition ofthis inspiring, truth is no doubt largely responsible for the interest which Notre Dame, faculty and student body, is taking in the Bengal Mission, Fast India, which is cared for by the priests and brothers of Holy Cross. Addressing the student body at the beginning ■ * of Lent, Father French, the procurator for the Bengal Mission in America, appealed to the students in behalf of Bengal. Pointing out the . needs of the mission, and urgirig.every student ' - ■ . to contribute something, especially during Lent as a little Lenten penance, he pleaded especially for the Notre Dame men in India. “The Notre Dame men in Bengal appeal to the Notre Dame men of America ” was his theme. The Scholastic cannot endorse this appeal too strongly.
. - Bengal has a population of millions, but of this numbeyonly 25,000 are Cathohcs. The gigantic task of conquering this kingdom for Christ, of saving millions from hell, is entrusted to a smaU band, of Holy Cross priests and brothers. Scarcely a single parish or mission is self-supporting; The missionaries, have to . depend _ \	. upon, charity , even for the. necessities of life!
.	- Before the war, Furope aided them generously,
:	; but this help is a thing of the past, and they must
:	' now depend upon the generosity of their friends
in "America. To whom can they appeal with more reason than to the men of Notre Dame?
Fven before the war, Catholic America had its attention called to the needs of the foreign missions. Members of the hierarchy repeatedly urged that the time had come for the Catholics of America - to help in the glorious work of spreading Christ’s kingdom. The fact that the missions have been deprived almost entirely of aid from Furope as a consequence of the great war has emphasized the truth of their contention and has aroused Catholic America to its duty. Already there has been a generous response in financial aid, and vocations for the work are also appearing. To make them realize more clearly their duty in this matter, Notre Dame directs the attention of her sons to Bengal, that particular part of the Church’s far-flung battle line which is entrusted to the priests and brothers of Holy Cross. There Notre Dame men are doing heroic service. .They are fighting against tremendous odds, but, imbued with the Notre Dame fighting spirit, they do not know the meaning of the word “quit.”
Suffering from lack of recruits, from lack of funds, from depressing climatic conditions, they are a spectacle for angels and men, and deserving of the enthusiastic support of every Notre Dame man.- Let the words of Father French be heeded. Let every Notre Dame man make some contribution at regular intervals to the Bengal mission.fund. Let him make it out" of loyalty to the Notre Dame men on the firing line in Bengal. Let him make it out of love for Christ and the souls in Bengal for whom He died; remembering His promise; “Amen, I say to you, as long as you did it to one of these My. least brethren you did itzto Me.” ' ■■ --------------------------
—Some years ago the Lackawanna Steel Company of Buffalo addressed a petition to the New. York State Industrial Board asking permission to have their
A Case of the employees work seven days .Almighty Dollar, in the week, because “the
work of the plant is neces- ] sarily continuous; because great hardship would be entailed to require the .Company to observe the strict letter of the statute (which forbids factory owners to work their employees more than six days in the week),’because none of the Company’s competitors observe the ope-day’s-rest-in-seven plan,” and so oh. In other .words, the . Company Jinds it a bit difficult to compete
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '
with others and do the right thing, and so it sees no reason why it should not do the wrong thing, and asks the New York Industrial Board to approve the stand it has taken. - F7
We are inclined to think that the managers of the Lackawanna Company who are responsible for this move have been keeping their minds so riveted on the profit-making side of life that they are becoming victims of the ‘’insistent idea.” In their blind devotion to a commercial god they cannot understand why the Creator, from whom we come and to whom we go, demands one day in the week for Himself; they cannot understand that there is something in this world higher than business interests even; they cannot understand that the human frame naturally calls for a period of rest in the midst of its toils, and is not, after all, an ordinary machine to grind out silver and gold. We would suggest, even from a purely business motive, that these gentlemen try the old-fashioned, Christian way of observing the Lord’s Day and give others a chance to observe it also, and see if, after all, they will be losers in the long run. Remember One who has more business ability than the best of us has said: “Seek first the Kingdom of God and His justice and all these things shall be added unto you.” -----------------------------------
The New Library.	.
It is very appropriate indeed that the University’s new library is being completed this year when Notre Dame is celebrating her diamond jubilee. This magnificent new building is a worthy monument to the achievement of these seventy-five years.	.	'
The building is a stately piece of architecture situated' a short distance to - the west of the entrance to-the main campus. Near the new building is the beautiful St. Joseph’s Lake, on the bank of which, within the shadow of the library, stands the -old log chapel of the Indian days and the first college building, relics of the beginnings of Notre Dame. The library is to be the central. figure of'a new quadrangle similar to the one now formed by the administration building and the students’ halls. This first building of the new group is -of white Bedford stone, with a roof of green tiles. It consists of three stories and a basement, and has been erected , at. a cost of $200,000. The structure has been designed by Mr. Edward
L Tilton of New Yprk, who has for many ' L years made a specialty of library architecture, and who has to his credit several of the finest	_ j i!
library, buildings in the Bast.	.. t’L
The entrance opens into an elegantly furnished	.	’ ? :
delivery -hall. The floor is of marble, and the T; wood finishings - of quartered oak harmonize - " •• admirably with the furniture. Directly in the r ' ? rear of the delivery hall is the card catalogue	C
room. The book stacks located in the-center *	’
of the building offer space, for six hundred . - L : thousand volumes. An elevator, placed between . Y these stacks on the one side and the admin-	. -U
istration rooms on the other, will greatly \-facilitate the work of the librarians. On the.	. - /
extreme north and south of the building are . : two commodious reading rooms. The .first is :..	. .
to be used for periodicals while the other is to . L serve for reference reading. Large arched . . windows not only add to the appearance of “	.
these rooms but also furnish an abundance of '	7
natural light. •	;
On the mezzanine floor the faculty is to have , a large reading room, and directly, opposite this .	’ X
room the University publications will have their .	'
offices. The third floor is divided into several fo small rooms which will contain the University’s ‘	<
treasures. On this floor also is a seminar room -Jfo and several study rooms for debaters and 7 orators. Special quarters have been reserved t . ; ... for the Dr. Green Botanical Library and for . T the invaluable Dante collection. On this,floor, ’	.7
also, are three large museum rooms..	”■	•	-
” The basement of the building has on the north L and.south sides two large rooms corresponding ’ .. • to those -on the main floor. The school*-of	. = 7.:’
journalism will occupy one of these, whilejthe	\fo 7
junior and senior classes in English will, have : : . the use of the other. As on the main floor, fo > TfoX-7 book stacks occupy the central part"of th^ -fo-fo y basement. .The archive room will’contain the:' "’XyE’X important documents and the historical treas-. ; JE? ures of the'University. •	; 7
The interior of the building will be completed .. 'UfoX within two months or so, but the dedication. -.fo'LfoX will not occur until the jubilee celebration in. J11116-	■'	’ ’ ■.
- The need of this large library building- has X’XXW been felt for a long time, because of the congested condition of the library in its present quarters/.
and’ becatfse of the inconvenience of working - 7. NIM there. The new library is a splendid answer ■ < A'A? to a long-felt. want, and. it cannot but serve ■ as an impetus to higher scholarship. w.'F. F. ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Varsity News.
-	X	*	*	—
—Paul J. Fogarty, member of the University -Glee Club, went to Detroit Sunday to arrange for a concert there. On April loth the club will sing at Elgin, Illinois.	'
—Rev. William-Bolger,.dean of the department of economics, attended the meeting of the Civil Service committee of the National Catholic Federation, held in Chicago recently.
—Charles Grimes won first prize and George Haller second in 'the News-Times' Revival Contest. The Junior and Sophomore journalists ‘covered’ the services at the numerous churches, working every night except Saturday for three
- weeks. Both of the prize winners are sophomores. .
—Mr. Charles Parreant, music teacher and director of the Oliver' Theatre Orchestra, has accepted the position of leader of the cadet band at Notre Dame. , Mr. Parreant is well known as a musician in this part of the State . and under his guidance our band should have another splendid year. -
—Assistant Coach Rockne has invited. the students to attend the blackboard drills which will be given daily after dinner. The work will include a study of, the science of football, - beginning with the rudimentary plays and formations and leading up to the more complex tactics as they are employed nowadays in the modern game.	.	•
—Professor . Jerome Greene, dean of the pharmac}’ department, has completed an addition to his invention, the Ideal Water Still. The method of distilling water, which was
patented by Professor/Greene some time ago . is. now-in use in many of the large supply com-.panies throughout the country. The contrivance will distil one gallon of water an hour.
: ’ —From the camp , of our contemporary, the
2 -'Midland Naturalist', . come, tales of robins and
McGregor, vice-president; Francis P. Goodall, secretary; Thomas Healy, critic; James Brennan, treasurer; Thomas. C. Duffy, reporter. The men on the; executive ■ committee are William- H. Robinson, William Havey and Arthur Hope.	-	.	_ ‘
—Our rifle .club won second place in the third match among the teams in Class A of the college rifle shoots. The team of the Michigan Agricultural College scored 2860 points, and our boys shot 2765. Cornell was third with a total of 2728, and‘the team from the Naval Academy at Annapolis finished with a mark of 2645. The Gold and Blue squad.shot as follows: Jack Young, 1S7; Deo Vogel, 187; Wolfgang Heinrich, 186; R. Cullen, 185; H. Rivas, 185.
—Father Cavanaugh’s sermon at the funeral of the late Judge Jolin Gibbons, which appears in the front pages of this issue, has been printed by the National Corporation Reporter in an edition of fifty thousand. The sermon has been the subject of much comment and-high compliment among tffe many distinguished, men who gathered to pay their last respects to the eminent judge. We call the attention of the. law students especially to the paragraphs that deal with the qualifications of a judge.
—In the art exhibition at Washington Hall Tuesday afternoon Notre Dame was tendered a real treat I5y Mr,-Ross .Crane. of the Chicago Art Institute,—and we use that stock phrase, not because it is the line of least resistance, but because this time it expresses the real fact. As opportunities to view masterpieces of contemporary American art' are not numerous, they should, be seized eagerly. The collection
. shown here contained works by. such men
as Coin Campbell Cooper, Herman Dudley Murphyi Robert Henri, Carl Krafft, and others of equal renown.'. The lecturer is charmingly" - insouciant, and. his talk was witty and engrossing to such a degree that, for the nonce, our
. bluebirds which . Brother:Alphonsus observed rather prosaic students were actually interested Monday last. Other signs of spring at Notre' in art. . . • . J..	:	'	... / .
Dame seen in 4:116 gymnasium where the ' —With each succeeding visit Mr. Joseph , . ibaseBall; candidates are cavorting tlmough "their Scott’s"-popularity at Notre Dame increases, j early training. Still another harbinger is the. When.this, speaker- holds forth, in- Washington . longer “dinky” list/ unfaifing herald of the Hall, one is -apt to be greeted by the S.R. 0. y ,Terdal fever.	'//-. -	sign ifi he be a bit late. Undoubtedly Mr. Scott
'I //—Francis J, Boland was installed -as president: is the only person/who is able to. hold, the . of theHoly Cross Literary Society at theregular * students/ in their, seats. for- a full - minute of ;/ V.Siinday;mieeting. Other officers/wEo will serye applafise/afte^	finished. ^Qn/Sunday •.
.	forthe.remainder. of the year? are: /Donald P. .. night the noted Los’Angeles barrister- discussed


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
339.
‘‘The American Ideal,” supplementing, this " President Cavanaugh last Wednesday evening ; subject with relevant asides on-such matters when Notre Dame and Ladies’ Night was as the Japanese .situation in California,. the .observed by the progressive-downtown organi-- cause of Mother Church, and the like? [Behind. zation in the Rotary room of the Oliver Hotel.
every sentence, every word, Mr. Scott puts . the full force . of' his ' magnetic personality.
He is the very incarnation of the vigor of his western country. That he means what he says his hearer cannot doubt; he knows that this is a man who is not only able to reason clearly, but who dares voice his convictions as to what is true and right, be his audience ever so irrational or hostile. Mr. Scott is a speaker of whom it-may be truly said, he stirs the heart’s" blood. He so affects his audience that each member of it goes, forth firmer in determination, more keenly patriotic, and very much more of a man.
—Monday evening, February 26th, there was organized at the University a society which as yet lacks a name. It has, however, a very definite purpose. To be frequent communicants and to promote frequent Communion is the - - principal aim of its members. Those entering the society pledge themselves to receive Holy, . Communion at least once ajveek while-in school. There are other objects, too, which the society . expects in time to.realize; it will make organized efforts, for example, to perform the cprporal and spiritual works of mercy. The society is purely religious and simply Catholic. At the first meeting there were present forty men,
The action, followed the suggestion, and motion to that -effect, offered by Rev. C.. A.
" Lippincott, -pastor of the-First Presbyterian Church, during his address before the club
. and its guests. Rev. Lippincott’s motion was enthusiastically and unanimously agreed to.,by the members of the organization, and the-follow-. . ing committee was named by President Hering:- : Rev.-C. A. Lippincott, chairman,’ Frank.Hering, J. R. Haughton, D. L. Guilfoyle, Gale Davis, " E- R. Erskine, Richard Elbel, Rome C. Steven- - ' son, C. C. Herr, F. I. Hardy, E. F. Bonds, Eugene Miller, W. 0. Davies, and Abe Frank. .
The committee will make plans to assist the University in entertaining the many notable guests during the days of the celebration and will try to have the whole city co-operate. in making the occasion a - memorable one for South Bend as well as for Notre Dame. -Enthusiasm, good-fellowship and the spirit of co-operation marked the evening’s session.’ A closer bond between the University and South Bend was the plea of several of the speakers. : The evening was assigned to Father Cavanaugh,. who. is a member of the Rotary Club, and Father- Schumacher and the members of the Glee and Mandolin clubs were the- guests of .
representing every hall. The object of the society was briefly explained b}^ Father O’Don-, nell-, who has been given charge of it, and there . was discussion of - ways and means of organ-
honor. Stirring addresses, in which .the humorous was cleverly mixed with the serious, were delivered by the two members of the faculty, by Rev. Lippincott and Bishop John H.
White, of the Episcopalian Church. Between the ’ courses of the dinner the Notre Dame chorus,
izing. The following committee on organization was appointed: . Messrs. Frank Monighan (Sorin); Sylvestre Mersch (St. Joseph); James Connerton (Brownson); J. Kline (Corby); Austin McNichols (Walsh); and R. H. Tyner (Washington. Hall). The Lilacs and the Day
mandolin club, and specialty men entertained with musical numbers, and their efforts were heartily‘appreciated. .	'	-
A new tie, stronger than any that had existed
. Students are_ also to have representation on this previously, was established between the^city committee. The next meeting-bf-the society will arid the University at this gathering. The be held on-Monday, March 5th, at 7:30 p. m., Notre Dame representatives were royally, in room 222, Main Building.	s. h. c, entertained and the glee club members, under
the direction of Howard R. Parker, responded with their heartiest efforts tb please. . With President Hering of the Rotary Club, a former

The Club Column.
Hearty co-operation of the Rotary Club-Notre Dame professor and football coach, of- South Bend with the University officials
presiding in his inimitable way as toastmaster, the entertainment was full of spirit and action.
. in making the diamond jubilee observance
a complete success was volunteered by the During the: .evening the Notre Dame guests club, and a committee was appointed by Presi- .were given the opportunity of watching the -- dent Hering, to place itself at the' disposaL.of „ conduct of a regular Rotary Club meeting.-and
340
THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
they were much impressed by the initiation of a class, of which our director of athletics, Jesse C. Harper, was a member. Members of the Rotary Club also contributed to the program with vocal solos and Scotch- and Irish dances.
' Latin-American Association.
The Latin-American Association, composed of Notre Dame students from Central and South America, is the latest among the N. D. clubs. The organization meeting was held January 21st and the following were chosen as
president of the organization. From fifteen to thirty of the old boys get together at each of these meetings and keep alive the spirit of Notre Dame.
Press Club Meetings.	.
Several matters of importance are being discussed-at the weekly business meetings of the Notre Dame Press Club, which is composed of correspondents for daily newspapers. The members get together ever}' Saturday afternoon immediately after dinner. •	'
officers: president, Gonzalo Restrepo, of . Medellin, Columbia, South America; vicepresident, Calito Fabrega, of Panama City, Panama, Central America; secretary, Enrique Rosselot, of Santiago, Chile, South America; treasurer, Feliz Olivella, Jr., of San Salvador, Salvador, Central America. Members of the organization enjoyed a smoker and social evening in Walsh Hall Wednesday, February 21 st. Twenty-five were present. Addresses were made by President Restrepo and Father Metallaua. Dillon Patterson entertained with piano numbers and M. Fabrega with readings.
" Engineer’s Meeting.
The regular meeting of the Electrical Engineers’ Club was held Friday evening, February
16th.
George reports theses.
Following a N. Halmes on the work The idea of
short business session, and Crim O’Brien gave they have done on their having reports on thesis
work is a new one this year, and it has met
. with favor. Much - good is derived > by the under-classmen from this work of the seniors.
, The papers which will be entered in the contest
; for prizes offered by the club will soon be completed, and . if one may judge from the earnest work' that is being given them by the - contestants, they will be of high grade.
.	.. Father Burke Elected.
- . Rev. Joseph Burke, C. S. C., director of ' studies for the preparatory school, was elected1 honorary president of the Wisconsin Club at a.recent meeting of the-boys from the Badger' State. Father Burke’s home was originally
. ; at Watertown, Wisconsin. /	=
.<Meeting of the Indianapolis Club. - : *of the Dodge Co., after, which he -worked as „-.j	The. Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis meets.; political reporter for the South 'Bend Tribune.
; Lon the first and third Tuesdays of every month He was. graduated .from our law school last . ; in luncheons -at! the Hotel English, according June and is now tellingthem the “rule in Kelley’s ; to information from Attorney Twbmey ;.Clifford, Place ” “inLouisville,;. Ky..	. ” « ty .
Personals.
—The marriage is announced of Mr. Francis B. O’Brien (Ph. B., ’02) and Margaret Lenore Golley of Lima, Ohio. The ceremony took place on February 15th. The bride is a former pupil of, St. Mary’s. Mr. O’Brien is a member of the well-known Catholic family of that name in South Bend.	'	.
—Santiago Aranibar (Su M. E-, ’15) in a recent' message from Peru, S. A., makes, announcement of his marriage with Miss Martha E. Castillo. The ceremony took place in the city of Cuzco, Peru, South America, on December 30th; 1916. The Scholastic extends' congratulations. -	' ,	-
—Robert Schindler (Student, Brownson Hall 1911—13) and his bride visited the University last week. Bob was on his honeymoon trip and dropped off at the University to see his old friends. He is with the Goodrich Rubber Co., and his address is 1344 Elm Street, .Youngstown, Ohio. The Scholastic extends congratulations.
—A. E. Adelsperger, who attended Notre Dame during the early nineties, called at the University Monday, incident to a visit with his mother'and sisters at their home just east of the campus. Mr. Adelsperger. has extensive timber interests on the Pacific Coast, and he makes several trips east every year. He is now. living in Oregon. .	'	' ~
—“.Walter Clements, Attorney-at-Law,” is the way his new stationery reads. Walter was ‘ for-a time associate editor of the Dodge Idea, a ' trade journal printed by the Mishawaka branch
THE NOTRE HA ME SCHOLASTIC
—Francis C. Ott, a member of tlie present senior class until June, 1915, has received the cassock in St. Patrick’s Seminary, at Menlo Park, California, where he is studying for the seculaf~priesthood. He writes that his brother Lawrence will come from Los Angeles next September to study architecture.	.
—The Detroit Free Press announces, with an accompanying photograph, that Edward N. Marcus, (Ph. B., T6) has been added to the staff of Wallace C. Plood Service Bureau. Mr. Marcus’ office experience with the Director of Studies of the University and his intelligent studj’ of economics throughout his course here makes it safe to say that he will fill his new position with honor. In a letter-to a friend he relates that when he was being examined as to his qualifications for the position he found the greatest help in being able to point to books on economics that were on the department book shelves and to say that he had become studiously familiar with them during his college course.	h. r. p.
Obituary.
.	Thomas • C. # McInerny.
Thomas C. Mclnerny, father of . Arnold Mclnerny, a senior in the school of law, died at his home, 1725 S. Michigan St., South Bend, Wednesday evening after an illness of> several years. He was 48 years old. Mr. Mclnerny is survived, by his wife, Bertha, his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Matthew Mclnerny, four children, Arnold, Marguerite, Robert and Babette, and by the brothers and sister: John, Robert, William A., a former professor of law at Notre Dame, and Mary Mclnerny,' all of South Bend.' To the bereaved relatives, Notre Dame extends her sympathy. R. I. P.
The University' extends its sympathy to. William and Albert "Barbour of Carroll Hall on the .death. of their father, who passed away at his home in Chicago on February 22nd. R.I.P. '	'.	’
Charles and William Foley, of Chicago, former students of the University, were bereaved of their father February 22nd. 'We offer our heartfelt condolence to the family, and mingle our prayers with theirs for the soul of the departed. R.I. P.~	’ '
On 'February 21st the mother of Joseph F.
341 i .	.
Smith, graduate in law in 1916, died at the family' home at Cygnet, Ohio. To Joe and the family we extend profound sympathy and the promise of fervent prayers for the repose of the soul of an excellent mother and most Christian lady.
The class .of 1920 has presented to the Scholastic the following resolutions:
Whereas: It has pleased Almighty God in His infinite wisdom and power to remove from this life our well-beloved and esteemed classmate, Joseph Lodesky; in testimony of our sincerest sympathy for the bereaved family, be it-*.
Resolved: That we, his classmates, tender our deepest sympathy in this, their hour of trouble, and be it further	*	.	.
Resolved: That a copy of these resolutions be tendered to his family, and also tha,t they be printed in the Notre Dame Scholastic.	’
The Class of 1920.
Harr}' E. Penny, President;	'
Barry Holton, Vice-president,	.
John M. Ambrose, Secretary, '	’	- Raleigh Stine, Treasurer.
In the Old Days.
For the benefit of any one who may wonder whether they came back together after the holidays in ’73, we reprint these lines from the Chimes Column of the Scholastic for December, 1872: “Christmas week at St. Mary’s is made as cheerful as possible by the suspension of the afternoon classes and the- introduction of any suitable diversions; but it is a mistake to •imagine -that , there is a vacation at that time. Experience • proves that the pupill sose much by absenting themselves from -the Academy for even one week.”	z
Brain bonbons for recreation periods at St. Mary’s in 1872: “The circulating libraries afford the very best sort of intellectual food during free hours.”	.
From the volume for 1873 we take the following:
“One clear evening last "week Professor T. E. Howard, A. M., took his Astronomy Glass out, and pointed out to them some of the most brilliant , stars and planets and constellations.' above the horizon.” (The italics are ours.) .
“We have received, too late for publication this week, from the Novitiate a communication in which the' writer states that two umbrellas pertaining to the denizens of -that secluded, retreat, have been taken feloniously,'or at'least
THE NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC
the players did not. speak loud enough and seemed to lack spirit. Several serious faults are committed at nearly every play and Tuesday’s was no exception. There are in St. Cecilia’s Society- some, talented members and the Society will turn out before long a brilliant ' array-of good speakers.” .	•
“-The St. Cecilia’s Exhibition a few days '	s'	'	-
ago was a complete success. Owing to the roughness of the weather the audience was rather small.”	’
. “The panic has reached N. D. We speak of the pop corn panic. Bro. Thomas is the chief banker. Great excitement prevails among the . ‘bulls and bears.’” .
•_ “The weather deserves ‘One’ for conduct. The band is the only society that is making any noise at present.” ■
“Never set yourself up for a musician just -because you have a drum in your ear, nor believe you are cut out for a school teacher merely because you have a pupil in your eye.” •
“The distance between Notre Dame post office and St. May’s station on the M. C. R. R., is one mil^and twenty-seven rods (around the road).” -	•	'
The road from the Scholasticate to the college is to be improved.	-
“Bro. Basil and Bro. Leopold have their -time fully occupied with the music pupils.”
“Rev. Father P. Laut-h is bn his way back from Germany, with seventeen - companions -bound1 for Notre Dame.” .	. 1
“Recreation' at table which is so much . .. appreciated b\r the students, is to be given on Wednesdays and Sundays. .' The deafening shouts, which were wont in former times to ’ characterize the. opening of'these occasions!”
surreptitiously, by some person or . persons in the college,, much to the discomfort and injury of the lawful owners.”	'
“The Brass Band blew in their horns in the most approved style. It is worthy of all eulogium.” (The inhabitants of Washington Hall are not of that opinion in regard to the Carroll Hall Band of the present time).
. “Boiled shirts, standing collars, tight boots, and mustaches are in great demand these times.”
“Expectation is on tiptoe. The whole nation of Notre Dame is in agitation, surmising, conjecturing andx straining their eyes peering into the distance for the appearance of the plum pudding.”
“Our steward has been furnishing us with fine weather of late. We had some sleighing
. this week but it was only tolerable.”
“The new lock on the Collegiate Study Hah is the terror to all. It is a lock that no one knows but one, and he, like St. Peter, carrieth the key thereof, but, unlike the Saint, isn’t - always on hand.”
’ “Afternoon walks on recreation days are becoming popular again; the' students continue to visit the farmers hereabouts, and generally have a good time.”	.
“.The Prefect of Discipline is but seldom called upon to exercise his authority in an ' unpleasant manner. We hope this office .will
yet be a. sinecure.” (That was when the theory
t of evolution was very much in vogue!)
’ “The Prefect of Discipline is very, desirous that the students should not get home-sick.
_So he commenced to prescribe remedies on the •
■ 3rd; inst.” - -	. ’	‘
“Students thinking it to'their advantage , to pass, from one class to another must apply 'for..the necessary permit through the Professor-
. oTihe class which they wish to leave” . ’
<- “The sanitary condition of.-Notre Dame is excellent. Some few, however, are suffering . from homesickness. Prescription: hard study,
- class, and not too many letters to Mamma.”
“It is carrying things a little too far when a -man is so reticent that he won’t even tell the -
Athletic Notes
DePauw 15
Notre Dame 17
WabAsh. 24	7 Notre Dame
. Franklin j 6
Notre Dame
17
professor what he knows about a lesson.” - ♦_./ Three “ one-night ’ ’ stands in: the southern . “ As a rule young men~who make their -first part of the State ended the basketball season-for appearance before the public as speaker's or in. Notre.Dame last week. Twd victories, one.at the assumed garb of Thespis do notalways reach DePauw and .the other at Franklin, and a ’ the mark. -Young -boys have: a very vague ..-defeat sandwiched in - at Wabash, was the. Idea' oftyhow ,'a - part. should5 be; rendered. . .recbrd^ioP thefteam.on its finhl.jaunt. DePauw. . They;-, are : required to be taught that. In one. put , up a terrific battle at Greencastle on. the ; or / two linstancetyin	to 1

A

THE .. NOTRE' DA ME SCHOLASTIC
343
extend herself to win by. a margin of two points.
Then came tile “Little Giants” at Crawfordsville. With Stonebraker alone making twenty points; Wabash won handily, though the teams fought on nearly equal terms for the first half of the game. Franklin proved comparatively easy on the last night, and Notre Dame thus added a fitting conclusion .to her successful season. There will be a review of the basketball season in this column next week. -	•	...
The Carroll Hall League has completed its • season. The team captained by Whittle was the winner in the first division, and- Bill Kenny’s team finished first in the second division. Carroll Hall defeated St. Joseph’s School of South Bend in basketball recently 26 to 10.
■ Wisconsin 38 Notre Dame 48.
Notre Dame defeated the Uni ver sit of Wisconsin in the local gymnasium in the last dual meet of the indoor track season Saturday night, 48 to 38. After a meet marked with brilliant performances the grand' finale came in the one-mile relay race in which the Notre Dame runners carried the baton around the oval
in
breaking the “gym” record
held for four years by the Chicago Athletic Association. Captain Miller, • McDonough, Kasper,, and Meehan comprised the. recordbreaking quartet. Their performance is all the • more noteworthy in that each of the four had run a gruelling race before relay time.
completed, the score stood 43 to 38 in favor of Behind the ability of the Notre Dame Notre Dame. Wisconsin could have-tied the
athletes which won the meet was the-fine head-
■ • work of - Coach Rockne in manipulating, his forces to the maximum number of points.
When it was apparent that Notre Dame would need to win The relay race to capture the meet, Rockne kept McDonough out of the. half-mile, ' the last running event, and sent Kasper to the
starting mark as the lone Notre Dame runner.
The scheme worked, and Kasper not only won „ the half-mile with ease, but was fresh enough
to do a creditable.quart er in the relay, a few.
. minutes later. McDonough, after a long rest _ from the quarter-mile race early in the evening, •
' was in fine form for the closing event. ...
. Notre Dame jumped into the lead in -the opening number, of the meet when Bachman,.
.. Ward 'Miller, and . Franz took-in order the . “counts in the shot-put. .Little Frank. Mulligan'
found Carman Smith, the Wisconsin captain,^ just a step too fast for him in the forty-yard? dash. Starrett’s “throw.” at the tape all but:-, won for him first place in the forty-yard hurdles; but the judges gave that' honor to Burke, a visitor, and Starrett received* second.	‘ .
Schardt set a dizzy pace in the one-niile-nin, covering the first half of the distance in 2:08. Meehan fought him desperately from start to - finish, but was forced to accept defeat for the. first time during his intercollegiate competition! in 4:29 4-5. Captain Miller and McDonough, repeated their performance ' of, the" Illinois meet by ranking one-two in the quarter-mile.. . Miller gained the lead in the first lap, but it -was near the end of*the race when McDonough '. passed "the Wisconsin speedsters and -drewup . on almost even terms with his captain. Noonan tried hard to capture the two-mile event, but., lost'out* by a few feet in the remarkable time of ? 9:58 3-5- Noonan is the first Notre Dame ? athlete to travel the two miles in less than J ten minutes.	—	. "	‘
Our pole-vaulters and.high-jumpers were'in. -their best form for the first time this season. . “Swede”/Edgren 'tried valiantly to reach 12 , feet in his specialty, but was. forced .to accept - -a tie with Endres, of Wisconsin, at 11 feet,’

6 inches. “Red” Douglas jumped over.the cross-bar at 5 feet, 9 inches, and Nelson,, of Wisconsin, found that height his' limit also. Donahue took third in this event for Notre Dame:	'	.	.
With ever}' event except the relay race
score by winning the relay, but after the first-quarter, in which Captain Miller finished many? yards ahead of his opponent, a Wisconsin defeat was inevitable.	.	. - !.
Organized cheering, lively music, and the closeness of the-competition, all contributed To; make a* victory over the. 1916 Western Conference Champions a pleasant conclusion to - a strenuous^ dual meet season. ; .	A
To-night several members of the Notre Dame; team are competing in the Illinois Relay Games’ at Urbana. Coach Rockne. thought well of the chances for a victory in the one-mile event?
Summary’- of the Wisconsin meet:	‘
40-yard'dash—Won by Smith, Wisconsin; .Mulligan, Notre Dame,, second; Casey/ Wisconsin, third. Time—4 3-5 seconds. .	- .	...	..	4 ~
40-yard high • hurdles—Won by Burke, - Wisconsin;
4-
344
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Starrett, Notre Dame, second; Heintzen, Wisconsin, third. Time—5 3-5 second.	"
Shot-put—Won by Bachman. Notre Dame; Ward Miller, Notre Dame, second; Frantz, Notre Dame, third. Distance—41 feet, 3 inches.
One - mile run — Won by Schafdt, Wisconsin; Meehan, Notre Dame, second; Dayton, Wisconsin, third. Time—4:29 4-5.	'
440-yard dash—Won bjr J._ Miller, Notre Dame; McDonough, Notre Dame, second; Casey, Wisconsin, third. Time—53 seconds.
'Pole-vault—Edgren, Notre Dame, and Endres, ’Wisconsin, tied for-first; .Hill, Wisconsin, third. Height—11 feet, 6 inches. •
Two-mile run—Won by Golden, Wisconsin; Noonan, Notre. Dame, second; Burr, Wisconsin, third. Time— 9:583-5-' .	(
880-yard run—Won bjr Kasper, Notre Dame; Casey, Wisconsin, second; Boardman, Wisconsin, third. Time—2:01 3-5.
High-jump—Douglas, Notre Dame, and Nelson, Wisconsin, tied for first; . Donahue, Notre Dame, third. Height—5 feet, 9 inches.
One-mile relay—Won by Notre Dame (J. Miller, Kasper, McDonough, Meehan). Time—3:33 2-5.
.	c. w. c.
Book Review.
'	. English and Engineering. By Frank Ayde-
.	lotte. McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.,
•	New York:., pp. 390. $1.50.
-	.	Most worthy of commendation is the idea and
' effort to show the close practical relation between .	art and science and the dependence of one on the
.	other. Imagination and reason are important elements
.	in both. Hence, an education in either of them alone
is of necessity verj- one-sided. In the combination .. of the two we have interest, imagination, and human ’	truth in the most desirable form. To broaden the life
' of the professional scientist by an association of liteiary art with-science is the purpose of this volume . of essays for English classes in Engineering schools, .compiled and edited by Frank Aydelotte, Professor
‘	' of English in the Massachusetts Institute of Tech.	. nology. * The logical arrangement of the essays on
~ English and Engineering is effective. It emphasizes, .
, first, the’ necessity of expression' in any kind of life ' and especially. in that /of the professional engineer.
■	. A degree of perfection in expression is necessary even
- in practical engineering, and in order to attain any .	- . ^'distinction in the profession a reasonable mastery of
- j • ’. English is absolutely imperative.. The various sections . : . " of,the book treat successively of the dependence of . . thought on expression; of the relation of science and
.	/ “ English, and of the dependence of each on.a union of
;	. the two in their highest form—in life itself. Engineering,
i ' . ? ? the e	us believe, is. a profession
. . . closely ^allied with philosophy, psychology, and life. A - - - It is far from being merely mechanical. The engineer . A .even moderate extension of business deals with -
- men even more than,with machines...The essays L ! •->:selected are,- as to matter and form,’the. best of the /.AW scientists and stylists of modern times.- The collection
'A/AA’VW.-W-A /■ ...	- p
w - -	-A'’ J
.Av AA . ; A
should be to the engineering student a truly inspirational selection.
In his introduction, Mr, Aydelotte explains the urgent need of his rational adventure,-:—the need “to furnish something of-1 the liberal, humanizing and broadening element which is more and more felt to be unnecessary part of an engineering education.” An exclusively scientific education is narrower by far than an exclusively literary one; but where one calls for the employment of the other, the combination of the two cannot but be richer in consequence of their -usefulness to one another.
Aside from its value to the profession of Engineering, the book has a marked value Tor a mere literary study. The book will naturally serve as a provocation , to extended study along the lines it suggests. The volume is exceptionally well printed on a good quality of paper, and is tastefully bound in dark blue. To others than students of Engineering it is well worth the $1.50 for which it'sells. .	b. b.
Percival’s Letter. ’ .
The following was slipped under the door of our sanctum one day last week.
’ Scholastic Editor:
Dear Sir or Madam-—	•
Will you please print the enclosed missive from the pen of'our Beloved Percival? It will please him so much to see his name in print.
[Signed] Percival’s Mother.
“The Missive.”
Dear Pair Ants: ■	'	-
Many thanks for the box of goodies and the red-tie and the juice harp. Please do send me-at once, if not sooner, 2 pounds pig iron, 1 saw set, a left-handed screw-driver, a mouse tail file, 6 1-2 drill holes, size No. 2. as I have taken up me can nickle injun earing '• instead of farmacy. I never did want to be a farmer anyway. You just ought to hear our corpse of instruc-to'rs, and see pur shops and buz saws and things.
Yesterday our junior shop instructor told us that if the gate valves of the ejector pin got tangled up in the bushings of the loose seat rings the blow off valve might loose its lag screw and so fill up the grease cup that the tees in the rachet would lubricate the jetting drills and obviate the drill chips. Now wasn’t that well worth knowing? -	-
We nearly have shop every morning, except Monday afternoon.
My thesis subject for 19241s: Gum As A Lubricator in Theory And Practice.	. x
Not long ago our junior instructor took us on a trip of inspection up into Michigan and we learned lots about drills and how they ^sow lectric light bulbs to . grow lectric light.plants. Then we went to the French .Paper Mills at. Niles, but I can’t Francais’so I didn’t enjoy'myself.	.	.	-
. "	’ Love and kisses, . •	<	.
\	. Your dearest '
■ ;	’	•	'	• Percival.
. ,P. S. 'Don’t send the tools. The. Perfect of Studies says I . am too refined and . delicate to spend eight years in a boiler factory. I’ve, decided to take penmanship instead:. .. .	■ - . ' .	' '	. P- - .r
'“A’**	-----	- -