THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE life crams every minute with activity. Those whose vitality and strength are being sapped by the poisons of constipation can hardly hope to stand the pace.
You can get prompt and permanent
Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN regularly. It is 100%
bran, and so provides the bulk that is all-important to proper elimination.
You’ll find Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN a delicious cereal. Order it at your campus cafeteria or in the fraternity restaurant But be sure to ask for Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN.
The moat popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Krumbles, Corn Flakes and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
225
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
“When a Feller needs a friend”
When birthdays heave into view —Mothers, sisters, or best girls— what do you do? Worry and then not send anything? Just come to Wyman’s, step inside the south door and say to the girl there—“I want a pair of your Jo-don all silk chiffon stockings in the newest shade.” They come all packed in a gift box ready to send and the girl friend will think you’re wonderful. (They’re only $1.50 a pair, too— but looks more.)
WYMAN’S
V	—	-.	..4
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARINGHOUSE BANKS
St. Joseph County Savings Bank
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
o
J. M. S. BUILDING
The Gravure Section of the News-Times contains action pictures of the game.
On sale at the News Stands
THE NEWS-TIMES
226	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
■ ••
Business Opportunity
THIS is an exceptional opportunity for some red-blooded, aggressive college man to make money and at the same time to gain a valuable sales experience while still in college.
The popular and fascinating Cross Country Six 4-passenger sport phaeton-finished in individual college colors, is the product.
Some one student in each college will act as the Jordan sales representative—and make real money.
Complete details can be had by personally addressing Mr. L. F. Murphy, Sales Manager, Jordan Motor Car Company, Inc., East 152nd Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
227

1872
Notre Dame Scholastic
tiisce-Quasi-iSemper-VictttrifcS-Vive-Qyayi-Cra.y-ClorSuriiy
1928
JOHN V. HINKEL, ’29................Editor-in-Chief
HARLEY L. MCDEVITT, '23. .Business Manager
THE EDITORIAL STAFF
DAVID W. SAXON, ’29.....Managing	Editor
VINCENT McINTIRE, ’30 Ass’t Managing	Editor
JOHN BERGAN, ’31............News	Editor
JOHN DeROULET, ’29 .....Literary	Editor
THOMAS A. CANNON,
HARRY A. SYLVESTER, JR., ’30.. Sports Editor
CYRIL J. MULLEN,’30...........The	Week
BERNARD A. WALSH, ’29..The College Parade
JAMES J. WALSH, ’30.....Music and Drama
’31..........Club Editor
MURRAY YOUNG, ’29
MURRAY HICKEY LEY, ’30
BAYARD KURTH, ’30
GILBERT PRENDERGAST, ’30
ROBERT C. BALFE, ’31
NEWS STAFF
JOHN H. ZUBER, ’31 CLEMENT K. COLE, ’31 EMIL TELFEL, ’31 JAMES J. KEARNEY, ’31 JOHN D. HICKEY,’31
BUSINESS STAFF
PAUL HALLINAN, ’32
JOHN KIENER, ’32
JAMES COLLINS, ’32 MYRON E. CRAWFORD. ’32
FREDERICK N. DAVIS, ’30.. Local Adv. Mgr.
JAMES L. RIZER, ’30 ...Foreign Adv. Mgr.
JAMES H. RORKE, ’31
EUGENE J. CARLIN, ’29
HARRINGTON J. NOON, ’29.. Local Cir. Mgr.
CHESTER M. ASHMAN, ’30...Foreign Cir. Mgr.
JOHN BLANDA, '31	■
VOL. LVII.	NOVEMBER, 9,1928
No. 8
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Frontispiece ______________________________________________________228
The Week  _________________________C.J.M. and T.V.M________________229
Next Week’s Events_________________John Bergan_____________________ 230
Campus Clubs ______________________Thomas A. Cannon________________ 237
College Parade  ___________________-.Bernard A. Walsh______________ 238
The Editor’s Page__________________________________________________239
From the Files of “The Scholastic”....Ba?/anZ Kurth _______________ 240
? ? ? ? ?	241
I Blush . . .______________________David S. Lehman________________ 242
Of Students _______________________Jack Dempsey __________________ 244
The Willow Tree (Poem)_____________Brother Emil, C.S.C. __________ 245
The End of Labor (Poem)____________Murray Young___________________ 246
Irish Tame Nittany Lions___________Harry A. Sylvester_____________ 247
Splinters From The Press Box_______________________________________252
On the Enemy’s Trail_______________Gilbert Prendergast ----------  253
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
; - The Advertisers in Noire Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of Ail Notre Dame Men 1
^£^h===_.......	......... ................................--<6^9^
LATEST AERIAL VIEW OF NOTRE DAME
Photo courtesy Free Press Pub, Co., So. Bend.
228	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	229
THE WEEK
It is unusual, decidedly so, for three very important events to come into the life of the Notre Dame man in the short period of one week. Two of the events cany with them the reminder that we must always take the sweet with the bitter, or rather vice versa, such being the case. The air has been charged with an atmosphere of enthusiasm ' ' and intense patriotism, coupled with a love of country and national welfare, that leads one to believe that the men of Notre Dame are in truth, good citizens.
It was evident to any observer on the campus Wednesday morning, that Notre Dame’s “favorite son” was not the fortunate , president-elect, and it was further evident, according to campus sages that this would have a bad effect upon those still engaged in writing “quarterlies.” Now that all of the national questions have been definitely settled and election bets are being paid, Notre Dame » can probably turn from politics and quarter examinations to thoughts of an important social call that our. itinerant football team is paying to the Army.
But before we get off the subject, another word concerning the examinations would be
• in order. As before mentioned, the unfortunate students who fail to pass certain classes, will probably use the election as an alibi, and the Scholastic being the official medium of student thought and endeavor, wishes to show and prove for all time, that it is not
* asleep to possibilities.
, Tomorrow, another great struggle for supremacy will take place. For the last week,' fiery student orators, cheerleaders, vigilantes, and S. A. C. Bulletins have been resurrecting , the presumed dormant student spirit, to a fever heat. Demonstrations, flares, parades, and speeches have been used to show the team that we are behind them to a man, and we believe that no doubts remain any longerin the minds of the team. We know now that we have satisfied them that their efforts on the / gridiron are well spent, and we hope that any
further doubt as to the spirit of the student body will be forever dispelled.—t.v.m.
Halloween the studentry went to town to witness South Bend in its holiday garb. The festival spirit, like the spirit that induces an otherwise sane citizen to join a lodge and appear in public under the guise of a thoroughly domesticated admiral with a thin sword, is, no doubt, commendable. But it does startling things to the personal appearance. Halloween, however, it was simple: a matter of dressing like men if they were girls, and like clowns if they were boys, and then walking down Michigan street with the intent expression of people going somewhere.
Stunned by the suggestion that the present Notre Dame man has a weak abdominal wall, if not a missing intestine, the campus has, theoretically, been plunged into the deepest anquish. The bulletin-letters, in rapid succession, which placed a somewhat undue emphasis on the biological aspect of our lethargy, were nevertheless effective. The Scribblers and Wranglers in special joint session declared that all members should, henceforward, bathe only on Christmas and Holydays; should read Western Stones; and should, instead of “hello,” greet each other with: “Whoopee, fellow primitive.” A new club called the Brown Stipple Brotherhood” was hurriedly organized, and has already hundreds of members. The requirement for admission is to be able to change the color of a sparrow at ten yards.
There are some who whisper that knickers do not necessarily sap the strength of the legs that they cover, and who point out that in the last four years, the team has been welcomed with enthusiasm whether they won or lost the Army game. These are the ones who are cheering not to prove that they are the great un-washed, or synthetic he-men, but because they want to win Saturday.—C.J.M.
230	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS
FRIDAY—Scholastic Staff meeting, Publications Room, Main Building, 7:00 P. M.—Chicago Club meeting, Lay Faculty Dining Room, 8:00 P. M.— Scholarship Dance, Knights of Columbus ballroom, 8:30-11:30 P. M.—Law Club meeting, Hoynes hall, 8:00 P. M.
SATURDAY—Football, University of Notre Dame vs. United States Military Academy, New York City, 2:00 P. M.—Gridgraph, University Gymnasium, 1:00 P. M.—Notre Dame B team vs. Minnesota B team, Cartier field, 1:00 P. M.—Movies, Washington Hall, 6:00 and 8:00 P. M.
SUNDAY—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 A. M.—Connecticut Valley Club meeting, Badin hall “Rec” room, 10:00 A.M.—Wranglers Public speaking room, Walsh hall, 10:00 A. M. —Interhall football games, 9:30 and 2:00 P. M.
MONDAY—Villagers club dinner meeting, Magnuson Tea-room, 6:30 P. M.— Scribblers meeting, Scribblers room, Rockefeller hall, 8:00 P. M.— Knights of Columbus meeting, Council Chambers, Walsh hall, 8:00 P. M.—Cleveland Club meeting, Badin hall “Rec” room, 7:00 P. M.
TUESDAY—Spanish club meeting, Hoynes hall, 7:00 P. M.—Philadelphia club meeting, Badin hall “Rec” room, 7:30 P. M.
WEDNESDAY—La Circle Francais meeting, Hoynes hall, 7:30 P. M.—Buffalo Club meeting, Badin hall “Rec” room, 8:00 P. M. Pittsburgh Club meeting, Badin hall “Rec” room, 7:30 P. M.
THURSDAY—Brownson .hall Smoker, Brownson “Rec” room, 7:00 P. M.—La Raza club meeting, Badin hall “Rec” room, 7:30 P. M.
FRIDAY—Scholastic Staff meeting, Publications room, Main building, 7:00 P. M.—Rochester club 8:00 P. M.—Bonfire, 6:30 P. M., Reception of Carnegie Tech football team, Main building, 7:00 P. M. Notre Dame vs. Carnegie Tech, Cartier field, 2:00 P. M.—S. A. C. Victory dance, Tribune Auditorium, 9:00 to 12:00 P. M.
SATURDAY—Football—University of Notre • Dame vs. Carnegie Tech, Cartier field, 2:00 P. M.
BEAT THE ARMY
WRANGLERS TO MEET SUNDAY
The Wranglers will hold a meeting Sunday morning at 10 o’clock in the Public Speaking room of Walsh hall. The subject for discussion will be “The Psychology of Partisan Politics.” Ed Phelan will give the main speech
and James J. Walsh, Jr., and Thomas A. Keegan will lead the discussion.
At a meeting of the coaches of the various interhall debating teams last Wednesday evening, the schedule for the coming year was drawn up. It was also decided that an all interhall debating team would be selected at the conclusion of the schedule this year. This will be the first time such a team has been chosen and all interhall debaters selected for the team will receive medals.
BEAT THE ARMY	.
“FOOTBALL NUMBER” TO BE NEXT “JUGGLER” ISSUE
The next edition of the Juggler, to be known as the “Football Number” will be out November 16. This issue is to be dedicated to Coach Knute Rockne and to the “Fighting Irish.”
Several novel features have been incorporated in this issue and are being held secret until the number is released for sale, according to Joe McNamara, editor.
The winners of the two monthly prizes of five dollars each awarded for the best cartoons and jokes have not been selected at this time because of the large number of contestants and the quality of the material sent in. The winners will be announced in the “Football Number.”
BEAT THE ARMY
PROGRAM OF FIRST NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL GAME RECEIVED
During the past week the Alumni office was the recipient of a very interesting document, the program of the first football game played at Notre Dame. The game was held in April 1888 and the University of Michigan was the opposing team.
The program contains the line-ups of both teams and gives the scoring system and an outline of the rules of the American game of football. It was the gift of John L. Heineman of Connersville, Indiana, of the class of 1888. Mr. Heineman is the father of Charles Heineman whose art work is now on exhibition in the University Library. Anyone interested in this program may see it in the Alumni office on the second floor of the Administration building.
“DOME” PHOTOGRAPHERS DEPART FOR SHORT WHILE
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	231
S. A. C. PLANS CELEBRATION FOR CARNEGIE TECH GAME
Russell of Chicago, the Dome photographer, who has been taking the various pictures for the annual publication, has departed for a short time according to Editor-in-Chief Thomas J. Keegan.
The date of his return to take the club pictures and the photographs of those Juniors and Seniors who have not as yet appeared for a sittingwill be announced on the bulletin boards around the campus.
Editor Keegan urgently advises these men and the presidents of the different campus clubs to watch for the date of the photographer’s return and also that
the presidents have their club members appear at the time scheduled for their sitting as this will absolutely be their last opportunity for a photograph.
Robert Kuhn, Business Manager of the • Dome, has also announced that subscriptions are still being accepted. Over eighteen hundred students have subscribed so far, and the business staff of the publication hopes to bring the number up to two thousand or
more very shortly.
The price of the yearbook may be entered on next semester’s bill if so desired.
PEAT THE ARMY
COLUMBUS CLUB TO HOLD DANCE
The Columbus Club, formerly the Ladies Auxiliary of the K. of C., in South Bend, will sponsor a dance to be given in the K. of C. ball room Friday, Nov. 16, the evening before the Carnegie Tech game. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta’s University orchestra has been signed to play for the affair, and students and alumni are invited to attend. Tickets can be secured at the door the night of the dance.
The S. A. C., in conjunction with the Blue Circle and University authorities, has completed plans for a celebration before the Carnegie Tech game next Saturday, similar to that which preceded last year’s Minnesota game.
Two loving cups are to be awarded,, one for the best decorated hall, and the other for the hall furnishing the most wood for the mammoth bonfire and pep session next Friday night.
Wood-gathering will begin Monday morning and continue until 2:30 Thursday afternoon, the piles being placed separately in the field southeast of the car station where they will be guarded until the judging takes place.
The judging committee in both contests will be composed of members of the faculty. Advance interest in the contests gives promise of an even greater demonstration than that of last year when Sophomore carried off the honors for collecting the most wood, and Lyons received the cup for the best decorated hall.	•
BEAT THE ARMY
NOTRE DAME “ALUMNUS” TO BE OUT NEXT THURSDAY
The next issue of the Notre. Dame Alumnus, to be ready Thursday, November 15, will contain an article of special interest to Notre Dame students.
It is entitled “Notre Dame Spirit” and it will contain names of some of the sons and younger brothers of the alumni who responded to the request in the Scholastic that they present themselves to the Alumni secretary.
BEAT THE ARMY .
FATHER STEINER CELEBRATES MASS FOR MONOGRAM CLUB
The entire Monogram Club of the University attended the 6:30 o’clock Mass last Wednesday morning in Sacred Heart church, and received Holy Communion. The Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., an old monogram man, celebrated the Mass.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
232
“BREECHES” BIBLE ACQUIRED BY UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
Among the books of unusual interest to be found in the University Library is a Bible of the Geneva translation, which because of an error in verse seven, chapter three, of Genesis, is known as the “Breeches” Bible.
The error due either to a faulty original text or to an incorrect translation, states that Adam and Eve after their fall “sewed fig leaves together and made themselves breeches,” In the general and accepted translation, the word “aprons” designated the type of wearing apparel which the first human pair made of the serviceable fig leaves.
The Bible was printed in London in 1608 by Robert Barker, printer to the “King’s Most Excellent Majestic.” The old English form of type and spelling is used and both the Old and New Testaments are included in the Bible.
At one time or another the book was rejacketed, and at another time embroidered figures of St. James, St. Peter and St. Andrew were inserted in the book. The figures were in white satin.
The Bible originally belonged to the Rum-below family and the histories of several generations of the family are written in the book. The Bible may be seen on application to Paul E. Byrne, Librarian.
BEAT THE ARMY
KEY SELECTED FOR LAW CLUB BY CHARM COMMITTEE
The Charm Committee of the Law Club met last Monday evening and adopted a key to be used by all members of the law school. All three classes of the law school are eligible to obtain these keys.
The key is a very distinctive creation for the members of the Law Club and is in form of an open-book with a gavel running vertically through it. Slightly raised upon it is placed the scales of Justice. The monogram is set in the center and “Law Club” is written at the bottom.
M’CREADY HUSTON TO GIVE SERIES OF LECTURES
The English department of the University has engaged McCready Huston to give a series of six lecture conferences for student writers and others interested’ in fiction, beginning Tuesday, Nov. 13. The lectures will be given at 8 o’clock at night in the library and will take place on successive Tuesdays for six weeks.	-
The Huston series will be similar to that given in 1927, except that the speaker will use novel wilting as his subject instead of the short story.
While the lectures are primarily for students, the public will be admitted. The Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., head of the English department, is sponsoring the lectures, assisted by Professors Charles Phillips, John Brennan and Paul Fenlon.—E.D.
BEAT THE ARMY
LAW CLUB DANCE TICKETS PLACED ON SALE
Tickets for the “Lawyer’s Informal,” a dance to be given by the Notre Dame Law Club the evening of Friday, November 23, in the Palais Royale ballroom, South Bend, have been printed and placed on sale according to Gerald Rauch, president of the club. The ticket sale has been restricted to law and prelaw students and their guests, and for this reason an early purchase is recommended. Michael O’Keefe, chairman of the ticket committee, has assistants in all halls selling the necessary pasteboards.
The primary purpose of the affair is to render financial assistance • to the Notre Dame Lawyer, official publication and mouthpiece of the College of Law at the University.
It was also announced that St. Mary’s girls had received permission to attend the dance.
BEAT THE ARMY
ANNOUNCEMENT
The Dining Hall will be open to the public November 17, the day of the Carnegie Tech game, from noon until one forty-five. A plate luncheon will be served. Reservations should be made with the management as early as possible.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
233
SOUSA TO BE AT HIS BEST FOR NOTRE DAME CONCERTS
Reaching Notre Dame at the peak of a triumphal tour of more than twenty weeks, Lieutenant-Commander John Philip Sousa’s appearance with his band the afternoon and evening of Tuesday, December 4, in the Uni
RAYMOND P. DRYMALSKI
versity gymnasium promises to be among the outstanding musical events ever held in Northern Indiana.
Commander Sousa, who has attained international fame as a composer and leader, boasts of having the only musical organization in the United States which has been able to exist intact for a period of almost four decades, adding still further
to its reputation and popularity among the music-loving public with each appearance. The remarkable virility of the “March King” was demonstrated in his recent New England tour when he appeared in twenty-six cities and towns in a period of two weeks.
Interest in his Notre Dame concerts has been on the increase on the campus and in South Bend since it was first announced that he would be here. Tickets for both matinee and evening performances have been placed on sale in all halls.
Grand Knight Edward P. McKeown of the Notre Dame K. of C. Council which is sponsoring Commander Sousa’s appearance, has appointed Raymond P. Drymalski, director of publicity for the concerts.
HEAT THE ARMY
DR. SMITH LECTURES IN WASHINGTON HALL
Dr. James H. Smith, of Parke-Davis Company, Detroit, delivered an interesting lecture on Biological Products, Wednesday afternoon, October 31, in Washington Hall.
Rev. G. Albertson, C. S. C., dean of the
College of Science, introduced the speaker who gave a short, preliminary talk in which he outlined the advances and developments that have taken place in disease prevention methods since the discovery of the first species of bacteria.
The actual production of the diptheria anti-toxin, small-pox vaccine, and typhoid vaccine was explained and illustrated by means of motion pictures taken at the various plants of the Parke-Davis Company.
The diptheria bacilli was seen taken from the throat of an infected patient, growing in culture media, and separated from its toxin. The stimulation of certain animals to produce large amounts of antitoxin, and the subsequent separation of this anti-toxin from the blood was graphically portrayed. Methods of vaccine preparation were also explained.
BEAT THE ARMY
NEW MEN ELECTED TO “SCHOLASTIC” BUSINESS STAFF
The Scholastic takes, pleasure in announcing the election of the following members of the Class of 1932 to the business staff: Walter E. Terry, of Baraboo, Wisconsin; Frank J. Conboy, of Geneva, New York; John Litch-er, of Fond du Lac,' Wisconsin; Andrew McGuan, of Baraboo, Wisconsin, and George J. Smith, of Jackson, Michigan.
Fred Bauer, of Memphis, Tenn., has been elected to the advertising staff.
These men were elected as a result of competitive try-outs held during the past six weeks.
BEAT THE ARMY
SCHOLARSHIP CLUB DANCE TONIGHT
The second Scholarship Club dance of the current season will be held tonight in the Knights of Columbus ballroom, South Bend. Dancing will be from 8:30 until 11:30. Art Haeren’s “Cotton Pickers” will play for the affair.
Tickets for the dance will be one dollar and a quarter each and can be secured from the rectors of the halls or at the door. Special street-cars have been ordered for the accommodation of those attending the dance.
234
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ACCLAIM BAND AS FINEST IN HISTORY OF UNIVERSITY
“The finest band in the history of the Uni
versity/’ such is the concensus of opinion of competent critics who have observed the Notre Dame Band during each of its three
appearances so far this season. Numbering
sixty - three pieces, the largest personnel it has ever had, the organization can well take its place in the front ranks of similar college, and even professional bands.
The Band has been practising daily on formations it 'will en-
Joseph Casasanta, Director t e r t a i ii the spectators with during the halves of the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech game. It has also been perfecting its instrumentation for the occasion.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, Dean of the Department of Music at the University, is Director of the Band. The officers of the Band are:.
Joseph E. Keefe of Winter Haven, Florida, president; Virgil P. Cline of Barberton, Ohio, vice-president; H. Patrick McLaughlin of Quincy, Ill., publicity manager; Edmund W. Leamond of South Orange, New Jersey, Librarian; Henry S. Tholen of Quincy, Illinois, drum-major.
The personnel of the band is as follows: •
PICCOLOS—Virgil P. Cline, Barberton, 0.; Edward Halpin, South Bend, Ind.; C. Wm. Heinneman, Connersville, Ind.; Chas. H. Miltner, Cadillac, Mich.
CLARINETS—Robert J. Braeckel, Joplin, Mo.; F. W. Brown, Pennville, Ind.; Robert Farrell, Clarksburg, W. Va.; Alvero Frillini, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Tom Lawless, Freeport, 111.; Bernard J. Lenoue, Spokane, Wash.; Richard T. Neeson, Divernon, Ill.; Roy V. Novak, Spillville, la.; Harold Johlmeyer, West
Point, la.; Leo A. Rees, Rome, N. Y.; Adolph M. Sarubbi, Yonkers, N. Y.; Chas. F. Schmied, Columbus, Miss.; Geo. F. Stenger, Waukegan, Ill.; Peter J. Wacks, Binghamp-ton, N. Y.
SAXOPHONES—Vito J. Canizaro, Vicksburg, Miss.; Norbert J. Collins, Yonkers, N. Y.; John Folks, Patterson, N. J.; Aldo M. Frillici, Eveleth, Minn.; Floris Leach, Grand Rapids, Mich.; George Pope, Bunkie, Louisiana; Robert Waterson, Niles, Mich.; Robert H. Zeis, Kenton, Ohio.
TRUMPETS—Albert Brasseur, Clarksburg, W. Va.; John Burns, Niles, Mich.; Paul Fox, Chilton, Wis.; Edmund LeaMond, South Orange, N. J.; Peter E. Moroni, Eveleth, Minn.; John Poulte, Grand Rapids, Mich.; M. J. Reagan, Kingston, Pa.; Percy C. Rosevear, South Bend, Irid.; John M. Scanlon, Indianapolis, Ind.; Otto Seifert, South Bend, Ind.; J. Carlton Sullivan, Auburn, N. Y.; Stanley Trafis, Cleveland, Ohio; John 0. Weibler, LeGrange, Ill.
TROMBONES — Edward J. Donovan, Springfield, Mass.; Floyd A. Genin, Belleville, Wis.; Robert A. Grant, South Bend, Ind.; Theodore S. Halpin, South Bend, Ind.; John W. Jauch, Niles, Mich.; Virgilius Phillips, Columbia City, Ind.; William A. Stewart, Cortland, N. Y.
ALTO HORlSfS—Jack P. Farr, Rome, N. Y.; Noble F. Harbaugh, South Bend, Ind.; Walter F. Phillips, Philadelphia, Pa.; Albert W. Schulze, San Antonio, Texas.
BARITONE HORNS—John N. Fetzer, North Liberty, Ind.; Claude L. Rossiter, Walthill, Neb.; Frank Sindlinger, South Bend, Ind.
SOUSAPHONES—Sylvester J. Daugherty, Steubenville, Ohio; Sylvester N. Wagner, Iron Junction, Minn.; Lester Wisda, Jackson, Mich.
PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (Drums) —Francis Boyce, Escanaba, Mich.; Harry A. Busscher, Melrose Park, Ill.; Arthur J. Gallagher, Cleveland, Ohio; William Hall, Buffalo, N. Y.; Joseph E. Keefe, Winter Haven, Florida; H. Patrick McLaughlin, Quincy, Ill.; Raymond Young, Hammond, Ind.
ASSISTANT DRUM-MAJOR — Edward B. Ryan, Oak Park, Illinois.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
235
ENTHUSIASM FOR ARMY GAME CLIMAXED BY MONSTERS PEP RALLY
Student enthusiasm for the Army game in the Yankee Stadium at New York tomorrow, which had been fanned to a fierce intensity by a series of short rallies, speeches, and demonstrations the earlier part of the week, reached its highest pitch in the rousing demonstration and send-off given the members of the team Wednesday evening at the University gymnasium. The pep meeting was acclaimed by alumni as the greatest exhibition of spirit ever shown by the student body in the history of Notre Dame.
Coach Knute K. Rockne was the first speaker introduced by William Krieg, chairman of the S. A. C., and in a short speech declared that the tremendous enthusiasm and spirit displayed at the meeting would prove of the greatest benefit to members of the team in making them fight all the harder against the Army with the realization that the entire student body was back of them to a man. Individual players were then introduced by Coach Rockne. Captain Fred Miller, called upon a speech, responded by saying that, with the student body manifesting such confidence in the team, each player would give absolutely the best sixty minutes of football in the Yankee Stadium, Saturday, that he was capable of playing.
The Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., prefect of discipline at the University, was the next speaker on the program, being introduced as one who knows just what student co-operation means to the team because of his connection as a Notre Dame football player of earlier years. Father O’Donnell complimented the students on their demonstration, and declared that with such backing the team could not but help to exert its best efforts Saturday. He also recounted interesting ancedotes of earlier contests between Notre Dame and Army elevens.
Senator Robert Proctor, of Elkhart, an alumnus of the University, then spoke,- and said among other things that no Army team had ever licked Notre Dame two years in succession.
Mr. Tim Galvin, of Hammond, another loyal alumnus, was the last speaker, and in an inspiring address declared that the doubts which he had entertained after the Loyola game concerning the revival of the dormant spirit existing in the student body, were more than erased by the unrestrained enthusiasm displayed at the rally.
The students marched to and from the gym grouped according to halls and carrying banners, signs, and red flares. Before the speakers were introduced, interhall cheering competition was carried out with excellent results. Beginning with Sorin and ending with Freshman, each hall when called upon by head cheer-leader Bob Mannix, responded with tremendous cheering in an attempt to outdo the other halls. Clever and original signs, particularly the ones carried by Corby and Freshman halls, added materially to the spirit of the affair.
Shorter pep meetings were held earlier in the week. Monday night a rally was held in front of the dining hall and short speeches were made by William Krieg and Bart McHugh, who called upon the students to show the dubious alumni and others that the Notre Dame student body this year had as much of the true Notre Dame spirit as any of the student bodies in former years.
Tuesday evening another short pep meeting was held after supper in the same place. At this rally talks were made by August Grams, head football manager, Larry Moore, chairman of the Blue Circle, and others.
At five o’clock Wednesday afternoon the entire student body assembled at the main gate of Cartier Field and gave the players a rousing reception as they trotted off the field from the last practice before the big game.
The last demonstration for the players was . given yesterday morning when every student who did not have an examination was present at the railroad station in South Bend, to see the team off. After giving the players a tremendous send-off, an impromptu parade was staged up Michigan street in the city to the Colfax theatre where the students were entertained by a free show presented through the courtesy of Mr. Baker, manager of the theatre.
236
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
LAW COLLEGE NOTES
The Honorable Edward Dempsey/ president of the State Bar Association of Wisconsin, the State Board of Teachers’ Colleges, and the State Board of Law Examiners, will lecture to the College of Law under the auspices of the Law Club, on Friday, November 16. All pre-law students are invited to attend. The exact time of the lecture will be posted on the bulletin boards.
Judge Dudley Wooten is still ill and is unable to leave his residence. His classes are being conducted by Professor L. O. McCabe, Judge Orlo Deuhl of the Superior Court, of South Bend, Professor Clarence Manion, and Dean Konop.
During Thanksgiving week, beginning November 26, Professor P. H. Perrenten will deliver a series of lectures on bibliography and the use of a law library.
BEAT THE ARMY
PROMINENT SPEAKERS ON BROWNSON SMOKER PROGRAM
Heading the program now being arranged for the Brownson Reunion Smoker which will be held Wednesday, Nov. 14, are speeches by Coach Rockne, Professor Pat Manion and Jack Keefe, all former Brownson men. The affair has been designated as a Brownson Reunion for all who have ever lived in this hall and a special surprise number has been prepared for the ex-Brownson-ites.
The entertainment will consist of boxing, vocal and instrumental music and recitations. The boxing is being handled by Charles Van-oncini, who has scheduled six bouts between Brownson scrappers and one between a Carroll and a Brownson man. Plenty of action is promised in the seven matches.
The musical program is being arranged by Virgilius Phillips. The new Brownson orchestra will be heard for the first time playing popular and old-time music, accompanied by several soloists and a quartet. Group singing by the audience will also be on the
program. The personnel of the orchestra follows: saxophones, Dernsbach, Nash, Pillars, Scholzen and Crockett; trumpets, Murphy and Scanlon; trombone, Phillips; banjo, Wilson; piano, Carnes; and drums, Hoff.
Tickets were placed on sale Monday, Nov. 5, and at present a large attendance is indicated. The smoker which is for all the students will be held in the Brownson recreation room. Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C., is supervising the program; Brother Norbert, C.S.C., has charge of the tickets; T. Scholzen, publicity; C. Vanoncini, sports; and V. Phillips, music.
BEAT THE ARMY
BRAY AND SINNOTT PRESENT
PAPERS AT SCIENCE MEETING
A meeting of the Academy of Science was held Friday night, November 2, in Science Hall. Adam Bray and Jerry Sinnott presented papers.
Mr. Sinnott gave as his subject: “The Stains Used in Bacteriology and Histology.” He stressed the important role of organic dyes in enabling the modern scientist to identify and study the minute organisms of nature, and the helpful factor that these stains have become in the fight against disease.
“Tularemia, or Rabbit Fever” was Mr. Bray’s subject. The story of the discovery and efforts to curb this rather recent disease was fully developed and proved to be of special interest since it is not uncommon in Indiana. Discussions followed each of the papers among the members of the Academy.
Announcement was made that the next meeting of the Academy would be open to all students of the College of Science. Dr. Baker, head of the South Bend Clinic, will be the principal speaker and will probably talk about some of the recent work among crippled children.
♦ Manuscripts submitted for publica- ♦ ♦ tion in the Scholastic, should be mailed ♦ ♦ or brought to the Scholastic office, old ♦ ❖ Athletic offices, second floor, Main ❖ ♦ building.	♦
❖ ❖ ❖ <► ❖ ❖ ❖ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ❖ ♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
237
THE CAMPUS CLUBS
By Thomas A. Cannon
. PITTSBURGH CLUB NOTICE
There will be an important meeting of the Pittsburgh Club Tuesday, November 13, at 7:45 p. m. in the Badin Hall “Rec.” room. At this meeting final arrangements will be made for the welcoming of visiting Pittsburghers, who will come to attend the Carnegie Tech-Notre Dame game. All members are requested to be present.
CLEVELAND CLUB MEETING
The regular meeting of the Cleveland Club will be held Monday, November 12, at 7:45 p. m. in the Badin Hall “Rec.” room. All members are urged to be present as at this time the committees for the annual Christmas dance will be announced.
CALIFORNIA CLUB BANQUETS
The California Club held a banquet Wednesday evening, October 31, in the College Inn of the Hotel LaSalle, with thirty-five members present. Robert Dockweilei- acted as toastmaster for the evening.
Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, was the guest of honor at the banquet. Father O’Donnell gave a very interesting talk in which he outlined the chief reasons for which men should come to Notre Dame.
Following the banquet an informal discussion of the activities of the club for the coming year- was held. It was suggested that another banquet should be given before the Christmas vacation, and this met with the approval of all the members. Plans for the Christmas dance were also discussed.
JOHNSTOWN CLUB FORMED '
Men from Johnstown, Pa., and vicinity met in the Badin Hall “Rec.” room Thursday night, Nov. 1, for the first formal meeting of the new Johnstown Club. At the present time the club membership is about twenty-five. The Rev. Patrick J. Haggerty, a native of Pennsylvania, addressed the initial meeting. He set forth what the aims and purposes of the club should be, stressing particularly the need for co-operation if the club is to be a success.
A constitution was adopted and an election of officers was held. The following men were elected officers was held. The following men were elected: Donald Schettig, president; Robert V. Sloan, vicepresident; Joseph Raymond, freshman, vice-president; and David Barry, Jr., secretary-treasurer.
EAST PENN CLUB X
One of the largest clubs on the campus, the East Penn Club having a membership of one hundred and six, held its second regular meeting of the fall Friday night, November 2, in the Badin Hall “Rec." room.
The main topic of discussion during the meeting was the plans for the Christmas dance which will
be held on the night of December 27, in the Hotel Sterling in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. The various committees are hard at work making preparation for the biggest and best dance ever held by the club. Edward W. Barney, chair-man of the music committee, announces that negotiations are being made to have Ben Bernie and his Brunswick Recording Orchestra play for the dance.
The officers of the club for this year are: Rev. P. J. Haggerty, C.S.C., honorary president; Joseph Manning, president; Thomas Quigley, vice-president; William C. Loughran, secretary; Anthony J. Ran-savage, treasurer; and Rev. John Devers, C.S.C., chaplain.	'
WISCONSIN CLUB
Forty men attended the semi-monthly meeting of the Wisconsin Club held Tuesday night, October 23, in the Law Building. The important business of the meeting centered around the Christmas dinner dance, and the banquet to be given in honor of Captain Fred Miller, a Wisconsin man, November 15.
Harry J. Porter, of Milwaukee, was apopinted chair-man of the Christmas formal. Mr. Porter will go to Milwaukee this coming week to complete the plans for the biggest and best dance ever sponsored by the “Badger” organization.
Mr. William Brown, chairman of the banquet committee, reports that everything is well underway, and it is expected by the members in charge that the largest group of celebrities ever to honor a Notre Dame man will be on hand the night of the banquet.	•
NORTHERN NEW YORK CLUB FORMED
Twenty-five men from the vicinity of northern New York met on Sunday morning, November 4, in the Badin Hall “Rec.” room for the purpose of forming a Northern New York Club. The rapidly increasing number of students matriculating from that section of the country has made this possible.
The aim of the club is to further the interests of these men and to bring together the alumni who are now settled in that section. A charter was proposed and committees were appointed.
The following officers were elected: Joe F. Barnett, president; Con Carey, vice-president; Frank Hurley, secretary; and Jack Dineen, secretary-treasurer.
TOLEDO CLUB
The first regular meeting of the Toledo Club was held Friday night, November 2, with twenty members present. At this time the officers of the club were introduced to the new members and President Sloan outlined the activities that have been planned for the coming year. He asked that suggestions be handed in for the Christmas dance. Plans for a banquet to be given before Christmas vacation were also began.
238
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Bernard A. Walsh
THE COLLEGE PARADE
ft5E52525E5E5E5B5H5H5E5ES25E525E5H5Z5252SH5E5BS2525BSE5E5B52525a5H52525E525a52S2S252525HS25E525H523
Headline in The Marquette Tribune: “Students Warned •
To Take Care in
Receiving Mail”
Yes, you can’t tell when you will receive a bomb or some other little token of affection.
From Student Life of Utah Aggies College:
“The Profs are not yet wise to the advantages of being a Smith twin. Having exactly the same program of classes one learns the memory work for both, enters the Prof’s private office twice, reports for both and all’s rosy. Elmo will often say he’s Ivan and Ivan vice versa.”
So a brother is good for something after all.
* * * •
“Bacteriologist Finds Sleeping
Sickness Prevalent Among Foxes”
.	—Minnesota Daily.
Would “prevalent” be the adjective if he investigated college men?
Passe is the parrot with the colorful vocabulary of the sailor. The up-to-date bird is the one which quotes Shakespeare and Virgil.
“A college for parrots has been set up at Brownsville, Texas, to which more than 1,500 birds come from all over the world to be taught how to talk. The phonograph is used in instruction, and special records have been prepared for the purpose. The birds vary in age from five to eight months. Each week the parrots are given examinations and graded, and the value of each is judged by the flow of words on graduation.”—The University Daily Kansan.
* * *
Baggy knees are the style at the University of Illinois at present. Men students have gone on a strike against the Champaign and Urbana pressers, who have recently raised their prices, and declare that they will no longer wear pressed pants.
“Medals should be given coeds who have to pass hourly before both Wylie and Maxwell halls, because it is an ordeal requiring much self-composure. It would be only fair if some of the Laws and Medics were made to fall in line and pass in review before two or three hundred coeds about a half dozen times a day.”—Indiana Daily Student.
Sorin Hall porch serves as a similar reviewing stand these Sunday mornings before cold weather sets in.
Sj? ^5
“Are women impediments to speech?” asks The University Daily Kansan.
Yes, quite a handicap.
From the Dalhousie Gazette, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia:
“We note with apprehension another of those amoeba like Kollegiate Kars. Dalhousie is really progressing along such lines, and in a few years at least one ought to see those white corduroy bags they’re wearing at Princeton. Esquimaux dickies are also finding favour with the well dressed college men.”
Not to mention lumber jackets and sheepskins.
Experiences of a fraternity pledge, according to The Bucknelliant
“Hypnotize Freshman, Can’t Wake Him Up
“Because his hypnotizer forgot the magic word which was to bring him back to normalcy, a Lehigh University freshman was taken to St. Luke’s hospital, where a shock revived him.”
Some of us are still waiting for that shock.
* * ♦
From The Cumberland Collegian of Cumberland College, Lebanon, Tennessee:
“Colleges Are All Right, Says
Pennsylvania Professor” That’s comforting.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	239
“MANY THANKS, ‘DOUBTING THOMASES’ ”
In various ways, by signs, by speeches, by short pep sessions, but above all by the tremendously enthusiastic pep rally of last Wednesday, the Notre Dame student body has at last shaken off its nonchalence, its apathy, and its carelessness towards the spirit and fight traditionally characteristic in student bodies of former years. Furthermore, by these demonstrations it has forcibly shown the “doubting Thomases” among the alumni, that there is just as much of the old enthusiasm this year as there was in past years. But best of all, however, the students have demonstrated to themselves that there is some fight and spirit left in their breasts, so much in fact, that even the alumni themselves will admit that the demonstrations last Wednesday and Thursday in sending the team off to New York, surpassed any other rallies of a similar nature ever witnessed at the University.
The results of their bulletins to the student body, together with some judicious arrangements on the part of the S. A. C. and Blue Circle, dumfounded even the most doubting of these “doubting Thomases.” The students refuted their charges of disinterestedness and lack of “intestinal stamina,” with one tremendous and sustained burst of enthusiasm which had been lying dormant all the while waiting for just such an eventuality to occur to start things going.
Most promising of all concerning the revivification of this old-time spirit and fight, was the note of spontaneous sincerity which underlaid the entire proceedings. For it is just such spontaneity and sincerity which once forcibly awakened, will live long in the hearts and the minds of the students, and perpetuate itself in the years to come—which which was exactly what the “doubting Thomases” were striving for.
So we of the present student body say, “Many thanks, doubting Thomases.”
THE ARMY GAME
Football representatives of Notre Dame and the United States Military Academy will clash tomorrow in the Yankee Stadium, New York City, for the fifteenth time. Inaugurated back in 1913 when Dorais, Rockne, Feeney and other immortal wearers of the blue and gold of Notre Dame, fought and passed their way to an epochal 35-13 verdict over the black and gold of the Army on the historic Plains, the game has annually increased in importance, until now it is recognised by critics and sports lovers the country over as one of the truely outstanding gridiron classics of every football season.
Annually, nearly eighty thousand or so people pass through the turnstiles of the huge Yankee Stadium, or the Polo Grounds, to witness the engagement. Annually, the entire student body of Notre Dame, minus the fortunate few who by “hook or crook” manage in some way to get to the game, watch with quickened pulses and bated breath the play by play returns on the gridgraph in the University gymnasium. Annually, the eyes of a sports-loving nation are turned on that chalk-marked field in the largest city of the land.
But to our minds, and to the minds of all Notre Dame men, there is an element far greater than the crowds,-or the interest, or the excitement attendant upon the game. This element is the powerful bond of finest friendship which exists between Notre Dame and West Point; a bond which was originated in a mighty struggle fifteen years ago; which was forged in the crucible of previous hard-fought games; and which was moulded and perfected by the inculcation of a mutual appreciation and respect of one institution for the other through the years, until now it is well-nigh a treasured heritage.—J.V.H.
240
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
c
From the Files of ^he Scholastic
bayard Kurth
Issue of Oct. 17, 1874
We saw two public benefactors repairing the walk between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s yesterday.
* * *
Issue of Oct. 23,1867
On Wednesday, Nov. 6th, the Notre Dame Cornet Band made an excursion, and visited the neighboring sovereignty of Michigan, making the flourishing city of Niles their culminating point. Three immense vehicles scarcely sufficed for the conveyance of their increased numbers and their guests whom their politeness had prompted to invite as participants in the excursion.
* * *
Issue of Oct. 4, 1879
The Prefect of Discipline delivered an address on table etiquette and general politeness on last Sunday in the Junior study hall.
Issue of Oct. 11,1879
The members of the Senior Law Class are positively bewitching behind their incipient mustaches and embryo sideburns.
* * *
Issue of Aug. 23,1879
St. Mary’s Academy. The old pupils will be delighted to find that Notre Dame is again visible from St. Mary’s. /
/ kf
Issue of Sept. 21, 1867
On Wednesday last, a very interesting match took place between the first and second nines of the Star of the West Ball Club, the former agreeing to put out six of the latter in each inning.
Innings	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	Total
1st Nine	....15	11	15	8	7	10	12	5..	......73
2d Nine			4	2	3	1	0	4	1	7_.	......22
* * *
Issue of Oct. 24,1874
The dancing class commenced the other evening. Quite a number are taking lessons in tripping “on the light fantastic.”
Issue of Nov. 7, 1874
Who left their baggage in the parlor? In the South East corner there was a valise left by some unknown party. The contents would lead us to suspect that he had been robbing an orchard.
* * * ,
Issue of Oct. 3, 1874
The vacation has been greatly enjoyed by all who remained at Notre Dame. Picnics,' bathing, excursions, etc., etc., were among the many amusements that made the time pass away insensibly.
*	* * .
Issue of Oct. 17,1874
Both temperance societies are now reorganized and doing splendid work.
*	* *
Issue of Nov. 2, 1867
St. Mary’s Academy. On the twenty-first, recreation was granted to the young ladies of the French classes, as it was the feast of their teacher. The afternoon was spent in the green parlor, where pleasant conversation in French made the hours pass agreeably to all. Holiday refreshments, gifts and merriment, imparted to the hearts of the participants the true happiness arising from the innocent pastime, well earned by diligent application to study and duty.
Issue of Jan. 12,1889
The Collegiates and Laws have taken possession of Sorin Hall.
Here’s to the weather prophet of the South Bend Tribune. He’s a success.
❖ ❖
Issue of Feb. 9, 1889 .
The minims return the Rev. President a warm vote of thanks for the recreation granted them on the 6th.
* * *
Issue of Feb. 6, 1889
The reading room in; Sorin Hall is now supplied with all the leading magazines and best literary works of the day.
e
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
241
My!—Oh. my—Oh my—Oh me! And here am I, just swamped with contributions! But don’t worry, kiddies, we love ’em! For the first time in the life of the Luckless Lad, he has an opportunity to reject contributions, and believe me kids, he likes that sensation of power. But don’t be down-hearted, boys and girls, because you know we have to print some of them! Just submit your* very best, and maybe it will appear in our questionable column.
* * *
CONSOMME (With Chorus)
The Publishers all rant and rave
And shove new volumes in ones’ face.
It’s aioful how those boys behave— A most unreasonable race.
“If smuttily you’d pass your time
We recommend Max Bodenheizn.”
The bookshop zvindoivs are ablaze
With posters purple, red and blue.
The merchants try a thousand ways To sell their press-hot books to you.
“If simple beauty is your turn
Take this new volume of Donn Byrne.”
No threadbare bookworm loiters here
The high and charming shelves to scan.
For bookshop looks are very dear;
They try to sell you all they can.
“If your tastes are somewhat milder Try this tome of Thornton Wilder.”
Most bookshops have an atmosphere More like a grain pit than a store.
The noisy business they do here
Is like slave trade before the ivar.
“If I were you, I’d surely choose
That naughty Miss Anita Loos.”
“Won’t you buy this? Won’t you buy that?” “I always recommend this one.”
“I think that book’s a wee bit flat
But herds a book called ‘Its Not Done.’ ”
“On your chatter draw the curtain.
I’ll take Richard Halliburton.”
—JOESTING PIELIT.
. (Irving Berlin, attention! A song writer with us! Can’t you just hear that da-de-de-dum-de-dum-de-dum? And Guy Lombardo easing into a slow waltz! Da-de-de-dum-de-dum-de-dum!)
BOYS WILL BE SOPHOMORES!
Cotillion Time
Lets’ dream tonight that you are mine, Just make believe that you are mine;
The night will pass
And dreams fly azvay with the dawn.
Another day
And you too shall be gone
Then I’ll be alone and zvonder zvlvy
Mzj dreams all fade, mzj hopes ahvays die;
And I’ll recall one pleasant night zvith yozi And dreazn again that you are znine.
—WASMUS.
MENCKEN AND THE GALS—
M’sieur—The Luckless Lad:
Try other tactics!—Spurn all contribs—broadcast in sonorous tones, the honor, the immensity of the achievement in making “?????” Hoist various and sundry frosh to the eighth or ninth heaven by vague promises to glance through their humble offerings! Be high-handed—be courageous! Even if the worm is the same on all sides, it does break the monotony to turn!	—the Baltimore lassie.
(Well for land’s sakes! Who’s a worm, anyway? 1*11 slap your sassy-. But thats’ no way to talk to a girl! Control yourself! Whoa! She didn’t mean it—girls are like that, you know.)
* * *
Lad:
The stern silence with which you greeted my first epistle has left me yet undaunted. You also made a nasty crack—“that is two names which we found printable”—which was not very subtle. My suggestion, “The Corduroy Cordon,” has a democratic sound. As “Hobnails,” the rejected, connotes shoes —scuffed, proletarian shoes, so also does Corduroy Cordon” suggest our campus democracy—but not in the same note.
Already I’ve said enough—my ballyhoo is stilled!
—THE DEVIL’S ADVOCATE.
Well, and that is almost that! We hope that we were tough enough, mean and cynical, to suit the cave man-loving Baltimore Lassie. We’ll have her know that the Luckless Lad is not a worm! Eet iss oonfortunate, but we just can’t be mean all the time! So remember fellows, send in your verse! Or, as the man says: “Let your aim be high,—but not too high, fellows, not too high!” Let’s be serious; we have to name this column! Just write down a title, a verse, or a “wise-crack” and give it to—
—THE LUCKLESS LAD.
242
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I Blush . . .
... I mean, I actually do! Me, senile senior. Me love-lost. Me, gallivanter. . . . . I saw heart’s desire on 48th Street. On 48th Street one sees heart’s desire:—maybe a rococo Rolls-Royce,—maybe a captivating-caracul cape,—maybe a pack of peanuts. . .
This sombre, sober, soporific tale is told when the West Wind whistles, “whoops, my dear,” to the pines perched a-top Lookout Mountain. Lookout Mountain looks out on Denver, and Denver looks out on nothing- at all. But when the flirtatious West Wind ■winks at the peevish pines on Lookout Mountain, then the sage old men of Denver and the merry maidens of Denver recall this tale —and, what’s more, they tell it. . . .
They will tell you—if you are recently shaved, decently attired—how, one night like this, Rick Flemming deserted Denver. He should have remained in Denver, they will say,—where living is reasonably cheap; where, if one has T. B. one can get rid of it quickly; where anyone can drive a Buick— that is, of course, if one wants to. But Rick Flemming wouldn’t listen to them—Ah, youth! youth! what follies are committed in thy name!—he scorned advice, scoffed counsel. He turned a deaf ear to the sage old men, and a dead eye toward the merry maidens, and he went to New York.
❖ ❖ ❖
It was off Broadway, you know. But it was on 48th Street. Whether it was to the right or to the left of the alley, I’m sure I could not tell you; but assuredly it was not by the stage-door of the Vanderbilt Theater, which is precisely in the alley.
A dreary drizzle was bad news to my new Dobbs hat. Chet Johnson fanned his face up, around, about in the rain. The crazy!
I was with Chet Johnson, because Chet was going to get a gaga for me. After we got the gaga, we were going on a tentative party. I have always gone for tentative parties. If you miss the party, as you invariably do, you can talk about it all evening, which is a boon.
So it was raining, and Chet was talking. First about this gaga date, then about the tentative party, and then again about something concerning which I have forgotten. . . .
* * *
Rick Flemming was of those who are cursed with talent, and blessed with ennui. Or, vice versa. Probably.
When he toiled, he produced. He didn’t toil often enough or long enough, so he never produced a given finished object. He told people he didn’t get the breaks. That’s what people told their friends. It was pretty well established, both back in Denver and here in New York, that Rick just didn’t get the breaks.
The only circumstance that saved him,—or spared him,—from starvation, happend to be Chet Johnson. Chet gave him a tumble to a person or two. This person would give him a tumble to another or two. So, on and on, tumbling thus forever. Hence, Rick managed to get by in the maddening manner that many, many men have gotten by with for many, many years.
Rick was not bad-looking, which is by way of saying that he was not good-looking. Some said that his face denoted character. Others said that his face denoted caricature. Others said that his face wasn’t worth talking about, and they were quite right.
Rick barged along, borrowing, borrowing, borrowing—cashing cleverness for a kind of credit.
He was, no doubt, a rejuvenated junior. Brushing up for certain duties the moment
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
243
they fell due. . . . Buying this thing and that thing without an iota of personal resource. . . ’ . Being, from week to week, without a brain-throb of anxiety concerning the week after. He insulted his ingenuity by ignoring it.
* * *
. . . . I saw her.
And I went That Way.
No glamorous glance from her; only a hotshot look of invincible indifference.
And she went that way—walking toward Broadway.
“Who? . . . Who? ...” I asked Chet. If anyone would know her, he would. He did.
“It is Corin Carter,” said he, “hopelessly high-hat.”
That was all. There would have been much more. But that was all. The incident was as casually dismissed as is a taxi, after the meter and the tip have been reckoned. I couldn’t ask any more about her because my gaga reported present and accounted for at that point. After having been introduced, of course I had to pretend to be all perturbed and palpitating about her. Silly, but it must be done nowadays. Funny, the way things apparently placed in the foreground are relegated back-stage by a minute’s mirage. There was I, acting goofy about this girl who was seemingly my one and only, and I meanwhile dreaming delirious dreams of heart’s desire— high-hat.
Someone passed us, trivial triumvirate, and asked for a quarter to buy a bun and coffee. . . . Someone passed us, boy and girl and boy, and asked the way to Fifth Avenue.. . . Someone passed us, and someone combined the screech of a siren, the scream of a sparrow, and the sob of a punctured tire to cry: “Chet!” This someone was Chet’s affair,— arrived in the power, in the glory, and in a leopard coat.
For times things were hectic. One met people. . . . One asked if one had not met these people before. . . . One thought that it would have been just dandy if one had. . .. One thought it would have been simply grand if it hadn’t rained. . . . One wondered where people were going to eat. . . .
“Oh, we’ll eat at the Ritz.” The lady in leopard knew where people ought to eat.
The lady with me was evidently an epicure: “Oh, certainly, nothing less,” said she.
The Ritz. Gesturing gentlemen, be-jacket-ed, be-caned, be-choked with currency. The Ritz. Lovable ladies—of the mode, of the evening, of the moment. The Ritz.
We ate. Oh, my! We did eat.
After dinner we went to the Villa Venice.
“This,” said my gaga, “is a swell place.” Well, the Villa Venice is a swell place.
As a nite-club it is unique. So! If you happen to be sitting at the table, it is impossible to hear the music on account of the noise at the other tables; and it is extremely uncomfortable to sit at the table because you are constantly being bruited about by persons battling to reach the floor, or battling to return from it. And if you happen to be on the floor it is impossible to hear the music on account of your gaga singing something entirely different into your right ear, while somebody else’s gaga is singing the latest Gershwin number into your left ear. It is also, by the way, impossible to dance while you are dancing.
The entertainment of the Villa Venice consists of three girls who come out and warble stern stuff about their little gray-haired mother ’way up North. This entrancing act is followed by a soulful tenor who sentimentally offers something about his little gray home down south. Next come the Folly Sisters (twins), who wax idiotic with an engaging current hit concerning the gray seas just beyond the Golden Gate. Weaving about, swinging into line with the rest of the entertainment, come two tap dancers, arrayed in vivid stripes, who step and sing about their cosy little gray room up the river at Sing Sing. The climax of all of this comes into being by the ensemble offering, “My Heart Stood Still.” One wishes, hopes, prays that their hearts would stand still—permanently.
But I do like the Villa Venice. It is so different.
Chet and his goo-gaa were dancing, and my gaga was talking to someone at some table— when, along with a waiter, popped Rick Flemming.	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Here,” said the waiter, and left.
“Here,” said Rick, giving him somebody else’s dollar before he actually left.
“Well, you are here,” said Rick, looking at me.
“Yes, here I am,” said I, looking at Rick.
“Don’t mind if I sit down?” asked Rick, sitting down.
“Not a bit, Rick,” said I. I do lie pleasantly. . . .
“Don’t get clever with me, Rick,” said I.
He laughed. Rick’s got a nice laugh. Then he laughed again.
“You happy?” said I, thinking he’d found a fall guy.
“I’m That Way”
“Are you, Rick? So’m I. Awfully. Just.”
“I’m engaged,” Rick told me.
“Congrats—and what-not,” I said, not being much interested.
“Who’s getting the great big hand from you?” Rick wanted to know.
“Oh, Rick,” said I, “she’s—well, she’s—
well. ...”	.
“I know. Mine’s just like that. Mine’s more than that. Mine’s. . . .”
I said: “Listen, Rick. I haven’t even met her,—mine. I saw her on the street. On 48th Street. Off Broadway. But I’m going to meet her. . . . And when I meet her. Oh!”
“That’ll be great, old top, great. But mine —well, words are foolish. . . .”
“They’re futile,” said I.	.
“Absolutely,” said Rick. “She came. She saw. She slayed me. That’s all.”
“And so did mine, Rick. I mean. Well, wait a minute. I wonder if you know her. Chet says that she’s high-hat. Her name is. . . .”
Rick interrupted hysterically: “Hold everything ! Here she is!—Hello, there, sugar! —Pal, I want you to meet my fiancee, Miss Corin Carter. Corin, may I present. . . ? 99
I looked up. I still do. I blushed. I still do. I blush. . . .
By DAVID S. LEHMAN,
With His Tongue in His Cheek.
<♦ ♦> .*♦ »*«—
Of Students
JACK DEMPSEY
(Some of those who attend universities are studious, not normal. These have been disregarded by the author and it is his wish that they be so disregarded by the reader.—ED. NOTE.)
Few students go to college; most of them are sent. The term, “students” is used rather loosely here. At college the students find that their four year loaf is interrupted for several hours each day by forced attendance at lectures or classes. During these hours they either sleep, or manicure their nails, or write letters; or on rare occasions in order to keep from dying of ennui they pay attention, and, on less frequent occasions, they take notes. They sometimes fall out of the well-filled arms of Morpheus and smile po
litely at the professor’s jokes; they smile at the pedantic quips because they believe that age should be slightly respected. Those who are serving their second on third term under the professor know just when to expect each joke. The status of the professor is lowered in their estimation because they believe he is thinking slightingly of their intelligence by telling a joke which was of such an early vintage that it was not included in Joe Cook’s First Joke Book, which was published about 1835. It is all right to tell an old story, they concede, but most professors abuse the privilege.
Students believe that studies serve for uninteresting routine, for policed reading and lectures ,and for grinding for examinations. “To spend too much time in studies is
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	245
sloth,” says Bacon; this is the credo of most modern students. No one is ever going to accuse them of that particular kind of sloth. They study as little as possible, and would not study at all were it not for the professor who holds the whip of examinations over them. Most students study on the eve of examinations—and at that time only. Then they go to the quiz with a prayer on their lips and a “crib” in their pockets.
Modern students spend most of their lea-sure moments in “tossing the proverbial.” In these gatherings some of the topics discussed are: absent friends, girls, suppressed books and magazines, motion picture actresses, and refectory meals. The qualities of those absent friends are usually tried and found wanting; the girls—nothing more need be said; suppressed literature is found to be “not so hot”; the refectory meals are criti
cized because, it is rumored, the soup is bought by the barrel and is of a rare (or is a raw), old vintage; the coffee is made from worn-out grounds; the meat is taken from muscle-bound cattle, and a government chemist could not analyze the hash or the-“mystery balls.”
The modern students can not think; most of them do not even suspect. They receive a very appropriate classification in the definition of Education which was awarded first prize in a contest held by The Forum: “Education is something that is taught in normal colleges by abnormal professors to subnormal students.” Most students are unconsciously trying to prove the truth of what Shakespeare said over three hundred years ago:
“When ignorance is bliss ’tis folly to be wise.”
The Willow Tree
Willow Maiden
By the water,
Do you weep while
Standing there,—
Or,
In the sunshine,
By the water, Lean to dry your Pale green hair?
—BROTHER EMIL, C.S.C. Z
246	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	i)
~	I
fc)	J
$	s ;
•s
The End of Labor
Here on the fragments of these shattered rocks The subtle message of the wind is carved, And here the crows in dark, symbolic flocks Seek food among the grasses, thin and starved.
Upon these arid sands, no footprints trace . Where hunters rode and blew upon their horns— Only the cacti lift up to the face
Of barren skies the tangle of their thorns.
Within the terror of this atmosphere
The singing voice, the dancing feet, the hands Are stopped before the vision of this clear, Immobile light that lies upon the sands.
Here have we come at last with anguished feet To read the hieroglyphics of the wind, And know the dull, incredible defeat
That seals our labor, and our labor’s end. .
—MURRAY YOUNG.
r
£
S)

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	247
IRISH TAME NITTANY LIONS
STOP PENN STATE, 9-0 ALL AROUND PLAY OF TEAM FEATURES COLLINS PLAYS WITH ARM IN CAST
Under a murky, sullen sky, Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish continued their comeback campaign to sweep to a clean-cut victory over Penn State on historic Franklin Field, Philadelphia, last Satur
back sneak through center. Niemic place-kicked for the extra point.
Carrideo kicked off but State made only five yards in three plays and was forced to punt to Carrideo on his own 44-yard
day. The final score was 9-0.
The Rockmen lost no time in getting under way. Chevigny took Dolph’s kickoff on his five-yard line and returned it to the 28-yard mark. Nie-mic got four yards off left tackle and Freddie Collins, playing with his right arm in a cast, got a couple more through center. Chevigny crashed off State’s
FRANK CARRIDEO Quarterback
JOE NASH Center
line. The Rockmen again marched straight down the field but failed to make it first down by a foot on the Pennsylvanians’ six-yard line. Two plays gave Bezdek’s men five yards, when Cooper French, brother of Walter French of Army fame, proceeded to turn Notre Dame’s left wing for • some forty odd yards before Chevigny
right tackle for nine yards and a first down, and Collins turned left end for 17 more before he was forced out of bounds on the Lions’ 41-yard line. The Irish were set back five yards on the next play for being offside but Niemic cut back through center to regain the yardage . Collins then circled right end for seven more yards and Niemic went off left tackle to make it first down on State’s 22-yard line. Three plays netted six yards and on fourth down State was offside, giving Notre Dame a first down on the Lions’ 11-yard line. Chevigny and Collins accounted for five yards between them and Niemic slipped and went out of bounds a foot from a score. Carrideo then scored on a quarter
forced him out of bounds. Two plays later the same Mr. French proceeded to slip off left tackle for thirty-five yards before he was again forced out of bounds. The Rockmen tightened however, and the Lions’ most serious threat ended when Wolff passed over the goal-line for a touchback.
The Irish threatened once more before the half ended. Eddie Collins threw French for an eighteen yard loss and two plays later recovered a fumble by the same player on State’s 17-yard line. The Easterners held, however, and took the ball on their own 11-yard line after a series of forward passes had proved unsuccessful.
Practically the entire third period was
248
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
fought out in mid-field, with the Rockmen gaining the most yardage, one of their marches being stopped only when Evans intercepted one of Niemic’s passes inside his own 30-yard line.
Notre Dame drove to State’s 18-yard line to open the final quarter, but French intercepted a pass and averted a score. An exchange of punts gave the Lions’ the ball on their 13-yard line. Chevigny tackled Miller of State, who fumbled, but managed to recover. Vezie tackled him behind his own goal line for a safety to make the final score 9-0.
Notre Dame’s superiority was clean-cut and apparent in every department. The Rockmen once more rolled up over twice as many first downs as their opponents, while State was held practically powerless, save in the second quarter when French’s two spectacular runs carried the ball deep into Irish territory.
Fred Collins’ splendid courage was perhaps the outstanding feature of the game. Playing with his injured wrist in a cast, he overcame a physical, and what is far worse, a mental handicap, to turn in one of his finest performances. The cohesive charge of the line was outstanding. Once
more Law and Eddie Collins		stood out,
while Leppig	and Moynihan played one of	
their finest ;	games. Chevigny’;	s blocking
was superb and Niemic played his usual		
fine game.		
The Nittany Lions fought		hard and
played well,	but they were up	against a
team, which in the blind fury of its drive		
to a victory	over Army, brooks	no delay,
stops for no obstacle.		
French and acting-captain Hamas stood		
out for the Pennsylvanians.		
The lineup	•	
Notre Dame	' Penn State	
E. Collins			left end			Delp
F. Miller			left tackle			Shawley
Leppig			left guard			Zorella
Moynihan			 center 			Eschbach
Law		right guard			Martin
Twomey			right tackle		__Panaccione
Vezie			right end			Edwards
Brady 		Quarterback		J. Miller
Niemic		left halfback				Diedrich
Chevigny			right halfback			Wolff
Collins			fullback			Hamas
Score by periods:		
Penn State 			 0	0 0 0—0
Notre Dame			 7	0 0 2—9
Touchdowns—Notre Dame, Corredeo. Point after touchdown—Notre Dame, Niemic. Safety—Notre

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
249
Dame, by J. Miller. Substitutions: Notre Dame— Corrideo for Brady; Shay for E. Collins; Conley for Vezie; Deer for Chevigny; Donoghue for F. Miller; Bansavage for Tenomey; F. Collins for Shey; Lep-pig foi- Cannon; Moynihan for Nash; E. Collins for Colerick; Vezie for Conley; Chevigny for Deer; F. Miller for Donoghue, Twoomey for Ransavage; Nie-mic for Elder; Colerick for E. Collins; Cannon for Law; Shay for F. Collins; Conley for Vezie; Nash for Moynihan and Cheir for Chevigney. Penn State —Ricker for Lorella; French fotr J. Miller; G. Collins for Hamas; Evans for Wolfff; Kaplan for Delp; Heusie for G. Collins; Zerella for Ricker; Tamas for Heusie; Wolff for Evans; Evans for Wolff; Delp for Kaman; Dernall for Shawley; Zorella for Evans; G. Collins for Hamas; Lane for Panaccione, Strike for Edwards; Cui-tis for Martin; Kaplan for Delp and Andrews for Eschbach. Referee—F. Birch, Earlham. Umpire—Fultz, Brown. Head linesman —Gardnerfi Chicago, ield judge—McCarty, Episcopal Academy. Time of periods—15 minutes.
BEAT THE ARMY
ARMY MULE PREPARES TO ENTERTAIN IRISH
A happy smile treks across the face of “Biff” Jones these days. Well might the cadets’ mentor be cheerful and optimistic, for his men have fought their way into the spotlight of football prominence and have soared to such lofty heights that they are now acclaimed by the most eminent sports critics as the nation’s strongest eleven. For six successive Saturdays, the Mule has viciously kicked its opponents into the mire of eastern gridirons; and now, flushed, and perhaps fattened by success, the old mare is getting ready to administer the same dose to Notre Dame.
At the beginning of the current season, the Army coach was confronted with a virtual nightmare of enemies. Before his mind flashed visions of a pack of wild mustangs from Southern Methodist University; the stately figure of a determined John Harvard; a ferocious Yale bulldog; a band of fighting Irishmen from the middle west; a squad of burly Cornhuskers from Nebraska; and finally, a blinding red blur which was representative of Stanford. But Jones’ worries, if he has any, are now confined to but three of these; for S. M. U., Harvard, and Yale have all felt the devastating effects of a mule’s hoofs. Other victims of Army manhandling
include Boston University, Providence, and De Pauw.
CAGLE A TRIPLE-THREAT BACK
“Chris” Cagle, the Army star, has been waging a vigorous campaign to crowd Lindbergh, Al Smith, and the Graf Zeppelin out of the headlines; and he has met with not a little success in his efforts. The red-headed halfback has everything: he can pass a football as naturally as Lefty Groves tosses a baseball; he can run fast, hard, and elusively either to the right or to the left, but never to his rear; and he has a well-educated kicking toe. Whatever Cagle needs in the way of interference will be amply supplied by the Army captain, Sprague, whose name will likely grace the lists of all-American selections this fall. The giant tackle has caused the Irish no end of trouble in years past, and he is even more dangerous this season.
Cagle’s running-mate will be a certain gentleman by the name of O’Keefe, whose ballcarrying technique and blocking ability have won for him much favorable comment. Murrell, the veteran fullback and erstwhile Minnesota star, will again do the plunging and backing-up-the-line for the cadets, while Nave, the notorious pass-intercepter, will once more call signals. In the line, Carlmark and Lynch have first call for the end positions, and Perry will be Sprague’s playmate at tackle. The center trio will be composed of Hammack and Dibb at guards, with Hall holding down the pivot post.
The brilliant victories which the Army has registered in its games to date have tended to make the future generals over-confident, perhaps even cocky. A new slogan, “Army pities Notre Dame,” is being echoed up at West Point; but the sages of football are wisely shaking their heads with the remark, “Pride comes before a fall!” If the Irish were indeed as easy to defeat as the Army followers seem to believe, surely 80,000 fans would not pack the Yankee Stadium to see a set-up contest. The majority of that immense gathering will be cheering for Notre Dame, and we venture to predict that fully half of them will be sincerely expecting an Irish victory. •
250	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DEADLOCK IN EACH DIVISION;
NEXT INTERHALL GAMES DECISIVE
Sophomore’s great victory over the fighting Corby eleven automatically deadlocked four teams for the interhall championship. In Division I Freshman downed the Day Dogs while their rival claimants for the honors, Howard, was defeating Walsh. As neither of these teams have been beaten to date their contest next Sunday takes on the aspect of a championship tilt with the first place in Division I and the right to meet the winner of Division II for the interhall championship at stake.
In Division II a similar condition exists. Sophomore’s last-quarter victory when everything seemed slated for a tie, pulled the two-year-olds into a deadlock with Lyons and added new importance to next Sunday’s tilt with Lyons. Both aggregations have clean slates so far, so another divisional championship is at stake. Each battle promises to be one of the best games of the interhall season.
Last Sunday’s games:
LYONS, 12; MORRISSEY, 0
Duplicating the Varsity’s trick in the Penn State game the Vikings took the opening kick-off straight down the field in a series of line plunges and, despite Morrissey’s desperate defense, were not stopped until the ball rested behind the goal line. Fine ball-carrying by Travers and Mangin were a big factor, while Lyons’ teamwork was almost faultless. From this point on the game was merely a series of marches by Lyons, which a suddenly stiffening Scholar defense always managed to stop within the twenty yard line. Late in the last quarter, however, their defense cracked completely and Travers went over for the final score after a pass and a quarterback sneak had put the ball on the eight yard line. Wallace for Morrissey, and Francis, Travers and Mangin, fbr Lyons, starred.
SOPHOMORE, 8; CORBY, 6
A determined last half comeback that proved their caliber won a.hotly contested
game from the He Men when Cannon of Sophomore tackled Corby’s safety man behind his own goal line for the deciding two points, after he had attempted to run back a fumbled punt. Sophomore, outgained and outplayed in the first half, came back with a rush to equal the six-pointer Corby had garnered on a long pass and a line buck, when Howard scored from the eighteen yard mark after a recovered fumble had given the Maroons the ball. Howard, Cannon and Stepler looked best for the victors while Cozak starred for the losers.
CARROLL, 24; BROWNSON, 18
Fighting every second of a thrill-packed game, Carroll and Brownson clashed Sunday for the mythical Main Building title, Carroll emerging the victor, 24-18, when Smurth-waite left the entire Brownson team on a quarterback sneak with less than thirty seconds to play. Carroll scored twice in the first period with little regard for the Arabs’ defense. Brownson’s line, however, tightened up in the next quarter and the backs went through for two touchdowns and Graham marked another for Brownson on a brilliant 85-yard run just as the half ended.
Battling like demons against the inspired Brownson front wall Carroll finally succeeded in tying the score just a few minutes before their sensational winning touchdown. Smurthwaite, Crawford and McCann starred for the victors, while Joe Orint of Brownson played an excellent game as well as his teammates Hass and Dalsey.
HOWARD, 7; WALSH, 0
Howard continued its drive for the championship of the first division by turning in a 7-0 victory over Walsh hall Sunday morning. The Gold Coast freshmen battled the upperclassmen on even terms during the first half, but surged ahead in the third when Dano-witz blocked a Walsh punt and Foley ran thirty-five yards to score the winning touchdown. The field was wet and slow and the attack of both teams was confined mainly to thrusts at the lines.	—P. H.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
251
How they stand in the Interhall league:
DIVISION I
Won Lost Tied
Howard___________________3	0	1
Freshman_________________3	0	1
Off-Campus I 2	2	0
Carroll___________:______1	2	1
Walsh 1	3	0
Bronson _________________0	3	1
DIVISION II
Won Lost Tied
Lyons.___________________4	0	0
Sophomore 4	0	0
Corby ___________________2	2	0
Badin 1	2	0
Off-Campus II____________0	3	3
Morrissey 0	4	0
Next Sunday’s games:
9:30—Freshman-Howard, south of Gym; Walsh-Carroll, Varcity practice field.
2:00—Lyons-Sophomore, south of Gym; Brownson-Off-Campus I, Minims field; Corby-Badin, Varsity practice field.	—J. H. ZUBER.
BEAT THE ARMY
INTERHALL CROSS COUNTRY
Freshman Hall was the victor in the Interhall Cross County meet, which was run over the two and a half mile course last Saturday. The Brownson Hall runners were nosed out of first place by the scant margin of two points, the score being 44 to 46.
The feature of the race was the winning of first two places by Off-Campus in the fine time of 13.52; the two villagers were Howery and Phillips.
The results:
1	.—Howery, 13.52, Off-Campus.
2	.—Phillips, 14.15, Off-Campus.
3	.—Cavanaugh, 14.43, Lyons.
4	.—Powell, 15.11, Brownson.
5	.—Bower, 15.34, Freshman.
6	.—Cox, 15.40, Brownson.
7	.—Sullivan, 15.45, Freshman.
8	.—Reiner, 16.05, Freshman.
9	.—Love, 16.30, Brownson.
10	.—Hoene, 16.43, Howard.
11	.—Jones, 16.45, Freshman.
12	.—Brautegen, 16.57, Freshman.
VARSITY B TEAM WHIPS WILDCAT RESERVES, 31-0
While the varsity was decidedly whitewashing Penn State to the tune of 9-0, the B team was applying an even more liberal coat of this well-known fluid to Dick Hanley’s Northwestern B team| The final score was 31-0.
The Irish lost no time in getting under way, and before the first quarter ended had. scored a pair of touchdowns. The wearers of the purple tightened, however, and held the Irish scoreless during the second quarter.
One more six-pointer in the third period, and a pair of them in the final quarter made the Irish total 31.
Stephan broke loose from scrimmage to run some forty yards for a touchdown and Savol-di scored on a line-buck to give the Irish their first two touchdowns.
Running behind splendid interference, Sa-voldi got loose again in the third quarter to make the score 18-0. In the last period he intercepted a pass and scored, again being aided by fine interference. Christian collected the extra point on a plunge through guard.
The final touchdown came when Malik intercepted another Northwestern pass to score after a sixty yard run.
The Irish outplayed their opponents in every department of the game save in the third quarter when the Wildcats battled with them on more even terms.	.
Herwit, Vik, McGrath and Culver stood out among the linemen, while Stephan, Cronin and Savoldi gained the most ground among the backs.
BEAT THE ARMY
IRISH LOSE TO MICHIGAN STATE, SCORE 27-28
Notre Dame’s cross country team made a remarkable showing according to Coach Nicholson, when they lost to Michigan State by the scant margin of only one point. Michigan State has what is considered the best team in the Middle West. The exceptional time of the first five men, all of whom ran under the course record, is a definite proof of the calibre of competition.	.
L. F. Brown of Michigan State first in the
I
252
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOW The Screen’s Most Glorious Romance COLLEEN MOORE In “LILAC TIME” With Gary Cooper
unusual time of 25:58. Three of the Irish harriers, John Brown, Vaichulis, and Brennan, ran under the course record; they finished second, fourth, and fifth respectively. The previous week John Brown and Vaichulis tied for first place to defeat Marquette 18 to 37.
The results of the Michigan State meet are:
1	.—L. P. Brown, M. S., 25.58.
2	.—John Brown, N. D., 26.06.
3	.—Wilomath, M. S.
4	.—Vaichulis, N. D.
5	.—Brennan, N. D.
6	.—Roberts, M. S.
7	.—Doud, M. S.
8	.—Capt. Brown, N. D.
9	.—Biggins, N. D.
10	.—Roosien, M. S.
PALACE
SUNDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY
14	Brick Tops
Formerly Parisian Red Heads “AMERICA’S GREATEST
GIRL BAND”
Have an Excellent Supporting Vaudeville Bill
Photo Play PHYLIS HAVER In
“Sal of Singapore”
ORPHEUM
SUNDAY—MONDAY—TUESDAY November 11-12-13
“VIRGIN LIPS”
With
OLIVE BORDEN
Wed., Thurs., Fri., Saturday Nov. 14-15-16-17	.
KEN MAYNARD
In
“Code of the Scarlet”
❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖
❖	H. A. S., JR.	*
**********************
We predict a victory over Army. We do so, not because we are expected to do so, but because, looking at it in the cold light of facts and precedent, we see that such a thing is highly probable. Army is not so likely to be overconfident, as “stale.” The Army team has played through successfully, what is possibly the hardest schedule it has ever undertaken, and it is highly probable that that curse of former great Notre Dame teams, “staleness,” will this year, affect Army.
Our own team has not had to labor under the strain of keeping inviolate a perfect record, as it has in the past.
These two considerations, coupled with the berserker spirit with which a Notre Dame team, that is, for a change, an underdog, meets a traditional opponent, have influenced us to pick Notre Dame to win.
We do not attempt to pick a score, because in a game of this type, in which everything is at high tension, and in which the players reach undreamed-of heights, anything is liable to happen, and the ordinary means one uses in trying to predict a score, if there are any, would be of no avail.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
253
ON THE ENEMY’S TRAIL
The most important grid engagement out on the Pacific Coast found the Trojans of Southern California hard at work administering a 10-0 defeat to Stanford. Even Pop Warner was obliged to admit that U. S. C. had the superior team and deserved to win, perhaps by an even larger margin. Sentiment in favor of the Methodists is growing stronger with each victory, and the general concensus of opinion in the Far-West holds that Southern California is one of the truly great teams of the country.
Carnegie Tech took a weekend off, following their conquest of the Pitt Panther, which by the way, was the only opponent of real strength to be-met by the Tartans so far this season. However, the Scotch will need this siesta in order to prepare for the mighty Georgetown outfit tomorrow. These two elevens share with the Army the distinction of being the only undefeated teams in the East at present. For this reason a bitter struggle, and perhaps a bloody one is to be expected.
❖ ❖ ❖
Army is not taking any chances on Notre Dame this fall. This fact was demonstrated when the cadets elected to play De Pauw on the Saturday before the Irish game. The final score was 38-12, with the Army second and third string men bearing the brunt of the attack. O’Keefe and Murrell were the only West Point regulars to start.
hysical education by the bowlful
Exercise is most helpful to bodies made strong by proper eating. Nature has placed a valuable store of proteins, carbohydrates, vitamins and bran in
Shredded
Wheat
EAT IT WITH WHOLE MILK
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
254
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HowDryIAm
Frog Brand Slickers are guaranteed waterproof, made of light-weight material with plenty of room for your comfort. A genuine oiled slicker will keep you dry on rainy days.
FROG BRAND SLICKERS

Perfcct*Htting Sweater
withpermafit' seam
SAMUEL SPIRO & COMPANY
^OGBRiVa MEANS JUST THAT
EXCELLENT WORKMANSHIP—RELIABLE
JIMMIE’S SHOE REPAIR SHOP
Under New Management
ON THE CAMPUS—Back of Rockefeller Hall.
ALL WORK GUARANTEED.
24 Hour Service	Modern
james McAllister, Prop.
are obtainable at men's stores, haberdashersand department stores. Get yours — TODA Y
H. M. SAWYER & SON EAST CAMBRIDGE - MASS.
OFFICE 2-1067 RESIDENCE 3-4041
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
DENTISTRY
701-702 J. M. S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC .	255
S.
7(13 yl^or'Y/i <(/(t'cei.
^oi(7/t dSe.Ht/,
Custom-tailored
Suits and Overcoats
$48.00
and up
❖ ❖ ❖
We specialize in collar-attached shirts
IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC MEN’S WEAR
24th Anniversary Specials for Men
Broadcloth shirts _$1.19
Lined Cape Gloves..$1.39 Knit Underwear .....$1.39
Jacquard Sweaters.$4.24 Broadcloth Pajamas ....$1.24 $1 and $1.50 Hose.....79c And Others
Robertson’s
Endicott-Johnson Field Shoes Built to stand heavy campus wear.
Buckskin upper Stock Riveted Blucher Double Soles—Leather Heels and all sizes.

GILBRO’S
330 South Michigan Street
256
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A grand garment to stop an East Wind
•CLOTI I ES
Tower’s Fish Brand Slickers are not only water-proof. They’re wind - proof—warm.
The “Varsity” model is full-lined, and long enough to protect your trousers. Big, wide “Staydfast” pockets, in which you can stow your books easily—patented “Reflex” edge that keeps water from running in at the front. Corduroy-faced collar with or without a strap. Colors olive-khaki, black and yellow.
You can buy a Towel’s Fish Brand Slicker for the price of a couple of theatre tickets. Stores everywhere carry them. A. J. Tower Company, Boston, Mass.
ESTABLMREP E^GLISH^UNiytRSITY STYLES, TiMEORJEO^OvffV,YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY'OIStIngUISHED
SERVICE I
STATES.
(Charter	ns es
Suits
vercoats

'VOWEL’S'

F* BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT “
OUR STORE IS THE J Charter ft crusei l	of South Bend
* The character of the suits and : I	•
overcoats tailored by Charter House
:	will earn your most sincere liking. =
Dr. Frank M. Powers
University Physician
MAX ADLER CO.
South Bend, Indiana
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
THE air map of America is now in the making—on the ground.
Ten years ago, there were 218 miles of air mail routes with two station stops; to-day, a network of sky roads bridges the country from the Atlantic to the Pacific and from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico.
A majority of the beacon lights used in airport and airway illumination have been designed and manufactured by the General Electric Company, whose specialists have the benefit of a generation's experience in the solution of lighting problems.
Gm you imagine this growth without electricity—without illuminated airports—without trunk lines studded with electric beacons?
Men of vision are building for increasing traffic of the air. Soon, the skies will be filled with commerce.
Just as electricity is helping to conquer the air, the land, and the sea to-day, so to-morrow it will lead to greater accomplishments in aviation and in every human activity.
9&604DH
GENERAL ELECTRIC
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY.
NEW YORK
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ain t It a Grand and Glorious Feelin’?
By BRIGGS
G P. Lorillard Co.. Ed. 1760
not a cough in a carload