I HF. DE PONT
DIGEST
Du Pont’s manufacturing side offers opportunity to mechanical engineers
The young mechanical engineer interested in production finds plenty of opportunity at Du Pont. His skills are in great demand because so many of this Company’s products are made in equipment which must operate continuously on automatic controls.
MorethanhalfofDuPont’sM.E.’s are currently engaged in some phase of production work. There are three main categories.
1.	MAINTENANCE SUPERVISION. Resourcefulness and initiative are needed in men selected for this work. Among their many duties are the scheduling of preventive maintenance and emergency repairs to minimize down time, suggesting equipment improvements to reduce the maintenance load, and estimating costs of changes or major repairs.
Normally, the supervisor establishes maintenance procedures, di
rects transfer of personnel from one group or area to another, and assigns duties. He sets up office and field work methods and controls the supplies of spare parts and stores.
The importance of this work is emphasized in some Du Pont plants where more men are needed to maintain the equipment than to operate it. At one plant, the division maintenance superintendent, a man with several years experience behind him, is responsible for 1,500 pieces of equipment and 100 miles of pipe. He has 120 men under him, including 10 foremen.
2.	PRODUCTION SUPERVISION.Other mechanical engineers at Du Pont use their knowledge of mechanical equipment in solving production problems. They must see that raw materials are on hand, that maximum yields are obtained with minimum loss, and that the products meet
J. D. McHugh (at right}, B.S. in M.E., Rochester ’50, and draftsman discuss working drawings for plant equipment improvement.
rigid specifications. In addition, they must train men in proper equipment operation and maintain good personnel relations.
One area supervisor, also an experienced man, usually has charge of from 125 to 150 people, including 6 to 10 foremen.
Keeping compressors in top running condition is a typical maintenance-group problem.
3.	PLANT TECHNICAL. Other M.E.’s at Du Pont are assigned to the teams of plant technical men responsible for process and production improvements. In this work, they help solve problems on machine design, strength of materials, control instruments, packing materials for high-pressure equipment, etc.
Actually—in maintenance, production and development—the possibilities are almost unlimited at Du Pont for the M.E. who likes the manufacturing side of industry.
HAVE YOU seen "Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont”? 32 pages of facts about opportunities for mechanical engineers. For copy, write: 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.

DSCDoib
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights on
NBC—See It Every Other Wednesday on NBC TV
The Scholastic
MEDICO
:	Hnesf Medico ever made.
:	W Exquisite Burgundy Finish
I! / MEDICO V. F. Q.—$2 With NEW NYLON BIT. •
•	Exclusive! Guaranteed Bite-Proof!
■	Odorless! Tasteless! Cushion Bite! r
MEDICO MEDALIST—*1.50 *	j
i When filter turns brown—in Medico ' i Pipes or Cigarette Holders-throw ' it away, with nico-
i tine, juices, flakes, i tars it has trapped.
i Insert a fresh filter
I for cooler, cleaner and dryer smoking,	box of
Imported Briar. «	to filters—toe ■
k	’	■
C:	Wide variety of styles and sizes. :
j : Write Medico Pices. Inc. N.Y. 22. for Booklet 0 ’ k MEDIC® CIGARETTE A CIGAR HOLDE«S-$f /
NABICHT BROTHERS
Oklahoma Menu
FRIDAY—E verything in Seafoods
Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight
SATURDAY—Steaks, Chicken, Seafood
Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight
SUNDAY—Family Dinners
Open 12 noon to 8 p.m.
Nabicht Brothers Predict:
NOTRE DAME 27	OKLAHOMA 21
---------South Bend's Oldest Catering Family-
NABICHT BROTHERS
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST	2-3138
-------- Private Dining Rooms for Special Parties- ----------------------------------------
At Gilbert's . . .
Storm Coats
None warmer, none smarter than these full length alpaca lined storm coats. Double breasted with mouton collar, they are tailored to keep your body temperature in and damp Indiana winds out. These coats afford maximum protection at minimum cost and weight.
$3950 „„
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Nov. 7, 1952
3
Editor:
EATON'S CORRASABLE BOND
has a high faculty rating — it erases without blur, blear, or blemish
You're "grade A" on this magical typewriter paper! It banishes your mistakes forever, finishes up with a clean groomed look that just can't fail to impress favorably.
Test it: make a mistake, flick it off with a pencil eraser, type over it — see how Corrasable erases without a trace] Try it: note faculty reaction to such clean precision. Use it for keeps: save time, temper, money, and watch your grades hii that upward zoom!
IF YOUB BEACTION IS: "THIS I GOTTA SEE" — Slop in soon for a demonstration or io make your own test.
only Eaton makes Corrasable Bond
Notre Dame Bookstore
Add One Co-Chairman
Due to a misunderstanding it is necessary to correct the article in last week’s Scholastic concerning the Senior Ball chairmen. Actually co-chairmen were selected.
I was selected by the committee, and then the class officers, feeling among other considerations that the work involved might be excessive for one person, chose a co-chairman, Jim Pfohl, from among the last four eliminated by the committee. Joe Costango remains as business manager.
George Higgins
Boo! to ND Bus-Riders
Editor:
BOO!
To the Notre Dame students who never give up their seats to a lady, even though she is the only passenger standing in the bus. Such conduct is inexcusable, gentlemen.
Lucille Hair
Gift and Exchange Division, The University Library.
P. S. This happened on the 3:30 bus leaving the Circle for town on October 24, 1952.
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Nov. 10—Feast of St. Andrew Avellino, Confessor.
Tuesday, Nov. 11—Feast of St. Martin, Confessor, Bishop.
Wednesday, Nov. 12—Feast of St. Martin I, Pope, Martyr.
Thursday, Nov. 13—Feast of St. Didacus, Confessor.
Friday, Nov. 14—Feast of St. Josaphat, Martyr.
Saturday, Nov. 15—Feast of St. Albert the Great, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor of the Church.
Beggar: Have you got a nickel for a cup of coffee?”
Student: “Oh, I’ll manage somehow, thank you.”
=❖=
Alumnus: “How about the team?
Are they good losers?”
Coach: “Good! They’re perfect.”
=4»=
Bookstore Agent: “Why, this machine will do half your homework.”
Senior: “Fine. I’ll take two of them.”
4
The Scholastic
«
ignorance of tradition, you’re making lots of old grads weep bitter tears.
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
Ike wins . . .
Trip Tripe
There were several nice things that could be said about the Student trip to exotic Cleveland, a city somewhere in Ohio. Perhaps the very nicest thing was that the trip was decidedly cheaper than the trans-continental journeys to New York, New Orleans, and the like. The next nicest thing was that the train trip, although grueling, was not nearly as grueling as riding the rails to and from the aforementioned distant lands.
Armed with the glee of a three-day holiday and mission, the boys soon forgot that Cleveland was just a plain ordinary American metropolis and settled down to some serious fun-making. In fact, the word around campus early this week was that Cleveland might even hold a candle to dear old South Bend.
South Bend, in case you haven’t noticed, is a small community of movie theatres some 1,500 paces south of the golf course.
On With the Show
On this eve of another home game, the men of Sorin and Walsh are holding earnest caucuses. They sit in dimly-lit, smoke-saturated dens and discuss plans for the big Tomorrow. What exciting feats of courage, what star-studded performances they may provide, nobody really knows.
The other halls will be viewing for the affection of football weekend visitors, too. All week long we have harkened to the din rising from every hall. There was much hammering, much loud sloshing of paint brushes, and much wailing that the allowance for their fine decoration was not nearly enough.
Our advice is not to use your bed sheets for banners and streamers on your project. The maids have a quaint affection for them, and hate to see them defaced with poster paint.
=❖=
Tots Trample Tradition
Ever since the Mixer incident, Seymore Senior has become increasingly
aware of our freshmen. The freshmen, says spoil sport Seymore, have been doing a very naughty thing lately. You see, Seymore is a staunch believer in college traditions, although like most everybody else he is willing to admit he doesn’t know exactly what college tra-. dition is.
The Administration Building is that heavily confectioned building under the Golden Dome. The big thorn in Seymore’s vulnerable side concerns the front steps of this building. It seems that there is some sort of tradition about not using these steps until you’ve graduated. But lately Seymore has noticed great herds of our blithe freshmen ambling up and down these steps with magnificent nonchalance.
Don’t do it, chillen. Besides making Seymore impatient with your horrible
HENRY HANGER COMPANY OF AMERICA
TRANSPARENT ’RAINBOW^ PLASTK CLOSET HATBOX
For week-end trip* or around th* campus—a carry-all—a neat place for the new chapeau —a practical item for men and women. Solid, rigid transparent plastic with carry-all strap. In transparent crystal, amber, ruby, green and blue.
A Valet — no less. When retiring, your "Silent Valet" await* you... keep* clothe* neat and orderly, wrinkle-free. Hold* jacket*, pant*, •hoe*, tie*, jewelry, change, key*, paper* — actually contain* a presser for your trouser*. Lifetime hardwood
Baby, It’s Cold Outside
The phy ed classes have moved indoors, and most of our pseudo-athletes are very happy about it. The lads had taken to stuffing their sweat shirts with the rotogravure section of the Trib to ward off the icy blasts. But despite these precautions, frost bite was taking too heavy' a toll and activities had to be transferred to the warm sanctuary of the “Rock.”
One wag, who is taking phy ed 2 for the fourth time has written a one act play called “The Iceman Throweth.” It’s all about a phy ed class quarterback who was suddenly frozen stiff while attempting a forward pass. The plot goes on to tell how he freezes harder and harder as the winter drags on and acquires a heavy veneer of Hoosier icing. Finally everybody takes for granted he’s just a statue in honor of Johnny Lujack.
Bottom of the Week
. . . Pogo loses.
HENRY ’SILENT VALET
construction. Colors, Walnut, Mahogany, Blonde.

it presses pants!
Nov. 7, 1952
5
NOVEMBER 7
FIELDHOUSE (7:30 p.m.)—Notre Dame will need more than the momentum of three straight wins to carry them successfully through the Oklahoma tussle. With such guest speakers as Father Tom Brennan (Senior), Mickey Mantle, Mel Allen, and Johnny Lujack, tonight’s pep rally promises to be the biggest to date. Let’s make sure the same can be said for the crowd.
PALAIS RO YALE (9 p.m. to 1 a.m.)—The local hucksters don their best business suits tonight, invest their savings in the first annual commerce Ball, and hope for capital gains with their love interest. Tomorrow each will be a little broker.
AVON (through Nov. 18)—Mario Lanza is still singing in full color in Because You’re Mine (A-l).
COLFAX (through Nov. 12)—Spring field Rifle actually has almost nothing to do with the Springfield rifle. Instead it’s a civil warwestern-cloak and dagger brew. As in High Noon, Gary Cooper plays a sober husband, but there the comparison ends. At least there’s plenty of action.
PALACE (through Nov. 13)—Burt Lancaster uses his circus training to swing from many a yardarm in the Crimson Pirate (A-l), a far-fetched and even funny sea-horse opera. With it is Breakdown, which does.
NOVEMBER 8
STADIUM (1:30 p.m.)—Oklahoma is bound to be defeated sooner (no pun intended this time) or later. If the Irish are “up” and get sufficient encouragement from the stands, this may be it.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:40 and 8:40 p.m.)—Pat & Mike, with Hepburn and Tracy, is back for another try. The odds favor its being shown this time.
DRILL HALL (8:30 p.m. to 12:30)—Saturday’s Student Senate Dance will celebrate either an ND victory or a dam good try. To join in, bring a dollar, a date, and a Student Activity card.
NOVEMBER 9
RIVER PARK (through Nov. 11)—Quo Vadis is still making the rounds. For those who like to come in at the beginning, starting times are 5:15 and 8:15, with a 2:15 matinee Sunday.
STATE (three days)—This should interest the Met Club: the Bowery Boys in two real rousers, Bowery Buckaroos and Hard-Boiled Mahoney.
GRANADA (through Nov. 12)—Horizons West (A-l) is a bush western with color but not much else. Robert Ryan plays the bad ’un. Both he and the picture die, the latter first. Tom Conway and Hillary Brooke are a couple of sharpies in an otherwise dull movie co-pic, Confidence Girl (A-2).
WMBli Mike Chatter
Governor Stevenson’s talk at Notre Dame, June Valli’s personal appearance on the “Daily Express” and now the direct coverage of the election returns. Production comes into its own at WNDU. With the experience we’ve gained in bringing you these three events in the past three weeks, you will be able to look forward to better programming, more variety and more special events on the Student Voice. It is all part of the over-all program to improve the service • we can give the campus on the station. Each improvement such as this just makes the next one that much easier, and more certain.
All of which brings us down to the third in the series of what makes WNDU, our station manager, Bill Ryan. Bill has managed WNDU since the Spring of 1951, when he was still a sophomore. Because of his experience in commercial stations and in the news department of NBC in New York, many of the improvements in the programming-over the past three years can be attributed to his direction. He came to his present position through the job of Program Director.
Bill’s main job, though, is the day to day managing of the station, taking care of the little things that always turn up to confuse the picture, and. controlling the activities of the various departments that come under him. There are four main departments directly under Bill. The authority from him is divided into Business, Programming, Engineering and Public Relations, with all of the activities of these departments coordinated by the Traffic Department. In succeeding weeks I’ll try to explain these departments in the order of size, Programming, Engineering, Business, Traffic and Public Relations (me and one other guy).
For our coverage of the election results last Tuesday night, WNDU had the facilities of four networks, two wire services, the Political Science Academy, and both major political parties working for us. >We had men at both party headquarters in South Bend, men monitoring all the network coverages, and men watching the UP machine for news all night. It took almost every man at the station to work the program. By listening to the WNDU broadcast, you heard a more complete rundown than you could have'heard by listening to any one of the networks, somewhat condensed of course.—Bryan Coughlin
6
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 November 7. 1952 No. 7
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ................News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ...............Features JOHN F. SAND ..................Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t, Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ...........Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN .............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bennet, Tom Bosse, Bill I	Burnett, Dick Callaghan, Irv Carrig, Joe Casser-
ella, Bill Copeland, Doug Cole, Pat DiPasquali, Frank Donlon, Carroll Dowden, Fred Eckart, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Bob Gorman, Dick Hairsine, Tom Hartzell, Joe Leaser, Kari Martersteck, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Jim O’Shea, Dick Rupp, Jerry Shea, Dave Schlaak, Ray Schlitzer, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Lou Bourjaily, Tom Caplet, John Cywin-iski, Bob Ettlebrick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Don Swiegowski, Walt Touhy, Tom Welly.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike I	Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick. •
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick. Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Lobund is nationally famous, but little known on the Notre Dame campus. Accordingly, this little monkey, which plays an important part in the laboratories, introduces you to Lobund. The story begins on page 16.—Photo by Bruce Harlan.
The Grass Isn’t Always Greener ...
Have you heard the story of the ailing Daily Northwestern?
The Evanston school’s daily paper is struggling to keep alive despite sharply rising production costs. Unless the Daily can raise $5,000 it will have to start publishing only three times a'week. However, this would only cut costs about 25%, and chances are that it will be cut to a weekly soon if money cannot be raised.
This is more difficult than it sounds. Advertising rates can hardly be raised because they are now second highest in the country. Only Harvard tops Northwestern among college papers. The administration will not, for various reasons, principally because of a new activities fee setup, allow the subscription price to be raised.
Then “it” happened. Three campus leaders approached the editor, individually, and tried to exert pressure by saying that their organizations would be happy to contribute providing the paper behaved itself and “played it their way.”
Needless to say, the editor said no.
The point of running this little anecdote here is its contrast to the situation at Notre Dame. We are always inclined to criticize and to be dissatisfied, but when you stop and think, things could be a lot tougher than they are.
We were a bit shocked at the recent Associated Collegiate Press convention when told by a number of editors that their budget was appropriated by the student government from its funds. He who controls purse controls policy, so one doesn’t find much criticism of student government in these papers.
Another discovery at this convention was the fact that some administrations read every bit of copy which goes into the paper before it goes to press. This does not hold at large Universities, but the above shows the opposite extreme which sometimes manifests itself in these schools—the case in which the administration remains aloof financially, possibly leaving the publication at the mercy of campus pressure groups.
And now the contrast. At Notre Dame the University provides the Scholastic with a budget based on costs and, while we can’t do all the things Life can, we ( usually manage.
At Notre Dame the Scholastic is completely independent of the student government, free to criticize or compliment. Thus the student publication can, and should, serve as a • check to student government. The Senate agrees with this view; and recently passed a resolution stating that it would not attempt to interfere with the magazine. One senator said that any activity, in order to grow better, must have constructive criticism.
And finally, at Notre Dame the editors do not have to rush copy to administration offices to be read before publication. True, the party line must be followed to a certain extent, but not much more than any professional editor must follow his publisher’s views. And in following this line, Scholastic editors are left to their own discretion.
In carrying out its function, a student publication must be ready with a “wreath” once in a while as well as frequent “wallops.” So, while we are quite a distance from journalistic heaven, we’d like to point out that neither are we exactly fording the Styx.
Nov. 7, 1952
Under that woolen tent, Pinhead has two sweaters, a flannel shirt and long winter underwear. He’s got a pair of gloves under the mittens and he’s wearing three pairs of socks under his waterproof boots. All set for any old thing!
Like a two-legged cow!
Look, Pinhead. Take a barrel full of water, see. Chop a hole in the bottom and what happens? The water comes out. Sure, 99 per cent of the barrel is still there, but the water comes out anyway.
Okay, so let’s mix the metaphor up a bit. You got yourself all bundled up except for the hole in the barrel. Your hat, George! You can stick yourself in an oven but leave your bare head out and you’re still going to get cold.
Your head needs a lot of heat. So help me. If it gets cold, the rest of your body works like mad trying to heat the thing up. So you catch the sniffles and all the rest of you might just as well be wearing white ducks as far as keeping warm is concerned.
Plug up the hole, Pinhead. Get yourself a hat. Keep the wind and the rain out of your hair. You’ll feel better—and look better, too!
"Wear a Hat-Its as Healthy as Its Handsome!"
These fine hat labels have published this advertisement in the interests of good grooming and good health of American men.
DOBBS	CAVANAGH J KNOX^
BERG# BYRON ® C&K || DUNLAP
Divisions of the Hat Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats for Men and Women
8
The Scholastic
Johnny Lons Featured at Tonight’s Ball
I ’Fantasy’ Atmosphere Opens Gala Weekend ।
i	Notre Dame’s “perfect weekend” will
I	get into full swing tonight when more
J than 500 Commerce-men and their dates J will enjoy an evening of “Drifting and |	Dreaming” to the rhythmic beats of
s Johnny Long and his orchestra.
’	The “perfect weekend” is so called be-
i cause into it have been crammed a huge ! pre-game rally, the Commerce Ball, the !	Oklahoma football game, and superim-
।	posed over all, Decoration Weekend.
!	The Commerce Ball, the social high-
L light of the weekend, is a study in harmonic balance between music, decorations, and general atmosphere.
When the dance goers enter the Palais Royale, they will be greeted by the soft strains of sweet music which Johnny Long has promised will be so “smooth” as to give the effect of drifting; the ballroom itself will be bathed by the soft glow of flickering candles which will create the dreaming atmosphere.
The evening’s festivities will center about the bandstand which has been converted to a seaside wharf, complete with coiled rope hausers and trunks destined for faraway places. To complete the illusion, the background of the bandstand has been decked out with a huge replica k of the Clipper ship which adorns the Commerce Building.
The Clipper ship serves a dual purpose in this instance, as it not only is the symbol of early commercial trade, but additionally it was the means of , drifting before the winds to the faraway places of which young people so often dream; hence, “Drifting and Dreaming.”
The theme also is carried out in a series of silhouettes which line the side walls. An added touch of merriment will be furnished by a series of cartoons which are a direct take-off on pipe tobacco advertisements.
During intermissions, mood music in keeping with the theme will be played on the Consonatta by the well-known radio organist, Art Richards.
MISS MADELEVA MILLAR
With A Diamond Studded Tiara
The queen chosen to reign over this first Commerce Ball is Miss Madeleva Millar of San Francisco, California. She will be escorted by the dance’s business committee head, Bob Kosydar. Miss Millar is a Home Economics major in her senior year at St. Mary’s College.
In true Commerce style, the coronation will be somewhat different from those of previous dances held at Notre Dame. Instead of the usual crown of flowers, Miss Millar will be presented with a beautiful diamond studded tiara, a custom creation made especially for this occasion by one of the country’s foremost silversmiths.
Another “crowning” will take place after the faculty dance contest when the male member of the winning couple will be dubbed “King of the Waltz.” Unlike the queen’s crown, the waltz king’s headpiece is not diamond studded nor was it made by a silversmith. It was “especially created,” but only for a humorous reason.
The dance will be given a note of dignity by the presence of several members of the College of Commerce Advisory Council.
Frosh Gerold Kranz
Killed in Auto Crash
A two-car collision took the life of one Notre Dame student and injured another late last Sunday afternoon near the town of Assumption, Ohio, on U. S. highway 20, 15 miles west of Toledo.
Gerold Francis Kranz, an 18 year old freshman in the College of Arts and Letters, was killed and anothei- freshman, Phillip B. DeMars, 17, received minor cuts and lacerations when the car in which they were riding crashed head-on with another automobile.
A passenger in the other car was also killed, while the driver of the auto in which Kranz and DeMars were traveling escaped with minor injuries.
The two Notre Dame students were returning from a weekend at their homes in Toledo.
Ohio state police reported that the crash occurred when the driver of the car in which the two students were riding attempted to pass another vehicle, lost control and spun into the path of the on-coming auto.
Both students attended Catholic Central High School in Toledo before coming to Notre Dame.
Kranz, a resident of Farley Hall, is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Gerold F. Kranz; and two brothers, one of whom is a monk at a monastery in New Melleray, Iowa.
The funeral was held Wednesday at Blessed Sacrament Parish in Toledo. A Requiem Mass was also celebrated here on campus in Sacred Heart Church Thursday.
Rev. Daniel F. Curtin, rector of Farley, and a group of students—including a member of the Student Senate and the deceased student’s cousin — represented Notre Dame at the funeral services. ■
Farley president Tom McNeill has announced that a spiritual bouquet was sent to the parents of Kranz, bearing the name of every student in the hall. A total of $85 was also collected. It will be used for Masses.
Nov. 7, 1952
9
ND Campus Prepares for Horde of 2,000 First-Time Oklahoma Pigskin Trippers Today
By PAUL FULLMER
College pageantry—cascading through fiery pep rallies, chanting pigskin enthusiasts, massive pre-game festivals, and all exploding in the skirmish be-tween the elevens of the mighty Oklahoma Sooners and the capable Irish of Notre Dame—will be present over this bang-up 1952 homecoming week-end.
Although the Sooners are complete football strangers to the Fighting Irish, tremendous steam has been building "up for the past four years in the national pressure cooker of public opinion, awaiting this Saturday’s clash.
The University of Oklahoma, located in Norman, has an enrollment of some 13,000 students, all of whom, it is reported, wish they could be here. And from the looks of the influx in South Bend today, it already seems they have all found their way.
Decorations Weekend Big Feature
The Red and White of Oklahoma’s Sooners, under the able guidance of Coach Charles (Bud) Wilkinson will tangle with the Blue and Gold in not only an all-important football game, but a decoration week-end — a week-end abundant with old grads, hall decorations, a multitude of visitors, and the grand excitement of pre-game atmosphere.
This mid-season classic promises to be a dream show for sports-hungry football fans.
On their merry way to South Bend, the Sooners have garnered a pair of national championships and a team average of some.forty markers a tilt in the last five years. Coach Frank Leahy of the Irish boasts a winning percentage of .881 in his eleven year tenure here, while mentor Wilkinson has posted a .892 mark in five years at the helm of the Southwest institution.
Although the Irish have been a slightly unpredictable club so far in the campaign, and the Sooners have had one close shave, both teams are expected to settle down to a real land squabble over some 100 prize yards of Indiana turf.
The marching bands will carry the colors of their respective schools in tomorrow’s half-time ceremonies.
“All or Nuthin”
“All or nothin’” will be the cry of coaches, players, partisans, and John Q. Public when the clash begins tomorrow.
It is the initial meeting of the squads, but Oklahoma would like to restore the prestige of the Southwest after Notre Dame so rudely corralled the Texas Longhorns earlier in the year.
The yielding cry of the NCAA is “I can’t say No” as coast-to-coast television of this game has been authorized to satisfy the many old grads, friends, students, and subway alumni of both schools. There will be outlets in Chicago and throughout the Midwest and also in the Sooner heartland of Oklahoma City and Tulsa.
The Notre Dame ticket office sadly announced as early as May that the stadium seats had been completely sold out. Even the field boxes have been gone since late Summer for this classic and a crowd of 60,000 is expected to fill the stands—an overflow of 5,000. The fans in the Southwest gobbled up their bloc of nine thousand seats almost overnight to make a ducat as scarce as a coed at Notre Dame.
2,000 Fans; 104 Pullmans
Some 13 trains, combining 104 pullman cars, will handle the influx of visitors and their delegations. Others will arrive by plane and automobile.
Special trains will be met by a welcoming committee, composed of members of the Oklahoma Club, the Blue Circle, and the hall council system. They will be brought to the campus for a barbecue luncheon and detailed tours of the campus. Provisions for some 2,000 fans have been made by the Tulsa Alumni Club of Notre Dame.
The world-famous Notre Dame Glee Club will pay tribute to the visitors at 11:30 tomorrow morning and the Oklahoma University marching band has been lined up to follow with a special pre-game show. Tomorrow evening, partisans from both schools will flock back to the Drill Hall for the customary frolicking at a gigantic Victory Dance.
After all this year’s shouting subsides, both sides will regroup their forces in preparation for the Irish invasion of “Sooner-land” on Sept. 26 of next year to uncork the 1953 season.
No matter what the outcome of the game, you can bet your last football dollar that both “Oklahoma” and “The Victory March” will be echoing over this area for many a moon.
HARVEY G. FOSTER
Speaks at Alumni Board Meeting
ND Alumni Conduct Annual Mee+ingToday
Eighteen members of the Notre Dame Alumni Board convened this morning in the Main building at the group’s first session of the annual meeting to discuss various committee functions.
Following introductions to the new University administrators, the board heard Harvey G. Foster, ’39, the session’s opening speaker.
The board will meet again tonight, and will also conduct a short business meeting following a buffet supper tomorrow.night at the Morris Inn.
First on the group’s business schedule will be the discussion of appropriations on Fr. Hesburgh’s new statement for the Foundation, Alumni Fund and Gifts Committee headed by Richard Nash, ’23.
The Class Secretaries Confei'ence will be the chief topic of discussion for the Class Activities Committee. On the program for the Committee of Club Activities, under Chairman Joseph S. Morrissey, ’28, will be discussion of Sunday’s Board Communion Breakfast, Universal Notre Dame Night, and new proposals concerning the annual President’s Council.
The Preparatory School Relations Committee will hear a report from the administration which is considering a manual for the alumni in this field.
A fourth discussion will be conducted by the Committee on Prestige and Public Relations, which will have one of the major reports submitted to it for consideration.
A resolution committee, headed by John H. Neeson, will have, as one of its issues on the agenda for consideration, the subject of Life’s recent Notre Dame football coverage.
IO
The Scholastic
Hildebrand Delivers Current Reilly Talks
Doctor Joel H. Hildebrand, professor emeritus of chemistry at the University of California, is presently delivering a group of lectures under the auspices of the P. C. Reilly Lecture Series here at Notre Dame.
Theme of his talks is “Liquid State, Solutions, and Inner-molecular Forces.”
During his six-week stay at Notre Dame, Dr. Hildebrand will also present several non-technical lectures, including “Science and Mr. Smith,” designed to explain science to the layman.
Educated at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Berlin, Dr. Hildebrand served as principal scientific liason officer- with the British government for the Office of Scientific Research and Development during World War II.
Dr. Hildebrand has been associated with the University of California since 1913—serving as professor of chemistry, dean of men, faculty research lecturer and dean of the College of Letters and Science. A specialist in organic chemistry, he is the author of several chemistry texts, but his writings have not been confined to science. Dr. Hildebrand is an outdoor enthusiast and has written books on camping and skiing.
Through the years, Dr. Hildebrand has lectured at the University of Edinburgh, the Physical Society of London, and at major American colleges. He is a member of the American Chemical Society, the National Academy of Sciences, and the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
The P. C. Reilly Lecture Series is made possible by a gift of the late P. C. Reilly, Indianapolis industrialist and former member of the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees.
SENIOR BALL CHAIRMEN
Co-chairmen George Higgins and Jim Pfohl have formulated initial plans for the 1953 Senior Ball. They include the selection of the Drill Hall as the dance site, with either May 8 or 15 being the dates proposed.
A Student Senate ruling stipulates the Ball must be held either the second or third week of May.
As yet no orchestra has been chosen, but the co-chairmen promise that it will be the best name band available.
Joe Costanzo will handle the financial end of the affair.
Commerce Advisory Council Meets Today; Business Leaders Hear Department Reports
Thirty-four of the nation’s top leaders in business and industry convened on the Notre Dame campus this morning for a two-day meeting of the University’s College of Commerce Advisory Council.
Edward J. Quinn, member of Murphy, Lanier and Quinn, Chicago accounting firm, is chairman of the group which advises the University on its commerce curriculum and suggests specific studies on subjects beneficial to industry. William R. Daley, vice-president and treasurer- of Portsmouth Steel Corporation, Cleveland, is vice-chairman.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, welcomed members of the Council to the campus at a luncheon prior to the first business meeting.
A highlight of the semi-annual meeting is a report on the activities of the College of Commerce during recent months by Dean James E. McCarthy. The Council also will hear departmental reports on the marketing, accounting, finance, and business administration sequences within the College of Commerce and on the experimental program for-administrators.
Members of the council will be the guests of Father Hesburgh at the President’s Dinner this evening and will attend the Notre Dame-Oklahoma football game tomorrow afternoon.
Twenty-Six Stay Out
Twenty-six charter members of the Commerce Advisory Council, including Mr. Quinn and Mr. Daley, retain their membership. They include: Thomas E. Braniff, president of the Braniff International Airways, Dallas; Robert E. Dwyer, president, Anaconda Copper Mining Co., New York City; Judson S. Sayre, president, Bendix Home Appliances, South Bend; Kerwin H. Fulton, president of Outdoor Advertising Inc., New York City; and George W. Strake, Houston, Texas oil executive.
The following also have served as members of the Council since it was founded in 1948: O. J. Caron, president of the Caron Spinning Co., Rochelle, Ill.; John A. Coleman, Adler, Coleman and Company, New York City; James E. Coston, president of Coston Enterprises, Chicago; Noah Dietrich, executive vice-president, The Hughes Tool Company, Houston, Texas; Robert H. O’Brien, secretary, Paramount Pictures, Inc., New York City; James Gerity, Jr., president, Gerity-Michigan Corporation, Adrian, Mich.; Robert H. Gore, president of Fort Lauderdale’s Governor’s Club Hotel; and James M. Haggar,
chairman of the board, The Haggar Company, Dallas.
Others who have been members of the Commerce Advisory Council since its inception are: Robert L. Hamilton, president of the Dumore Company, Racine, Wis.; Daniel P. Higgins of the Eggers and Higgins architectural firm, New York City; Charles R. Hook, chairman of the board, Armco Steel Corporation, Middletown, Ohio; Neil C. Hurley, president of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Co., Chicago.
Phil Murray On Council
Also included are John T. Kirby, vice-president, W. R. Grace and Co., New York City; Peter C. Reilly, Jr., vice-president Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation ; Indianapolis; John F. O’Shaughnessy, Wichita, Kansas, oil and gas executive; Charles M. Regan, vice-president, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures, New York City; William K. Warren, president of the Warren Petroleum Co., Tulsa; Jack P. Whitaker, president of the Whitaker Cable Corporation, North Kansas City, Mo.; and John J. Reynolds, New York City real estate executive.
Philip Murray, president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO), represents American labor on the Council. Completing the Council roster are Hugh Dean, retired General Motors executive, Farmington, Mich.; B. C. Duffy, president of Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn, New York City; Lester W. Foley, president, Foley Lumber Co., Foley, Fla.
Other Council members are: Eugene J. Hynes, chairman of the board, Wilson Brothers, New York City; Joseph A. Martino, president, National Lead Co., New York; James A. Mulvey, president, The Union News Co., New York City.
Met Club Plans Steak Dinner
Under the chairmanship of Ron Mealy, the Notre Dame Metropolitan Club has completed arrangements for* a steak dinner to be held at the Palais Royale on Wednesday, Nov. 12, at 7 p. m.
Mealy, a junior, has announced that Fr. Bristol will speak at the dinner, which is slated as the first in the club’s activity-a-month plans.
.At a meeting held last week, President Don Mulvihill introduced Rev. Thomas Cady to club members as the new group moderator. Plans for a Communion Breakfast to be held Nov. 23 and the annual Christmas Dance were also discussed at the meeting.
Nov. 7, 1952
11
Nominations For Frosh Officers Close Tonight; Independent Candidates Register in Majority
Independent candidates are in the majority according to latest report from Ray S. Korzen, Blue Circle election committee chairman in charge of next Tuesday’s freshman election.
Only one party ticket was among the 14 candidates registered with the election committee by the original deadline, last Tuesday.
Korzen considered the long student trip week-end to be the cause of the slow reception of nominations. In order to allow more nominations, the Election Committee and Student Senate decided to set the deadline back until tonight.
The “Active” party, with John Cy-minski of 116 Farley Hall as candidate for president, was the only group seeking office on a united ticket. Other members of the “Active” party are: Ray Drexler of 344 Farley Hall, vice-president; Pete Rocchio, 426 Zahm, as candidate for secretary, and Tom Caplet, 335 Breen Phillips, seeking the treasurer’s seat.
Of the ten independent candidates, seven aspire for the presidential position. These are: Harold Van Huff el, 305 Breen-Phillips; Edwin	Spengeman, 303	Breen-
Philips;	Robert	Krummel,	303	Breen-
Philips;	William J. Pavin,	247	Breen-
Philips;	Daniel	C. Devine,	433 Farley;
AND NOW ANOTHER ELECTION CAMPAIGN
For the Freshman, Four Class Officers
Thomas R. Falcinelli, 108 St. Ed’s; and Thomas Chambers, 452 Zahm.
Mike Kiley, 317 Farley, and John Weeks, 108 St. Eds’, are seeking the vice-presidency, and Jack Kirby, 354 Farley, is an independent candidate for treasurer.	.
Last Wednesday a meeting of all the candidates was held in the Law building. Procedure and ethics of campaigning during the election was outlined by Chairman Korzen. He also urged the candidates to organize into parties and to register their tickets by today. All new nominations must be received by Korzen today or they will be disregarded.
The actual elections will be held from 11:30 a. m. to 7 p. m. Tuesday, in the basement of the Dining Hall. Student identification cards will be required by all voters in the election. Each voter must come to the polls in person, and no absentee ballots will, be accepted. The voting will be done by written ballot.
It will be the responsibility of these new officers to organize the social, religious, and athletic functions of the Freshman class. The president-elect will represent the class by being a voting member in the Student Senate.
In order for a man to become a candidate for any office, it was necessary for
his nomination to be accompanied by the signatures of. 20 freshmen who supported the nomination. • -
The election committee expects to have the results tabulated by 9 p. m. Tuesday evening. They will be immediately made available to WNDU and the Scholastic.
Senate Investigates Hall Study Facilities
The Student Senate last Monday approved a motion by Arts and Letters Senator Tom Field to appoint a committee to study and make recommendations concerning study facilities in the residence halls.
To improve the present inadequate facilities, the committee will study—over a period of six weeks— the needs of the individual halls, and make recommendations to the Senate and to the various hall councils. Improvements may be made by the hall councils, or possibly, with help from the University.
The Senate arranged for a Requiem High Mass to be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church last Thursday by Father Curtin, rector of Farley, for Freshman Gerry Kranz, who was killed in a car accident last Sunday. A representative was also sent by the Senate to the funeral in Toledo.
“The Student Senate On the Air” begins its series of informational programs next Wednesday evening at 7:15. Written and directed by Farley Hall President Tom McNeill, the 15-minute program will report on the Student Senate meetings and will present feature programs occasionally on matters of student interest. The first show will offer a talk by Senate President Tom Reedy, to outline the purpose and activities of the Senate.
Plans by students for the Student Union will be soon requested by the Student Senate, which will offer prizes for the best suggestions. Though the old Science Museum will not be available until next semester, the Senate is anxious to begin planning for the needed project.
The meeting last Monday was greatly facilitated by using the new “streamlined” system of conducting the meetings. The system was devised by a special committee formed to attempt to cut down the length and inefficiency of the meetings, which had been running up to 11:45 p. m. A limit of one minute was placed on each speaker, and discussion of one subject was limited to 15 minutes. Motions must be presented now in written form, and an agenda of the meetings will be sent to the senators before each meeting.
12
The Scholastic
Stevenson Backers Blasted by Alumnus
An irate Pittsburgh alumnus tossed another barrage into the now nationally famous contretemps that saw an endorsement of Stevenson by 65 faculty members picked up by the “National Volunteers for Stevenson” and used in a broadcast and in advertisements in leading metropolitan dailies across the country. • The alumnus, T. J. Gillespie, Jr., blasted the endorsement in a letter to Prof. Frank O’Malley, one of the signers. The letter was one of the hundreds of telegrams and messages received by University officials. Most of the messages objected to the apparent University sanction given to Gov. Stevenson’s candidacy.
Mr. Gillespie’s letter, a copy of which he sent to the Scholastic, followed a strong statement by Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., in which the President put Notre Dame on record as being nonpartisan and disclaimed any official connection with the endorsement.
Father Hesburgh said that the endorsement, issued without the knowledge of the University administration, expressed the personal opinion of the signatories only. He added that they “were perfectly free to do so as private citizens, but had no right whatever to involve the name of the University, which has been and remains absolutely non-partisan in this 'campaign.”
Father Hesburgh pointed out that the 65 signers comprised less than 12% of the University’s 560 faculty members. . Mr. Gillespie’s letter echoed the sentiments of most of the persons who objected to the professors’ statement when he charged that “ ... you, willingly or unwittingly, unwarrantedly made capital of the name of the University.”
Probably the biggest single fact pointed up by the welter of statements and charges was the tremendous importance and power attached to Notre Dame’s name by both political parties and individuals throughout the nation. This was amply demonstrated by the national prominence given to the endorsement by the Democrats, by the Republicans’ efforts to gainsay it, and by the widespread repercussions it caused.
Engineers For Air Industry
A representative of North American Aviation, Inc., will be on campus Friday, November 21, 1952, to interview mid-year engineering graduates for positions at the company’s Los Angeles, California, plant.
Junior Engineering positions are available at North American Aviation, the company that has built more airplanes than any other in the world.
Tonight's Boll Result of Commerce Council's Planning; Industrial Relations Club Is Next
, The Commerce Activities Council officially opened sessions for the 1952-53 school year on Oct. 27, at the group’s first meeting, which was called to order by Chairman Bob Kosydar. The Commerce Ball Committee opened official business by giving a report on plans for tonight’s dance.
Upon the suggestion of Dean Smith, temporary faculty moderator and council head, the council made arrangements for a letter of sympathy to be sent to Mr. Joseph Miller, faculty moderator to the group, who is presently convalescing from illness.
Tonight’s dance will be the result of a great deal of planning and hard work on the part of council members since the group’s organization last year.
Previous to last year, several tentative plans were submitted for a Commerce Council, but it was not until Dec., 1951, that these efforts were realized. Formed through the work of Dean Smith and Bob Kosydar, the council functioning in conjunction with the NFCCS on campus has a group constitution, which has been approved and registered by the Student Senate.
The council consists of the presidents and one delegate apiece from each of the seven clubs in the College of Commerce. These clubs are the Marketing
For the College of Commerce, Coordination and Unification.
Club, Accounting Club, Finance Club, Commerce Forum, Commerce News, Propellor Club, and the Advertising Club-Each president serves on the council as long as he continues in office, while the elected club delegate serves from January to January.
The council has as its purpose the coordination of all the commerce clubs and unification of their work. Functioning as an autonomous group, recognized by the Student Senate, the Council acts as an executive group for the seven commerce clubs.
Acting as Council spokesman to the Student Senate is Commerce Senator Ernie Bartell, who also sits on the executive council of the group.
Chairman Kosydar has announced that applications for staff positions on the Commerce News can be made at any time, and urges all those interested to apply immediately.
The Council is presently making plans for an Industrial Relations Club, to function in conjunction with the NFCCS. The latter, in turn, is arranging for a national commission of a commerce chapter, of which the Notre Dame chapter will be one of the organizing members.
Tentative arrangements have also been made for an “Open House” program to be sponsored by the Commerce College clubs sometime next semester.
Nov. 7, 1952
13
Fr. Gabriel New Mediaeval Institute Head; Assistant Position Assumed by Fr. Garvin
Rev. Astrik L. Gabriel, Canon of Pre-montre, has been appointed director of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute, it was ' announced recently by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University President. Rev. Joseph N. Garvin, C.S.C., was named assistant director.
Founded in 1946, the Mediaeval Institute is a center for specialized research, historical investigation, and advanced instruction in the life, thought, and culture of the Middle Ages. It offers the Master’s degree and doctorate in mediaeval studies.
Father Gabriel, a native of Hungary, joined the faculty of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame in 1948. The following year he was named by Joseph Cardinal Mindszenty, now a prisoner of the Communists, to represent Hungary on the International Catholic Coordinating Committee, the Vatican’s liaison office for the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization.
From Budapest to Notre Dame
The primary aim of this committee is to give necessary information to UNESCO about the international Catholic organizations through delegates appointed by the hierarchy of the Church.
During 1950-51, Father Gabriel was granted a leave of absence to accept an appointment to membership in the Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton, New Jersey.
A specialist on the history of universities and mediaeval education with many publications in the field, Fathei' Gabriel was director of the French College in Hungary from 1938-1947. He also served for six years as professor at the University of Budapest where he had received his Ph.D. in 1936.
It was in 1950 that Father Gabriel was' elected to the Historical Committee of the Canons of Premontre which conducts research in the history and canonical procedure of the 12th and 13th centuries.
Father Gabriel, who has traveled widely throughout Europe, South America and Canada, studied at many European institutions including the Ecole des Chartes, the Ecole de Louvres, and the Sorbonne. He has lectured at the University of Lille and at scientific institutions in Rome, Paris, Montreal, and New York. During 1947, he was guest professor at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto.
Assistant director of the Institute, Fr. ■ Joseph Garvin, has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1938. Born in Fremont, Ohio, Father Garvin received his bachelor’s degree at Notre
Dame in 1929 and was ordained to the priesthood four years later. He received his Master’s and Doctor’s degrees at the Catholic University of America. A specialist in mediaeval Latin literature, Fr. Garvin’s work in recent years has been devoted largely to the editing of 12th century theological texts. He is associate editor of the Publications in Mediaeval Studies at Notre Dame.
Tom Field Announces Spring AB Boll Pions
Announcement of a College of Arts and Letters Ball committee has been made by Tom Field, A-B. representative in the Student Senate.
Members of the committee include Robert Ettelbrick, chairman, with Joseph Jasinski, Thomas Moore, and Joseph Gubbins, assistants.
Four tentative dates for the affair are being considered by the group. One would schedule the dance prior to the Lenten season, while the other three would call for it to be held after Easter. Opinions as to which date is preferable are welcome, Chairman Ettelbrick added.
Present plans call for a small, inexpensive dance with semi-formal attire. However, the committee is looking for novel ideas which would add a little something extra to this year’s event. Volunteers are needed and anyone willing to lend his services should contact Field or a member of the committee.
If this venture proves successful, a majoi* A.B. Ball is proposed for next year.
REQUIEM FOR DECEASED ARCHBISHOP
The Notre Dame Philippine Club is sponsoring the Celebration of a Requiem High Mass for deceased Archbishop Reyes, the Church’s only Filipino archbishop, on Wednesday, Nov. 12, at 7.-30 a.m. in Our Lady’s chapel of Sacred Heart Church.
Reverend Osmundo Calip will be the celebrant, and a choir of Sisters and students will sing the Mass. All students are invited to attend.
Archbishop Reyes was supposed to be appointed a cardinal when the Pope next issues appointments to that position.
Further information may be obtained from Al Gotuaco, 166 Diilon Hall.
Noted Economist Colin Clark Lectures Here Today at 4:30
Mr. Colin Grant Clark, leading world economist and recognized authority on world population, resources, and foodstuffs, will deliver a lecture this afternoon at 4:30 in the Engineering Auditorium, Committee on International Relations Chairman Dr. Waldemar Gurian announced.
Mr. Clark will lecture on “The Have and Have-Not Nations.”
Jointly sponsored by the Committee of International Relations, the College of Commerce, and the Department of Economics, the talk and discussion period will deal with present day economic-political tensions among men.
Professor Clark, educated at Oxford and Cambridge, held faculty posts and lectureships in England, Australia, and the United States. He also served as cabinet member and financial advisor to the government in Queensland.	4
Author of several books and various	j
technical articles published in many	1
countries, Colin Clark has recently had	j
articles in such publications as Fortune, Business Week, and Harpers. He has also written several pamphlets for the Catholic Social Guild. Presently, he is visiting lecturer at the University of Chicago, and will return to Oxford in late November.
All students are invited to attend this lecture.
Preliminary Breen Oratory Bouts Scheduled for Nov. 26
Professor Leonard Sommer has announced competition. dates for the annual Breen Oratorical Contest.
Preliminaries of the contest will be held Nov. 26 in the Law Auditorium. Entrants must register with Professor Sommer in Room 328 Main Building before Oct. 8.
The oration must consist of approximately 1,000 words—seven to nine minutes speaking time. The subject matter is to be selected by the individual contestants. The final contest is scheduled foi- Dec. 6 in the Law Auditorium.
“The Breen Medal for Oratory” was founded by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the Class of 1877, and is awarded annually to the student who excells in oratory. The winner of this contest usually represents Notre Dame in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest.
No student may win the medal more than once, hut the winner of the medal may compete several times for the honor of representing the University in the state contest.
The Scholastic
14
Fr. O'Brien's Booklet To Boost U.S. Abroad
The United States International Information Administration, a division of the State Department, has chosen The American Dream for widespread distribution overseas to portray the American way of life and to counteract Communist propaganda. It is featuring this booklet in a release entitled “Religion in the United States” which is distributed widely throughout Europe.
Authored by Fr. John A- O’Brien, noted writer and professor here at Notre Dame, The American Dream shows how the members of various religious faiths in America cooperate without any compromise of religious principles for the promotion of the social welfare of international peace — objectives which no single group could achieve alone.
The 31-page booklet has been published jointly by the National Conference of Christians and Jews and by Our Sunday Visitor to describe techniques of cooperative action which have lessened religious tensions and promoted understanding and good will among members of different faiths and racial extractions.
Former President Herbert Hoover, in his foreword, declares that the booklet will go a long way toward the furtherance of the good-neighbor policy of our nation at home as well as abroad.
The American Dream has become one of the fastest selling booklets in America and the publishers expect it soon to pass the million mark in circulation.
Civil Service Dept. Accepts Student Aid Test Applications
The U. S. Civil Service Commission has announced the acceptance of applications for a Student Aid Trainee examination in the fields of physics, chemistry, mathematics, metallurgy, and engineering, for duty in Navy and Army establishments in Washington, D. C., and nearby Maryland and Virginia. Salaries range from §2,750 to §3,175 a year.
This examination is open only to persons who have completed one-fourth, one-half, or three-fourths of a college engineering course or who expect to complete such study within nine months of the date of filing application.
Further information and application forms may be obtained from the U. S. Civil Service Commission and from first and second-class post offices. Applications should be sent to the Executive Secretary, Board of U. S. Civil Service Examiners for Scientific and Technical Personnel of the Potomac River Naval Command, Building 37, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington 25, D. C.
JOE CONWELL
Unofficial Adviser to Speakers Bureau
Speaker's Group Sets Trip to Barat College
Between 10 and 15 members of the Speaker’s Bureau will journey to Barat College, Chicago, for discussions on Dec. 12 or 13, Joe Conwell announced today.
Besides meeting with the Barat College girls in discussions, the Bureau is arranging to hold various discussions and workshops at St. Mary’s College. Plans are being made by Pat Cutter, a student there. Nothing definite has been set as yet.
Presently, Mr. Herbert True of the College of Commerce, the new faculty moderator, is conducting a workshop for the group’s members every Wednesday evening. The activity is now in its third week.
Friday night at 7:15 representatives of the various campus clubs are being interviewed by the Bureau over WNDU. This is being done in order to acquaint the freshmen and other students with the clubs. So far representatives of the Bookmen, Student Managers, Commerce Activities Committee, and the Speaker’s Bureau have appeared on the program.
The group has tentatively planned a dinner for the middle of November. Though the exact date and site have not been determined, after-dinner speakers will be members of the Bureau.
Officers of the organization have drawn up a calendar which they will attempt to observe throughout the schoolyear. This includes holding a dinner approximately every two months, engaging in the Barat and St. Mary’s Colleges discussions, entrance in University and possible NFCCS oratorical contests, and speaking at the meetings for practical experience.
As an aid to the members in the
Decoration Victors Get Awards at Game
Tonight the judges of the hall decorations will make the rounds of the halls and cast their votes for the entries in the annual campus contest. However, the results will not be announced until tomorrow during the game’s half-time ceremonies. The prizes will be awarded at the same time.
The hall decoration contest is a tra- . ditional event highlighting homecoming, festivities at Notre Dame.
All vying for the first prize of. §40 and a trophy, the various halls will have their efforts reviewed, it is tentatively planned, by a group of gentlemen from an oil convention in Chicago. These Oklahomans will be at Notre Dame watching their home-state Sooners go through their paces tomorrow afternoon.
Besides the §40 first prize, there will also be second and third place prizes consisting of §25 and §10 respectively. These prizes will be solely at the disposal of the winning halls.
The trophy received by the winner, however, will be a rotating trophy, and may not be retained permanently. The winners will have their hall’s name engraved on the cup. Last year Sorin captured the trophy.
According to Floyd Blair, president of the Hall Council system and vice-president of the Student Senate, not more than §25 may be invested in any single display. In addition, all exhibits must be complete and ready for judging tonight.
Junior Moot Court Lawyers Triumph in First Arguments
A group of 16 junior law students emerged as winners in the first round of junior arguments of the Notre Dame Moot Court Association last week.
The contestants were judged on their presentation of arguments in the mock court, and on the submitted written brief of their cases.
Senior’ lawmen, along with a professor of the Law School, act as judges.
These annual affairs pit Junior law students against each other in mock battles over hypothetical cases.
The winners last week were: Messrs. Malik, Murray, Kane, Pressler, Bebenek, Bradshaw, Zimec, Belmont, Rozic, Ber-gan, Bleyer, Rodino, Eiberger, Adelo, Helling, and Pollard.
oratorical contests, coaching will be given them on the construction and delivery of orations.
Joe Conwell, a history major in the College of Arts and Letters, founded the Speakers Bureau last year, and is presently unofficial adviser for the group.
Nov. 7, 1952
LOBUND:
/J tyuiyHei&
By JOHN SLAVICK
Photos by BRUCE HARLAN
One of LOBUND’S greatest public relations problems concerns the students of Notre Dame. Too often, when asked questions about the Institute, the student must confess that he doesn’t know of the important developments taking place. In fact, the student thinks that he isn’t allowed at the laboratories. However, although some laboratories are too cramped for space to allow visitors, a tour guided by a member of the staff is conducted at the Germ-Free Life Building at 4:00 every afternoon, Monday through Friday.
“In his youth, every man is given a dream to live with and cherish, to realize or bury in his secret thoughts. Few men are given the honor and opportunity of seeing their drcam fulfilled . . . the building of this Institute . . . has been for me an interesting adventure in the company of devoted associates, many friends of goodwill, and under the auspices of a great University which I assure you is more than the buildings which make up its physical structure.”
These words were spoken by Professor James A. Reyniers at the dedica-
The late Rev. F. J. Wenninger, C.S.C., co-builder of the LOBUND dream.
tion of LOBUND, an Institute for Research in the Life Sciences, at the University of Notre Dame, June 21, 1950. They tell what few knew about the Laboratories of Bacteriology, University of Notre Dame. They tell of the realized dream of a young man, and how this dream was helped and nurtured by a University, so that it became a part of that University.
The Dream Takes Shape
The dream began when Reyniers was a junior in the College of Science studying pre-medicine. He knew from previous studies that all life was made up of cells, and he set out to investigate the nature of the bacterial cell. But the cell is an extremely small unit to work with, and he would have to devise a method whereby he could work with these small units. Reyniers went to Father Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., who was then Dean of the College of Science, and Father Wenninger, realizing that here was a young man to help, gave him a small corner of a laboratory where he could work after hours on his experiments. When Reyniers received his Bacheloi- of Science degree in 1930, Father Wenninger offered him an instructor’s position and a small room in the old Science Hall so that he could continue his work. Despite the fact that the Dean forbade night study, Reyniers bought black window shades so he could work after hours.
Then came the depression, and the University could give Reyniers nothing beyond his salary. Reyniers supplemented this by selling some archery patents he had developed while in high school, and his father and late brother (UND ’31), skilled tqplmakers, helped him to build his apparatus. Other departments of the College of Science lent him materials, and the workmen of the University contributed what they could in the way of labor. With his new equipment the young scientist was able to study the single cell under the microscope, but soon he was faced with another problem: that of unwanted bacteria which invaded his cultures and made careful experimentation impossible. A way had to be found which
The diver must take a germicidal spray shower before feeding the animals, would keep out the unwanted bacteiia.
Reyniers constructed glass bell jars, fitted with rubber gloves, which would proride a sterile atmosphere for short lengths of time. As a test of the sterility of the containers, he tried to raise in them germ-free guinea pigs. Thus began the research which is continuing in the Germ-Free Life Building of LOBUND.
The importance of the discovery that germ-free life could be maintained was soon realized, and the young Reyniers gave up for a time the study of the single cell and devoted himself to the raising ’ of germ-free animals, undaunted that most previous attempts at this had failed or had been abandoned. In 1934, Reyniers was joined by another graduate of Notre Dame, Philip Trexler, and two years later by another, Robert Ervin. The three, now the directors of the Institute, began the hectic life of daytime study and teaching, and night and free time research. Other graduate assistants soon jo’ned the original three and helped in the around-the-clock job of raising germ-free animals. Cleaning cages, constructing new ones, and feeding the animals were the jobs - of everyone. Since this small beginning, the thought and efforts of many people working as
16
The Scholastic
a team have helped build the Institute to its present position.
In 1936, the University, under the presidency of the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., now Archbishop of Philadelphia, set aside the entire first floor of the new Biology Building for the laboratories of LOBUND. And in 1939, the first grant of outside aid was received from the W. K. Kellogg Company of Battle Creek. There was no stipulation, only that the work should continue. A short time after, the Zoller Memorial Dental Clinic of the University of Chicago, joined with LOBUND in the study of the causes of tooth decay.
At the beginning of the war, long-range work was shelved in favor of the war effort. After the war, the Office of Naval Research gave LOBUND a contract to continue its research, while at the same time the University con-stiucted three new buildings at a cost of more than $250,000: The Germ-Free Life Building, a machine shop, and an animal colony house, which were dedicated in June, 1950.
So LOBUND, a program of pure research, was instituted and has grown. But how does it contribute to the student body? Why such an institute at Notre Dame? The reasons are very clear. Several members of LOBUND’s research staff are members of the faculty. As such they teach courses in departments of the College of Science. Then, too, plans are almost completed for graduate study within the Institute.
The diver feeds the animals inside the large germ-free colony apparatus.
But it must be remembered that a university has objectives and purposes other than transmitting to new generations the knowledge man has acquired. Whereas a college is concerned primarily with the transmitting of knowledge man has acquired, a university is concerned also with the advancement of knowledge. Universities are, therefore, centers of learning, centers in the search for truth and new knowledge, pioneers into the unknown. Scientific research is pioneering for new knowledge. In LOBUND the emphasis is on research and since this is a proper function of a university, its work contributes to the overall achievements of Notre Dame.
The Nature of LOBUND’S Work
The nature of LOBUND’s long-range, widescope research program is such that it can best be done within the framework of an institute rather than that of an academic department. The broad approach which LOBUND is making to medical and biological problems calls for the many skills of men and women trained in many fields of science. This teamwork effort involves biochemists, physiologists, bacteriologists, bio-engineers, machinists, physicists and other specialists. By uniting these different specialists within an institute not divided by departmental lines, better teamwork on the broad scientific problem can be achieved.
Basic research is the purpose of LOBUND. But, in an emergency such as
Professor James A. Reyniers, Director and Founder of the LOBUND Institute.
the last war, and in today’s crisis, the Institute staff must forego some of their objectives and study problems which must be solved as soon as possible. The cooperation of LOBUND with the AEC on the study of radiation disease, with the Regional Poultry Research Laboratory at East Lansing on the study of lymphomatosis, with Dr. Vincent du Vigneaud of«the Cornell University Medical School on protein metabolism, and with the Research Laboratories for Parke, Davis and Co.- on the role of intestinal bacteria in nutrition are examples. LOBUND is also exploring into the field of cancer, heart diseases, and virus infections. The acceptance of these applied problems is determined by the nature of the problem, the available facilities, and by the size of the staff.
The Germ-Free Animal
But what are germ-free animals? How are they useful?
To answer the latter question first. Germ-free animals are valuable because they offer a more exacting tool for scientists in problems yet unsolved. Obviously, if a problem can only be solved by means of a germ-free animal, then the germ-free animal is as valuable as the solution of the problem.
The object of the Germ-Free Life Division is to produce, study, describe and use germ-free animals. A germ-free animal is one free from all bacteria, molds, yeasts, protozoa, and other microbes, so far as they can be detected. Animals ate usually in this germ-free state before birth, but immediately afterwards,' animals and microbes are intimately associated even beyond death.
■ Animals can be obtained germ-free
Nov. 7, 1952
17
The new Germ-Free Life Building houses the specialized equipment for raising germ-free animals.
in one of two ways. Since mammals are germ-free in the uterus of the mother, a Cesarean operation is performed in a sterile cage; the young then being transferred to a raising cage. Chick embryos are germ-free before hatching. In this case, the egg shells are sterilized in a germicide and the chicks hatched within the sterility of a cage.
The usual germ-free cage is about five feet long and three feet in diameter, which-is sterilized by steam under pressure. A viewing window is in the top and a pair of arm-length rubber gloves sealed into the sides. After the sterilized food is introduced through a sterile lock, the animal is fed by means of the rubber gloves. With increased technical proficiency, LOBUND has been able to develop operating cages, raising cages, transfer, and examination cages.
Care of the Animals
But these cages are relatively small, and to overcome this difficulty, a large
*
LEFT: Technicians work around the clock
RIGHT: A micro-manipulator is used to isolate single bacterial cells
feeding animals
But the load ened because to reproduce test of their
has been somewhat light-the animals are now able themselves — which is a normality. The animals
tank, capable of holding hundreds of germ-free animals, has been constructed along the lines of the smaller cages. The animals are tended by a member of the staff who, clothed in a plastic
diving suit, descends through of germicide, and up into the handle and feed the animals.
While the raising of animals
a bath cage to
hatched
from eggs is comparatively easy, mammals must be fed by hand with a special milk formulae since the natural mother’s milk has been contaminated.
are easily proven to be germ-free by taking specimens from the orifices of the animals’ bodies and from their body surfaces. These are then sent to the bacteriological laboratories where they are stringently tested for microbes.
Germ-free animals are used in the study of the phenomenon of life without germs, and for the study of the
effect of one germ upon an animal. For instance, microbes normally inhabiting the animal or human being have long been thought to be helpful, or, at the most, harmless to the system which they invade, but little has ever been done to prove this theory. Germ-free animals are perfect specimens to use in studying problems of this kind.
In applied research, the germ-free animals are immensely useful. This summer, for instance, the Institute held a Colloquium on Antibiotics and Growth at which eighty scientists were in attendance. The Colloquium revolved around the observation that some animals gain more weight if they are fed penicillin and other antibiotics. Two theories have been advanced to explain ■this increased growth: either penicillin affects the intestinal micro-organisms so that the body uses food more efficiently, or, penicillin is a growth stimulant, as such. Experiments at LOBUND showed that the growth of germ-free animals was not affected by the feeding of





4
L «

LEFT: Professors Ervin (Left) and Trexler, Assistant Directors of LOBUND. RIGHT: Entering the germ-free colony.
penicillin and thus threw strong evidence toward the first theory.
Biological Engineering Department
Although the germ-free life phase of LOBUND seems to be the most obvious part of the Institute, it is not the whole program Reyniers started out to follow. He was also interested in the broader field of biological engineering. He wanted to prevent the contamination of his cultures by unwanted microbes, and by so doing he developed methods for raising germ-free animals.
By simply reversing the process of germ-free life techniques, the same methods can be used in the Biological Engineering Division. In this case, the germs are confined in a unit, instead of keeping them out. In this way, there is no danger to the Scientist of contamination by disease-producing organisms, since they cannot escape the units; the selected type of micro-organism can be studied without the fear of invasion by other organisms.
In the first instance, if an animal is
to be infected with an air-borne tuberculosis germ for study, the germ must first be sprayed in the air for the animal to breathe it into his system. The dangers of doing this in the ordinary laboratory can easily be seen. But by placing the animal within a unit, complete safety is attained for the research worker.
An example of the second idea is in the preparation of vaccines. In their preparation, it is extremely important that no unwanted bacteria be allowed to invade the cultures. The use of techniques perfected at LOBUND make it possible to grow these cultures in large quantities without the fear of contamination. The usefulness cf several of these techniques was proven when they were used by the Army and the Navy in studies with highly infectious organisms.
Micrurgical Division
The third division of the Institute is the Micrurgical Division. Micrurgy is simply micro-surgery. By ths process
it is possible to work on a single cell.	।
The work of LOBUND is concerned	■
primarily with the development and	]
perfection of machines and tools which	i
will manipulate, isolate, inject, and dis-	j
sect these cells, but much work has j been done concerning the relationship between. micro-organisms and the individual cells of plants and animals, and work has also been done on the particles of cells which may play a part in heredity. The Institute is, at present, doing most of its research on the first problem. From some insects, it is j hoped that light will be shed on this phenomenon which could possibly lead to the prevention of many diseases.
The micrurgical division is presently working with germ-free insects, and this shows that although the Institute is divided into three divisions, it acts as a unit.
A first impression of LOBUND’s laboratories is that an institute with such a wide scope should be so small phys-
(Continued on page 24.)
Architect’s sketch for LOBUND Institute of the future.
Additional units will be added as funds become available.
Though Plans Are Still in the Indefinite Stage, ND Students Will Finally Get a Student Union
By LARRY BREHL
After years of hoping and believing in false rumors—no matter how often hearsay has raised, then dashed students’ confidence—the Notre Dame student will finally have a building he can call his own. Troops of the past and present have considered this structure of major importance to campus life here at Notre Dame—the elusive Student Union Building.
Out of a clear sky, not being preceded by any of the wildfire rumors which usually prove fruitless, Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, announced that a Student Union is at hand.
THE OLD SCIENCE HALL MUSEUM
From This To A Student Union?
Speaking at the pep rally the night before the Pitt Panthers upset the Irish, Father Hesburgh designated the Science Museum in the old Science Hall as the future center of student activity, as soon as it could be redecorated and furnished.
Announcing the reality to the living Notre Dame men, he made true the wish of a dead one. Fathei’ Hesburgh revealed that Elmore Smith, a recent graduate who was killed in Korea a few days after arriving at the front, had bequeathed to Notre Dame about $1,100 to be used as the University saw fit, in
whatever way or place it could be used. This place, Father Hesburgh thought, was to start the ball rolling in setting up the Student Union Building.
Joe Boland, well-known around these parts as an aggressive and loyal alumnus, and a sports announcer for station WSBT in South Bend kicked in a little donation for the first “eight ball” on the first pool table in the Union.
If any student has any doubt as to the amount of work being done bn the Union, he need only take a little stroll over to the Old Science Hall and watch the workmen, making like moving men, grunting and groaningly shove, pull,
and carry the old fossils, books, and other accoutrements of the Museum on to trucks for transferral to the Science Building, t
It seems funny, but the erection of another building, the new Science Building, made possible the gift of the old one. Since the new structure contains all the devices and laboratories, there was no need for the College of Science to maintain the old building.
With the Student Senate backing them up, Floyd Blair and the Hall Council
system are making plans for the renovation of the building.
The University is behind the project also. At present it has begun a contest for designs from student architects. A prize has been offered for the best design submitted, which will be incorporated into the plans the University is having drawn up, so far as the budget permits.
With a lot of the architectural planning (within the budget allowed for the Building), potential designs are unlimited. At all their displays these students seem to go for the modernistic, so the interior of the Old Science Museum Union should become streamlined.
At last Monday’s Senate meeting, it was announced that all students suggestions are welcome.
Wholesale participation is what the Senate and the University officials believe will put the project across with a bang. A lot of talk, combined with even greater action, is going to make the Union a success in their opinion.
But Notre Dame men are funny men —already rumors are floating around about a future Student Union, this one a new building. As the word goes, in a long-range sort of way, a magnificent edifice covering a good part of legendary Badin Bog will have the latest of. everything in it. So wonderful is this object of rumor, that even now it is known without a doubt that it is intended to be the showplace of the Midwest.
About the only definite feature contained in this future Union is the auditorium which will seat a crowd close to 15,000. It will be used for the Bengals. plays, and various other University activities.
Allen Highlights Tonight's Pep Rally Speaking Roster
One of Notre Dame’s greatest AllAmericans, and also a top national sportscaster will speak tonight at the pep rally in the Fieldhouse. After the Band tours the campus, the troops will pack the Fieldhouse at 7:30 p. m. to begin the demonstration.
Johnny Lujack—Irish All-American, former pro star, and now Notre Dame backfield mentor; and Mel Allen, nationally known for his broadcasts of the World Series and gridiron struggles’ play-by-play reports, will take the speaker’s podium before the home fans.
Since the Oklahoma Marching Band and some other Sooner boosters arrived here today, the opposing element will be represented at the rally.
Besides the two speakers, the Glee Club will contribute to the affair. Appearing at pep rallies for the first time this year, the warblers have proved to be a great attraction.
20
The Scholastic
Dame band. RIGHT:
The Weekend
Photos By BILL De CRICK
ABOVE: High atop Cleveland Municipal Stadium. BOTTOM Left: Another
minute
Waving good-bye to their St. Mary’s cohorts, the ’52 student-trippers climbed aboard the Notre Dame Special bound for Cleveland and the Navy game. They unloaded at the Cleveland Terminal and, undaunted by their box lunches, filled it with the cry of “Go Irish! Beat Navy!” Then the rally at the Carter Hotel, where there was dancing afterwards for a lucky few; from there off to the Auditorium, hotels, and private homes for a few hours sleep before rising for a special Mass held in beautiful St. John’s Cathedral. Making up for the students back at school, the trippers filled the large Municipal Stadium with extra loud cheers to help lead the team to victory. Then came the dance Saturday night, with the usual griping over blind dates. Another special Mass Sunday morning, time for a little sight-seeing, and then back to the train, more box lunches, and forty winks before the return to the St. Mary’s siding.
LEFT: A wee bit of Dixieland by some members of the Notre
Pro football scout Jack Lavalle speaks at the pep rally

held
A
in the Carter
Hotel.
and we’d have missed this steamer! BOTTOM RIGHT: Confusion on a crowded car.
A Phantasmagoria . . .
John Gunther’s massive work, Inside U.S.A., has recently been republished in two thick volumes by a leading pocketbook firm. Packed with miscellany concerning almost every decently large city in the country and loaded with the opinions of Mr. Gunther and many others, it is an attempt to find out “who runs America,” politically and otherwise.
In a spasm of curiosity, we browsed through the 979 pages of our old 1948 edition of Inside U.S.A. and found the following trivia which we present as a very shallow cross-section of the book.
We discovered that New Mexico is three times as large as New York State, that Wisconsin has the second highest literacy rating in the country, that Manhattan has 915 night clubs, that Georgia is the largest state in area east of the Mississippi and that the yellow cabs in Denver are painted green.
It is Mr. Gunther’s opinion that Chicago is the most american of all cities, that “without Harvard, Boston wouldn’t be much more than a provincial town,” that Philadelphia is like Boston, only dowdier, that Cleveland has as much charm as an automobile cemetery, that Los Angeles is full of crackpots, and that New York is a latitudinous modern Babylon.
It is a fact that Austin, Texas has street lights on towers 165 feet high, that there were 72,000 G.I.s named Smith, that 3500 farmers in Iowa own airplanes, that Central Park has 840 acres, that in Los Angeles it is unlawful to bathe two babies in a single bathtub at the same time, that a subscription to the microfilm edition of the New York Tinies costs $175 per year, that the largest women’s college in the world is in Denton, near Dallas, Texas, and that the IBM people never sell, only lease, certain of their machines.
Mr. Gunther also believes that the cleanest city is Phoenix, the dirtiest is Indianapolis, the most crowded is San Diego, the dirtiest politics are in Pennsylvania, the least visible street signs are in Butte, Montana, and that an artist in Texas is as rare as an icicle in the Sahara, but that California overflows with poets, artists and men of science.
There are 52 chapters in the book. Three are devoted to California, while New England, Ohio, Pennsylvania and
Texas rate one apiece. One chapter is given to New York City and one to TVA. Such prominent men as LaGuardia, Vandenberg, Stassen, Saltonstall and Henry Kaiser also rate a chapter. In addition, the book also contains good sketches of the General Motors Corporation, the Ford dynasty and the duPont family. However, out of all this mass of material, Notre Dame gets but one paragraph of 79 words which concern, of course, football. Harvard and Yale share a page, but are mentioned often throughout the book. South Bend fared even worse than Notre Dame, being mentioned only three times and then only in passing. In fact, all mention of Indiana is found in a chapter called “Chicago Tribune, Illinois and Indiana,” chapter 23, if anyone is interested.
This massive review of the United States is well written and worth reading even though the present pocket-edition is printed four years after the original.
Lee Mortimer fans, expecting to find another Chicago Confidential type book, may be disappointed. Even though Gunther ■writes quite lucidly, colorfully and with a great amount of detail, he may be too dry for them.
'Round the Turntable . . .
There weren’t any ND buses in sight the other day, so we decided to drop into our favorite record shop while we waited for one. Nan was flitting around behind the counter trying to store a shipment of new records. To keep us from mixing them up, she selected one, tossed it to us, and pointed to a rear booth. Being sophisticated, we recognized the hint immediately.
We switched on the 33rpm machine, dusted the needle, and found that Nancy’s taste was as good as ever. The record was a good answer to those students at ND who think that only the top name bands can play music good enough for a prom, cotillion, or ball. A .gent by the name of Tommy Tucker ^was running through some instrumentals that sounded mighty good to these old ears. His Wish You Were Here, You Belong to Me, and Somewhere Along the Way, among others, were as danceable as you’ll hear. For just over a buck and a half, this was a bargain.
When we had worn out that record, Nancy asked us to listen to Billy Eckstein’s latest. On one side Mr. ‘B’
ran through a smooth but uninspired arrangement of Come to the Ma/rdi Gras. Be Fair on the other side provided some music in the best of Billy’s style. It should be a hit.
By now two buses had passed, and we were hurrying to catch the third. Like a woman, though, Nan had to have the last word. This turned out to be a good deal for the long- and extended-play fans. She said that for a mere $3.10 one could now acquire albums like Tchaikovsky’s Symphony No. 6, Pathetique, or Franck’s Symphony in D Minor.
“Thank you, Nan.”
Walt Werner Gerry Voit Jack Dilenschneider
Srad ^fotes

In view of the proximity of the two elections, i.e., the national one and the election of officers for the G.S.A., your executives have thought it necessary to outline the qualifications needed in the men who are going to fill their shoes.
In consequence they have asked your reporter to put off this week all news of lesser note, to observe and note their outstanding abilities, and to report these to the grad students in as objective a manner as possible. Thus the aforementioned grad students may take upon themselves the impossible task of replacing these men by similarly suitably qualified men. Men, this is certainly an impossible task.
In all humility we present to you our observations that you may see just what has brought our organization to its present state of organized disorder, that you may know the type of men we need to maintain ourselves in our hilarious state of statelessness.
First interviewed was Mr. St. Pierre, present president of the G.S.A. Leo maintains, insists, repeats, emphasizes and repeats some more that his major function is “keeping an eye on Monaco,” that the major functions of future presidents will be similar in nature and that the performance of this function will require 99% of the president’s time. In carrying out this function Mr. St. Pierre says he is assisted by the other executives of the organization and three spies in the Biology Department.
Next interviewed was Mr. Cochran, secretary of the G.S.A., who also emphasized that his major function is “keeping an eye on Monaco.” The only other requirement needed in a secretary is a legible hand, yet without this and
it;
22
The Scholastic
in spite of being absolutely illiterate Ed manages his office quite well. As Mr. Cochran usually addresses the notices informing us of our various activities, we must pause a moment and here pay tribute to the remarkable intuition of the South Bend mailmen.
Mr. Monaco, the treasurer of our organization, was unavailable for* interview and in view of this there may be no need to find a replacement for the office of treasurer. Hearsay has it that his chief function is maintaining the books of the organization in such a confused state that we will not realize our nearness to financial catastrophe and may therefore blithely plan all types of enormous social activities with complete disregard of mundane matters.
Our organization also requires a representative from each department. The major* characteristic required in these men is complete disconnection and absolute unawareness of any activity that may be taking place wherever he may be.
Has your department the man to meet these rigorous requirements? Nominations for these offices will take place at the Nov. 19th meeting—Joe Kelly.
Placement News
All operating companies of the Bell Telephone System, and 11 other companies will interview January graduates next week, the Placement Office announced.
The office also announced that only January graduates will be interviewed during the first semester. June and August graduates will be interviewed in the second semester, and graduate students may apply for interviews throughout the entire schoolyear, if finishing in 1953.
Monday, the Bell Telephone companies, including Western Electric Co., Bell Telephone Laboratories, and Sandia Corporation will interview BS electrical and mechanical engineers for all of the Bell System companies, and mathematicians (applied), physicists, and chemical engineers on all degree levels for the latter two companies. Commerce and AB graduates will be interviewed for operating companies.
The same day electrical, mechanical, chemical engineers, and physicists on all (Continued on page 31)
COLUMNS TO ALTERNATE
Beginning this week, the columns “Beating the Bush" and “The Other Side” will alternate on this page every other week.
. . . Around the Nation's Campuses
To prove that girls know their football, a guest girl reporter wrote up the account of the Michigan State NormalHope College football game as follows:
“During the first quarter neither side scored, and there were some spectacular plays by M.S.N.C. gridders (I heard a fellow behind me say so.) .
“Second quarter, Masy came into our section in her new cashmere coat, and it was noticeably colder. Also the team earned a penalty. That means they had to go backwards after they’d already gone forward. We girls didn’t understand why, but that’s okay (cold enough to have worn boots!)
“Two wonderful touchdowns were scored in the second half (No. 64 from Hope was cute, and No. 32 was hurt.)”
If psychologists at Georgetown University are right, it may be possible for the next generation of students to study in their sleep.
All one would need is a doi*miphone —that is, a record player with an automatic repeating mechanism. It has a . built-in loudspeaker, an under-pillow speaker and an earpiece.
The idea is that, while you sleep, the
dormiphone repeats your algebra lesson to you through the night, grinding it into your sub-conscious. Aldous Huxley, in his book Brave New World, had a similar idea which he called “hypno-pedia.”
At this stage, though, the dormiphone isn’t very helpful to students studying for examinations. The Georgetown scientists are experimenting with nonsense syllables, not Shakespeare . . .
Answering a reader who complained that the Xavier University News put too much stress on football, the paper declared: “We too are devotees of the Fine Arts and eagerly await the day when a performance of Oedipus Rex in Greek will draw 10,000 fans.” . . .
Asked by a student pollster whether she preferred male students in ROTC uniforms or in civilian dress, an Akron University coed replied, “If they wear uniforms then they don’t have to buy so many clothes. That leaves them more money to spend on me.”
Another girl told the pollsters, “I like civilian clothes better because the only way you can tell the Air Force men from the bus drivers is the way they tilt their hats.”—Bob Finney
Nov. 7, 1952
23
ND University Theatre Begins Work on First Non-Professional Staging of 'Cocktail Party'
By IRV CARRIG
It looks like a Thanksgiving first for the University Theatre at Notre Dame as the coining production of T. S. Elliot’s The Cocktail Party runs through rehearsals these days at Washington Hall.
The Cocktail Party was chosen as the second undertaking of the year for the group, and the cast was selected Monday.
A new face in Notre Dame theatre circles will be directing. He is Michael Casey. And he’s straight from the Old Vic in London, where he was assistant to the director and head man in the casting line. Mr. Casey has also written several plays, so he is no young upstart in the thespian art.
With this experienced hand at the helm, the ND theatre gang has set out on some rough water. The Cocktail Party is an extremely difficult play to do. It is, in direct contrast to the first try of the season, comedy at its highest level, and will require some good work by all involved.
All involved, however, appear to have the know-how to come up with a good one. Many an old timer is to be seen in the cast, and old timers who have come up with excellent performances here in the past.
The central and important figure of rhe psychiatrist, Sir Henry Harcourt-Reilly, will be played by Charles Doherty, a man who should have psyco-analysis down pat by now. He played the psychiatrist in Harvey here two years ago. Nancy Driscoll, of student musical fame, is Lavinia Chamberlayne. Jean Richard, who acted Sabina in last year’s The Skin of Our Teeth, is Julia Shuttlethwaite.
Peter Quilpe and Celia Coplestone also have seen quite a bit of action in the past. They are played by Jack McDermott, the lead from Old Heidleberg of last year, and Eleanor Kaskey, who played Pygmalion here this summer.
It is believed that this is the first time The Cocktail Party has been done by any completely non-professional group in the United States. It is said to be a play that will be done often in colleges, however.
This is far from a farce. It is an intellectual comedy of manners and social illusions. There will be plenty of laughs. Opinions about the play are varied, but
most critics agree that it is full of perplexing ideas.
The plot concerns a husband and wife who decide that they no longer love each other. Each becomes involved with another person, only to find that their supposed lovers are not interested in them. The story tells of the eventual rebirth of these four characters through the help of the psychiatrist.
The theme is a rathei- serious one which says that to do good a man must know himself. The cocktail party opens and closes the play and symbolizes modern sophisticated living with its one pointless cocktail party after another.
This production should draw the interest of one and all. It is indeed a different kind of comedy. There were 65 people at the tryouts—perhaps a new high here. A cast of nine will wear modern dress for the show. There will be two sets, a London flat and the psychiatrist’s office.
John Tumpane is the technical director; and Mr. Casey has set the opening for Thanksgiving night at 8:30. The play will run through the following Sunday, with a matinee Sunday afternoon.
Others in the cast are John Demaray, Richard Gercken, Marilyn Beck and Robert Braun.
Fourth Annual Grain Essay Contest Opens
Formal announcement of the details for the Uhlmann Awards Student Contest for 1953, an annual affair now in its fourth year, was made recently.
The contest is sponsored by Richard F. Uhlmann, president of the Uhlmann Grain Co., and a former president of the Chicago Board of Trade, to stimulate an increasingly broader interest in the marketing of grain on the part of college students, lecturers, and instructors working for advanced degrees throughout the United States and Canada.
By inaugurating the contest in 1949 as a memorial to his late father, Mr. Uhlmann hoped to develop a still better insight into the economic necessity for the existence of commodity exchanges. The continuation of the contest is an indication of the continued realization of his objectives.
Mr. Uhlmann has again made available the sum of $1,250 for distribution to
writers of the prize-winning theses for the 1953 contest. It is to be equally divided between the two classes of participants; these two being group “a”, consisting of under-graduate students and group “b”, composed of graduate students.
Papers submitted must treat of some • aspect or aspects of grain marketing activity. Otherwise, there are no restrictions as to the scope of their subject matter. As to the text material itself, it will be the presence of originality of thought—coupled with the evidence of independent research and study — that will outweigh other considerations.
Full details governing the contest may be secured from the dean of the College of Commerce, or by writing direct to the Chicago Board of Trade, 141 W. Jack-son Blvd., Chicago (4), Ill.
LOBUND
(Continued from page 19.) ically. But plans have been made for an expansion which, when completed, will consist of many buildings on a 40-acre tract provided by the University north of the campus.
A Tribute to Notre Dome
Today, LOBUND has in use over 45 laboratories, and has a staff of 60 research workers and technicians, many of whom are graduates from leading universities and colleges throughout the United States and Europe. Prominent among these are Dr. Helmut A. Gordon, Head of Physiology; Dr. Thomas D. Luckey, head of Biochemistry; Dr. Arthur W. Philips, head of Biological Engineering; Dr. John R. Reback, head of Virology; Professor Morris Wagner, head of Bacteriology; Bernash Teah, chief of Germ-Free Life Production; Vincent Stock, Chief Machinist; and Aloysius Lorenc, supervisor of the Animal Colony.
LOBUND has been helped in its growth by the Anna M. and Michael Cudahy Foundation, Mr. John P. Wagner of Chicago, the Alexander and Margaret Stewart Trust, the Damon Runyon Cancer Fund, Eli Lilly & Company, the Chemical Corps of the Army, and the E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company in addition to the institutions previously mentioned.
But most of all, LOBUND is a tribute to the several administrations of the University under which it has served. In providing funds at great sacrifice for a physical plant, salaries, and equipment, the University of Notre Dame has shown great faith in the dream of a young man.
24
The Scholastic
ND Hosts Sooners in Game of Week
Nation's TV Eyes Focused on Irish Stadium As Leahymen Face Oklahoma Powerhouse
By JACK HEALY
Boasting one' of the finest collections of bone and muscle to come along in quite a while, the Oklahoma Sooners led by Coach'Bud Wilkinson, will drop in at Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow looking for one of those lopsided victories that have become associated with Oklahoma this season.
This is the first time the two schools will meet on the gridiron and the battle will be seen by millions of grid fans all over the United States, who will watch the doings on their television sets. The Sooner-Irish clash has been designated as the NCAA’s “game of the week.”
Ranked third in the nation, here’s how Oklahoma fared against some of the teams the Irish have encountered. In their second game of the season they played host to Pittsburgh and walked all over them to the tune of 49 to 20. The following Saturday the Sooners met with ISixas. Perfectly satisfied with the Pitt score they did it again and crushed
BUCK McPHAIL A la Bronco Nagurski
Texas, 49 to 20. Last week Oklahoma won its 23rd Big Seven Conference game without a defeat, knocking off Iowa State, 41 to 0.
Sooners Display Potent Backfield
Possessing a backfield that has been compared with the best, the Sooners are not expected to be playing conservative football tomorrow, but rather a wide-open game.
The halfbacks consist of the much
TOM CATLIN
Hard-charging Center Among the Best
celebrated Billy Vessels and a six-foot, 200-pound sophomore named Buddy Leake. Vessels, who scored 15 touchdowns as a sophomore on Oklahoma’s national championship team of 1950, is back in high gear again this season, after being laid up most of last year with a lame knee. His running mate, Leake, who last season filled in brilliantly for the injured Vessels and led the team with 13 touchdowns to tie for tenth in the nation has so far this sea-
B1LLY VESSELS
Looking for All-American Honors
son scored six times and kicked 30 extra points.
At fullback, Coach Wilkinson has one Buck McPhail, a senior, who set a new national rushing record last year averaging 8.5 yards per carry. He also kicks off for the Sooners, does most of the punting and is the most consistent blocker in the backfield. McPhail, during the course of last season also set three new Big Seven Conference records.
The quarterbacking is done by co-
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP (Offense)	..
NOTRE DAME OKLAHOMA Penza .........LE.... Boydston Varrichione ....LT......_ Davis Seaman ..................LG............................ Bowman Schrader ...............C.. Catlin c.’c. Alessand’i C...RG_______ Roberts
Poehler ......RT......... Rowland Hunter ................RE............................ Reddell Guglielmi ....QB.... Crowder c.’c. Heap ......................LHB...Vessels Lattner  RHB............... Leake
Worden _______FB________ McPhail
KICKOFF TIME: 1:30 CST
Nov. 7, 1952
25
LATTNER STIFF-ARMS WAY TO GOAL
Averaged 8-Yards Per Carry
captain Eddie Crowder, a senior. Crowder, just to point out his deftness in throwing the pigskin, tossed a total of 57 passes last year, hit on 30 and had only one interception.
Offensive Line Well Seasoned
The offensive line, from end to end, is made up for the most part of seasoned juniors and seniors who have all had a hand in building the existing reputation of Oklahoma as a powerhouse. The left and right ends respectively are Max Boydston and Carl Allison. Left end Boydston is a converted fullback weighing in at 190 pounds. A sophomore now, he played behind Buck McPhail as a freshman last year and made the change during spring practice. The other end, Allison, is also a convert. He played defensive halfback last season, leading the Sooners in pass interceptions with five.
The tackle slots are filled by Roger Nelson, left tackle and Ed Rowland at right. Nelson is a 220 pound junior who plays either defensively or offensively and sometimes both if the need arises. He is said to be one of the toughest defensive men in the Big Seven Conference.
Rowland is another 220 pounder, and he also operates both on the offense and defense. He is also used as a linebacker because of his talent for knocking down passes. He is one of the few who have earned two letters at Oklahoma and are still playing ball.
Dick Bowman, having overcome a knee injury with the help of an operation, rejoined the team late last fall to take up his duties at left guard and played terrific ball for the remainder of the season. Bowman is a 209 pound, 6’2” junior. The right guard position is taken care (Continued on page 28)
Sooners, State Win; Iowa Falls; USC Idle
By BOB O’MALLEY
After last Saturday’s action on the nation’s gridirons the three big guns among Notre Dame’s four future opponents still show a clean slate while Iowa faltered before Minnesota. Southern California enjoyed a well-earned rest as Michigan State and Oklahoma upended Purdue and Iowa State respectively.
Next week’s visitors to the stadium, the powerful Sooners from Oklahoma, ran all over Iowa State, 41-0. The Cyclones were completely duped by that master of the Split-T, Eddie Crowder. All-American candidate Billy Vessels raced 50 yards for the first counter and from then on the lowans spent a good part of the afternoon flat on their backs. The Sooners’ fine fullback, Buck McPhail, chalked up a touchdown as Merrill Green and Jack King also got into the scoring act. King didn’t score but set one up by dashing 40 yards with an intercepted pass to the Iowa State 11.
The Sooners smashing offense has now accounted for 251 points in six games and only a tie with Colorado mars the record.
Iowa Nosed Out in Final Quarter
Iowa’s Hawkeyes threatened to make it two upset victories in a row but were finally put down by Minnesota, 17-7. Fresh from a startling success against Ohio State, the lowans blasted the Gophers from all sides for three quarters
JOE HEAP (42) RACES DOWN SIDELINES ON PUNT RETURN
Irish Halfback Leads 17-6 Triumph Over Navy
EDDIE CROWDER
Senior Quarterback Leads Sooners
but were jolted by Minnesota’s 17-point attack in the final stanza. Leading 7-0 after three quarters, the Hawkeyes were rocked back on their heels by a 68-yard aerial from Don Swanson to the great Paul Giel.
Fumbles proved to be the undoing of Iowa. They tossed away many scoring opportunities early in the day but finally managed to send Don Inman over in the third quarter. However, the same Inman fumbled deep in Iowa territory after- Giel’s score and that led to the clinching field goal by the Gophers, who added a security touchdown later.
Iowa thoroughly outmaneuvered Min-(Continued on page 30)
26
The Scholastic
Breen-Phillips and Off-Campus Teams Vie For Hall Football Crown at Cartier Sunday
’	By BOB FROLICHER
Breen-Phillips and Off-Campus square off Sunday in Cartier Field for the championship of interhall football. Kickoff time is 2:00 p. m.
In the eastern league, B-P and Cavanaugh finished the season with identical 2-0-1 records. In the playoff, B-P outclassed the Cavanaugh eleven, 13-0 to take the eastern title and a place in the title clash. Breen-Phillips, coached by Ralph Weiss, started the season slow tying the same Cavanaugh team, 0-0. After this, Weiss’ forces rolled over Farley and Zahm, 6-2 and 21-0 respectively.
B-P Defense Exceptionally Strong
The notable feature of the B-P defense is that they have yet to have an opponent score a touchdown against them. So far they have yielded only two points, that in their 6-2 triumph over Farley.
The surprise of the western league was Off-Campus. At the beginning of the season O-C was given little hope for a title berth. However, O-C under the guidance of Marty Vieth, finished the season with a 2-0-1 record. Vieth’s eleven defeated St. Ed’s in their opening game, but the game was disputed by St. Ed’s because of ineligible players. Off-Campus then followed with the upset of the year dumping first-place Dillon, 7-6 in the last quarter. The next game with a powerful Morrissey eleven, which they tied 0-0, marked the climax of the season. They then went on to overpower St. Ed’s in a replay, 13-0.
McMullen Leading Scorer
“Goose” McMullen, 6’1”, 180-lb. is the spark of the B-P team and forward wall. He is high .scorer on the team and is the left wingman. John Raub, 195-lb. and Walt Peeney, 165-lb. hold down the left tackle and left guard respectively. Cen-
INTERHALL STARTING LINEUP BREEN-PHILLIPS OFF-CAMPUS
McMullen  LE......... Visitine
Raub ..........LT...... Hardin
Peeney  LG................ Harr Noreiga  C—   West Hammes ...................RG................. De Freytas Barth ....................RT._ Wahl
Baatz .........RE... Zimmerman Rust ...............QB... Thomas
Caplet ..RHB..   Quetsd Griffen ...LHB__________________ Yarr
Denk ........FB..... Pudlowski
KICKOFF TIME: 2:00 p.m. CST
ter Waun Noreiga, 165-lb., is a light but tough center. “Bones” Hammes, a rugged right guard, tips the scale at a neat 225. Right tackle “Whitey” Barth at 165 and right end Jack Baatz at 190 round out the front wall.
The B-P backfield, which employs the conventional T is under the direction of deceptive Dick Rust, a 170-lb. quarterback. Ace runners Tom Caplet, 160-lb., and Dan Griffin, 160-lb., hold down the halfback spots, while Tom Denk, although only 170 lb., is a hard-pounding fullback. The only two major changes in B-P’s defensive team is Charley Bellum at left end and John Corrigan, 185-lb. linebacker.
Off-Campus playing from the short punt formation is led by the passing of fullback Jim Pudlowski, 5’9”, 170-lb. and left half Dan Yarr who also alternates at tailback. Jim Dittibo at right half and George Thomas, a 5’11”, 170-lb. quarterback rounds out a backfield that features a lot of speed and dazzling runners.
The two wingmen on the Off-Campus tough line are George Zimmerman, 6’2”, 180-lb., and John Visitine who play right and left end respectively. The tackle positions are held down by two rugged linemen, Bill Wahl, a fast 175-pounder, and Howard Hardin, 180-lb. Left guard Jerry Dittibo and 170-lb. right guard Greg DeFreytas along with center Jack West at 6’2”, 170-lb. pack enough punch to give any offense a tough time.
Tackle Ed Hogan leads the O-C defensive team. He is also their kicking specialist. End Charlie Howell, 150-lb. and guard Bernard Doyle are the other defensive changes.
Both teams are pretty evenly matched in the weight department. The front walls will average approximately 185 lbs. while the backfields hit about 165. Breen-Phillips will be the visitor and wear the blue jerseys while O-C plays host and will sport the green jerseys.
Breen-Phillips 12, Cavanaugh 0.
Breen-Phillips Hall won the Eastern division of the Interhall Football League last week by defeating Cavanaugh, 12-0. It was a playoff game for the title as both teams finished the season with identical won-lost records. The rnn enabled B-P to represent the Eastern division in the battle with Off-Campus, Western division titlists.
The freshmen struck early in the game with a precision passing attack
Ralph Weiss Named Hall Coach of Year
Ralph Weiss, B-P mentor, was named the interhall grid “Coach of the Year” in a recent poll taken among the football coaches and their assistants. Weiss collected nine out of a possible 16 votes. His nearest competitor was
RALPH WEISS
Top Interhall Football Coach
Marty Vieth who coaches the Off-Campus team.
Weiss, who hails from Greenfork, Indiana, is a junior physical education major and hopes to coach high school after graduation.
The football talents of Weiss are not limited to interhall coaching. Prior to his stay in service, Wiess attended Eai'lham college in southern Indiana where he played one season of football at right halfback. While in the service, he played tailback for the 14th Air Force group from Orlando, Florida. He also coached a girl’s basketball team while in the armed forces.
A lot of the success Weiss credits to the spirit of the team and his assistant coach. He believes that the team improved steadily after their opening 0-0 deadlock with Cavanaugh. His assistant is Frank Dionise, a senior sociology major, who hails from Lapeer, Michigan.
featuring quarterback Dick Rust. “Goose” McMullen, the league’s leading scorer climaxed a first quarter drive by taking a 20-yard pass from Rust for the touchdown. The score stood until the fading seconds of the fourth period when an alert B-P line turned a Cavanaugh fumble into the final touchdown of the contest.
Nov. 7, 1952
27
By Jack Sand
COACH BUD WILKINSON
Oklahoma's Top Man
Irish Run First Leg of Gauntlet
Tomorrow afternoon the irresistible force meets the immoveable object when Oklahoma’s touchdown-happy Sooners ram their covered wagons into Notre Dame’s rock of Gibraltar. The outcome of the contest will depend on how well the Irish rock can withstand the powerful ground crew Coach Bud Wilkinson has formulated.
Last week against Navy, the Irish looked a lot sharper on their pass defense, which despite the various opinions of many sportswriters has definitely been improving. The loss of safetyman Gene Carrabine may hurt the Irish though, since Okie’s Eddie Crowder is expected to fill the sky with more passes than he’s thrown in any one game so far this season.
Coach Wilkinson knows the Irish are tough guys on the ground as attested to by the fact that Notre Dame has held its opponents to 694 yards on the ground in six games. That’s a little over 115 yards per game. The Sooners have tripled that output though, with McPhail’s mighty plunges, Vessel’s long runs and Leake’s many gains, but believe it or not the boys from the oil state are worried about keeping their rushing average when they meet the Irish tomorrow. They know they’re not playing Iowa State or Kingfisher College, a team which they beat back in 1917 by the amazing score of 179-0. In 1919 they defeated this same school
157-0. After this second catastrophe Kingfisher dropped the Sooners from their schedule and where they went from then on we do not know. We do know though that the Irish will be back next year when they face Oklahoma down at Norman on Sept. 26 in the first game of the 1953 season.
Two Coaching Greats Meet
When the Irish tangle with Oklahoma tomorrow for the first time in history two of the top coaching records in intercollegiate football will be on the line. In six seasons at the Sooner helm Coach Bud Wilkinson has won 51, lost six, tied two for an .895 winning percentage. Irish Coach Frank Leahy has won 75, lost 10 and tied eight in his 11 years at Notre Dame for an .882 average. Including two years as head coach of Boston College where he had a 20-2 record, Leahy’s percentage is .887.
Prediction of the Week
Oklahoma athletic teams are called the Sooners, after the settlers who slipped into the new Oklahoma country and took choice claims befoi’e the date set for the famous Oklahoma land runs of 1889 and 1893. Tomorrow the Sooners hope to slip into Notre Dame Stadium and establish another claim . . . but this time the Irish got there first. Notre Dame 27, Oklahoma 21.
MSC Harriers Win; Third Loss for Irish
Michigan State dealt Notre Dame’s cross-country team its third straight defeat here last Saturday, 19-39. The Spar-' tans, who took five of the first six places, were led by lanky Jim Kepford. Kepford nipped ND’s star Jack Alexander at the finish line after the two had staged a thrilling home stretch battle.
Kepford and Alexander, along with State’s Lyle Garbe, stayed shoulder to shoulder practically throughout the four mile grind. Garbe faded slightly on the last mile, and Kepford and Alexander then put on their brilliant exhibition of stretch kicking as they came barreling down the road toward the tape. Not until the last fraction of a second did the Spartan cinderman thrust ahead to break the tape in front of his ND rival. Both were clocked officially at 20:10.7.
Garbe of State finished third in 20:24 followed by teammates Wayne Scott at 20:01 and John Cooke and John Walter who tied for fifth with 21:01.
Bill Lenihan was the next Irish runner after Alexander. He finished in seventh behind Cooke and Walter. His time was 21:13. Lenihan might have gained a higher spot had he not taken a spill on the last mile. The fall enabled a couple of Staters to pass him.
George Helfenstein, John O’Connor, and Harry Snyder were the other point getters for the Wilsonmen, finishingninth, tenth and eleventh respectively.
Tomorrow, Notre Dame travels to Earlham, Indiana to participate in the Indiana State meet.
ND Hosts Sooners (Continued from page 26) of by J .D. Roberts, who until this season was exclusively an offensive ballplayer, but now works both ways. A junior, he has exceptional speed for his 220 pounds. Roberts is held to be one of the fastest men ever to play middle guard in the history of Oklahoma football.
Co-captain Tom Catlin, a senior, is the regular center for the Sooners and also plays both defense and offense. He has been on two different All-America teams and was also picked for the Big Seven Conference All-Stai- team last year. He stands 6’1” and weighs 195, and it is not uncommon for him to play the entire game, without relief.
This game with Oklahoma tomorrow is the first of the “big three” the Irish have to face. And it could well be the toughest. The Sooners are noted for their wide open type of ball and it will be somewhat of a sudden contrast for the Irish after playing such teams as Penn, (Continued on page 31)
The Scholastic
Wally Clarke Retains Tennis Championship
Wally Clarke retained his title as campus tennis champion by defeating John Stuhldreher 6-1, 6-0. In doing so Wally became the first double winnei- in Notre Dame history. Eligibility rules kept
WALLY CLARKE
Cops Second Straight Tennis Crown
surprise for Coach Langford. He shows great possibility as a future varsity player.
The annual tourney uncovered some interesting facts. One was that the underclassmen really are loaded with tennis talent, and also that it is hard to pick pre-tourney favorites. The champion is a sophomore and the runner up is a freshman. And these are not the only outstanding underclass men because many of the other first and second year men caused the favorites many difficulties before they bowed out of the tourney. Of the eight men who were considered favorites before the tourney started, only two battled their way into the semi-final round. These two were Clarke and Kennedy.
The interhall tournament drops the curtain on campus tennis activity till next spring. From the results of the tourney it looks like Coach Langford will have a good crop of recruits to choose from in the spring for varsity tennis.
Bowling Green Sailors Edge Irish. 58-57, in MSC Regatta
This week-end on Lake Lansing, Notre Dame was nosed out in the annual Michigan State Invitational Sailing Regatta by the Bowling Green University Falcons, 58 to 57.
Bob Fisher, Notre Dame Sophomore was high point skipper for the regatta with a total of 35 points out of a possible 42 by taking four firsts out of six races.
Saturday the wind was light, but it blew up to 20 miles per hour on Sunday. Notre Dame’s other skippers were Ed Rodgers, John Scannell and Don Street.
Here is the summary of the three day affair:
Bowling Green_______________ 58
Notre Dame.............—...—57
Northwestern................—55
Michigan ____________________53
Michigan State.............. 49
Ohio State.................. 46

FUN AND GOOD TIMES
Clarke from playing varsity tennis last year and thus gave the sophomore the opportunity of defending his title. If he is eligible for the team in March he will, without a doubt, be a great asset to Coach Langford.
Clarke was not pressed at anytime in the tournament. In fact he did not lose a single set to any of his opponents. In the semi-final round Clarke dealt defeat to Tim Murphy by sets of 6-0, 6-2. Murphy is a transfer junior from Seattle and will not be eligible for varsity tennis in the spring. The other semi-final round was played between Stuhldreher and junior Don Kennedy with Stuhldreher taking both sets, 6-3. Stuhldreher being a freshman was a relatively unknown net man and proved a pleasant
[health [spoil (SHOES
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE

Call 2-3339
EVERY THURSDAY 9 P. M. Visitors Always Welcome
Copr.	“At'rov Inc.
Music Store
Good dancers ore always popular and always have a good time. That’s why Arthur Murray is guaranteeing to everyone who enrolls in one of his courses more fun and gaiety than ever. He knows he. can make you a good dancer... even if you’ve never danced a step before. Come in now and see.
Don't delay... visit one of our Studios today.
ARTHUR
MURRAY
120 E. Wayne
Above Copps

World's Largest Dancing School
Nov. 7, 1952
29
Opponents
(Continued from page 26) nesota as Inman, Dusty Rice, and Bob Stearns sailed through and around the Gopher defense.
Spartans Extend String to 21
Michigan State’s monsters from East Lansing almost met their match in a Purdue team that was handled rather easily by Notre Dame. The Spartans triumphed 14-7 but had their backs to the wall throughout the game.
The men from State ripped off a 14-point spread at halftime on scores by Capt. Don McAuliffe and their quarterback wizard, Tom Yewcic. Yewcic’s opposite number, Dale Samuels, was brilliant all afternoon as he spotted gaping holes in the Spartans’ pass defense. The Spartans, in quest of then* 21st straight victory, couldn’t cope with Samuels but they had enough class of their own to get by the Boilermakers.
Late in the game Purdue was knocking on the door from the Spartan 8-yard line. They already had one touchdown on a drive by Earl Heninger and Samuel’s hurling had them in position again. However, the little Boilermaker quarterback threw once too- often, and the Spartans’ Doug Weaver picked it off to end all Purdue victory plans.
Billy Wells was Michigan State’s top back but the real credit goes to the Spartans’ copper-clad defense. Linebacker Doug Weaver and end Ed Luke were superb all the way as they smashed down the best Purdue could offer.
Forty-Two Men Answer Call For Swimming Club Team
Forty-two men answered the call of Gil Burdick, swimming instructor, to form a swimming club. At their first meeting on Oct. 17, the club received an outline of plans for the coming year. Four meets are tentatively scheduled, the first probably taking place in early December.
Mr. Burdick, because of his extremely busy schedule, working with polio patients at Children's Hospital, has not yet had time to work with the club as a group. He has, however, set up a schedule for the swimmers to follow in their daily sessions. By the end of next week he hopes to have an intersquad meet, thus getting an idea of what material he has to work with for the coming year.
From the results of the frosh swimming meet a few weeks ago, there appears to be a good deal of talent on the campus and with this talent Mr. Burdick plans to form a top flight swimming team. Anyone interested in joining the club should sign up at the Rockne Memorial as soon as possible.

I am interested in:
University credits □
Resident study at a foreign university □
Special countries oi cress Q
(Specify)___________________
Plan now to take a university-sponsored tour via TWA next summer and earn full college credit while you travel
Again in 1953, TWA—world leader in educational air tours—will participate in the travel-study programs that have proved so enjoyable to thousands in the past four years. Itineraries will include JEurope, the Mediterranean, the Middle East and a tour around the world. Two to six weeks of resident study can be arranged in foreign universities. Other study tours will deal with special fields such as music, art, languages, political science, etc.	.
Whichever tour you choose, you’ll discover just how near you are to the rest of the world only when you fly. For 300-mile-an-hour / TWA Constellations will whisk you to Europe overnight. And when you travel by TWA Sky Tourist, you save time and money. So start planning now for that thrilling, profitable vacation next summer. Mail the coupon below today.
ACROSS THE U.S. AND OVERSEAS. . . FLY
TRANS NOTia AIRLINES
John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director Air World Tours,	gt-no
80 East 42nd Street, New York 17, N. Y.
Please send me information on the Trans World Airlines Educational Tours to be offered in 1953.
Name______________________________________________________________
Position__________________________________________________________
Address___________________________________________________________
City Zone---------------------------------------------------------
State Phone No
| Notre Dame Students
I Portrait Specials
Special No. 1 3 5x7 French Gray $9.50
6 Black and White proofs to choose from
Special No. 2 6 5x7 French Gray I 8x10 French Gray both for $ 15.00
i A Special value from	I 6 5x7 French Uray I i
| South Bend’s leading	I 8x10 French Gray i
i	photographers	both for $ 15.00	|
I McDonald Studio I
i 116 W. Colfax —	—	. —	— Phone 4-8891 E
.........m....iiHiiiimiHiiiitiiiditiiiiiiiimiiiinitiiiiiiiiiiiiniinniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinuiiitiiniiiiniuiininiiiiiiiitiiiiitiEl
30
The Scholastic
Placement
(Continued from page 23) levels will be interviewed by the Radio Corporation of America. They are wanted for the design, development, and manufacturing phases of the specialized training program in any of the RCA plants.	•
Also on Monday the American Cyana-mid Co., will interview BS, MS, and Ph.D chemists and chemical engineers.
Tuesday the Stewart-Warner Corporation, Indianapolis, Ind., will interview BS mechanical, electrical, and aeronautical engineers, physicists, and mathematicians who are interested in testing, design, and development.
On’ Tuesday and Wednesday, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., Wilmington, Del., BS and MS mechanical and chemical engineers, chemists, Ph.D chemists, physicists, and metallurgists.
Wednesday the North American Aviation, Inc., Columbus Division (Ohio), will talk to BS and MS aeronautical, mechanical, electrical, civil, and architectural engineers. The Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., Paulsboro, N. J., will interview Ph.D chemists.
National Analine Division, Allied Chemical and Dye Corp., Buffalo, N. Y., will interview BS, MS, and Ph.D organic chemists and BS chemical engineers on Thursday. Also U. S. Rubber Co., will in-• terview AB and Commerce graduates for production, supervision, sales, sales administration, accounting, purchasing, credit, production control; BS chemical and mechanical engineers and chemists for varied work.
Friday the Corn Products Refining Co., of Argo, Ill., will talk to BS chemical engineers; the International Business Machines Corp., will interview AB and Commerce graduates for sales, and BS mechanical and electrical engineers.
The same day Boeing Airplane Co., Seattle, Wash., will interview BS electrical, aeronautical, and mechanical engineers; BS, ME, and Ph.D mathematicians and physicists for either the Seattle or Wichita divisions.
ND Hosts Sooners
(Continued from page 28)
Navy, Pitt and Purdue who all follow a much more conservative style. About the only team that compares with the Sooners that the Irish have met is Texas, and they were swamped by Oklahoma by almost 30 points. Tomorrow, it will be a hard afternoon, but the improving Irish are “up” for this one and anything could happen.
Irish Subdue Navy, 17-6
Last Saturday at Cleveland, Notre Dame’s hard running backs, behind vicious blocking, ripped gaping holes in Navy’s once proud defense and overpowered the Middies, 17-6.
Neil Worden’s two touchdowns led the Irish scoring which also included a safety and a field goal. The Irish hooters also missed three other- field goal attempts.
Look! Another man switched to Kentucky Club— the thoroughbred of pipe tobaccos
The game started as if the Sailors might be run right off the Municipal stadium turf as Notre Dame drove all the way to their opponents’ one after taking the opening kickoff. Worden bulled his way over from the one, but a holding penalty nullified the score, and Bob Arrix toed a 16-yard field goal through the uprights to give Leahy’s lads a quick 3-0 edge. A 25-yard pass play from Joe Heap to John Lattner was the key play in the drive.
The greenshirts moved 64 yards for the next score in the second period. Guglielmi unlimbered his right arm for four completions in this march, which was climaxed by Worden’s buck over from the one. Arrix’s try for point was blocked.
Bob O’Neil combined with Sam Palumbo for the Irish two-pointer in the third quarter by downing Navy’s lone backfield standout, Steve Shoderbeck, in the end zone when he tried to pass his way out of a hole. This chalked up
Nationally Advertised WATCHES DIAMONDS GIFTS
REPAIRING GUARANTEED <
^Martin
126 NO.MICHIGAN ST
DO IT TODAY! SWITCH TO
KENTUCKY CLUB
Notice how much better your pipe tastes—how much fresher your mouth feels when you switch to Kentucky Club. Send for free catalog showing fine pipes and how to get them at big savings. Mail Pouch Tobacco Co., Wheeling, West Va. Dept. 39
Nov. 7, 1952
31
the odd count of 11-0 on the scoreboard.
Worden’s second TD came 30 seconds after the last period started. Again the fullback plunged ovei' from the one-yard marker. Mavraides’ try for point was no good.
Navy’s consolation tally was made midway in the final stanza as Jim By-rom gathered in Shoderbeck’s pass and stepped over. The play covered 25 yards.
The Irish statistic advantage was overwhelming as the ND defense once again proved it rates with the nation’s best. Lattner racked up eight yards per carry as the ND forwards cleared the way better than they have all season.
not a stitch in sight... on
Van Heusen’s
new
Van Chick
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Five Rangy Frosh Hoopsters Top List of Eighty Hopefuls
Five promising freshmen basketball players top a list of 80 registered hopefuls as this year’s frosh practice begins to roll.
They are Bob Altonhofen, 6’5”, who plays either forward or center, from Portland, Oregon; John Fannon, a 6’5” forward from Philadelphia, Pa.; Lloyd Aubrey, a 6’5” forward from St. Louis, Mo.; Bill Weiman, a 6’2” guard from Davenport, Iowa; and Bob Jastrav, a 6’4” guard from Binghamton, New York. Fannon, Aubrey, and Weiman participated in last year’s high school North
Ooooh-la-la! Here's the naked truth about
Van Heusen’s new Van Chick. Not a stitch in sight. . . anywhere ... on collar, cuffs and front. It's the shirt smart college men count on for that streamlined, clean-cut look the gals go for in a big way. In white or colors, broadcloth or oxford. A new Van Heusen free if yours shrinks out of size.
South game, which is held every year in Murray, Kentucky.
Varsity coach John Jordan believes that all five of these lads are fine ball players. Because of the limited number of varsity players, these five have been practicing with the varsity squad.
Jack Neumayr and Bob Wray will coach the freshmen this year. Both are former varsity basketball players.
The frosh will have no outside competition due to Notre Dame’s adherence to Big Ten regulations. They will play preliminary games to the varsity home contests against the Junior Varsity and interhall teams.
First Place Jammed After Kegler Opener
In the Kampus Keglers’ Blue League six teams won four points to tie for first place after the first week’s competition. They were the Met, Cleveland, Toledo, Buffalo, Architects, and Italian Clubs. Outstanding among these teams was the Cleveland Club which copped first place for team high three and second place for team high single.
In the Gold League four points were won by eight teams, Chicago, St. Louis, Erie, Aesculapians, Detroit, Rochester, Milwaukee, and California. In Jerry Sheehan and Paul Pfohl, the Chicagoans placed two men in the league lead.
The three teams to lead the league for team high three were Cleveland (2288), St. Louis (2250), and the Aesculapians (2232).
For team high single the Aesculapians (833), Cleveland (818), and Toledo (800) demonstrated especially good team bowling, since these scores were established without handicaps.
The individual honors for high average and high individual three were won by Sheehan (Chicago) 534, Pfohl (Chicago), 511, and Aquilla (Cleveland), 509.
The high games of the week were bowled by Zimpfer (Buffalo), 224, Schmidt (Aesculapians), 221, and Fries (Erie), 219.
After the second week of competition, the standings will be much tighter, since handicaps will give the weaker teams a better opportunity to stand up against some of the stronger teams and the stronger teams will have to pound the pins a little harder to overcome a loss of pins due to handicaps.
It is advisable for those who do not own their own equipment to arrive at Bowl-Mor a little earlier, because of the line for shoes and the time it takes to find a ball. The teams get a late start and consequently finish late. Next bowling date: Nov. 9, 1:30 p. m.
32
The Scholastic
Available Senior Trip Ducats Sell Out Fast
Ticket sales for the Senior trip to the Michigan State-ND gridiron contest at East Lansing on Nov. 15, began Tuesday evening in the Dining Hall basement. Kerwin Fulton, senior class president, announced today that the 300 ducats were snapped up almost immediately.
Though all seniors complied with the rules and showed up with their ID cards, there just weren’t enough pasteboards available for the crowd.
Since the 300 trippers must all travel by the same train to get the special train and reduced rate, no game ticket
Accepting Applications For Teachers’ Exams
The National Teacher Examinations, prepared and administered annually by Educational Testing Service, will be given at 200 testing centers throughout the United States on Saturday, Feb. 14, 1953.
At the one-day testing session a candidate may take the Common Examinations, which include tests in professional information, general culture, English expression, and non-verbal reasoning; and one or two of eight optional examinations designed to demonstrate mastery of subject matter to be taught.
Application forms and a Bulletin of Information describing registration procedure and containing sample test questions may be obtained from college officials, school superintendents, or directly from the National Teacher Examinations, Educational Testing Service, P.O. Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey.
Completed applications, accompanied by proper examination fees, will be accepted by the ETS office during November, December, and in January so long as they are received before Jan. 16, 1953.
Student Wives
Many attractive office positions are open on campus for
Stenographers Typists IBM Key Punch Operators Bookkeepers
For further information contact
PERSONNEL OFFICE Main Building
was sold unless the buyer purchased a round-trip railway token.
The special will pull out of the Eddy St. siding at 7 a. m. on the big day. After an early breakfast at the Dining Hall, busses will take the seniors from the Circle to the point of departure.
Passes to the battle will be distributed when the students board the train. At approximately 11:30 a. m., EST, the special will arrive at its destination.
Specific warning has been made that
IBM
TRADE MARK
Leading manufacturer of Electronic Digital Computers, Electronic and Electric Business Machines, Time Indicating, Recording and Signaling De-. vices, and Electric Typewriters
OFFERS EXCEPTIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
Permanent positions ... merit advancement accelerated by outstanding training courses and continuous, advanced education programs . . . individualized career development. . . excellent working conditions, salaries and employee benefits.
If your degree or major is:
Arts • Business • Accounting Science • Engineering
Physics • Mechanical Electrical • Mathematics	IBM Engineering representative
Industrial • Electrical Mechanical	IBM Manufacturing representative
Accounting ‘Administration Management	IBM Business Administration representative
CAMPUS	INTERVIEWS
Friday, Nov. 14
Call your College Placement Office for appointment
the train will return to the University the same day. This is due to the fact that no dance or mixer is scheduled to follow the contest. And, if any senior misses the train, his ticket becomes void.
Regardless of age, all taking the outing must secure written permission from their parents to cut classes. All letters must be in the Rector’s office by Friday, Nov. 14. Permissions for off-campus students must be submitted to the Prefect of Discipline’s Office.
Make appointment to see:
IBM Sales representative
Nov. 7, 1952
33
By Paul Zaleckf
Any discussion of modern collegiate sports is usually dependent upon one’s opinion of their role. On the one hand, sports like football and basketball have enjoyed a wide popularity; while, on the other hand, a certain amount of controversy has arisen. To take football as an example, there are the debatable questions of television, postseason games, and the like. Some feel that they help the game; others that they harm it.
One fairly obvious conclusion drawn from such divided views is that enthusiasm for the game has been colored by the apprehension of certain dangers in the big-time sports. Recognizing this situation, many schools have attempted to combat it and to maintain a balanced policy towards sports like football — one which promotes the game but keeps it in control.
Without a‘ doubt sport scandals have hurt all schools: either directly, upon the schools involved, or indirectly, upon other schools which suffer from the repercussions. What exists, then, is a somewhat paradoxical situation of popularity for sports — for their color, splendor, and size — and fear that perhaps they have grown too big, become too powerful, received too much publicity.
Enthusiasm and Apprehension
This mixed attitude of enthusiasm and apprehension is not limited by any means to the field of football or basketball. Numerous things which have grown big and with their size attained power and stature have experienced a similar reaction — a confused feeling of pride and fear.
The position of the United States as a world power, for example, is based more than anything else upon industrial might. The tremendous capacity to produce has been one of this country’s greatest fortes and outstanding achievements. Yet, at one and the same time, we tend to point with pride upon America’s output, and look with fear upon the large coi-porations which, above all, are responsible for these achievements.
The realization that their size has given them tremendous power has made them mistrusted, as it were, and led to
the creation of a two-fold check upon them: one is internal, the growth of big labor unions; the other external, the increase in governmental powers. The achievements of these latter two institutions in turn has been so rapid, their growth so astounding that it reacted against them. Many have come to believe we now face the danger of uncontrolled unions and big government.
Reaction to Success
So the story goes. The results of success—in sports, business, government— have been varied. A certain mistrust of their enviable position — a mistrust which sees the danger of abuses — has blunted their achievements. On the whole, however, we tend to overlook the dangers at first and, so to speak, glory in the success. If the stupendous and colossal of Hollywood are any proof, we like to have things done in a big way — whether- it be of football crowds or industrial output.
Illustrations of this tendency are numerous. Questions about Notre Dame, for example, frequently take the following form: how big is the school? How many students does it have? How many buildings are there? People usually are interested in the size of the school, and we like to answer their questions, for it helps to illustrate, in a tangible way, that all the advantages of higher education exist at Notre Dame and that it has experienced a healthy growth.
Limit Upon Expansion
As in other things, however, there is a limit upon the size of the University — the realization that it might become too big and that there is a limit upon its expansion. It is difficult, nevertheless, to set an arbitrary figure as an ideal enrollment for the school.
Undoubtedly, we are influenced by conditions as we know them. Those who were here when the enrollment was 3,000 probably feel that that was close to ideal. Now that it has increased to 5,000, that figure might be regarded as a good number. While those who may be here when the enrollment is even larger may feel that, let us say, 10,000 is right. Whatever the absolute figure, however, each agrees that there is a danger in over-expan
sion. A school must be large enough to serve its students and yet not so large that classes are in the hundreds or that teachers hardly know their students.
‘Via Media’ and Moderation
The solution to this and other problems is, of course, to find the via media, to introduce moderation, to determine when further growth and expansion would result in more harm than good. Obviously it is not easy to decide when expansion which once was considered sound may become cancerous if continued.
Where the via media lies, then, is open to dispute. In the field of sports, for example, some may feel that bowl games help football, and others thar they harm it. In the field of polities some may favor big government and others oppose it. Who is to say which is right? Complete agreement as to what is best probably would stifle any progress. The fact that people disagree is not bad of itself, provided that they are seeking the same end, the middle way — the way which promotes the best interests, eliminates any dangers, and insures a sound progress.
TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
Aquinas
Library
and
BookShop
The Board of Directors of the Aquinas Catholic Center express our gratitude to the individuals who have taken deep personal interest in our work. ■
AQUINAS LIBRARY & BOOK SHOP
110 E. LaSalle
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT
All Makes—Large Selection Students Special Rates
3 Months for $8.75— One Month, $3.50 Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana's Largest Dealer SUPER SALES CO.
Phone.- 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
34
The Scholastic
The most dashing men on campus wear Arrow Gordon Oxfords
»»------------------------------------------> ___SHIFTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS__
| Make GILBERT’S x your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Nov. 7, 1952
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trefhewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
The Professor Who Couldn't Say ‘No*
OR
WHAT TO DO WHEN YOU
CAN’T AFFORD TO FLUNK
Once there was a Professor who was reluctant to Flunk the Team’s Top MuscleMan ... a fullback named Printwhistle, of impressive Physical Proportions but intellectually a Lump. The Professor sought a Loophole. “Printwhistle,” he. said, “I am no pedant who
believes that the sole purpose of education is to cram the Mind with Facts. Rather is its aim to broaden the Mind and make it more Productive. If you can come io me within 24 hours with one—just one—original and worthwhile Idea, I shall not Flunk you.”
The dejected Printwhistle explained his Dilemma to his roommate. “Relax,” said the latter. “Simplest thing in the world”________ and he expounded a Stratagem.
Next morning the evidence was in. Teb-grams . . . hundreds of ’em ... on the Professor’s desk, from practically everybody on the Campus. All bearing the same message: “Printwhistle must not Flunk. 011 Blackstrap needs him. This Approach is his Idea.”
Did it work? Well, there’s a certain AH-Americcn named Printwhistle whose voice shakes with grateful Emotion when anyone mentions Western Union in km Presence.
When yen want to Sv. i ‘g a Dc'l . . . Telegrams work wr.ndrrs. Th—*.-3 grrde-A Date Bait, great for coaxiag cash from home, practical far arranging anything front a Weekend to a Jcj Interview. When you want to get inside the Opponent’s ten-yard line ... 1st Ylcatcra Union cc—7 ft' '*
105 N. Main St. Telephone 3-6101
35
NOSE, THROAT, and Accessory Organs not Adversely Affected by Smoking Chesterfields
FIRST SUCH REPORT EVER PUBLISHED ABOUT ANY CIGARETTE
A responsible consulting organization has reported the results of a continuing study by a competent medical specialist and his staff on the effects of smoking Chesterfield cigarettes.
A group of people from various walks of life was organized to smoke only Chesterfields. For six months this group of men and women smoked their normal amount of Chesterfields— 10 to 40 a day. 45% of the group have smoked Chesterfields continually from one to thirty years for an average of 10 years each.
thorough examination, including X-ray pictures, by the medical specialist and his assistants. The examination covered the sinuses as well as the nose, ears and throat.
The medical specialist, after a thorough examination of every member of the group, stated: “It is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat and accessory organs of all participating subjects examined by me were not adversely affected in the six-months period by smoking the cigarettes provided.”
At the beginning and at the end of the six*
i___- I -
Buy CHESTERFIELD.J^^/^fer
Copr^ght ’’52 LGGf & Tomcco Co.