at the 100 Center Complex in Mishawaka, Indiana '
Phone (219) 255-8661
\Mhni fc.
★IMPORTED CHEESES
★SPECIALTY FOOD ITEMS ★GOURMET FOOD ITEMS
'	NO RISK GUARANTEE '	'
STRICTLY A LIMITED EDITION YOU NEED SEND. NO MONEY!
JIM JONSON internationally acclaimed artist recreates the exciting COTTON BOWL VICTORY in a limited edition; full color, hand-signed original 20" by 32" lithograph.
Jonson’s works have been described .
by Sports Illustrated as ‘‘EMOTION. IN MOTION”
Reserve your full color, personal record of a great moment in Sports History either by: (1) writing to Highland Galleries,' Inc., P.O. Box 22267, Dallas, Texas 75222 or (2) Enter your reservation immediately by calling area code (915). 682-:9962.	; »
“ We will bill you the pre-publication price of $450 in advance of shipment . .
(good through March 15) ■
ITS Al MATTER OF...
52885U.S. 31 North
North of Cleveland Road & U.S. 31
South Bend, 272-5478
We feature savory Prime Rib as our specialty. Your choice of three generous cuts, is served complete with all the trimmings. Or if you’re really hungry, you can enjoy prime rib in combination with a seafood selection. Create your own fresh crisp salad from our bountiful ' salad bar plus hot bread and butter. You may choose from baked potato or long grain and wild rice. Our unique atmosphere and friendly service combine to make your prime rib dinner taste like you’ve never eaten before. Yes, with usit is a matter of Prime Rib.
A*
scholastic
Vol. 119, No. 7, January 27, 1978 Notre Dame, Indiana

FEATURES
3 Pittsburgh
5	Mississippi
6	Purdue
7	Michigan State
a. 8 Army :
10 Southern California
12	Navy
13	Clemson
14	Georgia Tech
.16 Air Force
17 Miami
20 Cotton Bowl
22	Season Statistics
23	From the End Zone
24	. Red Pads and Short Socks A 26 Athletic Airwaves ■ 28 Parting Players
Ray O'Brien Paul Stevenson John Stenson John Vincent Ted Robinson
Ray O'Brien Mike Towle - Paul Stevenson John Vincent Tom Everman ? Mark Ronsini
Ray O'Brien
John O'Connor
Mike Towle; Ted Robinsori John Vincent
CREDITS
Cover: Tom Everman.	prriliADC
Photographs: Tom Everman 1, 2, 3,.4, 8, KtGULAKS 11, 12,15, 16, 18,19, 20, 21, 25, 29, 30, 32	2 First Word
/ Tim Krause 6 / Tom Paulius 9 / Bill	18 Gallery
Ehmann 28.	„	• . _„
30 Prognosis '78
Ray O'Brien
Tom Everman
Ray O'Brien
Illustrations: Lee; Hendricks .14 /. Sharon
Simon 27. - . ■ A
Statistics p. 22 courtesy of Notre Dame
Sports Information.	'
Football Review Editor Ray O'Brien
Scholastic Editor Kathleen McElroy Managing Editors Mark J. Ondash Karen Caruso Art Director Sharon Simon Production Manager A Julie Runkle News Editor . Lisa Michels Culture Editors J. P. Morrissey Maureen Walsh ••
Copy Editor Pete Smith Layout Editor Maureen Kelly Photography; Editor Tom Everman Business Manager Gary Garrabrant ■ Advertising Manager Lee Hendricks .
Advisory Board
Staff A	:	‘	. A - . A .A . A .7
j - Chuck Sweeney, Clare Leary, Dave Beno, Leo J. Mulcahey, Teri . Thompson,. Barb Frey, , Cole Finegan, Steve Fadul, Dan Lombardi, Mary DeRoche, Theresa Rebeck, John Delaney, .. Fran Gilbert, Rhonda Kornfeld, Sue Hart, Peggy McGuire, Liz Donovan, Rick LaBelle,
W. Ben Elliot, Tom Westphal, Betsy'Birch, Mary Ann Pelczar, John Stavinoha, Susan Spilman, Bridget Berry, Kathy Leaman, James Jordan, Therese Phillips, Gabrielle Pentz, -• a Bill Ehmann, Mary Jo Murphy, Mike Murray, Greg G. Gregory.-
Hall Representatives: Kim Gumz, Jim Moran, Greg Skranzds, Sheila Gavan, Wendy Fend, Paul Peralta, Joe Lauch, Ed Rodgers, Brian Glade, Don Orban, Dave Carrier, Jim Jordan,: Paul Coppola, Tom Browne, Russ O'Brien, Ruth Hohl, Andy Smith, Brian Donnelly, Mike Kenahan, Kathy Orban. -	; A , -
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its . administration, faculty or. the student body.;
; Second-class postage paid at-Notre Dame/Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented3 for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student.
Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods,. Scholastic is printed, at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. - 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic.
Ronald Weber, Paul Wieber, James Cook, copyright © 1978 Scholastic / all right reserved / none of the contents may be repro-Bro. John Benesh, C.S.C., Richard Conklin, duced without permission.	. •	.
Elizabeth Christman. ■	• : ;
The First Word
by Ray O'Brien
Notre Dame football is a very complex entity. While the physical aspect of playing the game is complicated in itself, the intangible nature of this “experience” is what makes it different from football at any other university in the world. The aura of Notre Dame has a special meaning to the players, the coaches, the students, the alumni, and the college football fan. While legendary heroic feats and tradition are what embody it, the experience of Notre. Dame football is always growing as seasons become a memory, another footnote in the record books. ;
The 1977 season will surely be a most remembered one. As famous as the Fighting Irish team is, they still have only captured the National Championship three times in the 30 years preceding the past campaign. The unique thing about this title-winning year is the one loss on the record. This single setback caused this season to become one of the most important in the history of Notre Dame football. It is a season that should be remembered not only for the end result but more significantly for the development of this squad in their four-month struggle to a final goal. Only then can something be learned and the aura of ND football be put in perspective so as to be better understood and appreciated.
After being the consensus preseason favorite for the coveted MacArthur Bowl, the second game loss against Mississippi was too much for Notre Dame to take. The sloppy play in the Pittsburgh game was surely a bad omen. The season was practically over before it began. More than one student was heard saying, “When does the basketball season begin?” Everyone had given up on their team, except for the team itself. While most “supporters” took their frus-strations out on Dan Devine, the low-key coach was holding his team together as self-doubt began to bubble. There is no denying that many people associated with ND wanted Devine’s job.
The season began to turn around when Joe Montana, “The Comeback Kid,” brought his team from a come-from-behind victory against Purdue. The Fighting Irish were reborn in the form of the “Green Machine” against USC as they crushed the Trojans 49-19. Could it be. that green and gold uniforms brought back the magic of exciting Notre Dame football? Devine, who had finally put the “Dump Devine” sticker man out of business, was taking no chances as he put the blue and gold uniforms away for the rest of the 1977 season.
The team from South Bend was not to be denied, as a 38-10 Cotton Bowl victory over top-ranked Texas, combined with bowl losses by Oklahoma’ and Michigan, gave ND the National Championship everyone had promised them before the season began. How this seemingly impossible outcome came about is still unanswered. Would it or could it have happened anywhere else?
I believe the answer to Notre Dame’s success lies in the fans who may have given up on their team’s chances on paper but never in their hearts. It more directly lies in the man that most of these people ridiculed. The pressure of coaching at Notre Dame is tremendous, although only those that hold this illustrious position will ever know the true extent. They tell me that one has to expect criticism when he takes over such a “public” position. Many of the disagreements fans had about Dan Devine were legitimate ones. What . was ill-founded were several , of the rumors and the doubt that this coach had expertise in his field.
. The Southern California game and the Texas game were brilliantly coached on the part of Dan Devine. Hours of preparation and hard work by the players account for the outcomes. This is not to say that these were Devine’s best-coached games, nor is it to say that the coaches made no mistakes. These contests do show that Devine stood his ground and performed his duty as expected of him with no known; complaining. It would seem that Devine had had the last laugh after the Cotton Bowl victory, but I did not hear any cynical laugh in that locker room after the game. There sat a happy coach, proud of his team and his association with Notre Dame. Devine went so far as to tell reporters that he was not important in this win but that it was all the players doing, and a Notre Dame win. Make no mistake that Dan Devine was very important if not the single most significant contributor to the Notre Dame win. He has left his footnote in the ND record books, but his contribution cannot be written down in words as it becomes just another part of the “experience” of Notre Dame.
2
Scholastic
Cavanaugh’s Last Stand
PilisM
by Ray O'Brien
bulled for one yard and the first down on a fourth-down situation. The 1977 Sugar Bowl MVP who had notched three victories against Notre Dame and was gunning for a record fourth then threw a third-down-and-seven pass to Walker, bringing Jackie Sherrill’s club to the ND 40-yard line. Cavanaugh, three plays later, fooled the entire defensive line and ran for seven yards and a first down to the 25-yard line. Then
Notre Dame’s opening game had been awaited for perhaps as long as a year by some of the Fighting Irish players. It was just about one year ago that Tony Dorsett and the Pittsburgh Panthers rolled over ND by a score of 38-21 en route to an undefeated National Championship season. Now the reigning National Champs were back to kick off the 1977 season. This year most prognosticators chose Dan Devine’s crew over last year’s premier team. The game had even been moved up four weeks so that all of the United States would have the chance to watch these two kingpins battle it out. But what millions of viewers saw Saturday afternoon was less than a perfect performance by either team.
: The first drive by both teams gave spectators a preview of what was to come in the next 60 minutes. Notre Dame ran three times into an im
The. Big Mac Attack
penetrable Panther front line and punted the ball over. Pittsburgh, led by Matt Cavanaugh, seemed to be using the same game plan as the Irish. Elliot Walker, now out of the enhancing shadow of Dorsett, carried three times into the infamous front wall of the ND defense and came up short of a first down. ’
Junior quarterback Rusty Lisch got the offense moving, taking turns handing off and passing to halfback Vagas Ferguson. When Heavens carried around the end for seven yards Notre Dame had its third first down in a row and crossed midfield. But just as the Irish looked like they were on their way to a score, Lisch underthrew Ken MacAfee and Wilson stepped in to pick it off.
Cavanaugh then showed why he was an early season nomination for the, coveted Heisman Trophy. Pittsburgh stuck to the running game as Cavanaugh stuck his head down and
on an all-important third-and-fourth situation, Cavanaugh did something that gave Notre Dame the game, according to many media experts. He threw a perfect touchdown pass to Jones off the scramble. But he also got hit by defensive end Willie Fry and took most of the 240-pound defensive lineman’s. weight on his left wrist. This was certainly the most important play of the game as it proved to be the last play Matt Cavanaugh would be involved in against the Fighting Irish in his collegiate football career.
- Most people figured this game was as good as over at this point but no one told the Pittsburgh Panthers. The Irish, starting from their own 13-yard line, too three yard. steps backwards in three plays and again had to call in Joe Restic to punt. Restic dropped the perfect snap and when DiCicco smothered him in the end zone, Pittsburgh had increased its lead to 9-0.	-
When Pittsburgh’s offense could not move, Gasparovic unleashed another 50-yard punt, pinning the Irish deep in their own territory. Lisch then continued .to direct a drive across midfield where he again was intercepted, this time by Wilson. However, without Cavanaugh, Pitt’s offense couldn’t have moved the ball against a mediocre Pop Warner team. Cavanaugh’s replacement, senior Wayne Adams, could not even take the snap from center. The Panthers drew penalty flags every other play for offsides or illegal procedure penalties. Even with Gasparovic registering 45 yards per punt, the Panthers were sure to crumble sooner or later as the defense barely got a rest
A 13-yard punt return by Burg-meier got the Irish going and kept their backs away from their own goal line. Lisch began to move the offense with authority as he ran for 17 yards and then completed three
January 27,1978
straight passes, the last one a 27-yarder to Kris Haines bringing the Irish within spitting distance of their first points of the 1977 season. On the next play Lisch made it five complete passes in a row hitting tight end Ken MacAfee for five yards and a touchdown. Still Pittsburgh was not giving anything as Green blocked the extra-point conversion and Notre Dame went in at halftime trailing by three points.
Pittsburgh managed only 21 yards after Cavanaugh left the game and none of those yards were through the air. It looked as though the Irish would just have to score four more points to win this game. Even that looked like an unreasonable feat as Heavens turned over the ball via a fumble on the first play from scrimmage in the second half. :
Pittsburgh stuck to their new game plan and went backwards nine yards from the ND 30. Gaspar-ovic hit his shortest punt of the day,
a 38-yarder that was downed at the Irish one-yard line. Both teams exchanged punts and fumbles running out a disastrous third quarter. The game that was supposed to be a classic between two great powerhouses was turning into a farce. The worst thing about it was that all the viewers were going to have to sit to the end to see who would win. Pitt mentor Jackie Sherrill even sent in a freshman quarterback by the name of Yewcic. It did not help as Yewcic fumbled his first collegiate snap. So Sherrill sent Adams back in who took an illegal procedure play before
he fumbled his snap.	;
Notre Dame could not capitalize on any of these mistakes until Yewcic came back in and fumbled the snap from center with Bob Golic recovering at the Panther 16-yard line. The Irish might as well have tried a field goal right then as they ended up two yards farther back when Reeve hit a 35-yard field goal to tie this fiasco at 9-9.	.
While Pitt’s defense did everything to stop the Irish, the offense' did everything to help them. When Adams threw away a bad pitch which Ross Browner recovered at the. Panther 16-yard line it was too much for the defense to take. They “gave up” a Reeve 26-yard field goal as Notre Dame took the lead for. good. Still, the Pitt defense led by
All-American Randy Holloway had
allowed Devine’s offense only three first downs in the second half.
The final Notre Dame touchdown came two minutes later when Jones fumbled Adams’ first complete pass of the second half and Jim Browner fell on it at the 11-yard line."The thoroughly exhausted Panther defense could not hold this time as Terry Eurick bulled in from four yards out giving Notre Dame a margin for safety with three minutes left. It was hardly needed as Adams was intercepted two, more times, in the final three minutes of the game.
Sherrill made the understatement of the season when he commented after the game, “I said at the beginning of the season that we could not afford,, to lose Matt Cavanaugh. Things were, starting to fall into place when he was in there but after he got hurt, everything went out the window.”	. .	.
Indeed Pittsburgh’s offense went “out the window” as they managed
only four first downs after Cavanaugh left with 1:28 left in the first quarter. They also netted only six
Notre Dame ........,.................     0	• 6	0	13 — 19
Pittsburgh .........................      7	2	0	0 — 9
Scoring:
PU — Jones 12 pass from Cavanaugh (Schubert kick)
PU — Safety, Restic tackled in end zone
ND — MacAfee 5 pass from Lisch (kick failed)
ND — Reeve 35 FG	,
ND — Reeve26FG
ND — Eurick 4 run (Reeve kick)
Calhoun and Fry harass" Yewcic
yards, turned the ball over seven times and had seven penalties called against them in those last three stanzas. The defense, on the other hand, looked as good as any in the country. It even prompted Devine to praise, “I think that performance by their defense is one of the best I have ever seen.”
Devine was not to be topped by Sherrill’s understatement as he commented, “We are definitely short of a National Championship off this, performance.” Devine could not have been referring to his defensive unit which completely shut down the Panther offense. - Linebackers Bob Golic and Doug Becker had fine games along with defense stalwart Ross Browner. The offense was a different story. Rusty Lisch could not lead his unit in sustaining a major drive the whole . afternoon. The one bright spot was Jerome Heavens who looked fully recovered after sitting out last year with a
knee injury. Heavens picked up 88 yards and two pass receptions in the afternoon. .	, ;	,
4
Scholastic
Southern Discomfort
Mississippi
In what looked like the South’s piled 14 first downs, 107 yards rushrevenge for their loss in the Civil
War, the University of Mississippi Rebels upset the Fighting Irish, 20-13.
Notre Dame received the opening kickoff, but; was unable. to mount any offensive drive. The Irish then punted and Ole Miss took command of the football at their own 24-yard line.
The ’ determined Rebels marched 64 yards to the Irish 12-yard line. Mississippi placekicker Hoppy Langley helped the Rebels draw first blood with his 29-yard field goal.
Midway through the second period, Notre Dame started a drive which would turn out to be their - only touchdown march of the afternoon. Following a missed field goal by the Rebels, the Irish started possession at their own 20-yard line.
Four plays into the drive, the Irish had a first down and 10 at the
Mississippi 38-yard' line. Tri-cap- goal at the 1L
tain Terry Eurick shot through the Reeve, as in the Pittsburgh clash
line for a 20-yard pickup but fumbled	the week before, entered the game The final statistics revealed that
the ball when tackled.	to give the Irish a . 13-10 lead with
However, when the Rebels re-
/turned the ball to the Irish on the following play, Mississippi quarterback Bob Garner was intercepted by Jim ' Browner at the Ole/ Miss . 26. Eight plays later, the Irish tallied on a two-yard burst by Jerome Heavens. Dave Reeve added the point after, as the Irish captured the lead for the first time, 7-3.
Ole Miss would not be denied victory in this battle as they began a scoring drive on their next possession;. , The Rebels marched 75 yards in six plays to regain the lead, 10-7. The major play of the touchdown march came on a 50-yard aerial strike from Gamer to split end Roy Coleman., The-tally came on’a 10-yard toss from Gamer to fullback Jim Storey. .	. ■’
In.the first half,’.Notre Dame com-
January 27, 1978
by Paul Stevenson
ing and 79 yards via the aerial attack. Meanwhile,' the Rebels registered nine first downs, 99 yards rushing and 112 yards in the air.
The third stanza was also scoreless, as neither team could muster any offense. Thus, the third period ended with the Rebels maintaining their 10-7 margin. /
With 13:15 remaining in the contest, Rebel tailback Tyrone Richards; attempts, fumbled and Jay Caise recovered for
Notre Dame at the Ole Miss 41. Five plays later, faced with a fourth down and eight at the Mississippi 27, Reeve came in to hit a 44-yard field goal and knot the score at 10.
On their next possession, Mississippi fumbled once again, this time at their 45-yard line. In five plays, the Irish advanced the ball to the Rebel nine-yard line. Then, after three straight up the middle runs, Notre Dame had a fourth down and
only 4:53 left in the war.
In the diminishing minutes, Mississippi Head Coach Ken Cooper decided to change his signal caller. In favor of a passing quarterback to
direct his team, Cooper called upon
Tim Ellis to lead.his offense for a to capture the National Championlast minute score. The senior Rebel ship was just not performing up to
drove the offensive unit 80 yards in their fans’ expectation.
Notre Dame .. Mississippi ....
Scoring:
UM — Langley 29 FG
ND — Heavens 2 run (Reeve kick)
UM—Storey 9 yd pass from Garner (Langley kick)
ND —Reeve 28 FG
ND —- Reeve 44 FG
UM — Storey 10 pass from Ellis (Langley kick)
UM —Langley 27 FG
a mere five plays. With Langley’s conversion, Ole Miss led 17-13.
The Irish had 3:13 to try to win the football game, but on their first play, quarterback Rusty Lisch threw complete to Heavens who fumbled the ball .Brian Moreland recovered the ball for the Rebels at the Notre Dame 14.
With fourth and six at the 10-yard line, Langley booted his second three-pointer of the contest to extend the Rebels’ lead to 20-13 with only 1:44 left in the battle.
The Irish attempted their two-minute offense, but Rusty . Lisch was intercepted by Moreland at the Notre Dame 40 with only 17 seconds remaining. Ellie fell on the ball on the Rebels’ final possession to end the game.
Heavens led in rushing for the Irish, compiling 70 yards in 16 carries. Eurick added 51 yards in six
Lisch completed 11 passes,in 25 attempts for 127 yards, but allowed
two interceptions. The Irish signal caller carried the ball four times for a total loss of 10 yards. AU-America tight end Ken MacAfee caught six passes for 69 yards. .
Defensively, Bob Golic played a sensational game at his. linebacking position. The junior' gridder registered 10 solo tackles while assisting bn two more. Golic also snagged one
interception. Steve Heimkreiter notched six unassisted tackles and aided on another five.
Notre Dame had 19 first downs to Mississippi’s 17. The Irish compiled 274 yards in total offense, while the Rebels chalked up 351, 157 on the ground and 194 via the aerial attack.
The loss set Notre Dame’s record back to 1-1. The preseason favorite
0	7	0	6 — 13
3	7 - 0	10 — 20
5
Comeback Kid Conquers
Pupdne
dends for the Irish. Working from his own 10, he overthrew his intended receiver, Raymond Smith, into the waiting arms of Doug Becker. Becker returned it 20 yards for what appeared' to be an Irish touchdown until clipping was detected. The Irish offense then got to make the first tally as Rusty Lisch hit Terry Eurick in the end zone.
by John Stenson
Hermann would not fold against the Irish defense. Before halftime
For so long it was simply a memory. Joe Montana had a lot to look back on in his four years at the Dome, but on this October afternoon one would swear his diary was complete. The cheers which once surrounded him were no longer heard. He was the forgotten man in the Irish attack, and why would anyone be foolish enough to think his statistics would change within the confines of Ross Ade Stadium?
As far as the team was concerned, they were in the midst of a beginning that they would rather have forgotten. There was a scare that first weekend until Cavanaugh got hurt and the Panthers ran out of gas. And then there was that debacle against Mississippi which seemed to put the Irish hopes into a severe
tailspin. Now it was time for the Boilermakers, and for the third week in a row it appeared that the Irish
have been outmatched. Pur-
might
good field position in the early going but when he was finally trapped deep in his own territory, his inexperience paid larger divi-
Ross Browner surprises Purdue's Hermann
due’s offense centered around freshman quarterback Mark. Hermann. This freshman standout from Carmel, Indiana, had thrown for over 600 yards in his first two games of the season. It appeared on the first drive of the afternoon that he was going to have little trouble adding to this total. Starting from his own 20, Hermann guided the Boilermakers downfield for the first score of the afternoon. Sixty of those yards came through the air with the clincher coming on a touchdown pass from Hermann to speedy Reggie Arnold for the final ten yards.
The Irish offense, keeping pace with its performance in the previous two encounters, could go nowhere early and it was the defense that created the first score. Hermann had
Hermann would roll up 270 yards in the air completing two other touchdown strikes to Jappy Oliver and Raymond Smith while staking Purdue to a 24-14 third-quarter lead. On the other side, the Irish offense was listless. Lisch and Eurick had teamed up again for an Irish tally, but as the third quarter came to a close, Notre Dame looked as though they had nearly accepted defeat.
The fourth quarter brought more movement to the offense. Gary Forystek, who took over for Lisch at halftime, began to move ND downfield connecting with MacAfee and putting the Irish on the Purdue 30-yard line. Then, on second and seven it appeared that the Irish had finally cashed in their chips. On this play Forystek rolled to his right and de-
cided to keep the ball. He carried it all the way down to the 17 before being met by a host of Boilermakers and, suffering a broken collarbone. Now the stage was set. It would be Montana’s turn to recapture the spotlight. The only question left to be answered was whether he could conjure up another dream.
The Irish had to settle for a field goal on the drive which cut the deficit to seven points with over ten minutes left in the game. Now Notre Dame’s defense rose to the occasion. The passing game, which had been there for the taking all afternoon, had suddenly fallen apart. Purdue was resorting to their little-used ground attack and gaining yardage i with it until Hermann was forced back to the air and made his second mistake of the game. This time it was Luther Bradley who had the honor of picking off the errant pass, putting the offense back in the driver’s seat at the Boilmaker 48-yard line. Montana’s game plan was a simple one on this drive. A sideline pass to Kris Haines and then a pass across the middle to MacAfee
Scholastic
brought the Irish deep into Purdue territory. From there Montana returned to his big tight end for the tally, and with a Reeve conversion the score was tied at 24-24. In a period of eight minutes, Montana had guided the offense from apparent defeat to new life. He had given them the spark they had long been missing. Now it was showtime.
As they had done for much of the second half, the defense played it tough in the waning minutes. Montana got the ball on his own 30 with just over three minutes left, and
Notre Dame  .......................    0	14	0	17 — 31
Purdue ............................. 10 14	0	0 — 24
Scoring:
PU — Sovereen 25 FG
PU ■— Arnold 8 pass from Herrmann (Sovereen kick)
ND — Eurick 6 pass from Lisch ‘(Reeve kick)
ND — Eurick 18 pass from Lisch (Reeve kick)
. PU — Smith 37 pass from Herrmann (Sovereen kick) PU — Pope 43 pass from Herrmann (Sovereen kick) ND — Reeve 24 FG
ND — MacAfee 13 pass from Montana (Reeve kick) ND — Mitchell 5 run (Reeve kick)
“To Err is Human - Forgive Us Devine”
When Notre Dame fans discuss great rivalries over the years they will usually start with the Trojans from USC; but the greatest modernday contest between Notre Dame and a rival school is undoubtedly the 1966 Michigan State game that ended in a 10-10 . tie and is referred to by many as “The Game of the Century.” Michigan State and Notre Dame have met to battle on the gridiron over: 40 times. In those 40 games there has been a consistent recurring pattern. The common denominator that has been present in 70 years of
January 27, 1978
everyone in the stadium realized he would not be denied. The “Monongahela Minuteman” went straight to the air, using MacAfee and Haines as his targets. Four completions between these two receivers brought the ball to the Purdue 10. On first down Montana turned to his ground game. First it went to Orsini, who brought them to the five. Then, on second and goal, sophomore Dave Mitchell fought his way to the end zone. The miracle was complete. Joe Montana had again returned to the spotlight, where he seemed to belong.
by John Vincent
football -between ND and MSU is defense with a capital “D.” When the Spartans and the Fighting Irish clash, regardless of which team has more talent this particular season, fans know they will be in for hard hitting. It was with this historic view that Dan Devine’s team prepared for its highly rated opposition, sition.	.
The Spartans brought with them what everyone expected — a knack for hitting. In a closely fought game that Rarryl Rodgers club would not be counted out of, the Irish held on
for a 16-6 victory. Notre Dame, under the supervision of first-time	>
starter Joe Montana, was sloppy ort	*
offense but more than made up for	!
any offensive blunders with a stingy	;
defense that held onto an early lead	;
bringing the Blue and Gold record to	i
3-1.	.	.	.	• ;	-	:
If Irish coach Dan Devine knew	■
that the first ND offensive drive was	i
an omen of what was to come, he	i
probably would have remained in bed	;
that morning. The magic of Montana brought smiles to the hometown sup-	:
porters when on the second play	'
from scrimmage last week’s.hero at	\
Purdue tossed a 43-yard bomb to All-American tight end Ken MacAfee, bringing Notre Dame into Spartan territory. From there the ground crew was called on as Jerome Hea-	:
vens and Dave Mitchell pounded out yardage with a Mitchell pass recep-	;
tion bringing ND to the three-yard	'
line. Up to now this 79-yard drive was the best Devine’s crew had put together the whole year, but that thought alone must have jinxed it as Mitchell fumbled on the next play and Michigan State’s Kim Rowekamp	;
recovered.	,
Four plays later Notre Dame had	;
the ball back at the MSU 22-yard	:
line, thanks to Randy Harrison’s 25-	■
yard punt return. The second scoring opportunity disappeared one play later as Montana’s pass was inter-	;
cepted by Mark Anderson, , one of	‘
three the sophomore free safety was	:
going to record this afternoon. AllBig Ten quarterback Eddie Smith got his team moving this time but as far as the Fighting Irish defense bent, but they did not break. Hans . Nielsen put the Spartans on the board first with a 38-yard field goal giving MSU a 3-0 lead. >
While Notre Dame’s offense , did । not commit a turnover on their third possession of the day, it did contain a play that Heavens is not likely to forget the rest of his life. On a sec-ond-and-seven situation Montana sent his junior fullback on a pat-	;
tern out of the backfield. Forty yards downfield Heavens found himself all alone and so did the Irish signal caller. Heavens, however, started running for an open end zone too soon and dropped a pass that hit him in the stomach. Dan Devine wondered when it would all end.
As bad as the home team was in the first quarter, they got on.the
7	i
board with less than one minute gone in the second stanza as Dave Reeve split the uprights from 42 yards out knotting the game at 3-3. While the defense continued to thwart any substantial drive by Michigan State, the offense continued to stumble around as Waymer fumbled on a double reverse that had picked up big yardage followed minutes later by a missed Reeve field goal from 35 yards but.
Notre Dame was bound to score eventually as the defense allowed the offense to continually get the ball in good field position. It finally came with 2:50 left in the half as Heavens broke loose on a 24-yard scamper followed by a nine-yard TD jaunt by Mitchell, pushing the Irish ahead 10-3. Halftime statistics showed Notre Dame holding a decisive edge, but four glaring turnovers accounted for the small lead.
Golic intercepted a Smith pass on the first play of the second half giving the offense the ball 27 yards from the goal line. This time a penalty kept the hapless South Bend squad from reaching the end zone as Notre Dame settled for another Reeve field goal stretching the lead to 13-3.
Both teams swapped interceptions with Joe Restic’s snag setting up what proved to be the final Irish score of this very imperfect game. With the offense going nowhere; Reeve was called in to make his fourth field-goal attempt of the afternoon, a modern ND record. This four-year starter promptly split the uprights with a booming 51-yard boot giving him his third three-pointer of the game, tying him with Bob Thomas for another record mark. With 2:35 remaining in the third quarter, the score stood 16-3.
Marshall Lawson, playing for an ineffective Smith, got the Spartan offense to show signs bf life as he connected on three passes in a row, bringing MSU to the Fighting Irish 20-yard. ’ line. After Leroy McGee
dropped a pass in the end zone Nielsen was brought in to kick a 36-yard field goal wrapping up the scoring at 16-6 in favor of Notre Dame.
Both teams exchanged five straight punts between them before Michigan
State brought their fans to their feet last being in 1974, the Irish had
as they drove to within four-yards outscored the Cadets by a 110-3 of paydirt. A quarterback sack and
margin.
a penalty against MSU for using too But Army had higher hopes for 8
Montana goes to the air
much time culminated by a missed fense as he claimed, “Any victory
28-yard field goal brought this comedy of errors to a close. Seven interceptions and three fumbles between the two teams brought the turnover total to ten.
Darryl Rogers summed up the reason the Irish proved to be victors, “We threw too many interceptions and we really did not stop them with our defense. They just gave us a lot of turnovers.” The Spartan mentor
Michigan State Notre Dame....
Scoring:
MSU —Nielsen 38 FG
ND —Reeve 42 FG
ND -— Mitchell 9 run (Reeve kick) .
ND — Reeve 40 FG
ND — Reeve 51 FG
MSU —Nielsen 37 FG
“Oh Heavens, What a Day”
Army
It used to be college football’s most gloried rivalry. In recent years, however, the Notre Dame-Army pairing has evolved into a gross mismatch.
In the previous two meetings, the
added, “We had terrible field position throughout the game, and you cannot stay in bad position against a good team.” Michigan State almost got away with doing just that due to Montana’s 8 out of 23 pass completions and three interceptions. Jerome Heavens was the only consistent performer on offense garnering 136 yards on 23 carries with most of the yardage picked up on a singular effort.
The defense had one of their best days of the early season holding MSU to 92 yards rushing and inter
cepting four, passes.. Golic led all
tacklers with 18 stops, followed by .. Ross Browner and Ted Burgmeier
with 11 and 10, respectively. A tired-looking Devine complimented his de-
over Michigan State is a satisfying one.” The Irish field marshall also' pointed out that his team would be getting something they, seemed to need. “Now we have a week off. We have just played four very physical teams and we can really stand a week of rest.” With' two weeks to prepare for Army, the Irish would-have time to shape up before Southern Cal landed in South Bend.
.	3	0	3
0	10	6
0 —/ 6
0 — 16
by Ted Robinson
this year’s meeting, most of them resting on the right arm of quarter-: back Leafnon Hall. Hall, who went on to eclipse the majority of Army’s passing, records, had passed for 1100 yards and thrown- 12 -touchdown passes in the Cadets’ first five games. Thirty of his pass completions were , to All-American tight end Clennie
Scholastic
Brundidge. The Irish knew that they would have to shut down the Hall-to-Brundidge combination in order to keep the Cadets off the scoreboard.
Notre Dame had its own secret weapon, however, in Jerome Heavens. The junior fullback from East St. Louis, Illinois, would carve his name into the Notre Dame record book before the afternoon was over with the greatest single-game rushing performance in Irish history. Thirty-four carries for 200 yards erased Emil Sitko’s thirty-year record of. 186 yards, and provided almost half of Notre Dame’s offense for the game.
It was apparent from the outset that the 72,594 fans who packed Giants. Stadium in East Rutherford, .N.J., for this attempt to return ; college football to. the New York area would see quite a bit of Heavens. .	■ .<
On Notre Dame’s first possession, Heavens carried five times for 16. yards, but the fifth carry produced a fumble that killed Notre. Dame’s scoring threat at the Army 21. In the first quarter, Heavens’ fumble, a holding penalty, and an incomplete, third-down pass, spoiled Irish drives and kept Notre Dame from scoring a first-quarter point for the fifth consecutive game.
But Heavens, who rushed for 64 yards in the. first quarter, took it upon himself to break the scoreless tie on Notre Dame’s possession of the second quarter. After Army’s Ward Whyte hit a shanked punt of only 16 yards, the’ Irish took possession on the Army. 47. Heavens carried for 43 of the 47 yards on the five-play Irish scoring drive as he scored the touchdown on a three-yard burst off-tackle. .	...
For the remainder of the first half, the Irish were unable to advance the ball beyond their 40. With his running game, absent, Hall took to the air in an attempt to get the Cadets some points. .■
Midway through the quarter, Whyte boomed a 35-yard punt which was .downed on the Notre Dame five. After, four running plays moved the balL out to the 18, quarterback . Joe Montana tried to hit his All-American tight end Ken MacAfee. The pass was tipped by Chuck Schott and intercepted by Dave Charest, who returned it to the Irish 21.
But Hall returned the favor on the
next play as his toss intended for converted quarterback Greg McGlas-ker was picked off by Luther Bradley on the Irish four.
After an Irish punt, Hall engineered an 11-play drive to the Notre Dame . 15. On fourth down, Army Coach Homer Smith passed up the field goal to try for a tying touchdown. The gamble didn’t pay off as Hall’s pass for Brundidge in the end zone fell incomplete under pressure from Ross Browner.
“The play was to hit Clennie (Brundidge) in the end zone,’’ Hall recalled. “As I rolled to the right Browner came in and didn’t allow me the time to set and throw, and the pass went out of the end zone.”
Heavens descends to Earth
That threat was the closest the Cadets came to scoring for the afternoon, and Hall tried to explain the Army offensive problems.
“It seemed that we could move the ball for the most part,” Hall commented. “We had trouble when we got down to the 20. Then the Notre Dame defense was rolling the dice by blitzing the safeties or the lineback-, ers. At times it was as though they were sending .all 11 men in on the pass rush.- We just couldn’t connect on the right plays that pick , up the six points against the gambling defense.”.	;
■ As the Irish opened the second half, it was apparent that ball control was the game plan. Army would see the ball for only five minutes in the third quarter.,.	.
Heavens, who amassed 119 yards in the first half, carried on six consecutive plays following a 15-yard punt return by Ted Burgmeier to the Army 35 early in the quarter. Jerome moved the ball to the nine
where the drive stalled. Dave Reeve salvaged three points out of J’s efforts with a 29-yard field goal to boost the rish lead to 10-0.
The Irish put the game out of reach with a touchdown on their next possession; Linebacker Mike Whittington intercepted a Hall aerial at the Irish 40 and after a holding penalty, the Irish marched 75 yards for the score. A Montana-to-MacAfee pass for 20 yards and bursts of 13 and 15 yards by Heavens were the key offensive plays in the drive. Terry Eurick scored the touchdown on a dive from the two and the Irish led 17-0.
Notre Dame’s third interception of the day, by sophomore linebacker
Leroy Leopold stopped the Cadets’ final scoring threat of the day, and the concentration focused on the exploits of Heavens. Jerome received a rest early in the fourth quarter with the game seemingly in hand, but he was returned when he was within reach of the 200-yard barrier. . .With . .eight minutes remaining, Jerome carried for; six yards over right guard and left, the, game with 200 yards. His 34 . carries were only two short of the Notre Dame record held by Wayne Bullock, but the key factor for Heavens was.that he.had-proved he could return! rom the knee injury which sidelined, him for the majority of the 1976 season. .
“After my first run at Pittsburgh, I. just put everything, about my injury in the past and tried to do my best,” Heavens remarked. “A game with Army is . always a battle. They have a tough, scrappy, ball club. I’m pleased .because this was my best game ever.”	;
Notre Dame closed out. the game
January 27, 1978	9
with a 16-play, 60-yard drive that consumed 6:34 of the clock. Eurick scored his second touchdown of the game and fifth of the young season with 90 seconds remaining to make the final score 24-0.
“I would like to congratulate Army,” remarked Coach Dan Devine. “We had heard this was one of their most physical teams in years and they were exactly that. I’m gratified that we could win, though it was an uphill battle.”
Notre Dame . ...;.................. 0	7	10	7 — 24
Army ..........................     0	0	0	0 —0
Scoring:
ND •— Heavens 3 run (Reeve kick)
ND —Reeve 29 FG
ND — Eurick 2 run (Reeve kick)
ND — Eurick 3 run (Reeve kick)
Green Machine
The largest margin of victory in the heralded intersectional rivalry between Notre Dame and USC was the 51-0 shellacking the Irish handed their west coast foes in 1966. However, in the next ten years the Trojans produced a . 7-1-2 record including that embarrassing 55-24 loss in 1974. The Notre Dame student body was getting a little pessimistic as it seemed that USC just “had Notre Dame’s number.” While on paper Devine’s team was as good as any team in the country, they simply were not proving it on the field. While hopes were still high and Notre Dame fans would never say die, something special was going to be needed to get the Fighting Irish back in the winning trend.
As tradition would have it, the pre-game tunnel "was ? formed and they even constructed a huge wooden horse. “Oh my God! They are wearing GREEN uniforms!” This was the reaction of this writer and 60,000 seated fans (not to mention the television viewers). It is unfair to attribute Notre Dame’s performance this day to colored uniforms, but 10
In the Irish locker room, most of the thoughts turned to the following week’s showdown with Southern Cal, a team the Irish hadn’t defeated since 1973. Perhaps Montana had the most prophetic quote of all:
“We’ve been moving the ball and the defense has been performing very well,” Montana said. “I think we’re going to give Southern Cal a game.”
If he had only known.
by Ray O'Brien
there is no denying that there was something “magic” in that incident that sparked the Irish to a shocking 49-19 win.
Southern Cal players must have been just as shocked as they watched their opponents come out as the “Green Machine,” but these athletes were trained to expect something of this sort and were not about to roll over dead just because Notre Dame put on some new uniforms. At least Charles White proved he was not going to stand around wide-eyed as he slashed through the ND defense on SC’s first possession. His efforts were wasted, however, when Frank Jordan missed a 52-yard field-goal attempt when the drive stalled at Notre Dame’s 35-yard line. Still this ball control indicated that tlie number-two offense in the nation was grabbing the early rounds from the number-four defense in the country.
. On Notre Dame’s first possession they got what they were looking for: an 11-play, five first down, 80 yard, 3:27 touchdown drive. Jerome Heavens grounded out most of the tough yardage with Joe Montana
making the big play when the situation called for it. Dave Mitchell sent Notre Dame stadium into bedlam for the first time when he capped the drive with a four-yard plunge putting ND on the board first at 7-0.
If Notre Dame had any ideas about sitting on that lead, USC quickly changed them. Undiscouraged, White went back to work slashing through a supposedly unslashable Irish front line. Hertel began to show why he is one of the premiere signal callers in college football by throwing pinpoint passes. When Randy Simmerin hauled in his first and only pass of the game (stretching his reception streak to 31 straight games), the Trojans were across midfield for the second time in two possessions. A Hertel pass to Calvin Sweeney netted 37 yards and produced unison groans followed by chants of “DEFENSE” from the- Notre Dame crowd as SC moved within 11 yards of the goal line. But the winds were taken out of the Trojan sails when Carey made their efforts all for naught again by missing his second field goal, this time from 26 yards out.
Notre Dame’s early sighs of brilliance on offense were short-lived as USC kept the Irish pinned deep in their own end. This proved disastrous when Terry Eurick fumbled the ball into the hands of Mario Celotto at the three-yard line as the defensive linebacker took two giant steps into the end zone and tied the score 7-7 apiece.
This seemed to frustrate both ND fans and players, but what was to come was worse. After Montana directed a drive from the Notre Dame 16-yard line to the SC five, Dave Mitchell coughed up the ball on a first and goal situation sending fans’ memories into thoughts of yesteryear. But SC was unselfish enough to give the ball right back when Leroy Leopold recovered a White fumble at the Trojan 14-yard line. Montana took no chances this time and carried it himself six plays later making the score 13-7. Burgmeier fumbled the snap for the extra-point attempt but made up for it by running all over the field before shotputting the ball into the hands of Tom Domin, making the Green Machine’s lead extend to eight points.
With everything going right for
Scholastic
Mitchell maneuvers for daylight
Dan Devine and his Fighting Irish, Luther Bradley picked off his sixteenth career pass (tying him for the career record with Tom MacDonald) and returning it to the . SC 37-yard line. Burgmeier decided to “run the same play again” (just like an episode in the movie “The Longest Yard”) and faked a field goal, carrying the ball 21 yards to the 13-yard
line. Montana then threw a strike to . Ken MacAfee and the Irish were now showing signs of a rout. Devine decided to settle for a typical extra point with Burgmeier holding, making the halftime score. 22-7 in favor of the good guys.
At this point, the Notre Dame defense had gone 12 consecutive quarters without giving up a touchdown (since the second quarter of the Purdue game). The defense had bent but never broken. They were going to have to put together another two quarters if the Irish were going to win this game. Certainly no one thought the game was in the * bag, not after 1974.
Bob Golic blocked a King punt which proved to be the last nail in USC’s coflin. Jay Case recovered this one and scampered 30 yards for his first collegiate TD, giving the Irish an insurmountable 29-7 lead and that bit of second-half momentum that would prevent a Southern Cal comeback. ,
The offense felt obliged to match the defense’s score, so the next time Joe Montana and company got possession of the ball they executed a
70-yard drive that ate up three more minutes on the clock. A 35-7 fourthquarter lead looked pretty safe but the Green and Gold were not done yet. John Robinson’s club scored the first touchdown of the season via the run against ND when Lynn Cain slanted over tackle from four yards < out after Mitchell fumbled the ball
at the 21-yard line. This score was
matched when Montana scored his second TD of the game from one yard out.
Hertel came back with a 75-yard drive of his own, mostly through the air, making the score 42-19. But, as would seem appropriate, Notre Dame got last licks in when Rusty Lisch came in to replace Montana and promptly engineered the last scoring drive of this unbelievable afternoon. Lisch completed all three passes he threw, including a 12-yarder to Kevin Hart that flashed the final tally on the board at 49-19.
“The team was super-enthused
Southern Cal ........................ 0	7	0	12	•—19
Notre Dame ...........................	7	15	13	14	—	49
Scoring:	.	.	.
ND — Mitchell 4 run (Reeve kick).
SC — Celleto 5 fumble return (Jordan kick)	-
ND— Montana 1 run (Dornin pass from Burgmeier) . ...	...
ND — MacAfee 12 pass from Montana (Reeve kick)
ND — Case 30 punt return (Reeve kick)	.
ND — MacAfee 1 pass from Montana (kick failed) ‘
SC—■ Cain 5 run (run failed)	;
ND — Montana 1 run (Reeve kick)
SC — Sweeney 14 pass from Hertel (run failed)
ND — K. Hart 4 pass from Lisch (Reeve kick)
when we brought the green shirts out,” commented Devine after the game. Devine had pulled off his first victory against USC as the Fighting Irish mentor. His complete scouting job nullified the Trojans’ efforts in every facet of the game. The green jerseys were an added stroke of genius. As Devine savored the hard-earned victory he noted, “By Wednesday we knew we were going to win but we did not know how or who was going to do it.”
One of the most important “whos” was quarterback Joe Montana. Montana had brought his team to where most people expected them to be from the very beginning. But he did not do it alone as All-American Ken MacAfee registered eight catches for 97 yards and two touchdowns on the day. “Their defensive backs were small and Mac is 6'4", so Ken just said to put it up there,” explained Montana.
On the defensive side it was the Ted Burgmeier show in the first half. Burgmeier intercepted a pass and ran about 100 yards to pick up a net gain of 38 yards, setting up a score. Burgmeier and Bradley kept Simmerin down to one reception for the
game. The defense relied on the one big play to stop the Trojan offensive machine every drived It was a combined effort this afternoon as would seem appropriate.
For the seniors of the Class of 1978, it was their first taste of victory. “Beating Southern Cal was the best victory of my career,” Burgmeier commented. “They humiliated us the last three years.” This game also seemed to be a turning point, as the. football machine in South Bend was running smoothly now. It was just a matter of getting back in the National Title.race. .
January 27, 1978
11
The Sinkable Middies
Navy
Navy won the toss and after receiving the kickoff, Joe . Gattuso fumbled the ball. Teammate Phil McConkey recovered and got as far as his own five-yard line before being stopped. For that matter, Navy had been stopped for the day. Five plays later, the Middies were punting from deep in their own territory and the Irish had excellent field position at their own 49.
On the first play from scrimmage, Joe Montana dropped back and winged a bomb that was gathered in by split end Kris Haines streaking down the right sideline on, a fly pattern. First and goal Irish at. the
frustration when the Irish were denied access to the end zone on three running plays. Placekicker Dave Reeve then missed a 20-yard fieldgoal attempt.
Later in the first quarter, the Irish were once again able to achieve excellent field position thanks to a 51-yard return of an interception by Ted Burgmeier. It was first and goal Notre Dame at the Navy four. Four plays later, the Irish found themselves,, like before, still off the scoreboard... The Navy defense, led by middle guard Alvin Miller and linebackers John Sturges and Bob De-Stafney, had held .again. Still, no
Actually, there wasn’t much that the Midshipmen could do. Leading rusher Joe Gattuso had rushed 12 times for a mere 30 yards. Leszczyn-ski had passed for a total of two yards and two3 interceptions in the first half. Meanwhile, Notre Dame’s Joe Montana went into the locker by Mike Towle room with 167 yards, 77 of those going to Kris Haines.
“By opening up the passing offense, we have also developed a strong running attack and vice versa,” the junior from Sidney, Ohio, stated. “Actually, Notre Dame has always had a good running attack. When we mix up our running and passing effectively, we are able to realize good success on offense.”
And that’s what Notre Dame did.
Terry Eurick returned the second-half kickoff 44 yards giving the Irish a short avenue to scoring territory beginning at their own 46. On a • third-and-six,. Montana nailed tight end Ken MacAfee with a pass good for 47 yards to the Navy three.
Credit many of those yards to a downfield block by Haines. It was one of two such great blocks made by the split end for the afternoon.
“It’s just a matter of going downfield and taking the man out,” Haines described. “I just ran out there as hard as I could and only worried about taking that man out. Blocking is a . disciplined thing -and I spend . about five minutes at - every practice working on it.” ■	'
That’s the kind of overall performance . that inspired, the Notre Dame coaches to name Kris. Hairies offensive player of the game. Two plays, later,., Montana snuck it over the goal line from one. yard out. ,
Trailing 23-0, the Middies finally scored with 8:18 remaining in the.
Golic and Meyer torpedo the Navy punter	third period after defensive back
Mike Galpin recovered a Jerome, Navy three-yard line. The Irish had score. -•	Heavens fumble at the Irish 24.-
caught the Middies off guard.	However, the Irish were not yet : Navy was unable to advance the ball,
“Hie opening pass play' was the finished with the big play. On their so in came Bob Tata to boot a 36-result of a hunch I got this morn- very next possession, Notre Dame 1 yard field goal. So much for a Navy ing at breakfast,” Coach Devine finally found its way onto pay dirt, comeback as the Irish came back to
stated after the game. “Sometimes Jerome Heavens broke over right score the next two touchdowns. , . '■ when you have a ‘low profile’ you ‘tackle and then outraced the Middie i The first came late'iri the third : can surprise people with a play like secondary for 49 yards arid* a touch- = as -Montana passed seven yards' to that.” Low profile, of course, re- down. Second-period field goals of 34, halfback Dave Mitchell, and' the: ferred to Notre Dame’s offense con- 24, arid 32 yards.from Dave Reeve next early in the fourth quarter, servatism in the first half of the gave the green and gold a 16-0 ad- j Freshman sensation. Jim Stone gave
season.	vantage at the half.	.	:	.
The pass certainly surprised the “We made no major adjustments ; onlookers as well. But moments :for the • second half during half- ■ later, that surprise had turned to time,” Coach Welsh admitted. !
Notre Dame a 36-3 lead, cutting over right tackle and then reversing his field on?his wayjto.ia touchdown: sprint of 58 yards. • ;
12;
Scholastic
The Middies scored their only touchdown of the day with less than two minutes remaining when reserve quarterback John Powers fired six yards to Phil McConkey. Navy had one last chance to score again. With but 33 seconds to go, Powers sent out a pass at midfield that was picked off by Notre Dame’s Leroy Leopold who . promptly ran 50 yards for the final scoring of the day.
Appropriately, it had been a Notre Dame linebacker that scored the final touchdown. The outstanding play of starters Bob Golic, Steve Heimkreiter, and Doug Becker had
Navy ________.____________________________........_____ 0	0	3	7 — 10
Notre Dame ............................................     7	9	14	13 — 43
ND — Heavens 49 run (Reeve kick)
ND — Reeve 34 FG
ND —Reeve 24 FG
ND — Reeve 32 FG
ND — Montana 1 run (Reeve kick)
NA — Tata36FG ’	‘
ND — Mitchell 7 pass from Montana (Reeve kick)
ND —Stone 58 run (kick failed)
NA — McConkey 6 pass from Powers (Tata kick)
ND — Leopold 50 interception return (Unis kick)
Down in the Valley
Clemson
A record-breaking crowd of 54,189 at Death Valley witnessed the Fight- . ing Irish football team increase their winning streak to seven games and keep their major bowl hopes alive by rallying in the final period to tame the Clemson Tigers, 21-17.
Notre Dame scored 14 points in the fourth .■ quarter: before an astonished. partisan crowd;to rebound-from a 17-7 deficit. The win was the eighth of the season in nine: attempts and only, a victory, over the:Air Force Academy next Saturday; lay. between the Irish and a bowl invitation, and : possibly even a shot,at. the National;. Championship. „
Notre; Dame opened the scoring with a 56-yard drive that began with only,5:49 remaining in the first quar-
January 27,1978
stopped Navy’s offense cold as they combined for a total of 41 tackles, while tackle Mike Calhoun was adding a dozen of his own, three of those good for losses. For the second week in a row, Notre Dame had executed like a team that had been top-ranked at the beginning of the season.
“At the start of the season we all know we had the talent,” senior Ted Burgmeier stated. “But we just hadn’t jelled as a team. It takes more than strong individual players. Now we’re a complete team doing a true team job.”.
by Paul Stevenson
ter. A 22-yard aerial strike to split end Kris Haines and a ten-yard sprint around left end by Jerome Heavens were instrumental in the scoring march. The touchdown came on a five-yard burst by Heavens over right guard. Dave Reeve’s conversion gave the Irish a 7-0 advantage.
• Then,' just at the start. of the ■ second period, the; Irish began to move again.. Starting at the Clemson t 49 via a Jim Browner recovery of a ; Tiger - fumble,, the: Notre; Dame of- ; fense drove to the Clemson 12. But,
: after a fumbled snap and two incom-: plete passes, the Irish signaled for Reeve. However, the senior place
, kicker was wide on his 32-yard fieldgoal attempt. ■	/ : ;	. i
That errant three-point > try ap
peared to be a turning point in the contest. The crowd which had been vociferous before the clash, had settled down after the Irish took a 7-0 lead. If Notre Dame had tallied again, the game may have been entirely ; different. Another score may have quieted the fans as well as the team. However, the missed field goal gave the Fighting Tigers new life as they proceeded to march 67 yards downfield. Obed Ariri’s field goal narrowed Notre Dame’s lead to 7-3 as the Tigers displayed that they were not going to be tamed easily.
Clemson contained the Irish offense on their next possession, and after a fourth-down Joe Restic punt and a four-yard return by Willie Jordan, the Tigers had a first down at the Irish 34. Six plays later, the Tigers reached paydirt on a 10-yard jaunt around left end by quarterback Steve Fuller, only the second rushing touchdown to be scored on the Irish this season. Ariri’s conversion gave the Tigers a 10-7 lead.
The second half appeared as though it would start where the first half ended. After holding the Irish following the second-half kickoff, Clemson gained control of the football at the Notre Dame 48. In six plays, the Tigers were on the Irish two.
Faced with a fourth-down and one at the Notre Dame two, the Tigers decided to go for the touchdown. On the fourth-down play, Fuller flowed left and pitched to his tailback, Lester Brown, who went wide following a great block by the head linesman, W. R. Cummings. Cummings’ shield enabled Brown;to elude Ted'Burgmeier for the score. Ariri’s extra point gave the Tigers a 17-7 edge . with only three and one-half minutes , elapsed in the third quarter.
Although , the Notre Dame, offense was able to advance . the, football, turnovers and penalties kept the Irish off the scoreboard. However, even though the situation looked dismal late in the third quarter, it was not going to be one of those Death Valley days.
The Tigers were driving, but Ken , ' Callicutt fumbled; ; right, into the hands of defensive tackle Mike Calhoun at the Irish 16-yard line. Then,' the Notre Dame ■ offense began to explode. Vagas Ferguson veered off right tackle for four yards and fresh
13^
man Mike Courey took a Montana pitch on the following play, connecting with Haines for a 24-yard advance. Ferguson and Heavens then alternated running duties to bring Notre Dame down to the Clemson 35.
On the next play, Ferguson raced off left guard for a 30-yard gain. However, the yardage was brought back due to an illegal procedure call against the Irish. Two plays later, Ferguson rambled for another 11 yards, but this play was also called back, this time for a clipping infraction. Then, Irish Head Coach Dan Devine, showing his disgust over the officiating, was called for unsportsmanlike conduct. The Irish received the 15-yard penalty when Devine told the referee that he “was a disgrace to college football.”
Now, second-down and 31. at the. Irish 44 was the challenge faced by the Notre Dame offense. Montana hit tight end Ken MacAfee for a 27-yard gain and Ferguson made up two more off tackles, but now the Irish were presented with a fourth-down and two situation at the Clemson 27., On the next play, Montana connected with MacAfee for a 16-yard advance to the Tiger 11.
Montana then rushed over from the one-yard line on the first play of the final period to give Notre Dame their second touchdown of the contest. Reeve’s point from placement brought the Irish within three, 17-14.
Thanks to a Calhoun fumble recovery at midfield, the Irish started their final scoring drive of the clash with 9:24 left in the final quarter.
On the second play of the possession, Montana dumped a screen pass to Ferguson, and the sophomore speedster raced 36 yards down the left sideline. Five plays later, Montana tried a sneak from the one which was marked for no gain. The Pennsylvania quarterback repeated the call on the next play, and this time the Irish signal caller broke the plain of the endzone to put Notre Dame ahead. Reeve’s conversion gave Notre Dame a 21-17 advantage.
Montana completed nine of 21 ’ passes for 172 yards. Meanwhile, Fuller connected on 13 of 20 for 185 yards, while suffering one intercep- ; tion. MacAfee snagged four catches for 75 yards and Haines caught three for 59.
Defensively, Restic led the Irish
with 14 tackles, 10 of those un-	negative yardage. Steve Heimkreiter
assisted. Ross Browner accounted	notched 11 tackles, while Bob Golic ;
for 11 tackles, including four for added 10.
Notre Dame.....................        7	0	0	14	'—	21
Clemson ............................   0	10	7	0	—	17
Scoring:
ND — Heavens 5 run (Reeve kick) CL —Ariri 30 FG
CL — Fuller 10 run (Ariri kick)
CL — Brown 1 run (Ariri kick) ND — Montana 2 run (Reeve kick) ND — Montana 1 run (Reeve kick)
Sweet Revenge
Georgia Tech
With the Fighting Irish “Green Machine” in high gear, the Yellow Jackets from Georgia Tech could have picked no worse a time to visit Notre Dame Stadium.. The Notre Dame team : had long awaited this rematch after losing to Tech’s “Rambling Wreck” last year, and then being abused in Georgia Tech players’ quotes to the press after the game. Revenge does not quite describe the performance the Green and
by John Vincent
Gold put on this afternoon as Georgia Tech was stung by a 69-14 loss. . ' •	■	’
Amazingly enough the game started out very slowly with the defenses dominating from the start. Notre Dame’s farthest drive; went to Georgia Tech’s 34-yard line where Ken MacAfee was popped by defensive back Bill Shank causing the sure-handed tight end to relinquish the football. The Yellow Jackets
14
' ■ Scholastic
known for their stubborn ground attack advanced no farther than the 41-yard line and attempted no passes in the first stanza.
After a slow start Montana connected with MacAfee for 28 yards, setting up a Reeve field-goal attempt from'the 27-yard line, but the normally sure-footed kicker missed this chippee keeping the contest scoreless. This defensive game was not to last much longer as the Irish got a drive going on their next posession. Starting from inside midfield, a Heavens run followed by a 22-yard reception by Kris Haines brought the home team to the 13-yard line. Orsini hauled in an 11-yard toss from Montana before the signal caller took the ball in himself on a sneak play giving Notre Dame a 6-0 lead as a slumping Reeve missed the extra point.	• ;
Reeve must have thought he was bad luck as Dave Hillman took his ensuing kickoff and lateralled to Eddie Ivery who raced the final 90 yards, erasing ND’s momentary lead.
While Devine and his team must have been shocked at this point, they sure did not show it. Montana cleverly mixed up the run-and-passing games as Heavens did the road work with Orsini, Haines and Eurick hauling in passes. Eurick’s reception capped the ten-play, 63-yard drive putting the Irish back ahead but this time for good at 14-7.	‘
A Lee fumble at Tech’s 35-yard line was recovered by Ross Browner, setting up Notre Dame’s third touchdown of the first half. This time Montana threw a TD strike to split end Haines that covered 19 yards. This was Haines’ fourth reception of the half, accounting for 73 yards, as the aerial attack kept the opposition’s defense guessing and opened up the ground game in the second half.
While big plays had typified the “Green Machine’s” offense so far this season, this game was to be no exception. On a third-and-eight situation Montana went to the air and hit Dave Waymer on the ND 40-yard line. Waymer broke four tackles, going 68 yards for the touchdown.; When Reeve converted from placement, the score became 28-7 as Georgia Tech began to look shell-shocked.
Just to give a little variety to the show, Notre Dame used ball control in their next touchdown drive as the
January 27, 1978
Ferguson rambles past Tech
offense traveled 65 yards on 13 plays with 5:34 elapsing on the clock. Heavens picked up this score when he plunged in from the two-yard line. In between ND scores Georgia Tech picked up a moral victory as they completed their first forward pass since the first quarter of the 1974 game.
Notre Dame continued to score at will as a humiliated Georgia Tech squad practically rolled over and played dead. The Fighting Irish scored on their next five posessions, increasing their string of consecutive touchdowns upon possession at seven. Credit those TDs to Ferguson and Jim Stone who each crossed the goal line twice and Speedy Hart who tallied once. Montana’s replacements, Rusty Lisch and freshman Tim Koe-gel, each engineered a touchdown drive.
Georgia Tech crossed midfield for the first time in the second half on their last possession. Second-string quarterback Jim Hardy ran for 33 yards and then threw his third complete pass (not including the three he completed to Notre Dame defen
Georgia Tech  .....................     0	7	0	7 — 14
Notre Dame    .....................     0	21	21 27 — 69
Scoring:
ND — Montana 1 run (kick failed)
GA — Ivery 97 kickoff return (Smith kick)
ND—■ Eurick 8 pass from Montana (Montana run) .
ND — Haines 18 pass from Montana (Reeve kick)
ND — Waymer 68 pass from Montana (Reeve kick)
ND — Heavens 2 run (Reeve kick)
ND-—Ferguson 1 run (Reeve kick)
ND — Ferguson 56 run (Reeve kick)
ND—■ Stone 14 pass from Lisch (kick failed)
ND — Stone 21 run (Unis kick)
ND — S-Hart 31 pass from Koegel (Unis kick)
GA — Hill 18 pass from Hardie (Smith kick) ■
r
i
?■
ij
si si ij I
i
J
sive backs) to end the scoring at 69-14.
In the locker room after the game one knew there was an extra amount of motivation for each ND player going into this game. “Last year they made a lot of comments indicating we were out of shape,” explained Devine. “I did not have to say a word about it all week. A lot of players had the stories taped right on their lockers. This was an easy game to prepare for.”
In the other locker room it was much quieter. “I just do not know what to say after a loss like this,” Tech coach Pepper Rodgers said afterward, “except that Notre Dame is the best team we have played this year.”
Statistically this was the top performance for QB Joe Montana who connected on 15 of 25 passes for 273 yards. On the ground Ferguson accounted for 116 of ND’s 349 yards and two of the touchdowns (all on eleven carries). The offense’s output of 10 touchdowns tied a modern-day Irish record. The 667 yards on total offense and 69 points were high totals for a Devine-coached team at Notre Dame. .
While the offense was stupendous, the defense had to hold to give them so many opportunities. Ross Browner led the tacklers with 15 putdowns, two for minus a loss of 11 yards. On the day the Wreck rambled for only 125 yards with 84 on the ground and only 41 in the air. Co-captain Ross Browner summed up the emotions that controlled this game. “Last year they did a lot of talking which upset us,” remembered the consensus All-American. “I guess we proved today we were not too big, too fat, and too slow.”
i i
15
Falcons grounded
Calhoun plucks a Falcon
e Although the game promised to be one-sided, a certain amount of anticipation existed for both teams. The Irish needed a victory to assure themselves a showdown with Number One ranked Texas in the Cotton Bowl, and the Falcons would certainly have liked nothing better than to win the game as a final tribute to retiring coach Ben Martin.
. It did not take long for the wishes of .the Irish fans to be. fulfilled. On Notre Dame’s first play from scrimmage, Vagas Ferguson accelerated past right tackle and darted 56 yards for a touchdown. With less than
three minutes elapsed in the contest, the Irish posted a quick 7-0 lead. , : : When Air Force failed to move
by Tom Everman
the football during their, next possession, Notre Dame again took over and drove for a score. This time, passes from Joe Montana to his running backs provided the key gains. Jerome Heavens sprinted for 25 yards on a screen pass, and Ferguson followed with a 23-yard reception. Two plays: later, Ferguson tallied his second touchdown of the game with a nine-yard bolt into the end zone.	;
After the ensuing kickoff, the Falcon offense was still unable to attain a first down.- With pressure applied by lineman Jay Case, the subsequent Air Force punt travelled only 13. yards, and Notre Dame gained possession on the Falcon 39-yard line. Utilizing the rushing attack provided- by Ferguson and Heavens, the offense quickly approached the goal line..: When Heavens barrelled in from the one-yard line; the Irish lead increased to 21-0 with four'minutes still remaining in the first quarter. ■
During the second quarter, the tempo of the contest remained virtually the same. The Notre Dame defense continued to contain the
Air Force......	. 0	0	0	0 — 0
Notre Dame	....................... 21	14	7- . 7 — 49.
Scoring:	~
ND — Ferguson 56 run (Reeve kick)
' ND — Ferguson 9 run (Reeve kick)
ND — Heavens 1 run (Reeve kick)
ND — Ferguson 2 run (Reeve kick) '
■ND —33 pass from Montana (Reevekick) .
ND — Eurick 2 run (Reeve kick)	;
ND— Schmitz 11 pass from Lisch (Reeve kick)
sputtering Falcons, and despite stalling deep in Air Force territory on their first two possessions of the period, the Irish offense went on to score two more touchdowns-before the half was over;'After the Green Machine took possession on its, own 36-yard line, two quick bursts by Ferguson netted 26 yards. The drive continued as Montana hit Dave Waymer for 10 yards, and then Terry Eurick rambled for 27 yards. From there, Ferguson plunged.into the end zone from the two-yard line for his third touchdown of the, day. In the closing moments of the half, Kris Haines hauled in a 33-yard strike from Joe Montana which extended the Irish lead to 35-0.
With a comfortable . lead, Coach
Devine substituted freely in the second half. The Irish scored a touchdown in the third quarter via a two-yard thrust by, Eurick. In the fourth quarter, Steve Schmitz added the final touchdown for Notre Dame when he caught, an 11-yard toss from Rusty Usch, making the score ,49-0. During the second half, freshman back Jim Stone compiled 98 yards in 17 carries/ and back-up quarterbacks Lisch and Koegel combined to complete .13 passes in 15 attempts. The offense never lost its momentum; as indicated by the fact that the Irish never had to punt.
Dave Reeve etched.his name in the record book when his seven- successful point-after-touchdown attempts gave him a career total of 124, surpassing the old mark of 122 set by Scott Hempel. Vagas . Ferguson achieved his finest performance of his: career as he. rushed for three touchdowns and 128 yards in just 11 carries,- all of which came.-.in the first half. As a team, the Irish allowed the Falcons only 102 yards total offense while, accumulating 680 total yards themselves, the - best of the season in both categories.
16
Scholastic
Broken Records
Miami
Having secured the Cotton Bowl bid and the right to play Number One ranked Texas on January 2, the Irish sojourned to sunny and fun-filled Florida to take on the Hurricanes of the University of Miami. This.game represented Notre Dame’s final regular season match-up and the end of its football campaign.
The Irish experienced little trouble with the balmy tropical conditions as they dealt their foe an impressive 49-.
10 defeat. An Orange Bowl crowd of 35,789 (the smallest crowd to see an Irish gridiron battle this year) witnessed Notre Dame’s ninth win in a row and their tenth conquest in 11 games. Only one team, Mississippi, had stood between the Irish and an undefeated season.
Notre Dame wasted little time establishing its dominance. Defense was the name of the game as Willie Fry helped set up both first-quarter , scores. The massive 242-pound defensive end from Memphis, Tennessee, welcomed Miami’s freshman
quarterback with two punishing sacks; the first resulting in a fumble
recovery by Notre Dame’s middle linebacker Bob Golic, the second in an errant screen pass intercepted by Irish'outside linebacker Leroy Leo-nold and returned 17 yards for the touchdown. The Fighting Irish had delivered 14 unanswered points.
The young Miami team, under the able direction of Coach Lou Saban, refused to lie down and play dead. A second-quarter fumble by half-
,	-	-	ing 41-10 lead. A season full of tears	ished the season with a very reback Vagas Ferguson enabled Miami and cheers was grinding to a close,	spectable 994 yards.
to boot its first three points onto the board. The Hurricanes came right
back two minutes later as quarterback McMillian hit tight end Steve Alvers with a perfect strike good for 35 yards and a touchdown.
With 9:42 remaining in the first half, the Irish realized that Miami meant more than sun, surf, and sand. Notre Dame needed a spark and.that, spark was provided by Ted Burg-meier’s dazzling 23-yard punt return.
With just 1:34 left in first-half
action, the Irish found themselves 38 yards from pay dirt and a sub-/
/ by Mark Ronsini
stantial half-time advantage.
Quarterback Joe Montana went to the aerial attack as he hit split end Kris Haines with a nifty 15-yard sideline toss and halfback Vagas Ferguson with a 23-yard touchdown strike. Dave Reeve’s extra point attempt was blocked by middle guard Don Lattimer and the Fighting Irish hit the locker room with a 20-10 half-time lead.	.
In the first half, the Irish offense
had been lethargic, to say the least, yards of total offense (188 rushing
The youthful Hurricane defense had been stingy, allowing Notre Dame only 48 yards rushing and 71 yards passing. The Hurricanes proved that they were not about to let the Irish look ahead too quickly to their January 2 contest. In addition, the
Miami offense had captured the ad- established during the contest. Lu-vantage in virtually every offensive ther Bradley, one of Notre Dame’s
halftime statistic. .
. Unfortunately for the Hurricanes, picked up two more interceptions, this trend would-not continue. The pushing his career total to 17, a new Irish came out storming in the third school record. Dave Reeve became
quarter, exploring every inch of the Notre Dame’s single-season kick-inexperienced Miami defense. Quar- scoring leader (75 points), but fell
terback Joe Montana led a volatile offensive attack, through drives of 77, 61, and 63 yards. Notre Dame’s
Ken MacAfee, first team All-Ameri-	_	_
can (AP, UPI, and Kodak) as well as , 146 for the season, thereby eclipsing
Walter Camp Player of the Year, the record of Greg Collins, set three was on the receiving end of two Mon- years earlier. On a discouraging note, tana touchdown passes; the. first a Jerome Heavens lost his chance for simple four-yard toss, the second, a the cherished 1000-yard season by brilliant snag of a deflected pass. ‘ losing six yards on Notre Dame’s
Notre Dame bolted to a command- final play of the game. Heavens fin-
Notre Dame .... Miami ........
Scoring:
ND — Ferguson 11 run (Reeve kick)
ND — Leopold 17 interception return (Reeve kick)
M — Dennis 37 FG	:	'
M — Alvers 35 pass from McMillian (Dennis kick) ND —• Ferguson 23 pass from Montana (kick failed) ND — MacAfee 4 pass from Montana (Reeve kick) ND — Mitchell 3 run (Reeve kick)
ND — MacAfee 4 pass from Montana (Reeve kick) -ND — Lisch 1 run (Reeve kick)
Rusty Lisch finished out the season’s scoring as he snuck behind center Dave Huffman for the final six pointer. Dave Reeve’s conversion attempt was successful, thereby stretching Notre Dame’s margin of victory to 38 points.
The 48-point total marked the fifth occasion on which the Irish had surpassed the 40-point barrier during the season. It also lifted the season total to 382, a new school record (representing an average of 34.7 PPg).
The final statistics were illustrative of Notre Dame’s total offensive and defensive dominance. The of-ense, which had sputtered miserably in the first half, came on strongly in the second half to finish with 404
and 216 passing). The Irish defense was as devastating as usual, allowing a mere 28 yards on the ground while surrendering only 100 yards through the air.
In addition, a number of new and significant school records had been
three first team All-Americans,
four points short of Red Salmon’s age-old career-scoring record of 250 points. Bob Golic collected 15 tackles for the night, giving him a total of
14 0
6
10
21 0
7 — 48
0 — 10
January 27, 1978
17
i i I
i
I i
I
TOMEVERMAN
i
Mon Bowl
Over five months ago the perennial football powers of Notre Dame and Texas began actively preparing for the 1977 season. Amid the vast amount of inflated speculation which supporters of both teams blatantly boasted to anyone dumbly gracious enough to ask for a preseason prognosis, the Irish and the Longhorns were both expecting banner years. Whether and how they would cross paths never entered into this speculation and it is certain that more than a few members of the two groups of fans imagined an unobstructed quest of the MacArthur Bowl. Alas, the fallibility of preseason polls, if not the wavering faith of zealous fans, is certain in the course of those all but predictable Saturday afternoons in the autumn. Enthusiasm turned to despair when ND lost its second .game to lowly Mississippi, but through the magical, supremely arbitrary world of the postseason poll, Irish followers spent long hours calculating in the days between acceptance of the bid and January 2 what a convincing victory over the number-one Longhorns would mean.
There is an ageless adage among football experts that says that games are won and lost on the front line or “in the pits.” There is also another golden rule football announcers remind viewers about before every big game: when two powerhouse teams come together for an all-important game, the team that commits the least amount of turnovers will almost always come out the victor. . While much of the 1977 collegiate football season did not go as expected, these two football commandments came through true to form. The Fighting Irish came out on the better half in both of these two allimportant factors as they went on to crush the Texas Longhorns 38-10, thus bringing a very satisfying end to a tumultuous season.
Everyone following this game knew that Texas would be relying on their Heisman Trophy-winning fullback, Earl Campbell. So, it was no surprise when the senior superstar figured in three of Texas’ first
20
five plays as Fred Akers’ undefeated squad marched to the Longhorn 44-yard line; but then came one of four first-half turnovers committed by the nation’s number-one-ranked team. On a third-and-one situation Randy McEachern pitched wide to Campbell, two yards too wide as Ross Browner fell on the ball giving Notre Dame its first offensive opportunity of the day only 32 yards from the goal line. Dave Reeve broke the ice one minute later with a 43-yard field goal putting the “Green Machine” in front 3-0.
That score did not seem to faze the Longhorn team or their supporters. McEachern stuck to what carried Texas to eleven straight wins handing off to Campbell and Johnny “Ham” Jones for five-yard bursts around end and up the middle. But after Texas drove 67 yards to the Notre Dame 13-yard line, McEachern switched his game plan and went to the air. Two quarterback sacks and 15 yards further back, the Longhorns were forced to settle for a 42-yard field goal off the toe of Russell Erxle-ben knotting the score at 3-3.
Notre Dame continued to move the ball well although Joe Montana was . not having early success through the air as a drive stalled in Texas territory. Now the Irish had Texas pinned deep as Joe Restic coffin cornered a perfect punt to the eightyard line. Again Akers had his team stick to their bread and butter, as Campbell and Jones sliced for two first downs, but strangely enough McEachern went back to the air, hitting Ham Jones coming out of the backfield for what appeared to be a five-yard gain. until the ball was pried loose and Jim Browner recovered for the Irish at the 27-yard line.	< . . ...	:	•
Notre Dame did something that championship teams are supposed to do: capitalize' on opportunities. Terry Eurick bulled his way off-tackle on the first play of the second quarter for six yards and the score. A Reeve conversion put the Fighting Irish ahead at 10-3, a lead they were never to relinquish.	■
o by Ray O'Brien
■	■ - ;	.' .. .	I
With one minute gone in the I second quarter the Longhorns took । on a new appearance, one they had i not displayed the entire season. This ' new look was one of confusion and I near panic. McEachern’s second । fumble of the day was recovered by * Willie Fry, giving Notre Dame the ball back once again in Texas territory at the 35-yard line. Sensing a chance to break the game open, the front line seemed to get fired up as they blew out their opponent’s defensive counterparts. Ferguson did most of the damage running off the right side behind guard Ernie Hughes while Terry Eurick carried the last ten yards off left tackle for the touchdown that sent the Fighting Irish rooting section into pandemonium as ND led 17-3.
The Irish then proved to an un- . believing Texas squad that they were mortal, as Joe Montana .made his team’s first slipup of the day when he overthrew Dave Waymer and his errant pass was picked off by Derrick Hatchet. McEachern showed that he was somewhat less than mortal this day as he threw three plays later into the open arms of Doug Becker, who raced 17 yards to the Longhorns’ 23-yard line. This
Vagas sidesteps Longhorn
Scholastic
was McEachern’s third turnover of the first half of a game that he was going to want to forget. -
Montana teamed with Ferguson who made a spectacular catch, good for 17 yards and the touchdown that seemed to negate any chance of a Longhorn National Championship. At 24-3 all Notre Dame had to do was keep the defense from falling asleep and that proved no problem as Bradley and Golic charged in to block an Erxleben field goal attempt.	•
The Irish used 'their most timeconsuming drive of the first half (3:19) to eat up the rest of the clock giving Texas a last chance at their own 32-yard line with 20 seconds left. As inept as McEachern was for 2916 minutes of the first half, he came alive when Texas had . their backs to the wall with a little help from sloppy play in the Irish secondary. With two seconds left the Texas quarterback threw in desperation to Ronnie Miksch. Although his pass was way off target, Jim Browner interfered, giving the Longhorns one last try from ND’s 13-yard line with no time remaining on the clock. The Irish had been too generous as the Longhorns managed to score, on a pass to Mike Lockett. The.touchdown left a sour taste in the mouths of Irish fans as Akers’ club got back in? a ball game they would have been out of, with the halftime score reading 24-10.
? The momentum shifted more toward Texas when the Irish took the ensuing-kickoff and drove 60 yards only to have a field goal attempt go wide, but the Longhorn players must not have been listening well during halftime as McEachern was intercepted by Steve Heimkreiter, a tum-over that sealed the Texans’ fate. The game was as good, as over when Vagas Ferguson crossed the goal line with 6:54 remaining in the third quarter giving Notre Dame an insurmountable 31-10 lead.	•
; Dan Devine’s squad wrapped up the scoring when Ferguson made a slashing 26-yard run for his third touchdown of the afternoon leaving the final score 38-10. .The Irish spared Texas another touchdown when Rusty Lisch directed a last-second drive to the two-yard line but did not call time out. Devine figured his team had proved enough on the field this day to be called the num-
January 27, 1978
Browner and Co. corral Campbell
ber-one team in the nation.
“This puts us where Texas was, number one. We earned it on the field. We played number one and we beat them,” the Irish coach later commented. “At this point I do not think - there is anybody that could . beat our?football team.” Hours later ; a host of media backed up these
words as Notre Dame took top honors in both the AP and UPI polls and was . honored with the MacArthur Bowl, symbolic of . the. National . Championship.
While everyone expected the game to be dominated by the running of Earl Campbell, it was a Notre Dame back that played the best game of; his short collegiate career. Sopho-
• more Vagas Ferguson rushed for 100 yards and two touchdowns arid; hauled in three passes for another TD. His performance this day was good enough to earn him Most Valuable Offensive Player of the game. Jerome Heavens also picked up 101
: yards on the day putting him well . over the 1,000-yard mark for the ; season. .	. .
On the other side of the line Bob Golic played a game that was typical
Notre Dame-.'?........... ..i.............................. L™	. 3	21	7	7 —38
Texas	..............J..............  3	7.	0	0 — 10
Scoring:	<	:
ND —Reeve47FG	.	;
TEX —Erxleben 42 FG '	/
ND-—Eurick 6 run (Reevekick)
ND — Eurick 10 run (Reeve kick)	-
ND — Ferguson 17 pass from Montana (Reeve kick)
TEX — Lockett 13 pass from McEachern (Erxleben kick)
ND — Ferguson 3 run (Reeve kick)	:
ND — Ferguson 26 run (Reeve kick)	/
of his weekly performances this season. His 17 tackles earned him the Defensive Player of the Game award ahead of runner-up Ross Browner. The Notre Dame defense allowed Campbell 118 yards on.29 carries (only 30 in the second half). The highly touted senior played a tough game. “Campbell is the best offen- ' sive back: in the country,” praised Luther Bradley. “But he is no match for Ross Browner, Willie Fry, Bob Golic and the rest of our defensive squad.” Browner and Fry, the Irish bookends, totaled 15 tackles (five for losses) and two fumble recoveries between them.
Dan Devine brought his team up before Christmas to prepare for this all-important game, and it proved perfect timing asmental attitude -played a large role in the outcome. After the game Devine was asked a question about himself and how he prepared for this game, and he re-, sponded, “Thank you for asking, but Dan Devine is not important.” The Texas Longhorns must join Notre Dame’s demanding fans and insist that, indeed, Dan Devine is important.	• -
21
1977
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL
(ELEVEN GAMES)
STATISTICS
SCORING BY QUARTERS Notre Dame .......   56	109 92
Opponent ..........  23	57 13
125 — 382 36—129
TEAM STATISTICS
Total Offense .....
Total Plays ....
Yards per Play ...
Yards per Game .
ND 4840 918
5.3 440.0
OPP 2607
736 3.5 237.0
By Returns ..........
By Recovery .........
Field Goals (Made-Att.) Safeties ..............
PAT — Kick ..........
PAT — Run ........... pat—Pass ............
3 0
2 0
12-20	8-18
0	1
42-48	13-13
1-1	0-2
,1-1	0-0
*35 and 26 yards vs. Pittsburgh
44 and 28 yards vs. Mississippi
24 yard vs. Purdue
51,42 and 40 yards vs. Michigan State
29 yards vs. Army
34, 32 and 23 yards vs. Navy
Net Yards Rushing :.. Attempts ............ Yards per Rush ..... Yards per Game ...
2551
621
231.9
981
447
2.2
89.2
Net Yards Passing ... Comp. Percentage . Attempts ............. Completions .......... Had Intercepted ... Touchdown Passes . Yards per Comp. . Yards per Attempt Yards per Game ... Interceptions made —
Yards Returned ...J
2289 .535
297
159
14
18
14.4
7.7
208.1
29
374
1626 .457
. 289 132
29 10 12.3
5.6
147.8
14 155-
Punt Return Yards ... Number of Returns Average Return ...
Total Return Yards ...
303 42
7.2 677
130
27
4.8
290
Kickoff Return Yards . Number of Returns Average Return..........
443
26
17.0
1181 1 60 19.7
Average Punt ..........
Number of Punts. Yards Punting .... Had Blocked ........
37.1
36.1
52	77
1927
2780
PASS RECEIVING
MacAfee 		G ... 11	PC Yds. Avg. TD Long 54 797 14.8 6 48
Haines 		... 11	28	587	21.0	2	48
	... 11	12	133	11.1	0 31
Eurick 		... 11	12	79	6.6	3	18
Waymer .....	... 11	10	164	16.4	1	68
Mitchell 		... 11	10	106	10.6	1	16
Orsini 		8	7	69	9.9 0 14
Dickerson 		8	6	98	16.3	0	23
Ferguson .....	9	6	96	16.0	1	36
Dornin 			... 11	4	51	12.8	0	17
Schmitz 		... 11	3	33	11.0	1	13
	... 10	3	30	10.0	1	14
S. Hart .......	...	6	1	31	31.0	1	31
	1	1	6	6.0	0	6
Czaja .........	.... ’ 11	1	4	4.0	14
K. Hart 			....	9	1	4	4.0	1 : 4
ND 			.... 11	159 2289	14.4 18	68
OPP 		.... 1 1	132 1626	12.3 10	52
PASSING		
	G	No. Comp. Pct. Int. Yds. TD
Montana ....	9	189 99 .524 8 1604 11
Lisch 			.. 10	94 51 .543 6 568 6
Koegel 		..	3	8	5 .625 0	68 1
Courey 		4	2	2 1.000 0	37 0
Forystek ......	2	3	2 .667 0	12 0
Stone 				10	1	0 .000 0	0 0
ND ..J			.. 11	297 159 .535 14 2289 18
OPP 			... 11	289 132 .457 29 1626 10
RUSHING
Penalties Against .. Yards Penalized
Fumbles (Lost) ....
Yards Returned ..
58
677
48
441
.34(25)36(23)
0
5
Total First Downs
By Rushing ....
By Passing .....
By Penalty ....
253 131 110
12
157
63
80
: 14
INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE LEADERS
Avg.
. Yards
■; G Plays
Montana 		1	  9		. 221	1609	7.3
		11	229	994	4.3
Lisch 				1°	126	585	4.6
PUNTING	' ■ G	No.	Yds.	Avg.	long
Restic 				11	45	1713	38.1	55
Muno ‘			.. 1	6	214	35.7	44
TEAM ..........	..11	. 1 ■	0	0.0	• 0
37.1	55
36.1
51
ND OPP
52 ;1927
77 . 2780
RESULTS . . . Won 10, Lost 1, Tied 0
at	Pittsburgh
at	Mississippi
at	Purdue 		
ND 19 13 3b
16 MICHIGAN STATE ...... 24 Army (at Meadowlands) 49 SOUTHERN’CAL .........
43 NAVY ................ 69 GEORGIA TECH ........ 21. at Clemson .........
49
AIR FORCE
48- at Miami .............. January 2, 1978 at Colton Bowl
TEAM SCORING
OPP .. . 9 .. 20 .. 24 .... 6 .. 0 ... 19 ... 10 ... 14 ... 17 0
10
Attendance .	56,500(c)
48,200(c) 68,966(c) 59,075 (c) 72.594(c) 59.075(c) 59.075(c) 59.075(c) 54.189(c) 59.075(c) 35,789
Texas
	Total Points 	
	Touchdowns 					
h	By Rushing 		
By Passing .
ND ,	OPP
382	129
34.7	11.7
50 .	15
29	3
18	10
Avg. TD long
G TC Ydf
49
4.3
6
994
229
Heavens
Ferguson ...... Mitchell ......	. 9 . 11	80	493	6.2 82	303. 3.7		6 56 . 4 22
Eurick 		. 11	68. 291	4.3		4 34
Stone ..........	. 10	29	1	93	6.7	2 58
Orsini 			8	20	85 . 4.3	0 12
Pallas ,			4	17	85	5.0	0 11
Waymer 		. 11	8	30	3.8	0 13
Burgmeier ....	.11	1	21 21.0	0 21
Knott 		4	8	19	2.4	0	8 -
Lisch	. 10	32	17	0.5	1 17
Courey ........	4	- . 2	10	5.0	0	9
Dover 			2	3	8	2.7	0	4 .
Montana ....	9	32	5	0.2	6 12
Forystek ......	2	1	4	4.0	0	4
Knafelc 		2	2 .	2	1.0	0	4
Dornin ’..		.. 11	3	2	0.7	0	2
Schmitz 			.. 11	1	2	2.0	0	2
Koegel ........	3	2	-3 -1.5	. 0	3
Restic 			.11	1 -	io-io.o	0-10
ND 				.11	621 2551	4.1		29 58
OPP 		- 11	447	981	2.2		3 28
SCORING				
	G	TD PAT	R-PA S	FG TP
Reeve* 		.. H	0 39-44	0-0 0	2-20 75
Eurick 			.. 11	7 0-0	0-0 0	0-0	42
Ferguson 		9	7 0-0	0-0 ,0	0-0	42
Montano 		...	9	6 0-0	1-0 0	0-0	38*
Heavens .....	... 11	6 0-0	0-0 0	0-0	36
MacAfee 		... 11	6 0-0	0-0 .0	0-0	36 •
Mitchell 		... 11	5 0-0	0-0 0	0-0	30
Stone 			... 10	3 0-0	0-0 0	0-0	18
Haines 		... 11	2 ,0-0	0-0 0	0-0	12
Leopold .....	... 11	2 0-0	0-0 0	0-0	12
K. Hart 		...	9	1 0-0	0-0.0	0-0	6
Case 			... 11	1 0-0	0-0 0	0-0	6
Waymer ....	... 11	1 0-0	0-0 0	0-0	6
S. Hort ......	6	1 0-0	0-0 0	0-0	6
Schmitz 		... 11	1 0-0	0-0 . 0	0-0	6
Lisch 			... 10	1 0-0	.0-0 0	0-0	6
Unis 		...	4	0 3-4	0-0 0	0-0	3
Dornin ......	... 11	. 0 0-0	0-1 0	0-0	2
nd	... 11	50 42-48 I-!' 0		12-20 382
OPP 		... 11	15 13-13 0-0 1		8-18 129
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS
	•TM	Tl-Yds. PBU		FR	BK
Golic 		.	146	5-33	5	1	1
R. Browner 		104	18-130	0	2	0
Heimkreiler 	..	98	2-5	2	3	0
Dike 		91	6-46	0	0	0
Becker 				81	3-16	1	1	0
J. Browner 			73	9-53	5	5	0
Calhoun 		72	13-63	0	3	0
Weston 				57	4-11	0	1	0
Burgmeier			54	1-9	6	0	0
Leopold 			53	1-3	2	1	0
Restic 		51	’-5	0	0	0
Zettek 			51	10-88	0	2	0
Fry 				47	4-20	0	1	0
Bradley	45	0-0	7	0	0
Whittington 			36	0-0	0	0	0
Case 		30	3-16	1	1	0
Harrison 			18	0-0	1	0	0
Hankerd 			14.	0-0.	1	0	0
VanDenburgh ....;	13	1-7	0	0	0
DeCtcco 		12	0-0	0	1	0
Rayam 			..	11	1-3	0	0	0
Christensen 		..	10	0-0	0	0	0
Phil Johnson 		....	10	0-0	0	0	o:
Flynn 			9	0-0	1	0	0
Morse 				8	0-0	0	0	0
Meyer 				..	7	0-0	0	0	0
Orsini 		i	0-0	0	0	0
Eurick 		6	0-0	0	0	0
Gibbons 		5	1-5	0	0	0
Pete Johnson 		4	1-2	1	■ 0	0
Hughes 		... ■	3	0-0	0	0	0
Leon 					3	0-0	0	0	0
• Vinson ..............	2	0-0	0,	0	0
Unis 						2	0-0	0	0-	0
MacAfee ..........	...	2	0-0	0	; 0	0'
Usch 		1	0-0 .	0	0	0
Schmitz 		1	0-0	0	0	0
D. Huffman 		1	0-0	0	0	0
Reeve 		.... 1	0-0 ;	0	0	0
Buehner 		1	; 0-0	0	0	0
Thomas 			... 1	0-0	0	0	0
ND 		... 1240	84-515	33	22	1
OPP		.... 1137	46-202	27	26	2
'Includes solos and assists
RETURNS Interceptions . Punts
Eurick ....... Harrison .... Burgmeier .. Schmitz ...... J. Browner . Boushka .... Czaja ........ Golic Bradley .... Becker ...... Restic ....... Leopold .... Whittington K. Hart ...... Hughes ........
Case ......... Gibbons ... Waymer ... Flynn ....... Buehner ...
13-0	6-36-0
4-100-0	18- 82-0
14-127-0
0-0 . 0-0
3-
5-
6,
19-0 46-0 29-0 25 0
16-0
4-104-2
1- 0-0
1-38-0
0-0
ND .. OPP
Kickoffs ‘9-211-0
3- 46-0
0- 30-1
1- 1-0-
1- 4-0.
7-0
3- 36-0 8-133-0
9-0
7-0 1-0
29-374-2 42-303-1 26- 443-0 14-155-0 27-130-0 60-1181-1
Scholastic
22
i
From the
End Zone
Experiencing Notre Dame football as a student differs greatly from watching the games as a visitor. . I had closely followed Notre Dame games since my oldest brother enrolled in 1971, but in the fall of 1974 I belonged to “the greatest student body in the world.’’ Imagine a freshman’s anxiety as Georgia Tech scored first in that Monday night contest. My fear was quickly shelved as the Irish rolled to a 31-7 triumph, highlighted by a crushing block by Steve Sylvester.
The first home football game can never be forgotten, especially when it happened to be a loss. Coach Parseghian told the packed Stepan Center crowd that Purdue was blessed with talent in All-American receiver Larry Burton and a strong defense. Unfortunately, Notre Dame turned the ball over repeatedly on the way to a 24-0 first quarter deficit and the game was over. The impossible had happened. Notre Dame, Ara Parseghian, and the student body lost a home opener and everyone was left confused, bewildered, and angered.
Inconsistency would best describe the remainder of the 1974 season. The team barely squeaked by Michigan State, Rice and Navy. What had happened to the national champions? The final blow came when Anthony Davis and USC stormed to a 55-24 rout. When Coach Parseghian announced his retirement in December, the campus was stunned. Rumors had flown, but how could Ara resign? He was the leader and no other could replace him. A final storybook 13-11 victory over Alabama closed the leader’s illustrious career.
Dan Devine arrived on the Notre Dame campus with two pressing tasks. He not only had to field a bowl team, but he also had to be the shining personality that Coach Parseghian had been. Criticism arrived quickly when the team was lackluster in three wins followed by a loss to Michigan State. Next came
January 27, 1978
by John O'Connor
two near losses to North Carolina and Air Force, victories because of Joe Montana’s last quarter heroics. USC brought to town my first chance to see the blimp, the Trojan band, and the USC cheerleaders. Though the Irish tried to “Ring Ricky’s Bell,” Mr. Bell and Mosi Tatupu ran through the Irish defense in the second half to victory.
Two weeks later, I traveled to Pittsburgh and witnessed the one-man show of Tony Dorsett as he weaved, juked, and simply outran the Irish defense for 307 yards. Quarterback Matt Cavanaugh picked the defense apart and the Irish fell. Despite bids to bowl games, a team with three losses voted not to go.
The 1976 season was filled with many of the same problems as the previous season. Rick Slager was both hot and cold at quarterback. Pittsburgh and Tony Dorsett rambled over the Irish 31-10 in the home opener. The Irish regrouped and began to win, but not always convincingly. A late interception by Jim Browner beat South Carolina, and a game-saving defensive gem by Dave Waymer helped beat Navy in Cleveland.
One game annually seems to clog the Irish momentum. Georgia Tech was the team in 1976. Frustration is the only word to describe the 23-14 loss, erasing any chance for a major.bowl bid, with Alabama and USC left to play. Notre Dame did defeat Alabama in a thriller, 21-18, as quarterback Jeff Rutledge missed a wide open back and chose to throw to Jim Browner in the end zone. The final mar bn the season was a 17-13 loss to USC despite an overwhelming victory in statistics for the Irish.
Though the temperature was in the high thirties, the victory over Penn State in the Gator Bowl did help warm those who were in Jacksonville. The crowd was Penn State on the whole, but the Irish scored early and followed a
pattern of solid defense in the	j
second half to win. Admittedly, the season was successful but not complete.
Ranked number one in most 1977 preseason polls with Rusty Lisch	j
established at quarterback and	• =
Ross Browner and Ken MacAfee	j
back for one more year, Notre	!
Dame appeared to be in the driver’s seat. However, the offense sputtered in a victory over Pittsburgh, and the heat and Mississippi beat the Irish 20-13. When the Purdue phe-	!
nomenon Mark Hermann had the Boilermakers on top, Joe Montana	>
entered the picture and the Irish picked up lost momentum.
It is still unbelievable to think that Notre Dame trounced USC	‘
49-19, playing a flawless game while the Trojans did nothing right. Exploding for 69 points against Georgia Tech, speculation of how my friends and I were to drive to Dallas began. However, it was the lengthy winning touchdown drive against Clemson that proved the character of the 1977 team.
The city of Dallas provided little excitement for a pack of northerners. Listening to cocky Texas fans offering 15 points to Notre-Dame, we found the wait till game time unbearable. From the onset, it appeared to be a replay of	5
the USC game. For some reason, be	I
it superior talent, better coaching	|
preparation, or simply the players’ desire, Notre Dame played nearperfect football while Texas lost a national championship. It was an- I nounced later that night that the 38-10 victory had earned Notre Dame the MacArthur Bowl.
Notre Dame football means many j things to many people. Personally, it represents an enormous social	i
force. I will never forget the names J Parseghian, Devine, Clements,	;
Browner, Montana, Dorsett, Bell,	’
etc., but I will also never forget the tailgaters, the Senior Bar, weekend jaunts to Michigan State, Northwestern, Purdue, and Cleveland, arid ; Christmas vacations in Florida and Texas. Notre Dame football has provided me with opportunities I	i
could never have imagined watching ; that Georgia Tech game on tele-	i
vision almost four years ago.	i
Thanks, Notre Dame football.
Thanks, Notre Dame.	t
by Mike Towle
For a school that embodies the spirit of the Fighting Irish, Notre Dame has its share of symbolisms that represent the luck of the Irish as well. Most notable is the Irish leprechaun whose Irish jig and. upraised fist are often hoped to' be the source of superstitious luck that pushes Notre Dame athletic teams on to victory. But Notre Dame leprechaun Joe Cosgrove must admit that even he cannot assure the athletes of luck over and beyond . their own athletic abilities to carry them on to victory. That void is: . filled by the players themselves. And in the case of the 1977 Notre Dame football team, one can imagine, that much of this year’s success has to be credited to some ,of the various superstitions, rituals, and routines that players followed from week to week. ;	.
You can’t scoff at those baseball . managers, few as they are, who go out of their way never to step on the foul line when going out to the mound to talk with or yank a pitcher. There are many seldom . heard of sports superstitions and. rituals that are practiced by players and coaches alike although these will never approach the proverbial status of a black cat or a walk under a ladder. Probably the most common of sports superstitions, though, 24
is the wearing of certain uniforms. I refer specifically to the numbers that players have on their jerseys. At Notre Dame, placekicker Dave Reeve has been the one to take it upon himself to bear the lucky #13. Only he has had a lot better luck than Ralph Branca ever did.
“I used to wear three when I first came to Notre Dame but later changed to lucky 13,” the new all-time leading placekicker in Notre Dame football history reports. “It’s an odd-looking number and tends to stick out for people watching our games.”
When your team is down by two points late in the game, then it doesn’t seem silly for your placekicker to have a superstition.. That’s the great importance of a Dave Reeve, and who’s one to argue over whether he should practice other routines as well to get psychologically prepared for games.
“Some superstitions look funny,” Reeve adds. “But it’s up to the individual player himself, and for him, a particular superstition may be important. I think it’s quite, crucial for the athlete to get mentally prepared and that is the main purpose of superstitions. If a player isn’t mentally prepared, he. won’t play a good game.”
Let’s follow Kris Haines as he walks from his room in Grace Hall to the football stadium on the morning of a home football game. He exits through a seldom-used side door, cuts across the lawn to the ' west front of the library, walks around the reflecting pool before continuing on to the football stadium. It’s a ritual that the junior split end always follows on the Saturday morning of a home game, one that puts him at ease with himself. But that’s not all."1 .
“I always wear a sticker that says ‘stick ’em’ on my right foot,” Haines adds; “The one time that I wore it on my left foot, we lost to Mississippi.” Maybe now you will take such superstitions a little more seriously,	. ' .
Defensive back-punter Joe Restic is one of many other Fighting Irish players who takes superstitions and rituals to mean serious business.
. “Superstitions are not silly , ; things,” the Massachusetts native. . explains. “Many players have them and they are beneficial in that they.
help everyone to get psychologically prepared for games.
“I always follow a certain routine before every football game. Every Thursday night, I go to the Grotto to say a few prayers. On the morning of a home- game, I always leave my room at the same time and am always one of the first players dressed before game time. I try to be dressed exactly 20 minutes before we take the field to loosen up. There is usually a lot of tension before games. If my routine is ever broken, I get upset. Superstitions can be beneficial in that respect.”
Linebacker Steve Heimkreiter is in total agreement with Restic. Steve admits that he.really likes superstitions. He should because he has enough of them. ,
“When walking down the tunnel from the locker room to the field, I always see some elderly man who’s been there for every game that I can remember,” Steve says. “I make it a point to shake hands with him every time before taking the field. I make sure of this.”
But that’s not all. Heimkreiter also prefers to wear socks that are pure white, without stripes. Should he have no choice but to wear striped socks, Steve will, make sure he covers the stripes with white tape.
“Most of the players will don striped socks, but not me,” the hardhitting junior adds. “Also, I always try to make sure that I kiss my mother before every game. That brings me good luck.” ,
Wingback Dave Waymer resorts to a couple of superstitions for every, game.*
“I’ve always worn a white towel I on my right thigh,” Dave says.
“Besides that, I also wear the religious medal given to all of tile players at the pre-game mass in one of my socks. That is a good luck charm for me.” '	.
Likewise," offensive' linemen Dave Huffman and Ken MacAfee prefer ' to wear certain things in addition to ' their regular uniform for good... measure. You may have noticed the red elbow pads that Huffman sports at his center position.
“I never wear the red elbow pads during practice, but I;,would feel naked without them during a game,” Huffman insists. “I also wore them in high school. .It makes it
Scholastic
easier for my mother to keep track of me on television when I get obscured by the mass of bodies at the line of scrimmage.
“I put my equipment and uniform on the same way for each game. I don’t think of it as purely superstitious. It’s more a matter of getting into the routine of it.”
It’s not red elbow pads for MacAfee, the All-American tight end from Brockton, Massachusetts. “I always wear something on my wrist for a game, such as a wristband,” Ken describes. “It helps make me feel comfortable.
“Also, I’m always the last player out when the team runs onto the field at the beginning of a game. I’ve been doing that ever since high school except for my senior year when I was one of the captains and we had to be on the field before everyone else. Superstitions are not a silly thing because they do provide psychological motivation' for players." .
. So, if Ken MacAfee is the last player out of the locker room onto the field, who is next to-the last? None other than junior wingback Tom Domin.
“I always come out next to last ’ when the team comes onto the -playing field,” the redhead from Villa Park, Illinois, states. “In high school, my.team would come out in: single file except for me and two teammates who would form a T at ‘ the end of the line.” ;
Getting back to the wearing of the uniform though, All-American Luther Bradley has his own superstitious distinction. Now we know why he wears short socks ' that don’t come up to his knees.
“I’ll always wear short socks unless it gets really cold,” Notre Dame’s career interception leader with 17 points out. “I have worn short socks all the . way. through . high school and college.. I wear them solely for the purpose of good luck.”, . .
As for the running backs, reserve fullback, Pete Pallas offers one of the more interesting,'if not humorous, pregame practices to get him ready for the game. .
“Prior to every game, I will sit for a few moments to read through the game program,” the junior states. “I-look at the pictures of
MacAfee summons the “Luck of the Irish”.
opposing defensive linemen that I will have to block when I get into the game. This really gets me psyched up before a game.”:. ; :
Backfield star Vagas Ferguson remains a bit more superstitious.
“I don’t tape any part of my., uniform or shoes like most of the other guys do,” Ferguson professes. “I don’t wear any arm pads either. That’s purely for good luck. When you think about it, such superstitions play an important psychological role.” .	-
Even though head Coach Dan Devine won’t admit to any superstitions of his own, he does say that he will always be careful to wear the same clothing and gear after a win and as long as: the winning streak stays alive.	. "
“A superstition will not get you a first down or a touchdown,” Devine insists.
Probably not, but even for those players who don’t have any superstitions, there is a belief among the Notre Dame football players that superstitions of other players are to be taken seriously.
“I don’t have any superstitions of my own,” admits offensive tackle Steve McDaniels. “To a small extent
I think they’re kind of silly. But for someone who really believes in something like this, then I guess it can be good.”
Co-captain and fullback Terry Eurick adds, “Superstitions are hot silly for those players that follow them. They are things to think about because if you think they have worked once you will keep on using them. A good example is our wearing of the green and gold jerseys : beginning with the USC game.”
Surprisingly, quarterback Joe Montana, defensive end Ross Browner and defensive back Jim Browner admit to no superstitions, although Montana used to wear the same pair of socks for every basketball game that he played in high school. And yes, he did clean them after every game.
Most of us have our own superstitions, rituals, and other assorted lucky charms that we employ for various things that we have to do. For the Notre Dame football players, such beliefs are a reality and may have played some part in the great success of the team this year. There may just be something substantial to the notion of the luck of the Irish.'
January 27, 1978
25
They don’t wear uniforms or padding. They don’t play in a game or coach a team. They sit in the relative warmth and comfort of a broadcast booth, detached from the athletic event unfolding before their eyes. Yet, Marv Albert, Tim Ryan, Don Criqui, Lindsey Nelson, John Sterling, and Harry Caray are stars in their own way. They develop an identity with the team or sport they broadcast. Some are considered reporters, others are considered entertainers. All of them perceive their jobs differently, because most of them have varying opinions about what they should say and why.
The sports announcer is a unique individual in both the sporting world and the broadcast industry because of the freedom inherent in the job. The sports announcer can choose to discard objectivity in the interest of the team for which he broadcasts. Unlike a news reporter, he can ignore certain facts which may harm the image of a team or player. And he is the only member of the sporting world with the immediate power to destroy or create a hero.
One way in which heroes can be created or destroyed and facts ignored is through the “homer” style of broadcasting. A “homer” is considered to be an announcer who loses his objectivity and unabashedly roots for his team on the air. Most announcers are now paid by a team or a league and they are required by the Federal Communications Commission to state this fact on all broadcasts. Yet, announcers such as Jack Brickhouse of the Chicago Cubs and Sterling of the New York Islanders will cheer their employers with the cries of “C’mon, let’s get a base hit here,” or “We really need a basket here.” That is a “homer.”
Many modem announcers have become very opposed to this style of broadcasting. Marv Albert of NBC Sports, who is also the play-by-play voice of the New York Knicks and Rangers, is one of those announcers. He is the most colorful sports announcer to broadcast in New York City and his cries of “Yes” after a Knick basket and “Score” after a Ranger goal have become synonymous with “Marv Albert” in the ears of New York sports fans.
‘ “I react very strongly against this style of broadcasting,” Albert said.
26
Athletic
Airwaves
“There is no excuse for saying ‘We.’ It just absolutely disgusts me. Credibility is the key factor for a broadcaster. You can’t hide the facts if someone is playing poorly or if a team isn’t doing well. If the listener realizes that you’re covering up, he won’t believe you when you say someone is playing well.”
Tim Ryan also sees things from the reportorial aspect. Ryan of CBS Sports, who is a Notre Dame graduate, is the television voice of the New York Islanders. The majority of his play-by-play experience has been on the local level, but he had a large amount of national exposure on the National Hockey League’s Game of the Week on NBC in the early 1970’s.
“I think the role of the announcer is to be a reporter of the events as he sees them, and to present them in an entertaining fashion,” Ryan said. “I don’t think the fan at home, although he is rooting for his team, expects the announcer to be a cheerleader.”
Ryan has kept his ties to the local aspect of broadcasting but his feelings about covering up facts are strong.
“Fans tell me they like to hear about the game the way it is, not covering up if the team is having a bad night,” Ryan maintains. “The fan still wants the right to get mad at his team if it is playing poorly, not to hear a dishonest broadcaster. My concern is not the players, wives, or management; my first obligation is to the public. The balance must be struck rather sharply to the reportorial aspects.”
by Ted Robinson
Don Criqui of CBS Sports, who has been broadcasting National Football League and National Basketball Association games for 11 years, sees the announcer-team relationship in the mold of the employee-employer relationship.
“There is a basic assumption when an announcer takes a job with a team that he is working for the team,” Criqui said. “Therefore, they have to take the outlook of the game from the home standpoint. Some call them ‘fans’ but their opinions reflect the local opinion.”
Criqui assumes a straightforward approach to the sporting events and credits the network with allowing the broadcaster more freedom.
“On the network level, we are encouraged to be very objective,” Criqui said. “We are broadcasting to a broader audience so we need to maintain our objectivity. But, in 11 years, I have never been told what to say and what not to say, and the network will back you to the hilt if you get criticism.”
Representing the other extreme is John Sterling, the radio voice of the New York Islanders and New Jersey Nets. Sterling is a rooter. He comes from a broadcasting philosophy in which the announcer is not a reporter, but a fan describing the game to other fans. Some would call him a “homer,” others simply colorful.
“I love to make a living drama/’ Sterling said. “I do a lot of things for dramatic effect. I don’t want to assume the role of Roger Reporter. My show is yelling and screaming. I draw feeling. People love me or
Scholastic
hate me. I have a mind, a mouth, and I run it.”
A “homer” can be easily accused of losing his journalistic freedom, but Sterling upholds his right to be journalistically free.
“The fan referees and coaches, so I referee and coach,” Sterling said. “I know a lot of broadcasters who say safe things that no one can get back at them for—not that someone is having a bad night, but that they’re having a quiet night. I don’t
) like to say quiet things. I like to say outlandish things. I go out on a limb all the time. I don’t mind making mistakes.”
Harry Caray falls somewhere in the middle of this discussion. Caray, now the voice of the Chicago White Sox after broadcasting the St. Louis Cardinals games for many years, is regarded as baseball’s most colorful announcer. He makes no secret of the fact that he roots for his team, but don’t ever accuse him of being a “homer.”
“If I had my druthers between being matter-of-fact and being colorful, I’d be colorful,” Caray asserts. “But to associate the word ‘homer’ with colorful doesn’t fit. It’s one thing to be inaccurate to prove the point for the home team—that’s being a ‘homer.’ But it’s another thing to be wanting your team to win and giving an accurate objective report of what is going on in front of your eyes. That’s not being a ‘homer.’ ”
Caray is a people’s announcer. Just as baseball is a sport for the common man, Caray relates the game on a simple level, without any of the fancy vocabulary or
January 27, 1978
know-it-all attitude that characterizes many announcers. He cares about what people care about, even if it’s controversial.
“I’ll talk about any trades, management hassles or information that I feel the people care about,” Carey said. “My job is to represent the people, so whatever is of interest to the people, I talk about. I don’t make the trades or sign the contracts, but I do talk to the people.”
Another baseball announcer feeling differently on the point of controversial information is Lindsey Nelson. The voice of the New York Mets for seventeen years de.nes his role as a reporter of events strictly on the field.
“I am a play-by-play announcer,” Nelson said, “not a gossip columnist or a police reporter. It’s not my job to report conversations in hotel lobbies. Things that happen away from the field are not things that I rush to get on the air.”
Albert broadcasts mainly basketball and hockey, sports which frequently attract large crowds in New York. Therefore, he doesn’t have to be conscious of promoting a team image.
“Baseball is selling tickets,” Albert said. “I don’t have to sell tickets. We always mention contract hassles and controversies. Speaking out and saying irreverent things attracts people. But you can’t skip by what is really happening because everything relies on credibility.”
All of the broadcasters worry a great deal about credibility. In order to be successful, the announcer must be believed by the audience. None of them could hide any facts or cover up for a player and hope to be successful.
“To gain credibility with the audience, you must be accurate,” Criqui said. “This is particularly true on television where the audience can see firsthand what is happening. Sometimes the people are more informed than the announcer, so you must concentrate on accuracy.”
Perhaps the announcer who had the biggest problem in determining whether he could fool the audience was Ryan. When he assumed the play-by-play post for NBC’s coverage of the National Hockey League Game of the Week, Ryan was stepping into the lion’s den. He had two audiencies to talk to: the audi
ences in the conventional hockey cities who knew and understood the games, and the audiences in the cities who had never had any exposure to hockey. Ryan was forced to assume the role of a teacher to the unexposed audiences without offending the educated audiences.
As a result, Ryan altered his play-by-play style, something he never would have done under normal circumstances. Ryan began using a radio play-by-play description in order to orient fans to the environment of a hockey rink. He also began to help the fan learn to anticipate the plays.
Unfortunately, through no specific fault of Ryan’s, NBC’s coverage of hockey in the early 1970’s was a dismal failure. Network affiliates in non-hockey cities stopped carrying the telecasts, and ratings in the big hockey markets were poor.
Albert, who currently is the play-by-play announcer on the NHL’s new Monday Night Game of the Week, assumes a different role than Ryan. Albert assumes that his viewers are hockey fans and he isn’t about to be a teacher.
“My feeling is that people who watch on Monday nights are fans who know the game,” Albert said. “Hockey would generally like to educate more people and gain a larger audience, but I felt you could scare away those who understand the game and enjoy watching it. And hockey is the only sport where the broadcaster has to worry about educating the viewer.”
“Homers,” entertainers, or broadcasters who discard certain facts and attempt to fool the audience have led to talk that sportscasting has become a journalistically unsound medium. The intervention of clubs and leagues in the selection and performance of announcers is believed to be the cause of the decline of objective reporting. Nelson disputes that theory vigorously and adds what could be the creed of sportscasting.
“There’s always been the feeling on the part of the print media that we in the electronic media are not as pure,” Nelson argued. “The job we do is as journalistically sound as any newspaper. In the final analysis, it comes down to the individual and what he’s doing.”
27
DOUG BECKER ... A three-year starter for ND, this Hamilton, Ohio, native leaves his mark in the record book (and on a number of unfortunate opponents) as a hard hitter. Remember Becker’s crunching blast to Wayne Adams while receiving a screen pass in the 1977. Pitt game. He saved the 1976 win over Alabama with a jarring, hit on Ozzie Newsome in a fourth-down pass in the final minute. This outside linebacker won the Bengal Bout light heavyweight division in a standup, punch ’em out match against teammate Jim Browner. A “little crazy” , by his own admission, . Becker says, “I’m going to miss my teammates and the . hitting.” It’s safe to say the opposition won’t miss Doug Becker.
LUTHER BRADLEY . . . A consensus first team All-America selection his senior year and a Walter Camp Foundation first teamer his junior year, Bradley owns the ND career interception mark with 17. He’s famous for the record breaking 99-yard interception
TED BURGMEIER ... A three-year starter in two different positions, this East Dubuque, Illinois, resident earned Football News All-America selection his senior year. He registered four interceptions and returned them 100 yards from his cornerback position. During his sophomore season, Burgmeier caught an 80-yard pass play from Joe Montana to score the deciding TD in the thrilling comeback;victory over North Carolina. He enjoyed an outstanding performance in the 1977 USC trouncing by. returning an interception 38 yards, throwing a two-point conversion pass after a bad snap, and running 21 yards to set up the winning points on a fake field goal. This versatile afhlete also played briefly at quarterback and halfback, besides being a top pole-vaulter on the track team. : "
KEN DIKE . . . With no previous starting time going into his junior year, Dike replaced the injured Jeff Weston in the opener against Pitt and finished second on the team in tackles with 99. He never left that
PARTING PLAYERS
by John Vincent
Dike and Browner sandwich the Falcons.
return against Purdue in 1975. Bradley had two of ‘ position as a starter, in all but the Mississippi game his best games against USC in his freshman and	during his senior campaign. Dike finished his collegiate
senior years. Bradley was known as the “old man”	career on an outstanding note as he made nine tackles,
‘ on the team because of his prematurely graying hair. including four for losses totaling 33 yards in the A confident performer whose poise spread to the fans, Cotton Bowl classic.	■ .	.
his presence excited pep rallies and few will forget the	. J , ’
chant “LUUUUUUUUU!!!” •	-	TERRY EURICK ... This feisty runner led. ND in
;' touchdowns with seven in 1977, and scored two. TD’s ROSS BROWNER . . . Browner was everybody’s All-	in this year’s Cotton Bowl victory. Due to his excel-
America selection at defensive end in both his junior	lent attitude and great desire, Eurick was appointed
and senior years. The 1976 UPI Lineman of the Year,	to serve as tri-captain for the 1977 season.; Eurick
Browner also won the prestigious Outland Trophy his	was also the team’s top kick returner,; averaging over
junior year and was one of four finalists for the Lorn-	20 yards per return for the past two years. This
bardi Trophy during his junior and senior campaigns.	Dean’s List student. carried 169. times for 806 yards
He is the ND record holder for most tackles by a front in his four years at ND. ; .	;	. .	; ,
four lineman (340),* fumbles recovered (12), and	: .	, . >	. .
tackles for minus yardage (77 for 515 yds.); Browner	ERNIE HUGHES . . . This, three-year starter received
served as a tri-captain of the; 1977 squad. A great	All-American recognition this year on . the AP and
pro prospect, Browner once caught Tony Dorsett from	UPI second team squads. This Idaho Red was. nick-
behind after hurdling several blockers. A Heisman ;	named “The Enforcer” , due to his fiery nature. A du-
Trophy candidate in 1977, the easygoing giant says,	rable performer, Hughes logged over 300 minutes dur-
“I’m always striving for better things. I have always	ing the 1977 season and saved his best game for last as
dreamed of making something of myself. That is the	he completely dominated All-American Brad Shearer of
way I was brought up.”	Texas in their Cotton Bowl encounter. .	;
28
Scholastic
GARY FORYSTEK ... . A true “hard luck” story describes this high school All-American’s career as a Fighting Irishman. Forystek served as a reserve for his first three years, but finally got his shot at directing the offense in the Purdue game. He came , in to complete two of three , passes before becoming the victim of one of the most devastating tackles football has ever known. It put an end to his football career at ND where as a substitute he fine-tuned the first team defense in scrimmages. Football has not seen the end of Forystek as some pro scouts have shown interest in his rocket arm and brains. Gary is also interested in coaching football someday.
WILLIE FRY . . . Complementing Browner as the other end of ND’s fearsome bookends, this outstanding senior served as a captain of the 1976 and 1977 teams. A three-year starter, Fry was named as an honorable mention All-American in both his junior and senior campaigns and is an excellent pro prospect.
STEVE ORSINI ... A durable and dependable performer, this gritty fullback was appointed captain of the specialty teams this championship year. Orsini picked up 340 yards on 81 carries during three years of active duty, but, as close as he came, he never crossed that goal line.
DAVE REEVE . . . Holds the all-time scoring record at Du Lac (255), as well as the single season kick-scoring record (75), most extra point attempts (143) and conversions (130), co-owner of most field goals in a game (3 against Navy and Michigan State), most career field goals (39 out of 64 attempts) and most field goals in a season (12 of 20 in 1977). Reeve performed his best against Pittsburgh, registering field goals of 47, 48 and 51 yards versus the Panthers.
STEVE SCHMITZ ... A reserve halfback and the leading punt returner during the 1976 and 1977 seasons, Schmitz will be remembered by many for his
Becker intercepts Longhorns
Hughes, 'the Enforcer," shows Heavens the way
KEN MacAFEE . . . A. first-team All-American in several polls since his sophomore year, this year MacAfee earned Walter Camp Player of the Year and was one of four finalists for the Lombardi Trophy. “Big Mac” holds the Irish record for most passes caught by a tight end in a season (54) and a career (128). MacAfee has led his team in receptions for the last three years, totaling 54 receptions for 797 yards in 1977. His biggest games came against Alabama in 1976 (6 receptions for 92 yards), during the Purdue comeback victory this year (9 receptions for 114 yards) and against USC (8 catches, 97 yards and 2 TD's). The highly touted MacAfee is sure to go in the first round of the upcoming NFL draft.
STEVE McDANIELS . . . Moving into the starting offensive tackle position his junior year, McDaniels became a steady performer missing only the Gator Bowl classic in the next two years. Nicknamed “Tiny” by his teammates, he was the biggest player on the squad.
January 27, 1978	.
spectacular performances ; in the annual Blue-Gold game. In two years Schmitz returned 32 punts for a better than nine-yard average.	/
DAVE VINSON . . . This offensive guard was the . prime example of an excellent blend of brains and brawn. Vinson broke into the starting lineup in his senior campaign, enabling him to be named a National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame Scholar Athlete for 1977. This pre-med major, Dean’s List student was also nominated to the 1977 Churchmen’s AllAmerica Football team. .	:
It has been repeated many times that the backbone; of Notre Dame football lies in the dedication of the second string players and the prep squad that prepare the “headliners” for each game. Five seniors will graduate in 1978 with National Championship rings that they have earned as much as anyone else. This dedicated quintet that made their mark in the ND football book include NICK DE CICCO, DAN KNOTT, TERRY MURPHY, BOB TULL and ROSS CHRISTENSEN. ■ ' - '' .	.•
29 .
PROGNOSIS 78
by Ray O'Brien
What makes a National Championship football team? If a coach could give or receive a definitive answer to this question he would go out and recruit strictly by formula, but there seems to be no rule to follow in building a team that will top all others, as the two teams that competed in the Cotton Bowl showed in 1977. Texas sported a young team that was supposedly in for a rebuilding year, but if what they accomplished was just rebuilding, look out for the Longhorns in 1978. The Fighting Irish were rated by most of the media as the top team in the country, but for the first five weeks of the season they resembled nothing of the kind and most experts wrote them off for 1977. Yet somehow they managed to work things out, and the rest is a happy history. But back to the original question: what type of team will Dan Devine field next season as defending champs?
On offense, the Irish lose three starters in Steve McDaniels, Ernie Hughes, and Ken MacAfee. The latter two are irreplaceable players of All-American status, but still the remaining eight players leave a nucleus for an explosive core. Tim Foley and Ted Horansky return to keep intact the left side of the line while the outspoken Dave Huffman will be snapping once again. Huffman will be in the running for All-American honors. On the right side of the line Howard Meyer will most likely move into Hughes’ vacated spot. Quite appropriately Tim Huffman, Dave’s younger brother, will be a top contender for McDaniel’s tackle spot. This 260-pound sophomore looks ready to follow in his brother’s footsteps or, better yet, start tracks of his own.
The receiving coips will be hard hit with the loss of the dependable MacAfee. While filling the shoes of this All-American is impossible, the top candidate for the job is Mark Czaja. Czaja’s top competition will be Kevin Hart and Dennis Grindiger unless some blue-chip freshman is recruited during the spring. One bright.spot in the offense is the return of Kris Haines, who blossomed into a fine deep threat during the 1977 season. Haines, who had only three receptions in his first two seasons, hauled in 28 passes totaling 587 yards, (a 21.0 yds. per catch avg.) during his junior campaign. As the season progressed, this fleet-footed split end was called upon more often. While the long ball threat has not played a role in ND’s offense in recent years, Haines may bring it back.
The strength of Devine’s offensive unit will be found in the backfield where this year’s starters will all be returning. At quarterback will probably be Joe Montana (although looking at his career, it is fair to say . that nothing is definite). Jerome Heavens, coming off a 1,000-yard season, will be back to handle the fullback chores while Cotton Bowl Offensive MVP Vagas Ferguson returns at halfback. These two runners should see banner seasons next year, if the offensive line materializes. Dave Waymer will once again set up at the flanker position. With these familiar faces returning, it would seem that this is one area the coaches will not have to worry about, but this would be a narrow-minded assumption. The loss of such dependable players as Terry Eurick and Steve Orsini will be hard felt. The backfield lacks depth in some
Scholastic
30
key positions and an injury to Heavens or Ferguson could spell disaster. Tom Dornin will see plenty of action at the flanker position while Rusty Lisch will be waiting earnestly in the wings should his services be needed, but experienced players end here. While Devine will go after some super high school backs, the ace in the hole is Jim Stone. This freshman quietly rolled up 193 yards and three touchdowns in 37:30 playing time. Stone averaged 6.7 yards per carry and judging from his 17 carry, 98-yard performance against Air Force, big things will be expected from him in the future. .	-
This year’s defense boasted ten returning starters from the 1976 squad and this experience made them one of the 10 best squads in the nation. This year’s National Championship team saw six regulars that will be lost to graduation. For this reason, the success : of next year’s team will lie in the ability of Devine and his crew of coaches to find new blood to fill in these vacancies. Opposing teams will be ecstatic to see Ross Browner and Willie Fry leaving. Scott Zettek saw a good deal of action while Fry was injured and proved himself as a great pass rusher, however, no one will be able to gracefully follow Browner’s All-American act. Hardy Rayam will have the first shot at the left end spot. Rayam will have a lot to learn this spring if ND is to be a top contender for the MacArthur Bowl again.
Inside lineman Mike Calhoun will be back after a strong year while Jeff Weston and Jay Case will battle for the other tackle spot. Joe Yonto can smile about one thing: All-American Bob Golic will be back to clog the middle. Golic, who broke the single season tackle record (146), should develop into one of the top defensive standouts in the nation. Fellow senior Steve Heimkreiter will hopefully return to his sophomore form after being plagued with injuries this year. The absence of the zany, hard-hitting Doug Becker will be missed. Leroy Leopold, who had an excellent season snagging four passes and returning them 104 yards, will most likely take this starting role.
In the backfield All-American Luther Bradley and Ted Burgmeier have graduated but Joe Restic, Jim Browner, and Randy Harrison return along with red-shirted Pete Johnson. Burgmeier’s and Bradley’s skills will be sorely missed and their absence also leaves no room for injury in this area. Two seniors, Jim Morse and Tom Flynn, will be battling for regular duty with a number of freshmen expected to challenge.
The specialty teams played a big part- in Notre Dame’s success this year and a good deal of reorganizing will be necessary if this is to remain a strong point. Steve Orsini, Steve Schmitz, Terry Eurick, and Dave Reeve were all familiar faces that are no longer around. Reeve’s loss will be most hard felt while an inexperienced Joe Unis is presently the only candi-datefor the kicking job. While Joe Restic returns to handle the punting chores, he must regain the form he had freshman year when he averaged over 43 yards a boot compared to this year’s 38-yard average. '
There are many intangibles that cannot be written down on paper. The presence of injuries plays a large factor in the success of a team along with attitude and even luck. Some players may come out of the
January 27, 1978	.	...
woodwork to become stars while others will never reach what was expected of them. This will certainly be a crucial year for recruiting although winning the 1977 National Championship cannot hurt in this field. There is no reason not to expect the best of the 1978 team, but be patient, next year’s squad will progress as the season unfolds. Hopefully, this peak will come by the last game when they travel to USC.
A LOOK AT THE SCHEDULE
This year’s schedule will be tough as ND adds Missouri, Michigan and Tennessee to the list of formidable foes.
MISSOURI—this team is unpredictable every year as they perform hot and cold throughout the season. The Tigers should be a good opening test for the defending National Champs.	.
MICHIGAN—back on the schedule after a 25-year hiatus, the Wolverines are the most successful team against the Fighting Irish, sporting a 9-2 advantage. With the game at home and two weeks to prepare, ND has an advantage even before the kickoff, but look out for Rick Leach. Regardless of the outcome, it will be great for ND football.
PURDUE—Devine’s crew ought to be settled by this third straight game at home. They better, because Mark Hermann will be gunning for an upset.
MICHIGAN STATE—always a classic battle, the Spartans will be very tough at home although their defense has many holes to fill.
PITTSBURGH—with Matt Cavanaugh gone, the Irish can breathe a sigh of relief. Panthers Walker, Jury and Holloway have also graduated. With the game at home ND should not have much trouble.
AIR FORCE—while the Falcons will be tougher next year, the trip to Colorado should be an enjoyable one. MIAMI—the Hurricanes will show a marked improvement as Lou Saban moves into his second year at the helm. If any kind of a defense is built, Miami will stay in the ball game.
NAVY—believe it or not, 1977 was Navy’s year. Navy’s fleet will have big holes in it in 1978 as they lose many key performers. This week the Irish get a Saturday off.
TENNESSEE—good thing this game’s at home because it would be a. typical Irish upset if they went down south again. While the Vols did not show much last year, Johnny Majors has settled in with his alma mater and some say he knows how to beat ND. Let’s hope not.
GEORGIA TECH—the Irish had better be ready for this encounter because Yellow Jacket players are dreaming about their chance to get revenge for this year’s humiliation. Make no mistake, there is no love lost between these two institutions, and ND has never seen Southern hospitality. /
SOUTHERN CAL—IF the Irish beat Michigan and IF they survive injuries and get a little bit of luck, they could head to sunny California undefeated. While USC loses a number of key performers, they still have a solid nucleus returning, including Charles White. This time it is the Trojans turn to seek revenge. The last time ND beat these Californians in their back yard was in 1966 when they went undefeated.
.	.	31
W NAIM CMPM
One is not Enough
Extra copies of this	;
FOOTBALL REVIEW are available for your friends
at $1.50 per copy.
Scholastic	:	:
La Fortune Student Center	j
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556	,	;
Please send ■ copies of this issue; of Football Review at $1.50 per copy to: ;
Name .............;
Address	........
City ..............................................................
State ..........	Zip ................
.	Next year’s
FOOTBALL REVIEW is also available as part of a year’s subscription to SCHOLASTIC.
You can receive eleven \ regular issues plus the .
FOOTBALL REVIEW - J for only $5.	■ < - ..
•****"'	“	.	"	.	.	I
* • . . . . .... • • ■ i Scholastic	; i
; La Fortune Student Center	i
i Notre Dame, Indiana 46556	:
•	,	.	•	.1
I	-	-	.	:• ,	' •	-. .	•. ;	, ■ I
f -	. I	• -	•■ ■	■	- . •	- '	• '	■	- ■	■	■	■ -	1
i Please send . ■ years ot Scholastic \
: at $5.00 per year to:	:
•	■	■	•	■ ■	:	"	■	.	■	’	I
* • : .... • ' ■_	■ '■ • ■ ■' f
: Name ............: t , - . . ■ . . -: _ , _ _ ._ । i Address..........:
i City	 J
I - . V •	. . ... • . . r . - ■ • .	I
J StateZip .;......X