The Notre Dame Scholastic
323
COMMENT
Not so very long ago we were writing. in this column, “choose far stars to check near objects by.” At the time we thought it a fine thought in fine dress.
And we still do: but in the hustle, the rush and the crush of modern day life, it is sometimes hard to find the star. And, too, stars are usually seen only at night.
Suppose you are a clerk, or, if you will, a department manager in a store in some large city. You report for work around seven-thirty or eight in the morning; the afternoon is a repetition of the morning; evening comes, home, dinner, and many ways to spend the evening; but no time for the stars.
ututinumiifljl
Not, by any means, that we are writing a brief for star gazing. But we would like to point out the importance of some concern with the black spokes, flecked with the dust of the stars, in the great wheel of Night.
We can’t expect to know the inner-parts of the spokes of a wheel—especially when they are black. But when they are illuminated by dust— that dust sparkling with a light all its own—we can know something.
And when we catch glimpses of -the far-off dust, we catch, at the same time, some idea of how infinitely less sparkling, less illuminating, is the dust in our own lives.
Again, a great deal of what we ‘do’ is dust on the roadways of our lives. And when we see another roadway, strewn with the dust of light (that is a roadway in itself) we can almost say, with all due respect for the man who gave us our first idea, “Choose far dust to check near dust by!”
In the checking, several new values are likely to be assigned. And too, the ultimate thought may break a few of its arrows in the ordinarily rather well castled country of our mind—that thought that asks us where the real path, the actual road, may be, if all our roadways, near and far, are dust on a greater?
But that is a disturbing thought. Possibly, we are open to censure for advancing it—and yet, real living is disturbance!
No^re Dame Schoicest i c
Disc?- Quasi-Semper-Vicfcurus-Vive-Quasi-Cras-Morilum
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley......................Editor-in-Chief
Harley L. McDevitt.......................Graduate Manager.
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire......Managing	Editor
Emil L. Telfel..Assistant	Managing Editor
Thomas A. Cannon..Assistant Managing Editor J. Archer Hurley..The	Week
Walter Langford....'...The	College Parade
Joel Egerer..............Music and Drama
Ramon G. Smith.............Campus Clubs
Alfred E. Gall.............Script Editor
Paul J. Hallinan..........'.Feat
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor James J. Kearney	Richard J. O’Donnell
James Collins	Neil Hurley
„____ ...	„	Joseph Reedy
Howard Webster	Edward Brennan
Austin Boyle
SPORTS STAFF John A. Kiener, Sports Editor Willlam J. Magarral, Interhall Sports Editor Harry A. Sylvester, Jr. Henry B. Asman James McFeeley
Editor
George Allan-John Motz Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors James Carmody
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon.Local Circulation Manager Chester M. Ashman. .Foreign Circulation Manager Frederick N. Davts.Local Advertising Manager James L. Rizer.....Foreign Advertising Manager
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
VOL. LXIII.
NOVEMBER 29,1929.
No. 11.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Frontispiece _________________________________ Coming Events_________________________________ Quarterly Out Wednesday—Emil L. Telfel________ A Man About the Campus—Richard O’Donnell______ A Man You Know________________________________ Music and Drama—Joel Egerer___________________ Gleanings ____________________________________ Campus Clubs—Ramon Smith______________________ College Parade—Walter M. Langford_____________ The Week—Archer Hurley________________________ The Story of a Forward Pass—Paul J. Hallinan^-. Editor’s Page_________________________________ The Wink______________________________________ Notre Dame on Wildcat Rampage—John Kiener—
First Basketball Game Tuesday________________
Splinters From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr.---
324
325
326
329
330
332
332
333
334
335
336
339
340
341
345
351
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly *t the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be. addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3. 1917, authorized June 25. 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame PuMicatiens Deserve the Patronage of . AD Notre Dame Men

324
The Notre Dame Scholastic

£
te)
2
Sacred SKeart Church_in Winter

The Notre Dame Scholastic	325
Coming Ei nts •
._______________________i
FRIDAY, November £ )—Scholastic Editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main B Hiding, 7 p. m.
SATURDAY, November 30—Mass for the team, Sacred Heart Church, •6:25 a. m.—Footbafl, Notre Dame vs. U. S. Military z.cademy, Yankee Stadium, New York City.— Gridgraph, Gymnasium, 1:00 p. m. —Dead line, 12:00 midnight for contributions to Christmas Juggler. —Movies, Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—S. A. C. Informal Dance, Knights of Columbus Hall, 8:00-11:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, Decembei’ 1—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00 and 8:00 a. m.—High Mass at 9:00. —Bendiction, 7:30 p. m. ■
MONDAY, December 2 — Villagers’ Club meeting, College Inn, Hotel LaSalle, 6:15 p. m.
TUESDAY, December 3 — Lecture, Dr. John T. Frederick, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, 7:45 p. m.—St. Louis Club meeting, Law Building, first floor Court Room, 7:45 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, December 4—Pacific Northwest Club meeting, Law Building, first floor Court Room, 7:45 p. m.—Appearance of New Quarterly Magazine.
THURSDAY, December 5—Spectators’ meeting, 7:45 p. m.—St. Joseph Valley Alumni Football Banquet, University Dining Halls, 6:30 p. m.—Detroit Club meeting, Law Building, 7:30 p. m.
FRIDAY, December 6—First Friday, Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 6:25 A. M.; Adoration all day.—Bene-' diction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.
“FOOTBALL REVIEW” TO
APPEAR IN TWO WEEKS
Notre Dame’s year-book of the grid season, the Official Football Review, will emerge this year as the most ambitious publication of its kind ever attempted. Almost everything is now in readiness for Joe Petritz and his capable co-editors, Dick Donoghue and Gus Bondi, to start reading proofs and inserting commas. Appear
ance of the Review by December 14 is promised by the editors.
Write-ups of the players who are maintaining Notre Dame’s acknowledged supremacy by men on the campus who know them intimately, and by famous sports writers who observe them in the great stadiums of the country every Saturday, will give football followers an enduring record of the great 1929 combination. The Review staff has garnered an aggregation of writers which matches the class of the team itself, in Grantland Rice, Coach Rockne, Irving Vaughan, Harry MacNamara, Jimmie Burns of the I. N. S. Service, Max Hannum of the Pittsburgh Press, and Paul G. Sullivan of the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph.
The Review is profusely illustrated; the picture gallery includes such unusual snaps as Rockne coaching from his wheel-chair and the interior of the chapel car which the team used in its rail journeys. Several of Art Kane’s clever drawings complete the pictorial assets. As announced before, a novel feature will be the selection of an AllAmerican team from Notre Dame’s nine opponents. There will be pictures and statements of all the opposing teams’ captains and coaches.
KONOP AND REVEREND HEISER WILL ADDRESS
VILLAGERS
The December meeting of the Villagers’ Club’ will be held next Monday evening, Decembei* 2. Announcement is made that the meeting is to be held in the College Inn, Hotel LaSalle, and the time set is 6:15.
Among the speakers who have been engaged to speak before the club is the Reverend J. A. Heiser, C.S.C., Off-Campus Director, and Thomas F. Konop, Dean of the Hoynes College of Law, as announced by President John Marcus. Business topics are to be discussed, and plans are to be made for the annual Christmas dance which is to be held on December 26.
ROCKNE IMPROVING SLOWLY
Coach Rockne, Notre Dame’s ailing football mentor, is slowly improving despite the strain caused by his determination to fight the season through with his team. The malady is one not greatly responsive to treatment, and rest is the prime requisite for recovery. “Rock” has driven himself hard during the season and encountered a setback when he in
sisted on accompanying the team to Chicago, two weeks ago. It is believed that the recent cold snap, by driving the dampness out of the air, will facilitate his recovery.
THREE PRIZES OFFERED FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS
Notices of three prize contests foi university men have been received by the English department. A prize of $100 is offered in the Edgar Allan Poe annual contest for the best critical essay on the works of Poe. The Witter Bynner undergraduate poetryprize of $150 is again to be awarded this year.
University freshmen are eligible for the annual contest of the American Chemical Society, which carries six prizes of $500, six of $300 for second places, and six of $200 for third places. Three prizes are offered for the best essays on each of the six specified topics.
Further information on these contests may be had by consulting the members of the English Department or seeing the Director of Studies.
CATHOLIC WORLD CARRIES ARTICLE BY McCOLE
An article by Mr. Camille McCole, instructor in English at the University, appeared in the last issue of the Catholic World. The title of this article is “Sherwood Anderson—Congenital Freudian.” Mr. McCole gives us a well-drawn pen-portrait of Sherwood Anderson, and then a criticism of the Freudian tendencies that Anderson reveals in his novels, saying' that his utter absence of loyalties and his unblushing disregard for good taste make it impossible for him to be a great novelist.
1 NOTICE! COMMERCE I I SENIORS! J E The directors of the Com- E E merce Forum announce that j : Wednesday, December 4, has 1 E been set as the final date for E E the acceptance of applications E E from Seniors for membership E = in the organization.	=
= Those Seniors in the College 1 E of Commerce who have a schol- E E astic average of at least 80 E E percent and are desirous of be- E E coming members are asked to = E present their names for accept- e E ance sometime before the above \ | date, at 214 Walsh Hall. E
326
The Notre Dame Scholastic
QUARTERLY OUT WEDNESDAY
Louis L. Heitger, chairman of the board of editors of the New Literary Magazine, announces that the first issue will appear on the campus on Wednesday, December 4. All of the preliminary work has been done and the first proofs are already off the presses.
The name decided upon for the new magazine is Scrip. This name was chosen from several considered. The format, decided upon after much deliberation, is a distinctive one. It will resemble somewhat the format of Harriet Monroe’s Poetry, both in size and general appearance. Thirty-two pages of reading matter will be bound between green, semi - stiff covers. The format size is ten inches by seven; and the price of the magazine will be twenty-five cents.
The coming first number will be well worth reading, as it will contain contributions from authors that are nationally known, as well as from prominent graduates and campus writers. The frontispiece, a wood-cut drawing by Dick Sullivan, compares favorably with those seen in the “high grade” magazines.
Readers who love poetry will be especially delighted by the first issue, as it will contain poems by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., president of the University and a nationally known poet; the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll,C. S. C., author of Heart Hermitage and other volumes of poetry; the Reverend Leo L. Ward, -----------------------------------
“DOME” CONTEST AT ITS
HEIGHT
The contest for subscriptions to the 1930 “Dome,” sponsored by the members of the Junior class, is most successful, according to Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications.
I
The Juniors are putting forth their best efforts in order to obtain as many subscriptions as possible, and with the hopes of being the winner, to win that promised trip to Europe. As a consequence the contest is proving to be extremely interesting. There is a genuine, active, competitive spirit shown on the part of the participants in the contest; and it may be concluded that the promised trip to Europe for the winner has played no small part in adding to the general feeling
C. S. C., whose poems have been printed in the Ave Maria and in Poetry; Professor Charles L. Phillips, author of High in Her Tower; Norbert Engels, a frequent contributor to Commonweal; Benjamin Musser, editor of Contemporary Verse; Murray Young, a graduate of the class of 1929, former president of the Scribblers and winner of last year’s Scribblers’ poetry contest; Jack Mullen, of the class of 1928, a former editor of the Scholastic; and Abel Constance, an undergraduate campus poet. Such a list of poets should satisfy the most discriminating lover of poetry.
Two short stories will appear in the new magazine. One is entitled “Exile,” and is written by Richard Sullivan, former literary editor of the Scholastic. Louis L. Brennan writes the other, which bears the title, “Respect.” Another contribution is a one-act phantasy, “Lonely,” by Louis L. Heitger.
Short biographical sketches of each contributor will be given.
One other feature of the magazine will be Chairman Heitger’s introductory editorial on literary expression. He will point out the significance of the new magazine as a medium for creative student work.
Assisting Mr. Heitger' in the editing of the magazine are: Louis L. Brennan, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters; Cyril Mullen, a senior in the same college; and John Nanovic, also a senior in the Arts and' Letters College.
of enthusiasm which is being shown. In addition to the attractive first prize, there are to be second and third prizes of $75 and $25 respectively.
The contest will be open for three more days, and it will be closed at 12:00 Monday night, December 2. The quota for the new subscriptions was set to number 2600, and the 2000 mark was reached by the fore part of this week; consequently the managers of the contest feel very much encouraged concerning the results.
Those in charge of making up the “Dome,” and publishing it, assure the purchasers of subscriptions that the 1930 number is going to be a prizewinning yearbook, and the cooperation of the student body is sincerely asked so that this next yearbook of the University may be as accomplished and complete as possible.
“COLLEGE HUMOR” TO IN-AUGURa TE OUTBOARD
FACING
A new sport will enter the category of intercollegia e athletics next spring when the CoUege Humor outboard races are inau^ urated in institutions throughout the country which are so situated on lales or other bodies of water as to lend themselves to aquatic events.
At the pres mt time rowing is the only outdoor water sport of any consequence in tie college field, but College Humor magazine, realizing the growing popularity of outboard motor racing in this country today, will sponsor these outboard regattas at every institution signifying interest in the speed boat game.
TEAM TO BE FETED BY NEW YORK ALUMNI
The Notre Dame Alumni of New York will honor the football team after its game tomorrow, with a dinner dance in the Hotel McAlpin. The entire team and coaches will be present.
Prominent speakers, including the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C , president of the University; Mayor James Walker, of New York; Hugh O’Donnell, business manager of the New York Times, and others will give talks.
Music will be furnished by the Notre Dame “Jugglers.”
FINAL PEP MEETING HELD
As a fitting climax to a successful football season the final pep meeting of the year was held Wednesday even-, ing after supper. The band was awaiting the students as they filed from the dining hall and a parade was formed which finally terminated at the postoffice. Here one of the noisiest and most enthusiastic pep meetings of the year was held. The cheering was led by Daniel Barton, varsity cheer leader, and he was assisted by Arthur Goulet and Ed Madden. Professor Joseph Casasanta led the band in the playing of “The Hike Song” and “The Victory March” at the conclusion of the session.
Although this was the final manifestation of pep to be held on the -campus for this season the student body will meet the team Monday afternoon at the Union Station, in South Bend upon its return from New York.
Th eN o t re Dame Scholastic
327
College of Law Notes j
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HOLD MEETING
entire council joined in several of the songs. Refreshments consisted of coffee and sandwiches.
The Law Club will hold a smokei* on Tuesday evening, December 3, at eight o’clock, in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall. Dean T. F. Konop announces that Bob Proctor, a prominent attorney in Elkhart, will deliver a lecture before the members of the club at that time.
The Law Bulletin for 1930 and ’31 will be released for distribution sometime in December. The Law Bulletin is to be published in connection with the Law Alumni Directory, and is to be issued as a bulletin of the University.
The second number of the Notre Dame Lawyer was released last Monday, and this issue contains numerous articles written by prominent jurists and alumni of the Law School.
SULLIVAN SCHOLARSHIPS ANNOUNCED
Announcements are now on the bulletin boards for this year’s Roger C. Sullivan scholarships, established in 1922, in memory of the late Roger C. Sullivan, of Chicago. Three scholarships of $250 each are provided for, awarded anually to applicants from the Senior, Junior and Sophomore classes, respectively, who have shown the greatest improvement in scholarship during the year.
Last year, the Sophomore prize was earned by Carroll B. Murphy, the t Junior by Robert L. Soper, and the Senior award by Albion M. Griffin. To be considered, applications should be forwarded to the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes before December 20. The awards will be announced in the Scholastic early in 1930.
PENDERGAST ANNOUNCES DEADLINE FOR SATIRE
According to Robert L. Pendergast, editor-in-chief of the 1930 Dome, those who wish to submit written material, satirical or humorous, for the novelty and feature section of the year book should begin work on it at once as the deadline for such material is Monday, February 3. All manuscripts should be left with the Editor in the Publication Office, second floor, Main Building, or brought to his room, 339 Badin Hall.	,
The Knights of Columbus held .their regular bi-monthly meeting on Monday evening, November 25, in the council chambers in Walsh Hall. Due to the absence of Bourke Mottset, recording secretary, who was called home, signs were not posted concerning the meeting.
Because of the absence of John Chevigny, Joseph Scales, who is Deputy Grand Knight, had full charge of the meeting. The high type of man holding office in the Knights of Co-Fumbus was clearly demonstrated by the able manner in which Joseph Scales handled the meeting.
Joseph Scales
Deputy Grand Knight
As is becoming usual, Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of the Order, was called on to deliver one of his sparkling talks. His subject was miracles. While all of Father Reynold’s talks are tinged with a vein of humor, still they contain a serious purpose that is well worth while. That was the case Monday evening. He pointed out the value and importance of miracles. He demonstrated the importance of the fact that there are no miracles without the Catholic Church. And Father Reynolds concluded by ascribing great value to miracles of the mind as well as to those of a merely physical order.
Martin Travers, chairman of the banquet committee, announced that there will be the usual banquet tendered to the newly initiated members on December 8, at the Oliver Hotel, according to present plans. Further details will be announced later.
Zeno Staudt furnished the entertainment with several cleverly executed banjo and vocal numbers. The
FUNERAL SERVICES HELD FOR REVEREND JOHN
LAUTH, C.S.C.
Funeral services for the Reverend John Lauth, C.S.C., one of the oldest members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, who died early Monday morning, in the Community House, were held Wednesday morning, with a solemn requiem high Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Burial was in the Community cemetery.
Father Lauth was born in Luxembourg in 1841 and emigrated to the United States in 1854; he entered the Congregation and was ordained to the priesthood in 1870- He served as an instructor in the University for a number of years, and also did parish work in South Bend. To those that knew him, Father Lauth will be greatly missed.	R. I. P.
LAY FACULTY HOLDS DINNER DANCE
Members of the Lay Faculty and their guests were entertained last Monday evening, at a dinner dance given by the Board in the Lay Faculty Room. An excellent dinner was served the guests, and after dinner they danced to the music of the Jugglers, that popular orchestra composed of students at- the University. The success of the affair was due largely to the efforts of Dean Konop of the University Law School, who acted in the capacity of chairman of the committee in charge of preparations. Plans are being made for many such enjoyable evenings in the near future.
DINKEL RESIGNS AS SPEC-
TATOR SECRETARY
At the last meeting of the Spectators Club, Robert M. Dinkei, resigned his position as secretary. Murray Hickey Ley was unanimously elected to fill the vacancy thus created.
Cyril Mullen, advancing some modern viewpoints in metaphysics, provoked considerable argument, and Ed Conroy made some especially pertinent remarks concerning public utilities.
328	The
COMMERCE FORUM MEMBERSHIP TO CLOSE
DECEMBER 4.
The final date for the acceptance of names for membership in the Commerce Forum has been set for Wednesday, December 4, as announced by William Sherman, president. All those who are interested in becoming members are advised to submit their names for acceptance sometime before that date.
A director’s meeting of the Forum was held last Monday evening, and plans for the ensuing year were brought to a definite conclusion at that time. Arrangements for speakers to appear before the organization were finally made, and the members are assured that the Forum will have a most successful year.
Fifteen new members have been added recently, and the number previously set for the acceptance of new men has nearly been reached; consequently, those wishing to become members are advised to submit their applications at the earliest possible date.
INDIANA ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
The forty-fifth annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science will be held at Earlham College, Richmond, Indiana, December 5, 6, and 7.
The College of Science of the University of Notre Dame has always played a prominent part in the meetings of the Academy, and this year, the faculty will be represented, as usual.	'
Two years ago, the annual meeting was held at Notre Dame, and was of great interest to the undergraduates who were invited to attend the discussions and the reading of papers. Last year, Dr. E. G. Mahin, of the Department of Chemistry was president, of the organization; this year, the Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., was elected Vice-President.
Throughout the three days of the meeting, papers will be presented embodying the research of the state’s best scientists, business sessions will be held at which all suggestions are considered which might possibly insure the further success of the Acad-emy;banquets, after-dinner speeches, and addresses by the officers, will complete the program.
The program is carefully considered for months prior to a meeting, and all possible suggestions are solicited. Students in the College of Science
.Notre Dame Scholas
might do well to ask their science professors . further details of this meeting, a full report of which will be given in next week’s Scholastic.
LYONS HALL MAKES BID FOR FAME
Lyons Hall, the youngest residence building on the campus, may be also one of the “brightest places” on the often-mentioned “Gold Coast” of Notre Dame. It was named in honor of one of the University’s pioneer teachers, Professor J. A. Lyons. The building itself is of English Gothic design, while the spacious chapel is of the catacomb effect. The rooms located in the northeast end of the building are the quarters of several professors of the faculty.
As far as representation on the various campus organizations is concerned, Lyons has always been known to maintain its quota. The S. A. C. and Blue Circle has members residing here; Kaplan, Cronin and Metzger are listed on the varsity football squad, and Captain Joe Quigley and Cavanaugh, on the varsity crosscountry team. Ed. O’Brien and Bud Tuohy are members of the Juggler art staff; Ray Mannix is advertising manager of the Dome. Several men help make up the personnel of the University Jugglers Orchestra, Band and Glee Club. Other residents include the president of the Chicago Club and officers of many other like groups.
In the realm of interhall sport ac7 tivities, Lyons has the 1928 inter-hall football championship to its credit, besides worthy representation in basketball, swimming and track. It is true also, that along with winning the prize for the best decorated hall during the last home-coming celebration, at Notre Dame, it has always participated in the general “pep” demonstrations for the varsity teams, and manifested the sincere spirit known to be associated with Notre Dame.
NOTRE DAME TO ENTER HERD IN LIVESTOCK EXPOSITION
Notre Dame, of football and “Four Horsemen” fame, is also distinguishing itself in another field. The University farm is developing one of the foremost herds of show-ring quality swine in the state, and has proven their worth in important livestock shows where they have upheld, by their winnings, that reputation for
tic
victory that has come to be associated with the name of Notre Dame.
According to the management of the International Live Stock Exposition, which will open its doors at the Chicago Stock Yard, November 30 to December 7, the Notre Dame Farm has entered a carload of Hampshire swine in the market class competition, and in which during recent years they have made highly successful showings. At the 1928 Live Stock exposition, the Notre Dame entry was second to the grand-champion carload, which went to another Hoosier exhibitor, J. M. Ballard, of Marion, Indiana, while at both the 1925 and 1926 Internationals the College entries were judged champions.
PROFESSOR JOHN FREDERICK TO LECTURE HERE
NEXT TUESDAY
Professor John T. Frederick, editor* of the Midland, has been again secured to lecture to the students of Notre Dame University. Those who heard him last year, will doubtless welcome this announcement for his lectures then, were well received.
Again as in the past he will lecture to divers classes in writing in the English Department. This is the most enjoyable feature of Mr. Frederick’s stays at Notre Dame, for it is through the medium of these lectures that interested students become intimately acquainted with the well known editor of the Midland.
Professor Frederick’s formal lecture will be given in Washington Hall next Tuesday, December 3, at eight o’clock, and is entitled “The Romance of the Great Valley.” He will be at the University on December third and fourth, and it is on these days that he will address the English classes.
S. A. C. TO GIVE LAST FOOTBALL DANCE TOMORROW
NIGHT
The last football dance of the season will be given by the Student Activities Council tomorrow evening at the Knights of Columbus hall. This dance, Allowing the Army game, has optimistically been named the “Victory Dance” by Bob Kuhn, Blue Circle chairman, who has charge of the affair	'
Music for the dance, which will.be furnished by Myron Walz and his serenaders, will begin at 8:30 and continue until 11:30 p. m. Tickets, priced $1.50, are on sale in each of the halls on the campus. St. Mary’s* girls may attend the dance.
The Notre Dame Sc h o 1 a
l
A Man About the Campus |
■i
We hereby state that if the next man chosen as the subject for this column is in his room the first time we call on him, he will be described in the most glowing adjectives at our command. Bob Kuhn, according to the room list in Sorin Hall, resides on the
Robert J. Kuhn
third floor of that hallowed edifice, but try to find him there! After about ten attempts to find this elusive promoter, we finally snared him in his den, and succeeded in eliciting from him some of the facts concern- ' ing his past deeds, his present doings, and his future possibilities.
Bob admitted that he is from the town of Lima, Ohio, but warned us against any attempts' at a pun concerning beans. He attended Lima Central High School there and concentrated his attentions on baseball, football, and publication work. In his spare time he went to classes and studied. His activities since he has been at Notre Dame would seem to eliminate any spare time, but Bob is a sophomore lawyer in good standing, so the dust must not be gathering on his books.
It is doubtful whether there is sufficient room here to mention Bob’s positions and accomplishments since he has been at Notre Dame, but we’ll try to get in the more important ones. First of all, he was business manager of last year’s Dome, and if we may judge by the financial returns, he did his work exceedingly well. The Junior Prom of last year, which is remembered as a most successful one, was put over with Bob , acting as chairman. The previous year he served on one of the Cotillion
committees. Yes, Robert knows his dances. It is rumored that the Palais is considering offering him the job of manager.
To turn to his present activities: he is the S. A. C. representative from the Law School. He is also chairman of the Blue Circle, of which he has been a member for the past two years. The duties of these last two positions have kept him so busy that he has found it extremely difficult to be free on Sunday and Wednesday afternoons. There are times, of course, when pleasure must come before business.
Bob has not had much time for athletics since he has been here at Notre Dame, but anyone who can remember three years back will recall that he was the dashing halfback on the Freshman Hall team at that time. He alternated at quarter when his services were needed there. Truly a versatile fellow!
Hobbies? He answered that question in one word—reading. If Bob is as busy as he seems to be, it would seem that he could not pursue his hobby beyond reading the headlines of the News-Times. His favorite professors, he says, are Pat Manion and Dean Konop.
As we were about to leave, Bob worked himself into a serious mood and asked that we advise all who have read this far to get behind tomorrow’s program and help make the last day of the football season a big one.
BREEN MEDAL FINALS ON DECEMBER 10TH
Finals in the Breen Medal orations will be held on December 10, in Washington Hall, according to Mr. Coyne, of the Speech Department, who is taking charge of the contest this year. Three days of preliminaries were required to choose Frank Mc-Greal, J. S. Barry, Frank Corbett, Joseph Apodaca, Charles Hannon and E. L. Ackerman as the six finalists from the eighteen original contestants. Each of the men may give an original speech, of not more than ten minutes, on any subject.
The Breen award, established by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the Class of ’77, now a' prominent bankei- and lawyer of Fort Wayne, Indiana, has called forth great oratorical talent among Notre Dame men in the past. Last year, Patrick Duffy, of Moreau Seminary, was awarded the medal. James C. Roy, winner of the medal in 1927, won the national
tic	329
intercollegiate oratorical contest last year. Eight years ago Raymond Gallagher won the national contest, and Martin Nolan placed third in 1926. All these men took first places in the Indiana State oratorical contest, at which a Breen Medal winner represents the university. It is planned to hold the Indiana State contest at Notre Dame, next February.
PROMINENT MEN TO BE AT FOOTBALL BANQUET
The Notre-Dame alumni of Saint Joseph Valley will be host at a civic testimonial banquet for the football team next Thursday evening, in the Dining Hall, at 6:30. All plans have been completed and 1250' persons will be present,, marking the largest attendance ever present at a banquet in the Middle West.
The speaker’s table will be graced by some of the outstanding coaches, officials and writers of the country. Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, will preside as toasfmastei- and will introduce Major John L. Griffith, head of athletics in the Big Ten; Governor Harry Leslie of the State of Indiana; George Ade, prominent author and humorist; Judge Walter Steffen, coach of Carnegie Tech; William Ingram, coach of the United States Naval Academy; “Biff” Jones of the United States Military Academy; James Phelan, coach of Purdue, the Big Ten Champions; Pat Page of Indiana; the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. president of the University; the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the Athletic Board; Don Maxwell and Harvey Woodruff, sports editor and columnist respectively, of the Chicago Tribune, and Tom Lieb, assistant football coach of Notre Dame, who will introduce the team of ’29. Short talks will be given by the graduating members of the team.
Music will be furnished by the University band and orchestra. The Glee club and varsity trio will sing.
Attendance at the banquet will be from Chicago, Indianapolis, and various parts of Northern Indiana. The supply of tickets for the affair has been exhausted and those who have not already received reservations must be content to hear the famed speakers and program over the radio. Station WSBT of South Bend will broadcast the proceedings.
1
330
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man You Know
In an English Department, more than in any other, a proper understanding of the college youth is necessary. It is the English Department that can bring out of a student such talent as he may possess; or again it is the same department that may irrevocably stifle talent. The expert
Rufus IF. Rausch
and sympathetic advice of an instructor who combines scholarship and youthful enthusiasm for his work helps greatly in developing self expression in a student. Such an instructor is 'Mr. Rufus W. Rausch, of the English Department. Still young enough to be interested in the dreams and ambitions of youth, he makes the ideal teacher.
Mr. Rausch was born in Dubuque, Iowa. He attended Columbia Academy there; graduating in 1920. From Columbia Academy he went to Columbia College, where he received his A. B. degree in 1924. His graduate work was done at the University of Iowa. In 1925 he received his M. A.; and in the fall of the same year started to teach at Marquette University. In 1927 he came to Notre Dame. For the few years that he has been teaching, the number of courses that he has taught is rather amazing. Lyric Poetry, Survey of English Literature, Middle English, and Chaucer are courses that he has taught in the past, here and at Marquette. This year he is teaching classes in Shakespeare and the English Drama, which two courses, by the
way, are the ones that he likes best to teach.
While he was at Columbia Mr. Rausch edited the Spokesman, the college’s literary quarterly. He has done some creative writing since then. An article by him appeared in the Catholic World not so very long ago.
Students in Mr. Rausch’s classes say that he has a very thorough knowledge of his subject; which he imparts to them in a manner that is entertaining, interesting, and instructive. His classes are noted for the discussions held in them; he allows his students to state their opinions, pro and con.
Besides his very thorough knowledge of English, Mr. Rausch is familiar with Greek, Latin, and German.
The theatre, and all things connected with it, is his hobby. He collects everything connected -with the drama, from programs and photographs of famous players, to volumes of plays. His collection will soon be enriched by the complete repertoire of the Shakesperian roles that Fritz Lieber, probably the most famous Shakesperian actor living, has played. Mr. Lieber is sending Mr. Rausch the repertoire, knowing his great interest in the drama.	’
It would not be amiss to mention that Mr. Basil Rausch, his brother, a graduate of the class of 1928, and a prominent campus writer while at Notre Dame, is now in Professor Baker’s famous playwriting class at Yale. Interest in plays and playwriting seems to run in the family.
STUDENTS WILL SEE ARMY GAME
Two hundred and fifty students of the University, and many townspeople, accompanied the football team to New York yesterday on the South Bend Chamber of Commerce special train over the New York Central railroad. The party arrived in New York today at noon and will return to South Bend Sunday evening.
The greater number of students making the trip were members of the Metropolitan Club. The 83-piece band also made the trip and while in New York will give a number of concerts. Tonight they will broadcast a program over the National broadcasting chain and tomorrow evening will give a benefit concert in the Garrick theater. The band was accompanied by Joseph Casasanta, its director.
REVEREND DeGROOTE HAS CHURCH DEDICATED
The Reverend John DeGroote, C. S. C., former rector of St. Joseph Hall and a member of the faculty of the University, had his recently erected Holy Cross church and school in the northwest section of the city dedicated last Sunday by the Right Reverend John Noll, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne. The Very Reverend James Donahue, Superior General, and several priests from the University and South Bend, assisted at the dedication services.
INTERHALL DEBATING TO START WEDNESDAY
Preparations for interhall debating have been going forward under the direction of members of the Wranglers’ Club. The first debate is scheduled for December 4, when Freshman meets Brownson. Carroll and Howard are to meet on December 5; Brownson and Carroll on the sixth of December; Freshman and Howard on the eleventh; Carroll and Freshman on the twelfth; and Brownson and Howard on the thirteenth. Both teams of each hall will debate both teams of each other hall. The debates are to be held in the Law Building, and will be decided by one judge.
Especial interest is attached to this year’s schedule, since Brownson Hall has already won the cup for two years; and a third win would insure permanent possession of the Lemmer trophy by that hall.
PRE-LAW STUDENTS INVITED TO ATTEND LAW
CLUB SMOKER
All pre-law students in the University are extended a cordial invitation to attend the Law club smoker next Tuesday evening at 7:30 in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall. The speakers for the evening will be Robert M. Proctor, a prominent alumnus of the University and resident of Elkhart, Ind., and Thomas F. Konop, Dean of the Hoynes College of Law. Music and refreshments will also be on the program.
Reverend Edward Sorin, founder of the University, said his first Mass at Notre Dame in the Log Chapel on the feast of Saint Andrew, November 30,1842—just 87 years ago tomorrow.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
331
UNIVERSITY PLAYERS NOW REHEARSING
DAILY
The University Players have been rehearsing daily in Washington Hall, under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly, for “The Taming of the Shrew,” which they will present on December 16. Washington Hall has been partially redecorated, with new lighting facilities, new seats, and new varnishing; but Shakespeare is still Shakespeare. Sly, the tinker, still calls for ale when he is already deaddrunk; Katharine is still a shrewish termagant; and Petruchio still wins her by the same rough and singular method of courtship.
The cast for this production includes Mrs. Norbert Engels, who will play the role of Katharine; John E. Nowery, Arthur Dennehy, V. Phillips, Robert Haire, Frank Walker, Jack Shively, Donald Mihan, Daniel Williams, and several others.
The University Theater, which is presenting this production, is an amalgamation of all the activities of the University which are devoted to dramatic art. Through its organization, all campus work along this line is united, and Notre Dame’s high standard of dramatic endeavor- is preserved. The University Theater directs student playwriting, production, direction, and business management. The plays which it has produced since its foundation in 1926 have been well received; so this presentation is awaited with a great deal of interest.
MOYNIHAN’S INJURY ENDS COLLEGIATE CAREER
Brilliant as our victory was over Northwestern last week we find one thing marring the victory. “Big Tim” Moynihan was forced out of the game in the second quarter with a broken bone in his ankle. This brought to a close one of the most colorful careers that a wearer of the Blue and Gold has ever had. Tim has been a mainstay in the Irish forward wall for the past two seasons, and he will be sorely missed. His brilliant playing marked every game, while his Irish spirit, and his uncanny ability to diagnose the enemy’s plays have made him one of the leading pivot men of the country.
Not only did football receive his attention, but also basketball, as well, in which he scintillated as running guard for Coach Koegan, for the past two seasons.
With the passing of Tim, Notre Dame loses a true Fighting Irishman.
Tim was the pepperbox of the team; his indomitable fighting spirit and ability will long be remembered, and greatly missed next year.
UNIVERSITY CALENDAR OFF THE PRESS
The Notre Dame calendar for 1930 is off the press and will be placed on sale in the various halls next Monday evening, when a canvass will be made, according to its sponsors, Tom Murphy and Tim Moynihan. The calendar this year is distinctly new in form, and embraces several novel ideas not used in previous campus calendars.
The cover is a light brown one of heavy finished paper, with borderdecorations, titles, and University seal. On this page is also a very attractive photo of the war memorial door of Sacred Heart Church. Each page has an illustration of some scene about the campus and a calendar-appropriate to the month recorded. The campus scenes are well chosen and distinctive.
The calendar will make a very suitable Christmas gift for those at home and all are urged to reserve their copies early as the supply is limited this'year.
JUGGLERS TO ACCOMPANY TEAM TO NEW YORK
According to Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, musical director of the University, the Notre Dame Jugglers, University dance orchestra, will accompany the band on its trip to New York. The trip was* brought about by the desire of the New York Club to have the orchestra play at a dinner dance at the McAlpin Hotel.
This is the first engagement of major importance that the Jugglers have had, although they hold an enviable position in local circles. During the fall they have appeared at many social affairs in this vicinity and evidently the knowledge of then-skill was not delayed long in reaching New York.
The Jugglers will travel with the band and will stay at the McAlpin Hotel during their stay in New York.
BOARD OF LAY TRUSTEES MEETS
The possibility of the erection of a new building for the College of Law was discussed at the annual meeting of the Board of Lay Trustees held last Friday at the University. The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S.
C., president of the University, acted as chairman at the meeting.
The Law Building, which will probably be erected next year, will be the first link in the University’s building program which is now under way. ' Plans will be drawn up in the near future and the edifice will be a reality in the year 1931.
The members of the Board of Lay Trustees present were: Albert Russel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corporation, chairman; Miles W. O’Brien of the South Bend Lathe Works, treasurer; Edward N. Hurley, president of the Hurley Machine Co., former chairman of the U. S. Shipping Board; Francis J. Reitz, Evansville capitalist; Fred J. Fisher, of the Fisher Body Company; and James J. Phelan, of Hornblower & Weeks.
COACHES TO SELECT ALLAMERICAN TEAM
Four of the outstanding football coaches will gather Sunday afternoon at the home of Coach Rockne, when the All-America board of football coaches select its All-American football teams for 1929. The members of the board include: Coach K. K. Rockne of Notre Dame, T. A. D. Jones of Yale, William A. Alexander of Georgia Tech, and Glen “Pop” Warner of Stanford.
These men, representative of the various parts of the country, will select a team that will be a mythical All-American selection for the Christy Walsh syndicate of American-newspapers. Their selection is acclaimed as paramount, and the most official of any team selected.
HINKEL HONORED BY “COLLEGE HUMOR”
John V. Hinkel, ’29, of Washington, D. C., a graduate of the University, has been awarded the distinction of being chosen in the Hall of Fame in the January issue of College Humor. While at Notre Dame Mr. Hinkel was active in campus publications and was editor of the Scholastic last year.
FluiimtllimmiltllMHIlimiliHHIllHt.munin.mi^
I BEG PARDON! I
:	The price of the Student Di- I
j rectory was erroneously listed E j in last week’s Scholastic as = | .twenty-five cents. The correct I
E price is fifty cents!
332
The Notre Dame Scholastic
l	*
1 Music and Drama i_________________________________
Strange Interlude opened at the Blackstone Theater, Chicago, last Monday evening and will play there for a limited time. The play starts at five-thirty in the evening, there is an hour and a half off for dinner and then the concluding acts. Mr. O’Neill has also thrown in nine acts just to be different or some such. It is a very very modern show. Unfortunately I saw a poor cast put it on and did not enjoy their various antics. The Theater Guild cast is playing it in Chicago so it ought to be worthwhile, and if not that, interesting.
On Friday afternoon at two-fifteen and Saturday evening at eight-thirty the Chicago Symphony Orchestra will play the Surprise Symphony by Joseph Haydn. Upper-classmen will remember its rendition in Washington Hall last year by the Little Symphony.
The opera for the week-end is interesting: Thursday evening La Tra~ viata; Saturday matinee Tosca and Saturday evening Die Walkiire.
Ruth Page, an Indianapolis girl, seems to have Manhattan in somewhat of a turmoil over her exquisite and original dancing. She started work with Pavalowa at the age of fifteen and in a years’ time she was an expert. She is the wife of a prominent Chicago lawyer and conducts the baL let at Ravinia in the summer months. She has toured Europe and is the only American citizen that has ever danced with the Diaghilev Russian Ballet. Her New York program included a campus flapper dance inspired by the cartoons of John Held, Jr., and some impressionistic numbers which she had gleaned from the Island of Bali.
Last year Arthur Bodanzky resigned his position as German opera conductor for Metropolitan and a young Teuton from Wiesbaden was chosen to fill his place. At the opening of the opera three weeks ago Joseph Rosenstock, that younc Teuton, conducted Die Meistersinger. He was nervous and the orchestra sounded mediocre. Kind critics withheld comment but some came out in very bitter tones. As'a result of this railing he pleaded a nervous breakdown and handed in his resignation. Bodanzky will act as a temporary guest conductor.
. Last Tuesday the Chicago Symphony gave a good old fashion concert. that , would have been worth any
one’s trouble to have heard. The first number was Suite Number Three by John Sebastian Bach. The second was Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, possibly the most powerful piece of music ever composed. After the intermission came a Concerto for Violincello in D in which Piatagorsky was the ’cello soloist.
Sunday afternoon, December first, Tomford Harris, noted American pianist, is giving a concert at the Playhouse. Vincenzo Celli will give a dance recital on the same day at the Civic Theater for the benefit of Hull House.
Vladmir Horowitz not only packed Orchestra Hall with his concert last Sunday, the house was completely sold out two weeks before. If a young man of twenty-five can do this what a marvel he will be at fifty. His concert included Chopin, Brahms, Liszt and Debussy. Mr. Horowitz will perform in Chicago next Spring with the- Symphony.
The Taming of the Shrew will be Mr. Kelly’s first play this year and we are all pleased that he has chosen Shakespeare. The success of Julius Caesar last year should warrant an even greater triumph for this latest venture. The house was so packed last winter that let us hope that it will be played at least twice this season. The Taming of the Shrew will not be given in modern dress as was announced last week.
NOTRE DAME DINING
HALLS ENTER BUSY
SEASON
The University Dining Halls will be the scene of much activity during the remainder of November, and the ensuing month of December, according to word received from Mr. Borland, in charge of this department. A wedding breakfast for thirty-eight guests was served Monday morning. For Thanksgiving a meal especially fitting for the day was served, consisting of roast turkey and dressing, other items making up a pleasing menu.
For December, two outstanding events have been listed, the Testimonial Banquet of the Metropolitan Club to Captain John Law, of the football team,- and the banquet sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley Club, in honor of Coach Rockne and the varsity squad.
Gleanings
♦>--------------------------------.*♦
That renowned fullback of the Four Horsemen, Elmer Layden, is again attracting the attention of the football world through his brilliant success as coach at Duquesne University, in Pittsburgh. His eleven has lost only one game during the two seasons that he has been on the job.
“Before this season has ended, the higher-browed periodicals will be carrying essays on his relationship to the Comic Muse.” The “his” here refers to Charles Butterworth, and the quotation is from the article of a Broadway columnist. The aforementioned gentleman was once the clown of the campus here at Notre Dame, and is at present starring in New York, in a musical hit, “Sweet Adeline.”
Frank Wallace, alumnus and until recently the sporting editor of the New York Mirror, is working on a football novel which will be published in Collier’s in serial form. Frank was among the mob at the Southern Cal pep meeting and probably absorbed enough atmosphere and local color’ to last through a dozen novels.
“Turk” Meinert, Chairman of the S. A. C. and the Blue Circle two years ago, is studying Law at the University of Pittsburgh. With Notre Dame and Pitt as alma maters, he can’t lose on this national championship business.
Charlie Totten, another Smoky City alumnus, and remembered around the campus as a golf shark par excellence, is working for the Jones and Laughlin Steel Company in Pittsburgh.
Although Ike Voedisch sparkled at end on the Notre Dame teams of ’25, ’26, and ’27, his graduation did not mark a severing of relations with the Fighting Irish. He may be seen almost any day in the gym or on the practice field helping Tom Lieb show the boys how.
Bob Kirby and-Bob Mannix, cheer leaders of *27 and *28, respectively, were among the alumni who turned out for the record breaking battle at Soldiers’ Field, two Saturdays ago.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMPUS CLUBS
INDIANAPOLIS CLUB
The latest meeting of the Indianapolis Club held last Sunday morning in the Law Building finished discussions concerning the Christmas dance to be held at the Hotel Severin Hoof Garden, December 30. The various committees appointed by President Rocap to make all arrangements concerning the dance entered reports. The orchestra has not as yet been selected, but among those considered are some of the best in the Middle West—Charlie Davis. Publix Circuit idol, Jack Crawford, and Freddie Hamm. The Committees: Tom Mahaffey, Patrons; Tom O’Connor, Programmes; Pat Mangan, Music; John Blackwell, Tickets; John Scanlin, Arrangements; and John Maloney, Decorations. The next meeting date of the club will be announced shortly in the Scholastic.
CALUMET CLUB
The last meeting of the Calumet Club concerned a discussion of plans for the further success of the Christmas Dance to be held on the 27th of December, in the Crystal Ballroom of the Hotel Gary.
Further plans discussed arranged for all future activities of the ensuing year,—President Walter Stanton appointed Ed. O’Connor Chairman of Activities. Chairmen for each city in the Calumet region were appointed, and it was decided that each man on the Committee is to be solely responsible for the success of the activities of which he is appointed head. The next meeting date will be announced in the Scholastic.
PACIFIC NORTHWEST CLUB
The wide range of States which this Club covers makes it impossible to hold any event in the Pacific Northwest at which all members may be present. For that reason any events held in South Bend, or upon the campus, must be expected to receive the co-operation of the entire club. Plans for a banquet which was to have been held in South Bend in the near future had to be abandoned recently because of the influence of outside factors;
Approximately thirty Pacific Northwest Men are totally unaware of the existence of this club. For the benefit of these thirty men, it might be well to reiterate that this club is composed of men from the States of Oregon, Washington, Idaho and Montana. All Those men not having attended meetings of this club before this date are asked to attend the next meeting to be held next Wednesday evening in the Law Building.
AUBURN CLUB
This club, composed of men from the City of Auburn, New York, is an entirely new club on the campus. So far this year, they have been surprisingly active, and plans for the Christmas dance to be held in Auburn have already been completed. There are 18 members in the club, a larger representation, the officers boast, than any club on the campus composed of men from a city the size of Auburn.
, The dance is to be formal, a few invitations and pro
grammes having already been sent out. Tickets may be secured with reservations from James Mulvaney at 207 Corby Hall. The officers of the Club are: Richard Dona-ghue, President; George Shannon, Vice-President; Mr. Mulvaney, Secretary, and Ray Harmon, Treasurer.
ST. LOUIS CLUB
Another new club on the campus, the St Louis Club, organized very recently. On Tuesday, November 21, in the Law Building, the club held an election of officers, Robert Hellrung, acting as Chairman during the proceedings.
David Reilly was elected president, Paul Fehlig, vicepresident, Joseph Switzer, secretary and Lawrence Ryan, treasurer. The meeting continued, and plans, for future activities were discussed. Brother Patrick, C.S.C., formerly of St Louis, was chosen as Chaplain. The next meeting will be held in the Law Building, December third, and all members who did not attend this last meeting are urged to be present.	.
ROCHESTER CLUB
The Rochester Club held a meeting in the Law Building, last Tuesday night. A very interesting discussion regarding the final Christmas dance plans, and a “get-together” of the • Alumni and undergraduates during Christmas week, was held. An invitation has been extended by the Alumni Club to the local Club to be its guests at a stag party, on December 23. This invitation was accepted with much enthusiasm. The plans of the Alumni are to make this an annual affair for both clubs. The “get-together” of the clubs is to acquaint the undergTaduates with the alumni. Plans for the Christmas dance are completed. A novelty in the way of entertainment and decorations has been arranged, and if it fulfills expectations, the dance will, without a doubt, be the biggest success yet. The Club is also trying to arrange with one of the Rochester football men to be the guest of honor at this dance.
A very generous invitation has been extended the members of the Rochester Club by the Auburn Club, to attend its Christmas dance during Christmas week, as guests of the Auburn Club. It is being planned by Rochester men to - attend this affair en masse.
PITTSBURGH CLUB
The Pittsburgh Club met in the Law Building, on Thursday, November the twenty-first. Forty members of the club were present, • and plans were made for the Christmas dance. James Dodson, general chairman of the dance, spoke on the progress made by the various committees, and urged that the club members support the dance. Reports were received from James Morgan, Anthony Wise, Bernard Conroy, and Richard O’Toole, who are assisting the general chairman.
A change in the selection of the orchestra has been made . since the last report. The question is not as yet finally decided, but it is thought that Dewey Bergman and his music will be secured.
334
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The University of Denver co-eds have been highly rebellious ever since the long skirts were resurrected. “We won’t wear them!” was the battle cry. Finally they called a meeting to discuss the proposition pro and con, mostly con. They even invited a trio of men to come and discuss this great question, which, to their notion, seems to be the foremost problem confronting the American people today. But despite all their indignant protests they have of course been wearing the long skirts that fashion has decreed. (We are forced to change the subject now because of insistent cat-calls and cries that sound suspiciously like “Hypocrites!”)
—o—
Co-eds at the University of Detroit really believe they have cause for* complaint, as they have been forbidden to converse with men students at any time or any place on the campus. This is rather- an unwise ordinance, for it is universally recognized that it is next to impossible to keep a woman quiet when she feels the urge to say something, whether of importance or no, usually no. And in too many cases this urge is practically continuous. But if this new ruling should be enforced at Detroit, there will no doubt be plenty of young people desperately attempting to master the art of finger talking.
—o—
It is announced that 33,204 pounds of freshmen entered Tufts College this year. This tonnage or poundage is divided, albeit quite unequally in certain instances, among the three hundred and fifty members of the class of ’33. The individual weights range from a mere 89 to an impressive 260. No information is furnished as to what percentage of the total weight is located above the neck and what below.
—o—
“A questionable pink sheet” at the University of Kansas charges athletes of that School with accepting as much as $75 a month for wearing aprons while they eat or for reporting at places of employment fortnightly for roll call. Harking back to the Carnegie report, we recall that such practices should be pointed at with the finger of shame as being very, very naughty.
The Ohio State Historical Society recently presented a prehistoric battle-axe to the governor of the state. From now on he should find it comparatively simple to silence his enemies.	.
—o—
And five students of the pharmacy school in the City College of Detroit are taking a course in toilet specialties, anothei- is taking an advanced course in manicure preparations, and still another specializes in perfume manufacture. Come, Percival, let’s be wicked and go drink a red sody pop.
'	—o—
Notre Dame has silk pants for her Fighting Irish, but the Oklahoma Aggies have airplane cloth pants for the ends and the backfield men on their team. It looks like they should at least have a good aerial attack.
It seems that three years aren’t enough to satisfy the hazing inclinations of Haverford College students. Anyway, there were recently “several organized raids on the campus by some of last year’s seniors in none too sobei- a condition.”
The industry and ability of the men students at the University of California is shown by the fact that last year they earned more than five million dollars while taking the regular college courses. Five thousand of the men earn all or part of their expenses. Maybe they have some of those S75 a month jobs they are said to distribute at Kansas.
Just when a zoology prof was waxing eloquent in a classroom at West Virginia not long ago, a strange noise much like a hiss was suddenly heard. “Who did that?” demanded the outraged professor. Everyone swore innocence and presently the lecture was resumed. Immediately the hissing noise again interrupted and again the thoroughly indignant prof was unable to discover the culprit. Muttering dire threats under his breath, the harassed prof once more picked up the thread of his discourse and continued his knitting—no, no, we mean his lecture. But a third time his remarks brought forth hisses and the poor old fellow just naturally flew off the handle, so to speak. He instituted a most complete investigation that eventually brought to light the guilty party. And imagine his embarrassment when he found that the cause of the disturbances was nothing more than a huge snake coiled in a drawer of his desk. Evidently the reptile could not bring itself to agree with the various remarks of the professor on zoology.
—o—
Indiana is not the only university that has been having its experiences with a no share club. The male students of the University of Denver have been running such a club in much the same way as the Bloomington organization was conducted. The chief points of difference seem to be that the Denver group was called the Shavictory Club and that they got it over with in the relatively short time of three weeks.
—o—
A Hobo Convocation in the gymnasium was part of the Homecoming activities at Kansas last week. Prizes were offered to those students who produced the worst looking costumes. The competition was exceedingly close, and it is rumored that some of the winners were almost disqualified when it was learned that they were in then- regular, everyday attire.
—o—
They must have some nice jobs at Princeton, too, for the 387 undergraduates of that school who work to pay their expenses will earn a total of $220,000 for the year, or an. average that will almost reach a thousand dollars apiece when the scholarships are added to the total.
u -	—O—
A new musical comedy club at the University of Virginia has been named the “Cue Club.” Now what in the world are the billiard sharks going to call their club?
The Notre Dame Scholastic	335
| | ARRY BUSSCHER, holder of all intra-mural records for distance and crack spattering from both the squat and erect positions according to the revised Beech Nut rules, has been spitting wide of the mark this last week. Some say that Busscher has fallen under the influence of a certain Broker, a social outcast, owing to an inexplicable obsession which he has for the billiard cue. If true, this is a serious matter, for one of the early members of this Broker clan died in a madhouse from a peculiar form of psychoses billiardus. During the final stages of this mania the unfortunate victim crawls about on hands and knees over a billiard table, while he chews wildly on blue chalk, and makes strange noises like those of the wild rabbit. Eggerman and Broker, local attorneys, have begun negotiations with the house detective at the Oliver to secure his aid in drawing an injunction against this rabid cue pusher before his influence is too marked on Busscher. The sudden inability to spit on a dime at ten yards is causing no little worry in campus musical circles, especially as Busscher is President of the band, and his weakness may cause the cancelling of the proposed trip to New York. Busscher is not only a genius, he is a temperamental genius. In moments of aesthetic abstraction he frequently mistakes the mouthpiece of the French horn for one of the brass cuspidors in Hul-ley’s and Mike’s.
| HE Irish buds will not blossom at the tournament of Roses this year, be it said to the praise of Knute Rockne and the Faculty Board. Rockne puts it this way, “We play the strongest teams, hoping to win as many games as we can, but we do not play them with our eyes watching the title standings.” If every coach in the country could say that, and believe what he said, if All-America football teams were as interesting as cold waffles, and if alumni spent $50 to get tickets for the debates of universities there would be no need for Carnegie Foundation investigators.
D EMOCRACY is characteristic of Notre Dame. Some say it is also characteristic of the Middle-west, and even of the entire country. But some of us think democracy means hypocricy, for several reasons that can be either good or bad. A picture in a local paper the other day showed a
truck being loaded with Christmas seals. Beside the truck stood the executive secretary of the Red Cross, her stenographer, a Boy Scout, and the truck driver. The executive secretary and her stenographer, holding bundles of mailed seals, had posed beside the truck because of that liking which modern woman has of finding herself in manly and incongruous occupations. The Boy Scout was there because the scoutmaster, now that parents have conceded all rights in the education of their children, teaches Scouts that doing things for nothing is one way of learning how to do nothing.
The executive secretary, her stenographer, and the Boy Scout had their names and proper titles in the writeup, but trailing behind all this glory like a lame duck came the man who did the work. He was tacked onto the end of the honorable mention with “and a truck driver.” And yet that chap and the millions of others who drive trucks, and nails, and cows, are the men who make the Red Cross possible. Democracy, the ideal, is politeness. When we see a national figure laying a cornerstone it is well to recall that it is only a cornerstone, and that personages never build parsonages. We can say that democracy is here when we find a man laying a cornerstone because he is a good stone mason, not a good politician. College educated sociologists know that charity drives are successful if their appeal is made directly to people. And nothing appeals to the man who drives a truck more than knowing that you consider him more man than manikin.
Solomon Grundy, Came here on Monday, Was enrolled on Tuesday, Went to class on Wednesday, Bought tickets on Thursday, Scalped on Friday, Summoned on Saturday,	•
Expelled on Sunday.
This was the end Of Solomon Grundy.
ND Solomon Grundy was typical of his countrymen,
some of whom want to get rich over night. Sol got rich, quick enough, but he had to spend all his riches to buy a railroad ticket. Poor Sol!

c^rmy Same Sleminiscenses
Johnnie O'Brien, who caught a ’2S pans
N fact, it was the story of several passes. And with such a startling regularity- that Army halfbacks began to shy like Army mules when Notre Dame quarterbacks dropped back to pass. Even now, after fifteen annual battles, youngmilitary gentlemen, when asked about the use cf the forward pass in Notre Dame games, blink, cough nervously and bury their heads in the sport pages of the Pointer.
It all began this way in 1913: Agile Quarterback Dorais barked out a signal that echoed up and down the yardage of the “Plains.” An Army line and a Notre Dame front wall stiffened. But when Captain McEwan and his soldiers charged in to play
football as Coach Daly had groomed them, a squat figure jerked out of the play, ran ten yards down the field, turned. Into his arms flew the ball. And Rock was off.
Military backs were confused: Hoge, Hobbs and Hodgson knew that the forward pass was legal, but the way these Hoosiers were using it was outrageous. Bulky linemen plunged in ready to thrust back a heaving Notre Dame man coming through guard; or they dashed out to catch a scampering halfback on an end run. But the line plunges and
end runs Rockne!
pass was
Notre
weren’t forthcoming. Dorais to Dorais to Pliska! The forward' here to stay.
Dame coach Jess Harper, K. K.
Rockne and Gus Dorais were the perpetrators of the new weapon. South Dakota saw it and fell. So did the United States Military Academy in the first Notre DameArmy game. We won, 35-13.
General Leonard Wood was shocked.
Copall,-who threw a ’15 pass
So was Coach Bill
Daly. So was Captain (later coach) McEwan. So were the cadets, the scrubs, the East in general. The New York Times
of Nov. 1 insisted that “the yellow egg was in the air half the time with the Notre Dame team spread out in all directions waiting for it.” When Dorais didn’t pass (and all five of the touchdowns came from passes), Eichenlaub was crashing through from his fullback position, while Army backs had spread out in an attempt to break up the expected pass.
In 1914, Notre Dame lost to the Army, 20-7, but in the next year, Jim Phelan, whose Purdue Boilermakers came into Big Ten glory this year, signalled a pass in the last period. The score was a tie, 0-0. ' On the line were Center Hugh O’Donnell, now the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., prefect of discipline; Captain Fitzgerald, and the giant tackle Rydzewski. Cofall, snappy halfback, took the ball from center and threw a long pass to Bergman, the other half and Bergman counted out fifty yards, a touchdown, and victory, 7-0.
By the following year, 1916, Notre Dame’s forward pass invention had become a Frankenstein. It was used with such perfection by Anny that their Oliphant and Vidal passed their way to a 30-10 win. The “pass-play” had triumphed over the “mass-play”; in the trend towards aerial attack, the
mules discovered several things, among them that Notre Dame could be out-passed. It happened.	•
The war and 1917 came together: there was a game that year, which ended in a win for the Irish, 7-2. Quarterback Allison hip-hipped, as described below, and after a few strategic passes, called Brandy’s number and the halfback poked his way over the goal-line, Army’s center and Fullback Oliphant for six points.
“Notre Dame’s ’ tango backfield,” said the
New York Tribune the next day, “probably misses a jazz ac-
“Rock” caught the first forward pass
Quarterbacks A
companiment. Quarterback Allison does the
Scene from Army Game, 1917
best he can and that is much but there is j a difference between a signal and a saxo-
■ phone. Now and then, Mr. Allison called j
“23-18-42-hip-hip!” and so far distinguish, the tango backfield always hip-hipped.' The dancing backfield has more of the dexterity of the “Whirlwind Millers” than the grace of the Castles. The Army will substantiate that. Sometimes Quarterback Allison gave three hips, like “Hip-hip-hip!” which was a fine way to greet a party of soldiers.”
Sorin and Corby were crowded with influenza-stricken boys in 1918. Rocknepnow a coach, called practice^ discovered George
as we could j
Haiuw Sti
quartiiba
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 336

t forward ^ass
iittiiitiiiaiitttitiiiiitiiiiiiitiiitiiitiitiiiiiitiiiaiiiitiiiitiiiiitiiitiimtiuiiitiiiiiitiiiiiii
Siy ^aul Stfallinan
laatiaitiiiiiiBiaaitaaaaatiiaiiaiataiiaiaaiaiaiiatiiiiiaiiiiiaiaiiaaaiitaaaaaiiaaaiaaaaaaaaitaaaaiaaaa
Gipp, played a few games and called it a season. The Army battle had to be cancelled. Down east, the boys in uniform were getting instructions before shoving off for the front. Back on the campus, tackles and fullbacks and water-boys were packing their trunks for army camps. It was not a year for football. But we won in 1919, 12-9.
George Gipp and 1920 are synonomous. There are refectory
quarterbacks now who scoff at the members of the “I saw Gipp”
Club. Perhaps the Gipp-subject is boresome to admirers of Cannon, Carideo, Elder and Savoldi.. But a “coldly judging, later admiring, finally enthusiastic” crowd of sport-writers saw Gipp that autumn day when Army and Notre Dame met. He ploughed right and left (but mostly forward) for 124 yards; he ran back punts and kick-offs for 112 yards. And he passed—“a thing of beauty,” said the newspapers—for a total gain of 96 yards. Army was beaten, 27-17.
We said that the writers were enthusiastic; they were more than that—they even broke the bonds of flaming sports-journalism, and called Rockne a “Miracle Man”; called Captain Coughlin’s line a “bearcat on defense, a tiger on attack.” The New York Herald said:
“Gipp played the greatest individual game
Pestilence, Destruction, and Death. These are only aliases. Their real names are: Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden.”
They beat Army that year, 13-0. Layden ran the ends and plunged the line. Stuhldreher threw him a pass (shades of Dorais to Rockne) for- the first touchdown . Jimmy Crowley went to sleep on the 50-yard line, incidentally intercepted a well-meant Army pass, and ran 35 yards. Don Miller skirted right and left ends, his close cropped head jerking here and there. •
“I’ve lain awake nights” sighed Captain Dennis Mulligan of Army, Spaying-silent tribute in my own heart ro what I consider the most polished football
Coach Jesse Harper
eleven it has been my fortune—sad
though it were—to witness in action. I appreciate the fact that such an aggregation is not the product of mere flesh and blood.”
illison and Phelan
seen at West Point since the Gus'Dorais afternoon when Jim Thorpe of threw it the Carlisle Indians defeated the Cadets singlehanded and single-footed.”
Gipp died and other Blue and Gold Knights romped up and down the “Plains.” Tom Lieb (we’d call him Rock’s understudy only it wouldn’t give him enough credit), Ken Oberst, who Tighe Woods tells us was the demi-god of the Minims, the fleet Kizer, Rip Miller, Paul Cast-ner (who has been ranked with Gipp as “Notre Dame’s greatest”), Chet Wynne, a smashing fullback, All-American ends. Eddie Anderson and
It was a brilliant battle. And an encore was played the next year. Again Layden, Crowley, Miller and Stuhldreher romped to a victory. In the center of each line stood the grim and injured Walsh and smiling Garbisch, Army center—two of the cleverest men that ever locked ankles with a brace of guards. When the boys returned to South Bend, they had won, 13-7.
Critics who saw the Army team of ’2-5 said that if the men had blue jerseys, Rockne would have been confused. Army’s Hewitt at fullback smashed through, carrying his teammates to a 27-0 win. Bud Boeringer, All-American Notre
Dame center, “Clipper” Smith, later All-American, “Bull” Poliskey and Clem Crowe, and Christie Flanagan saw the Army backfield use an Irish style of play, that was “Irisher” than
Hugh O'Donnell, now Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Kiley, Clem Crowe and Carberry.
This crowd of Notre Dame boys won in
1921, scoring once in each quarter. There was a 0-0 game in ’22. Meanwhile interhall fans on the old Brownson field had found out a few things. One of these
things was Harry Stuhldreher. Another was Jim Crowley. A third was Elmer Layden. And another was Don Miller. By a twist of football fate, they found their way into the same
uhldreher, tek, 102S-2.',
backfield; a center known as Adam Walsh got in front of them. And the Four Horsemen were in their spurs.
The next year they had hit their pace. ’ “Outlined against a. blue grey ' sky,” warbled Collier’s Grantland Rice, “the Four Horsemen _
rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as Famine,
Dipping the Flag, Army Game, 1917
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 337
338
The Notre Dame Scholastic
the Irish’s own style. The next year, Flanagan and O’Boyle reclaimed the Gaelic glory, 7-0. Once during the afternoon Christie Flanagan ran 65 yards. In 1927, Bed Cagle, Murrell and Harry Wilson pounded Notre Dame’s line to score three times and win, 18-0.
1928. The score was 6-6 at the third quarter. Back at the Gridgraph, Notre Dame, frenzied after a week of reading irate “alumni” letters and painting Army mules on South Bend sidewalks, cheered hoarsely. Cagle had been stopped, they heard. But so had Freddie Collins and Jack Chevigny.
Eighty thousand persons in New York saw Bockne stand up, beckon to a youth. The announcers and
.-ind the Great writers didn’t know G,PI> O’Brien. “John O’Brien, left end,” said the programs. Those who had heal'd Bockne tell his “torn-pants” joke thought that maybe O’Brien’s mission was to replenish the wardrobe of Chevigny or Twomey. Then the two teams lined up and John was at left end.
Back went the ball. Niemic snapped it. O’Brien raced down the field. Into his arms flew the ball (did we use that phrase before?). Anyway, 15 chapters of Army-Notre Dame football came to a close when O’Brien won the game, 12-6 on a FOBWABD PASS.
“Dipping the Flag”—as pictured on the preceding page—reminds one that the news-reel men of 1917 must have had plenty of material for pre-game solemnities when the cameras
clicked at Notre Dame-Army games. Here is an outline of the ceremony:
“Just before this great intersectio-al contest begins,” said the Scholastic of 1917, “the West Point Cadets in full dress march from their barracks to ‘the Plains.’ Midway in line of parade are borne the Stars and Stripes and the flag of the Army Corps. When the football field is reached, the color-bearers, accompanied by the Cadet band proceed to the center of the gridiron. The rest of the Cadets form a great hollow square bordering the field. The Academy yells are given, West Point songs are played by the band and sung by the Cadets, the flag is saluted; the Cadets then march to their places in the stands. When the band ceases its music, the yell-master assumes charge and the Army cheers are given. Again, the great cheer for the National emblem coming as a fitting climax. The colors are then dipped solemnly three times to the Cadet stands. A cheer for Notre Dame follows and the colors are dipped once more. . . .”
Ends, Kiley and Anderson
We started off with a forward pass —Dorais’ proto-pass to Bockne—and had the best intentions of finishing with Johnnie O’Brien’s reception of
last year’s toss.' But we have strayed from the subject, and have included a lot of details that have as little to do with forward passing as the assistant curtain-raiser in a musical comedy. The cuts generously sprinkled all over the three pages are pictures of men who played football hard, but had imagination enough to create new styles of play—Notre Dame players under either Bockne or Harper had to
think—and one of the thoughts was a forward pass. A possible reason that “Dipping the Flag” and other things found their w ay in here, lies with editors, mechanical limitations, and other demands.
Passes oi' no passes—here are complete statistics on games won or lost:
Bergman, halfback, 1915
Results of Army-Notre Dame Games
1913------Notre Dame,	35; Army,	13
1914------Notre Dame,	7; Army,	20
1915------Notre Dame,	7; Army,	0
1916------Notre Dame,	10; Army,	30
1917------Notre Dame,	7; Army,	2
1918---------No game (war and flu)
1919------Notre Dame,	12; Army,	9
1920-----_Notre Dame,	27; Army,	17
1921------Notre Dame,	28; Army,	0
1922.-----Notre Dame,	0; Army,	0
1923------Notre Dame,	13; Army,	0
1924------Notre Dame,	13; Army,	7
1925------Notre Dame,	0; Army,	27
1926------Notre Dame,	7; Army,	0
1927------Notre Dame,	0; Army,	18
1928------Notre Dame,	12; Army,	6
178	149
The Notre Dame Scholastic
339
EDITOR'S PAGE
the -ai itctisi-
At this time of year a glance at the “Zeitgeist” is not altogether out of place; closer scrutiny of the spirit of the times (which is the meaning of this German word), is bound to bring us new ideas on our responses to our environment, a new light that may reveal hitherto unglimpsed properties of things.
We say “at this time of year”; Thanksgiving has come and gone, yet, in many cases, its mission has been nothing other than a cessation of work, and, (in fewer cases) the occasion of an exclusive pre-occupation with the animal man. But such a holiday has in itself implications whose delicate points may easily be dulled by gross over-concern with the more obvious phases; among these implications is that which causes us to become aware of our position in the universe; one among a billion others, one facing a billion billion stars that nightly laugh out their light; and yet, one!
-	And certainly such a reflection is cause for some concern (even, possibly, over-concern!} with the
eternal flames that flared darkly for Pharoah and Socrates, brightly for you and me.
. The spirit of the day, that subtle, elusive, yet obvious and easily discoverable Zeitgeist, always militates against concern with the pillars of the hou se of life; it would have us watch the floor of that house, but never venture a glance at those columns, the shadows of which are ever over us.
But the spirit of the day is far from our inner selves; and while its minions play round about ; us, the spirit that is within us, may, untroubled and untouched, pursue its quiet.contemplation of the great, unshifting pillars of Life!	M. H. L.
--------------------------
SILENT CHEEKING
( •
,	Unfortunately the carefully planned silent cheering intended for the Southern California game
was prevented by the inability of the ticket office to exclude strangers from the students’ sections. Doubtless the disappointment of the spectators was keen when the promised novelty was not forth-( coming. Under the circumstances, however, there was no choice but to abandon the plan. The result would have been doomed to failure by half-hearted attempts to co-operate with the stunt manager.
Next season the new stadium will open its portals to the public. It would be quite novel and worthwhile to make silent cheering a permanent fixture at Notre Dame. Under more ideal conditions * offered by exclusive student sections and our own stadium, the success of the endeavor is evident. Doubtless in time the student body will earn fame and popularity as great as that enjoyed by the football team.
Western universities have been famous for years for their superb cheering section. Since the Middle West has never attempted to imitate the coastal universities it would be fitting if Notre Dame k took the initiative and followed the example of ou r friendly rivals on the west coast. T. v. M.
Well, thank the Lord, we’ve played Southern California; we’ve been to the Opera; we’ve been to the Symphony; we’ve been to Werrenrath’s concert; and we’ve been to bed. Still and all and all and still Chicago is still Chicago and the W. C. is, as every one knows by now, moved to 169 No. Franklin. Heigh ho.
—o—
ANOTHER SIDELIGHT ON THE COTILL
And after the Cotillion we went down to the Green Parrot where we ordered a dejeuner of petites saudsses and pre sale with hors d’oeuvres of petits gateaux, and washed it down with a bottle of vin blanc. After that joint closed we dropped into the Pigeon Coop for a couple of dances. Soon-Canders and their Loyal Egyptians weren’t very peppy so we hurried out in a frenzied effort to get to Alladin’s Palace before sun-up. We almost made it too, but while we were standing on the curb waiting for a taxi, that dream-slaying bell began its ten-minute setting-up exercises.	—Jules
MONODY FOR A JILTED LOVER
Your heart is light and your step is quick, Your thoughts of me have flown;
But do you knozv my heart is sick And I must zoalk alone?
Along my path blithe birdies flit
And flowers bloom that were never sozun;
Bzit do you think I care a zvhit Sizice I must zvalk alozie?
The sun showers gold on the emerald hills, But my spirit lieth prone.
What do I care foz' rocks and rills When I must walk alone?
—Vagabond Lover.
If we thought there’s be a flock of contributions after every week-end we spend in Chi we’d get permission to go every week. And anyone who doubts that Betty was. there is crazy. If she wasn’t neither was Michigan Avenue.'
—o—
For the benefit of those too lazy to get out their Eucharistic Calendars we wish to announce that four weeks from today we will all be somewhat else if possible. And hy the way, are you in condition for heap.much smooch-smooch? ■	‘
Fort Huachuca please note that Notre Dame plays the Army on November 30. In the language of Skippy . . . . “Nyah-h-h-h!” Or as we say to our dear great-grandmother .... “Comb that out of your moustache, you ole debbil.”
A DREAM
I read a fairy tale long ago, About dziyads who haunted a tree, And hired men zvith music and beauty. Long I pozidered the pages;
Quoth I, “ ’Tis a dream of the ages, Surely . . . surely it cannot be so.”
(That was long ago.) Todazj . . . today I went astrazj in a zvoodland old, Where music zoos played on flutes of gold. And I heard a lozv voice in the trees, (A zvoman’s voice as soft as the breeze) And it seemed ... it seemed to murmur, “Stay!”
—Bishop M.
We knew you would Bish. So thank you and how are Aunt Jen and Uncle Joe? We saw everyone Sunday who lived on the fourth floor of Walsh two years ago, but not even Frank will get to his own wedding on Thanksgiving Day. Imagine a wedding on Thanksgiving Day? It rather gives a wedding too many of the implications of the first Puritan Thanksgiving, if you get what we mean. Tsk. Tsk.
3
11
If all the*bores in school were laid end to end we would gladly, pay for a steam-roller.
Ml
Since they raided places at two state universities we have begun to think that perhaps there’s something to this talk of prohibition.	.
.—T. Talbot Tabloid.
o
A church in Muncie, Indiana, placed a' copy of Middletown in its new cornerstone. Had they read the book they’d : have preferred to put Babbitt in its place.
a
When we can’t think of anything to say about D. ; S. it’s time to quit. And we have an eight o’clock in the morning so we tuck the tissues between the unbleached cottons. Nightie night, and just wait until next week. Someone will take a ride. ■	'
The Notre Dame Scholastic
341
Notre Dame on Rampage Against Wildcats
Northwestern Is Smothered, 26-6, Under Powerful Attack
The Notre Dame “Animal Trainers” went on another rampage and tamed the Northwestern Wildcats down to a mere whimper- under the stinging whip of 26 to 6. Dyche Stadium, the scene of the encounter, drew a capacity crowd and everyone in the immense audience roared his approval each time Notre Dame broke loose for a touchdown.
The first string line and second string backfield started the game as usual, and strange to say, they appeared to be outplayed during that period. With the beginning of the second canto, however, the slaughter-started and from then on Northwestern was just a puppet in the hands of the Fighting Irish.
O’Connor and Savoldi Travel
Bergherm, Northwestern’s hardworking fullback, punted out of bounds on Notre Dame’s 16-yard line to begin the second period. Savoldi made four yards on a reverse play, and on a fast and deceptive, spinnerplay Bucky O’Connor carried the ball to the Purple 40-yard line, where he was run out of bounds. Joe Savoldi outdistanced his opponents on the next run and tore forty more .yards around right end for the first touchdown., To make the lead secure, Coach Tom Lieb rushed in Frankie
Carideo and the latter- placed his kick
squarely between the cross bars
for the extra point, which, at the time, looked as if it might be the margin of victory.
To be sure, Notre Dame didn’t^ stop there, that was only the beginning. Two more touchdowns were scored in the second period and-the lasir one was made in:the third quarter. Many more would have been counted if Lieb had kept his first string lineup intact, • but in order to give every man a chance he made substitutions promiscuously/. andv blandly., : It . certainly,;;
looked like the Fighting Irish were on dress parade during that second half. Schwartz Makes Second
Marchy Schwartz scored the second touchdown after Tom Conley recovered one of Northwestern’s foozled laterals in mid-field. Line thrusts gained 19 yards on three tries, and Brill captured one of Carideo’s passes for a gain of 26 yards. With the ball
Notre Dame’s Powerful Solid-Gold “Watch Charm” Guard __________________________________j
Bert Metzger
on the nine-yard line, Brill made a yard over right tackle and Schwartz marched through behind his interfer
ence for a touchdown.
Just as the whistle blew ending the first half, Carideo raced over to the clear and captured one of Bergherm’s • many wild passes on his own 15-yard '.line. Bergherm'tore across the field to interrupt Carideo’s run, but Frank slipped by him with a clevei- thrust and then blithely continued on 85 ..yards, to the, goal line.
Colrick Catches Clever Pass
The last Notre Dame touchdown was a bit harder to get, for a six-yard loss and a penalty threatened to force the Fighting Irish to lose the ball, but a timely pass to Colrick from Schwartz netted 18 yards and it was fourth down and a yard to go. Colrick grabbed the pass just as he stepped across the sideline, and when tackled dropped the ball, but it was evident that he had held it long enough and so the gain was counted. It was a difficult play in the far corner of the field. Savoldi received the pass from Nash and adeptly plunged over the mass of players for the tally.
And so you see, that was that for Notre Dame. How did Northwestern score its touchdown? Well, it was like this. Yarr’s pass from center went 35 yards, high over Carl Cronin’s head to the 12-yard line where the Purple took it on downs. Four tries and nothing doing so Northwestern lost the ball on the six-yard line and Cronin had to drop back to kick again. Whatever the next play was supposed to have been, it was never- completed because when Yarr snapped the ball back it landed loosely over the goal and somehow Marvil of the Purple discovered he could make a touchdown by falling on the ball. And strange to say, he did.
‘ Tough Luck, Tim! .
A strange game with its strange complexities—stranger than we can tell about. And the strangest thing was how Tim Moynihan was injured. From way up in the press box the play seemed just ordinary as there was no piling up of players. Tough luck, Tim, especially with the big game just around the bend, and our heartiest wishes go out to you that your leg will heal properly and rapidly. Too bad you had to end your
342
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
o
Corner Michigan and Colfax
Serve the Best Extra
Citizens Trust & Savings Bank

Rich Malted Milk in the City
o
Try one 20c
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
Clean, Courteous Service
De Luxe Hot Chocolate......... .15c
Meyer’s Hot Ovaltine.......15c
Lemonade..............10c
Orangeade.........10c
JEFFERSON NEAR MICHIGAN
i £ I f
S3
1
THE
CHINA INN
AMERICAN and CHINESE
Restaurant
Private Booths and Club Room
65c Dinners
50c Noonday Lunches
11 to 2 \
210 N. Main St South Bend, Indiana
It's Here Again, Boys
wj?ld
SUN. thru
WED.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY Another All-Talkie and Laughie “THE VERY IDEA"
FOR THE BEST TALKIES—
—ALWAYS THE ARMO
One eye laughs—the other cries—both thrill! REAL RED HOT MIRTH With
Victor McLaglen—Edmund Lowe—Lily Damita WEDNESDAY is the LAST DAY
ARMO
J^^theatreW^ 915_South Miehifan Street
ThC OCVW




The Notre Dame Scholastic
343
career in that manner but we expect to find you in the Army game next week as usual—in spirit.
We didn’t see the Georgia Tech game nor the Indiana contest but we will wager that the Fighting Irish played their easiest game of the season last Saturday. The victory was a striking finish to the western part of the schedule, and shows completely Notre Dame’s supremacy in this part of the country.
The line-ups:
Northwestern		Notre Dame
Baker	LE	Collins
Riley-	LT	Twomey
Anderson	LG	Cannon
Erickson	C	Moynihan
Woodworth	RG	Law
Marvil	RT	Donoghue
Gonya	RE	Conley
Hanley	QB	Kenneally
Moore	LH	Schwartz
Calderwood	RH	O’Connor
Bergherm	FB	Savoldi
Score by periods:		
Notre Dame_______0 20	6	—26
Northwestern_____0	0	0	6— 6
Touchdowns—Notre Dame: Carideo,
[■ptiiiiiiiintiiiiiiiittiiftiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMttiiHiititiiiniii'Q i STATISTICS OF THE I j	GAME	I
E First Downs:	e
E Notre Dame, 11 (one on : E	passes).	i
1 Northwestern, 9 (three on i E	passes, one by penalty). |
E Yards from Scrimmage:	e
a . Notre Dame, 238 yards. E i Northwestern, 106 yards.	=
1 Forward Passes Completed: e
E Notre Dame, two out of six | E	for 48 yards, one being in-	E
E	tercepted by Woodworth.	E
j Northwestern, five of 26 for ; E	78 yards, five being inter-	|
E	cepted by Nash, Murphy,	|
:	O’Brien, Colrick and Car-	E
|	ideo.	j
| Penalties:	j
E Notre Dame, six times for 60 = E	yards.	E
E Northwestern, four times for E E	20 yards.	=
= Average Length of Punts: | E Notre Dame, 36.9 yards.	|
E Northwestern, 34.2 yards. E lb......................................
A Clever Quarterback Whose Work Is Consistent
Tom Kenneally
ARMY KAYDETS ARE FINAL
BAR TO N. D. TITLE HOPES
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish will sweep down upon the Army “yellow peri],” in Yankee Stadium, tomorrow’ afternoon before more than 70,000 excited fans. One of the largest crowds ever to pack into that stadium, will see Notre Dame match its wits with the vivid saffron-hued j'ersey clad West Pointers in its final game of the season.
The last of the nine for Notre Dame! And all the eight before chalked up on the -winning side. Army has six wins, a tie, and two losses to its credit, nevertheless, it has shown that it has an impressive and dangerous outfit.
The old familiar faces of Christian Keener Cagle, Dick O’Keefe, Hertz Murrell, and Herb Gibner, will be seen again and only too well, for they have contributed the maj'or part in Army’s victories.
Army Builds New Line
Starting a tough schedule with only one regular linesman left from last
Schwartz, Savoldi (2). Northwestern: Marvil.
Points after touchdown — Carideo (2), place-kicks.
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Gebert for Kenneally, Carideo for Gebert, Brill for O’Connor, Nash for Moynihan, Elder for Schwartz, Mullins for Savoldi, Kassis for Cannon, F. Leahy for Donoghue, Colrick for Collins, Vezie for Conley, Metzger for Law, Culver for Twomey, Kenneally for Carideo, Schwartz for Elder, Savoldi for Mullins, Kaplan for Brill, Vik for Vezie, Christman for Kenneally, Howard for Savoldi, B. Leahy for Schwartz, Murphy for Vik, O’Brien for Colrick, Shay for Howard, Yarr for Nash, Cassidy for Kassis, Bondi for Cassidy.
Northwestern — Oliphant for Gon-ya, Haas for Hanley, Burnstein for Calderwood, Engebritsen for Riley, Hanley for Haas; Griffin for Moore, Klarr for Griffin, Hails for Klarr.
Referee, Walter Eckersall (Chicago) ; umpire, John Schommer (Chicago) ; field judge, M. P. Ghee (Dart-mourth); head linesman, Joe Lipp (Chicago).
year’s team, Coach “Biff” Jones soon developed a line of power and force, which has opened up the opponent’s inner wall to permit the phantom pair, Murrell and Cagle, to tear through. Jones has placed Hillberg and Malloy at the ends with Parham and Perry at tackles. The guards have been Humbar and Hillsinger but the center position now being capably filled by Miller, was the hardest to fill for all the regular and substitute pivotmen were graduated last year.
Jones could not wash for a more evenly balanced backfield than he has, for Murrell, Cagle, O’Keefe, and Bowman are crafty, skillful backs with copious ability. These four men -will be splendid competition in the last game of the Fighting Irish season.
And another* thing which will benefit the Army is the fact that they have enough good material on hand so as to form a shock troop much on the lines of our own. Last week this wrecking crew held Ohio Wesleyan to a scoreless tie during the first half.
344
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ifataaaiiBaaaiattiaaaaataaiaiiaataaaaaaaiaaiaaaaaaattiaaiiiBaataaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaiBtiiitaaiaaBiaaaiaiaiaaaaaiiaaaiaQ
Notre Dame
.	VS.	E
Army
If you cannot attend the game you | can get a play by play report in the j News-Times “Pink” Football Extra, | containing final scores of all games; on j the street Saturday night at 7 o’clock. |
I	THE
NEWS - TIMES
^JaiiaaaaaiaBiaiaaataaiiitaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiiaiaaitaaaiaiaaiiaaaaaaaaaiaitaaaaiaaataaaaaaaaaaaiaaiaaaaiaaaaiaaaaHai
{■JtuuBtiiitttistitiaiaiiiaattiiiiuaaaaaBtituaiuiitttmaiiuitiituaaaiiaiiamaaaaaimatuiaiaitaiaamitiusatQ
I	THE N. D. MAN’S	1
1	FLORIST SHOP	i
—o—
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
i Flowers Telegraphed Anytohere I
i	on Short Notice.	i
I ,	219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE.	I
I	- TELEPHONE 3-5149	|
Q'laaaaaaaaaiaiiaiaaiaaaaiiiiaiaaaaiaaaiiiBiaaaBaaaiaaaiiiiaaaaiiaaiiaaiaiiaaaiiaiiaiaaaiiiiiaaaataaaiiaiaaiiiiiiiiiiiQ
QaaaaaitiaaiiittiiaiiiiaitaatiaiaiiiaiaitiiiiaaaiaaaaaiiaaaiaaaatititiaiiaaitiififiaaiiiaitiaaiiiaaaaiBaiaiaaaiiiiit/^^
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
l«l»a i a 111 a a a a i a a a i a a 1i a ■ i ti ■ । a a a a i f a a a a a aaa a aa ai a a a a a a a • i a ta a a a a a a i a a a a a i a i a a a a a a a a i a i a a ■ a a a a a a a t a a a a a a a a» ai an a tn aaaj
Follow The Crowd, Men,
I
The Rainbou) Restaurant | South Bend’s Most Beautiful Place =	Opposite Palais Royale
i	—o—
e	We serve
i	Special Breakfasts, Lunches .
e	and Dinners.
|	Mid-night Specials also.
i	—o—
OUR COOKING AND FOOD
ARE WONDERFUL. \

The Notre Dame Scholastic
345
In the next session the regulars took ” the field and promptly started a scoring march which netted three touchdowns to Wesleyan’s one.
Fast Game as Usual
It’s going to be a great game, and when the last second has been played * those 70,000 odd fans are going to know that they enjoyed seeing two of the best teams in the country show their wares. It will be a battle for blood, the Notre Dame-Army games are always hard struggles, and neither will want to lose the game. Army knows that Notre Dame must win this game to clinch its claim upon the mythical national championship.
' If Notre Dame makes an easy time [	out of the Kaydets, there can be no
i	doubt that it will be awarded the
| national crown, and therefore we look • for the Fighting Irish to open up with all they have, and when they do, it is going to be a merry parade past the soldiers.
That’s awfully optimistic, to be sure, but mark our words, there’s going to be fireworks in Yankee Stadium, tomorrow, and the Fighting Irish are going to set them off all at once, little by little, or not at all. Take your choice!
KAZOO COLLEGE OPENS N. D. CAGE SEASON TUESDAY
Coach George E. Keogan has announced that his eagers will open the current season next Monday, December 2, against a team from Kalamazoo College, Kalamazoo, Michigan. Along with the announcement has come the quickening of the practice sessions as Keogan has been forced to whip his men into shape earlier than originally planned.
The game with Kalamazoo will give Keogan a good idea of how the present material will act when working together on the floor. The combination of Gavin and McCarthy, forwards, Busch, center, and Smith and Donovan, guards, has been showing great form and will most likely be the starting lineup next Tuesday.
In Captain Donovan and Ed. Smith, Coach Keogan has been blessed with two of the finest guards in the Western Conference. Smith has been an All-Western selection for two years and should be back into his old form for the opening game.
Gavin, McCarthy, and Busch all saw service last season and performed creditably in these appearances. Gavin is a dimunitive forward
possessing a world of speed and agility and he should furnish much of .the thrills and spectacular performance afforded by Crowe, co-captain last year.
McCarthy and Busch are two fast floormen and they will fit in well with the others on the first string lineup. To supplant these men, if necessary, Keogan may choose from Crowe, Newbold, and Heenan, forwards, DeCook and O’Connell, centers, and Johnson and Burns, guards, from the freshman team of last year. Besides, there remain a host of last season’s reserves who may break into the games.
Immediately following the final contest of the football season with Army, Carideo, Tom Conley, and Joe Savoldi will report for cage duty.
FROSH GAGERS CUT TO MINIMUM LAST WEEK
Daily practice for the freshman eagers has been started and the 21 yearlings that comprise the frosh squad are now furnishing opposition for the varsity basketball men in the daily scrimmages. The final cut of first year basketball material was completed last week, and the men who
4+
HELLO MEN!
Keep Warm
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
with
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
BOOTS
from
The Home of Quality
WALK - OVER
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH'S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
111 S. MICHIGAN
Ph. 2-6261
J. Laughlin, N. D. Rep.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
347
recovered a Kazoo fumble at this point, however, and punted out of danger.
Of the ten game schedule, Coach Jones’ reserve gridders won seven contests, lost two and tied one, which is an impressive record inasmuch as winning the game was not so much
the main factor as was the development of the material on hand for future years.
The reserves won games from Ball Teachers’ College, Iowa Reserves, Minnesota "B”, Valparaiso, North-westeim Reserves, Western State Normal, and lost to Wisconsin on the home field.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL STARTS AFTER CHRISTMAS
A brief respite will be permitted interhall enthusiasts before the basketball season begins to get underway.
It is the plan of assistant coach Tommy Mills, who is to be in charge of interhall basketball, to begin activities upon the return of the student body after the Christmas holidays.
Coach Mills feels that by beginning then, the schedule will be allowed to go uninterrupted, and the interest will be sustained. This would hardly
be the case were the season to open before the vacation period.
The same system of teams will be followed as in the past. Each hall will be represented by an A and a B team, or as is better known, a heavyweight and a lightweight group.
HARRIERS HAVE MEDIOCRE SUCCESS THIS SEASON
Coach John P. Nicholson’s Gold and Blue harriers closed their 1929 season, November 16. Although their record shows but one victory out of five meets, “Nick" is pleased with the team’s showing and considers the season to have been a success.
Much of the credit for this success, however, belongs to “Nick” himself, for he developed the 1929 squad from practically nothing at all. When the call for candidates was issued soon after school started this fall, two veterans, Joe Quigley and Jim Big-• gins, together with a few juniors who ran in one or two meets in 1928, two stars from the ’28 Freshman team, and a few more aspiring sophomores reported for practice. The task of whipping this squad into shape for the toughest campaign a Notre Dame ----------------*4^---------=----
cross-country team evei* faced was the job that confronted Coach Nicholson at that time. Most coaches would have given up in despair. But not “Nick”!
Before the season was well under way, Notre Dame was represented by one of the most evenly- balanced and
most feared teams in the Middlewest.
All To Return Next Year
Immediately preceding the opening meet of the season, Joe Quigley was elected captain for the 1929 season. This year was Joe’s second of varsity competition, and he, like every other member of the squad, is eligible for next year. Biggins, Cavanaugh, Connors, McConville, How-ery, Wilson, Bauers and Lawler, together with Captain Quigley comprised the squad throughout the greater part of the season.
The Gold and Blue harriers pulled the first surprise of the season in their opening meet when they finished a close second to Wisconsin in a quadrangular meet with the Badgers, Northwestern, and Illinois. Alex Wilson, running his first varsity race
under place, stars?
The
Notre Dame colors, took first beating a galaxy of Big Ten
following Saturday our harri-(Turn to Page 349)
Where Notre Dame
FAST SERVICE
Men Meet
To Chicago
“Always in the Crowd”
Trains Leave South Bend
Every Hour on the Hour
Talk to Charlie Wood in the Book Store about De Luxe Service
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 North Michigan Street
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
346
The Notre Dame Scholastic
were found up to standard were given equipment for the coming season. Joe Jachym, co-captain with Crowe last year, has been in charge of rounding
Joseph Jachym
the freshmen into shape for the coming season.
.More material for the green clad first year outfit will report next week when the men who have been on the football squad come out for practice. If any excess of such material is found, another cut will probably be made.
George Keogan, varsity basketball coach, is making an effort to secure several games for the first year men with teams in this region.
The following men now comprise
the freshman basketball squad: Sabo, Vogehe, Samp, Ferris, Keating, Baldwin, O’Donnell, Hinnuyfied, Quinn, Ropier, McGrath, Terry, Crosby, Thume, Campbell, Kerencik, Lenehan, Shrader, Le Compte, Lozio, and Shu-macker.
SIX INTERHALL TEAMS TAKE TO ROAD FOR GAMES
Six of the interhall league football teams emulated their prototypes in “rambling”—the varsity—and took to the road yesterday. Locomotive, electric car, and bus carried the contingents to their Turkey day tussles.
More than seven hundred miles
were traversed by the entire group to participate in these games. Two foreign states were visited: Wisconsin and Illinois, while the remaining contests were waged in various parts of Indiana. A space of more than three hundred miles separated the extreme elevens.
Formidable opponents were scheduled and each team was pressed to the limit. In every instance the rugged preparation furnished in the recently closed league competition, stood the local outfits in good stead. A very creditable showing by each
group, coupled with the customary sportsmen’s attitude common to this university's representatives, further cemented amicable relations with the opponents.
The following is a list of the teams and the locations of their respective combats: Off - Campus — Kenosha, Wisconsin; Freshman Hall — River Forest, Illinois; Howard Hall—Peru, Indiana; Sophomore Hall—Richmond, Indiana; Brownson Hall — Ellwood, Indiana; Walsh Hall — Kendallville, Indiana.
RESERVES END SEASON IN TIE WITH KAZOO, 0-0
The Notre Dame Reserves conclud
ed their heavy schedule last Saturday at Kalamazoo, Michigan, battling the Kalamazoo College eleven to a scoreless deadlock on a snow covered field.
The condition of the gridiron made point-scoring chances almost nil. Shorty O’Niel scored a touchdown for the Fighting Irish but the play was called back because Notre Dame had been off-side.
The Kalamazoo players threatened to score only once and that came after Kazoo completed two passes which placed the ball on the Notre Dame 22-yard line. The Fighting Irish
THINGS
for the Student
GEORGE L, MILLER
103 North Main Street South Bend, Indiana
Leather Coats Sweaters Sweat Coats Buckskin Jackets Basket Balls Boxing Gloves Exercisers
Pocket Knives Flash Lights
O
Overcoats tailored from distinctive woolens $48 to $125
Burberry
Scheyer
Adler-Rochester
The “RECO” Store
113 NORTH MAIN STREET
Open evenings till 8.
IMPORTED and DOMESTIC MEN’S WEAR
348
The Notre Dame Scholastic
IttiniHlinHinniltllllHIIIilHIIIHHIIIIHHHHItHHinHIIIIIHinilltnilllHIIHIHHinilltllHIliniinill'HIHIItHIIHIHHIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIItlHIIHIHini
Je]MHiiiHiHi(imHiiiiiti«iittHntittHHiiitiinnHHHinHiiiiiiiii(HHtniinHi«HtiiHHiininM**iiHH|aj
Steal Onsitmas;
&tore
Special gift sug gestionsforWni liersiitp men anti tfjeir trientis
SfSxtiiSrSSS
I GOOD CLOTHES FOR i j UNIVERSITY MEN ] (sJiaaiamMmMinmitimmMmiiiiitiiiiiittmminnttiniiiintmmiiiiimiimiiiiiiiiiiiinniniiiiiilBl
QiiiiiiniiiiiittiiiiimiiiiiiiiiinniiiittiiiiHiintiHiiHiiniiiiiiiiiiHniHiiiiHHiiiiHHiiiHiiiiiiiiim^Q
TOWERS
f Fishbrand Guaranteed SLICKERS—	|
I Olive Green or Black, $7.00 value =
S4.95
GILBRO’S
|	FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE	I
E	330 South Michigan Street	=
faintiiiHif ll^lllllHlHlt^lmtllllllln^tlHlUlllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlHlllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllHlllff
[•JiiiiitiiHiiiiiiiiniiiiiHHiiniHiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiniitittiHiiiiiiiiatiitiiiitiiitiaHiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiii^aJ
THE OLIVER
BARBER SHOP |
i	A. M. MYERS, Prop.	|
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS SERVICE
❖
I	205 W. Washington Avenue
I	THE OLIVER HOTEL
|	Phone 3-7171
Klniiiiniimmmmiiimiinmiiiiiimniiiltiiimiiiliiiimiiii,iiiiiiiiimiiHiiiiininMiuiiiiiuMl..l
f
The Notre Dame Scholastic
349
ers lost a heart-breaker to Michigan State’s undefeated Spartans by a 26-29 score. Wilson again was the first Notre Dame man to the wire, this time in third place, beaten by Brown and Chamberlain. .	/
On November 2, Coach Nicholson’s ' squad pulled their* second surprise, handing the strong Butler University team a decisive 24-31 set-back. Running in their own “backyard” for the first and only time this year, the Irish gave their best exhibition of the 1929 season. Gene Howery, another sophomore, came into his own in this meet, leading Joe Sivak, Butler ace, to the finish line by a good fifty yards.
A week later the team journeyed to Bloomington where they were taken into camp by Indiana’s strong crew by a 21-37 count. Injuries sustained in the Michigan State and Butler meets kept Captain Joe Quigley from taking-part in this test and materially weakened the Notre Dame team.
Spartans Won Twice
The season was brought to a close on November 16 with the capture of second place in the annual Central Intercollegiate Conference championship. Brown and Chaihberlain again finished one-two for State, their se- '
cond win of the year, and Wilson took third for Notre Dame.
Next season, with the entire squad back and several likely-looking prospects coming up from the freshman squad, Coach Nicholson expects to have a banner year. It is doubtful if the schedule will be much more difficult, for a more strenuous one would be hard to book.
SQUAD OF 36 MAKES
ARMY TRIP
Thirty-six members of the varsity squad left yesterday over the New York Central Railroad for New York, where on Saturday they will meet the United States Military Academy. Coaches Tom Lieb, Jack Chevigny, Tommy Mills and John Voedisch accompanied the team. Student Managers John Quinn, Bernard Conroy, Joe Lauerman and Dan Halpin also made the trip.
The players making the trip were: Moynihan, Nash, Yarr, Law, Cannon, Bondi, Metzger, Kassis, Leahy, Twomey, Donoghue, Culver, McManmon, Gblrick, Vezie, Collins, Murphy, Conley, O’Brien, Vik, Kergis, Carideo,
Gebert, Keneally, Elder, B. Leahy, O’Connor, Brill, Schwartz, Kaplan, Koken, Mullins, Savoldi, Shay, Locke, -McNamara,. Christman, and Cronin.
2....mmi..mm....immiimmmiimmmmiimj
I HANLEY CALLS IRISH
\ GREATEST HE’S SEEN
E “Notre Dame is. the best foot-
= ball team I’ve seen, and I’ve = seen some good ones.”
= That was the comment which E Coach Hanley of Northwestern E made Sunday on the team which E defeated his Wildcats, Saturday, i 26 to 6.
= He also had a great deal of i praise for his players, saying E that they were a game bunch of E kids who faced a hard schedule j and preserved their morale in 5 spite of several .highly inop-
■ = , portiine injuries.
E “We reached our peak in the E Illinois game and held this mo-E mentum through the Ohio State E engagement. Thereafter our = strength was insufficient and we E were unable to do justice to • E ourselves.”
iiiiiiuiiiiiuitKumnnitniiiitiiiiiiiDHiiimmiiuiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiuiuiuiniiiititiiiiiitiiiiiiiiniiiiiH
RADI&KEITH- : ZP1 O A A TA A RADIO-KEITH-ORPHEUM JjXjA. 1 A /A TV2A ORPHEUM
Starts Saturday ....
GLENN TRYON—MERNA KENNEDY
5000--QTHERS--5000
Dancers—Singers—Comedians
And just heaps of GLORIOUS! GLORIFIED! GIRLIES!
There is Only One “Broadway”—We Have It!
SO DON’T BE COUNTED AMONG THE ABSENTEES!!!!
350
The Notre Dame Scholastic
oa^x
A Publix Theatre
ONE ENTIRE WEEK BEGINNING SATURDAY
P Kh :
Bobbed Haired Bandits
Armed With Kisses and
Caresses!
There’s gold in them than sugar daddies! And the gimme girls are out to get it. What fun while the painless extraction takes place!
“GOLD DIGGERS OF
BROADWAY”
with
ANN PENNINGTON
NICK LUCAS
CONWAY TEARLE
WINNIE LIGHTNER
LILYAN TASHMAN
and
Chorus of
100
Dazzling Beauties
Photographed
Entirely
in
NATURAL COLORS
Hear the Radio Favorites “Painting the Clouds with Sunshine”
==== “Tiptoe Thru the Tulips”
and Many Others
THREE DAYS BEGINNING
Sunday, December 1
A Delightful Romance of a Music Racketeer and a Night Club Singer “Red Hot
Rhythm”
with
ALLEN HALE
A Musical Comedy Success
-------VAUDEVILLE----- PALM BEACH GIRLS
Hap Hazzard	George Hunter
Max and His Gang • Jerome and Ryan
BOYS—This picture is just as Hot | as the title—and don’t forget the Palm | Beach Girls.	Jack. |
’	‘	’	I t
The Notre Dame Scholastic
351
Splinters from the Press Box
%______________________________J
Saturday’s game was nowhere near as close as we thought it was going to be. We have a pet theory that if a team plays a really hard schedule of seven games or more, it must crack once during the season. Even the Four- Horsemen and the Seven Mules cracked against Northwestern, but they were fortunate enough not to lose. Cracking is not always synonymous with losing but as a general rule, it is. We thought that possibly the team might crack Saturday, but it didn’t, which bears out another pet theory of ours, to wit: that this year’s Notre Dame team has yet to play the best football of which it is capable. It approached this standard in the Southern California game, but I doubt that it reached it. Because it has not played its best football it has not been subjected to the intense physical and mental strain that the giving of one’s best involves, and hence was not wrought up to such an extent that a let-down is the only natural sequence. And so this year’s team has not cracked nor is it likely to.
There are three coaches who, no matter how previous games may have gone, always manage to have their teams on edge for a big game, and in this game they are practically unbeatable. These three coaches are Warner, Stagg, and Zuppke. Last Saturday they came through again. Stanford and Chicago went into their games as underdogs and Illinois was hardly expected to win as decisively as it did.
To Albie Booth’s many ’ sterling qualities must be added that of raw courage. Albie Booth should not have played last Saturday against Harvard. He had been limping ever since before the Princeton game, and he was limping when he ran signals before the game last Saturday. But when Harvard led, Booth was Yale’s last chance, and Albie went in to play. It took real courage to do this, the kind that sent Adam Walsh against a great Army team with both of his hands broken, that time the Four Horsemen rode to another great victory.
WE NOMINATEFOR THE HALL OF FAME:
Thomas J. Lieb, of i’ie class of ’23, of the University of Notre Dame, athlete, worker, holder \f records,
who as an undergraduate, held the world’s record for the discus throw, who was one of the finest tackles ever turned out at Notre Dame, who is a great line coach, but most of all, who, when confronted with a sudden and great responsibility, carried on, and carried on well, where a lesser man would have failed.
Breaking even last Saturday with a win, a tie and a loss, gives us 13 wins, 6 defeats and two ties thus far. Next Saturday we pick Navy to trim Dartmouth, Detroit to beat Georgetown, and Holy Cross to upset Boston College, in what will probably be one of the most hard fought games of the day.
J)orit ExpQpiment. With gottpAppeQratice
At the Best Mens* Shops
SAWYER'S
Rainwear
FROG BRAND SUCKERS
SAWYER’S Frog Brand Slicker*have established a lasting reputation on the campus among well-dressed college men and women where rain garments of good appearance as well a* long life are essential.	•
SoM-yer slickers are all good-looking, roomy* well-cut garments* guaranteed to keep you ’ absolutely dry and warm and are to bo had lined or unlincd. buttons ot clasps as you prefer, tn a wide *ariety of styles for evasy purpooe. Your choice of colors. Shape everywhere carry them.
H M SAWYEFL& SON
I AST CAMBRIDGE. --------MASS.
Ofun* \..VwVM.r CWtwwW. O.tw—.Ma
Pipes save no midnight oil
r? PIPES made the man, anybody at all could rise in the world just by smoking a few pounds of Edgeworth. But pipes do not make the man.
Men make the pipe—most men do. Somewhat depends on the individual, more on the pipe, and the tobacco is most important of all. Things must be congenial.
Edgeworth is a congenial tobacco, cool, slow-burning, fully flavored. Edgeworth has poise, kindly good nature, real tobacco' personality — Edgeworth welcomes new friends. Many a good man has been pledged to pipes by Edgeworth alone.
Like to meet Edgeworth? Just ask with the coupon—and the postman will bring your first few pipefuls of the genuine, three years seasoned if it’s a day. Our treat, if you please.
Others have found Edgeworth and quit their discontent.
So may it be with you!
EDGEWORTH
package to pound humidor tin.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos — selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy it anywhere “Ready Rubbed” or
Larus 8c Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.
IH try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
(Witness my seal)
(and my seat of learning)
(and my postoffice and state) Now let the Edgeworth come! V
352
The Notre Dame Scholastic

iiniiininiiiHHUiHiHiininiUHiHHiiiui
Ready-made And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES. TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES
(Charter >ouse
Suits •40, ’45, *50 Overcoats
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE (Charter Wougc SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
The character of the suits and ' overcoats tailored by Charter House	*
will earn your most sincere liking. '
MAX ADLER
■ On the Corner
Office 3-6978
Inc.
Michigan and Washington
Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
i*	*
On Down the Line	|
-	J
V--------------------------------
. . . The Chicago Maroons completed 20 of 43 attempted passes last week . . . those heaves netted 313 yards against Washington U. Huskies . . . that’s a rare occurrence nowadays . . . Bank in Abingdon, Ill. closed down . . . NSF . . . Abingdon High school games were called off ... no one in town can get any money . . . and the officials demand it pronto . . . “Tony” Siano, Fordham’s dynamic center, manages a poolroom in working his way through college . . .
. . . We thought the officials might penalize Notre Dame at times for backfield in motion ... it turned out though that the backs were just shivering from cold . . . With Mussolini taking up football, the one-man huddle would be a huge success . . . “Tiny” Hearn, former Georgia Tech three-sport star, is center for Rochester in the American Probasketball league . . . “Tiny” measures six feet nine inches . . . Jack Quinn started in baseball at the age of sixteen . . . now he is over fifty and still going strong . . .
. . . Elmer Layden, coaching Duquesne, has a kicker in Aldo Donnelli who can boot accurately with either foot . . . The world series of 1905 was won in five straight shutouts . . . the Giants beating' out the Athletics . . . Christy Mathewson hurled three and McGinnity and Bender one apiece . . . Only Bobby Jones has broken 70 on the St. Andrew’s golf course in Scotland ... it is said to be the ideal conception of a golf layout . . .
Did you know there was a parentless football squad in the world . . . yes, it is the team of a Canadian orphan asylum ... On the personnel of an eastern college is a quarterback who weighs 47 pounds . . . they’re fattening him up so he can be used for a 56 pound weight by the track team . . . The co-eds after the game last Saturday looked awfully blue . . . and some were even Purple . . . This Luis Hogan, Spanish middleweight, kayoed 83 of 88 opponents back home . . .
. . . Eddie Gardner, one-time bantamweight boxer, won a medal by skipping the rope 5,000 times without a miss . . . and then apparently she walked in . . . Babe Ruth has played 16 years of major league baseball . . . ten years have been with the Yankees . . . Players use a periscope to locate hidden greens on a golf course in Ireland .	-
r
The Notre Dame Scholastic
353
■i
For school supplies
and
THE
ROCKNE
JONES
WARNER

appropriate reading material
ALEXANDER
patronize
ALL-AMERICAN
FOOTBALL TEAM
will appear exclusively in next Sunday’s
The Book Shop
THE
NEWS - TIMES
119 North Michigan St.
k
S
Why not be Modem
Cook ELEC tncaDy
Indiana and Michigan Electric Company
227 West Jefferson Street
QtaiaaiiiaatiltitiaBauaaBBitsBtBBBaiaBaBaBisaaBBBaaasBBBStaBBasaaBBBBiisaBaaaiaaamisBtBBSiBBisaBBasaaBimiiaiBBaaaaBaaasBBtaaimiiBSimBmmmmuimmmmimmH......mm................mimmmimmimimmmmmfjl