Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DIS
VIV£ -9VASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS
Vol. XLVIIL
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October io, 1914.
No. 4.
October.
SPEER STRAHAN, ’17.
Where the grasses thread together Purpling all .the gray-clad hill, Swinging milk-weeds burst and scatter
Sails for all the winds to fill.
Silvered poplars flaunt their riches
By the murmuring reed-fringed stream;
Willows wave their drooping tresses
Where the fading flowers dream.
Through the maple’s saffron splendors Swallows press on sable ■wing;
Autumn grass and trees and flowers------ ’Tis God’s breath to man you bring.
The
Catholic College Man in Modern Life.
BY WALTER F. CLEMENTS, ’14.

S the college" graduate goes forth to take up his burden of the world’s work he is eager to know what awaits him. He desires to understand the
task that is before him, and; like the'rich young man of Scripture, wants to know what he must do. But whatever his labor may be, he will work blindly, unless he perceives the moral meaning of his task. Real-achievement will mark his career only, when he has gained something more lasting than worldly success for himself and. for the age in which he lives. In every age there is some paramount work to be done, and in modern life this task may be done best by men of Catholic education.
■ Seldom in the history of humanity have the fields of achievement been more fallow for the husbandman of mind and will. The moral and
intellectual influence which the enlightened ” truth;.. so he possesses sturdiness of ■ character Catholic should be most able to exert was, in a pre-eminent degree. Though things material' perhaps, never more needed than at present are transient and illusive, spiritual truth ..is as
when the world seems lost in a - maze of new conditions and theories. The false ideals of the day work havoc among men, and the .greatness of our times can be preserved only by the force • of Christianity, just as the greatness of antiquity was preserved by that same unfailing power at a time when the old civilizations were, collapsing before the invasion of gentile and barbarian. A brief review of the tendencies of the day and of those ideals which should especially qualify the educated Catholic, should be sufficient to show that the remedy for presentday troubles is contained in the principles for which he in particular stands.
Of course it is not claimed that our . college graduate has a monopoly on civic and .moral : virtues, or that they always have a monopoly '
serious and rightly possesses the inheritance which is prepared for him, he, in his viewpoint of life, and in his conduct, will give strong ' evidence of Catholic training. -And as religion.-is the most potent influence in human , life, ? he, above all, will be distinguished by the faith/, that is in him. He iii particular must adhere to the fundamental principles of Christianity.: with dogmatic firmness, because he knows that ' if he does not accept all, he abandons alL His / faith is no less real and vital than was that of the mediaeval peasant. To him the fear , of, hell is no mere “ Hangman’s whip to haul the wretch-in order” but it is derived from the . knowledge of an eternal Justice, that weighs every human act. Knowing, that right and wrong are matters of' eternity rather, ‘han of worldly, welfare, he has for the basis .of _his - > morality these eternal principles which have > come thundering down the ages. Ajmdytheyy changing opinions of men and .the fads : of / the day he remains firm and. unshaken^,-H?/^ must build his character on the bed-rock, . ;


OBIS

50
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
lasting as the depths from which it springs. And he who understands these things, will first square his worldly enterprises and relations with the exigencies of his immortal soul. His doctrine of the brotherhood of man will be derived from the more important doctrine of the fatherhood of God. From the life of his Master he has learned the supreme lesson of self-sacrifice and the ultimate triumph of righteousness. Brotherly love, the golden rule, and Christian charity are to him revelations of the Almighty.	.	-
„ Such are the fundamental principles which should characterize every true Catholic, and especially the Catholic of good education. He should be able to explain his Catholic attitude to all the ■ world, and to defend it against the most subtle attacks. He who has spent the formative ' period of his life in mental and moral training should be able to think first and best on subjects of vital importance; he should .furthermore be most capable of doing, with system and effect, what he attempts. A Catholic with the advantages of a higher education should not * only understand the truths which the less enlightened Catholics perceive, he should comprehend them in their more perfect fulness and in their general relation to the thoughts and
experience of humanity. He has had oppor- tute expediency for morality. And these
- tunity.to study the methods of those* men who would place enmity between science and . religion. He may delve as deeply into the laws of nature, as they. He knows that he can . turn against these, pseudo-scientists the . very forces which they would employ''.
;. Unlike others of . our times the enlightened Catholic does not turn his back upon the past, but he studies the truths which it reveals. . 'Reviewing history,-he beholds the rise and fall : of .nations, the growth, and decline of' civili-' . zations, and from all he learns the lessons they /teach. He witnesses. the false teachers and
false prophets of other times, who, lifted up
/ their voice and • perished in a day. -He bears always, coincide with those of labor. Hence .. testimony to the truth which, remained. The class. conflict, strikes, and bloodshed continue;
• wisdom.: of : Plato. and Aristotle, christianized and .they will continue while business activity by Augustine and Thomas Aquinas, are part is controlled by mere notions of expediency.
i of the'enlightened Catholic’s- inheritance. Far There are common principles of justice and
: from ignoring the greatness .of the Middle humanity, applicable to both classes now as ‘ /Ages/ Jie: rather; strives to ■imitate'its -heroes of in the; time {of jhe niediaeyal ■ guilds. Let. men / ^d/L^causq he /knows that’ they; found real : who.; Understand ;J±iis/ fact J aSsert fthemselv^, ;; beauty/ and grandduf ^wherever/their/ circum-. / and ;bty estabhshm^	for rights
tyst^ce^ placed thenntyln shprt;ty6 nty^
•fully: as rthe enlightehetyCMliolic may claim to '; No rule is better than the -golden rule for.
be the “Heir of all the ages in the foremost files of time.”	.
This is an age of scientific expansion and material achievement. A new impetus has been given to industry. Business has been developed to supply all the demands of a luxury-loving people. Commerce has facilitated the spread of civilization. Steam binds coast to coast and' continent to continent. Thoughts travel around the world on wings of electricity. More magnificent than Rome in the reign of Augustus are our great cities. But, because men are blinded by the.glitter of the world about them they lose sight of eternity and its awful truths. What is most lacking in the present age are those very principles that are paramount in the • life of every real Catholic/ Men live as though they had outgrown their old modes of thinking and standards of conduct. Supposed leaders of thought are postulating new and ruinous theories which are. being followed by the credulous throng. The immortality of the soul is not taken into consideration. Christianity is considered by many as a mere economic development. People are so busy keeping pace with so-called progress that they do not consider whither it is leading them. The spirit of the day is .utilitarian. It is prone to substi
tendencies , are the source of the disorders which -threaten society, with ruin and the individual with despair. In .them may be found the causes of modern menaces social and economic.	.	.
Disregard for the eternal-principles of justice ■ and charity is the. cause of industrial warfare in which capital oppresses labor, labor retaliates with open-violence, and from which'the general public suffers". ., Forgetting moral principle, and acting as if material. good were the only good, our trusts and unions are too inclined to shape
their policy by might rather than by right. But the material interests of. capital may not

THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC
settling industrial disputes. Belief and trust in God’s justice is the only force that can curb the powerful and take from penury its bitterness. There must always be manual laborers to fill the obscure places of life, to till the soil, dig in mines, and to ply machinery. But he who toils in the spirit of Christianity will know the dignity of labor, and be ennobled by his task. He can have for his ideals those servants of God, who filling humble places found spiritual glory, who made the meanest task a prayer. The wealthy business man will better understand how to cooperate in harmony uuth the less fortunate many when he beholds in. human want and suffering the image of Him Who said: “Whatsoever you do unto these, that also you do unto Me.” Thus the simple teaching of the Gospel is the best antidote . for the industrial troubles going on around us.
And as,long as employers and employees disregard its teaching, quack doctors of ‘ new thought ’ will spread dissension in the ranks of humanity.	*
The business man with, comfortable income may be alarmed because so many are blindly accepting these strange theories as a last resort. Yet he beholds with complacency the . disregard for the rights of employees and of the public on the part of big business. Financiers persist in operating their business according to the dictates of the ticker and high finance. They attempt to make mere bulwarks of excuse out of the civil law. Legislatures are perverted and their Jaws become mere generalizations of convenience as interpreted by the interest that happens to be in power. Hence a great many of our civil laws breed disorder. The way is prepared for the wild visionary, the reckless schemer and the open avowal of follies which have already insidiously crept into the life of to-day. Rights from which the' civil law proceeds—property right’s- and family rights—have been attacked. And in-order to do this . consistently, many of the leaders who claim to be friends of the people have tried to banish from the popular mind all thoughts of God and of man’s eternal, dignity. They declare that humanity is man’s only .god, and that social progress is .life’s only aim. The individual and the laws of morality are but the -means of : human progress. Religion, and morality are reckoned by economic standards. The ‘ aggregate, power of society is set lip as the only sanction of law.
But the enlightened Catholic knows that it .	?
is impossible to legislate mankind into fraternity -and equality, while Christian . charity -goes•	\
begging; that it is foolish for them to howl . . VT. about liberty when exterior environment is considered the sole shaper of human destiny. ■; -	'
A false morality based' on physical generalities , L and failing to reach man’s inner being, leaves r i him a prey to the ill winds of passion, leaves - T the deepest desires of his nature .unsatisfied. . Humanity is soul-deep, and in this depth its '	- 'N
welfare or its ruin lies. If by deception rational- - \ . -: ists deprive their followers -of religion, what --x-T can they give them in return? Scientists may -J search the outermost stars and the minutest . organisms with their instruments; visionaries.	. ..
may dream of long life and health, luxury	, - ?
or altruism, but truthfully they can'answer nothing while religion is ignored. It is all too :	;
evident that the pleasures of life, illusive and . , -j = < transient, soon lead to satiety and self- - . destruction. Would they have social progress ' for the ultimate end?- Alas, we perceive from , the physical world about us, from our own lives, . and from the history of the past, that- material;	‘ 5 ’
development is inevitably followed by decay,, ; that earthly progress soon overleaps itself. -	-.A
The ordinary mind can easily think of a time. : -when the human race will be no more. Yet in . that same ordinary mind there is a yearning - ", for sdmething which shall not change.- Since . -	'
the fallacies of theories which confuse the - f thoughts and deeds of the day are so evident,	■
it seems strange that men with clear, simple " x. ;; refutations for them’ have not already driven . . so-called rationalists shame-faced from the : .V: public attention. For, if there is one truth that . ;<T-not only reason, but ever}'- page ’of history : < acclaims, it is the futility of an age withoutN'CN religion. History records the lasting achieve- y ment of peoples who were strongly religious. T T \T.6' It points with a warning finger to the fate., of. ' '-X-TT those nations,-which, forgetting God. and His -jT'Tx lay's, perished from the earth. When the sacred. fires die on the altars of a people,-patriotism ceases to burn in their hearts. When.-their ...X^ household gods fall into disrespect,T thrir . . fatherland falls into dissolution. : The ’ ahaent ' Jews worshipped Mammon.rather than Jehovah^- xtT TxS and they were driven from their la.nd toi wander.;..?? TTgS over the earth.. Ignoring her gods Rome .w^ Yx?ATS| invaded, by vice, and luxury. Now the-nightx winds * murmur through the. broken - arches ■=of JTTT? her pagan ruins. Such are-the-past experiences fxTx?5®
THE NOTRE-DAME SCHOLASTIC
from which the enlightened Catholic can most readily profit.
He understands the reason of the widespread discontent among the masses at present. We are told that this social unrest is the rumbling of a gathering storm. And indeed it will burst in fury upon us,- unless new champions of old truths come forth to ward it off. The masses are looking abont them for a way out . of the difficulties which beset their existence. They are demanding a solution of the problems which Hume and Mill, Haeckel and Marx, far from solving, have actually engendered. Is the enlightened Catholic going to sit idly by when he can speak the words of peace? Does he intend to hide his light under a bushel? Will he bur}* his talents? He realizes that the guilds of the Middle Ages met many problems which seem insuperable to modern civilization. Knowing that, though conditions change, principles are eternal, he is prepared. to make the new application of old principles.
He is ready to uphold the Gospel, of Christ as the answer to all the riddles of the universe! To the doubter arid pessimist who are at a loss td know the meaning of it all, he will demonstrate the soul’s immortality; and the ways of this life, its aspirations as well as its in completeness, he will make plain. He will make evident to the libertine the eternal consequences of defying the law of the living God: and justice among men will receive a new impetus. Lasting respect for civil law can be obtained only through a realization of the fact that all temporal authority has its source in Eternal Justice. Distributive justice may be adequately, insured only when the state recognizes the immortal value of. the meanest subject in its realm. Then the. individual will be exalted above
clean, in order to’help in the accomplishment of social uplift. He knows that a nation can not become purer and stronger than its homelife. So, true to the. teaching of his religion, he defends the inviolability of ’marriage vows. When industrialism invades the home and drags children and their mothers into the sordid maelstrom of commercial conflict, the enlightened Catholic spurns-every attempt to readjust family life to such industrial conditions. He demands that the primary principle of family rights be placed above matters of commercial expediency. When the working girl is tempted by sordid surroundings, he will use his influence to make her learn her superiority over environment, and the eternal difference between virtue and vice. He realizes that she by this knowledge ' will most easily triumph. By means that can reach the lives of all, by imitating saints of pre-eminent holiness and by the veneration of the Virgin Mother, people may best safeguard the purity of youth, the fruitfulness and the fidelity of marriage. ’
The enlightened Catholic must use his influence to elevate the standards not only of the home but also of the other institutions which shape public opinion and mold the lives of people. Against the modern paganism which has invaded these institutions, his antagonism must be aroused personally and professionally. In opposition to the unmoral character of schools, the Catholic college graduate, if he is true to his own training, will insist that the youthful must be educated in principles of morality based on religion. Then they will not have to be made'worldly-wise for the purpose of self-protection: they will not have to go through a sewer in order to learn sanitation. The educated Catholic
material progress, . and the humblest toiler’s must help purge the theatre of the avarice and
‘	. share in the fruits of the earth will be recognized,
not on account of what he has done so much as on account of jyhat he is. Thus by upholding the dignity and inherent rights of every man ' ■. the enlightened. Catholic helps maintain the one guarantee against the absolutism of despots ? J and of majorities. Thus; he must support just government, and the Catholic truest to . ' the,.-.fundamentalprinciples: of his faith, will make the best citizen.	;
y Upholding spiritual dignity and virtue, the / y. ? enlightened Catholic becomes.: the guardian. of
. domestic virtue and integrity. Heknows that ; y-A the ^individual; must first keep his own heart"
smut that would make it a place of degradation rather than of refinement. He must try to make the press reflect the whole truth of life, and not merely its obscenity and scandal. Recognizing.the influence of literature, upon even the illiterate, he. will support the literature which, in form as well as in matter, teaches wholesome principles of life. He is prepared to . expose, the pseudo-scientific fallacies, of some of the popular writers who glibly employ the; accomplishments of .science to mystify the minds of the masses.
< Thus; there is a great work everywhere awaiting the enlightened; man. of-religious morality.
: The" Catholic college mam will help accomplish
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
this work by applying the fundamental principles of his faith to the need of the day. True to these principles, he must combat the irreligion and godlessness which are the underlying menaces of modern life. Wonderful progress has been made in science and industry, but these material things receive too much of our attention. It is time to cease worshipping the golden calf, lest we bring down upon our heads the wrath of outraged law. It is time to regulate progress according to the eternal standards of truth and right. Those necessary truths, which were discarded, with the old order must be applied to the new, if it is to continue. That restless murmur we hear in the shops, fields and factories is more than the rumbling of a threatening storm. It is the voice of,the people calling for new leaders, for men to go forth into the highways and byways of the workaday world, who clothing ancient truths in twentieth century modes of expression, will apply them to modern life. We need champions to deliver the world’s business from the hands of material interest, to bring the hum of machinery and hustle of traffic into harmony with, the rights of humanity. The enlightened Catholic will lead the way in this work, if he remains true to the faith that is in him. Let him invest his inheritance in the business that must be done, and he cannot fail. Let him seek for men the Kingdom of . God and these other things will be added. His . work will fructify in generations yet unborn.
His earthly career will be successful. Eternal success will be his final reward. Thus by his work he will prove that achievement awaits the Catholic college man in modern life. ' ------------------------ ■ --------- %
Venus.
■ Q MYSTIC star, a-gleam with light divine, U	With such majestic splendor dost thou burn
That earthly, eyes may not their gaze upturn Profanely. to descry thine inmost shrine, Until the soul, in humble state, incline
To worship thy.supernal grace and learn The lustral rites, the sacrifices stern, That purge the heart and chasten and refine.
O star of beauty, guide mine eyes to see . .
' With perfect vision far. beyond the sight Of mortal things, into the spirit, sphere Of love, wherein my soul’s divinity
'	■ May glorify my life as thou the. night,	'
Revealing truths that God vouchsafes the seer.
' ?	’ .	:	.	G. H.'S. . ■
53
The Last Ride.
BY JOHN E. CASSIDY.
“Say, Art?”	...
“Speak, Tommy, what is it?”
“Do you realize this is our last Sunday night home?”
“Without a doubt, old man, and I have . been trying to .think since morning just how we could dispose of it in the most enjoyable manner.”
“Well, say—”
“Go ahead you are welcome to say it.”
“I can’t get the car—”	.
“Why not?” ’
“Well, you see my young brother blew a couple of tires on the road this morning, so. this car must be on hand to accommodate my father if he gets any calls.”	.
“That’s worse than going to school Tuesday . Tom, where and how shall we spend the night?”	.	.
“Not in an automobile, Artie—”	:	-
“Naturally, but where shall I meet you?
I am going into -supper as soon as we hit the house.”
“Well, let me see. I’ll tell you. I shall get the car to drive over town to the show and on the way I’ll just stop here and pick you ' up, then I’ll let you know what we. are going to do and how it shall be done—so long'”
The conversation related took place in a Hudson “six.” Tommy Kelley and Arthur Hettle being the participants; Art (as we shall -call him for convenience) and Tommy were chums of the first degree, and it was very seldom one was where the other wasn’t. As L stated before it was their last Sunday night ' ., at home, for the following Tuesday they > intended resuming their studies- at Notre ■ Dame University. Of course an automobile . is deemed a requisite for a good time after one .	/
has become accustomed to riding behind a, . spark plug and emergency brake. However, . their last Sunday night at home was to be ; J ' marred to a certain degree, for Tommy’s father \ was a member of that profession termed doctors, and such a profession requires constant .. access to an automobile.	.. . ; \ E
It was .‘with: considerable difficultythat Tommy obtained permission to use the car > A
54
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
that evening, and it was made necessary for him to promise he would go no further than the ten-cent vaudeville house, so he could be had any time that he and the automobile were needed. He promised, however, and called for Art as soon as his 45 “per” would cover the distance. Naturally both w’ere quite disappointed to have to spend the evening at a vaudeville show, when it was possible for them to enjoy a little tour, and it was only a short time after both were together that the possibility was realized; for Tommy thought, and, in fact he was quite sure, that his dictator, commonly known as a father, would get no. calls that night, so he turned his “six” in the direction of Streatortell, a small town about twenty miles south, and from that time until they reached the little hamlet the - speedometer frequently sighed from fast company. Fast riding was necessary, for he must be back in time to say the show was fine.
Streatortell showed up shortly, and after some deliberation in the direction of amusement, Art stocked up with cigars and a flock of “white camels” (they being his favorite cigarette) and thereafter informed the “speed - king” it was time to return. So they started and soon were covering ground as fast as forty-six, seven, and maybe fifty miles an hour, but only eight miles , had been disposed of,, when the engine sneezed, and soon after . the carburator choked, and very soon after the automobile -stopped. It was awful! Can you imagine how the}* felt,, twelve miles from . home, forty minutes to get there, no gasoline, and what is still. worse no place to get any. Of course Tommy ‘shot’ his old familiar
salutation:	~
. . “Say, Art-—” .	.	. ,	’ .
. “Don’t say anything; you forgetful boob, ' you have been driving a car three years, and you have .not learned the primary principle, : .: gasoline,—-always gasoline.” / 1	.
, A “I don’t care for any church-basement or
garage-counsel just now, Artie. You break into yonder-farm.house and telephone to Streatortell for gas,—hurry!” ? . / " . •.	.
Tommy ^explain alone, and so he.did. When he -had finished the dictator pricked up his ears for one off those pecuniarycovered old, farmers,. and started .bn .the'. “ come-back ;” it . was then who could marry; generosity,; for they are not that Tommy/wished ; he ; were. dead. But it relations, gave the;youth in. quesCoffa telephone ^nded:Ane.\ r’tyyy	J
ah old tin tyn.vrith-about tymigaUons pfigasolm p “ Tommy/ the -c	the - driveway, you'
therein for tyust	but twb : gallons was left it;in5front\otymy; patient^	made
enough.to mea.ch Ztyjeaty^^	a call in :a ,garage ; car and returned in my own,”
Butit,'was notnecessary to use the telephone,
smallest town in the world with a garage, so the “gas” was welcome at any price. The two gallons were sufficient, for it was only a short time later that the Hudson “six” and two frightened chance-gamblers were speeding towards Great Ridge.. The Great Ridge garage was just two blocks from the point where the car again went dry. This meant a short walk, the proposition of getting the “gas” proprietor out of bed and purchasing live gallons of his wares	•
Everything was realized as well as could be expected, and in a short time Tom and Art were carrying a five-gallon can loaded to its capacity, and the town mechanic was a close follower, carrying a tin funnel in his right hand, and a sonambulistic attitude somewhere behind his eyes. But then the worst part of the whole affair showed itself—the car was gone. They had left it on that certain corner, yes they were -sure, but now it was gone. .1 won’t attempt to describe the frantic- gestures nor relate the anti-chatauqua expressions Tommy' and Art manufactured, and after they were about through expostulating, the farmer gasolineexpert asked them what their game was and if they intended to get him out of bed to rob him. The poor unfortunates, victims of every catastrophe that could happen, just stood and looked vacant until Tommy said: ~
“Say, Art, where’s the' machine?”
“Why, it probably went over that pasture to milk a cow, you boothead.”
“But, Art, what shall we do?”
“Why, get the sheriff,—but there is no sheriff. I wonder if they have a cop here? No, the cop would probably arrest us for holding up the garage man. The best thing to do is
to keep quiet and don’t tell anyone until we get home, then you explain the whole affair to your father.” ■ ’ 5 ; "	>
After considerable trouble they found the interurban station and a break in their luck occurred, for they caught, the last car home. Art decided it best to wait, outside and. let

THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
55
Varsity Verse.
YOU THREE
When these dead leaves, a-plucked but yesterday, Have lost the faint aroma of the tree, -Yet will endure the fragrant memory ~
You’ve left, whose sunny paths have crossed my way
With treasured things, I hold enshrined apart, I’ll store this keepsake as a memory given. And when the rainbow s vanished from my heaven. I’ll think of- you, and keep a cheerful heart.
You three, soul-mated, keep your heads uplift, And let the blue of heaven haunt your eyes! Sometimes, mayhap, the dimming tears will rise;
Still watch the heavens, the dark cloud has a rift.
And thanks to you, who’ve brought the mood of song;
This day made dull by clouds and pattering rain.
And now, good-bye, for I must on again:
The night comes quickly, and the way is long!
AL A . C.
In Notre Dame, in Notre Dame, -There’s lots of work to do,
From morn till night, in dark and light, 1
We are a busy .crew.	- -	:
We toil b’gob, on every job, . For the model in our view—
Is Eichenlaub!!
Of Notre Dame, of Notre Dame, . There’s lots of news to tell,	;
Of college life and student strife, . <	.
And other things as well.	'
But still we sob, t’would be a daub Were it not for the swell— .	Who is Eichenlaub!!! -
R. M. H. : the dying viking. .	. •
A coral reef, a blazing sky, .	■
The swift sirocco burning by,	j :
In south seas far from home I die.
The purple ocean murmurs low, Gay-flashing pinions, come and go, I stifle in a golden glow. '	.
THE ALTAR OF THE ’.VAR GOD.
There did he lie,—a broken mass of clay
All swelt’ring in his blood; and ere the day ' Was merged in night, he fled beyond the stars,— His life a tribute to the wrath of Mars. -
He had his hopes and dreams, as you and I;
He reared ambitious structures to the sky;
He planned a future filled with prospects bright, Nor ever saw the chance of any blight.
I who was ever wont to roam
: Am hungry for the bleak North home Lashed by the thundering northern/foam.
But Wyrd has cast his awful dice
And I must pay the rover’s price— O Northern wings, edged all with ice! .
.	’	.	F. G. M.
The Call of the Milk.
BY WILLIAM MCNAMARA.
So every man had thoughts alike with his, And planned his life for other things than this, Until this horrid spectre of grim war	.
Crushed life on life, hopes, dreams and all before.
‘ Oh, that such naked horror still can be And mortals yet too obstinate to sec That such a cause as that for which he fell . Can serve alone, the darkest ends of hell'.
•	■	A. L. McD.
. WHO IS EICHENLAUB?
At Notre Dame, at ;Notre Dame, .	.
'."There’s lots of things to. see, -	.
The campus green, the sky serene,	.
• The Indiana flea; ' •	-
The student, mob,—the old green cob,—
•_But what appeals to me—
-.. . .. . . .	.. Is Eichenlaub!
“Lefty” was a “hobo,” but contrary to tradition and romance he was sentimental,5: and this morning especially so.' It was two o’clock and he was seated on the curbstone in front of a restaurant listening to the muffled noises of the slumbering city and gazing at? the houses that loomed up in mystic shapes: out of the. blackness. An occasional :auto passed leaving behind the smell of gasoline. A hurrying, .man walked past whistling the latest tune to keep himself company. “Lefty” . sat silent unmindful of all; this. . Then.a^rmlki * wagon rumbled along, disturbing/the silence by the rattle of numerous cans and bottles.
. As it passed into the darkness, a strange feeling . came, into “Lefty’s” ..sympathetic!;‘heartAgJffe.;;
longed ;for a drink of unadulterated, homcong





56
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
densed milk. He had not tasted any of this beverage. for twelve years, but had confined himself to beer and an occasional glass .of water. '	'
The Awakening.
, BY EDWARD J. .MCOSKER.
“Lefty” stood until it stopped.
up and followed the wagon
He stood in a doorway of
the next building and waited until the driver had descended, delivered the milk and,departed. Again all was silence except for the sighing of the wind through the trees or the banging of an alley gate. The hobo left the doorway, crept along the passage-way and up the rickety stairs his heart in his mouth and his tongue hanging out with thirst. What weird noises he heard! In the neighboring yard a dog barked, a rooster crowed and was answered' by another one at least a block away, a wagon rumbled along the street and a cat on the back fence serenaded the moon. “Lefty” reached the top of the stairs and felt for the bottles. He found them standing on the window* sill and taking them in. his arms called them all the pet names which the vocabulary of a sentimental person alone contains. How cool they felt and how nervous he was! His hand trembled as he put them in his pockets and he felt like a small boy throwing his first spit-ball in school. He started down the steps thinking of a place where he could drink this baby nourishment in peace. He started! Steadily up the narrow flight of stairs'came some one. “Lefty” was excited and it seemed as if . the beating of his • ' heart was louder than the creaking of the stairs. He thought to climb over the railings ' . but before he could act he was held in the big strong arms of a man.	-
.. “I’ve got you at last, you lowdown milk / thieving bum!-” growled his captor. “Lefty” felt something hard hit his jaw and he tried to straighten up. to protect himself but he did not have. time. Something hit his eye and he saw all the constellations playing in a band and the leader was making faces at him; Mars Land Venus were chasing Halley’s Comet around
. with a milk. bottle. Saturn and Jupiter were drinking condensed milk‘through a straw and .the Sun was .driving a Borden’s Milk wagon In, a second Jimmie was into, his overcoat. .and then all was blackness. - '	ty ■ / ■ In another moment, he ?was.in the taxicab,
Jimmie Harrison settled back in his office chair. He had turned in his copy and the night city editor had commended him highly on the story. That it was a “scoop,” he had no doubt,
for he had covered and with his usual his informants as far were concerned.
up his tracks carefully diplomacy had silenced as ^he other newspapers
As he sat thinking of his year in the newspaper game, Harrison glanced about the room. On all sides of him sat busy reporters, pounding out their stories or urging people for information over the telephone. Now and then, the door to the office of the city editor would open and a lusty-lunged youngster would scream: 1 ‘ Copy! ’ ’
Jimmie viewed all the activities of the city room complacently. Through his redoubtable energy, he had worked his way through the maelstrom of that office, and though he was now only a year old in experience, he was one of the ablest and most trusted men on the staff, one of those fellows who handle only “big stuff” and is in line for a Washington correspondence or editorship.	*
Harrison liked to look at the society editor, because she reminded him so much of Mabel, his sweetheart.	.
“Just to think,” mused Jimmie, “that I haven’t seen Mabel since Sunday night and it is Tuesday evening already. It seems ages since I’ve seen her. Bat I can picture her now, her blonde, wavy hair, those entrancing eyes, the rose red lips, the dainty dimple in her chin—”
“Harrison!”	. .
Jimmie turned quickly, just in time to see the night city- editor clear a reporter’s table on the leap, and rush excitedly to his side.
“ The.Wentworth flats, Fifty-first and Roland, are burning,1 several lives lost already, get there quick, ’phone.'in!” cried the city night editor.	;
He awoke in . a hospital with a	bandage as	urging the chauffeur to greater speed	and cursing
big;as a pillow.overhis eye.	A nurse bent over	,	the. city’s 'tyaffic.{regulations.. L
him and coaxed him to drink a glass of milk. Inside of fifteen minutes he was at the scene “Xefty”. turned over on his other side and said: of the conflagration? Hastily, glancing/through ’ “Nothing doing with milk,	make	it a ’bottle::	the crowd he. saw?.her. Mabel’s	-home,	was
ofeBudweiser.’’ 1 .	\	in thej Wentworth	-Was	safe.	She
.THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
o/
looked white, sick and frightened and Harrison hurried to. her side. '
“Jim,” cried Mabel, “little sister’s inside the house. The police won’t let me try to rescue her and I can’t get near the firemen. Won’t you save her?”
. Harrison hurried to the fireline. A policeman tried to stop him, but the reporter flashed his badge and was passed. He rushed to the main entrance. The flames fanned his face. He backed away, then started forward again.
A sudden and him. He turned “I—I can’t,” “WIiat! You
ungovernable fear overcame and fled to Mabel’s side, he pleaded.	•
a coward? And you’re the
' man I trusted! That ends it all,” cried Mabel and she emphasized her statement by slapping Jim in the face.	.
“Mabel, oh Mabel,” Jim pleaded in vain.
Harrison stood holding the society editor’s wrists tightly. He glanced around and saw the night city editor grinning at him.
“It’s all right to have nightmares in the office after your copy is in,” laughed Graham, the night city editor, “but next time don’t yell that girl’s name so often.
“I. held this electric light in front of your face for sometime, and when you didn’t respond, I had Miss Sullivan tap you on the cheek and you replied by trying to break her wrists and crying ‘Mabel, Mabel!’ ”
“At that, you’re all right, Jim, and your story is-the best “scoop” in six months. I played it for two columns on page one. Let you and Miss White and I go out to the LaSalle and have a good dinner. It’s m.y treat.”
Over the Telephone.
“ Hello!”________________________________
“No, I can’t get permission to go to that dance, but I’ll risk it for you. -They’ve got no right to hem me in like they are doing here, I could have more liberty in a reform school.”
“No, I can’t make it by eight, I”ve got give these prefects a stall that I’m to be home to-morrow.” .
to at
“ Yes, they are a queer crowd, but I’m not afraid; of them.”	.	.
'The school as a whole? It’s a pretty fierce
place. No liberties, poor meals, long hours.

“No, the rector’s’ like the rest of them. I’ve got no use for him. Treats me just like a baby; but I hand him back-talk.” 1	;
“Afraid of the president? Not I, I’m too long alive to be nice for the sake of a pulk. I tell the truth.” (Rector enters the room.) .
“ Yes, yes, it’s a fine place and I’m in the best , hall in the school.”	’ .
“Oh, he’s a prince, he certainly does the h
Square thing by everybody.” .	? L
“You bet they like him, they all swear by . ‘ him.”______________________L__________ -
“Yes, the president is fine, but if you’re in a good hall like ours you don’t have to worry . about what kind of a president you have.”
“Town? Yes, if you’re on the square with . the boss he’ll let you down. It’s only the-ones who try to beat him to it and who don’t do the square thing when they get a permission that he sits on.”	-	. '
“To-morrow night? Well, I do hate to take the time out. I have all kinds of hard studies, and that will mean work for me during the afternoon ‘rec’ to-morrow.”
“Yes, I suppose I should have called before, but wont later do? I’m no hand to go out at night. A fellow can’t do it and keep . up his studies.”__________________________—L.-
“All right, but remember it’s going tube just this once. Tell Uncle John that ! have a message for him from Father, so that he’ll stay home.”_____________•„__£_______-_______ A’
“At eight-thirty?”	:
All right. Good-bye.”
(Student hangs up receiver and walks overto rector):—“Say, Father, my cousin just called me up and says it’s a shame I haven’t gone Jo.; see them since I came. They want me to. calL on them to-morrow evening;” . . .. '■ J
Rector (catching him by the neck):—“Upto';-your room to study, and if; you. leave this. hall to-morrow, I’ll - knock your - block; off. No town for you.” J .. ■;;>
£5*


5S	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of -Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana
XLVm.	OCTOBER, io, 1914. NO. 4.
Board of Editors.
ARTHUR HAYES, ’17 ’
CL O V I S SMITH, ’15	E U G E N E MCBRIDE, ’ I 5
TIMOTHY GALVIN, ’16	GEORGE SCHUSTER ’15
SPEER STRAHAN ’17	MARK DUNCAN, ’15
LOUIS KEIFER, ’l6	ANDREW MCDONOUGH, ’17
JOHN REILLY, ’16	EMMETT G. LENIHAN, ’15
.	—The uninterested spectator at the Alma
• game last week might well have thought that he was gazing on the moving pictures of a football contest.
Notre Dame Spirit. The volume of applause from the Notre Dame bleachers certainly would not have marred the illusion. Not a single concerted cheer was heard throughout the entire game. Even when the Varsity trotted upon the field there ensued only a feeble clapping of hands. Possibly this was not entirely the fault of the crowd. It is true that no plans had been formulated in advance, not even had a cheer-leader been appointed, for it seemed to many that the game was too unimportant. However, the one thing which the whole incident brings strikingly . before us is that we need PEP. The team is - working strenuously every-day in preparation . . for the great struggle before them. Why not give them, a little encouragement? Many baseball games.have been won in the ninth inning - when the fans have been transformed into a
A raging mob, and began to "pull for a hit.” So top'is it in football. We may be bn the ' — '	- enemy’s one yard line, . battling'- desperately
: -	■: for a touchdown. • Who knows what wonders
■	. a big U? N. D. might not accomplish? A thrill -
: i ; goes through the jaded. warriors, they - hurl
A "A themselves forward in one last supreme effort,— ~-* *y and-the ball “goes oyer.” Thus .the cheering
A _ crowd has its place in every game, almost as
important as that of the players themselves. Our team will soon play Yale on a foreign field. We cannot accompany it, but we can give the fellows a rousing farewell. Then they will come back to play the Haskell Indians and Carlisle. At these two games we will all be present, and it remains to be seen how much of the true Notre Dame spirit lives within us. All believe that it is not dead, but slumbering. Let us awaken it immediately, revivify every old student’s spirit and plant it in the soul of every new one. Then we shall have something more than a spasmodic handclapping and a few cries of delight,—the vast tumult of a thousand voices booming across the field in one great cheer.
—Although our reeking bulletins of war serve chiefly to diet sensation seekers, one- thing is assured the spectator. That men lie mangled in vast red heaps, that The Pathos of Peace, women are broken and children starved, that pestilence oozes out over the plains, demonstrate not the godless, murderous delusion of war, but the utter, everlasting futility of peace. We all have hoped that time would see Rachel’s mourning forever lifted, and the fruition of labor securely spared. But if Europe, bred in the loftiest culture history has known, taught by the iron lectures of a hundred wars, could gaze upon the cathedrals, the marts and the homes of her restful years and deliberately consecrate them to siegeartillery-, is it possible to believe that peace will ever come to men? Despite all our late journalistic assurances, despite the efforts of a multitude of noble minds, the answer is a grim—NO. Just one month before the .mobilization, Bertha Von Suttner, .the great, heroic woman with whom the merit for all the modern peace-movements lies, had died; just one week before, the Kaiser had spoken eloquently, fervently for peace; with his last' breath the great Pope Pius had prayed for it. All in vain. The spirit of man cannot change. We have indeed taught successfully .that conflict is a great illusion, that it is economic suicide ruining homes and lives and treasures' But the.masses tire of slow material progress. Trade supremacy demands, a. lusty; telling blow. National differ-epees are everlasting, peoples must expand, thrones must be .rooted ; deeper. Autocracy ' threw Russia, into this present struggle; democ-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
racy plunged our own- McKinley into war,' and not a year past clamored for .Mexican blood. No, all pacification schemes have been failures. Not until you can change the changeless soul of man, not until you can teach him to love his neighbor as himself, can you abolish conflict. Just as certainly as there are brawls there will be battles. ■
Think of modern materialism preaching a maxim of Jesus! Think of mankind suddenly rising to a practice of the Sermon on the Mount! No, not until the statue of Christ, which stole its way into the House of Peace, shall rise and drive out the money-lenders, can men live in harmony. Perchance this will never be done—not till the bones of the youngest babe that lies at its mother’s breast shall have sunk deep as the Silurian strata. Pride, avarice, revenge—these are crimes, and there is only one who can forgive sins.
1 —Of all the numerous influences that go to make life at Notre Dame appealing, the campus is undoubtedly one of the most vital.
The beauty and sym-
Keep off the Grass, metry which the care of years has wrought out of the chaotic wilderness LaSalle passed through, have called forth words of praise from every visitor. In the latest number of the Dublin Review, Wilfrid. Ward expresses his disappointment at being hindered by a fog from gaining an adequate view “of the beautiful grounds” during his visit last year. What a- desecration of every Hellenic ideal is it, then, to see students carelessly tramping down the grass and laying out novel paths of their own care-free invention. We are sure of this because . we have frequently^ observed a solitary youth amble slowly across, to be followed with much precision by a file of retainers. It reminds us of a drove of grazing bovines who tread a path as they wind along. The bovines do not of course know what they are doing—neither do the students, perhaps—at any’ rate we are convinced that if just a little more considera-■ tion for the art of landscape gardening were observed byr certain young gentlemen, the workers would be spared a vast amount of toil and our campus would be rid of several, unsightly splotches of bare ground. It may seem a little thing to you to take a short cut . across the . quadrangle, but when a thousand follow you it becomes serious.	.
59
Society Notes.
KEELEY CLUB ORGANIZES.
Following the usual, custom originated by Professor Cooney of the School of Journalism, the members of the Freshman Class have banded themselves together into a society that is to be known as the Keeley Club.
This is the third club to be organized by the classes in Journalism under the direction of Professor Cooney, and as it is the largest it promises to become the best.
The name Keeley was chosen in honor of the Dean of the School of Journalism, James Keeley, Editor of the Chicago Record. Mr. Keeleyr has been chosen Honorary President of the club.	'
Thomas W. Conway of- Boston was chosen president, being the second Boston boy to be elected to that honor in the Journalism clubs in two years. William Breen McDonald of La Grange, Illinois, was elected vice-president, and Charles, W. Call of Jackson, Michigan, holds the position of secretary-treasurer.
Professor Cooney has been elected an Honorary’- member of the club and will look out for the general welfare of the society.
Regular meetings of the club are to be held every Saturday morning. Smokers and social gatherings will be held during the winter at which prominent men will be invited to speak.	-
Brownson Literary and Debating.
The second regular assembly of the Brownson Literary and Debating Society was held Sunday evening. Good speeches were made by Brother Alphonsus, sponsor for the society’-, and Father Walsh, the club’s critic. Brother Alphonsus took for his theme, the history of the society from its conception down to the present organization, which is one of the largest in the history of Notre Dame. He spoke enthusiastically’- of the work the society has been doing in the past, and. encouragingly. of what the members hope to do in the future. Father Walsh followed with a short, address of sound advice which , was relished byr those present. After the first debate had been arranged for Sunday evening, October iij and on the conclusion of some routine business, the society adjourned. . s \	...
6o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Personals.
—Most of the “old grads” will soon get together in New Haven, Chicago, and a few other common meeting places.
—William J. Redden (B. S. in A. ’14) and Donat Pepin (E. E. ’14) are both in Detroit following their respective professions.
—“ Moke Kelley, having finished the season with the Pittsburg Nationals, is with us again. He will finish his studies in engineering during the winter
—Edmund H. Savord (LL. B. ’12) has received the appointment as Director of Public Safety in Sandusky, Ohio. Savord has always been an active N. D. worker.
•	—The marriage is announced of Miss Rosella
M. Kirn to Mr. John P. Dant (Short E. E. ’n) at Sacred Heart Church, Louisville, Kentucky, October 14th. Congratulations and good wishes.
—Francis Mulcahy (Ph. B. ’14) is studying : law in an office in Rochester. If he works as hard there as he did for the News-Times last year we will have no doubts about his success.
—The sympathy of .many friends is extended to the Reverend Charles L. Doremus, C. S. C., in the death of his brother, who was fatally wounded in the battle of Charleroi, August 22nd. R. I. P.	-
.'	—Mr Fred Steers called at the University
Tuesday, and met many of his old friends. Fred is deeply interested in athletics and spent most of his time on the gridiron sizing up the players.
—Byron, V. Kanaley, president of the .. Alumni Association, spent a few' hours with us on Wednesday last. Work seems to agree with Byron, as he has taken on about twenty pounds since his last visit. - . :
—Harry Scott, president of the 1916 class . in their freshman year, is employed in the City Engineering department in Indianapolis.
.	“ Scotty’sstories ought to keep the other
* > r engineers happy’ at any rate.
,	—The .marriage is announced of Miss Loretta
Carey to:Mr. William G. Ferstel (Student in the ’90s). The . groom was a popular student - in his day and is' the son of a well known and
j highly respected business man of South Bend.
:A —Among the former N. D.-ites enrolling
’ LT in other colleges; this year are: Ward Perrot,
Harvard Law School; D. Michael Nigro Creighton; Robert Ort, Chicago; Leo Muckle, Cornell Agricultural; and Raymond Miller, Wisconsin.
—The marriage of Miss Velma Marie Twomey to Mr.- Walter Duncan will take place at St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, Indiana, October 24. The bride is a daughter of Mr. Edward J. Twomey, a prominent business man of South Bend, and the groom is a popular graduate of recent years.
—We wish to deny the report that Bill Downing, ’14, is running for sheriff in Decatur. It is rumored that coach “Moke” Kelley has hired him to build up a Sorin team like the old Corby Wolves. Capt. Art Carmody refused to make a statement, but 'it is believed he favors Jim Fennesy, ’14. v
—Charlie Dorais (LL. B. ’14), our former sensational quarterback, is coaching the Dubuque College football team and is also teaching History and English in the Academic department. We don’t know much about “Gus” as a pedagogue, but if he can teach that football team all he knows about the “king of college sports” we’ll soon be playing Dubuque for the national championship.
------- a ---------—
Local News.
—The Sorin “Lolly-Pops” are organized again.
—How about a special wife to New Haven, , on the 17th.
—“Are you ready, Mr. Fitzgerald?” Didn’t it sound good?
—New steel lockers have been installed in the' Gymnasium.
—Ed Marcus and Gene Daniel O’Connell are rooming together down town.
—How disappointed that Alma team looked when they learned that the Flying Dutchman was laid up. . -	.
—It’s a matter of only, a short time until “Tony’s’” ice cream cone business will become ’ a “hot-dog” affair.	,
—A large German Zeppelin has. disappeared from Wilhelmshaven. Finder please return same to Brother Alphonsus.
—Our idea of,, harmony is the blending of Handel’s “Largo” and “Poor. Pauline,” in Washington Hall every afternoon.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I	—The furniture of the new Post Office is
3	.	.	A .
being installed. The building will no doubt be ready for occupation within a week.
|	—That picture of “Deac” Jones among, the
I team captains for the season resembles him as much as a Ford does the “Blitzen Benz.”
I
i	—Last Saturday the Corby “Grave Diggers”
* . and Brownson “Chics” played a football |	game on Cartier Field, which the “Chics”
j	won, 6-o.
I	—Have your eyes open for a good religious
book, one that especially suits you, to be used during the Students’ Retreat which begins October 27.
—Mr. John P. Tiernan of New York City will become a member of the Faculty in the Law School. Mr. Tiernan has been with the ‘ New York Law School
—A movement seems to be on foot to take up a collection for the purpose of bringing Blbel’s Band up to Chicago for the Carlisle game on November 14.
’	—“Moke” Kelly is back with the dear old
aroma of stogies and coal smoke clinging to him. Our prescription for the sickly Pirates is to get three or four more Kellys for next - season.	'
—Registration Day stood for free automobile rides at Notre Dame. It was surprising to see how anxious were most of the professors and students to signify their intentions to vote at the fall election. That will mean another ride.
—No real class spirit is ever manifested - until the members of a class organize. The " Freshmen of last year failed to perfect an organization. It is hoped that this will not mean the setting of a precedent at the University.	•
—The tractor demonstration held on the Notre Dame Farm last Saturday, was witnessed
’ by a number of students. The Senior Engineering classes, accompanied by Professor Benitz and Mr. Eggert, gave special attention to the working of the various machines. ’
—When Figelstaliler learned that the Germans had bombarded Notre Dame he renounced his fatherland and came over with the Allies.
Speaking of the above, we read in the Chicago Herald last week:—“The Germans may bombard Notre Dame, but they had better let her football team alone.”
61
—“Mike” and “Hullie” have left at the University a befitting trophy which is to be presented to the champion Interhall football team. The emblem is a regulation size metal football mounted in silver. It will make a very handsome ornament in any hall and the struggle for its possession _ promises, to be spirited.	-
—This is the sixth year of the Apostolate Library in Brownson Hall under the able direction of Bro. Alphonsus. There are now about three hundred and fifty volumes in the Library, largely Catholic fiction, although.there are numerous other books on serious religious topics and standard current literattire. It contains such works as those of Dr. Walsh, Mgr. Benson, John Ayscough, and Wilfrid Ward’s “Life of Cardinal Newman.” Financial or volume contributions to. the Library are very much appreciated."
—The first annual meeting of the D. U. B. Athletic Club was held at the Lilacs last Wednesday and the following officers were, elected: Manager of athletics, Hugh Bums; captain of indoor baseball' team, Eli Cassidy; captain of Ski team, James Riddle; captain of water palo team, Emmett Lenihan; captain • of hockey team, James Boland; captain of the bowling team, William Ryan; captain of tennis team, Louis Clark; captain of checker team, • John O’Donnell.
Doc. Eli Cassidy, because of his. previous experience at Apalon, Indiana, was unanimously elected trainer of teams. First practice for water polo team called Monday at 2-30 p. m. in the bath tub. J. C. Smith at time of meeting, not being a charter member of club was not elected to any office.	.
Athletic Notes.
VICTORY OPENS SEASON. '	-
56 to o tells the tale of the Alma invasion last Saturday. They came with a small group of loyal supporters, they saw,—straight, simple, football—and they went back home thankful for such little favors as not having met Messrs. Jones, Eichenlaub, and Finegan. They didn’t care for a demonstration of Notre Dame’s full strength, if a crippled team could- crush them so easily and effectively.	;
The game might have been staged in the ■ ante-revision days, so absolutely simple and direct was the style of football used. When

I
THE NOTRE DA ME SCHOLA STIC
Notre Dame had the ball, which was about five-sixths of'the time, one line buck followed another almost continuously. Only two forward passes were tried, each near the opponents’ . goal, and one resulted in a touchdown.
The reason for such a steam-roller style, rested in the well-founded belief of Coach Rockne that Yale and South Dakota would naturally feel a very friendly interest in Notre Dame’s progress, and consequently send representatives to see how the Gold and Blue was getting on. These expectations were completely satisfied by the appearance in the stands of.several unobtrusive gentlemen, with the genus coachiensis written large all over them down to the verj^ note-books they used so industriously. They saw some mighty fine football players in action, buri as to Notre Dame’s progress in the Bine Art of Strategy, so distinctively demonstrated last fall, they didn’t get a glimpse. And as everyone, especially a football coach, fears the unknown most, we tremble for the peace of mind of our Eastern friends.	-
As the first real test of strength, the game produced many features to gladden the hearts of the rooters, and one or two not so pleasing. The line charged rather slowly, and left big holes several times ^through which the visitors made nice gains on delayed bucks. Such defects, . however, can be easily remedied in the next . two weeks. On the other hand, the forwards almost invariably • opened big gaps for the Varsity backs, and smothered all attempts at line plunging. Bachman played a very pretty game at guard, showing great speed for such a big man. Ward, at tackle in Capt.
■ ■ Jones’ place, put up a very creditable exhibition, - ' • and will make a capable understudy in that position. To.speak of the playing of Keefe, . - Lathrop and Fitzgerald is needless—it is • sufficient to state that the}7 are quickly rounding . into the form that made Notre Dame’s defence a. stone, wall-last season. At left end, El ward . : played a fine game, while Mills and Hany ’ .J Baujan also did good work. ,	.
J - r . The honors of the day went to the backfield, however. Every man did his best, and j.;. the way Alma’s defense broke before the quartet, ~ . n showed several reasons, why Notre Dame can J- .;: look for a successful , season. . Duggan’s lineplunging was simply terrific. Time after time, y 7	Eddie bowled over tacklers like a ram, and
.	always gained several, yards by his .impetus,
after being tackled. Heine Berger displayed the same splendid work that has characterized his playing all season; it is so far superior to last year as to make him seem like a new man.	’	■
The most spectacular deeds of the afternoon, however, fell to Cofall and Pliska. Running his team’with snap and precision “Stan” not only played a faultless game, but drew salvos of applause for his broken field running. His work in this respect reminded the older men of Dorais, not that the style was the same, but because after a punt, the ball was invariably brought back more than half the distance by great open field running. On one occasion he made 35 yards, though no less than five of the visitors had tried clean tackles. Cofall further emulated his famous predecessor by kicking six goals from the field in as many tries.
If Pliska’s work was an illustration of what may be expected in the bigger contests, we confidently predict that Joe will have to be considered a long time when it comes to picking the All-American. Slippery and elusive as an eel in dodging through a broken line, Joe was simply an impossibility for the Alma aggregation once he had a clear field. A fifty yard dash through the Alma line, a wide end run for the same distance and sixty-five yards for a touchdown after catching a punt, were some of the feats that thrilled the crowd. Bill Kelleher, who alternated with Pliska did some great line bucking, and was at one end of a perfectly executed forward pass which netted a touchdown. Larkin also played a fine game at the halfback position.
One noticeable feature was the unusually large' crowd of visitors for such an early and comparatively unimportant game. If South Benders continue to evince this spirit of loyalty to Notre Dame athletics, the friendship between the school and the town, will be cemented all the more firmly, and will enable Coach Harper to show some of the big Eastern Teams on Cartier Field in future "years.	.
Practice behind closed gates began Monday, and will continue at least until the Yale game. The Coach is taking .no chances on continued visits of Eastern friends, and so- everyone save the players’will be barred from Cartier'Field. The ..students are asked -to respect this rule, as they can. well ' see the‘.harm were, Notre Dame’s opponents to /get. a ' line oh her style
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of play. New formations will be tried out and put in good working order.
Evidently the coaches are not fully satisfied with the wing positions, as Lathrop has been shifted from tackle to end this week, Ward filling his place. Eichenlaub and Jones are again in suits, and the hopes are strong that Finegan will also be able to play before the
Thursday, November 5 Walsh vs. Brownson -Sunday, November 8	. Sorin vs. Corby '*
Thursday, November 12 St. Joseph vs. Walsh. ' y-X Thursday, November 19 Corby vs. Brownson \ ?•< Tuesday, November 24 Sorin vs. Brownson f
College Notes.	J
big fray at New Haven. •
• NOTRE dame (56) El ward ...........................
Left End.
Ward ..............................
’	Left Tackle.
Keefe .............................
Left Guard.
Fitzgerald ........................
Center.
alma (o)
. . . . Galegher
.... Chapel
Austin, Capt.
. . . Robinson
Bachman...................................Johnson
Right Guard.
Lathrop .................................. French
Right Tackle.
Mills ...................................... Hyde
Right End.
Cofall ................................. Spinney.
Quarterback .
Berger ...................................Stoggle
Left Halfback.
Pliska ..................................... Cole
Right Halfback.
Duggan ..................................... Wood
*	Fullback.
Substitutions: Notre Dame—King for Elward; Elward for King; Sharp for Ward; Ward for Sharp; Oadem for Ward; Steffany for Keefe; B eh for Steffany; Shaughnessy for Fitzgerald; H. O’Donnell for Shaughnessy; J. O’Donnell for Bachman; Rausch for O’Donnell; Holmes for Lathrop; Baujan for Mills; Mills for ’Baujan; Bush for Cofall; Larkin for Berger; Berger for Larkin; Matthews for Berger; Kelleher for Pliska; Pliska for Kelleher; - Kowalski for Pliska; Miller for Duggan; Gradjr for Miller.
Alma—White for Johnson; Ludwick for White; Fitch for Stoggle. Blaisdell, Alma’s other substitute, did not get a chance to enter the game.
Summary—Referee, -Messick, Indiana; Umpire, Edwards, South Bend; Head . linesman, Gargon, Notre Dame.
Touchdowns—Pliska,, 3; Kelleher, 2; Cofall 2; Duggan, r. Goals from touchdown—Cofall, 7; Pliska, r
INTERHALL FOOTBALL.
At a conference of the athletic managers of the various halls held on Thursday afternoon, the following schedule for the interhall football season was arranged:
Sunday, October 18 Sorin vs. St. Joseph Thursday, October 22 Walsh vs. Corby Sunday, October 25 Brownson vs. St. Joseph Thursday, October 29	.. Walsh vs. Sorin
Sunday, November 1	St. Joseph vs. Corby
There are to be no less than ten big clashes . J between the East and IVest during the present -	? ;
football season and for the first time in history - . a fair estimate of the comparative strength ; . of the two sections can be made. Colgate = defeated Ohio Wesleyan 40 to o in the first	-A
intersectional game, but the latter can hardly	. '.
be considered a representative western school.
Western Reserve will meet the Navy at Annap- '	<
olis on October 24, but here again the western	-. A
school will be a weak one. The important	’ , < J
games will be those of Michigan and Notre -Dame. Michigan is to meet Syracuse, Harvard . J $ Pennsylvania and Cornell, in the order named. *	, - ,
The first two games will be played in the - ~ East and the last two in the West. Notre Dame	..
plays Yale, Army, Carlisle and Syracuse, and	/•
all except the Carlisle game will be played in	i
the East. If Michigan and Notre Dame are as strong this year as they have been in the . past two years, the West will surely lose nothing	L
by the comparison.	. <
South Dakota reports, brilliant prospects for a successful football season. Seven of . <. last year’s regulars have returned and. a number of nevi men are showing up well. • "T Potts, centre and Ferguson, fullback, both of : whom starred on Cartier Field last year, are r back in the li'eup. Ferguson is captain of	;-5
the team. The Coyotes played Nebraska today ' "J and on next" Saturday they meet Minnesota. ,	.
Hence they should be in splendid shape for --''yAA the Notre Dame game which will be played .	. .1.’
at Sioux Falls,. S. D., on October 24. An enor- ? mous crowd is expected to attend the contest, ; which is being widely advertised in the West. J a The game will furnish an oportunity for com- / N-'N: paring our strength with that of Nebraska A and Minnesota, and no one who recalls the TT LT-Cv wonderful fighting spirit that South Dakota . displayed last year is over sanguine of success.. INMNaA
Notre Dame fans will watch, to-day’s game.,.-^ between Yale and Lehigh with much interest Lehigh is showing unexpected strength. In: A - her first game, Lehigh defeated Franklin and
Marshall, 12 to o and the latter school defeated
* '	■	- a
‘	.	'	.	•	. -	-..'A AAsS-A’A
- ' - . ~ . - -• : '
64	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Pennsylvania, 10 to o on the following Saturday. Last 'week Lehigh sprung ' another surprise winning from Carlisle 21 - to 6. Unless Lehigh shows a reversal of form, Yale will have to put up her best game to win.
Harvard’s game with Washington and Jefferson will also bear watching. W. and J. had a strong team last year coming through the season without a defeat and holding Yale to a tie. Every member of the 1913 eleven has returned to W. J. and the little Pennsylvania school is sure to be heard from before the season closes.
Christian Brothers, minus the coaching of “Luke” Kelly, were easy victims for Illinois, 37 to o. “Luke,” who is coaching the Holy Cross eleven this year, is meeting with some bad .luck at the very start of the season. ‘ ,
***
It looks now as if at last we are to have the open game in football at full blast in the East as well as in the West. Notre Dame’s success has been no mean factor in bringing this about.—The Boston Globe.
Safety Valve.
You know me, Al, I’m the fellow who takes the dough out of your buns at breakfast, and who locates the seeds in your grapes.
. Visitor (to student):—“Does Notre Dame play Yale this year?”
. Student (warming up):—“You’re right we do, and you can bet that will be some game. Why nearly . all—”
Visitor:—“Excuse me! what I came here for was to see the art gallery. Would you mind showing—”
Student (disgustedly):—“Impossible, mam, Louie Ackerman has the keys and at present he’s in the subway of the dome tending to his youngest child who has smallpox^—Quarantine, Madam! Quarantine!
■ . ~ ' *** ' . ,
-. Brownson Haller:—“Yes, that’s my idea. I’m not going to miss a duty from now till June. There’s a -pleasure in feeling—”
. Walsli Haller:—“Say, fellow, did your parents live - at Mattawan too?”
Wallie Coker:—“We, al ways have grand nights
’ . in Texas.” ...	. •	•	.
.	Frank.Fox:—"The. Dickens, - you have, are you
' a K. of C.?”*	.	...	_	7’
, Visitor:—“I understand-that you have an original -	. Van Dyke .here at. the University ? ”	. ; \ .
_ A	Student’'(learnedly):^“No, madam, you’ve .con-
4 . v. fused the;names—it’s Eichenlaub.” . "...	.-
-	.*	* We made this, last joke up ourselves and i never
'i.Airead it in-no book or nothing like that.. -7	.
New Student:—“Yes, I’m delighted with Notre Dame. I like the paintings and old manuscripts and precious volumes.”
Old.Student:—“That gink’s been here a week and he doesn’t know about “Spit'Hall” yet.”
Old Boy:—“I’m the fellow that skives to town, chews tobacco, swears, and beats the prefects. AVho are you?”	.
New Boy:—"My name is Horace.”
***
. ON FRIDAY
“Now for goodness sakes; Alick, don’t ask me what’s inside of the oysters—I never look.”
Going out to register last Monday reminded us of the time Lottie Collins was challenged and declared himself a Seminarian.	'
We’ll be all right October 17 if they don’t try any of that "Yale Lock” business. It’s worse than holding in the line.
***
WAR NEWS	•
It is reported that the Kaiser has destroyed Antwerp . by dropping "Iron Crosses” from dirigible balloons.
. Who said the iron cross was an honor? . ***
■ A HORROR ADDED TO’DEATH.
It must be terrible to join the French army and die wearing red trousers.
***
It. is reported that the Russians are suffering from bronchitis, but the German army has the Krupp.
And many a prefect has pursued the policy of watchful waiting with as little success as Wilson. * ' ***
Carrollite:—"Say, do you want a personal for the Scholastic?”	‘
Editor:—“Yes, what is it?”
Carrollite:—“The minim’s cat has twelve kittens.”
THE CHANGES ONE MAN CAN CAUSE-
If “Speedy” Harvat'comes back it is the intention to put him on left end and to switch Bachman to right end. That will necessitate Fitzgerald going to quarter and Cofall to centre. Hugh O’Donnell and Thorpe will take the tackle positions with Hardy Bush.and Duggan as. guards. The backfield therefore will be
• left to Tom Shaughnessy.
“, - ’ - * * * - '
History. Professor:2—“What is an Indian?”	-
, Student- (thinking long):—“Allerton Dee.”
-	,	-	J*:*# -	’
Matthews’ (to minim)There’s a rule_in grammar, kid, that says a person • shouldn’t never use two -negatives - and you’re always, saying had .went. Drop one of the ^negatives.” "	•. .	,	-
;The French army is going to be equipped with Paris Garters, the.reason for. this is,that the makers claim
„ that “no;metal can tduch .you.” . . . .'