

Phone bills too high? . 
Your son or daughter can't find the time to keep in touch? If you want to know what's going on at Notre Dame, subscril?8 to 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
The best way to keep up with Notre Dame students. 
Read about the latest campus news and sports, check out what's happening on the weekends, and enjoy some college humor. You can be part of all this for the introductory price of $20 a year­just a dollar an issue. Subscribe now and share in of the 128-year tradition of Scholastic Magazine. 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1994-95. 
Name:-----­Address: ______ 
( 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $20 x _ years =$ _ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
. . ' . ' . .. . ... . ~ 
, • ~ I 
-' .. . ' 
' . " ' -~-· 
.  ~  .  .  
'  •  •  I  •  •  - 
.  .  
.  -.  .  ' .  . .  > ,  '  ,  
!  ).  .  •  .  ,  
\  ~, ,  • 1  .• /  ,.:_  •  ~  •  ,  ,  •  •  I  • _,,  •  r  



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136,NUMBER4 FOUNDED 1867 SEPTEMBER 22, 1994 
South Bend's Sibling
8Thousands ofmiles away, in the heart of Poland, South Bend has an older sister. She's half a millenium older,butthey still havealotincommon. 



Rough and Tumble 
13Over 50 percent of Notre Dame's student body letteredina varsity sportin high school, but they cannot all play for the Irish. RecSports provides a solution. 
Who owns ND? 
16No, not the school -the logo. Scholastic Magazine investigates what it takes to get Notre Dame's logos on everything from sweatshirts to chocolates. 

FEATURES 

Campaigning on Mod Quad •Kevin Eckhardt ............................................... ~ .......................................................... 3 Keeping the Peace at Home · Bertha Kadenyi Arrrisi ..............................................................................................6 Rapidly Fading Purdue· Brian Biro ......................................................................................................................11 A Bearhug from cub •Joey Crawford ........................ : ............................................................................................ 20 Sweetened with Sugar •Bill Albertini ..................................................................................................................... 22 Going Clubbing• Justin Harkin ............................................................................................................................... 27 Beethoven, Nietzsche and Father Joe •Benjamin Evans ...................................................................................... 28 
-~ -------­
DEPARTMENTS 

From the Editor ............................................................. 2 Campus Watch .............................................................. 5 Sports Commentary ..................................................14 Splinters from the Press Box ......................................15 
Out of Bounds .............................................................23 On Other Cainpuses ........................................ ; ........... 24 Coming Distractions ...................................................25 Comics .........................................................................26 
:­
' _, -" ->, , , • • ~-•• • • • \ , • 
-~~~-­

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a SEPTEMBER 22, 1994 


A year ago, three friends and I were bicycling around the tiny island ofInishmoor, 20 milesoffthewestern coastoflreland. The island, whichis nine mileslongandthree miles wide, is a remote and desolate place, inhabited by people who farm the rocky land and still live in thatched-roofhomes. Inishmooris apopular touristdestination in the summer months, butit was deserted when we were there in late September. After a chilly, misty day on bikes, we headed into one ofthe three restaurants on the island for some food and drink to warm us up. To our surprise, one ofthe three other patrons ofthe restaurant was wearing a Notre Dame football jacket. When we finished eating, we ventured up to the woman to ask her about the jacket. It turned out she was an American living in Dublin, and one of her husband's friends, who had been a Notre Dame football player, gave her the jacket. 
The explanation made sense, but it did not erase the shock of seeing Notre Dame apparel 3,000 miles from campus on an island with a population of 900 people. Television has helped to create a global village, and that means foreign countries now recognize the interlocking ND and the leprechaun as symbols of Notre Dame. Along with increased television exposure come companies seeking to use the trademarks on their products. Smart marketers know that Notre Dame items sell, and many of them want to capitalize on the built-in market of Notre Dame alums and fans. 
So that leaves the University with some tough decisions. They can splash the logos on any company thatwants them, which would bringin more money and makeNotre Dame · more recognizable. Or they can limit the amount of companies that use our symbols, cutting down both profit and the school's exposure. Freida Donnan, the director of university licensing,is responsible for making thesedecisions. BrianFlanagan and Chris Lenkolookintoherjob,anditsresultsfortheNotreDamenameandlogo. Theirarticles run on pages 16 through 19. 
Also in this issue 
Coming to college means learning to live with roommates, as upperclassmen will testify and freshmen know only too well. Often, it is hard to bridge the gap between different lifestyles andpersonal preferences. Imagine having to get along with 14 roommates, all of them from different countries. That's what the residents of Peace House face. Every year, 14 students from various countries come to Notre Dame to take part in a unique program that allows th6m to get their masters degree in Peace Studies in a year. Although the academics are enough stress, the students also live together in a wing of Columba Hall, where every day is a lesson in international relations. Bertha Amisi, one of the 14 students, relates what it is like to live in the Peace House, on page 6. 
Entertainment writer Joey Crawford previews cub, the band that will be appearing tomorrow night as part of the WVFI and SUB concert series. Don't forget to check out the Purdue preview on page 11, and enjoy our regular weekly features as well. 
Katie E. Wiltrout Editor 
Cover Photo by Brent Tadsen: The array of Notre Dame hats in the bookstore 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 22, 1994 

Mr. Mod Quad 'Goes .to Washington 

(or at least to the County Council) 
The six dorms ofMod Quadfall into a separate township from the rest ofcampus, andfor the first time since 1966, they have a chance to elect a new representative 
by Kevin Eckhardt 

AlotofNotre Datne graduates claim they want to make a difference in the world. Mike Eby would settle 
for making a difference in South Bend. A 1991 Notre Damegraduate,Eabyhas sights set on "changing people's view of politi­cians and government." To this end, Eby hopes to be the new trustee of Clay Town­ship in this November's municipal elec­tions. 
Eby graduated from Notre Datne with degrees in history and government. A na­tive of South Bend, he now works as a northern Indiana historian and professor at Southwestern Michigan University. He is 
~!!_ing for th_e post of trustee of Clay Township, one of the neighborhoods that make up the larger governmental unit of St. Joseph's County. The boundaries for the district extend to Old Juniper Road, which is the small street that cuts across campus between Siegfried and the North Dining 
"U.N.D. is a huge voting block, especially in Clay Township, but I'm the only one who has campaigned on campus and actively . pursued the students' votes. There are a thousand votes in the towers [Flanner and Grace] alone." -Mike Eby, Trustee candidate 
Hall. As a result, all of mod quad is within 
Eby' s voting district. The trustee is respon­
sible for overseeing the fire protection of 
the township and poor relief. 
The incumbent he faces has held the office since 1966, three years before Eby was born, and this length ofterm makes him an easy target. Eby's main goal is to "pro­vide an active government for Clay Town­ship." His platform consists primarily of · building a new fire station (the newest one dates back to the 1960's), and he has an extensive commentary on how to change 
voters' perception of local government. 
Eby refuses to classify himself as an 

idealist or pragmatist, but instead as a "real­
ist -you have to be able to deliver," he 
emphasizes. He is a Democrat, and de­
feated two other opponents handily in the 
primaries, garnering fifty-five percent of 
the vote. Eby does not, however, want 
association solely with a political party. "I 
don't tell my students what my political. 
affiliation is," he remarks,"andthey have to 
figure it out by the end of the semester." 
They have a rough assignment. Eby ·· 

/ 

tends to stand behind broad, popular move­ments, within which there is much room to maneuver in each direction. He is against mudslinging in campaigns, saying, "I hope myopponentdoesn 'thave to resort to that." Yet, he did say he was fully prepared for such a battle. He wants people to be more active in government, saying, "Ifyou don't like it, change it; don't just sit there and whine." He has sponsored get-out-to-vote rallies and supports campus registration drives, but these measures, not surprisingly, gain him votes. He backs Al Gore's plan to "reinvent" government,commenting, "Gov­ernment must start on a local level and move up. The government is too stale." 
Eby was born in 1969,a year when the youth of America sat in, protested, and marched for every cause they feltimportant. Heseestheapathyoftoday's 
"I'm trying to get a voter registration drive for the six Mod Quad dorms. Jhopepeople will give him the sup­port he needs to win." -sophomore Lori Miller, Mike Eby's campaign coordinator 
supply in public life. "Too many politicians become slaves to the polls, and then they're sunk. They stand fornothing." He believes the individual is responsible for making himself a leader. ''The opportunity to be­come a leader exists at Notre Dame, but my own sense led me to become one." 
As for the weight of the university in voting terms, he said, "U.N.D. is a huge voting block, especially in Clay Township, but I'm the only one who has campaigned oncampus andactivelypursued thestudent's _ votes." Eby should win the majority of those ontheMod Quad who vote in his race. ''There are-a thousand votes in the towers [Flanner and \ Grace] alone," he optimisti­cally observes. So far though, his cam­paigning on campus has been limited to organizing the voter registration drive. Sophomore Lori Miller, his campaign co­ordinator, has been trying to publicize the 
young people, especially college students, as a result of the government's failure to provide itself with a positive image. "Evs eryone has this bad image of government, so it's no surprise people don't want to be involved," Eby said. His attempt to avoid losing the trust of voters is simple: he has made few promises. 
As for the election system itself, Eby 
states, "People are fed up with good candi­
dates being run into the ground by big 
campaign money, political action commit­
tees, and the like." When asked whether he 
thinks the smartest man in America will 
ever be president, he responds, "No. He's 
too smart for that. He would never put up 
with the dog-and-pony show the media puts· 
on in elections." , . 
Final!y, then, the basic issue of personal apathy came up: can one person make a difference? His answer was more ofpoli­tics than academics: "One person with sup­port can make a difference." 
The real question one must ask is whether Mike Eby is the man who can do that. He is a Notre Dame graduate whose campaign manager is a Notre Dame alumnus and whose campaign coordinator, Lori Miller, is a student here. He is a local man, who grew up on the Polish west side of South Bend, influenced in politics by his grandfathers. Beyond this, Eby is an un­known commodity. He has no major stands on issues. He has no experience. As freshman Joanne Zuhoski pointed out, "I'd like to have a young politician who under­
. stood the needs of young people and was 

Mike Eby '91, running for the office of Clay Township Trustee. Clay Town­ship Includes the six Mod Quad residence halls. 
more in tune with our situation, but I still want a person with experience running things." 
He is neither ideal.ist nor pragmatist, Democrat nor Republican. . He speaks of bringing people back upcoming elections and contacting other dorms to encourage students to vote in the election. "I'm trying to get a voterregistra­tion drive for the six Mod Quad dorms," Miller explained. Students who are not residents of the state of Indiana can vote in the elections if they apply for a registration transfer. The deadline to register is Sunday September 25. 
Mier thinks that Eby has a lot to 
ffer students. "I hope people 

ill give him thesupport,"Miller said. "Mike Eby is a young man, and his youth is what he sells to the voter," contin­ued Miller. He is counting on his inexperi­ence and lack of political knowledgy to sweep him into office at the crest of the great wave of discontent with government today, an attitude rampant on this campus. Freshman Norm Beznoska shares this view of politics: "Government is nothing but a corrupt group of selfish leeches on the pub­lic body." Eby believes American politics, from the local level up, needs a new infu-. sion ofleadership. Eby places his opponent in the same class as Ted Kennedy and Dan 
( . 

Rostenkowski,old, selfish men out of touch with how the rest of America lives. Mike Eby may be the able man to take over the office. · The final word in this hometown­boy-makes-good story will be written in 
into government, but he has withdrawn · · part by the students of Mod Quad. . from taking any stances. Eaby's main po­sition is change. "Government needs a blood transfusion," he proclaims. Reporting by Chris Lenko and Lori Miller 
Eby feels that leadership is in dire short 
S C H O L A S T I C M_AG A Z I N E ¦ S E P T E M B E R 2 2 , 1 9 9 4 



CarnRusWatch 
BY THE GIPPER 
Gossip, Allegations and Innuendo
·OK,guys, start with the Notr.e Dame 
flag here and finish with the Pitt 

flag across from thepress box. We play Pitt this year, don't we? Oh, hell, fly the Pitt flag anyway." -Last words of Hubey, the stadium maintainence guy who decided to run the wrong flag up the pole before the lasfhome game. Hubey is an oragami instructorin an old people's home now. 
IF YOU AREIN NEED OF ACLUE... 
The Gipp was board the other day so he took to running up his office phone bill. Since university phones do not dial 1-900 numbers, the Gipp started to call all of our favorite football opponents and make ob­scene noises over the phone. This was really uneventful until theGippgottoFlorida State. Since he was calling after 5:00 east­ern time, the Gipp got the FSU recorded message which goes like this (in a lovely white-trash drawl): "Thank you for calling the Florida State University. Ifyou are on campus and you are having an emergency, hang up and call 911. Ifyou are off campus and you are having an emergency, hang up and call 911. All the university offices are closed at this time and will re-open at.." Now the Gipper (and the rest of civiliza~ tion) knows. that Florida State is not an academic institution, but are' Seminoles so stupid that they A) call the switchboard when their dorm rooms are on fire and B) have to be told to hang up and call 911 and 
C) do this even when they live off campus? 
IF ENGINEERS RULED THE WORLD 

Listen up, Arts and Letters majors. Ever wonder where all those nice computersfrom thebasemeritofLaf ortunedisappeared to?. The Gipperknows. Because (in their minds) engineers are the smartest people in the world and need the finest computers to carry out their life-saving work, the engi­neers (well let's just say. it) stole the Lafortune Macs and hid them where only engineers can. use them. While such a concept congers thoughts of an all:-engi-" neer, all-night, all-nude computer lab where cyber-space is as intimate as sitting on your neighbor's lap and imitation velvet covers the walls and seats, such an engineer fan­tasyhas notbeen created (yet). However, in reality, all the Lafortune Macs have been placed in a secret computer lab on the second floor ofNieuwland Hall ofScience. The beauty of this 'lab is that it is unmonitored. That's right, none of those rude cyber-geeks demanding IDs and treat­ing the average word processor user like something scraped off a shoe. The only catch is that there is a door lock like a number pad with a secret combination known only to engineers__:_,and the Gipper. So, Arts and Leisure majors, when it's time to do your e-mail extra fast, feel free to reclaim the Macs that are rightfully yours: second floor, Nieuwland, door code 3, 2, 1 and 4 together. Then turn the knob. 
IS THAT A BUD LIGHT IN YOUR POCKET OR ARE YOU JUST GLAD... 
TheGipp knows this is a difficult concept to grasp, but he actually heard that the Michigan State ushers in Spartan Stadium 
. rival our own in raw cruelty. A certain Notre Daine female.student was entering Spartan Stadium (to watch the one point Irish rout ofMichiganState), and as is the custom at many such sporting events, this famale student h_ad a beer in her pants pocket. . A Spartan usher quickly grabbed beer-wield!-ngstudent, confiscated herbeer, fined her $150 and kicked her out of the stadium. Now that's mean. Everyone knows this can't happen in Notre Daine Stadium where even a one~legged man c:an out-run our ushers who double as emphy­sema poster boys. But how dumb is Michi­gan State for thinking that the beer-wield­ing female is going to pay up? 

That's it, that's all for this week. The Gipp was recently put in· his place by a friend who attends Boston College and noted that her "classes are informative and entertaining." Not unlike Hollywood Squares, the Gipp thirtks. 


Far Fro1n Ho1ne 
Fourteen students from as many countries live and study together in the Peace House 
by Bertha Kadenyi Amisi 

Since its establishment in 1987, the ntenational Scholars Program (ISP), a part of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, has brought graduate studentsfrom around the globe to Notre Dame's campus. As they prepare to earn their master ofarts in peace studies, the 14 students (7 women and 7 men) live togetherinthePeaceHouse,asmall,humble but cozy wing of Columba Hall, situated between SaintMaryandSaintJoseph lakes. In the next 11 months, these young adults from as far as Kenya and Siberia and as near as Mexico will share in a series of crosscultural, community-buildingandaca­demic experiences. BerthaAmisi, a student from Kenya, gives herperspective on life in 
the Peace House. 
Ihad never been to the United States befon: August 6. My only image~ ?f Amenca were from what I saw on soap operas and in magazines full of movie star life. I saw this country through the eyes of the missionaries in Africa and through Af­rican-American students who visited my land. When I arrived here in South Bend, I expected to find a very modem and dy­namic setting. It was a strange feeling at first Every­thing was very confusing and very new to me. In my homeofNairobi,Kenya, onecan meet a South African, an Egyptian diplo­mat and a Chinese journalist all in one day. That is not the case in South Bend. Also, nightlife seems non-existent here, and I can not get over the fact that places close at midnight. In my home, parties go on until the nextday. Iffood is still leftover,youdo not leave until it is finished! In terms of infastructure, South Bend is a modem setting. However, it seems rural to me, not cosmopolitan. The values here compared with those of my home are very different as well -neither good or bad, just different from what I am used to. It was a . great culture bump for me. When I arrived in Chicago, finding homeless people was hard to come to terms with. My movie image of America was shattered. That is just a myth. 
Wen my bus from Chicago first pulled up to the Main Circle, I saw a group ofpeople running in my direction. At first I thought they were joggers, but soon realized they were mem­bers ofthe Peace House coming to meet me. They held up a sign that read "Welcome Bertha" and immediately wanted to know how my trip was. They took my bags, showed me to my room, helped me settle in and prepared supper. Before my arrival, I was fearful about how things would turn out among us because of our different back­grounds. Ididn'tknowwhattoexpect. But --· right away I felt as if! had met these people before.-I-had read about all of them before I cam'e to .America and felt a kinship spirit towards my colleagues because they are all involved with things Iam veryinterestedin. I am amazed at how we took to each other almost instantly. 
And yetwerecognize that this should not be taken for granted. We are committed to building a community while at the same time appreciating our unique identities not just as individuals but also as people from diverse cultures. We support and look out for each other. When we have conflicts, they are sorted out immediately. 
Life at the Peace House includes a 
number of activities that help us do 

this. The ethnic meal is one such activity. Each of us selects a day agreeable toallwhenweprepareafavoriteethnicdish for the rest to sample. Preparation of the meal is open to all who wish to help and is an opportunity to learn how to cook some-

6 



places me amongst the few. I am not an exception, just considered privileged. I would like to•teach and p0ssibly combine activist and gender issues with those of peaceandrefugees. Mytirnehereistirering, but even as it exhausts me, I enjoy it com­pletely. 
Life at the Peace House is full and varied. We are not completely cut offfrom therestofthecampus. We 
have a number of friends we have made ouside the Peace House dropping in oncein a while, some quite often. This adds to the variety or-relationships and their quality too. Six weeks is very little time in which to evaluate and judge a program such as ours and yet I do sense that we are in for a very fruitfultimetogether. TI:tissenseisstrength­ened by the experience of those who have gone through it before and benefitted from it. Wearecurrentlytheseventhgroupsince the program was established in 1987. The Peace House family is still young butgrow­ing. IhopeourpresenceatNotreDamewill 
ttl E:£;EI~J.:v:g!~~i 
thing special. So far we have had meals from Kenya, India and Palestine and have really enjoyed sharing them together. We lookforward to many more. 
In addition to ethnic meals, some time is set aside for an informal presentation oflife inourcountry. Thesecountryreportsintro-­duce us to each other's country and culture. They also help .us understand and appreci­ate our different worldviews. Our report on South Africa generated much discussion and went on late into the night. We were all eager to know how people are adjusting to a new South Africa under Mandela. If this frrstsession is anything to go by, the others are bound to be very" exciting educational experiences; 
To help order our lives and activities at the Peace House we have weekly house metings. Here, general housekeeping is­sues, such as the use of kitchen and other facilities, are discussed as well as plans for group activities like parties, ethnic meals, country reports, outings or trips. Jobs are also assigned and follow-up on them done. These meetings are to some extent an exer­ciseinconsensus decision-making and gov­emance, one that is very useful but not 
Most of our day­time is spent at­tending or preparing for gradu­ate classes as each of us is ex­pected to graduate withamas­ters degree in 11 months. Evenings 
arespentei­ther making individual visits to each others rooms, watching TV or movies or chatting in the common room. We are learning that balancing community building and aca­demic study is necessary but very trying. 
Being in a.multicultural situation has helped medevelop as an individual. I had never been in a western con­
text or interacted with any other culture but very interesting mirrors for me. I ask my­self, How does Larisa see things in Russia? Where is Jihad coming from in his opin­ions? According to Kim, whatis Malaysia's world view? As I listen to theirexperiences, I move from ·one country to another in my mind. I learn something about myself through this whole process as well. 
When I go back to Kenya, I hope to use the background I learned here to help others in my country. For me, being where I am 
-



i' ¦P+11 11M1•11¦ Cities of Sisterly Love 
With hopes ofheightening multicultural ties and global awareness, South Bend has adopted Czestochowa, Poland as a sibling city 
many people of Polish ancestry. upsistercityprograins. Currently,thegroup 
by Kristin Brantmeier Czestochowa(pronounced"chen-sto-HOE-has matched 810 U.S; cities with 1400com­va"), a 7 50-year-old city with a population munities in 92 foreign countries, including
Halfway around the globe, in south ofalmost250,000,interestedMayorKernan the·pairing of Mishawaka with a city in centralPolandisatown frequented so much that South Bend officials decided Japan.• by tourists and pilgrims from all to try to establish a fonnal relationship With the help of Sister Cities Intema­
overtheworld. In 1990, SouthBendmayor between the two cities. tional, a delegation of South B.end citizens Joe Kernan visited this town and was in­The firststep was contacting SisterCities · visitedCzestochowa,locatedapproximately triguedby thereligious andeconomicsimi­International, an organization based in the 2 and one halfhours southwest ofWarsaw, larities it has with South Bend, home to Washington, DC, area that helps cities set in June 1993. The group included Mikki 
Dobsky and Jack Reed of the 
mayor's office, Saint Mary's 
College professors Mary 
Ozmanski Ferlic and David 
Stefanie, and city council rep­
resentative Gene Ladew_ski. 
After touring Poland for five 
days; the group arrived in 
Czestochowa,wheretheyspent. 
seven days in meetings· re­
quested by -the Czestochowa 
representativestodevelopaten­
tative "sisterhood" agreement. 
In an act of protocol requested. 
by the Czesochowa officials, 
the delegation.then returned to 
present the agreement to the 
SouthBendcitycouncilforrati-· 
fl.cation. .The city council also 
established an advisory board . 
to develop ways to expand the 
appeal of the sister city pro­

. gram , beyond , the -Polish com­
, .Photos courtesy of Mayor Kernan'& office ·• · 
A group of pilgrims awaits the beginning of a procession to the monastery and fortress at muruty m South Bend. · Jasna Gora, the sanctuary arid center of Poland's religious life. In October of 1993, a group 
8 SCH O LAS TI C M A G A ZIN E -• S E P T·E M B E R 2 2 , 1 9 9 4 





ofCzestochowaresi­
Czestochowa this den ts, including past summer to at~ foxmerCzestochowa tendaworkshopon legislator Teodor Polish music. Harabasz, visited While in South Bend and the Czestochowa, he surrounding area. guest-conducted The group the city's orchestra brainstormed for during a civic festi­more ways that the val. City officials two cities could join are looking into forces. Results of bringing the their efforts include Czestochowa city a peri-pal program orchestra to South between students in Bend for a concert South Bend and stu­in the near future. dents in Poland, as Also in the plan­wellasapossibleuni­ningstages isaPol­versityexchangepro-ish art exhibit in gram. Photo courtesy of Mayor Keman's office South Bend, tenta­
Unlike many Pilgrims outside the monastery where the Black Madonna Is venerated. tively projected for "Adopt-a-City" programs that emphasize have sent private donations to the recently 1996. the financial support between a prosperous re-elected Czestochowa mayor Tadeusz AccordingtoMikkiDobsky,"SouthBend 
U.S. city and an economically struggling Wronatohelpcampaignagainsttherevival and Czestochowa intend to build on the foreign city, the South Bend-Czestochowa of Communist political forces in the city. cultural aspects of the relationship and mar­bond is different Some support programs For the most part, however, the relationship ket each other as much as possible." doexist,liketheplancurrentlyunderdevel-between South Bend and Czstochowa is Czestochowaisameccaforreligiouspeople opmenttosendmuch-neededhospitalequip-oneofmutualculturalbenefitsforeachcity, making pilgrimages to the Shrine of the menttotheCzestocrowahospital. A South rather than financial support. BlackMadonna, butthecitylacksadequate Bend-area doctoris also currently spending . Much exchange has occurred in the area facilities to support the influx of people. time in Czestchowa as a visiting physician. ofthe arts. Tsung Yeh, the conductor of the South Bend-area businesspeople are look­In addition, some South Bend residents South Bend Symphony travelled to ingintodevelopingmorecommercialprop­
.. iijll1 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SEPTEMBER 22, 1994 
9 

. .. ' ~ . . ~} -~ .~ . . ~ . ~ . 
. 




erty in Czestochowa to process is slower that we expand the tourism in­would have liked."-When dustry there, particularly asked about the extent of focusing on creating ad­South Bend's commit­
ditional hotel space. ment to this civic sister­
Union groups from hood, Dobskyconfirmed SouthBendhaveoffered that South Bend is "ab­support to union work­solutely,very much com­ers in Poland as welL mitted to a long-term With an unemployment project." rate of 16% in Poland, In addition to any endeavor creating Czestochowa, South jobs or helping to secure Bend city officials are them is welcomed. looking into pairing up CzestochowaandSouth with another foreign city, Bend are both industrial similar to Mishawaka's cities that have seen fac­sister city in Japan. tories close in declining "South Bend is currently economies. South Bend . Plot courtesy of Mayor Keman's office looking for additional 
Inside the monast~ry, Mayor Kernan and his wife add their names to people interested in that
has managed to reopen 
the book that all visitors to Czestochowa sign. Other famous .
some of its closed facto­
signatures In the book Include John F. Kennedy and Adolf Hitler. geographical area to es­ries just as small private -tablish ties," Dobsky re-
businesses and some entrepreneurs hope to recent article. Stefanie continued to say plied. She affirms that this new endeavor do in Czestochowa. Past attempts have met "the new hotel is drastically needed," and would in no way diffuse the level of com­withresistancefromformerlegislativebod­the city "could certainly use the jobs the mitment to the Czestochowa program. In­ies in Czestochowa, but faced with the new factory would create." stead, another program would further en­current hardships there, "local officials may South Bend has high hopes for the future hance South Bend's multicultural ties and have to learn not to be so choosy," Dave ofthesistercityprogram with Czestochowa. draw its residents deeper into the interna­Stefanie told the South Bend Tribune in a However, as Dobsky acknowledges, "the tional community. 0 
THE BEST JOURNALISTS ON CAMPUS 
WORKFORSCHOLASTICMAGAZINE. 
Onceaweek. In~depth stories. News. Campus Life. Sports. Entertainment.­Humor. Photography. Graphics. 

If you want-to become part of the 128~year old tradition of Scholastic Magazine, stop by 303 Lafortune. 


4 
Q 
~ 

--~ 
The Purdue-Notre Dame rivalry that began in 1896 and peaked in the 1960s is losing its spark 
by Brian Hiro 
l 1957, John McLaughlin, a Notre Dame fan, donated the Shillelagh as a trophyfor the annual Notre Dame-Purdue game. For seven ofthepast ten years the Boilennakers have managed to keep it theirpossession. Tomorrow, as shouts ofREMEM­BER ring across the campus-a lot more will be at stake-possibly the National Championship. But what makes tomorrow even more important is the tradition ofthe series and the seesaw battles ofthe last three years. Roger Valdiserri'sfiles say it all began back in 1896, when player-coach Frank Herring's Irish de­feated the LaFayette Eleven, 28-22. Since then the Purdue-Notre Dame rivalry has poured into the record book like vintage wine: pure and sweet. The two Indiana powers have met some thirty­eight times since theirfirst encounter back at the turn ofthe nineteenth century; and though Notre Dame holds a commanding lead in the victory margin with twenty-three wins, the series has been marked with more than itsshare ofcloseones. Infive out ofthe last nine times, the margin ofvictory was seven points or less. Twice in the last three years, the Boilermakers have ruined Notre Dame's quest for a national championship. Despite their overwhelming strength, Purdue's quest to beat Notre Dame will not be an easy one. Last week's game against seventh-rankedOklahoma proved that. Rolling up an unbelievable 571 yards, the Irish offense proved more potent than previously imagined.·.. Quarterback Terry Hanratty had a su­perb day, completing 18 o/27 passesfor202 yards and two touchdowns. 
The fans can expect to see a high-scoring duel betweentwoofthenations top quarterbacks[Purdue's All-American Bob Griese]. They can also expect to seeanother quarterback, in the personofND' sColey 0 'Brien, whose mere presence in the Irish backfield is enough to start any defense thinking. 
Several weeks ago the Irish were considered un­derdogs. At present it loks a lot closer than the bookies are willing to admit. To pick a winner would be insane -there is simply too much at stake. 
-Scholastic Magazine, September 28, 1968 
NotreDamelost thatgamein 1968,37-22at Notre Dame Stadium, its championship hopes ruined early in the season. The Purdue-Notre Dame rivalry reached its crescendo during this period between 1965 and 1969, one in which both squads were ranked 16th or higher on every occasion. In 1965, the top-ranked Irish trav­elled to West Lafayette only to have their national championship hopes dashed at the hands of Purdue and its All-American quarterback Bob Griese, who 
Ray Zellars 
and the ightlng Irish lipped 
hrough the fingers of Purdue in last year's raln­
torm. A 
trong Purdue earn should wake the 
leeplng giant of Notre Dame his Saturday. 


completed 19 of22passes on the clay. The following 'worst season since 1907. 
~ year coach Ara Parseghian and his troops turned the · · Notre Darrie players and Coach Lou Holtz need 
tables on the Boilermakers behind quarterbackTerry not be reminded of the rivalry, as the team barely Hanratty and split end JimSeymour, who connected . slipped by Purdue last season 17-0, in ·a game that 13 times for an astounding 276 yards, both school was tied 0-0 going into the second half. Over the 
~ records. The 26-14 Irish win putthem on the road to course of his eight-year tenure, however, Holtz has 

done his best to make the competition obsolete. 
Q 
While going 8-0 versus Purdue under Holtz, the Fighting Irish have made the Boilermakers yearn for their glory days by outscoring them 324-71. In fact, the Boilermakers have not scored on the Fighting Irish in two years. Even so, the Boilermakers havebeaten theIrish more~ . times (21) than any other school besides USC 
(23).. In 1994, Boilermaker hopes rest on the ~ strength, of ~returning lettermen and16 re­
. turning starters, increased depth at many posi­tions and better overall team speed. They will need. all this and more to succeed against an­
~ . other tough schedule th.at, besides Notre Dame, features BigTenfoes Illinois, Wisconsin, Ohio State and Michigan, all but the Wolverines on 




the road. Already 2-0, Purdue scored an arnaz­.ing 49 points last Saturday against Ball State . . Leading Purdue on this difficult trek will be . junior fullback Mike Alstott, the team's MVP last year (the first sophomore to :win the honor since 1945) and a legitimate All-America can­didate. He rushed for 816 yards, 12 touch­
~ 
downs, and a 5.3 yards-per-carry average . AgainstMinnesota,Alstottrackedup 171 yards and five touchdowns (which tied a school their eighth national tile. In 1967, .Purdue again record), part of the reason The SportingNews named 
conquered numberoneNotreDame, 28-21, with the -him the top fullbackin the nation. help ofdo-it-all halfbackLeroy Keyes.who went on ' Alstott' s backfield mates, junior quarterback Rick to finish third in the Reisman chase.. The next two Trefzger and senior tailbackCorey Rogers, are also
~ 

. ·years Notre D.ame hardly even put up afight, ceding capable ofbig plays. Trefzger started the final five 
~ .The·Boi[ermakershav~, beaten the Irish more times (21) than any other scho_ol besides USC (23). 
~ 

the Shillelagh (a blackwooden waling stick) to their games of 1993 and surpassed the200 yard markthree · . rivals by more than two touchdowns in both games. times, including a high of 298 yards against Michi­Bui since1970, the trophy has rarely left the hands gan State. Rogers, thel 99 l Big Ten Freshman of the of the Irish as Purdue has fallen from the upper. Year, has a wealth of experience and was Purdue's ·echelon of college teams to the realm of the door-second-leadinggroundgainerin both 1991 and 1993. mats. Head Coach Jim Colletto has done little to This Saturday's battle for the Shillelagh in Notre appease. impatient alumni, compiling a less-than-· · Dame Stadium will probably take the form of the sparkling 9-24 record in his three yearsat the school. lopsided affairs of recent years. But the Boilermak­Last season was dreadful as the Boilennakers slipped · ers, if they can't pull off the monumental upset, can from four wins the previous two years to just one still look back with pride on the days when they gave victory in 1993, including an 0-8 Big Ten mark. theirishfits. It'sjustagoodthingthat,forLouHoltz Injuries and turnovers, not to mention one of the· and his current team, those clays are ancient history. nation's toughest schedules, plagued Purdue in its Maybe.... D 


12 





Rough and Tumble 
With storied pasts that go back to 1850, interhall and club sports continue the athletic traditions ofNotre Dame 
OnaJanuaryweekendin 1971, Rich­ard O'Leary came to Notre Dame to interview for a position 
as head manager of the club sports. It was the same weekend that Notre Dame basket­ball brokeUCLA's88-gamewinningstreak. The hockey team won a big game and the fencers won a tournament O'Leary was instantly immersed in the rich winning tra­dition of Notre Dame varsity athletics,• a tradition he has continued in the club and interhall systems as assistant director of Recreational Sports (RecSports). 
An attempt to trace the beginning of interhall sports atNotre Dame would prove futile as they originated with the founding of Notre Dame in 1842. ''The earliest record is of hockey being played on St Mary's Lake in the mid-1800s," said O'Leary. "By the late 1800s a number of intramurals were being. played with tro­phies being awarded." 
"Interhall competition has been taking place since. the school was founded," as­serted Dr. Thomas Kelly, director of RecSports. Knute Rockne himself estab­lished interhall football and interhall box­ing around 1925. While interhall football is unarguably the most popular interhall pro­gram, boxing has developed into a club sport The boxing championships are de­cided in the fan favorite Bengal Bouts. 
Until 1968, the opening of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, the pro­gram was known as "InterhallAthletics," a competitiveprogramforundergraduatemen only. "Outdoor sports were conducted on football parking lots, while indoor pro­

-=:-grams were housed at the old fieldhouse, which contained. a basketball court, two handball courts and a dirt indoor track," said O'Leary. The Rockne Memorial was open for informal play only. 

Renamed "Non-Varsity Athletics" (NVA) in 1970, the program expanded to include not only hall competition, but open tournaments as well as graduateand faculty programs. Recreational Services, now known as RecSports, was born in 1982, on aone-yeartrialbasis. ''Today,theprogram offers more than 40 activities annually, with more than 8,000 entries in fitness 
· classes,clinics,informalrecreationandspe­cial events like the Late Night Olympics," said O'Leary. The event bringing the most attention to Notre Dame club sports is· Bengal Bouts. Held every spring, the bouts allow students to vent talent and frustration for the benefit of charity. Last year, the Bengal Bouts contributed over $250,000 to Bangladesh missions. "The kids get involved just to participate in the sport," noted Kelly. "I thinkit'sreallyaspecialevent. There'sso much excitement because of the hall sup­port for the individual boxers. It's just another great tradition at Notre Dame." Yet, the interhall competition is the heart and soul ofRecSports. Over 70 percent of the student body is involved in some RecSports activity, with the majority pre~ · ferring the interhall contests. "A very high percentage of [Notre Dame] students come here with some athletic background from 
high school, and naturally, they have a perception of involvement," said Kelly. Many students hail football as the most important 
Only six colleges in the country sponsor full contact football on the intramural level. Notre Dame is the oldest member of that group, providing interhall teams with full pads since the 40s when pads became part of football uniforms. "I think full contact football reflects the commitment of the students and the suppori of the administra­tion," noted Kelly. To Kelly's knowledge, only Harvard, Yale and the service acad­emies execute the real thing. 
The commitment Kelly speaks of is a commitment to the spirit and the athletic program of Notre Dame, which is espe­cially apparent in that the championship game of men's and women's football is played in Notre Dame Stadium. Besides Notre Dame varsity football games, the interhall championships are the· only other event held on the hallowed field. With the kickoffs of interhall soccer and football recently underway, Grace A andFarleywill be looking to repeat in soccer, while Mor­rissey and PW will be defending their re­spective football crowns. The tradition co.ntinues. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 22, 1994 



Hired Guns 
Quarterback movement, Joe the Vendor, and FOX are running 
by Jake Schaller 

The 1994 Major League Baseball season is finally gone. America's Pastime, The Boys of Summer, Memories, and nostalgic days at the park were erased. As far as this sports fan is concerned, WHO CARES! I really don't. I could not care less if they never come back. Fans pay for overpriced tickets to watch a bunch of cry babies whine that they are making 5.1 million a year instead of5.2. 
the wacky world ofsports 
color man (FOX is lucky they got Mad­den, or there would be hell to pay). The worst thing, however, is that I don 'tknow who plays for whom any more. Moon from Houston to Minnesota, Harbaugh from Chicago to Indianapolis, George from Indianapolis to Atlanta, Friesz from San Diego to Washington, Rypien from Washington to Cleveland, Kosar from Cleveland to Miami, Mitchell from Mi­ami to Detroit. Whew! And that's only some of the quarterbacks. It would take pages to summarize all of the free agent lower bleachers bounce up and down dur­ing a ferocious DE-FENSE cheer. Most of aU, th~gh, I loved knowing that year afteryear, the players I knew and cheered for would be back. But now, I sometimes feel like I am cheering for a pick up team that has on the 'Skins' uniforms. 
Henry Ellard. The first thing I think of when I hear that name is· Los Angeles Ram. Ken Harvey _:_ Cardinals. Ethan Horton -Raiders. These players, though, all play for the 'Skins. The list goes on to include John Geesek, a former 
Dallas Cowgirl. A Cowgirl? On 
the Redskins? Our most hated
Actually, from a certain per­
p 
rival? Please, say it ain't so.

spective, I do care that the season 

Worst ofall, Art Monk, the con­
has ended. What happens to Joe 
summate team player and Redskin 

the Vendor, or Bob the 
is now a Jet. Art has had a career 

Groundskeeper in all the parks 
that will undoubtedly put him in

across North America? Being out 
the Hall ofFame. He wanted noth­

of work isn't a big deal when you 
ing more than to finish up his ca­

pull down seven figures a year, but 
reer and break Steve Largent's

it is a big deal for those who need 
record for consecutive games with 

their jobs to pay for food for their ', 
a reception in D.C. Now, how­

families. Who is at fault? Stingy · 
ever, he'll have to do it in New

owners, greedy players, it doesn't 
York.

matter. I wish that they would 
I guess one good thing about

worry about more important things 
free agency and how it has torn

than their wallets. 
apart the game, is that it makes us 
End of sermon. Back to sports. 
thankful for college ball. In col­

Another reason why I won't miss 
lege, they don't play for money,

baseball: football. Oh, it has been 
too long, hasn't it? Chills ran up 
endorsements, or other selfish rea­

and down my spine over the sum­mer when I thought ofHank Williams Jr. belting out: "Are you ready for some football!" I could not wait for the 28 teams to suit up and battle. . 
The season started with 14 good games, but there were several things about them that were quite unsettling. For one thing, the Colts actually looked good. What's up with that? For another thing we won't ever hear the glorious CBS NFL theme music again because the NFL is on FOX. If that wasn't enough,Jerry Glanville is a movement in the off-season. 
Free agency. It casts the darkest shadow over sports. Where is the loyalty? Does any player care about the city he playsfor,orthefans of that city? Does any player feel part ofa team, or is money all the players care about? 
l have been a die-hard Washington Redskins fan my entire life. I loved the Smurfs, The Hogs, The Fun Bunch, and Riggo. I love how we have a band and a fight song. · I love R.F.K. and how the 
sons (except at FSU). Instead, they play because they have a love for the game, a love for the school they represent, and a love for their teammates. 
In college football, especially here un­der the golden dome, there is a little more power in every hit. The players sweat more, and cry more. The fans cheer a little harder. We don't have to worry about a 
· star quarterback being traded, or leaving (Subliminal Message: Please don't leave early, Ron). We.don't have to worry about lack ofloyalty. We have a team. D 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 22, 1994 
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup ofthe week in sports 
September 14 to September 21 

WOMEN'S SOCCER The CROSS COUNTRY TheNotre 
third-ranked Fighting Irish are 6-0 now Dame men's and women's cross country and have outscored opponents 24-4 after teams lost their season opener to the defeating Butler 4-1 last Sunday. The Georgetown Hoyas at the Burke Memo­Irish women have also outshot opponents rial Golf Course last Sunday. by a ridiculous 154-39. The future of Georgetown won the men's division 16­Notre Dame soccer is here with two jun­47 and defeated the women 15-40. In the iors, two sophomores, and a freshman preseason polls, the Georgetown men making out five of the top six scorers. were ranked fifth with the Notre Dame Junior Rosella Guerrero leads Notre men ranked sixth. The Hoya women were Dame scoring with 15 points on six goals ranked seventh, the Irish women 14th. and three assists, followed by freshman Senior Nate Ruder was the top Irish men's Holly Manthei (13-3~7), sophomore runner with a fifth-place finish Stacia Masters (11-5-1). Notre Dame is (25:03.24), and senior Kristi Kramer fin­home against Indiana at 7:30 tomorrow. ished sixth for the women with a time of 
(18:27.09). 

VOLLEYBALL The 13th­
ranked volleyball squad started the Colo­rado Invitational with its first victory over a top-15 opponent this season, Colorado, and went 2-1 over the weekend. Unranked Michigan State handed Notre Dame its first loss of the season. Notre Dame's 11 straight wins to open the 1994 season was the best season opening win­ning streak in school history and the long­est win streak since the 1986 team won 17 matches in a row. Notre Dame plays host to the Golden Dome Invitational this weekend, facing No. 24 Loyola Marymount tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Rice Saturday at 7:30. Friday's match will begin immediately following the Purdue pep rally in the ACC. 
Women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli 
Predictions


MEN'S SOCCER Notre Dame 
may have vented the frustration of a 2-0 Kennedy's Kall: Notre Dame plays its first solid game ofthe season with no turnovers. loss to Northern Illinois in a 8-0 whipping Thelrish defense stuns Purdue, allowing two touchdowns and causing a fumble and of Xavier last Sunday. However, a 3-2 two interceptions throughout. Purdue's Alstott and Rogers are the only real threats. record is less than encouraging for a team Powlus worshippers are satisfied as the quarterback picks apart the Purdue secondary 
~o~outstanding potential; Notre Dame forover 250 yards passing and two touchdowns. Kinder rushes for close to 150 yards. dropped out of the rankings and will meet Score: Notre Dame 41, Purdue 21. No. 1 Indiana for the 16th time tomorrow Schaller's Schot: The Purdue backfield tandem ofMike Alstott and Corey Rogers runs in Bloomington with the Hoosiers owning through the Irish defense in the first half. The Irish secondary, however, rises to the a 13-1-1 advantage in the series. The occasion with three interceptions. Powlus recovers to toss three touchdowns, and Fighting Irish will play host to LaSalle on Kinder has his second straight 100-yard game. Sophomore Emmet Mosley will score Sunday, September 25 at 1 p.m. his first career touchdown in the Irish romp. Score: Notre Dame 42, Purdue 17. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a SEPTEMBER 22, 1994 




Only a selected few are entitled to use the coveted trademarks and logos ofthe University ofNotre Dame and are officially 
lilsr.rmEda1cense 



by Brian Flanagan 

Onany givenfootball Saturday,from high atop the Main Building, a certain lady gleefully looks down and sees hoards of people leaving the book­store with armloads of Notre Dame para­phernalia. This lady is not the Blessed Mother atop the golden dome, but rather, Freida Donnan, director of university li­censing. Donnan began · her affiliation with the University of Notre Dame in 1983 as an agent for Champion athletic wear whei;i the 
company approached the university, offer­ing to implement a licensing program to _­protect university trademarks. Eventually, Champion and the University forged arela~ tionship that would prove mutually benefi­cial for both parties. Even though she worked for Champion, Donnan remained an "autonomous agent," able to entertain offers from other companies to merchan­dise Notre Dame wear. In1993, ten years after her first contact with Notre Dame, however, Donnan became an employee of the University, applying her expertise in both collegiate merchandising and interna­tional liscensing. It was during the initial years of Donnan's employment at Notre Dame that sales of collegiate products began to boom. ''Nobody knew how fast licensing was going to grow," said Donnan. Today the marketing of college sports is a. busi­
16 




to e

F~-------c""~~--~
,::::==~~~=,=~'.:':"'.·:·:::·:,·· . 


ness that generates millions of dollars a year,with prominent football and basket­ball schools raking in the biggest dividend from royalties. Schools such as Michigan, Notre Dame, Miami, Georgetown and North Carolina have reaped the largest benefits of merchandising their schools' apparel. 
With the explosive growth in the sales of college licensed products, the University became selective in granting companies permission to use university trademarks such as the leprechaun -the university's mostpopulartrademark-thegoldendome, the interlocking ND, the phrase "Fighting Irish," and many others. Donnan's job involves screening companies which want the right to liscence Notre Dame merchan­dise. Afterpreliminary screening, the deci­sion is left to a committee university offic­ers and faculty members, who determine whetherornotpermission will begranted to license university merchandise. Donnan emphasized that care must be exercised in granting licensing rights in order to protect university trademarks, and ensure their proper use. . 
Ddnnan takes pride in the fact that the University only grants a limited amount of licenses, noting that schools with no li­censing standards receive Httle respect. "Some schools have over 3000 companies using their logos. Thatis not the image the University wants to project," Donnan said. Currently Notre Dame only grants about 230 companies the rights to use its trademarks and logos. 

Donnan described the most important part of her job as "building a positive relationship between the licensing com­
. pany and the University." She stressed 
· that strong relationships help the growth ofthe company, and help to ensure that the Notre Dame logo will be used in a respon­sible manner. 
Donnan's satisfaction comes from the mutually beneficial relation ships that she is able to build with 
merchandising companies. For the last six years Notre Dame and Donnan have shown appreciation to their cµents by hosting a breakfast for all their licensees, and plan to continue that tradition. Notre Dame's li­censing department is highly respected among merchandising companies, and Donnan attributes this to the strong busi­ness relationships her department has de­
"Some schools have .over 3,000 companies using their logos. That 
is not t~e image the university wants to project." 
-Freida Donnan 

veloped and maintained. "The key to part­nership is helping build success," she stressed. 
Donnan's customer base spans the United States, and recently companies in Europe, Japan, and Australia have ex­pressed interest in manufacturing Notre Dame merchandise. 
Whether you find yourself in London, Tokyo, New York or Paris, chances are you will see at least one person sporting a Notre Dame t-shirt or sweatshirt. With1 interest in the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame spanning the globe, the Goldenl Dome may one day become as recognized a symbol ofAmerican higher education as ~t!Te-gol_den arches are of fast food. And above itall, from high atop the administra­tion building, .Donnan smiles down on the empire she has built , watching hundreds of satisfied customers exit the bookstore, arms laden with Notre Dame merchan­dise. 0 
SCHOLASTIC 
I 
I 

I ; ' '• • • l ---­
--·-~•­


17 





-~~ 
~'tv~·country :J-[arvester 
11A great little gift shop on campus " 
Discover delightful surprises in our quaint country store here on campus. We carry a variety of items such as country crafts, cards, and candles. 
• Begin your collection of Irish Village today. These are 
authentic·wood replicas of Notre Dame buildings will . Your Football Weekend Outlet _ please the most discriminating person. 
• Warm up in "Irish" cardigan sweatshirts. 
Dooley Room -Lafortune Student Center-631-8128 • Bundle up in 100% cotton blankets. ND Blue & Gold included! ;--• 
• Enjoy browsing for treasures handcrafted by local 
Hours: 
artisans. 

Friday, 12:00 -9:00 pm 
Monday thru Friday
Saturday, 8:00 am -9:00 pm 
10-5 
Saturdays 11:.:2

Sunday, 9:00 am -5:00 pm 
(extended hours during special events) VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! The Country Harvester. . LaFortune Student Center VISA &
U.P.S. 

. SERVICE Lower· Level MASTERCARD DAILY (219) 631-6714 ACCEPI'ED 
Brent Tadsen 
Brand, Continuedfrom page 17 

Donnan said that students are not the only entrepreneurs who use university trade­marks without approval, claiming that ille­gal merchandise has been seized on flea market raids and at U.S. Customs offices. 
"We give U.S. Customs a list oflicensees," Donnanexplained,"andwe writeletters for licensees to get through customs." 
Donnan, who has worked in international licensing, saidthat the largestshipments of illegal foreign products come from the Far · East, where they can bemanufacturedinex­
~~:::s?n~~~:~ :::net~~~: ~~~v:i::ty
Notre Dame products than most people. Her own favorite: a lepre­chaun doll that sings the Victory March. 
. pensively. While it might seem surprising that a black marlcet for Notre Dame goods exists in far off countries, Donnan claims that interest in merchandising Notre Dame licensed products is worldwide. She at­tributes this interestinpart tothefactthatall home games are televised on NBC, bring­ing Notre Dame football into the homes of 
18 


"When you have a 
consumer inEu~ope who sees us·ontelevi­sionandbegins·to un­derstand what the uni~ 
versity is aboui, you ··. have to build:on that ·foundation." ­Freida Donnan, director ofuniversity licensing 

more people in more countries than ever before;.· · 
· Notre Dame's licensing department is trying to establish and secure new interna­tional markets, sending licensingpersonnel into exotic parts of the world. "We have signed on an agent to represent us in the Pacific Rim and Western Europe," Donnan said. "When you have a consumer in Eu­rope who sees us on television and begins to understand what the university is about, you have to build on that foundation." Donnan hopes that in cooperation with the new licensing agent, the university will be able to educate consumers about the university's academic programs and repu­tation, teaching foreign customers thatNotre · Dame has a lot more to offer students than great college football. Strategies for in-, forming foreign consumers include show­ing promotional videos about Notre Dame in department stores where ND merchan­dise is sold, providing customers with point of purchase materials, and holding promo­tional contests inviting winners to visit the campus and see a home football game. Donnan is hopeful that these plans will be implemented starting some time next year. 
Another, moreimmediategoalisforNotre 

Dame to win the national championship. When Notre Dame loses a football game, the university loses royalty revenues as merchandise sales decrease. 'The momen­tum has been broken very early in the season," Donnan observed, commenting ,on Notre Dame's loss to Michigan during 

the first home game ofthe season. "From a business standpoint, our sales increase dra­matically when Notre Dame is a contender for the national championship," Donnan said. "Our liscensees would prefer to have NotreDameasnationalchampions,sinceit would be a double success, both for them and the university." D 
,~ ~ ¦  SUBWAY Has A Sandwich ForANY Size Appetite!!! :Light Appetites: Big Appetites: 6 Foot Party Sub6 :inch Cold Cut Combo • SR 23 At Iro11wood • VS 31 N (By North Village Mall)  






Shiny Happy People 

All-Female Canadian sensation cub brings a lively brand ofalternative 
20 
by Joey Crawford 
Cub (kub) n. 1. a young fox, bear, lion, whale, etc. 2. a youth or nov ice (Webster's New World Dictio­nary) 3. a baseball player on the south side of Chicago 4. a band fonned by three women with attitude who will appear on September 23 at the University of Notre Dame. The Student Union Board and WVFI have scheduled a series of concerts, entitled ''The Loft," partially in response to recent complaints about Notre Dame's music scene. Theyare detennined to introduce the campustoavarietyofup-and-comingbands, of which cub will be the second. Six concerts scheduled this semester will be held in the LaFortune ballroom where ad­mission is merelyonedollar. StevenSostak, the WVFI station manager, remarked "It's a great deal to see some of these bands for 
rock to Notre Dame 
adollar-adeal that is almost unheard of." 
On May 15, 1992, a chilly spring day, three women from Vancouver, B.C., de­cided that it would be fun to fonn a band, and since then, they have never looked back. The band was originally comprised of three women in their mid-twenties, Lisa (vocals,bass),Robynn(guitar),andValerie (drums). Lisa is the "writing demon" who is responsible for the majority of cub's lyrics.Valerie left the band earlier this year topursuealifein the candy business, butnot without first leaving a lasting influence. Valerie's successor was Lisa G. The band first emerged under the name The Bumble­bees, but soon dropped it for fear of con­tracting a Blind Melon image. 
After signing with Mint Records in 1992, the trio instantly developed a new genre of music, cuddle-core. Cuddle-core is a con: glomeration of a variety of different styles ofmusic. "It's pop with a new attitude. It's fun. It's happy," explained cub fan and 
22, 1994 

WVFI board member Kate Babka. Grant Lawrence of Mint Records calls cuddle­core "a silly tag." Cub's music crosses all boundarie~. "Some people say we are pop, others ~~y we are folk; we feel we defy all labels," remarked cub's guitarist Robynn. 
During September of 1992, cub recorded their first single, "Pep," under rookie pro­ducer Jean Smith of Mecca Nonna! at Vancouver's Noizi Studios. Pep, a six­song 7", took only three hours to record. Nonetheless, it made an instant impact, reaching the top 10 at college stations all over North America. Pep rampaged its way through the Canadian music charts, hitting number three in Chart Magazine (the col­lege music magazine in Canada), and was followed by another six-song EP ("Hot Dog Day"). 
The cuddle-core queens released their first full length album, Betti-Co/a, which features 24 songs in under 45 minutes, in May of 1993. The task of illustrating the 
The women of cub live up to their Image as cuddle-core queens with an assortment of dolls and smiling faces. Cuddle-core Is defined as a "fun, happy conglomeration of different styles of music." 


album's cover was leftin the capable hands of Dan DeCarlo, famous for illustrating the Archie Comics. Betti-Cola was released in . time for cub's first American West Coast Tour, and spent numerous weeks at #1 throughout Canadian college stations. It peaked at number one in Chart Magazine, and stayed there· for three months. The album was successful in the US as well, climbing its way up the CMJ college charts to number 84. 
''These three Canadian women play irre­sistibly cute, .hummable songs about best friends, broken hearts, drowning and dying, picnics, assassins and the like. There is not a loser in the bunch." CMJ wrote of the band. 
Cub will release their second full-length album, Come Out, Come Out, in Novem­ber. The album, as well as its title, repre­sents big advances for the band. It features two of cub's personal favorites, "New Y orlc City" and ''Ticketto Spain." The Canadian rockers are "totally stoked" about the re­lease of their second album. · 
The · band has also been featured in a number-049mpilations, including Dare to be Aware, which was released in August The album was released to benefit the Bat­tered Women's Shelters in British Colum­bia. 
Videos for the songs "Go Fish," "Nicho­las Bragg" and "My Chinchilla" have been aired. The first two videos w.ere filmed by 
S C H O L A S T i C M AG A Z I N E. • S E P T, E M B E R 2 2 , l 9 9 4 
Joe Klotz, who has worked with such bands asSugarand Superchunk. The videos can be seen 
o n MuchMusic (Canada's MTV). 
Cub has played over 150 live shows. Highlights include playing at Canada Day Celebration (Canada's equivalentto Lollaµtlooza) 

on July I, 1993 at Thunderbird Stadium at the University of British Columbia. Other acts featured at this musical festival in­cluded BareNaked Ladies, Snow, The Vio­lent Femmes and Sarah McLaughlin. Cub has also played with Matador Records art­ists Yo La Tengo. According to Robynn, this was "an absolute thrill." Other high­lights include appearing -with Hole, DOA, Tsunami, luna and The Smugglers. 
Rightnow the band is in the middleof an intense35 show tour that lasts only35days. On Septem­ber 24, cub willappearat the 14th an­nual CMJ MusicMara­thon festival inNewYork City. This major music event is where many bands have emerged as greats. Past CMJ bands have in­
"Some people say we are pop, others say we are folk; we feel we defy all labels." 
-cub guitarist Robynn 
eluded Velocity Girl, Belly, Luscious Jack­son, Mazzy Star and a collection of other greats. More than 6000 people from the music industry come to witness this explo­sive convention; 
The night before this spectacular event, though, cub is appearing at Notre Dame, and the staff at WVFI hopes there will be a large crowd to welcome them. WVFI'er Lael Tyler encouraged anyone who might still be deciding whether or not to come, as he explained, ''Their music is low-fi, pretty melody pop, and they are a great liveband." Sostak urged people to come see cub per­fonn because in his eyes, quite simply, ''They rule!" 0 
21 




by Bill Albertini 
WJ.th File Under: Easy Listening, ugar continues to produce top­
q alitypowerpop in avein similar to their debut, Copper Blue. For anyone new to Sugar, they are the extra-loud pop band led by Bob Mould, fonnerly of the legendary punk band Husker Du. For the first time it feels almost acceptable to refer to Sugar as a band, since someone besides leader Mould (guitars, vocals) has actually written and sung a song. The second track, "Company Book," is composed and sung by David Barbe (bass, vocals), though the rest of the album belongs to Mould. 


Mould, as principal and usually solo lyricist, is exploring much of the same territory on Easy Listening -troubled re­lationships and individuals. The stron­gest area for Mould has always been 1.his slightly dark but always impressive takes on the world of love and friendship, and songs like "Explode and MakeUp" demon­
I' strate thathe has lostnoneofhis talent The singles off the album will likely be "Your Favorite Thing," "Gee Angel," and "Be­lieve What You're Saying," which are all excellent, though others such as"Gift," and "What You Want It To Be" should not be ignored. They areas strong as anything else on this album or on previous Sugar efforts. 

Easy Listening does not by any means belongin theadult contemporary rack at the music store. Mould's loud guitars and Malcolm Travis' machine-gun drums are still there, but the album is more easily accessible than anything on the somewhat disturbedyetquitebrilliantBeaster,Sugar's second outing. As far as truth inadvertising goes, the music on Easy Listening may not be very soft, but the lyrics are not nearly as 
. ominousaspreviousSugarwork. Thereare no drownings, no car crashes, rio Jesus or 
the sweet sound of 
SUGAR 
Bob Mould & Co. return with a new album ofmore "top-quality power pop." 
Judas. However, it should be noted that just because Easy Listening is notas lyrically dark as previous albums, it is not by any means a collection of songs by Barney the dinosaur. 
Sugar's music is a strange mix of pop and noise. The songs are explosive, but the lis­tener goes away humming ev­ery single one. Musically,Easy Listening is not far removed from Copper Blue. Nothing on the album quite reaches the twisted distortion of much of Beaster,butthischangeinstyles seems to be exactly the point From the packaging to the mu­
sic.EasyListeningproclaims itself to be the music that will give pop a good name. It is still quite loud in typical Sugar style, but quick and light at the same time. "Gift," 
"Sugar's music is a strange mix ofpop and noise. The songs are. explosive, but the listener goes away humming every one." 
with its (relatively) positive lyrics, fast rhythms and lightning drum fills, is a won­derful opener for the album, and "Your Favorite Thing" is brilliant songwriting. There are echoes of the acoustic guitars of Copper Blue's "If I Can't Change Your Mind" in "Panama City Hotel," as well as guitar and even strongervocal echoes ofthe same song in the superior, rather mellow "Believe What You're Saying." 


Mouldand company dobranch outsome­what from nonnal subjects on EasyListen­ing. Barbe) song, "Company Book," is an attempted attack on the faceless nature of corporations and their spawn, while "Panama City Hotel" is a story ofbeing lost both physically and emotionally in a for­eign land. These are also, however, the album's most disappointing tracks. Mould and company are most in their element when they stick to what they know best However,Sugardoes tackle "GrannyCool," 

-a direct assault on stars who actively culti­vate their depressed-and-therefore-artistic image, with perfect grace. The sarcasm of .the song fits perfectly with both Mould's ' vocal and musical style. Easy Listening only rarely disappoints. Like most of Sugar's work, itbegs repeated listening in order to fully appreciate it For Sugar fans, it is an excellent addition to Copper Blue and Beaster. For anyone wanting a strong dose of great, loud pop music, it is highly recommended. . 
22 


THREE NEW REASONS 
NEW MUSIC why you've got better things to do with your time than watching television: 
Albums Recently Released (faken from NBC's three-page advertisement promoting its new lineup) Liz Phair, Whip-Smart 1. SWEET JUSTICE, starring Melissa Gilbert and Cicely Tyson Eagerly anticipated follow-up to her "They're_ two idealistic law partners who don't care about money, fame or power acclaimed debut of alternative rock lunches-only justice. It's courtroom drama with a warm, Southern touch." for the brilliant. Bleagh. Puke. Puke. Puke. Somebody ought to fire this show's writers and send them back to Hallmark. . 
The Lightning Seeds, Jollification Remember "Pure?" This one-hit 2. THE COSBY MYSTERIES, starring Bill Cosby wonder returns with a third effort. "He finds the smallest clues, exposes the darkest secrets, and solves the biggest crimes. TV's most popular star is back, and his new job is murder!" Lyle Lovett, I Love Everybody Sure, The Cosby Show was a hit But has anybody you know seen Leonard Part 6l Julia Roberts' husband mellows out Ghost Dael? How about You Bet Your Life? You can bet your life this'll be a bomb. on his fifth album. 
3. EARTH 2, starring nobody you've ever heard of R.EM., Monster "The year: 2192. The world's largest college-music The place: Planet G889. band is back again. And this time The mission: To colonize a distant planet 
they're touring. The problem: This time, we are the aliens." The truth: This looks awful. 


ART BOOK 
You Ought To See: You Ought To Read:

TIDS 

''Notable Recent Acquisitions of 19th The Hot Zone and 20th Century Art." Richard Preston's novel is trulyfright­Opening September 25 at your very ening stuff, based on a true story

WEEK'S 

own Snite Museum of Art (you know, aboutadiseasewhichkills9outof10 
~ . 

the building across from DeBartolo), victirnsandmutatesatanalarmingly this exhibition features the work of art­rapid rate. The disease (from the ists such as Joan Miro, Paul Klee and African rain forest) .begins with

BEST 

Ferdinand Leger. These photographs, coughing and ends up with a paintings and drawings have all been liquefication of internal organs and donated by friends of the museum. an explosion of blood, rotted tissue 
and black vomit. 


11,s1•11ue1Bffl1i'IJI Fish Hatcheries, Pillowcases, 
Farmers and More Fish Hatcheries · 

News ofthe Bizarre from Our Nation's Universities 
The Chronicle ofHigher Education published its almanac earlier this month that gives a rundown ofevery U.S. college and university and miscellaneous facts about different schools. Notre Drune isn't the only school in America with its weird little quirks. Here are some of the Chronicle's findings: 
Out in the Northwest· · . . .. ~ According to officials at the College ofSouthern Idaho, they are the only school in North America who operates their own fish hatchery. Apparently, they are very proud of this unique fact and of being associated with something other than potatoes. But I'm wondering-I'm not quite sure what it is exactly, but isn't a body of water needed to have a fish hatchery? And where is there water even remotely near Idaho? 
And on the East Coast: 

Delaware Technical and Community College has a ''Trees of the ·States" exhibit on its campus to celebrate the vegetation of America. A different,tree from each of the 50 states and the District of 
· Columbia has been planted on the campus. The college even established a walking tour to see trees like the kukui from Hawaii, the redwood from California: a coffee tree from Kentucky and a sugar maple from Wisconsin. But they still don't have their own fish hatchery ... 


<O <D 

Pillowcase Caper Baffles KU Police 
Have you ever read the Notre Dame Secilrity Beat? C'mon, you all have ... just admit it. Don't feel bad if you think you don't have a life because you actually read our version of the police blotter. You're not alone. The µniversity ofKansas has its ownsecilrity column that runs in the Daily Kansan. Enjoy this· recentexcerpt 
"A boom box, compact discs and aNew Friday Hot Spot: Farmer's Market PILLOWCASE, valued at $1297, were stolen from a residence."
Or: Don't Those Nittany Lions Know How To Have Fun? 
Let's hope, for the sake of the KU students, that 
It's Friday and you 're bored. (Just pretend for a minute, okay?) So what do the KU police are spending their time hunting you do? Well, at Penn State you certainly don 'tstartdrinkingor going out. No, do\\'n things a little more important than a stolen you go to the Farmer's Market instead. That's right, the Collegian reports that pillowcase. At least our security uses its time 
Penn State has its own market in downtown State College. Different vendors' wisely, ferreting out all the annoying students who occupy the street, like Dan Bipgham, of Elk Creek Fish Hatchery (fish wantto, GASP, drive on campus! . hatcheries seem to be popular lately), and provide fresh fruits, yegetables and meats for the students. Apparently, it is quite successful because students prefer it to the cafeteria. Maybe Notre Dame should look into this market idea. 
edi.ted by Mary Kate Morton. 
24 




Coming Distractions 
The Week in Sports 
Football: Notre Dame vs. Purdue, Sat., Sept. 17, 1 :35 p.m., ND Stadium. Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Rice, Sat., Sept. 24, 7:30 p.m., 
J.A.C.C. Arena. 

Soccer: All games at Alumni Field ND Women vs. Indiana, Fri., Sept. 23, 7:30 p.m. ND Women vs. Cincinnati, Sun., Sept. 25, 7:30 p.m. ND Men vs. LaSalle, Sat., Sept. 24, 7:30 p.m. 
Cultural Connection 
Snite: "Notable Recent Acquisitions of 19th and 20th Century Art," begins Sat., Sept. 25, 2:00 P:m., Snite. Lecture: The 1994 Joseph J. Duffy, Jr., Lecture, "Anthony's Wound," Coppelia Kahn, Brown University.,Thurs., Sept. 22, 8:00 p.m., Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education. 
Recital: Faculty violin and piano recital, featuring Carolyn Plummer and William Cerny, Sun., Sept. 25, 2:00 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium, Snite. 
Tour: Historical Walking Tour of Campus, Fri., Sept. 23, 
3:00 p.m., Main Gate. Coricert: Shenanigans Pre-game Concert, Sat., Sept. 24, 
12:00 p.m., North Dome, J.A.C.C. Acoustic Cafe: Thurs., Sept. 15, 9:00 p.m., Huddle. Lecture: ''Roman Catholic Universities," Ralph Mcinerny, 
Tues., Sept. 27, 7:30 p.m., Morrissey Lobby. 



On the Silver Screen 
LaFortune: "Field of Dreams," Thurs.; Sept. 22, 8:00 & 
10:30 
p.m., Montgomery Theatre, $1. Cushing: "Jurassic Park," Fri. & Sat., Sept. 23-24, 8:00 & 

10:30 
p.m., Auditorium, $2. Snite: Annenberg Auditorium, $2. 


"The War Room," Fri.-Sat., Sept. 23-24, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "The Grapes of Wrath," Mon., Sept. 26, 7:00 p.m. "Sherlock Jr.," Mon., Sept. 26, 9:15 p.m. 
"Celine and Julie Go Boating," Tues., Sept. 27, 6:00 p.m. ''The Bicycle Thief," Tues., Sept. 27, 9:30 p.m. 
University Park West: 277-7336. ''The Lion King," G. ''The Little Rascals," PG. "Milk Money," PG-13. "A Good Man in Africa," R. 
University Park East: 277-7336. "A Simple Twist of Fate," PG-13. "The Mask," PG-13. "Corinna Corinna," PG. "Trial by Jury," R. ''The Next Karate Kid," PG-13. ''Time Cop," R. "Natural Born Killers," R. 
Town & Country: 277-1522. "Clear and Present Danger," PG-13. "Forrest Gump," PG-13. "True Lies," R. 

Saint Mary~ 
Collegg 

Nurse Career Day: Wed., Sept. 28, 3:30 p.m., LeMans Lobby. 
Lecture: "The Religious Influence on Nursing," Mary Patricia Donahue, Fri., Sept. 23, 12:15 p.m., Rm. 1, Vatican Hall. 
Folk Dancing: Fri., Sept. 23, 7:30 p.m., Clubhouse. Poster Sale: Thurs., Sept. 22, 10:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m., Haggar. 



Grist for the Mill RickGre 
Will, IT CWT CfFE/01) "FIGHTING I.RI.SI-\" 15 JUST 
I 11\IN~ THE NIC.t'.NAME 

fR.ts\-1 01. C,ffHDl-lCS •• , CfFENSIVE. NOTRE. "D'IME. 006/-ITTA ~T A NEl,.l C/0E., 
Ol 1'X:J/:l-IR\Sli, ~tw{A11j0UC.S... 
TubHT/ LltE. !J{AT? rr CAl0°T 'BE. KAc.1~,r; 51:X/ST, 01< CLA551s1. •• 
/00 ''-IST5 "'{ 
JJOFf.1 fY) '-(ST.5" 

MUCH, Ml)li-J LA-TEE.-. 
... 5{) //JSTEA"D OF THE. ~/JDTRE DAME HGHTIIJ6 /RlSH~ IT SHO{X]) ~ THI:-"IJ07RE ))AME MA/.f. A>Jb,h-e. 'FEMALE. l?fPRi=.SENTATIVE.5 luH0 TRV ID lUFO~ TO THE. "EESf OF THEfR. 
ABILITIES 1,)/11/CXJT HM.J}J6 OTI-11:'.eS FEEL /AJ Afj'J t,,.;k/ tll-\llJISI¼@ k., pJ!)IVfDUAL.S, DI!.. AS MEMBfPS OF #Yr oma TEAM, i<AcE:, ETJ-l~G IT't', 6£1\i\)EJ?.1 SEXUAL O~ENTA-TIO/J1 G£06W/llG lCOrT/Cl/J1 "J'Ol,./nCAL 01<6A,\JIZAT/6\l, "REL.i6/DN1 J.J£l6HT, W£l6HT, At.E., . 
CL.A~~ //JCD/'-\E. "BR,¼rr..T, OK IIJTEl.l./6£JJCE, /,JCTl-1 51Nc.t.KJ: Afti.06/E5 To A1-,.J'l'CN£ 0HOS£ G:RO<)p H,/-5 · 60/vE O/Jf-lENT/01--l"E:D, AS IJ6 S/..f(,,HT IS J/JTcfv"t>r;.i>('.'
' 
. 
. . . ; . . 

1NA r/J:)t,J ~T 'DJ 9f;ul/) 0Jb57"£E'f>, MP FT!.IEJJb! 
, . . .

t\?? Wi?.TTE A lETr£e. 11) THE 0BSET{V£"/?:.( TliE/J B.IER'?O}JE. YOt> luEE_E "RlbW1 TIM. WILL-.5E£ ms //..BUST/CE. OF f;KES/l/vlf}J "RE.,\ LL)' 1X> t,-i1s .5/TUlrTtJN, ,AJJD A CJIA/uGE . &UEVE. ,1/J'm-ll/J& YOU /).)ll.L EE MAl)E. itV'Ll-l3E . . TELL TTlEM !I HAILE"t> AS 71-iE MAIJ i,JI/O S£T 71-ilS U/JIVE:£.5/TY 'RI~/ 
Y~k.. YEAH/ 

ru.. DO rr!! \~ 
°lcf'J 
~ 

TAlES FtWM 7HE 7l>P a: 1l(t;l>oMc · l\,{,IF;llMAvtlA 

26 


A.A 

Acronyms Anonymous 
at the moment, may be dangerous later if somesmaller,lesser-knownclubsthatexist 
by Justyn Harkin you do so to the people wearing the bath-here at Notre Dame. For example, there is 
robes and blackbelts. theDanish UndergraduateLeagueofLeam-
Being a freshman at the University of As an uninitiated freshman, I found that ing (D.U L.L.) and their sister organization Notre Dame can be a very exciting the booths representing each club were very SN.O.R.E. (the Scandinavian Nation's Or­experience. For many people, it's informative, ifyou actually decided to stay, ganization ofResources inEducation). One thefirsttimethey'vebeenawayfromhome; but I want to know just one thing: what ofNotreDame'slargestofthelesser0known this is a freedom I know I've been abusing came first, the club or its acronym? I am clubsisS.T.O.O.P.I.D.(StudentsthatOver­since the moment mommykissed me on the sure that the clubs ofNotre Dame represent Organize Programs into Disaster). Accord­cheekand waved goodbye! Thefirstcouple a wide range of interests, but one is left to ing to a member, who chose to remain ofdays I spent in adjustment, as mostfresh-wonder how, exactly, did some of them get nameless, S.T.O.O.P.I.D. records an all­men do, learning where my classes were, snappy names like S.T B.P.? Also, what time high membership. "Some people are what that funny smell was, and tor-----------------------.members and they don't even never, EVER, go into the guy's know it!" said the anonymous bathrooms with bare .feet After source. getting that stuff down, I was ready <J°J>~ Stepping away from the aca­
to become a normal member of the ~?~~~."'~ ,~,:,:"__,l1~£g;__ "s , demically-orientedclubs, wecan 
Notre Dame family. And every-~~'II_''"\~ ~ check out some of the newest body knows that being a normal, -"1~tz.'1'-MzG:Q ::::It\-: ~\rl additions in Notre Dame special healthy student at Notre Dame ~y'-='~ Z:r ,._:_ \"'j' VA'--interest groups. Trying to add a means getting involved with some I"'.... little "spice" to the daily grind of extracurricular activities here on eating at the dining halls is campus,unless,ofcourse,youarea N . mm SD.S. A.T.T.E.N.D., Advocates of hermit and never leave your room. Table Top Exotic Nude Dancing. 
Now,NotreDamehasamyriad While this group is not getting of clubs and activities with which much support from the adminis­you can get involved, and what tration, and I can't see why not, better way to familiarize yourself maybe another group concerned with all these activities than to at-fEf!f:'f with the performing arts will. tend Activities Night at the ~ Overweight Ballerinas Eliminat-J.A.C.C.? ActivitiesNightisagreat ing Snacks Everywhere has been concept Youcangoandcheckout _,,.,'S· gathering a loyal following with all of the clubs and organizations C,O.... their motto: Dancing Where Tutu without sitting through those "brief Meets HoHo. organizational meetings," only to Well, I've certainly seen find out that the senior who told you there exactly does the Cuban-American Union of enough. I think that I'll skip all of the would be free beer after the meeting lied! StudentsAdvocates(C.A.U.S.A.) advocate? established Notre Dame clubs and start my 
Another,good • thing about Activities Was the cause there before them or did they own. That's the ticket, I'll call itS.T.A.N.D. Night is that, if you don't like what the havetoinventonetofittheacronym? Well, AllstudentsinterestedinjoiningStopThose person representing the club has to say, all at least it S.O.U.N.D.S. cool. Anyway, you Acronyms Now... Dammit! can sign up at you have to do is say "Bye!," leave him in can bet your bottom dollar that I'm signing the bottom of Saint Mary's Lake, if anyone mid-sentence, and be on your merry way to up for C.A.S.H. so I can better S.E.R. V. my actually gives a C.A.R.E. the next table. It is noted, however, that community. behavinginsuchamanner,whiledesirable I should also mention that there are 
.. ;.___ 










Beethoven, Nietzsche 
and Father Joe 
_) 


by Benjamin Evans 
Who can solve today's cultural identity crisis 
Last year, our rector Father Joe Ross, invited identity crisis. several of us into his room to discuss what it There is hope: Nietzsche is dead, not God. We means to be a man. Because the rise of have been deceived by those who say that life is hell. 
feminism has changed the traditional gender roles of Thereis meaning for us in the crucified Christ and the society, he felt that men had become disoriented and promise of resurrection. had lost sight of manhood. With anecdotes about We are a mystery to ourselves, possessing unique door-holding, jokes about Wilt Chamberlain and talents and personalities and being able to do good or 
i ! 
tales of the archetypal "Notre Dame Girl," the con­evil, to love or hate, and to create or destroy. We can 
' i 
: ' 
i: 
versation was lively. Itseems that men are having an follow the gutless philosophy of despair, hide from
Ii I! 
identity crisis, but the problem is not exclusive to us. God's transforming grace, and resign ourselves to
i ! 
'' 
Everywherewe turn, peoplestruggle to find mean­being "Generation X" -the Sega/MTV generation ing and purpose in life. As a nation, we face many -orwe can accept the challenge of being created in problems. Are we greedy imperialists or a citizenry the image ofGod, leading lives ofpassion and virtue, unitedby thebelief of a God who has granted dignity, seeking truth in the brilliant light of the Holy Spirit,
I 
rights and responsibilities to his people. Crime and rejoicing in the glory ofGod manifested in each destroys our cities and statism robs us of our freedom. ofus. We can "find ourselves" in love. It is certain!y Violence under the aegis of medicine challenges us noteasy. Love involves painful choices and sacrifice to examine how we value life. Opposing abortion, -the greatest lover was nailed to across. Still, with however, is not enough; we must also build a world faithandhope,giftsofthespirit, wecanriseabovethe fit for our children to live and grow in. Our identity wreckageand debris ofthe century and dn be the light crisis extends into the family sexuality and the class­of the world. room. HereatNotreDame, wearewrestlingwithour What does it mean to be a man? Listen ·to role as aRoman Catholic University. Where are the Beethoven's Heroic Symphony or Schubert's Wan­
Benjamin Evans is a 

lines between academic freedom and heresy? derer Fantasy. Read Saint Augustine's Confessions sophomore philosophy _ . Civilization seems to be.spiraling out of control, and Tolkien' s The Lord ofthe Rings. If you are still majorfrom Louisville, 
twisted by the struggle between godless capitalism unsure, go look at the statue of the greatest man, 
Kentucky. H~ is a 

and godless socialism, majoritarianism and tyranny. Jesus, in-the middle of God Quad. 
resident ofMorrissey 

Nothing seems sacred or absolute; truth does not There are answers to today's identity crises, we 
Hall where Father Joe 

exist, only opinion. The Bibleisacollection ofmyths just have to be man or woman enough to enter the 
Ross, C.S.C. is rector. 

and heaven and hell are ancientrelics. We are toldby debate and find them. The greatest wrong is denying Darwin that we evolved from apes and Fre·ud in-, the existence of truth and giving up the search for it 
Scholastic Magazine is 

formed us that our primary motives are carnal. ·•· I would like to thank Father Joe for inviting us that 
now accepting 

Nietzsche has pronounced that God is dead. Is it any evening to reflect with him about this fundamental 
submissionsfor the 

wonder that suicide is a leading cause of teenage issue. There is no more important question than his, 
Final Word. Call the 

death? Who would want to grow up is such a world? and how we answer it can have grave or wonderful 
officefor details. 

Thus it comes as no surprise that humanity has an consequences as we approach thenextmillennium.. 
28 


MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL 
Campus Bands 
October2 12:00 -2:00 p.rn. Fieldhouse Mall 
Spirntua! Ce~ebraiUorn 
October2 · · 2:00 -3:00 p.rn. Fieldhouse Mall 
Culture on the Quad 
October 3-7 12:00 -1 :00 p.rn. ~lcl~ouse Mall 
Special Event 
October 6 7:00-9:00 p.rn. LaFortune Ballroom Barbara Marx Hubbard, Conscious Evolution 


Fireside Chats 
October3-7 12:15 -1:00p.m Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 
Monday: Fr. Don McNeill, "Unity Through Community": Cross Cultural Experience Through Service Tuesday: Dr. Joe Miller, "The Earth is Your Home: Is Your Room Clean?" Wednesday: Dr. Mara Ryan, "Relationships: The Building Blocks Toward a Global Family" Thursday:BarbaraMarxHubbard, "How to Create a Global Family" Friday: Dr. J anetKouranyandJim Sterba, "The Ideal of a Feminist Family" 
Entertainment on the Quad 
October 3-7 4:30 -6:00 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall Monday: George and the Freeks Tuesday: Hawaiian Club, Phillipine Club Wednesday: Ballet Folklorico Thursday: Troop N.D. Friday: NASAND 
Taste of Nations 
Friday October? 
8:00 -Midnight Stepan Center 
Entertainment by Sabor Latino 



BRUNO'S 
PEZ.ZA 


,,,r Jm,1 

Bruno!siNorth 
Open for carryout and delivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. from 4 -1Op.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. 
· **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 . FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** . EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** . 115 U.S. 31 Uust north of campus) 261 O Prairie Ave. 

273...3890 -288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to · Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses . 

.-. . 
-. -. . . . 
• • -l \ -''-• 









