TO save time—to contact more people more frequently
—to increase sales and reduce selling costs, business more and more turns to the telephone.
New ideas for systematic coverage of markets, for more efficient purchasing, collections, administration, are constantly being devised by Bell System men as a result of their experience with the application of Long Distance in the business world.
Through developing new ideas to meet changing needs,
Bell System service grows more and more valuable.
Why no* coll your folks at least once a week? For lowest rates to mos* points, call station-to-station after 7 P. M. daily, or any time Sunday.
BELL TELEPHONE
COLLEGE PARADE I J
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
A recent Associated Collegiate Press dispatch contained the information that Dean Young B. Smith of Columbia University Law Schools’ believes that “law students of today are being trained to be young provincials and that something should be done about it.” According to this same dispatch it is Dean Smith’s opinion that the budgets of most law schools are woefully inadequate and that it is imperative that the law schools be allowed greater operating funds. This contention of the Dean’s is based on a comparison of the budgets of law schools with medical and various other professional schools.
—o—
The St. Thomas College A quinas recently came forward with an amusing bit of information accounting for the breakdown of a history professor’s resolution never to reveal some of the ridiculous answers he received from students on examination papers. The professor in question is Professor McChrystal of Marquette University. His laudable promise was abandoned, however, when to a list of identification questions he received some of the following answers. One student informed him that De Valera was a Mexican bandit, while another answered that the word Anabaptist signified “the sister of St. John the Baptist.” Two more equally amusing identifications were the ones that made St. Ignatius of Loyola “a Spanish pirate” and the one that defined a cotton gin as “a drink made by Southern negroes from cotton flowers.”
—o—
The 1935 college market survey has the following to offer in the way of a statistical record on the preference of college boys and coeds when purchasing tobacco, radios, and kindred articles. The survey makes no mention of the trade names of the articles that are purchased but confines itself to a report on the total quantity sold. This reveals that 59% of college students smoke; the men use on the average 19,123 packages of cigarettes a week, while the girls use only 5,064 packages.
Only 20 per cent of college students own cars, but the great majority consider them an invaluable asset as evidenced by their resolution to get them as soon as possible.
Various other incidental details uncovered by the survey that might be of interest are: only 1.2 per cent never* read their school publications; twenty per cent refuse to chew gum; and about 42 per cent of college students have radios in their own quarters.
CALENDAR
Friday, March 20
Fifth Annual Bengal Bouts, Gymnasium, 8:00 p.m. Eight championship matches, two special features; “Scholastic of the Air,” broadcast from campus radio studio, 3:15 p.m.
Saturday, March 21
Fencing, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, gymnasium, 3:00 p.m.; Track, Notre Dame team entered in Butler relays at Indianapolis and Armour Relays in Chicago; Movie, “Special Agent,” Washington hall, first show, 6:40 p.m.
Sunday, March 22
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church; Knights of Columbus Officers’ meeting, Walsh hall clubroom 10:30 a.m.; Interhall basketball games 9:00 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Opening of Music Week with Glee Club concert in Washington Hall 8:00 p.m.
Monday, March 23
“Readers’ Spotlight” program from campus radio station, 4:30 p.m.; Faculty radio lecture 7:00 p.m.; “History of Church Music,” broadcast by Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., and the Moreau Seminary Choir.
Tuesday, March 24
Radio program, “The Speech We Use,” 4:30 p.m.; “Headline Personalities” from Engineering building studios 7:30 p.m.; Second Music Week event, the Moreau Seminary Choir concert in Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, March 25
Radio programs, “Stories of the Classics” at 4:30 and “You The Defendant” at 7:30 p.m.; Debating, University of Alabama vs. Notre Dame, tentatively set for Engineering building auditorium.
Thursday, March 26
Radio programs, 4:30, “Athletics in Education,” 7:30 “Stories of Great Lives”; Debating, Creighton University vs. Notre Dame, here; Third Music Week program featuring the Little Philharmonic Orchestra, 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall.
COLLEGIANA
A course in etiquette offered by Muhlenberg College, Allentown, Pa., has attracted 298 students.
Cleveland College, Ohio, students receive complete semester grades in photostat form.
Bernard alumnae earned an average of $1,962 each last year.
The New York board of aidermen voted $50,000 to aid 7,000 Hunter College students when a college building was burned recently.
Yale fraternities are successfully weathering the new “nine college system” set up a year ago.
$2 and
ARROW MAJORS in STYLE
The WALES Tab
Royally sanctioned, this dressy, go places shirt has become a perennial favorite with college men. Comes in a handsome array of British stripings with full definite colors. Exclusive Arrow fabrics — Sanforized Shrunk.
ARROW^tIes
$250
GLASSES Properly FITTED
ANNUALS * BOOKLETS
PRINTED OR ENGRAVED
INVITATIONS DANCE PROGRAMS STATIONERY AN NOUNCEMENTS
McCLAVE PRINTING CO.
GRAPHIC ARTS CRAFTSMEN 4-7361	435 E. LASALLE. SOUTH BEND
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
PATRONIZE SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS
March 2 0, 1936
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Three
Fists Will Fly!!
Tonight at 8:00
FIFTH ANNUAL BENGAL BOUTS
Student Ticket, 25c	General Admission, 35c
8 Championship Bouts
Also
Cy Conner vs. Nick Tancredi
A Wrestling Circus
Tickets on sale in all the Halls after supper, and at the Box Office
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918J
Volume LXIX
March 20, 1936
No. 20
Sixteen Bengal Boxers Await Finals Tonight
Scholastic's Ace Reporter Interviews The Wrestlers
LLOYD, LAYDEN, PROCTOR HONORARY JUDGES SHEEHAN AND YOUNG TO ACT AS OFFICIALS
■ By John A. Gillespie
Protected by three G-men and a squad of state police, your reporter, this morning, threw caution to the winds and sneaked into the garrulous Cy Conner’s mansion on the fourth floor of Walsh. Our caution hit the winds and blew back into our face.
Cy was gnawing on the springs of the bed. We waited until he had finished his metallic meal and had begun to pick his teeth with a hunting knife.
“Now listen, Cy, don’t get sore, but how about a statement for The Scho-
lastic?”	-
“What’s the Scholastic?” growled
Cy.
After that difficulty had been smoothed out, Cy had this to say:
“I ain’t nervous, and I ain’t stale. I didn’t have no trouble making the weight, and I ain’t got no plan of attack. I’ll just throw him out of the ring and go back to my boots and saddles.”
“I won’t swell a muscle until I
make sure Tancredi has no camphor in his tights. He’s a wrong gee. I gotta think of my artistry.” Cy sighed and rolled his eyes to the ceiling. “Me and Laacoon.”
We next jumped over to Sorin Hall to see how the other half of the Con-ner-Tancredi wrestling circus was
passing the last few hours before the slaughter begins.
Up from the depths of the sub came a groan, then a shriek, a loud crash, and a gurgling moan. What was this — another American tragedy?
Nick Tancredi
We fell down the steps neatly, four at a time, and struck a match. That (Continued on Page 6)
An Honorary Judge
Mr. Frank Lloyd
Danno O'Mahoney Accepts
Invitation To Appear At Bouts Tonight
Danno O’Mahoney, colorful Irish wrestler, has accepted The Scholastic’s invitation as honorary referee at the Bengal Boxing Bouts tonight in the local fieldhouse.
Danno since his coming to this country about one year ago has lost only one wrestling bout, and this cost him the championship at Philadelphia two weeks ago. Dick Shikat was his conqueror and holds the diadem at the present time.
O’Mahoney was serving his term in the Irish Free State army when Jack McGrath, boxing and wrestling impresario from Worcester, Mass., saw him box an exhibition and immediately signed him.
Tickets On Sale At Gym
The grand finale of the winter season on the campus, The Scholastic’s Bengal Boxing Show, will become a reality tonight in the Notre Dame fieldhouse at 8:00 p.m. The mightiest of the mighty will be pitted against each other to decide who shall reign supreme over the campus pugilists for another twelve-months.
An imposing list of officials, headed by Mr. Frank Lloyd, Elmer Layden, and Robert Proctor, ’04, of Elkhart, as honorary judges, will supervise tonight’s show. The referee will be Dominick Neapolitano, the judges will be William F. Sheehan and Eugene “Scrap” Young, both of whom are registered official A.A.U. judges. Tom Conley and Chet Grant will act as timers, and Bill Cerney will announce the show.
For the convenience of students who have not yet secured their tickets, Scholastic staff members will have the pasteboards on sale in the different halls after supper this evening. Tickets may also be purchased
at the box office in the fieldhouse.
Conner and Tancredi “Dinner for one, Please Cy.”
March 2 0. 19 3 6
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Five
GLEE CLUB WILL MAKE EASTERN TOUR;
TO BE HEARD ON NATIONAL HOOKUP
Five More Contests Remain For Varsity Debate Squad
First Concert in Jersey City
By Lindsay Phoebus
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the University Glee Club, announced Tuesday that the club will resnme its annual Easter tour this year with an extensive eastern trip and a coast to coast broadcast from New York.
The Glee Club will begin its ac-u r n S the holidays with an appearance on Paul Whiteman’s program Easter Sunday night in New York City. On Easter Monday the Club will open its series of concerts in Jersey City. During the rest of the week, the club will sing in Wilkes Barre, Pa., on Tuesday; in Harrisburg, on Wednesday; in Altoona, on Thursday; in Johnstown, on Friday; and in Erie, on Saturday. The organization will return to the campus one week from Easter Sunday.
It has been largely through the efforts of Irwin L. Goldman, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, and business manager of the Glee Club, that the trip has been made possible. Almost two years’ have passed since this singing unit of Notre Dame has made any kind of a tour. Last year an Easter trip was planned, but had to be called off because of an insufficient number of concerts guaranteed.
Further details regarding the method of transportation, and each of the . concerts to be given, will be issued some time previous to the trip.
CONNER VS. TANCREDI (Continued from Page 5)
Hanging from the water pipe in the corner of a dark room was Nick Tancredi, the Scourge of Sorin. Underneath him a radio explained the caterwauling.
“Why the ape act, Nick?”
'‘Don’t bother me. This is a program called “Lights Out,” and I have to get atmosphere. I’m getting in the mood for this Conner person. I’m working up a good man.”
“Are you in the pink, Nick?”
“In the pink? Egad, I’m a delicate cerise. Without a doubt, I could crush a creampuff.”
We reminded him that Cy was no cream puff.
Satisfied that there would be a cataclysmic catch-as-catch can between Nick and Cy, we borrowed a lantern and made our way through the dank dungeon to light and fresh air.
Oratorical Contest
Five Catholic high schools from the Fort Wayne diocese have accepted, up to the present time, the invitation of the Wranglers, University honorary forensic society, to vie for the Joseph McNamara trophy in the Indiana Catholic Oratorical Contest to be held here April 4-5.
Of the 19 schools invited, St. Mary’s of Michigan City, St. Hed-wige's of South Bend, Central Catholic of Fort Wayne, St. Mary’s of Anderson, and Catholic Central of Hammond have acknowledged their acceptance.
Central Catholic high school of Fort Wayne, present holder of the McNamara trophy, for the second year in succession will be represented by Jerome. O’Dowd, whose oration entitled, “State Aid to Catholic Schools,” won the 1935 I.C.O. contest.
Chairman of arrangements and reception, Charles F. Myers, announced that the semi-finals of the contest will be conducted on April 4, with the finals being held on the afternoon of Sunday, April 5.
This calls for several luncheons, tours of the campus, especially to Sacred Heart church and to the art gallery, culminating with the annual I.C.O. banquet to be tendered by the Wranglers to the visiting orators in the Lay Faculty dining hall, Saturday night, April 4.
GRADUATE SCHOLARSHIP
Five seniors and one graduate student have applied for the graduate scholarships in the Federal government internship training for the academic year 1936-37, Professor William Downey, of the Economics department, announced Wednesday.
The undergraduates who have submitted applications are Francis J. Ryan, George P. Leyes, John M. Maloney, Herman Green, and John J. Ryan. Appointments to the year’s internship in Washington will be announced in June.
Lart year three local seniors won the three months’ scholarships then offered. Notre Dame was the only university to be represented by three appointees.
The graduate scholarships for internship training were inaugurated in 1934-35 by the Rockefeller foundation when 80 interns received training on a three months basis. The training proved so successful that now full academic scholarships are given.
By Louis Da Pra
Five debates, including an intersectional tilt with the University. of Alabama affirmative here, on Wednesday evening, March 25, confront Coach William Coyne’s varsity debating squad before the end of the current forensic schedule.
Robert Schmelzle and Richard Meier, veterans, will uphold the Notre Dame negative in the Alabama debate, which has been tentatively set for the Engineering build
ing, and which will be judged by Professor Norwood Brigance of Wabash College.
On Tuesday, Robert Burke, Jr., and John Heywood are to meet the Wayne University negative, of Detroit, in the Engineering building at 4:00 p.m., and on the following Thursday Burke and Heywood return to the Engineering building to engage Creighton University of Omaha in a no-decision contest.
The debate season will wind up with the radio debate scheduled for Saturday, March 28, against St. Viator College over station WCFL, Chicago at 5:00 p.m. Notre Dame will be represented by Thomas Proctor and John Locher of the College of Law and the question for debate will involve “adoption of the unicameral legislature.”
A Notre Dame affirmative composed of Robert T. Burke, Jr., and John Marbach will meet a Notre Dame negative in Elkhart, Indiana Monday in a no-decision debate before the Elkhart League of Women Voters.
On Friday night, March 13, Burke and Heywood scored an impressive victory over the University of Buffalo negative in a debate held at St. Mary’s College. The contest was judged by Professor W. Cunningham, the Northwestern University debate coach.
During the past .week the affirmative and negative squads conducted a dual meet with Michigan State College of East Lansing, Michigan. Last Tuesday, Burke and Heywood met the Michigan State negative at Lansing, while Schmelzle and Meier met the Michigan affirmative here yesterday.
The question for debate throughout the current season has been: Resolved, that Congress shall have the power by a two-thirds vote to override a decision of the Supreme Court declaring an act of Congress unconstitutional.”
Six
SEE YOU AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
appearance on day afternoon.
Robert Stapp
Third Issue of "Scrip" Will Appear Next Friday
The third edition of Scrip, campus literary quarterly, which is edited by Maurice Tombragel, will make its ! campus next Fri-
Student contributions featuring work in the fields of fiction, the essay, and poetry, will make up the bulk of the issue, with many campus writers familiar to student readers appearing in the book.
Robert Stapp, who has been a consistent contributor, is the author of a pungent bit of satirical humor called “Sox and Shorts.” The piece was inspired by the frescoes and fringes so generously created by the artisans of the University laundry.
Several other student essays will be grouped and published under a collective title. The essays embrace a wide range of subject matter and should prove popular.
The Freshman sketches, which have drawn much favorable comment for their freshness and excellence, will be continued according to Editor Tombragel.
A feature of the issue is to be an essay written around the life and works of Hildebrand, Pope Gregory VII. The essay is written with an accurate historical insight and in an interesting style.
Editor Tombragel again announced this week that contributions from any member of any college or department on the campus are welcome. He asked especially that those interested in scientific research, a field rarely represented in Scrip, make use of the opportunity of writing for publication.
LAY PLANS FOR ANNUAL MUSIC WEEK;
LITTLE PHILHARMONIC TO PLAY MAR. 26
Apologetics Course
As previously announced, a two-year course in Apologetics, designed to train Catholic lay writers will be inaugurated in September, 1936. The course, which will lead to a Master of Arts degree, will be directed by experienced and internationally-known teachers. The faculty will include Christopher Hollis, Arnold Lunn, and Shane Leslie, as well as several local professors.
‘ A limited number of scholarships, including subsistence as well as tuition, will be available. Recipients of these scholarships will be chosen from among the men graduates of Catholic colleges and universities of the United States, who will have completed a full course in Scholastic Philosophy before September, 1936.
Candidates should present with their letters of application an original controversial essay of not less than 1500 words, written to give the Catholic answer to some fairly recent magazine article. Character references must also be submitted. Correspondence is to be sent to Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., Secretary, Graduate Committee, Notre Dame, Indiana.
ENGINEERS MEET
Dean A. A. Potter, of the Engineering College of Purdue University, will be the guest speaker at the meeting of the American Society of Engineers to be held next Tuesday, March 24.
The topic to be discussed by Dean Potter is “The Future of Engineering to the Engineering Students.”.
Glee Club to Open Festival
Preparations are being made for the observance of the first annual Music Week to be celebrated on the campus March 22-29. Highlights of the program will be the appearance of the Little Philharmonic Orchestra, the Moreau Choir, and the University Glee Club.	’
The Glee Club will open the festival on Sunday evening, March 22, when it will present its first campus concert in Washington Hall.
“Matonna Lovely Maiden” by Di Lasso, “Love’s Old Sweet Song” by Molloy and Parks, and “In Old Nassau” by Murchison will be included on this initial program. John Ryan, president of the Glee Club, and soloist for four years will sing a number popularized by Lawrence Tibbet and entitled “Let Me Be Born Again.” The composer of this number is the noted orchestra leader, Victor Young.
Joseph Pawlowski, George Miller, George Beltemacchi, and Francis Schaefer, the other soloists for the unit also have new and tuneful melodies to offer.
On Tuesday, March 24, the nationally known Moreau Choir, directed by the Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., will be presented as the second feature of the Music Week celebration. This famous choir, under its director, Father Connerton, has been engaged in explaining, by broadcasts from the campus radio studios, the development and technique of Gregorian Chant, and to demonstrate this type of ecclesiastical music which is centuries old.
The third important event of Music Week will be the concert to be offered (Continued on Rase 10)
The Little Philharmonic Orchestra Which Will Appear Here On March 26
March 2 0, 1936
Seven
Students Suggest Names For New Residence Hall
This is one of a series of snap-shot interviews with students about topics of campus interest. This week’s question was: “What would yon, suggest as an appropriate name for the neiv student residence hall?”
Bob Lauer, Howard: “Why not call it Memorial Hall in honor of those Notre Dame men who have passed away? Certainly it would be a splendid tribute to such heroes of the school as Rockne, Gipp, Sullivan, Phillips, Young and many others too numerous to mention. Such a name foi- the new hall would be the recognition by this generation of those who have gone before us.”
Gilbert Moty, Walsh: “I would suggest that the new hall be called Phillips Hall in honor of Professor Charles Phillips, a man admired, loved, and respected by countless numbers of Notre Dame students. Certainly no layman is more deserving of the tribute.”
Leo Willick, St. Edward’s: “Since this is the home of the ‘Fighting Irish’ why not name the new hall St. Patrick’s Hall in honor of one of the best of the ‘Fighting Irish?’ We have one hall named after a saint; so we ought to continue along that line and give the new residence hall a similar patron.”
Johnny Wallick, Corby: “I like the idea of calling the new building Rogers Hall after one of Notre Dame’s greatest friend and boosters, Will Rogers. It would be a fine tribute by Notre Dame to one of the greatest Americans of our times.”
CHICAGO CLUB
The Chicago Club will hold a smoker in the Lay Faculty dining hall on Tuesday evening, March 24, at 7:45. The master of ceremonies will be Chris Matthews, while other speakers will include Joe Condon and Frank Ryan.
The club will hold its Easter dance on Monday, April 13, according to an announcement this week by Co-chairmen Paul Rubly and George Thomas. Charlie Agnew and his orchestra will play for the affair which will be held in the grand ballroom of the Medinah club.

Eight
Howard Clune Cusack, president of the senior class . . . Railroaded in on “Gravy Train” platform . . . Most whirlwind campaign in the history of campus politics . . . Lee Moorman still puts himself to sleep counting votes. . . .
Howie is known as “King Kong” by some of the third floor boys over near 317 Walsh ... Is using mange remedies in a losing battle with his gorgeous locks . . . But can’t get rid of the jungle coat that makes him.
look like Tarzan . . . His canary yellow pajamas are the passion of his life. . . .
St. Mary’s knows him as "Prince Charming” although he can’t sing a note . . . Sees a Grace ovei* there twice a week regularly . . . Boys tell what day of the week it is by the suit Howie has on . . . Refuses to double date with any of his friends . . . Either doesn’t trust them or wants to do all the talking. . . .
Spends his summers going back and forth on ocean liners . . . Will give his opinion on the European situation if anybody asks it. . . Also on other things, even when it isn’t asked. . . . Has fallen for a girl on every trip . . . Gets love-sick instead of seasick . . . The boys are wondering what became of Nellie ... It was serious for awhile. . . .
Is a philosophy major and is still trying to prove the existence of beau-ty . . . Although an “Eminent Thom-ist,” his secret ambition is to lead a band . . . Should be good as he faces the music enough . . . Pleased the party -with his non-political speech on Washington’s birthday . . . And at the same time the class . . . Although his.father is a doctor, he will go into the steamship business . . . Likes the uniforms . . . And the sailor dances.
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Knights Hear Farrell At Fourth Breakfast
The Knights of Columbus held their fourth Communion Breakfast of the year last Sunday in the faculty dining hall. One hundred and twenty-five knights received Holy Communion at the eight o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Professor William E. Farrell gave a short talk on the war situation in Europe following - the breakfast.
Professor Farrell traced the development of the leading European powers from the middle of the nineteenth century to the present in explaining their respective positions should a new outbreak occur. He explained that Germany, Italy, and Japan, the most aggressive nations of today, are each attempting to support tremendous populations upon small areas of unfertile land. These conditions for the most part are the result of unfair treaties in the past.
On Monday night the Knights held their regular bi-weekly meeting in Walsh Hall. There was a brief discussion of the part to be taken by the council in the nation-wide five-point program which is being sponsored by the Supreme Council. Ten marshalls have been appointed to lead the membership campaign which is part of the program.
An appropriation of five dollars was set up as a prize to be awarded to the author of the best article submitted for publication in the next issue of the Santa Maria. Financial Secretary Eli M. Abraham, Grand Knight John V. Coyne, and Editor Robert L. Grogan were appointed judges in the contest. Further information regarding the contest may be obtained at the K. of C. Office.
Lecturer Edward T. McNally delivered an excellent talk on his travels through Alaska during the past summer. This portion of the program was concluded with several tap dances by Frank McCarty and Wal-ter Nienaber, accompanied at the piano by Peter Johnen.
POLITICS TRIP
Professor Paul C. Bartholomew, of the Department of Politics at the University, announces that this year’s Notre Dame-Washington tour is open to all students of the University. Those desiring to make the tour should see Professor Bartholomew on . Monday, Wednesday, or Friday in Room 117 of the Main Building at 10:50 in the morning; or in Room 327 of the Main Building at 3:05 in the afternoon; or on Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday in Room .110 of the Commerce Building at 11:50 in the morning.
If at least twenty-five students do not register before the middle of next week, the trip will be called off.
The Scholastic-
Taddey Reveals Lowdown On Barristers' Horseplay
Mitchell Tackley
By Mitchell Tackley
(Scholastic Special Correspondent)
Not often do the inhabitants of the big building nearest to the cab stands discard their half-tonners and declare a legal holiday. Such a thing took place last Thursday evening when some 70 members of the oldest organization on the campus, the Law Club, gallivanted over to the faculty dining room to bask in an evening of intellectual repose.
Under the expert tutelage of President Al Stewart,
the council was called to demonstrate to the law students and faculty that a president has ideas other than running a dance. Capable Howard Jeffers acter as master of ceremonies while six barristers hy-dee-hoed under the name of the “Six Demurrers.” The group comprised of Attorneys Bob Filson, Johnnie Locher, Bill Schenck, Sizz Chisek, Al Stewart, and Bob Le Mire, are obtainable by other campus clubs at a nominal sum.
Locher Gets Gong
Riot Number one of the evening was the presentation of John Locher as the Romantic Kid. His rendition of “Thanks A Million” a la blues style was prematurely interrupted by Major Paul Schrenker via Father Farley’s gong. Wild Bill Sheridan, blushing and leaning over, the railing, crooned the “Round and Round” melody while the polite law students smiled encouragingly from below.
The highlight of the evening’s show was the introduction of Professor “Pat” Manion who responded to a suggestion of Dean Konop’s to sing an old time favorite once called “Saloon” and which perhaps could be more appropriately changed to “Tavern.” The song, nasalized by the aid of a piano, proved such a hit that the court below moved for a continuance and it was so ordered. New evidence of the songster’s versatility was introduced by means of an original composition of “Southern Ky.” No second trial was necessary and the silver voiced tenor was dismissed with a favorable decision from the court.
Chuck “Bing” McNichols sang an old Irish ditty and followed it with an unnamed ballad that left an air of mystery with his intellectual audience. The “Snake Call Rag” by Bob Chisek, played on an instrument that once belonged to Barbara Hutton, proved a bonanza to the music lovers.
Ex-party boss, Jo-Jo Condon expostulated on the art of mimickry by (Continued on third column)
PROFESSOR HOLLIS POINTS OUT WORLD TRADE IS POINTLESS
“In a world in which anything can be made anywhere you like, and most things can be grown anywhere you like, there will hardly be any point in international trade,” pointed out Christopher Hollis in the twelfth of his public lectures delivered in Washington Hall last night.
“It is not so much a moral issue whether international trade is virtuous or wicked, but it is rather a question whether there is or is not in fact likely to be so much of it in the future. There is obviously always one advantage which the home produced article has over the foreign-produced, that is, that there are less transportation charges to pay, and that advantage is likely to be very important in the future.”
Mr. Hollis pointed out that rapid
Pkof. Christopher Hollis “It is not so much a moral issue.”
strides have been made since the turn of the century toward producing articles which were hitherto considered isolated by some peculiar circumstance in some particular locale. He illustrated this point particularly with reference to cotton manufacture which was previously thought practicable only in Lancashire because of air humidity there. Now it is simple to reproduce that atmosphere in any factory in the world.
“Cobden talked about a free-trade world,” the speaker continued, “but in fact when he said ‘the world’ he meant ‘Western Europe and the United States’ — areas within which the wage differences were not .absolutely unbridgeable. The appearance of the new cheap, non-European labor creates a very new problem.
We say that Japanese wages will rise, and perhaps they will—eventually. But they certainly will not rise to anything like European levels for some time to come. In the meantime what can we do? Under free trade conditions there would be nothing for it but that European wages should come down to the Japanese level.”
Produce "Comedy of Errors" In Washington Hall Monday
By John Hurley
The University theatre players will present their second production of the present schoolyear, the Globe version of Shakespeare’s “The Comedy of Errors,” Monday evening, March 23, in Washington Hall. Two performances will be given, at 7:00 and at 8:30. ,
Dick Baker, who has appeared in many local stage productions, and not Frank Balser as announced last week, will play
Richard Baker *he of Antipho-Irs of Syracuse. Jack Scott of “The World Awaits” fame has been given the part of Antipholus of Ephesus.
One of the leading characters, the Duke of Ephesus, will be portrayed by John LaDuca, while George McDermott will take the role of Aegeon, a prominent merchant.
The parts of Dromio of Ephesus and Dromio of Syracuse will be enacted by John McGrath and Bill Ellis. Frank Carroll and Maurice Quinn will interpret the roles of two merchants, while Mike Shannon has been assigned the part of an officer. The other male roles are played by George Morris as Pinch, and Eugene Dolan as the page.
The feminine parts will be enacted by Bob Siegfried as Amelia, William Waters as Aviana, John Brassell as Luciana, and John McAlpine as the innkeeper. It is hoped by Professor A. L. Doyle, director of the Theatre, that the innovation of students to
play feminine leads will prove cessful enough to warrant the tinuance of the practice on campus;
suc-con-the
MISSOURI MELODIES
So he wouldn’t have to listen to “Sweet Adeline” at 3 a.m., President Frederick Arnold Middlebush, of the University of Missouri, built a weekend cabin 100 miles from the campus.
immortalizing the triumphant entry of Eli Abraham into the Law School. The impersonation of “Little Hooker” in his nurse’s arms, and the description of his sister’s little bawling baby were likewise executed.
Hawk-eye Fran Dunn passed out the cigarettes and Hurry-Up Tom Owens poured while the law students indulged in a light buffet lunch. Mystery of the evening: how those unsigned news bulletins were made out and passed so rapidly about the room with their clever references to parts of the program in progress.
March 2 0, 1936
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Nine
LONG TRADITION BEHIND LAETARE MEDAL;
DISTINGUISHED CATHOLICS ON AWARD LIST
Fr. Walsh Discusses Music
Of Old-Time Notre Dame
By John A. Gillespie
Catholicism will honor one of its most talented and deserving members on Sunday, March 22, when the winner of the Laetare Medal for 1936 will be announced. The occasion will mark the fifty-fourth awarding of the medal to a leader of the Catholic laity.
The token is presented as a reward for achievement and as an incentive to further endeavor. It was suggested in 1882 when Professor James F. Edwards offered the idea to' the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame, and the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., at that time president of the University. Going farther back, the inspiration for this practice came from the ancient custom of the popes in bestowing each year the Golden Rose on some member of the Catholic royalty, in recognition of distinguished service.
Laetare Sunday is the fourth Sunday in Lent, and the medal gets its name because the announcement is made on that Sunday.
The medal is a piece of skillful craftsmanship. Nothing has been omitted that would add to its attractiveness. It is a solid disc hung from a gold bar, bearing in black enamel the words “Laetare Medal.” On the opposite side is the sentence, Magna est veritas et praevalebit (Truth is mighty and will prevail). The profession of the recipient is symbolized
Two views of the Laetare medal showing the award made to an author, and to a scientist.
and his name is engraved on this side along with the name of the University.
From a list of persons proposed for this year, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., with his special committee, will choose the medalist. He will be assisted by the vice-president, the director of studies, the deans of
the colleges, and one elective faculty member from each college. At one of the meetings of the council, a list of potential recipients is read, in the
Mks. Genevieve Garvin Brady
Awarded Medal in 1934.
order of their preferment, and, if advisable, additional names are offered.
Then the process of selection begins. An analysis of the achievements of the recommended persons is made by the council, and several months later a report is offered by the committee with the final choice.
Since 1925 many famous person
ages have merited the medal. Some of the more noted are Albert Francis Zahm, scientist; Margaret Anglin, actress; Alfred Emanuel Smith, statesman; and John McCormack, artist. Editors, novelists, architects, historians, surgeons, orators, soldiers, all have been selected for this signal praise.
Music of the past generations at Notre Dame was reviewed for the members of the Music Arts Club by their chaplain, Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., at the last meeting on March 12.
Colorful characters whose life was absorbed in their interest for music were Brother Basil, C.S.C., organist, and Brother Leopold, C.S.C., violinist. These men brought to Notre Dame much artistic interest, developing a cultural taste in music that added depth to the University and its students.
The club will meet again on Friday, March 27, in the broadcasting studio of the Engineering Building, at 8:00 p.m. Mrs. Marjorie Galloway, of South Bend, as guest artist, will give a piano recital. All students and members of the faculty are invited to attend.
STUDENT TOUR
The special student tour, covering five European countries and the Olympic games, will leave New York June 27, on the steamship Columbus.
As an assurance to the parents of the students, a responsible leader is required to accompany each individual group. Rev. Charles M. Over, graduate student, who spent four years of study in Europe, will be in charge of the students from Notre Dame. Lyman Hughes, 127 Dillon Hall, is assisting Father Over in the organizing of a group. Full information and details concerning the tour may be had at 420 Howard or 127 Dillon Hall.
To avoid any misunderstanding, attention is called to the fact that the tour, which is being given .publicity on the campus, is not sponsored by the University.
MUSIC WEEK
(Continued from Page 7)
by the famous Little Philharmonic orchestra on March 26. George H. Shapiro, whose musical studies were carried on under such great masters as Hans Richter and Arthur Nikisch, the famous orchestra conductors, will conduct.	’
Shapiro, whose orchestra includes artists from Russia, Denmark, Norway, Holland,. Austria, Czecho-Slov-akia, Mexico, and America, is also a noted composer. His composition work includes more than 400 songs, numerous orchestral works, three comic operas, two ballets, and hundreds of orchestrations. Operatic, orchestral, and radio audiences of Europe and America have been favored in hearing productions of his works.
Ten
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
Father Keller Speaks
On Modern Individualism
“As a nation, the Americans have evolved into a type of rugged individualists,” stated Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., in a radio address from the campus studio, Monday night.
He reviewed the growth of this feeling from the beginning, showing how the political situation is returning to rugged individualism. The American system must face the facts, the speaker said, instead of using pretty words. He labelled present day individualists as being “ragged, not rugged.”
Under’ the present system the individual is freed from all moral responsibilities of business. Some men want to knock ethics out of business, their reason being that they cannot run business according to ethical standards and they believe in the adage that all is fair in love, war, and business.
The classical economists — Adam Smith, Ricardo, and John Stuart Mills —founded the true principles on which individualism is based. Their theory is that if man is given absolute freedom he will choose the field to which he is best fitted. In this way the common good of the nation is assured. If one individual uses unfair methods he will be ousted by competition. By this theory moral codes and codes of justice are unnecessary. This perfect competition will also eliminate economic waste. The point overlooked by these men is that perfect competition makes both sides of the competition equal. Proof that this is based on rugged individualism is the fact that the employer is not hurt by the quitting of one man, but to the man it may mean the loss of his means of continued existence. In this way the Strong dominate the weak and the rich dominate the poor.
The Industrial Revolution changed all this by the institution of laws that regulate hours of work and safeguard the health and morals of the people. Types of these laws are: the regulation of monopolies, and the pure food laws.
Father* Keller closed by revealing the basis for rugged individualism. He stated that, “The economic standard of the country is what the system of rugged individualism is based upon.”
Don’t read about ’em tomorrow; See the Bengal Bouts tonight!!
THE WEEK
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
The musical clowning of Maestro Casasanta at the C.I.C. track meet did not seem to be appreciated by the spectators. Drums rattling and cymbals clashing as each of the events was run off sort of gave the affair an atmosphere of the circus. We liked
it, though. Something on that style, we have always felt, was necessary to liven up the track meets, which are usually somewhat dull because of the long pauses between races. Anyway the idea was original. And how much Joe’s efforts were a factor in helping Notre Dame’s team win the Central Intercollegiate championship will probably never be absolutely known either. The visiting athletes seemed to get the “jitters” every time Joe struck up the band.
•
Professor Wilkins recently gave one of his classes a Binet intelligence test. After he graded the papers, what was his consternation to find that the class had an intelligence rating of only fourteen years. It was Mr. Wilkins, too, who, not long ago, had his discourse on the art of lecturing so that the student will not go to sleep in class interruped by the snoring of John Michuta in the back row. Hey, for the professor’s life!
•
Not in the least were we surprised to hear that Bud Goldman got into trouble before the week was up. We don’t want to create the impression that we’re gloating, or anything of that sort, but we’d just like to mention, in passing, that friend Bud handed in his journalism thesis to Professor Cooney, and now the dean can’t find it. Mr. Cooney believes that it’s lost. We know better, however. Our pal, the ghost, has already begun his diabolical work of haunting our enemies.
•
Lent was suspended for twenty-four hours last Tuesday to give the local Irish—the McHofschneiders, the McWeinheimers, and such—an opportunity to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day in true Hibernian fashion. Green ties and green shirts made up the prescribed sartorial formula of the occasion. With the ambition in mind
of being thorough, if anything, we tried to borrow Bob Sullivan’s green suit, but the luck of the Irish wasn’t with us. Sully was wearing the outfit himself. Consequently we had to be content with wearing the roommate’s green shoes.
•
The Indiana police can’t have much confidence in the future of the innocents over Niles Road way. Evidently the Hoosier law enforcers must regard them as potential public enemies number one in embryo, else what the reason for taking the girls’ finger prints. What could the ladies have done this time that they’ve aroused the suspicions of the law? We’re warning them now to be careful of how they dispose of their “crib” sheets in the future. The authorities will be able to track down the author of any undestroyed notes of that kind by the finger prints on them.
•
Legalized slaughter, butchery, and carnage are on the bill for* tonight’s entertainment in the gymnasium. If you don’t believe us, attend the Bengal Bouts this evening! You’ve heard of the old adage, “An eye for an eye; a tooth for a tooth.” Well, Cy Conner lost a molar while training for his wrestling match with Nick Tancredi, and he’s sworn to practise some neat and fancy tooth extracting on his opponent.
“Nick can’t have a more winning smile than I,” claims the glowering Cy. “If I don’t look like Clark Gable now, neither will he.” What might have happened had Conner -lost an eye or two in training we’ll leave to your imagination.
Any time you’re in the mood for playing cops and robbers, or hop scotch, or maybe house, get together with Don Elser and Andy Pilney! They’re game for anything. Lately, though, they’ve been playing airplane crashes mostly. We’re willing to bet that Andy can make a sound like an airship just by vibrating his lips better than anybody you’ve ever known. But when it comes to making noises like a plane out of gas, Don has Andy beat all hollow.
•
In rather quizzical fashion we’ve observed the landscape gardeners cover the lawn in front of Walsh a foot deep with sand. It certainly will be a sight worth seeing when the cactus begins to grow out there this spring.
20	EI e v e n
March 20. 19 3 6	SEE
you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS. MARCH
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
Our choice for the height of futility: TONY MAZZIOTTI received an air mail letter from his girl at St. Mary’s. She hadn’t written him for three weeks. Wonder if the pilot had any trouble landing on the roof of our post-office? Too bad the snow wasn’t deep. She could have whipped up the pony express. . . .
The Walsh-Sorin Athletic Association (membership unlimited and unselected) occasionally fosters mild melees. A few days back BILL SHAKESPEARE was blocked out on the base line by MIKE LAYDEN. A fierce verbal clash resulted. We immedi
“Aw’ right, wise guy! Whose gonna win tonight—Conner or Tancredi?"
ately sent six reporters and a battery of cameramen to the field, but there was no blood. Both Mike and Bill absolutely refused to comment on the strife. . . .
Complaints have been registered at the office to the effect that we showed favoritism two weeks ago by mentioning only one of the candidates for Junior Class president. Sorry, boys, the public is always right. There are three candidates besides the one mentioned —JOE O’BOYLE, HUGH CORRELL, and SCOTT REARDON. We beg your poddon. . . .
This week’s high for audacity and rose-tinted vision: A likely lad, in the running for a class office, promised his potential backers that if they voted for him, they would not regret it. Sure, that’s an old story, but listen. He boasted that, if he were
elected, Father Boland had agreed to sponsoi* a Freshman dance that would bring envious blushes to the promoters of the Sophomore, Junior, and Senior classics. If we may be permitted an editorial comment, we think it is just as well that he was not elected. . . .
"FOOTS” ELLIOT will be content to have his strength taken for granted in the future. On a visit to St. Mary’s, he was intent upon demonstrating his masculine powers to a group of breathless girls. He wrestled with a table top so convincingly that it broke. “Foots” got a bill for four dol
lars. Now,, will you be good? . . .
JOE FOX, of Howard, playfully grabbed MARTY BAYER by the seat of the pants the other day in the Commerce Building. The result was not as expected, for Joe walked away with the seat of Marty’s pants and left Marty . . . Bayer. BILL SAFFA, who wore a spring suit last Sunday, is perhaps the most efficient and prolific practical joker in the West Din-
' ing Hall. . . .
MARK FINNOCHIARO is no slouch —he writes to three girls. One is a worker, one a high school pupil, and the third a college co-ed . . . TOM BOTT makes a habit of locking his room when he’s in it and leaving it open when he’s away, whether for a minute or an hour. . .
—The Funny Fellows.
Country Cousins
If all the students who came from Chicago, New York, Detroit, Boston, and Cleveland, were laid together, they might confess that they came from Maywood, Yonkers, Pontiac, Milford, and Berea.
His parents were celebrating their twenty-fifth wedding anniversary and he couldn’t think of a suitable gift. Finally he ended up by sending a half bottle of “Golden Wedding.”
Description
Slouchy hat Fuzzy beard Conversation Pretty weird.
Corduroys
Very gray Bordering On decay.
Smelly pipe Little dough This, I guess Is Joe Blow.
The good old days . . . when only jockeys wore silk shirts.
Some day we hope to see a waiter with enough of “what it takes” to lay the check face up on the table.
Definition
A successful man is one who makes more money than his son at college can spend.
When asked the other day by an English prof, what the word matrimony meant, one of those supersmart. Commerce men replied that he heard it wasn’t a word but a sentence.
Simile
As optimistic as anyone who would run for president on the Socialist ticket.
If all the girls in South Bend could be gathered' together in one place all the fellows would be nearby.
In a cigarette and in a classroom it’s drag.
Many a man is proof enough that a woman can take a joke.
For a real good laugh see the Conner - Tancredi shindig tonight at the Bengal Bouts. ...
Twelve
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS. MARCH 20
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C________________Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN............................  Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST_____________________Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei The Week
Irwin L. Goldman__________________________In the Juggler Pein
Netos Staff
Paul Foley______________________________________Netos Editor
Robert L. Grogan__________________________Assistant Netos Editor
John A. Gillespie-----------------------------Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown_________________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus_____________________________Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams John Hurley
Louis Da Pra--------------------------------Albert Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------James M. McMullen
Allan Bride_____________________________________Arch Gott
Michael Crowe
Art Staff
William V. Ellis Art Ediloi
Francis Kroeger-----------------------------Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, '26________________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
March 20, 1936
TONIGHT AT EIGHTH
Tonight the fifth annual Bengal Bouts will furnish a smashing climax to one of the most successful winter sports programs in the history of the University. This evening’s boxing show will continue the tradition of the record-breaking basketball, track, and fencing squads by presenting the most colorful and exciting bouts to date.
Over fifty men have trained diligently for the past two months in preparation for tonight’s show. The card, as now arranged, promises eight exciting bouts, plus Cy Conner and Nick Tancredi in their side-splitting wrestling circus. You can’t, in justice to yourself, pass up this show.
Tickets for the bouts will be available in all the halls after supper when Scholastic staff men will canvass each floor. Tickets will also be on sale at the gymnasium box office. As student admission is still only twenty-five cents, this makes the bouts the year’s outstanding entertainment bargain.
THE LAETARE MEDAL
With the announcement, next Sunday, of the Laetare
Medal award for 1936, Notre Dame will once again honor the achievements of the American Catholic laity.
In the fifty-three years since John Gilmary Shea, noted historian, was selected as the first recipient, this award has grown to be probably the outstanding and most coveted honor that can come to a Catholic layman in this country. In the list of its recipients one can partially trace the history of Catholic contributions to the rise of the United States since 1883.
The lives of these individuals furnish an indication of the influence of Catholic thought on American life. Today the Catholic Action Movement is endeavoring to make this influence stronger still by arousing the laymen to their obligation to church and state. By combating the spread of birth control and divorce, the movement is seeking to arouse the people to the moral and social consequences of those evils. The alert Catholic collegian should give his whole-hearted support to the Catholic Action program, for it offers a remedy for many of the ills of modem society. Meanwhile, Notre Dame continues to lend its aid to the program by its recent announcement of scholarships for promising Catholic writers, and now by the fifty-fourth awarding of the Laetare Medal.
©
REWARD FOR THE FENCING SQUAD
For three years the Notre Dame fencing team has been building a truly remarkable record. The sport since its birth in the 1933-34 school year has, under the guidance of Professor and Coach Pedro de Landero, always been successful. '
Last Saturday evening against Cincinnati University, die Notre Dame fencing team achieved its fifteenth consecutive victory over a three year span. During its initial year as a sport at the University, while still not a recognized activity, the fencing team won three and lost five. Last year the group participated in seven matches and was victorious in all. This season, with seven of the matches already completed, the Irish fencers have yet to drop a decision. What other University athletic team has a better record? True—the majority of students are not interested in fencing, but must the small minority be sacrificed to the towering gridsters? Student opinion is decidedly in favor of the recognition of fencing as a minor sport. Why it has not been enrolled as such has never been explained to the students through the medium of a school publication.	.
On April 3rd the outstanding members of this year’s team will compete in the Amateur Fencers League of America’s tournament to be held in Chicago. The first three place winners in this tourney qualify for the national amateur championships to take place in New York on April 26th. The Olympic- team will be selected from the showings made in this New Yory City national tournament. The Notre Dame fencers will enter the meet in Chicago with the Olympic team as their goal. They are diligent and skilled as individual performers and as members of a team. Recognition as a minor sport would be giving them only their just due.—J. P. P.
March 2 0, 1936
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
I h i r t e e n
ATHLETICS
EIGHT TITLES AT STAKE IN TONIGHT’S FINALS
Four Former Chicago C. Y. O. Contestants Fight Way to Title Bouts
Sure, and there must have been a twinkle in St. Patrick’s eye when he saw his feast day celebrated at Notre Dame with some boxing bouts, the likes of which the preliminaries for the Bengal Boxing Shows have never surpassed in quality or quantity. The “O’Malleys, Mulligans, and Ryans” fought like so many Cormac O’Neills to make the 24 preliminary contests on last Tuesday and Wednesday nights teem with action. From these thrilling matches 16 men gained the finals which will be held in the University fieldhouse tonight.
- Riley To Meet North
In the 118 pound division, a scrappy Irishman, Hugh Riley, who threw punches from everywhere, trimmed another son of Erin, Paul McCormack. His opponent in the finals will be Phil North who barely took the decision from the Alumni Hall representative, Erwin Weiler. Tommy O’Malley, probably inspired by a shamrock in his belt, won on a technical K.O. from Johnny DiMatteo in the bantamweight division. Meeting unexpected opposition from a game little southpaw, George Greggs, Johnny Noto had to call on some of his reserve experience gained in his Golden Gloves battles to take a decision win for the right to meet O’Malley.
There was only one bout in the lightweight division. Defending champion, Tommy “Tex” Durkin, drew a bye, and Gabriel Valez, by his technical knockout victory over- Bill Bailey, will be his opponent. Tom Mulligan gained the finals of the junior welterweight class by his technical knockout of Jim Burns. His opponent was not determined at this writing. Frank Frascati hurt his arm in punching his way to a victory over
PRELIMINARY CONTESTS VIEWED BY ENTHUSIASTIC CROWDS; FINALS TONIGHT
By James A. Waldron
Elmer F. Layden
At ringside tonight.
THE CARD
Bantamweight
RILEY vs. NORTH
Featherweight NOTO vs. O'MALLEY
Lightweight
VALEZ vs. DURKIN*
Junior Welterweight MULLIGAN vs. HALLAND
Welterweight
GALAN vs. KENNEALLY
Middleweight DATTILO vs. GORA Light Heavyweight MARR vs. RICHTER
Heavyweight DAHAR vs. DARCY
* Defending Champion.
Larry Burnett and had to postpone his bout with Oliver Halland a day.
The entry list was much greater in the heavier classes. Phil Kenneally, Golden Gloves champion, is primed to t capture the welterweight crown. Bill Gallin gained the right to oppose him by his two-fisted attack on Byron Casey which won the verdict of the judges. Bill had previously knocked out Kristan, and Casey had repeated the same process in his bout with Bob Hugler. Moving up into the middleweight class, some of the best fights of the evening were put on by the scrappers in this division. Carl Fricke, after defeating Paul Doyle, lost on a very close decision to Phil Dattilo. The latter previously had won the nod in his bout with Tom Roche. Joe Gora, Chicago C. Y. 0. champion, gained the other finals’ berth by defeating a game, ever-trying Slim Thompson who was knocked to the floor several times by terrific hooks from Gora’s deadly right, only to bounce right back, trying harder than ever. Slim won his earlier fight by knocking out Ed Jasinski.
Marr and Richter In Final
Harry Marr, former University title-holder, gained one . of the finals’ berth in the light heavyweight class by winning a technical knockout decision over Kling. Opposing, him tonight will be Walt Richter, another C.Y.O. champion, who technically knocked out Vin Dollard, winner over Jerry Kane in the earlier round. The heavyweight championship bout finds Red Darcy, who won decisions over Corrigan and last year’s runner-up, Broscoe, and Phil Dahar whose crushing fists gained him victories over Dick Cronin and Bill Ryan. Ryan won his first bout by defeating Pete Nemeth.
Fo u rteen
SEE YOU AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
Irish Send Trackmen To Butler and Armour Relays
C. I. C. INDOOR TRACK CHAMPIONSHIP GOES TO N. D.-RECORDS BROKEN
Notre Dame’s track team will finish up its record indoor season tomorrow by entering representatives in the Armour relays in Chicago and the Butler relays in Indianapolis. The Irish will meet in both of these contests some of the champions they faced in their dual meets and in the C.I.C. meet.
The Butler relays, being held for the fourth time this year, is the more important since it involves the mythical state championship for Indiana collegiate tracksters. In addition to the Hoosier entrants there will be many out of state teams of fine caliber entered to swell the list to 21 schools and almost 300 entrants. The most prominent of the teams are
Bill McCarthy
He reaches for the moon.
Notre Dame, Michigan, Pittsburgh, due, and Michigan State.
The Irish entrants to the Indianapolis affair are a mile relay team composed of Rubly, Parsons, Bernard, and either McGrath or Sheehan; Gibbs and Langton in the pole vault; Jordan in the sprints; Elser and Mi-chuta in the shot put; and Meagher and Boyle in the broad jump. A special mile race will be held in which will compete Glenn Cunningham, Ray Sears of Butler, Daly of Detroit, Rice of Notre Dame, and Trutt of Indiana.
The Armour relays will include many Big Ten teams and other luminaries of colleges west of Chicago. Among the high light of the session will be the pole vault in which Lloyd Siebert is entered. It is believed that the North Central boy will top the meet record of 13 feet, 6% inches. Notre Dame’s entrants in the meet will be a mixed relay team composed of O’Connor in the quarter, Cavanaugh in the half, Gott in the three-quarters, and McFarlane in the mile. Bill McCarthy will try his luck in the polt vault, Lill and Levicki are entered in the shot put, Clifford in the sprints, and Mahoney and Frawley in the hurdles.
VICTORY STRING RUN TO 15 AS NOTRE DAME FENCERS WIN FROM CINCINNATI
The Irish fencers ran into unexpected difficulty in downing Cincinnati, 9 % to 7 %, last Saturday in the fieldhouse. It was the 15th consecutive victory for Coach Pedro de Lan-dero’s proteges in three years of competition, and the seventh straight win of the current season.
Notre Dame captured the meet by taking the foils, 5 to 4; registering a clean sweep in the sabre, 4 to 0; and annexing % point in the epee.
Tomorrow afternoon at 3 o’clock the Irish will engage the strong Michigan State outfit, in the fieldhouse, for their final home appearance of the season. The Spartans, led by Captain Szymske, one-arm star, are always tough and will be trying to halt the fencers’ victory march.
It will be the last time that Co-catains Kehvin Kehoe and Carlos de Landero will participate for the Irish in the gymnasium. Benbeneck and Szymske alone accounted for five of the nine points scored by Michigan State at East Lansing on February 8.
C. I. C. Chieftan
Coach John P. Nicholson
Pittsburgh Takes Third Place
Notre Dame..................31%
Marquette .................20	%
Pittsburgh ---------------- 18%
Drake ----------------------15%
Michigan Normal_____________15%
Michigan State...........—15
Wayne ..................... 13%
North Central ____________10
Kansas State ------------  8
Carleton .................. 4%
Grinnell .................. 4
Ohio University............ 4	.
Washington U............... 3
Joe McGrath
Forced Rosencrantz to new record.
By Cy Stroker
By a decisive ten-point lead, Coach Nicholson’s track team regained the meet title of the Central Intercollegiate Conference last Saturday afternoon. Of the two meet records which were bettered in the contest, one was broken by Notre Dame when Don Elser hurlde the shot put for the new distance of 48 feet, 11% inches.
The meet drew one of the largest entry lists of any C.I.C. contest in its ten years of existence. Sixteen colleges sent representatives here from every part of the Mid-West, and of that number but three teams failed to score—Butler, Cincinnati, and Illinois State Normal. The poor showing of the Butler outfit was one of the biggest surprises of the meet because the Indianapolis boys are among Nick’s strongest opponents.
Logically enough, the best teams and the best individual performers of last year’s meet showed up best in Saturday’s contest. Notre Dame in winning the meet advanced from the third place they captured last year, while Pitt reversed the process. Marquette was the team that pressed closely on the Irish heels throughout the meet and came in second. Don Elser’s record in the shot was a de-
(Continued on Page 21)
March 2 0, 1936
SEE YOU AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Fifteen
ALL IN ACTION FOR BENGAL FUND
Fierce Punchers Battle Tonight in Local Bouts
When the bell rings tonight at the ringside to start the Fifth Annual Bengal Boxing Show, some of the finest and most colorful fighters ever to be presented here will fight it out for the championship of Notre Dame.
In the heavyweight division the two men who fought their way'through the preliminaries and semi-finals are Red Darcy, of Sorin Hall and Boston, Mass., and Phil Dahar, of Brownson Hall and Dillonvale, Ohio.
Above Cy Conner and Nick Tancredi who zvill stage their famous wrestling circus tonight at the Bengal Bouts.
Four of tonight’s finalist’s: top to bottom; Gora, Richter, Kenneally and Noto. Below, an action scene from last year’s finals.
Harry Marr
He received Elmer’s permission.
. The light-heavyweight division finds Harry Mari" of Waltham Mass., pitted against Walt Richter, Chicago C.Y.O. champion. This bout promises to be one of the best of the evening; both boys being champions or ex-champs. Marr was heavyweight champion of this school in 1934 and is coming back to regain his title which he lost to Babe Marshall last year.
In the 160 pound division another C.Y.O. champion, Joe Gora, fights Phil Dattilo of Louisville, Ky. A vet-. eran of last year’s Bengals and a veteran of many championship fights meet in the 147 pound division. Kenneally, one of the Chicago C.Y.O. boys making a name for himself at Notre Dame and a true ring veteran for his age, will stack up against an aggressive youngster in Galan. Tom Mulligan, a Cleveland boy, will fight Holland, conqueror of Fras-cetti for the junior welterweight title. “Tex” Durkin, defending lightweight champ, faces Vales in the final bout in this respective division.
Johnny Noto, popular C.Y.O. boxer, will encounter O’Malley for the featherweight crown, and in the bantamweight class, Riley and North will round out the card.
Sixteen
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
Moir Tops All Records
In Irish Net Scoring
NOTRE DAME'S 1935-36 BASKETBALL COMBINE ENJOYED A SEASON OF GREAT SUCCESSES
The basketball team completed a successful season against Detroit on March 10 with a record of 22 wins, two losses, and one epochal tie. During the season Notre Dame piled up 1053 points to 678 for its opponents
Paul Nowak 161 points for the tall lad.
—an average of 42 to 27 for each game. The Irish hit the crest of their wave with a 71 against St. Joseph’s; they floundered in the trough with a meager 20 against Northwestern. They played well, yet allowed a hot Purdue outfit to run up 54 points; they played sloppily and held the tired Minnesota team to 15.
Johnny Moir, with his new scoring record of 260 points, made one-fourth of the team total. He popped in 112 field goals—most of them following various deceptive gyrations to free himself from a close-sticking guard —and 36 foul flips to lead the team in both divisions. Paul Nowak dropped the ball 65 times past the vainly stretching hands of opposing centers and tossed in 31 charity chucks; he was 99 points behind Moir with a total of 161. Most valuable for his floor work, Co-captain Johnny Ford also came through at the right time with his baskets and built up a total of 113 points.
George Ireland was long in field goals with 40 buckets but short on foul shots with only 14; he scored 94 points. Johnny Hopkins, who always came through in the pinches as Moir’s stand-in, scored 84, and was followed by Frank Wade with 69. Co-captain’ Marty Peters twisted in 16 sinkers and 17 free throws for 49 points. These seven men played in 23 of the 25 games.
Tommy Wukovits scored 56 points in 20 games; Ray Meyers,, going strong until he injured his leg, scored the same number in 15. Tommy Jordan bagged 20 points in 15 games, and Mike Crowe, Jack DeMots, and Chuck Sweeney scored 17, 16, and 12 respectively in seven or eight.
In Notre Dame’s modern basketball (Continued on Page 18)
By John Cackley
Last week Notre Dame completed the greatest basketball session in the annals of Irish cage teams. Playing a “suicide schedule” with such squads as Syracuse, Penn, Pitt, Marquette, New York U., Purdue, and Illinois, and enlarging victorious in 22 of the 25 contests is in itself a distinction of the highest type. It is an unquestioned fact that Notre Dame produced one of the best combinations in the country—if not the best. A new record-breaking total of 1,053 points was achieved by the Gold and Blue during the current campaign. Before depositing the sweat-suits among the moth balls, it may be well to give a resume of the 1935-36 program — a year that will be long remembered by followers of the Irish quintets.
The Irish, with 20 men on the squad seeing action, inaugurated the
Notre Dame Basketball Squad, 1935-36.
A season record of 22 wins, two losses and one tie. ■
season by a lop-sided win over Albion, 62-26. A total of 25 field goals and 12 free tossses were too much for the visitors to subdue. St. Mary’s and Kalamazoo were defeated in a double-header, as Coach George Keo-gan was experimenting with various combinations. Tutored by Ed “Moose” Krause, St. Mary’s put up a gallant fight before bowing, 45-25. The Kalamazoo tilt was another overwhelming victory for Notre Dame, as the Gold and Blue counted 65 points against 17 registered by the opposition.
Northwestern, always a thorn in the side of Irish court teams, was unable to check the whirlwind offense, and the final count found the Purple losing a 40-29 contest at Notre Dame. It marked the seventh consecutive victory for the Gold and Blue.
Hitting a tartar in Purdue, during Christmas vacation, the Irish were forced to “take it on the chin,” 54-40.
It is quite unusual to find a tie accepted as the official score in basketball, but that nevertheless was the situation existing in- Patten gym, Evanston, after the final gun of Notre Dame’s return engagement with Northwestern. The newspapermen’s account of 20-20, was accepted as authentic after a mistake was discovered in the matter of putting down points in the record book. Previously the Irish had had no trouble in disposing of the Wildcats, here in the local fieldhouse. Later the Irish barely managed to eke out a 29-27 win from Minnesota, on the latter’s floor.
It took Coach Keogan’s combine four long years to perform the task,
but then they finally established their superiority over Pitt’s speedy five in such a convincing 43-35 manner, that not even the entire battery of timekeepers, scorers, and officials could have checked the Irish barrage in the Smoky City. Nowak was the deciding factor in the Gold and Blue triumph, as he looped in seven goals from the field and a duo of charity heaves.
Marquette was beaten 37 to 22, by Notre Dame after the Hilltoppers failed to halt the Irish attack in the third quarter. Notre Dame added Pennsylvania and Syracuse to their list of victories on a three day trip to the east. The Quakers dropped a 37-27 setto, while Syracuse lost their first home game in four years, 46-43, to Keogan’s aggregation.
(Continued on Page 22)
March -2 0, 19 3 6
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
S e v e n t e.e n
SPRING PIGSKIN WORKOUTS HAMPERED BY UNCERTAIN MEN AND WEATHER
Today Is First Anniversary OF Joe Sullivan's Death
Every day on Brownson Field, big fellows in dirty canvas pants and blue jerseys, big fellows and little fellows in green, run, charge, block, and sweat. Spring football practice has begun, and everyone is out on the field south of the gymnasium, limbering up, taking wind sprints, kicking, and catching passes.
For five weeks Elmer Layden and his staff will have them out, chiefly sizing up the new freshmen, and working out the best combination for the 1936 varsity eleven. But this year the coach wishes he had more than five weeks, for “flunks,” even more than graduating seniors, have handicapped the squad.
The names of fallen candidates will never be officially made known, for unlike many other universities, Notre Dame does not publicize the scholastic calamities that overtake its potential stars. Unfoi-tunately, this produces the notion that good players are abundantly assisted in acquiring adequate grades, that they can’t “flunk out.” But they can and do, for besides the seniors who played their final game for Notre Dame last fall, the squad has lost twenty-five other men, including some of the best freshmen, through semester examinations, and may lose fifteen more.
From what is left of the 1936 prospects must be found men to fill up the backfield, for Wojcihovski at right half is the only man of last year’s first eight backs returning;
men to plug the huge hole at center, left open by the loss of Solari, Poj-man, and Mundee; men to help Ruetz, Martin, and Lautar at the guards, for it is now problematical whether Captain Bill Smith will be able to play; and most impoi'tant of all, men to take over Bill Shakespeare’s punting job. If no one can be found to help Wilke in the kicking, it may be necessary, though it is obviously most undesirable, to draw a man out of the line—Joe O’Neil, the end—when the punt signal is called.
There are some promising freshman kickers, but they have not yet shown their ability to punt 40 and 50 yards from behind their own goal, with enemy linemen rushing in at them. Just what they can do the coaching staff must find out in the brief time that they have—three weeks of simple blocking and tackling, a week or so of scrimmage, and a final week of practice formations.
SCORING RECORDS BROKEN (Continued from Page 17)
history, this year’s team has made records in number of games won, total points per season, average points per game, and number of points scored in a single game. They were the first team ever to defeat N.Y.U. in the Garden. Coach Keogan won his 200th Notre Dame victory against Pennsylvania; his total now is 211 won and 68 lost, a percentage of .762.
From The Scholastic of January 11, 1935: “Joseph J. Sullivan, of Belle Harbor, Long Island, regular left tackle on the football team the past season, was unanimously elected
Joe Sullivan
His name on Buckeye scoreboard.
captain of the Notre Dame varsity football team for 1935 last Tuesday afternoon. . . . Joe is 21 years old, weighs 210 pounds, and spends his summers as a life guard at Rockaway Beach, L.I., where he has a record of saving ten lives.”
From The Scholastic of March 22, 1935: “Joe Sullivan, captain-elect of 1935 Notre Dame football team, died Wednesday morning. Death came at two-twenty in the morning at the New York Medical Center.”
GRANADA
Sunday, April 5th Matinee and Evening
THE MIDWEST CATHOLIC THEATRE MOVEMENT presents
THE JOYCE KILMER PLAYERS in William Roeder’s startling stage success “DRIFTWOOD”
The Critics say:
“As tough as the worst of the underworld thrillers but rises to sublime heights.”—Tribune, LaCrosse, Wis.
“An unusual play with an ending very different from the average ‘Crook’ plays.”— Journal-Courier, Lafayette, Ind.
“Driftwood is impelling to say the least.”— New World, Chicago, III.
PETERSON, BILLIARD EXPERT, TO GIVE EXHIBITION HERE
On Monday afternoon, March 23, those interested in billiards will have an opportunity to see in action Charles G. Peterson, peer of billiard authorities and the greatest of all fancy shot artists. Mr. Peterson will demonstrate his remarkable ability in Brownson and Walsh recreation halls and will accompany his performance with an interesting and informative lecture on the subject. He is making a tour of colleges in conjunction with the national intercollegiate billiard tournament which was recently won by Wisconsin University.
Mr. Peterson is not only a master of trick shots, but is one of the finest players of the three types of billiards —straight rail, three cushion, and pocket. He holds the world’s record for making 100 points in 26 seconds, and last year in Chicago he made 20,000 consecutive billiards in less than two hours. Among his more bizarre feats was the playing of billiards in an airplane which was travelling at 125 miles per hour.
Eighteen
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS. MARCH 20
The Scholastic
TEN DIFFICULT MATCHES FORM CARD FOR STRONG CREW OF IRISH GOLFERS
Sophomores Show Promise
GOLF SCHEDULE, 1936
April 25—Chicago, here April 27—Illinois, here May 2—Northwestern, here May 6—Wayne U., here May 9—Purdue, here " May 11—Wisconsin, there May 15—Ohio State, here May 18—Michigan State, here May 21—Pittsburgh, there May 23—Indiana, there
By Arch F. Gott
If the present springlike breezes keep blowing, the University of Notre Dame golf course will, in a few weeks, be the scene of action for the 1936 edition.of the Irish golf team. Father George Holderith, coach of the team, expressed the hope that the course should be ready for opening in two weeks, weather permitting.
The team for 1936 seems to be one of the best balanced outfits that Notre Dame has ever had. Five lettermen are returning, Captain Winfield Day, Bill Cole, Pat Malloy, Herman Green, and Harry Baldwin. Other men who are expected to provide plenty of high-class competition are Bill Taylor, Billy Castleman, Ed McCabe, Lou Fehlig, Jack Marbach, and Bob Leonard. Captain Day will best be remembered as the fellow who has won the annual Fall tournament at Notre Dame four times in succession, last October setting a new course record of 296 for 72 holes. Win has been a valuable member of the team and very instrumental in the fine record of the golf team for the past two years. Since Day has been on the squad only one intercollegiate contest has been lost.
Al Maihles has returned to school at the semester, but he will not be eligible until 1937. Gene Milbourne, a transfer* from Creighton University, is another young man capable of burning up the fairways, but he, too, will be unable to compete until next season. One of the most promising of the freshman crop is Bud Donovan, who came here from Manitoba University in Winnipeg, Canada. Bud was a member of the Canadian Amateur team that went to England on a six week’s tour last summer, and he is expected to bolster up the 1937 squad.
As soon as possible, Father Holderith will have his team out on the course, trying to groove their swings back into shape for the coming campaign. As one of the leading collegiate golf teams in the country, Notre Dame has a great opportunity to con-
University Champion
Captain Winfield Day
tinue along victory road this season. The schedule is long, and the Irish linksters will encounter some of the toughest competition available, but they will be ready for their initial test against Chicago U. on the William J. Burke Memorial course, April 25.
The course itself has been the object of many excellent improvements since last summer. Greens 12 and 14 have been remodeled. Fourteen new traps have been installed mostly on th second nine. There has also been placed in the middle of the sixteenth fairway, a troublesome bunker which will cause most of the local golfers
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
no little anxiety. Eight new tees have been constructed, and 185 trees have been planted for the most part on the in-nine. Father Holderith wishes to appeal to the general student body to kindly observe all the rules of etiquette which are listed on the back of each score card. Above all, don’t ever drive until the foursome in front is out of range!

Oliver Coffee Shop
FINE FOOD
New low prices ■ to Notre Dame men.
IN 50 YEARS-THE BEST PIPE I EVER SMOKED
FILTER-COOLED
J.S.-Baltimore. Md.
MILLIONS
BECOMMENBED BY
sthuid SUKS
FINEST V ■ BRIAN ■ MONEY CANBUY UNHEARD OF VALUE
MEDICO
(PATENTED)
This simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cello* phane exterior and coolingmesh screen interiorkeeps juices andflakea inFilter and out of month. Prevents tongue , bite,raw mouth, wet heel, bad .odor, frequent ^expectoration.
No breaking in. Improves thetasteand aromaofany tobacco.
Ihal Really Filler
March 20, 19 3 6
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Nineteen
S. A. G SWIM MEET
The S.A.C. swimming meet will be held on March 30th in the South Bend Natatorium at 8:00 p.m. Many
entries have already been received by Rev. Julian Sigmar, the chairman of the meet, and Charles Boyle, S.A.C. representative. Father Sigmar is at the Natatorium on Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings assisted by Paul Doyle and John Glanzner, former school champions. Entries must ' be filed with either Father Sigmar in
his room in the Main Building, or with Charlie Boyle in the Sorin-sub.
‘TH be in CHICAGO in 125 minutes flat!”
Make your appointments in Chicago in the sure knowledge that the South Shore Line will get you there on time!
Sooth Shore Line is SPEEDY!
MORRISSEY NOSES OUT CORBY, 18-17;
SORIN TAKES HEAVYWEIGHT LEAD
Walsh Lights Undefeated
Scores—Sunday, March 15, 1936
Heavyweight—Morrissey 26, Corby 22; Howard 28, Alumni 20; Walsh 19, Lyons 17; Badin 2, Off-Campus 0; Carroll 31, Brownson 25; St. Ed’s 51, Dillon 13.
Lightweight—Morrissey 18, Corby 17; Alumni 2, Howard 0; Walsh 37, Lyons 17; Badin 2, Off-Campus 0; Carroll 14, Brownson 12; St. Ed’s 16, Dillon 14.
The schedule for Sunday follows:
March 22: Group 1—9:00, Freshmen vs. Badin; 9:50, Can-oil vs Dillon; 10:50, Brownson vs. St. Ed’s.; Off-Campus—bye.
Group 2—1:30, Sorin vs. Corby; 2:20, Walsh vs. Alumni; 3:10, Howard vs. Lyons; Morrissey—bye.
Not the exception but the rule were upsets in last week’s interhall league games. With only one game remaining on the schedule of the teams there now is a wild scramble for supremacy. In the heavyweight division of Group 1, Brownson was toppled from the undefeated list by their pals from Carroll in a game which saw Binkow-ski as the star for the victors. St. Ed’s went on a wild rampage to score
CELLOPHANE KEEPS
51 points against a weak Dillon aggregation. Leading the week in points scored was McGrath, of St. Ed’s, who scooped in 21 points.
Ray Deely
In Group II of the heavies Corby finally met a nemesis in Morrissey losing a game that was crammed full of action.
For Morrissey, Mehring, Scafane, and Sullivan provided the most fireworks while the Corbyites were paced by Joyce, Levicki, Gallagher, and Megin. The other unbeaten team in this group, Sorin, drew a bye. Next Sunday will find Corby and Sorin fighting it out in the game of the week.
Walsh continued the unbroken victory string by drawing Lyons over the coals to the tune of 37-17. The versatile seniors coasted through this game chiefly through the efforts of Deeley, Sherry, and Casper.
The South Shore electric trains whiz thru to Chicago in great speed . . . yet with safety that comes from decades of operating experi-e n c e . And it is cheaper than driving a car!
IT FACTORY FRESH
15'
SOu™nsehore
from
SOUTH BEND
ROUND $ TRIP
to CHICAGO
Twenty
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic-
C. I. G INDOOR TRACK (Continued from Page 15)
velopment of the record he set last year, while Abie Rosenkrantz of Michigan Normal brought his own last year’s record in the half mile from 1:55.2 down to a flat 1.55. Linn Philson, national championship high jumper from Drake, who topped the best height of Notre Dame’s Vince Murphy twice last year but bowed to him in the C.I.C. meet, easily took first place in his event with a height of six feet, seven inches. Lloyd Siebert, of North Central, returned to take first honors in the pole vault by skimming the bar at 13 feet, 3% inches.
The mile run was won by Dennis of Michigan State, with Waite of Michigan State second, and Redfield of Kansas State third for a time of 4:23. Smith, of Drake captured, the 60 yard dash with Sengdiel of Marquette second, and Tolmich of Wayne third, the fastest time being 6.3 seconds. The quarter mile was well taken care of by Thomas of Pitt, Barnes of Grinnell, and O’Shea of Marquette who placed in that order at the pace of 50.2 seconds. Tolmich of Wayne placed first in the 60 yard high hurdles to nose out Pandjiris of Marquette and Godfrey of North Central in 7.7 seconds. Wheelock of Kansas State took the two mile ran away from Notre Dame’s Leo McFarlane with Padgett of Drake placing third, the time, 9.39.2. McGrath of Notre Dame and Beckett of Marquette followed Rosenkrantz on his record-breaking half-mile run, and Tolmich of Wayne, Herman of Carleton, and Lasky of Pitt took the first three positions in the low hurdles.
One of the most exciting events of the meet was the tie in the mile relay between Notre Dame and Pitt teams.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Pitt’s relay team has won nationwide fame during this season and last, and it was expected that Notre Dame would run a good second in the event. This was only natural for the Smoky City outfit returned from last year’s victories intact with the exception of one man. But Nick’s men held their own at every turn and prevented the Panthers from taking all the honors in the race. The points usually given to the winner of the event were divided between the two teams, although this was without great importance because the Irish had adready sewed up the meet, and Marquette had a good lead over the Panthers.
An interesting feature of the meet was the fact that Notre Dame placed first by more than eleven points and yet took first in only one event—the shot put. This fact is indicative of the consistent and well-rounded team that Nick has developed this year. In addition, many of Notre Dame’s best athletes were disqualified in the trial events held the preceding night. Among them were Jack Frawley who was listed for recognition in the low hurdles and Bob Bernard who was counted on to lift a few points for
Your Jeweler ‘ can show you Wrist Watch Bracelets by HADLEY
Briarcliff*
Slauntoa
— but we suggest that you first send for our illustrated folder, "Smart Wrists." This gives you an idea of what is new and correct in Watch
Bracelets for Men and Women — and will aid you greatly in making the proper selection to complete your ‘ watch ensemble.	'
Notre Dame from the middle distances. By far the outstanding athlete of the afternoon was Allan Tom-lich of Wayne who scored 13 points unaided and tied the low hurdles event in his heat and the finals, and captured two firsts and a second.
NOTHING ELSE HAS ITS FLAVOR
Also Imperial Yello Bole $1.50
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
HADLEY
COMPANY•INC
•	PROVIDENCE • R • I •
•	New York. • Chicago • Los Angeles •
•	Toronto* Canada* * London* England •
WRIST WATCH BRACELETS EXCLUSIVELY - SINCE 1«I2 '	'	z
March 2 0/ 1936
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Twenty-one
NET TEAM OF 1935-'36 (Continued from Page 17)
Notre Dame conquered Illinois 33-23, but not until the Illini appeared on the verge of registering an upset with a last period rally. The visitors had a smooth, tricky offense and a sterling performer in the presence of Henry, a guard. The Irish, paced by Moir and Nowak, found Kentucky’s highly-touted five an easy victim, 41-20. The Cats had succeeded in annexing four southeastern conference championships, but this achievement apparently had no effect on Notre Dame.
Before a packed crowd of 19,000 at Madison Square Gardens, the Irish humbled a once-powerful New York U. outfit, 38-27. At no time during the issue was the contest in doubt. Johnny Hopkins grabbed the limelight with his ten points, while the entire squad that saw action turned in a brilliant showing. At numerous per-Twenty-two	SEE
iods in the first half, the Irish doubled the count on their opponents.
Notre Dame’s high-geared five celebrated Washington’s holiday in the gym, when they staged a perfect demonstration of finesse in submerging Pitt’s Eastern Conference champs, 43-27, as Johnny Moir went on a scoring spree to shatter two all-time N.D. cage records. Moir rolled the pill through for an even dozen field goals and one free shot to give him a grand total of 25 points. The Panthers, using a fast break, were unable to penetrate the impregnated Irish defense, and succumbed to Keogan’s men for the second time this year.
Ohio State furnished the opposition for the finale of Notre Dame’s home schedule, by gaining a 28-23 victory. The Gold and Blue apparently seemed to be “stale,” while the Buckeyes, led by Captain-elect Tippy Dye, held the advantage throughout the evening.
After trailing by eight points, at
the intermission, Notre Dame came from behind to trim Marquette, 37-34. Wukovits, Ford, and Moir were outstanding in the Irish lineup. A magnificent 51 to 28 win over Detroit climaxed the Irish floor card. Johnny Moir and Nowak each scored 12 markers, while Laske led the Titans with a like number. The attraction provided a fitting farewell for Cocaptains Ford and Peters, Ireland, Wade, and Hopkins.
KANSAS - OKLAHOMA CLUB
The Kansas-Oklahoma Club will sponsor the first annual Student Rockne Memorial program on Sunday, March 29, at 12:45 p.m., in Washington Hall. Coaches Tom Conley and Joe Boland, both of whom served under Rockne, will deliver short talks. Following these talks, there will be moving pictures of Rockne and his teams.
you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
s '00
cs
<y
<u
o
<u
a
o
a a
o co
tn
<u
tn tn <U
O tn
O ■ M
CZ2 tn W
O
O tn
ci
a a
V

X
<u
i) o
o ■M a 5
c tsi
<u
•00
0) s
<s
gj
■cO
a
ci
<u
Q
—
Q tn
0)
O
tn O □ Q ci
o
Q 3
tn
<u £ tn
a £ O
o
o
tn
■co tn
tn a o
C
<D
■oO G
cs
o
tn <U tn a <y tn
<u
o
<u tn ci
C
<u r" a
O tn
tn
<U
•00
o
<u
<D
Q O tn
O > a
css
<U
E a>
X <u
tn 3
Q 3 O
3 ci
o
Q C o
o c
cn
Q
ci
C
<u
3
c
cs
GJ
Q
O tn
3 tn
a d
a o
- o
5 "aJ ci «>
<u
C3
<u £
O tn > O
O
tn
<U
□
o Q Q ci
o
Q c Q
tn a o
tn ci £
ci
tn
<u
S
E 3
o
c v
tn
5 £ Q
O a c
C GJ
o
g
tn
a
0)
E
o
Q Q
o tn
O
.22 ci tn
<u —.
Q s-a <u tn <U
E ei
<u <u



ci
ci u
E o
Q
O
NOVICE FENCING TOURNEY
An announcement was made this week by Coach Pedro de Landero, Irish fencing mentor, that all freshmen and novice fencers who wish to participate in the second annual Novice Tourney should leave their names in the manager’s office at the fieldhouse, before five o’clock tomorrow afternoon. The tournament will begin on Monday, March 30, and last until Thursday, April 2.
The winners of the first three places in foil, and the first two places in sabre will journey to Chicago on April 18, to compete in the Hilnois Fencers League tourney for novices. In addition, all those men taking part in the local contest will be eligible to compete in Chicago.
A University of Tennessee co-ed has decided the depression’s over. She was named co-beneficiary of a million dollar estate.
§
E ci tn
o
<u
O
<U
<u
O Q Q GJ
•co a
3 tn <U
tn <U
YOU can't afford to miss . .
The BENGAL
BOXING FINALS
Tonight!
8:00 p.m. NOTRE DAME FIELDHOUSE Student Ticket 25c
March 2 0, 1936
SEE YOU AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Twenty-three
MR.-PAUL BYRNE,
LIBRARY,
.	NOTRE DAME, IND.
aroma . . . it’s as much a part of Chesterfield as the taste
Did you ever notice the difference in the aroma of Chesterfield tobaccof
Every person who knows about tobacco will understand this . . . for to get a pleasing aroma is just like getting a pleasing taste from fruit.
Mild, ripe tobaccos, home-grown, and welded with the right kind of tobacco from far-off Greece and Turkey (Samsoun, Smyrna, Xanthi and Cavalla) . . .
. . . that's why Chesterfield has a more pleasing aroma.
© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.