PROFESSIONAL CARDS
>
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE, EAR, NOSE, THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS DENTISTRY—X-RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
SO3 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L.	E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.
M.	D.	M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
Filial Ex<mi for telephones
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
314 J. M.- S. BUILDING	TELEPHONE 4-360
Phone	residence
3-2805	4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination HOURS BY	609 J. M. S. BLDG.
appointment	SOUTH BEND, IND.
THIS electrical mouth at Bell Telephone Laboratories is putting a new telephone to one of its final tests. Over and over, it can repeat these odd sentences without the slightest variation. They contain all the fundamental sounds that contribute to the loudness of sound in our speech. This mouth can also make tests with simple tones of known pitch and intensity.
At the same time other telephones are being steamed, baked, frozen, lifted and dropped into their cradles by tireless machines. All this is part of a carefully planned curriculum
that makes every piece of telephone equip-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
RAYMOND J. KELLY ——
Lo, the poor Yale-bird
The Daily Princetonian told, the other day, of a “case for the student” plea put forth by a desperate columnist of the Yale News. The columnist moaned “Life at Yale is tough; life at Yale is absorbing. ... That is why I sprint and study in the middle of the trolley tracks.... We are the future leaders of the country, yes, we too, will be motorized some day. Therefore we expect a certain amount of awe and respect from drivers and we don’t consider it at all respectful, when they mow us down in the middle of a line of Greek....” As part of the campaign to protect Yale men from homicidal motorists, the Princetonian suggested the motto: “Passengers will please refrain from pushing Yalies while about the station.”
Music hath charms
Herbie, the mad columnist of the University of Detroit’s Varsity News, the same Herbie who first discovered the Hulnk, that fabulous beast that thwarps its way through the jungle making a noise like a banana, has gone into the song-writing racket. His first effort was a revision of the words to the juke-box Song-of-the-Week, “The Last Time I Saw Paris.”
The last time I saw Paris,
The price of beef was high,
Pork was long and mutton strong
And the housewife said, “Oh my!”
mixed tables were to be the order of the day, that a man could no longer eat with his fellows but must enjoy the privileges of feminine companionship. You can imagine the results. Just imagine eating with a half-dozen women three times a day. It would not only force you to spend your extra times reading in order to carry on the polite conversation necessary but would certainly raise hob with the clean shirt schedule. The girls were faced with the same problems. One little girl pushed the sleeves on her cardigan another inch higher and scuffed her saddle shoes against the rung of the chair as she muttered, “The men can have me just as I am — I’ll be darned if I’ll wear a new hair-do to dinner for any male.”
Propaganda Dept.
The Parade had referred to the copies it has received of Bulletins From Britain and Facts in Review, the newssheets for the competing teams in the perennial World Series that is now going strong at European Park. Lately, we have received copies of home propaganda sheets. The Student Advocate, the organ of the ASU, has been screaming against war, conscription, Wall Street and nearly everything else. It recommends closer union with Soviet Russia as a means of averting the catastrophe that the international bankers, the reactionaries, the New Dealers, the anti-Semites, and college presidents as a class are working towards. Then, the Parade has had the opportunity to readSOS, a paper gotten
out by the Student Defenders of Democracy, of which “Essence” MacCauley is a leader, being a member of the 11-man executive board. These boys want “all-out” aid to Britain, China and Greece and a complete embargo on exports to Japan. On the domestic front, they make the startling contentions that we need jobs for the unemployed, relief for the needy, adequate low-cost housing, widespread public health facilities, maintenance of labor’s rights and the elimination of racial and religious discrimination. All this with the added note that if you hold the same beliefs, you, too, are a Student Defender at heart and you can send your membership fee to 8 West 40th St., New York.
❖
Are they strict at your college?
Strict? You remember Brown? Well, he died in class and they propped him up until the lecture ended.—Torch
❖
Says Walgreen Willie
A thing of beauty is annoyed forever.
Night Light
Sloiv dark lapping trees to oneness; Swift, dusk-sivept sky trickles stars To life.
Transluscent white blueing trees to someness
Softly; moon-cut shadows slit with silver Knife.
Star prick,
Moon slick, Night.
—William Q. Keenan
The last time I saw Paris,
The crowd was slightly tight,
The folks were gay, in their own way, And the brawl went on all night.
The last time I saw Paris, The war debt wasn’t paid
It wasn’t then, it isn’t now, That’s why I never stayed.
Sweet Swarthmore
Out of Pennsylvania comes startling news. At Swarthmore College, where traditionally, men and women, though sharing the same dining hall had eaten at separate tables, the Student Council had come upon an idea. They ruled that
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
-	— ■	■ By GEORGE MILES —	—	'	1
Last week, in our little journal, shall be forever known as the Week of Woe. For in those seven days we were held in the Infirmary with the measles, we received our selective service paper, and we received a notice to appear at the Prefect of Discipline’s office. All in all, it was a full week; one which we would stack up against any in campus history. That is modern history, of course.
*
The Infirmary, we must admit, is an unusual place. One confinement a year should be an official requirement for all undergraduates (let the graduates think up their own requirements). It is a place where a student can observe fellows from all the other classes in free and informative operation. Freshmen can still be identified by their use of strange greetings like “Hi chum”; sophomores continue to perform for each and every female who passes near; juniors have not ceased to tell of past conquests and growing capacities; and seniors remain the best long-distance sleepers on the campus. During our stay in the Infirmary we saw enough to convince us that the caste system has not broken down at the University. But there was unanimity among all classes on one subject. All concurred in their opinion of the Infirmary and measles.
*
One day while a newer nurse was on duty, a group of the inmates strolled out to the eating tables and explained that they were waiting for their afternoon tea and cookies. And this request would have been perfectly legitimate and ordinary if there were such things as afternoon tea and cookies. Gargles and pills fill out the usual menu, however.
*
We can’t quite make up our minds about robins. We have always admired their shape and their song, but we feel that we must shun them as habitual dumb-bells. Year after year the people who make Indiana weather to be what it is send forth a teaser by producing a few days when the wind subsides and the sun shines strong. And year after year the robins come north and fall for the bait. Then the wind returns, the sun departs, and the robins sit around freezing their little tail feathers. By the time the real spring arrives the song of the robin is merely a petrified whistle.
*
On the same night, two seniors, unrelated and ignorant of the other’s activity, performed peculiar stunts recently. One sat all through the early morning, watching the world from a friend’s tower room in Sorin Hall, and finally falling asleep in the easy chair. The other returned to the campus from the girls’ school which is near in his stocking feet. All of which has no significance whatever for us.
*
The University atom smasher which has been so prominent in the campus news lately, was the cause of some great commotion last week. Just as a professor in Politics, who holds his class in a room adjoining the Phyics laboratory, was about to conclude his lecture the smasher let off pressure or whatever atom smashers let off with a frightening scream. No one waited for the summation. In two seconds the whole class was absent. So was the professor.
*
The Bengal Bouts brought forth many appropriate comments and witticisms. And the best one of all came immediately after that unfortunate first-round (in more sense than one) heavyweight had ceased to offer resistance. It seems that this same young man had been informed of his dismissal from the University shortly before the match, so'that when he expired in the gymnasium a fellow in the bleachers shook his head sadly and said: “What a day, what a day. Thrown out and knocked out within ten hours.”
*
We are disillusioned. Ever since we can remember, we have associated harps and angels, but now we know that harpists are like unto truck drivers in some respects. A fellow we know examined the hands (how he came to do this we fail to understand) of the leader of the harpist group who visited the campus not long ago. And he told us later, in shocked tones, that the young lady had an inch of callouses on them. We’ll stick to female trumpet players.	•
NEW DEAL IN NEWS
By Fitzpatrick & Maguire
Floating-on-the-Hudson, New York, March 24—Wilson T. Winterbottom, dean of the school of science of Stedgie Prep, at a meeting of the Acme Scientific Club here today said, “One of the toughest problems confronting American scientists in the present world crisis is to determine who was winning the Kralovec-Hebenstreit fight when the referee stopped it.” (Anyone with a suggestion to offer, please send it to the Scholastic office and it will be forwarded to Mr. Winterbottom.)
* * *
Notre Dame, Ind., March 24—In order to make the campus a safer place to live in the officials of the University of Notre Dame have found it necessary to require all students to check their guns with the rector upon entering a residence hall. The guns are to be returned when the student leaves the hall. The checking service is free of charge.
* * *
Kilkenny, Ireland, March.. 26— (Special from Frederic B. Slurp, Sleepy Eye, Minn., correspondent of the London Times.)—My little cake of ice and I were cast ashore here today in the teeth of a violent storm. I was separated from Joe Glumpf, the sandwich man, and great fear is felt for his safety. A swiss cheese on rye was washed up on the shore near O’Toole’s boathouse, five miles from here. It-was impossible to determine if it was one of Joe’s because O’Toole ate the sandwich.
* * *
Notre Dame, Ind., March 25—Following the announcement that vital statistics had revealed that, “Ten years after graduation, one out of every five St.
Mary’s girls is married,” 17 Notre Dame seniors asked today that they be cam-pused from now till graduation.	:
*	*	*	S
"	S
I
Clarion,	Pa.,	March	26—Edward	1
Graham, former test pilot for the i Clarion Perambulator Mfg. Co., and | twice Clarion County Grammar School | Marble Champion, will come out of re- g tirement next week to test the company’s latest product, the new streamlined Gar- 8 barino Special. Many doubt the ability || of the Garbarino Special to withstand the terrific impact of the “Graham
Tests.”	IK
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
MARCH 28, 1941
Number 20
William Thomas Walsh, Historian, Receives 59th Laetare Medal Award
Catholic educator and author, the University of Notre Dame honors him with the Laetare Medal for 1941.”
Presentation of the medal to Professor Walsh, the 59th recipient, will take place at some future date not yet determined.
—Jack Shine.
Recipient is now Teacher at Manhattanville College
William Thomas Walsh, of Larchmont, N. Y., is the 1941 recipient of the Laetare Medal, bestowed annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame upon an outstanding member of the Catholic laity. The announcement was made on Laetare Sunday by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
As a professor of English at Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart in New York City and as an author of several works which insure him a preeminent position among Catholic historians, Professor Walsh became the 59th winner of the annual award.
Professor Walsh has enjoyed a varied career, beginning as a newspaper reporter in 1911 and continuing in that capacity until 1918. During these years he served successively on the editorial staffs of the Waterbury Republican and American, the Hartford Times, and the Philadelphia Public Ledger.
Turning to academic pursuits in 1918, he became an instructor in the Hartford (Conn.) public high school for one year. From 1919 to 1933 he was head of the English department at the Roxbury (Mass.) school, and since 1933 has been a member of the faculty of Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart.
Isabella of Spain, a biography published in 1930, was Professor Walsh’s first book and attracted immediate interest as a truly authoritative treatment of the famous historical character.
This was followed in 1935 by a Catholic novel, Out of the Whirlwind and by another historical biography, Philip II, in 1937. A volume of Professor Walsh’s poems was published in 1939 and followed a play, Shekels, released in 1937. During this period his literary output also included numerous contributions to magazines in the literary and historical fields.
Professor Walsh was born in Waterbury, Conn., Sept. 11, 1891, and received an A.B. degree from Yale University in 1913 and a Litt.D. from Fordham University in 1933. He is married, the father of five children, and resides at 110 Beach Ave., Larchmont, N. Y.
Given by Notre Dame as a recognition of merit and as an incentive to greater achievement, the Laetare Medal award originated in the ancient papal custom of bestowing the Golden Rose on a member of the Italian Catholic nobility on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. Its modern counterpart was inaugurated at Notre Dame in 1883 when the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., University founder, bestowed the first medal on the late John Gilmore Shea, eminent Catholic historian.
Medalists of previous years include prominent statesmen, artists, writers, financiers, soldiers, scientists, architects, philosophers, jurists, orators, and economists. Among recent reciepients are Dr. Irvin Abell, ex-president of the American Medical Association; Dr. Jeremiah D. N. Ford, chairman of the Romance Languages department of Harvard University; Mr. Richard Reid, editor of the Catholic News of New York City; Dr. Albert Zahm, occupant of the Guggenheim chair of aeronautics in the Congressional Library; John McCormack, singer; the Hon. Alfred E. Smith, statesman; Margaret Anglin, actress; and in 1940 Lieutenant General Hugh A. Drum of the United States Army.
In announcing the name of the medalist for 1941, Father O’Donnell paid him the following tribute: “Like John Gilmore Shea, recipient of the first Laetare Medal in 1883, Dr. William Thomas Walsh has distinguished himself as an author, chiefly in the field of history. His genius for making the past live again has always been controlled by a scholarly devotion to truth. Because of Dr. Walsh’s unusual achievements as a
Johnny Morrison Wins Frosh Class Presidency
Last September an article appeared in the Scholastic entitled “Blind Freshman Finds Friendly Spirit at N.D.” How prophetic that title really was became evident this week when the Notre Dame class of ’44 elected to the freshman presidency John Joseph Morrison of Brockton, Mass., blind from the age of seven. John’s class popularity was well illustrated at the very outset of the elections when the other three presidential candidates, Bob Faught, Ed Drinkard and John Altz, sent in their letters of resignation to Student Council president Jack Burke and recommended Morrison to their voters. But refusing to accept victory so easily John also resigned and another presidential election was held.
The vice-presidential race looked like
Johnny Morrison
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
6	THE
last year’s Republican convention but Carroll came through again and Jack Thornton, Chicago, Hl,, beat out James (Jake) O’Rourke, Billings, Mont., 128 to 117 votes. Thomas Kane, Clifton, K.J., was the other candidate in this division. Paul Lally, Milford, Mass., with 172 votes is the new class secretary, having defeated Bill Martin who garnered 97 votes, and Bob Gregory for that post. Tom (Tex) Shexnayder, Houston, Texas, will be class treasurer by virtue of a 39 vote win over Bill Rogers. .Brownson hall candidate foi' the post. Bob Galvin of Cavanaugh was the other candidate for treasurer.
—Mark G. McGrath
Engineers Conducting
Defense Training Course
The University, participating in the United States Defense Training Program, is conducting a course in production engineering under the auspices of the federal government and directed by Charles R. Egry, associate professor of mechanical engineering, and recently elected member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
Allied with this course is a series of lectures and sound movies held in the Engineering auditorium on Monday and Thursday evenings. In recent lectures Mr. R. S. Kyle, head of the methods department of the Ball Band Rubber Company in Mishawaka, discussed the making of time studies and job evaluation standards, and Mr. L. V. James of the . General Electric Lamp Company, Chicago office, talked on the sicence of seeing with industrial illumination design.
At 7 p.m., on Monday, the United States Steel Corporation is showing a film, “Steel — Man’s Servant.” On Monday, April 7, at 7 p.m., Mr. Wiseman of the Oliver Farm Machinery Company will discuss budget control. Further lecturers scheduled for April include: Allan H. Mogensen, national authority on supervisory training in work simplification; A. C. Horrocks, director of the National Association of Foremen; and Dr. Lillian Gilbrith, well-known authority and pioneer of industrial organization, now teaching at Purdue University.
Students, faculty, and friends of the University are invited to see and hear these lectures and. sound movies on industry. Further notices concerning them will be posted on the bulletin board in the Engineering Building.
—John A. Lynch
Before 1920 a student could receive his entire education at Notre Dame, from kindergarten to graduate work.
"The Gondoliers" Opens On Campus Wednesday
Venice in the 18th century was a
prosperous city filled with Mediterranean sunshine, canals, smiling signorine,
Robert Bischoff
and romantic gondoliers who poled their marine taxis through the saltwater “streets” carrying passengers to make a living. But the romantic gondoliers were a carefree lot, and would rather sing beautiful songs to the smiling signorine than take their taxi
business seriously. This is the atmosphere created by Sirs W. S. Gilbert in tehir comic light opera, “The Gondoliers,” to be presented next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday evenings in
-Washington Hall by the Notre Dame Savoyards. Robert Bischoff and Anthony Donadio play the gondoliers, two leading parts.
Including a cast of over' 35 young men and women from Notre Dame and South Bend, and a full orchestra of another 30 or 40 members, “The Gondoliers” presents the largest and most colorful group of singers and actors gathered on a Washington Hall stage in many years. The entire production is under the direction of Professor Cecil Birder, head of the department of speech, who has had over ten years’ experience in staging Gilbert and Sullivan operas at the College of St. Catherine’s and St. Thomas College in Minnesota. Curtain rises on the nights of April 2, 3, and 4 at 8:15 o’clock. Once more, the production is under the patronage of the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Supervisor of all University Theatre activities is the Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C.
Besides depicting the charming Venetian atmosphere so well, W. S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan have succeeded in creating a very neat satire on the mo-narchial type of government prevalent in the 18th century. The story is told in two acts, the first of which revolves about the happy lives of two typical young and handsome gondoliers and their amazed reaction when told that one of them may be the missing king of Barataria. It seems that the prince had been sent away secretly while still very young to be reared in the peaceful surroundings of Venice, where there was no danger of assassins’ bullets and where he might come to know and understand his people better.
But the old lady who reared the
young prince can no longer tell him from his best friend, the second gondolier, and so both of them are sent off to the king’s palace. Here the pomp and splendor of court life will a.vaken some hereditary instinct in the rightful heir to the throne, the agents of the king wishfully think, and everything will work out beautifully in the end. But the second act brings out some humorous situations, and concludes with something close to an 0. Henry finish.
The men lead players include Robert Bischoff and Anthony Donadio, who take the parts of the gondoliers, Jack White, James Inwood, James F. Purcell, Jerome Heinlen, Henry Kane, William Madden and John Drayna. The young ladies of Venice and the court of Barataria are portrayed by Mary Frances Kabel, Catherine Landon, Joan Birder, Agnes Haney, Jean Campbell and Jean Chambers. Gilbert and Sullivan stress the importance of a male chorus in all of their light operas, and the local presentation of “The Gondoliers” has the following men in the chorus: Frank Ten-czar, Victor Golubski, Edward Kempf, Joseph Donlan, Jack Doherty, James Dempsey, Frank King, William Murrin, Daniel Donahue, William Brady, John Henneberger, Vincent Meli, William Binet, and Roland Doyno.
—John Casey
Kansas-Oklahoma Club
Honors Rockne Sunday
Folowing its annual custom the Kansas Oklahoma club announced its plans for the observance of the anniversary of , Knute Rockne’s death. Chairman Ed Corey said that the program will be held in Washington Hall on Sunday evening, March 30, at 8 o’clock.
The program on this occasion, commemorating the tenth anniversary of Rockne’s death, will be varied. The club has arranged for a showing of “Knute Rockne, All-American.” Speeches by the Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C.; Coach Frank Leahy and Assistant Coach Ed McKeever, and a song by the Notre Dame Glee Club will round out the program for the evening.
Chairman Corey extends a cordial invitation to all students to attend this annual memorial service.—Joe Stephen
Off to Washington!
A railroad representative will be in Room 212 Science Hall from April 4, to discuss tickets and plans for the tour of Washington, D. C., 4:15 p.m. to 5:30 p.m., on Friday, to be conducted by Dr. Paul Bartholomew during the Easter vacation.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Press Club to Sponsor 29th Banquet Thursday
The Notre Dame Press club will hold
its 29th annual banquet in the Faculty Dining Hall on Thursday, April 3. This
function was first begun in the spring of 1913 and has been successfully carried out yearly since that time under the direction of Dr. J. M. Cooney, head of the journalism department.
The guest speaker will be Mr.
Dr. J. M. Cooney Thomas A. Daly, noted journalist, poet, lecturer, and raconteur. Well-known in this and in other countries as a journalist, Mr. Daly comes from the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, and his wit and humor have entertained many audiences during his many years in the newspaper business. In years past Mr. Daly has spoken at Notre Dame, and all those who remember him have expressed keen pleasure upon hearing of his return. His tales, poetry and many dialects are unique as entertainment fare. The Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., will act as toastmaster.
The banquet, which will start sharply at 7:15 p.m., is open to all students and members of the faculty. Tickets, priced at $1.00, are now on sale and can be secured from any member of the Press club.
To make the evening a most pleasant and friendly affair the Press Club quartette will harmonize on a group of songs and music will be provided throughout the dinner. Ray Pinelli, representing the students, will deliver a short address on the nature of the Press club and its functions.
"Full House" Receives
Barton Harp Quintet
A “full house” in Washington Hall Monday evening heard the Barton Harp Quintet in their second appearance on this campus. The quintet, which had its beginning at the Curtis Institue in Philadelphia, is composed of Marjan Mayhew Barton, leader, Isabel Ibach, Rebecca Wagner, Janet Putnam, and Lynne Wainright.
The organization began four years ago, after years of study at the Institute. They are on the road most of the time playing at various colleges and universities, women’s and concert clubs. Some of the stops made this year include the University of Mississippi, Wilson College
•in Pennsylvania and Bridgewater College at Bridgewater, Va. This April the quintet is starting on a transcontinental tour and will visit some of the major colleges in the West.
Last week the quintet appeared on the “We, the People,” program over a national hook-up.—John A. Lynch
Seniors Vote to Hold
Dinner With Their Ball
In a poll recently conducted among the seniors, under’ the supervision of Larry McLaughlin, Sorin hall, senior ball general chairman, it was found that of 300 men questioned, over 90% favor holding a dinner in conjunction with the Ball on May 2. Following the wishes of this majority, McLaughlin states that it will be held in the University Dining halls, either Friday evening prior to the Ball, or Saturday afternoon. A more definite announcement concerning the time and arrangements for it will be made as plans progress.
The definite selection of the orchestra to play has not as yet been made, but the field has been narrowed to Glen Gray, Ray Noble, Eddie Duchin, and Dick Jurgens, any of which would be highly acceptable.
The committee chairmen in charge of the Ball are:
General chairman, Larry McLaughlin; tea dance, James McNulty; arrangements, Frank Lavelle and Joseph Callahan; decorations, William Malaney ; music, William McJunkin; favors, Howard Essick; publicity, William Hawes; dinner, Hawley Van Swall; patrons, Jack Ryan; invitations, John Debitetto; programs, Frank Hopkins; tickets, James Walsh and Robert DeMoss.
THEY DREW ENTHUSIASTIC APPLAUSE
Students Will Hobnob
With Diplomatic Group
Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students making the April 11 to 16 tour of Washington, D. C., under the guidance of Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, acting head of the department of politics, will hobnob with ambassadors, consuls and other diplomatic attaches at a reception and tea at the Venezuelan embassy at 4 pan., on Monday, April 14.
Those esthetically inclined will also enjoy a visit at the recently dedicated Mellon National Gallery of Art which has been included in the itinerary at the request of several men. For the benefit of the criminologists in the group, Dr. Bartholomew has also arranged for them to meet famous fifth columnist foe, J. Edgar Hoover, head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
1,000 Plant Varieties
Found In Greenhouse
A Black-fig tree from Italy, a Staghorn fern from .South America, and some odd varieties of cacti from Africa; all these are in the little greenhouse behind the Main Building with approximately one thousand different species of plant life.
Caretaker Ralph Wolfe is proud of his flora. The blooms of every color and size that fairly fill the place attest to his success. His particular pet is a chrysanthemum which has, for five years, defied his efforts to make it bloom during the winter. This year the plant has several buds on it and it appears that Ralph has finally won the battle.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By William K. Mulvey
William Hoyne
Last Saturday evening the 20th century editions of the spectators at the circus maximus witnessed the physical equivalent of the ancient Plato-Aristotle incident. When Bill Hoyne snatched the light-heavweight crown none too gently from his friend Jerry Ryan, it was one more case of the pupil triumphing over the master. While Ryan
coached him between rounds, he must have someway .managed a solid course in ethics because Hoyne came away with the championship of his weight division plus the Sportsmanship Award. But, any lad who will take on all comers in his class and fight through to the championship with a badly sprained thumb deserves some extra consideration.
One would never think, to see him, that he is a fighter. Oh, he is big enough, but his heart seems to be as big as his shoulders. He is soft spoken, modest and retiring. That word “retiring” can be taken in all possible connotations. He utilizes each spare minute catching up on his sleep.
Bill hails from Dayton, Ohio. In preparation for his term at Notre Dame, he limbered up at Oakwood High School and University of Dayton Prep. Between these two schools, he sandwiched in four years of football and four varsity letters. During the off season, he exercised his duties as president of the high school fraternity.
It was his father’s love and respect for Notre Dame that brought Bill to Indiana. Unlike most high school stars, he had no vision of gridiron glamour. Football was just a way of keeping in condition for him. He played long and hard enough to win B-squad monograms and stay healthy. In his sophomore year the boxing bug bit him, and the irritation has been bothering him ever since. This year brought him the healing balm of complete success.
When not sleeping or working out, Bill enjoys his hobbies: hillbilly music, swimming and diving. But all these bow to the horses. Yes, he follows the horses, and the bookies follow him. Of course,
his interest takes a more active form whenever the occasion presents itself. Riding the horse is even more fun than betting.
He doesn’t enjoy hard work, but during the summer, he mixes work and play. His instructor’s rating in the American Red Cross always secures him a job at Dayton’s civic pool.
Right now, he is studying Business Administration. In the future he hopes to employ this when he begins taking over his father’s business — undertaking. If I were one of the witty columnists, I could certainly find some connection between Bill’s potent right hand and the undertaking business.... Well, let it go. He has a year in an army camp before he will have a chance to mix business and boxing.
Notre Dame Grad Ranks
Highest at Columbia
Charles J. Colgan, a graduate of Notre Dame and now a second year student in the Columbia University School of Law, has been designated a James Kent Scholar on the basis of his first year record in the New York City school. Colgan, who has maintained a straight A average, is the highest ranking man in his class.
Five Kent Scholarships are awarded annually as academic honors to students, in each of the three classes, who have maintained the highest scholastic averages during the previous year. The awards are named in honor of Chancellor Kent, who came to Columbia as the Law School’s first professor in 1793 and who ranks with the great in the history of law in America.
Colgan, who received his Ph.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1939, is on the editorial board of the Columbia Law Review, one of the nation’s foremost legal publications. The journal, published monthly, is run by a staff of students chosen on a basis of scholarship.
Several other Notre Dame graduates are also attending the Columbia Law School. William P. Arnold is a member of the third year class; and Norbert A. Aleksis is another second-year man. Four Notre Dame alumni, Robert M. ■ Dougherty, Richard L. Fallon, Jr., Joseph J. Mathey, and Thomas J. Minogue, are members of the first-year class.
Both Colgan and Fallon are holders of Regional Scholarships to the Law School. About 300 such awards are made to each entering class on a competitive basis. The country is divided into geographical areas, and a number, of scholarships are given in each region to outstanding graduates of accredited institutions.
Laundry Handles 29,000 Stockings Every Week
St. Michael’s laundry of Notre Dame handles in the course of a week more than 12,000 shirts, 27,000 handkerchiefs and 29,000 stockings. The laundry, equipped with the most modern devices for cleaning and drying of clothes, was built in 1934 on the site of an older laundry and cost approximately $30,000.
The handling of the clothes not only includes the washing and ironing, but also the incidentals that are attached to such work: namely, the mending of socks, sewing and patching, replacing lost buttons, and even the turning of shirt collars.
The entire personnel is under the supervision of Mr.' G. J. Hoar,, a former student at the University and a football monogram winner for three years, 1919, 1920, and 1921, under the late Knute
N.D.’s favorite laundry
Rockne. Sixty-nine people are engaged in the laundry proper, and there are a few more in the dry-cleaning department.
Previous to the erection of the new building, the Sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross handled most of the students’ laundry, though it was optional, up to 1932, for the students to have it done by the University or down-town as they wished.
All goods sent to be dry cleaned are handled in the University laundry, except hats, which are sent out to be cleaned and blocked. Contrary to the belief among the students that the laundry must use very strong chemicals in the water because of the way they say some of their shirts wear out, all water used in the laundry is of the universal chemical type used in the best laundries in the country. The amount of chemicals used is scientifically controlled, and of the very best type suited both for the long life of the fabrics and for the maximum efficiency in cleaning.
Edward J. Sullivan
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
THE
Commerce Forum Trip Features Year's Plans
The Commerce Forum’s annual educational trip to Chicago on March 20 by the popular acclaim of the 75 members was a complete success.
During the last ten years the Forum’s “trip” has been the most popular feature offered to the members. Industrial plants, commercial business houses, banks and clearing houses have been inspected by the Forum during its existence, and practical studies of production methods and mechanics are thus afforded the members of the ‘Forum. The trip was facilitated greatly this year by the comfortable means of transportation, two Greyhound “Streamliner” buses, which took the group to and from Chicago, and likewise drove the group in Chicago.
Wilson Packers, Mars Inc., and Marshall Field & Co. were the objects of inspection on this tour. At Wilson’s, the third largest packing house in the United States, actual slaughtering of steers, canning and packing of meats, and the entire process of preparing meat were seen in operation. After an excellent lunch at Mars, home of the famous candy bar, the students saw the entire procedure in manufacturing chocolate and vanilla candies. The third stop was Marshall Field & Co., where then* systems of retailing and selling were very ably demonstrated to the members. The trip was climaxed by the attendance of the group at the evening performance of the popular comedy, “Life with Father,” after which the stars, Lillian Gish and Percy Waram, were introduced to the members.
The trip was organized and supervised by Gale Fitch, sophomore director of the Forum, who planned and worked out all the details involved. He was assisted by President Bill Foley and the directors of the Foi-um. The amount of work was considerable and much credit must be given to Fitch and all who aided him.
—John Moriarty
Absurdities Off
It has been announced that the Monogram Absurdities will not be held this year.
The Monogram Ball, held last Feb. 7, was the most successful in Monogram Club history. President Robert Sagau has announced that the proceeds, which were approximately $150, will be used to buy monogram blankets for the members of the club.
Until 1865 the only courses offered at Notre Dame were in arts and letters.
Charlie Agnew's Orchestra Will Play
at the K. of C. Ball on April 25th
Charlie Agnew, versatile young maestro, will bring his famous orchestra here April 25 to play for the Knights
of Columbus Ball. The Knights promise not only excellent music but an entertaining p r o -gram as well. Char-1 i e Agnew’s 0 r -chestra i s distinguished by its basically soft, sweet but versatile rhy-
Richard Kerrigan thms, and its featured entertainers.
These include the two vocalists, personable Jeanne Carroll, handsome Gordon Pettigrew the trumpeting balladeer, and Gus Baumgart who plays and vocalizes his own compositions. Richard Kerrigan, Walsh senior, is chairman of the dance.
Prof. Flynn Will Speak
Before Citizens Committee
Professor Frank T. Flynn, head of the department of social work of the University will address the annual meeting of the Citizens Committee of the Cook County juvenile court next Friday at the LaSalle Hotel in Chicago. Professor Flynn will speak on “The Social Treatment of the Juvenile Offender.” Judge Harry Fisher of the Circuit Court of Cook County is also scheduled to speak. A symposium on the Juvenile Court will follow, participated in by the Honorable Frank J. Bicek and two Illinois state representatives.
Professor Flynn, who is also a trustee of the Indiana State Prison, has long been a well-known authority on both adult and juvenile delinquency.
Brownson Freshman Leads
Popular New Orchestra
After walking off with top honors in the 1940 Knights of Columbus amateur show, Phil Foote, Brownson Hall freshman, has completed his search for new talent in the boogie-woogie style of music, and at present his orchestra is catering to the various campus and town clubs. Phil, commonly known as “Ming Toy,” is considered one of the campus’s most versatile pianists and as a master of intricate boogie-woogie style.
The new band consists of the old members plus several new players. Traveling under the name of “Phil Foote and His Music,” the band has created a favorable
Delegates attending the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine to be held at St. Mary’s the same weekend have been asked to bring formal attire to enable them to enjoy the dance. True Notre Dame hospitality in asking visiting delegates to join in the festivities of the evening is being encouraged by the arrangement committees for the dance.
The “Music of the Hour” orchestra has been a long-time favorite of choice theatres, hotels and night clubs, including among others: Chicago’s Edgewater Beach and Steven’s hotels. Their soft, sweet music has recently charmed audiences at the Muhlebach Hotel, Kansas City and the State-Lake, Chicago.
They have also been heard on radio commercials for American Tobacco Company, Lucky Strike and many programs on NBC, CBS, and MBS networks.
—Howard J. Korth
impression in nearby South Bend and Mishawaka. Variety is obtained by using both South American music-and dreamy waltzes. Booking is being handled through Leo Keating of Brownson Hall, the orchestra’s business manager.
Phil and the boys are now considering several offers to play at summer resorts during the summer vacation.
—Elmer D. Silha
/
Announce Competition For Freshmen Orators
The annual freshman oratorical contest will be held during the last week in April, it was announced by Professor William J. Coyne of the department of speech, who is in charge of the competition. All those who wish to enter the contest should hand in their names to some member of the department of speech before the beginning of the Easter vacation.
The contest is open to all the freshmen of the University. Orations must be original and may be on any subject. They must not be longer than 10 minutes.
The winner of the contest .will receive a prize of $10.
Scholarship Notice.
April 1 is the latest date to make application for scholarship or for a renewal of scholarship. Applications should be addressed to the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes, in accordance with previous bulletins..
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
W	THE
BOOK REVIEW
Nature and Functions of Authority, by Yves R. Simon, Ph.D., Marquette University Press, Milwaukee, Wis., 1940.
This book is a copy of a. lecture delivered by Professor Simon at Marquette University treating the question: Does social progress consist in an expansion of liberty with a simultaneous decay of authority? The difficulty of the solution lies in the paradox that there can be no authority without liberty, and there can be no liberty without authority.
Considering the functions of authority we see that it is accepted in the theoretical order in at least three fields: science, religion and history. But in all cases it is accepted only because the object of not evident. Thus in the theoretical order authority enjoys only a substitutional function, to mke up for a deficiency in the subject. However authority is accepted in the practical order as having not only a substitutional function (as is the case when a father has authority over his son who is immature) but also an essential function (as is the case when a father decides that it would be good to take the family for a vacation, although other members of the family are capable of deciding). This function derives not from any defect or evil, but from the nature of man. Precisely because a practical judgment is not intersubjectivable, authority is necessary “to assure the unity of action of a united multiude.” (p. 17)
Now authority, which has been shown to be essentially practical and which may be defined as “an active power, residing in a person and exercised through a command, that is through a practical judgment to be taken as a rule of conduct by the free-will of another person,” may assume the form of “dominion of servitude” — alienation of the work of a man to the private good of the master — or of “dominion of freedom” — government of the work of a man for the common good. In an altogether different order (an order focusing attention on the subject) authority may be a “regimen politicum” — a rule which allows the subject some power to act otherwise — or or “regimen despoticum” — a rule which allows the subject no power
Now which functions of authority, and which types, will decay with the growth of liberty? To answer this we must first analyze our notion of liberty. In one ' sense it is simply the power of choosing the good or the evil. But a virtuous man (and social progress certainly requires that man be virtuous) insofar as he is virtuous regulates his actions from the
virtue within him. In this respect he enjoys a liberty, but it is a pure perfection, “a power of choosing the good alone.” The more virtuous the man, the more truly human he is, the greater is his liberty. Liberty in this sense implies autonomy.
The growth of liberty in this sense implies the decay of the substitutional functions of authority, for these are necessary only because of deficiency of the autonomy of man; also, it implies the decay of authority as a dominion of servitude, for the alienation of a man’s work violates the principle of autonomy; but it does not imply the decay of the essential function of authority.
The harmony between authority and liberty is established by what Professor Simon calls the Principle of Authority and the Principle of Autonomy. The Principle of Authority: “Wherever the welfare of a community requires a common action, the unity of that common
No Easter Exams Slated
No compulsory examinations will be held before the Easter vacation, it was announced by the Rev. James D. Trahey, S.C.C., prefect of discipline, following a recent meeting of the Academic Board. Class cuts will not be prohibited before or after the holidays, the Board also decided.
action must be assured by the higher action, the unity off that common action must be assured by the higher organs of that community.” The Principle of Autonomy: “Wherever a task can be satisfactorily achieved by the initiative of the individual or that of small social units, the fulfillment of that task must be left to the initiative of the individual or to that of small social units.”
This book is valuable for its exposition of the Thomistic analysis of social progress as well as for its interesting sidelights on the theories of social progress as expounded by Rousseau, Mill, and Proudhon, and its application of a criterion to current forms of political philosophy.—Cyril T. Garvey
Dr. Jerome Kerwin Will
Speak Here on Monday
Dr. Jerome Kerwin, associate professor in the political science department of the University of Chicago, will lecture in Washington Hall on Monday at 8 pan. The title of Dr. Kerwin’s lecture
will be ‘“The Catholic Stake in Democracy.”
Dr. Kerwin has written books on government control, including Federal Water Poiver and The Control of the Radio. He has lectured twice before at Notre Dame. His last lecture here was titled, “The Church and the Garrison State.” This lecture was reprinted in full in the April, 1939, issue of the Revieiv of Politics. In this speech Dr. Kerwin started out with the assertion of the Declaration of Independence “that there are certain self-evident truths and that man is endotved by his Creator with inalienable rights.”
He then told of the effect of the “rugged individualism” period on these rights. As he said, “The War (World War I) came upon a world that had lost the sense and meaning of natural law and natural right....” Dr. Kerwin then traced the rise of the totalitarian or garrison state after the war. He concluded: “The modern economic and political order began its descent into the present era of destruction when it forgot or rejected the belief that man is endowed by his Greater with certain inalienable rights. Let us attack present disorder at its source with the calm objectivity of a people secure in the possession of truth.”—Robert LeMense
University Debate Team
Competes at Wisconsin
The Notre Dame varsity debate squad, with Milt Williams and John O’Loughlin on the affirmative and Thomas Grady and William Meier on the negative, accompanied by Coach William J. Coyne left today for the University of Wisconsin debating tournament at Madison, Wis. The Wisconsin tourney is run off in two days, today and tomorrow. About 50 or more of the entrants in this tourney are from the Midwest with a few scattered competitors from other sections of the country.
The National Intercollegiate question will be debated at the tourney: “Resolved, That the nations of the Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union.”
The last home debate of this season will be held here next Wednesday, when the Notre Dame negative team meets the University of Pittsburgh affirmative team. The debate is scheduled for 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Engineering building. Tom Grady and Bill Meier will uphold the negative for Notre Dame. Professor J. H. McBurney of the department of speech of Northwestern Pniver-sity will judge the debate.
—R. D. LeMense

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Notre Dame was Rebuilt in Six Months After the Main Building Burned in 1879
OUR DAILY BREAD
One Sunday morning last winter the Main building was filled with smoke. In thick gray swirls it came into the halls on the ground floor; in a dense gray cloud it eddied about the heads of passing students. At last an irritated sophomore stopped, coughed, and thoughtfully studied the wall through 'which the smoke issued. Around him gather a little . group. One suggested the building might be on fire. Another took up a fire extinguisher. All went snooping for the flames.
A little while later members of the South Bend fire department rushed out to the campus, into the smoking building. Outside, part of the student body lounged on fire engine fenders and waved to friends who casually leaned out of smoking windows and waved back. Pretty soon the firemen came out of the building and said the fire was over. As the engines pulled away, little knots of students gathered and discussed the smoke and remembered storiees of the great fire of 1879.
It was 11 o’clock of a late April morning of that year that one of the minims saw smoke pouring from the dome. Soon the word “Fire!” raced across the campus and in a few minutes a bucket brigade was swinging water to the roof, water tanks on the upper stories were dumping their contents and steam pipes were forcing water up the six flights.
At the same time frantic telegrams sped to South Bend. The Western Union manager picked up the first, hopped on his horse and buggy and went careening through the streets to announce the news. The populace glanced to the north, confirmed the message, spent the next three-quarters of an hour getting the fire engine to move.
They arrived on the campus in time to save a few of the smaller buildings. In the church steeple 30 or 40 bells were clanging away; from the upper stories of the Main building issued beds, pillows, lamps, tables, chairs and P. J. Dougherty, a student. Nuns rushed out, carrying away a few of the valuables saved. Senator Leeper, a precious book beneath his arm, managed to dodge a falling cornice.
A slight wind pushed the conflagration away from Sacred Heart Church and Gregori’ paintings. But in the Main building, flames licked up a collection of skeletons, ate the supports away from the statue of the Blessed Virgin and sent
it tumbling into the well. Then they jumped over to the Old Men’s Home, to the Music Hall, where they found 18 pianos, and finally to the Minims’ Hall.
By three o’clock that afternoon the fire was under control and Father Corby, president of the University, announced to the students that school was over. That night Washington Hall was turned into the “Hotel de Europe” and students sat long in the dark, looking at the smouldering embers, singing “The Old Home Isn’t What It Used to Be.”
After the blaze was over—1879
The next day the editor of the South Bend Daily Herald mourned, “Doomed, doomed, 0 beauteous Notre Dame! Thy massive walls are crushed and low.” Not so gloomy was Father Corby. He herded the students into the Church, handed seniors their degrees, told the rest to come back next September when a new and greater Notre Dame would await them. Then he went to the ruins to see how much he would have to rebuild.
A quarter of a million dollars smoked away at his feet. The Lemmonier and University libraries were thoroughly baked, along with scientific apparatus and graduation diplomas.
For 21 days the ruins smoked. During the same time letters and telegrams poured into the University, bearing offers of financial assistance. Newspapers in all parts of the United States, in England and France, carried the story. The ruined halls heard themselves called the “center of education and culture in the West” and “the pride of the West.” One lady wrote that she had dismissed her hired girl, would send the money saved (Continued on Page 23)
LITURGY
Sin, death, punishment, are ugly words. . . . Ugly things do have ugly names.... The romanticist tries to gloss over the name.... The secularist denies the existence of the thing. — Both explain away the Cross and the Passion.... St. Paul glories in the liberation they mean for fallen man. — O death where is thy victory? O death where is thy sting? (1 Corinthians 15,55)
Passion Week might well be called the week of the Great Silence.... The Liturgy makes no direct mention of the Passion.... It prepares the mind for the great events of the next week.... Christ himself goes into seclusion and speaks no more. . . . “Jesus hid himself” (Sunday Gospel)
The Masses of the week are cast in this mold.... The Lessons are mainly prophetic, types of the Passion.... The Gospels mostly relate incidents in the last mortal days of Christ. — The other variable parts of the Masses are chiefly Messianic, from that body of the psalms which the Fathers of the Church call the Book of the Suffering Christ.
These Masses reflect the time and the circumstances of their composition.... They ante-date the seventh century when Lent lasted two weeks.... They instruct rather than exhort.... Later Lenten Masses show the influence of the preparation of converts for the sacraments.
All this the Church visualizes by an ancient custom.... A plain purple cloth hides the crosses and images of our Lord (except the Stations of the Cross).... A like covering over the statues signifies the suspension of the solemn cultus of the saints.... “The servant is not greater than his lord” (John 13,16).... The mood of the moment is retirement within oneself.
Stabat Mater Dolorosa . . . The Friday Mass honors the Mother of Sorrows. . . . This is the plenitude of Simeon’s prophecy. . . . The mystery of the Cross is the mystery of all suffering. ... It is a day on which to remember the sorrowing mothers of t ehworld, — and they are so many.
(Mass Calendar on Page 23)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER, Art Editor
REV. 0. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Notre Dame's Scientists
Notre Dame’s name has been splashed across the front pages of the nation’s newspapers quite often in the last fifteen years. Most often this was in relation to some athletic event; a good sized “head” was reserved for our football victories and a still larger one for our occasional defeats.
Recently new headlines, smaller ones to be sure, but none the less important, have been appearing in the nation’s papers; the latest one in Newsweek mentions Notre Dame’s most recent achievement in the field of science, more especially, nuclear physics.
To the uninitiated, the work of our physicists seems a strange jumble. The workers themselves do not yet predict any sensational results in the immediate future. There are always some impatient persons who pounce upon new scientific findings as the “greatest thing since Adam,” but the current aim of the Notre Dame atom experimenters is to investigate the structure of the atomic nucleus. These studies may later result in phenomenal advances comparable to the fairly recent atomic studies which gave the world the radio, X-rays, etc.
■ This is not the only scientific field, however, in which our University is making swift strides. Under the guidance of the late Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., the College of Science rose to new eminence. The work of Dr. Arthur Reyniers and his staff of assistants in germ-free technique has spread the fame of the University in the scientific world and the work on Notre Dame’s
Father Nieuwland in developing synthetic rubber will increase in importance. Visible evidence of our growing scientific progress is offered by the new addition to the Chemistry building and the heat and power laboratories now nearing completion.
These are only the more obvious evidences of scientific advance on our campus. There are undoubtedly other wonders being worked in the laboratories by the small group which is turning out such great amount of work.
Our College of Science is the smallest in the University. This may be caused by its limited attraction to the student mind or because of the special talents it requires and its progressively selective system of advancement. In addition, most of the advance and research work is done by graduate students and professors, which restricts the working body still further.
It is much to Notre Dame’s credit, therefore, that we, a comparatively small University, have been able to offer to the scientific world the new material that is evolved by our ■workers.
Notre Dame’s record is a living example of the ability of an American university to carry on the American spirit of virile, competitive activity coupled with a steady advance in the march of study.
Such a combination is of special value at this time when the world will need men who have been filled with a spirit balanced by a proper evaluation of the goods life has to offer.
Thank You
Once again the Bengal Bouts are over, that is practically over — for Scholastic Promotion man, Jim Newland, is still adding columns of figures and substracting from them to find out just how big a boost the Bouts will give the Holy Cross missions in Bengal. Whatever the final sum will be, there is a certain group of people who deserve heartfelt thanks, both from the group of fellows who promoted the bouts and from the missionaries who are so grateful for every bit that helps them in their holy work.
First, Scholastic wishes to thank Mr. Napolitano once more. It’s-hard to tell you, “Nappy,” just how much your work has meant to the promoters of the bouts and to the fighters themselves. You have taken “Fighting Irish” as green as the shamrocks they love and turned them into very creditable boxers. Even the more experienced fighters pick up new pointers from you every year. There was not a dull round in this year’s fights. Busy as you were, you always had a smile and a kind word for everyone.
Bill Padon also deserves another “thank you.” He has been “Nappy’s” right hand man for several years. Watching Bill work around a ring, one can see that he has a real love for the boxing game.
Thank you of course to the Scholastic staff members who did so much to make the bouts a success, the ticketsellers, the poster distributors, the ushers and to Newland and Patterson who coordinated the whole affair.
Then there are the judges and referees. Scholastic has not heard one sincere complaint about the way these men handled the bouts. Some of the bouts were tough ones to lose, but the fighters knew the rules and know that the officials decided every fight by them.
“The Huddle” and the Reco sporting goods store deserve our thanks for the fine trophies they donated. To the Studebaker Corporation we also extend our thanks for the use of their ring which has been the immediate scene of the finals for a number of years.
Our gratitude is expressed to the University officials who cooperated with the promoters in every possible way to make the bouts a fine success.
And to the fighters. What would you bouts be without you? Not all of you won the glory of a championship title and sweater, but you all proved yourselves sportsmen and we’ll be waiting to see you again next year — in the 11th Bengal Bouts.—John Dinges
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
LITTLE PEOPLE
By JERRY SMITH
Virginia Clark stepped quickly up the ladder and gained the catwalk to the back of the marionette stage. Behind her stretched the darkness of backstage; in front the heavy curtain reduced the size of the stage opening to the eight by three rectangle required by the marionettes. Below was the bright slash of light limited by the curtains in front and the backdrops at the rear. The sides of the little stage were open to allow the smooth entrance and exit of the puppets. Virginia’s assistants, both men, climbed to the catwalk at the front of the stage. They were nearly ready to present the third performance of their marionette play, “Huckleberry Finn.” Virginia picked up the three crossed wooden controls which carried the nine strings running to the head, shoulders, wrists, knees, and back of a 14-inch edition of Tom Sawyer. She released the stick which controlled the knees and walked Tom out onto the stage and up ■ the grass covered hill, well upstage. Her slender forefinger pressed the shoulder strings and Tom’s head responded to every nod of the main control stick. Tom’s hands raised gracefully over his head; they were ready to begin.
The music came in softly as the pianist plinked out a light swaying melody; the orange border lights bathed the scene with the haze of early morning and the curtains rolled apart. Then Huckleberry Finn ran on stage, and the first lines of the play carried out to the audience, loud, clear, and lively. Virginia could sense the whole effect. She handled the strings mechanically with her eyes intent on the small figures. Their heads and features moulded in exaggerated proportion to their bodies, like newspaper caricatures. Their bodies slim and light, with tiny weights in their hands and feet so they would gesture neatly.
The audience was receiving the play well. The high, shrill laughter of the front rows pierced the curtain, and the
operators caught the tempo in the control strings, matching the mood of the unseen audience. Virginia listened cautiously for the hearty roar and chuckle of the adults, but it was slow and thin tonight.	■
She looked back into the darkness for a moment to relieve the glare of the lights, which were fixed exactly to the proper intensity and shadings in the scenery and costumes. There were bright colors in the costumes, scarlet and deep orange in the principal characters contrasted with the soft greens, rich browns and grays of the rest of the cast. The company passed the days between engagements by sitting in the back of a theater and balancing the colors and lighting. Blending the voices and the music consumed other long hours. It was tedious to perform the same action over and over again until the marionette moved exactly with the music, but the completed effect was perfect. Perfect! It’s easy to say “perfect” in a round, modulated voice, but the word has to be deleted from marionette scripts. The shouting, thin voice required to give the illusion that little people are talking, lets the last half of the world fall flat before it gets out under the arch of the proscenium.
. The curtains rolled together at the of the last act and the men brought out the marionette novelties. A puppet Sonja Henie twirled and leaped in a round spotlight thrown onto a tin rink carefully waxed to resemble ice. A piano player with long hair and wild motions beat out solid swing to accompany a tap dancer and six chorus girls. Bill, another operator, was proud of his ability to handle the long multiple controls which worked the chorus girls in precision. Virgania had the lights and music as well as the piano player. For mechanics, it was the trickiest act of the group.
There was a certain freedom about these marionettes. The gayly costumed acrobats in the final act could hop from the floor to the swinging trapeze at the top of the opening and the audience never questioned their capability. Dum
mies can wisecrack and slander, but they will be termed cute, not fresh. They have all the liberty of action of full-size players and have no prejudice of race, color, or creed to overcome. The ideas they represent are conveyed to the audience almost as they are conceived in the mind of the artist. The operators can feel a sympathy extended to the puppets that corresponds to the natural liking of a man for the unintelligent monkey who apes human action.
But deception isn’t the keynote. The cleverness of the magician is of a different variety. The attempt is merely to sing the onlookers to sleep, make them forget the drab realities of the working day, and take pleasure in the delightful play of a miniature world. Virginia remembered the girl who wanted to sit near the back of the theater so she wouldn’t be able to see the strings.
“Then it looks as if they do those things all by themselves,” she had said. Greta Garbo had said the same thing one day when she sat at the bottom of a flight of steps and remarked that it looked as if they led straight up to heaven. A friend rebuked her with the . fact that if she walked to the top of the stairs she could see they didn’t lead to heaven. Greta replied that was why she sat at the bottom.
The men were stripping the stage of the scenery and lights. Virginia slipped the small bags around the marionettes and placed them in individual boxes for the night. The curtain, floor, and pads were folded and fitted into the huge trunk made by folding and joining the sections of the portable stage. Virginia went out to the box office wondering if there was money to cover the steady losses of the past few weeks. The empty theater echoed with the click of her heels coming up the aisle. Perfection. This was a game and she was at the top. The box office was another disappointment. No, it was the only disappointment. There were other steps that she could climb and make Virginia Clark a household ~ name throughout the nation. But these were lovely steps and at the top they still seemed to lead straight up.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CHAMPIONS, ALL OF THEM
Seven Champs Crowned in IOth Bengals
Approximately 4,000 boxing fans roared their approval of eight fast bouts packed with clever, hard fighting at the Fieldhouse Saturday night, on the occasion of the Finals of the tenth annual Bengal Bouts. As a climax to three nights of Preliminaries that were staged before 2,0000 undergraduates, the 16 finalists produced a boxing show that fully compensated the large audience for their part in making possible the greater financial success of the Bouts and the subsequent possibility of a larger contribution to the Bengal, India, Missions of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Five new champions were crowned while two champions successfully defended their titles. Paul Malloy, 120 pound champion of last year’s Bouts and this year’s novice champion of the South Bend Golden Gloves, fought a three-round exhibition with Louis Feraro of Drewrys A. C., the 126 pound champion of the novice division of the Golden Gloves. Malloy won the 120 pound title Thursday night with a second round decision over Joe Beck. Malloy and Feraro fought evenly for three fast rounds to win the loudest applause for any bout in the Tournament.
Hebenstreit-Kravolec Thriller
The feature bout of the evening between Veteran Bruce Hebenstreit and Sophomore Charles Kralovec was stopped midway in the third round by Referee George van Derhayden after Hebenstreit received a gash over his right eye. Hebenstreit and Kralovec fought very cautiously throughout the first and second rounds, Hebenstreit being the more aggressive but unable to tag Kralovec with a dangerous right. In the third round, the two fighters threw aside the
caution they had held during the first two rounds and traded hard blows in close quarters. In the midst of one of these scuffles, Kralovec accidently landed a solid blow with his skull upon Heben-streit’s right eyebrow that opened a deep cut and automatically stopped the fight. This was a keenly anticipated bout as both had won their semi-final match in a fast first 30 seconds of the opening round on Thursday night when Hebenstreit followed Kralovec’s quick victory over Bob Dowd with a equally fast win over Bill Smyth.
Rod Maguire defended his 145 pound title for the third year with a technical knockout over Jim Rice in the third round. Maguire started to work on Rice in the first round with hard lefts and rights that had Rice drooping on the ropes at the end of the first round, but only after Rice had staggered Maguire with a hard right. Maguire scored a knockdown at the end of the second and another at the beginning of the third that flattened Rice for nine counts, after which time the fight was stopped and the T.K.O. awarded to Maguire.
Dan Canale took a three-round decision from Sammy Meyer, defending champion in the 127 pound class. Fighting from a solid but maneuverable stance that enabled him to drive hard with either hand, Canale carried the fight to Meyer from the first round, found more difficulty in trying to solve Meyer’s defense and avoid the latter’s hard right hand punch in the second and third rounds but amassed a higher total of clean hits to win the title.	-
Hoyne Wins Title and Trophy
Bill Hoyne unseated the 175 pound champion, Jerry Ryan with the benefit
of a very close decision. The two fought rather evenly throughout the first two rounds, Ryan landing slightly more punches but Hoyne scoring the more dangerous blows. In the third frame, Hoyne found his mark more readily and created the margin of his victory. As a result of his performance in the Finals and during two preliminary bouts, Hoyne was awarded the’Sportsmanship trophy, presented by the Huddle, campus confectionary.
Adrian Padon went to work on Louis Schmitz early in their fight for the title in the 135 pound division. Pulling hard rights and lefts from behind his shoulder, Padon slammed at Schmitz with more accuracy during the second and third rounds but couldn’t overcome Schmitz’s advantage in reach well enough to score a knockdown. Padon won by a decision.
Bill McGrath found plenty of first-round opposition from George Greene but scored two knockdowns with two very hard rights to win the title by a technical knockout in the second round of the 155 pound title bout. Saturday night’s victory was McGrath’s second title in three years’ competition in the Bouts.
Tom Nolan won by a decision over Joe Costello in the 165 pound title bout. Nolan opened up Costello’s defense midway in the first round with short lefts and right cross punches, keeping Costello in a dazed condition for the greater portion of the fight. However, Costello remained on his feet and at the end of the third round Nolan appeared to be more tired of throwing punches than Costello of catching them. Because of his ability to absorb the attack from Tony Galento-like Nolan and still counter with an attack of his own, Costello was a very close contender for the Sportsmanship cup.
The trophy which is awarded to the hall housing the greatest number of winners in the four nights of the Bouts was presented to Alumni hall. The award was sponsored by the Reco Sporting Goods Store of South Bend.
—Tom Potcers
Riska Makes All-Western
Notre Dame’s basketball captain, flashy Eddie Riska, was named forward on the Chicago Herald-Examiner AllWestern team of 1941, recently. In spite of a broken foot that kept him out of the line-up for five weeks, Eddie was listed as one of the nation’s top bucketflingers. He was a constant scoring threat and his sparkling all-around play rounded out a brilliant basketball career at Notre Dame.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Golf Links Open Tomorrow
10 Match Card Announced
Weather permitting, the University golf course will open officially tomorrow. The Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., varsity golf coach, made this statement with a touch of anxiety in his voice. Father Holderith’s anxiety was caused by his desire to have varsity golf team aspirants practicing on the course as soon as possible.
Father Holerith declined to comment on the prospects of this year’s squad until he has had the opportunity of watching them work out for a while. Only three monogram men are returning to the squad this year: Sammy Neild who captured the University championship this fall, Bill Wilson, and Milo Wolf. Twenty or more other men are expected to be out battling for berths on the team.
The schedule this year calls for eight dual matches, the State meet, and the National Intercollegiate Championships. The schedule follows:
1941 Notre Dame Golf Schedule
April 19—Purdue at Lafayette.
April 21—lillionis at Notre Dame.
April 28—Wisconsin at Notre Dame.
May 5—Michigan at Norte Dame.
May 9—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
May 12—Minnesota at Minneapolis.
May 17—Northwestern at Evanston.
May 22—Detroit at Notre Dame.
May 24—Indiana State Tournament at Lafayette.
June 23-28—National Intercollegiate at Columbus, Ohio.—Robert LeMense
Gym Team Schedule
The schedule of the University Gym Team was announced early this week by Mr. John Scannell, coach and head of the Department of Physical Education.
The tentative schedule is as follows:
March 25—At Washington Play School for the St. Joseph County Parent-Teachers Association.
March 28—At Elkhart High School, Elkhart, Ind.
April 1—At the Young Men’s Christian Association in South Bend for the Combined Clubs of the Association.
April 4—At Valparaiso High School.
Coach Scannell said that he could not comment on the personnel! of the team because of the late start the group made with pre-season practice. Many other engagements are to be scheduled in the near future.
Splinters From the Press Box
~ JAMES NEWLAND—......	~
Since the successful staging of last week’s Bengal Bouts, the cry that Notre Dame should rightfully have a boxing team has been heard and discussed with unusual gusto and enthusiasm. University fight fans point to' the large crowds that gathered in the fieldhouse three preliminary nights on an average of 1200 a night and the 4000 persons, more or less, Saturday night, in stressing proof of the statement that N.D. is definitely behind the times by not having a boxing team. Most every person who saw last week’s bouts fought them over and over again, verbally of course, in every residence hall and in most every class room.
Before taking sides in this popular discussion on whether or not Notre Dame is really missing something by not having a fight team and whether or not it could profit to any great extent by having a team, let’s take a review look over last Saturday’s final bouts, which saw the cream of the crop perform before a truly appreciative audience.
Those sixteen fighters, first of all, were in the ring Saturday night only because they fought their way through a highly competitive field of some 50 fighters, who in turn represented only half the field of fighters who originally trained for the fights under the capable guidance of Professor Dominic Napolitano. Many entries did not participate in the preliminaries because of overweight, colds, measles, etc. Had every boy who trained participated in the bouts, fans would have witnessed some 18 to 20 fights each preliminary evening.
This item alone, we believe, definitely proves the unusual interest on the part of many local athletes to engage in this sport, where the fighter learns to give and take—all by himself. We would venture to say that few colleges or universities proportionate in size to Notre Dame could boast having more than 100 fighters show such vivid interest in this sport, fighters willing to work long and train hard for the opportunity to display their boxing skill for such a good cause. What if they had something more tangible to work for?
When Paul Malloy, 120-pound artist, stepped through the ropes to meet South Bend’s Louis Feraro, fans saw one of the classiest boxers ever to perform in this particular weight at Notre Dame. Malloy, a sophomore, and a two-time
winner in his division, is also holder of this year’s South Bend Novice Golden Gloves title. Moving along to the 127-pound division, Dan Canale, a junior, and Sammy Meyer, sophomore, put on a great exhibition. Adrian Padon, a sophomore and- winner over Louis Schmitz in the 135-pound show, gives Notre Dame an excellent puncher and a • smart boxer. The ever-dangerous Rod Maguire in the 145-pound class, speaks for himself. This gentleman has the respect of every fighter and fight fan on this campus. Few persons - would disagree with the statement that Maguire could hold his own with most any fighter on the collegiate level in his division. He will return next year.
Bill McGrath and George Greene, two veteran Bengal fighters, are definitely dangerous in the 155-pound division. Either boy has the ability to successfully represent Notre Dame in this division. Tom Nolan, a freshman, was this year’s “up-from-the-floor” swinger and he put on a fine show in the 165-pound class.
Bill Hoyne, winner over Jerry Ryan, in the 175-pound show, reached the finals after two hard preliminary assignments. In Chuck Kralovic, a sophomore, Notre Dame has an excellent specimen of boxing cleverness. Winner over Bruce Hebenstreit in last week’s heavyweight finals, Kralovic, we believe, has the ability to stack up with many of the better-known college scrappers.
There you have it. Paul Malloy, Dan Canale, Sammy Meyer, Adrian Padon, Rod MaGuire, Bill McGrath, George Greene, Tom Nolan, Bill Hoyne, and Chick Kralovic. Truly these boys would make a boxing team fit for a king. At the same time they would be forced to the limit always, because other Bengal entries are not push overs by a long shot.
All things being equal, it would appear that with such definite potential talent on this campus, a boxing team, if organized in a suitable way, obviously appears to be in order. Notre Dame, the nation’s number one leader in football, and always the top-notch champions in basketball and track, could develop into a leader in boxing as well. With Mr. Napolitano at the helm, the University has a man who knows the game inside out. His exceptional success with fighters even for the Bengal Bouts when he trains them only for six weeks, speaks for itself. Yes, we would like to see a Notre Dame.Boxing team for 1941-42.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
r By AL DEL ZOPPO =
Getting out in to the world and earning a living isn’t going to be a new or difficult experience for Frank Sheets when he graduates this June. For Frank has already been places and done things that few college men can ever hope to experience in their life-time. He has flown to South America and back on a Pan-American Clipper. He has helped to build an oil line through the wilds of Colombia. He has seen real South Ameri
can Indians ambush na
tives working on the oil line. In fact, he has experienced so many interesting adventures that one would be inclined to be skeptical about them if he didn’t see hundreds of snapshots which verify Frank’s story.
South America isn’t the only place where Frank has done things. Back in Sugar Grove, Ohio, he distinguished himself in high school by his achievements in track, baseball, and basketball. Frank might have been a decathlon champ if his high school had not discontinued track in his sophomore year. For as a freshman he competed in the sprints, broad-jump, hig jump, and discus throw.
Sheets played a lot of base for his high school baseball team, but he tells us that he was a better basketball player than a baseball player. “We didn’t have a very good basketball team in high school,” says Frank commenting on his basketball career, “but we got a big kick out of getting into tournaments and knocking off the tough teams.”
Here at Notre Dame, Sheets has forsaken his main high school sports and has made a good record for himselw in track. Frank shunned the sport as a freshman, partially succeeded in shunning it as a sophomore by not competing indoors, but succumbed to the temptation to run when the outdoor season began and reported for practice. The long lay-off from track didn’t seem to do Frank any good, for he failed to make any immediate impression on Coach Nicholson.
It was not until his junior year, after his return from a nine-month stretch of tractor-driving and mechanical work in Colombia, that Frank gained a spot on N.D.’s track team. Coach Bill Mahoney, who had been Frank’s teammate when Frank was a sophomore, gave the Ohio boy a chance to compete in the sprints and in the broad-jump. And Frank had no trouble in winning a monogram. Against Michigan State he placed
FRANKS SPECIALTIES ARP THE DASH ES AND BROAOJVMR
second in both the 100 and 200 yard runs, and he made a fine showing in the State meet by placing second in the 220, and third in the broad jump. This year with Notre Dame strong in the sprint events, Coach Mahoney has had Sheets concentrate on broad-jumping until Frank is now our ace man in this event. He has placed in every indoor dual meet held this year, with his best efforts being a first against Marquette and a second against Michigan State.
When Frank Sheets receives his degree in mechanical engineering this June he is slated to do some more travelling. Not to South America, but to Charleston, S. C., where a job is waiting for him with the Carbide and Carbon Co.
Pool Records Set as N. D.
Mermen Nipped by Indiana
Three pool records were broken last Friday night as the Notre Dame swimming team lost a close meet to the Indiana University tankmen in the Rockne Memorial pool. The final score of the meet, which was the finale of the two game series for the Irish, was 49%-34% in favor of Indiana.
The score, however, does not indicate the closeness of the meet. Photo-finishes featured the entire meet and in the 200 yd. free style the first three men were only a foot apart. In this race Van Duran and Pakucko of Indiana tied for first place and Russell of Notre Dame finished a scant foot behind the two. Likewise in the 50 yd. free style event Beneditti of Indiana nosed out Hastings and Haninger of Notre Dame by inches. A new pool record of 25.1 was set by Beneditti in this event.
Another pool record was slashed in the 150 yd. back stroke, as Boaz and Franklin, the two Hoosier aces, finished only three feet apart. Finneran of Notre Dame finished third. The record-breaking time in this event was 1:52.5.
The climax of the meet was reached in the 400 yd. relay, which was the final event on the program. The Irish team of Kuntz, McCarthy, Russell and Hastings swam a dead heat with the powerful Indiana team for the entire race, before pulling away to win by a matter of inches and set a new pool record of 3:51 in this event.
This meet closed the abbreviated season for the Irish. Although they lost two meets to powerful Big Ten representatives, members of the Notre Dame team have gained valuable competitive experience and. a nucleus has been formed for an even more powerful team next season.
300 Yard Medley Relay: 1st. Indiana. 2nd. Notre Dame. Time: 3:20.6.
200 Yard Free Style: 1st. Van Duran, • and Pakucko of Indiana (tie) ; 3rd. Russell, Notre Dame. Time: 2:30.7.
50 Yard Free Style: 1st. Beneditti, Indiana. 2nd. Hastings, Notre Dame. 3rd. Haninger, Notre Dame. Time: 25.1.
Diving: 1st. Hall, Indiana. 2nd. Hoyer, Notre Dame. 3rd. Cotter, Notre Dame.
100 Yard Free Style: 1st. Hastings, Notre Dame. 2nd. Beneditti, Indiana. 3rd. Pakucko of Indiana and Haninger of Notre Dame (tie). Time: 56.8.
150 Yard Back Stroke: 1st. Boaz, Indiana. 2nd. Doerr, Notre Dame. 3rd. Finneran, Notre Dame. Time: 1:52.5.
200 Yard Breast Stroke: 1st. Franklin, Indiana. 2nd. Klafs, Indiana. 3rd. Cotter, Notre Dame. Time: 2:44.4.
440 Yard Free Style: 1st. Van Duran, Indiana. 2nd. Hassett, Notre Dame. 3rd. O’Connor, Notre Dame. Time: 5:44.
400 Yard Relay: 1st. Notre Dame. 2nd. Indiana. Time: 3:51.
—Ray Donovan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Klinemen Outside—After Month Indoors
5 N.D. Fencers in National Tournament at Ohio State
Andy Chlebeck
With over a month of indoor workouts behind them, some 60 aspiring baseball candidates took advantage of a break in the weather last week-end to move outdoors where, un- . der the watchful eye of Coach Jake Kline, the athletes limbered up with pepper games, fly-shagging, and a little batting practice. Hopeful of getting in as many outdoor workouts as he can before the opening game with Purdue on April 10, Coach Kline said: “We’re outside now, and we’re going to
stay until a blizzard drives us in.”
In appraising his candidates, Coach Kline reiterated that every position on the team is wide open, and now that outdoor competition has started, the work of the next week or so ought to enable him to get enough of a line on his players, to prune the squad down to the 30 men he intends to carry for the season.
At this writing, terrific battles for positions are going on in every department of the game with the men so evenly matched in fielding capabilities, that only the hitting in the practice games is left to determine the starting lineup on opening day.
Going around the infield, we find Don Hengel and Jack Tallett, the latter a 6' 4" soph, who needs only experience to qualify him as a first-grade performer, battling for the initial sack, with Chuck Farrell, whose injured shoulder is gaining added strength with each passing day, determined to win back the job he held as a regular last year.
At the keystone sack, George Sobek, last year’s regular, and veteran Don McGuire, are being hard pressed by Fred Gore, a flashy soph, who has further improved his status by being able to operate on either side of the middle station with equal agility.
Chuck Crimmins, third base understudy last year and the club’s leading pinch-hitter, heads the shortstop candidates, with sophomore Joe Campagna, an outstanding ball-player, conceding Chuck nothing in his effort to take over first-string shortstop duties.
Ray Pinelli, only .300 hitter returning for service this year, moves from short to the hot corner by reason of a stronger
arm with a bullet-like peg. He is likely to hold sway against all challengers, of whom the leader is Jack Clifford, a boy with worlds of speed and a potent bat.
Football Claims Captain Chlebeck
In the outer-garden, the team is handicapped by the loss of footballers Andy Chlebeck, this year’s diamond captain, Tom Callahan and Jack Warner, who figured prominently in the outfield plans of Coach Kline, and who have been deferred from further baseball activities until the Spring football drills are over. While this is bad news to Jake, it is good news to some 15 other fly-chasers, who will let their bats do the talking in the matter of winning first-string jobs.
Inexperience seems to be the keynote of Coach Kline’s pitching corps; for with Rex Ellis, Norv Hunthausen, and Tony Celia graduated, Coach Kline is left without a seasoned performer. In the limelight at the present time are, Sebastian Nowicki, a holdover from last year, and sophomore hurlers Bob Fisher and Johnny Metzger. The former, however, is nursing a sore arm, while the latter, possessing a wicked cannon-ball, is short of control. Two other sophs, Vince Jerry and “Lefty” Pfeiffer, have also shown to advantage in the early season drills. Making the boys winners, Jake admits, is his biggest task.
Catching the above mentioned lads, are Bernie Crimmins, last year’s No. 1 backstop, who was also caught in the football draft, and thus will be lost for the first few weeks of the campaign. Taking over in the absence of Crimmins will be Al Vandervoort, a peppy little receiver, with Mike Kelly, “the Piper City Flash,” and Wally McNamara offering enough competition to keep Al on his toes. •
“The Same Old Story”
In summing up the situation, “Jake” bemoans the fact that this is the poorest material he has had to work with in years, but is confident that what his club lacks in playing ability, it will make up in hustle and spirit. Biggest handicap the Irish have to overcome, according to the diamond mentor, is the fact that all our Big Ten opponents are making a Southern trip this year, and thus will get a terrific jump on our club right from the start. “The campaign is all too short to get the most out of our boys,” said Jake, “but with an even share of the breaks, and a little sunshine from the weather-man, we expect to ’ come through with another winning season.”
—Jim Clemens
Tomorrow, the National Intercollegiate Fencing Championships will be contested at Ohio State University at Columbus, Ohio. Five fencers will represent Notre Dame. These are Captain Jack Gaither and Russell Harris in the foil; Mike Humphreys and Herb Melton in the saber; and Jim Corbett in the epee event.
Seventy-five entries, representing universities from all over the nation, form a barrier to Notre Dame’s hope of gaining the permanent trophy donated by Yale University and awarded to the team that wins the most bouts. Despite the competition, Coach Langford expects his boys to do well.
A fencing tournament for freshmen will start Monday and probably end Thursday, April 3.—Bill Rogers
Shift Prokop to Fullback;
Leahy Awaits Scrimmage
Uncertain weather has forced spring football practice, now in its third week, to be largely restricted to drills in the • fieldhouse.
Coach Frank Leahy has engineered several changes of Consequence in the squad lineup. Blond Joe Prokop, who experienced adjusting himself to the duties of a right halfback, seems to have found himself in his new post at fullback. On the basis of two or three outdoor drills, Coach Leahy waxed enthusiastically over his new fullback. “Prokop handles himself well on plunge plays • through the line and possesses fine potentialities.”
Another move has converted big Wally Ziemba from his tackle position to center. Still another change destined to bolster up the middle of the line saw freshman full-back, Bob McBride, shifted to left guard.
Coach Leahy summed up the past week’s work by saying, “In fact, ’ the present attitude of the boys in general is fine and I am pleased to see them exhibiting so much enthusiasm.”
Frank L. Kunkel
Rockne Memorial News
The annual intramural handball tournament now in progress is the last major tourney of this term. A large field of entrants has been attracted.
A fencing tournament for freshmen will start Monday and probably end Thursday, April 3.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Irish Close Successful
Indoor Track Season
Notre Dame’s 1941 indoor track season was officially brought to a close last Saturday as nine members of the squad represented the University at the Chicago Relays. The very successful indoor season began on Feb. 7 with a dual meet here, with Michigan State furnishing the opposition. The sophomore-studded band of thinlies won two of three dual meets and captured first place in the Central Collegiate meet as well as competing in the Butler, Illinois, and Chicago Relays. This record looks especially good when compared with last year’s indoor record of one win in four dual meets and third place in the Central Collegiate.
N.D. 84, Mich. State 20
In the opening meet on Feb. 7, the Irish ran Michigan State into the ground by a score of 84 to 20. The ■ Spartans were able to capture only two of 12 firsts. Notre Dame swept three events: the one mile run, the 60 yd. dash, and the 880 yd. run. Notre Dame captured at least two places in every event. Outstanding performances were Keith O’Rourke’s double victory in the broad and high jumps, and Bill Nicholson’s first in the high hurdles and second in the high jump.
O’Rourke Sets III. Relay Record
The following week Coach Mahoney led his tracksters to Champaign and the 18th annual Illinois Relays. Here Keith O’Rourke established a new meet record by clearing the high-jump bar at 6 feet 6% inches and Notre Dame’s sophomore four mile relay quartet forced Indiana’s foursome to set a new meet record in capturing the event. Jim Delaney captured second place in the shot put, Captain Joe Olbrys placed third in the 1000 yd. run, and Ray Roy copped a second in the 300 yd. dash.
A Washington Birthday present went to Indiana as the Hoosier mile relay quartet won the last event on the card. Notre Dame captured five of the 11 individual events in piling up 471/3 points in Indiana’s 56 2/3. Had the Irish won the relay event they would have won the meet by two-thirds of a point. The Hoosiers scored a clean sweep in the one mile run, and Notre Dame won all three places in the low hurdles. Indiana’s Campbell Kane was the only double winner of the day, taking both mile and half-mile events. Bill Buenger was the outstanding Irish performer; his time of 6.3 in the 60 yd. dash wras one of the best of the meet.
Irish Smother Marquette
March came to Notre Dame bringing with it a Marquette squad that boasted of 15 consecutive dual meet victories. The Hilltoppers left, stinging from the 79 to 25 defeat handed them by Irish. Outstanding event of the meet was Jim Delaney’s record - shattering toss of the 16 pound shot. His mark of 51' IVz” set a new meet record, a new Notre Dame gym record and a new Notre Dame indoor record. Notre Dame whitewashed the Hilltoppers in but one event, the 65 yd. low hurdles race, as she captured nine individual firsts and tied for a tenth. Marquette’s only first was Ely Francis’ meet record-breaking two mile victory. Sophomores Oliver
Hunter and Frank Conforti broke Greg Rice’s meet record as they ran a dead heat in the one mile run. Their time of 4:22.4 was nearly 2 seconds faster than Rice’s record set in 1938.
N.D. Wins Central Conference
Jim Delaney again set a new meet record as the Irish compiled a total of 49 points in edging out Pittsburgh to capture the 15th annual Central Collegiate Conference indoor meet. Pittsburgh garnered 43 points; Michigan Normal was third with 22 points; and defending champion Marquette placed fourth with 19% points. Delaney’s toss of 49' 6%", breaking Don Elser’s five-year-old meet record by seven inches, was the only
You can’t fool a little feathered friend about spring migrations !The smart bird knows that Greyhound is the easiest way to flit home to the family nest and back to college again when vacation time’s over. The saving is plenty big—in both time and money and the trip’s more fun in a Super-Coach full of friends. There’s an extra saving, as usual, on round-trip tickets. So be kind to your pocketbook—and to yourself—go Greyhound.
One Round
Bus Fares Way Trip
N. Y. City Cleveland, O. Boston, Mass. Chicago, Ill. Philadelphia Springfield, Mass.
$11.75 $19.80
3.60
13.05
1.25
10.50
6.50
21.70
2.25
18.90
12.00
Pittsburgh, Pa. 5.50
Providence, R.I. Detroit, Mich. Buffalo, N. Y. St. Louis, Mo. Louisville, Ky. Cincinnati, O.
Washington, D.C. 9.95
13.05
21.60
9.90
21.70
3.00 . 5.40
6.25
5.20
4.70
4.45
11.25
9.40
8.50
8.05
17.95
GREYHOUND
aw / //yjFS MMHilfllH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
new record set. Ray Roy successfully defended his quarter-mile crown and later anchored the Irish’s winning mile relay team and Keith O’Rourke took first in the high jump. Ollie Hunter was the meet’s high point man. After being edged out by Quinn of Michigan Normal in the mile run Hunter came back and won the two mile event in 9:35.5. Quinn’s time of 4:16.5 for the mile was the third fastest mile ever registered at Notre Dame.
’ N.D. Third at Butler Relays
In spite of taking two first places the Irish were able to garner but 25 l/3 points and third place at the Butler Relays in Indianapolis on March 15. Delaney and O’Rourke again copped the firsts. In the relay races Notre Dame gained third place in the one and four mile events, fourth place in the two mile, and a third in the medley relay. Bill Buenger placed fourth in the 60 yd. dash that was fast enough to tie the world’s record of 6.1 seconds.
Relay Team Wins at Chi. Relays
In the final indoor meet, the Chicago Relays, Notre Dame entered three events and placed in each of them. The mile relay team of Fehlig, Tupta, Schiewe and Roy took first place, Keith ' O’Rourke gained second place in the high jump, and the two mile relay team placed third.
Although the indoor season is over. Coach Bill Mahoney’s thinlies are still working out in the fieldhouse each afternoon. Distance men are outside touring the cross country route around the lakes and when the cinder path inside Cartier Field dries out a little the tracksters will work outside. Present prospects for a fine outdoor squad are excellent although there is a shortage of javelin and discus throwers.—Bill Reynolds
Campus Bowling
Fourteen weeks of actual campus bowling competition came to a close last Wednesday as Dillon Hall emerged victorious with a record of 30 games won and 12 lost, and Sorin downed Walsh Hall in the second place playoff. The members of the Dillon and Sorin teams will receive gold and silver medals respectively. The other teams competing and the order in which they finished were: “Joe Jitters”; “The Midgets”; “Spagnuolo’s Galloping Gaels”; “Fayette’s Fadeouts”; and the St. Edward’s A.C.—Mark G. McGrath
Found Items
Five rings, three fountain pens, a set of keys and a rosary and cross set await claimers at the Rockne Memorial. Losers should see Mr. Thomas Mills, director.
AU roads lead to TOWN & COUNTRY SHETLAND
Casually correct .... you are assured they combine perfect Fashion and Fit. TOWN & COUNTRY Shetlands are soft.... and comfortable to wear. Both Herringbone and Diagonals patterns are in our large Spring (tQ P collection for the well-dressed College man_O
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115V2 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
JOHN SIEVERT	CAFT. MILT “MOOSE” PIEPUL	JOHN RYAN
234 Alumni	137 Walsh Hall	337 Walsh
20
THE
BOSTONS
124 S. Michigan Street
For Your Smartest Attire...
They're a hit with young men —our broguish,Modem Aristocrat shoes with the exclusive, mellow-rich CORDWAINER Hand Finish. See them today.
And—A Host of Other EASTER STYLES
Priced from $3.25 to $7.75
Removable Cleats
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
250 Bask Under Sun Lamp Daily
Most surprising thing about the Rockne Memorial sun lamp is that it is not technically a sun lamp, but, with the type of carbons that are burned, it is a heat lamp. Greatest benefit of the giant, buzzing ray machine is in the clearing up of skin diseases.
The lamp was purchased and installed in the “Rock” just before the building was opened, at the suggestion of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., who was president of the University at that time. Bishop O’Hara himself is a great sport enthusiast, and seldom visits Notre Dame without taking a treatment under the lamp.
Price of the machine was $3,500, and it costs about $4 an hour to operate, so fast does it consume carbons. Besides helping to clear the skin its rays contain health giving vitimin D. Contrary to belief, the lamp will not give a tan, unless either an oil is used on the skin, or in rare cases when the skin contains certain pigments.
When the lamp was first turned on in 1939 the crowds of students desiring to use it were so great that men sometimes had to wait an hour before getting their turn under the ray. Many of the first users suffered swollen eyes for their
Naval Selection Board
Interviews Candidates
To fly one of the navy’s giant new flying boats, was the ambition of Notre Dame students who were interviewed and given physical examinations by the naval cadet selection board her on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of this week.
Every month 66 men are chosen by the traveling board for preliminary training at the Glenview, Hl., Naval Reserve aviation base, which starts them off toward a commisison and career as naval flying officers.
On Wednesday afternoon, before the board started its interviews, the opportunities for college men in naval aviation and the procedures to follow in securing a commission as a naval flying officer were outlined at an open meeting in Washington hall. Addressing the meeting were Captain W. F. Amsden, U.S.N., Director of Naval Reserve for the ninth naval district, who came from Washington, D. C., to attend the meeting; Commander Felix McWhirter, U.S.-N.R., of Indianapolis; and Lt. C. G. Olsen, senior member of the Chicago area Naval Aviation cadet selection board. The program was under the di
failure to keep them covered. Cotton is now supplied for this use, and no one is allowed under the lamp without this protection.
At present the lamp, which is turned on from 3 to 5 every afternoon except Saturday and Sunday, is used by about 250 students a day. Busiest season is before holidays, when sometimes as many as 900 visit the lamp in the back of the locker room, all desiring to take home a Florida tan. Many are the puzzled faces when instead of browning, the skin drys or just turns a sickly yellow.
Jim Curran, graduate physical education student, and George Bartuska, Rockne pool life guard, supervise the operation of the machine and announce the time very five minutes to keep the lamp patients from getting a burn.
Recommended" length of a treatment is five to seven minutes on" each side, but most men with light complexion are advised to take less, lest they receive a bad burn. Real danger is in falling asleep from the soothing warmth. A freshman last semester awoke after having spent an hour and a quarter under the ray. A hurried trip to the infirmary saved him from serious effects. Students in charge wake any they find falling asleep.—James V. Cunningham
rection of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University.
In order to enlist in this preliminary flight training course, applicants had to have been citizens of the United States for at least ten years, be between 20 and 26 years old, and unmarried. Only those who had satisfactorily completed one half or more of the college work necessary for a degree were considered. Each candidate who possessed these requirements was given a thorough physical examination by a naval medical board which was stationed in the students’ infirmary.
CAA secondary and primary students were particularly urged to come before the board. Any who went before the board could have their flight training" active service deferred until the end of the school year.
—James V. Cunningham
"The Lone Wolf Strikes" Movie Here Saturday
Tomorrow evening in Washington Hall the feature motion picture presen- ' tation will be Columbia’s “The Lone Wolf Strikes.” The program includes a Walt Disney cartoon and an RKO news-reel.
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Interwoven.

SHORT SOCKS
New Mens Shop
McElroy Watercolor Show Held in Wightman Gallery
A memorial exhibition of watercolors by the late Wilbur J. McElroy, a graduate in 1926 of the Notre Dame department of architecture, is in progress at the Wightman Art Gallery in the University library. The exhibition, open from two to five o’clock every afternoon, vnll continue through April 10.
Mr. McElroy, upon his graduation from the University, was employed in an architect’s office in New York, whence he branched into commercial advertising. He soon took up further studies at the Grand Central School of Art in New York.
Later, with his brother Paul, a graduate of the University’s department of art, he went abroad to Europe and Dalmatia, where he did considerable painting. From there he went to Tahiti and did additional paintings, some of which are shown in the memorial exhibition.
The last five years of his life—with the exception of short visits to Florida— were spent on his Maine estate, where he died in November, 1940. There he worked at house designing and painting.
The work of Mr. McElroy, while attending the University, was exceedingly fine, and upon his graduation, Ralph Adams Cramm, one of the nation’s leading architects, declared his work to be “perfect.”
Of the present exhibition, Mr. Francesco Montana, A.D.G.F., instructor in architecture at the University, says the following: “Mr. McElroy’s watercolors show his complete understanding and grasp of his medium, along with color composition and excellent draughtsmanship. He has been able to portray time, place and atmosphere, a quality very often lacking in other artists.
“In his Tahiti watercolors, the artist has used the white paper very effectively and in places has taken advantage of the rough texture to obtain a sparkling effect through the use of a dry brush. There is no working-over which would destroy the natural clarity of th'e color. Most watercolors are painted so full of color—with color in the light, color in the half-tones, color in the shadows, and color in the skies—that they become just so much paint. Contrasts or opposites in color are needed as well as contrasts in black and white.
“To sum up, Mr. McElroy’s work has drawing, directness, simplicity, and a good relation of values and proper balance of color.”—John A. Lynch
Lucky Drawing
The last drawing at the Bookstore was so popular that we are offering to the lucky number a fine
12. J0. lamp
(See it on display in the Store)
Register any time before Tuesday, April 8. The prize will be presented Tuesday before the Easter vacation.
Easter Cards— 5c and up
A variety of cards to convey your Easter greeting.
Book Store
Badin Hall
Conveniently Located In the Lobbies of
HOTEL OLIVER HOTEL HOFFMANN HOTEL LASALLE
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SHOE DEN FOR MEN
Give yeur feet back to the Indians
• WIGWAM $6.50
These new "Wigwam" moccasins are styled for the modern campus. Smart and new in appearance with a distinctive air about them that you'll enjoy from the minute you first slip into a pair. In light tans or browns in leather or crepe soles.
120 South Michigan
Professor Hoyer Leaves For Work in Chicago
Raymond A. Hoyer, professor of social work at the University of Notre Dame from 1924 till October, 1940, and since then case-work supervisor of the St. Joseph county department of public welfare, resigned the latter position last week to do further welfare work as coordinator for the Chicago area, with offices in Chicago. There he will be organizer of community service for health, welfare, and related defense activities, a division of the federal security agency.
Mr, Hoyer’s work in Chicago will be the coordination and promotion of leisuretime activities in communities adjacent to military and naval establishments for men of the service. In a similar position Mr. Hoyer served under the war department in the first World War.
In the past he has also been connected with the Boy Scouts of America, the St. Joseph Valley council, the Community Fund and the Vincentian Service bureau. His son, Thomas, is a junior at the University.
Ireland Calm — Manion on St. Patrick's Day
Although caught in the direct crossfire of war, the Irish of Ireland are still calm, unhysterical, and determined to stay out of the war, was the opinion expressed by Clarence “Pat” Manion, professor of Constitutional Law, when he addressed the Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick at their 157th anniversary dinner in New York on March 17.
Professor Manion declared, “Ireland has properly determined that the precious freedom paid for in installments of heroic martyrs throughout the centuries shall not be wagered upon the uncertainties of a mad conflict, even though that conflict is being waged upon her very threshold.
“The whole world knows that Ireland is no appeaser. Whoever invades Ireland will meet with stubborn and relentless resistance which will extend through centuries if necessary.”
He concluded with the wish that the modern, faith, hope and confidence of Ireland in her ability to maintain peace with freedom and independence may have a sobering influence upon the present trend' of American opinion.
—James V. Cunningham
Professor Cronin Sees
Need of Health Program
“The Need for a National Health Program,” was the subject of Professor
John J. Cronin of the department of social work, when he addressed the League of Women Voters in Michigan City on Tuesday evening.
Professor Cronin has long been a student of German and British health insurance, having studied at the University of Chicago under Sir Ronald Davidson of the London School of Economics, and Dr. Walter Friedlander, formerly executive director of the department of public welfare, Berlin,
—James V. Cunningham
What Brains -What a Memory!
And you, too, can easily be a memory marvel when it comes to remembering the South Shore schedule to Chicago. Here’s all you need to know:
Trains leave South Bend 30 minutes past the hour from 7:30 A. M. to 9:30 P. M. Two early morning trains, at 6 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Two late evening trains, at 11 P. M. and 12 Midnight.
For detailed information call
C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
“The MEN’S Corner"
Sociology Class Visits St. Joseph County Jail
Students enrolled in the “Correctional Problems” course taught by Mr. Frank T. Flynn of the department of sociology, visited the St. Joseph County Jail last Saturday. This visit is one of several planned for those students enrolled in the Criminology Sequence of the department of sociology.
NOTRE DAME REBUILT IN 1879 (Continued from Page 11) to help build a new Notre Dame. Civil War General Sherman telegraphed from Washington that he would send army cots for use of the students if school was to be continued. At the same time a railroad ticket agent wired that student rates home would be cut in half. A letter was received from St. Mary’s Academy bearing sympathy and §200.
Through that spring and all through the summer the walls of Notre Dame arose again. So hastily, in fact, did the workmen put them up that one day, after three walls had arisen, the workers turned around and found a grove of 20 cedars growing where the south wall was destined. In their haste they had overlooked the trees, had almost left a thicket growing in the future office of the president. The grove was soon eradicated and Father Corby’s promise was
fulfilled by September.—Don Heltzel
Mass Calendar:
March 30 - April 5
Sunday, 30 — Passion Sunday. 2d prayer, for the Church. Preface of the Cross (in every mass unless otherwise noted).
Monday, 31—Feria. 2d prayer, for the Church, 3d, for Peace.- Requiem.
Tuesday, April 1—Feria. 2nd and 3d prayers as yesterday.
Wednesday, 2—St. Francis of Paul, Confessor. 2d prayer, of the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Last Gospel, of the Feria. Ferial Mass: 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
Thursday, 3—Feria. 2d and 3d prayers as on Monday.
Friday, 4—The Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 2d prayer, of the Feria. 3d. for Peace. Preface of the Blessed Virgin. Last Gospel, of the Feria. Ferial Mass: 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
Saturday, 5—St. Vincent Ferrer, Confessor. Mass: Os justi (in Common). 2d prayer, of the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Last Gospel, of the Feria. Ferial Mass: 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
Introducing the COVERT COAT s2500
A smart new coat for men in the new knee length.... made up of beautiful covert cloth with fly front. You’ll get a world of satisfaction in wearing this quality coat.
Improve Your HAT-I-TUDEt with a New LEE Water-Bloc*
THE
CASCADE
S500
A 2-ounce hat by the famous LEE Water-Bloc process. The Cascade will wear longer because it takes three times as long to make. It’s rollable, foldable and super-serviceable.
LEE also makes:
Aetna, “The Insured Hat,” $3.50.
Look for the Lee Hat signs
5 KflTZ
I > MEN AND I 'bfOUNCi&f
MAIN AT COL PAX
LEE HATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“On the Corner”
MAX ADLER
Michigan at Washington
RADIO
for college men!
Here’s the Shirt you asked for
ARROW DOUBLER
See It at Max Adler s
Indoors	S2 and
/ At last, here’s a double duty shirt that f serves you equally well as a sports . shirt or as a regular shirt. The trick is mCATlL in the low-band, long-pointed convert-1/ 1/ ible Arrow Collar.
,nie j)oubier Shirt has two button-thru pockets and a French seam front. The fabric is oxford or twill flannel ... both durable and San-forized-Shrunk (shrinkage less than 1%). You’ll have practically two comfortable and smart shirts for the price of one. In white and solid colors. $2 and $2.50. Buy this utilitarian value today!
ARROW SHIRTS
Those students who had their radio sets tuned in on WSBT last Tuesday afternoon heard a very fine radio production advertising the regional conference of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, which will be held at St. Mary’s College from April 25 to 28.
The play dealt with the founding of the Houses of Hospitality by Dorothy Day and Peter Maurin. Ray Kelly, author of the play, dealt with this religious activity with restrained expertness.
The cast, which did a good job with this subtle subject, included Emily Upton and Marge Hall of St. Mary’s, Ray Kelly and Ed Corey of Notre Dame.
This was the third production in the series which is designed to arouse student interest in the confraternity and its program of Catholic action. This series is under the joint chairmanship of Ray Kelly, and Catherine Condon of St. Mary’s.
The confraternity program is broadcast every Tuesday at 3:30 o’clock. On Monday afternoon Jim McDonough gives forth with his campus newscast. Jim was the first local radio commentator to interview Notre Dame’s new athletic director and head football coach, Frank Leahy.
Another local broadcast of student interest is the Campus Quiz, which features questions by Bill McCarren and the writer. The answers last night were supplied by Morrissey Hall and Central High School of South Bend.
Coming over the ether every Thursday night at 8:30 for a half-hour, this program is attempting to stimulate some inter-hall rivalry as well as some South Bend interest in Notre Dame programs. To date this pfbgram has featured verbal bouts between the Dome and the Scholastic, the Met Club and Chicago Club, Breen-Phillips and Central Catholic of South, and Zahm Hall and St. Joseph’s Academy of South Bend.
Radio Log
Campus Newscast..................4:45	Mon.
Confraternity..............3:30	Tues.
Ronder Productions__________8:45 Tues.
Sportcast ________________4:45 Thurs.
Campus Quiz..............  8:30	Thurs.
—Thomas F. Carty
Since 1883 Notre Dame has conferred 59 times the honor known as the Laetare Medal on some leader of the Catholic laity in the United States.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
On last Tuesday evening, the department of music of the University was privileged to present for the second time the Barton Harp Quintet in the following well-balanced program:
Bourree, Courante
(Sixth French	Suite)...........Bach	(1685-1750)
Gavotte of the	little	sheep------Martini	(1706-1784)
Sonatine .....................  Clementi	(1746-1832)
Joyeuse ........................  Rameau	(1683-1764)
Introduction and Allegro.________.Ravel (1875-1937)
Rebecca Wagner, Harp; Isabel Ibach, Piano
Oriental Dance.__________________Cady (1851-1928)
The Fighting Irish
(Irish airs arranged by Lynne Wainright) Morris Dance__________________German (1862-1936)
Chanson dans la nuit________Salzedo (1885-	)
The Music Box_________________Poenitz (150-1913)
The Last Rose of Summer....Traditional Irish Air
Mary Jane Mayhew Barton
Clair de Lune---------------Debussy (1862-1918)
Fraichert ------------------Salzedo (1885- )
Ritual Fire Dance............De Falla (1876-	)
Two encores followed the program: Mozart’s C Major Sonata, and Salzedo’s Triptich Dance.
In order to approach any reasonably intelligent evaluation of the quality of this concert, it must first be understood that the modern harp, with all its mechanical and tonal perfections, is an instrument not older than a hundred years. Consequently, the literature proper to the harp is yet somewhat limited. Of the composers represented on this program, only the works of Poenitz, Ravel and Salzedo were originally written particularly for the harp. Ravel’s Introduction and Allegro was composed for harp, string quartet, flute and clarinet. Salzedo, the greatest living harpist, has written much for his instrument. The remaining works on the program were written for other instruments. The classic composers wrote for organ or harpsichord; Debussy’s Clair de Lune
DON'T FORGET your Health-Spot Shoes FOR COMFORT $8.50 AND UP
209 WEST COLFAX AVENUE
was written for piano, and De Falla’s Ritual Fire Dance was composed for orchestra. All these works, then, had to be transcribed for performance on the harp.
The Barton group is to be warmly congratulated for its transcriptions — and particularly for those of the classical school. Preciseness of attack, balance of tone, clarity of antiphonal effects, strong definition of the many voices, and a brilliant exposition of rigid form were all to be found in the group’s interpretation of the classic works pre
7?
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
A good way to get the most out of anything is to pause now and then and refresh yourself...with ice-cold Coca-Cola. Its taste is delicious. Its after-sense of refreshment is delightful. A short pause for ice-cold Coca-Cola is the refreshing thing to do. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that ra-fnshts with ice-cold Coca-Cola.
Between classes pause and
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
sented. There was no smudging of the voices, no exaggeration of the tempi or dynamics. There was all the unity and order that the classicists gave their own works. The effects was of one harpsichord rather than five harps. It was evident that the harp, if well played, is admirably suited to the works of the classic composers.
Nor, of course, is the harp limited-to the austerity of the classicists. The misty sensuousness and vague shimmering which we associate with Debussy was beautifully brought forth by the harpists in
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Clair de Lune, as well as in Salzedo’s highly impressionalistic Fraichert. Still other effects were managed in the group of Irish airs arranged by Lnne Wainright, in which we heard all the rollicking jerkiness of Irish reels.
Perhaps the most notable display of the harpists’ genuine musicianship came in the performance of De Falla’s Ritual Fire Dance. It would be scarcely just to expect from five harps the rush and spirit which a full symphony orchestra gives to this work. Remembering the extreme difficulties of merely playing such a composition on the harp, I think there can be nothing but the most generous praise for the Barton harpists in their fine performance of this music. This applies equally to everything which they played for us on Tuesday evening. To each of the members in the quintet must go the highest recommendation. They are to be thanked for an experience of harp-playing which unquestionably approaches the realm of perfection.
in Search of Men
Statistics show a decrease among practicing dentists in recent years while the number of professional men in other fields has : increased. This can largely be attributed to ad-= vanced standards in dental schools.
■> The Marqueffe University Dental School is one of the 18 dental schools of the United States whose diplo-
•• mas are recognized in all of the states.
Suggests Wide Reading
As Writing Background
Gerald Cosgrove, associate editor of the South Bend Tribune, was guest critic at a Journalists’ Round Table meeting in the University cafeteria recently. Mr. Cosgrove, addressing a group interested principally in feature story writing, suggested that young journalists
Here's the treat joe teal'J80 M " I delicious0°®®“"I
class.
3 sweeten yourbl® costs so
I you can enjoy v^es todaydaily- seveI
read as much as possible in order to obtain a broad background.
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism at Notre Dame, presided at the meeting at which papers were read by: Louis Apone, Brownsville, Pa.; John Debitetto, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Daniel Broderick, Dormont, Pa.; John Dinges, Downers Grove, Ill.; William Scanlan, LaCrosse, Wis.; and John Murtaugh, Chicago, III.
r- The close relationship of the .
■■ Dental and Medical Schools at Marquette University is > , an advantage to students. :-

Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, chemistry, and physics.

For complete information , concerning opportunities in , dentistry, write to the Secre- ' tary, Marquette University ' Dental School, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
MARQUETTE

/ST-	si
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
ATTENTION STUDENTS!
ADMISSION I 25c SKATING > CHECKING J Always
Al Wish's
Playland Roller Rink
Make money on parties here.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY. O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
W. E. PETERS (Over Clark's Restaurant)
WATCH REPAIRING JEWELRY REPAIRING
•
Resetting and general replacement work is our specialty.
Decca’s popular albums have always rocked along on a high level. Their latest, “An Anthology of White Jazz,” is no icky. The “White Immortals” featured in this collection are many. “St. Louis Blues,” for example, recorded in 1934 by the old Dorsey Brothers’ orchestra, contains such great soloists as the brothers themselves, Glenn Miller, Jack Stacey, Skeets Herfurt, Ray McKinley, etc. All of the recordings are good, but outstanding are “Aunt Hagar’s Blues” by Paul Whiteman and his Swing Wing, featuring Jack Teagarden and The Modernaires; “Panama,” by Jimmy McPartland and his orchestra; “Jazz Me Blues,” by Bob Crosby’s Bob Cats; “Chinatown, My Chinatown,” by Glen Gray and The Casa Loma Orchestra; “Alice Blue Gown,” by Ben Pollak’s “Pick A Rib” Boys; and “Satanic Blues” by Bud Freeman and The Summa Cum Laude Orchestra. Benny Goodman, Muggsy Spanier, Joe Venuti, “Faz-ola,” Mannie Klein, Red Norvo, Pee Wee Russell, Bunny Berigan, Wingy Mannone — these are only some of the boys that parade through this concert. It’s worth more than a listen.
Tony Pastor has come up with another plate that is up to par on both sides: “Maria, Mari” (Oh Marie!) and “Wigwam Stomp.” Tony voices the A side.
The best record Eddie Duchin has made for a long,long time is “Jenny,” from the Gertrude Lawrence show, “Lady in the Dark.” From the opening bars which find Eddy at the piano, backed up by Lou Sherwood playing a hot growl trumpet, this waxing is a winner, with June Robbins and the whole band vocalizing the rest of the way. (Columbia) The backup: “My Ship.”
“Tony Piano Minuet” is a novelty done by Joe Reichman and his Orchestra in a medium fast, swingy tempo, with the masetro putting the top in piano. A good job. The flipover is “The Wise Old Owl,” sung by Marion Shaw. (Victor)
Raymond Scott utilized the initial phrase of the famous aria from Tannhauser and worked it into a tune that stands up all by itself — “Evening Star.” The other side is “Blues My Girl Friend Taught Me,” a very original and neatly done tune. Slow rhythm, plenty of mood. (Columbia)
ntto Columbia
.:»mastcrtoorks
J
Albums
Grieg’s. “Peer Gynt Suite” (No. 1) — London Symphony Orchestra conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham$2.50
Wagner-—“Tannhauser: Bacchanale” — Pittsburgh Symphony conducted by Fritz Reiner-----------------------$2.50
Tschaikovsky—“Symphony No. 5 in E Minor”—the Cleveland Orchestra with Artur Rodzinski conducting.$5.50
Single Record Classics:
“The Russian Nightingale” and “Lo! Here the Lark” — Josephine Antoine soprano with flute and piano accompaniment.
“Barber of Seville: Overture” (Rossini) Parts 1 and 2—Howard Barlow conducting the Columbia Broadcasting Symphony.
Columbia Jazz Masterworks:
Albums:
John Kirby — excellent album, includes: “Sweet Georgia Brown.” “Coquette,” "Then I’ll Be Happy.” “Bounce of the Sugar Plum Fairy,” “Double Talk.”$2.50
Hal Kemp Memorial Album—“Got a Date With an Angel.” “Dinner For One Please. James.” "You’re the Top.” “The Gentleman Obviously Doesn’t Believe in Making Love.” “I Got You Under My Skin.”$2.50
Jazz Masterworks 50c
B-Z-Z-z-z-z-z
“The Flight of the Bumblebee” and “The Carnival of Venice”—Harry James and his orchestra.	1
“Carnations” Intermezzo (first time in vocal arrangement)—Marie Greene with orchestra under direction of Perry Botkin.
“Booglie Wooglie Piggy” and “Little Miss Irish”—Les Brown and his orchestra.
“Lazy River” and “Oh I Look at Me Now”—Benny Goodman and his orchestra.
Okek — 35c
“I Close My Eyes” and “We’re All Americans”—McFarland Twins.
"Love Left, Town” and “How Deep is the Ocean”—Jack Leonard and his orchestra.
Largest Record Dept. in Michiana I 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas
Well-inforined Clerks
OPEN TUES., THURS., SAT. EVENINGS
HODinS
Drop a line to
for your copy of TOBACC the book that gives you the facts
about tobacco and tells you why
Its Chesterfield
for a Cooler, Milder, Better Smoke
A short while ago we published TOBACCOLAND, U.S.A., the only complete picture story of the growing, curing and processing of fine tobaccos, from seed-bed to cigarette. So great was the demand for this book from smokers everywhere that another million copies are now coming off the press. TOBACCOLAND gives real information and is yours for the asking.
The more you know about how cigarettes are made the more you’ll enjoy Chesterfield . .. the cigarette that Satisfies.
MORE SMOKERS ASK FOR
CHESTERFIELDS EVERY DAY
Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Reading his copy is RAY MILLAND, now star-
ring in Paromount’spicture, I WANTED WINGS/4
For your FREE copy write to —
EVEHYWHEHE YOU GO
FOR THIS FREE BOOK
CHESTERFIELD, P. O. Box 2), New York City

