2
Football Review
AT INDIANA TYPESETTING CORPORATION
211 SERVICE COURT •SOUTH BEND 1, INDIANA
— TAKE THE MICHIGAN STREET BUS
GRANADA
In South Bend GILBERTS is the place to go for the names you know.


^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Si. Open every evening till 9
STREET
G
S
Ie |r
December 7, 1951
3
4
Manhatt;
•v----- _ "!■■■■■
'RF«P
»INC.
thing of beau^isa Joyhm^r..»

—Fine white bro°dcloth, bespread co«ar S™?™ shirt on the ^odrangies
Style-Conscious
-^hite button-doWl ^rd, soft rou to
collar. PQpular a$ o hoi,day with the fe»ows and the gals.

^Cigars are a^anS Smoke!

an Shirt Company
"onakm-chiefs.
«GAU institute

°F AMERicA
football Rnie„
107 N. D. MEN DID IT
SAVE TIME
BETTER READING means reading faster, understanding more of what you read, knowing how to approach various kinds of reading and how to get the most out of it in the shortest time.
You can do all your reading in half the time it takes you now. You can have more time for sports, free weekends, extra social life.
The Foundation for Better Reading training program of individualized instruction will give you the benefit of years of research in hundreds of university and college reading clinics. It makes available to YOU the very newest instruments, techniques and scientific analyses for training in BETTER READING TO SAVE YOU TIME.
IT MAKES SENSE . . .
You Can Do It Too!
The records of 107 Notre Dame men who have completed our training show.-
average reading rate before training 292 WPM average reading rate after training 660 WPM
average comprehension before training 81 % average comprehension after training 88%
THEY READ 126% FASTER
THEY UNDERSTAND 7% MORE
"Suppose 'two executives are equal in all important respects except that one can read twice as fast as the other. Which one of these two! is the most efficient and valuable man?”
PERSONNEL, published by American Mfg. Assn.
"As business pressure on operating executives grows, your efficiency must grow. And good reading is the backbone of efficiency."
FACTORY MANAGEMENT, October, 1951.
FREE! This helpful 16-page booklet tells you how business men, professional men, students, are cutting reading time in half and getting better understanding.
SAVE MONEY
EFFECTIVE January 1, 1952, the special student rate will be increased. A small deposit made before January 1st will entitle you to the complete reading training course at the present low rate if you start the program anytime prior to March 1, 1952.
MAKE UP YOUR MIND NOW TO BENEFIT FROM THIS WONDERFUL, NEW, SCIENTIFIC TRAINING PROGRAM.
Start the training after the Christmas - New Years Holiday if you wish; or, start after you have settled down following the beginning of next semester. DECIDE RIGHT NOW!
MAIL COUPON TODAY o r see BILL FLEMING on campus
-................Clip and mail today..................
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle Ave., South Bend
Send me a copy of your booklet, “How You Can Read Better - Faster” no cost or obligation.
Name_______________________________ Major.............
Address...........................  Year----------- F
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 114 East LaSalle Avenue Phone 3-0077	South Bend
or BILL FLEMING, 235 Alumni Hall
December 7, 1951
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES
DIAMONDS GIFTS
REPAIRING
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
Dr. Scholl
FOOT COMFORT SHOP
215 West Washington Street SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Telephone: 4-7471
Owned and operated by C. A. Heavington
Plan Now—
1952 Football Tours
Write for Information
Earl J. (Pete) Redden
1671 Lincolnway East	South Bend, Indiana
6
Football Review
CHRISTMAS GIFT SUGGESTIONS from AQUINAS:
Religious Articles Books Statuary
Your Catholic Shopping Center in South Bend
Aquinas Library and Bookstore
110 East LaSalle
December 7, 1951

The Notre Dame
Vol. 93 December 7, 1951 No. 12
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO.........Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER........Photography LEON GARDNER.............Librarian
C. B. FARMER..........Campus Circulation RONALD E. ZIER........Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty’ Moderator
You'll really relax in...
CORDUROY HORRY JEANS in fine pinwale washable corduroy $095
In Washable Gabardine . . . $5.95
Perfect for classroom or campus . . . for everything from their comfortable elastic waistband (no belt needed), to their big, roomy pockets is tailored with easy-living in mind. All popular colors . . . see them tomorrow at . . .
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
NEWS STAFF: Larry Brehl, Pete Caruso, Mike Ducey, Torn Godfrey, Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington, Frank Jack-man, Gorman Redding, Bob Rust, Al Suwalsky and Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Tom Foote, Bob Fro-licher, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Frank Ronnenberg, and Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY: Tom Bennett, Tom Fleck, John Kinville, Al Muth and Jerry Sheehan.
FEATURES: Charles Hands, Sal Asselta, Harry Siemonsma, Joe Imbri-aco, Bill Stapleton, Ed Vasta, John Slavick and Rudy Unger.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy.
Michigan at Washington
8
Football Review
Joe Heap Steams Past Hoosier
X D Defeats Indiana
By BILL LONDO Assistant Sports Editor
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 29 — The question mark Notre Dame football team became an exclamation point today as Frank Leahy’s Fighting Irish swamped a good band of Indiana Hoosiers, 48-6. A record-breaking second quarter in which the Irish tallied five times stunned the crowd of 55,790 who had come expecting a close battle.
The young Irish, 30 of whom had never before performed on a collegiate gridiron, were paced by a sophomore hurricane, Fullback Neil Worden. The Milwaukee youngster' scored four consecutive touchdowns in the furious second period to set a modern Notre Dame individual mark.
The victory was an anniversary gift to Leahy who was watching his 100th game as a head coach, and he was carried off the field after the contest by his happy warriors. It was a particularly sweet win, for Indiana had dealt
Leahy’s lads one of their most decisive defeats in the 1950 campaign.
Notre Dame scored early in the first quarter on a 75-yard march that took just ten plays. The “I” formation, a well kept secret in the four weeks of blackedout practice which preceded the game, set up the TD. Quarterback John Mazur lined his backfield mates, John Petitbon, Bill Barrett, and Worden, in single file behind the center. The arrangement so baffled the Hoosiers that Mazur’s pass to Captain Jim Mutscheller was completed for 40 yards to the Indiana six. Barrett scored four plays later.
That was all for the first quarter. But in the second Notre Dame made up for many of the insults that had been heaped upon the Irish last year.
A bad pass from center by Hoosier' Mel Beckett gave Notre Dame the ball deep in* Indiana territory, and Worden started the touchdown marathon by crashing six yards for the score. Three minutes later he was back again on the pay side of the Hoosier goal, this time on a buck from the one.
Linebacker Dick Szymanski kept the party going by recovering a fumble on the 17. Barrett squirmed to the five and Worden went over. Then after defensive halfback John Lattner had intercepted Lou D’Achille’s pass Worden went 11 yards up the middle to end his touchdown binge.
Lattner scored one of his own a moment later to cap a 44-yard drive which finished the most productive quarter in Irish history. Menil Mav-raides converted after all the first half scores, and the Irish led 42-0 when the referee’s whistle gave the slightly bewildered Hoosiers time to catch their breath.
In the second half South Bend’s Bobby Robertson finally gave the downstaters something to cheer about as he circled the Irish right end for the Hoosiers’ only marker. A D’Achille to Gene Gedman aerial put Clyde Smith’s boys into position.
Notre Dame got that touchdown back in the final period. Barrett took Robertson’s punt at midfield and raced back to the 27 behind some fine blocking. Del Gander counted on a short plunge to finish the scoring, as Mavraides missed the final point.
Statistically the Irish had a big edge. Leahy’s defensive lineup, composed mostly of underclassmen and directed by Jack Alessandrini, limited the Hoosiers to 93 yards rushing and harassed D’Achille so that his passing was ineffective. Notre Dame gained 214 yards on the ground, and Mazur outpassed D’Achille by two yards.
The win was the 18th for the Irish in 24 games that have been played since 1898, and was the 17th consecutive opening day triumph.
Bill Barrett, Irish Halfback Is Brought Down After Short Gain
Irish halfback John Lattner smothered by a host of Titan tacklers in game at Briggs Stadium
Petitbon’s Dashes Down Detroit
By ROGER FERNANDES
Detroit, Mich., Oct. 6.—In the first night game in the history of Notre Dame football, Frank Leahy’s young Irish wrecked a game but outmanned Detroit squad, 40-6, before 52,371 fans in Briggs Stadium this evening. The brilliance of the arc lights was rivaled, however, by the flashing cleats of senior halfback John Petitbon as he wrapped up the ol’ ball game in the very first period with three sparkling touchdown runs.
Petitbon took the game’s opening kickoff and then charged up the field 85 yards behind fine blocking for his first score. A little later he crisscrossed on a. punt return with Billy Barrett and raced over the Titan goal line after a 73-yard jaunt.
Petitbon added his finishing touches to the ND cause j'ust before the quarter ended when he took a pitchout from quarterback Johnny Mazur and streaked through a host of would-be Detroit tacklers for 39 yards and another six points. Near the end of the first half the Leahy-men added their fourth tally on a 30-yard pass from Mazur to Jim Mutscheller to put them ahead, 26-0.
Detroit’s tough Titans refused to quit theugh and came back from the intermission with plenty of fire and zip. Their defense was especially tough dur-
December 7, 1951
ing that period and they squelched two Irish scoring bids to hold their visitors scoreless.
The Titans even managed to negotiate a scoring try of their own with a 50-yard march that Bob Lippe made count with a dive into the end zone from the one. Their first conversion try was good but they were penalized 15 yards and on their next attempt the kick fell short.
The Fighting Irish regained command of the game in the final period and struck twice to wind up the contest. Sophomore halfback John Lattner intercepted a pass from quarterback Gornak and ran it back for 32 yards and a touchdown.
Frosh Walt Cabral pounced on a Detroit fumble on the Titan 18-yard line not long afterward to set up the final ND tally. Halfback Paul Reynolds ripped his way to the four, and then to the one. Frosh quarterback Ralph Guglielmi went over from there on a quarterback sneak.
Menil Mavraides kicked the point after touchdown for the fourth time in six tries during the course of the game.
The Irish outgained their hosts in every department and piled a grand total of 402 yards from rushing and
passing. Their ground game with 284 yards accounted for three-fourths of their yardage.
Not counting his two long kick returns Petitbon wound up the evening’s play with an average ground gain of about ten yards for 13 tries. Of the game’s nine fumbles, not one was recovered by the erring team. . The Titans grabbed five Notre Dame muffs while the Irish got the ball from the Detroit club via the blunder method four times.
Neil Worden picks up a few of the 284 yards the Irish gained on the ground
SMI, Benners Bombard Irish 27-20
By FRANK RONNENBERG
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 13—Against the backdrop of a crisp Autumn afternoon, 58,240 hysterical fans at the Notre Dame Stadium watched one Fred Benners parlay a matchless thread-needle pass into a stunning upset as Southern Methodist University toppled Notre Dame, 27-20.
The game started quietly enough and the fans were comfortably settled back when the initial explosion came. Midway in the first quarter, after an exchange of punts, Southern Methodist started from their own 34-yard line. Up to this point Benners had been erratic, but now he quickly passed for nine yards and then threw a long aerial straight up the middle. Halfback Benton Musselwhite took the ball on the Notre Dame 40-yard line and zigzagged all the way through a broken field to complete a 57-yard scoring play.
That was the start, but it was still early. Notre Dame came right back when a short punt and two rushes gave the Irish a first down on the SMU 33-yard line. Here Paul Reynolds, on a cross buck over his own right tackle, broke through the line, cut back to the middle and ran over the Mustang secondary for Notre Dame’s first touchdown.
Two minutes later the Mustangs had scored again. SMU brought the kickoff back to their own 35-yard line, then the accurate. Benners hit H. N. Russell
for 11 yards, threw to Musselwhite for another first down on the Irish 37, and then fired a long, looping aerial that Russel picked off as he went into the end zone.
The second quarter began with an
Jim Mutscheller goes up for a long pass
exchange of punts and then Notre Dame got the first big break of the day. Barrett’s punt was fumbled by
Crisler of the Mustangs and Lattner recovered for the Irish on the SMU 24-yard line. Two plays later Johnny Mazur found Chet Ostrowski in the clear and his 19-yard pass brought the Irish to within one point of a tie. This time Mavraides kicked the point and the score was 13-13.
Almost immediately SMU was ahead 20-13. After two passes went astray Benners spotted Ben White loose in the end zone and pitched to him for the touchdown.
Early in the second half Benner rifled a long pass to White who grabbed it for a first down on the Irish 21-yard line'. Three passes later Pat Knight scored.
Into the fourth period and the 14-point spread loomed larger. Interceptions by Jerry Norton and Vai Joe Walker had stopped two Notre Dame drives. There was less than five minutes to play. Then as sharply as day and night the tempo changed. Jack Allessandrini picked off one of Benners’ passes and brought it back to the Mustang 35. Mazur threw long to Worden and the Trish had a first down on the SMU five-yard line. Lattner took it over and Mavraides kicked the point. 27-20; less than three minutes.
The Irish kicked off and held for downs. The Ponies were forced to punt and Notre Dame got the ball again, deep in their own territory. Mazur’s pases drove the Irish to the S. M. U. 27, but a penalty and the final gun stopped, the Irish drive.
Football Review

Panthers Timed 3H
By TOM FOOTE
Pittsburgh, Pa., Oct. 20—A powerful machine cannot be stymied for long, and thus Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish rose from the throes of their heartbreaking defeat by SMU and crushed Pittsburgh 33-0 on this sunny Autumn afternoon before a capacity crowd of 60,000 in Pitt Stadium.
It was a courageous but outmanned Pittsburgh team that faced the Irish, for what little offensive punch the Panthers did have was considerably
Joe Heap goes off tackle to score fifth Irish touchdown against outmanned Pitt
lessened by the fact that Bob Bestwick and Chris Warriner, their dynamic passing combination, were sidelined by injuries.
For the Irish quarterback John Mazur enjoyed one of his greatest days,
as he passed to Bill Barrett for two touchdowns and personally scored two others in addition to running his team in flawless fashion.
Tackle Sam Palumbo provided the Irish with their first break when he blocked Paul Blanda’s punt on the Pitt 23 shortly after the opening whistle. The Irish failed to cash in immediately as the Panthers held in a great goalline stand that served only to prolong the inevitable.
Petitbon returned the ensuing punt to the 32, and in six plays the Irish broke the ice, with Mazur throwing a ten-yard TD aerial to Bill Barrett who had been completely ignored by the Panther secondary. Only eight minutes had elapsed and although Menil
Mavraides missed the conversion attempt, it was evident that extra points wouldn’t be needed today.
Midway in the second quarter Mazur and Barrett again combined their talents on a 28-yard pass that was good for another six-pointer as the elusive Billy once more scored unmolested. This counter climaxed a march which covered 54 yards in six plays after John Lattner had recovered Campbell’s fumble on the ND 46.
A few minutes later, Lattner, who played a great defensive game, provided the break that started the Irish rolling again by intercepting Blair Kramer’s pass and returning eight yards to the Pitt 43. Reynolds, in two lightning thrusts, went for 11, then 20 yards, to the Pitt 12. Mazur tossed to Mutscheller on the one, and then the Irish quarterback smashed over with but a minute and thirty seconds remaining in the half. Mavraides’ second straight conversion gave ND a 20-0 lead at intermission.
The only serious threat the Panthers could muster came after Petitbon fumbled the second-half kickoff on the Irish 23 and Gasparovic recovered for Pitt. The Panthers soon had a first down on the 12, but the Irish line held, and on fourth down end Bob O’Neil crashed through and spilled Kramer on the 20 as he was attempting to pass.
Following an exchange of punts, the Irish embarked on an 80-yard scoring sortie in 13 plays which was culminated by a one-yard plunge by Mazur after
Panther back Bill Pickett is pulled down by Alessandrini as Irish back Tom Carey and Pitt end Dick Deitrich watch
Petitbon (23) fakes out Panther defender
Worden and Reynolds had worked the ball into the scoring position with several sparkling runs.
Irish reserves then took over and continued to outplay the tiring Panthers. Freshmen quarterbacks Ralph Guglielmi and Tom Carey shared the job of running the team, and it was Carey who directed the Irish on their final touchdown drive .which covered 71 yards after Szymanski had intercepted a Pitt aerial on the ND 29.
The game was never in doubt from early in the first period as the Irish repeatedly took advantage of Pitt miscues and converted them into points. Altogether, the Irish blocked one punt, intercepted four passes, and recovered three Pitt fumbles through their alert defensive play.
December 7, 1951
By JACK VARLEY
After a scoreless first
period Notre
the
conversion
Paul Reynolds hurdles
Purdue line as
the Irish gain revenge for
Billy Barrett breaks in the clear with Bob
Toneff for an escort
last year’s upset.
No. 79 is guard Virgil Bardash.
schellei* who went Mavraides came in point for the Irish.
over for the score, and added the 30th
John Lattner and Dan Shannon combine to bring down Boilermaker star end Leo Sugar
goal. Samuels missed
Revenge Sweet: O 30 Purdue 9
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 27—Coach Frank Leahy drove a well-oiled, fine working machine onto the gridiron of Notre Dame' Stadium this afternoon and went on to defeat the Boilermakers of Purdue, 30-9, and thus avenge last year’s defeat that ended Notre Dame’s 39 game undefeated string. However, it wasn’t until the Boilermakers took a third period lead that the Leahy machine was able to get up enough momentum, before the capacity crowd of 57,390, to jolt Coach Stu Holcomb’s charges into submission.
In the finest display of Notre Dame football this season, John Mazur piloted his team with an expertness that saw four different men score for the Irish.
Dame buckled down and began a drive down field. Taking the ball on their own 25 after a Boilermaker. punt, fullback Neil Worden and halfback Bill Barrett combined their efforts to gain a first down on the Purdue 36. A play and a 14 yard gain by halfback Paul Reynolds later tosk the ball to the midfield stripe. In two more plays the flashy Frosh picked up another 14 yards and then turned the ball lugging duties oveT to Worden who picked up four yards to the Purdue 32.
Reynolds then again assumed his role of sparkplug and ran to the 22 for another first down and two plays later picked up another five. With the Purdue defense now employing a nine man line, Mazur passed to end Chet Ostrowski for a first down on the nine yard marker. Reynolds and Worden combined to pick up six and then Mazur faked Worden off right guard and sent Reynolds, with the ball, ovei' left guard foi- the score. Mavraides’ kick was good.
Still very much- in the ball game, Purdue took advantage of Worden’s fumble on his own 39 early in the third period and drove to the 34. Then with fourth down and five yards to go Jim Reichert booted the ball from the Notre Dame 41 yard line for a field goal.
A few seconds later and another Notre Dame fumble gave the Boilermakers the ball on the Irish 43. Quarterback Dale' Samuels on the first play threw a long pass to end Darrel Brewster who caught the ball and raced all the way to the
and Purdue took the lead, 9-7.
However, the joyful expressions of the Purdue fans soon vanished when another field goal, this time by Mavraides from the Purdue ten, put the Irish out in front by a 10-9 score.
The next score was set up when Notre Dame’s Dan Shannon intercepted a Samuels aerial on the Notre Dame 26. Worden and halfback John Lattner combined their efforts on several plays to drive to the Boilermakers’ 40 yard marker. Here, with a fourth down and inches to go Mazur decided to gamble and sent Lattner over Purdue’s left tackle. Lattner scooted through a big hole opened by tackle Bob Toneff and end Jim Mut-scheller, wrestled free from three would-be-tacklers and went all the way for the second Irish touchdown of the game.
From here in it was all Notre Dame as the Fighting Irish went to work and scored two more touchdowns before the final gun went off. Taking the ball on theii- own 47, a combination of Worden, Mazur, Reynolds and Ban'ett ground a passage to the Purdue 11. Barrett picked up ten and after one unsuccessful thrust at the Boliermaker wall gained the remaining yard to put his team out in front 23-9.
Later the Irish began another march through Purdue territory stai-ting this time on the Boilermaker 44 and in a sustained drive went to the eight from which Mazur threw a pass to Mut-

Football Review
Midshipmen Toppled in Mud 19 0
By JACK SAND
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 3. — Three lightning-quick touchdowns, two of them coming within a minute of the second period on long runs from scrimmage by Neil Worden and John Mazur, and a third coming in the final quarter on a 74 yard romp by Billy Barrett, added up to a 19-0 triumph for Frank Leahy’s once-beaten Irish, and thus dunked the Navy’s stubborn Middies a little deeper into the depths of one of football’s most one-sided rivalries.
In winning the silver anniversary game of the series in the “land of a thousand puddles” before a capacity crowd of 44,237 shivering fans at Baltimore’s Municipal Stadium, the South Benders made it six straight over the Midshipmen, and twenty out of the' twenty-five played to date, including one tie.
Navy, still thirsting for its first victory, displayed flashes of the once brilliant days gone by, but nevertheless were doomed by their own mistakes. The sailors squandered two scoring chances by their errors and set up one Notre Dame touchdown by a fumble. The Irish deservedly enough had the edge in statistics, piling up 177 yards from scrimmage to 128 for Navy.
Defense' was predominant in the muck of the stadium turf, as evidenced by 25 punts, 11 via the toe of ND’s Barrett, and 14 by Bob Cameron, the Middies, mighty punter. Under heavy pressure from Notre Dame’s line, the' Navy booter averaged 36 yards a kick, getting off one beauty of 62 yards. Barrett only averaged 32 yards but did some splendid sharpshooting at the sidelines, three times putting the ball out of bounds inside' the Navy 20.
Notre Dame’s first touchdown came with nine and a half minutes gone in the second quarter, when Worden took a handoff from Mazur and on a beautifully executed delayed buck sprinted 36 yards for the TD. This spectacular thrust capped a four- play drive covering 51 yards in all.
Less than a minute later, after- Minnie Mavraides had missed the extra point, defensive halfbacks Dan Shannon and Dave Flood jointly recovered Frank Hauff’s fumble on the Navy 22. Barrett then rammed to the 21, from where Mazur skirted Navy’s right end on a split-T sweep, and legged it the rest of the way despite a last yard stumble caused when Hauff missed a clean tackle.
Mavraides made good the point this time to put the Irish ahead 13-0 at halftime. The Midshipmen wound up the first thirty minutes with a minus three yards in rushing and only two first downs.
With Mike Sorrentino at quarterback in place of Bob Zastrow, and Frank Adorney and Vic Vine running hard at the halfbacks, Navy roared back with vengeance in the second half to hold the Irish to a mere 11 yards.
Late in the third period Adorney broke loose for 32 yards to the Notre Dame 21 and moved to another first down on the ten in just two plays. The chance fizzled as a Don Fisher fumble was pounced on by Jack Alessandrini for an Irish recovery.
After an exchange of punts, Notre Dame sealed the verdict in the final canter when the speedy Barrett picked up one of Cameron’s boots on his own 24, and with the aid of a crushing block thrown by Shannon, circled to his left
Paul Reynolds, following a hand-off from John Mazur (1), attempts to circle Navy’s end.
and set sail all the way down the sideline for the score. Mavraides kick was wide and the score remained 19-0.
The never-say-die sailors then shoved off on a last ditch attempt to score. After the kickoff Dean Smith and Jack Perkins collaborated to lug the leather to the Irish 44. Cameron, then faked a punt and passed 14 yards to Vine on the 30. Perkins then ripped inside tackle for ten and Vine moved to the 12 for a first down. Cameron then flipped to Seiber on the three but the Middies failed to crack the goal-line after two tries, getting to the one-foot line as the' clock ran out.
The leading ground gainer for the Irish was the hard-working Worden who racked off 96 yards in 21 carries. Competing with the fleet sophomore was frosh halfback Paul Reynolds, who also did some fine running in picking up 33 yards. Another outstanding performance was turned in by Mazur who called one of his slickest games'of the year.
December 7, 1951
15
Bill Barrett sweeps between Spartans Frank Kush (60) and Don Dohoney (80)
of was the at-
cleverly varied offensive tactics coach Biggie Munn. And there very little they could do to stop advance of the powerful Spartan
State’s Spartans Stun Irish
By MICKEY CARROLL
East Lansing, Mich., Nov’. 10.—Starting off an afternoon—long scoring parade with a touchdown on their first play from scrimmage, the Spartans of Michigan State thoroughly outclassed Notre Dame 35-0, as they handed the Irish the worst defeat ever suffered by a Frank Leahy-coached football team.
Hailed for weeks as the “game of the year,” the one-sided romp was decided before the first quarter was well underway, and marked the end of the much talked-of Notre Dame hopes for national honors.
It was the moth-eaten “rhubarb” play that scored for the Spartans the first time they got their hands on the ball and actually racked up enough points to clip the shut-out Irish.
With first and ten from their own 12-yard line, Michigan State came out of the huddle with the backfield shifted far over to the right in the single wing formation. Tackle Don Coleman, however, lined up to the strong side of center, leaving only captain Bob Carey on the left side of the line.
Carey called to Coleman that he was out of position and, with the Irish defense' caught flatfooted, expecting a shift in the State line, the ball was snapped and fullback Dick Panin scooted 88 yards for the touchdown and the ball game.
John Petitbon, at safety for Notre Dame, was the only greenshirt to come close to Panin, and the best he could muster was a desperation dive on the Irish 15 which was eluded by the fleet State fullback.
Ten minutes later that margin was increased to two touchdowns, as State marched 68 yards in seven plays, climaxed by a one-yard plunge by Vince Pisano.
And the Spartans were right back with their third TD of the day before a minute had gone by in the second quarter when McAuliffe drove into the end zone to cap a drive which had started late in the first period on the Spartan 26.
Nothing much happened in the rest of half number one. The Spartans were saving up for the third quarter, when they took the kick-off and methodically marched 74 yards in fifteen plays for the touchdown. This time Carey, who had confined his scoring efforts to points after touchdowns, did the TD damage himself as he grabbed a Dorow aerial for the six points.
Things settled down again until State halfback Ray Vogt snared a fourth period pass by Irish quarterback Ralph Guglielmi and returned it to Notre Dame’s 31. Six plays later it was in the Irish end zone via a one-
yard pass from Dorow to freshman Ellis Ducett.
While all this happened, it was hard to believe that Notre Dame was still in the game. The nearest they ever got to the Michigan State goal was the Spartan 39-yard line, on a fourth period drive sparked by freshman signal caller Guglielmi.
The Irish were completely trounced as the Spartans piled up a crushing total of 353 yards on the ground and 112 in the air, completed 11 of 19 passes, and ground out 21 first downs.
Though never outfought, the youthful greenshirts were no match for the
tack led by All-American candidates Bob Carey and Don Coleman and comprising, according to East Lansing sportswriters, the best football team ever fielded by Michigan State.
One of the few bright spots for Notre Dame was the emergence of Guglielmi as a topflight quarterback.
The first-year signal caller put on the best display of the afternoon for the Irish as he led the team during the third and fourth periods.
The entire game was played on a surprisingly clear field. East Lansing had been hard hit by the early midwest winter, and student volunteers had to dig Macklin Field out from under a deep blanket of snow on Friday to even make play possible.
The defeat was one of the six worst in the history of Notre Dame, the most recent coming at -the hands of the war-time Army eleven, which whipped the Irish 48-0 in 1945.
John Lattner (14) breaks up Spartan pass play as AI Dorow (47) reaches helplessly
16
Young Irish Repulse Tarheels 12-7
By JACK ECONOMOU
Chapel Hill, North Carolina., Nov. 17. —Notre Dame’s youngei* set dominated play today as the Irish repulsed North Carolina by a 12-7 count. Having scored single tallies in the second and third quarters the greenshirts fought to contain determined scoring bids by the Tarheels in the final stanza. One drive ended on the Irish five as three rushes and a pass netted nothing. With two minutes remaining the Carolinians threatened again but were stopped well short of the goal.
Most of the game was drab and lifeless. Carolina was frustrated on three early scoring opportunities set up by Irish fumbles. Notre Dame meanwhile was juggling quarterbacks in an effort to display offensive strength. Midway through the second quarter an 11-play, 55-yard drive was climaxed when yearling Paul Reynolds tallied. After intermission Neil Worden capped an 84-yard drive with a four-yard plunge.
Finally Carolina woke up. Freshman Connie Gravitte clicked with a 37-yard scoring aerial to halfback Jack Cooke. The panic was on minutes later when center Bill Kirkman intercepted a Mazur pass on the Tarheel 15. Kirkman fumbled but teammate Bud Carson recovered and raced to the Irish 46. The youthful backfield of Gravitte, Cooke, and sophs John Gaylord and Allen Mueller alternated in slashing repeatedly through the greenshirted line. Faced with a first down and goal to go prospect for the Tarheels, the Irish perked up and halted the Carolinian heroics.
Carolina entered the game as a 14-point underdog, but with the expressed purpose of beating the Irish and thus saving Coach Snavely’s job. Rumor had it that only an exceptional showing would save Snavely, whose team had dropped six of eight contests. The Leahymen were still smarting from the 35-0 drubbing administered to them by Michigan State last Saturday. Another Irish feature was the absence of senior regulars John Petitbon and Billy Barrett. Frosh quarterbacks Tom Carey and Ralph Guglielmi were given ample chance to display their abilities as regular John Mazur was called on only for spot appearances.
The early moments of the game gave promise of a hardfought, grid battle. Spearheaded by the lightning thrusts of Johnny Lattner, the Irish
December 7, 1951
pierced the Tarheel line repeatedly only to lose the ball by fumbles or on penalties. The Carolina offense was even more frustrated. Three advances took the host squad well into Irish territory, but vital plays went awry before the stiffening Notre Dame line, and the Leahymen took possession.
After these early offensive efforts, the game settled largely into a punting duel. Throughout the second and third quarters the Irish had the upper hand but as many of their drives were repulsed as were successful. The Tarheels meanwhile were becoming impotent. Their offense was entirely lacking in deception and power, and only the stellar play of their defensive line kept the Irish in check.
However, the final period completely rocked the South Benders from any sense of complacency they might have enjoyed. Their entire store of pluck and gridiron know-how was called upon to stop the onrushing Carolinians.
The 44,525 spectators saw a preview of the Irish squad for the following two years. The backfield was composed of two freshmen and two sophomores. At their halfback posts, Paul Reynolds and Johnny Lattner effectively demonstrated the form which will make them feared seatbacks in years to come. Sophomore fullback Neil Worden was again the workhorse
Sam Palumbo (67) looks on as Dan Shannon drops Tarheel
AP Wire Photo
of the offense, picking up necessary yardage in a consistent manner. Frosh Tom Carey and Mugs Guglielmi largely directed the squad and displayed to all their passing and ball handling abilities.
This was the first time an Irish athletic squad has competed at Chapel Hill. The first game of the series was held at Yankee Stadium in New York, while the 1950 contest was a 14-7 affair in South Bend. The North Carolina student body extended every favor to the Irish and the some 500 rooters who came down from Northern Indiana. In the Notre Dame dressing room just before kickoff time, captain Jim Mut-scheller read off an 88-foot telegram bearing the names of every Notre Dame student. Having thus been assured of the complete backing of-the school, the Leahymen won their football game, and in a return telegram expressed their thanks and their promise to win the future games for the entire body of Notre Dame men.
Thus, the Fighting Irish, still smarting from their 35-0 defeat by Michigan State last week were able to stave off North Carolina’s valiant comeback. It was a great tribute to the fabulous Notre Dame spirit. No one man can be singled out as the vital factor in this game; it was a team victory—they got off the floor- together.
Irish Rally in Final Period to Tie Hawkeyes
By BILL NOONAN
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 24.—For three quarters this afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium, an inspired Iowa eleven paced by the driving legs of Bill Reichardt and the slingshot arm of Burt Britzmann, shoved favored Notre Dame all over the gridiron. Then, suddenly, the Irish, faced with the possibility of their third defeat of the year, snapped out of the doldrums with a spray of desperation passes in the final stanza which enabled them to deadlock the Hawkeyes, 20-20.
With but 55 seconds remaining on the big stadium clock and Iowa ahead 20 to 13, John Mazur heaved a 25-yard aerial towards Chet Ostrowski in the end zone. The ND end leaped into the air for the pigskin along with Iowa defenders, George Rice and Don Phillips. The ball was batted down, but Field Judge Elliott Hasan threw his red handkerchief on the ground and called pass interference against Phillips.
The ball was placed on the one where hard-working John Lattner rammed over for the score. Bob Joseph, in a real pressure situation, booted the point that tied the score, and Notre Dame adherents breathed a sigh of relief.
The Hawkeyes got their first score when Britzmann tossed to George Breeder on his 42 and the swift halfback zoomed 58 yards down the sidelines.
Following a few punt exchanges,
Lattner (14), Szymanski (52) and Ready combine to down Hawkeye ball carrier.
ND got rolling and in eleven plays, starting from their own 49, the Irish had their first touchdown. Neil Worden covered the pay-off yardage with a nine-yard buck up the middle on fourth down. Minnie Mavraides’ try for the point was wide and Leahy’s lads still trailed by one.
Bouncing right back, Iowa, in five plays had another TD and a 14-6 lead. George “Dusty” Rice was the big gun in this drive, snaring two passes, one for 14 and another for 45 yards and the score. Reichardt’s conversion gave the oft-beaten lowans an eight-point half-time advantage.
Coach Leahy came out for the second half with a new defense set up to stop Britzmann’s passes. The Hawkeye passing attack, which was essentially used with such great success against the same spread formation that SMU had used, was clicking with annoying regularity. Seeing that he could no longer throw so accurately against this new defensive pattern from the spread, Britzmann concentrated on the T for the most part, and midway through the third period, led his team 62 yards for its third touchdown.
Broeder, racking up his second of the day, swept around left end seven yards to score standing up. Bob Ton-eff, outstanding all afternoon, blocked Reichardt’s try for point, and with the
third period drawing to a close, underdog Iowa was out in front 20 to 6.
With ten minutes remaining in the contest, the blue-shirted warriors finally started rolling. Leahy was juggling his quarterbacks, using both Mazur and freshman Ralph Guglielmi, with the latter sparking the first drive. A 31-yard heave to Paul Reynolds and a 44-yarder to Lattner, who made a great over-the-shoulder grab, put the leather on the five. From there, Lattner piled through a mass of humanity for the marker. Joseph, diminutive sophomore halfback, in his first attempt at placekicking in a varsity game, split the uprights and it was 20-13.
Starting on its own 22, after Iowa punted, Notre Dame headed goalward as the minutes ticked away. Guglielmi was thrown for a couple of losses, but
Iowa tackler just catches halfback Joe Heap (42) in Iowa game action.
Mazur hit Lattner for 15. With a fourth down ten, Lattner faked a kick and flipped a 23-yard pass that nestled in Jim Mutscheller’s arms on the Notre Dame 45. Guglielmi, after wriggling away from would-be tacklers, threw to the same receiver on the Iowa 34. After Lattner nabbed a Guglielmi pass for six, Mazur came back in and spotted Worden for a first down on the 24. Then came the crucial pass interference ruling in favor of the Irish and Joseph’s tension-packed, scoretying extra point.
18
Football Review

*' *♦< *5^31
By BILL RILEY
Angeles, Calif., Dec. 1—An 18-
Los
fullback Leon Sellers
of USC bursts through the
Worden twice up the middle for And Lattner over guard for the down, on the Southern California Then Lattner went through the
37. nine, first 47.
—AP Wirephoto.
«.w>-
*



*K 5^ ■
—AP Wirephoto.
Trojans Conquered in Stunning Upset
year-old young man by the name of Ralph Guglielmi, barring acts of God or his local draft board, this afternoon nailed clown the Notre Dame starting quarterback’s job for three years yet to come. He did it by directing his predominantly young and consistently aggressive mates to a surprising 19-12 win over Southern California.
Lest all the applause' for the stirring triumph go to the youngsters, it should be mentioned that seniors Chet Ostrowski, left end, Captain Jim Mutscheller, right end, Bob Toneff, tackle who played both offense and defense, and John Petitbon were also big factors in the victory.
For awhile, it looked as if the game were going to go according to form. After a scoreless first quarter, the Trojans took the ball on their own 38, and in eight plays, Frank Gifford had spearheaded S. C. to a touchdown. In the series, Gifford pased for 18 yards to blocking back Dean Schneider, and ran the ball three times himself. He scored on a slant from the Irish eight-yard line. However, he missed the try for the extra point.
It was then that the' Irish coaching
staff elected to give young Guglielmi an opportunity to run the squad. Guglielmi responded in a most satisfying way. It took him 13 plays to move the Irish 78 yards down-field, an average of six yards per play. Right halfback John Lattner provided the score with a one-yard plunge over Bob Toneff’s right tackle position.
The alert Trojans got their second and final score on a bit of a break early in the third period. Dick Nunis of Southern California picked off a Guglielmi pass that had bounced out of Chet Ostrowski’s hands on the Irish 34. Schneider flipped a shoi-t one to Jim Sears who ran the ball to the Notre Dame five. That was a third down pass, following a three-yard loss by Al Carmichael and an incomplete pass. It was thrown from the T-formation, which S.C. used sparingly in a predominantly single wing attack. On the next play the Trojans went back into the single wing, and Sears followed a superfluity of blockers around right end for a touchdown. Gifford again failed to convert.
Guglielmi led the Irish to their second score in a very workmanlike way. After Gene Carrabine, a freshman, had inter
cepted a Southern California pass on the Notre Dame 27, it took eight plays for the Irish to push the ball over. This is how it went. Lattner over guard for four. Joe Heap, frosh left half, for four more. Worden for a first down on the
center’ for eight. With the Trojan defenders pulled in, Guglielmi placed two flankers out to the right, gave the ball to Worden, who cut to his left, slanted off-tackle, and raced 39 yards down the sidelines without being touched. Joseph missed the point-after attempt.
It was the fourth quarter before the Irish put the game in their pocket. With the ball resting on the Irish 39, Guglielmi tossed to Lattner. Lattner dodged, whirled and plunged to the Trojan 30. John Petitbon, Worden and Lattner all had a hand in the scoring march. Of the 30 yards, Lattner got 14, Worden six, and Petitbon the remaining 10. Petitbon climaxed his four years at Notre Dame by sweeping right end for eight yards and the winning touchdown. This time Joseph converted.

middle of the Irish line for 14 yards.

1
Presenting the lighting ^rish
JAMES FRANCIS MUTSCHELLER . . . 1951 Irish Captain, Jim’s all-around excellence and leadership completely measured up to the high standards set by his predecessors, and earned him a place beside Jerry Groom, Jim Martin, Leon Hart, Bill Fischer, and other captains in Notre Dame grid annals. ... A three-year letter winner, he played behind Hart and Bill Wightkin in his Sophomore year, and moved up to a first-string berth last year. ... In two years of first-string end play, Jim set new records for total pass receptions, number of pass receptions in one season, and was mentioned on many All-American teams. . . . This year the greater Irish depth allowed Coach Leahy to play his captain only on offense, but last year Jim starred on defense as weF, averaging -50 minutes of playing time per game over a nine game schedule. ... In piling up his -50 minute average Jim set a new season record of 3-5 pass receptions, led the team in scoring with seven touchdowns to his credit, and made the Irish defensive flanks rough for the opponents. . . . Oddly enough, the glue-fingered pass snatcher remarked last year that he preferred defense to offense. . . . With the more effective running attack of this year’s squad, the Irish quarterbacks didn’t throw to Mutscheller as much as Bob Williams and John Mazur did last year, but he was still the favorite target of Mazur, Gug-lielmi, and Carey, and managed to break into the scoring column frequently. . . . He provided the only bright spot in the Michigan State game when he caught his 50th pass, breaking the career record of 49 set by Leon Hart in 1949. . . . Jim came to Notre Dame from Beaver Falls, Pa., where in high school he earned eight letters —two in football, three in basketball, and three in baseball. ... A Commerce Senior, the Irish captain is 21, stands 6'1", and weighs 198 pounds. . . .
JOHN E. PETITBON ... a three-year Senior letterman who plays both offense and defense . . . John is a 20-year-old, six-foot, 190-pound halfback . .. was honored last year by the New Orleans Athletic Club as the Outstanding Amateur Athlete of 1950 from the New Orleans area . . . he is a foreign marketing major in the College of Commerce ... in his prep days John won seven letters at Jesuit High of New Orleans, three in football and track and one in baseball . . . scored three touchdowns against Detroit this year . . .
December 7, 1951
21
DONALD FRANCIS PENZA ... a Sophomore end of Slovak-German parentage ... he is from Kenosha, Wis.. . . this 200-pounder is over 6'1" tall ... he graduated from St. Catherine’s High School in Racine, where he lettered in football his last three years ... in his Senior year he caught a touchdown pass in the last seconds of the game to win the Milwaukee Catholic Conference title for St. Catherine’s . . . Don had a family of five brothers, two sisters and his parents rooting for him this year . . .
JOHN J. LATTNER . . . this 18-year-old Sophomore runs from the halfback position . . . just completed his first season on the N.D. varsity ... he is of Irish-German descent, and hails from Chicago, Ill. . . . played football and basketball at Fenwick High in Oak Park, Ill., receiving three letters in the former sport, four in the latter . . . this Commerce student is a fan of the English author Rudyard Kipling . . . spends free time following his hobbies of baseball, bowling, and swimming . . .
from
JOHN E. MAZUR . . . first
ALBERT J. KOHANOWICH ... a Junior end
Hempstead, L. L, Al is 21, 6'1", and weighs 189 ... he is a two-sports man at Notre Dame, being a broad-jumper and high-jumper on the track team in Winter and Spring . . . this Physical Education major had his biggest athletic thrill when he scored on an 80-yard pass play from scrimmage in the first play of the game against Brooklyn Prep . . . captain of football and track teams in high school . . . counts Southern Methodist as his toughest game . . .
string quaiterback of the
Irish this year likes playing on offense best. . . proves this by his passing and field strategy . . . upholds the Fighting Irish tradition, being of Polish descent ... he is a three-year monogram man . . . after graduating in June with a major in Phys. Ed., he hopes to play some pro football, then go on to a career in coaching . . . admires Sid Luckman and Johnny Lujack, former Notre Dame All-American quarterback . . . home is Plymouth, Pa. . . .
in
JAMES H. HAMBY . .
. as Senior philosophy major
the College of Arts and Letters . . . although originally from Arkansas, Jim’s home town is Caruthersville, Mo. . . . he experienced his greatest athletic thrill in scoring a touchdown while playing center for Caruthersville High School . . . Jim is a member of the AROTC . . . his favorite subject is French, his favorite book, “Napoleon the Great” . . . of French-German descent, Jim is 6'2", weighs 205 pounds .... a monogram winner in his Sophomore year . . . he prefers playing defense and likes to read in his spare time ...	.
22
Football Review
ARTHUR J. HUNTER ... an English Hungarian Sophomore center from Akron, Ohio . . . Art is an 18-year-old Commerce student . . . his favorite subject is Spanish, his favorite book, Homer’s “Odyssey” . . . while playing for St. Vincent High in Akron, Ohio, he faced his present teammates Bob Toneff and Bob Kapish in a game with Barberton, Ohio . . . Art earned seven letters, two in baseball, three in basketball, and two in football, at St. Vincent ... he is 6'3” and weighs 213 pounds . . . his ambition is to become a wealthy industrialist . . . his athletic hero is
. . a Junior end of Italian-Irish
ROBERT M. O’NEIL .
parentage ... he hails from a little town just outside of Pittsburgh, Bridgeville, Pa. .. . Bob is majoring in business administration in the Notre Dame College of Commerce ... he has distinguished himself on the defensive platoon . . he formerly attended the University of Duquesne . . . *Bob won ten letters at Lincoln High, three in football, three in baseball, two in soccer, and two in basketball and was captain of the baseball and basketball teams ... he is 6'1” and weighs 193 pounds . . .
DAVID M. FLOOD ... a Junior defensive halfback known for his speed, he once ran the hundred yard dash against Mel Patton, and was beaten by only a foot, though Patton covered the distance in 9.5 seconds . . . Dave, a physical education major from Pittsburgh, plans to play pro football after graduation and then get a coaching job . . . he is 24 years old, 5'10” tall and weighs 185 pounds .. . Dave came to Notre Dame from the Smoky City’s Langley High, where he won 15 varsity letters, four of which were
in football...
FRANK F. MANGIALARDI .
VIRGIL J. BARDASH ... a product of Horace Mann High in Gary, Ind., the six-foot, 210-pound Rumanian lists the first time he played for Notre Dame as his most memorable athletic event... he is a Junior in the College of Commerce and is majoring in marketing ... in high school, Virge, 'who^,play,ed..tackle, fulfilled the lineman’s dream when he caught a blocked pass and galloped 54 yards for a touchdown . . . after graduation he “would like to play pro ball for a while and then go into marketing” . . . his toughest game this year Michigan State .. .
came against the Spartans of
. . another of the many Chicago boys on the squad, “Fred,” as he prefers to be called, is a Sophomore end from St. Philip’s High in the Windy City ... his favorite course is Naval Science, which he is taking as a member of the Notre Dame Unit of the NROTC ... he is a pre-law student and hopes to become a tax attorney ... in high school, the 6'1” 195-pounder won five letters, three in football, two in basketball . . . his toughest game this year came against the Mustangs of SMU . . .
December 7, 1951
23
MENIL MAVRAIDES ... the “toe” of this year’s Irish squad, Menil calls Lowell, Mass., his home . . . although skilled at place-kicking the ball, “Minnie” can also catch it and likes to break up end runs ... he is 6'1" and tips the scales at 202 pounds . . . Menil is of Greek descent, and has his own cheering section, as he is one of 11 children . . . he wants to enter law school upon completion of his undergraduate work . . . Shakespeare is his favorite author and for an athletic idol he chooses Ted Williams . . .
JOSEPH R. BUSH . . . the last of three brothers to play for the Irish, the 19-year-old, 6'3" 203-pound tackle came to Notre Dame from St. Ambrose Academy in Davenport, Iowa . . . his oldest brother, Mike, played end on the Irish teams of 1944-45 . . . his other brother, Jack, is a Senior halfback on this year’s varsity ... Joe earned eight letters* as a prep, four in football, two each in basketball and track . . . Joe’s hobby is record playing and he especially enjoys the classics . . . hails from Oak Park, Ill. . . .
ROBERT TONEFF . . . “Moose” was the opponents’ big worry about the Irish line this year ... at Barberton (Ohio) High, Bob won three letters in football and track and was an all-state tackle in 1947 . . . He likes to scrimmage and hates the thought of having to sit out a practice . . . . Bob is majoring in physical education and wants to do a little coaching after a few years in the pro league . . .
he is 6'1" and weighs a compact 235 pounds . brother and Jim Martin are his athletic heroes . .
. his
WALTER K. CABRAL ... a native of Honolulu, Hawaii, singles out surfboarding on giant 15 foot waves among his most interesting experiences . . . this tall Freshman end first learned football in true barefoot Hawaiian fashion, but soon graduated to shoes and all-star honors when he attended St. Louis High in Honolulu . . . Walt, who is of Hawaiian-Portuguese descent, is a physical education
major who came school spirit.. .
to Notre
Dame because he liked the
PAUL R. REYNOLDS ... a Freshman student in the College of Engineering, Paul quickly earned himself a position at halfback in the Irish offensive backfield ... at Catholic Boys High in Springfield, Ill., he captained the football team in his Senior year while at the same time earning a position on the All-State team . . . Ralph Kiner rates as Paul’s athletic hero, and he remembers playing on the city championship team in his Junior year as his top athletic thrill . . .
24
Football Review
RALPH V. GUGLIELMI . . . steadily improved throughout his first season at Notre Dame until he earned the starting quarterback post against North Carolina ... of Italian descent. “Gugs” earned ten letters at Grandview High School in Columbus, perennial Central Ohio Conference athletic champs, as he rose to be a standout performer in football, baseball, and basketball . . . hunting and fishing are his chief hobbies, and he is an Arts and Letters student loking forward to the dentistry profession . . .
EUGENE P. CARRABINE . . . came this year from Emerson High in Gary, Ind., hometown of other Irish greats such as Bill Flynn ... is of Irish descent and has five brothers and one sister ... in addition to winning seven letters in high school he earned a place on the All-Stateteam last year . . . now interested primarily in getting a good sound education in Commerce, Gene has set having a successful, happy family as his goal in life ... he singles out mathematics as his favorite course and likes to relax in his spare time by listening to popular music_____
l* Forest, Ill. ... a hard running back, Bill has been a victim of the injury jinx two years in a row. . . . Sidelined after three games of the ’50 season, he was injured in a practice session right after the Michigan State game this year. ... A Senior Commerce student majoring in Business Administration, Bill plans a mixture of business and coaching after graduation. ... He names his game-winning touchdown against SMU in 1949 as his greatest sports thrill...
JOSEPH L. HEAP ... a 5'11", 175-pound, 19-year-old Freshman halfback . . . attended Holy Cross High in New Orleans, where he was a seven-letter man ... he won four of -thesean. football and three in track ... in his Senior year Joe had his biggest athletic thrill—winning four first places in a Louisiana State track meet . . . although he prepped in New Orleans, his home town is Albita Springs, La. . . . his environment led him to choose hunting and fishing as hobbies, but his aim in life is to become a cattle rancher. . .
Senior Del was a monogram winner in his Sophomore year ... he prepped at Mount Carmel in Chicago under the present coach of Irish tackles, Bob McBride ... in his first game there he scored four touchdowns . . . went on to win three letters in football and track . . . just playing in an ND uniform was his biggest sports thrill . . . when he gets a chance, he plies his hobby of hunting and fishing ... to match his last name, Del’s friends call him “Goose” ... he is 6'1", 196 pounds, 21 years old . . .
December 7, 1951
25
Text by ‘lack Varley
si
) t V 5 •


From Friday
When the game is over on Saturday afternoon the fans stream out of the stadium commenting on the plays and the penalties and for a couple of hours the game is played over and ovei- again with very little serious thought to the game of the following week.
However for the players, the assistant coaches and head coach Frank Leahy their thoughts are immediately focused upon that “next one”.
Their preparation ended for the most part Friday afternoon. Whatever was to be ironed out had to be done by then because the show started that night. There could be no more rehearsals for
the football weekend commenced that night at the pep rally with the head coach addressing the students and guests (1).
Then Saturday, the main act—the game—with its color and excitement went on. And as the teams fought up and down the field, the head coach paced nervously and fretted when the opposition got into Notre Dame territory, beamed happily as his lads drove across the goal (2).
After the game, in the dressing room, Leahy sat almost stunned as newspapermen and well wishers crowded about him (3). Peering into his cup of coffee,



To Friday
Photos by Jerry Sheehan
he commented on the game to the press and thanked his followers for stopping in . . . but now the next game.
Monday, Leahy and his assistants begin to prepare for the following Saturday. They examine movies of games already played by their opponents (4) and at the coaches’ meeting (5) Leahy and his assistants plot their strategy so as to stop the opponent’s attack and take advantage of his weaknesses.
. During the week some of the press cover the practices to repoi-t the progress of the team (6). Probably the closest followers of Irish football among
the fourth estate are Joe Doyle,
(i),
Kras
sports editor of the South Bend Tribune and Joe Boland (r) sports director of radio station WSBT. Almost any day in the week they can be seen questioning Leahy on the condition of the team and watching as he instructs the players (7).
After practice Leahy returns to his office in Breen-Phillips and with his secretary, Frank Sullivan, starts his “home work” (8). He works out defenses and offenses on the blackboard in his office (9) and attends to paper work (10) that may carry him long into the night ... so that the Fighting Irish will have the best opportunity he can give them to be victorious the following Saturday.

FRANK J. VARRICHIONE . .
PAUL E. BURNS . . . Athens. Pa. ... a graduate of Athens High, Paul played football two years there and one year at Aquinas Institute in Rochester, N. Y. . . . a Commerce Senior, he has played both offensive and defensive guard for Coach Leahy . . . his biggest thrill: just meeting that same coach and also playing the first game for Notre Dame . . . his main ambition is to play pro ball after his graduation this year ... a shoulder separation in mid-season cut short Paul’s playing days at Notre Dame. . . . Paul, 21, is 6'2", 196 pounds . . .
. a Freshman guard from
Natick, Mass. . . . 19-year-old Frank is an education major in the College of Arts and Letters . . . the Italian-American lad is six feet tall and weighs 210 pounds . . . while attending Natick High, he lettered three times in football and also in baseball and track . . . Frank plans a teachingcoaching career following his graduation . . . his biggest thrill was meeting Frank Leahy . . .
THOMAS F. MURPHY . .
. president of Breen-Phillips
Hall in his Freshman year, this Irish 6'1", 210-pound tackle is an Arts and Letters Junior majoring in economics with an eye towards law . . . his home is in Chicago where he attended St. George High in Evanston . . . played against fellow teammate Billy Barrett, who then attended Fenwick . . . likes French, steaks and photography . . . calls last year’s Southern California game his toughest. . . Tom is a member of the campus Air Force ROTC unit.'. .
. a Junior from Baltimore,
SAMUEL PALUMBO ... a Freshman guard of Italian descent . . . Sam is from Cleveland, Ohio ... he attended Collinwood High, where he won letters in football and basketball three seasons each ... he was captain of the prep football squad in 1950 ... in his leisure time he likes to read ... 19 years of age . . . weighs in at 195 and is six feet even. . . . Sam also goes under the alias of “Butch,” possibly because of the crew cut he sports . .. “Butch” saw lots of action on this year’s defensive unit . . .
WILLIAM L. GAUDREAU . .
«trron£
Md., Bill followed in the footsteps of last year’s All-American quarterback Bob Williams at Loyola High in Baltimore . . . there, Bill was a three-sport man, winning letters in football, basketball, and tennis . . . his quarterbacking at Notre Dame this year was devoted to defensive work in the Irish secondary . . . “Goody” is 6'1", 180 pounds . . . 20 years old, he is of Irish-French extraction and one of six children . . . Bill is majoring in architectural engineering.. .. relaxes by sailing, reading, or listening to music .. .
28
Football Review
ROBERT H. TAYLOR . . . calls Pekin, Ill., his home town ... a second-semester Freshman, Bob plays at guard . . . he likes mechanics, his hobby being working on cars . . . Bob is also quite a wrestler, with a second place in the Illinois state heavyweight tournament to his credit . . . he aspires someday to be an engineer . . . Bob is 6'2" tall and weighs 215 pounds . . . won three letters in football, three in wrestling, and one in track in his prep days . . . calls getting lost in the Grand Canyon once his roughest experience ...	,
THOMAS F. McHUGH . . . hails from Toledo, Ohio . a 19-year-old Sophomore . . . picked physical education
as
his major ... he works from the fullback slot on the Irish squad . . . played his high school football at Central Catholic High in Toledo, where he won a total of eight letters, three in football, three in basketball and one each in track and baseball ... in basketball, Tom played on a team that went to the state finals in 1949 . . . names biology as his favorite course . . . Tom measures 6'1", weighs 195 pounds . . .
JAMES L. SCHRADER . . . Irish-English-German Sophomore center from Carnegie, Pa. . . . Jim is 19 and is majoring in domestic marketing in the Commerce school . . . he is 6'2", weighs 208 pounds ... his favorites are English, swimming and hunting ... a graduate of Scott Township High in Carnegie, Jim earned three letters in football and two in basketball there . . . his pet peeve is “drugstore quarterbacks” . . . “Benjie,” as he’s been nicknamed, considers coming to ND as his biggest thrill . . .
THOMAS J. SEAMAN ... 20 years of age, 5'11" tall and weighs 198 pounds ... a Junior in the Commerce course ... he took over a first-string guard berth in midseason ... he hails from Lincoln High in Canton, Ohio . . . as captain of their team, he rated All-State honors in his Senior year ... he rates last year’s Tulane game as one of the toughest. . . Tom is still undecided what his occupation will be after he graduates, but he figures on keeping busy raising a family of ten kids . . .
CHESTER C. OSTROWSKI . . . playing his last year of football in an Irish uniform, Chet switched first to guard and then back to end . . . he’d like to play some pro ball after graduation ... an Arts and Letters history major, he’d also like to try his hand at teaching history sometime in the future ... a product of Chicago’s Weber High, he picked up six football and basketball letters before graduation . . . his favorite readings are Hamlet and the works of Edgar Allen Poe . . . Chet is 21, 6'1" tall, and weighs 197 pounds . . .
December 7, 1951
29
i
JOHN
ROBERT J. KELLY ... a Junior tackle of Irish descent, Bob is from Duluth, Minn. ... in high school at Duluth Catholic, he was a fullback . . . also won letters in golf, hockey, boxing, skiing, and basketball... he missed spring practice this year because of an operation . . . won a monogram last year as a Sophomore playing the defensive end position . . . Bob’s idol is Leon Hart . . . his favorite course in the College of Commerce is history ... He is 6'2", 200 pounds . . .
PAUL LEE ... a Freshman guard, he is called
“Dutchy” in spite of his Irish descent . . . hails from Medford, Mass.... he went to Catholic High in Malden, Mass., where he won three letters in three seasons of football . . . also played hockey . . . Dutchy’s idol in athletics is Milt Schmidt, a hockey ace . . . “Northwest Passage” is his favorite book . . . like many Notre Dame athletes, his biggest sports thrill is just being able to play for the Irish . . . Dutchy is 19 years old . . . weighs 190 ... is 5'11" .. .
COhk
DANIEL J. SHANNON . .
JAMES F. ALESSANDRINI .
. . a Junior guard of Ital-
ian descent . . . “Jack” hails from Charleston, W. Va. . . . graduated from Catholic High in Charleston . . . won ten letters in football, basketball and baseball... he saw some action last year in the Irish lineup, and notched another place for himself on the Notre Dame squad this year . . . a student in the College of Commerce . . . math is his favorite subject . . . swimming is his favorite pastime . . . he is 20 years of age . . . 5'11", weighs 198 pounds . . .
. another of the first year men
who was equal to the difficult task of stepping directly from high school to varsity collegiate football, seeing a great deal of time as a defensive linebacker ... a student in the College of Comm'erce, Dan’s favorite subject is accounting . . . under his athletic hero and coach, Terry Brennan, Notre Dame grid star of a few years ago, Dan earned All-State honors in his Senior year at Mount Carmel High in Chicago . . .
THOMAS F. CAREY . .
. a member of last year’s Mount
Carmel High football team, Chicago City Champs, and a former teammate of Dan Shannon, he remembers playing in Soldier’s Field for the championship as his biggest thrill ... in addition to football, Tom was a member of the wresting team in high school, earning four letters in that sport . . . an Engineering Freshman . . . though his hobbies include swimming and fishing he will have little to do with sea food ... a steak man, he . . . Edgar Allen Poe is his favorite author; Charlie Trippi, his athletic hero . . .
30
Football Review
FREDERICK C. POEHLER . . . known as “Rick” by his classmates and teammates, Fred hails from Jackson, Mich. . . . Fred is 6'4", 210 pounds and is an air force veteran 20 years of age ... a ten-letter man while participating in football, basketball, and baseball in high school, Rick played center on the Jackson High 1948 team which won the Michigan championship . . . the big German Sophomore is majoring in pre-medicine and served a year and a half as a surgical technician . . . his biggest thrill was playing in an All-Army basketball tournament in Washington, D. C. . . .
Mil-
trom
RICHARD F. SZYMANSKI . . . came to Notre Dame for his first year this fall from Tibbey High School in Toledo, Ohio ... a Commerce student, “Peaches” is of Polish descent. . . won seven letters in high school, three in baseball and two each in football and basketball... in addition to being co-captain of the state champion football team, he earned prep All-American honors in his Senior year . . . a center, his biggest high school athletic thrill came in beating Hamilton High, second in the state when they met . . . Ted Williams is his athletic hero . . .
NEIL J. WORDEN . . . Sophomore fullback
waukee, Wis. . . . “Sull” came from the ranks of last year’s great Freshman squad to become the “workhorse” of this year’s Irish -backfield ... 19 /ears old, he is one of the many “youngsters” that sportswriters said would make this year’s Irish greener than ever before ... at Pulaski High in Milwaukee, he earned nine letters, four in football, three in basketball, and two in track ... he won All-State honors in Wisconsin for football in 1949 .. . Neil, at 5'11", 187 pounds, looks small for a fullback . . .
ROBERT E. READY ... a tackle and an Arts and Letters Freshman . . . Bob hails from Lowell, Mass. . . . the 12 letters he won at Lowell High were divided equally among football, basketball, and baseball . . . captained the cage squad in his senior year . . . Irish Bob played in two high school bowl games in 1948 and ’49, names that feat as his most memorable prep experience . . . names Lou Gehrig as his athletic hero, Tolstoy’s “War and Peace” as his favorite book ... his brother Roger just finished his fourth season on South Carolina’s grid team . . .
FRANCIS F. PATERRA . . . this Sophomore student in the College of Arts and Letters played his first year on the Irish varsity as a halfback . . . comes from McKeesport, Pa., where he excelled in football, baseball, and track at McKeesport Tech High . . . spent last summer at Parris Island, where the U.S. Marine Corps has a training camp, and holds the stripes of a corporal in the Marine Reserve . . . Slingin’ Sammy Baugh is Frank’s football idol. . . . Now 20, Frank has come a long way since he was struck by rheumatic fever at the age of six ...	.	'
31
December 7, 1951
^he Coaching Staff in ffleview
Frank leahy came to Notre Dame as head football coach in 1941, and during nine seasons since that time has had five undefeated teams and three national champions. He boasts a winning percentage of over .800, and a 39 game string without a defeat, extending from 1946 through the first game of the 1950 season.
Born Aug. 27, 1908, in O’Neill, Nev., Leahy was raised in Winner, S. Dak., and Omaha, Neb. He entered Notre Dame in 1927, and by 1929 was first string tackle on Knute Rockne’s national championship team.
After graduation Leahy spent the next eight years as line coach at Georgetown, Michigan State, and Fordham. He went to Boston College in 1939 as head coach, and when Elmer Layden resigned in 1941, Leahy was named head coach of his alma mater,
In Leahy’s first season at Notre Dame he fashioned an undefeated, once-tied team which earned him the Coach of the Year award. In 1943 he won his first national championship with a record of nine wins and one loss. Returning from Naval service, his teams began their victory string in 1946, winning national championships in 1946, 1947, and 1949, and placing second in 1948.
Leahy lives in Michigan City, Ind., with his wife, the former Miss Florence Reilly of Brooklyn, N. Y., and their seven children, four boys and three girls.
EDWARD W. KRAUSE is in his third year as Irish athletic director and his eighth at Notre Dame, during which time he has been head basketball coach, assistant football coach, and assistant athletic director in addition to his present position.
He was born in Chicago on Feb. 2, 1913, and attended LaSalle High School there, where he picked up his now-famous nickname “Moose.” The name stuck when he came to Notre Dame in 1930, and, though many subsequent N. D. AllAmericans have held the title, Krause was the original “Moose.”
After graduation he coached at St. Mary’s College in Winona, Minn., and then at Holy Cross. He returned to Notre Dame in 1942 as football line coach and, when George Keogan died that winter, took over as head basketball coach. After two years in the Marines he returned to Notre Dame in 1946, and in 1948 was named assistant director of athletics. In 1949 he became director of athletics, but continued to coach the Irish basketball team until last Spring when, in his own words, “The athletic director fired the basketball coach,” and appointed -Johnny Jordan to succeed him.
Krause, who has no immediate plans other than remaining at Notre Dame as athletic director as long as possible, was married Aug. 27, 1938, to the former Miss Elizabeth Linden of Chicago. They have three sons.
33
December 7, 1951
WILLIAM JOSEPH EARLEY . . . Born in Parkersburg, W. Va., on Aug. 31, 1921. . . . Entered Notre Dame in 1939 and won football monograms in 1940, 1941, and 1942. . . . Received his degree in journalism from the College of Arts and Letters in February, 1943, and at the same time was inducted into the Army Air Force. . . . Served as a bombardier in a B-24 in Italy, winning the Distinguished Flying Cross with one cluster, the Air Medal with four clusters, and the Purple Heart. . . . Was discharged in 1945 with the rank of captain. . . . Came back to Notre Dame in 1946 as assistant backfield coach and “B” squad mentor. . . . After that season Leahy switched him to varsity backfield coaching on a full-time basis. . . . Earley coached his younger brother Fred, the Irish place-kicking expert, during the 1946 and 1947 seasons. . . . Has another younger brother burning up the West Virginia high school gridirons. . . . On Feb. 18, 1943, Bill was married to Miss Louise Katherine Schilling of Parkersburg. . . . The Earleys have two children—a son, Michael Henry, and a daughter, Cathy Louise.
I	BERNARD ANTHONY CRIMMINS . . . Leahy’s backfield coach since
:	1946 ... He was the first Notre Dame football player to win a letter
।	at three different positions, at right halfback, fullback, and guard . . .
j	It was in Bernie’s Senior year, and Leahy’s first as Irish coach, that he
j	made the switch to guard, and was an almost unanimous choice on the
■	1941 All-American elevens at that position . . . He was a Business Adj	ministration major in those days, and graduated in May, 1942 . . .
I	After a brief coaching period, Crimmins entered the Notre Dame Mid!	shipman School in October, 1942, and was commissioned an ensign
I	Jan. 28, 1943 ... In South Pacific PT boat action. Crimmins won the
|	Silver Star, Presidential Citation, Philippine Liberation medal, and
i	three battle stars for his Asiatic-Pacific ribbon .. . Discharged from the
j	Navy as a full lieutenant on Sept. 28, 1945, and returned to Notre
i	Dame as Leahy’s assistant . . . Now spends his Saturdays in the press
।	box, picking holes in opponent’s defenses and relaying tip-offs to the
j	bench by telephone. .. . Was married to Miss Dorothy Linnig of Louis-
ville, Ky., on Feb. 7, 1948, and has two children, Michael and Patrick Kevin. . . . Calls Louisville his home. . .
JOHN FRANCIS DRUZE . . . First met Leahy while playing under him at Fordham. . . . Played almost 60 minutes of end in every game of the 1935, 1936, and 1937 seasons, and was one of the famous Fordham “Seven Blocks of Granite” ... Also was varsity baseball first baseman, and as a freshman won his numerals in basketball. . . . Graduated with a bachelor of science degree in economics in 1938, and the following season played for the Brooklyn Dodgers of the National Football League. ... Was signed as Leahy’s end coach at Boston College in 1939, and came to Notre Dame after the war in the same capacity. . . . Another Navy man, Druze was commissioned an ensign in 1942 and saw combat in both the Atlantic and Pacific theaters, participating in the Layte landing and the rest of the Philippine invasion. ... In the Atlantic the Escort Carrier on which he was stationed was credited with sinking two German submarines. . . . Druze was born in Newark, N. J., and later moved to Irvington, N. J., where he captained the football, basketball, and baseball teams in his senior year of high school. ... Married Miss Rose Stocki of Newark in 1942, and has one daughter.
34
Football Review
JOSEPH ANDREW McARDLE . . . Guard coach at Notre Dame since 1941. . . . Known to the squad as “Captain Bligh” . . . Another Fordham man, Joe played under Jim Crowley and Frank Leahy in 1933 and 1934. . . . Was a three-year football letterman, although he only weighed 170 pounds. ... Went into business after graduating in 1935, first as advertising solicitor and promotion man for the New York World-Telegram, then as an insurance salesman. . . . Went to Boston College as center and guard coach when Leahy became head coach there in 1939. . . . Followed Leahy to Notre Dame in March of 1941. . . . Entered the Navy on April 15, 1942 as a Lieutenant (jg). . . . Saw ten months service in the Pacific, nine of them on the aircraft carrier Wasp, and has two battle stars. . . . Was almost strafed by a Jap plane on the last day of the war. . . . Was married on May 24, 1942 to Miss Eleanor Sullivan of Lowell, Mass., which was also his home town. . . . They have four children, two boys and two girls. . . . McArdle’s biggest football thrill came in 1933 when he blocked a Bucknell punt for a safety, the only scoring he did in his career.
WALTER JOHN ZIEMBA . . . Notre Dame center coach, was born in Hammond. Ind., on July 19, 1919. . . . Entered Notre Dame in 1939 after starring- in football, basketball, and track at Hammond High School. . . . Earned his letter at tackle in his sophomore year*, and was switched to center when Leahy took over the Irish. . . . Earned AllAmerican honors on several teams in his senior year, 1942. . . . Found time to win a track monogram as a shot-putter in his senior year. . . . Wally was called into the Marines after graduation, reporting to the Parris Island Officer’s Training School, but was discharged after several weeks because of physical disability. . .•. Played in the Chicago All-Star game in August, 1943, and then joined the N.D. coaching staff. . . . Also served as assistant basketball coach for a time, but now concentrates on Irish football centers.... Illness kept him out of action for a big part of the 1950 season, but this year Ziemba returned to full-time duty. . . . Was married on January 6, 1945, to the former Miss Julia Krukowski of Hammond, and has one child, a daughter.
ROBERT JAMES McBRIDE . . . Tackle coach and latest addition to the coaching staff. . . . Born in Lancaster, Ohio, on Sept. 6, 1922, and entered Notre Dame in 1940. . . . Played fullback in high school but switched to guard here and won monograms in 1941 and 1942. . . . Entered the Army in the Spring of 1943 and went overseas as a machine gun squad leader. .. . He was captured by the Germans in the Battle of the Bulge and held till April 16, 1945, when he was liberated. . . . During his imprisonment, Bob shrank from 213 pounds to 114. . . . Returned to Notre Dame in 1946 and won another monogram on the national championship eleven that fall. . . . Became coach of Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago after graduation in 1947, where he remained for two years. . . . Was named to Leahy’s coaching staff in 1949. ... A believer in the “actions speak louder than words” maxim, McBride likes to mix it with his tackles, and personally demonstrates the fine points of line play. . . . Only missed one day of practice while playing for the Irish. ’Twas Sept. 6, 1946, his birthday and the day his wife gave birth to their first child. . . . The McBride’s now have four children, two boys and two girls. . . . His wife is the former Miss Mary Stein of Lancaster, Ohio.
December 7, 1951
Spotlight diehind the Stadium Scenes
Bee Squad, Directed by Former Gridders, Molds Untried Freshmen Into Varsity Stars
Travel Comfort
By BILL LONDO
PLUS
There is an old saying in sporting circles that a team is only as good as its reserves. Collegiate football, perhaps more than any other sport, bears out the truth of this. Every year graduation and injuries take nearly a quarter of the average college squad, and thus it is the subs of one season that are the starters of the next.
For this reason Notre Dame has another football team besides the one that thrills thousands each fall Saturday. The team is known by various names—the scrubs, the bee squad, the reserves—each implying some sort of gridiron immaturity. But it is from this squad that the stars of tomorrow come.
This year, under the direction of three former Irish grid performers, Dick Cotter, Bob Lally, and Gene Smith, the reserves were a screening group for freshmen who had not been invited out fox- football, but wanted to try to make the team.
Lally, who has the unique distinction of nevex- having played in a losing game in eithex- high school or college, handled the linemen. A guard and line-backex- in his playing days as a member of the undefeated ’47, ’48, and ’49 Irish, Lally is in the Notre Dame College of Law.
Cottei’ was one of the mainstays of Coach Leahy’s 1950 eleven. Starting the yeax- as a linebacker, he developed into one of the team’s bettex- runnex-s during the latter- half of the season. Smith, who helped Cotter with the backs, was also a member of the ’50 team.
These three graduates of the Leahy school drilled the reserves every day with the hope of turning some of the unpolished material into varsity competitors.
The team, augmented by members of the lower varsity strings, did play three games against reserve outfits of other schools, losing to Illinois and Tennessee, and tying Purdue. Two scheduled tilts with Michigan State were postponed because of the November snows.
The Illinois game, played early in September, saw the green Irish beaten 21-7 by one of the best Bee squads in the Big Ten. Quarterback Tom Martin and defensive halfback Pat Galvin were outstanding in defeat.
In the Purdue clash a driving rain storm drenched Cartiex- Field and ham-
December 7, 1951
pered both teams. Notre Dame scored on a pass from Martin to Steve Go-rnola in the first quarter, but the junioi- Boilermakers tied the game in the third period on. a plunge by Lou Kerestes, brother of formex- Purdue star, John Kerestes.
Tennessee routed the resexves with a blistering pass attack in the second half, aftei- Bobby Joseph of the Ix-ish had scored the first touchdown. The final score was 38-7 in favor of the Vols who matched theix- varsity brothers’ record by finishing undefeated.
Among the standouts in the line were: Dave Meagher, St. Cloud, Minn., Mickey Valerio, Bridgeport, Pa., John Kurtz, Des Moines, Iowa, and Jim Ward, Scarsdale, N. J. Galvin, who hails from Detroit, Mich., was the defensive mainstay.
Halfbacks Billy Standlee, Garden City, N. Y., Burt Metzger, Chicago, Ill., Tom Meglan, Cleveland, Ohio, and Jon Tyson, Miwela, Texas, fullback Pete Regen, Montclair, N. J., and quarterback Jim Bigalow, Pittsburgh, Pa., paced the backfield candidates.
The varsity men who formed the backbone of the squad in the games were Joseph, Martin, Don Bianco, Jim Dunlay, Joe Caprara, Jim Weithman, Art Nowak, Bob Rigali, and Ed Bucz-kiewicz.
SAFETY AND SAVINGS WHEN YOU Go By Train ON YOUR HOLIDAY TRIP
IPS MORE FUN! Plan your holiday homecoming by train with a group of friends. Enjoy real comfort — wonderful dining car meals ... room to roam around and relax.
YOU CAN depend on. getting home as planned—and getting back after vacation as well. Day in day out the railroads offer you worry-free travel.
SAVE MONEY! Get together 25 or more, all heading home in the same direction at the same time. You may return individually. Then go GROUP COACH PLAN, and each save up to 45% compared to oneway coach tickets!
Ask your Local Railroad Agent Now about group or single round-lrip savings!
EASTERN RAILROADS
37

Complete Statistics of the 1951 Season
Player	TO	PAT	FG	PTS	TC	NYG	AVG	PA	PC	INT	NYG	PC	NYG	PR	NYG	KR	NYG	pi	YR
Alessandrini 		.. 0	0	0	0	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0
Barrett 		.. 5	0	0	30	69	210	3.0	0	0	0	0	8	136	5	107	4	86	0	0
Bianco 		.. 0	0	0	0	1	-2	....	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Carey 		.. 0	0	0	0	11	-7	....	11	7	0	61	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Carrabine 		.. 0	0	0	0	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	2	3
Flood 		.. 0	0	0	0	1	-6	....	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	6	88	0	0
Gander 		.. 1	0	0	6	11	42	3.8	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Gaudreau 		.. 0	0	0	0	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	4	52
Guglielmi 		.. 1	0	0	6	21	-32	....	53	27	4	438	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Heap 		.. 2	0	0	12	38	166	4.4	3	0	0	0	. 2	25	1	5	2	50	0	0
Joseph 		.. 0	3	0	3	2	11	5.5	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Lattner 		.. 6	0	0	36	68	341	5.0	2	1	0	23	8	157	10	91	0	0	5	66
Mavraides 		.. 0	19	1	22	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	0	2	17	0	0	0	0	0	0
Mazut 		.. 3	0	0	18	23	-38	....	110	48	12	645	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
McHugh 		.. 0	0	0	0	7	29	4.1	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Mutscheller 		.. 2	0	0	12	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	O'	20	305	0	0	1	13	0	0
Ostrowski 		.. 1	0	0	6	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	0	15	204	0	0	2	13	0	0
Paterra 		.. 0-	0	0	0	19	98	5.2	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
Penza 		.. 0	0	0	0	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	0	1	6	0	0	0	0	0	0
Petitbon 		.. 4	0	0	24	48	227	4.7	1	0	0	0	8	105	14	189	3	115	2	3
Reynolds 		.. 3	0	0	18	93	375	4.0	0	0	0	0	6	80	0	0	5	84	0	0
Shannon 		.. 0	0	0	0	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	2	0
Szymanski 		.. 0	0	0	0	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	3	5
Toneff 		.. 0	0	0	0	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	0	1	21	0	0	0	0	0	0
Whelan 		.. 0	0	0	0	0	0	0.0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	9	0	0	0	0
Worden 		.. 8	0	0	48	181	676	3.7	0	0	0	0	12	111	0	0	0	0	0	0
TOTALS 		.. 36	22	1	241	593	2090	3.4'	180	83	16	1167	83	1167	31	401	23	449	19	129
OPPONENTS 	 FUMBLES: NOTRE DAME 29 OPPONENTS 36	.. 18	11	1	122 i	414 1294 OPPONENTS’		3.1	220 FUMBLES		95	19 1235	95 1235	28 RECOVERED: NOTRE DAME 21 OPPONENTS 14						140	36	589	16	228
OPPONENTS’ FUMBLES RECOVERED: Lattner 4, Shannon 4, Palumbo 3, Szymanski 2, O’Neil, Cabral, Lee, Carey, Whelan, Flood, Worden, Alessandrini.
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish Team of 1951
FIRST ROW (from left to right): Joe Borges (mgr.), Bob Toneff, John Mazur, Joe Caprara, Bob Kapish, Jim Hamby, Jim Mutscheller (capt.), Del Gander, John Petitbon, Tony Zambroski, Jack Bush, Chet Ostrowski, and Bill Doyle (mgr.). SECOND ROW: Don Penza, Walt Cabral, Art Hunter, Virgil Bardash, John Lattner, Jim Schrader, Dave Flood, Joe Heap, Tom Murphy, Dan Shannon, Jack Alessandrini, Dick Szymanski, Bill Gaudreau, and Tom McHugh. THIRD ROW: Joe Bush, Jim Weithman, Paul Robst, Leonard Cyterski, Paul Reynolds, Rockne Morrissey, Menil Mavraides, Fran Paterra, Gene Carrabine, Frank Varrichione, Don Bianco, Bob Joseph, Tom Seaman, Bob Kelly, and Fred Poehler. FOURTH ROW: Sam Palumbo, Don Bucci, Tony Pasquesi, Mike Tonelli, Leo Callahan, Tom Carey, Jack Whelan, Bob Taylor, Ralph Guglielmi, Paul Matz, Dick Frasor, Bob Martin, Armando Galardo, John Darago. FIFTH ROW: Fred Mangialardi, Bob O’Neil, Neil Worden, John Lee, and Bob Ready. Bill Barrett and Paul Burns were absent when the picture was taken,-
The Dream Backfield
By DICK CODY
Stuhldreher, Crowley, Layden, and Miller. Lujack, Sitko, Fanelli, and Brennan. Williams, Coutre, Sitko, and Barrett. Jones, Cahill, Callahan, and McAllister.
Wait a minute there, bud. Everyone knows about the famous Four Horsemen—even me. And that ’47 Irish backfield got to be pretty well-known. And the matter is still open to discussion which was the greatest backfield of all time, either of those or that ’49 group. But where did you dig up that last quartet? Jones, Cahill, Callahan, and McAllister, did you say? They sound like Irishmen, but I can’t quite place them. Must have been before my time.
Although such a declaration as that above falls under the heading of “Comments We Doubt Ever Got Commented,” the reaction which those four names bring about when used in connection with Notre Dame football is a natural one, for these are truly the men behind the scenes of the Irish grid fortunes.
When out of the backfield, Jones is Herbert E. Jones, business manager of athletics. Cahill is M. Robert Cahill, the ticket manager. Callahan is Charles Callahan, director of sports publicity. And McAllister is John W. McAllister, superintendent of equipment for all Notre Dame athletic teams. These are the quiet, efficient, hard-working men whose names never find their way into the headlines, the men on whose shoulders fall a great many of the problems the care of a nationally-famous football team causes.
Herb Jones, for example, attends to all the many details and arrangements which must be made before the football team makes any trip. He orders all athletic equipment, takes care of all expenses the team incurs, handles all athletic accounts, and arranges all athletic trips. When the Irish play an away game, Herb is the one who insures them comfortable hotel accommodations, who makes sure they get those fabulous Saturday morning breakfast-lunches, and that they arrive at the game in plenty of time.
At games played in Notre Dame’s home stadium Herb’s duties and cares are even more numerous. It is conservatively estimated that approximately 2,000 people help put on each game, and the business manager is the person who makes arrangements for most of them. The functions of these people, it has been stated, are all encompassed in the statement, “getting the fans in and out of the stadium safely, and seeing that they enjoy themselves while they are there.” Parking lot attendants must take care of their cars. Venders must see that they have all the pennants, programs, coffee, and other items they might desire. Ticket takers and ushers must get them in and seated with as little fuss as possible. The referees and workers on the playing field must insure their seeing as good and well-run a game as is possible to put on. All of these are people for whom Herb Jones must provide. And as a result of his many years of capably handling just such necessary
Business Manager Herb Jones
business in the athletic department, Herb has become one of the most widely-known and respected figures in the world of collegiate athletics.
A graduate of the class of ’27, Herb is from Dixon, Ill., and has been business manager of athletics since 1940, with the exception of the wartime school year of 1945-46, in which he held the position of business manager of the University.
Work Starts in July
Another position much the same as Herb’s in the amount of work involved and the great anonymity outside Notre Dame is the one held by M. Robert Cahill, the University ticket manager. Like Herb, Bob’s real work begins as early as the July before each football season, and consists mainly in distributing about 500,000 tickets among 300,000 football fans, in as fair a manner as is possible. It is a job, one can readily see, of almost impossible difficulties, for someone is bound to be disappointed. And of those lucky
Irish band led by drum major Jack Totty struts into Notre Dame Stadium to begin traditional pre-game ceremonies and demonstrate the imagination of H. Lee Hope
40
Football Review
Cheerleading demands diligent practice
people who do get Notre Dame ducats, a distressingly high percentage, if not actually accustomed to sitting on the 50-yard line or as near to it as possible, at least show a marked partiality for that immediate vicinity. That the ticket office receives so few post-game letters vowing to take one’s business elsewhere is a high compliment to the efficiency of Bob Cahill and his staff, especially since football fans are often past masters of the art of writing indignant letters.
Early in the Summer the Notre Dame ticket manager mails out applications to the many alumni, students and parents of students, seasonal box holders, and any other fans who apply for them. Just answering the 500,000 requests that continually pour in is enough to keep a 14-person staff busy throughout the whole Summer and much of the Fall. Trying to assign seats in or as near to the section designated by the applicant makes the job even rougher. Someone always has to sit in the end zone, but one boon to the ticket manager in this case is that when he says every seat is a good one, he can be honest about it. Besides answering the thousands of letters, Bob also stays in the box office each Saturday of a home game, prepared to deal with any complications that might occur.
Like his co-worker, Herb Jones, Bob also is a native of Dixon, Ill., although he received his degree from Notre Dame several years later, in 1934.
These are two who enable Joe Fan
to see the Fighting Irish. But another fellow behind the scenes goes to work even before they do, and their success depends to a large extent on his. For he is the guy who makes Joe Fan want to see Notre Dame play ball, who helps make the final decision on whether to see a football game or stay
Ticket Manager Bob Cahill and secretary Betty Walsh'
home and make fudge on Saturday afternoons. He is the sports publicity director, and that means Charles Martin Callahan.
Without doubt, the main purpose of the Sports Publicity office is to get publicity, and good publicity, for Notre Dame athletic teams. This is the office which put Johnny Lu jack on more magazine' covers than many a movie star, and awakened the public to the playing ability of countless other Irish football heroes. But there are many-other functions which Callahan and Company ably perform. One of the more important concerns is that glass box which perches “high atop the Notre Dame Stadium.” The press box is a. huge, modem affair which seats well over 300 writers, announcers, technicians, and television men. That the proper ones get in, and that they find within easy access all the materials which they might need, in fact, material they might never need, is one of Charlie’s worries. Before each of the Irish home games, the sports reporter, from big paper or small, will find before him programs, rosters of each of the teams, and their various defensive and offensive lineups, often together with a book of football facts. Afterwards he will receive a complete rundown of the game’s statistics, both team and individual, and statements from the coaches.
Aside from the actual press box operations, the Sports Publicity office staff must determine who is qualified to
December 7, 1951
41
enter the pressbox, and to mail passes to these people. • Other functions include the not-inconsiderable one of sending replies to the many thousands of letters which are sent Notre Dame each year, asking for pictures, for autographs, for statistics from the past, for explanations of new Irish plays and suggestions for the same. Each of these letters, whether favorable or not so pleasant, is answered. Perhaps they are sometimes delayed until the frantic pace of another football season has died down for another year, but they are always answered.
The cause, the prime exponent of this thoughtful efficiency, is the Sports Publicity Director, Charlie Callahan. Devoted to Notre Dame and to football, Callahan’s success is one reason for the favorable publicity for the Irish brand of football in magazines and papers in every part of the country.
The fourth member of the Notre Dame backfield that nobody knows is 65-y ear-old John W. McAllister, the superintendent of equipment for all Notre Dame athletic teams. Closer to the Irish football teams and the Stadium than the trio whose offices can all be found in the Breen-Phillips Hall Athletic wing, Mac works in the Gymnasium, where he has just finished his 27th year of ministering to the equipment needs of the Fighting Irish. But you probably wouldn’t hear- him talk of it, since Mac has the reputation of
Thc sports publicity office in action—Charlie Callahan (1.) talks to his student assistant, Bernie Riley, as Miss Maura Mills checks last week’s statistics.
being one of the most silent men around these parts.
Each day he supervises the distribution of athletic equipment to the players. This involves the caring for the many details of laundering, sorting and passing out four huge bags of freshly-laundered white sweat shirts, T-shirts, socks, and miscellaneous gear which must be washed daily. In addition to all this practice paraphernalia, regular equipment must be constantly kept available for possible use.
One of Mac’s largest and most detail-some assignments is preparing the equipment for all games played away from home. For these trips fully 18 large trunks must be packed and shipped before the team leaves, and be awaiting their use when they arrive at the other football field. Inside the trunks can be found better than a hundred and a quarter* pairs of game shoes, four changes of uniform for 36 men, 50 blankets, and five changes of the whites, in addition to the rarely-used 45 pairs of rubber rain pants.
The 27 years in which Mac has served Notre Dame football, as well as the many other sports whose equipment he supervises, stretching back to the early days of Rockne, illustrates the loyalty which those near to Notre Dame feel for the team which bears her name. None of the four—Jones, Cahill, Callahan, or McAllister—have scrapbooks of their newspaper clip-
John McAllister
pings. Few are the magazines whose covers they have graced. And yet they’ve probably helped to win their share of games for the Fighting Irish.
Behind Scenes
Another veteran worker behind the scenes of Notre Dame football is Joseph Dierickx, for 20 years custodian of the Stadium. His is a job that entails considerably more than just moving giant tarpaulins on and off the playing field as the weather threatens. Each of the 56,000 seats must be painted every four years, and the press box, refreshment stands, and railings even more frequently. Joe’s crew also cares for the playing field sod, covering it with a fresh layer of black soil each summer, and constantly re-seeding it.
Every Wednesday before a home game the tarps must be spread over the playing surface; each Saturday morning they must be removed. Each week the Stadium must be put into top shape; after each game the work of collecting and hauling the truckloads of debris begins again.
In addition, snow must be cleared from the stands as well as the field. At times this amounts to a mammoth operation, more than Joe and his small crew can handle. The last time this happened was the pre-USC game blizzard of 1949, when sudent volunteers were enlisted to help clear the Stadium before the game began.
Besides such routine chores, Joe also trains and cares for the two Irish mascots, Shannon View Mike and Pat. For many years before coming to Notre Dame, Joe had been a circus acrobat, where he learned how to train animals while touring America and Europe with such famous companies as Ringling Bros., Barnum and Bailey.
42
Football Review.
1951 Notre Dame Numerical Roster
NO. NAME
POS. AGE HT. WT. HOMETOWN
HIGH SCHOOL
CLASS
1	Mazur. John E.** ....
9,	Carev. Thomas F. ....
~3	Guglielmi, Ralph V.
4	Bucci. Donald 			...
Jv	Gaudreau. William L.
6	Martin, Robert L	
7	Buczkiewicz. Edward
	Paterra. Francis F	
;14	Lattner. John J	
17)	Whelan. Jack D	
Hl	Reynolds, Paul R	
, 20	Carrabine, Eugene P.
23	Petitbon. John E.** ....
24	Joseph. Robert 	
26	Bush. Jack* 		
27	Hovey, William 		
28	Sama. Edward 		
29	Dunlav. James* 	
30	McHugh. Thomas L.
31	Bubick. Raymond 	
32	Flood. David 	
...QB --QB ......QB ......QB ...QB
.QB .QB .HB .HB .HB .HB ......HB .HB .HB .HB ...HB ......HB
_.T-G ....FB
i_33 ' Shannon. Daniel J.
37-	Barrett. William C.
40	Bianco. Donald J. ..
.42	Heap, Joseph L. ..
44	A.rrix, Robert J. ...
45	Rigali, Robert J. ..
47	Gander. Fidel 	
(48'	Worden. Neil J	
49	Caprara, Joseph ...
	Hunter, Arthur J.
51_	Boji, Byron B.** ...
,'52 ^Szymanski. Richard	
	Schrader. James L.
54	Bartlett. James J.
55	Hamby. James H.*
56	Becker. John J	
57	Frasor. Richard 	
f 60) Varrichione, Frank	
61	Taylor, Robert H.
-.62/	Seaman. Thomas J.
(\63) Ostrowski. Chester** ___ ppp Burns. Paul E.** _____ / 65) I.ee. John P____________ ^66 Robst, Paul K_________
,67? Palumbo, Samuel 
69
72 (73, (74)
(,76
Z78) <79?
80 81 /82i
84 <85) <86>
89
90
91
92
Alessandrini. Jack .......... Petranick, Albert G.......... Kelly, Robert J.............. Mavraides. Menil ............ Zambroski, Anthony Bush. Joseph R............... Ready. Robert ............... Toneff, Robert** ............ Poehler. Frederick McCarthy, William ........... Murphy. Thomas L. ........... Bardash, Virgil ............. Weithman, James C.* ... Kohanowich, Albert .......... O’Neil. Robert .............. Penza, Donald ............... Kapish, Robert J.* .......... Mutscheller, James (C)** Mangialardi, Fred ........... Cabral, Walter K............. Gomola. Stephen T. Matz, Paul A. ............... Katchik, Joseph ............. Cyterski, Eugene 
__HB
__FB
__HB
..HB
..HB
..FB
__HB ......FB ......FB
__FB
___C
___C
...C
___C
___C
___C
...C
____C
___G
..G-T
___G
___G
____G
.G .G .G .___G .G
.T-E __.T
E-T .....E .....E .....E _...E —E .....E ____E .._.E ...„E
,E
..E
21	6-2	198	Plymouth, Pa						— Plymouth 			Sr.
18	5-10	175	Chicago. Ill					 Mt.	Carmel 			Fr.
18	6-0	180	Columbus, Ohio 				-	Grand View 			Fr.
18	6-0	180	Youngstown. Ohio 			East 		
20	6-1	180	Baltimore, Md				  Loyola						Jr.
20	6-2	185	Davenport. Iowa 			St. Ambrose 			So.
20	6-0	177	Chicago, Ill. 			Weber 			Jr.
19	5-11	180	McKeesport, Pa			Tech 			So.
18	6-1	188	Chicago, Ill. 			Fenwick 			So.
20	5-11	180	Miami. Fla. 			Miami 			Jr. -
18	6-0	180	SpringHeld, Ill. 			Cathedral 			Fr.
18 20	6-1	178	Garv, Ind	-				 Emerson		 .	..Fr.
	6-0	185	New Orleans, La				Jesuit 			Sr.
20	5-9	165	Martins Ferry, Ohio 				Martins Ferry			So.
21	6-1	190	Oak Park, III				St. Ambrose (Davenport,	Iowa)	Sr.
25	5-10	170	Lake Placid. N. Y. 			Lake Placid			Sr.
21	5-11	175	South River, N. J. 			South River 			So.
19	6-2	215	Oakmont. Pa. 			Oakmont			Jr.
19	6-1	190	Toledo. Ohio 			Central Catholic			So.
18	6-4	222	South Bend, Ind. 			Riley 			So.
24	5-10	185	Pittsburgh. Pa. 			Langley 						Jr.
18	6-0	190	Chicago, Ill. 				Mt. Carmel 			Fr.
22	5-8	180	River Forest. Ill				Fenwick 			Sr.
19	5-11	185	Great Neck, N. Y. 			Xavier			Fr.
19	5-11	175	Covington, La. 			Holy Cross			So.
18	5-10	188	Teaneck, N. J. 			Peddie (Hightstown) 			Fr.
19	5-8	172	Oak Park, UI. 			Fenwick -			So.
21	6-1	196	Chicago. Ill. 			Mt. Carmel			Sr.
20	5-11	(87	Milwaukee. Wis. 	,			Pulaski 			So.
22	6-0	195	Turtle Creek, Pa. 			Turtle Creek 			Sr.
18 21	6-3 6-0	009	Akron, Ohio 	 Chicago, Ill			St. Vincent’s	So.
		200			Austin 		
18	6-2	210	Toledo, Ohio			Libbey 			Fr.
19	6-2	203	Carnegie, Pa. 			Scott Twp.			So.
22	6-3	200	Cincinnati, Ohio 			Elder			Sr.
20	6-2	205	Caruthersville. Mo.			Caruthersville -.			Sr.
18	6-0	203	Fort Wayne. Ind.			Central Catholic			Fr.
18	5-11	190	Blue Island. Ill. 			Mt. Carmel			Fr.
19	6-0	207	Natick. Mass.			Natick			Fr.
18	6-2	200	Pekin, Ill. 			Pekin			Fr.
21	5-11	198	Canton, Ohio			Lincoln			Jr.
21	6-1	197	Chicago, III. 			Weber			Sr.'
21	6-2	196	Athens, Pa.			Athens			Sr.
19	5-11	190	Medford, Mass.			Malden Catholic			Fr.
18	5-11	195	Chicago, Ill.			St. George		
19	6-0	195	Cleveland, Ohio			Collinwood			Fr.
20	5-11	198	Charleston. W. Va.			Catholic 			Jr.
20	6-0	210	Johnson City, N. Y.			Johnson City			So.
21	6-2	203	Duluth, Minn. 			Catholic			.Jr.
19 21	6-1 6-0	202 200	Lowell, Mass. 	 Erie, Pa.		Lowell	.	
					Cathedral Prep			Sr.
19	6-3	- 203	Oak Park, Ill. 			St. Ambrose (Davenport,	Iowa)	So.
19	6-3	208	Lowell, Mass. 		..Lowell .	Fr.
					
21	6-2	230	Barberton. Ohio			Barberton			Sr.
21	6-4	210	Jackson, Mich.			Jackson			So.
20	6-3	210	Pittsburgh, Pa.			North Catholic			Jr.
20	6-1	210	Chicago, III. 			St. George			Jr.
20	6-0	206	Gary, Ind. 			Horace Mann			Jr.
21	6-0	190	Bucyrus, Ohio		Bucyrus	
					
21	6-1	189	Hempstead, N. Y.			Hempstead			Jr.
20	6-2	195	Bridgeville, Pa. 			Lincoln			Jr.
19	6-1	200	Kenosha, Wis.			St. Catherine (Racine).		So.
21	6-0	187	Barberton, Ohio 			Barberton		
21	6-1	198	Beaver Falls, Pa.		Beaver Falls	
					
18	6-1	197	Chicago, III. 			St. Philip			So.
19	6-3	198	Honolulu, Hawaii 			St. Louis			Fr.
18	6-2	203	Delancey. Pa.			Punnsutawney			Fr.
18	6-1	191	Chicago, HL 			Mt. Carmel			Fr.
20	6-9	255	Plymouth, Pa.			Plymouth			So.
18	5-11	188		Cathedral Prep	-		Fr.
					
* Denotes Monogram Winner
45
December 7, 1951
Get your CHRISTMAS GIFTS
at
Hans-Rintszch
Luggage
Wallets and all Leather Goods
HANS - RINTZSCH
138 N. Michigan
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP in the Rockne Memorial
Box.
off Qolf BalU
SPALDING
U. S. ROYAL
ACUSHNET
DUNLOP
20%
DISCOUNT
on Cleaning and Pressing to N. D. men.
Expert Shirt Laundering
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON On the Bus Line
The Difference Between This
WALLFLOWER
And I This
POPULARITY
Is I This
ADAIRE
SCHOOL OF DANCING 216 S. Lafayette
Enroll at Adaire’s for the best deal in town on dance lessons. Call 2-0166 for a free introductory lesson.
These four famous manufacturers offer you special gift boxes which can serve a double function.
You get both the balls and these special boxes at the regular prices. Packages of a dozen and half-dozen golf balls are available.
While you’re down there, take a look at their supply of:
tUunuMf
Hand Balls and Gloves Rubber Shower Sandals Golf Club Covers Ping Pong Balls
Tee Shirts and Sport Socks
SPORT SHIRTS
are you frustrated? uncomfortable?
poor grades?
Then
• Wear this sport shirt ... it brings out the man in you, that glorified masculinity, that wonderful loveableness. With or without a tie, it has up to the minute styling and it’s miraculously uncrushable. Sizes small, medium, large and extra large in popular colors.
95
Men’s Shop Street Floor North
*5
Football Review
There are always five expert barbers ready to serve you at Cyr’s Barber Shop.
You can save time by calling for an appointment. Phone 3-0678.
SOUTH BEND’S ONLY PIPE SHOP
• Kaywoodie
• Dunhill
•	Sasieni
•	Custombilt
•	Weber
•	Lee
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
Y2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$7.20
CYR’S BARBER SHOP South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop 10'0-102 S. Main St. W. E. Cyr, Prop.
Pipes Repaired in 24 Hours All Types of Tobacco
JOE NABICHTS RESTAURANT
“Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main	Open Sunday
The Huddle
Congratulates the 1951 Notre Dame Football squad, z
Stop at the HUDDLE tor that little snack between classes.
December 7, 1951
45
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry7 a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry...
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
111 South /Michigan Street
The Courtesy Barber Shop thanks you men from Notre Dame for your patronage.
COURTESY BARBER SHOP
•I i
* j I J
1
]
Shoe Rebuilding Zipper Service
Washington Shoe Shop
• Right Away Service
116 W. Washington Ave.
South Bend
Hat Cleaning	Shoe Dyeing
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
McDonald Studio
South Bend
FINEST PORTRAITS
Since 1861
116 WEST COLFAX AVE.
Call 4-8891
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Wbman Love a Man
The Thoroughbred of Pipe Tobaccos Choice white Burley • Smooth and mild
46
Football Review
GIFTS for ALL
FOR THE FAMILY
Here is on ideal gift for the family. The unique Notre Dame dinner plate, handsomely embossed, with an impressive montage of campus scenes on one plate. Perfect too for escutcheon mounting or as a decorative piece.
$1.75
CRYSTAL CLEAR GLASSES TO TOAST NOTRE DAME
SONGS OF NOTRE DAME
Students, Alumni and Friends, here's something that will be enjoyed by the entire family . . . R.C.A.'s new record album containing the Songs of Notre Dame by the Notre Dame Band and Glee Club. The cover of the case will please you with its photographic reproduction of campus scenes. . . . Then too, the records are plastic and unbreakable in 78 R.P.M. and 45 R.P.M. Records Custom Processed and Pressed by RCA-Victor and produced and published by Recorded Publications Company.
$5.00

At party time, reunion time, and many other occasions, your entertaining will be tops in graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent and they □re made up in traditional colors.
10 oz. glasses
14 oz. glasses
$4.25 doz. pfus
$1.50 express charges
$4.95 doz. plus
$1.50 express charges
NOTRE DAME ‘ JOE COLLEGE JUNIORS”
How proud your youngster will be and how cute he’ll look. . -fine wool knit, genuine reproductions of Notre Dame honor sweaters . . . sizes 2 tc 12 . . . Cardigan style—
$6.00
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
December 7, 1951	47
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bldg.
You Get...
•	Expert Shirt Laundering
•	20% Discount on Cash and Carry Laundering
At . . .
SLICK IDEAL LAUNDRIES
317 Lincoln Way East South Bend
Arrow Formal Shirts
You really breathe easy in Arrow formal shirts . . . they're designed for extra comfort. Standouts for style, too. Be sure to see these two favorite “tux” shirts at your Arrow dealer’s in time for holiday parties.
Arrow “Shoreham” S6.50 (left, above)
Arrow “Kirk” S6.50 (right, above)
Football Pictures
We can furnish ND team or squad pictures from 1887, as well as individual action shots of this year’s players. Also available are pictures of former ND greats, including Gipp and the Four Horsemen.
75c each (Remit with order)
ARROW
SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
BAGBY STUDIO 110 W. Colfax Avenue South Bend 1, Ind.
It's ADLER’S for
. . . ARROW
On Michigan at the Bus Stop
The MEN's Corner
for
Arrow Shirts
Rose s Katz ■ % MEN ANO I ^.VOUNC MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
48
Football Review
3
1
4
3
Congratulations
to the 1951
“Fighting Irish”
3
3
i
i
i

NATIONAL MILK COMPANY
921 Louise Street • South Bend
I
-.5
1
December 7, 1951
49
you never hod it so good
Van Heusen sport shirts
REG. T. M. |
Pass the hookah and bring on the dancing gals! B nt first bring on Van Heusen sport shirts. Never such a show of colors, patterns, fine tailoring like tliis. Rich fabrics you’d expect only in expensive shirts. And ’cause variety’s the spice of life. Van Heusen gives you 1001 choices for 1001 nights and days. A princely selection of Van Heusen sport shirts awaits your choice. Fine ginghams, warm wools, lustrous rayon gabardines, soft Vanaca flannels!
PARKER WIITERROWD
Our special new value enables us to give an extra pair of pants with every custom-made suit.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
-GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
BOYNTON
We have been given a 20% discount by our wholesaler so we pass this great saving right along to you.
PARKER-WIHERROWD
115 % North Main Phone 3-6318
50
Football Review
WHAT’S SO DIFFERENT
ABOUT ENGLEWOOD, N. J. ?
In Englewood, the local telephone exchange looks pretty much like the telephone building in any other town.
And Englewood’s telephones seem just the same as the twentyseven million other dial telephones in the country.
But there’s a difference ...
You can pick up a telephone in Englewood and dial San Francisco telephone numbers direct!
In fact, you can dial any one of eleven million telephone numbers in thirteen widely scattered areas from coast to coast.
That’s what makes Englewood different — the new kind of Long Distance telephone sendee on trial there by the Bell System.
Long Distance dialing is another example of the Bell System’s constant search for ways to provide you with ever-better telephone service.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
December 7, 1951
51
Copyright 1951, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
♦ FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION