MLSVTOH3S
’ <3*58
^GILBERT'S
J I ’ 1 3
Ms X
Si
--
, * *	?!\'X 1
* *






gw



QUALITY SALE
SUITS, TOPCOATS,
SPORTCOATS
We have a large selection of quality, brand name university-styled apparel at savings of one-fourth. Choose your favorite fabrics, styles and colors. Here’s a twice-yearly opportunity to fill out your wardrobe at substantial savings.
25% OFF
JULY
JUNE
^GILBERT'S
NO CARRYING CHARGE
AUGUST
TAILORED FOR THE UNIVERSITY MAN . .
The Campus Shop Way to buy is truly tailored to fit into a university man’s way of life . .. you can come in NOW and select your apparel and accessories from our large selection ... you wear and enjoy them NOW when your need is greatest . . . you pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August. There is no service or carrying charge for this convenience. Your account is already open . . . stop in soon.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY
SHOPS

3
OnCampus MsMnan
(Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!" and “Barefoot Boy IFit/i Cheek.”)
SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Founded 1867
Vol 105 January 17, 1964 No. 12
A GUIDE FOR THE GUIDERS
One of the most interesting academic theories advanced in many a long year has recently been advanced by that interesting academic theorist, E. Pluribus Ewbank, Ph.D., who holds the chair of Interesting Academic Theories at the St. Louis College of Footwear and Educational Philosophy. Dr. Ewbank said in the last issue of the learned journal, the Mount Rushmore Guide to Scholastic Advancement and Presidents’ Heads, that we might be approaching the whole problem of student guidance from the wrong direction.
Dr. Ewbank, a highly respected pedagogue and a lifelong smoker of Marlboro Cigarettes. (I mention A lari boros for two reasons: first, to indicate the scope of Dr. Ewbank’s brainpower. Out of all the dozens of brands of cigarettes available today, Dr. Ewbank has had the wit and taste to pick the one with the most flavorful flavor, the most filtracious filter, the most soft soft pack, the most flip top Flip Top box: I refer, of course, to Marlboro. The second reason I mention Marlboro is that I get paid to mention Marlboro in this column, and the laborer, you will agree, is worthy of his hire.)
But I digress. To return to Dr. Ewbank’s interesting theory, he contends that most college guidance counselors are inclined to take the easy way out. That is to say, if a student’s aptitude tests show a talent for, let us say, math, the student is encouraged to major in math. If his tests show an aptitude for poetry, he is directed toward poetry. And so forth.
All wrong, says Dr. Ewbank. The great breaktliroughs, the startling innovations in, let us say, math, are likely to be made not by mathematicians—whose thinking, after all, is constrained by rigid rules and principles—but by mavericks, by nonconformists, by intuitors who refuse to fall into the rut of reason. For instance, set a poet to studying math. He will
♦ ♦ ♦
We, the makers of Marlboro, know only one kind of guidance: the direct route to greater smoking pleasure. Try a fine, filtered Marlboro, available wherever cigarettes are sold in all fifty states of the Union.
bring a fresh, unfettered mind to the subject, just as a mathematician will bring the same kind of approach to poetry.
By way of evidence, Dr. Ewbank cites the case of Cipher Binary, a youth who entered college with brilliant test scores in physics, chemistry, and the calculus. But Dr. Ewbank forced young Cipher to major in poetry.
The results were astonishing. Here, for example, is young Cipher’s latest poem, a love lyric of such originality that Lord Byron springs to mind. I quote:
He icas her logarithm, She was his cosine. Taking their dog with ’em, They hastened to go sign Marriage vows which they joyfully shared, And wooed and wed and pi r squared. Similarly, when a freshman girl named
Elizabeth Barrett Sigafoos came to Dr. Ewbank to seek guidance, he ignored the fact that she had won the Pulitzer prize for poetry when she was eight, and insisted she major in mathematics. Again the results were startling. Miss Sigafoos has set the entire math department agog by flatly refusing to believe that six times nine is 54. If Miss Sigafoos is correct, we will have to re-think the entire science of numbers and—who knows?—possibly open up vistas as yet undreamed of in mathematics.
Dr. Ewbank’s unorthodox approach to student guidance has so impressed his employers that he was fired last week. He is currently selling beaded moccasins at Mount Rushmore.
© 1964 Max Shulman
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor-in-chief
Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor
Mel Noel
. . . news editor
Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor
Larry Sicking
. . . layout and art editor
James Devlin
. . . features editor
Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy
Brian Beck, Pat Ford
. . . photography
Brian Barnes
. . . business manager
Tom Keane
. . . circulation
John Souza
. . . advertising
Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
David Barrett, Jim Callero, Jim Clare, Al Dudash, Brian Jorgensen, Frank McConnell, BUI Smith, John Twohey, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors
John Anton, Al Basso, Pat Bauer, Tom Bettag, Jim Billiter, Jeff Blackwell, Jim Boland, Bill Cragg, Larry Dietz, Bob Edler, Geary EUet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Dave Grophear, Mike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Carl Magel, BUI O’Grady, Bruce Palka, John PhiUips, Jack Quine, Jack Rowe, Gary Sabatte, Frank Smith, Rick Weirich, John Whelan
. . . staff
4
The Scholastic
students had additional extracurricular activities to recommend them to the selection board.
The selection criteria, as outlined in a letter to the Scholastic’s editors from Mike Wilsey, the Chairman of the Who’s Who Committee, laid heavy emphasis on the service aspects of a student’s career. To quote from Mr. Wilsey’s letter:
Post-
Mortem
For the record, the following thirty-three students have been accepted for membership in “Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities” from the University of Notre Dame: Charles Blanchard, Paul Charron, Michael Ciletti, Peter Clark, Willard Counsell, Michael Coy, Paul Creelan, James Egan, David Ellis, Fred Heroman, John Kanaley, Lawrence Kavanagh, Patrick Kenny, John Lalli, Joseph Lanasa, Thomas Lehmann, Edward Maciula, William McDonald, Robert Mier, Richard Miles, Thomas Mulinazzi, George Novak, Dennis O’Brien, Thomas O’Brien, Joseph O’Neill, William Pfeiffer, Michael Rieder, Clay Stephens, Paul Tierney, Bruce Tuthill, James Walsh, Peter Whitehouse, and Gerald Young.
It is not our intention to say that any of these men are not outstanding students of this University; very obviously, many of them would have to be included on anyone’s list of Notre Dame’s finest students, whatever the criteria. We do feel, however, that there are more than a few outstanding students whose names do not appear on this list. Upon investigation, it is apparent that there are two primary reasons why certain qualified students were not selected: 1) they were not nominated, or did not appear at their interview before the selection board; 2) they were turned down by the selection board because they did not measure up to the board’s criteria for membership.
In the case of the first reason, it was apparent this year that more student leaders than in the past chose to express their disapproval of one or more aspects of the Who’s Who award by disregarding the award selection altogether. Among those who so chose were the station manager of WSND, the editor of the Juggler, and the senior editors of this magazine.
The cases of rejection for the second reason involved students whose rejection has serious implications for the Who’s Who selection committee and for the University. In nearly all the cases of outstanding students who were rejected, their primary contribution to the University was in the academic area. Those who were rejected included the highest ranking students in both the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Business Administration. Both these
January 17, 1964
The criteria weighed in the final selection might well be grouped under the following headings: service, contribution, character, and achievement. The board was most critical of a man’s consciousness of his fellow students and of his dedication to the ideals of the University. His participation, responsibility, and initiative were viewed in the light of his service to the University as a whole. His character was measured by the interest and sacrifice displayed in significant activities, while personal achievement was valued to the extent that it had bearing upon the community.
It seems, then, that academic achievement must have a bearing upon the community before it can be considered a truly significant activity in the eyes of the Who’s Who selection board. Mr. Wilsey confirmed this when he later stated (vocally, but for publication) that an activity such as, say, the Wranglers or the Bookmen, is not considered as significant an activity as, say, the Blue Circle, because the benefit derived from a Wrangler-Bookmen type organization accrues chiefly to its own members. We have the word of at least one other member of the selection board that this criteria eventually extended to a tacit ranking of all organizations according to their immediate bearing upon the community. Blue Circle and student government, then, logically outranked all other extracurriculars.
That the aspects of service to the University and bearing upon the community were the chief criteria for membership in Who’s Who benefitted most of all the Blue Circle, whose chief function is precisely and avowedly service to the University. Thirteen of the thirty-three Who’s Who members this year are, consequently, Blue Circle members, not an inordinately high number in view of the criteria.
We feel that academic progress is the primary goal of any university, and that the private academic achievements of any student further this goal, and at least indirectly benefit all members of the University community. The Who’s Who selection board nevertheless seems to have derogated academic effort and activity for the reason that this kind of achievement is beneficial only to the student who attains it. We argue that academic achievement is, if anything, more worthy than any other kind in our status as students, and is sufficient for inclusion in any kind of award that seeks to recognize outstanding students.
We have two recommendations for the Who’s Who award in the future, based on the arguments presented in this and in our previous editorial on the award (October 18 issue): 1) that the award be made strictly a Notre Dame award, a step that would, in our opinion, add stature to the award itself, and 2) that we have a publicly preannounced criterion for the award which would weigh equitably academic, athletic, and extracurricular achievement and would set minimum standards of character and contribution.
5
Letters...
ATHLETIC EDUCATION Editor:
I wish to extend a few words of praise and congratulations to you on the very fine article, “Shake Down The Thunder.” It was well written and, to a man who has watched Notre Dame play football for sixty years, had much substance.
The only part that I did not agree with was where it intimated that you are in accord with the University officials that we must have academic excellence among our athletes. I disagree in regard to that phase of a student’s education. At the same moment, I do not condone supporting football bums.
Today we have three new industries, football, basketball and the United States Government physicalfitness program. These three result in a demand for athletes. Many a highschool boy has been blessed with a fine physique and a special desire — not to become an engineer, lawyer or businessman — but to follow athletics in one form or another. It is, therefore, my firm belief that this particular type of athlete, whose academic standing is limited, can be prepared at our universities (and is in the majority of them) through a physicaleducation course, or to put it more broadly, a new-type course adopted by other universities, which will enable this particular young man to qualify at the universities. In many cases, this student may be an equal to many cum laude students, only in a different field.
The training which the football
player receives while playing four years of football under their coaches should never be underestimated. You must admit that this training is not included when the professors of Notre Dame make out their grades.
Personally, I do not think Notre Dame is going to be successful in football as long as they continue under the present policy. A new coach or any other coach cannot turn out winning teams with academic-excellence students in that front line. I admit some of these boys are very capable and good students, but this does not cover the rank and file of linesmen. We need brawn, desire and a certain degree of intelligence. That combination does not always come under the heading of academic excellence.
Enough of my feelings. May I extend my very best wishes to you in your journalistic efforts and I wish to express my appreciation for your nice article.
J. A. LaFortune
NO LONGER SYNONYMOUS Editor:
Mr. Durkin Manning seems to have spent many hours in agonized research and thought in producing Shake Down the Thunder. I suggest he spend a few moments more.
He is genuinely tortured by something he finds or does not find at Notre Dame. At first it seems to be the breakdown of the community into factions — administration, students, and faculty. He ties this to the passing of the “N.D. spirit,” whatever that is or was. But then this becomes allimportant, and we find him concerned
that he can no longer wear his N.D. jacket at home — he can no longer be proud of his university because “suckers will continue ... to come to view a name, and not a team.” Then this fact — that Notre Dame has a losing football record — becomes allimportant. We must warn applicants by printing it “on next year’s catalogue: Notre Dame and Football Are No Longer Synonymous.”
True. Notre Dame and Football are no longer synonymous. The applicant who needs this demonstrated to him has little chance of progressing beyond the application stage. Nor should they be synonymous. Football is clearly subordinate to the intellectual tradition and is justified by being a helpful outlet for an individualistic temperament. The emotionalism is good because man is part emotioned. Football is also justifiable on pragmatic considerations. It makes money which supports much of the intellectual endeavor.
But losing football makes it impossible to be proud of one’s university. Yes, if that is all your university has to offer. I would suggest transferring to one with something a little more substantial.
We have come back to Mr. Manning’s most serious concern — that losing football is destroying the Notre Dame community. If the community is built on football to this extent, then I have to agree with the science profs quoted by Mr. Manning, “I couldn’t be happier.” Assuming that this is the case, I suggest that football could never serve the present student body as a unifying factor. It ceased to serve as such with the development
COVER
■ With the controversy over spirit and football raging in the “Letters” section, art editor Larry Sicking pays tribute to our new head football coach on this week’s cover.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second-class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 18 East 50th Street, New York 22, N.Y. It receives its covers including the four-color back-page advertisement from College Magazines Inc., of New York City. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues of the academic year and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). The special subscription rate for St. Mary’s students and faculty is $3.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
CONTENTS
Editorial.................... 5
Letters ..................... 6
Senate ...................... 9
Campus at a Glance........... 11
On Other Campuses............ 15
Feiffer .................... 15
Hart-Burn................... 16
Challenge II ............... 18
The Rights of Man............20
Confessions of a S-F Addict .. 22
Salesmanship ............... 25
Robert Haller: Movies.......26
Ara ........................ 27
Scoreboard.................. 29
Voice in the Crowd.......... 29
Track ...................... 30
The Last Word............... 34
6
The Scholastic
of the “administration vs. student” complex. During the past ten years the quality of the student body has constantly increased. According to Father Hesburgh, standards will continue to rise. Something with much more meaning than watching our eleven representatives mangle eleven representatives of some traditional enemy is needed to unify this community — especially when Mr. Manning asserts, “It wasn’t a matter of how you played the game — it was a matter of winning.”
The tension between the elements of the University exists because the institutions which served the old order, exemplified by Mr. Manning’s N.D. spirit, have not been adapted to meet the potential of the New Order. I don’t think that our attitude should be the bitterness which Durkin Manning finds in his existence at Notre Dame. We don’t have time for bitterness. It is our responsibility to adjust to the institutions of Notre Dame, so that we will be members, not of a community dedicated to football, but of one dedicated to the true Christian spirit, which, it seems to me, ought to be synonymous with Notre Dame.
Minch Lewis 229 Lyons
WANTED: SPIRIT Editor:
I wish to congratulate Durkin Julian Manning for his unreserved, straight-tongued attack on the apparent University policy of denying that “Notre Dame spirit” is rapidly being extinguished on the Notre Dame campus. His article was the first substantial contribution to true expression of student opinion and feeling this year, and it proved both meaty and undaunted. His obvious sincerity was a direct indication of a deep concern to confront and attempt to resolve this grave Notre Dame situation, and for the spirit and courageousness of his article I would recommend Mr. Manning for editor of the Scholastic 1964-65.
Regarding the substance of the article, I did some investigating of my own into this matter of the “Notre Dame spirit,” and I found by conversing with one particular Notre Dame alumnus that this spirit was something very real. It was the inevitable fact of winning which constituted this spirit. It was this spirit which constantly drove the flocks of students to the grotto. It was this spirit which truly made the whole Notre Dame man. It was this spirit which ultimately inspired the Notre Dame man to be successful in all facets of his later life. This particular alumnus to whom I am referring
was to me the essence of the Notre Dame man. He admitted that it was this drive for victory instilled in him at Notre Dame which accounted for his success in life, and success truly was his being a significant business executive and fine Catholic and family man.
I would like to feel this spirit before I graduated from Notre Dame, or at least know that it is returning to this University. I want to assure myself that there is something unique about Notre Dame and that it is not just a good academic institution. There is one thing I now know for certain, however, and that is if the present situation continues into the future this University will become completely unbearable for any student; we are not going to attract those fine geniuses Fr. Hesburgh is after unless drastic changes are made in administrative attitude and policy to student life. But even if these changes are made, Notre Dame will be just another school without any of the Notre Dame of old. I am encouraged to see that the University has made initial steps to recapture this uniqueness, but full support has to be given and maintained. Ara Parseghian, you have full student support, of that you can be sure, but speaking for myself, and I’m sure many other students here, we are tired of yelling for nothing.
Antone B. Perrone 347 Sorin Hall
NEW SPIRIT ARISING Editor:
I would like to express my concern over some of the remarks made by Durkin Julian Manning in his article “Shake Down the Thunder” which appeared in the December 13 issue of the Scholastic.
Mr. Manning feels that Notre Dame spirit was produced by winning football games—“it wasn’t a matter of how you played the game—it was a matter of winning.” His concern is over the fact that Notre Dame no longer produces winning football teams and that as a result the Notre Dame spirit is dying. I will agree with Mr. Manning that at one time a “football-centered” spirit existed. However, if the true Notre Dame spirit is something which can die as the result of the outcome of several football games, it is better off dead. Every university should have a spirit. This spirit should be concerned primarily with the intellectual life of the university, it may be concerned to a much less extent with, among other things, football. If a university’s spirit is such that it falls apart for lack of a winning football team, something is wrong. Mr. Manning states that “intellectual excellence and ‘The
Spirit of Notre Dame’ . . . can live side by side. . . .” This statement implies that the spirit of Notre Dame is not one of intellectual excellence. Such a spirit is therefore essentially misguided as it is not in keeping with the goal of a university.
However, I would not sell the students of the University as short as Mr. Manning does. They are not so intellectually lacking that they applied to this University because it was best known (which, Mr. Manning, it is not) or because it possessed a spirit based on football. I believe that a new spirit based on intellectual excellence is rising within the University. The nature of the new buildings on the east campus is a physical manifestation of this spirit.
No, Mr. Manning, Notre Dame and football are no longer synonymous.
Richard J. Lepre 462 Morrissey
TICKETS, ANYONE? Editor:
While in the Student Center last Friday, January 10, I overheard the Student Senate meeting, and I feel I have come up with a profitable idea. In order to eliminate the Student Government debt, I would like to propose that the Senate hold meetings in Washington Hall and charge admission.
Paul Hubble 339 Sorin
UNCHAINING THE BOOKS Editor:
The Notre Dame Library, doubtlessly intended to be the University’s contribution to scholarship and excellence, is fast becoming the greatest impediment to intellectual work of any degree of excellence due to the “policies” and “non-policies” of the circulation department.
What this department does not seem to understand is that its chief concern should be the circulation of books. No carrel-check-out policy has been provided; students are encouraged to “take the book to your carrel.” As a result, the department has been able to boast for some time that 500 unchecked-out books are in carrels. Furthermore, employees of the circulation department have been instructed to refuse search requests for “missing” or “lost” books. It seems incredible that no steps were taken to remedy this inefficiency during the three-day vacation when circulation was practically nil.
In more positive terms, what we request is:
1.	Carrel check-out policy.
2.	Search requests for “missing” (Continued on page 32)
January 17, 1964
7
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: JOHN M. CORUTHERS
A challenging job dealing with people and figures—that was John M. Coruthers’ career goal when he left college seven years ago with an electrical engineering degree.
And John found the job, responsibilities and long-range career opportunities he wanted with the Illinois Bell Telephone Company.
His first assignment was supervising telephone installation and repair crews. Recognizing his leadership abilities, John’s company promoted him to District Installation Superintendent. And in only a short time, he was advanced
to his present position of District Plant Manager—an even more responsible job.
But does the job deal with people? Well, thousands of businesses and residences in the heart of Chicago depend on John, and the more than 200 people he supervises, for the smooth flow of communications.
John M. Coruthers, like many engineers, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
TELEPHONE MAN-OF-THE-MONTH
8
The Scholastic
It was nearly survival of the fittest at times during the Student Senate meeting last Thursday. Between diatribes, the body passed measures dealing with the library, a $160 loan to the Ski Club and similar routine matters. Much of the time, however, was spent on sharp and effective use (for once) of parliamentary tactics, and politeness often took a back seat to forceful expression of severe differences of opinion.
Things began quietly enough with the President’s Report promising a “complete financial statement” right after the closing of the books at semester break. Since Student Government will be switching over to a “new and better accounting system” at the same time, a financial enlightenment appears imminent, which just might correct the present fiscal fiasco that is Student Government accounting.
To indicate its concern over rumors that library study facilities above the second floor will soon be closed, the Senate moved to recommend “that all study facilities . . . remain open to all students.” Becoming “tougher” as the evening progressed, however, the Senate strongly requested that Easter vacation be changed to run from Mar. 24 to Apr. 6, so that students might enjoy a full week’s vacation following Easter Sunday. Judging from last year’s response to the latter idea, however, the Administration is more likely to institute annual Maypole dances.
For the fourth time in two years, the Senate “considered” the value of card stunts at ND. Karl Heigel, Card Stunt Committee Chairman, showed films of last year’s stunts, and the arguments centered on the old issues of cost, freshman seating, card-throwing, etc. It was felt that the “dynamism” of the new chairman would lead to the elimination of the less desirable aspects of card stunts, and continuation of the project passed by three votes. Following passage, Mr. Heigel showed his dynamism by denouncing the continual attempts to eliminate card stunts as the personal “pet peeve” of Dave Ellis. Mr. Ellis replied in kind, stating his belief that card stunts are not worthwhile and should be discontinued. The actual exchange was more heated, but understandably so; past treatment of card
SENATE by Al Dudash
stunts has been comparable to continuous retrial of the same man in the same court on the same evidence.
Much of the evening was spent in discussing the Dance Policy, to provide tighter financial regulation of organization dances. A requirement for Senate approval of dance chairmen engendered some disagreement, vzith Stewart Beall contending that the Senate is incompetent to choose such men, since the senators do not know them as the organization does. Paul Meagher pointed out that a Senate voice in the appointment would only come if 2/3 of its members had reason to oppose the organization’s choice. Bruce Tuthill’s plaintive cry of undue centralization was countered by John Gearen, who indicated the need for some financial control if the Senate is to assume the responsibility for losses by underwriting dances.
After that provision passed, tempers again flared over a section of the policy that would add past debts of sponsoring organizations to the contingency fund for the dance, i.e., to the funds that would not be used until after the dance, and then only for “unexpected expenses.” Taking the
FOR DELIVERIES AT THE CIRCLE AND BEHIND FARLEY

Senior Class Ball as an example, with a budgeted income of $6000 the original contingency would amount to $600 (10%), and added to this would be the $800 owed Student Government by the class. Thus dance expenses could only be budgeted for $4600, with the remaining funds frozen until the dance is over.
Mr. Tuthill expressed strong disapproval of such a setup, while Tom Fuller and Mike Cook led an attempt to force debt payment by some means. Eventually, a reaction set in against legislating debt-collecting machinery for a debt that had been incurred previous to the legislation (which bears strong resemblances to ex post facto law). Mr. Tuthill then made a valiant effort to win a complete absolution from the debt, but the final resolution (spiced by exchanges over “good faith,” responsibility, etc.) represented a natural compromise. The Senior Class is still liable for their loan, but collection through the Dance Policy will apply only to debts incurred in the future.
At this juncture, some seniors decided that discussion had gone far enough, and Bruce Tuthill ended the meeting by the simple expedient of asking a few friends to leave, and thereafter requesting a quorum call. The absence of the three seniors left too few senators present to constitute a quorum, final resolution of the Dance Policy was deferred until the next meeting, and one of the more lively Senate meetings of the year came to a close.
just arrived;
Delivered on demand — PIZZA, HOAGGIES, PRESSURE COOKED CHICKEN
PIZZA MOBILES
New (Radio Controlled) units To Deliver your PIZZA within Minutes and SIZZLING HOT TOO!
✓^FASTEST &HOTTEST DELIVERY IN TOWN
STOP THE ZZA MOBILE FOR DELIVERY
CALL . . .
FRANKIE'S
1003 N. Notre Dame Avenue CE 3-1115
January 17, 1964
The price is inspirational, too! BIC is the world’s finest writing instrument—costs only 19g. Only BIC is guaranteed* to write first time everytime. BIC’s “Dyamite" Ball Point is the hardest metal made by man. Get a BIC, now at your campus store. BIC “Crystal” 190. BIC pens available with blue, red, green, black ink. Made in U.S.A. *For replacement send pen to: WATERMAN-BIC PEN CORP., MILFORD. CONN.

10
The Scholastic
LOVE OR LICENSE
Speaking to a near-capacity audi-j	ence in the law auditorium last week,
।	Dr. William D’Antonio of the Soci-
!	ology Department presented a lecture
'	on the topic of “Conjugal Love and
i	Responsible Parenthood: The Dilem-
j	ma of Population Control.” The lec-
I	ture was characterized by its refresh-
|	ingly frank approach to the unique
I	problem faced by Catholic married
’	couples today, that of birth control.
Dr. D’Antonio pointed out in his talk that in the past a high mortality rate caused humanity to fight for survival. Now it is a high birth rate that threatens humanity. The population explosion can no longer be passed off as a myth but has become rather a problem which must be faced. Dr. D’Antonio noted that this population problem is a two-edged sword for today’s Catholics because of the Church’s stand on birth control.
During the course of his lecture, Dr. D’Antonio outlined the dilemma faced by a Catholic husband and wife who cannot afford to have children because of health or economic reasons. The only means of birth control open to them is the use of rhythm. Pointing out that while the rhythm system is very effective, Dr. D’Antonio emphasized that this method is most likely to cause tension between the mates and, also, to kill the spontaneity of the sexual act, thus weakening the highest act of love between two people who are bound together in their eternal bond of love. For these reasons, Dr. D’Antonio concluded that rhythm was not a satisfactory answer to the problems of population control.
Because the rhythm method has proved so unsatisfactory, a new Catholic approach is needed to the birthcontrol problem. According to Dr. D’Antonio, two cardinal principles should guide those who seek to find a solution to the problem. First, all solutions should take into account a consideration of the best method to preserve conjugal love, making the
act of procreation the secondary consideration. The primary function of marriage is not procreation but a love between two people which seeks to achieve the optimal development in each person. Procreation should flow naturally from this bond of love, and not be made to seem as a grim obligation of marriage. Secondly, we must remember that we are rational creatures and do not have to be subject to the laws of nature. We should apply the same rationality to parenthood that we apply to our other endeavors. Thus, planned parenthood is nothing more than applying human reason in a responsible way.
Dr. D’Antonio concluded his lecture by explaining the Catholic layman’s role in seeking a new approach to the birth-control problem. Laymen should demand that the problem be restudied in respect to the ends of married life, the married life as a whole, and the possible use of contraceptives. When this restudy is made, laymen should take an active part in it, contributing their views and their experience.
SPEAKERS WHET INTEREST
The political catharsis of the year, Notre Dame’s Mock Convention, continues to build toward a climax. On Sunday the various state delegations will elect their chairmen; these races have generated much more enthusiasm than originally expected. General excitement has also been increased by the recent announcement that several national figures have agreed to attend the convention. Sen. Karl Mundt of South Dakota will most probably deliver the keynote address. He will be joined on the speaker’s platform by Sen. Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts, Republican National Chairman William Miller, and South Bend’s Mayor Allen.
The student keynote speaker, a hotly contested position in the convention, has also been filled. After strong competition, Lee McCarthy, a junior Political Science major from Youngstown, Ohio, won the coveted
spot. Other officials of the convention will be the Permanent Chairman Mike Dillon, and the Temporary Chairman Gene McGuire.
PEACE CORPS WEEK
Notre Dame, the university campus perhaps closest to America’s Peace Corps operation, will be the scene of “Peace Corps Week,” February 16-22. At this time a team of Peace Corps recruiters, headed perhaps by their director, Sargeant Shriver, will be on campus to talk to groups and individuals interested in the Peace Corps. The week will open with a general meeting Sunday, February 16, kicking off a program which will, for the most part, be determined by the interest of the students. From their headquarters in the student center, the recruiters will show films, pass out printed matter, and answer student questions concerning the Corps. They will be available to talk to groups and classes about any phase of the Corps’ work. They will also administer the Peace Corps Test several times during the week to anyone interested.
Notre Dame has always been closely connected with the Peace Corps. It was Father Hesburgh’s proposal for a project which was the first on Sargeant Shriver’s desk and the one which, in highly modified form, became the Chile I project, a project headed by Notre Dame Professor Walter Langford. It was Notre Dame which took the lead in forming the Indiana Conference of Higher Education, an organization of 35 state colleges and universities which has administered the Peace Corps project in Chile from the beginning. It was Notre Dame that was the training headquarters for the volunteers of the Chile I project in the summer of 1961 and its 1963 follow-up. The first group contained eight Irishmen and two St. Mary’s girls. Notre Dame’s contribution being the largest college contribution by far.
Any groups interested in hearing
January 17, 1964	11
Mary Mileski
Mary Ann Johnson
Professors Gabriel and Oberman
talks by the Peace Corps group may contact Professor Langford in his office, G23 of the new library.
CORRECTED CARICATURE
Dr. H. A. Oberman of the Harvard Divinity School last Thursday discussed “Reformation and Counter Reformation in the Light of Late Mediaeval Thought” in a lecture held incommodiously in Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute on the seventh floor of the Memorial Library. Dr. Oberman, who participated in the Notre Dame Colloquium held here last weekend, was introduced by Professor A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute, presently on leave of absence from Notre Dame and holding the C. Chauncey Stillman professorship at Harvard.
An observer at the Second Vatican Council, Dr. Oberman commented that his topic is of interest, not only as a historical problem, but also in the light of the recently developing Catholic-Protestant dialogue.
By correcting what he called a prevalent caricature of nominalism, a most significant movement in late mediaeval thought, the Harvard theologian said he hoped to suggest a new approach to scholarship of the Lutheran reformation and the Counter Reformation. This would lead to a view in which Luther is not seen as a radical doctrinal innovator, and the Counter Reformation not simply as a reversion to Thomism.
Discussing the doctrine of nominalism, the basis of which is the recognition of only singulars as real, he rejected conventional representations of it, denying that it was anti-Trinitarian and generally impious. He called nominalism “analogically” (“A wonderful, elastic word — I love it”) a late mediaeval “ecumenical movement” in a Christian world that had seen three coexistent Popes and divisions along other lines.
The caricature corrected, Dr. Oberman described Luther as continuing the nominalist tradition in his emphasis on revelation rather than Thomistic metaphysical assumptions as a point of departure. Luther’s high regard for pre-Thomistic scholasticism and for the religious thought of St. Augustine was also a continuation of previous methodology as was his existentialist emphasis on the individual’s realization that Christ died for him personally. However, Luther’s “faith alone” doctrine was an important divergence from nominalism, which held the necessity, though not the sufficiency, of man’s purely human efforts as a condition of the Covenant.
Dr. Oberman argued also that nominalism must be seen as a source
and a force of the Counter Reformation, insisting that nominalist influence on the doctrinal debate of the Council of Trent was greater than modern scholars generally recognize. The Perpetual Virginity, Immaculate Conception, and Bodily Assumption of Mary, he said, were doctrines ardently defended by the nominalists.
FESTIVITIES BEGIN SOON
Final plans for the 1961 Mardi Gras weekend were announced this past week. This “biggest social weekend of the year” at Notre Dame has an additional worthwhile purpose, the raising of $40,000 for distribution among charities, scholarships, and student projects.
The ball on Friday, February 7, has been entitled “Carrousel.” Music will be by Si Zentner. Queen of the Mardi Gras Ball is Miss Mary Mileski, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. She is a freshman in the Liberal Arts College of Marquette University. The VicePresident of Student Affairs has announced that there will be no transferring of bids this year, but there will be a Mardi Gras H Dance in the Student Center. The Champagne Brunch and Chad Mitchell Trio concert will comprise the planned entertainment on Saturday. This year reserved seats are being offered for the concert to eliminate the problem of an early arrival for a choice seat. Their cost is to be fifty cents above the $2.00 general admission fee.
Ara Parseghian, Notre Dame head football coach, Johnny Lattner, former Notre Dame All-American, and Dr. Samuel Shapiro, Professor of History at Notre Dame, will be at the head table for the Sunday morning Communion breakfast completing the weekend.
Miss Mary Ann Johnson, of Lynnfield, Mass., is Queen of the Mardi Gras Festival. She is a freshman at Emmanuel College in Boston.
The Mardi Gras Carnival, which this year boasts of 32 booths which feature everything “from Italian snacks to rodent races,” opens on Wednesday, February 5, and reaches its climax Saturday at 10:30 p.m. with the drawing of the Cadillac and Corvette winners. The rest of the student prizes will be awarded on Monday night.
THE THUMB REPLACED
To alleviate the confusion of the old system of selling and procuring transportation, the Student Government has installed a new rider’s board in the Huddle. It was felt that the former method was inefficient because of its lack of organization. The new idea was conceived, designed, and ef-
12
The Scholastic
Triumphant debaters
fected by seniors Jay Sommerkamp and Tom Benson after seeing how the problem was handled at Michigan State, Purdue, and Wisconsin.
On the new board, the country is divided geographically into 16 sections on the basis of the number of students from each area. The yellow “Riders Wanted,” and green “Ride Wanted” cards are filled out and placed on hooks beneath each section number. A key posted above the board shows what part of the country each number indicates. It is hoped that this system will prove more effective and that a larger number of students benefit from the advantages of it.
FORENSIC FORAYS
The Notre Dame Debate Team has closed its first semester tournament competition with an excellent record. Under the leadership of Prof. Leonard Sommer, varsity debaters Larry Petroshius (president), John Roos, Ron Kerner, Ron Burke, Al Balkenaar and Mike Zika have brought home trophies from a good number of their meets. They took firsts at Butler and Bradley, another at Wisconsin, second at Illinois (at Navy Pier), and second and third at St. Mary’s. In addition, several debaters won individual speaker trophies and certificates.
On the novice level, Howard Dooley and Jim Cavnar have gone undefeated in 35 debates. They have been well supported by John Thornton, Sam McClelland, Paul Freddolino and Bill Stallings.
The team will begin its second semester activities the first weekend of February, sending representatives to Pittsburgh, Northwestern, and Spring Hill.
CABERFAE: SNOW, TROPHIES
Busses for this year’s semester break ski trip to Caberfae will leave on Jan. 30 and Jan. 31. A busload will return on Monday, February 3, in time for Notre Dame registration and another bus will return on Thursday,
February 6, to fit in with the SMC registration schedule. The boys will stay at Lost Pine Lodge, South Shore Motel and Church’s Cabins near Cadillac, Michigan. The girls will stay at Maguire’s Motel and Pine Knoll.
Friday’s planned activities consist of ski movies and a party at Lost Pine Lodge. On Saturday, there will be a dinner at the Elks Club in Cadillac with a floor show and dancing. Sunday there will be a skating and dancing party at Lost Pine.
The trippers will be able to avail themselves of the free skating rink, night skiing and ski and skate rentals at Lost Pine. Skiing facilities will be available at all times and there will be free ski instructions by members of the ND ski team. On Monday there will be races with small trophies awarded to the winners in each ability group. With the most extensive facilities in the Midwest, Caberfae has gentle slopes for the beginners and graduated slopes for the more advanced skiers. Included in the price of $43.50 is the transportation, two meals a day, and the dinner-dance. Rental of skis, boots, and poles has been arranged at $3.50 per day. Students can sign up in Room 2E of the Student Center, Monday thru Friday, 3:30-5:30 and 7:00-9:00 p.m.
URBAN ECUMENISM
In his lecture on January 9, Monsignor John Egan, director of the Office of Urban Affairs in Chicago, said that the ecumenical spirit has a good basis in urban renewal, for in this area work is done with much cooperation between religious groups. During his lecture, “The Catholic Student Prepares for the Urban Revolution,” Monsignor Egan urged students to develop a social consciousness and a personal interest in the poor of our country.
The problem facing Catholics in this field, he said, lies in helping migrants moving to large cities. These people are uneducated and without
Monsignor John Egan any faith. The Church works with them on a human level, with attention focused on human problems, not on dogma; not trying to convert so much as to help these people with their problems. This is the challenge facing the Church today.
However, Monsignor Egan continued, there is a lack of Catholic leadership in this field. Graduates from leading Catholic universities seem to lack a social consciousness, failing to see that they must become involved personally with those who need help. Students should learn about the problems of urban renewal, and what will happen if such renewal is not undertaken. Young people are needed badly in programs such as these, he insisted, and community organizations to help the poor must be set up. Decisions on controversial problems should be made by the members of the community and not just by the officials of the community.
Monsignor Egan said that students can best prepare for this challenge by being well-prepared professionally, in order to be recognized by others in their professions, and by trying to develop an interest in those who need help. The response to this challenge will determine the future of the Church in this field, and of countless other people involved in the renewal process.
In a question-and-answer period following his talk, Monsignor Egan was asked about the reasons for the apparent lack of social consciousness. He was unable to give any, and pointed out that this is significant. When asked about education concerning the program, he admitted that the educational funds were not being used to their full extent. Not enough is being done to inform the people as a whole of this program. He also reemphasized the ecumenical spirit present in this work, since it was being done on a human level by many religious groups.
January 17, 1964
Pennsylvania Dutch Art
THIRD COLLOQUIUM MEETS
Protestant and Catholic scholars met at the Morris Inn for the third annual Notre Dame Colloquium last week. “Scripture and the Church” was the general topic for papers and discussions at the various sessions.
“Scripture and Tradition” was discussed at the first session last Thursday. Rev. George Tavard, A.A., Mount Mercy College, Pittsburgh, and Dr. James Barr, Princeton Theological Seminary, presented the papers for this session. The question of whether there is one source or two of divine revelation, also a topic of the Ecumenical Council, was raised at the first session.
The paper of Dr. James Robinson, Southern California School of Theology, on “Scripture and Theological Method” was discussed at the second session Friday morning. It raised the question of whether Scripture should be interpreted in the literal or full sense.
The third session, Friday afternoon, discussed the papers of Rev. Marie-Cantius Matura, O.F.M., Montreal, and Dr. Heiko A. Oberman, Harvard Divinity School, on “Scripture and Worship.” The main point of discussion was whether the source of “Mari-ological” doctrine was prayer and worship or Scripture.
The annual Notre Dame Colloquia are sponsored by the University through the Department of Theology. Rev. Albert Schlitzer, C.S.C., Notre Dame, was the acting chairman of the Colloquium.
ADMINISTRATIVE CHESS
An intricate and confusing shuffle in the administration took place during the Christmas vacation. Because of illness, Father Moran was unable to return to his job as Director of Admissions; Father Hoffman has been appointed to replace him. The resulting lack of an Assistant Vice-President for Student Affairs was filled
14
by Father O’Neil, the former Asst. Dean of Freshmen. Father Ladewski has replaced Father O’Neil. And, finally, Brother Lawrence Carter, a newcomer to the Main Building, assumed the job of Executive Secretary of the Scholarship Committee.
The above moves made it necessary to reorganize in a place closer to the students — the dorms. A new face will be walking the halls of Keenan; Father Prusynski now handles Father O’Neil’s former job as Keenan Hall rector. Father O’Neil has been given the Walsh Hall rectorship and Father Hoffman has moved into Corby.
In one final, seemingly unrelated move, Mr. Plunkett, former Assistant Dean of Arts and Letters, will take over the role of Director of Military Affairs and replace Father Woodward.
MY FAIR LADY
For the last six years the Notre Dame theatrical group has planned to obtain the rights to the play My Fair Lady. Originally the rights for nonprofessional production were to be released on January 1, 1965, but the rights were given one year in advance and Father Arthur Harvey, the University Theater director, decided to substitute My Fair Lady for the previously scheduled 1964 musical, The Three Penny Opera. Preparations for putting on this popular musical have already begun. John Patrick Hart will design the sets, Tim Carroll has already completed the costumes, Mrs. James Lee is preparing the choreography, Mr. Fred Syburg is in charge of publicity, and Father Harvey will be the director. My Fair Lady will be given on May 7, 8, 9, 14, 15, and 16 and a matinee will be given on May 10. Tryouts will be held on February 20 and 21. The production of My Fair Lady will be a fitting climax to Father Harvey’s first ten years at Notre Dame.
Tartuffe, the second of three plays to be given by the ND Players, will open on the first day of the second
Baroque Painting
semester. It will run February 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, and 15. In France this play is Moliere’s most freqeuntly produced comedy. This is the first time this translation has been used since Mr. Syburg, the director, translated it himself. The play is about Tartuffe, the hypocrite, who, while living at Orgon’s house, pretends to be virtuous to conceal his vices. Orgon is fooled and his friends attempt to convince him that Tartuffe is not virtuous. Orgon is played by Michael James Hartford, Tartuffe by Dave Garrick, Dorine by Judie Smock (from the Indiana U. Center) and El-mire by Barbara Quinn. The play will also be filmed by the WNDU-TV studio.
BAROQUES, DUTCH ART ON VIEW
Two exhibits of interest are now on display in the North Dame Art Gallery. In the East Gallery is a selection of Baroque art from the permanent collection. Included in this exhibit are a Boucher (worth about §75,000), an early Gainsborough, and prints by Rembrandt and Callot. On February 13 there will be a special program connected with this exhibit, consisting of lectures by Wolfgang Stechow and Hans David, and a concert of Baroque Music. The exhibit itself will run through February 23.
In the West Gallery there is a rather unusual display of Pennsylvania Dutch art. Described as “a lively group of folk art objects,” the exhibit is more historical than artistic, made up of artifacts of the time. It includes several rifles, implements and blankets, examples of quilting and furniture, and the like. There are also many tempera illustrations of early American artifacts.
The Art Gallery is open daily from 1 to 5 for those who would like to see these exhibits. The staff also plans to offer tours of both shows on Thursday afternoons.
(Continued on page SI)
The Scholastic
on other campuses
• At Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio, a savings bond chain letter was being widely distributed before Christmas. A chain letter, as most of us know, is an elaborate scheme to spend $75 and make $6000. The Xavier News reports that its sources indicate that the letter originated on the campus of a “large Eastern university and came to Xavier via Chicago.”
• Ten men at Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, recently ate dog food in the school’s cafeteria as a protest against the quality of the cafeteria food. It was “Gravy Train” dog food, mixed with water, according to directions. Some preferred it unseasoned, others with ketchup or tobasco sauce. The flavor of this delicacy, they say, compares favorably with the cafeteria’s regular beef stew.
•	A National Conference on Higher Education meeting in Chicago, has made predictions concerning the typical American college twenty years hence. Now disappearing, and soon to be eliminated, they say, are fraternities, sororities, and all varsity sports.
•	A reading week has been under consideration at New Rochelle College in New York, similar to that be
ing considered at Notre Dame. The program would consist of a period of time free from regular studies during which the student would be free to read topics of his own choice. At New Rochelle, an alteration of the troublesome semester system is also being discussed in conjunction with this. Classes would begin earlier in September and the first semester would end before Christmas. Semester break would then last through Christmas to late January.
•	Administration censorship appears to be a thorn in the side of more than one student body. The Ambrosian News of St. Ambrose College, in Davenport, Iowa, reports a directive from the Office of the President, requiring approval of all programs and guest speakers for student organizations. The directive requires that a form be filed at least 15 days prior to the event in order that permission be obtained. Apparently recognizing, however, that all speakers will not be undesirably controversial, exceptions may be made for “government officials, distinguished visitors, and Roman Catholic hierarchy at the president’s discretion.”
•	The Daily Northwestern reports a student’s disconcerting problems with Railway Express. Dennis Whittman,
not having received the clothes that	j
he shipped, received from RE only a	i
letter informing him that he couldn’t i collect on a $500 insurance policy. His clothes had “depreciated” in shipping, I claimed RE. Dennis took it to court and was awarded the $500. But dauntless RE appealed, and Dennis, having already lost his shirt and fearing that he might lose all, settled for $350 out of court. He still grumbles, though.
•	Union College in New York, in	t
the spring semester of 1963, con-	।
ducted an experiment involving 116	3
students. Each attended class only six | times during the semester, and then 1 only to take quizzes. While 13 of the | students improved their grades over i the previous semester, 31 of the par- i ticipants fell below their previous 1 level. That left 72 students who were i able to do just as well in their studies | without attending classes ... an in-	|
teresting statistic.	I
•	The Columbia Student Council	|
has directed its delegates to the an- | nual N.S.A. congresses not to vote on e political issues. In the decision, it was g decided that delegates to the National I Student Association have no right to i appear to represent University stu- | dents’ views on issues such as the | U. S. embargo of Cuba. In a four-hour | session, the Council decreed that Co- | lumbia delegates	should concern	I
themselves only with problems which	|
“affect students in	their role as stu-	|
dents.”	§
feiffer
once there mas A SLEEPING COUNTRY THAT HAD EIGHT MEAR^ UNDER A SPELL. N060DM taker M06CW AR-6UEP. EVER^-BODH SLEPT-
THEM OME PA4 IMTO THI5 COUNTRY POPE A HANDSOME «0UN6 PRINCE." IT'S TIME TO 6ET MOVING A6AIN." THE PRINCE DECLARED. THE COUNTRY STIRRER IM ITS SLEEP.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN HEARS PEOPLE ACTUALLY BEGAN TO TALK. THEH ARGUED. THEH
TOOK SIDES. "STOP TALKING so LOUD!’THE REST OF THE COUNTRY 6R0M-,	BLED IM ITS SLEEP'HAVE
\	GOME CONSIDERATION
J	FOR THE REST OF US."
AUP THE COUNTRY. SUFFERING FROM MOUNDS AMP GUILT, CHEERED. DEBATE
HALTE0.AR6UMENT DIED AND THERE MAS NO MORE TALK IN THE
BUT THE TALKING ONE'S BECAME LOUDER. MORS' AMP MORE PEOPLE AMOKE AMP, AN6RM THAT THEH HAD TO BE AMAKE, BEGAN TO TALK, B65AM TO ARGUE BEGAN TO TAKE SWEG.
THEM ONE DAU THE U0UN6 PRINCE MAG KILLED-NO ONE COULD AGREE BM mhom.everu SIDE ACCUSED EVERT OTHER SIDE- BUT CALMER HEADS PREVAILED.
see Mat me have COME TO MITH THIS MICKED DlSSEN-SlOM"CALMER HEADS ARGUED, "LET US CLEANSE OUR SOCIETY OF THIS DIVISIVE DEBATE!"
AND AS THE COUNTRY PREPARED FOR
SLEEP IT HOPED NOONE MOULD
EVER ASK IT TO MOVE AGAIN -
FOR IT REALLY DID NOT MANTTO .KILL ANY-
MORE PRINCES.

January 17, 1964
HART-BURN
Dear Notre Dame Students:
While in New York City during Thanksgiving vacation, I was frequently assailed by your inquiries regarding a matter of which I had heard only through rumor. During the past week, I have secured copies of the published discussion on Student Government fiscal policy, and now feel compelled to introduce certain relevant data into a controversy which seems to have assumed enough absurdity to anger the most cynical among you. Only too conscious of the ludicrousness of attempts to further explicate matters so abstruse as SG economics, or obtuse as Scholastic-SG rivalry, nonetheless, for the sake of directly expressing my concern with these problems to you in the hope that my remarks may serve to clarify the true extent and nature of Mr. Ellis’s plight and ameliorate the confusion and muffle mutual distrust so much in evidence at Notre Dame this year, I wish to call your attention to the following:
(1)	The budget for student government 1952-63 was the product of many hours quietly devoted to study of all past recorded budgets and their failings and to a measure of scrutiny which demanded untold and unaccountable debate beginning as early as April 1962. Like Mr. Ellis, I was chagrined and unsettled by the debt my administration had inherited from the previous one, a debt of some $9300. But that government had likewise been crippled from $7500 in unpaid bills deeded it by its predecessor. I hesitate to cite any particular year as the starting point for the spiralling indebtedness of Notre Dame SG, since I no longer hold the files, but I think it most important to point out that the burden of settling past expenditures is not at all a hardship unique to your present government. That the amount of indebtedness has grown some each year is regrettable, though entirely true despite evertightening systems of control. The budget, which, as chairman of the finance committee, I submitted to the Senate in October 1962, was designed
16
Kevin Hart, Student Body President last year, has written a letter to the student body defending his administration and commenting on the issues raised in the recent controversy over student government finances.
to obviate entirely the $9300 deficit forced upon us. Though obviously limiting the scope of our programs, it was designed to leave the next administration blithefully free to spend its entire allotment of student fees on its own debts. At midyear a considerable surplus appeared likely. But second semester was fraught with cavernously disastrous economic failures.
(2)	There are certain incalculables in the most carefully drawn budget. The financial success of events such as big-name entertainment and Social Open Houses are particularly susceptible to vicissitudes of weather and campus mood, the burdens on pocket money and study time on any given date, and ability of the function to draw outsiders to campus. In this connection I cite the Spring Open House as a particularly suitable example, where lack of a precedent and promises from girls’ schools encouraged the social commission to anticipate the influx of 2000 more girls than arrived. Even the most conservative estimates of attendance predicated yield of a small profit instead of the actual $2500 debasement which occurred. Likewise, the success of the Johnny Mathis Concert was postulated on the assumption that it would draw 2000 admissions from the South Bend area. It, too, lost $2500.
(3)	Though not nearly so easily understood or justified, a further and almost unpredictable factor in fiscal planning is in the selection of those persons who manage major functions, and who, by the nature of their job, must be given the power to order and pay for materials without individual permissions from the Student Body President. Last year I personally countersigned every legitimate check issued by the campus-wide SG. The SG vice president countersigned all Mardi Gras and CJF checks. The only groups over which we lacked this form of control were the class dances. The respective class officers have traditionally appointed their own dance committees and kept rein on committee expenses. Despite commendable
management of funds in nearly every ' major underclass dance I can re- ■ member, the Senior Ball has been notably and notoriously flagrant, and i consistently so, in incurring huge I debts. Last year, every potential candidate for Senior Ball Chairman refused to accept meaningful legal commitment to budgetary integrity. Unless a means is devised whereby someone or some group can be held legally responsible for adherence to the Senior Ball budget, the temptation to splurge all in that one last impulsive fling for which they will not be held accountable will overpower the most righteous officers and chairmen and outwit the most extraordinary system i of control. Last year’s ball deficit ; was an unforgivable $3500.
(4)	I have received no breakdown of the remaining $2500 debt left you by my administration, and doubt explanation of it would be so ready as the Open House, Johnny Mathis, and Senior Ball losses. Perhaps it can reasonably be regarded as residue from years past.
(5)	The purpose of this letter, however, is not to apologize for the failures of my administration to resolve past debts and devise foolproof fiscal policy, nor is it to rationalize our inability to cope with these problems adequately. Financial management is too complex for ready analysis, and the extraordinary number of 1 intersubjective factors persistent even ' at the level of SG functions belie at- 1 tempts to affix more than salutary blame for indebtedness on any individual or group. It seems to me that the new SG typewriter, hailed as the symbol of waste, on fuller examina- 1 tion is perhaps signal of irony of the symbol, and evidence of the care which actually underlies most decisions to spend your money. You may become disgusted or you may laugh if you continue reading, but I am determined to provide the authentic background of that strangely infamous and essentially innocent machine for you and the Archives.
I, Kevin Hart, did not purchase what Mr. Ellis has termed “the Hart
The Scholastic
Kevin Hart, SBP 1962-63
typewriter” and the Scholastic has called “Ellis’s typewriter.” In the fall of 1962, SG owned two manual typewriters, one of which typed not at all, the other just barely. This single ancient and long-used and abused machine simply did not lend efficient service to six commissions, 21 committees, a newspaper staff, four class councils, 17 Hall Presidents, and 32 Senators. As finance committee chairman and with admitted personal interest in the purchase of a new machine, since its cost was likely to be considerable and its service long and severe, I consulted the University purchasing agent and a number of secretaries, explaining our requirements as to use, durability, and retention of value. I became satisfied that the IBM Selectric was a sound choice and included a request for an allocation for that typewriter in the SG budget presented to the Senate in October 1962. There was little debate on the allocation, and in less than an hour after its presentation, the entire budget was approved unanimously, a vote including that of critics and subsequent typists Ellis and O’Brien. Guiltily I admit, however, that as chief executive officer of the SG, I signed the purchase order for the machine, per Senate instructions. And one other confession — it cost $358, not $345.
But this began as a serious discussion, and it is appropriate to end it in like fashion.
Faith in the good intentions of those who attempt to serve you is es
January 17, 1964
sential to any meaningful political coherence of the student body. The faith need not be blind, and yet, legitimate doubts and criticisms are not useful if they have been earnestly conceived but poorly directed. Everyone knows that both men and the system under which they operate are subject to improvement.
Every SG has been singularly preoccupied with progress, but the persistence of a government’s original commitment to “set our own house in order” before proceeding to issues of depth and meaning far more important than perfection of internal economic structure can easily become a fascination powerful enough of itself to draw energy and talent so distant from the pressing psychological and social needs of undergraduate life that matters infinitely more essential to growth than parliamentary perfection at Senate meetings are hardly given cursory attendance by student organizations and publications. An entire year spent analyzing and adjusting income and expense may reduce overspending and restore faith in the fiscal integrity of SG, but it will not have done more than this.
If the types of issues discussed in publications and in Senate meetings and in private conversations are worthy basis for judging the relationship of Notre Dame students to their environment these days, I must profess my disappointment in your lack of attention to the discovery and explication of the issues most properly demanding the concern of those who
would see Notre Dame progress. The debate begun several years ago on the role of the hall as the physical unit potentially best suited to serve the social coherence necessary to the educational process and all that was implied by encouraging student identification with his residence place, dealt with the challenges of individual development through provision of an environment which necessarily heightened one’s sense of personal consciousness and social responsibility. I do not wish to enshrine 4-class integrated living as a panacea. I think it an important first step in the direction of a cure of some sort. Attempts to institute an honor system are indeed commendable, but somewhat premature because a substantial basis for individual self-regulation must exist in social matters, before values such as honor can be internalized in an academic system. The follies of our own past and the achievements of others whom we would emulate and whose history is similar to, but antedating our own, should be critically considered by those who would have reform.
In the last few years Notre Dame student government had at least begun an analysis of undergraduate life in which the quests for those essential elements of community organization determining our growth to stature as students and men was central. It is indeed unfortunate that this most vital task has been pre-emptorily abandoned by this year’s student “leadership” and has been all too comfortably superseded by lame and petty feuds about the precise nature of the internal functions of an apparently mushrooming student government bureaucracy. Are there none among you with the courage to delve daringly to the very heart of the community’s dilemma, and with perception and insight, discourage fruitless complaints about the superficial symptoms of frustration and alienation in favor of keen analysis of the root causes of the fragmentation persistent among and between the groups that make up the University community?
As one so recently one of you, and so recently close to Notre Dame and the peculiar sort of love she demands, I truly wish her every length of the greatness for which she is struggling, and only hope that you participate in the most meaningful and sincere endeavor to aid her progress which your time and talents allow, for your own sake as well as the University’s.
Sincerely, Kevin G. Hart Student Body President, 1962-1963
17
CHALLENGE n
Field House, Faculty, Scholarship, Psychology
by Pete Siegwald
The objective of the Ford Foundation is “to assist institutions in different regions of the country to reach and sustain a wholly new level of academic excellence, administrative effectiveness, and financial support.” The results of a portion of their efforts are visible on the Notre Dame campus today in the form of a 13-story library, opened to the students only this year.
It is hoped that, by virtue of the faith and generosity of the Ford Foundation, the University will soon be in the midst of another major expansion program. On December 19, it was announced that Notre Dame had been chosen, for the second time in three years, to receive a $6,000,000 Ford Foundation grant. The grant contains the same matching gift feature as the 1960 subsidy: the Uni
versity must raise, from private donors, businesses, and nongovernmental sources, two dollars for every dollar given by Ford.
To qualify for the grant, Father Hesburgh has announced the beginning of a new, nation-wide fund-raising effort. With an eventual goal of $20,000,000 by June 30, 1966, the program is to be known as Challenge n. Its theme will be “Extending the Tradition of Great Teaching.”
With Challenge H still in its infancy, plans have already been made for putting the money to use. Sixty per cent of the total goal, approximately $12,000,000, will go to strengthening the faculty, providing financial assistance to students, and initiating new programs in study and research.
Notre Dame’s faculty budget is in-
The Scholastic
18
creasing at the rate of §1,000,000 a year. Noting this, Father Walsh, the University’s Vice-President of Public Relations has said that “sustained financial support is vital if the University is to retain and attract men of achievement who will be devoted — in scholarship and research, in classroom and laboratory, in personal attention to individual students — to extending Notre Dame’s tradition of great teaching.” Challenge II will aid greatly in providing this support.
Eager to enhance its educational programs and research in the social sciences and humanities, the University has announced plans to establish a department of experimental psychology. To be linked with this department, in the interest of furthering understanding between men, will be such courses as anthropology, de
mography, geography, and religious sociology. Planning is also under way for area study programs, first for Latin America and later Africa. A total allotment of $6,500,000 has been made for these two programs.
$5,500,000 is planned for use in the area of student aid. In this day of rising educational costs, the University is seeking additional funds to create undergraduate scholarships or grants-in-aid and graduate fellowships. Further funds are needed that the University may continue and extend its low-interest loan funds available to qualified students requiring financial assistance. The noted allotment will help guarantee such student aid funds.
The physical plant of the University is also due for expansion, as Father Hesburgh announced plans providing for the construction of three new buildings. Perhaps the most striking of these will be a new 10,500-seat Athletic and Convocation Center. To be erected east of the football stadium at a cost of $5,000,000, the Center will host such varied activities as convocations, conventions, basketball games, and intramural sports. The 400,000-s q u a r e-f o o t building will house twin arenas. In one, intercollegiate sports, including basketball, wrestling, fencing, boxing, and indoor baseball practice, will be held. When not in use for one of the teams, conventions and the like will put it to good use. The second arena is to be used as an exhibition center. In the remaining area, the Athletic Department plans to establish its headquarters. One remaining facility, planned to please the student body even more, will be the addition of an indoor skating rink. And so, in the shadow of the new library, the shadow of progress, Notre Dame’s 66-year-old Fieldhouse will finally find its retirement.
In a move to regain most of the 800 lost souls now living off campus, plans are in preparation for the construction of two new undergraduate dorms. To be located on a new mall just north of the Memorial Library, the dorms will join the two soon-to-be-built graduate dorms in the eastward expansion of the campus. At the same time, they will swell to 21 the number of undergraduate dorms located on the Notre Dame campus. The alloted cost: $3,000,000.
But the story of expansion, both physical and educational, does not end here. Nor does the story of grants. On December 22, in a joint announcement by Father Hesburgh and Dr. Emery W. Morris, it was disclosed that the W. K. Kellogg
Foundation, of Battle Creek, Michigan, has granted the University $1,543,000. The sum is to be given for the construction and operation of a Center for Continuing Education at the University “because of its previous intensive interest in adult education, because it is national in character, drawing students from all over the United States, and because of its international reputation as a cultural center.”
The Center itself will be a buff brick, two-story building of contemporary design. As it will be built across from the Morris Inn on Notre Dame Avenue, plans are being made for a tunnel to connect the two. Included in the plans for the Center are a lobby and registration area, a 350400 seat auditorium, and a series of seminar, conference, or meeting rooms. Office space and quarters with limited food service will be available to visiting professors and research personnel.
Notre Dame’s Center of Continuing Education is designed to serve a number of purposes. Among these, it will act as a meeting place for scholars and others joining in academic and cultural conferences. Businessmen, professional people, tradesmen, all those participating in specialized programs, will have access to its facilities. These programs are to consist of short periods of intensive, advanced training in particular fields. Not only alumni of Notre Dame, but graduates from many schools will be able to take advantage of these programs.
The Kellogg Foundation has given roughly $12,000,000 since 1951 to help establish six other Centers of Continuing Education. Most recently completed were those at the University of Chicago and at Oxford University, England. Construction of the Notre Dame Center is to begin later this year. $200,000 of the grant will be withheld from building cost to be used in subsidizing the first four years of the Center’s program.
With one segment of a ten-year, $66,000,000 development plan completed in mid-1963, the University is already engrossed in yet another segment of the plan. To date, such structures as a computing center, a mathematics building, and the largest college campus library in the world have been added to the campus. And now, six additional new buildings will soon make their appearance. Faculty development and new academic programs are being called for. Expansion of student aid is in the forseeable future. Notre Dame seems well on its way to becoming the Catholic university of the world.
January 17, 1964
19
THE RIGHTS OF MO
by Elliot Gage
A crucial problem exists in the United States today. Its very existence makes a mockery of a fundamental belief of this notion, the freedom of the individual. In general it concerns the equality of man and specifically the equality of races. The problem is primarily that of the Negro’s pursuit of legal equality; racial conflict has become more prominent in this country since the Supreme Court decisions of 1954. These cases gave the Negro a lawful basis for his social protests, reversing previously accepted ideas. The changes in thinking of the Supreme Court represent the development of the civil rights situation. To understand the present ruling a consideration of preceding cases is necessary.
In 1898 the Supreme Court planted the seeds of the present controversy in Plessy vs. Ferguson. This case dealt with the right of a state to pass laws requiring segregation on railway cars. Louisiana had such a law when Homer Plessy, one-eighth Negro and seven-eighths white, was arrested for refusing to ride in the colored section of the car. Plessy brought the case to the Supreme Court and attacked the constitutionality of the statute. He contended that it was in conflict with the Thirteenth Amendment (abolishment of slavery) since such segregation “stamped the Negro with a badge of inferiority.” Citing the Fourteenth Amendment (the equality of freed slaves), Plessy claimed that he had been denied equal protection of the law because of his race. The court immediately dismissed the idea of a “badge of inferiority,” saying that “if this be so, it is not by reason of anything found in the act, but solely because the race chooses to put that construction upon it.” Although the court declared that “the object of the [fourteenth] Amendment was undoubtedly to enforce the absolute equality of the two races before the law,” it stated that “it [the amendment] could not have been intended to abolish distinctions based upon
20
color or to enforce social, as distinguished from political, equality, or a commingling of the two races upon terms unsatisfactory to either.” The Court concluded that “the case reduces itself to the question of whether the statute of Louisiana is a reasonable regulation,” saying, in effect, that the established usages, customs, and traditions of the people determine the reasonableness of law. As a result the separation of races was judged reasonable.
The court had upheld the concept of separation of races on the basis that the Fourteenth Amendment was designed to protect political and not social rights. Later the lower courts made provisions that, where there is a separation of the races, equal facilities must be provided. Up to the time of the 1954 decision, case after case was tried on the “separate but equal” doctrine. Those cases decided in favor of the Negro plaintiff were decided on the basis of the inequality of facilities. An example of this was the Gaines vs. Canada case of 1938. Gaines, a Negro, had been denied admittance to the University of Missouri Law School. There was no law school for Negroes in the state; but a Missouri law provided that a Negro’s tuition would be paid by the state if he would attend a law school in another state. The Supreme Court ruled that a law school must be provided for both races in order to fulfill the doctrine of “separate but equal.” In 1950 the Court held in the McLaurin vs. Oklahoma State Regents case that once a Negro is admitted to a school no segregation could be carried on within the school. McLaurin had been forced to sit in roped-off areas of a classroom and eat alone in a separate room. Although the court did move into the area of intangible social conditions, (i.e., the psychological effects of discriminatory practices upon study) the “separate but equal” doctrine was not disputed.
In 1954 the Supreme Court recon-
The Scholastic
sidered the constitutional basis for the “separate but equal” doctrine. In the Brown vs. Board of Education case Negro school children had been denied enrollment in the racially segregated schools of their respective states. The counsel for the children argued that “separated schools are not ‘equal’ and cannot be made ‘equal’ and hence they are deprived of equal protection of the laws.” The defendants followed the reasoning of the Plessy case and argued that the case involved social and not political concepts and therefore was not pertinent. The court stated: “We conclude that in the field of public education the doctrine of ‘separate but equal’ has no place. Separate educational facilities are inherently unequal.” The court had reversed a long-standing precedent. The Supreme Court decision, by subsequent lower court cases, was extended to include housing, transportation, recreational facilities, and work laws. This expansion of the new concept of legal equality is continuing into all facets of American life.
The present interpretation of the Constitution is not generally accepted. The Supreme Court decision of 1954 and succeding civil rights decisions are attacked as being illegal and dictatorial. These attacks are based on the fear that the Federal government is increasing its power and thereby limiting the freedom of the individual. The fear that the power of the Federal government is increasing is a real one. The Federal government, acting under the Supreme Court’s decision, is moving into areas of law previously reserved to the states.
One of the arguments against the Federal government centers around the Tenth and Fourteenth Amendments. The Tenth Amendment states: “The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.” Nowhere in the Constitution is education mentioned as a duty of the Federal government. Therefore the states have the power of education. A law made by Congress could overrule a state law, but the Congress has never made a law requiring integration in public schools; it is contended that the Court had no legal basis for making a decision on the issue. The Fourteenth Amendment, which provides for equal protection of the laws, is not considered to be applicable because the Congress, which ratified it, never believed the amendment outlawed segregation by race in public schools. The Court’s ruling is also disputed because it broke legal manner and reversed an established precedent. In order to re
January 17, 1964
verse this precedent the Court considered socio-psychological effects of integration. According to many, the court made its ruling in the light of social conditions and without any legal basis. It is contended that the court, in overlooking the Tenth Amendment and considering the Fourteenth Amendment in an incorrect light, made a law; and thereby usurped the power of legislation.
As the Court’s rulings have been extended into more areas, great alarm has arisen. An individual operating a public business, even though it is not connected with government, is required to integrate his facilities. This requirement is seen to be an encroachment upon personal freedom, because the individual is forced, by the government, to associate with people against his will. Summarizing the preceding statements, the chief reasons given for not accepting the Supreme Court’s action were (1) the Court had overlooked the intent of the Constitution and disregarded established precedent and (2) that the Court has restricted individual rights.
A defense against the first of these two charges begins with the 1803 Supreme Court case of Marbury vs. Madison. The case has nothing to do with racial problems and therefore a description of the case is not pertinent. The important matter is that in this case the right of judicial review is stated; judicial review is the power of the courts to decide upon the validity of laws with respect to the Constitution. This right was established in Marbury vs. Madison when Chief Justice Marshall said, “It is a proposition too plain to be contested, that the Constitution controls any act repugnant to it ... a legislative act contrary to the Constitution is not law . . . the Constitution is superior to any ordinary act of legislature, the Constitution and not such an ordinary act must govern the case to which they both apply. The right of the Supreme Court to declare laws invalid if they are judged unconstitutional is well established. Article Six of the Constitution states that the ‘Constitution is the supreme law of the land’ . . . anything in the Constitution or laws of any state notwithstanding.’ ” The Supreme Court, then, clearly has power over all state laws. The Supreme Court did not make law, but said that the law was invalid and should not be enforced.
The Fourteenth Amendment was the basis for declaring the law requiring segregation invalid. The exact meaning of the amendment is very difficult to define. The clause, “nor shall any State deprive any person of
life, liberty, or property without the process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law” is vague and has been interpreted many ways. In 1954 the Supreme Court said in the Brown decision that the plaintiffs are deprived of equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. A justification for the Court’s reversing of a precedent is a statement of Chief Justice Marshall, “We must never forget that it is a constitution we are expounding — a constitution intended to endure for ages to come, and consequently, to be adapted to the various crises of human affairs.”
In defending the Supreme Court’s action against the accusation that the Court has restricted individual rights it should be made clear that any matter affected by legislative action is no longer personal but political in nature. A law requiring, condoning, or upholding segregation is discrimination by law and as such unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Discrimination by law is unconstitutional, but is law to replace morality? Obviously, men have varying degrees of talent and are not equal in ability, but a man should be judged by his ability and not by a generalization applied to his race or class. A group of people cannot develop their talents if they are not adequately educated or if they are not allowed to advance in their work. The very fact that man is created by God makes him an object of respect. When this respect is disregarded, men have looked to the government for protection. If the duty to protect the rights of man is given solely to the government, then the government alone will have the prerogative to decide what are the rights of man. When this power of judgment is given to the government a moral act will simply be one which is not contrary to the law. As has been demonstrated many times, the law is easily circumvented by legal machinations, and because of this, morality based on law is a hollow thing. Only when it is realized that the equality of man is based on the respect which is due a creature of God, can the rights of man be upheld.
“The observance of the ordinances of religion is the cause of the greatness of commonwealths; so also is the neglect of them the cause of their ruin. For when the fear of God is wanting, a kingdom must either go to ruin or be supported by the fear of a prince to compensate for the best influences of religion.”
— Machiavelli
21
Confessions
of a Science-Fiction Addict
bv Robert Coulson
'	i
1 i
•	i
Today’s would provides an almost frightening abundance of ways in which a well-bred (or even an ill-bred) young man can waste his time, most of them classed under that allencompassing euphemism, “hobby.” Some people collect stamps. Others hunt, race cars, chase women, drink, or join the John Birch Society.
I read science fiction. Now this alone wouldn’t put me outside the pale of normal humanity; several of my co-workers have furtively confessed to me that they, too, read the stuff in the privacy of their homes. Science-fiction readers have their place, though perhaps you wouldn’t want your sister to become one. However, I go beyond the normal decencies; besides reading the stuff, I collect it, correspond with other enthusiasts, publish an amateur magazine ostensibly devoted to science fiction, and attend conventions which are also ostensibly devoted to science fiction. (Like all conventions, they are actually devoted to midnight parties, but we have to have some excuse for getting together.)
I understand that it’s considered improper to write about any subject without defining one’s terms. Unfor-
Robert Coulson lives in Wabash, Indiana. For many years he has made a hobby of writing, reading and publishing Science-Fiction. In SF circles he’s what is known as a BNF — a Big Name Fan. Here he recalls some of the more interesting sides of his hobby.
tunately, this doesn’t work with science fiction, since nobody has as yet produced a definition which is satisfactory to all concerned. In fact, nobody has yet produced a definition which will satisfy anybody else concerned; science-fiction fans being nothing if not individualists, hi general, it is a branch of fantasy in which events are explained in scientific or pseudo-scientific terms. This differentiates it from “straight” fantasy, in which events are explained in supernatural or mystic terms, and from “mainstream” fiction in which events don’t have to be explained because they’re familiar to us. (This is a very
generalized definition, and don’t interrupt. We will have a question period later.)
Science fiction has had a long and dishonorable history. At least one expert includes Plato’s “Republic” and some of the works of Lucian of Sam-osata under his concept of the term, but I feel that he’s overdoing it a bit; I don’t think it’s possible to have science fiction before you have a pretty fair understanding of science. For all practical purposes, science fiction began with the “scientific romances” of Jules Verne, was strengthened by the logical extrapolations of H. G. Wells, and is carried on today
22
The Scholastic
by storytellers such as Robert A. Heinlein and Theodore Sturgeon.
Technically, however, science fiction began with Hugo Gernsback in the middle 1920’s. We have adopted older stories into the fold, but the novels of Verne and Wells were not called “science fiction” when they were written because nobody had invented the term yet. (Gernsback favored the adoption of “scientifiction”; while this rather awkward term lost out to “science-fiction” — with or without the hyphen, as you please — the early fans promptly shortened “scientifiction” to “stf,” and “stf” is the descriptive term still used by today’s fans.) Gernsback pioneered present-day stf by launching the first magazine devoted entirely to science fiction, Amazing Stories, in 1926. He j helped establish fandom by, first, pro-i	viding a letter column in his maga-
।	zine where stf enthusiasts could dis-
cover the names and addresses of similarly afflicted individuals and, : second, by encouraging the hardened j addicts to band together in clubs, where they could discuss science fiction, sneer at the benighted heathen who hadn’t discovered The Word, and congratulate themselves on having broad mental horizons.
Once established, science fiction caught on, more or less. One of the major problems of early fans was How To Achieve Popular Acceptance ! Of Science Fiction. In 1938, twelve ।	years after the inauguration of
|	Amazing Stories, there were still
5 only six science fiction and fantasy ; magazines on the market. In 1941 the j number had increased to twenty-one, i in 1944 it was back down to eight, in j 1953 there were forty-four, and in :	1961 there were six. One of the major
■ problems of today’s fans is How To ■ Achieve Popular Acceptance Of Sci-i ence Fiction. Sometimes it seems that i we aren’t progressing very rapidly. : Of course, following the flood of in: credibly bad “science fiction” movies, '	“science fiction” comic books, and
;	“science fiction” novels by main-
I stream writers out to make a fast ; buck, we now have a subsidiary prob-i lem: Do We Want To Acieve Pop-i ular Acceptance Of Science Fiction?
We’d like to have more readers (we’re ; lonesome’), but not at the price of ; having our favorite literature identified with things like “Fire Maidens J	Of Outer Space” and “On The Beach.”
i	(And it’s adding insult to injury when
( a third-rate novel like “On The Beach” ; makes a great splash — pun intended ; — while a serious effort such as ; “More Than Human” is ignored, sim-■ ply because Nevil Shute is known to . the critics and Ted Sturgeon isn’t. Of . course, we sneer that the average fat
headed critic couldn’t understand “More Than Human” if he did read it, but we’re still insulted.)
Of course, we will admit that occasionally an “outsider” makes a valuable contribution. “Brave New World” and “1984” are classics in and out of the stf field, and there have even been one or two halfway decent movies: “Destination Moon,” “The Day The Earth Stood Still” and television’s “Twilight Zone” have all been acceptable if not outstanding drama. But by and large we prefer “our” authors.
There is a persistent rumor that science fiction is written by scientists (who, of course, can’t be expected to write decent English, a feat to be performed only by English majors
and a few literary critics). There are a few scientists in the field, although not as many as there used to be. Biophysics professor Isaac Asimov has all but abandoned stf in favor of writing scientific popularizations, though he still attends conventions and keeps in touch with the field. Hal Clement seems satisfied to teach science rather than write about it. We still get an occasional novel from Arthur C. Clarke, but he has become better known for his books on rockets and undersea life (which may sound like an odd combination until you recall where so many of those Canaveral shots end up). By and large, the scientists and engineers form the bulk of the readership of stf, while the authors have the same varied backgrounds that one can find in any group of free-lance writers. In only one area are science-fiction writers unusual; there is no such thing as a
man who makes his living by writing science fiction. Even the most popular and prolific authors make their living in some other field — often in some other literary field — and write science fiction as an enjoyable but not very profitable hobby. (More than one stf author makes his bread and butter by writing for the better-paying “confessions” magazines — under a pseudonym — and write science fiction as a welcome relief from grinding out a living and as a means of expressing something which he feels is worthwhile.) The fact that science fiction is surprisingly well written is due partly to the fact that most men will work twice as hard at a hobby as they will at a regular job,
and partly due to the comment that stf authors receive from fandom.
Fritz Lieber once commented that writing for the general public was like tossing his words into a vacuum; he never really knew what his readers thought of his work. With the exception of a few successful novelists, this is the plight of most mainstream authors. But stf authors have no trouble in finding out what their public thinks of their efforts; good or bad, the comments come in waves. If the readers don’t write the author personally (and many of them do) they discuss his work in their fanzines or corner him at a party convention. This sort of attention is stimulating to any sort of artist. Even when a story is disliked, the author has the satisfaction of knowing that somebody at least cared about it; he hasn’t simply been ignored.
Fandom has grown immensely from
January 17, 1964
23
Confessions Continued its start in a few big-city clubs. There are fans everywhere in the United States, fans in the armed forces in various parts of the world, local-fan groups in Canada, England, Sweden, Germany, Australia, Japan and Argentina, and isolated fans in Spain, France, Switzerland, Turkey, and probably elsewhere. Though there is no official world-wide organization of fans — they’re far too individualistic to stand for one — they generally manage to keep in touch with one another. (I know of the existence of fans in the countries named because I’ve personally corresponded with them.) The outstanding characteristic of a fan is his desire to communicate. The postage paid by fans on letters, tape recordings, and fanzines has never been computed, but the total would be considerable. My wife and I spend approximately $200 a year on postage stamps; multiply us by a hundred or so equally active fans and another five hundred or more moderately active ones and the money begins to mount up. One fan calculated that it would cost him over $2 just to notify his correspondents of a change of address when he moved.
The binding force in fandom today is the fanzine. (This is a fannish term denoting an amateur, or “fan,” magazine. Professional science fiction magazines are known as “prozines”; professional magazines featuring other types of material are generally not referred to at all, but occasionally sneered at as “the slicks” — an outgrowth of science fiction’s pulp-magazine heritage.) Originally, fanzines were viewed as a means for spreading the good word about stf, providing critical commentary in an effort to improve the field, and other such uplifting purposes. Today they are a means for the fans — and for many of the professional writers — to present their viewpoints on anything and everything. I mentioned earlier that I publish an amateur magazine (actually my wife does the publishing, but I horn in on the credit). In 1963, we published comments on science fiction, segregation, the novels of Erich Maria Remarque, the new Russian movie process Circlorama, the Soviet economic reforms of November, 1962, intelligence tests, and Eros magazine, among other things. (If you’re curious, the consensus was that Eros is a snare and a delusion and there are better ways of getting one’s kicks.)
In addition to fanzines and letters, fans occasionally produce a more lasting contribution to our culture. Advent Publishers, a group of Chi
24
cago fans, recently published a hardcover collection of the humorous writings of Robert Bloch (notable in being perhaps the only Bloch book in the past few years which has not bothered to introduce him as “the author of Psycho.” Fans have known for years that Bloch was a good horror-story writer, but we prefer him as a humorist). Also, as mentioned previously, we hold conventions. There are numerous regional conventions, which are primarily just oversized parties, and there is an annual World Science Fiction Convention, held on the Labor Day weekend in a different city each year. Most of these “World” conventions have been pretty well restricted to the United States (which, after all, has the most fans), but there has been one held in
Toronto and one in London, and it looks like the 1965 Worldcon will be in London again. The 1963 convention, just past, was held in Washington, D.C., and consisted of the usual program, with guest speakers and panels on various subjects, fabulous parties, and for my wife and me, a considerable amount of work for Project Art Show, a fan project which allows amateur artists to display their paintings, enter them in competition for a variety of trophies, and, possibly, sell them. (And while this art work doesn’t bring the same price as an Old Master, one girl sold her awardwinning painting for $62 this year. It’s not the Big Time, but it helps pay the rent.)
Each year at the Worldcon, a series of “Hugo” awards is given for excellence in the science-fiction field. This science-fiction version of the “Oscar” is, of course, named after pioneering Hugo Gernsback. There were those of us who would have preferred to
name it for John W. Campbell, Jr., the editor who brought characterization and mature writing into stf to replace an endless series of “gadget” stories, but we decided that calling it a “John” award might seem lacking , in dignity. The awards go to the best novel, best short story, best artist, best dramatic production, best professional magazine, and best amateur magazine, and are decided by the votes of the convention members, after a preliminary ballot has picked the five most popular selections in each category for presentation on the final ballot. (This can lead to repeated disappointments. I know of one amateur magazine which has been nominated for the “Best Fanzine” award for five successive years without ever having won. I feel rather deeply about this — primarily because it’s my magazine.)
Fandom even has its own international goodwill mission in the TransAtlantic Fan Fund. This fund is used to pay travelling expenses; one year an American fan (chosen by popular ballot; we’re a democratic lot) gets a free trip to a British science-fiction convention, and the next year a British fan is chosen to come to an American convention. The fund acquires money from a “poll tax” on the voters, and from contributions by	-
the few fans and professionals who	j
have any extra money to contribute.	;
So far it has been restricted to Anglo-	<
American fandom because of the lack	j
of numbers of other fan groups, but	!
there has been some agitation to ex-	I
tend it to the burgeoning fan groups	!
of West Germany and Sweden. A	j
small thing, perhaps, in international	j
affairs; but how many Americans	’
outside fandom are so well liked that	•!
ordinary citizens of another country	:
are willing to pay their expenses for	j
a visit?
However, fans are not primarily	:
interested in Worthy Causes. They	.
are interested in having fun. Reading	;
stf is fun, chatting with a favorite	,
author at a convention party is fun,	■
meeting interesting new people, in	i
person or via letter, is fun. It may	i
seem a little odd that fans can find enjoyment in paying $1 or more per copy for moldy old pulp magazines ; to add to their collection, or in spending hours of time working over an amateur magazine which invariably ‘ operates at a financial loss. But then, 5 the world would be a dull place if \ everyone were sane and sensible. It’s : the oddballs who make life interest- ’ ing, and by that standard the life of a science-fiction fan is the most interesting thing imaginable.
The Scholastic
Salesmanship
by David Barrett
(This is a conversation that might occur in a small Midwestern college town. The principal combatants are Ngo Dating, a Vietnamese refugee who has risen to great heights in the Bell System as a phone salesman, and Sister Mary Crux, the Vice-President in Charge of Such Things at the local girls’ school. The setting is the plush office of Sister Mary Crux.)
NGO DATING: I don’t want to take very much of your precious time, Sister, . . .
SISTER MARY CRUX: Listen, buster, you got something to say, then say it.
ND: All right. I’m from the Bell System and I’m here to sell you a Centrex phone exchange.
SMC: Like, who needs it?
ND: The Company has taken an opinion survey of the gentlemen across the road and . . .
SMC: Yes, and you’ve proven conclusively that we should have more phones here.
ND: Exactly.
SMC: Well, we need no more phones here so I think you can see that your survey was incorrect. You look like a bright young man.
ND: A bright young man I am but I don’t see how you can say . . .
SMC: Look, more phones we don’t need.
ND: Maybe fewer girls then?
SMC: We’d still have the same overhead. It wouldn’t work. You look
like a bright young man . . .
ND: I am a bright young man . . . SMC: ... so you can see our position. It’s something like yonder bookstore where they have to take a loss on every book but they make up for it because of volume.
ND: I see. I think.
SMC: So you’re really wasting your time here, just like most bright young men . . .
ND: You forget that this is America and private enterprise has both its rights and its duties. You are obliged to keep the phone company in business. It’s for the public good. It’s the American Way.
SMC: You forget that quite recently we purchased private lines from here to the homes of all our girls.
ND: You forget that the Company gave you those lines at cost.
SMC: You forget that we have foreign students.
ND: You forget that you assessed the parents for the entire cost.
SMC: You forget that the parents get the sole benefit of these lines. We just call every so often to assure them that their daughters are getting the finest Catholic education available.
ND: You forget that all these calls of assurance originate from your Office of Student Accounts.
SMC: You forget we have overhead. ND: You stupid . . . forget it.
SMC: You look like a bright young man . . .
ND: I’m not so sure. Did you ever consider that your present system does not take advantage of modem scientific progress?
SMC: Are you insinuating that our system is outmoded?
ND: One could say that. The scientific community gained much from the war.
SMC: Well, the slaves were given their freedom but that is hardly scientific progress.
ND: I was referring to the Second ... SMC: Ah yes, the Second Amendment. I was only a girl then but . . . ND: Your system is outmoded!
SMC: Oh, you young moderns! Do you care nothing for the heritage and tradition that our antique phones represent? Why, our central switchboard was on loan to the Smithsonian for over three years!
ND: And five of our best operators were electrocuted trying to make connections by hand.
SMC: And the phones themselves are very rare even in the antique world.
ND: I’ll admit that your “Mr. Wat-son-come-here-I-want-you” models aren’t seen very often.
SMC: Even they were a concession to progress. I cried when they burned our “What-hath-God-wrought?” machinery.
ND: I’m sorry I tried to push these newfangled contraptions on you. I’m sorry.
SMC: You don’t have to cry. Here, (Continued on page 31)
January 17, 1964
25
by Robert Haller
Like most westerns Hud is a simple picture with a spare plot and striking characters, and like a rare few of its type it has an enormous impact upon the people who see it because in its simplicity it assumes universal meaning and finality. Unlike High Noon and The Magnificent Seven it does not have its protagonists standing in the streets with death in their holsters and destiny in their hands; but it does have the ruthless men and isolation so necessary for the symbolic encounter of good and evil. Hud also has the hard barren plains that lay behind One Eyed Jacks and the latent violence under the veneer of civilization that was present in Lonely Are The Brave. This last film is the most closely related to Hud in theme and setting, but again there are significant differences. Perhaps the greatest is that while both deal with a passing way of life, Lonely Are The Brave was exclusively concerned with this subject, and Hud also considers what will replace it.
Hud is about disease: infectious and corrupting, relentless and inexplicable, latent and intolerable, brutal and destructive. All these facets of sickness director Martin Ritt has found in the crack-up of a modern cattle ranch and captured on a Panavision screen where Texas is a scrub-infested wasteland ruled by the strong and the ruthless.
Following the steps of Lon Bannon 26
and the choice he must make between his aging grandfather (Homer Bannon) and his attractive uncle (Hud), Ritt and his screenwriters Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank, Jr., show us an isolated ranch under assault from without and within. Austere and old, Homer Bannon is confronted with an outbreak of hoof-and-mouth disease among his cattle. His selfcentered son, Hud, wants to sell the animals, but Homer refuses and eventually has to slaughter them, prefiguring his own death. Lon turns from his declining grandfather to Hud, only to be repelled by Hud’s attitude toward their housekeeper, Alma, who almost a mother to Lon, is little more than a woman to Hud. With Alma’s departure, Lon chooses to follow his grandfather’s example, but the impact and influence of this moral choice is cancelled by the old man’s death and the predominance of Hud’s character (described by actor Paul Newman as a “kind of psychopath ... ruthless . . . and although he’s not a criminal, he’s always looking for ways to circumvent the law”).
The final victory of Hud’s materialism over the principles of his father is both true and tragic and therein lies the power of the film. None of the characters are stereotypes of good or evil, and each has his own flaws and virtues. All are likable: Lon youthfully, Homer austerely, Alma vibrantly, and Hud arrogantly. But Hud also bears the seeds of destruction. His corrosive influence is subdued but relentless; Alma, who was at first cautiously attracted to him, comes to say, “I’ve done my time with one coldblooded bastard and I’m not about to start with you.” Homer simply says that Hud never gave a damn and by the end of the picture most people will
agree. Neither screenwriters Ravetch and Frank nor Larry McMurtry, whose novel Horseman, Pass By was the basis of the screenplay, tried to explain why Hud was so reprehensible; their concern was to present all the different effects he had on the House of Bannon.
The fall of the House of Bannon is depicted in one of the best-produced movies of the year. James Wong Howe’s Panavision cameras wander over the deserted plains and the endless ribbons of road with a crisp efficiency surpassed only by Elmer Bernstein’s musical score that is integrated into the picture so expertly that looking back on the film one is hardly aware of its existence.
Hundreds of small touches give the film an atmosphere of reality. Waiting vultures hardly stir when Hud snaps off a series of shots at them. Lon’s transistor radio blares raucous hillbilly music as he walks down the deserted street of a small Texas town. Alma sweats when she is working over a hot stove. Pickup trucks have rifle racks in the back, bulldozers work alongside horses. Hud’s pink flip-top Cadillac (he’s a Marlboro Man) characterizes him instantly, even more so with its smashed front fenders.
The acting is superb with Patricia Neal’s Alma as the most vital performance as an actress since Sophia Loren’s Two Women. Paul Newman, accustomed to excellence, almost equals her achievement. Melvyn Douglas is striking as the old rancher and Brandon de Wilde’s Lon, although slightly stiff, is much better than his role in the overrated Shane.
All these factors contribute to making Hud the best American movie of the year.
It was the early afternoon of December 4, 1963, and like most Notre Dame students, I was en route home for the Christmas holidays; the car radio, tuned to Chicago’s WLS, blared the Top Forty. But there is little to see in eastern Wisconsin, and fagged out by a week of pre-Christmas tests, I dozed in the front seat.
Then I awoke with a start, ripping my pants on the door handle, as News Alive at Fifty-Five brought first word that the University of Notre Dame had named as its new head football coach not — as had been rumored — Vince Lombardi, but rather Northwestern’s brilliant, young Ara Par-seghian.
Not that these things are too important, of course, but my class has never seen a winning football season at Notre Dame, has the worst four-year record in history, and, in fact, is the only class to have witnessed two-win seasons twice.
Having suffered through four dis-asterous years, then, I received the news of Parseghian’s hiring in much the same way as I imagine Americans must have received news of VJ Day after suffering through World War H.
As it turned out, however, this announcement was only the second of three acts in the drama (and sometimes comedy) of Parseghian’s hiring.
The first act had begun on Monday, December 2, a scant four days after the Irish had ended the season with j a loss to Syracuse. Parseghian, en-j couraged by Notre Dame’s original J emphasis that Hugh Devore was be-i ing hired as an “interim” coach, I called Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, the j Executive Vice President of the Unis' versity (and Chairman of the Faculty j Board in Control of Athletics) to asi certain whether Devore would be rehired, or whether the University was indeed interested in hiring a new coach.
Parseghian describes the nature of : the initial conversation as “explora-< tory,” and emphasizes that it was he j who contacted the University. But ' both parties were apparently inter’ ested enough so that Father Joyce 1 came to Chicago the following day, < Tuesday, December 3, to continue the ; discussion.
:	On Friday, December 6, Father
’ Joyce placed a call to Parseghian, at
: January 17, 1964
PARSEGHIAN: A NEW ARA IN NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL
Ara Parseghian is intelligent, dynamic, and dedicated. He is also aware of the restrictions ivithin which he must ivork, and yet he is confident he can bring winning football back to Notre Dame.
by Terry Wolkerstorfer
27
which time they agreed to a meeting on Monday, December 9, at the Commodore Hotel in New York, where Parseghian was scheduled to attend another meeting. Father Joyce, by this time, was becoming nearly as well traveled as Father Hesburgh.
On Wednesday, December 11, Fathers Hesburgh and Joyce traveled to Chicago for a final interview with Parseghian, informed him that the Faculty Board was to meet on Saturday, December 14, and told him that he would be notified of its decision
ASSISTANTS: Urich (above) and Shoults.
on Sunday. Thus closed the first act.
The second began on Saturday, when the Faculty Board, just beginning its meeting, was shocked to hear that the South Bend Tribune had already announced its decision — that it had named Ara Parseghian head coach without even meeting.
The situation being slightly out of hand, the board rushed through its agenda, and ultimately certified Parseghian as coach. Fattier Joyce then contacted Parseghian at his home, and because the Tribune had forced the
28
issue, they decided to simultaneously confirm his nomination — although none of the details of his contract had yet been worked out.
The third — and funniest — act commenced on Monday, when Parseg-hian came to South Bend to sign his still-unwritten contract. A press conference had been called for noon, and an overflow crowd of the area’s press waited in the lobby of the Morris Inn for an announcement of the signing. Parseghian disagreed with the University on some details of the contract and, quite rightly, declined to sign until the disagreement had been resolved.
His exit through the lobby of the Morris Inn and his disappearance in a waiting car brought pandemonium. Father Joyce left the Inn by a rear exit and locked himself in his Main Building office, emerging only to read a short statement which said, in effect, “I have no statement.” This, of course, left only one course of action for the waiting reporters: speculation. And speculate they did, wildly exaggerating the significance of the whole affair.
Parseghian himself asserts that the disagreement was “not significant,” and that it would have been resolved soon in any case; but because the press was led to believe that there would be a signing, they naturally suspected major complications when it failed to come off.
Since taking office on January 2, Parseghian has instituted a vigorous program aimed at the revitalization of Notre Dame football. He has, first, hired competent assistants: Paul Shoults (defensive secondary), Doc Urich (offensive line), and Tom Pagna (offensive backfield) — all of whom worked under him at Northwestern; Johnny Ray (defensive line and linebackers), who was undefeated for two seasons as the head coach at John Carroll; and Dave Hurd (defensive line assistants) and George Sefcik (freshmen), who are carryovers from last year’s Notre Dame staff.
He has also taken steps to reorganize the recruiting program: each coach will be assigned full responsibility for the recruiting in a specific geographic area, enabling him to spend much more time in the field, working more closely with high school players and coaches. Most recruiting will be done within a 500-mile radius of South Bend, with spot recruiting elsewhere.
Though he is fully cognizant of the limitations within which he must recruit at Notre Dame, Parseghian is undismayed: “My staff and I were working within the same sort of lim
itations at Northwestern, which is also a private school. I think, in fact, that we spent more time studying transcripts, IQ’s, and College Board scores than some of the faculty. But I’m convinced that accademic excellence and football excellence are compatible, or I would never have taken the job here. There will definitely be no lowering of Notre Dame’s academic standards.
“In addition, Notre Dame has a vitally interested national alumni, and a national reputation of long standing. The bad years of the last decade would have destroyed the reputation ' of any other school, but it has tarnished ours only slightly. Both Notre Dame’s alumni and reputation will be major assets to our recruiting program.”
Tactically, Parseghian has always believed that a team’s style of play— both offensive and defensive—should be suited to the type of personnel it has at the time, rather than trying to force the players to conform to preselected offensive or defensive patterns. At Northwestern for example, he completely revamped his offense to take advantage of Tommy Myers’ passing and Paul Flatley’s catching ability.
“The significant impact Myers has had on this team,” wrote Robert Creamer in Sports Illustrated, “lies in the extraordinary fact that even when he was a freshman his genius as a passer was so obvious that Ara Parseghian completely restyled his offense to take advantage of it. Where most college coaches are following Bear Bryant of Alabama and Woody Hayes of Ohio State into the conservative, close-to-the-vest, wait-for-your-opponent-to-make-a-mistake school of football, Parseghian turned to an aggressive . . . offense with a flanker back out wide who is used only for pass receiving. The entire offense is geared to j the quarterback’s ability to throw the ! ball. Northwestern still runs with the 1 ball two times out of three, but the ; rushing attack—though sharp and ef- ] fective—is essentially a diversion to | set up the pass patterns. This gamble	1
of Parseghian’s ... is paying off.”	|
“Under Father Hesburgh,” says ■ Parseghian, “Notre Dame has made great progress academically. Our job is to restore Notre Dame’s football image, to keep Notre Dame’s athletic progress abreast of its academic prog- , ress. Although there is too much bal-	i
ance in college football for any team	i
to dominate the game as Notre Dame | did in the thirties and forties, or as ? Oklahoma did in the early fifties, I can promise you that if hard work	;
means anything at all, Notre Dame	i
will have winning football—beginning	s
this fall.”	:
The Scholastic	:
SCOREBOARD
SCORES
Basketball
Notre Dame 107, Valparaiso 60 Illinois 79, Notre Dame 68
Western Michigan 92, Notre Dame 89
Notre Dame 70, Northwestern 68
Kentucky 101, Notre Dame 81
Illinois 87, Notre Dame 78
North Carolina 78, Notre Dame 68 DePaul 86, Notre Dame 73
Creighton 95, Notre Dame 81 Detroit 114, Notre Dame 104
Wrestling
Notre Dame 23, Illinois (Chicago) 8 Western Michigan 19, Notre Dame 8
Swimming
Notre Dame 54, Ohio University 41 Wisconsin 56, Notre Dame 47
SCHEDULE
Basketball
Jan. 18, Michigan State at E. Lansing Jan. 21, Purdue at Fort Wayne Feb. 3, Butler at Indianapolis Feb. 5, DePaul at Chicago Feb. 8, Detroit at Detroit
Wrestling
Feb. 5, Purdue at Notre Dame
Feb. 8, Bowling Green at Notre Dame
Swimming
Jan. 17, Northwestern at Notre Dame Feb. 1, Western Ontario at Windsor Feb. 3, Wayne State at Detroit Feb. 8, W. Michigan at Kalamazoo Feb. 11, Bowling Green at N.D.
Track
Feb. 1, Indiana and Purdue at N.D.
Feb. 8, Michigan State Relays at East Lansing
Fencing
Feb. 1, Indiana Tech at Fort Wayne Feb. 8, Indiana, Iowa, and Air Force Academy at Bloomington
Hockey
Jan. 19, Pepsi-Komets at Fort Wayne Feb. 1, Illinois at Champaign Feb. 2, Northwestern at Evanston
January 17, 1964
Voice in the Crowd
The contrast is stark: just two months ago, Notre Dame appeared to have one of the best basketball teams in its history; today, with the season half over, the Irish need a miracle to finish with even a winning season, and the basketball situation has degenerated into utter chaos. The responsibility for this reprehensible state of affairs lies in several quarters: the coach, the team, the student-fans, the national press, and the alumni.
One of the reasons for the team’s so far dismal performance is that, overall, the players do not have quite as much ability as had been thought before the season. For this, no one is to blame.
Yet they do have enough ability to win all but a half-dozen of the games on their schedule, and for their failure to do so both they and Coach John Jordan are to blame.
Jordan is fully responsible for Notre Dame’s inability to play any sort of reasonable defense at all, partially for its unwillingness to play as a team, and partially for the dissension which has tom the squad apart.
Even though it is the coach’s responsibility to foster team spirit and to smother any dissension as it arises, it is the players’ responsibility to place the team’s success before their own personal glory and to give the coach at least minimal cooperation — dislike him though they may. At least to this extent, the players are just as responsible as Jordan for their failure to win.
As if losing was not bad enough, however, recent events have compounded the chaos. The students, though they may have had very valid reasons for wanting to see Jordan replaced as head coach, have, by their actions (throwing waste on the court) and their remarks (“Jordan’s gotta go” and the chanting for specific players), been just plain bush league.
But then, so has Jordan. His statement that student pressure — in the form of a chant at the DePaul game — was the critical factor in his resignation was an excuse, even if it was true. A man who has coached professionally for 28 years knows full well that fans are fickle — with you in good years, against you in poor years — and should not be that sensitive to student opinion (at least not if he has enough confidence in himself to see good years ahead).
The national press — from Chicago to New York — jumped into the fray to berate Notre Dame students for their lack of reverence toward Jordan. Ill-informed, they drastically exaggerated the scope and significance of the DePaul incident, and then alleged that Notre Dame students were overlooking Jordan’s glorious past record and were violating all Notre Dame traditions by such unruly behavior. But they were overlooking Jordan’s purely mediocre record of the recent past — a 69-69 mark since the beginning of the 1958-59 season, when he had a losing record with Tom Hawkins and Gene Duffy as co-captains, losing seasons in 1960-61 and 1961-62 — and the inept play of his current team, which by his own admission “has the best material of any I’ve ever coached.”
And the alumni, drawing on the same national press for their information, are also up in arms. Oliver H. Hunter m, President of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association, wrote in a letter to the Notre Dame Alumnus magazine: “And more recently, while our basketball team fell behind in a contest at our antiquated fieldhouse, the piercing student body chant of ‘Jordan’s gotta go’ prompted an established coach, namely Johnny Jordan, to resign from his post. Situations such as this we, of the Alumni Board, have been unable to understand. Without trying to be dramatic, may I say I hope that the progressive student movements of today are not forerunners of student reactions like those in Japan, Indonesia, and recently, Panama?”
So, it seems, far more is involved than just losing games; the basketball situation has become a gigantic complex of charges and countercharges, bad publicity, misunderstandings, and bitter feelings. And losing games. Notre Dame as an institution, and everyone involved with her, deserve better.
—T. W.

Alex
Wilson is not a fool
Ulf Y wife sometimes thinks I’m 1V1 a fool,” mused Alex Wilson as he considered the coming indoor track season, “because I’m so optimistic. She often thinks my optimism is unjustified.”
This year, however, even Mrs. Wilson may have difficulty disputing her husband’s logic, for his optimism has a substantial basis. At least one monogram winner returns in every event except the shot put, and this year’s winter season may be as hot in the Fieldhouse as it is cold outside on the Indiana flatlands; it may, in fact, be the best in Coach Wilson’s 14 years at Notre Dame.
“With the exception of the shot,” theorizes Wilson, “we have a very well-balanced team. But Pete Duran-ko, our only weight man, is out for several weeks with a sprained wrist, and we may be forced to forfeit nine points in the shot for the first few meets.
“But I can honestly say that we have at least one outstanding runner or jumper in every other event. Though probably none of them is as good, say, as Barney Allard or Aubrey Lewis (Allard holds the indoor high jump record at 6-7%, and Lewis was an All-American hurdler in 1956), we have more good performers than any Notre Dame team I can remember.”
One of the best is sophomore sprinter John Martin. As a Waco, Texas, schoolboy, Martin was clocked in 9.4 for the 100-yard dash, and he has run a 6.4 in the indoor 60 (Frank Budd’s 6.0 is the standing world record). Footballer Arunas Vasys, a massive sprinter at 200 pounds, and junior Tom Chevraux give Notre Dame its best three-deep sprint corps in many seasons.
In junior Bill Boyle, the Irish have
30
a highly-touted candidate for the Summer Olympics at Tokyo: Wilson feels that Boyle has “. . . the size, speed, and strength — and the dedication — to make him a top contender for the Tokyo squad.”
Though he has always been a quarter-miler — he ran 46.5 in last summer’s NCAA championships, was seventh in the AAU championships, and holds the Notre Dame indoor record — Boyle feels that he may have a better chance to make the Olympic team as a half-miler, and he will quite likely run that event in the major indoor meets.
Bob Hoover and Dan O’Brien have also run 48.5 quarters, and along with Boyle and Pat Conroy or Jim Lynch, will give Notre Dame a formidable mile relay team.
The bulk of Notre Dame’s strength in the middle distance and distance events will come from last fall’s crosscountry team, the nation’s third-best.
Conroy is the leading half-miler, but juniors Al Wittine, Howie Borck and Rich Fennelly are nearly as capable. Wittine was shifted to the half from the longer distances, and is relaxed and happy for the first time in three years: “For the first time, I’m really enjoying track.” His improved performances could prove significant.
Among the milers is one of the three “C-boys” from Philadelphia’s Cardinal Dougherty High School, Bill Clark, who holds the Notre Dame mile mark at 4:08. Sophomores Ed Dean and Larry Dirnberger give the Irish strength and depth.
Frank Carver — the second of the “C-boys” — is the top two miler; currently on a “clean-living, Seven-Up only” kick, he is dedicated to improving on his 9:11 mark of a year ago. Teamed with him, junior Bill Welch, and sophomore Mike Coffey — the third “C-boy” — give Notre Dame one of the best long-distance combinations in the country.
Captain Pete Whitehouse should emerge this season as Notre Dame’s premier hurdler, and the continued improvement of Jerry O’Connor and Keith Manville should offset, at least to some extent, the graduation of John Joe Mulrooney.
In the field events, Keith Bradley will back Whitehouse in the high jump; O’Connor (who holds the Notre Dame record at 23-11^) and Jim Bruch will handle the broad jump chores; and pole vaulters Dave McNamee and Ed Kelly are potential 15-footers.
The loss of Ludecke, a recordbreaker who gave the Irish great strength in the shot put last season, and the addition of Martin in the sprints, where Notre Dame was weak last season, have changed the complexion of the team considerably. Strength, depth, and outstanding unity make the indoor track outlook more than just promising.
Alex Wilson may be an optimistic fool, as his wife says, but certainly not this season: his theory is sound, and his evidence is conclusive. This could be Notre Dame’s best indoor track team.	—Rex Lardner
The Scholastic
Campus
(Continued from page Ilf)
STUDENTS TUTOR IN S. B.
Tutoring operations for South Bend junior high students began last Wednesday night at St. Peter Claver House and at St. Augustine’s church. The St. Mary’s and N.D. tutors, under the direction of the Sociology department and sophomore Bill O’Brien teach all subjects in the student’s curriculum including math, science, and English.
The tutoring is to improve the academic average and study habits of the high school students, while also improving their outlook toward education. The group also initiates constructive action in interracial relations through its work, while promoting an ecumenical spirit in the interdenominational high-school group.
This practical method of fostering Notre Dame-South Bend relations also has advantages for the tutors. Although the only pay they receive is for transportation costs into South Bend, the awareness of a critical American social problem and the broader outlook toward society that they acquire become significant elements of the tutor’s own education.
Last year the operation encountered trouble with the local school board, but early this semester plans were okayed to start a trial district. Further plans for this year include co-ordination of the different tutoring groups now on campus. Campus organizations or halls interested in sponsoring a tutoring district, or students interested in the program, may contact Bill O’Brien, 441 Lyons, before Saturday, January 25.
A ROMANTIC ANGLE
The annual Marriage Institute I opens in Washington Hall on Wednes-| day, February 12, at 7:30 p.m. j Only seniors may attend the In-j stitute, which will take place each j Wednesday through March 18 except | for March 4. Tickets will be sold at | the evening meal in the South Dining ■ Hall on February 5 and 6. The price is $1.50 for the series of five lectures.
Bill Staudenheimer is the chairman assisted by Steve Stuecheli, publicity, Ross Peterson, tickets, and Bob Lyn-i yak, arrangements.
Fr. Walter Imbiorski from Chi-I cago will give the opening talk on | February 12. His topic is “The Spir-| itual Aspect of Marriage.” Mr. and I Mrs. Edward Trinka, also from Chica-> go, will discuss “Personality Change ■ in Married Life” on February 19.
? January 17, 1964
Salesmanship
(Continued from page 25)
have an avocado.
ND: It tastes rotten.
SMC: It’s a Louis XIV antique avocado.
ND: Would you happen to have a Louis XIV spittoon handy?
SMC: On your left there. Dump the dice out of it.
ND: Thank you.
SMC: My, a full house!
ND: Your roll.
SMC: Le Mans against your first-quarter profits?
ND: Roll.
SMC: Only a two-high.
ND: Damn hard to do with five dice. SMC: I’ve lost Le Mans and there’s essence of Louis XIV avocado all over my desk.
ND: I’ll clean it up. Double or nothing on the next roll.
SMC: There’s only one Le Mans. That’s why we don’t pronounce the
“s.”
ND: Well, the phone company usually loses money in the second quarter so I guess the dice would be stacked against you.
SMC: I always know when to quit.
ND: I’m sure they’d give you your own chapel and Social Security.
SMC: I can do without your humor.
I tend to be very cross with young punks who . . .
ND: That’s a good one. I mean with your name being ...
SMC: You are not only revolting but sacrilegious as well. But as long as you have Le Mans I suppose I am at your mercy.
ND: You’ve been a good sport. Could I sell you a Distant Early Warning system or perhaps a “hot line” to the Sheriff’s Office?
SMC: Could I have Le Mans back if I bought a Centrex system?
ND: What’s in it for me?
SMC: I could give you my football cards.
ND: I don’t like bubble gum.
SMC: These don’t come with bubble gum.
ND: Put your John Hancock on the dotted line.
SMC: I remember when John graduated.
ND: I think you’ll like the Centrex System.
SMC: I just hope that it won’t become obsolete as fast as you say our old system has.
ND: Well, science is still moving forward.
SMC: But the next war will mean total destruction and not accelerated scientific progress. They have dynamite now, you know.
APAL
APAL STUDENT TOURS 1964
The COLLEGIATE—$614.50 31 Days in Europe
The CAVALCADE—$739.00 52 Days touring Europe
The CAVALIER—$739.00
43 Days, Europe & Spain
The CONTINENTAL—$1,020.00
62 Days, Europe, Yugoslavia & Greece
The CRUSADER—$890.00 46 Days in Europe & Israel
The CRUSADER—$950.00 46 Days in Europe & Holy Land
The CARAVELLE—$875.00 46 Days, Eastern & Western Europe
Prices cover all costs during tour. Write for brochures.
•
CONTINENTAL TRAVEL BUREAU
1617 Belmont, Chicago 60657 Phone: GR 2-4311
Highlander Motor Lodge & Tony's Restaurant
112 Bypass ELKHART, INDIANA
*
— 42 Rooms —
Phone: JAckson 3-4780
MARDI GRAS
Remaining Mardi Gras collection dates are January 19 and February 5. Collections will be made also at the carnival.
31
Letters
(Continued, from page 1) books honored.
3. Replacement of books that seem to be permanently lost.
M. T.
S. W. M. K.
SOUND ADVICE
Editor:
Catholics must have an enormous supply of the virtue of patience; Notre Dame students are to be particularly commended in this regard. Why? How else can we explain the fact that they quietly sit through a sermon which is largely inaudible?
I fear, that Notre Dame students will reap few benefits from improved sermons because of the abominable acoustics in Sacred Heart Church.
Although I have tried various seats in the church, I can never seem to catch more than a few phrases now and then; today I was seated in the second pew but I could only understand about half of the sermon. I wonder how many other students experience the same difficulty?
This problem is, of course, inherent in the design of the Gothic style church; the high vaulted ceiling causes sustained echoes or reverberations which impart a certain majestic and sonorous quality to organ music and choral singing, but this same reverberation makes the spoken word completely incomprehensible. The present speaker system amplifies the sound but it cannot help with the reverberation problem.
We can’t improve the acoustics by modifying the interior of the church; the cost would be prohibitive and the result would be an architectural mon
strosity. I have seen one solution, however, which seems to work very well. I wonder if it’s been considered here. Blessed Sacrament Parish in Seattle had the same problem: they also had a Gothic church with the characteristic high vaulted nave. The reverberation time was high —4.5 seconds, I believe. The problem was solved this past summer by the installation of over 400 small speakers under the pews. The results were astounding; every word of the sermon could be heard from any part of the church.
Would this be feasible at Sacred Heart Church? Since I am not an engineer, I don’t know; perhaps the Engineering College could make a preliminary study. Too expensive, you say? Expensive, perhaps, but not too expensive, if it can help improve the spiritual life at Notre Dame.
David E. Bedan
32
The Scholastic

PAT ON THE BACK
Editor:
The apparent “bush league” antics demonstrated by a minority of the student body is certainly not in keeping with the true Notre Dame spirit. Johnny Jordan — as fine a basketball coach as you will find in the country.
J. J. Sheahan, Jr. Grayslake, Illinois
HARTY CONGRATULATIONS
Editor:
I believe we students owe Mr. Harty a public expression of our thanks for his hard work as academic commissioner to provide such an excellent series of speakers.
William McDonald 303 Badin
ADMISSIONS ASININITY
Editor:
no prerequisite for entering the program, for everyone was starting with a “regular” first year German course.
After one semester, these are the results: Six hours of class/week, three extra hours of lab/week, an interview/week. Lectures, coffeehouses, individual study. Yes, we started with the first year, but by June we shall have covered four years, with appalling results.
Many of the beginning students cannot possibly keep up with those who have had some experience. I know of at least one class of students with high school German which has 80% with 3.0 averages or better. One beginning class has but four 3’s and nothing better. One advanced class averaged 92 on midterms, one slower class averaged 78.
Yet only 50 of 290 can go to Innsbruck, and the system of equal grading regardless of background in the language is taking its toll. Up to 50% are dropping out or considering such a move, their first semester ruined,
their future at Notre Dame in jeopardy or very bleak.
So this is the picture. Driven students, impossible adds, cutthroat grading, tremendous and unreal work loads, discouraged and defeated freshmen.
Complaining at this date, by the time this letter reaches the press, will do no good. We would only like oui say, we would like for someone tc know what is going on.
And readers, if you have younger brothers at home who are coming tc Notre Dame, and they receive letters concerning the Innsbruck program, show them this.
If you don’t, they too could make the worst mistake of their college careers and find themselves at this time next year with their academic world in shambles. And for us, the first such program, only time will tell the catastrophic results of such a disastrous and ill-conceived program.
A disillusioned freshman speaking for many
I would like to take this opportunity to look in retrospect at one semester of Innsbruck German.
To begin with, we were told last summer that high school German was
1963
TOP STARS IN COLLEGE
& PRO SPORTS
Who are the athletes who accomplished the most in the world of sports during 1963? Meet Sport Magazine’s “Top Performers of 1963" — with special coverage on their greatest moments! Plus —
•	SANDY KOUFAX-
MAN OF THE YEAR
•	YOGI BERRA’S BURDEN
Sport magazine keeps you apace of all events on the college and pro sports scene. You’ll enjoy expert coverage, sharp analysis, in-depth profiles and action-packed photos ... Read
February
SPORT
Favorite magazine of the sports stars and the sports minded!
NOW ON SALE!
January 17, 1964
1964 Mardi Gras presents
IN CONCERT
February 8 2:00 p.m.
Morris Civic Auditorium
CHAD MITCHELL TRIO
^ILWTURBOW
\PPTOMKTR1ST
GLASSES REPAIRED
“Bring in the Pieces”
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES invited
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVEB HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL BEPAIHS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
33
Tom Hoobler. • •
The Last Word
By the time this appears in print, the new policy for the use of the upper floors of the library will presumably have been put into effect. At the Student Senate meeting on Thursday, January 9, the Senate voted to draft a letter to Father Hesburgh complaining about the new library
34
policy, without first bothering to find out specifically what the policy was. Acting upon mere rumor is hardly commendable, particularly when the head of the Senate, Dave Ellis, presumes to demand “only the facts” from other student leaders.
In an effort to find out just what the facts were, we talked to Mr. Victor A. Schaefer, the head of the library, early this week and he was kind enough to explain the new policy to us. It is, he said, basically an attempt to “clarify the functions of the different areas of the library.” Thus, the college library (first two floors), is designed to accommodate normal undergraduate use. The most frequently used books are shelved there, and the facilities for study are intentionally superior to those in any other part of the building.
The tower floors, according to the new policy, are to be “reserved for specialized and advanced research.” This does not necessarily mean, as the Student Senate seemed to think, that undergraduates will be excluded. Mr. Schaefer pointed out that the new policy “is not making discrimination as to people, but to materials.” Thus, any undergraduate with a legitimate reason for using the upper floors will be permitted to do so. Permits to enter the tower can be obtained either by presenting a note from a faculty member stating that access to the tower is necessary for the student, or merely by the student’s personal request at the check-out desk for access to obtain a specific book.
Thus, the new policy does not seem to be nearly so restrictive as the Senate’s action would indicate. The reason for the new policy is obvious to anyone who has been in the library lately: the upper floors are becoming overcrowded with people who are not there for research. The library staff has no desire to be overly restrictive with the facilities; Mr. Schaefer stated, “My sympathies personally and professionally are with the undergraduate.” We feel that the new policy — as outlined — is a sensible one, which will work for the benefit of all students desiring to use the library.
Mardi Gras ticket sales are far below expectations. It appears that many students ignore the ultimate purpose of Mardi Gras at Notre Dame (over and above the student government cut, the hurt feelings over dance bids, the squabbles of committees and groups who feel they are being treated unfairly), which is to say, a charitable purpose. Most of the proceeds of the Mardi Gras go to charities, such as missions and scholar
ships for Notre Dame students, and the sales of books make up a very great part of the Mardi Gras revenues. Every student ought to make an effort to sell at least one book. The two final collection dates are January 19 and February 5.
We received a copy of a book review from the London Times discussing the relative attitudes of the students at Oxford and Manchester Universities in England. Manchester has a student body which comes generally from the lower economic classes, while Oxford, of course, takes its students from the upper classes, which form the English “Establishment.”
It was interesting to see that the attitudes of Notre Dame students more nearly paralleled those of the Oxford students than the Manchester students. For instance, “Their attitudes reflect in many ways the values with which they have grown up. In religion, politics, and other attitudes, the surprising thing is the degree of similarity with rather than the degree of difference from their parents. Oxford seems by this test a more classless university than Manchester, although it was fashionable at Oxford to despise the middle class, whereas at Manchester, with more working-class students, the middle class was admired, and the working class were regarded as thoughtless, television-watching trade unionists.”
The article continued: “Although Oxford in many ways represents the ideal university, from the point of view of the Manchester students — it is residential, it is concerned principally with high standards of teaching its undergraduates, it is urbane and worldly — some of the undergraduates at Oxford were critical of their university. These criticisms sprang from the strain and pace of Oxford life and partly, one supposes, from the feeling that success at Oxford, or failure, is a paradigm of what will happen in life itself. The greater number of Oxford students, however, liked and admired their university and felt that its impact on their lives had been total.”
The students at Notre Dame though coming largely from the middle class, have always seemed to us to be uncomfortably aware of it, and ready to denounce the middle-class life, while at the same time fully expecting to return to it after graduation. And while our students can probably not be called “urbane and wordly,” they do seem to be ready to criticize for the same reasons as the Oxford undergraduates.
February 4 is the feast of St. Scholastica. Pray for us.
ONLY FORD-BUILT CARS MEET THE CHALLENGE WITH
TOTAL PERFORMANCE!
Something wonderful’s happened to Ford Motor Company cars! Under the freshest styling seen in years, there's a new kind of durability and vigor that more I han meets the demands of today's and tomorrow's high-speed turnpike driving conditions.
What's the secret? Quality engineering for total performance. Quality engineering so outstanding that Ford Motor Company received the NASCAR Achieve
ment Award for engineering excellence which "superbly combines the prime essentials of great automobiles— performance, reliability, durability, comfort and safety.’’ Total performance makes a world of difference. Bodies and frames are solid and quiet even on the roughest roads. The ride's so smooth, so even-keeled, it seems to straighten the curves and shorten the miles. And nothing matches the spirit, sparkle and stamina of advanced Ford-built V-8's and thrifty Sixes. Total performance is yours to enjoy in all our 1961 cars—from the frisky Falcon to the matchless Lincoln Continental.
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP BRINGS YOU BETTER-BUILT CARS
A lot revolves around GTE
Today, it takes the efforts of many people in many diverse fields and professions to build an active corporation such as GT&E.
Because, at GT&E, we’re involved heavily in research, manufacturing and telephone operations.
For instance, we have telephone operating companies in areas of 32
states. And in manufacturing, our subsidiaries produce a wide variety of products for business, industry and the consumer.
A diversified program such as this calls for the best administrators, operating personnel, scientists, engineers and production managers. And unity of purpose.
With so much revolving around GT&E, it is small wonder that we have become one of America’s foremost corporations.
As a young and aggressive company with no limit to its growth, GT&E is an organization you may wish to think of in the light of your own future.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
730 THIRD AVENUE. NEW YORK 10017
( TE
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: Telephone Operating Cos. • GT&E Laboratories * GT&E International * General Telephone Directory * Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric • Sylvania Electric Products