& - -
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vic turns; vive quasi eras moriturus. .
Vol. XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE io, 1882.
No. 39.
1
" (Selected.) Never Fret.
Clouds rrtay sometimes o’er us lower, Shadows sometimes near us fall,
Still, a cheerful heart has power To dispel and brighten all.
Withered leaves may fall, but never Checked the streamlet’s current yet;
So with trifles—scorn them ever, Onward still;-, and never fret.
Weariness at times may ail you, And a crowd of petty cares, Like some teasing sprites, assail you, Stealing near you unawares;
These are all life’s little worries, Here to-day, to-morrow gone;
As each moment onward hurries, With it they are speeding on. '
Tho’ the hopes that gild life’s morning May seem faded to your view, Take it as a timely warning, Seek the real And the true.
Tho’ the world should frown upon you, And your dearest friends forget, Think a loving eye rests on you, Hope e’en still, and never fret.
Tho’ to-day may have its sorrow, And your pathway- cloudy seem, Soon shall dawn a bright to-morrow, And the cloud pass like a dream;
Shadows are not meant to sadden, But to temper pleasure’s glare;
Ah! how much is there to gladden, Gifts of God are everywhere.
Hear the birds in gleeful chorus!
List! the streamlet’s rippling voice;
Nature breathing perfume o’er us, Calling on us to rejoice.
Cowards only flag and falter . When the ills of life beset;
Never let your courage falter, Still be cheerful—never fret.	’
Never stay ’mid darkness groping, For the first bright sunbeam wait, Always patient, always hoping, Day may dawn a little late;
Seek the bright side, strive to find it Ere life’s sun in gloom shall set;
Every cloudlet hides behind it, -Joy unseen—then, never fret.
Ampere.
Thei'e was born in the city of Lyons, on the 20th of January, 1775, the son of an huinbie shopkeeper whose after-life was to make a deep impression on the scientific world in which he Was to move. Andre Marie Ampere Was not Only an eminent scientist but also a devout Catholic; he was never so much engrossed iii his great undertakings as to neglect the practices of his religiom
When a mere child, he evinced a particular fetidness for arithmetical calculations, and before he had become acquainted with the ordinary methods of ciphering, he, with the aid of a few small pebbles, had devised a way of his own by means of which he could go through comparatively long operations.	’
But almost equalling his passion for. arithmetic or mathematics, was his passion for reading; quickly he read through the modest library of his father, who was a poor man, and then turned his attention towards finding out how to get more. Nothing came amiss to him, for so great was his love of reading that he would read anything, from the deepest philosophy to the most superficial poetry. While yet only thirteen years of age he happened to get possession of the great encyclopedia of D’Alembert and Diderot, and although it consisted of twenty folio volumes, the young book-worm set to work to devour it. • Not only did he have the perseverance to finish it, but so great was his attention to the matter and the retentive power of his memory that thirty years afterwards he could repeat wjiole passages from it.
Here, however, an accident befell him that had well nigh deprived the scientific world of one of its brightest luminaries. His father was executed as an aristocrat, in 1793, and for a year or more young Ampere went about almost as an idiot; he gazed at the heavens, wandered around listlessly,-and amused himself as a little child. In fact, it was believed that he was insane. So great, however, was the power that books possessed over him that on meeting with a fine treatise on botany he completely revived. ’	.
Up to this time, young Ampci e had been laboring unconsciously under what may be termed a kind of disease, namely short-sightedness. Accidentally he met with another young man suffering in the same way, and Ampere, looking through his spectacles, comprehended for the first time The meaning of the words of Dezobry and Dachelet:
6oo
THE HOTEL DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“ Les inerveilles de la lumi'ere sur les montagnes et les forets, Peclat des Jlezirs^ la beaute des cam-pagnes qui n! existaient 'pas pour lui auparavant™ and on thus beholding in their true state the beauties of nature he cduld only express his feelings in a flow df tears. Even after niany years, when in most persons sd given to study no - pleasure is any longer derived frorii this source, the old philosopher still retained his love for the beautiful to such an ex= tent that once on beholding a particularly beautiful scene he wished td die while oil that Idvely spot.
Although he had such an acute perception of the beauties ih nature, still it seetns as if he could never fully realize the beauties of great musical coriipositions. It is said he went, when about thirty years of age, td hear a ihusical concert. As long as the riiusic was of a classical drdef the philosopher appeared tired and annoyed, but soon there followed a rendition of a melody from Gluck which so affected him that he shed tears profusely.	.
The way in which Ampere obtained his wife Was rather curious; one day, taking a walk a short distance outside of Lyons, he met in a flower-garden two young ladies making bouquets, and, without knowing them in the least or. to what sort of family they belonged, he concluded that one of them should be his wife and asked for her hand the same day. He was married to the lady, Mlle. Julie Carron, August 2, 1799. Now that he was married he had to do more than formerly to live. His wife’s family desired that he should do what his father had done before him, but the claims of science were too strong upon him and he determined upon devoting himself to science, and commenced by giving lessons in mathematics in Lyons. A son was bom to him on August 12, 1800. Soon after he obtained the chaii' of physics in the central school of the department of Ain. In 1802 he published Iris first work, a treatise on the mathematical chances of play, which was so appreciated by Lallande and Delambre that they obtained for him a professorship in the Lyceum of Lyons.
Ampere now began to - advance with rapid strides. His works on differential and integral calculus added much to his reputation as a mathematician, but the branch in which he became especialty noted was electro-magnetism. The celebrated Danish physicist Oersted had shown that an electric current passed through a wire parallel to a suspended magnet would so effect the magnet as to make it place itself at right angles to the wire. It did not take the great mind of Ampere long to generalize the ideas of Oersted, and within a week after learning of the discovery he was prepared to exhibit the results of his work to the French Academy. Weeks and weeks after, his study was the resort of the most learned men of his day, who came to see him perform experiments, illustrating the theories he had laid before the world. Since his time his ideas on the subject of electro-magnetism have been more and more confirmed by the scientists of to-day. It
may well be shid that he Was the Worthy predecessor of the great Faraday, Who reduced What had hitherto been theory to practice.
Besides his investigations on this subject he applied himself to ifiany other things; at one time, it is said that, on account of a passion for metaphysics) he Was well-nigh lost to every other branch of science. He . was an upholder of intelligence in animals; although for the first part of his life he believed otherwise, his mind was changed by seeing what he believed to be the exercise of intelligence in a dog.
At the time of his death) June 10, 1836, he was engaged on a great Work, the classification of the sciences. He had been for many years inspector of schools) and it was on one of his tours of inspection that he contracted a disease that caused his death. Ampere was considered the equal of Cuvier, on account of the ability with which he opposed the great naturalist in a discussion between them. His nature was very sensitive and affectionate, and even during his brilliant career he never forgot his friends at Lyons and was always thinking of how he should be able to get back to them. Melancholy thoughts occupied his mind and finally wore him out. His life had been too active; he had studied too hard; had applied himself too diligently. And although it may be said that he died early, still it must be admitted that while other men were asleep, Ampere was at work, that he lived both night and day, and that to correctly estimate his time of life, his number of years should be doubled.
His character may well be judged from the three things which he said made an indelible impression on his mind. They were, cc his First Communion, when the love of religion once and forever took possession of his soul. Another was the reading of a biography of Descartes, by Thomas, to which he ascribed his first enthusiasm for mathematics and natural philosophy. And the third thing was the intense love for liberty and the keen. sympathy with human suffering that seized him when he heard of the taking of the Bastile.”	V. A.
Sparta.
The ancient city of Sparta was built on four hills. The side of one of these formed part of the famous Spartan theatre; the wings of the Cavia were artificial. There still remains a large wall, formed of regular uncemented blocks of stone, laid in regular courses. Nothing of the steps can now be seen; they were no doubt removed at the time of the construction of the Byzantine Lacedasmon and the neighboring towns. On the opposite side, the Cavia is not in such good condition; the plan can be traced only by the basis, which is almost lost in bushes.
At first there was no stage, but one was introduced by the Romans; and a construction in brick, situated at a little distance, would seem to be the remains of part of one. In other places, amongst
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
601
the ruins of Greek theatres, there are rarely found any remains of the stage; and in this particular in. stance it is very low; for the Greeks, in the character and use of the theatre, differed completely from the Romans. At Sparta they seldom presented any plays; the theatre served only for poetical and musical assemblies, and public gatherings, or, what we would call mass meetings, and, as at Corinth, even for military reviews. It may be presu med that for dramatic performances a temporary wooden stage was erected. In the theatre, the ruins of which still remain, the Spartans were assembled when they received the news of the defeat of Seleusis, who had surrendered, without making any defence, to the Macedonians. It is said that they received the tidings without a murmur, and the representation was continued in the midst of general silence.
This conduct of a whole people might be supposed to show great dignity, but it would seem rather to be the indifference of an enervated and corrupt nation, ready to bow to any yoke, provided they were permitted to' enjoy the richesthat had been brought with the Republic by Lysander. They were no longer the austere Spartans of Lycurgus. That famous legislator, in forming them according to his ideal, in subjecting them to his laws, which for five hundred years destroyed all freedom of thought, all individual action, had forgotten to arm them for the great straggle of life. As soon as they became free, they found themselves without protection against vice and a new form of servitude. They passed away without leaving behind them anything that could bear witness to their heart, their mind, their imagination or their science.
In defence of the Spartans a certain description of Pausanias is cited, in which it is claimed there may be found the proof that their city was adorned with monuments, temples, porticos and statues. But though this celebrated author may mention a certain number of edifices, he does not describe them, and it may be believed they were not worthy of any description. Perhaps there may have been small, loosely-constructed sanctuaries containing wooden statues, but nothing more.
Sculpture was tolerated only in so far as it produced images for religious worship. There was a throne in ivory and gold dedicated to Apollo; but the material was furnished by Croesus, King of Lydia, and the city of Magnesia provided the artists. The Spartan sculptors worked only in bronze. The sanctuaries wherein they placed their deities were set off with slabs of this material; these statues, for the most part, were nothing more than columns with human faces, hands and feet. Painting, so greatly honored and fostered in the other cities of Greece, was discouraged at Sparta. The few poets that were tolerated were obliged, under pain of exile, to sing only of war and submission to the laws. Music itself was regulated in its rythm, mode and tones. Phrynis, a musician, appeared one day with a lyre having nine strings; one of the Ephori at once cut off two. In like manner Timotheus, another artist, was required to curb his imaginative powers in his melodies,
and at the same time have only the number' of strings on his lyre prescribed by law.
The dance was nothing more than a military gymnastic exercise. The dancers engaged in a mock combat, now marching forward, then retreating, again jumping in the air, and throwing themselves on the ground. Sparta had all the appearance of a camp. The people possessed the austerity, the raggedness, the narrowness of mind of warlike races, who disdain the refinements of civilization, M the powers of intelligence and .taste. The legislator had but to work upon these nat- -ural propensities to secure a solid foundation for his constitution and enable it to endure for five hundred years,—a fact unique in history. At Athens, Lycurgus would have been hooted. The Athenian character could not endure such regulation of private life, such restriction of thought.
On the hill which overlooked the theatre at Sparta was situated the Acropolis. Unlike Athens and other cities of Greece, where the Acropolis was a citadel, a fortified height, here it was simply a place marked off and called by that name. In Sparta they gave the name of Acropolis to an enclosure containing temples and commemorative monuments. There are no remains of these buildings. The few rains that have been unearthed belong to the Roman period. Portions of an ancient Hellenic enclosure are preserved, and there may be distinguished a gate made of a single piece of stone.
The Agora was near the Acropolis and not far from the bridge Babyka, which crossed the Eurotas. Here may be found gathered together the principal public monuments, the greater part of which were constructed by the Romans. Near by was the Choros where the young Spartans practised their dance under the protection of Apollo, and celebrated their feasts and solemnities. The whole of this portion of the plain was called the Marsh; at the present time it is perfectly dry and cultivated. An elongated esplanade, the form of which can still be traced, was probably the Dromos or Roman circus. Near the Eurotas are the rains of a bridge. It was formed of two arches; the abutments rested on the two banks, and the middle column on a little island. The base of the abutment is in large, irregular blocks of Hellenic masonry, while the upper part is Roman and Byzantine in construction. The Eurotas, together with the Magoula and a canal, enclose a kind of triangular island, covered with trees and flowers. This is the Plataniste, where, in days of old, the young Spartans engaged in their trials of strength and endurance. At the present day it is resorted to solely for recreation.	X. Y. Z
The Journal of Mental Science, London, says that “criminal responsibility is the psychological possibility of the efficaciousness of the penal code.” It is a good definition if one has time to spare over it.
Nothing doth more hurt in a State than that cunning men pass for wise.
602	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	1
Art, Music, and Literature.
—One hundred female journalists are employed in Paris.
—Fifteen hundred female compositors—twenty of them colored—work in Boston.
—The “ Song of Roland,” recently done into English by Mr. John O’Hagan, is believed to be the oldest Christian epic.
—A new and complete edition of the writings of the late Dennis Florence McCarthy is announced. The volume will be edited by his son.
—There are about three hundred of the Dante manuscripts in various libraries in Italy. There is a movement now to unite them in a “ Dante Museum ” at Florence.
—Pictures by living artists do not often command a great price; but at a recent sale in England Mr. Edwin Long’s “Babylonian Marriage-Market” fetched the price of 6,300 guineas. The same artist’s “ Expulsion of the Gypsies from Spain” was sold for 4,100 guineas. An unfinished canvas by the late Mr. Phillip brought nearly .£4,000; and Mr. Peter Graham’s “Spate in the Highlands ” about T800.
—Very Rev. Ulic J. Canon Bourke, M. R. I A., the well-known friend of the language and literature of the Gael, and now Celtic Examiner to the Royal University of Ireland, is engaged upon a biography of the late Archbishop McHale, of Tuam. It is to be written exclusively in the old language he loved so well. The work cannot fail to be interesting both from the subject and from the fact of its being written in Irish.
—The library of Woodstock College, Md., occupies a hall 75 by 41 feet, and 25 feet in height. The most noticeable feature of the room is the frescoed ceiling, on which is represented the solar system, forming not merely &n artistic decoration but a reliable astronomical chart. Among the curiosities is a manuscript parchment of the book of Moses, 97 feet long and 2 feet 10 inches wide. The library also possesses works in the Turkish, Persian, Chaldaic, Coptic, Egyptian, Arabic, Russian, Armenian and Chinese languages.
—There were published in Great Britain during the year 1881, 4110 new books and 1296 new editions of old books. The publications are divided into 14 classes. There are 945 theological books, of which 201 are new editions: of educational, classical and philological works there are 682, of these 143 are new editions; of juvenile works there are 592 new and 108 new editions; novels 446 and 228; law 69 and 64, politics and trade 136 and 26; arts sciences and illustrated works 344 and 108; travels and geographical research 200 and 91; history, biography, etc., 356 and 81; poetry and the drama in and 37; year books and serials, in volumes, 335 and 4; medicine, surgeiy, etc., 108 and 56; belles lettres, essays monographs,, etc., 149 and 98; miscellaneous, including pamphlets but not sermons, 181 and 51.
—Munkacsky, the Hungarian artist is very pop-
ular with his countrymen. Some time ago an inscription was put up in Munkacz, his birthplace, announcing that in that town were born « Arpad, the founder of our country, and Munkacsky, the founder of our art.” When he was expected in Pesth, special trains were run from various parts of ' Hungary in order to enable his fellow-countrymen to see him and shake him by the hand. Mun-kacsky’s famous picture was also on view, and $12,500 is said to have been made by exhibiting it. The Bishop of Pesth delivered an address in praise of the painter whom his country delighted to honor; and a grand concert was given to which Munkacsky was specially invited, and at which Hungary’s greatest musician, the Abbd Liszt, was present. Munkacsky has reciprocated the affection of his countrymen by founding two purses of $500 a year each for ten years, to enable two young Hungarian artists to prosecute their studies at Paris.
Books and Periodicals.
—Literature is the suggestive and becoming title assumed by The Wyoming Literary Monthly, of Buffalo, N. Y., with the May number. A handsomely engraved cover and a few other changes in the dress and make up of the magazine give it a strikingly neat appearance, and we think the matter has also been raised to a more elevated plane than formerly. It consists in part of essays from college professors and others, rather fragmentary in character, it is true, but not therefore devoid of interest. A characteristic feature of the new	|
magazine is, that the authors whose lives and works are sketched are supplemented with extracts by the editor, and all the criticisms and comments of writers of note upon the subject of the biography, and his works, are collated with much care and laid before the reader. The number before us contains sketches of “Henry Wadsworth Longfellow,” “ Thos. Babington Macaulay,” “ Edgar Allen Poe,” “Walter Scott,” “Sophocles”; and the various departments—“Notes and Queries,”	i
“ Sans Souci,” “ Multum in Parvo,” etc., are filled with entertaining matter. Literature is published by C. A. Wenborne, Buffalo, N. Y. The price of subscription is $2 a year.
—In The North American Review for J une, Sen-	*
ator Allison has a paper on “ The Currency of the Future,” in which are indicated the measures that will have to be taken by Congress for insuring a stable currency after the national debt has been paid. “A Memorandum at a Venture,” by Walt Whitman, attempts an explanation and defence of his purpose in touching upon topics not usually regarded as amenable to literary treatment. Whitman is disappointed because his « Leaves, of Grass ” had not stood better the test given it by the scorching sun of public opinion, but we hope he will be compelled to bear still further the disappointment. “Andover, and Creed Subscription,” by
Rev. Dr. Leonard Woolsey Bacon, is a review of the	>
-present state of dogmatical belief in many of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ non-Catholic religious denominations—and, moreover, unwittingly presents a sad commentary upon . the shifting basis on which that belief is placed. • Hon. George F. Seward, late Minister to China, in an article entitled “ Mongolian Emigration,” makes . an argument against the proposed anti-Chinese legislation. Dr. John W. Dowling, Dean of the New York Homeopathic Medical College, comes to the defence of the Hahnemannic School of Med-f icine, against a recent attack upon its principles fand methods by Dr. Palmer. O. B. Frothingham has a paper on Swedenborg and his peculiar religious views. Not the least important article, especially for political economists, is a criticism of one of the fundamental postulates of Henry George’s political economy, entitled “ Has Land a Value ? ” by Isaac L. Rice. Finally, Charles F. Lydecker essays to prove that a “ National Militia ” is a constitutional impossibility.
—Donahoes Magazine for June opens with a short but very attractive paper by the Rev. Joseph V. O’Conor on “ Cardinal Newman as a Literary Study.” The design of the writer is to call attention to the works of a man admittedly a classic in the English tongue. Cardinal Newman’s is not a parallel case with that of the classics of the Greek and Latin language, against whom such | prelates as Mgr. Dupanloup objected as unfit instructors of Christian youth. The writer says:
“ If we urge the study of Newman in preference to that of I	Addison, it is not because the Cardinal’s writings are more
J	moral, but because they are better English; whereas the
■	most ardent of patristic scholars do not say that Lactantius
is a better writer than Cicero, or the Chrisfiad more harmonious than the. PE acid. In Newman all the conditions of a great writer are fulfilled, independently of his special theological tendency. Indeed, the greatest authors are precisely ’ those who are narrowly termed specialists. ’ It is the intensity of the poetic power that places Shakspeare among the immortals, just as it is the intensity of the mathematical genius that ranks Father Secchi with Kepler and Haller. ‘ What I knotv, I can express,’ said Socrates. If Newman has given his great powers of expression to theological thought, it is there that we are to study him, just as we study Euclid in the less inviting forms of angles, or as we follow' Stephenson in his rude chalkings of the steam-engine.
!	“On the surface, and to the great majority of minds, an
author is great by his power over a great range and compass ' of language. Some writers have achieved fame by nothing but words. . . . But given Newman’s incomparable command over the English language, with his profoundly logical mind, and the added poetical sympathy, and the f	reader will understand why this man sways all minds,
from that which is simply affected by the music of his words, to that which is controlled by the power of his thought.” '	.
So great was Newman’s influence at Oxford •	o	_ _
and throughout England before his conversion that Disraeli said of Newman’s defection from the Church of England that it was the greatest blow it had received, and under which the Establishment still reeled, and Gladstone says that the Cardinal is the most permanently interesting English writer of the present century. Praise from two such men, themselves great scholars and no mean writers, has great weight. Among the many other articles of merit in Donahoe's, the elaborate sketches of “The Irish Bar” are racy with anecdote.
College Gossip.
—Buell, of the Junior class wrote the opera, Penikeesc, given at Yale recently for the benefitof -the Yale navy.
—Michigan University has 1534 students; Columbia, according to the Spectator, has 1587, the largest number in any American college.
—Ten thousand dollars have been appropriated, by the Legislature of Wisconsin for the improvement of the State University buildings.—Lariat.
—Girard College is to have a complete machine shop, with a work bench, forge and gas engine for each of the ninety pupils in practical mechanics.— Rambler.	.
—General McClellan and Dr. Prime have been appointed by the Princeton College trustees the first directors of the proposed school of fine arts at that institution.	.
—The method of curbing the frivolous spirit of its students lately adopted at the Minnesota State University has borne fruit in the shooting of one of the students by a professor. The professor is now under bail, and quite an interesting trial is expected. —Pa. University Magazine.
—At the recent matriculation examination of the Calcutta University eight women passed successfully, of whom six are natives of India; and at Bombay seven women were successful, including four from Poonah. At the First Arts Examination at Calcutta a female candidate obtained a scholarship of the first grade.
—M. l’Abbe Duploye has been appointed teacher of stenography at the military school of St. Cyr. The Abbe has placed in front of his new residence, in the centre of Paris, a sign representing the word “ Stenographic,” in large characters, which is illuminated in the evening. He intends to establish a stenographic museum at his residence.— Shorthand News, Chicago.
—Buy you a scrap-book, and make it a souvenir of college days; paste in the programmes, society reports, class items, accounts of sociables, etc. The value of such a collection will increase as we move away from college days into scenes more practical. Save every item which will revive a pleasant memory. Let the years in school always stand out as vividly as possible, for all their successes or failures lend warning and inspiration in the future.— Vidette-Reforter.
A good suggestion, but we think many students would not consider it worth while to preserve accounts of sociables and the like.	.
—A recent graduate of the University of Cambridge, England, gave Dr. Lyman Abbott as his estimate of the total expenses of an undergraduate for a full year, including the long vacation, the sum of $1,200. Dr. Abbott says ’ the English college student is the “university gentleman.” “No student smokes in the streets; no gentleman student "drinks at a bar; drunkenness is rare and disgraceful; the wine parties that Tom Brown used to attend are going out of fashion; college rows and scrapes are things of the past; the ancient brawls between town and gown are.
" no more known; hazing is unheard viP—Ex.
604
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, June IO, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
■ choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, . 50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and grad uates of the University.
—All instructive as well as eloquent lecture on Goethe was delivered in the College Rotunda on Saturday evening, June 3d, by Rev. C. A. Steil. We regret that our limited space does not allow us to reproduce it in extenso this week, but perhaps in some future issue we shall be able to do so. The Rev. lecturer considered his subject both as an author and as a man, and while acknowledging him to. have been the first genius of his country and his age, he yet regretted the utter absence of the moral sense which characterizes his writings. The lecture, which lasted nearly an hour, was listened to with close attention by a numerous audience, and the speaker was heartily applauded. We trust that Rev. Father Steil has not been heard for the last time, though we shall not probably have the pleasure of listening to him. again this year.
—Preparations for the Greek play, which will be given on the evening of the 20th, are making on: quite an extensive scale. The Rev. Professor of Greek is sparing no pains to make the occasion a grand success, and to put before the audience as faithful a representation as possible of the ancient stage. Special scenery and costumes have been de
signed by Prof. Gregori; the choruses are receiving the most careful attention from the directors of the musical department, while the O popoi Anarithma: gar ^hero	which meets one’s ears every-
where of late, is becoming almost as popular a college song as any of the Pinafore melodies of yore. The “ CEdipus Tyrannus ” has, we believe, never yet been produced west of the Alleghanies, and the Notre Dame students are determined to produce it creditably, if hard work can ensure their doing so. In this laudable ambition the Scholastic wishes them success.
—The long-expected and much-talked-of Parisian dinner, which was promised to the Minims-byVery Rev. Father Sorin, C. S. C., as soon as their ranks had swelled to seventy-five, came off on Tuesday. It was preceded by an entertainment complimentary to Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, whois numbered among the warmest friends of the little chaps, and who indulgently prolonged his visit here to attend their banquet.	-
At one o’clock, the hour fixed for the performance, St. Edward’s Hall was filled to its utmost capacity with friends of the Minims from far and near, chief among whom were, Very Rev. Father Sorin, Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Fathers Granger, R£zd, Shortis, Saulnier, Franciscus, Frere and Zahm; Bro. Edward, Hon. Judge Stanfield, Messrs-Miller, of the South-Bend Tribune, Fassett, of the Register, Beale, of the Laporte Herald- Chronicle,. Mr. Jacob Wile, Professors Gregori, Lyons, Edwards, Paul, Ackerman, and others of the Faculty. The piece presented was the serio-comic drama,, written especially for the Minims, some time ago* by Very Rev. Father Sorin. We have not time or space to dwell on the performance; suffice it to-say that it was pronounced a grand success by every one. Some fears were entertained regarding Patty’s role, but he, too, performed his part well, though the look of consternation depicted in his face is said to have been painful to witness. (Patty is a little lamb). The customary closing remarks were made by the Rt. Rev. Bishop,, who complimented the members of the Sorin Association on the rendition of their various parts,, and thanked them for the pleasure they had afforded the audience.	.	’
The entertainment over, the Minims and their guests adjourned to the Junior dining-room for the Parisian dinner. It was a sumptuous banquet, which not only abundantly satisfied the varied tastes of the eighty Minims, but also those of the invited guests, who qualified it as “ a real, Parisian affair.”	.
Long life to the Minims! W e hope to see their number increased when school opens again, and we take this occasion of wishing them a most pleasant vacation.
—It may excite surprise in the minds of observant attendants on the Commencement this year, as xwell as to those who scan the reports of the day I	‘
/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	605
 % ' 

when they appear in print, that with such a large number of students th^e should. be so few graduates at Notre Dame. The same must have been noticed also in years past, for the number of those graduating in the different courses has never, we believe, been proportionate to the general attendance. However paradoxical it may seem to appear, the one explains the other. The course of studies at Notre Dame is peculiarly elastic. The college officers rightly consider that in the case of older students it is well not to insist too much upon any set plan of studies. Latin and Greek, though they have never been slighted are not made the guage here as in most other institutions. The fact is recognized that many a student may have little or no use for these languages; while acknowledging their, importance, he may feel that there are other things that have a far stronger claim on his attention. It is not uncommon here to find a member of one of the highest classes of mathematics attending the lowest class of Latin. Until the conductors of colleges concede that students and their parents possess a certain right in the matter of determining the course of studies to be followed, they will continue to be looked upon by people of hard common sense as theorizers, system builders—as men who have no sympathy with the world of beneficent actualities. A father, for example, may be engaged in some business or practising some profession which he desires his son to succeed to; it is certainly an insult to the intelligence of such a man to hold that he is no judge of what will best qualify his son for the position which he has. elected for him, as it is a manifest injustice to exclude the young man from the advantages he could derive from a college course because of his unwillingness to follow it in its entirety.
To be sure, there is no system without its drawbacks, and one of the greatest in that of which we write is, that few men of what is termed liberal education can be turned out. But certainly it is choosing the lesser of two evils when a boy has only a limited time to spend at college to make him as proficient as possible in the branches he desires to pursue, or that have been selected for him, than to coerce him in such a way that in the end he will have, at best, but a superficial knowledge of many. The great fault of the system of education in fashion nowadays is, that it embraces too much and is too unbending, and, as a natural consequence, the chief defect of college-bred men is, that they know too little of too many things and that their minds are stored with “memories of words ” instead of practical knowledge.
The number of students pursuing the higher studies at Notre Dame was never greater than at present, still there will not be an increase in the number of graduates this year, for the reasons given above. We hope, however, that the time will come, and come soon, when a greater majority of those attending class here will be prepared to follow the regular Collegiate Course, as at present laid down, and to cultivate the arts of which Notre Dame has p ertainly been a liberal patron.
Exchanges.
—The Normal Monitor, from Winchester, Tenn., is a new visitor. “ The Depth of College. Journalism,” by B. F. J., is a well-written article. The editorial, exchange and local departments are creditably filled. We give The Monitor a cordial welcome.
—Not satisfied with the handsome dress of new type of an antique face or pattern and heavy plate paper, lately donned, the editors of The Williams Athenceum have gone further and introduced illustrations. Those in the last issue would do no discredit to any paper—that is, if engravings of any kind are not out of taste in a college paper, and we confess we have no fancy for them. The editors say: “Any attempt to become an elaborate pictorial like The Lampoon is far from our intention, but we do think it would be well to enliven the paper, to a certain extent, in this way.” Cuts like “ The Bone of Contention ” contain strong suggestions of humor, and one such is certainly worth the other two, but we are glad to learn that pictorial illustrations are not yet to be on an elaborate scale. Once in a while they may serve a turn and be enjoyed, as we have no doubt those in the handsome pages of 7he Athenoetim are enjoyed. “ Who Was He?” and “His Explanations,” in this number, are readable literary productions of the lighter class of college essays.
—We regret that when sending out bills for the Scholastic one was by mistake sent to Mr. Archibald Beale, the managing editor of The HeraldChronicle, Laporte, Indiana. We receive The Herald- Chronicle regularly in exchange for the Scho- . lastic, and as it is a live newspaper in every sense of the word we are indebted to the editor and not he to us. Still, Mr. Beale sends the money for the paper addressed to him, and says he would not be without the Scholastic, having “ missed its familiar and regular appearance since his going out of business in South Bend.” Owing to the fact that college papers frequently change hands we are not acquainted personally with Mr. Beale, but as the managing editor of The Herald- Chronicle we cannot hold him in other than the highest esteem. We believe Mr. Beale succeeded the Hon. Schuyler Colfax as editor and proprietor of the South-Bend Register—the pioneer paper of that city. The Herald- Chronicle, with which Mr. Beale has been connected for many years, is undoubtedly one of the best and most influential papers in the West, and as an exchange is valued highly by us.
—The Coup d'Etat, of Knox College, publishes in its last issue a creditable essay entitled “ Parton on Hamilton ” in which the popular American biographer’s judgment is severely and justly censured. That great injustice has been done Alexander Hamilton in Parton’s biography is beyond a doubt, and we are satisfied that this is not the only instance in which Parton has glossed over the defects of some of his characters and made others appear much worse than they really were. .The assertion that Hamilton secretly cherished the de
606	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sire of seeing a monarchy established in the United States is undoubtedly as far from the truth as that Voltaire died peacefully and contentedly, as James Parton would have the readers of his biography believe. Parton’s assertions to the contrary, Voltaire died a frightful death, in the agonies of despair, cursing God and man for abandoning him to his fate. The physician who attended him—who was a Protestant, by the way—bore evidence to this; so also did Voltaire’s household seiwants, all Catholics,—for, strange as it may seem, he would have no other in his employ. So much for the truth of James Parton’s testimony regarding the subjects of some of his biographies. Like Carlyle, his statements cannot be relied upon, and when a biographer fails in this first essential his books are comparatively valueless to every right-thinking person. The essayist in the Coup d'Etat deserves credit for his paper. He evinces talent of no mean order, and excellent judgment. Would there were many like him!
— The Chronicle (University of Michigan) for May the 13th has gathered eight of its principal Eastern exchanges and gives a table of the amount of reading matter in each and compares it with that given in The Chronicle. The Record and Supplement (Yale), has 26^ columns; the Advocate (Harvard), 23; the Crimson (Harvard), 24; the Spectator (Columbia), 28; the Argo (Williams), 28; the Acta (Columbia), 28; the Athe-nceum (Williams), 28; the Courant (Yale), 29; whereas The Chronicle has 32 pages of matter, a great deal of it in small print, so that it contains much more than the Eastern papers. The sub. scription price of The Chronicle (issued fortnightly) is only $2 a year—the general price of subscription to the other papers—some of which are monthly—is $2.50. The Chronicle is deservedly conceded a first place for ability among college papers, and in typographical appearance is inferior to none of the Eastern papers with which we are acquainted. As compared with the papers mentioned above, the Notre Dame Scholastic gives in each issue from 22 to 24 columns of matter, but being a weekly it is plain that the amount printed in the course of the year is nearly double that of many of its contemporaries, and this for the trifling sum of $1.50. This is one reason, no doubt, why the Scholastic’s subscription list is so large— treble that of many other college papers—but it should be larger, we think, and would be if the Alumni and friends of the institution took a more active interest in it.
Personal.
—Col. Elmer Otis, U. S. A., arrived from the West last Sunday evening, and is comfortably ensconced in his old quarters in the College. All are glad to see him back.
—James M. Howard, of ’62, is practising law at Valparaiso, Ind., and doing well, we believe. He lately moved there from Logansport. Mr. Howard is one of the practical friends of the Scholastic.
—The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne paid his annual visit for Confirmation this week. The Sacrament is no longer administered here during Commencement week. The Bishop is ever a welcome guest at Notre Dame, and always receives a hearty greeting from the Minims, with whom he seems to be on particularly good terms.
—Among the visitors this week were: Mrs. and Miss Coghlin,Mrs. A. D. Tourtillotte, Toledo; Mr. B. Dasher, Indianapolis; Mrs. J. Mug and Mrs. McGrath, Lafayette, Ind.; Miss Burke, Michigan City; Mr. and Mrs, Duffy, Anderson, Ind.; Hon. P. B._ Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Mrs. J. Vernier and Miss E. Vernier, Archbald, Ohio; and Mr. Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind.
—Mr. T. J. Barrett, who attended class here in ’78 -79, is now foreman of the large new Steam Pump Works of Smith, Vale .& Co., Dayton, Ohio. Mr. Barrett, like many others who studied here, takes a kind interest in Notre Dame, and sends us his subscription for the Scholastic. From the tenor of his letter, Mr. Barrett seems to be doing remarkably well, and is running a big business.' Immense new shops have been built for him,c fitted up with new tools of the latest pattern, and pumps of all sizes, some of them mammoth ones, are being rapidly turned out under his supervision. Mr. Barrett promises a cordial welcome to any of his old friends who may call upon him.
—The Daily Digest (Elkhart, Ind.) says of Hon. O. T. Chamberlain, of that city, who studied here in 1861 and’62:
“When Mr. O. T. Chamberlain took up the cudgel against voting $34,000 donation to the C. W. & M., he was abused by many. He was called everything but an honest man, and it was said that he was looking to future official position and using the means at hand to catch the sympathy and direct the public pulse to that end. To show how mistaken were his enemies, and as proof of his honesty, we have but to say that when house-rents were going up rapidly all around property under his control, we. have yet to hear of a single instance in which he has demanded or received higher rents. We have the utmost confidence in Captain Chamberlain’s honesty in political matters, especially when they have a bearing upon our people. There is no doubt of his honest intentions in opposing the railroad tax. He spent his time, and money to the amount of several hundred dollars, getting printing done in South Bend, when every single newspaper and printing-press in Elkhart was closed against opposition. We honor the Captain for his bold stand.”
Local Items. .
—The end draws near.
—Examinations next week.
—The weather is just settling down to business a little.
—Commencement has been definitely fixed for the 2 2d.
—The lecture by Rev. Father Steil, on Satur-•day evening, was much praised.
—The library is being removed to a larger and more convenient apartment.
—The new boats arrived and were launched Thursday evening. They are bonny boats. •
«
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Rev. President Walsh has presented a handsome picture of St. Stanislaus to the Philopatrians.
—The baseball players of the Junior department are indebted to Prof. Edwards for a new mask.
—It is expected that the last baseball game of the series will come off on the day before Commencement.
—The ex-Minims express their gratitude for having been favored with an invitation to the Pa-risian dinner on Tuesday.
—The best Bulletin for the month of May was awarded to N. H. Ewing; C. C. Kolars and C. Echlin, 2d best; Ed. Fishel and W. H. Johnston, 3d best.
—The St. Cecilians chose a most unpropitious day for their trip to the farm. It was cold, rainy and blustering; but they had a very pleasant time nevertheless.
—Fifty Preps., including those who recently made their First Communion, received Confirmation on Tuesday morning, at the hands of Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger.
—Quite a number of local items, handed in late, had to be left over on account of the holyday which obliged us to make up our forms one day earlier than usual.
—The new baseball suits are grand. Our friend John remarks that “it wouldn’t hurt any if the pantaloons fitted a little more than they do.” Sour grapes, friend John & Co.	A Senior.
—Corpus Christi was celebrated with the usual solemnity. There was a procession round St. Joseph’s Lake after High Mass, which was at 8 o’clock. Benediction was given again after the evening rec.
—An exhibition game of baseball was played Tuesday afternoon. The nines made a fine appearance. The score ran up very high. The game was witnessed by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, Very Rev. Father General, Col. Otis, Mr. A. B. Miller, of the South Bend Tribune, Rabbi Wile, of Laporte, and a number of other visitors.
—Knowledge addresses these alarming words to those who make horrid puns and their equally inculpated audience who enjoy them: “ It is not perhaps commonly known that a tendency to make puns is regarded by many students of mental physiology as a sign of cerebral disease.” We know of certain persons that have been giving this sign all the year; but we hope—on condition, however, that they give over the practice of punning—that cerebral affections may be escaped.
—Now that the weather is getting fine once more, so that one can ramble through the fields and forests without fear of snow-storms or chilling spring showers, we again call attention to Mr. Walk-er’s pocket camera—a little instrument by means of which the pleasure and profit of a day’s excursion can be indefinitely enhanced. As a perfect working instrument, Mr. Walker’s camera is an entire success, and in saying this we are giving not only fhe result of our own experience, but also that of
every one who has given it a trial. With this wonderful multum in farvo any boy of ordinary intelligence can, in a few hours, so master the beautiful art of photography that he will be able to take pictures that a few years ago would have done credit to an old and experienced photographer, and all this, too, without the use of poisonous or disagreeable chemicals.
—A match-game was played on the 1st inst. between the second Senior nines, with the following score:
STAR OF THE EAST.
Marlett, s. s.........
Bailey, p............
O’Connor, 1. f........
Cullen, 2d b..........
Walsh, c. f...........
Chelini, c............
Kinsella, 1st b.......
Pillars, 3d b.........
Rasche, r. f.........
Total................
r. o.
I 2
I 3 I 3
I 3
I 2
I 3 I 2
I 2 O 4
824
UNIVERSITIES.
Bolton, p...........
Monaghan, c.........
Garrett, 2d b.......
Kerndt, r. f........
Murphy, 1. f........
Brownj s. s.........
Grever, c. f........
Ryan, 1st b.........
McGinnis, 3d b.
R.
I I I
I I O o
I
I
7
o.
3
2
3
3
3
4
4
2
3
27
Time, 2^ hours. Umpire, Mr. M. Healy.
—More than a ripple of excitement was caused among the Juniors when it was announced that Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Zaehnle had invited them to a fete champetre. The invitation was gladly accepted, and the good time enjoyed on the occasion will long be remembered by the hundred and fifty happy boys who will look back to this jollification as one of the pleasantest reminiscences of their college days. The kind host and hostess spared neither pains nor expense to contribute to the enjoyment of their .guests. The rooms of their elegant new villa were filled with tables loaded with the viands, fruits and delicacies of the season, to which ample justice was done by the boys, whose appetites had been sharpened by a five-mile walk. After dinner baseball, football and other sports were indulged in. When the tables had been cleared and removed, the drawingrooms, parlors and dining-rooms were thrown open, and the old-fashioned square dances of our grandfathers were danced to music played by the Junior Orchestra, under the leadership of Prof. Paul. A bountiful supper was afterwards supplied. Before retiring collegeward, hearty thanks were returned to Mr. and Mrs. Zaehnle and their son Albert for the delightful time enjoyed by all. Besides the Juniors, the Rev. President of the University, Rev. Fathers Granger, Reze, Prof* Edwards, Bros. Leander, Lawrence and Aquinas and the aged father and mother of Mr. Zaehnle, were among the guests.
—Books lately acquired by the Lemonnier Library : Taylor’s Edition of Calmet’s Great-Dictionary of the Holy Bible, 4 Vols., Charlestown, 1812; Jas. Christophori Wolfii Past. Ad D. Catharin. Hamburgens et Scholarch Cur®, Philologic® et Critic®, Tomus I in SS. Evangelia Matthaei, Marci et Luc®, Tomus II in Evangelium S. Joannis et Actus Apostolicos, Tomus III in IV Priores S.'
6o8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Pauli Epistolas, Tomus IV in X Posteriores S. Pauli Epistolas, Tomus V in SS. Apostolorum Jacobi, Petri, Jud® et Joannis Epistolas Hujusque Apocal. Basile®; The Prose Writers of America, by Rufus Wilmot Griswold; Appleton’s Cyclo-p®dia of Biography, Revised American Edition, edited by Francis L. Hawks; Library Notes, by A. P. Russell; Modern Literature and Literary Men, by George Gilfillan; Lectures on Mental and Moral Culture, S. P. Bates; Tracts for the Times, by Members of the University of Oxford, 1835 to 1841, 6 Vols.; Catholic Tracts, London, 1792; Library of Ang. Cath. Theology, Vindici® Epistolarum S. Ignatii, auctore Joanne Pearson, Episcopo Cestriensi, 2 Vols.; Historical Sketches, by Cardinal Newman; An Essay in Aid of a Grammar of Assent, by Cardinal Newman; The Education of the Feelings or Affections, by Chas. Bray; The Question of Anglican Ordinations Discussed, by E. E. Estcourt; Sir Lancelot, a Legend of the Middle Ages, by F. W. Faber; Life of Columbus, by Barry; History of Ignatius Loyola, Bartoli, 2 Vols.; Sermons and Sketches of Sermons, by Rev. John Summerfield, late preacher in connection with the Methodist Episcopal Church, Thos. E. Bond; Talmage’s Sermons; Fletcher’s Sermons on various Religious and Moral Subjects; Brennan’s Ecclesiastical History of Ireland; Dictionary of the Holy Bible, American Tract Society; Life of Our Blessed Lord and Saviour, by Rev. John Fleetwood, with notes by J. Newton Brown; Protestant Journalism, by the Author of “ My Clerical Friends”; A Tour in Both Hemispheres, Vetromile; Travels in Europe and the Holy Land, Vetromile; Thoughts on Preaching, J. W. Alexander; History of Ireland, McGee, 2 Vols.; Light and Electricity, Tyndall; Summa Doctrin®, Petri Canisii; the Meaning of Words, A. B. Johnson; Garfield, Life and Eulogies, McClure; Gentle Skeptic, Walworth; Sketches of the Establisment of the Church in New England, Fitton; Proxis Synodi Dicecesan® Celebrand®; Essays and Reviews, Spalding; O’Callaghan on Free Lovers; Brown on the Gospels; Annals of Annapolis, David Ridgely; The complete Analysis of the Holy Bible, Nathaniel West; The Spanish Armada, Alfred H. Guernsey; Pitt and Sam Johnson, by Lord Macaulay; Success, Greatness and Immortality, by Ralph Waldo Emerson; The Life of Daniel O’Connell, M. F. Cusack; Speeches of O’Connell, 2 vols.
Semi-Annual Examination, June 16th, 17th, 19th, 20th, 1882,
Boards of Examination.
Classical Board—Rev. T. E.-Walsh, presiding; Rev. N. J. Stoffel, Secretary; Rev. F. Fitte, Rev. F. Stcil; Prof. Unsworth, Prof. Lyons.
Scientific Board—Rev. J. A. Zahm, presiding; Prof. Devoto, Secretary; Prof. Stace, Prof. McCue.
Commercial Board—Rev. J. M. Toohey, presiding'; Bro. Philip Secretary; Bro. Marcel-linus; Prof. Tong, Prof. Lyons, Prof. Edwards.
Preparatory Board—Rev. J. A. O’Connell, presiding: Mr. J. Sullivan, Secretary; Mr. J. Burke; Bro. Alexander, Bro. Leander, Bro. Paul, Bro. Emmanuel, Bro. Albert, Bro. Raphael, Bro. William.
Board of Modern Languages—Rev. N.J. Stoffel, presiding; Rev. F. Fitte, Mr. J. Irman, Secretary; Mr. Boerres, Mr. J. Ernster; Bro. Philip.
Board of Fine Arts and Special Branches —Rev. T. E. Walsh, presiding; Bro. Basil, Bro. Leopold; Prof. Paul, Prof. Gregori; Bro. Celestine, Bro. Stanislaus, Mr. Rumely, Mr. Smith.
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anderson, Arnold, Armijo, Berry, Bailey, Barron, Bryant, Bell, Bolton, Cullin, Clements, Carroll, Conway, G. Glarke, T. Clarke, Connor, Concannon, W. Cleary, Jas. Delaney, Drury, Dorsey, Donegan, Donohue, Eager, F. Ewing, Eaton, T. Fenlon, Farrell, Fleming, Fishburne, Fitzgerrell, Flynn, M. Falyey, Jas. Faivey, Garrett, Galon-ski, Grever, Grout, Gray, M. Healy, Halthuzen, Jones, Johnson, Kinsella, Kerndt, Kavanaugh, McErlain, Marlett, McGinnis, Millett, McDermott, H. Morse, W. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, McEniry, Mason, Monoghan, McCarthy, McIntyre, Noble, Nash, Noonan, O’Reilly, O’Connor, O’-O’Neill, O’Rourke, Orrick, Otis, Paquette, Peery, Pierson, Pillars, Ryan, Rasche, Solon, W. Smith, E. Smith, C. Smith, Steis, Sturla, Schiml, Thompson, Tracy, Wheatley, White, Walsh, Yrisarri, Zettler.
.	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Archer, Browne, Bacon, Barron, Baca, Barnard, Bowers, Campau, J. M. Courtney, J. Courtney, Castillo, Devine, Dolan, Drendel, Danielson, Droste, Echlin, N. Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, Freyermuth, Fendrick, French, Fisher, M. Foote, H. Foote, Friedman, Gilbert, Graham, Grever, Gerlach, E. Gall, Guthrie, Gallagher, Hoffman, Hess, Hibbeler, Hurley, Howard, Deschamps, Hanavin, Halligan, Jeannot, Johnson, Kolars, Roper, Smith, Smeeth, E. Smith, Schaefer, Sells, Tappan, Taylor, Taggart, Vernier, Williams, J. Warner, C. Warner, Wilbur, Warren, Wile, Yrisarri, Zeigler, Zaehnle, Kahman, Kitz, Katz, Livingston, Lund, Laumann, J. McGordon, Metz, Muhlke, T. McGrath, McPhillips, C. Murdock, Murphy, J. P. O’Donnell, J. O’Donnell, Orchard, Powell, H. Porter, C. Porter, Peery, Pick, Ryon, V. Rivaud, L. Rivaud.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, Beall, Berthelet, Brandom, Chaves, Curran, Coad, Chirhart, P. Campau, C. Campau, Cummings, Devitt, R. Devereux, J. Devereux, Dirksmeyer, Dwenger, W. Devine, A. Devine, Davison, Fehr, Frain, Graham, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, Howard, Hynes, Hewitt, Hopkins, Johnson, J. Kelly, A. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, Kellner, Masi, McCawley, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McGordon, Miljer, Metz, Nash, J. Nester, F. Nester, Norfolk, F. Otis, A. Otis, O’Connor, Papin, D. Prindiville, C. Pick, Peters, J. Pick, Piatt, Powell, G. Price, E. Price, W. Prindiville, Quinlin, Roberts, Roper, Rose, Rebori, Stange, Sommer, Schmitz, Studebaker, Thomas, Tong, Vosburgh, Walsh, Welch, Winsor, Whitney, L. Young, C. Young.
The more drams a man takes the fewer scruples he has.	„
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JMut ^arg’$
Minims of Notre Dame. Very Rev. Father responded, saying that Leo XIII, in blessing the Minims of Notre Dame, included those of St. Mary’s.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Hon. P. B. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, has paid St. Mary’s a welcome visit.
-VThe infant daughter of Dr. Cassidy was baptized in the Chapel of Loretto on Tuesday.
—The instruction to the Children of Mary in the Chapel of Loretto, on Monday morning, was on the mystery of Pentecost.
—Miss Pease, of San Francisco, will please accept many thanks for her donation to the hothouse, of several curious and valuable plants.
—On Trinity Sunday Very Rev. Father General delivered an eloquent discourse at High Mass. Subject, the Mystery of the Blessed Trinity.
—The young lady archers beg leave to contradict their implied deficiency in the report of last week, and would state that the centre of the target has been hit more than once, as any one may see upon examination.
—Rev. Father Shortis conducted the closing of the May devotions, and preached an excellent sermon in honor of Mary. The crowning of the statue of the Blessed Virgin preceded the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. Miss Galen performed this graceful and significant act.
—On Pentecost, after the usual distribution of “ Gifts and Fruits of the Holy Ghost,” St. Mary’s Chimes, Vol. VII, No. 4, was read. Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Father Shortis, Rev. Father Saulnier, Rev. Father Zahm and Rev. Father McNally honored the young ladies by their presence. Editresses, Misses C. Wall, E. Todd and N. Keenan.
—The remarks of Rev. Father Zahm, after the reading of The Chimes on Sunday evening, were particularly valuable. They were suggested by an article entitled “Industry, the Guarantee of Success.” The Rev. gentleman adduced the example of Edison as a case in point. After giving many pertinent items in his history, he brought forward names which he pronounced more appropriate for the imitation of his auditors: Madame Swetchine, whose wonderful intellectual labors he cited and extolled; Rosa Bonheur, whose industry and perseverance have rendered her artistic works so celebrated. His words were “ like apples of gold in pictures of silver.”
—At five o’clock, on Monday evening, Very Rev. Father General, with his usual kindness, visited the Juniors’ Study-hall, and listened to the reading of The Lily of the Valley, Vol. I, No. 3, edited by Catharine Lancaster, Clara Ginz, Ada Clarke and Marian Morgan. The following little girls were contributors: Sabina Semmes, Mary Dillon, Mary Chirhart, Mary Otis, and Anna Welch. The reading of the paper was followed by a beautiful address in French, which alluded to the blessing of the Holy Father, secured for the
(Selections from “Rosa Mystic a” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.) .
Industry the Guarantee of Success.
Labor is the legacy transmitted from generation to generation as the rightful inheritance of a fallen race. It has been entailed as the penalty of man’s disobedience and prevarication. Labor is of divine obligation, consequently it cannot be trifled with. The jiat of omnipotence is stamped upon industry, independent of the fact that the experience of all “ nations, kindreds and tongues,” has set upon it the seal of universal approbation.
The practice of the entire world from its earliest history has sanctioned this principle. Who can resist the dignity of its claims? The chosen peo-. pie of God have always been an eminently laborious people: genius, too, has always achieved its wonders by constant, indefatigable application. Since the moment when man was ordained to “eat his bread in the sweat of his brow,” indolence has been marked with the brand of folly, and idleness has been aptly styled “ the devil’s work-shop.” No wonder they have been shunned by the good and the great; no wonder they have been embraced by the shallow and the thoughtless.
We have said that the ancient people of God were eminently a laborious people. So jealous was the divine Law-giver of their obedience to the injunction of labor, that He frequently permitted them to be sunk into the most abject servitude, as if thereby to preclude the possibility of escaping the dominion of the law. See them under the Egyptian rod, toiling incessantly at the beck of tyrannical masters! and, again, in the Babylonian captivity, struggling under the iron heel of bondage.
See the grand old patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, tending their flocks and herds. The foster-father of the Incarnate Word, the Blessed Virgin also, and even our Lord Himself, were inured to toil. Who would wish to be exempt? To be deprived of the right to which such a dignity is attached, must indeed be looked upon as a misfortune.
It was to poor, laboring shepherds that the glad tidings of redemption were first announced, and to the studious and earnest astronomers, whose intellectual toil was no less severe, the miraculous star indicated the place where the Saviour of mankind was born.
One of the most popular and touching statues of the Blessed Virgin represents her with the distaff, that quaint but beautiful symbol of industry, and her title in her home-like occupation is “Mater Admirabilisy
The impulse of restitution, received as the fiery
6io
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
flaming sword was waved over our first parents at their expulsion from the Garden of Eden, has flowed onward through the veins of the people of God, ever urging them to noble achievements, thereby to repair in some small measure the injured glory of God.	C. W.
Ffotri the shares of demons dark. When life’s tide, at last, shall falter,
Death shall seal our palsied sight, Infant Jesus, from the altar,
Lead us by Thy Cross of Light.
Crux Refulgens.
Yes, we trace it in the morning When the messenger of sleep Waves a farewell; duty warning, Lest our eyelids closed, shall weep
Ere the nightfall, if the measure Of the sunny hours we slight;
Open we Day’s golden treasure
In thy power, O Cross of light!	■
Then before the altar kneeling, Cross, bright Cross, thy sign once more;
•Faith’s most loyal proof revealing, Trace we, as our hearts adore.
With the Mass prayers interblending, Oh, we learn thy wondrous might,
Living Calvary o’er, while bending ’Neath thy shadow, Cross of light
There is not a nook of nature,
There is not in boundless space, Flower, nor star, nor tiniest creature, But from thee drinks all its grace.
Ah, can true and deep devotion
• Eyen in her strongest flight
Find on plain, in air, on ocean, Aught like thee, dear Cross of light?
Man on earth, in meek submission,
' Bowing to divine decree;
Dignified in mean condition,
Takes his grandeur all from thee:
Seraph, too, in contemplation, Where no woes are known, nor blight—
Ah, he owes his preservation Unto thee, loved Cross of light!
Even Mary, in her glory As conceived Immaculate, ■ Adds her pathos to the story, Fair creation’s antedate.
• O’er her ever-Virgin splendor
God’s pure fiat carved in white,
As her crown of love most tender, A resplendent cross of light.
Blissful Cross! there are no dangers, No disasters turned aside,
Even from men who walk as strangers To their Saviour Crucified,	.
But have been, and are averted, Solely, simply by thy might;
Even from souls who have deserted, Turned from thee, dear Cross of Light.
O bright sign of our redemption!
Let us love thee, as the mark
Of ineffable exemption
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY; CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Cavenor, Claffey, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Feehan, Wiley, Bland, Beal, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, Chrischellis, Donnelly, Fendrick, R. Fishburne, Glennon, Heneberry, L. Lancaster, McKenna, A. Nash, H. Nash, M. Price, Ave Price, M. A. Ryan, Rasche, Simms, Shickey, Vander Haden, L. Van Patten, H. Van Patten, Wall, Edie Call, Craine, Barlow, Black, Casey, Etta Call, L. Coryell, M. Fishburne, Hackett, Keenan, Legnard, Leydon, McCoy, McGordon, Mowry, Owens, Margaret Price, Mary Price, Papin, Rosing, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Rulison, Thompson, Todd, Waters, Wright, A. Chirhart, Thoman, Pease, Sawyer, Wallace, Bremond, Davenport, K. Fenlon, Fleming, Behler, L. English, Mulligan, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Watson, Williams, Adderly, Clifford, Wagner, Harrigan, Newton, Metzger, Foster, Hughes, A. Castanedo, B. English, Gavan, Green, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, Mulvey, Pampell, Smith, Northrop, Eldridge, Parker, Watson, De Hart.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. .
Par Excellence—Misses Ginz, C. Lancaster, Spaugler, Ramsey, Semmes, Eager, A. Clarke, Chirhart, Considine, Coogan, Casey, M. Dillon, Heneberry, Morgan, Martin, G. O’Neill, Paquette, Robertson, Wright, Mosher, Fehr, F. Castanedo, Ewing, Hibbins, Krick, McGrath, Welch, Condron, Sullivan, Coyne, Chaves, Mattis, Otero, Robinson, Schmidt, Mary Otis, Best.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses A. English, J. English, Rigney, Sawyer, Campau, Martha Otis, Burtis, McGrath, Browne, J. McKennon.
Class Honors.
[The pupils mentioned in this list are those who have been best in the classes of the Course named—according to the monthly competitions.]
Logic—Misses Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Feehan, Hanbury, Lancaster, M. Wiley; History—Misses Claffey, Cavenor, Hanbury, Walsh; Ancient History—Misses Barlow, Etta Call, Casey, M. Fishburne, Ginz, Keenan, K. Lancaster, Legnard, Mowry, McCoy, S. Papin, Rulison, Semmes, Shickey; Chemistry—Misses Fendrick, L. Lancaster, McKenna, Ave Price, Rasche, Simms, Thompson, Todd, Wall; Rhetoric—Misses M.Campbell, C. Campbell, Chrischellis, Edie Call, R. Fishburne, Fendrick, L. Lancaster, McKenna, Ave Price, M. A. Ryan, A. Rasche, Simms, Shickey, Wall, Barlow, Etta Call, Maude Casey, Chirhart, M. Fishburne, Ginz, Hackett, Keenan, C. Lancaster, Legnard, Mowry, Owens, Mary Price, S. Papin, J. Reilly, V. Reilly, Rulison, Ramsey, Spangler, Semmes, E. Todd, Thompson, Wallace, Waters; Grammar—Misses Edie Call, Chrischellis, C. Campbell, Fendrick, R. Fishburne, L. Lancaster, McKenna, Ave Price, Rasche, M. A. Ryan, Simms, Shickey, Wall, A. Chirhart, Maud Casey, Keenan, Legnard, Mary Price, S; Papin, J. Reilly, V. Reilly, M. Richardson, Rulison, Semmes, Spangler, Thompson, Todd, Wallace, M. Chirhart, Considine, M. Dillon, Green, Robertson, Northrop; Geography—Misses Mary Chirhart, Ada Clarke, M. Coogan, N. Hicks.