

Do you have too little 
responsibility? Would you like the weight of the world (well, a weekly magazine) on your shoulders? 
Then apply to be Scholastic's 
IE]])Ilu(Q)ffi JIN CCIBIJIJEJF 


Applicants should have a solid background in journalism combined with strong writing skills and managerial ability. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduate is eligible to apply. 
For information contact Kathleen McKernan in the Scholastic office at 239­7 5 69. 
All completed applications are due by November 22, 1988 at 5 p.m. 







Cover·• 
I?~stfr~m. C<>ri}in··••Digger Phelps is),anking. on sikeci aAci til.Ieri(fu ·•.· 
9ye~cc,rn,~ .in9J<perienc~ and take tlleJrish. to a·Final Four appearance 
inSeattle. By Jim Maggio/ Pagel6 
. · ___·-;·-:' . ·_-_._: ..._,_,. -___ ._
-_, . 

]~e··•ForceThis.••• ycar. thewome?'sb<1sketb<1HJealll iis •. Ioolcfogito get .•..·.· 
s91T1e respectaround the league \Vith a forceful group of tall women; 
ijy.La.ui:itS001merla<l/Page20 
·.·.•.... ;·•··< >·•··•···••· i.·• iii.·.•·· )··•>i•·<ii .·x i.·1~:•..f~of~iAJ~pugh··~e•.. rrie?'sbask.efb.all tearri .• has• no.seniors,··it · · cI95s have atale?ted.fr~shmanin.LaPhonso Ellis. 
ByJon Paul Potts/ Page13 

News ••xJ~1.;~Jf~~-;g~Jv~it\6~iP;/i~~}:[
Set Apart The rumor of a Shell Oil Company-sponsored post-apartheid institute on campus has sparked new debate over the issue of university investment in South Africa. DisCEJ QuasfSernpefViqtuwi
Vive Quasi Crasi Moriturus 
By Kathy Flynn/ Page 6 i • / i• 
Features Foul'ld~ 1867 < . 
J.P. II at the ten-year mark The former Cardinal Karol Wojtyla has spent ten years as the ~~ltoti11C:lliElf:./ spiritual leader ofthe largest Church in the world, with both outstanding success and controversy. Kc1lhleen McKerr1.c1p 
By Ian Mitchell/ Page 25 Man1:1glng/Editor:
1--------------------------------------4 JerryLyhch
Sports -----:-·..c: ,, ·. -..-:-:.:_--:-. _./ : :-":":··:·:-·-/ 
Executlvf) Editor: 

Will the Nittany Lions Roar or Whimper? The number one-ranked Fighting Irish take on Joe 
Mike Farnan .. 

Paterno and the Nittany Lions for the last Irish home game of the 1988 season. -:-:.-t>:·i ·;-__._ .... _:--... ---: \?(:__ -: -... :.: -;:-·_-\_·(}-:-:_-___-_:: 
By Chris Kiley/ Page 10 
E~jt.orlal••.§.ta.~.:. i••. ;.... ••·••·i·•··...... / iii••· i :ix/
Sports:.·•.l<evin.Bpllghal . Sportsweek A weekly roundup of the lesser-known varsity sports./ Page 24 News: AndY Hilg~r.Mike Wieber1-------------------------------------i•·q9py:·•Jo~.Mc1lori~y C •
F7!tures.: ••.~faggieSieger Departments Departments: Amy Weber Production: · 
Week in Distortion Suggestions to help out in that rat race to a career./ Page 3 .··· systems ,..~n~g~: Maf1..a~gi~ ; Music New covers of some classic songs from way, way back./ Page 5 Gr~phlc.tts.Ma~ager:yivienn;.·•· On Other Campuses "The Pie Man" strikes fear into the hearts of professors./ Page 4 Pc1c:lill~>.i • i ••l·•..•· ...•·••···•· ·••·•ii . ·/ ·X/X•••
·photo Mllnager:Jv1ari p~uda • ·..· · · Coming Distractions A list of what's going on, both here and in the area./Page 27 Ad Design: Ros Winner. . Ernie Pook's Com.eek "Mary Sue Pracer"/ Page 32 .·/_/\::.•-::::,:: ..-":.,:i.:::j:::· Final Word Senior Shawn Patrick writes about student managers./Page 30 



sJ~,nel!:.i .· .··. > r 
·"'a.nag.E;"..=.\lf.f}i•.8.hf}e..J"<>h.. x.••.• ••••··•·•.·i>•t 

Editorial A~vertlslng:··DiannaBillings, Heidi Traupman ·· · ·· 
Search for divestment, not conspiracies The divestment issue has been trivialized. /Page 31 
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at$ 1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in 
Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Schola.stic or of the University of Notre 
Dame, its adn:iinistration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are 
welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1988 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 
Letters 
Music critic Ingraham misses mark on"progressive" music 
Dear Editor; I was rather disappointed by Heather Ingraham' s article in the November 10 issue concerning progressive music. Being a stu­dent here for a little more than two months, I was very concerned about what I called "musical ignorance" here on campus. Ingraham's article on progressive music fan­bashing exemplifies my idea very well. · Upon arriving at Notre Dame, I was well-exposed to progressive music during my high school years. This past spring and summer I spent a large part of my Friday or Saturday nights venturing into cramped bars and clubs in New York City, Trenton and Hoboken, NJ. to see my favorite bands. What I was surprised to hear here was that the term "progressive music" was being beaten to death. The fans of progressive music, obviously a significant minority for a large university, were very active in pushing what they termed to be "real music" through vari­ous outlets such as Theodore's and WVFI. Heather Ingraham does make a good point when she says that it's "too easy to play progressive here." All too often I have seen people (not just Notre Dame students) jump on the progressive bandwagon and think they're "hipsters" just because they own a few Erasure, New Order or Smiths tapes. What Ingraham refuses to mention is that the opposite discrimination against pro­gressive music fans is more common. Too many times I have been told to turn my "fag music down," or "why can't you listen to normal music like everyone else?" I have been put down and insulted just because I choose to listen to music that is different from the majority. I never purposely insult other people or look down upon them just because they choose to listen to Bon Jovi rather than the B uzzcocks; Finally, back home in New Jersey the term "progressive music" was rarely used by anyone I knew who listened to that stuff. Like everyone else, we just called it "rock androll." It'stimeforprogressivemusicfans to stop treating popular music fans like igno­rant second-class citizens, and for popular music fans to end their insulting attacks on 
those who choose to listen to alternative development. The Graduate Club, located in music. the Wilson Commons Building, has recently Jeff Jotz been revitalized through the efforts of its new Freshman Year of Studies management. The GSU is enthusiastically Fisher Hall supportive of the Graduate Club, and we encourage all graduate students to visit the GSU chief praises coverage club and begin to take advantage of the social alternatives it offers. This is one way in
Dear Editor, 
which we can work for a unified graduateI would like to thank you and the Scholas­community that is able both to articulate its tic staff for your support of graduate student concerns clearly and to share its talents with concerns, and for the thoughtful coverage of . the rest of the Notre Dame community. 
the graduate school question in your last Thank you again for your support. 
issue. 
Victor J. Krebs 
Undergraduate student support is invalu­President, GSU 

able for us in making the university more aware of the unique needs and concerns of graduate students at Notre Dame. We be­lieve that once the special situation of gradu­ate students is understood and attended to, we will see a more integrated graduate student community, as well as an enriched Notre Dame. 
I also would like to take this opportunity to make graduate students aware of a recent . 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
$42 
Distributor for Montain Man Nut .:i.nd Fruit Co. 
Knitted panel insert and knitted collars available in eight designs: cats, geese, houses, cows, apples, tulips, sampler, and poinsettia. 

Only 38 days until Christmas! 
Open Monday through Friday 12:00-6:30. Located in the basement of LaFortune. 


Week In Distortion/ Mike Keegan 
What Do You Wanna Be If You Grow Up? 
Mike Keegan offers a few suggestions to help you be whatever you want ... almost. 
I t began over three years ago. You the eternal question, "What am I going to spent more time memonzmg the came to Notre Dame as a silly, wide­be?" With this in mind, I would like to offer Budweiser label than your econ notes. eyed freshman, ready for the chal­a few words of wisdom to all my fellow Don't panic, just slightly rephrase the lenges that higher education presents. You classmates. question. Say something like, "I think you thought to yourself, "I'm going to graduate First, when creating your resume, em­meant to ask me who won the World from Notre Dame and become a brain sur­bellish a lot. Why? Everyone else is doing Series. That would be the Los Angeles geon and make oodles of money." Your it. Don't be naive and think your friends Dodgers." You answered a question whole life was planned out. Then, some­aren't Hey, this is the business world correctly, and that's the most important thing happened. Homework and tests you're entering. It's every man for him­thing. started to take a back seat to power naps, self. Your friend will tell you, "No, John. I Third, if you decide to take the LSAT, hangovers, and the quest for the perfect just put on my resume that I was a mail GMAT, or the MCAT, always act likeyou buzz. Throughout sophomore year and clerk for a scientific research firm," when studied your brains out for the test and feel junior year, you thought more of spring actually, adopting the Ivan Boesky ethics as though you know nothing. And after the break than you did of physics or ofbusiness, he has typed on his resume that test is over, always complain how hard and Shakespeare. Finally, senior year began he was the Assistant Researcher of impossible it was. Say stuff like, "I know and you scratched your head, not because Monoglucose Fusion. Also, companies I failed" or "That was the most unfair test it was itchy, but because reality struck want you to embellish -no kidding. When I've ever taken" or "I didn't want to be a home as you asked yourself the question, I asked an interviewer why that section, doctor anyway," while making puppy dog "What am I going to do next year?" along with the infamous activities section, eyes and acting disgusted. This prepares For seniors, this question presents the was part of a resume, she said that a com­the people around you, especially your highest degree ofpanic (next to, ofcourse, pany wants to see how creative a potential parents, for the worst Then when the your girlfriend asking you what you think employee can be. Type on your resume results come, act shocked like you did so about becoming a father). For three years, that you are on the Student Board ofTrus­much better than you thought, even if you the question has been avoided and now it tees to the University ofNotre Dame. How did poorly. Exclaim, "I can't believe I did must be answered. But it never fails, if are they ever going to know that you this well, all that studying must have paid college taught these pitiful collegians one aren't? Be creative, they love it. off!" or "This is so much better than I thing, it was how to be resourceful. Armed Second, during interviews always try to expected!" This way you avoid all poten­with the expertise of creating excuses, the avoid the question being asked. For in­tial problems. ability to sling a little you know what, and stance, say you are an economics major Remember that if you don't get a job or the vocabulary ofthe Sunday funnies, each · who's spent most of his time at the Com­you don't get into to graduate school, senior makes a desperate quest to find a mons instead of the library. During an don't panic -there are many other options future. interview you 're asked, "Son, what do you open. You could always regress and go Even with all ofthese valuable weapons, think today's GNP indicates about the fu­back home to freeload off Mom and Dad; a senior can become confused and disori­ture economy of the United States?" You they won't care. Or, the Dining Hall has a ented as he tries to find himself, to answer don't know the answer because you've terrific health plan. I know; I inquired! ¦ 

On Other Campuses 
UFOs 
on Campus 
Whether it's bagels or cream pies, they're not allowed 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 
Professors are now safe at Baylor University. After an extensive investigation, police at Baylor got their revenge on a man who made extra money by helping students cream professors. According to an article in The Villanovan, the officers arrested a man known as "The Pie Man," who, through advertisements chalked on campus sidewalks, made arrangements 
· with students to hit their professors in the face with cream pies during class. The charge for this prank was $50 ($30 to pie other students). 
What dough can we throw? The University ofPennsylvania says 
no ... to bagels; yes to toast Students at Penn have recently won the right to throw toast, but not bagels, from the stands at home football games, the College Press Service reports. At one game earlier this season Penn students became infuriated with security officials who had confiscated toast from them so that they could not throw it onto the field when the school's band played the song "Drink a Highball." The toast throwing began at a 1984 game, when the students decided to respond literally to a line in the song worded, "So here's a toast to dear old Penn." It has since become a tradition. But on that infamous day when security dared to take away the sacred toast, this tradition was violated and the students responded with a plethora of "hate mail" to the administration. In response William Epstein, assistant to the president, announced that it was the throwing of frozen bagels and loaves of bread, that could cause possible injury, that the school wanted to halt, not toast-throwing. Steve Hurlbut, the sports infor­mation director, added "we don't want anyone geting whacked with a whole loaf (of bread)." 
What's in a name? In October, Pomona and Pitzer colleges in 
Claremont, California, hosted the 1988 Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches Association Rolex Southern California Small College Regional Men's Singles Championship. As far as tournament names go it would be hard to top that one. Ori east one would think it would be. In Long Beach, however, Sports Illustrated reports that a three­on-three basketball tournament this weekend will be called The 1st Annual One and Only Gus Macker 'fer sure, All-Hollywood, All­Sandblaster, All-Corey, All-Joe, All-Mazz, All-World, All-Galaxy, All-Universe Invitational Takin' It to the Colonel's Bucket Three­On-Three Outdoor Backyard-Style Call Your Own on the Beautiful Campus of Long Beach State Charity Basketball Tournament. ... if you think it's hard to say try typing it! 
Want an 'A' on your next paper; how about on all your papers? 
If it is worth paying between $7 and $22 per page then the perfect paper can be yours anytime you want The wave of companies that sell ready-made term papers have caused quite a "ruff' at our nation's universities and colleges recently. And colleges across the country are making new efforts to short-circuit these companies, according to an article in The Chronicle for Higher Education. Companies like Research Assistance based in Los Angeles makes a living by selling these papers, which they refer to as "editorial assistance" papers, to students who make procrastination a way of life. The papers are aproximatel y $7 a page for a stock papers and up to $22 a page for a custom paper. These companies publish a catalogue which has papers on everything and the student (customer) can pick out whichever type he wants. For example, Research Assistance has a list of 16,242 letter perfect research papers, each of which is unique, for the buyer to choose from. College administra­tions are trying to keep one step ahead of these companies by informing their faculty to report any and every suspicious paper to them. The officials, themselves, have a copy of the catalogues and attempt to trace the papers down. They have not had much luck in this process, however, due to the policy of these companies to not issue more than one of the same paper to the same campus. . ¦ 
Music/ Scott Sullivan 
Here We Go Again 
Cover songs revive those oldies but goodies and sometimes, they're even better. 
Let's face it, with November comes boredom. Even new releases by the college quiche bands (egad! more R.E.M. and U2) have rubbed me like an icepick through the eardrum. So now the best new stuff is usually old, by stan­dard and conviction, but new by conven­tion. Try saying that ten times fast while listening to R.E.M.'s "Orange Crush" played backwards. The work of satan. I don't hate U2 or R.E.M., but the doldrums ofthe impending winter have forced me to delve into the bastions of the past. 
A lot of our culture lately has been just a rehashing of old ideas and fashions. Andy Warhol (God rest his soul) made a fortune with familiar sights, but he visu­ally remolded them to create an unusually vivid image; cream of mushroom soup never looked so good. WhatI'm getting at is the cover song. Bands playing other bands songs, and sometimes making them better. And ifnotbetter, at least not all that bad and twice as interesting. Every band starts off doing covers in garages, parties and alleys and wherever else they can set up an amp. 
Wedding receptions are, of course, cover heaven. Nothing like hearing a bit of spicy country Van Halen to make you want to get fall-down drunk and dance with your Aunt Gert. Ofcourse, your local lounge or bar-n-grill offer the finest in imitation slick-dog covers from "Copaca­bana" to "Wanted Dead or Alive". How do you think the likes of Bob Goulet, Wayne Newton et. al. have been making their re­spective fortunes in Vegas? Bagels? 
So now you'll understand why my hit parade lately has been soaked with these little gems. Remember the Byrds' "Eight Miles High"? That whimsical little tune by those psychedelic virtuosos was brought to higher levels (of distortion) by those erst­while punks, Husker Du (God rest their souls, too). Bob Mould's grating vocals/ screams/moans are classic early Huskers. Okay so he sort of murders it, but it's an interesting interpretation if nothing else. Husker Du also have fiddled with Donovan's "Sunshine Superman" and ac­tually don't leave it for dead. 
The always cheerful Jesus and Mary Chain must have a Beach Boy in their closet, behind their happy-go-lucky ebony wardrobe, next to their Jan and Dean al­bums. What, with covers of Surfin' USA and Surf City, these guys must have a secret longing to hang ten. When I listen to these songs I picture Jan and Dean as vagrant heroin addicts chanting emotionless lyrics to Brian Wilson, who has not been known for his stability. Droning simplicity; there's beauty in there somewhere. The Chain gang have never prided themselves on their hip dance music. 
Tis the season to break out the old Stiff Little Fingers albums and munch on their versions of "Running Bear" and "White Christmas". It makes you thankful that you have Bing and Mitch Miller to fall back on. SLF methodically grinds through "Run­ning Bear" and then pulls out all the stops on "White Christmas". Naked Raygun, does a decent version of Stiff Little Fin­gers' "Suspect Device". Even Camper Van Beethoven offered a version of Simon and Garfunkel's "Kodachrome" at their con­cert at the Cabaret Metro last month. 
Recently, the cover has grown to the divine proportions of a mouse. Mickey Mouse, that is. The Replacements, Tom Waits, Sinead O'Connor and about twenty other musicians got together to recreate the sound of Disney on Stay Awake , out on A&M Records. Paul Westerberg brings to life "Cruella De Ville" from 101 Dalma­tians in the same way he crooned "Night­club Jitters". Dogs making love. Very Beautiful. Tom Waits, with his raggedy vocal chords grinds out a dark version of "Heigh Ho (The Dwarfs Marching Song)". Grumpy and the gang wouldn't recognize it Sinead O'Connor's rendition of"Some Day My Prince Will Come" sounds like Marilyn Monroe singing happy birthday to JFK. 
So you never need to buy any new music again. Ever. But do it anyway. Or just dig up and throw in these oldies (don't dig in and throw up for God's sake). You know what I mean. ¦ 




The rumor ofa Shell Oil Company-sponsored post-apartheid institute on campus has sparked new debate over the issue ofuniversity investment 
BY KATHY FLYNN 
f Amandla!" cries senior John Paul 
Checkett, chair-person of the 
Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Net­work, his fist raised in the air. "Ngwetul" re­spond the protesters assembled on the steps ofthe Administration Building, repeating the gesture. With that chant, the Anti­Apartheid's weekly rallies at 12: 15 on Friday 
afternoon come to a 
close. 
Despite the promi­
nence of the rallies, 
they are just one place 
where the dissenting 
opinions on the solu­
tions to Apartheid can 
be heard. Debates 
over this issue have 
been raging on cam­
pus and throughout 
the country for the 
past ten years, but 
because of the recent 
news that formation 
of a Center for Post­
Apartheid Study is 
in South Africa 
being considered at Notre Dame, this contro­versy has returned to the limelight. 
Some factions believe that the corporations who have still not divested in South Africa, specifically the Shell Oil Company, wish to take the focus off of their actions and the present situation by shifting that focus to a study of post-apartheid South Africa. 
"Notre Dame is co-operating with a Shell 

Students cheer "Ngwetu" at the close of a recent rally. 
campaign to take pressure off South Africa and to establish an Institute for the Study of Post-Apartheid Problems," wrote govern­ment professor Peter Walshe in a recent ar­ticle of Common Sense, an independent on­campus newspaper. Funds for this project come through Pagan International, the public relations firm hired by Shell, Walshe said. 
Others are not convinced. "Shell has abso­lutely nothing to do with the proposed center at a major American Univer­sity," Mr. James Arm­strong, former Methodist bishop ofindiana, said in a letter responding to Pro­fessor Walshe's article. "The Center for Dialogue and Development is the sole •enabler' involved. It has not received one penny from Pagan Inter­, national." Yet Checkett said that he thinks that Pagan could be channeling the money """"-'=...;.j~' through some othersource Marl Okuda 


J 
.. ,' 
r 
~=-~ ...,._-,•.-_fflirl.::__.;~_~:.-.:;_~rn •.'.:: ..,;_~.:1',,,,~••;~.:1r.:~.·;,;.,1.;a;;;;;,:.o;;.:::...~~~;,;;:}';,;;~.,::::}'n;.;. ..~::..: ..~.;;.1~;,:;.-;;;.,;;.;i'.ii!::..:~~ly.;;.=_~========'='-----=== • I
.•-~-·•=_,_·~-::,=~· __ .•.:.•,·.'~.:i~.·.·hr ..~~~~-~:..:·~~-..:.r::..:
·-··-~=-~---·.!,._l@!--~-~-.:..-~_.... ..-.~_~,'.~.:.:;, 

-!"'.....,., ,..,,..,,_ HL~ ,,,,,,____ _ ..c, --'-'I Haun~. ~lOW~'{Q', d~.iin-.s~y.r-:1,-~~ ~~ 'pimm~~ fc~ ~c~ fur~~ :s~udy {1~·~-. ! toproveadirectconnection between the two, tion with the group. "Ihaveneverbeentoone Apartheid South Africa would not be a bad he said. meeting," he said. "They just wanted me to idea, Williams said. "Itwould be a forum for 
Walshe's assertion that Armstrong is a for­raise money for education." those on both sides of the issue of divest-mer Pagan-employee is true, said Arm­Williams also remains stalwart in his posi-ment," he said. Itis around this issue that the strong. However, his "views on South Africa tion that the idea for the creation of a Center traditional debate has occurred. are well-documented and were not dictated for the Study ofPost-Apartheid South Africa "People of good will disagree on what the by Shell, Pagan or anyone else," Armstrong is not affiliated at all with Shell or Pagan. moral policy is on South Africa," Williams said. "The first meetings that Walshe refers to as said. "I think anybody of good will sees 
Father Oliver Williams, an associate pro­meetings of the 'planning group that was put apartheid as an evil. Where we disagree is on vost and professor ofbusiness ethics at Notre together to firm up the Notre Dame proposal' how to overcome this evil." Dame, also responded to some of Walshe's in May and October of 1987 were informal In 1977, Father Leon Sullivan, a black statements about him in the recent article. 'brainstorming' gatherings", said Williams. pastor from Philadelphia and board member Walshe said that Williams worked closely "Idid not attend those meetings as a represen-of the General Motors Corporation, came up with John Caldwell, who he said is another tative of Notre Dame, but as an independent with the Sullivan Principles for companies 
of policies with which

tion on South Africa. In companies should comply 
addition to providing ifthey remain in South Af­
scholarships for blacks, this organization was rica. The codes stipulate a 
"designed, in part, to integrated work place, equal pay
channel further invest­ment into South Africa, " scales, and equal opportu­Walshe said. nity for advancement ofall . •·,I Denying any knowl­races. .,'I 
edge of the existence or Although Sullivan no 'I any association wit}) any­longer stands by these prin­one named John ciples, Notre Dame contin­Caldwell~ Williams said, ues to base its South Afri­., "I don't know where can policy on them.. "Eco­I Walshe gets his facts." nomic boycotts often hurt .I Williams is listed on the those they are supposed to 
·board of the Coalition, help," said Father Richard although nobody named Zang, investment officer 
J
for Notre Dame. Much ofJohn Caldwell is. Wil~ 

r 

Notre Dame's attitude on this subject has come from studies done on the South African blacks. One such study, The South Africa Review Service, published by the Investor Responsibility Research Center, has sur­veyed the blacks on their feelings about di­vestment. "As far as can be determined by public opinion polls, the majority ofAfricans in South Africa do not advocate that U.S. and other foreign companies withdraw from South Africa and do not favor other eco­nomic sanctions against South Africa as a tactic to help end apartheid if those measures will also increase black unemployment," the study said. 
Supporters of comprehensive sanctions has been a failure to change the basic struc-In contrast to this, Zang said that the corpo­against in South Africa consist of groups ture of the political system. "When the rations involved in South Africa have gone 
Checkett (in suit} leads the Anti-Apartheid Network at their rally. Marl Okuda ment are the last 
economic sane------'---------------'--------------=--------------' road to peaceful 


tions by divesting all of their interests in blacks leave work -walk through the factory South Africa. Walshe maintains that the ma-gates -they go back into apartheid South Af­

change. If that doesn't happen, there's going to be a revolution." 
On the other hand, Williams said that, al­though it's true that the current policy hasn't dismantled apartheid, he sees no better way than to "slowly erode it while helping the blacks by giving them jobs and giving them dignity." 
Bishop Richard L. Fisher stated his view of the situation in a speech given in Washington in 1987. "There is a saying in Africa that when the water buffaloes fight it is the flies which are killed. No matter how the conflict in South Africa is resolved or its relations with the United States goes, it is the black South African who will bear the burden and feel the pain." · 

Please send ___years of Scholastic to: 
NAME ___________________--'---------­ADDRESS 

Make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine· LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x _ years = $___ 
Will T Li 
n r 
r 


Whi 

The number one­ranked Fighting Irish take on Joe Paterno and theNittanyLionsfor the last Irish home game of the 1988 season 
BY CHRIS KILEY 
I 
f Batman and Robin were to follow the progress of both Notre Dame and Penn State the past two years, they would be quick to exclaim, ".Holy role reversal!" In 1986 Penn State entered Notre Dame Stadium unbeaten and sec­ond-ranked, looking for a Fiesta Bowl bid and prospective national championship against a 4-5 Irish squad that was strug­gling for an ounce of respect. This week­end, it will be the top-ranked Irish who will be looking for a trip to Tempe, Arizona against a Penn State University squad that has fallen on hard times. Why the sudden change? Many analysts attribute Penn State's mediocre 5-5 record to the fact that the are a c clical 

They have several "off' years that lead up arriving in 1986. to numerous successful seasons. Notre Saturday's contest could prove to be a Dame's rise to the top has been attributed to milestone for both teams. Penn State hasn't Head Coach Lou Holtz's excellent recruit­had a record below .500 since 1938 -the ing and masterful use of this talent since longest ever in NCAA history. 



they took the wind f---,---,----,-""""'-:--,---.,......,......,.....~f::---,--~a.....,.,......,.....--=--.,......,.....--,-.,.....---,---,-.,.....-::, 
Penn State sorely misses the excep­tional talent ofinjured running back Blair Thomas, and his re­placements have paled in comparison. Gary Brown has rushed for a team­high 607 yards behind senior fullback John Greene (74 carries for 339 yards). However, the Lions have yet to find a workhorse bark and a talented, bruis­ing fullback. The days of Curt Warner and Tim Manoa are faint memories. 
On the other hand, Notre Dame has put their scoring machine in overdrive. After a 

Notre Dame historically has had prob­!ems with Joe Patemo's teams. The Irish have lost two straight heartbreakers under Holtz (24-19 in '86and 21-20 in '87). J.,ast year's loss was particularly disappointing 
because the seventh-ranked Irish were taking an 8-1 record to Beaver Stadium in hopes of a national championship. Not only did Penn State stop Tony Rice's two-point conversion attempt to win 21-20, but 
Speedsters Mark Green (left), Raghlb "Rocket" Ismail (right) and Tony Brooks (bottom) have helpedthe Irish offense put points on the scoreboard in a hurry. (Top,ChuckRay:below,MarlOkuda) 
ier this year. Penn State's offense is suffer­ing growing pains, with the lack ofleader­ship blatantly obvious at quarterback and running back. Redshirt senior quarterback Lance Lonergan should get the starting nod come Saturday, but he has replaced two other inexperienced and apparently inept quarterbacks. Tom Bill was injured in the Rutgers game early in the season and was replaced by frC$hman Tony Sacca. Al­though a promising prospect out of high school, Sacca looked more like a tackling dummy than a quarterback in two embar­rassing losses to West Virginia and Ala­
. bama. 




lackluster pcrfonnance against a hapless Navy squad, Notre Dame came back to pulverize the winless Owls of Rice 54-11. Tony Rice's passing has progressed (55 of 111 for 894 yards) and should continue to develop as he becomes an all-around signal caller. The line has continued to solidify, even with the enonnous amount of rotation to include guards Mike Brennan, a senior walk-on, and Joe Allen, a sophomore. Tail­backs Tony Brooks and Mark Green have consistently made it look easy as the Irish backfield has racked up over 1700 yards 
thus far this year. . 
However, this Cadillac backfield may face a fonnidable foe in the Nittany Lions defense. Holtz is quick to sing praise for Penn State. ''Take away the West Virginia game and Penn State's defensive statistics are as good as any in the country," said Holtz. "They've run at least 40 defenses already this year, so their defensive scheme is as complex as anything we see all year." 
Led by linebackers Andre Collins (87 iackles) and Scott Gob (51 tackles), Penn State is currently ranked 20th in the nation against the rush. However, the defensive line, led by Dave Szott and Rich Schone­wolf, has not generated much ofa pass rush. This leaves the aerial defense in the hands of a troubled, "bend but don't break" secon­dary riddled by injuries. Junior hero back Brian Chizmar was expected to carry the load, but a midseason injury has hampered his playing time. Eddie Johnson, a former comer­back, has been moved to free safety and has not progressed much at that position since Paterno last year tabbed him as the greatest comerback ever at Penn State. 
Even with all the prob-1 
lems Penn State is having, Holtz knows not to take ·this team lightly, for the Lions have bitten the Irish 
in the past 
"I don't think there's 
any doubt that Penn State 
will come in here and play 
as fine a football game as 
they've played all year," 
said Holtz. "When I
" tball t I1 t
eva ua ea 100 earn, 
don't care how they've perfonned,I look at how they're capable of perfonning. Penn State is as capable as any team in the coun­try, that's what scares you." 
Holtz's fears may be relieved when Notre Dame's defense takes the field. Two years ago, the Irish defense was characterized by bulk and a gross lack of speed on the line. These problems have been remedied by a combination ofquickness and competitive­ness in the fonn of Chris Zorich, George Williams and Jeff Alm. This line, currently ranked 12th in rushing defense, has ac­counted for seven and a half sacks and 10 other tackles for losses while holding four teams below the 100-yard mark in rushing. Nothing more need be said about the out­standing linebacking corps that includes a Butkus Award candidate in Mike Stone­breaker (with 95 tackles) and 1987 second­team All-American Ned Bolcar. 
The big question about Saturday's contest will be how the Irish will respond to a week of rest These midseason siestas have not been good for Lou Holtz and the Irish, char­acterized by Notre Dame's disappointing loss to Pitt last year and Holtz's 4-6 career record after his team has been idle. 
"Sometimes you like an opening early in the year because it gives you a chance to get healthy and make some personnel adjust­ments," said Holtz. "However, we're rela­tively healthy and I don't think we're going to change much in our lineup after nine games have gone by. We had built up some momentum in the win over Rice, so I really would have preferred to play a game last weekend." 
Despite all the speculation and intan­gibles, one thing remains certain. Notre Dame has an excellent chance to make the role reversal complete and have history repeat itself by beating the Nittany Lions. Then Gotham City will be alive with shouts of"Holy Fiesta Bowl, Batman!" II 
Scholastic 


THE 

Digger's basketball team will not have any seniors on it, but the team does have talented freshmen including LaPhonso Ellis, who was one of the most highly-recruited basketball players in 
. 

country coming out of high school 
Mari Okuda 

Digger Phelps' "super-frosh" LaPhonso Ellis will have to spend a lot of time under the net If the Irish hope to have a successful year. 
BY JON PAUL POTTS 

To all you rabid college hoops fans . out there, picture this: March Madness is in full swing, and Notre Dame fans, recently recovered from cele­bration of the football team's tremendously · successful season, are watching a young Notre Dame basketball team rip through the tournament with eyes on the big prize -a Final Four bid. Far fetched you say? Not if super-frosh LaPhonso Ellis can help it Ellis, a 6-foot-9. center/forward, is the leader ofa blue-chip class offreshmen rated seventh best in the nation by the Sporting News College Basketball Preview. Coach Richard "Digger" Phelps is hoping the freshmen will mature quickly and help the young seniorless team into the tournament. 
"We're a young team, but there are a lot of teams from last year that lost a lot ofkey people," said Ellis. "We just have to estab­lish ourselves in the first four or five games and let them know we can be a powerhouse. It's a matter of proving ourselves." 
Sought after by many ofthe top schools in the country, Ellis has compiled an impres­sive preseason portfolio. Both Inside Sports and the Sporting News have him ranked in their top ten incoming freshmen list and Sports Illustrated has him on their All-Freshman First Team alongside bluechippers Alonzo Mourning of Geor­getown and Billy Owens of Syracuse. But if he had his way, he might still be in high school. 
"High school was a nice experience," said Ellis. "I wish maybe I could have spent another year in high school, we had so much fun. I call home a lot. But, you have to let things come to pass." 
The high school he speaks of is Lincoln High School in East St. Louis, Illinois where he averaged 23.4 points per game and 18.7 rebounds per game as he led his team to two straight Illinois prep titles. 
Don't get him wrong, however; he is enjoying Notre Dame and has been pleas­antly surprised by the campus life thus far. 
"It's a lot more than I expected," said Ellis. "It (Notre Dame) being a small school, I didn't think we'd have much fun. I thought it would bestrictly academics and ball, but it's been more than that You can find plenty ofthings to do, even during the week when classes are going pretty hard." 
Ellis has also found that he gets along 




Marl Okuda 

Ellis enjoys free time with his friends JimTurecek (couch) and "Butch" Peterson. 
well with the students, teachers and coaches &t Notre Dame. 
"The people are great," said Ellis. "I was sort of comparing them when I went out to UCLA. Some of the people in UCLA are kind ofsnobbish and everybody here is cool and very friendly." 
Planning to study Business Administra­tio11, Ellis is currently enrolled in the Fresh­man Year of Studies and is finding his classes relatively easy, ''The classes are sort of easy because they offer you so much help," Ellis says, "Basically, all the fresh­men basketball and football players are tutored. So that makes it a lot easier." 
The college game has been a transition . for Ellis. In high school, he played center and dominated. But now he has to adjust to a whole different level as a power forward at the college level. Practices now consist of Ellis having learned new plays and then going over them again and again. 
"It's a Iittle tougher mentally because you have to concentrate on each little situation. In doing that, you can get confused out on the floor because in two weeks they've thrown about twelve plays at us at once!" 
"We're doing play-by-play every day," said Ellis. "Forinstance, we '11 only do three plays in one day and we' 11 go over and over those set plays, so that it makes it a lot easier." 
He also feels it will be tou h to ad'ust to all the travelling ofmajor collegiate sports. In fact, that is the one facet ofcollege hoops he is not looking forward to with great anticipation. But Phelps has fashioned the schedule so that the players will only miss one day of classes. 

The recruiting process was vigorous and Ellis had to make a tough decision when he came to Notre Dame. He was courted by UCLA, Syracuse, Georgetown, North Carolina State and Illinois, college basket­ball powers all, but he ended up at Notre Dame for some interesting reasons. Phelps paid him many personal visits and Ellis feels that these efforts proved the sincerity ofNotre Dame's interest in him. But it also seems Ellis has an eye on the future. 
"I wanted to go to a small school really. But also Notre Dame gets a lot ofmedia and media is what I think will get me into the 
"I wanted to go to a. SIIlalL 
school really. BuL .also 
a lof of 
, ..·· 
cinsO:~uig.· 

National Basketball Association. So I thought it was the ideal place for me." 
Unlike college football players, college basketball players have the option to leave school earl and utilize the NBA hardshi 

\ 
Marl Okuda 

Ellis shows his stuff at a recent prac:tlce. Phelps has tailor made his offense to Ellis' style, which Is the run and press system. 
rule. Iffaced with this dilemma, ning style, the game Ellis loves however, Ellis indicates a de­and the game he played all the sire to stick it out and stay in way through high school. school all four years. "Digger is a real cool guy," said 
"If I'm doing real well and I Ellis. "When he was recruiting, I have a chance to go, maybe my had a whole lot of doubts about junior year, I won't go," he said, him because he was telling me "I'll stay in school." about how he was going to 
Ellis feels he has made the change the program. I didn't right choice and knows he will want to come to a half-court thrive in the run and press sys­game situation and that was the 
tem which Phelps has em­kind ofgame plan I know he had. ployed. Ellis prefers to liken But this year he's changed it to­himself to, if anyone, Karl tally." And it seems that Phelps Malone of the NBA's Utah is now using a more up-tempo Jazz, a banger who runs the and exciting run and press style.· floor well and can score. He The team has its work cut out feels his greatest assets as a for them. Early tests against the player are his ballhandling and Olympic silver medalist Yugo­his ability to shoot outside or slavian national team, Indiana play with his back to the basket. and Duke could be a harbinger 
But scoring and running are for the rest of the '88-'89 season. important to his game. When • When the team plays Syracuse, Phelps first recruited him, Ellis Ellis will be up against his friend was wary because recent Notre Derrick Coleman, a potential Dame teams have employed a All-America forward. Let's ball-control, half-court game hope he'll be ready and like Karl plan. Phelps came to him tell-"1'----=------------~....::....-------1 "the Mailman" Malone, he;ll
Marl Okuda 
ing him he'd change to a run-At 6-foot-9, Ellis has no trouble getting up for a slam-dunk. deliver. 


Digger Phelps is banking on speed and talent to overcome inexperience and take the Irish to a Final Four appear­

tickets, or, more apparently, the fans' dis­satisfaction with the Fighting Irish style of play in recent years. Had you asked any random student last year what he or she thought of Notre Dame's slow-down, ball­control offense, you would have likely been greeted with a yawn and an empty box of NoDoz. But if you ask Phelps what ap-
Scholastic 


ance in Seattle 
BY JIM MAGGIO 

"We won't go out there to impress people.just to win ... ifwe had played tran­sition with (North) Carolina, we would have been buried." 
-Notre Dame basketball coach Richard "Digger" Phelps, Scholastic (11/19/87) 
" ... once we mature as a basketball team, this team is going to be very, very exciting to watch. I just love our style of play because we want to press, we want to run." -Digger Phelps, Scholastic (11/17 /88) 

What a dif­ference a y e a r makes. Perhaps Billy Joel had the Notre Dame men's basket­ball team in mind when he recorded a re­make of Bob Dylan's hit song, "The Times, They Are A­Changin'." Well, maybe not. But you get the idea, and if Phelps success­fully executes his grand plan, the times will definitely be changing for the better this winter in the cozy confines of the Joyce Athletic and Convo­cation Center. But for 

Phelps, who is in his 18th season as head coach at Notre Dame, the bigger challenge at the present time has been convincing potential ticket holders of that. 
Thus far people just aren't buying it, literally. Student ticket sales are markedly down this year, be it due to the distraction of the football team's success, the price of proach his team is going to cake this season, you get the feeling that he is making an earnest effort to rouse the sleepyheads and win back fan interest. 


~ "This year there's going to be exciting 
!basketball for the students and the fans to
Iwatch," said Phelps. "I think once this team 
~ plays and people see their style of play, people will want tickets." Fans got an early taste of what to expect in Sunday's charity intrasquad scrimmage. In thirty minutes of nonstop action (there were no time outs and only one substitu­tion), the White team outscored the Blue 74-66. Project that over the forty minutes it 
ville, and SMU, not to mention continu­ing rivalries with Indiana, Duke, DePaul, Marquette and Dayton. 
"When you have that type ofcompeti­
team, this team is going to be very, very exciting to watch," said Phelps. "I just love our style 
Sharpshooters Joe Fredrick (left) Keith Adkins are dual three 
oint threats.  Mari Okuda  
want to press, we  lettermen (four juniors, two sophomores)  
want to run. We've  and five freshmen. The task of leading this  
been doing that the  young group goes to a pair ofjunior guards,  
past three weeks of  co-captains Jamere Jackson and Joe Fre­ 
practice. They're  drick. Jackson, for one, sees the challenge  
picking up on it  ahead but remains confident that the transi~  
pretty well, but  tion will be a successful one.  
they're going to  "I consider myself as part of the glue to  
make mistakes and I  this team," said Jackson. "We've got a lot  
think people are  of young and inexperienced guys here, and  
going to have to un­ it's up to me to help them develop and keep  
derstand that."  us together as a team.  
What makes Notre  "It's no burden, though," he continued.  
Dame's task immi­ "It would be if we had a bunch ofguys who  
nently difficult is the  want to play for themselves. But we've got  
scarcity of seniors.  players here who are willing to work hard  
There aren't any.  and make the sacrifices necessary to make  
Forward Mark Ste­ us a winning team."  
venson, who would  "We're on pace right now in where we  
have been the team's  want to be," said Fredrick following his 28­ 
leading returning  point perfonnance in the intrasquad scrim­ 
scorer (10.5 points  mage. "Westartedoutslow, but that's only  
per game last year),  to be expected with five newcomers. We're  
.;;,,,,,,,.~.................-----=='""'"=="""' transferred to  young, but ifwe can get the kinks out by the  
looking at a team that, ifall goes as planned,  Duquesne, while 6-foot-7 long-distance  time March rolls around we're going to be a  
has the potential to score nearly 100 points  shooter Sean Connor (4.0 ppg) chose to  tough team."  
per contest.  join the Irish football squad as a punter.  Jackson and Fredrick will have plenty of  
Phelps can also point to a stacked home  Junior forward Tony Jackson also left the  help in the backcourt. Sophomore Tim  
schedule to sell his product. Gone are  squad, infonning the university that he  ,-Singleton (1.9 ppg, 38 assists in 28 games),  
patsies such as Prarie View A&M and  intends to transfer to another school next  ' who saw limited playing time last season  
Hardin-Simmons, and in are national  semester.  behind David Rivers, figures to step in atthe  
powers such as Syracuse, Temple, Louis- That leaves the Irish with six returning  point guard spot. He faces a stiff challenge  

17



from 6-foot-1 freshman Elmer Bennett, a Parade All-American guard from Bellaire High School in Houston who averaged over 35 points and six rebounds per game last year. Two other freshmen, 6-foot-5 Daimon Sweet and 6-foot-2 Keith Adkins, also fig­ure to see plenty of playing time in a fast­break offense and pressing defense, with Adkins looking to solidify his reputation as a deadly three-point shooter. Junior guard Tim Crawford (6-4, 180), last spring's MVP in the Bookstore Basketball all-star game, earned a spot on the roster following walk-on tryouts in October. Should Sweet and Adkins catch on quickly, Jackson will be afforded more freedom to serve as a swingman, a role he performed admirably well last season. The frontcourt, while facing a regroup­ 
 in Coraopolis, will serve as the backup. Should Robinson be able to bounce back from his injury and run the floor effec­tively, it will make life much easier for a pair of talented forwards. Sophomore Kevin Ellery (6-5, 220), who saw limited action last season, should step in and show many more flashes of the talent that earned him UPI player of the year honors in Ken­tucky as a high school senior in 1986-87. The other forward is the one freshman who stands to make the biggest impact early on, 6-foot-9 Parade All-American LaPhonso Ellis (see page 13). "I think LaPhonso Ellis is probably one of the premier players that we've ever had here," said Phelps. Ellis brings with him a list ofimpressive credentials, averaging 23 points, 19 rebounds and six blocks per game last year at Lincoln High School in  

ing process, has the athletes to get the job done. Junior center Keith Robinson (6-9, 200), Notre Dame's leading returning _scorer and rebounder (9.6 ppg, 7.1 re­bounds), took some hard falls Sunday on the right foot he fractured in June but should still be ready for the start of the season. Regardless of whether or not Robinson is able to go at full speed, junior Scott Paddock (6-9, 235) will see a lot of time in the paint as well. Paddock started 16 games last season and looked strong in Sunday's scrimmage. Freshman Keith Tower (6-11, 235), a Pennsylvania all­state center from Moon Area High School East St. Louis, IL. But Phelps also waves the caution flag in touting his blue-chip prospect, pointing out that Ellis "has got to make that transition coming out of high school. He'll find that out early in the season." 
With early season games against Ken­tucky and Indiana, Ellis won't be the only playerneeding to adjust quickly. But as the Irish football squad is finding out this year, youth and winning are not mutually exclu­sive entities. In the case of Phelps' team, youth seems to be paying positive divi­dends already. 





"This is the strangest team I've ever been associated with," said Paddock. "We're a young team with a really tough schedule facing us, yet the chemistry is the best of any team since I've been here. Sure, expe­rience is good, but youth can be good, too." 
"We're really hungry this year, and I think it's because this is a starless team," 
looked to David (Rivers). It's the chemis­try, not David, that's going to hold this team together this year." 
The new-look Irish realize the road ahead could be treacherous. Nevertheless, they remain confident and feel they have the capability of surprising people and erasing the many doubts surrounding this team. 
"If you look at what Indiana did in '87 and what Kansas did last year, you see what teams with supposedly limited talent are capable of doing," said Jackson. "We see ourselves in that light. Ifwe're playing well come February and March, there's no tell­ing how far we can go in the (NCAA) tournament." 
The Irish are no strangers to the NCAA tournament, having appeared there 12 times during Digger Phelps' reign as head coach. The Final Four, however, has eluded them since 1978, and one might think that such is an unrealistic goal for any team as young as Notre Dame's. Don't tell that to the Irish squad, though. Their locker room is adorned with three signs near the door that constantly remind them of their ultimate objectives: "Battle to Seattle," "Seattle -Final Four," and "Make the 
. Impossible Happen." 
"That's what I think our whole theme is," said Phelps in reference to the third objec­tive. "It's similar to the Dodgers and what 
(winning the World Series this year against a powerful Oakland team). They just be­lieved and had the chemistry going, and that's what made up for their lack oftalent. 
"Battle to Seattle -that's what we're believing," he continued. "It's not that we're predicting that we're going to the Final Four. There's a difference because it isa battle to get to Seattle. Butlthink that's how you have to think as a basketball team." 
Ofcourse,justhow far Notre Dame goes this season remains to be seen. But wher­ever they wind up, the Irish will at least be running and gunning towards a lot of ex­citement. And if hope and confidence are any indication, they won't be running on empty. 
19



This year the women's basketball team is looking to get some respect around the league with a group of tall women who have nicknamed themselves the Force 
BY LAURIE SOMMERLAD 
O.K., so they don't have "DE­FENSE" tattooed on the back of their practice shorts like the men's team, and they most likely will not be needing Digger Phelps' new shatter-proof backboards. But the 1988-89 women's basketball team is ready for a big season. Muffet McGraw, the head coach of the women's basketball team, is about to begin her second season here at Notre Dame and already she and the team have lofty goals. They expect not only to make it to the NCAA tournament, but also to break into the women's basketball top twenty as well. Last year, the first season in which they utilized McGraw's up-tempo fast break style, the women finished a respectable 20­8, but according to the coach, were "very disappointed" because they received no bid· to the tournament. However, an enthusias~ic McGraw thinks this year will be different "This year we have to beat the right teams; we have eight games on the sched­ule with teams that went to the tournament last year and we have to split in those," said McGraw. "We have the schedule to do it." 




The team will be looking to sophomore Karen Robinson to take over the point guard position vacated by Mary Gavin, who was lost to graduation last year. Robinson has been billed by the women's basketball media guide as an "exceptionally fast player who creates tremendous excitement with her up-tempo style of play." 
"We are going to be a lot different looking team," said McGraw, "Mary was a steady, consistent, slow methodical kind ofplayer, whereas Karen is very up-tempo and excit­ing to watch." 
McGraw added that she and her players like the 30-second clock. "We don't have any problem with it; it's more like a decora­tion. I like this kind of game; it's what I played and I feel comfortable with this style." 
McGraw described her first recruiting season for Notre Dame as "a bit disappoint­ing because the freshman seem to be pro­gressing more slowly than the returning players. 
"They're not ready to start or anything, 


but Comalita Haysbert(a six-foot freshman guard from Baltimore) is really playing well because she can play up-tempo, and the other three (freshmen) are improving every day," said McGraw. "We're mainly looking for them to contribute. However, we just signed two very good players re­cently; one of whom is Dione Smith out of Indianapolis who is 6-foot-3 and is ranked as about the 35th best player in the coun­try." 
Thcreisnodoubtin McGraw's mind that the key to the Notre Dame women's future success in recruiting lies in the balance of an NCAA bid this year. 
"It's self-perpetuating," said McGraw. 'This year if we get there, it's like a sign to therecruitsthat 'Yes, wecandoit.' Soifwe get there once it's so much easier to get back." 
Much of the team's hopes of national recognition lies in the shooting hand ofco­captain Heidi Bunck, a 6-foot-4 senior for­ward. Bunck could be the first Notre Dame basketball player to be named an AII­American. She was named the Midwest Collegiate Conference Player of the Year last year and is coming into this season as the MCC coaches' pre-season Player ofthe Year. But the coach who has perhaps the most respect for Bunek is her own coach, Muffet McGraw. 
"Heidi Bunek is certainly a key for us inside," said McGraw. "If she has another season like she had last year, we feel as though she has All-America potential. She is one of the best centers in the country, and we really believe that she can carry the team." 
Co-captain Lisa Kuhns, a 5-foot-10 sen­ior guard from Ft. Walton Beach, FL, has a 23-game three-point shooting streak com­ing into this season and will balance Bunek's inside efforts with her outside shooting ability. 
Other key players for McGraw's run-and­gun offense include Diondra Toney, a 5­foot-9 senior from Chicago, IL, who is bat­tling her way back from a knee injury. Alternating at the off guard and small for­ward positions, Toney can prove to be a primary force in the press and fast break. 
Annie Schwartz, a 6-foot-3 junior for­ward from Ann Arbor, Ml, is both an inside and outside threat for the Irish. 
Chuck Ray
Chuck Ray 

Co-captain Heidi Bunek, 6-4 (Right), and freshman center Marga­
Carol Elliot, 12, earned a scholar~hlp this year after two· 
ret Nowlin, 6-1 (right), both bring height to the Women's team. 
years as a walk-on. 



injuries last year, sophomore guard Krissi Davis (5-foot-9, Noblesville, IN) will be able to return to the backcourt in a big guard role. 
Sara Liebscher, a 5-foot-8 sophomore guard from Davenport, IA, looks to be the number two guard for the Irish. According to the media guide she is "thetype ofplayer who always seems to be in the right place at the right time." 
Rounding out the 1988-89 roster are fresh­men Deb Fitzgerald (a 5-foot-10 guard from Watertown, WD,MargaretNowlin (a 6-foot­l center from St Paul, MN), Jennifer Tranel ( a 6-foot-2 forward from Broadview, M1), and freshman walk-on Maureen Nelligan, a 5-foot-7 guard from St. Joseph, MI. 
Fitzgerald will be called upon to balance the outside shooting powers of Kuhns, whereas Nowlin will see action as a relief for Bunek at the inside positions. Tranel will share the role with Nowlin when needed. Nelligan, according to the media guide, "caught the collective eye of the coaching staff with spunky play and attitude" and she will be useful as a backup in either the point or off guard role. 
On most basketball teams, height and quickness do not necessarily go hand-in­hand. However, McGraw's tall women can combine the two, and she feels quite comfort­able that her team can run the fast break. 
"Bunek runs very well; there are actually a lot oftimes that she can beat the guards down the floor, and Cathy Emigholz, (a 6-foot-I junior forward from Staten Island, NY) is also another great athlete," said McGraw. 
A pleasant surprise for those who have followed the women's team is Carol Elliott, a junior guard who stands at only 5-foot-5. After two years as a walk-on, she has finally earned a scholarship on the team. 
"Her role will be to back up point guard Karen Robinson," said McGraw. "Carol is a smart player who knows how to get things done, plus she knows how to play within her role. She has got such a good head for the game and works so hard that I felt she de­served to be rewarded." 
"Itwas my goal to come to Notre Dame and to play basketball and that's what I'vedone," said Elliott. "On the whole, it's been excel­lent." 
Co-captains Bunek and Kuhns are as en­thusiastic about their upcoming season as they are about their coach. "She's a very positive person and it's very catchy," said Kuhns. 

"With her we feel that we can break into the top twenty and get to the NCAA tourna­ment," added Bunek. "We're going to be exciting because the tempo is going to be so much quicker." 
With this new profile, the women's basket­ball program hopes to attract more fans. "We're trying to do some promotional things and get out into the community and talk to the people," said McGraw. "We have every­thing we need in terms of budgets, staff, and facilities; wejusthave to get the people in the stands and that should help us a lot. The people want to get what they pay for, they want to be entertained." 

With the team's new look there is no doubt that basketball fans will get anything less for their money from the 1988-89 women's basketball team. 
This team has no gimmicks or mottos for the upcoming season,simply because they do not feel that they need them. 
"How can you not be enthusiastic being at Notre Dame? The attitude of the girls is great," said McGraw. "This is such a won­derful place that I sometimes have to say, 'Pinch me, am I really here?' This is the top of the ladder for me." 
All coach McGraw and her team have to do now is begin their climb up the real ladder, the NCAA ladder, to put themselves where they deserve to be. Notre Dame fans have a much easier job; all they have to do is sit back, watch and, of course, be entertained. ¦ 


------. , , -.­
' -------~ -------------:..:::,___ ._____ ~------------------!,_; -...... ---, --.::-_ -! _;::~-~-.:~ -~ ,--..-:.\~,~-~,,,. -· ..,._ ;. ,-_--'"' 


Advertise in the 1988 Scholastic Football Review issue 
Submit advertising copy by 1/27/89 
Contact Qianna Billings or Heidi Traupman at 239-7569 for information.· 
23

• November 17, 1988 

COMPILED BY MANUEL ESPINO
sports 
e k 
•·MENtS SOCCER••··· 



The Notre Dame men's soccer team (17-4-2) 
ended an outstanding season with a tough 2-0 loss to Southern Methodist Univerity (11-2-6) in its first­ever NCAA tournament match. The Mustangs, 
ranked 11th in the final !SAA poll, tied a school record with their 12th shutout this year. SMU will play St. Louis in the second round of the tournament. 
The Irish finished their season ranked 15th in the final !SAA poll. Highlights include victories over top-caliber opponents such as Evansville, St. Louis, Boston University and Penn State, as well as a tie with state rival Indiana. Senior RANDY MORRIS, the 
MCC Player of the Year, was joined by teammates JOE STERNBERG and JOHN GUIGNON on the all­MCC team. Head coach DENNIS GRACE earned MCC Coach of the Year honors in leading his team to its finest season yet. 

The Irish men's cross country team earned its second straight NCAA championship bid by placing second in the District IV meet in Champaign, Illinois. The Irish finished behind defending champion Wis­consin and ahead of Michigan and Central Michigan. Notre Dame was led by senior RON MARKEZICH, who took eighth place in 31:34.9. He was followed by senior captain DANGARR ET, who placed 16th in 
31 :56.5. Also posting impressive performances were RYAN CAHILL (32:22.3), TOM O'ROURKE 
(32:22.6) and RICK MULVEY (32:43.5). 
The NCAA bid was the result of team effort, as the top five runners finished within a minute and ten seconds of each other. In addition, Notre Dame coach 
I~ish ..• \Y()inen,'s •<·"''"•· . .. .•.. ,, 
. sfim. ty~};clf~<?nstz'.a~.~~ryersati\}itiJ
'pY."'..i~.~i,rrgJ~e:,Jq . '.;]ir,d .freesjyiej{ ,;(1,:09,8,i)@cl.i9q+y~1.... , . > .·.. •· y'{2:2({04f"
.. 
i~. a,clua}:m~(aga,i~~tiI:~#IsSlatela~t Saturday: ~~f peffom1~9~§}ielpedN:9tri:· .IJatrie.def,~fthe Lady:Bt:fi149gs 132Wrti: 
" S C , 
•-; -,~;•-?.:.: ~­


Joe Piane was named District IV Coach of the Year for 
the second consecutive year. The Irish will try to cap their season with a strong performance in the NCAA championships Nov. 21 in Des Moines, IA~ 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team placed 15th at the District IV meet, completing its third season. of varsity competition. Wisconsin and Michigan fin­ished first and second, respectively, and will represent the district in the NCAA championships. 
The top Irish finisher in the 5000-meter race was senior co-captain THERESA RICE, who placed 30th in 
18:36. She was followed by LUCY NUSRALA, 
LINDA FILAR, TERESA LEMANSKI and JEN­NIFER LEDRICK. Notre Dame took second place at the MCC championships earlier in the season. 
The Notre Dame hockey team (3-5-2) tied Air Force on Friday 6-6 and then lost to the Falcons on Saturday 6-3. In Friday's contest, the Irish rallied from a 6-3 deficit to earn the tie. BOB BILTON, MIKE MUSTY, TIM KUEHL, CHRIS OLSON, MA TT HANZEL and DAVID BANKOSKE each scored goals, while goalie LANCE MADSON held the Falcons scoreless in the overtime period. Kuehl, BOBBY HERBER and ROY BEMISS each scored goals in Saturday's game, while 
Madson turned away 57 shots. The Irish will host Lake Forest tomorrow night at 
8:30 in the JACC Fieldhouse, followed by a game at Lake Forest, IL on Saturday.

t-----.....----....,.,.....--.,.....--.,.....____-,f 
·. M-7RES'fLING 

.,__--'-.;.;...;.;...;.;...;.;...;.;.._.;.;.._.;.;...;.;...;.;...;.;...;.;...;.;.._;.....;-'-'! 
Notre Dame turned in a strong performance by de­feating Air Force36-9inits first dual meet of the season. Four Irish wrestlers posted pins: JERRY DURSO (I 34 lb.), PAT BOYD (142 lb.),MARK GERARDI (158 lb.) 
and CHRIS GENESER (177 lb.). Other Irish winners include ANDY RADENBAUGH (I 18 lb.), MARCUS GOWENS (126 lb.) and TODD LAYTON (150 lb.). Radenbaugh, Gowens and Geneser remain undefeated 
this season. The Irish travel to St. Louis, MO this weekend to compete in the St. Louis Open Saturday, Nov. 19. 
preskivivictorfb •Tnnin his9p­
in t agai .. e••on y. 0 a.11cl· a e to .·· ·• 
·:: ····. ... . . . • . . .. :.:·:=~· ..·.·· .. :·:.:=-··/ ::-/: :~, 
squad of Birmingham, JOHN FROMAN, TOM P and TOM BLANK set another University record with time of 1 :30.80. 
Notre Dame will take a two-week break to prepar for the National Catholic Invitational Dec. 1-3 at La­Salle in Philadelphia, PA. 
The Notre Dame women's swim team (2-1) als posted victories over Wisconsin-Milwaukee (165-141 and Ferris State State (132-107). Th·e squad won its firs meet led by KATIE PAMENTER, who finished first· 
the 200-yard freestyle, 200-yard backstroke and swa the backstroke leg on the winning 200-yard medle relay in the first meet. ALLISON BAKER took firs place in the three-meter board event and placed secon in the one-meter board event. In the second meet, AM TRI grabbed two first-place finishes in the 1000-ya~ freestyle arid 200-yard butterfly. JACKIE JONES too first in the200-yard freestyle and swam a leg ofthe400 yard freestyle relay. The women's team takes a two-week break as well t ready itself for the National Catholic Invitational Dec. 1-3. 
Oklahoma, Wisconsin and Missouri are schools scheduled to compete . 


ii;1t't;M~N'S s~~JNG 

J2;.....;.;.:...2:;:!;2J~~'._.'.:~~IBJ~~~-_:±!i!;:1§]iJ The Notre Dame men's swim team (2-1) posted two impressive victories in dual meets against Wisconsin­Milwaukee (172-127) and Ferris State (152-83). The Irish had ten first-place finishes against Wisconsin-Mil­waukee and first-place finishes in every event against Ferris State. BILLJACKOBOICEand JIM BIRMING­HAM set a University record in the 200-yard medley relay with a time of 1 :42.11. The 200-yard free relay 
The women's volleyball team (16-9) won its tw matches against Duke (15-7, 15-8, 15-6) and North western (15-3, 15-5, 15-5) to win the Golden Dome Classic last weekend in the JACC. MARY KA WALLER was named MVP of the tournament. JULI BREMNER and MAUREEN SHEA were both name to the seven-person all-tournament team. Waller had 2 kills and Shea had 16 digs and 14 kills, while Bremner' 78 assists enabled her to set the Irish single-season record in that category with 1,058. 



J.P. II AT THE TEN-YEAR MARK 
The former Cardinal Karol Wojtyla has spent ten years as the spiritual leader ofthe largest Church in the world, with both outstanding success 
and controversy 
BY IAN MITCHELL 

H e is "an extraordinary man," said Ralph Mclnemy, director of the Jacques Maritain Center. "He's a poet, playwright, philosopher, theologian, he can sing..." Some see him as the chief obstacle to modernization; others hail him as Lhe defender of tradition. He is an interna­tional traveller and media figure who has survived two assassination attempts. He plays many roles and wears many hats, but he is most famous for the miter he wears as Pope John Paul II. On October 16 John Paul II celebrated the 10th anniversary of his election to the pa­pacy. The Church's first Polish pope, and the firstnon-Italianpopein455 years, the former Cardinal Karol Wojtyla has presided over the world's largest Church through a turbulent ten years. Most agree that he has transformed the papacy by bringing it into the modem world. He has left a definite mark on the Church that will be felt for years to come ­perhaps most notably in the areas of travel, women's concerns within the Church, chal­lenges to official Church teachings and au­thority and in the realm of social justice. Pope John Paul is history's most travelled pope; he has visited 78 countries outside Italy. These travels have been widely cov­ered by the press, making the pope an ex­tremely visible symbol of Catholicism. "(His) symbolism has had far more of an impact" than the papacies of less-travelled VicarsofChrist, saidMclnemy. Monsignor Joseph Gremillion, director emeritus of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, sees the pope as stressing the global nature of the Church through his visits. "The very fact that he is travelling around the wor Id tells the world that the Church is universal," said Gremillion. "By that very fact he is showing that the Church is not just for Europe and · North America, but for the world." 
Sister Regina Coll, director offield educa­tion in the Department of Theology, how­ever, questioned the wisdom of the Holy Father's travelling ata time when the operat­ing debt of the Vatican exceeds $60 million. "It perhaps would be better for the pope to stay in Rome-which is, after all, his diocese-
Pope John Paul ordains American Father Farrell Peternell in Rome. 
than to be travelling around the world," said Coll. "His travels have been perceived by some as being extravagant" 
One of the pope's most recently released documents discusses the role ofwomen in the Church. The papal letter has been critized as sexist: Its depiction of women's roles treats them as inferior to men. "Thepope speak~ of women having two vocations: the vocation ofmotherhood and the vocation ofvirginity," said Coll. "I think this is hardly something he would say ofmen. He speaks ofthe notion of 'complimentarity'; women are perceived as completing the talents of men." Church teachings. · ''(Pope John Paul) has it becomes simply a matter of truth in adver­

Mclnemy, however, believes that the pope been patient almost to a fault in terms of tising," said Mclnerny. has adequately addressed women's con­dissent," said Mclnerny. "His [papacy] has The pope has also dealt with the concerns cerns. "I think he's responded to them and. been pastoral, paternal, but firm." of social justice and human rights throughout he's sympathetic; he's certainly not disdain­Indeed, John Paul did act firmly in dealing the world. His second social encyclical dealt ful," said Mcinerny. "He's almost a feminist with Lefebre, whom he excommunicated with the exploitation of the Third World by in terms of respect for women." Gremillion from the church for the unauthorized ordina-the industrialized nstions. Father Rober Pel­agreed that some progress had been made, tion of three bishops in June. Lefebre leads ton, director of the Institue for Pastoral and but pointed out the most obvious stumbling­a group of Catholics opposed to the reforms· Social Ministry, sees the importance of that block to further gains. "He has permitted the of the Vatican II liturgical council which encyclical "as part of the living tradition of increase of women's roles to some degree," modernized Church practices. Most be-the Church." Pelton feels that the pope has said Gremillion. "But he is still negative Iieved that the pope made every effort to shownrealconcemforthepoor. "He'sbuild­concerning the ultimate ordination of avoid the excommunication. "I think he ing on tradition; I think he's done it very women." went to the last yard with him," Gremillion effectively, particularly in reference to the 
While the pope has drawn the line at the said. "I believe Lefebre is wrong in trying to majority ofpoor persons in the Third World," issue of female ordination, both Gremillion move the Church back to the middle ages." said Pelton. "He, through his leadership, has and Coll see women priests as an inevitable Coll concurs that the pope was patient in provided hope for the very poor persons of and eventual reality. "I believe that the his dealings with Lefebre, but expressed Latin America; they see their leader really ordination of women will be permitted ulti­regret that he had not shown similar patience does care for them." Pelton, while apprecia­mately, but not by him," Gremillion said. towards dissent from church theologians: tive of the work of the pope in the area of "Perhaps within ten years." "He certainly held out an open hand as long human rights, still sees room for progress. "I 
No less controversial has been the pope's as possible [to Lefebre]," said Coll. "I wish think that he will be remembered for his dealing with what he sees as challenges to the that he had extended the same courtesies to social consciousness; but I think there's lots faith. During the past decade, the pope has the Charlie Currans of the world." of areas for growth," he said. dealt with and discussed such divisive issues Father Charles Curran is a priest at the Pope John Paul II may go down in history as the schismatic movement led by Arch~ Catholic Univeristy of America who was as one ofthe most controversial figures in the bishop Marcel Lefebre, the teachings of stripped of his canonical right to teach church. Mclnerny sees him as a voice of Catholic theologians and their freedom to Catholic theology. Some of his personal constancy amidst change who declares that dissent from the teachings of the magis­beliefs, especially those concerning divorce old. values still apply in the modem world. terium (Church doctrine). and sexual morality, conflicted with the offi-"What he represents is reassurance. He is a 
The Roman Catholic Church's teachings cial teachings of the Church. Mcinerny sup-symbol ofstability for Catholics," said Mein­have come under fire from several directions ports the pope's action, calling it a matter of emy. "I think he will go down as one of the during the past ten years, but the pope has "simple honesty" that a Catholic theologian, 'major' popes. This could have been a diffi­been a firm defender of the traditional faith. should teach the beliefs of the Catholic cult time [for the Church]. I know there area Mcinerny believes that the Holy Father has Church. "If you are teaching things which lotofpeoplewhodon'tlikehim.Idon'tthink been fairly tolerant of those who objected to are clearly in conflict with the magisterium, there are many who don't respect him." II 
. .··:



./'. ""JGWAil!Wftc~~wflll'ONS.' 


·/':fIIU~Sl)J\1\r;•&r()~;_ 14'.'+ 

Meeting The University of Notre Dame Board of Trustees will meet November 18 and 19 i the Center for Continuing Education. 
Workshop Gala-Kellogg.Graduate Student Worksho "Is a New Form of Conciliatory Politics Possible in Chile?" by Volker Frank, graduate student in the Department of Sociology, at 12 noon in room 131 of Decio Hall. 
Lectures 
Kellogg Institute and the Committee for Western European Studies Lecture "Work and Politics in Italy Twenty Years After the 'Hot Autumn,"' by Prof, Marino Regini, Trento Universtiy, Italy. Room 131 of Decio Hall at4 p.m. 
The College of Business Administration Year of Cultural Diversity Lecture "Mi­norities, Markets nad Corporate Strate­gies," by Carl Ware, Vice-President of Coca-Cola. At 4:30 pm. in room 122 of Hayes Healy. 
Basketball 
Notre Dame Women vs. Mexican Na­tional Team at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC. 
Movie 
High Anxiety at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Mel Brooks plays the director of the Institute for the Very,Very Nervous in a spoof of Alfred Hitchcock. Harvey Korman and Cloris Leachman are the head doctor and nurse who enjoy a gleefully sadomaso­chistic relationship after hours. Director and screenplay: Mel Brooks. 

AA Meeting 
Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous 
from 7:30 to 8:30 a.m. in the Holy Cross House. 
Workshop 
Department of Economics Public Policy Workshop "Analysis of Human Suffering Indexes Used in Policy Analysis--Are People Really Suffering?" by Dr. Dennis Ahlburg, University of Minnesota. In room 131 of Decio Hall at 11:30 a.m. 
Party 
Eighth Annual Senior Class Block Party in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. From 3 to 6 p.m. For more information, call Kathleen Maglicic, 238­1348 or Chris Lee 288-9855. 
Lecture 
"Probability in Nature: An Empiricist 
View," by Prof. Bas von Fraassen, 
Princeton University. In the Library 
Lounge at 3:30 p.m. 
Mathematical Colloquium · "Recent Progress On An Eliptic Equa­
tion," by Prof. Wei-Ming Ni, University 
of Minnesota. In Room 226 of the 
Computer Center and Mathematic 
Building at 4:30 p.m. 
Hockey 
Notre Dame vs. Lake Forest at 7:30 p.m. 
in theJACC. 
Basketball 
Notre Dame Men vs. Zadar, the Yugo­
slavian National Team at 8 p.m. in the 
JACC. 
Rally 
Join the Notre Dame football team, 
coaches, band and cheerleaders as they 
prepare for the final home game of the 
season vs. Penn State. At 7:30 p.m. on 
the Stepan Courts. 
Films 
African Studies Program and the ND African Student Association Biko-Stewart African Film Series "Biko: Breaking the Silence;" the first in-depth study of the life and thoughts of Steven Biko. At 8 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
The Moderns at 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. in th Annenburg Auditorium. A comic reverie on Americans in Paris in the 1920's, Rudolph's newest film is a self-conscious and audacious look at theconnections between art, commerce and the movies. Keith Carradine brilliantly plays a down and out artist in a forgeryscheme that involves paintings by Cezanne, Modigli­ani and Matisse. A number ofdirector Alan Rudolph's ensemble company of actors join him again in a very personal film that he has wanted to make for 20 years, among them Geraldine Chaplin and Genevieve Bujold. 
Jagged Edge at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Page Forrester, the beautiful and wealthy San Francisco newspaper heiress, is savagely slain at the secluded beach house that she shared with her husband, Jack, publisher and editor-in-chies of the city's family daily. It had all the earmarks of a ritual killing. The cause of the death was obvious: the victim dies of multiple stab 
wounds inflicted with what appeared to a hunting knife, the kind with a serrated, jagged edge. But who did it? 
··• <SiTJ.JRDAYO,:NOV~\l9'•i. 
REAL Examination 
From 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. in Cushing Engi­
neering Auditorium. 
AA Meeting 
Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anony­mous sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Center for Social Concerns. In the Multi-purpose room of the Center for Social Concerns at 
9:30 a.m. 

Open House 
Center for Social Concerns Open House from IO to 11:30 a.m. 
Football 
The undefeated, top-ranked University of Notre Dame Fighting Irish take on the Penn State Nittany Lions at 12 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Movie 
Priw's Honor at 8 and 10: 15 p.m. in the 
Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Hit 
man meets hit woman in this bizarre 
comedy from veteran director John 
Huston. Jack Nicholson stars as a ruthless 
enforcer for the Prizzi clan, one of the 
richest crime syndicates in the country. 
When an equally cold-blooded, free-lance 
killer (Kathleen Turner) steals his heart, 
murder becomes a family affair! Based 
on the best-selling novel by Richard 
Condon, Prizzi's Honor is an outrageous, 
biting send-up of the hard-hearted world 
of organized crime, and one of 1985's 
biggest hits. 
Concerts 
Saint Mary's College Music Department 
Wind Ensemble Concert, Roger Briggs, 
director. In the Little Theater at 3 p.m. 

! 
1.· Department of Music University Artists Series Concert Kuijken Quartet--Baroque Flute, Violin, Viola and Cello. At the Snite Museum of Art at 7 p.m. 


Movies 
She Wore A Yellow Ribbon at 7 p.m. in 
the Annenberg Auditorium. John Wayne 
is exceJlent as a rugged calvary officer 
about to retire who faces one last encoun­
ter with some rampaging Indians. A 
touch of melancholy pervades this 

,,,: western as Wayne's character seems to 
! 
have nowhere to go after he retires; his 

I 
! 28 
I 
wife has died, and the calvary has taken the place of a family. The film makes use of one of director John Ford's favorite themes-the passing of of the Old West, represented by Wayne, to make way for civilization. Gilda at 9 p.m. in the Annenberg Audito­rium. Highly charged Film Noir story of an emotional triangle-mysterious South American casino owner George Macready, his man-Friday John Ford, and Masready's new wife, Rita Hayworth. This is Hayworth's most successful film, in which she sings "Put the Blame On Mame." 
Valley ofthe Dolls at 7 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. Barbara Parkins, Patty Duke and Sharon Tate decide on a career in show business in this film version of Jacqueline Susann's pulp novel directed by Mark Robson. 
Avantegarde seminar visiting filmmaker at 9 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. A short, program of of avantgarde films, presented by the filmmaker, with discus­sion afterwards. Filmmaker and films to be announced. 
South Bend Area 
Art Centers and Galleries Isis Gallery: Notre Dame Art and Design Department Building; exhibit of photo­graphs by Laurie Novak of New York ends Friday; 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. week­days. 
Memorial Hospital, South Bend: Exhibit of works by Eleanor Chain, Martha Radanovich and Bruce Falazarano, in the 


corridor galleries. 
Saint Mary's College: Chicago Gallery exhibit and National Juried Cup Show open Friday, Moreau Hall galleries; IO 
a.m. to noon, and 1 to 4 p.m. Tuesdays through Fridays, IO a.m. to noon Satur­days, 1 to 3 p.m. Sundays. 
Snite Museum of Art: University of Notre Dame; "Wanderlust," exhibit of photo­graphs of distant lands, pritnt and photog­raphy gallery; museumwide display of "New and Conserved Works of Art in the Galleries" continues through winter; permanebt collections of works from all periods always on view; 1 to 4 p.m. Sundays, IO a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesdays through Saturdays. 
Films 
Spectacular U.S. 89: Canada to Mexico 8 
p.m. Friday, Nov. 18 in O'Laughlin Auditorium on the SMC campus. Spon­sored by the South Bend Lions Club. 
Birth ofa Nation at 8 p.m. Saturday, Nov. 19, in the Indiana State University at South Bend Little Theatre. 
Lectures and Seminars 
A Look at the Life of Laura Ingalls Wilder at 7 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 17. in the Bittersweet Branch Library, Mishawaka. 
Reflections on the Elections: After Israel and America Vote. Lecture by Wolf Blitzer, Washington, D.C., bureau chief for the Jerusalem Post; 7:30 p.m. Thurs­day, Nov. 17, in the Temple Beth-EL, 305 
W. Madison St 
Museums, Libraries, Nature Centers Fernwood Nature Center: "Thanksgiving for the Birds," learn more about area bird from IO a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday. Regular hours from noon to 5 p.m. on Sundays, 







CHICAGO 
Studebaker National Museum; noon to 4 Forum 
p.m. on Sundays, IO a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
Child's Play 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
Auditorium Theatre presents An Irish
Mondays through Fridays, IO a.m. to 4 
Feds 7:20 Christmas Celebration with Phil Coulter 
p.m. Saturdays; Century Center and 520 
Alien Nation 1:20, 3:20, 5:20, 9:20 
and his orchestra with sapecial guests on
S. Lafayette Blvd.; one museum under 
They Live 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
Wednesday, Dec. 7 at 8 p.m. Tichets aretwo roofs. 
$17.50 & $20. For infonnation, call 312/100 Center 922-2110. 50 E. Congress Parkway. 
Potawatomie Zoo is open from IO a.m. to 
A Nightmare On Elm Street IV l, 3, 5, 
5p.m daily. 500 Grecnlawn Ave. 
7:15, 9:15 
Biddy Milligan 's hosts Larue plus specia 
Die Hard 1:30, 4, 7, 9:30 guests The Bond on Thursday, Nov. 17. Also, the Wailers on Friday, Nov. 18.
Music Scottsdale Nicholas Tremulis will light the stage on Northwest Indiana Symphony with pianist The Good Mother 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 Saturday, Nov. 19. For tickets, call 312/Stephen Hough at 8 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 
Child's Play 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
559-1212. 7644 N. Sheridan. 
17 at the Holiday Star Theater in Melville, Indiana. 
Town and Country 
Park West presents An Evening With 
Pumpkinhead 2, 4, 6, 8, 9:50 
Warren Zevon with Acoustic Band on
Women's Choir Festival from 9 a.m. to 5 
The Accused 2,4:30, 7, 9:30 Thursday, Nov. 17. Jeffrey Osborne and 
p.m. Thursday and Friday in the 
Without A Clue 2: 10, 4:40, 7: 10, 9:40 
Brenda Russel on Friday, Nov. 19 andO'Laughlin Auditorium on the SMC Saturday, Nov. 19. And a pre-holiday campus. 
Universtiy Park East dance party with Fela on Wednesday,Big 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
Nov. 23. Kenny Rankin and Karla Bonoff 
Baritone Recital by Ralph Klapis. 8:15 
U2 Rattle and Hum 1:30, 3:30, 5:30 
on Nov. 25, and John Hiatt and the 
p.m. on Friday, Nov. 18 in the IUSB 7:30, 9:30 Goners on Nov. 26 & 27. For tickets, call Northside Recital Hall. 
Ernest Saves Christmas 1:30, 3:30, 
312/559-1212. 322 W. Annitage. 
5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
Intimate Jazz Concert Series: Saxophon­
Iron Eagle]] 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
Orphans presents Johnny Reno and The 
ist Joe Lavano of the Blue Wisp, along Cry In the Dark 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 Sex Maniacs on Thursday, Nov. 17.For
with the Steve Schmidt Trio at 9 p.m. 
Bird 1:45, 4:45, 7:45 infonnation, call 312/)29-2677. 2462 W. 
Friday, Nov. 18 in the Knollwood Lincoln.
Country Club. Sponsored by the Michi­Universtiy Park West 
ana Jazz Society. 
Punchline 2, 4:30, 7:15, 9:45 Halloween IV 2, 9:45 Cocktail 3:45, 5:45, 7:45 
Theater 
Everybody's All-American 2, 4:30, 7, Dark ofthe Moon, directed by Joseph B. 
9:30 
Good, on Thursday, Nov. 17 at 7:30 p.m. in the Bendix Theater of the Century 
*Purchase your movie tickets for Univer­
Center. Presented by the John Adams 
stiy Park Cinemas and Forum Cinema at 
Drama Department the Infonnation Desk in LaFortune Student Center and receive a $1. 50 
Gotta Dance'88: Holiday Family Damce 
discount The tickets are good for all Program on Saturday, Nov. 19, at 7:30 
shows. Town and Country Cinemas also 
p.m. in the Batten Center Auditorium. 
offer a student discount 

29

Final Word 

It's More Than Painting Helmets 
Seniorfootball manager Shawn Patrick takes great pride in what he does, and encourages all to do the same. 

30 



Editorial 

Search for divestment, not conspiracies 
Civil rights leaders, the National Conference ofCatholic Bishops, the Holy Cross Fathers, Bishop Desmond Tutu and Reverend Leon Sullivan all agree that divestment is the best way to change the present system of apartheid. Scholas­tic, as has been the case in the last three years, also agrees. But closer to home, the apartheid debate has sunk to new lows. As usual, government professor Peter Walshe is at the eye of the stonn. Walshe maintains that the university is consorting with the Shell Corporation and its public relations firm, Pagan Interna­tional, in order to found its own "Institute for the Study ofPost-Apartheid Problems" for the study of how South Africa might adjust in a post-apartheid age. He also claims that the new center would be a part of the new Hesburgh Peace Institute. Walshe cited a "leaked corporate report" that proves that Shell is in "collusion" with President-emeritus Theodore Hesburgh, Associate Provost Oliver Williams and business professor Lee Tavis. Williams strongly denied any accusations that the university is considering such an institute at the present time. Business professor Lee Tavis, another "conspirator," has also denied allegations that he was consorting with Pagan and Shell; Walshe later apologized to him in the October issue ofCommon Sense. In the meantime, Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Chairperson John Paul Checkett also alleged the same conspiracy; Williams again denied any involvement Since Shell did not divest, it was faced with a boycott. Predictably, it hired Pagan International, a public relations firm, to oversee the account and to minimize any potential damage. Pagan specializes in such work; this should have been expected. One of their ideas was to ally themselves with major scholars in the field, if not a major university, to get them behind Shell. The university should realize that any attempt to establish such a center in the future, whether it is good-intentioned or not, will be fused with politics one way or the other. There are high stakes -both political and economic -involved with such a center, and the simple fact is that resisting suchacenterwould take as much courage as founding one. The argument has been conducted more like a presidential campaign than an academic debate, with accusations and conspiracies being more important than issues. The Anti­Apartheid Network should go back to doing what it has done well in the past -pressing the issue of divestment -and stay away from conspiracy-hunting. 
31



Ernie Pook's Comeek 
&Y 1.~Nl)}t B~lt \111Ttl 1(V.,LASS' • 5Tl~!I FRD111. Sfc.l<,!1 LE'NTl. 
SOTt-\ ME AND MARL.~5 HA\/E A FRIEND NAMED MARY $VE PRACER.,WHOSE . MOTHER WtL.L NEVEfl L.E.T HE,:l GO 
OVTSIDE. 

THE ON\.'1 THIN(, AB0VT HER ISJ WHEW NO ONE IS LOOKIN(;f 1 SHE WILL Suo­DEN L.~ SOCK Yov IN THE S"TOMAC.H 
FOR. No ReASON AND THEN PRETEND 
IT WAS ·Jusr IN ~OUR. IMAGINATION. 
EXCEPT FOR. THAr, SHE IS ReAl-L-~ SHE HAS EV~R~ DOLL YOV CAN ,THINK OF: BARBIEJ TRESS~J TAMMY 1 CHATT~ CATt-\YJAND THE COM\'L.ETE BRtDE DOLL SET WITH CAR.R.~tNG CASE. ''COME; -ON II'•( SHE SA'dS. "PL.A~ WITH THEM 
AL-I.. you WANT." r:-ua.q~Bfl:~~ffl 
-


THATS WH'( ME AND MARL'1S FE~L BAD A8our PREiEN0IN6 SHE. IS lNVISI­
BLc NOW WHENEVER. WE SEE HER SHOVTIN~ AT US THROUGH HER. FRONT ROOM WINDOW EYE~'1 TIME" WE WAL.k' 
PAST \-\ER.. HOUSE AND oowN HER 
-32 
Scholastic 


ANO :JOO~ SOMl2."Ttt1tJE:, ~ MOST \:'-.\1)S. ACt\JALL>'.l U KE 
"TO i=OL.UXJ l\.lE. Q.ulES-. 
~ y ASb::,. 
IJQ.S~: 
~':1 AM .r QL,LOWIN S Q.Ul.f. 
Glllt. '10

·s 'CAuS' 
A~\=

1=.U'E.Q__ 0 
uC:iET"'1

0.Ste, lT' 
T MAO

5l8L TO SE.'1 A ltV C.,N'TO 1rJ k. {:0 
u~E.1.. 

O~E.'1wG~ 
~A~ s;£N 
AM I JUS 
\N(, A l,l 
VE.ITTUAUJ1 'jO UP Ar-l\7 9EG "-lo\\Cf:: TH 
ME Rvl.£S A PIO fl()lrJT 1CRAZ'1. 
MI. J\JS 
A L.(TTI., l)~) TC2.'::11 G't."T E.\JE. fl_ $OM, IN.\US 




non-profit organization 
U.S. POSTAGE 
PAID 
Notre Dame, IN Permit No. 10

SUB is happy to announce the return of ... 
~ 
1,,~ 
~ 


Gary Conrad Hypnotist Extraordinaire! 
December First December Second Show Times: 8:00 & l 0:00 pm Group Seminars at: noon, 4, 6, 8 pm Washington Hall N.D. room in Lafortune 
. .,-.,. . .
0" --......... '!=-=~-~•Z,«Zm_=.Ll!S.\.-m -:..~ 



