p
"[life fecod Goes Hum-hum-bumming 4long
h's JEAN SABLON'S
TUA/E -fo h/UMMlMG" (RCA Victor)
•mn ever
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
Winston-Salem, N. C.
k J
fl
Ui a o X
THE
CIGARETTE
IN ENGLISH or French, his singing is terrific!
His fans range from bobby-soxers to the lavender-and-old-lace set.
Why, he even lights his Camels with a Continental charm. Takes a leisurely puff and says: "Great!”
Yes, Jean, and millions of smokers agree with you about Camels. More people are smoking Camels than ever before!
Try Camels! Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the "choice of experience”!

! THAT SUITS ME
CAMEL
And here’s another great record
Mote people ate smoking


LEAGUE OF MISPLACED PERSONS
Dear Editor:
The B. L. N. T. Department letter brings to mind the necessity for considering note a very pertinent question. Is the student body’s section going to be centrally located in the stadium this year or are the students going to be ignored and seated starting from the goal line. . . .
. . . But will our anemic Student Council come forth and present the students’ case to the University heads? I doubt it.
Charles T. Hellmuth Lyons Hall
CHEERS FOR WND
Dear Editor:
All together in a big “He’s a man,” or rather “They are men,” for the operators of station WND. They have overcome several big- obstacles to do a very fine job.
Here’s hoping WND is here to stay. They deserve all the help they can get.
James W. Hartman Breen-Phillips.
SUICIDE LANE
Dear Editor:
This letter concerns the editorial comment in last week’s issue of the Scholastic discussing the highway crossing dangers on Eddy Road. I could begin with “I told you so” (Reference: Letters, Scholastic Dec., 1947), but that would be superfluous, in view of a certain deputy sheriff’s purported narrow escape at this junction.
The aeronautical engineering students and the Vetville residents would like to know: when has there ever been a deputy sheriff on duty at this junction? Each icy morning at 7:55, these students have tempted fate to get to class, without any such representative of the law to safeguard their lives. Likewise, on evenings when athletic events were taking place in the gymnasium, those of us who found it necessary to cross this congested road could find no traffic guard
THIS WEEK'S COVER
The week's cover, by Gene Reynolds, shows Al Santangelo taking the Minnesota Spatial Relations Test, offered by the Notre Dame Testing and Guidance Center, which is featured on pages 14 and 15. The stopwatch at lower left clocks him.
in evidence. When, then, could this traffic officer have been on duty on his fateful day, and why isn’t he on duty during the critical periods of traffic congestion each day?
It appears that the University is not interested in the matter of pedestrian safety at this crossing. As evidence of this, if it had exercised any concern for its property and the lives of its students, it would have investigated the damage to the Aero Building when, early in December, a car careened one night into one of the hangar doors—fully 40 feet east of the edge of the road. If it was further concerned with its property, it would have had repairmen replacing the seven 8-inch road-posts which had been completely sheared from their moorings
You're the man most likely to succeed in
0 Van Hensen Shirts
Yes, prices are an important item in every college man s curriculum these days, and that’s one thing that makes Van Heusen shirts so popular. For these fine shirts are priced amazingly low! Other things that college men like are: smart new low-setting "Comfort Contour” collar styling; the action-tailoring; the figure-tapered fit; the tug-proof pearl buttons. In whites and exclusive patterns, in your favorite collar models. Sanforized—these shirts will stretch your budget but they’ll never shrink out of size.
You get a new shirt free if one does. S3.50, S3.95 and §4.95. Philups-Jones Corp., New York 1, New York.
TIES • SPORT SHIRTS • PAJAMAS
the following day after the highway “turn” sign was “indented.” Perhaps, since these same fence posts have twice before been replaced in the past six months as a result of similar crashes, the University now feels that it is useless to replace the posts lest they once again be leveled. Why not try ACCIDENT PREVENTION instead of a crew of accident-damage repairmen!
Gold medals and aves to Ralph Thorson and the Student Council, and to the Editorial Staff of the Scholastic for keeping alive the gross negligence of the responsible authorities in the matter of protection of human life and property at the crucial road crossings. This writer offered a five-point program of construc-
(Continued on Following Page)
3
OPINION POLL
Students Advocate Hands Off Palestine
To many Notre Dame men it’s a long way from Indiana to Palestine.
The results of a poll taken last week on campus show that although the UN’s Palestine Partition Plan is a vital issue today, students in many cases thought it unworthy of discussion and in others simply could not discuss it through ignorance of the situation. Reporters who did the leg work on the poll complained of a prevalent attitude of indifference among men questioned.
However, there were those who had opinions and expressed them. The question: “What should be the policy of the United States in Palestine?” divided students into two opposing factions. From a majority made up of approximately 65 per cent of the polices came the opinion that this country should pursue a strict “hands off” course. They felt that what happens in Palestine is none of our business; that it is a private affair between Jew and Arab and that we would be endangering our security by getting embroiled in an issue that could possibly lead to open warfare.
Typical of this viewpoint were the words of William Cullen of 223 Sorin, “The policy should be ‘hands off’ . . .You can’t please everyone by not entering this situation but at least you hurt no
QUESTION OF THE WEEK What do you think of the President's Civil Rights Bill?
one.” “The United States should not interfere in the present situation . . . the results would be disastrous,” was how John F. McGoldrick of 119 Sorin put it. Some thought that the U. S. should try to help settle the issue but balk at any military action. However, for the most part the “hands off” faction stood pat on a complete non-interference policy. “Leave Palestine alone” was their chant. But from many there was an answering cry.
This minority group felt that our government was honor bound to back the partition plan through to its completion. They based their judgement, for the most part, on the fact that it was the United States which was the leading force for the plan in the UN conferences and that partition had come about mainly because of our influence.
“I think the United States should back
any decision made by the United Nations,” said Joe Harkins of 224 Alumni, and added, “by force if necessary.” An even broader view of the subject prompted Steve Valetich of 202 Sorin to say, “We have committed ourselves on partition. We should not break from the decision of the UN ... we are a leader in the UN. . . . The outcome of the partition will be a milestone in the development of the United Nations.” Again on the same theme John Buckley of 317 Breen-Phillips stated, “The U. S. should back the UN completely.”
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3) tive action in the previous letter to this column, and it took only a near-casualty to bring to light the need for such action. Now, who will volunteer his life, as did the hapless two on Homicide Highway, to bring to light the crying need pedestrian protection on “Suicide Lane?” Ernest J. Tursich Lyons Hall
GOOD NEWS FROM DENVER
Dear Editor:
I fully realize that I am not a student, but enclosed you will find the latest “Student Opinion Poll,” which I have filled out with my opinions of your wonderful magazine. I thought that you would also like to know what the off-campus readers think of your magazine, as well as what the boys think of it, thus I took full advantage of the opportunity to let you know what I think about Scholastic.
I do hope that you don’t mind.
Joyce A. Kitts
P. 0. Box 2826
Denver 1, Colo.
We certainly don’t—Editor
FOR MEN ONLY
Dear Editor:
We are sending you a copy of the rules and regulations for Mademoiselle’s College Fiction Contest, which will close April 15. As you will notice, we are awarding $1,000 in prizes.
Mademoiselle is usually well represented in the annual anthologies of best American short stories. The winners of our college fiction contest have always aroused the interest of publishers. Since the magazine is one for young women between the ages of eighteen to thirty years of age, we are anxious not only to reflect their point of view, but to publish fiction' by authors of real merit in that age group.
In past college issues of Mademoiselle we have published short stories by undergraduates from Wc’lesley, Sarah Lawrence, Radcliffe, Vassar, Stratford,
Simmons, Rosary, and San Diego State. We hope that you will call .the contest to the attention of your student body, and that in the future, your college may be added to this list.
Mademoiselle
Nancy Garoutte College Board Editor
RULES:
Eligibility: Women undergraduates only. Stories which have appeared in undergraduate college publications also acceptable but only if they have not been published elsewhere.
Length: 3,000 to 5,000 words.
Obviously, nobody here is eligible— Editor
MISREPRESENTATION DEP T.
Dear Editor:
Inasmuch as you published a letter which I did not write, but which you attributed to me, I demand in the name of common courtesy and decency that you publish this letter in full, without cutting oi- editing it.
First, according to the letter falsely attributed to me, I thought Mr. Redman’s point was well put. Nothing could be further from the truth. I thought Mr. Redman’s letter was in bad taste and his point was poorly put. His letter of apology shows that he thought it was in bad taste.
Secondly, if Mr. Redman were going to criticize, why did he not condemn what he called “vile vodvil?” And if it were so vile why did he want to see more of it? And why should he approve the “collegiate” demonstration for more of it? If he is going to censer part of a bad situation, why should he not censer all of it? I did not see the show but am only taking Mr. Redman’s word for it that it was vile.
As for the literary and logical value of Mr. Redman’s letter, I can best give my own opinion of it by quoting from memory what a philosophy professor said to me about it, namely, “What was the point of his letter? What was he condemning?”
Though I do not know who wrote the letter attributed to me I do know that it was not signed. The name was only typed. And it is common opinion that a typed name does not constitute a signature. Perhaps it would be well for the Scholastic to follow its own rules concerning unsigned letters.
Carl J. Allen Morrissey Hall
Scholastic wades through the incense from Reader Allen’s censer to beg his pardon for printing what looked to be an authentic letter; hopes further that trust in letterwriters to sign their own name is not misplaced.—Editor
4
THE WEEK
Deep Purple — Harried Students Look for New Amusements
By Bob Casurella
—	HI —I	« I
“United States furnaces produced 55,000,000 tons of molten iron and ferroalloys in 1945 with 27,500,000 tons of slag and 330,000,000 tons of gases as byproducts.”
This stops him. He can’t see the connection between cold facts and your argument. Since he is a philosopher, he won’t admit it. You win the argument.
BUTTONS
TOP OF THE WEEK
Professor: “What is the principal contribution of the Phoenicians?”
TAKE IT EASY!
The Lenten lull has blackjacked social activity around the campus. The ambitious student will have to protect himself from the dan
gers of overstudy. In avoiding study, however, you will have to be careful not to overdo it; complete inertia is an even greater danger. With g a t h erings and dances, social beer-busts on the verboten list, you have to find other activities. If you’re not quite rugged
enough for workouts at the Rock, too robust for chess, and have given up blowing smoke rings, here are a few
suggestions:
Take the local paper. You read it in the usual manner’ and in about fifteen minutes you’ll be looking around for something to do. This might lead to study; pick up that paper again and take a closer look.
Sandwiched in between Mary Haworth’s Mail and the Gilbert ads are little known facts of general interest that every educated person should know. Not only have they great value in themselves, but you can spend a lot of time looking for them.
“If the mountain range of which Puerto Rico is a part were above, rather than below sea-level, it would be the highest in the world.”
“Of all sad words of tongue and pen —”
“Bobby Locke, South African golfing sensation, has used his wooden-shafted, rusty putter for the last two years.”
And what was he puttering with?
“The piranhas, man-eating fish of the Amazon, are said to be able to devour a whole cow in five minutes.”
One of the chief reasons for the Notre Dame meat shortage?
“Brunettes with Latin ancestry are apt to prefer- warm reds and maroon colors.”
Warning to wary bachelors — wear white! . . .
The paper is filled with these gems which will make excellent material for a scrap book. Before long you will have a reservoir of knowledge that will meet any given situation. Some philosophy major is getting the best of you in a little discussion. You pull out the old scrapbook and hit him with something like this —
J. Paul Sheedy Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked the Finger Nail Test
ST ABT using Wildroot Cream-Oil today! It takes only a little bit to groom your hair neatly and naturally without that plastered down look. And Wildroot Cream-Oil relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff . . . helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Always ask for a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil at your drug or toilet goods counter. Find out for yourself why it’s “again and again the choice of men who put good groaning first.” Remember, Wildroot Cream-Oil is non-alcohOlitiind contains soothing Lanolin! For generous trial supply free, send this ad with your name and address to Wildroot Co., Inc., Dept. C-3, Buffalo 8, New York.
The game of poker cannot rightly be classified as a study. It is, however, an excellent mind trainer. This column offers a few figures that may be of value to those boys who will be sharpening their’ collective wits over the pasteboards.
The first and foremost rules are to make sure the door is open and that there are no mirrors behind you — then the play can begin. There are 2,598,960 possible poker hands in a deck. If you play that many hands you will get no pair 1,302,540 times. Don’t wager any
5
buttons that many times. 10,200 times you will get a straight. You can get four of a kind 624 times and a straight flush only 40 times. Holding four cards of a straight flush with both ends open, you are a 23 to 1 shot to draw a straight flush; if one end or the interior is open you are a 46 to 1 shot.
If you hold one pair and draw three cards you are a 359 to 1 risk to catch four of a kind, and 97 to 1 to get a full house. If you hold two pairs and draw one card you are an 11 to 1 chance on getting a full house. So count all the hands, don’t play more than 2,598,960 times, risk your buttons only when the odds are in your favor, and you are liable to end up with more buttons than there are in the bottom of the washer in the local laundry.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Student: “Blinds.”
CAMPUS CLUBS
Buffaloes Plan Blow
The eager Buffalo Club inaugurated the new semester last week with their usual ambitious program which will feature an Easter dance and a trip to the home town for the Notre Dame-Canisius basketball encounter.
Al Kemnitzer and Joe Dougherty already have plans well formulated for the dance. The co-chairmen have secured the Brookfield Country Club for the site with Max Miller’s network orchestra giving out with the music. At the halftime of the cage contest, the members will once again present a trophy to the most valuable player on the Irish squad. Last year Frannie Curran won the award.
President John LaVigne thanked the men who worked at the coke booth during the Mardi Gras and announced the appropriation of funds to buy shirts for the bowling team. The club finished last semester by feasting at the Ramble Inn in a dinner for the graduating seniors.
Pittsburgh’s campus representatives elected a new set of officers with Jack Collins taking over the presidency. Al Lesko is the vice president while Ernie Huffman and Bob Slocum were chosen secretary and treasurer respectively. Club publicity will be handled by Ted A’Hearn.
Encyclical Study Planned
A discussion group on the Social Encyclicals is slated to hold its initial session at 4 p. m., Tuesday, February 24, (Continued on Page 25)
SCORNER’S SEAT
'America' and Others Represent Best of Catholic Publications
By Joe Wilcox
CATHOLIC PRESS MONTH . . .
February is National Catholic Press
month. Despite its detractors, who
point, with perhaps at the lack of good fiction, prevalence ing, low grade of cheap advertis-writing, etc., which seem to exist in a part of the Catho-olic press, that press nevertheless boasts many periodicals equal to the average secular magazine of wide circulation.
some justification,
Among the leading representatives of the Catholic press are America, The Sign, Commonweal, and the Michigan Catholic, to mention only a few of the better periodicals.
America, a Jesuit weekly publication, is a first-class review, covering practically every subject of general public interest. Its political and economic viewpoint is progressive; and, although it recognizes the danger- of Communism, it also perceives that the cure for Communism is a truly democratic social policy. Among the editors are Father Benjamin Masse, expert on the Pope’s Encyclicals, and John LaFarge, interracial authority. Carrying its beliefs into practice, America has retained Theophilus Lewis, a prominent Negro Catholic, as drama critic.
The Sign, which is published by the Passionist Fathers, is a monthly magazine of general interest. Its policy is also progressive. It recently concluded a very interesting series of articles on the daily press of the nation, covering, among other papers, the New York Daily News and Herald American and the St. Louis Post Dispatch.
An interracial story, “Color Scheme,” published in the September issue, was of such a revolutionary character that it provoked storms of letters to the Sign’s cosmopolitan letter department. Some denounced the Sign as a bedfellow of Joe Stalin, while others, perceiving the dogmatic overtones in the story, hailed
it as truly Catholic. The Sign also carries good sports and movie departments, • but it seems to lean, in its annual awards, to pictures with a Catholic theme.
Commonweal is a slightly highbrow weekly edited by laymen. It is printed in the same format as the Nation, and suffers, accordingly, from its stuffy make-up. Its writing is occasionally over complicated and slightly esoteric. It has frequently differed with the majority of the Catholic press on certain issues, such as Franco’s Spain. It devotes itself largely to longer articles, practically all of which are very well written and provocative, although some may be on subjects of more limited interest.
The Michigan Catholic, archdiocesan weekly of the Archdiocese of Detroit, is an example of what every diocesan weekly should be. It pursues an independent editorial policy, is seldom given to tirades, thinks every issue out, and more than occasionally has bearded the reactionary Detroit News and Free Press in its columns. While the Michigan Catholic is undoubtedly pro-labor, it has not failed to castigate union officials who put their own welfare ahead of the common good. The Michigan Catholic is nobody’s man Friday.
Catholic periodicals of particular interest to students are Today, a semiweekly published by students in Chicago, which carries articles on all timely subjects; Concord, published by YCS and dedicated to the achievement of a student community; and Integrity, a monthly published each month on a different topic.
LAST LAUGH DEPARTMENT
The best laid plans of the Planned Parenthood League are as likely to go agley as any others. In Pittsburgh last week, the vice-president of the said league, who admitted planning one child, gave birth to triplets. Unlike unwanted kittens, which may be conveniently drowned, one is not yet legally able to dispose of extra babies with equal impunity.
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
iniitttiiiiiiiiiii'ttiiuiuiiittiiiiuiutttitttuiiiitu'ttiiuiii'itttiuiiititiiiiiuuiiitituitittitiiiiiiiitutiiitiii
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR, Editor
Associate Editors EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE.
JOSEPH WILCOX Features
PETER BROWN Sports
SHAUN McDERMOTT  News ROBERT T. STOCK Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL _______ Photography
Editorial Associates
HARRY MONAHAN BUZZ WRIGHT KEN THOREN JOE HERRINGTON	VIC DORR	GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian
JOHN CLARK  Circulation
GEORGE KORHUMEL ___________________________________ Circulation
B. T. KYSER _______________________________________ Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator
llllllllll tillinutlllllllllllllllllllllttllllHlltllltlllllllllllBIIIIllIlilltllllHIIItllllHlllllllllllIllIillllllttllllll
Member ol Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Don't Miss — In the Next Issue
Where is Indiana’s fastest growing community? Did you know that the population of this village has doubled since 1946? Not a single new home was added and yet this phenomenon has taken place!
The answer to these questions and other inside information will be contained in next week’s Scholastic. Read the main feature on VETVILLE and its amazing INFANT POPULATION, written by a new feature writer, one who knows the real dope on the inside of Vetville. See how a wonderful community spirit has been the chief factor in bringing happiness to the children who live beneath the ‘Dome.’
Watch for training notes on the Bengal fighters, up-to-the-minute news on the Kampus Keglers, and other sports flashes. See also a sharp, little feature on Feb. 29, the astronomical book-balancing that gives us a universal Sadie Hawkins day. Read these and other features in the next Scholastic.
CALENDAR
FEBRUARY 21
WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY CEREMONIES, at Washington Hall. June’s graduating seniors turn out in full regalia (caps, gowns, enlightened expressions). Classes, beginning with 10 a.m. class, dismissed.
WHOT, 1 p.m., Metropolitan Opera of N. Y. in a matinee performance of Verdi’s Aida.
FIELDHOUSE, track meet, Notre Dame vs. Penn State. Last meet of the indoor season. Penn State will send their whippet, Gerry Karver, up against our Bill Leonard. Should be a pip of a race in the mile. Meet starts at 1 p.m.
FEBRUARY 23
HOLIDAY. No classes. University’s official observation of Washington’s birthday.
FEBRUARY 24
PALACE, Carnegie Hall. One of the worst pictures ever to have been filmed, with some of the greatest music ever to have been captured by a sound track. Aesthetes who can suffer through the nauseating plot will see Pinza, Pons, Piata-gorsky, Peerce, and many other stellar artistic personalities. But oh! that story. Hollywood insists on beating the public ovei‘ the head with that insipid nonsense about little Nudnik, the charwoman’s son, who turns down a career in classical music to wind up playing his cacophonous composition, “Concerto for Siren and Streetcar Wheels” in Carnegie Hall. Marsha Hunt, as the mother, moans through the picture mopping floors so that the little monster can further his studies and land a job with Harry James.
FIELDHOUSE, basketball, NOTRE DAME versus MICHIGAN STATE; starts at 7:30 p.m.
FEBRUARY 25
STATE, Where There’s Life, with Bob Hope. No comment.
FIELDHOUSE, basketball, NOTRE DAME versus MARQUETTE; starts 7:30 p.m.
FEBRUARY 26
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM, The Strong Man and Professional Patient, two old-time comedies brought back by the Journalism department. The former stars Harry Langdon, quite a favorite in his time- Site of showing may be changed to Washington Hall if overflow crowd is anticipated-Come early for seats. Starts at 7:30 p.m.
COLFAX, Green Dolphin Street, one of the recent high-pressured best-sellers, brought to the screen with all the earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and fires they could possibly cram into 90 minutes of celluloid. Lana Turner adds her calamitous charms to the disaster.
FEBRUARY 27
RIVER PARK, Romance of Rosy Ridge, with Van Johnson. Companion feature, The Chimp. No, Charles Laughton is not in this film. It’s Laurel & Hardy and an unshaven friend.
1

A New Moon Shines on Student Council
Paradoxically enough, what with the rash of recent Student Council resignations, the Council’s future never looked rosier. The election this week of Len Boykin and Bob Uhl to the posts of president and vice-president, respectively, assures the Council of the highest type of leadership during the coming months. Both men have unceasingly labored for the activation of a concrete program by the Council; and in a few words of acceptance Mr. Boykin forcefully informed the members of the Council that he expected that body to get to work immediately on such a program.
Furthermore, both Mr. Boykin and Mr. Uhl are thoroughly familiar with parliamentary procedure, and with the cooperation of the Council members in this regard, what has in the past been a bone of contention and confusion will rapidly disappear. For it is an observable fact that in a legislative body the only alternative to the order and efficiency and democracy of a parliamentarily-organized session are confusion, chaos, and disorganization, with all their attendant evils.
The prestige and respect which should ordinarily accrue to a student council truly representative of the student body, and sincerely working for its welfare, will in great measure be restored to this Council when Messrs. Boykin and Uhl demonstrate their ability to lead their cohorts to necessary and responsible action. Surely Notre Dame as the leading exponent of Catholic higher education, should take the lead in the movement for genuine student responsibility and initiative in the government of student affairs. And her Student Council provides the essential machinery for this work.
With intelligent and aggressive leadership on the part of these officers, and with the cooperation and hard work of the Council members will inevitably come the interest and appreciation and the participating support of the mass of students in the administration and actual activity of so-called student affairs. Worthwhile student government will then have become a reality.
It is ardently hoped that the new officers will try their utmost to bring adequate safety measures to Homicide Highway and Suicide Lane in the very near future.
Gloves for the Fighting Irish
For many years the University of Notre Dame has carried the national nickname of “The Fighting Irish.” How this came to be is a matter for another department. That this should continue to be is a matter of some irony to a great number of people. For the school of “The Fighting Irish” has never had and does not now have a boxing team. Why this is so, mystifies the Scholastic.
Certainly the array of boxing talent displayed yearly in the Bengal Bouts should convince those who cherish ND’s victory tradition that the Irish maulers could hold their own against intercollegiate competition. The facilities for training a team and holding home bouts are here waiting. The Department of Physical Education is rich in coaching material. The opportunity to represent the University as a member of its boxing team should appeal to a great number of ring-happy students.
Almost every major University has for years carried its colors through the ropes. There is an annual Intercollegiate Boxing Tournament held which draws teams from all over the country. “The Fighting Irish” must be conspicuous by their absence. What Notre Dame’s answer to sports fans all over the country will be, the Scholastic cannot venture to say. It can only present the facts and hope they will bring results.
The Case Against Morning Prayer
When a man returns from the Communion rail with the Blessed Sacrament in his heart it is a solemn and personal moment. From the time we were children at the Sister’s knee we have been taught that this is the moment to talk personally and privately with Jesus, our Brother and Saviour.
It’s like a little conversation in the Throne Room of Heaven. Just think of all the things one can ask for, all the people in need of our supplications, all the good things He has done for us, that we now can thank Him for. There’s health, success in studies, faith and charity for all of us, recovery for those ill, happy home life, restoration of ruptured friendships, success in job-seeking, and a thousand other thoughts that can be now talked over with the Lord as He remains personally with us.
But, in some halls, no sooner has the communicant returned to his pew than, from the back of the chapel, comes the booming voice of someone leading the morning prayers, in an almost commanding tone. All solemnity is lost. All quiet is gone. The chapel is filled with prayer, yes, but so impersonal, so much by rote, so much mumbled and distracting.
Wouldn’t it be better if we let every man tell Christ what he himself has in his heart? Prayer is the lifting of the heart and mind to God. It’s got to come from within. AfterCommunion prayers should be personal.
Give Us More!
The recent Mardi Gras carnival in the Drill Hall should have left us with one lesson: It should happen more often at Notre Dame.
Spectacles like thrilling football games, entertaining films, moving concerts and superb lessons are fine. They’re a part of the activities that make college life more than just a classroom grind. They add flavor to the routine.
But for the most part these activities are viewed by the students. Only a small group actually participate.
On the other hand, the recent campus carnival was something that nearly everyone took active part in. Student volunteers barked for weight-guessing concessions, hawked tickets for award contests, thumped the drum for coke sales and huckstered through the crowds booming business for their salami, ice cream, ham, cake, and game booths.
Thousands of students milled about in the stale and smoky air, fired with the spirit of the carnival, dancing, laughing, enjoying the games, stuffing themselves with sweets, hollering at people above the din, and getting a whale of a kick out of the entire festivities. The carnival was fun for all, even for those who worked so hard for its success.
This should be reason enough for making it an annual affair. Add the charity motive and you have a corking good proposition.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89. NO. 16
FEBRUARY 20. 1948
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
Boykin Elected Student Council President
BOYKIN AND UHL
Up with Student Council
Norbert Geier Speaks At Presentation Rite
Notre Dame’s traditional Washington’s Birthday exercises will be observed tomorrow in Washington Hall at 10:30 a.m., as a symbol of the University’s long-standing service and loyalty to the nation.
Focal point of the ceremonies, annually celebrated on Washington’s birthday, will be the presentation of an American
The program:
Procession 'from the Main Building
............ University Orchestra
The Crisis ............. Norbert	Geier
Selection ...... University	Orchestra
Address in Presentation of the Flag .....................  George	Sullivan
Address in Acceptance of the Flag .......... Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c.
“The Star Spangled Banner” Audience
flag to the University by the Senior Class. The flag will be blessed at the Baccalaureate Mass and raised above the campus on Commencement Day in June.
George Sullivan, of East Walpole, Mass., varsity tackle and president of the class, will make the presentation on behalf of his fellow seniors. Acceptance
Fatigati Resigns; Uhl Wins Vice-Presidency
Len Boykin, Law Club President, and Bob Uhl, member of the executive council, were elected to the presidency and vice-presidency of Student Council Monday night as Ivo Fatigati became the third straight president to resign.
Prior to his resignation, Fatigati presented to the Council a “plan of action” to be followed for the remainder of the semester. One of the leading provisions of this plan called for a spring election day on which class officers, Student Council officers and council representatives from the colleges would be chosen.
By his action, Fatigati relinquished only the executive office and remains in the Council as a member representing Morrissey Hall. In the election which followed, Boykin was chosen president; Uhl, vice-president; Ron Byersmith, secretary, and Jack Murphy, senior member of the executive council.
Earlier in the meeting, the Council passed a motion to appropriate the $200 for the recent lecture of Ellis Arnall to which it had been committed by the executive council. Testimony on the matter by Frank Keenan, former editor of the Scholastic; Bill Slavick, Rebels Club President; the Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., Director of Student Activities; Boykin, and Jack Donahoe, preceded the motion.
The Council announced that its next meeting will be held March 1.
for the University will be made by the Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice president. The principal Washington’s Birthday address will be given by Norbert Geier of Cashton, Wis., a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Geier will speak on “The Crisis.”
General chairman of the program is John D. Harrington of Brooklyn, N. Y., also a senior in the A.B. school.
FATHER CAVANAUGH
Down with discrimination
if
Fr. Cavanaugh Flays Racial Intolerance
A blast at racial and religious intolerance was fired today by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, in a statement on the opening of American Brotherhood Week, which runs from Feb. 22 to 29.
The statement released by the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of the National Conference of Christians and Jews of which Father Cavanaugh is a member, stated:
“A return to peace and harmony among men, like charity, begins at home. The modern world is an unhappy one because too many people, including many Americans, are suffering from man-made economic, racial, and religious tensions.
“Although at first thought removal of these tensions may seem completely quixotic and utopian, let us suppose that we Americans—as Americans, we should agree on what I propose—were to re-
(Continued on Page 25)
9
Renovated Bookstore Aids Campus Sales
Students no longer need feel that space, service and materials are to be denied them at the campus bookstore. The few weeks spent in reconstruction has paid off in a new, greatly enlarged store.
Brother Conan, c.s.c., the head of that section of Badin Hall, informs us that the local shopping center has had its floor space increased by two-thirds; its counter footage jumping from sixty to two hundred feet. This feature along with new, attractive display cases and additional supplies of goods are the chief benefits of the revamping.
The idea of the improvements was not new, but the increased crowds that collected in the store intensified the need for more space. Brother Conan gives special credit to Mr. Taylor, the superintendent of buildings, who drew up the plans; Father Burke,' and Father Furstoss and his maintenance crew.
The Secretary of the National Association of College Stores has commended Brother Conan on the store; he was particularly impressed with its flexibility. The establishment is so set up that a new arrangement of display cases can be effected overnight, giving the appearance of a new store.
The student now can save a great deal of his time locating his desired supplies. The management has set up various sec--tions and these can be quickly identified
INTERIOR SHOT OF THE REDECORATED BOOKSTORE Next improvement—more clerics
by the merchandise displayed in the cases.
The new bookstore is now completed, with the exception of a few minor' adjustments in some of the departments. Brother Conan expects to employ additional clerks in the near future, so that students can avoid lengthy waiting.— Lawrence S. Connor	■
New Pilots Picked by Air Group at Opening Meeting
Election of new officers and the showing of two technicolor aeronautical movies highlighted the opening meeting of the new semester of the Notre Dame branch of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences last Thursday night.
Walter M. Marut, former vice president of the club, was elected chairman to succeed Joseph M. O’Hara. The vicechairmanship was taken over by John P. Hoey, and Dave Medwick was named secretary-treasurer.
Highlighting the evening were two films on modern aviation. The development of helicopters at the Bell Aircraft Corp, was outlined in “The Modern Magic Carpet” and Bell’s engineering accomplishments in the field of robot-controlled, jet-propelled aircraft was shown in “Planes Without Pilots.”
Plans for the semester include expansion of the organization’s paper, The Burble, continued presentation of films on the aircraft industry, and continued representation of the IAS bowling team. Handball and tennis teams and a spring picnic are also being planned.
Journalism Juniors To Publish N.D. Press
Journalism juniors shrank in their tracks at registration time when they took a gander at their Publicity Media class cards . . . now worth three hours’ credit. Funny ... it was still scheduled for only two hours a week . . . but what’s this? A lab! Good gosh, scientists of the written word! Journalists with work to do? Why, it’s unbelievable!
When a man is going to box, the only way he’ll learn is by going into the ring for a tussle. By the same token if the men under Messrs. Stritch, Withey and Fischer are going to be journalists, they will have to tussle with a printed page before school bells cease, publishing the Notre Dame Press.
The Press was first published last Spring as the organ of the Press Club. Rather than make a play now or in the future for the campus publication spotlight, this newspaper’s primary function will be to enable Journalism juniors to put into practice the theory taught in the fall semester. A tabloid format of approximately 200 copies will roll off the presses every Monday, probably for eight issues.
As to the work behind the scenes, the class is divided into four staffs of 12 men which will take turns in round-robin style. Assignments will never be the same twice, and each' team will get two cracks at putting out their own newspaper. That means two full weeks foi' the scribes to shine this semester. When June rolls around they won’t just have had their feet wet, they’ll be soaked . . . with printer’s ink.—Phil Shea.
Debaters Taste First Defeat As Yale Wins Boston Meet
Notre Dame’s varsity debaters tasted defeat for the first time last Saturday, when they finished third in a field of sixteen at the Boston University Invitational Tournament. It was the first Irish invasion of the East this season and the arguers managed to top some of the section’s best teams, including N.Y.U., Navy, Columbia, M.I.T., and Boston University.
It was a bit of Army retaliation that snapped the ND victory streak, as the cadets garnered a single point decision over the Irish speakers, Frank Finn and Bill Carey, in the semi-final round. Previously the Notre Dame debaters had been seeded number two in a preliminary round. In the finals, West Point succumbed to the scholarly arguments of Yale’s team by a vote of 6-1.
Among N.D.’s victims were Richmond, Vermont, and Rutgers.—Joe Dukert
10
Father Murray Announces Series of Weekend Retreats
A series of Lenten weekend retreats have been scheduled for the general student body, it was announced today by Rev. Edmund Murray, c.s.c., Assistant Prefect of Religion.
The retreats are scheduled for the weekends of February 28-29, March 6-7, March 13-14, and March 20-21.
Patterned after the G.I. retreats held two years ago, this year’s program will include formal discussions, conferences, rosaries, confessions, dialogue Masses, Holy Hour, and outdoor Ways of the Cross.
The retreat begins next Saturday night, February 28. Watch Scholastic for announcement of schedules.
Cavallero Rumored As Band for Prom
Born in a blaze, of political pyrotechnics and beset with confusion and indecision, the Junior Prom now promises to makes its 1948 debut on April 9. Bids, at §6.75, will be on sale daily, during meal hours, from February 24, in ths basement of the Dining Hall. The Committee has also completed arrangements for hotel accommodations for the Prom week end. Carmen Cavallero is the latest baton twirler rumored through the caf circuit to have been signed for the dance.
The Junior Prom Committee, headed by Ed Raymond and Jim Manning, has prepared a full week end of activities, which will include the Prom on Friday night, a tea dance on Saturday afternoon and attendance in a body at the 10:10 Mass on Sunday. The hid price will also include an engraved invitation to be dispatched to the fortunate belles.
The LaSalle Hotel has reserved a limited number of rooms for the Prombound invaders. Those desiring reservations for their dates are advised to contact the hotel, furnishing the name of the date and the type of reservation desired. The schedule of prices ranges from $3.00 a day for a single to $7.00 a day for a double.
Only a limited number of bids will be available for the top Junior affair of the year. A priority has been established which will give Juniors and Seniors the preference in the sales. Bids remaining after March 8 will be offered to Sophomores and veteran students regardless of class standing.
Father of The Country, Who Never Fibbed, Celebrates 216th Birthday Among Friends
■	By JOE WILCOX
Sunday will be the 216th birthday of George Washington. It will be the thirty-eighth time that George’s birthday has fallen on a Sunday. Holidaymakers meet this situation by making the following Monday the day of celebration. Notre Dame authorities will go the holiday makers one better this year by calling off the academic dogs tomorrow at 10 a.m., and then will not summon with good summoners the freed until Tuesday next. This is the “Get-set-and-recuperate-plan.”
GEORGE WASHINGTON Martha stayed home
This day is a legal holiday in all the states,.the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Hawaii, Alaska, the Virgin Islands, the Canal Zone, and all points east, west, north, and south, except where it is not. Banks, for some strange reason, are excluded from this holiday. Perhaps Honest George kept his money in a sock, or perhaps his wife got it. Anyhow the banks are having nothing to do with all this here fuss and bother.
George Washington once made a farewell address. If George can hear any of the myriad repetitions and interpretations of it that are made every year, he . undoubtedly wishes he had kept his mouth shut and waved goodbye, sniffling into his handkerchief. All the friends of the Marshall Plan will quote chapter and verse to show that George approved of it; all the foes thereof will cite same chapter, same verse, to prove that he did not. Somebody will say that if George Washington were alive he would — which is nonsense, because if George
Washington were alive, he would spend all his time giving advice on how to live to be 216.
In addition to his duties as Father of his Country, George found time to be one of the early experimenters with timothy grass in the south. He really must have had time on his hands, because good old George came up with the fact that he had “ascertained” that there were “298,000 timothy seeds” in a pound. George Washington also won fame, around the same time, as a leader in winning drug store guessing games. He guessed the number of beans in a glass jar right every time he tried.
About twenty years ago, when brash young writers were debunking anything and everything, poor George came in for his. He was reputed to have been a drunkard, a wife-beater, a possessor of false teeth; and the astounding and degrading revelation was made that he had red hair. Then, about ten years later, someone else came along and debunked the debunkers. George came out of the whole deal with a pretty good rep, which is a good thing for the first president of anything. It leaves a good mark with which to compare subsequent presidents, which is a favorite indoor sport.
George’s wife was Martha Washington, who was the widow of a man named Custis. Her chief claim to fame was that she was the first first lady, which was the cause of no end of comment to the effect that she didn’t go gadding* around in airplanes with a dog named Fala. She is also pictured on several stamps, has some chocolates and some small girls named after her. She was not a suffragette, did not break up furniture in the saloons, and had nothing to do with the new look. It is not recorded whether or not she ever made any public statements.
There were no little Washingtons at all, which was a great bane to the politicians of the Washington era. With no Elliott Washington, George’s enemies could impute no negligence to George, and they had to think up something else to do.	; '
George Washington died of the flu in 1799, after he had insisted on riding a horse in the rain. OF Doc Brady says you can’t get a cold riding in the rain, but ol’ Doc didn’t write the history books. - George got wet and died.
11

12
MARYMOUNT COLLEGE
Tarrytown Belles Pace Eastern Social Whirl
There have been reports down through the years to the effect that the famed “Headless Horseman” of Sleepy Hollow was riding for a date with a Marymount girl when he made his now immortal moonlight excursion. Even the far-flung news bureaus of the Scholastic have been unable to secure confirmation of this. However, it is a fact of historical authority that countless legions of Fordham, Manhattan, Columbia, and West Point citizens have tripped into Tarrytown for this very same purpose.
And well they might for Marymount College for young women, Tarrytown-on-the-Hudson, has quite a few attractions. In fact they number 400 and are, by no coincidence, the young women of Marymount College, Tarrytown-on-the-Hudson.
And just what attracts the attractions to Marymount? It could very well be a majestically beautiful campus that spreads out on the heights that slope into the Hudson. It could be a proud tradition of education fostered and matured through many years by the Sisters of the Sacred Heart. It could be a convenient proximity to New York City.
For, to the average Marymounter, Manhattan Island represents a choice site for extra-class research under the clock at the Astor or in a Broadway theatre. In the seething competition for the Metropolitan male the girls from up the river have been front runners for many a social season.
When the lure of the big city or THE MAN’S pocketbook dissipates, there’s always a football weekend in the fall, a winter carnival weekend in the winter, a prom weekend in the spring. Weekends, it would seem, are a vital part of a Marymounter’s education and is one
The Girls
*------------------------------
UPPER LEFT: Miss Barbara Bruns, 1946-47 freshman snow queen candidate
UPPER RIGHT: Miss Patricia McShane, senior snow queen
CENTER: Misses Claire Brogan and Natalie Brink prepare to cascade down a Tarrytown slope.
LOWER LEFT: Miss Ellen Kelly, 1946-47 sophomore snow queen candidate
LOWER RIGHT: Miss Barbara Boarman, a skater in the recent Christmas party.
phase that is greeted with much enthusiasm. Oi- in the excited words of a Marymount weekly Cormont writer: “There’s really something about these weekends that always makes me go back for more.”
Marymount, Education-on-the-Hudson, is primaiily a place of learning but to the eagei’ Fordhamite or Kaydet it has a meaning all its scented own. To him there are lovely prizes to behold and win in a little New York village called Tarrytown.—Greg Halpin
Library Falconry Exhibition Of Interest to Sportsmen
The University Library is now presenting an exhibit concerned with “The Art of Falconry.” It will be found on main floor, center. This exhibit is the work of Allan Gavan, 164 Morrissey and Ridgewood, New Jersey. Al presented his work in falconry last year in the annual Sportsmen’s Show at Kennedy Galleries in New York. He is a sophomore in the College of Commerce.
In this current display will be found a brief history of this oldest and most universal of sports with interesting data concerning the equipment and terms used by falconers. But most important of all, Mr. Gavan presents his masterful sketches of a variety of birds and falconry supplies.—John H. Janowski
Pescetto, UN Translator, Joins Language Department
Boasting a varied teaching career in Europe, Dr. Albert Pescetto has joined the modern languages department as assistant professor for the spring semester. He served last year as Russian translator for the United Nations Organization.
During recent years he has served as professor of French language and literature at the University of Camerino, Italy; professor of Spanish language and literature at the R. Liceo Spedalieri, Catania, Italy, and as lecturer of modern languages and literature at the University of Seville, Spain.
Dr. Pescetto is a citizen of Chile and also spent two summers teaching in the University of Rhodes and Athens in Greece. From 1940 to 1943 he was on the faculty of Maryville College of St. Louis University and has spent recent years in writing and translation work.
ND Secedes From NFCCS; Cites Lack of Benefit
Notre Dame seceded from the Fort Wayne Region of the NFCCS (National Federation of Catholic College Students) last Sunday when permission for the secession was granted by the Regional Council, meeting at St. Joseph’s College of Indiana. The break became effective at the close of the two-day Regional Congress which was then in session there.
In setting foi-th the reasons for the break, B. J. Bedard, junior delegate from Notre Dame, stated that “Notre Dame has belonged to the Fort Wayne Region for six years now and has not benefitted sufficiently to warrant further participation.” The Inter - American clubs at Notre Dame are the only groups which have taken an active part in the NFCCS commissions, and these groups participate only on a tri-regional and national basis. The break, therefore, has little effect.
About the only tangible ramifications of the move are that the Region will have to secure a new chaplain, a new recording secretary, and a new representative for the National Council, as Father Cunningham and Tom Murray are no longei’ eligible for these posts.
The present status of the University in the NFCCS is that it is associated only on a national basis. In this capacity it will vote at the National Congress and can still work through the national commissions.
WND Sked Features Music; Cage Game, Carnival Aired
Although depending heavily on recordmusic, the reborn station WND featured two extra attractions in its initial week of broadcasting. The first was the airing . of the St. Louis basketball debacle with Frank Tripucka handling the mike. The other innovation was a program direct from the Mardi Gras Carnival. A wire recording was made, edited, and then put on the air on Wednesday night.
Positions are still open on the station’s staff and it is requested that anyone interested in scriptwriting, announcing, production or any other phase of radio would go to the station in the balcony of the field house, as soon as possible.
The station is on the air from 6 to 8 p. m., Monday through Friday. It can be heard at 630 kilocycles. The program for the following week is: 6:00-6:15—Sack Time 6:15-6:30—Travel Time 6:30-7:45—Winter Theater
(Thursday: Scholastic Concert) 7:45-8:00—Uninterrupted music
13
Testing and G
Quinn and Co. Can Give
INK BLOT TEST
To obtain his score from the ink blot test, reader should add up the numbers opposite his choices, and turn to Page 26 for diagnosis of his troubles.
1. A lobster.
2. Bat man.
3. Tibetian riding on a buckling sled.
4. An ink blot.
The Testing and Guidance Center is ready to help you solve your college problem, whether it be personality difficulty; choice of major; girl trouble; or a common academic ailment, assignment-and-test fatigue.
To most Notre Dame men final examinations are a bitter memory of the recent and neurasthenic past, vague and monstrous terrors that have been hurdled now, not to be faced again till May’s lazy afternoons forecast the drowsy end of a long year’s haul.
But to many, to those who worked themselves up into benzedrine-and-black-coffee fits before test time; to those who sweated and stewed themselves into near nervous breakdowns over Spanish; or who lost weight boning for that atomic blast in organic chemistry; to all who narrowly squeaked by through the help of crib oi- Grotto; and finally to those poor unfortunates who perished by way of a flunk, the recent finals were an emotional crisis that left an indelible trace.
Flunking isn’t fun. Neither is edging by. For a good many students at Notre
by John a
Dame school itself isn’t any fun. Outside of the merry football weekends in the fall the pursuit of the intellectual muse is a plodding routine, and the course down education lane is a weary and strenuous one.
Such a student may be stumbling along in a major field of study that is not suited to his vocational interests and aptitudes. Again the confused student may not belong in college at all. Or he may be in love, or worried about money problems, or despondent over low grades received in a subject that he thought himself enthusiastically interested in.
For all such cases, for the cock-sure, confused and just plain curious, the Testing and Guidance Center has the answers. There in the hushed quiet of his offices Mr. Edward P. Quinn and his staff of associates have the means and the time to help every Notre Dame student arrive at a better understanding of himself, his interests, abilities, aptitudes, and personality.
Mr. Quinn himself is sort of a com-b i n a tion psychologist - troubleshooter -
1. Teddy bear sliding down a bannister.
2. Two bulbous clergymen proctoring exams.
3. Sherlock Homes shadowing a suspect.
4. A blot of ink.
STUDENT TAKES PURDUE PEG BOARD TEST FOR MANUAL DEXTERITY For the cocksure, the confused, and the just plain curious ...
14
ruidance Center
Tests to Solve Tiny Problem
L ©’CONNOR
chaplain. He tests and counsels. He is aided by psychometrist Richard D. Wil-lemin, and by assistants Mary Beth Knowles and Robert Hennessey. At first the office was set up to handle veterans only, and give them a lift on the road to recovery, but now the facilities of the Center are open to each student at Notre Dame, without charge.
The Center was organized along with the rest of the veteran-processing apparatus by the Rev. John J. Lane, c.s.c., Director of Veteran’s Affairs. Then the bright idea struck the administrators, “Why not open up this service to the ' general student body?”
For the student who has just flunked . a rough course, or barely wiggled by some axe-happy prof, the Testing Center is. just what the doctor ordered. No doubt this student is floundering in a field not akin to his interests. No sense studying to be an engineer when you were cut out to be a pants salesman and prefer dressing windows to building bridges. Any one of the Center’s seven Interest Inventories may tip the stu
dent off to the fact that he is on the wrong track, and better switch before he goes off his trolley.
A whole raft of mental ability tests are offered those curious enough to drop around. They run stiffer than those popular magazine IQ contests, and, like all tests taken at the Center, are treated with the utmost confidence. All tests are taken in quiet booths, privately, and the results are considered only your business.
Motor dexterity tests are the favorites of those who seek information on qualifications for tricky and agile trades, like watch-making. Clerical tests are available for a glance at your working speed and accuracy. There are engineering and physical science aptitude tests, space relations tests (attention architects), achievement tests in arithmetic, English, vocabulary, industrial tests for electricians and machine operators, mechanical tests and scholastic aptitude examinations. The list is long, and includes such specialized inquiries as tests in art, foreign languages, law, music, and sales.
(Continued on Page 25) ■
STUDENT AND COUNSELLOR QUINN CHECK RESULTS OF EXAMS . better understanding of interests, aptitudes and personality
1. Lily Langtry in her prime.	’
2. The drumstick of an ostrich.
3. Tibetan father and son riding a donkey the other way.
4. Ink blot.
1. /in old maid sitting prim in a Chippendale chair.
2. Sanctuary lamp.
3. High Lama sitting on his dais.
4. An ink blot.
15
Light-Heavy Champ of '46 Back to Resume Place in N. D. Boxing and Football Picture
Sun-tanned and balding George Dickson of La Jolla, California, means to stir up competition in the athletic picture at Notre Dame this spring in no uncertain manner. It is questionable whether Bill Roemer, current campus light-heavyweight Bengal Bout champion, will meet the slenderized version of the 1946 light-heavy champion, but George intends to battle it out in one of the weight classes. As if this slugfest were not enough for one semester, Coach Frank Leahy’s quarterback candidates will also have to compete with this experienced Californian.
Standing just shy of the six-foot mark and scaling an even 170 pounds, George first set foot on the campus shortly before Wendell Wilkie lost his presidential tussle with Franklin Roosevelt. That was in 1940, if you are hazy on dates, under Coach Elmer Layden. It was also the year that the freshman grid team included such names as Angelo Bertelli, Creighton Miller, and Pat Filley, who later captained two Irish varsity teams.
In 1941 George enlisted in the paratroops, which marks the beginning of a dizzy story. Forts Benning and Bragg provided the necessary training prior to his overseas jaunt. His first combat jump was made over Normandy on D-Day; his second over Holland. As a member of the Screaming Eagle, 101st Airborne Division, George was holed up in
DICKSON (LEFT) AND SPARRING PARTNER Looks can be deceiving
Bastogne for some six weeks until his outfit was relieved by the Third Armored Division. Berchtesgaden was his last objective in the ETO. His first and last military objective in the ATO was Fort Devens, where he obtained his separation orders in September, 1945.
Returning to Notre Dame the following March, George began fighting again and captured the light-heavy Bengal Bout championship. Coach Leahy and his assistants then took charge of his athletic education and the intricacies of the T formation were soon added to his sporting knowledge. George was unaware that his football activities were shortly to be transferred from Cartier Field to South Pasadena High School.
The September practice sessions in 1946 had just opened when George’s widowed mother became ill and he returned to California to be with her. During her recuperation, Dickson, who looks more like a professor in the Mediaeval Institute than an athlete, accepted an offer to fill in as backfield coach for the South Pasadena eleven. Two seasons undefeated in regular play was the record his charges turned in; they were eliminated both years in the post season playoffs by the teams which eventually won the state championship.
George is keeping the fine edge on his condition by frequent sessions with the
(Continued on Page 21)
CRYSTAL BALL GAZER
Did this spaghetti-legged Blue Demon foresee a DePaul victory at this point in the game?
Irish Bow to DePaul, Play Mich. State Next
With all the suspense of a Hitchcock movie the elevator-like Notre Dame basketball team moves into the final lap of its 24 game schedule. For the next two weeks the Irish basketeers will be kept busy. Michigan State and Marquette, neither one of them world beaters, play engagements here on Tuesday and Wednesday prioi- to the Irish’s annual eastern trip which, incidentally, includes three games this year.
The Marquette game Wednesday will be the fifty-fifth meeting between the two schools. Notre Dame has won 32 of the series.' The Hilltoppers of Milwaukee, playing only a shade better than .333 ball this season, have beaten no major opponent unless you consider Bowling Green or Loyola (New Orleans) as such. Marquette’s great trouble, like ours, is lack of depth in reserves. But they continue to go about their business earnestly, always looking for the delight which comes with knocking off the big boys. The Hilltoppers will line up with Gene Berce and Joe Faupl at for’ wards; Jim Ove, center; and Frankie Graff and Mel Peterson as guards. Tireless, crackshot Berce is the headliner of this band of Badgers. There’s little doubt that he could play with any collegiate outfit in the country. He’s a cinch to break his own individual Marquette scoring record of 339 points set last season. With 9 games to go he already has 256.
Krause’s crew still has opportunity
16
BASKETBALL OR SOCCER?
Whitey Kachan's toe meets leather while Paul Gordon looks on in the recent DePaul game
to salvage more glory for itself from an otherwise topsy turvy season in these remaining six games. The possibility for most of this prospective glory will be riding on the N.Y.U. game. Against DePaul in the Stadium last Saturday night, just as against St. Louis, the Irish were plagued by lack of solid second half drive. With only seven minutes of the game remaining the Demons led by as much as 16 points. Had not Leo Barnhorst started to hit, the final margin would have been much wider than 50-46. Yet the hustle and drive of little Pete Coorlas, while he was in there, and the shooting of Kachan and Mikan cannot be discounted. Foi- DePaul the victory virtually assured them of a place in a post-season tourney.
It may be wishful thinking, but if Notre Dame can approach anywhere near the Kentucky game form, N.Y.U. will be reduced to a crop of withered violets.
—Dave Warner
Off-Campus Squad Wins Intramural Swim Meet
The Off-Campus tank squad captured top honors for the second consecutive year in the Interhall Relay Swimming Meet held Feb. 17 in the Rockne Memorial pool. The winners garnered 90 points, followed by Farley Hall with 74, Zahm with 69, Dillon with 61, and Lyons and Breen-Phillips Halls with 40 points apiece. The meet was under the supervision of Dr. John A. Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education, and Mr. Gil Burdick was the official starter. Complete details will be published next week.
Bengal Bout Leathermen Rock Fieldhouse Quarters Prepping for Fistic Tournament
By HARRY MONAHAN
Dropping meat prices in the Chicago stockyards are not bothering Mr. Dominic Napolitano, interhall athletic mentor, as he continues to condition his stable of prime beef for the forthcoming 17th annual Bengal Bouts sponsored by the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus. . From the time his leather throwing troupe steps into the floodlights’ glare on March 10, until the champions are crowned in the fisticuff finals of St. Patrick’s day, the Notre Dame campus is in for five punch packed evenings of boxing.
Over 50 sluggers have answered the call and amid arnica and old laces (glove laces, that is) they have been sweating off the excess poundage and putting the powder charge in their jabs and crosses. Some 19 previous participants have returned to make another bid for the Bengal crowns. Among them are six previous champions, five of whom are the 1947 winners.
Bill Roemer and Jack Fallon are prepping to meet the current threat to their crowns. Roemer is now carrying 193 pounds, but it is not expected to slow down that dynamite left with which he slashed his way to the lightheavyweight championship last year. Fallon, who keeps in shape during the fall by
PROMOTION TEAM FOB THE K OF Cs 1948 BENGAL BOUTS
Seated, left to right: Larry Turner. Tom Braden. Father Tam Brennan. Jerry White. Joe Dillon, and Paul Corey. Standing: Bob Walsh. Bill Shine. Jahn PanelH.
Frank Lombroso. Bill Bradley, and Jack Noonan.
helping coach the frosh gridders, is in good form and will make it a tough task to dethrone him. “Jungle Jim” Martin will represent the Cartier Field A. C., and the scrapping ex-marine will give the fans their money’s worth in flying leather.
Other returning champions include Jim Sullivan, Jim Klockenkemper and Jim Brennan. But none of their crowns are secure with such Bengal veterans as Walt Evans, Dick McGoldrick, Jim Driscoll and Russ Van Keuren returning to the ring to take up the challenge. Pete Varda and Dennis Higgins, coach and star halfback respectively of Cavanaugh Hall’s campus grid champions, will invade the pugilist ranks to try for more trophies.
Capable novice lightweight material, now working out in the Fieldhouse training room, gives promise of a hotly contested tourney for those crowns. With the men who have already signed up, a fast, hard fought, knock down, drag out boxing card will be served up in the Fieldhouse. But additional candidates for the bruising tourney are still being accepted.
Preliminaries will be held on the eve-
(Continued on Page 20)
17
Penn State Legmen Race Irish Tomorrow
Featuring distance clashes between Bill Leonard and Gerry Karver and Jim Murphy and Horace Ashenfelter, Penn State will invade the Notre Dame fieldhouse tomorrow at one o’clock in an attempt to outrun the Irish and gain their first dual meet win of the current indoor season.
Last Saturday Army scored a decisive 67 2-3 to 50 1-3 victory over the Pennsylvania. aggregation which was handicapped by the absence of their star miler, Karver, who was running the Bax-
PENN STATE'S KARVER A terrific finishing kick
ter mile in New York. Karver will give Bill Leonard his first real test of the year in the mile distance. Leonard has not been pushed yet this year, and the duel with the Penn State miler may result in the best collegiate mile since 1942.
Karver turned in the best mile performance in college track last year with a 4:11.6 time against Michigan State’s Jack Dianetti. Karver’s distinguishing mark is a terrific finishing kick which has, in some instances, carried him past a field of four to the winning position.
Top Two-Miler
Representing the Lions in the two-mile run will be Horace Ashenfelter, a lanky, durable runner who seems to gain strength over the longer distances. His best time for the two-mile is 9:19, far below Jim Murphy’s 9:35. His main difficulty seems to be his inability to pace
18
himself, and on occasion he has faltered because of this failing.
Besides these two distance stars, the Lions have particular strength in the half-mile and in the dashes. Bill Shuman proved his abilities in the IC-4A’s two years ago when he took second in the 880-yard distance. There is a possibility that Coach Doc Handy may double Leonard in the half, but Jim Kittell, on the basis of his fine showings against Iowa and Missouri, will be the top Irish hope. Ray Sobota almost edged Kittell at Iowa and may prove to be the Notre Dame star in that event.
In the dashes, Wilbur Lancaster is favored to outclass N.D. sprinters John Murphy and Bob Smith. The stocky Negro has been compared to the famed Barney Ewell, a stand-out Penn State performer several years ago. One other performer on the Lion squad deserves mention. He is Jim Gehrdes, a hurdler who has seemed to improve with every contest.
Iowa was swamped 78-36 by Notre Dame last Saturday, but despite the overwhelming victory, no records were broken and the times in general were not indicative of a good high school team. The Hawkeyes took only two events: the high jump and the 60-yard dash.
The Irish distance men again proved their strength, by sweeping the mile and the half-mile runs and tying two men for first in the two-mile. Bill Leonard won the mile in 4:26. He was followed by Kittell and Lou Tracy. Kittell went on to capture first in the 880. Second and third in the half went to Sobota, and Gerry Johnson. In the two-mile, Jim Murphy and Corny Styers tied for first. Jim Miller took the pole vault with a 12’ 6” leap.
New Addition
Bill Fleming was a welcome addition to the team, winning the high hurdles and taking second in the high jump. Fleming was running his first meet since his return to school after army service. In the low hurdles, John Smith bested Ike Johnson of Iowa who last week set a new Iowa fieldhouse record for the 70-yard obstacle race. Smith’s time was 8.1.
. John Helwig won the shot with a heave of 50 feet, 3% inches. George Sullivan was second.
Tomorrow is the last home appearance of the Irish indoor cinder group. After the Penn State contest, the thin-clads rest for a week, then enter four weeks of competition in gruelling invitational relays. ” " "
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
This is in the nature of an apology to St. Louis University in general and to the St. Louis fans and sportswriters in particular who had the misfortune to sit near an over-enthusiastic Notre Dame rooter during the fateful basketball game of February 9.
I hope that you folks from St. Louis missed most of the vicious comments
dished out by this Notre Dame fresh
man. From the opening ten minutes of play, when it became apparent that Notre Dame was in for a very difficult evening, this vocifer-o u s character made it a point to constantly belittle the outstanding efforts of the Billiken squad, Ed Macauley’s in particular. He expressed
his desire to see center John Foley of
the Irish punch Macauley in the teeth to see if any change would come over the expressionless St. Louis star.
As the game wore on and defeat came ever closer to the Irish, this bawling zealot became even more foul in his exhortations. When a St. Louis player became involved in a scramble for the ball at Kevin O’Shea’s feet, this noble gentleman called for O’Shea to kick him good and hard while he was down. He said that he liked to see a little blood with his basketball.
For these and other statements which you might have heard, St. Louis, I apologize sincerely. I don’t believe that the students at Notre Dame want to be poor losers. While we have been acclaimed as modest winners for many years, our experience with losing has been infrequent.
Many times throughout the past two years (while the Irish have enjoyed phenomenal success in athletics) I have been asked if that sort of thing doesn’t spoil the great Notre Dame spirit and threaten to turn it into a sour thing when the University’s athletic teams enter a less successful period. I have always maintained that the magnificent
Notre Dame spirit can easily weather’ any such period.
At the St. Louis basketball game I came into contact for the first time with the opposite sort of thing at Notre Dame. It might be that the over-exuberant freshman was merely carried away with seeing his first Notre Dame team lose a game. It could possibly be that he is representative of a very small percentage of the student body. The main point is that he gave the people around him a very poor impression of Notre Dame.
There is no disgrace in losing to a team as good as St. Louis. Certainly the Billikens had a hotter night in shooting,
Art Arquilla Sets Two Keg League Marks; Helps Push Italians to a Two-Game Lead
Record-shattering' Art Arquilla led the rampaging Italian Club to three straight victories over ASME at the Bowl-Mor alleys last Sunday. Art’s deadly hook not only gave the Romans what seems to be a firm grip on first place in the Gold League, but also set two all-time high marks for both leagues to shoot at. Ar-quilla’s 254 now stands as the leagues’ high single game; Art’s 621 three game series total is the mark the other pinmaulers have to try and equal m that division. Gene Anguielli helped the Italian cause with a sizzling 205 high single game.
The Rochester Club salvaged two games from the Villagers in another Gold League tussle. Paul Pukish was the shining light with a 242 high single game. Detroit took three games from St. Louis with Bob Bairly’s roundhouse hook working like a charm. Bob scored 564 for his three games. Rockford, led by Russ VanKueren, grabbed two out of three from the Inter-American Affairs outfit. Boston took two from Youngstown.
The ball and chain boys from Vet-ville, ensconced in first place of the Blue League, took two out of three from the Chemists without too much wear and tear. These boys go after bowling as if it were a married man’s game. Pittsburgh was the only club to gain any points on the Vets as they took three games from the Columbus Club. Pitt cannot be called a first place threat as yet, but they have been moving steadily with good, consistent bowling. Toledo and Milwaukee both stayed near the top by taking two games each.
BLUE LEAGUE STANDINGS
■ Schedule for February 22
Texas vs. Pittsburgh
Fox River Valley vs. Syrian-Lebanese
but their ball handling, passing, and control of the backboards were also superior to Notre Dame’s that night. The thing to do in the face of such a situation is to give them the credit which they deserve and not make alibis or adopt the poor loser attitude.
So, St. Louis, I hope you understand that Notre Dame cherishes dearly the traditions which have surrounded it for many years. We love to win; but if we can’t win, we certainly hope that we can lose graciously. I hope the tremendous ovation accorded Macauley as he left the game was more indicative of the true Notre Dame spirit than the wild rant-ings of an immature freshman.
Milwaukee vs. Aero Monogram vs. Toledo Met Club vs. Chemists Columbus Club vs. Vetville
Team	W L Pt
Vetville ................ 17	4	23
Toledo .................. 14	7	23
Chemists ................ 13	8	17
Milwaukee .............   10	11	15
Pittsburgh .............. 11	10	14
Aero ..................... 9	12	12
Monogram ...............   9	12	12
Columbus ................. 9	12	12
Fox River Valley__________ 8	13	10
Syrian-Lebanese .......... 8	13	10
Texas Club................ 7	14.	9
GOLD LEAGUE STANDINGS
Team	W	L	Pt
Italian Club ............. 15	6	21
Rochester Club ........... 13	8	18
Villagers Club ........   13	8	18
Inter-American Affairs.... 12	9	17
Buffalo ................  12	9	16
Boston .................. 11	10	15
Detroit ................. 11	10	15
Rockford................. 10	11	12
ASME ..................... 9	12	12
St. Louis................. 7	14	9
Jet Propulsion............ 7	14	9
Youngstown ............... 6	15	8
Schedule for February 22
Detroit vs. ASME
Buffalo vs. Rochester
Inter-American vs. Jet Propulsion St. Louis vs. Boston Italian Club vs. Youngstown
HIGH INDIVIDUAL GAME
ART ARQUILLA ......... 254
PAUL PUKISH .......... 242
FRANK PARISE ......... 230
Golfers Dust Off Drivers In Basement of Walsh Hall
The Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., Notre Dame golf coach, announces the installation of an indoor driving range in the basement of Walsh Hall. It is primarily for the members of the golf squad, but any student may take advantage of its services in the morning provided he brings his clubs and balls.
WALSH DRIVING RANGE For the coming season—an early start
The afternoon schedule is taken up by members who are required to practice a half-hour a day until the weather permits regular practice. At that time Father Holderith will dismantle the target and store it until next winter. '
Italian Club Paces Student Cage Loop
Led by Al Zmijewski, who tallied 13 points, the New Jersey Club team outlasted Sam Papa’s Italian Club squad 32-27 in one of the highlight games of the week.
The winners burst to a 12-0 lead and were never headed despite the steady floor work and shooting of Al Pais who
scored 12 points for		the losers.
Box score: Italian Club B F P Cappucci	10 1		Neto Jersey Club B F P Rooney	2 0 2
Pais	5 2 2	Hurley	5 0 1
Panelli	0 3 3	Zmijewski	5 3 2
Spanier	0 0 0	Regan	102
Papa	0 0 0	Fagan	001
Pesoli	2 2 3	Weston	-000
Cifelli	2 0 1	Tripucka	12 1
In the Open League, reserve manpower
19
and a 22-point spree by center Muntz proved too much for Don Zehnder’s small crew and the Morrissey Red swept to a convincing 50-25 victory.
Box score:
Morrissey Orange B F	P	Morrissey Red	
		B	F P
Zehnder	4 1	2	Costello	2	0 1
Clyne	4 0	1	Muntz	11	0 1
Bottie	2 0	0	Boh Duffy	2	0 0
Crowley	0 0	1	Loughlin	4	0 1
Giordano	2 0	1	J. Flynn	2	1 0
		Evans	3	1 0
		Dean	0	0 0
Elsewhere in the Open League, Charlie Wolfe’s team behaved as expected, humbling their opposition 85-25, O’Connor, Donovan and Harrison hitting for close to 15 points apiece.
MORRISSEY CAGE ACTION Muntz' 22 was too much
Ray Petrzelka unveiled his crew of fast-breaking, accurate marksmen and showed why his team is one of the league favorites. Sullivan and Captain Petrzelka himself featured a blistering attack which produced a 71-46 win over a highly-rated rival.
In interhall competition the scores were as follows: Zahm 46, Vetville 20; Lyons 59, Alumni 39; Breen-Phillips 40, Farley 41; Walsh 34, Howard 27; Breen-Phillips 44, Sorin 26; Morrissey (lightweights) 23, Howard (lightweights) 50; Lyons (lightweights) 32, Cavanaugh (lightweights) 43.
Over in the Club League the Toledo Club blasted the Kentuckians 60-32, and the Central Illinois squad levelled the Aesculapians 40-30.
The following games are scheduled for
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Karver-Leonard Mile Duel Will Spice Barren Winter Sports Sked
By Pete Brown
In a rather bleak winter sports season at Notre Dame, the student enthusiast will get his second chance to see some competition. Kentucky and Notre Dame provided the only other exhibition of competitive action. However, this second occasion will be a two man affair and not a team battle. The two man battle will start tomorrow afternoon at 2:10
p. m. and last for four minutes plus. It
will take place in the Fieldhouse and the two contestants will be Bill Leonard of Notre Dame and Gerry Karver of Penn State. The remainder of the meet will not be much to watch, but that is beside the point. One good race can make a track meet.
Karver comes into the Fieldhouse
with a reputation as. the best collegiate miler in the country, and since Gil Dodds came down with mumps, Karver is now the best miler in competition. Last season he turned in a 4:11.6 against Jack Dianetti of Michigan State. This season he took the Michigan State Relays mile in 4:24, and last Saturday won the Baxter Mile in the New York Athletic Club
games with a 4:15.2.
As far as time is concerned Leonard does not have a chance, but other conditions give Bill a slight edge. His best mile in three years of competition has been a 4:15.7 last year in the State Championship meet. Most of Leonard’s
next week: On Monday St. Edward’s plays Vetville and Badin meets Off-Campus. On Thursday it’s Zahm vs. Farley and Howard vs. Alumni, while Cavanaugh plays Sorin and Morrissey engages Lyons on Friday.
In the lightweight league Cavanaugh and Howard battle Tuesday and Morrissey and Breen-Phillips Thursday. Club competition features the Italian Club vs. the West Virginia Club on Monday and New Jersey vs. the Villagers Wednesday.—Tom McNally
other miles were in the high 20’s with his best effort this season being a 4:21.7 against Missouri. That is where the loophole comes in. Leonard ran the last mile on a dirt track. Karver’s best time on a dirt track was in the Michigan State Relays when he had a rough time beating Krakow of Illinois in 4:24. Karver has had his best races on board tracks and in the open air on cinder tracks. On dirt by comparative times Leonard looks better. Both men have one definite fault in their running makeup. Neither has ever run a good mile when there was more than one other good runnel* in the same race. However, when there was only one other the two have run superb races. Therefore, if you want a little action on tomorrow’s dull afternoon, show up at the Fieldhouse at two o’clock and you will get it.
In the two-mile the rationalization can not be as easy. Jim Murphy at his best has run 9:35, but that was last season. Penn State’s two-miler, Horace Ashen-felter, has done as low as 9:11.6 in his collegiate career, but this season has been unable to get under 9:40. With a stretch of the imagination you might make a point for Murph.
As a sidelight to track meets, we have a complaint. Every decent fieldhouse in the country has prominently placed in its main entrance or on the wall next to the track a record board listing every fieldhouse record in the various events. Notre Dame has had some great track men of whom she should be proud. Why not show off that pride by listing the records that those men hold on what was once their home track?
Bengal Bouts
(Continued from Page 17)
nings of March 10, 11, 12 and 15. And it will be a great night for the Irish, fans and fighters alike, when the finalists clash on March 17. The above dates represent a correction to information published in last week’s issue of the Scholastic.
The Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., is acting as chairman for the hardworking committees from the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, which is
20
rounding out the program details for the slugging festival. Promotion manager Joe Dillon is being assisted by: Don Brady and Bill Bradley, publicity; Dick Keen and Bill Soos, refreshments; Bill Shine and Bob Welch, program; Jerry White and Larry Turner, tickets; Frank Lombardo, liaison; Tom Broden, Paul Corey and Christy Walsh, advisory.
The boxers who have entered:
Gus Cifelli, 230; Fred Wallner, 210; Jim Martin, 207; Jack Fallon, 200; R. F. Doherty, 195; John O’Connor, 193; Billy Roemer, 193; Russ Skall, 192; Bernie Havins, 185; Frank Tripodi, 184; Tony DeBaggis, 180; Paul Schlafly, 180; R. Cotter, 175; Jim Carroll, 174; Paul Boulus, 173; Bill Carew, 170.
Charles Mattingly, 168; Bill Finck, 167; Peter Varda, 163; Bill Hopke, 163; George Dickson, 163; J. D. Durkin, 162; James J. Engel, 162; Dan Finn, 161; D. H. Fidler, 160; Tom Kenny, 160; Charles E. Stevinson, 160; Joe Harmon, 160; Joe Naughton, 160.
Jim Driscoll, 155; Dick McGoldrick, 155; Lou Almasi, 154; A. T. Jones, 154; Ed Dailey, 153; Tom King, 153; Walter Evans, 153; Norm LaLone, 150; R. J. Sanford, 150; S. P. McCarthy, 150; Jim Klockenkemper, 150; Frank Fahey, 150; Dennis Higgins, 150.
Robert E. Welsh, 149; Howie Chittenden, 148; Thomas P. Kennedy, 148; A. Santangelo, 145; Joe Stewart, 145; John O’Brien, 145; Richard Greenwell, 142; Greg Despot, 140; Jim Farrell, 140; Tom Crowley, 140; Jack Griffin, 140.
Jack Young, 138; Jim King, 138; Dave Harbert, 135; Gene Slattery, 135; Russ Van Keuren, 136; Donald Ewing, 130; James M. Sullivan, 127; Bill Hogan, 126; Antonio Mortensen, 122.
James A. Smith and Bob Lee — no weight given.
'46 Bengal Champ
(Continued from Page 16) light and heavy bags in the boxing room and there is a noticeable glint in his eyes when the present location of his former fistic crown is mentioned. At present, the possibility of the 165-pound Californian tangling with the 193-pound bone-busting Bill Roemer is very slight, but it would provide an interesting comparison of styles. Dickson assumes a Corbettesque pose and prefers to box his opponent to pieces, whereas the present title holder uses a southpaw whirlwind to flatten his opposition.
Whatever the decision in the Bengal’s squared ring, when leather contacts moleskin, George will be on Cartier Field trying “The Luj’s” vacated shoes for size. Pacific Coast football fans may get an opportunity to view a prospective west coast football coaching candidate
Irish Fencers Lose, Meet Cincinnati Next
The University of Cincinnati will furnish the next opposition for Notre Dame’s fencers tomorrow evening at 7:30 in the fencing room in the fieldhouse. Little is known about the Queen City lads, but Coach Herb Melton is not taking them too lightly. Last year the Irish journeyed down by the Ohio and came home with a 17%-9% decision over the Bearcats.
Defeat, the first of the season, met Melton’s men at Chicago on February 14 after four straight victories, the score reading 15-12. The night previous Notre Dame had edged Northwestern in a 14-13 thriller at Evanston.
Bob Boslei- was the hero in the Northwestern win, the small saber specialist topping his opponent in the final bout of the evening to break a 13-all deadlock. Earlier in the evening the Irish had copped the foils 5-4 with Captain Lou Burns and Mike DiCicco leading the way.
Once more the epee proved to be a stumbling block for the Notre Dame men, and they dropped that event to the Wildcats 6-3. The Irish rallied strongly in the saber, however, and won five of the first eight bouts in that event to set the stage for Bosler’s clincher.
Against the Maroons there was a similar story except for the final details. Chicago hasn’t lost a fencing match since 1946, but Notre Dame came as close to upsetting their apple cart as has any team in that period. Once more led by Burns and DeCicco, the foils squad handed the Maroons their first setback in that department.
The epee bouts were a fatal weakness against Chicago as the Irish dropped behind. The deficit was too much for the saber men to overcome, and Chicago’s unbeaten status remained undisturbed. During the saber bouts a chronic shoul-dei' injury recurred to Bosler, forcing him to withdraw from competition. With his injury, any Irish hopes for lastminute victories such as those over Michigan State and Northwestern faded.
Four wins in five outings is an excellent record for Melton’s fencers. And with the most difficult part of the schedule behind them, they should come home in front from here on in.
when the Irish invade Los Angeles to meet the Southern California Trojans. Notre Dame alumni have been successful, for the most part, in California coaching circles, and George will be making his application for entry in the ranks when he completes his physical education course.—Bob Leander
Theatre Guild Invites
ND Participation in Workshop
Notre Dame students and faculty members are invited to participate in auditions for a special radio workshop being organized by the Catholic Theatre Guild. The auditions will be held at 7 p. m. Wednesday and Friday, February 25 and 27, at station WHOT, 434 South St. Joseph Street.
The workshop will be open to all persons interested in radio writing, producing and acting, according to Mrs. Dennis Malloy, chairman of the Guild’s radio committee. A former director of the FBI Little Theatre at Washington, D.C., Mrs. Malloy also has had professional radio experience.
WHOT officials have offered radio time to the workshop, and scripts are being assembled by the Guild’s radio committee. A number of South Bend persons, including several from St. Mary’s College, already have been auditioned. The workshop is expected to go on the air in several weeks, and to broadcast a weekly radio play, probably each Sunday morning.
Holiday Trip to D. C. Relieves Dull Easter
A remedy for a dull holiday vacation on campus has been offered by the Department of Political Science in the form of a four-day trip to Washington, D. C. Places of interest to be visited and traveling details are listed in a schedule released this week by the Chesapeake and Ohio railway.	.
Streamliners will convey the men to the capital with short stops being made at Toledo and Charlottesville, Virginia. Upon debarkation in Washington, the party will hoof it to the Washington Monument from which point buses are to take the group to the Sheraton Hotel for room assignment and dinner.
Tours are planned for the Franciscan Monastery, the Library of Congress, the Bureau of Printing and Engraving, the FBI, the Senate chambers, the Supreme Court, and the Smithsonian Institute. The travelers will be turned loose to furnish their own entertainment on two of the evenings.
Present plans call for a departure from South Bend at 3:15 p. m., Friday, March 26. The troupers are due back-at 7:45 a. m. the following Tuesday. No announcement was made as to the number needed for the journey, but 40 is the maximum allowed to go.
Anyone interested can make inquiries from the Department of Political Science. -
21
NOTRE DAME NAMES MAKE NEWS
GRAD STUDENT JULIEN Hope for France
PROF. F. X. ACKERMANN Half a fortune
Give and Take
A total of $3,000, or half of his modest life’s savings, was left to the Congregation of Holy Cross by the late FRANCIS X. ACKERMANN, professor of mechanical drawing at Notre Dame for more than half a century, according to his will which was filed for probate last week. Professor" Ackermann, who died last month in Dubuque, Iowa, had been retired from the University faculty since 1938. Two-thirds of his bequest is to be used as a trust fund for the education of young men for the priesthood and the remaining $1,000 was designated for Gregorian Masses to be said for him at Notre Dame. . . .
Appointed as the new president of the Indianapolis City Park Board is Mrs. Agnes P. Connor, mother of NICHOLAS CONNOR and LAWRENCE CONNOR, a Notre Dame alumnus and student, respectively. Mrs. Connor, who is the first woman president of the board was appointed by ALBERT G. FEENEY, a Notre Dame graduate in 1913, and the recently elected mayor of Indianapolis. . . .
er is perhaps not quite so well known. In the current city bowling tournament being conducted in South Bend he and his partner, Jerry Kruck, are leading the pack in the doubles matches for the championship. . . .
Two new editions of earlier books by Rev. RAYMOND W. MURRAY, c.s.c., head of the Department of Sociology, have just appeared. One, the second edition of Man’s Unknown Ancestors (published by Bruce, Milwaukee), deals with prehistoric man and evolution. All important discoveries made since 1943, the
L-i
date of the first edition, have been included in the 1948 edition. The other book is a Portuguese translation of Father Murray’s Introductory Sociology by Jose Artur Rios, (published by Agir, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil). The American publishers of the latter book (Appleton-\ Century-Crofts, New York) have just *2 announced that it is being used as a text *in “over a hundred colleges.” . . .
Talk and Travel
Energetic CLAUDE JULIEN, of Paris, France, a graduate student in the University asserted at a luncheon of Catholic business men last week that the Catholic Church in France has been greatly strengthened by the sacrifices of the French Catholics in the past world conflict. In supporting his point, Mr. Julien said that as evidence of the Catholic renaissance which is so apparent in France today more than 1,500,000 young men and women alone belong to Catholic action groups. The Catholic press has doubled its readers since 1940, and there is also an increased demand for Catholic professors by the Sorbonne and other leading French institutions. . . .
Most Notre Dame patrons of the campus barber shop are familiar with barrel-shaped, cigarette puffing JOE MOLNAR, who plies his tonsorial art from the center chair in the Badin Hall establishment. That Joe is a crack bowl-
BENGAL CHAMP ROEMER To new arena
Leaving the campus after the recent Kentucky game a group of Notre Dame students undertook the journey to New Orleans for the highlight of the social season, the annual Mardi Gras. Making the trip were BILL VANGEN, BILL
22
MAHONEY, GLENN MENHENNETT, ED McBRIDE, JACK YOUNG and VERN BRINK. When it was learned that the boys were from Notre Dame, the many Irish rooters they met in Louisiana would not let them pay for anything. During their visit, which lasted for nearly a week, the boys saw the town from top to bottom, including horse races, parades, parties, ex-Notre Dame men, and assistant football coach BERNIE CRIMMINS on his honeymoon. . . .
Engage and Marry
Engaged to ROBERT G. ROSE, graduate student from Rhinelander, Wisconsin; Miss Marian Jean Rice, of South Bend.
Engaged to BILL (ZIP) ROEMER, hard-hitting light-heavyweight 1947 Bengal champ, Miss Jeanne Uphause, of Cincinnati, Ohio. The wedding will take place in the early fall.
Married to JOSEPH CREEN, Commerce school freshman from Farley Hall and Fort Madison, Iowa; Miss Pat Marsh, formerly of St. Mary’s College and also from Fort Madison, on Feb. 3. . . .
Council Committee Pleads For Campus Club Data
The Clubs and Constitution Committee of the Student Council is once again making a plea for information from all campus clubs. In order to operate more effectively with these organizations, it is necessary for the committee to have a list of the names of all campus clubs and their officers along with copies of the constitutions. Special attention is being called to the clubs which have recently elected new officers. Information is to be sent to the committee at 235 Alumni Hall.
The following clubs have not turned in their constitutions: American Society of Medicine, Engineering, Bookmen, Boston, Calumet, Capital District of N. Y., Cavaliers, Central N. Y., Cincinnati, Flying Irish, Fox River, International Affairs, International Relations, Iowa, Italian, Kansas, Knights of Columbus, La Raza, Law, Minneapolis, Monogram, NFCCS, Olean, Press, Radio, Student Managers Association, T.A.S., and Wranglers.
Clubs that have not turned in names and addresses of officers are: Capital District of N. Y., Cavaliers, Connecticut, Flying Irish, Institute of Aero Science, Il Ulb, International Relations, Inter-Racial Club, Kansas, Knights of Columbus, Metallurgy, Minneapolis, Olean, Schoolmen, Servers, Student Managers Association, Institute of Radio Engineers, Jet Propulsion, and Tri-Cities of New York.
BEARDED SAGE
The exercise of free will
Bewhiskered Scholars Shun RazorSj Cameras
Monty Woolley and G.B.S. have good reason to look to their laurels. ND cafeteria customers have been mildly astonished recently to see several conventiondefying upperclassmen displaying handsome, full-grown beards.
Following a rumor that these hairy growths were the product of a pact among several philosophy majors, the Scholastic assigned a reporter to check the story with one of the men themselves. Apparently, however, the Shavian inffuence had already taken effect, for the men reacted like recluses suddenly trapped in some secret lair.
Innocently, this Scholastic hireling accosted one of the razor-scorners in the cafeteria. At my first question, “Pardon me, but are you a philosophy major?” the bearded one turned, set down his cup with a majestic gesture reminiscent of Calvert’s “man. of distinction” ads, and replied solemnly, “I am!”
His scraggly red whiskers trembled with indignation as he dismissed the next question hotly: “I belong to no club; I have made no agreement. I am acting as an individual, exercising my individual rights as an American citizen!”
“I see. Well, we had hoped to get a picture of your little group,” I ventured, “but...”
“I belong to no ‘little group’... I have told you that. And pictures are completely out of the question.” His beard gave another perturbed twitch.
“I see. Well, in that case ...” I managed to murmur.
“Am I doing anything so odd?” he demanded. “No! I am merely exercising a simple human prerogative. I am acting with free will as an individuaL
It seemed a logical opening for a heated discourse on the topic of the fifth freedom, “Freedom to Grow Beards.” Envisioning a lengthy condemnation of such monsters as Peter the Great, a tyrannical ogre who delighted in snipping off his subjects’ beards, I excused myself and crept away, abashed.—J. Dukert
Vetvillagers Pleased With New Quarters
According to the latest issue of the Vetville Gazette, official publication of the town of Vetville, the new residents of nearby “Harmony Village” are more than pleased with their quarters. The following are some of the Vetvillers first reactions:
John and Rita Archer, apartment 60 say, “Vetville may or may not be the answer to our prayers, but we feel that it is—and a truly wonderful one at that!”
“We hail from Tuckahoe, New York, and I am an economics major. We’d like to say that we’re very happy in our new home.” Frank Spiegal, apartment 15C, also spoke for his wife, Pat, and their month old daughter, Patricia.
Jack and Alice Cowley claim: “Even our 1932 Rockne, which for months provided transportation between North Liberty and the campus, seems content to rest in front of our new home, 7B.”
From apartment 39B, Joe, Alice and little Carolyn Kienstra joyfully said, “We like everything about our new home. It was made to order for our needs. Thanks to our new neighbors for their help and friendliness.”
Bill and Shirley Martin, apartment 40C, were sincere when they said, “When we received word that we were to move to Vetville, we were naturally elated. Now that we are in, and almost settled, we feel that we cannot help but enjoy our stay here.”
For laughs, I. M. Wright of apartment 14A jokingly complained: “We think that one of -the mayor's duties should be to come around and shovel the snow off our walks. Also the fellow in charge of this ward (Councilman, I think you call him) seemed irritated last week just because we asked , him to sit with our babies a couple of nights. Then if my next door neighbor would lay off the law books in the wee hours of the morning, things would be pretty good.”
—David S. Schoen
23
MUSIC
Movie Music
A person sometimes leaves a motion picture theatre and says, “The music in that picture was good.” And instead of a gay musical, his reference may very well be to an emotion-packed drama. He was simply impressed by the background music—the music that affects you, at least subconsciously, and adds volumes to the expression of the screen.
In the past, movie music was considered good when no one was aware that it was heightening emotions and providing continuity. But today background scores are important large scale projects. No longer is it a crime for the music to play a great part in stirring the audience, even though remaining subordinate to the drama itself. Out of this new prominence for the movie score has risen a controversy over the true value and integrity of such music.
There are arguments fov both sides, but when anyone condemns movie music because it supposedly is not capable of having a life of its own, don’t take him too seriously. It is true that much music composed for movies only has worth when integrated with the film, but take a picture like The Long Night, where Henry Fonda sweats out an evening with guns blazing at him. No young upstart of a Hollywood composer provided the basis for the powerful background score here. No, indeed. The second allegretto movement of Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony made terrific movie music. No life of its own?
With the recognition of audience appeal in a good musical background, some of these well advertised scores were put in records. Whether the scores now recorded were worth the effort is a debatable question, since most of this music has been either utterly original and weird, or thundering, with sure-selling orchestrations. If you listen to David Easkin’s Forever Amber music in the KCA Victor album you’ll wish you had the picture (no matter how boring) to go with the music, which doesn’t stand very well by itself. But, on the other-hand, Miklos Eozsa’s music from Spellbound and Lost Weekend had enough popular appeal to sell many, many recordings. They have some brilliant composers in Hollywood, but their good work doesn’t seem to be available as yet.
Apart from the question of intrinsic value in movie music, it is easily seen that the music tracks of sound films have become an increasingly important
24
influence on the American musical scene. Not only does movie music provide a lucrative field as incentive and support for modern composers of serious music, but also background scores of merit can help to raise standards of music appreciation among the great mass of moviegoers.
Biondo Brings Hope
We have background music for campus life too. But here’s a good, long hope that it won’t be in the background much longer. One indication that it won’t remain submerged took the form of a concert by the Notre Dame String Quartet last week. Professor Biondo can well be proud of the showing made.
In the opening Haydn quartet the four student-musicians began with some shaky bowing and appeared a little mechanical. But as the succeeding movements were played, the group seemed to relax and showed more elasticity, and interpretation. The second portion of the concert featured a duet for violin and viola written by Handel in passacaglia form. Edward Cyprus and Wayne Chandler tossed the variations of the theme back and forth with ease, and, except for a few squeaks, it was a surprisingly well-done job.—Tom Hani fin
Ciprus-Chandler String Duet Highlights Classical Evening
Featuring a rare and unaccompanied violin-viola duet by Edward Ciprus, of Lakewood, Ohio, and Wayne Chandler, of Mishawaka, the Notre Dame String Quartet presented its first concert in Washington Hall last week.
A sparse audience of 200 music devotees were on hand to enjoy distinctive string compositions of the classical, romantic, and modern periods. The Ciprus-Chandler duet was especially unusual because it was played entirely without accompaniment and written “passacaglia” in the strict classical style as might have been heard in the late 18th century. Another feature of the program was the playing of Haydn’s thirty-fifth string quartet.
This was the second in the lecturerecital series held every two weeks at ND. The Rev. John D. Gallagher, C.S.C., instructor in music, preceded the program with a detailed discussion on the theme, parts and form of the selections played. Other members of the quartet, in addition to Ciprus and Chandler, are Paul Folchi, Norwood, Ohio, violinist, and Otto Kopp, Brooklyn, N. Y., cellist. Professor Charles Biondo, of the Department of Music, is director of the quartet.
Commerce Forum Meets; New Members Introduced
George Burns, president of the Commerce Forum, announced last Wednesday the selection of four new members to replace a similar number lost to the Forum through graduation. The new men, Bill Murtagh, Richard Broeren, Dan O’Connell and Albert Allgaier, were introduced to the group at the regular Forum social which was held Thursday evening at the Ramble Inn. A general invitation was extended to all faculty members of the Commerce School to attend the function and a sizable number availed themselves of the opportunity for an evening of informal discussion interspersed with barber-shop harmony.
Laying aside the festive activities, the Forum again meets in earnest and solemn conclave March 3, at which time Bill Weiler is scheduled to speak and handle the discussion.
Next Wednesday Deadline For Oratory Contest Entries
Preliminiaries of the Breen Oratorical Contest will be held at 3:15 p. m. on March 8 in Room 327 of the Main Building. The final contest will take place a week later in Washington Hall.
The Breen Medal for Oratory was founded by the Hon. William P. Breen, ’77, and is awarded to any student of the University who excels in oratory. The award is based upon the collective opinion of three judges to be chosen by a faculty member of the Department of Speech.
Entrants must register with Mr. Eisen at his office within Room 225-B of the Main Building by February 25. The oration should approximate 1000 words, 7 to 9 minutes speaking time. The subject matter may be selected by the individual contestant.
Cavanaugh Concerts
FEBRUARY 24 Tschaikowsky—Swan Lake Ballet Puccini—Selections from Madame Butterfly
FEBRUARY 25 Grieg—Concerto in A Minor Lalo—Symphony Espagnole
FEBRUARY 26 Gershwin—Concerto in F Enesco—Roumanian Rhapsody Anyone interested in classical music is invited to the Cavanaugh Reading Room Noon Hour Concerts, 12:30 to 1:30.
Fr. Cavanaugh Flays (Continued from Page 9) solve to reaffirm our faith in the philosophy of the Declaration of Independence and actually to make it a practical every-day rule of life. Let us suppose that from this moment we were to determine all our actions in the light of the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man. Let us suppose that each of us were to become as scrupulous in his duties as he is zealous of his rights.
“What would become of the differences between capital and labor that are now retarding complete postwar recovery in our own beloved country? The two would meet, I think, upon the common ground of mutual interest.
“The same would be true of racial ill-feeling. Instead of shying away from a man because his skin is black or brown or yellow instead of white, we would say: ‘All men are created equal — all men are equal in the sight of God. This man, no matter what his station, is as precious in the sight of oui* common Creator as we are, because God is the perfect Father.’
“And finally, what would become of religious tensions? If we adopted as our creed the Declaration of Independence, we would not ridicule or persecute those who do not worship at the same altar as we; nor would we, because of ignorance, prejudice, or both, pillory a man because he is a Catholic, Protestant, or Jew. Guided by our conviction of right and corresponding duties, we would respect oui* neighbor’s rights— and duty—to worship according to the dictates of his conscience.
“Let all true Americans, in particular, unite in the hope that American Brotherhood Week may help shatter the barriers of international, inter-racial and inter-religious misunderstanding that man in his blindness or perversity has permitted to arise.”
Lohman Lecture to Highlight American Brotherhood Week
American Brotherhood Week will be observed on the campus starting this Sunday and will be highlighted with a lecture by Dr. Joseph Lohman, educational director of the Julius Rosenwald Foundation, Chicago, Ill. The speech will be made next Tuesday night at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
The Brotherhood Week, which is sponsored by the National Council of Christians and Jews, will be observed by universities throughout the country. Dr. Lohman is a lecturer in sociology at the University of Chicago and author of “Police and Minority Groups.” His sub
ject for the Notre Dame talk will be “Brotherhood Pattern for Peace,” and is to be sponsored by the sociology department.
Greene Assumes Presidency As Wranglers Hold 2nd Meet
The Wranglers, the campus honorary forensic society, met for the second time this semester on last Wednesday night. James J. Greene, the new president, from St. John’s, Newfoundland, assumed his office and announced plans for the semester. Mr. Greene was elected to the presidency to succeed John Fallon, who completed his studies in January.
B. J. Bedard, senior English major from Kalamazoo, Mich., delivered the paper of the evening. It was entitled “Lost: One Oversoul” and was aimed at ferreting out some of the causes of our apparent American literary deficiency. American letters were presented in the course of this defense. The paper’s outline was that of a random presentation of serious problems which are notable in our literature today, including rationalism, naturalism, realism, commercialism and sensationalism, the relationship between the artist and the public, lack of spiritual profundity, and the present continental influence.
The paper did not pretend to be exhaustive or to treat the subject from a strictly literary and critical viewpoint but rather merely to enumerate these problems for the purpose of discussion. Mr. Bedard ended upon an optimistic note and predicted an intensification of America’s literary output.
Lawyer Cites Effectiveness Of Railway Labor Measure
Mr. Leo J. Hassenauer, counsel for the Railway Brotherhoods of America for the last 28 years, spoke to Notre Dame law students last Tuesday on the Railway Labor Act of 1926. Mr. Hassenauer, a graduate of the Notre Dame College of Law who was instrumental in drafting the act, cited its effectiveness in preventing strikes and promoting harmonious relationships between railway management and its laborers. The basis for the act was the teachings of the Popes.
Campus Clubs
(Continued from Page 6)
in Room 210 of the Commerce Building. The meetings are being sponsored by the students in the College of Commerce with Reverend J. E. Norton and Mr. C. B. Smeeton serving as moderators.
The program is designed to cover such topics as the relationship of economic
principles to the' moral law, property* ownership, just wages and salaries, and present day characteristics of the capitalistic economy.
Subsequent meetings will take place each two weeks, all students being cordially invited to participate.
Detroit Easter Party -
Plans for the Detroit Club’s Easter Monday dance were expounded at the semester’s first meeting this week. Dick Moons will chairman the soiree, set for swank, high-priced Glen Oaks. Moons, “because of managerial connections,” managed to hold the bid price down to S2.75. He signed the “Flowerville Five” to provide musical background. President Larry Smith, conducting his first bit of gavel pounding since January’s election, presided over the meeting.
Guidance Center
(Continued from Page 15)
The opportunities for locating a student’s interest and aptitudes are legion.
Of even more importance to every student on campus is the opportunity offered to take a personality test. Here’s a chance to find out whether you’re potential material for a booby hatch or not; whether you’re behaving yourself in the company of St. Mary’s girls; whether you’re grown up or still in emotional short-pants. •
The personality scales and inventories can go a long way in helping the student to get on the right track. They help him to know himself. By better knowing himself the student can overcome emotional or personality difficulties that might otherwise clabber up his schoolwork, wreck his chances with his girl, foul up his future, and eventually send him to stir. Frightening, isn’t it?
Any observing person, notwithstanding students of sociology who learn from Father Murray’s text (pages 364, 421), knows that college men can snap their caps. The strain of studies, the diet, the anxiety, over sleeping (bell-neurosis, sackitis), and the many other factors that play upon the personality often tend to make the student a crank, or a gossip, or a moaner, or even an outright extrovertive looney.
The student who thinks he may be getting too little or too much library work or recreation, to the extent that it is shaping his personality, would do wdl to stop in at the Testing and Guidance center and take one or more of their revealing personality tests. The results will prove astounding. It’s like seeing one’s own mind at work, or at hearing an old confession played back on a record.
25
(Cl11 CL PARADE
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and UM O'RIELEY
CUES FOR COEDS . . .
Ohio State University has inaugurated another up-to-the-minute course. According to the Lantern, the newest addition to O.S.U.’s curriculum is a billiards class for coeds. Already 90 women have enrolled for this course, which carries two hours of credit. Rumor has it that the males on the campus are about to vote on “The Girl With Whom We Would Most Like to Be Behind the Eight Ball.”
THIS ONE RINGS THE BELL!
William J. Coulter is probably the most telephoned man in Columbus. It seems that his telephone number was erroneously listed opposite the name of the Theta Upsilon sorority in Ohio State’s directory. By the way, Mr. Coulter works nights and sleeps days.
MERCHANIZED MORPPHEUS . . .
The Michigan State Netos describes an invention of one Max Sherover which prophesies a Utopian university of the future. This device, called the “cerebrograph” is composed of a record player, an electric clock, and a pillow-microphone. Its operation is simple — you merely crawl into bed, turn on the record player and relax. You are lulled to sleep by the recorded voice of your favorite prof. While you sleep your subconscious mind is learning. The alarm rings and you awaken, having absorbed an eight-hour, wire-recorded lecture plus 480 minutes of sleep.
Get your cerebrograph now. You can’t enjoy college without a cerebrograph!
CHIPS FROM THE LOG:
“An inmate just escaped from the insane asylum. He was tall, thin and weighed 250 pounds.”
“Tall, thin and weighed 250 pounds?”
INK BLOT DIAGNOSIS
4 to 6: Obviously a victim of dementia praecox.
6 to 8: Obviously anti-clerical and victim of over-sheltered home life.
8 to 10: Apparently a pulp novel reader. and unfit for the pursuit of higher learning.
10 to 12: Anti-Tibetan; probably an overworked history major.
12 to 14: B-picture enthusiast. Afraid of the dark.
14 to 16: An unimaginative slob, but apparently sane.
“I told you he was crazy.”
FAMOUS LAST WORDS:
He: “See that man playing fullback? He’ll be our best man in about a week.”
She: “Darling, this is so sudden.”
The Michigan State Netos reports that seating conditions are getting so bad that the students must come over an hour before game time in order to obtain seats for the basketball games. This has caused many of the students to bring lunches, play cards, and so on, but things will be different from now on, they say. Plans call for pre-game entertainment which will include a boxing match between blind contestants and a coon hunt with genuine dogs. We don’t see how the hunt can be very sportsmanlike, however, because the poor raccoons are going to be surrounded by the people in the fieldhouse and then the dogs will be turned loose. Where can they go?
Landlady (setting down a bowl of soup): “Looks like rain, doesn’t it?”
Boarder* (taking a whiff): ’ “Yes it does, but it smells a little like soup.”
—Florida, Alligator
Sedgewick: “Terribly sorry you buried your wife yesterday.”
Watleywood: “Had to — dead you know.”	—Florida Alligator
DEFINITION
Social tact: Making your company feel at home even though you wish they were.	—New Rochelle Tatler
From the Villanovan we have taken the following:
A young girl failed to hear from her boy friend. She wired: “Dead, delayed, or disinterested?”
He replied: “Hunting, fishing, or trapping?”
Also from the Villanovan were these “euphuisms”:
“All that eludes a scintillating sparkle is not a certain extremely valuable aureate substance.”
“Do not exchange equine means of transportation halfway between the banks of a swiftly running body of water.”
and
“An overabundance of culinary practitioners impairs the quality of liquid food.”
Rebels' Spring Elections Obscured by Mardi Gras
Somehow, sometime between the explosive presentation of Gov. Ellis Arnall and the Mardi Gras dance the Rebels Club held its elections for the coming semester. The elections were held in the obscurity necessitated by the blaze of publicity surrounding the big dance and the appearance of Hilma Seay. The results were unsensational as the event.
Bill Slavick who chairmanned the Mardi Gras into the success that it was, was pushed into the presidency by acclaim following a motion by retiring president Coy McGee. Slavick is a junior English major from Memphis, Tenn.
Succeeding Joe Signiago as vice president is former corresponding secretary Bill Leonard of Fairfield, Ala. Bill headed the Mardi Gras floor committee.
Greg Despot of Shreveport, La., co-chairman of Mardi Gras bid committee was chosen secretary, and past president Jerry White of New Orleans was the choice for treasurer. Eugene Podesta, another Memphis citizen, grabbed the corresponding secretary’s spot away from Joe Owens of Brunswick, Ga., but only after a four ballot tussle.
The executive council will be announced at the next meeting.
- w w ■	t
Summer School to Begin June 23 for 8-Week Session
Registration for this year’s summer session will take place on June 21 and 22, and classes will begin on June 23, continuing for eight weeks.
Courses in this, the twenty-sixth summer session at Notre Dame, are designed to meet the needs of four groups of students: (1) undergraduates who wish to secure extra credits or to make up deficiencies; (2) teachers who wish to prepare themselves for better work or to secure higher rating from state boards of education; (3) persons holding the bachelor’s degree who wish to secure an advanced degree in the Graduate School; and (4) veterans who wish to complete their college work in a shorter period of time.
Degrees will be conferred on Aug. 13.
OPPORTUNITY
Are you a sales manager? Do you lean more toward selling than to any other activity? We need several men about 30 years of age who are capable of directing their own sales activities. Openings in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, representing a reputable man-. ufacturing firm. Good income.
ADDRESS: BOX 185 Notre Dame Scholastic
26
CAREERS WITH A FUTURE
up there soon!”
Up where the ceiling’s unlimited and the horizon’s as wide as the world! Up where there’s freedom and adventure—and a man can dare to do what no man’s done-before!
You’re on your way up there when you join the Aviation Cadets. After a year’s pilot training, it’s silver wings for you—and a commission as Second Lieutenant in the U. S. Air Force Reserve.
You are eligible if you’re single, between 20 and 26^, and have completed at least half the requirements for a degree from an accredited college or university (or can pass an equivalent qualifying examination).
Y)u’ll fly the very best planes during your 12 months of pilot training. Then, after graduation, you’ll pilot jet fighters and bombers. And you’ll get a starting salary of $336 a month. During your three years on active duty you’ll be given a chance to win a commission in the Regular Air Force.
This is a priceless opportunity for alert young men with the urge to carve their future in American aviation. Ask for details at your U. S. Army and U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station. Or, write to Headquarters, U. S. Air Force, Attention: Aviation Cadet Section, Washington 25, D. C.
II. S. ARMY AND U. S. AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
n
Copyright 1243, bccnr a Mrres Tojacco Co,


METRamiTANTORAS
"JV(ORLD FAMOUS-
Satisfy iomlf
... /ike Rise Stevens, that Ch ester fields are JU ALWAYS MIKDER BETTER TASTING COOKER SMOKING
n“ZS,Z”^


IIESTEHFIEED
' r, A' 'Mz