The Notre Dame Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
NOVEMBER 4 1932
4

Capr. 1332. The American
THE STRIPED TIGER “Nature in the Raw”— as portrayed, by the greatanimalartist, Paul Bransom ... inspired by the savage ferocity of the striped tiger, known throughout the world as the terror of the jungle. "Nature in the Raw is Seldom Mild”—and raw tobaccos have no place in cigarettes.
No raw tobaccos in Luckies
—that’s why they’re so mild


Wi buy the finest, the v very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that
l "Nature in the Raw is I Seldom Mild”—so these fine tobaccos, after proper
aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—"It’s toasted.” That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.
“It’s toasted”
Tbit package of mild Luckies
It haunted clerks for generations
“The first of the month” used to be a time of feverish activity for ledger clerks. But the Bell System accounting staff — breaking away from tradition — simplified the keeping of accounts and rendering of monthly statements to customers.
They applied a modern system of rotation billing to the telephone business which now spreads this work evenly throughout the month. In cooperation with manufacturers, they devised special typewriters and bookkeeping machines. Thus they did away with inefficient rush and achieved greater accuracy, speed and neatness.	.
This is but one example of a point of view found throughout the Bell System. Even long accepted routine is constantly studied — it’s always worth looking for the more efficient way!
BELL SYSTEM

4 NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
Two
The Scholastic
WASHINGTON HALL
Seen Across The Quadrangle
November 4, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	k |	>> |	|	B
I he Notre Dame scholastic
scripts may be addressed to .	.	.
the scholastic,. Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
cations’ Office, Main Building.	'
.	FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
Edmund A. Stephan................
James S. Kearns................
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX	LLOYD TESKE
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY.........News Editor
ROY SCHOLZ.......Assistant Nezus Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON ' JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors
BERNARD GOUSINO WALTER KENNEDY PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS.............The	Week
ROGER McGOVERN......College	Parade
ROGER BEIRNE.......Music and Drama
RICHARD PREZEBEL......Staff	Artist
Sports Staff LESLIE RADDATZ.......Sports	Editor '
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED MacBETH	GEORGE BELTING
JAMES PICK
'	Features Staff
RAY WATERS....................Features	Editor
LOUIS HRUBY HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
Business Staff '
JOHN F. STOECKLEY. Graduate Manager RAYMOND J. NABER.. .Circulation Manager R. J. FITZSIMMONS .. Advertising Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH
Volume LXVI.
NOVEMBER 4, 1932
Number 7
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY. Nov. 4.—Scholastic staff meetings, Editorial Board, , Publications Office, 6:30 p. m.; news, sports , and features staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222 Main Building; Usher’s- Club Dance, K. of C. Ballroom; symphony Orchestra Practice, 7:00 p. m., Washington Hall.
SATURDAY, Nov. 5.—Football: Varsity at Lawrence, Kansas; “B” team at Scranton, Pa.; Cross Country, Michigan State at Notre Dame; Movie, “O’K. America, ’ Washington Hall at 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Nov. 6.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; S. A. C. meeting, Library, 10:30 a. m.; Interhall football games at 9:00 a. m. and 2:00 p. m.
MONDAY, Nov. 7.—Mid-semester report of deficient students; Practice, Symphony orchestra, 7:00 p. m., Washington Hall.
TUESDAY, Nov. 8. — Mid-semester report of deficient students.
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 9.—Mid-semester reports of deficient students; Restoration Music Program in Washington Hall at 3:15 p. m.; Wranglers meeting, Law Building at- 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Nov. 10.—Mid-semester reports of deficient students; Adirondack Club Dinner, Rose Marie Tea Room, 6:30 p. m.; Meeting of Spectators, Law Building at 8:00 p. m.	-	■	.
FRIDAY, Nov. 11.—Armistice Day; Pep meeting and bonfire celebration at 8:00 p. m.
S UMM ARY
NEWS
Cleveland Alumni and Campus Club Plan Dinner and Dance to follow Navy game, November 19..... 5
Students Activities Council in Charge of Dance following Northwestern game next week......... 5
Eve of Northwestern game will be locally observed with immense bonfire and unusual celebration.s..... 7
Regulations Regarding Probation and Dismissal . Passes University Council.....................   8
Professor O’Connell of Physics Department Dies Fol-
lowing Heart Attack.............................11
Notre Dame Lawyer Will-Make Initial Appearance of Year Next Week...............................11
FEATURES
Maurice Lee, campus politician, is interviewed in “Man About Campus”.............................. 3
Sophomore Chairman writes to Scholastic........... 9
Evaluation of Jazz as to its artistic content.....12
Crozier and Pectoral Cross of the late Bishop Finnigan are Displayed in Library..................13
Highly Imaginative Movie themes are criticized in “Theatre Talk” .................................16
Mike Koken is the man in “Introducing”............24
SPORTS
Pittsburgh surprises by defeating Notre Dame 12-0...20
Michigan State cross-country team here tomorrow.....20
Notre Dame expected to beat Kansas at Lawrence tomorrow .......................................    21
Strong Texas Tech team defeats Notre Dame reserves 39-0 ......................................21
Morrissey, Freshman and Alumni lead 'interhall league ...........................................22
Northwestern here	next	Saturday....................22
“B” team meets toughest opponent in St. Thomas at
Scranton .......................................  23
Across the Scrimmage	Line .........................-23
Kelly and Chreist beat Staley and Powers in tennis doubles ..........................................25
Splinters from the Press Box; Kearns says Notre
Dame 27, Kansas 0 ................................25
Basketball team shows improvement as practise continues .................................1—........23
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
X HE local chapter of the Knights of Columbus set an enviable precedent at their last meeting for campus club programs. They decided to make use of campus talent for their entertainment. Any club that talks of nothing but the coming Christmas dance at its meetings is losing sight of the purpose for which such clubs were founded. There is enough talent on this campus to put on a successful musical comedy. The New Jersey Club is especially blessed with entertainers. Not being satisfied with a good song and dance team, they specialize in pantomime. Then there is that talented young man in Dillon Hall that has appeared with Guy Lombardo, and the star of the Bowery scene in the University Theatre’s production of “Gold In The Hills,” who can make an accordion become positively eloquent. The Week will gladly furnish names and addresses of some of these radio stars of the future upon a written request. Clubs seeking imitators of Bing Crosby and the Mills Brothers need not apply.
V
ALSH HALL seems to be going in for politics seriously. Excitement ran so high in the hall the night of Al Smith’s Newark speech that the corridors were not quiet until after midnight. The next day a rumor circulated around the campus that Walsh was going Republican. The Democrats with untiring energy organized their machine and that night staged a giant rally and parade. The marshal of the parade got a little mixed in his directions and the marchers disbanded rather suddenly but not before the' hall had been won over to the sacred principles of democracy.
V
X^HE cheerleaders should not feel despondent in the future when they fail to get a response to frantic arm waving. Joe E. Brown attempted to lead a Notre Dame cheer at the Pittsburgh game but he couldn’t get a rise out of the crowd; of course that was during the first half. During the last quarter when the Notre Dame sections realized that Pitt meant business, no cheerleaders were necessary. The crowd was constantly on their feet, imploring the team to “hold that line,’’ and “block that kick.” Cheerleaders in the future should have a huge sign painted to show the
stands before they lead every cheer. A good slogan for that sign would be, “The Last Quarter is Fifteen Minutes Long!” Over-confidence in the stands has a habit of affecting the players. Notre Dame has suffered from this particular malady before. It looks as if the only way to win important games is to be the under-dog. A famous sports writer once said, “The surest way to have Notre Dame win is to have the crowd betting on the other team. The longer the odds against Notre Dame, the bigger their score at the end of the game.”
V
"X^HOSE making the Pittsburgh trip who got reckless and stayed at the William Penn Hotel probably came in contact with that hostelry’s famous “Left Ham” Sandwich. If you ask the difference between a right and a left ham ham sandwich the waitress will be very patient and explain it all. It seems that when a hog scratches himself on the right side he uses his right hind leg and that develops muscle which is all right in athletes but is not being done in the best pork circles. On the other hand when a hog feels the urge to scratch his left side he rubs up against the barn or a fence and consequently hams from the left side are more juicy, sweet and tender, and only left hams go into ham sandwiches at the William Penn Hotel. Wonder what happens when they kill a left-handed hog?
V
X~L DITOR Chick Sheedy’s Scrip should be appearing on the campus soon. This unassuming little quarterly enjoys a national reputation. One doesn’t have to be a member of the campus intelligentsia to appreciate it. Chick has some pretty definite ideas about his first issue. He believes that some of the men who do big things around this campus can write, and write well, and he is going to get them to contribute if he has to use blackmail. Notre Dame should support its literary quarterly, especially when they do not have to apologize for it. Every student at some time or another has imagined a situation that would make a good story. Why not try writing it? That Navy week-end is going to cost a lot, and all pictures finally come back to the Strand. Chick will appreciate the effort and you will get a kick out of seeing your name in print.
November 4, 1932
Five
BANQUET AND DANCE TO FOLLOW N.D.-NAVY GAME
Cleveland Alumni and Local Club Collaborate.
Plans for the Student trip to the Navy-Notre Dame game in Cleveland on November 19 were given impetus this week with the announcements that came from the Alumni Office in that city concerning site of student headquarters, entertainment, ticket sales etc.
The Statler Hotel will be the center of week-end activity. A banquet and a dance will be sponsored on the evening of the game by the Alumni group in Cleveland in conjunction with the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame. Each affair will come to three a couple. Students may attend either Ball or banquet, or both.
Teams To Be Guests
The Notre Dame and Navy football teams will be guests of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland at the two events. Invitations have been sent also to officials and to the coaching staffs of both institutions.
Ticket sales are progressing to a point where the possibility of a complete sell-out of Cleveland’s huge Municipal Stadium (seating capacity: 80,000) is not too remote.	.
Students are again reminded that railroad and football tickets for the game will be placed on sale in the University book-store (Badin) on November 9 and November 14 between 12:30 p. m. and 4:30 p. m.
Academy of Science Will Begin Regular Program
The regular program for the year will be inaugurated at the Academy of Science meeting next Monday evening.
The principal features of the evening will be the presentation of papers by George C. Blaha and Lewis C. Brown, juniors in the College of Science.
Blaha will speak on the “Voyage of the Beagle.” “The Extraction of Ammonia from Coal Gas by the Direct and Indirect Method” is the title cf Brown’s paper.
In accordance with the motion passed at the last meeting that a critic for each paper be appointed from the sophomore members of the Academy, Vittorio G. Arcadi and Francis Broeman have been selected.
GREETER
The Honorable Raymond Miller, Notre Dame, ’14, Mayor of Cleveland, who will be on hand to ivelcome the student body on the day of the Navy game, Nov. 19.
Where Was the Student Body Sunday Morning?
Here’s the Real Answer
There has been considerable comment during the past week in newspapers, alumni letters etc., on the fact that the student body was not at the railroad station last Sunday morning to meet the team on its return from Pittsburgh. The S. A. C. has been criticized for not announcing the time of the squad’s arrival; school spirit is claimed to be at a low ebb.
Must Interfere
The facts of the matter are these: The team returned at approximately eight o’clock Sunday morning. Were the students on hand, the entire schedule of Sunday Masses, and sermons would have been disrupted.
There are some things even more important than welcoming home a Notre Dame team. Sports writers are asked to take cognizance of the fact.
For fear that some teachers might give quarterly examinations and embarrass the editorial board to no end, it has been decided that there will be no issue of The Scholastic next week.
S. A C. IN CHARGE OF NORTHWESTERN DANCE
George Reilly is Chairman; One Dollar Admission.
The Student Actviities' Council will sponsor the third of a series of football dances following the Northwestern game, on November 12, it was made known on the campus late this week.
George Reilly, chairman of the S. A. C. dance committee, will be in charge of the affair. Assiting him will be the following committees: Arrangements: John Finneran, John Breen, Thomas Cannon and Sylvester Rapier; Publicity: Francis Werner, George Aug, George Shields, and Neil Ebert; Tickets : Joseph Condon, Maurice Lee, James Gerend and Dale Pillers.
K. C. Ballroom
The Knights of Columbus ballroom will be used for the dance. Music will be taken care of by the Notre Dame Jugglers, campus orchestra at present employed by the management of the Oliver Hotel.
One dollar will admit a couple to the S. A. C. affair, which will begin at nine and end at twelve o’clock. Twelve-thirty permissions will be given to all those attending the dance.
Chairman Reilly will have as his guest, Miss Ruth Roark of Bushnell, Illinois. President Gerend would give the press no information as yet regarding his own plans for the evening.
St. Viator’s President To Attend Conference Here
Among the prominent guests to be present at the National Catholic Alumni Federation meeting here November 20, will be the Rev. J. W. R. Maguire, C.S.V., President of St. Viator’s College.
Father Maguire is particularly prominent in the field of the social sciences and will participate in the discussion of “Social Justice In the Economic Crisis,” which is the theme of the meeting.
There’s not a string attuned to mirth
But has its chord in melancholy.—
Thomas Hood.
Six
The Scholastic
Eddy Road Will Be Closed Soon For Students’ Safety
ROBERT M’AUUFFE, ’18, NEW FACULTY MEMBER
PLAN NEW ROUTE
Heavy Traffic on Eddy Street Makes Rerouting of Road in Near Future Necessary.
By Michael Wiedl
For the protection of all residents of Notre Dame, the University intends to close the Eddy street road in the near future. The new piece of road which will be rerouted by a long arc to the east from the intersection of Eddy street and Angela boulevard around the rear of the stadium and Cartier field to the Bulla road will be built in the spring.
Heavy Traffic Cause
It is believed that because of the heavy traffic on the Eddy street road, the danger encountered by the student pedestrians crossing to Cartier field tennis courts and the stadium, there is sufficient reason for such a relocation of the highway. A similar change on the campus was effected some years ago when the Doar road was closed to public traffic.
Plans for the relocating of the road have been formally approved and accepted by the county commissioners. Although the University will pay the total cost of the rerouting, County Engineer Earl R. Feldman will superintend the construction and maintain it within the county specifications. Engineer William S. Moore has drawn up plans and specifications for the highway which have been approved by the County Engineer.
80-Foot Right-of-Way
An 80-foot right-of-way has been secured for the road. The pavement, a 20-foot concrete road on the straight-away, will widen to a 26-foot drive on the sharp curves.
Grading and excavation for the highway are to be started as soon as the contract is let, while the cement work is to be deferred until the early spring. The improvement has been estimated to cost between $25,000 and $30,000.
I never mail a letter in which I have expressed anger until the next day—then I destroy it—Congressman Cyrenus Cole.
Four Freshmen Teams Begin Wrangler’s InterHall Debating Season
Interhall debating began last Wednesday evening with four freshmen teams meeting in two debates held in the Law Building.
The question was: “Resolved: That the President of the United States was justified in calling out the U. S. Army to evict the Bonus Expeditionary Forces from the city of Washington, D. C.”
Dillon, an affirmative team, lived up to pre-debate predictions, and eliminated Freshmen. Dillon’s superiority in almost every department of the debate, was evident. Robert Schmelze was good for the winners, while James Burke of Freshmen fig- • ured prominently for the losing team.
Carroll Upholds Negative
In the other debate, Carroll, upholding the negative side of the same resolution, eked out a close decision over Brownson. This debate was marked with some true oratory, chiefly exhibited by Richard Baker, a member of the Brownson team. Joseph Foley, second constructive speaker for C a r r o 11, constantly . warned his opponents not to deviate from the correct interpretation of the question, and scored in his rebuttal speech, on this argument.
The teams surwiing the first round of competition will meet next week to ascertain a semi-finalist. Lyons will uphold the negative arguments against Carroll on November 14, in the only debate actually arranged, as several Sophomore halls, at press time, have not yet debated.
Philadelphia, Pa.—Seventy per cent of the students enrolled at Temple University this year, it was revealed in an official survey, are “working their way” through college.
This figure, it is believed, is unprecedented at any of the larger colleges or universities of the country. It is based upon estimates made by the Placement Bureau, which positions for students and graduates. It is regarded as unique, furthermore, in view of the present economic situation.
Becomes Assistant Director of Student Welfare.
Mr. Robert McAuliffe of the class of 1918 has been appointed assistant Director of Student Welfare according to a recent announcement from
Robert McAuliffe
An ’ISer Returns.
the Office of the Prefect of Discipline.
Mr. McAuliffe’s new duties will be concerned chiefly with off-campus activity and discipline. He will work under Father Dolan in this capacity.
Fifteen years a newspaper man in South Bend the new director is well acquainted with the city and its people. In addition to his downtown journalistic activity Mr. McAuliffe has served as Promotion Manager for the Ave Maria.
Adirondack Club Members Plan Dinner for Nov. 10
Members of the Adirondack club (formerly the Northern New York club) will hold a dinner in the Rose Marie Tea Room, Lafayett Boulevard, South Bend, Thursday evening, Nov. 10, at 6:30 o’clock.
President Jim Munn urges that all members of the club who plan to attend, hand in their names to Harold Desnoyers, 338 Badin Hall before Tuesday, Nov. 8. A regular business session will follow the dinner.
November h, 1932
Seven
FATHER RAEMERS TALKS AT BOSTON CLUB MEET
Huge Pep Rally and Bonfire Before Northwestern Game
Forty Members Attend Smoker Held Last Evening.
Reverend Sidney A. Raemers, Department of Philosophy, was the principal speaker at a smoker held by the Boston Club last evening in
Robert Monahan
Sponsors a Good Smoker.
the K. of C. recreation rooms. Coach Nicholson also gave a brief talk to the members. About forty were present.
President Robert Monahan presided at the meeting and introduced the speakers. Monahan characterized Father Raemers as “one of America’s outstanding philosophers.”
Topic: Philosophy
Father Raemers spoke on general philosophy. “Scholastic philosophy,” he said, “has been called the philosophy of common sense — professors who teach an idealistic philosophy are inconsistent—they’ll talk idealism all day, but when pay day comes they’re not satisfied with just the idea of a check.”
Speaking of his experiences as a teacher, Father Raemers said that he had the greatest difficulty with the engineers. “They have a concrete mind,” he asserted.
In his talk, Father Raemers introduced much humor. Once he said, “it is hopeless to give an Irishman the pledge.” Stories and anecdotes were interspersed throughout his speech.
(Continued on Page 14)
Pin Committee Named, Pollard, McManus Speak
At Chemist’s Club Meet
A committee for the purpose of selecting pins, and consisting of Andrew O’Keefe, Grenville King and John Dobinsky was appointed at the second monthly meeting of the Chemist’s club last Wednesday night.
William Pollard, a senior chemical, engineer, described the preparation of cellophane. He explained the entire process of its manufacture from the pulp stage to the marketable product.
The methods of coal analysis in use today were discussed by Henry McManus.
William Kenny departed from the technical viewpoint in presenting a paper on “Chemistry in Medicine.” It was an entertaining resume of the work of past chemists in advancing the medical science.
University Band~~Scores..
Hit at Pittsburgh Game
Notre Dame’s band of eighty-two musicians made a favorable impression at the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game last week according to Pittsburgh newspapers. One paper especially comemnted upon the playing of the alma mater, “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” by comparing its playing to “the chords of a mighty organ.”
The trip to Pittsburgh by the University band was the first to be made there in nine years. The band played throughout the game as well as during the recess bewteen the halves.
The members of the Pitt Band escorted the Notre Dame bandsters throughout the college pointing out places of interest. The entire personnel were guests of the University of Pittsburgh at a luncheon served in Memorial Hall.
A fifteen minute program was broadcast by the local musicians over Pittsburgh’s KDKA Saturday evening. Details for the program to be presented next week in the Stadium for the Notre Dame-Northwestern game have as yet been unannounced.
DECORATE HALLS
S. A= C. Sponsors Celebration; Offers Trophy for Hall With Most Material for Fire.
Arrangements for a gigantic pep meeting to be held on Nov. 11, the evening before the Notre Dame-Northwestern game, are practically completed according to details submitted to The Scholastic this week by James Gerend, president of the Student Activities Council.
Near Law Building
Outstanding among the various phases of the Friday night rally will be an enormous bonfire, similar to the one preceding the Southern California game in 1929. Each hall will collect its own pile of wood and deposit it in the district proximate to the Engineering and Law buildings. A prize in the form of a silver loving cup will be given to the hall which, from next .Monday noon to next Thursday at 12:30 o’clock, amasses the most timber, shows the most enthusiasm, and decorates its own premises the most artistically. The cup will be placed on display shortly in the University cafeteria.
In reference to the collection of wood, students are warned to make use only of such things as are not of any practical value to anybody. The regions about the lakes will offer the most copious supply of timber. After the individual masses have been judged and prizes awarded, all the refuse will be placed in one huge pile to await the proceedings of Friday evening.
Student Parade
In regard to the rally proper, a student parade led by the band will take place immediately after dinner Friday night. The torch procession winding its way about the campus collecting the occupants of every hall, starting at Alumni, will gradually work itself to the site of the pep meeting, near the two campus buildings mentioned above.
(Continued on Page 15)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
FACULTY APPROVES NEW ACADEMIC REGULATION
The Campus politician . . . self appointed greeter of the Main Building . . . one of the best known men at Notre Dame ... he has decided views on political questions . . . and likes to defend them . . . frankness is his
Maurice Lee
He is not a pussy cat.
greatest virtue (or vice) . . . Man About the Campus . . . that’s Maurice William Lee as characterized by his roommate Kitty Gorman, and his close friend Jim Harris.
Maurice Lee (better known as “Moe”) hails from the far south side of Chicago, but prepped at Loyola Academy on the far north side. To those freshmen who don’t know him— Moe stands about five feet seven, has wavy red hair, is light complexioned, is fastidious about his appearance (a recent accomplishment), will probably be seen shaking hands with someone in a professional manner.
Active In Politics
Lee lives with Kitty Gorman in 102 Sorin Hall; is a Senior in the College of Arts and Letters and a Freshman Law student. He first broke into the spotlight of Notre Dame politics when he was elected the Sophomore representative to the Student Activities Council. Spurred on by this initial victory Maurice entered the race for the Junior Class presidency. Although defeated in this endeavor he was far from discouraged and continued his political activity as a member of the Junior Pin Committee. This year will find him kept busy in the following capacities: Chairman of
the Blue Circle; representative of the College of Arts and Letters to the S. A. C.; member of the Student Trip Committee; member of the Executive Committee of the Chicago Club, largest of club organizations on the Campus, and a member of Presidents’ Council.
Uphold Republican Party
Maurice is a strict follower of Republican policies in every respect with one exception: he is not a “pussy cat,” (so he says). He has definite opinions concerning all political issues and is more than anxious to discuss them. That’s why his room is noted as the scene of many a heated political argument.
Moe plays golf occasionally ... is a fiery bridge player (as Tony An-dreoni will attest) . . . confines his outside reading to editorials and books pertaining to politics . . . has no definite plans formed for his Blue Circle organization . . . thinks Hoover will repeat this fall . . . will return next year to continue his studies at the Law school.
How Long is a Wink?
A development in high-speed photography at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has resulted in the ability to decide, at last, how quick is “quick as a wink.”
Photographs at the rate of 4,000 a second, with exposures ranging from one-hundred thousandth to five-hundred thousandth of a second, have been made with the new device, an electrical circuit which produces light of great intensity.
The light produced is equal to the concentrated light of 40.000 ordinary 50-watt bulbs.
To the scientist the new development offers opportunities for extraordinary study of motion in liquids and gases. .
Snapshots of the human eye by the invention show that the average wink requires one-fortieth of a second.
Gifts and legacies totalling $1,781,473.28 have been received by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the last school year.
New Ruling on Probation and Dismissal is Passed.
The following new regulation in regard to probation and dismissal on account of poor scholarship was made by the University Council on Friday, the 28th of October, 1932:
The student who in any semester fails in a third of his work is placed on probation for the ensuing semester. In case he be already on probation or has been on probation in any tzvo former semesters he is liable to dismissal from the University because of poor scholarship. The student who in any semester fails in tzvo-thirds of the semester hours for zvhich he is registered is liable to dismissal.
A student on probation zvho does at least six semester hours of work in a summer session, at Notre Dame or at another school zvell accredited, and secures passing grades izi all the courses for zvhich he registers izi the session thereby ends the period of his probation.
Effective At Once
This regulation, which goes into effect at once, in place of Academic Regulation 19, of the general Bulletin and the Undregraduate Manual, makes the semester the unit of probation, instead of the quarter of the schoolyear. Hence, students will hereafter be placed on probation only at the end of the semester, in February or in June, and the period of probation will be a semester.
The following special provision is made by the Council for this time of change from the quarter system to the semester system: the period of probation for the student now on probation will end with this quarter, on Saturday, the 12th of November, but if at the end of the semester, in January, he has failed in a third of his work for the semester, he will be liable to dismissal at that time.
The second part of Academic Regulation 12 remain in force: “If the work of a student in any course in the first half of a semester be not satisfactory, report of the fact is made to student and parents at the middle of the semester, in November or in April.”
November It, 1932
Nine
j
WHAT? NO BLOW FOR THE JUGGLER? 29’ER OBJECTS
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Funny Magazine is Not Being Done Right By.
Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Sir:
After futilely scanning the last two issues of the South Bend News-Times to overcome a conviction which has been enlarging itself within me I have at last became enraged to the breaking point and while I am still enraged to the bursting point am sitting down to unfold a conviction which has been enlarging itself within me. I wish to call the attention of the student body to the fact that we have here on the campus a monthly magazine known as the Juggler which is almost totally unsubscribed and uncontributed to.
Sees First Issue Off
I came down to see the first issue off, and found a conviction enlarging itself within me that the Juggler is not being done right by. This is not the same as it was in my day, and a tremendous large spirit which was then, is now denegerating (the spelling is my own) into something which is not so tremendous and large as it was in my day.
What did I find? I find that after the editor has fought 30 days of hard gruelling juggling, only a small group of enthusiasts are on hand to buy his Juggler. In my day when an editor brought out a book what happened then was something to put in the papers about.
Here In ’28
As you will see by the name signed below I was here in ’28. In fact I should have graduated then, but on account of I wanted to see the team again I spelled it “denegerated” and came back to graduate in February, which I was very lucky to do. So I have a right to speak. If you do not know what I mean I will tell you what I mean. ’28 means Carnegie Tech, 27; Notre Dame 6, so you will see what I mean. I feel I have identified myself and denileated my character so perfectly that ,my name would be mere over-verbiage.
I was going to bring three friends of mine down to the next game. Their (Continued on Page 28)
All letters must be signed in full with address and mailed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Initials will be used on request.
FAITHFUL STEWARD
Notre Dame Students.
Gentlemen :
Now that the Cotillion is a thing of the past we may talk of it as we like and so permit me to offer our financial statement. . . and a few other statements. However before I go on let me say-that this letter is no way prompted by the caustic editorial in the Scholastic referring to the “Not as Advertised” orchestra. As a matter of fact the Scholastic in their eagerness to print campus dirt, has failed to realize that according to law* any players that a band leader chooses to hire are “his” orchestra and play under his name.
This however does not in any way excuse the fact that Jimmy Garrigan forced upon the management of the Cotillion a portion of Maurie Sherman’s orchestra in order that he might leave a few of his men in Milwaukee to carry out his ten week contract there. This contract with the Hotel Schraeder was signed some time after we had contracted him to appear at the Palais Royale on Nov. 21.
To state the financial facts of this case, the original contract with Jimmy Garrigan and His Orchestra called for the payment of 8250. As the result of his substitutions of some of Sherman’s musicians he received only $200. It is very disagreeable for me to discuss the Cotillion in such a light, but the insinuations of “our” weekly are disgusting. Bear in mind that I do not object to publishing the budget, after all it is the Sophomore class that should know how they came out on the dance, but rather than being trusted I must take a defensive attitude against the insinuations of the Scholastic.
As I write this letter I feel confident that the editor and his staff will find in it an over abundance of words and phrases that may be construed and misinterpreted in such a way that -they would convict me of anything from misappropriating funds to missapplying my English. The Statement below will, I hope, remove all doubt concerning the management, profits, and expenses of the dance.
Tickets sold (310) _____________________________.$930.00
Less Expenses:
Orchestra ---------$250.00
Less Refund _______ 50.00 §200.00
Programs 	125.00
Hall 	225.00
Publicity ___________________ 13.30
(§11.30 of this was the “Scholastic’s
bill for pictures and cuts.)
Printing 	7.50
Chairman's Ex.....	12.80
Patrons 	1.73
Arrangements ______________ 2.40
Doorman ___________________ 3.00
Ticket Com. ............... 4.35
Publicity Com.....	1.03
President’s Ex. __________ 23.75
Total expenses................. §619.86
Remainder equals net profit....	§310.14
’Anyone caring for a more detailed account of expenses will please call at 149 Lyons.
Yours truly,
John G. McKean .
General chairman of the 1932 Cotillion.
P. S. I hope the management of the Junior Prom will be in a position to give complimentary tickets to all the Scholastic staff in order that they will not be bothered by the disgusting gossip that the Scholastic chooses to print. Remember Editor: “Reform should always begin from within!
The Scholastic Asks Chairman McKean to consider the following facts:
1.	The “caustic editorial” referring to the “Not as advertised orchestra” was no editorial at all but a paragraph in “The Week.”
2.	The paragraph itself made no derogatory remark whatsoever about the Cotillion (see Oct. 28 issue).
3.	In its editorial of Sept. 30 The Scholastic insinuated nothing, simply asked that a budget be published to preclude the possibility of any insinuation. (In other words The Scholastic’s attempt to be of assistance has been interpreted by the Sophomore’s paranoiac chairman as an officious policy).
4.	The Scholastic has neither the space nor time to convict Mr. McKean of “missapplying” his English.


Ten
The Scholastic
MOVIE SURVEY BRINGS INTERESTING RESULTS
Commerce Forum Receives Over 200 Replies.
The Commerce Forum’s “movie survey” has brought fine results. With the return of over two hundred copies and the tabulation of over 70 of them, it has been found that most of the replies to the inquiries are sensible and pertinent.
Action is wanted by the majority in their motion pictures. Fast moving sport subjects are the most popular. Farcical or the so-called refined comedies are the second preference. A few defectively inclined minds favored the mystery, then the romantic element sifts in with the selection of the drama with a love interest. Pictures of a political and historical nature are placed at the foot of the list. The good old melodrama with its attendant hair-raising thrills isn’t even mentioned.
Lionel Leads
As far as stars are concerned, Lionel Barrymore has a decided lead. And with the selection of John Barrymore to fill second place; the acting honors of the male stars are carried by the “royal family.”-Wallace Beery, virile exponent of the “he man” parts, and Robert Montgomery, the tailor’s delight, are occupying third place at present.
Joan Crawford is selected as the leading actress. And Marie Dressier, the queen of comediennes, occupies a solid second place. Marlene Dietrich, of the shadowy eyes, and Greta Garbo the Swedish sphinx, complete the list of favorites.
Quarter Is Usual Admission
The preferred admission price is 25 cents coinciding with the current depression pocketbooks. And the “more for my money” attitude is expressed with the selection of stage entertainment with the feature attraction, over the presentation of the features and short subjects.
Word-of-mouth advertising is the chief incentive for the “student moviegoer.” The movie magazine occupies little attention. Attendance at productions is barely influenced by the brand of the producing studio. The majority of the answers indicate that stu-
PEP MAN
Dave Powers, head cheerleader, who is mobilizing his forces for the varied program of the approaching Northruestem week-end.
N. D. Glee Club Participates In South Bend Celebration
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, participated in a celebration of the 68th birthday of Senior Senator James E. Watson of Indiana. The program was broadcasted in South Bend, over WSBT, South Bend, and WBBM, Chicago, Wednesday evening of this week.
. The evening’s feature was the singing of a specially written song “Our Jim.” Hoagy Carmichael, composer of “Stardust” wrote the song in honor of the birthday of Senator Watson.
Carmichael On Campus
Carmichael was a visitor on the campus this week. He attended one of the Glee Club rehearsals where he entertained the members with a special arrangement of his “Stardust.”
The Glee Club is scheduled to present a program for the South Bend Chamber of Commerce Charity Show to be held in the Central High School auditorium on the evening of November 8.
dents usually go to a moving picture on the strength of the star appearing.
It is hoped that the survey will he returned and completely tabulated by the 15th of November.
GAELIC ARCHITECTURE TOPIC AT IRISH MEET
Sullivan Gives a Scholarly Account of its History.
“Ancient Irish Architecture” was the subject of a talk delivered at the last meeting of the Irish club by John J. Sullivan.
He recounted the history of Irish architecture as shown by archaeological findings and discussed its distinguishing features.
Sullivan declared that a native architecture flourished in Ireland until the twelfth century when political troubles brought about its decline.
Not Used Now
Since then, it has fallen into disuse and was displaced by English forms of Gothic and Renaissance. He said that it is doubtful if any modern architect could work with it today because of the difficulty in understanding it again after so long a lapse.
In the business session which followed Sullivan’s talk, preliminary arrangements for the election of new members were completed. It was decided to hold a special meeting Sunday morning at which new members will be voted upon.
Plans were discussed for adopting an official pin for the club.
President James P. Danehy will address the next meeting upon. “The Origin and Development of Erse.”
Bishop Crowley Preaches
To Boston Congregation
On Sunday, Oct. 23, the annual “Mission Sunday,” was observed in the Boston Archdiocese. Cardinal O’Connell presided at the exercises in the presence of a large congregation.
His Eminence had extended an invitation to Rt. Rev. Timothy J. Crowley, C.S.C., Bishop of Dacca, India, to preach the sermon on the occasion. Bishop Crowley gave a most instructive and edifying talk on the missions and missionaries of the Church.
Bishop Crowley spent several days at Notre Dame this fall. During that time he addressed the students at the annual missions.
One should never put on one’s best trousers to go out in to fight for freedom.—Ibsen.
November A, 1032
Eleven
PROF. O’CONNELL DIES IN SO. BEND HOSPITAL
Professor in Physics Dept.
Succumbs Sunday A. M.
Eugene D. O’Connell, professor of Physics in the Department of Science, passed away suddenly Sunday morning at St. Joseph’s Hospital, South Bend. Professor O’Connell was stricken after he had delivered a speech Friday evening at a Democratic rally in South Bend. He was immediately rushed to the hospital. Heart disease was the cause of his unexpected death.
Interested In Politics
The professor did not confine his activities wholly to science and education, but took a very lively interest in national politics, having written extensively on current political problems for several years. Locally he took part in the campaign of 1928 and 1930; nationally he was an ardent supporter of Alfred E. Smith in the 1928 Presidential campaign. Putting aside any disappointment he may have had at Smith’s inability to secure the Democratic Nomination for 1932, Professor O’Connell threw himself whole heartedly in the support of his party’s choice, Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Freshman Year At N. D.
Professor O’Connell spent his Freshman year at Notre Dame in 1913, then the World War interrupted his educational pursuits and he later obtained his Bachelor degree in 1921 at the University of Indiana. From 1924 to 1927 he not only taught at Loyola University but also found time to work for his master’s degree which was awarded to him by the University of Chicago in 1927. In the same year he came to Notre Dame as Professor Physics, a position he held until his death.
Professor O’Connell was born in Fort Wayne, Indiana, April 11, 1895, and in 1923 was married there to Miss Anna Rieman who survives him. In 1927 the Professor and his wife moved from Chicago to South Bend: at the time of his death he lived at East Angela Boulevard, not far from the Notre Dame Campus.
Those who survive Prof. O’Connell are: Mrs. J. O’Connell, of Chicago; three daughters, Mary, Kathleen and Dorothy; one son, Louis, and a sister,
R. I. P.
The late Professor Eugene D. O’Connell, of the College of Science, whose untimely death in a South Bend hospital this week was mourned by his many student friends.
Sister Louise Clare of St. Mary of the Wood’s, Terre Haute, Indiana.
Professor O’Connell was a prominent social figure being a member of the American Legion and the Knights of Columbus. During the past year he had considerable correspondence with Governor Roosevelt of New York.	‘
The funeral was held at Fort Wayne with solemn requiem mass at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception. The Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University acted as deacon; the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C. and the Reverend Patrick Dolan, C.S.C. were also in attendance.
Among the pall-bearers were: Representative Samuel B. Pettingill, Professor John M. Cooney, Professor Jose Caparo and Robert McAuliffe. On Thursday morning at 6:25 a. m. in the Church of the Sacred Heart Notre Dame students paid their respects to the late professor by offering Mass and Communion for the repose of his soul at a solemn requiem Mass.
The forerunner of the modern newspaper, a marble slab on which news of the day was carved and posted in the forum, has been unearthed at the mouth of the Tiber River in Italy by a Professor Calza.
“LAWYER” WILL APPEAR ON CAMPUS NEXT WEEK
Edito r Lencioni Announces First Issue Release.
The Notre Dame Lawyer, a quarterly magazine published by the students of the Law College, will make its first appearance the latter part of next week. The first issue of the year promises to be unusually interesting because of the contributions of several prominent lawyers. Professor William Rollison of the Law College, faculty adviser, and Daniel Lencioni, editor-in-chief, have control of the organ this year.
Finerty Contributes
Mr. Leo Finerty of Washington, D. C., a prominent attorney, has written the feature article. He aptly explains the rights of the states under the federal prohibition law. In this timely article, he treats the question from a different slant, showing how the present difficulties surrounding the Eighteenth amendment can be eradicated without repeal.
Other contributions have been made by Professor Rollison and Attorney Roland Obenchain, of South Bend. The latter’s subject is ‘‘The Dollar and a Half Tax Law for Indiana.” Several other authorities will have articles in the first edition.
Eight Assistants
The Laivyer staff, comprised of eight men besides the editor, have all written on various subjects for the issue. They are: Thomas Caughlan, William Desenberg, and Thomas Mc-Kevitt, assistant editors; Robert Prescott, advertising manager; Frank Schumaucher, circulation manager; John Manley, business manager; Philip Konop, on recent decisions; and John Crimmins, book review editor. Among the student contributors are John Gately, Frank Brown and Robert Barret.
Although girls sometimes seek, through their charms, higher marks than they deserve, they meet with little success.—Professor Homer A. Watt.
Balance presupposes the presence of discipline, order, integrity and the courage to face a fact.—Angly.
The Scholastic

Twelve
Is Jazz A Fine Art? This
Music Student Says No
(Contributed)
In the era when the “Black Hawk Waltz” and “Poet and Peasant” were considered Acts of God, and graced every well-polished mahogany piano, it was proper to loathe jazz. Composers, it was thought, could be sincere only when writing in the major mode. Today, it is smart to say jazz is the only true American contribution to music. A composer has merely to sit at the keyboard, write out the results, and he is hailed as another Busoni or Stravinsky.
Appreciating Jazz
Jazz is to music what doggerel is to poetry. It requires just about as much literary erudition to appreciate:
“Adam Had ’em”
as it does musical intelligence ro understand “Kitten on the Keys.” If Ogden Nash rides a hobby-horse instead of Pegasus, Irving Berlin plinks a ukelele instead of Apollo’s lyre. An aesthete cannot soar on the wings of such noteworthy jazz attempts as Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue” or his “American in Paris” any more than a gigolo can glide to Beethoven’s “Eroica.” Jazz lacks depth, soberness. Almost laughable it is when played on solemn occasions. Can you imagine Hamlet dying to the strains of the Andantino from the “Rhapsody in Blue,” or Marguerite warbling to Valentine, “Was I drunk, was he handsome,did my ma give me hell?”?
Characteristics
It seems to me that jazz has three outstanding characteristics. The first is that rhythm is its backbone. Syncopation is not its essence, but the steady plunk, plunk, plunk, plunk in the rapid tempo of the accompaniment. In such a composition as “I’ve Got Rhythm,” even though a nasal saxaphone quacks a potpourri of Franck, even though a wild horn wails a piercing fragment of Brahms and a piccolo sizzles with a Liszt glissandro, it is the steady monotonous beat of the rhythm that causes a fluctuation of the hips. The second characteristics of jazz is that its melodies and harmonies are essentially simple. Chambermaids, while dusting, carol “Why Was I Bom”; milkmen hum “Body and Soul” while
clinking bottles into wire baskets. Who, in all his experience, has heard a milkman or chambermaid warble Schubert’s “Erl King,” or Mozart’s “The Violet” ? Standardization of form is the third characteristic of jazz. Everybody knows that the chorus of a popular song stands or falls. Even though it waves a white kerchief and shouts “Yoo hoo, look at me!” nobody pays any attention to the verse. It is merely a traditional process a composer goes through to “warm up” for the chorus. Because men capable of writing real verse would not descend to the jazz lyric; it, too, is standardized. A song of the South, for instance, always contains these words: cabin, sleepy, cotton, sleepy gal, sleepy darkies, sleepy muddy water, mammy sleepy.
Market Open For Jazz
The market for the popular song consists of millions of Scheherazade McDougalls, who, having taken piano lessons for a year-and-a-half, complain of Czerny’s “lousy bass,” stop practicing, and eventually quit. It is not until she hears the piano player at the sheet music counter of a downtown department store play “River Stay ’Way from My Gal” with five times as many notes as she purports to read from the printed page that Scheherazade is roused from her unmusical lethargy. Purchasing the piece, she carries it home, plays it on the piano (pondering a little over some of the harder chords), only to find it, as written, empty and shallow. Later, a friend at a bridge party recommends the “Have You A Little Blues-Breaker In Your Home” course, and Scheherazade intends to and eventually does settle down ot a lifetime tangled with “hi-nonny-non-nys” and dissonant “ha-cha-chas.”
In an article written for the Daily Princetonian, undergraduate newspaper at Princeton University, Newton D. Baker, former secretary of war, asserted that the economic depression will bring about a revaluation of the merits of college training. Said he: “We are all dispensing with luxuries and ... it is not unlikely that the value of college training will be reweighed. and higher education supported only so far as it seems to justify itself.”
FOREIGN COMMERCE MEN ELECT DOYLE NEW HEAD
Roxas and Rickard Also Get Executtive Posts.
James Doyle, a senior in the College of Commerce, was elected president of the Foreign Commerce club at its first meeting of the year held last Thursday.
Edward Roxas, also a senior in the College of Commerce, was named to the post of vice-president, and Cy Rickard, a junior in Commerce, was appointed secretary of the club for the coming year.
Mr. Herbert Bott, instructor in marketing, was chosen as the faculty adviser of the club. Mr. Bott addressed the meeting and described the program of activities carried out during the past year.
Article in “Commonweal”
Treats Edison’s Religion
John F. O’Hagan seems to have successfully answered the question, “was Thomas A. Edison an atheist?” in his article, Edison and Religion, published in the Oct. 26th issue of the Commonweal.
Mr. O’Hagan, a life-long friend of the famous inventor, states that the very nature of Edison’s work, never allowed him to jump at conclusions.
He justifies the statement made, at the death of the inventor, that “he was a believer in the Supreme Power, the Creator of the universe,” by having heard Edison vigorously deny the requests of “professional non-believers” when called upon to endorse their pamphlets, propaganda or books.
Belief In Supreme Power
In reference to statements of his concerning the soul which had been misinterpreted, Mr. O’Hagan reports Edison as saying, “I would be prostituting my intelligence if I denied the existence of a Supreme Power.”
Edison’s scientific research led him to form an eloquent as well as correct conclusion. He, at one time, told Mr. O’Hagan that, “after studying cause and effect, one must face the undeniability of a primal beginning.” Then again he said, “the perfect orderliness of the universe logically indicates an all-wise Creator, a nonerring Designer.”
(Continued on Page 28)
November 4, 1932	Thirteen
SERMON LIST COMPLETE FOR FIRST SEMESTER
Preachers and Celebrants For Student Masses Given.
The sermon list and directory of student masses for the first semester, 1932-33, has been submitted to the office of the Scholastic for publication by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion.
The complete list follows:
Nov. 6, subject, Sanctifying Grace; preacher, Fr. Brennan, 6:00-8:00; Fr. Crumley, preacher, 7:00-9:00, Fr. J. Heiser, celebrant, 9:00.
Nov. 13, subject, Actual Grace; preacher, Fr. Gorman, 6:00-8:00; Fr. T. Burke, preacher, 7:00-9:00, Fr. Reynolds, celebrant, 9:00.
Nov. 20, (Mass of Exposition), subject, Sacramental Grace; preacher, Fr. J. Kelley, 6:00-8:00; Fr. Haggerty, preacher, 7:00-9, Fr. Crumley, celebrant, 9:00.
Nov. 27, subject, Supernatural Merit; preacher, Fr. J. McAllister, 6:00-8:00; Fr. Stack, preacher, 7:009:00, Fr. Carroll, celebrant, 9:00.
Dec. 4, subject, Self Denial; preacher, Fr. Glueckert, 6:00-8:00; Fr. E. Burke, preacher, 7:00-9:00 Fr. L. Heiser, celebrant, 9:00
In December
Dec. 8, subject, The Immaculate Conception; preacher, Fr. L. L. Ward, 6:00-8:00; Fr. Dolan, preacher 7:009:00, Fr. O’Donnell, celebrant, 9:00 assisted by Fr. Carrico and Fr. Mol-ony.
Dec. 11, subject, Good Example; preacher, Fr. Muckenthaleer, 6:008:00; Fr. Maher, preacher 7:00-9:00, Fr. L. L. Ward, celebrant, 9:00.
Dec. 18, (Mass of Exposition) subject. Honest Recreation; preacher, Fr. Lahey, 6:00-8:00; Fr. Doremus, preacher, 7:00-9:00, Fr. Fogarty, celebrant, 9:00.
Jan. 8, subject, The Holy Family; preacher Fr. Fogarty, 6:00-8:00; Fr. W. A. Moloney, preacher 7:00-9:00, Fr. Carrico, celebrant, assisted by Fr. Lahey and Fr. McDonald.
Jan. 15, subject, The Foreign Missions; Fr. Butler, preacher, 6:008:00; Fr. Clancy, preacher, 7:009:00, Fr. Norris, celebrant, 9:00.=
Jan. 22, (Mass of Exposition), The
Bishop Finnigan’s Symbols Are On Display In Library
By Robert Dillon •
The crozier, and the pectoral cross of the late Bishop George Joseph Finnigan are on exhibition in the University Library. Having been bequeathed to Notre Dame they serve as a fitting remembrance of a great man whose gracious spirit influenced all who knew him.
Description Of Crozier
Occupying the most prominent position in the showcase is the crozier, the symbol of authority and jurisdiction. The crozier is hand-carved from American Walnut with silver mountings and jewel insets. It is unusual in this respect; croziers are generally made of metal. The main figure is that of St. George, the sign of victory, and the dragon within the curve of the crook. Below the start of the curve and beneath tiny canopies there are three small-carved figures. One is symbolic of the Sacred Heart because the United States is dedicated to the Sacred Heart, the other represents St. Joseph because the Bishop’s middle name was Joseph; the third stands for the Blessed Virgin in honor of the University of Notre Dame.
University Seals
Engraved on the silver base of the crook are three shields bearing the seals of the University of Notre Dame, the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the Diocese of Helena, Montana. The crozier was given to Bishop Finnigan by the Rev. Richard Collentine, C.S.C., and was designed by Messrs. Vincent Fagan and Francis W. Kervick of the Notre Dame architectural school.
The Bishop’s ring, presented to him by the lay faculty of the University, is to the right of the crozier in the display. A large amethyst, enclosed by a circle of small diamonds makes up the setting of the ring. Below the setting on each side are two shields, one being the coat-of-arms of Bishop
Graces of Baptism; preacher, Fr. Norris, 6:00-8:00; Fr. W. H. Molony, preacher, 7:00-9:00, Fr. Glueckert, celebrant, 9:00.
Jan. 29, subject, The Graces of Confirmation; preacher, Fr. McAvoy, 6:00-8:00; Fr. Ryan, preacher, 7:009:00, Fr. Butler, celebrant, 9:00.
Finnigan and the other the University Seal.
The pectoral cross of gold, which contained a relic of the true cross, was a gift of the students of Notre Dame. It is beautifully decorated about the edges with intricate gold scrollwork. There is a small diamond inset at each of the four extremities.
In the center of the cross, within an emerald circle, the seal of Notre Dame is engraved. Small, slightly raised lilies decorate the planes of the arams and the main bar of the cross. The connecting chain is made of nuggets of Montana gold, and was given to Bishop Finnigan by Mrs. Carter, wife of Senator Carter of Montana, and a graduate of St. Mary’s Notre Dame.
Received Crozier In ’27
On May 20, 1927 the appointment to the Diocese of Helena, Montana was received by Bishop Finnigan. He was consecrated on August 1, 1927, and it was on this occasion that he was presented with the crozier, the ring and the pectoral cross. Now they are returned to Notre Dame, where they will foster lasting memories.
Tennessee Club Organized
By President Montedonico
Reorganization of the Tennessee Club has been effected through the cooperation of its twenty-five members, according to a report this week from President John Montedonico.
For the past three years the number of Tennessee men attending -the University has not been sufficient to maintain a campus club, but an increase in Tennessee enrollment this year has made reorganization possible.
The first Notre Dame dance ever held in Tennessee will be sponsored this year by the Club. The dance will be held in Memphis.
A football banquet to be held here in mid-December is also included in the fall program.
The club recently held a banquet ar the Indiana Club with Professor John Cooney, head of the department of journalism, as guest spaeker. Every member of the club was present at this affair.	•
Fourteen
The Scholastic
DEPT. OF PHILOSOPHY OFFERS NEW COURSES
Faculty Adds Five Electives For Next School Year. .
At a meeting of the faculty of the Department of Philosophy Wednesday evening of this week it was decided to include five new courses in the catalogue for next year as electives for upperclassmen and graduate students.
The courses to be taught were announced as follows by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., head of the department:
The Philosophy of Science in which the relation of pure science to philosophy will be considered and especially the influence of the more advanced physical and mathematical theories. The second course will include special studies in the Philosophy of Plato particularly in his political treatises.
Philosophy in Literature is the third course in which by careful analysis of the though content of selected works of classical literature the student will be shown how philosophic thought determines one’s views of life and practicial conduct. It is probable that Dante’s Paradise and Shakespeare’s Macbeth will be the works chosen for next year.
The Fundamental Theses of Philosophy is the fourth course to be offered. The aim of this course will be to acquaint the student -with the synthesis of those philosophical principles which are indispensable to any complete system of thought.
The fifth course on the new program is a survey of the underlying philosophical principles of Catholic Social Philosophy.
BOSTON CLUB MEETS
(Continued from Page 7)
Coach Nicholson’s talk dealt with rambling reminiscences of his experiences in the 1912 Stockholm Olympics. He told of his task of looking-after Jim Thorpe, who as great an athlete as he was, had the typical red man’s weakness for fire water. More than once Coach Nicholson saved him from difficult situations.
Both speakers were well acquainted with Boston, and declared that the city was both an intellectual and an athletic center. Arrangements for the smoker were under the supervision of Jim Bowdren.
A RESOLUTION
Resolutions of the Faculty of the University of Notre Dame in Memory of Assistant Professor Eugene D. O’Connell.
Whereas: God, in His infinite wisdom, has deigned to recall the soul of His servant, Eugene D. O’Connell, assistant professor of Physics in the Colleges of Engineering and Science in our University, and
Whereas: We feel that the University has lost a loyal and devoted member of her faculty whose fine Christian life and zeal in Catholic educations and traditions, have been a worthy example to all who knew him.
Therefore be it resolved: That we, the representatives of the lay faculty of the University of Notre Dame, who knew and admired Professor O’Connell for his boundless enthusiasm, his cheerful activity, his spontaneous good nature, and his high ideals of citizenship, cherish his memory in the years to come;
That we extend our sympathy to his grief-stricken family, and to the University of Notre Dame;
That these resolutions be printed in the Notre Dame Scholastic, and in the Notre Dame Alumnus.
■ Walter L. Shilts
Daniel Hull
Henry B. Froning
Prof. Menge Speaks To Dujarie Hall Brothers
Before a large gathering of Brother students of Dujarie Hall, Professor Paul J. Menge of the modern language department delivered a graphic account of the life of Pope Pius XI. last Monday evening.
Beginning with the early happenings, Professor Menge described the' Pope’s life right up to the present time in a graphic and entertaining manner.
Pope’s Boyhood Days
Leaving the ordinary, the professor brought out the incidents which characterized his life as a mountain climber in his boyhood days as a studious seminarian, a fervent priest
“DOME” PHOTOGRAPHY REACHES COMPLETION
Pictures of Halls, Clubs, Faculty Close Extensive Program.
The major portion of the photography for the Dome of 1933 was completed this week. Last minute photographs of seniors and juniors were taken, and other work of a miscellaneous nature was finished.
Group pictures for those clubs scheduled were snapped, and those, clubs whose names were not on the schedule will be given an appointment when the photographer returns. This will be sometime before the Christmas vacation, but no definite date has been set as yet. .
Campus Views Taken
Among the many views of the campus which the photographer worked on, are several shots from points of vantage which enable one to get an idea of how the campus appears during the ten minute period of activity before classes. Readers of the Dome. are in for some pleasant surprises when they start leafing the pages of the twenty-seventh volume of the University annual.
Halls for the most part responded very well to the summons for group pictures, and this allowed the photographer to obtain excellent results.
Sittings of the faculty and activity men are to be taken tomorrow; this will conclude the photography program for the present.
History will record it of us that we were a people who gave up work and took to politics, who laid down our tools and sat on committees.—Sir Ernest J. P. Benn.
If you would serve your brother, because it is fit for you to serve him, do not take back your words when you find that prudent people do not commend you. Be true to your act.— Emerson.
and finally as a grave but kindly prelate. The professor’s concluding remarks voiced what seems to be the current opinion with other prominent thinkers of the day when he said, “To the Future, Pope Pius will be known as the Pope of Catholic Action.”
November i, 1932
Fifteen
PROF. T. B. CAMPBELL WRITES FOURTH NOVEL
N. D. History Teacher Presents Negro Life in ‘White Nigger’
Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, has again reminded the campus of his deserved place among University literary circles with his new novel White Nigger which was released last week by the W. Collins Sons and Company press of London, England.
Whitee Nigger is in the style of the author’s first novel, Black Sadie. Both stories deal with the life of the Negro in the South and in the cities of the North. When Mr. Campbell uses this subject he is keeping apace with most of the successful novelists of today who write about that life with which they are most familiar. Since the author is a native Virginian, he has had ample opportunity to observe closely the life of the Negro.
Besides his two Negro novels, Professor Campbell has also written two others; Old Miss which treats of Virginia life among the gentile class from the opening of the century until the Civil War and Reconstruction, and Far Trouble, published about a year ago and using modern China as a setting.
Mr. Campbell has been associated with the University in the department of history since September, 1931.
Just previous to his accepting the position he had taught in China. Much of the professor’s time has been spent in England and on the Continent.
Tickets For Navy Dance Are Two Dollars, Provided—
After considerable correspondence between the campus and the Cleveland alumni, it has been decided co sell tickets to the dance in the Statler Hotel, following the Navy game, for two dollars, provided the tickets are bought at Notre Dame by the students. Admission at the door will amount to three dollars.
Men from whom the bids may be bought are as follows:
Lyons, Art Carey; Badin, John Venables; Howard, Ed Seward; Sorin, Jim Uprichard; Walsh, Phil Geoghegan; Corby, Robert Lisch-ler; Alumni, Ralph Huller; Dillon, Don O’Brien: Brownson and Carroll, Herb Venables ; St. Edwards and Freshman, Tom Kil-ker; Morrissey, Bob Morrissey.
AUTHOR
Professor T. Boivyer Campbell of the University's History Department, who has just published “White Nigger,” his fourth novel.
NORTHWESTERN BONFIRE
(Continued from Page 7)
An improvised speakers platform to be erected at that spot during the coming week will have the advantages of an amplifying system. A definite speaker’s program has not been arranged to date. It is practically certain, however, that popular Clarence Manion, professor in the College of Law, and Timothy Galvin, of Hammond, Indiana, who has spoken at several rally’s in the past, will be on hand. Members of the team will give short talks. An effort is being made to secure the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, as a speaker on the program. A meeting of the trustees of the University that evening, however, may prevent Father O’Donnell from being present.
Campus Decorations
All in all, the campus will offer a colorful spectacle for the week-end. The entrance to the dining hall will be draped in the colors of the two universities. The halls, too, will be decorated in proportion to the artistic ability of the inmates.
Small pep meetings will be held in front of the dining halls on Wednesday and Thursday evenings at six-thirty o'clock.
Bulletins giving complete information regarding the interhall contest, wood collection and week-end plans wlil be erected within the next few days by the Students Activities Council.
GLEE CLUB PERSONNEL ANNOUNCED THIS WEEK
Seventy-Two Names Included On Membership List.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, di-rectotr of the School of Music, announces the complete personnel of the Notre Dame Glee club for this year. The personnel as it now stands is the official membership of the club until February when the Travelling Personnel is selected. The club now numbers 72.
First tenori—Maurice Tenori, Richard Burchill, William Casazza, James Corrigan, Francis Schlueter. Emilio Gervasio, Thomas Meeker. Charles Deitrich. Raymond Waters, Karl Syring, Tom Adamson, John Schoonover, David Feferman, Richard Shiels. William Fromm. Edward Butler. Clayton Jodan, Robert Devaney. Charles Schwartz.
Second Tenori—John Gill. Joseph Davey, Tom Downs, Joseph Dockendorf, Charles Jahr, Norbert Hart. John Carnes. George Wenz. John Ryan, John Egan, Arthur Cavender, Robert Klaiber, John Henry, Irvin Goldman, Russell Stemper, Tom Halley, E. Phillips, Robert Donahue, Cecil Hobert.
First Bassi—Myers Ruggles. George Menard, Edward Quinn. Justin Tompkins, John Fitzgerald, Jugh Fitzgerald. Jerome Roach. Robert Cahill, Robert Butler, William Murphy, James Gerend, David Ryan, Robert Nesbit, Raymond Reuland, Raymond Brett.
Second Bassi—Eugene Healy, Lawrence Zepf, Roy Scholz, Donald Brice. Daniel Smyth. L. Chouinard, George Lennartz, John Laey, George Coady, William Ayres, James Marohn, Philip Geoghegan, Daniel Rolfs, James Wade. Thomas Dwyer, Joseph Corduro, Edmund Fitzmaurice, Thomas Flynn, John Kelley, ‘ Richard Gillen.
Program of Restoration
Music Planned for Nov. 9
Professor Fred I. Myers, professor of English Literature, has arranged a program of restoration music for his classes in advanced English Literature.
The program, which will be held in Washington Hall next Wednesday at 3:15, will consist mainly of compositions of Henry Purcell. Purcell who died in 1628 was the foremost English composer of the period. He was head organist of the Royal Chapel and was court musician to Queen Elizabeth.
Professor Willard T. Groom, of the department of music, and Jerome Roach, baritone, will render several solos. They will be accompanied at the piano by John Sharpe.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
THEATRE TALK
USHER’S CLUB DANCE TO BE HELD TONIGHT
The theatre gives an order and a significance to life which we sometimes think impossible for life to foster in our everyday problems, in our petty and numerous frustrations. But a different bid on the life—mirroring value in the theatre has been made by the movie. With its wide scope and flexibility, camera photography may register most transcending trespasses on, things which heretofore were highly respected improbabilities.
Movies and plays of the “Frankenstein class, built around impossible figures who telescope the remotest barriers of scientific and fantastic extravaganza, are highly entertaining but unflattering to the imagination.
Jeykl And Hyde
Seeing with the naked eye the contortions of Frederic March in “Dr. Jekyl and. Mr. Hyde” may assist the mind’s eye to picture the physical changes, which Stevenson could not so graphically describe. But Stevenson did not fail to impress the reader with the more significant change, the transfigurement of the man’s soul; the novelty of Marek’s facial acrobatics was good sport, but the movie could never impart the spiritual chaos.
Quotes Stanton
Post-picture readers of the same novel will have stereotyped impressions, and personal imaginative pigments will be few and anemic. Not that there should be an expression of alarm for most of us would rather have our entertainment served upon the same tray with our breakfast, but that we must constantly remind ourselves that a good deal of the necessary suspended judgment on the credulity of such physical legerdermain for the play’s success is donated by the charitable fund always found in the waster mind.
Lest the play seem more than the life of which it is merely a dream we always have the newspapers and the biographies and, more-alanning-ly, our own lives to awaken us. A. J. Stanton in the brochure “The Burden of Not Living” writes of those who believe that not only “All the world’s a stage” but also that all the world has the semblance and the unreality of the stage. “How many there are who, walking in a sleep or vital things, dream that they are
awake. The deeper their sleep the more vivid their dream.” What A. J. Francis Stanton implies on the deception of “not living” is illustrated by the interesting identity of the above quotation as a description of the perfect, mental, emotioanl and esthetic state of a theatrical audience.
Drama And Dream World
The audience must know the drama as a dream world, but, too, it must recognize it as only a dream of vital things. The sympathetic and analytical power of the play wright to epitomize life’s burden is one real, • sane condition in the theatre. It follows that the burdens of the living are more clearly marked when they become the burdens of the “nonliving” but acting players.
The experiences vicariously gained from viewing the world behind the mask and the experiences gained directly in living in the unmasked world are as sarsaparilla and champagne in comparison. There should not be this comparison as there is no claim of reality as such made by the theatre. But that the drama may afford a more luminous vista of life to the living is the burden of the “not-living” theatre.
Albie Booth Goes In For American Politics
Bridgeport, Conn. — Albie Booth, Yale football star, has made his debut as a political speaker by urging the re-election of President Hoover before a crowd of 2,000 here.
“Hoover,” he said, “is a quarterback who hasn’t called the wrong play once.”
“It has always been the policy of teams I’ve played on, when in a jam,” he continued, “to keep the same quarterback in there until the field was clear again.”
Pennsylvania To Have Short Schedule in ’33
Philadelphia, Pa. — The shortest football schedule in the history of the school is to be played by the University of Pennsylvania football squad next year, it has been announced. Only seven games have been scheduled. All games will be played at Franklin field.
Two Hundred Couples Expected by Committee in Charge.
According to advance ticket sale reports, two hundred couples or more are expected to attend the Ushers’ Club dance to be held this evening at the K. C. Ballroom, South Bend. Music for the dance will be furnished by the Notre Dame Jugglers.
At a meeting of the Usher’s Club held Tuesday night, the various committees in charge of the dance reported that the affair promised to be the most successful dance ever held by the club. Tickets have been on sale in South Bend for two weeks. A number of tickets were placed on sale in the various halls this week.
Gartner General Chairman
Ralph Gartner, general chairman of the dance, has planned many novelties for the frolic. Mr. Gartner, of South Bend, is captain of the East boxes in the stadium.
An autographed football has been offered by the stadium personnel Manager Frank R. Buhl to the club member selling the most number of tickets. The contest closes this evening. The award will be given at the ballroom tonight following the ticket check-up.
The dance will begin at nine o’clock. The price of the tickets are forty cents per person. The management of the dance is trying to secure twelve-thirty permissions for all students who attend.
Following is a list of the committeemen:
Publicity: Gene Michalski, chairman; Claude Shaw, A. H. Goepfrich, Ed Anderson, Laawrence Wade, William Kline.
Arrangement: Pat Turnock. chairman ; Lyman Swanger, Clarence Lush, Boh Munz.
Decorations: Ted Witucki, chairman; R. N. Lee, Leo Leyes.
Reception: Roy Phillips, chairman; Edward Fisher, Thomas Murray, John Cahill, John A. McElligott.
Speaks to Women Voters
Professor Leo F. Kuntz of the Education Department addressed the League of Women Voters in South Bend Tuesday'- afternoon. His subject was “The [Relation of Schools to the Health of the Average Child.”
Josephine, it is claimed, was the only person, who ever received any true affection from Napoleon.
November A, 1932
Seventeen
COLLEGE PARADE
PSYCHOLOGICAL JANITORS
An effective way of getting students and instructors to class on time has been accidentally discovered in the College of Commerce at Creighton. The expedient is simple and depends merely on the adroitness of the janitors in maintain. ing a slight dearth of chairs in classrooms. Assiduous punctuality is required in order to secure a seat.
V
WHITE-HEAT
Football-crazed alumni have come in for their share of William Allen White’s notice in his latest broadside on universities.
In an editorial commenting upon the removal of Bill Hargiss as football coach at the University of Kansas following the defeat by Oklahoma, he branded university alumni as “brass-lunged, hairbrained, human-monkeys.”
White said the “moron alumni” contribute nothing to the endowment fund of any university and are a “curse.”
He predicted that some day the University Presidents’ Union will “take a big drink of gin” and get up its nerve, whereupon it will turn its back squarely on all alumni associations and run the universities in the interest of education. Then - the presidents will let football go straight to hell from whence it came.
V
COLLEGIATE ECSTASY!
a - Ingenious students at Georgia College wear smoked glasses to class and sleep through lectures without fear of detection.
■	V
SOME BABY!
'	The youngest college freshman in the world is
enrolled at the University of Alabama. He is eighteen months old and is registered at the University Nursery School.
(	V
HOW MUCH ARE YOU WORTH?
Co-eds at the University of Southern California agree to defray the cost of a date if their escort
can measure up to their standard of the perfect man. If the fellow rates only 50 per cent, the girl pays only one half of the expenses; if he rates only 25 per cent, she pays but one quarter and so forth. And here is the perfect man: personal appearance 50 per cent, intelligence 20 per cent, cultural background 15 per cent, and physical fitness, poise, and personality 5 per cent each.
V
GIVE THEM DEGREES
The McGill Daily, organ of McGill University, at Montreal, Canada, editorially says: “McGill can give a dullard a degree, but she cannot give him intelligence.”
“That statement, perhaps better than any other, sums up the reason for the failure of colleges, not only in the United States, but of the entire western hemisphere, to produce the type of graduates that are really needed.
“There is too much emphasis on going to class. The honors system at the University has attempted to remedy the necessity of meeting requirements that interfere with the more serious business of being widely read and able to think on the various problems that arise in daily life.
“But the system applies only to the superior students. We are not among those who say that the inferior student has no place whatsoever in college. Many men and women have been given a start toward true education by attending college.
“American colleges need to place more emphasis on the idea of education as the basis of a college degree. There are far too many students who are under the false impression that the requirements for receiving an education are merely those of attending class with some degree of regularity. We think that reading the daily press with some degree of regularity is more important.
“The widely-read non-college man is far more likely to become a leader than the graduate who does not know how to read intelligently.
“It is possible to give a dullard a degree, but you can not give him intelligence.”
r
Eighteen
The Scholastic
BURDEN OR SUPPORT?
Notre Dame’s football following, which includes every imaginable type of individual, sang the blues Saturday afternoon when an unexpected defeat apparently blasted away the possibility of an Irish national championship. The sting of Pittsburgh’s victory for most people seems to lie in the frustration of this latter plan of conquering a nation in football for the fourth time in eight years. Always the least bit wary of over-zealousness, we have deplored the immediate association of “Notre Dame” and “National Championship” as soon as the Fall rolls around. It seems like an injustice to a coach and to the men about^him. A football philosophy based on the assumption that there is everything to lose and not a great deal to win will never be conducive to the best in athletics.
Yet, we might be inclined to look upon this beat-everybody-or-nobody attitude, as a matter of little consequence if it took the form of over
enthusiasm or passionate support, but when people, and by people we mean the greater part of the student body, begin to pout when their dreams fade away, it is high time to demand a show-down. It would take too much time and space to go into each complaint we heard during the past week; how this play lost the game or how that one would have won it; how the team read newspapers before the game and what a cocky state of mind they were in when they went out on the field. We simply say that it is petty, unfounded, un-Notre Dame talk; that people who cannot accept defeat have entirely missed the point of collegiate competition; and that it is just as illogical to lay the blame at the feet of one individual as it is to hold Mr. Hoover responsible for the depression.
The Scholastic is much more interested in what the team is going to do than in what it has done. It is only sportsmanlike and meet for everybody else to feel the same way.
November 1932
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
OUR OUTLOOK
The Scholastic demurs at the thought of establishing any such thing as a “policy” in regard to student activities. It is firmly convinced that as far as the ordinary routine of campus life is concerned a laissez faire attitude is by far the most desirable. It feels, however, that there are certain things which must be suggested, criticized and evaluated in its editorial pages, for the simple reason that if they are not cared for here they will go on unnoticed and unhampered.
We do not feel that we are meddlesome when we suggest means of reconciling opposing campus factions, when we deplore student sluggishness, or even when we call for dance budgets. We have no illusions about the importance of our position, but sincerely believe that a student newspaper can be worthy of such a title only when it makes an effort to be conversant with the accomplishments and the shortcomings of undergraduate life.
The Scholastic’s position is dispassionate, and entirely unbiased. Its affection for Cotillion chairmen is as deep-seated as it is for its own reporters.
V
NOTRE DAME REMAINS A GREAT SCHOOL
Notre Dame is so much a seat of football learning and has sent so many of her sons abroad to carry the gospel of the Rockne style of play, that the school has come to occupy a special place in the hearts of sports fans everywhere. The occasional defeat that overtakes its elevens is never a sign for that popular satisfaction which often accompanies a disaster to the mighty, particularly in sport.
Still, we wonder if the upset at Pittsburgh Saturday is wholly to be deplored. We recall that while Red Grange was running wild at Urbana, a census taken by a curious observer showed scarcely a football follower among his friends who realized that the president of Illinois was an international authority in economics, a recipient of innumerable degrees and honors, and a member of world economic groups and conferences that comprised a list as long as your arm. In a
way, this characterizes a situation at South Bend.
In another twelve years Notre Dame will be a century old, and its distinction as a school is in keeping with its age. In art and letters and science it holds an increasingly high place, and while a sizable part of its student material is drawn by an appealing athletic program, obviously its more than three thousand students are scholars in the main, attracted by the quality of its schooling. If this were otherwise, its alumni would not be rich in figures in the professions, in teaching, in commerce and every walk of men.
It may be a wholesome thing to be reminded now and then, that this is so, and an unexpected setback on the gridiron provides an occasion to recall that with some of the emphasis lifted for a time from football we shall be able ot look on Notre Dame as a school, where not everyone shows up for classes in green jerseys, and where character and learning are the fundamentals of its purpose.—Detroit Neivs.
V '
A PRIVILEGE AND A DUTY
If the privilege of voting were taken away from the American people tomorrow morning, a revolution would surely be in full swing by the afternoon. Next Tuesday, however, there will be be thousands of people who will balk at the idea of walking down to the'corner to elect a President of the United States. Other things will be more pressing, the weather will be the least inclement, or they will “protest” by sitting at home. Public apathy towards one of the most sacred duties of man is verily the strangest of paradoxes. The thought is probably in the backs of the heads of countless individuals that one more vote this way or that will have little positive effect on the final results of the election. It is a stupid way to look at the thing and decidedly un-American.
Students at the University, eligible to vote for the first time in a presidential election, might make it a point to visit the polls next week and exercise a privilege that was bought with blood by men who knew its worth.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Panthers Upset Notre Dame 12-0
Smother Irish Offensive Threats;
Rally In Final Period Brings Win
SPARTAN X-COUNTRY SQUAD HERE TOMORROW
Sebastian, Dailey Make Scores In Closing Portion of Game For Year*s Biggest Upset.
By James S. Kearns
In the gathering shadows of Pittsburgh Stadium last Saturday afternoon, Michael John Sebastian, aided by sundry bits of blocking, and bothered not at all by frantic tackling gestures, picked his way along the west sidelines of the gridiron for 46 yards and the honor of being the first man to score against Notre Dame this year.
As a result of Michael’s touchdown and a subsequent one by Ted Dailey, Pitt’s Panthers created a new gridiron heresy: they beat Notre Dame 12 to 0.
Pitt Inspired
The scenario for that weird football sketch is the story of an inspired defensive stand by Pitt, of a frustrated Irish offensive and finally, of a desperate scoring thrust by an eleven uplifted through its own efforts to a height it had not dreamed of reaching.
All of this was set in a background of bedlam as 60,000 screaming partisans shrieked their approval of Pitt’s accomplishment of the unbelievable.
Notre Dame opened the game with the second team backfield operating behind the first team line. That combination reached the Pitt 25-yard line early in the initial period before Pitt held for downs. Mutual pass interceptions and an exchange of punts gave the Panthers the ball on their own 20-yard line as the quarter ended.
The Irish regular backs went to work in the second quarter and the team moved down to Pitt’s 24-yard line with an attack that featured a
long pass from Lukats to Jaskwhich. Mungas punted 65 yards to Notre Dame’s eight yard line. The Irish
Hugh Devore .
Pittsburgh Found Him Tough.
drove back to their 46 as the half ended.
In an attempt to combat Pitt’s effective defense built around a pair of floating tackles with the ends crashing inside them, Coach Anderson sent Jimmy Leonard to fullback as the third quarter opened. Koken was at left half and Vejar called signals.
The move -was effective for Leonard banged away at the center of the Panther line for repeated gains, and the tackles moved in. Touchdown bent, Notre Dame pushed relentlessly down the field to the Panther 10-yard line where a lateral pass failed by the scantest of margins to make a first down, Pitt taking the ball.
Early in the final quarter the Irish forced the Panthers back to their own goal line but Bob Hogan, in at quarterback. for Miller Mungas, a great back, boosted a 75-yard punt to Notre Dame’s EO-yard line.
(Continued on Page 24)
Michigan State to Meet Irish Thinlies on Local Course.
By James Pick
Notre Dame students will have their last opportunity to see the 1932 cross country team in action when the Irish thinlies meet the Spartans of Michigan State on the local course tomorrow at 11 o’clock.
The Blue and Gold squad has been most enthusiastic in practice during the past two weeks. Their overwhelming victory over the Carnegie Tech crew two weeks ago has given them the confidence of a veteran team. The present aim of the harriers is to display their team power by trouncing Michigan State.
State An Old Rival
In past years the most spirited rivalry has existed between the State runners and Notre Dame. This year is no exception. Notre Dame, with a mediocre team, will need all the support it can muster together in order to turn back the Spartans.
The cross-country men are anxious to push the Michiganites back to defeat because another win would make the season a fair success. A number of the Irish runners will be running in their last home meet. Ralph Bowers has been the most consistent of this group. Twice, he has been the second Irish harrier to cross the tape.
Last Home Meet
Tom Grimes is another veteran of interhall track, varsity track and cross country. Ray Troy who runs in the 880 and mile on the track team is in his last year. Tenacious “Red” Hoyt would like to come through with a good mark after four years- of training around the lakes.
Tommy O’Meara, a senior, will put
(Continued on Page 28)
November U, 1932
Twenty-one
TEXAS TECH WALLOPS IRISH RESERVES 39 0
Notre Dame Is Favorite In Kansas Game Tomorrow
Matadors Too Powerful For Hamburger Eleven.
When Notre Dame decides to send another football team down into the Southland to battle Texas Tech, Messrs. Anderson and Harper will do well if they send, not the “B” team, but the varsity. The Matadors of Tech served formal notice of that fact last Friday night by their machinelike 39-0 slaughter of the Hamburger Squad.
First Quarter Even
For the first quarter of the game, everything went along peacefully with Notre Dame holding a slight edge. Coach Pete Cawthon had started his shock troops and although they were unable to penetrate into scoring territory, they were able to keep the Irish backs well under control. Eddie Caldwell, the sensational Notre Dame quarterback was all over the field, batting down passes, backing up the line, displaying superb field generalship and in general appearing like a diminutive Carideo.
Early in the second quarter, Cawthon sent his first team and a moment later, Caldwell, the versatile quarter was injured. From that point on the result was apparent. The Hamburgers seemed to lose heart with the appearance of Tech’s first string and with the disappearance of Caldwell.
E. J. McKeever Shines
Crites, the burly Tech fullback, plunged over for the first touchdown and then dropkicked the extra point. It was McKeever, the former Notre Dame player, who, on this first sustained drive, did most of the ball carrying. The pounding Tech line, overflowing with man power, soon made way for another touchdown—the result of an almost uninterrupted march down the field.
Unable to gain more than a few inches on their plunges, the Irish reverted to an aerial attack which proved to be the ruin of their hopes for victory. The fast, powerful and heavy Tech line crashed through and, time and time again, hurried the passes of Cavender and Hagen. Twice the alert Texan backs pulled these hurried passes out of the air and converted them into touchdowns.
, (Continued o Page 28)
CAGE LEADER
Captain John Baldwin
Overshadowed by football at present, he is drilling daily with his court squad in preparation for a stiff 20 game basketball schedule.
NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL SCHEDULE, 1932-33
Dec. 9—Albion at Notre Dame.
Dec. 15—Illinois Wesleyan at Notre Dame.
Dec. 19—Northwestern at Notre Dame.
Dee. 23—Purdue at Lafayette.
Dec. 28—Ohio State at Columbus.
Dec. 31—Northwestern at Evanston.
Jan. 7—Marquette at Notre Dame.
Jan. 14—Butler at Notre Dame.
Jan. 21—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Jan^ 23—Toledo at Toledo.
Feb. 1—Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame.
Feb. 4—Chicago at Chicago.
Feb. 11—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
Feb. 18—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.
Feb. 20—Western Reserve at Cleveland.
Feb. 24—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
Mar. 1—Butler at Indianapolis.
Mar. 4—Wabash at Notre Dame. •
Mar. 7—Marquette at Milwaukee.
STARTS COMEBACK
Meeting is First in 28 Years; Injuries May Keep Two Kansas Men on Bench.
Notre Dame plays the University of Kansas at Lawrence tomorrow. The Notre Dame team, in spite of its defeat by Pittsburgh last Saturday, goes into the game a heavy favorite. Coach Heartly Anderson respects the strength of the western school enough, however, to forbid any of his men to read pre-game write-ups that might make them become overconfident.
107 Yard Run
Tomorrow’s game will be the first in twenty-eight years between the two schools. The last game, played at old McCook field at Kansas, was a 24 to 5 victory for the Jayhawkers. Captain Shaughnessy of Notre Dame at that time made the longest run ever recorded at McCook field when he picked up a Kansas fumble to dash 107 yards for Notre Dame’s only touchdown.
The Kansas squad is in good shape for the game tomorrow although Ormand Baker, star defensive back, and Art Baker, guard, may not see action because of early season injuries. Elmer Shaake, playing his third season for Kansas, is the most powerful man on the team. He is the triplethreat quarterback who won praise for running back St. Louis University’s punts for a total of 200 yards in the Kansas-St. Louis game last Saturday.
Leave To-Night
Coach Anderson and the Notre Dame travelling squad will leave the campus early this evening. They will arrive in Lawrence approximately three hours before the game.
Notre Dame’s second string will probably start the game.
Three men in New England suffering from eye strain after looking at the eclipse of the sun without smoked glasse have been found to have the sun’s crescent clearly outlined on the backs of their eyes.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Morrissey Leads Group One With Three Weeks To Go
NORTHWESTERN PLAYS HERE NEXT SATURDAY
TIE IN GROUP TWO
Alumni Beats Howard to Tie Freshman For Lead in
Second Group.
By Edward Van Huisseling Interhall Sports Editor
With three weeks of interhall football competition remaining, it appears that the championship of both groups will not be settled until the final games are played on November 27.
Morrissey seems to be far in front in the first group with seven points. Their closest rival is Corby; the seniors possessing a total of four points. The Sophomore have one contest to play before they turn in their suits, while the Seniors will see action in three more struggles. Should both teams win their remaining games, the lead would ultimately go to Corby, giving the Seniors ten points to Morrisey’s nine.
Morrissey vs. Lyons
The latter team winds up its schedule next Sunday in a game with the weak Lyons team. Morrissey is picked to come out in front in this struggle, giving them a final rating of nine markers.
Badin, Dillon, and St. Ed’s are the obstacles in the path of the Corby machine. At the present writing it seems that only the latter aggregation has a chance to stop the Corby squad. Badin and Dillon should be easy marks for the Seniors. Dillon earned a tie with the contenders earlier in the fall, but at that time they faced a Corby team that was at a decided disadvantage because of its lack of substitutes. The outcome of the Corby-St. Edward’s game on November 27 should be the deciding factor in the hectic race for supremacy in Group I.
Freshmen Tie For Top
Freshman stood by last Sunday and watched its one game lead in the Group II standing melt into nothing more than a tie for top honors. Alumni made things more complicated in this section with its victory over Howard -which put it in
STANDINGS
	GROUP I. W	L	T	Pts.
Morrissey 			0	1	7
Corby 			 1	0	2	4
Dillon 					 1	1	1	3
St. Edward’s ...		 1	1	0	2
Badin 					 1	1	0	2
Lyons 				 0	4	0	0
	GROUP II.			
	W	L	T	Pts.
Freshman 			 3	.	0	0	6
Alumni 			 3	0	0	6
Walsh 			2	0	0	4
Brownson 				1	2	0	2
Howard 					 0	3	0	0
Carroll 			 4	4	0	0
Results of Sunday, Oct. 30.
Brownson 6; Carroll 0. (Forfeit)
Alumni 7; Howard 0.
Morrissey 0; Corby 0.
Games for Sunday, Nov. 6.
Group I.—Lyons vs. Morrissey, Brownson field, 9 rOO; Dillon vs. St. Edward’s, Minims field, 9:00; Corby vs. Badin, Cartier field No. 1, 9:00.
Group II.—Freshman vs. Walsh, Brownson field, 2:00.
a tie for the lead. Walsh was also idle Sunday, leaving them one game from the top.
None of these three teams can be considered as out of the race for a long time because things are going to happen in this group within the next three weeks that will have a direct bearing on the final outcome of the race. The schedule calls for games between two of these three teams every Sunday. Freshman and Walsh will tangle next week in the feature bill and Freshman will likewise figure in the high light on November 13, when they play their crucial game with Alumni. Walsh and Alumni will meet on November 27 in the third of these all-important classics.
Corby Ties Morrissey
Morrissey Hall’s championship hopes were given a slight setback Sunday when its gridiron forces were held to a scoreless tie by Corby in a tense tussle. Both teams showed a marked weakness in offense but seemed able to thwart the opposition whenever they threatened to cross the coveted chalk line. The first half of the struggle was nothing more than a series (Continued on Page 26)
Teams Expected to be at Best; 45,000 Crowd Estimated.
Northwestern University brings one of the strongest teams in the Big Ten to the Notre Dame Stadium a week from tomorrow. The game will be one of the most important on the Notre Dame schedule and is certainly the biggest game to be played here this year.
Have Lost Two
To date Northwestern has been defeated by Michigan and Purdue; both were close, hard-fought games. In spite of the past record of either team, however, the Northwestern-Notre Dame game is always worth seeing. Especially will this be true this year, after last year’s unsatisfactory scoreless tie at Soldier’s Field.
Outstanding on the Northwestern team will be Pug Rentner, who has alternately played brilliantly and fumbled badly during the present season, and Ollie Olson, who has the reputation of being the best punter in the country. Other Northwestern stars are Jake Sullivan, Dick Fenel, George Potter, and Bill Gonya.
,	Expect 45,000
An estimated crowd of 45,000 will attend the game. The University Dining Halls will be open to the public at noon. South Bend police have already begun to prepare for the traffic that is expected.
Next Saturday’s game will be the twelfth between the two schools. Of the ten games, Notre Dame has won eight, tied two and lost one. The first Northwestern-Notre Dame game, played in 1889, was won by Notre Dame, 9 to 0. Both of the tie games have been scoreless; the first tie game was played in 1903.
The Northwestern-Notre Dame record as it now stands is:
1889—Notre Dame 9; Northwestern 0.
1899—Notre Dame 12; Northwestern 0.
■ 1901—Notre Dame 0; Northwestern 2.
1903—Notre Dame 0; Northwestern 0.
1920—Notre Dame 33 ; Northwestern 7 :
1924—Notre Dame 13; Northwestern 6.
1925—Notre Dame 13; Northwestern 10.
1926—Notre Dame 6: Northwestern 0.
1929—Notre Dame 26; Northwestern 0.
1930—Notre Dame 14; Northwestern 0.
1931—Notre Dam 0 ; Northwestern 0.
November 4, 1932
Twenty-three
BASKETBALL PRACTICE SHOWS TEAM IMPROVED
Clay Johnson Trains Freshmen For Varsity Scrimmages.
By George R. Belting
Organization was the keynote of the practice sessions held during the week by Coach George Keogan’s eagers. The Notre Dame mentor worked his proteges every day on the fundamentals of basketball and tried them out on sinking long shots and taking free throws from the foul line. They did not work hard but the showing that they made was very effective. Much time was spent in learning new offensive and defensive formations, as well as brushing up on some of the systems employed last year.
Keogan Pleased
Doctor Keogan is very pleased with the preliminary efforts made by the 17 cage aspirants. Although the real test does not come until the scrimmage sessions are inaugurated, Coach Keogan believes that his boys will be able to meet that test. All are in perfect physical shape and Johnny Baldwin, captain of the 1932-’33 team, is rarin’ to go. It looks like another great season. True, the players will have to go some to beat the enviable record of last year’s squad, but Coach Keogan believes that they have the stuff and is relying on them to come through.
Johnson Handles Frosh
Clay Johnson, Freshman coach, has not as yet prepped his yearlings sufficiently to warrant their scrimmaging against the varsity squad but Coach Keogan expects that Johnson’s men will be al set to go to it in the early part of next week. Then he can determine more exactly just what kind of material he has available around which to build the 1932-’33 Notre Dame basketball team.
Cross-Country!
The Notre Dame-Michigan State cross-country meet which was scheduled for to-morrow morning will be run this afternoon. The runners will get away on their four and one-half mile journey at four o’clock.
ACROSS THE SCRIMMAGE UNE
By Joe Kurth
Well, it’s one “on the chin” for the Blue and Gold. I presume, it is needless for me to say, it is “tough to take.” With teams like Northwestern, Army, and Southern California left to play there is still plenty of opportunity .for Norte Dame to occupy a spot in the sun.
It is interesting to note that the Pittsburgh team never got inside of Notre Dame’s forty-eight yard line except on the run for the touchdown and the intercepted pass.
I believe that there was room for a great deal of dispute on both plays where possible safeties were scored by the Notre Dame eleven. On the first play, the ball struck the safety man and bounded across the goal line. That automatically made it a touch-back since the impetus came from the kicking team—Notre Dame.
But, it is my firm conviction that the minute he went back, picked up the ball, and had full possession of it, the safety man gave the impetus to the ball. He was tackled back of the goal line,' making it, I believe, a safety. On the second occasion, Hogan was tackled back of the goal line, but the referee moved the ball out about a foot in front of the goal line.
Leon Livingston, local haberdasher and ardent follower of the Notre Dame team, seemed very disgruntled when, after he had forgotten his pajamas, he had to pay the outlandish sum (to him) of two dollars for a new pair.
Skladany, Pittsburgh’s right end, played an outstanding game at his position. His rushing of the Notre Dame pass tossers was one of the highlights of the game.
Defensively, Notre Dame stood head and shoulders above their opponents last Saturday, but the offense just would not “click.” It seemed at any moment that a NotreDame back would break loose, but each time, a sudden thrust, by the
RESERVE TEAM TO MEET ST. THOMAS AT SCRANTON
Game is Toughest .of Year For Hamburger Squad.
The Notre Dame “B” team will play one of the most difficult games on its schedule when it meeets St. Thomas college Sunday, Nov. 5, at Scranton, Pa. The St. Thomas gridmen to date have a perfect record. In annexing their fourth consecutive vic- • tory last Sunday, they beat the University of Baltimore by a score of 41 to 13. Manhattan college, which is coached by “Chick” Meehan, succumbed to the forceful attack of the Scranton gridsters by a score of 7 to 0.	.
Powerful Offensive
The Purple and White football machine is by far the most formidable aggregation of players that the Hamburgers have been called upon to meet. Led by Ted Casey, the St. Thomas offensive found the Baltimore goal line three times in the first two quarters and as many times in the fourth quarter. Although the Baltimore eleven succeeded in making two touchdowns, one on a 50 yard pass from Bender to Frujonic, it was no match for the Scranton miners. Two of the Maryland varsity were injured seriously enough to have to be removed to a hospital after the game.
The squad which leaves for the game Saturday includes the following men:
Roster Named
Left Ends—Begley and Gildea; left tackles — Mariani and Esser; left guards—Jaeger and Steinbuger; centers — D’Amora and Fitzmaurice; right guards—Shamla and Mahaffey; right tackles—Vyzral, Cousino, and Jehle; right ends—Murphy and Harold; quarterbacks — Caldwell and Burke; left halfbacks — Jordan and Cavender; right halfbacks — Dilling and Winterbotom; futllbacks—Hagen and Donnelly.
hand of one Pittsburgh player would spill the back off of his feet.
It’s “On to Kansas,” now. The team needs the student body to “carry on” against Kansas, Northwestern, Navy, Army, and Southern California. Come on, students, get the old chin up; get behind “Hunk” and his team!
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Mike Koken
N. D.» 0; PITT 12.
(Continued from Page 20)
By William Flynn
Michael Richard Koken, 168 pounds, 23 years old, Notre Dame left halfback, is typical of the modern youthful, smart, light football player. Five feet nine inches tall, blackhaired, heavy-bearded, always moving as if fired by flames of abundant energy, he disproves the theory that only big men make football players.
President Theodore Roosevelt was indirectly responsible for the entry of small, brainy players into the sport of football. Then the game was one of savage, battering-ram plays—tur-Ite back, guard-back, and tackle-back plays, with their solid smash and impact and resulted in scores and even hundreds of casualties each year.
Small Man In Football
The presidential exponent of a strenuous life decided something must be done to protect youth from the wild impetuousness of youth. So he called a White House conference of representatives of the Big Three— Yale, Harvard, and Princeton—then the leaders in football—to see if something could be done to curb injuries.
Finally Walter Camp and Alonzo Stagg and other leaders in the game devised rules against roughness. The ball emerged from obscurity in the plunging piles of beef and was put into the open. To execute plays needed in the new style of play, players of more brains than poundage were demanded.
Nine Letter Man In Youngstown
Koken is one of these. When played by men of his type, football presents a spectacle of speed, color, and finesse. Halfback Mike probably couldn’t have played in the good old days. While the ball was being pushed around he would have run with it which, according to what was then called “smart Football’ wasn’t just the right thing to do.
Tough as tungsten and resilient as rubber, Mike Koken, an alumnus of South High school, Youngstown, Ohio, brought to Notre Dame something of a unique high school athletic record. And he lias carried it through two years of big league competition and is well on the way to add another year to his record.
At South High he was a nine letter man competing three seasons each
in football, basketball, and track. Always a left half back, Koken was captain of the South High team during his senior year. That year he claims South High would have won the Ohio interscholastic champion-
ship had a Cleveland team been able to play them.
Koken was also a basketball captain. He was named twice as an Ohio all-state forward during two of his three years in that sport. Here he has twice been a member of Dr. George Keogan’s basketball squad and was lately measured for a suit for a third season. His high school track competition was confined to running the hurdles.
Majoring in Physical Education, the left half plans to coach after getting his degree in June. He came to Notre Dame to pursue his physical education studies and because “I was always an admirer of Rockne coached teams and the University.”
Like most Notre Dame left halves, Koken is a running back. His short legs carry him over the turf with surprising rapidity and his footwork is something for aspiring backfield men to observe and attempt to imitate.
And he can pass. Those who have (Continued on Page 29)
Hogan next intercepted Koken’s pass on Pitt’s 26-yard line Five plays later found Mr. Michael Sebastian going into his canter as described above, and Pittsburgh’s football fandom had seen an unbeaten Notre Dame team upset in their city for the second time.
That Ted Dailey intercepted a pass a few minutes later for another score was only incidental. Victory for Pitt and defeat for Notre Dame had ridden with Mike Sebastian.
Skladany Stars
Probably more decisive than any other factor in halting the Irish offense was the work of Joe Skladany, Pitt’s right end. Time after time he raced into the Notre Dame backfield to hurry passers, harrass kickers, and drop ball carriers for no gain.
As a matter of information about those interesting facts on which there is no pay-off, Notre Dame made 16 first downs to Pitt’s 6. The Panthers, never advanced beyond the Notre Dame 40-yard line with one exception (see Mike Sebastian).
Summary:
PITT (12)	Notre Dame (0)
Dailey ____________LE............ Kosky
Cuba _____________  LT.......... Krause
Hartwig ___________LG_.......... Harris
Tormey _____________C........ Alexander
Onder ____________  -RG........ Greeney
Walton ____________RT'........... Kurth
Skladany ----------RE........... (C) Host
Mungas -------------Q............ Vejar
Heller _____________LH___________ Koken
Sebastian ----------RH........ Sheeketski
Weinstock -------L..FB........... Banas
Score by quarters:
Pittsburgh ___________0 0 0 12—12
Notre Dame ___________0 0 0 0—0
Scoring: Touchdowns—Sebastian, Dailey. Missed try for point—Weinstock (placement kicks).
Substitutions: Pitt—Left tackle, Meredith; left guard, Ormiston: right tackle Hoel; quarterback, Hogan; right halfback, Reider; fullback, Weisenbaugh. Notre Dame: Left guard, Wunsch; center, Gorman ; right guard, Quinn ; right end, Devore; quarterback,- Jaskwhich, Murphy; left halfback, Lukats. McGuff; right halfback, Brancheau, Costello; fullback. Melinkovich, Leonard. Officials: Referee, W. T. Halloran, Providence; umpire, Fred Young, Illinois Wesleyan; field judge, N. Kearns, Depaul; linesmen, Calvin Bolster, Steel City.
Ninety-three letters of Charles Darwin, hitherto unpublished, are included in a collection of rare books and manuscripts brought to this country recently by Gabriel Wells, American book and manuscript collector.
November 1932
Twenty-five
KELLY, CHREIST WIN FALL DOUBLES TITLE
Defeat Staley-Powers Team In Tennis Finals.
After a gruelling two and one-half hour struggle, the varsity doubles combination of Louis Chreist and Dick Kelly emerged the victors over their teammates, Seton Staley and Ed Powers. The match was for the University doubles championship and rang down the curtain on the 1932 tennis season. The scores of this match, which was as evenly contested as it possibly could be, were 7-5, 9-11, 7-5.
Men In Form
The players were all in tip-top shape for this championship match, and Dick Kelly showed a remarkable improvement over his mid-tourney form in this final contest. If he had been playing at all badly, the other combination would surely have won. The excellenet play is all the more remarkable when one considers the late season of the year and the coolness of the weather. But, notwithstanding the cold weather, a battle royal ensued. The match was marked by long rallies and fine service by both teams. It was only by managing to break through their opponents services late in the initial and final' sets that Kelly and Chreist emerged winners.
Losers Made Strong Stand
The game battle that the losers put forth can be best shown by the fact that in the first set they were behind 5-2 and came up to tie the match at 5-5; in the second set they were behind 5-1 and pulled up to win the set 11-9. It was indeed a fitting finish to a well-contested tournament. Notre Dame should be very strong in the doubles next spring with two such teams bearing her colors in the 1933 tennis campaign.
Find One N. D. Balloon
The toy balloons forming the words “Notre Dame,” released by the Carnegie Tech band were traced as far as Middlebury, Ind., thirty miles away. Abe Garber found part of the aerial banner with the words “Dame” on his farm. The balloons forming the words “Notre” have not been reported.
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
IT CERTAINLY WAS A SHOCK
Not so much the Pitt upset, for we’ve seen Notre Dame teams lose before. In those other games, however, we watched with a share of well-placed hero-worship the spectacle of a loyal student body fighting with and for its team and its coach.
Rather a change then, the new campus attitude as we found it on returning from Pittsburgh Sunday morning.
Acting in the roles of Notre Dame men we found a group whining over lost glory, unable to keep its chin up in the face of an unexpected defeat. Worst of all we heard criticism, unfounded and unfair, directed at the man who is doing the most for Notre Dame football.
A few things need consideration.
In the first place, Pitt had a good football team. They played an inspired defensive game. The local moaners should remember that.
The Sunday morning sobbers saw the game through the eyes of a radio announcer. On the basis of that contact with the game, they attempt to appraise the strategy employed.
They prefer their own judgment, based on a second-hand knowledge, to that of a man on the sidelines, expert at football and without an equal for accurate knowledge of the Irish strength and personnel. They presume a bit.
These fair-weather lads grumble about “poor preparation.” The Irish players report that Pitt didn’t produce a single maneuver that Hunk hadn’t anticipated and analyzed for his charges. We prefer the players’ word to the groundless opinions of the second, third, and fourth guessers.
In the face of argument the critics fall back on “poor mental attitude.” Before the season and at every possible instance since then, Hunk insisted that Pitt would be tough, probably the toughest Norte Dame would have to play. He warned his team; the players agree that he did. .
Yet the student chorus clamors. Possibly we should ignore it: its nature and its causes are easily seen.
The sight of fleeting home-town glory, the dimmed prospects of caroling “Boy, were WE good?” at the Christmas dances were too much for many. They reverted to type.
And the type is altogether revolting. It is not Notre Dame. We can only hope that its disappearance is even more rapid than its coming.
Notre Dame will come back. They will because the football players are still the Fighting Irish, and because they have a great coach. But when they do reclaim their place in the sun, the glory should be all theirs. There should be no share of it for the moaners who are unworthy of a fighting grid team.
BLAZING FINISH
We’ve seen a lot of scorching windups to football games but it remained for last Saturday’s battle in Pittsburgh to show us a stadium actually on fire.	■
Shortly after the huge crowd had filed out of the bowl leaving the place white with newspapers and programs whipped back and forth across the slopes by a high wind, someone shot a lighted cigarette into the mass of papers.
Small fires broke out as the wind fanned the first blaze. Practically unnoticed for the first minutes, the flames skipped from place to place as the wind urged them on. Seats took fire and the situation began to look serious.
Jammed into the bulging press boxes, the nation’s leading sports writers stuck to their typewriters despite .the shower of embers blowing in through the unprotected front.
A squad of policemen called in to stamp out the fire found the going difficult until help arrived with fire extinguishers to save the seats, the press boxes, and miles of copy on the “upset of the year.”
SCORECASTS
^Last week was our worst so far. We picked 20 winners, 9 of our choices took it on the chin, and the other two broke even. For the season, our record shows 90 winners; 23 losers; 16 ties.
(Continued on Page 29)
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 22)
of drives toward the Morrissey goal with the Corby backs leading the show. The Seniors’ plans worked well until they came within striking distance of the goal, where the sterling Morrissey defense arose to the occasion and became invincible. The Sophomores took the oval on downs four times within their five-yard line after six bruising assaults on their forward wall.
The second chapter of this Morrissey-Corby novel brought the former crew to the front. It was a mere repetition of what the Seniors had done in the first half. Perhaps it wasn’t done as well because the ball reached the five-yard line only once in this half. Here the Sophs were held, and Corby kicked out of danger as the game ended.
Dillon turned in its first win when it coasted through Lyons, 13 to 0. The final outcome was never doubted after the Freshmen marched from midfield to a touchdown in the first five minutes of play. Higgans, the individual star of the Dillon attack, accounted for the final touchdown by
virtue of his thirty-five yard dash in the closing minutes of the game.
Brownson was given a forfeit victory at the expense of Carroll’s rec-. ord. Howard will end Carroll’s season next Sunday with another forfeit win.
Alumni found Howard to be a formidable opponent Sunday. Their usual practice of starting the shock troops brought near disaster when Howard went wild and garnered two first downs on as many plays in the first minute of the game. The regulars were inserted immediately and the onslaught was stopped. But when the Alumni first team got possession of the ball they were unable to make any noticeable progress.
The Howard line completely out-charged the opposing forward wall throughout the four periods. It stopped an Alumni attack on its 27-yard line early in the game and was sensational on offense.
The Alumni offense was slow in gathering speed and was not able to register a score until the opening play of the fourth quarter. Howard fumbled on its 36-yard line late in the third period; and Alumni capitalized on this break and began the march to the goal. The ball rested on
the Howard 19-yard line as the period came to a close. On the first play in the final quarter, McKiernan put the nineteen yards behind him to make victory secure. A pass, Pallman to Dugan, converted the extra point.
Howard’s sole threat came in the third session when an Alumni fumble was recovered on the enemy 29-yard line. Three plays lost ground and the Howard crew was forced to kick.
Morrissey 0; Corby 0.
Morrissey Hall’s march toward the interhall championship was brought to a somewhat unexpected halt Sunday morning, when a fighting band of Corby seniors battled them to a scoreless tie.
Entering the game weakened by the loss of several regulars, who were out due to injuries sustained in last week’s game, Morrissey was practically swept off its feet in the earlier stages of the game by a hard, line smashing attack of the Corby backs.
Down the field swept the seniors, only to be stopped inches short of the goal line by the same sterling defense that has characterized the Morrissey eleven all season. Within the
STARTS SATURDAY—
He Treatea ’Em Rough!
It was sure as" Fate that this tropical temptress and this roughnecked “boss” should find tempestuous love along the road of adventure!
JEAN HARLOW
CLARK GABLE
IN
“RED DUST”
They were born to co-star—and here they are together in a romance of primitive passion.
New Low Prices!
Effective Saturday
PUBLIX PAYS THE TAX
COMING WEDNESDAY CAREY GRANT - NANCY CARROLL in “HOT SATURDAY”
A P U B L I X THEATRE
25c
SATURDAY MAT. Bal-Mezz Main Floor
Evenings and AU Day Sunday Balcony,	Mezz.
25c	35c
Main Floor
50c
WEEK
35c
DAY MAT.
25c
November i, 1932
Twenty-seven
five yard line the Corby backs four times hurled themselves at the grey-jerseyed forward wall, and four times they were hurled back. Particularly inspiring on this occasion, was the work of Blake, Morrissey’s outstanding center, who charged through the line spilling the ball carriers for losses, when it seemed that a touchdown was inevitable.
However^ in the last half the situation was reversed with Morrissey forcing the attack and marching deep into Corby territory. In the fourth quarter the attack began to click and by a series of line smashes, end runs and reverses, coupled with a beautiful passing attack, the Sophomores carried the ball to Corby’s three yard line. Here their efforts were thwarted by a determined stand of the team that was considered decidedly inferior to the league leaders. Taking the ball on downs, Corby kicked out of danger and the game ended soon afterward as Morrissey, trying desperately to score, threw pass after pass.
The whole Corby team functioned well, with no individual stars, but with good team ■work and plenty of spirit.
For Morrissey once again those stalwarts of that big line, Blake at center, and Aberle at tackle, played a brand of football that qualifies them for all interhall honors. LaLonde preformed brilliantly in the backfield with his fine ball carrying, and all around sparkling play.
FOR SALE
Portable Remington typewriter, cost S60, like new. Large oak office desk, chair. Late 1926 Studebaker Sedan; Tires nearly new; excellent condition. Will sell either at a bargain. Make me an offer.
614 Chestnut St., Mishawaka, Indiana
OTTO INVITES YOU NICKLE LUNCH 114 E. Jefferson St.
Wholesome Delicious Food
Any Dish, Sc Sandwiches, Sc
T-Bone Steaks —...35c
Pork Chops ______ 30c
Fried Chicken ____30c
Hamburger Steak...25c
Above orders include French Fried Potatoes, Bread and Butter, or Toast; Coffee.
Alumni 7; Howard 0.
Alumni Hall went into a tie with Freshman Hall for the leadership in Group II in the Interhall league by defeating its rival Junior hall, Howard, by the score of 7 to 0.
A score on the first play in the last period enabled Alumni to win and keep its slate clean. This opportunity came only after Howard, which was not given much of a pre-game chance of holding Alumni, had tried its rival to the utmost.
Howard with a steady line out-charged Alumni for most of the con
Vote For JOHN M. RAAB
Democrat
A NOTRE DAME
MAN
Class 1918
Prosecuting Attorney
test. Alumni on the other hand had trouble getting started. Although it started clicking late in the game, its usual momentum never came into being.
As usual the league leaders opened with the shock troops, but the first team was hastily pressed into service when Howard reeled off two first downs in rapid order in the first period.
Alumni reached the 27 yard line of Howard in the first period, but the Hovrard line stiffened and finally took
(Continued on Page 30)
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
EDISON’S RELIGION
(Continued from Page 16)
HARRIERS CLOSE YEAR
. (Continued from Page 20)
RESERVES LOSE 39-0
(Continued from Page 21)
The attitude which Edison personally exhibited otwards the Sisters of the Catholic Church aids materially in disproving the fact that he held the Church in disdain. He was a frequent contributor to such religious orders as the Little Sisters of the Poor, and others, to whom he granted free access to his factories and laboratory, and invariably emptied his pockets of any money he had, to aid them financially.
all that he has in the race in order to see the Gold and Blue finish the season at home with a win.
The other men who comprise the team are Roberts, Young, Moran, Else, Van Petten, O’Reilly, LaFram-boise, Sluska and Duke.
Young has finished with a first and third among the Notre Dame runners in the meets so far this season. Roberts has also had a first and third rating.

A mid the gayety of prepara-xx tions for the Christmas season won’t you pause a moment to pity the “third girl” ? Among all young women who die between the ages of 15 and 30 one out of three dies of tuberculosis — a human sacrifice to ignorance and indifference. Tuberculosis is preventable and curable. Turn your pity into action and buy Christmas Seals. Your pennies help spread the knowledge that will save lives.
- THE NATIONAL, STATE AND LOCAL TUBERCULOSIS ASSOCIATIONS
OF THE UNITED STATES ’
As if they were desirous of showing themselves superior to the Irish in every department of the game, the Matadors opened up an aerial attack of their own in the final quarter which netted them their two final touchdowns. It was Ed McKeever, a thorn in the side of the Irish during the entire game, who was on the receiving end of most of these passes.
To sum it all up, the Matadors soundly trounced the “B” team. They made 12 first downs to five made by the Irish; they gained 223 yards by rushing to 116 made by the Irish; they completed five passes while the Irish failed to complete one.
Reserves’ Stars
Texas Tech did this despite the gallant efforts of Caldwell, D’Amora Cavender and Hagen. Perhaps the defeat might be attributed to the change of climate, but most of the members of the squad seemed to agree that the real underlying cause was the suprior man power of Tech.
Although the Hamburgers did fail to return home with a victory, they did. not fail to have a good time. The squad was welcomed at Lubbock by a cheering crowd of 1,000 people. Coach Kozac, Manager Quinn, Eddie Caldwell, and Lowell Hagen were guests at a luncheon given by the American Business Men’s club.
On their return trip, the team was met at Kansas City by a group of Notre Dame Alumni from that vicinity. A special breakfast had been arranged during which Father Doremus, the chaplain, and George Kozac the coach spoke briefly. The team arrived back on the campus at 11 o’clock Sunday night.
NO “JUGGLER” BLOW?
Continued from Page 9)
BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS
names are Jack, Bob and Tom, and if any of you ’33ers can get tickets I will still bring them down as they are nice fellows. But if you cannot I will not bring them down, as I would not like to be embarrassed before my friends.
So I will just let them stay home and write down here to the Juggler, which if they are funny as me will make the next edition a success.
;	A ’29er.
November k, 1932
Twenty-nine
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 25)
And of the winners, 6 guesses were exact on the scores.
'This week we have a formidable string facing us. We pick ’em to get home in this order:
NOTRE DAME 27, KANSAS 0.
Army 13, Harvard 7.
Texas 20, Baylor 6.
Brown 13, Holy Cross 0.
Western Maryland 7, Bucknell 0.
Colgate 26, Mississippi College 0.
Columbia 14; Navy 0.
Cornell 20, Albright 0.
Dartmouth 26, New Hampshire 0.
Drake 7, St. Louis U. 6.
St. Mary’s 20. Fordham 7.
West Virginia 27, Georgetown 7.
Tulane 14, Georgia Tech 6.
Kansas State 14, Iowa State 0.
Rutgers 7, Lafayette 0.
Princeton 7, Lehigh 0.
Detroit 7, Marquette 6.
Michigan State 33, South Dakota 0.
Tennessee 13, Mississippi State 0.
Georgia 14, New York University 0.
Ohio State 7, Northwestern 0.
Oregon 6, Oregon State 0.
Rice 26, Arkansas 0.
Southern Methodist 13, Texas A. and M. 6.
Stanford 7, Washington 0.
Southern California 7, Califomiia 6.
North Carolina 13, Florida 7.
Purdue 26, Chicago 6.
Wisconsin 13, Illinois 0.
Michigan 14, Indiana 0.
Nebraska 13, Iowa-0.
Minnesota 20, Mississippi 6.
INTRODUCING KOKEN
(Continued from Page 24)
analyzed his performance in this department see a resemblance of the form ably demonstrated by Benny Friedman. Like Friedman’s throws, Koken’s passes go straight and fast, accurately to their intended destination.
His tensest moment in sport occurred during the 1931 Pitt game. That game was played in the Notre Dame stadium. Pitt invaded with an uncommonly tough line. In fact Notre Dame was having a rather difficult time piercing Jock Sutherland’s forward wall during the opening period.
So Quarterback Jaskwhich became air minded. He called for a pass, Koken to Host. Koken pitching a high lob, the ball wrent into the waiting hands of the present Notre Dame captain who stepped across the goal line to add another six points to the Fighting Irish lead.
That was Koken’s most thrilling moment. He didn’t score. He merely helped another.
Press Club Requirements For Membership Announced
Participation in the activities of the Press Club is open to those students who are enrolled in courses in the Department of Journalism, announced Professor John Cooney, head of the department, early this week.
President Jack Jaeger is completing plans for the coming meeting, and announcement of. the date and time will be made next week.
A four-year task has been completed by the’ United States Geographic Board which has just issued a new set of names for foreign geographic objects, such as cities, countries, rivers and the like. The Board decides the official American spelling for these foreign localities, and its report includes some 2,500 names in all parts of the world.
We do not want a generation who are good for nothing except pressing buttons, who cannot get about except by motor car, cannot read because they are listening in, and cannot write because they use a typewriter. —Dean Jnge.
O. A. CLARK’S
RESTAURANT
104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
Catering to j NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Mans Meal Drop in Any Time.
Every Hour on the Hour
to
DOWNTOWN CHICAGO
Every hour on the hour a fast train leaves the South Shore station, Michigan St., at LaSalle, South Bend, for downtown Chicago, making the trip in a little more than two hours. This is the quick, convenient way to the city. . Equally fast trains also leave Chicago every hour on . the hour for South Bend.
For complete information on South Shore Line service, see Jimmy McGrath, No. 1, Morrissey Hall.
SOUTH SHORE UNES
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 27)
Check these points:
Workmanship
Service
Convenience
CAnd that’s about all you could ask for in your laundry and dry cleaning work.
CiAt Notre Dame you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience—what could be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at the appointed place in your own hall.
^jSo, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
University of Notre Dame
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
the ball when an Alumni pass was grounded on last down.
It was here that the Howard offense started functioning. From its own 27 yard line it went to midfield in three plays, the result being that the Alumni regulars came in to relieve the reserves. The new men held and Howard was forced to kick.
Neither team threatened till midway in the third period when Alumni fumbled on its own 29 yard .line and Howard recovered. Howard lost ground, however, and was forced to kick.
Bloesma and Whalen Star
Near the close of the period How-ward fumbled on its own 35 yard line. Alumni recovered and at once started taking advantage of the Howard slip. They made a first down on the Howard 19 yard line as the period came to a close, and on the first play of the fourth quarter McKiernan went the 19 yards for the score. A pass, Pallman to Dugan, scored the extra point after the thrower had been forced back to the 30 yard line because of a bad pass from center which eluded him.
For Alumni, Bloesma again was the outstanding man, while Whalen was the best Howard man on the field.
Dillon 13; Lyons 0.
The Lyons team is still fighting as hard as ever. Sunday they were defeated by a fairly smooth running Dillon team by a score of 13-0. The two tallies by the Gold Coast team came in the first and last periods. The playing during the intervening part of the game was about even, despite the fact that the Dillon team made five downs to one by Lyons.
During the first five minutes of play, a steady march from midfield to the five yard line, and a pass to the left end of the Dillon team gave them their first six points. The point after the score, which was attempted with a drop-kick, failed. At frequent intervals during this, as well as the subsequent period, the Lyons team was forced to take time out because of their lack of substitutes of which Dillon had an abundance. The two teams moved from one end of the field to the other many times, neither of them being able • to supply the scoring punch for the remainder of the period.
Make the
Student Trip
To Cleveland
for the
Navy Game
Nov. 19th
$5.50 Round Trip
Under sponsorship of
S. A. C.
Stratigon “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD"
114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet” Open 24 Hours.
November A, 1932
Thirty-one
LOPEZ ENGAGED FOR CHICAGO CLUB DANCE
Plans For Christmas Formal Announced Last Night. ■
One of the largest and most entertaining club meetings of the year was held last night by the Chicago Club in the lay faculty dining hall. President Thomas A. Gorman acted as chairman.
After the plans for the Christmas dance were carefully tucked away in the annals by its general chairman, Tighe Woods, who. stated that the Joseph Urban and the Pompeiian Rooms of the Congress Hotel, Chicago, and Vincent Lopez’ Orchestra had already been contracted by the club. President Gorman announced to make the dance as much as possible a real Notre Dame affair each member would be allowed only two invitations. Also, to insure financial success, one paid ticket is required for each two reservations. The first three hundred who apply will be placed in the Urban room.
.Entertainment Too.
With the routine business capably disposed of, the chairman of entertainment, Johnny Poynton, trotted out his staff for the evening, one of which was Roger Beirne, the well-known dramatic critic of The Scholastic, who gave a brief dissertation on noses, and then entered into his main talk entitled “Why Are Actors Goofy?” The assembled members received this with much attention and interest.
Because of the great applause- he received at a meeting last year, Juggler Editor McCabe was brought forth again to extemporize, which he did in a very roaring manner.
While the members munched gleefully on the sandwiches a saxaphone-banjo duet was presented.
The Rocky Mountain club held a meeting Wednesday evening Nov. 2, at 6:30 in the Law building.
A meeting of the Metropolitan club was held at 6:30 Monday evening, Oct. 31, in the Law building.
God has placed play in the curriculum of childhood as a required subject and not an elective.—Dean Stone of West Va. University.	.
N. D. OPPONENTS BOAST GOOD GRID RECORDS
So. California, Army Loom as Strongest Foes.
Notre Dame has four games to play after tomorrow’s contest with Kansas. Of the four, Southern California has the most impressive record for the season so far. The only undefeated team that Notre Dame still has to play, Southern California has beaten Utah 35 to 0, Washington State 20 to 0, Oregon State 10 to 0, Loyola (Los Angeles) 6 to 0, and Stanford 13 to 0. Southern California’s record totals 84 to their opponents 0.
Army’s only defeat of the season was by Pittsburgh three weeks ago. The score of that game was Army 13, Pitt 18, a margin narrow enough to show Army’s strength. Other Army scores have been Army 13, Furman 0; Army 57, Carleton 0; Army 20, Yale 0; Army 33, William and Mary 0. Army’s total is 136 to their opponents’ 18.
N. U. Lost Two
Northwestern has lost two games and tied one. Michigan beat them 15 to 6 in their second game of the season and Minnesota won last week’s game 7 to 0. The tie was with Purdue, 7 to 7. Northwestern defeated Illinois 26 to 0 and Missouri 27 to 0.
Navy’s record has been the most unimpressive of all the teams left to be played; one victory, one tie and four defeats. The scores are Navy 0, William and Mary 6; Navy 33, Washington and Lee 0; Navy 0, Ohio University 14; Navy 0, Princeton 0; Navy 0, Penn 14.
STOP AT KATHRYN’S STUDENT'S INN 936 N, Notre Dame Ave.
And Know What It Is To REALLY ENJOY EATING At Reasonable Prices “Meet Your Friends At The Inn.”
EXTRA!
STARTING
To-morrow
And Every Saturday & Sunday On Our Stage
RKO
Vaudeville
And At
New Low Prices
4—BIG ACTS—4
SINGERS, DANCERS, COMEDIANS, CELEBRITIES
And on the Screen
Lee Tracy in “Night Mayor”
SATURDAYS UNTIL 6 A. M. Main Floor	Bal. and Mezz.
35c	25c
6 P. M. ON Main Floor	Bal. and Mezz.
55c	35c
SUNDAY
Of- ALL SEATS
OOC UNTIL 2 P. M.
AFTER 2 P. M. Main Floor	Bal. and Mezz.
55c	35c
See Local Papers for Big Reduction in Prices From Mondays to Fridays.
Always a Better Show at the RKO i PALACE
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Engineering?
Harry D. Watts, V. P. of James Stewart & Co., Inc., builders of the Grand Central Terminal in New York City, says: "World progress depends upon engineering. No wonder eager college men look toward this profession. But to succeed you must have a technical background, ability to take the knocks, and alertness to take advantage of the breaks.”
5
I
"ABILITY to take the knocks.” And Zi yet brains count above all. That’s why in engineering, as in college, a pipe is the favorite smoke. A pipeful of good old Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco clears the brain for those intensive problems that confront the engineer ... or the college man.
Of course most college men know Edgeworth.* They like its distinctive, flavor that comes only from this blend of fine old hurleys. Perhaps you’d like to try before you buy. Then just write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., and you’ll get a free sample packet of Edgeworth.
♦A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
j-L
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two
sizes m vacuum seslnititis*
Ready - Rubbed and Edgeworth. Plug Slice. All sizes—15^ pocket package to pound
On Down The Line
Rv Fred MacBeth_________
FRANK BUTLER, the giant center of MICHIGAN STATE, stopped FORDHAM practically single-handed; and why not . . . during the summer, while working with four other laborers, he was buried under 32 FEET OF DEBRIS when a coffer-dam collapsed . . . the sole survivor; he spent 26 DAYS IN THE HOSPITAL and came out to enjoy the greatest season of his long football career . . . “JUMBO” MARINO, who “GRADUATED” from SING SING at the midterm, is with the PATERSON (N. J.) NIGHTHAWKS ... he SCORED A TOUCHDOWN in his first pro. game.
CONNIE MACK has released veteran pitcher ED ROMMELL . . . BOBBY JONES has been appointed one of the receivers for the defunct ATLANTA BASEBALL TEAM . . . he is a part owner of the team . . . COACH HOWARD JONES of SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA considers JIM HARRIS the best guard his team played against last year . . . PITTSBURGH had plenty of trouble with him last Saturday, too . . .
FRANK CARIDEO’S MISSOURI TEAM finally managed to score . - . it was a touchdown against WASHINGTON U., last Saturday . . . but Washington won the game.
ROLAND MACKENZIE, star of three WALKER CUP GOLF MATCHES, will play as a professional in the south this coming winter . . . JESS WILLARD, former heavy-weight champion of the world, is now “BOUNCER” at the huge meat market he once owned . . . the SPORT WRITERS who delight in telling the world how few Irishmen are on the NOTRE DAME “FIGHTING IRISH” team should look over the FORDHAM ROSTER . . . ZA-PUSTAS, UZDAVINIS, DEL ISOLA,
DANOWSKI, PIAWLOCK, LUD-WININOWICZ, PAVLICOVIC, NIT-KA, AND SARAUSKY . . . MARQUETTE has ROSEMARYNOSKI at right guard . . . NELLIE is a fullback at GENEVA COLLEGE.
Despite the disastrous defeat at the hands of the Pittsburgh team the morale of the Irish-squad is not shat-
. tered ... they are with Coach “Hunk” Anderson to a man . . . Among the numerous major teams of the conn-try Notre Dame’s record is truly wonderful ... if the law of, averages were applied, - a national champion-'ship every . 50 years would be a rfo- . i . rious’achievement. - s'	<

Start the day with FLAVOR!
A BOWL of crisp Kellogg’s Com Flakes and milk or cream at breakfast makes your appetite get busy. It’s simply delicious. And so good for you! Rich in energy. Easy to digest. Leaves you feeling fit and fresh for the day. Enjoy Kellogg’s for lunch too. Great for a late snack. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
~ • -
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating dubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kdlogg’s whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee— real coffee that lets you sleep.
alc- am e ri can ?
• \	• " • — f
Remember that neat line-up of football articles we had in October?. . .Well, here’s the November lineup— made to order for YOU:
The College Game is Easier by Red Grange
Fourth Down
by J. P. Marquand
An All-American Recants by Marchmont Schwartz
THE SATURDA Y EVENING POST
might explain it t/us Wi
"Let’s say you’re painting clouds. You’ve got your primary colors here on the palette. But you haven’t the clouds until you blend certain colors into tne special tone you want. : "This is very much? what happens in making a good cigarette. And I gather that , what Chesterfield means by CrossBlending is what an artist does with colors. Their Domestic and Turkish tobaccos — many varieties of each -— are the pri-
mary colors. They blend and cross-blend these tobaccos until they get the special tone they want — in outer words, the Chesterfield flavor.
"And just as each color you use acts on the others to change and enrich them, so each Chesterfield tobacco partakes of the fine qualities of every other.
"You 'weld’ different kinds to get a better kind. That’s Cross-Blending!”
CrossBlenJeJ^ tkats ikejn MUSES t/uifs wbif theu TASTE IETTER
&Myers Tobacco Co.	■/ Z