The Notre Dame
Scholastic
October 18,1957
Ivan osorFo
I
B
in smoking	B g ■ B o ® ®
refreshes your taste
K;
'J,
I
•n
©
■a.
&
$
a
I
£
I
§
menthol fresh rich tobacco taste most modem filter
Created by It. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
It’s a new idea in smoking — a refreshing idea for every smoker. SALEM’s pure white filter brings you rich tobacco taste with new surprise softness ... menthol-fresh comfort. . ..a smoke as refreshing to your taste as Springtime is to you. Next time you light up — switch to SALEM and smoke refreshed.
Smoke refreshed... smoke Salem
I
| JOB FACTS FROM DUPONT
DU PONT SIZE, GROWTH PRESENT VARIED CHOICE OF JOB LOCATIONS TO QUALIFIED TECHNICAL MEN

: BENEFIT PROGRAM *
J MEANS ADDED INCOME J
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
by E. H. Cox
Du Pont Representative
Don’t forget the “extras” of an employee benefit program tvhen you compare the job offers and salaries of different companies. At DuPont, these extras mean added income that doesn’t altvays meet the eye. They include life insurance, group hospitalization and surgical coverage, accident and health insurance, pension plan and paid vacation. In addition, the Company sponsors a thrift plan. For every dollar you invest in U. S. Savings Bonds, the Company sets aside 25 cents for the purchase of common stock in your name. Roughly 65 per cent of our 90,000 employees are now participating in this plan.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Building Program, Expansion
Create Many Opportunities at Company Plants and Labs
* If you have specific ques- * 4 tions on DuPont benefits, 4 ♦ just send them to me. I’ll ♦ * be happy to try to answer ♦ 4 them. E. I. du Pont de 4 ♦ Nemours & Co., Inc., ♦ * Room 2504-A Nemours ♦ 4 Bldg., Wilmington 98, Del. * ♦ ♦ ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Engineers and scientists of all kinds work in 75 DuPont plants and 98 laboratories scattered over 26 states. Where you’re assigned depends on your qualifications and the openings in the kind of work you want.
Geographical Spread
Right now, most of the DuPont units are located east of the Mississippi, but there are plants in Texas, Colorado and on the Pacific Coast, too. And new building is under way in Kansas, Tennessee, Virginia and North Carolina.
DuPont headquarters and many of the Company’s labs and some of its plants are situated in and around Wilmington. Del., an attractive residential area within convenient traveling range of Philadelphia, New York and Washington.
Community Life
Wherever you’re assigned, you’ll find that the Du Pont Company and its people are interesting, compan-
ionable and active in the life of the community.
As you move ahead, as you grow in your job, you may move to another plant or laboratory—a possibility that adds to the variety and interest of your job.
METALLURGISTS PLAY
VITAL ROLE AT DU PONT
Opportunities in metallurgy at Du Pont include research into the nature and properties of elements; development and supervision of pilot plant work; and the actual production of titanium metal and high-purity elemental silicon.
Other DuPont metallurgists study problems relating to plant processing equipment. Some, for example, carry out research on intergranular corrosion or investigate failure relationships encountered in high-pressure operations.
These projects offer an interesting career to graduating metallurgists.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET
Booklets packed with information about Du Pont are yours for the asking. Subjects: mechanical, civil, metallurgical, chemical, electrical, instrumentation engineers at Du Pont; technical sales, research
and development. Just name the subject that interests you and send your name, school and address to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Room 2504-A Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Del.
October 18, 1957
MEN WITH SUCCESS IN MIND
KNOW THE VALUE OF
BEING WELL-DRESSED
Success is made up of a number of things. Mostly, we are told, it is a result of hard work. There are many other factors too, not the least of which is a good appearance. Because the clothes that you wear makes up 90% of what others see of you, the right clothes are important to men with success in mind. The risrht clothes for you are at the Campus Shop. Gilbert’s buyers search the markets of the world to bring you the smartest styles, finest fabrics, most skilled tailoring and a wide selection of famous Brand Names. Come in now for your selection.
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus — Notre Dame ■
4
The Scholastic
CHARGE IT—
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY	PAY	PAY
3 JAN	FEB	MAR
No Carrying Charge
As a Notre Dame man you automatically have a charge account at the Campus Shop. You are invited to use this account to charge your clothing needs. If you wish, you can select what you need now and pay nothing until January 1958. In January pay one-third, pay one-third in February, and pay one-third in March. Naturally, there are no carrying charges. Use your Campus Charge Account to help you “Dress Right — you can’t afford not to”!
October 18, 1957
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 99 October 18, 1957 No. 4
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Take vacation fun
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
back to school
GEORGE CLEMENTS ..............News Editor ■ HARRY McKEE .................. Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY .............    Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK ........... Sports	Editor ■*
BOB WILLIAMS ...............  Photography
LORAN SHEFFER .......... Business	Manager
JOE DEZELAN ......... Circulation	Manager
TOM BANCHOFF ............. Assistant	News	1
WALT RUDGE ............... Assistant	News
JIM YOCH .................. Assistant	News
JERRY LEPPECK ............. Assistant	Copy
JIM SCHUH ................ Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS ............ Assistant	Features
TOM LAMONT ............. Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH .............. Assistant	Sports
TED THOMPSON ............. Assistant	Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Art Dechene. Luino Dellosso, Mike Dudgeon, Ron Dvorak, Geremy Kaye, Bob Maruyama, Bob Messinger. Gil Paprocki, Ed Plunkett, Lyn Relph, Charles Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Dave * Samudio. Milt Stieifel, Tom Swanstrom, Chris Watters, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs. Jim Brogan, Daxe Cole, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller. Mike Miuphy, Tim O’Reilly, Bob Schaefer.
Spoils Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon. Greg Rogers.
Business Staff': Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook. Bob Horn, Mike Kuras, Bob Pruett.
LOOK FOR THIS BLUE LABEL
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, §4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185, Notie Dame, Indiana.
States Rubber
EFELLER CENTER. NEW YORK 20. N. Y.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct.	25;	No.	6,	‘
Nov. 8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov.	22;	No.	9,
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13,	Feb.	14;	No.	14,	;j
Feb. 21;	No.	15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7;	No.	17,	*
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
6
The Scholastic
personality
by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
mixers
I dedicate this column to those brave, undaunted freshmen who still think they will meet the belle of their life at a mixer. To fulfill this dedication I have partaken of the frequent senior pilgrimages to the sacrificial temples of Bacchus, where amidst genteel imbibing the wisdom of these sages flows most abundantly. And because of these con-|| centrated philosophical efforts concern-I ing mixers, Escape can now present the | first published guide for the perplexed. ! . The process must begin with the po-I tential mixer’s choice of clothes. They ! must conform to the conventions of the | typical college campus. In case there j '' is any doubt about these conventions, I'	refer to the Gilbert ads. Now I feel
that I must anticipate the cry and hue of the campus rebels, or as they prefer, .the individuals. With justification, and j heads full of books, articles, essays, etc. , about the need for non-conformity, they will say that I am crushing the spirit that has given birth to greatness. But ** by so doing they have missed the point. This column does not purport to help someone rise above the mass, it is merely _ trying to facilitate the meeting of beau and belle. So disregard anything you . hear from this group, and, above all, remember, you must conform. Accord-‘ ing to the ad men, the collegian of today is a round shouldered, buttoned-up character with no beard and short hair. (Should you have the body of an * athlete, draw your shouders forward.
This will have to suffice.) All the mag’ azines say so. Therefore .the St. Mary’s « girl has a right to expect this. You will get absolutely nowhere if you go about shattering dreams. I repeat, rale . number one, “Conform.”
| " Secondly, the ego must be built up. r, This is easily accomplished by standing ? in front of the mirror and repeating ten 1'^ times, “I am a most dashing rake.” If I' after the tenth time you feel more like * a liar than a dashing rake, repeat the above process. If you still don’t feel the spirit of social conquest swelling in your bosom, try, “I am not handsome, but somehow completely irresistible.”
October 18, 1957
Should this third attempt at ego-inflating fail, philosophically remember that for every man there was a woman made. You in this situation may have no Diana in your future, but then all the better for you’re in Indiana, not on Mt. Olympus.
While you are at the mirror, it is an advantageous time to brash up on your facial expressions. The most necessary is the that of appearing blase. To attain this, merely imitate the look you gave your freshman advisor, that is, half bored to death. Those of you who have attempted this will find it extremely easy to achieve, but somewhat uncomfortable to maintain. The reason for this is that you have not become accustomed to sleeping with your eyes open, but this is only natural; you are still young and hopeful. The blase look must become a part of your wiles. It covers your pleasant anticipation, and if this anticipation is discovered the females will immediately accept the advantage and take the offense. Being on the defense you can only come out even, e.g., no date at all, if not a loser, e.g., a dinner date. Practice this look whenever- you have time.
Since you are, so to speak, rookies, I do not wish to confuse you with too many of the desired facial expressions, but will merely say in passing that you must strive to soften all of them — enthusiasm can be effective, but at the present time it is too dangerous for you. By so doing you now have the air of being properly urbane. This also impresses girls with the idea that you are enternally amused by some deep, profound thoughts. In a nut shell, always appear somewhat between amorous mystery and boredom.
Now relax. Permit the internal fire and external coldness of the second and third steps to purge your body of any improper thoughts; such as a desire to drink more than your share of the cokes, or to just stand around and look. You are going to a mixer, ergo, you are going to mix. You must remember this, and should any of you have fallen victim
to the rumor that a mixer is arranged so you can meet the fellows from the other halls, erase this from your mind. For contrary to any cynical or sceptical opinions that might have reached youi-ears in the past month, the administration and Student Government both approve of dancing at these functions. Allow at least ten minutes for this purging to ran its course.
You should now be a complacent conformist. Actually you have the qualities that can cany you through anything this modern America has to offer, from college balls to corporate vice-presidency. Of course you lack experience in the finer ai-ts of subtle flattery, prevarication, and the compromising of standards, but this will only come with the aging process of sophistication. Here I feel it necessary to issue a word of warning. Experience is the crux of this rise to wealth and community respect. Presently you are only prepared for a mixer. The climb to fame’s peak is a vicious ascent. If you proceed too rapidly you might end your days despised and the most abject of men, a man of sorrows and aquainted with infirmity. Proceed slowly.
You are now well on in the initial process of taking part in a rewarding mixer. Bepeat steps one, two, and three aloud, and return to the mirror for the final check. Look down and make sure you have put on your shoes. If you have not, now is the time to do so because you are almost ready to leave your room. If you find that you are wearing white bucks or tennis shoes, remove them, for you have almost committed a faux pas. You are polished, therefore you wear polished shoes. You are not attending a Sorin-front-porch affair. The only thing that remains to be done before going ovei- to the Student Center is to study the movie review of the last Scholastic. I will explain the reason for this, plus the practical application of the entire proceeding advice, in my next column, but I feel that you have enough to work on for this week, so I now bid you good night and pleasant dreams. *
7
a lot of man____a lot of cigarette
POPULAR FILTER PRICE
Just putl the tab • slowly and the cigarettes pop up. No digging. No trouble.
NEW SELF-STARTER'
(MADE IN RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, FROM A PRIZED RECIPE)


He gets a lot to like-filter, flavor, flip-top box.” The works.
A filter that means business. An easy draw that’s all flavor. And the flip-top box that ends crushed cigarettes.
8
The Scholastic
!
5
1 I
; i
duties
Yesterday we elected our respective hall governments and senators. This is the most important election for { the good health of the Student Government at Notre Dame.
President Brady depends on these men for valuable assistance in keeping in contact with the student body, and if these people are only content to sit and gather acclaim, then J our government will be as inefficient as in previous years. ' * Many of you will remember that government found J 1 itself under severe criticism last school year. Several important । moves were accomplished that promised to help a rather [ lackadaisical Senate. Now that a new Senate has been I elected we hope that they will further themselves to new I goals as well as remember what went before them.
. - We have found that a major error in the Senate was 1 the failure of the law makers to represent their halls prop; erly. Most of them were satisfied to post a weekly bulletin which only contained the minutes of the meetings. This is not enough. In a situation where a man represents an average of 300 men, he should maintain a personal contact with his voters.
. However, we realize that the voters themselves are in serious fault. They feel that once they have cast their vote, their obligation is over. The student should keep in contact m with his representative and supply suggestions for legislative action. Here is the ideal which must be approached in order ‘ to make government worthwhile.
. Freshman will have to wait until December before they ,1 elect their hall officers and senators, but this will give them a good opportunity to inspect the workings of Notre Dame 1 n student government and also to acquaint themselves with their potential politicians. One should look for a person who possesses definite qualities of leadership, a man of constructive ideas, and not one who only promises bigger and better mixers with St. Mary’s. It seems that there are enough of these men who have been elected.
Most likely there are certain individuals in the freshman | halls who have exhibited a tendency toward leadership. One I* must inspect these men, and if they run, ask them intelligent (1 questions concerning policies, operation of the Senate, and p their opinions. We want to impress upon you the impor-f tance of this, for it means the future of student government.
Lastly, we want to congratulate the newly elected officers, and to express our hope that they proceed in the right direction. We will be watching.	—D. L. K.
October 18, 1957
ZAdviioJA
complaints
From the indications of the past couple cf days what the students affectionately refer to as the annual Indiana monsoon season is here once again. And once more the complaints will be heard from all around about the “lousy Indiana weather,” as if it never rained in Podunck, N. Y., or Chicago, Illinois.
Complaining seems to be a chronic illness of Notre Dame students. They complain about all sorts of important things. They complain about — among other things besides the weather — the laundry service, the bookstore, the library, and the food in the Dining Halls. They used to complain about the lines in the old Dining Hall but this year with the opening of the new Dining Hall, the lines for the most part have disappeared much to the chagrin of some of the more avid complainers. And, then of course, there are always the complaints about the St. Mary’s girls.
What is the source of all of these complaints? Are they, any of them, justified? Certainly some of them seem justified. For example one doubts very seriously whether the food in the Dining Halls does come up to the standards of Mom’s homecooked meals. But after all who in his right mind could expect it to. If Mother had to cook for a couple of thousand people her food probably wouldn’t have all those wonderful qualities either. The same holds true for the laundry service. Mother never had to wash as many clothes in all her life as the laundry does in one year. Now don’t misunderstand. This isn’t a tirade against Mothers. It is a plea that some of the students re-examine their many complaints and see just how justified their complaining is.
For example just the other day a friend was complaining about having to stand in line for almost an hour to get tickets for No Time For Sergeants. When asked how long he would have stood in line on Broadway to get tickets at a much higher price to see the same show with the same cast he didn’t bother to answer. But he did stop complaining.
Again the St. Mary’s girls. This is a wonderful field for complaints especially by those who have never wandered across the Dixie, but who once heard about a friend or a friend of somebody who went here seven years ago and was stood up by a SMC girl. Perhaps some SMC girls do sometimes give the poor little ND boys a hard time. But then what girls don’t. And again how often has a ND student dated a SMC girl all vear long only to bring the girl back home up for a prom. A different thing altogether, you say. Is it?
And so the complaints go on. But perhaps if just once in a while we would all stop to consider the complaints we might find things aren’t quite so bad after all. Is complaining a chronic illness of college students? Does it have to be? Or if it is, couldn’t they complain intelligently about some meaningful things? These are questions which only you can answer.	—J. S.
9
MAKE
APPOINTMENT
NOW!
Burroughs
BURROUGHS
CORPORATION
a worldwide leader in the manufacture of business machines, electronic computers, data processing systems and other electronic equipment for both industry and defense . ..
WILL OFFER YOU EXCEPTIONAL CAREER OPPORTUNITIES HERE ON
NOVEMBER 7,1957
See or phone your college placement office now for your appointment.
| Sales
I representatives
A rewarding future with a rapidly expanding firm. After initial practical training and experience, you will work with leaders in business and industry as a sales counselor on figuring, accounting, and systems problems. Your opportunities are multiplied by a continuing development program. With branches from New York to California, Burroughs provides widespread opportunities for a resident location in the sales area of your choice.
*
Accounting and Finance
Engineers
Growth opportunities for men in Business Administration and allied fields. Burroughs Corporation offers you positions leading to a topflight career in Corporate Accounting, Financial Planning and Control, Distribution, Cost Accounting and Analysis, Manufacturing Accounting, General Auditing, or Methods and Procedures. Good starting salary. Plenty of chance to know the corporation inside out, from every point of view. If you want to start as a traveling auditor, you can see the country, too. And promotions come fast because we’re expanding fast.
Exceptional opportunities for men with a BS, MS, or PhD in Ind. Eng., ME, EE, Chern. Eng., Math, or Physics. From the very start, you work on some of today’s most challenging problems in ballistic missiles, electronics, computation, data processing, optics, magnetics, communications, and electromechanical equipment for defense, business, and industry. Burroughs, with 9 divisions including a research center and 36 plants from coast to coast, offers engineers a wide choice of interesting places to work. Excellent starting salary. Realistic promotion-from-within policy. Professional recognition.
10
The Scholastic
i WSND News
I One of the busiest staffs at WSND V these days is the four-man sports crew 1 headed by senior Bill Chesson. They work day in and day out to bring topflight sports coverage to the Notre Dame student.
• During the football season, the sports department is broadcasting four “special event” shows per week in addition to the 25 weekly sport news programs.
"• Working on Chesson’s staff this year are Brue Huot, Mike Ahern and Jim Cooney. Each can be heard Monday through Friday on the station’s four daily sportcasts. Over the week ends, WSND airs sport news three times on Saturday and twice on Sunday.
Heading the list of special event programs is “On The Line,” a panel interview show which comes on at 9 p.m. Tuesdays. Each week a member of the team or coaching staff is interviewed by Mike Fitzpatrick of the Scholastic, Joe Bride, Notre Dame’s assistant sports * publicity man, and a member of the WSND sport staff.
Chesson and his men also prepare an informative show each week about the Irish gridiron foes, aired on “Meet Your Opponent.” When the team is playing at home, it’s on at 7:15 Thursday eve-4 nings. The program is on at the same | time Friday nights when the team is on the road.
On the night of pep rallies, the WSND microphones are always in the drill hall to bring to the airwaves all the noise ' and excitement of these weekly affairs — big things at Notre Dame.
After the Saturday football games, ► your campus station is on the air with the “Musical Scoreboard” from 4 to 5 p.m. Here you’ll receive a rundown on all the scores from across the nation, * detailed information on the big games, and plenty of lively music interspersed ‘ with reports.
, The sport’s department it not only active during the football season. WSND’s , men are also on hand with play-by-play । accounts of basketball games, track i v meets, and spring baseball contests. Dur-|	ing Bengal Bouts time, the campus sta-
'	tion microphones are at ringside for
I blow-by-blow action of the championship bouts.
The panel interview show “On the Line” remains on the air throughout the
know true from false
Men in the know
College students usually settle down in their old neighborhoods after graduation.
False. Statistically, there’s only a 5050 chance that you will return to your home area. If you left your home State to go to school, the odds are 2 out of 3 that you will settle down in a different State after you get your degree.
Students who engage in many campus activities tend to earn more money in later years.
_ year with Irish basketball players replacing the footballers as men to be , interviewed.	—Jim Dulan
r
TRUE
made only by
False. A recent survey of college grads showed that the BMOC’s do not earn more than students who avoid campus activities. Thus, campus activities should be considered as their own broadening reward, not as stepping stones to wealth.
The vital part of Jockey underwear lasts longer than the rest of the garment.
True. The waistband is usually the weak point of most underwear, but Jockey developed a special, long-wearing, heat-resistant elastic (with U.S. Rubber and the American Institute of Laundering) that actually outwears the garment itself.
Men on the go go for Jwk^Uunderwear
BRAND
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR
Rasmussen Men’s Shop
MAIN AND WASHINGTON STS.
October 18, 1957
11
Editor:
There seems to he a number of very determined students on this campus; determined to impress upon outsiders the fact that Notre Dame men are not really men at all but are childish pranksters with very, very mediocre senses of humor. Certainly members of the Indiana University marching band received this impression when a group of ND students ripped six expensive signs from the Indiana band buses and absconded with them the Saturday after the game.
If this highly inconsiderate deed had been attributed to a group of freshmen perhaps it might have been less inexcusable; however evidence points to upperclassmen as the culprits.
If any of the little boys responsible for this theft should happen to read this letter, please consider these few points, that is if you are capable of comprehending them. Your action has caused a great deal of embarrassment to the Notre Dame band, which was acting as
host to the Indiana band, and places the whole University in an unfavorable light to visiting schools such as Indiana. Also someone here at Notre Dame must assume financial responsibility for these signs. This prank becomes doubly embarrassing considering the courtesy and exceptionally well-ordered conduct displayed by the Indiana group on our campus.
The effect upon the reputation of the University caused by such actions as this is too obvious for words, but in this particular case restoration must be made. If the boys involved would like to prove that they have some small measure of responsibility, they may leave the remaining signs unnoticed in the University band room in Washington Hall and nothing more will be said. It is hoped that no further action will be necessary. Please note that one of the signs was recovered, indicating where the others might be found.
Robert Brown
Grad. Assistant Director ND Band
Editor:
Through your pages I would like to pay tribute to the nuns and nurses and ' lay help as well as to the student patients of our Infirmary on the admirable way in which they have cooperated during the recent flu epidemic on the campus.
In the first place, I never knew that as many beds could be assembled on such short notice and so many corners made available as Sister Margaret Ann has accomplished. The serving of the avalanche of sick patients which de- A scended upon the Infirmary at such short notice was another source of inspiration, a service in which not only (Continued on page 33)
ON THE COVER: Ivan Osorio returns to bewilder the students once again, this time with a rather abstract impression of “something.” What is it? Ivan simply entitles it “The Student Body.” What does it mean? He lets that up to you to decide but the staff is quite sure he has something definite in mind.	*
“Sonic” oxford dress shii t. modi-spread button-down collar. English cuffs.
Only at Max Adlers!
“Sonic” broadcloth diess shirt, modi-spread permastay collar, English cuffs.
100 % COTTON
Sonic Dress Shirts in white broadcloth or oxford $3.95
Complete Wash ’n Wear.,.NO Ironing
The final solution to the problem of always having a clean shirt available. . . . Sonic dress shirts wash in a jiffy and dry on a hanger in only 40 minutes. Ocean pearl buttons. Sizes 14-17 neck. 32-35 sleeves.
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
The Scholastic
MISS JACQUE MEIER
?•*	Three queens . . .
Three hundred ROTC men and their dates will dance to the music of Dick Carlton at the 1957 Military Ball tonight. The dance, a formal affair, will be held from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the 4 LaFortune Student Center. Car permissions have been granted until 2 a.m.
Highlighting the ball, which has the
'Who's Who' Nominees Must Apply by Friday
Deadline for Nominations for this year’s publication of Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities is next Friday, the campus Who’s Who committee recently announced.
Thirty-four Notre Dame students are selected by the local group and their c names are sent to the national committee for approval and publication next year.
1 Nominations must include the quali-i fications of the nominee and his campus i * address. Anyone may nominate any eligible student or nominate himself.
Only senior and graduate and law stu-* dents in then- final year at Notre Dame are eligible for nomination, the committee. emphasized. Nominations should be sent to 355 Sorin.
v ■" Heads of representative campus I organizations each select an outstanding V junior member to serve on an electoral 11 4 board of approximately 15 members. K This board will objectively consider the (1 qualifications of the nominees and select the 34 whose names will be sent on.
i The Scholastic will announce the : results of the campus Who’s Who selec-; tion later in the school year.
F	October 18, 1957
MILITARY ‘AT EASE' TONIGHT FOR ANNUAL FORMAL DANCE
Queens of Land, Sea, and Air to Reign Over Ball;
300 Couples to Dance to Dick Carlton's Orchestra
theme ‘At Ease,’ will be the crowning of queens representing each of the three military branches by the respective commanding officers: Col. Edwin F. Grenelle, Army; Capt. L. P. Morse, Navy; and Lt. Col. Matthew H. Merkle, Air Force.
Miss Jacque Meier of Evansville, Ind., date of general chairman Jim Behme, will reign as Queen of the Sea.
Miss Suellen Haley of South Bend,
MISS PEGGY HEINCAN . . . To command . . .
date of AFROTC Chairman Denny D’Alileo, will be Queen of the Air.
Miss Peggy Heincan, from New Orleans, La., will reign as Queen of the Land. Miss Heincan is the date of Hugh Murphy, chairman from the Army ROTC.
Decorations for the dance will follow the theme of a medieval castle.
The commanding officers, executive officers, and their wives will be the chaperones and will form a reception line to meet the couples attending the dance.
The ball is sponsored by the tri-mili-tary council, coordinating organization
Cam^ui Scomo
of ROTC units at Notre Dame. Bob Duffy of the Army ROTC is president of the council.
Other members of the dance committee in addition to Chairmen Behme, D’Alileo, and Murphy are: Pat Toner, decorations; Teddy Thompson, hotel accommodations; Freddie Cartwright, favors; Tom Donnelly, publicity; Tim Mahoney, refreshments; John Tiberi, entertainment. Also on the committee are: Tom Swiatowski, tickets, programs and invitations; Buck Harris, business; Bill Hohmann, Communion breakfast.
On Saturday the social activity of the students, will be limited because of the open football date. However there will be an Open House in the Student Center for the ROTC men and their- dates to attend. The Open House is from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m.
The final activity of the week end will be a Communion Breakfast to be held in the Morris Inn following the 8 aan. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. The Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., will be the featured speaker at the breakfast.
MISS SUELLEN HALEY . . . Military tonight
13
Final Moot Court Arguments Set For Oct. 28; Justice Brennan Participates as Chief Judge
The final arguments of the eighth annual Notre Dame Moot Court will take place on Oct. 28 at 7:45 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Established in 1950, the Notre Dame Moot Court annually sponsors a competition in appellate advocacy, which is open to all second-year law students on a voluntary basis.
This year’s competition, which will reach its climax on Oct. 28, began in September of last year. It began with a field of 32 contestants which has been cut down to the four participants that now remain.
Throughout the competition the cases are argued in the supreme court of the imaginary State of “Hoynes”. The final argument, however, is assumed to take place in the Supreme Court of the United States.
This year’s final round participants will include John Murray of Elmira, N. Y., and Raymond Tam of Wahiawa, Oahu, Hawaii, counsel for the petitioners. Murray is from Notre Dame’s College of Commerce and Tam is a graduate of the University of Michigan.
The counsel for the respondent will be William Ragan of Buffalo, N. Y., from Canisius College, and Donald Very of Pittsburgh, Pa., a graduate of Duquesne University.
Thomas Oglevie of Kansas City, Kan., will serve as clerk of the court.
These participants will be judged on the quality of their written briefs and
Tutoring Service Sponsored By yCS For Undergraduates
A tutoring service for undergraduates is again being sponsored by YCS this year, under the management of Roy Wessel. The purpose of this service is to insure that those students who need help in understanding one or more of their subjects can get it readily. Last year 55 freshmen and sophomores took advantage of this service.
According to Notre Dame student advisor, Dr. William Burke, such assistance is very important as even small colleges now refuse to admit students Idropped for academic failure. He also says that students should get assistance as soon as they begin to have trouble and not wait until they have failed two or three tests.
Students who are having difficulties in a subject and want help may apply at the Catholic Action office, Room I-M in the LaFortune Student Center, between 4 and 5 p.m., on any weekday. There is a $.50 fee for this service.
their oral arguments. The two winners will have the honor of representing the Notre Dame Law School in the national Moot Court competition next month. They also will receive the Dean’s Award, which was established in 1950 by the former dean, Clarence E. Manion, and cash prizes amounting to $100 for the first place team and $50 to the second place team, which are given by the Notre Dame Law Association.
The Honorable William Joseph Brennan, Jr., Associate Justice of the United States, will serve as Chief Judge.
Justice Brennan was born in Newark, N. J., in 1906. In 1928 he married the former Marjorie Leonard (the Brennans now have three children) and he graduated with honors in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania. In 1931 he received his LL.B, from Harvard. The following year he was admitted to the New Jersey Bar and began practice.
Justice Brennan, who is the sixth Catholic to serve on the Supreme Court since its inception, served in the General Staff Corps of the United States Army during the years 1942-1945 and was discharged a colonel. He received his appointment to the Supreme Court in 1956.
Serving as associate justices 'will be the Honorable John Biggs, Jr., Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and the Honorable Henry N. Graven, District Judge for the Northern District of Iowa.
Judge Biggs was appointed to his present position in 1937. Prior to that he had done undergraduate work at Princeton (1918) and received his LL.B, from Harvard and was admitted to the Delaware Bar (1922). Judge Biggs has also numerous honorary degrees.
Judge Graven was appointed to his post in 1944. He is a member of the Minnesota and Iowa Bar Associations. He served in World War I in the U. S. Army. Some of the various offices that . he has held include counsel to the Iowa State Highway Commission and special assistant Attorney General of Iowa (1936), Judge of the District Court of the 12th Judicial District of Iowa (1937).
Judge Graven received his B.A. and LL.B, from the University of Minnesota, the latter in 1921.
Three days prior to the finals of the class of 1958, on Friday at 8 p.m., the class of 1959 will start their first round of Moot Court competition. They will have 25 participants to begin with and it will be held in the Law School. The same questions as presented by the class of 1958 will be argued.
Senate Recommends New Campus Society -
Honor societies, birthday cakes, and i Senate social passes were the highlights of the Oct. 9 Student Senate meeting. *
In an unprecedented action, the Senate unanimously passed a resolution proposing the creation of a Notre Dame Aca- j demic Honor Society, referring it to the University Academic Council for a final decision.
The society was proposed by William t-' Griffith and Thomas Clusserath to fulfill the need for recognition of superior scholastic achievement which, according to them, was not met by the Deans’ Lists.
Besides recognizing this achievement, the society would promote the exchange of ideas between students of the under- -p graduate schools and encourage superior scholastic achievement.
The awarding of a birthday cake concession to Francis Moran revealed that none of the other Senate concessions are being operated under any specific contract. They are presently bound by the conditions specified in the bid. The Senate will at the earliest opportunity draw up suitable contracts.
In old but rather lengthy business ’ the Senate, by changes in the constitution and by-laws, lowered the average requirements for candidates from j Keenan and Stanford halls in yesterday’s election.
At this meeting “Senate privileges” for all Senate sponsored social events, with the exception of No Time For Sergeants, were again extended to all members as the' yearly “Social” passes were issued. These passes admit the Student Senate members (about 40) free of charge to the victory dances, football * telecasts, etc., throughout the year.
Campus Students Given First Asian Flu Shots
Bill McCullough, co-chairman of the -campus innoculation program, announced that 2,550 students have received their first injection of vaccine against the Asian Flu.
When the vaccine becomes available, off-campus students will be able to receive their first shots. Any on-campus < student, who signed up for the shots but because of a hall change or some other reason missed it, will be listed on the off-campus list when it comes out.
Any student who still desires to receive the flu vaccine and who has not ‘ had a card sent in is asked to have his j parents send their permission along with M the student’s name and campus address ' to the Student Health Service, Notre Dame, Ind. Other students will receive their second injection as soon as the vaccine is available.
14
The Scholastic
HISTORY SYMPOSIUM
J
by RICHARD C. SMITH
As a Catholic, how do you fit into this "* booming economical phenomenon which
I is known as America? As a potential i lawyer, doctor, engineer, businessman, I teacher, laborer, or whatever you may I be, you are first a Catholic. Can you be I a good Catholic and a good American? I How? Where do you, as a member of a specific ethnic group, take your place in society?
As a Notre Dame student, these are a few of the questions which you are seeking answers to. As a Notre Dame student, here is an opportunity to pursue these questions and to acquire some J j food for thought.
I The Department of History, in con-| junction with the Faculty Seminar in I American Civilization of the University of Notre Dame, is sponsoring a symposium on “Roman Catholicism and the American Way of Life.” The discussion will take place in the Law Building | auditorium this evening and Saturday, | and will be presented in three sessions at 8 p.m. today, 9:30 a.m. and 2 p.m on Saturday.
PURPOSE
The symposium will consist of a series of discussions by authorities on various aspects of religion in a changing America. The point of the symposium is not necessarily to draw any conclusions, but rather to promote intellectualism in I* Catholic thinking and to discuss the study of Catholicism as it is interwoven 1 into the pattern of the American way t of life.
The Faculty Seminar was conceived by The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History, » and finally materialized in February, 1956, with the efforts of Father McAvoy and Professor Aaron Abell, professor of American History at the University of * Notre Dame. Their aim was to set up a seminar for a Notre Dame evaluation of American civilization. In the light of the significant religious revival in the twentieth century and the impact U of Catholic immigration which has been /[ most notable since the rise of Hitler / * and was accelerated by the mass of y refugees which poured out from behind r the iron curtain, the American Catholic | is a strong segment of our country.
। While American Catholics are considered a minority, and often a foreign
minority, they must be considered in relation to our civilization and theii’ impact thereon. There is a great curiosity on the part of the American intellectual, and particularly the Catholic intellectual: The Church is here and it affects each one of us; but how?
The need for such a symposium is real. It will be discussed by men who are in a position to contribute most to such an undertaking — primarily students of the rise of religion in modem America.
FATHER McAVOY
Books and articles have been coming out more and more frequently on this subject, and not only by Catholic authors. The Symposium will present food for thought for our educators, who play a dominant role in shaping the mind of America.
The participants are men who are willing to discuss rather than argue. They are not considering closed Catholicism; they are discussing religion in America from the point of view of the Catholic, the Protestant, and the Jew.
This is a very important question for students — men who have chosen higher education as a means of realizing a liberal education. They go to school not only to learn mathematics and science, but to learn about people, how to get along with each other, and the relationship of various groups to each other.
The symposium is open to the public. It has received publicity by means of various periodicals, both secular and religious. Mr. Joe Public will appreciate and profit from a study of himself and of his neighbor’s contribution to, and place in, American civilization.
His Excellency, The Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, was approached on the subject and was very much interested in it. He is one of our foremost intellectuals and has done much fine work along these lines. The Bishop will serve as Honorary Chairman of the Symposium.
WELCOME
Father McAvoy will welcome the speakers and formally introduce the subject on Friday evening. It is not his intention to foster any definite ideas, but rather to discuss the subject calmly and intellectually. He hopes that this will be a real Notre-Dame contribution to the study of American civilization.
The Catholic Church is thought of as an immigrant church and its members are generally considered to be the urban populace, the lower class — the common laborer. The intention of the Catholic intellectuals is to examine that idea; to discuss it and find just where the Church does fit in today. Perhaps the place of the Catholic in an American community is unknown to the Catholic himself.
The . Most Rev. John J. Wright, Bishop of Worcester, Mass., has observed in his preface to The Catholic Church in the United States by The Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C.:
“As a practical conclusion from this initial fact, the relatively unknown part of Catholicism in the national life, one is tempted to suggest a self-study project by Catholic Americans themselves in order that they may discover their own heritage in America. Their complex contribution to the national community is much more intimately identified with the American reality and ideal than they or their neighbors usually suppose, and their impact on the minds and customs of their fellow citizens is considerably greater than seems to be understood at home or abroad.”
This, then, pretty well sums up the need for such discussions.
The participants have been chosen with particular regard to the fields within which they specialize. They will present their subject matter in the following manner.
The first session, on Friday evening, is entitled “The Present Position of Religion in America.” Dr. Will Herberg, professor of Judaic Studies and Social Philosophy at Drew University, will speak on “Religion and Culture in Present-Day America.” Dr. Herberg has
(Continued on page 24)
October 18, 1957
15
A Preview:
Concert and Lecture Series
' by DAN FERRONE
December 6, 1957, 8:15 p.m. the curtain will go up on the first Concert and Lecture Series attraction of the 1957-58
season, the Tamburiztans. This highly acclaimed troupe of dancing percussionists will head a cavalcade of eight topflight performances scheduled to appear on the Notre Dame campus during this academic year. In their wake will follow: Players Incorporated, Ferrante and Teicher, Richard Dyer-Bennet, Varel and Bailly with their Chanteurs de Paris, the National Symphony Orchestra, the Julliard String Quartet, and finally, the South Bend Symphony Orchestra with Byron Janis, pianist. AH of the performances will be staged in Washington Hall with the exception of the two symphonic presentations which will be given at the Navy Drill Hall.
RICHARD DYER-BENNET
One of the most beautiful and pathetic of Shakespearean tragedies, “Romeo and Juliet,” will be the Jan. 10 offering of the Catholic University Players Incorporated. On the following evening, they will present Shakespeare’s famous comedy, “The Taming of the Shrew.” The Players are a classical repertory company which has been touring across the nation and around the globe during the past eight years.
Publicity for this company is scarcely necessary because of the tremendous success which its two year-around theaters have enjoyed in recent years. One of them is located at Winooski, Vt., the other at Olney, Md. The fact that this group has played to a packed Washington Hall on each of its visits of the past two years gives assurance that it will find as eager a reception upon its return this winter.
“Ferrante and Teicher are master technicians and men of good taste; the performances are honed and burnished to perfection.” Such was the commentary of Time magazine in reference to the two men who comprise the team which will visit the campus to perform on Jan. 17, 1958. Arthur Ferrante and Louis Teicher have established themselves as one of the most dynamic and popular duo-pianists on the musical scene today. They have become widely known for their numerous recitals and performances with leading orchestras throughout the United States and Canada, in addition to their many recordings, radio, and television appearances.
With equal skill and sensitivity, these versatile young artists present entire programs of classical two-piano literature as well as programs of classical in combination with their own arrange
ments of lighter numbers. Achieving extraordinary sound effects that add greatly to the variety of orchestral tone colors in their performances, Ferrante and Teicher have earned a reputation for a completely fresh approach to piano playing.
On Feb. 21, Washington Hall will play host to one of the most unique musicians in the world today, Mr. Richard Dyer-Bennet. This personable young man with a guitar and bag full of wonderworking song-stories has the knack of bringing a new and different experience to concert audiences. An excellent guitarist, composer, and musicologist, he has a repertory rare in range, including Elizabethan ballads, American folk ditties, sea chanteys, Australian bush . songs, compositions in seven languages,

DIRECTOR HOWARD MITCHELL
16
The Scholastic
THE JULLIARD STRING QUARTET
and little known art songs by great composers. With a concert-trained tenor voice of both power and sweetness, an unobtrusive finesse on his guitar, and a diction which is said to make every picturesque word audible in the hall even when he whispers, this troubadour has won tribute from music critics both in this country and across the Atlantic.
Mr. Dyer-Bennet, who was born in England and reared in California is on his twelfth tour this season singing a 600-year old hit parade of songs enjoyed by the ancestors of the inhabitants of lands around the world. For anyone who is interested in a truly unusual and fascinating musical experience, attendance at this bard’s performance is a “must.”
Next in this year’s Concert and Lecture Series is a renouned group of songsters from Paris, France. Varel and Bailly and Les Chanteurs de Paris will pose quite a contrast to Richard DyerBennet as they will sing tunes of today’s France in a graceful and pleasing harmonization.
Varel and Bailly have been singing together for the past eight years and for eight years these magnificent composers, these artists of song, have been inter- preting their own beautiful melodies. In their new presentation they have with the Les Chanteurs de Paris, seven handsome, dynamic young men, all of them ex-members of the famous Little Singers of Paris, known throughout the world for the beauty of their singing. The seven “graduates” possess a musicianship and voices that do credit to their exceptional training, and their sense
of rhythm is completely, delightfully to today’s taste.
These melodists have taken France, Belgium, Holland, and Germany by storm. In Canada so complete was their success, so overwhelming the enthusiasm they generated that in Quebec, for instance, they have returned three times in one year.
Andre Varel and Charly Bailly draw their inspiration from a single inexhaustible source. Their songs have every
VAREL AND BAILLY WITH LES CHANTEURS DE PARIS
thing: poetry, beauty, humor, gaiety, and optimism. It is reported that they bring to the stage, to recordings, to radio and television a sonority so special, a delivery so beautifully styled that it is no wonder critics and public alike hail them. According to the Canadian publication, Id Quebec, theirs is a production in which our American friends will recognize that little something different which they call “the greatest.” The opportunity to judge for ourselves will be given us on the first of March.
The National Symphony Orchestra, which will be heard at the Drill Hall on March 7, was founded in 1931 and has, under the leadership of Music Director Howard Mitchell, taken its proud place among the handful of really great symphonic ensembles in the world. ’ In the eight years since he was appointed permanent conductor, Mr. Mitchell’s inspired work has achieved the highest standards of work and technical excellence for himself and the orchestra, and has won recognition and acclaim from critics as well as concert-goers.
The National Symphony, however, is more than a great musical organization.
As benefits the resident orchestra of the capital of the country, which made a new nation from many, it is hailed for its performances of the masters of the old world. But it is also a leader of music in the new world and contributes generously to the creation and vitality of contemporary American music. The featured performance of good native music has become a tradition of the National Symphony, and its Washington (Continued on page 32)
October 18, 1957
17
AB Expansion:
Communication Arts
by BOB EARLY
For the first time in many years the College of Arts and Letters has no Department of Journalism, and no Department of Speech and Drama.
But you still can major in journalism, or speech and drama, and add much more to these long-time studies, according to Professor Thomas J. Stritch, Head of the new Department of Communication Arts, which ties up these two departments.
Communication Arts began operations this fall. It administers courses in four fields: Journalism, Drama, Speech, and Radio-Television.
What’s the idea of this union, we asked Professor Stritch in his office in 356 O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Well, for one thing, the old departments crossed lines at every turn. Journalism focussed on writing, but speeches and radio broadcasts have to be written, too. Journalism uses design, but drama and TV producers have to use design
nearly as much. Speech and debate teach you how to handle yourself in public, but the journalist more and more has to make public appearances.
The University has for years considered the natural unity among these courses as a good basis for a new department.
What brought it to a head were many new developments. The high level the Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., has brought to the University Theater made the time seem ripe. The operation of WNDU radio and television stations here on the campus opened up possibilities for student practice work in those fields.
Professor Stritch related that the courses in speech should be improved because of the Communications Arts department. Students in Arts and Letters especially, and our students everywhere, get much more speech practice in the new seminar courses than they used to. Hence the electives can be more professional courses in advanced speech.
A new course in Speech is being offered this year in the College of Commerce. It combines speech with general communications. If this is successful, similar courses are planned.
As part of the speech curriculum a
tape recorder laboratory is being set up in the basement of Washington Hall. This will be used by all the speech classes and by the debate team.
A full program of drama courses is offered by the department, two in each of the last four semesters of the junior and senior years.
“For many years we’ve had a spectacularly successful debate team,” Professor Stritch observed, “and a theater of exceptionally high standards. I hope the new department will help these activities in many ways.”
The work in radio and television, three courses in all, is being taught this year-for the first time by the staffs of WNDU-TV and radio, under the personal supervision of Bernard C. Barth, General Manager of the station. Mr. Barth has had previous experience teaching at the University of Cincinnati. Classes are held in the WNDU studio.
MR. EDWARD FISHER’S COMMUNICATION CLASS.
THOMAS J. STRITCH
Our facilities in all areas of communications, are far superior to those in most colleges our size, Professor Stritch pointed out. “The Scholastic is one of the best publications in the country. Our yearbook is consistently on a high level. WSND is admirably run. Our theater is second to none. Our debate team is the country’s best. And only a few universities own and operate a radio and television station.”
Professor Stritch said that the job ahead just now is to strengthen and improve the courses offered. The student who wishes to major in journalism, he pointed out, still takes exactly the same
2S
The Scholastic
courses he did before. The only difference is that he has wider choice of electives. The same is true of the drama and speech major. And students can concentrate a good deal of work in radio-‘ Revision.
Most courses are elective to students outside the department. Nearly any student may get permission to take nearly every course in the new setup.
Every junior who majors in Communication Arts must take a full year course in advanced writing. He also must take a one semester course in general design.
If his primary interest is journalism he will then take the rest of his courses in Writing for the Press, Editing, Reporting, Public Relations, Public Affairs Reporting, Radio and TV script writing, and so on. He may take a course in Speech and Drama, such as Directing if he is also interested in a possible career’ in television.
If his primary interest is radio-TV he will add to his two basic courses in writing and design the three courses in Telecommunications taught in the WNDU studios, and also courses in Acting, Training the Speaking Voice, Directing and Stagecraft. He may also elect courses in speech such as Group Discussion, or Persuasion.
He may stay in drama altogether, adding to his basic courses in Writing, and Design Acting, Directing, Stagecraft, and History of the Theater and Drama criticism.
“I think all our courses can be stronger from living closer together,”
FILMING MOVIES IS PART OF THE CURRICULUM.
TAPE RECORDINGS PLAY A BIG ROLE.
Professor Stritch said. “Modern communications are very close knit. Training can no longer be narrow.
“Take a man like Edward R. Murrow, the cover story of Time a few weeks ago, or take Time itself. Murrow turns from newspaper work to broadcasting to the picture story to entertainment to editorializing without taking a breath. And
look at Time—what kind of training would you need to work for such magazines?
“The truth is, I think, that you’ve got to focus on education. First of all, learn to read and write. Then learn all you can of the world about you. In past years, our most popular courses were not technical courses at all, but courses in Modern Culture.”
The modem culture courses now form the basis of the senior seminar in the department.
Where does this take the A.B. student, we asked?
From his experience in the Department of Journalism, Professor Stritch said that only about one-third went into newspaper work. And they do very well indeed there, he said.
The other two-thirds stay pretty close to communications—they go into advertising, public relations, business promotion, the professions of law and teaching, magazine work and government service, radio and television.
“With the new department we’ll get just a little wider spread,” Mr. Stritch said.
By no means. In the middlewest alone, Michigan State, Illinois, Iowa and Wisconsin have similar new departments or colleges. It is standard on the west coast, and turns up in the east, too, at Boston University, Seton Hall, Fordham, Rutgers, and Syracuse.
Of course the patterns vary. But it’s plain that Communications is no longer writing for a newspaper. And no longer simple.
October 18, 1957
19
New York City Succumbs:
The Student Trip
One evening about five bells I am standing in front of Mindy’s restaurant on Broadway wondering what to do with myself, because the crap games that are going on at this time are nothing much what with practically everybody in the world being broke. Then suddenly I am no longer wondering what to do with myself, as quite a number of college guys come sweeping down the sidewalk and the next thing I know I am standing in Tony Canzoneri’s. Being a little short on potatoes and dearly loving to commit eating I am only too pleased to let somebody order me. Although I am usually particular with whom I eat I figure these college guys are pretty trustworthy and besides, I am pretty hungry.
This particular group of college guys seem happy indeed and I am wondering what brings them to New Yawk, not that anything special is needed. It occurs to me to ask them if they are Yales or maybe Harvards so I do. Well, by the look I get from one I could tell they were not. Another non-Yale-or-Harvard grumbles something about ivy which bothers me somewhat since I consider it very nice stuff indeed and useful, for I remember once Big Jule escaped from jail by climbing down some. But then maybe this ivy he is talking about is slang for prison so I let it go at that, none the wiser.
After awhile I hear somebody mention Notre Dame and then I recall Sam the Gonoph speaking something about speculating ducats for a game with Army in Philly. So I figure those must be Notre Darners who won, which is as it turns out to be. Personally, I never like to show my ignorance too much so I casually ask if Rock Gippne (or maybe it was Gippne Rock) was still playing for them. For some reason this brings a chorus of whoops and also another round so I figure that even though my kisser is probably the color of those Salvation Army Santa Claus suits it was worth it.
After that I am the center of attraction though the pictures of prizefighters scattered around and about do vie with me for the floor.
As it turns out, these Notre Darners are in New Yawk on something called a student trip with which they seem to be none too satisfied, a fact I wish to
by BOB SEDLACK
say does appear odd since for all purposes, practical and otherwise, they are enjoying themselves more than somewhat. This prompts me to inquire as to the nature of this apparent paradox.
“Since all you guys are having a good time why do you think it is a lousy trip?” ask I.
Naturally I am sorry I say this because once again whoops greet me although not in such harmony as before. Then somebody or other mentions Blue Circle which seems like a strange name but with monikers like Ikey the Pig and Regret floating around is not so in view of the fact that the fella is probably pretty sad at all times. Letting the dice fall where they may I beg of them to tell me what this BMACG (Big Man Around Crap Games) is doing not so well.
It turns out that Notre Dame is somewhat west of the Hudson River and that because of this fact they had to take a long train ride in. Well, on this train they get one sumptuous sandwich of creamed cheese with almonds and some other objects none too edible. Now even if I have no potatoes whatsoever with which to buy roasted chestnuts being sold during hard-turn-a-buck days by Hymie or Monk I could not see my way clear to eating creamed cheese sandwiches with or without almonds. Naturally this incident could cause quite some
COACH BRENNAN RETURNS IN TRIUMPH
excitement but seems like a not so fine reason for ruining the whole shindig.
Furthermore, they tell me that the room reservations in the New Yawker Hotel are also fouled up. This, of course, is serious in the extreme and I am about to tell them of a high-class flop house nearby but decide not to because of whoop fear.
Anyway, it occurs to me to ask why they are so happy with everything so messed up. I get a few queer looks but none whoopish for which I am glad. Then one Darner un a green hat with little pennants asks me if I ever read a paper. This makes'me very indignant indeed indeed for as it happens I have the day’s scratch sheet in my pocket. It is all marked up, showing that I not only read it but study it carefully, even though short on potatoes for I like to keep my hand in it. Whoops and they tell me they mean a respectable one, like the Herald-Tribune or something.
Personally, I am feeling a little uncomfortable at this moment until one guy says that they won 23-21 in the last seconds of the game and that it’s in all the papers. Well, of course, it makes no difference to me one way or the other but I’m sure Bookie Bob would care. Also, I overhear that at one time the Irish, as they call themselves, were down 21-7. At this I fall to dreaming of how much money one collects if he bets on them at this point before Nick St. Peter (must be St. Patrick if they’re all Irish) runs the length of the field or some such.
I am dreaming thusly until I notice another brandishing a large chunk of wood and I begin to prepare for action. When I get a better look at it I notice it is written on with the score and the date and I deduce that this must be part of a goalpost and I congratulate (Continued on page 29)
t ■. .. 1 : ’ y * I
\ C J v' ‘
20
The Scholastic
? Notre Dame Needs An
Academic Honor Society
by TOM CLUSSERATH
At the undergraduate level, there is need for an academic honor society. Students of past years have often expressed this same opinion. If this view , is not just another form of the normal x Notre Dame “gripe,” what are the needs r which necessitate an academic honor I society? And what type of academic . honor society can adequately meet them?
At Notre Dame in each undergraduate college there is a dean’s list. This list names the students who have acquired a general average of 88 per cent or !'	above for the preceding year. In the
particular college this list gives recognition for scholastic achievement, but it is limited. First, a few students at the lower end of the list are often there primarily for the convenience of cutting classes. Because of their attitude the I"4 whole list often loses the respect of the outsider. In the situation of those students towards the -upper part of the list, the second and more important limitation appears. The students in this upper group, most of whom deserve recogni-1 tion for superior scholastic achievement, are named with the entire group, which is often large. Their deserved recogni-► tion as scholastic leaders is obscured.
Rather than say that these two limitations cannot be corrected and that they, ( therefore, cause a need for an academic honor society, one must observe a basic characteristic of the dean’s lists. This is their narrow relationship with just t one college. Each college has its own dean’s list sanctioned by a minimum average set by the University. But university-wide who are the students * that deserve recognition and encouragement for their academic endeavors? The political and social leaders of the campus are acknowledged in a university-wide Student Senate. In the most important aspect of campus activity, the academic field, no university-wide recognition of leaders is found.
‘ FURTHER QUALIFICATION
I One further qualification of this first j basic need should be understood. The f need is not for post-graduation recognition. Graduation from the University with honors is concerned with the post-i graduation recognition of undergraduate scholastic achievement. The case in point
here is the need for recognition in the undergraduate days of the student.
Since Notre Dame is organized upon the university idea, it necessarily should offer to its students the opportunity of living under and among those who represent all the different sciences. However, expediency has forced the University to delegate the sciences to one of four undergraduate colleges. This narrows the influence of particular sciences to the students of a particular college. In order to overcome this loss, the four colleges have initiated many fine extracurricular programs which are open to all students. Yet, no organization actually exists where students of all four colleges come together and exchange their ideas. An organization that can do this will help to overcome the walls that the various colleges, unintentionally, have built around their students. Then the university idea can be more closely consummated.
SECOND NEED
From this idea of the university we can find a second need for an academic honor society. The need is for an organization that can promote this exchange of ideas among one certain group of students from all four undergraduate colleges. On the level of the scholastic leaders no organizational exchange of ideas takes place, although the academic need for this is self-evident.
Standing alone, either the need for scholastic recognition or the need for the exchange of ideas will sufficiently explain the statements of old and new students that we need an academic honorsociety at Notre Dame. But together the two needs constitute a problem at Notre Dame. The problem to be solved must first be understood in terms of the basic type of organization that is essential for the satisfaction of these needs.
This basic type of organization is an academic honor society. This society must be distinctive of Notre Dame. It must gain its full value from the way in which it makes workable the solution to the needs as they exist at Notre Dame. Here I will only point up the characteristics essential to giving university-wide recognition to the superior
scholastic achievements of students in all the undergraduate colleges and to promoting the exchange of ideas amongst these same students.
To give university-wide recognition to the students with superior scholastic achievements, this honor society must recognize academic leaders from each college. To do this the honor- society will have to be local; must encompass all four undergraduate colleges; and must be subject in some way to the Academic Board, not to any one particular college. This local idea of an honor society does not deny the need for national recognition of students through affiliations with national honor societies. However, the need for national scholastic recognition is not a need directly involved in the undergraduate days of students. The pin recognition of Phi Beta Kappa or Tau BetarPi is a recognition needed for post-graduation days. The need clarified here is for recognition in undergraduate days.
In order to recognize the academic leaders of the campus, this society will have to limit its membership to a very-top percentage group in each college. Since superior scholarship is best noted by the University through the grading system, this will have to be considered also in determining the top percentages. The members must be required to maintain the superior academic achievements which qualified them for membership.
FUNCTIONS
To promote the exchange of ideas among the scholastic leaders of all the colleges, this society must be organized so that it can maintain functions which will accomplish this. These functions must be held each year so that the students of one or more particular undergraduate college can present ideas pertinent to their field of study to the students of the other colleges. The particular college can and should be able to aid its students in presenting and exchanging some ideas from their field of intellectual endeavor. This point would be a challenging part of an academic honorsociety at Notre Dame.
On Wednesday night, October 9, the Student Senate unanimously passed a motion embodying these ideas for a proposed Notre Dame Academic HonorSociety. At the present time a group is finishing the constitution and by-laws of this society.
The problem created by the needs delineated above can be solved by the proposed Academic Honor Society.
The problem is a little better understood, and the basic principles are being incorporated into a constitution. A Notre Dame Academic Honor Society may soon be a product of the student government and the administration’s attempts to meet the needs of a maturing University student body.
October 18, 1957
21
Mez the Capitalist
I, as a boy of 14, shaped the destinies •of the largest businesses in one of the largest cities in the world. The business was the grocery business. The city was Detroit.
I, me, my own self, singlehandedly was responsible for the demolition of the carryout industry in this smoky city.
How did I do it? Let me explain.
I was a carryout boy working in one of the most lucrative professions in the city — the carryout profession.
A carryout is one who carries a customer’s groceries from the store to the customer’s car, and if the carryout plays his cards right'he gets a tip.
I played my cards right most all of the time and that’s why I was just about the top man in my profession, that’s why I got all kinds of tips, that’s why I helped to shape the destinies of the grocery business in Detroit, that’s why I was responsible for making my profession one of the most respected of all professions, and that is why, ultimately, I was responsible for its demolition. I made too darn much money.
This is the way I operated. I wore a clean white apron to show the customer that I was clean-living, and a raggedy old jacket to show them that I needed the tip.
I stood behind the counter in the store where I worked and while the cashier was ringing up the groceries, I was packing them in brown papet bags used for such purposes. I worked with speed and efficiency, making a special point to pack the orange juice and other frozen foods so they wouldn’t soak through, putting the grapes and bananas on top of the bag so they wouldn’t get squashed, putting the meat in a refrigerated bag, and keeping the butter away from the Roman Cleanser. Of course I did these things in a very casual and unassuming way — so that the customer might realize how anxious I was for the welfare of his food and think in the back of his subconscious, “Ah ha, fine fellow this carryout is!” (meaning of course — me).
Then, once I had their groceries packed in as many bags as I could in order that they might see how utterly foolish it would be for them to carry the groceries out themselves, I would sparkle for them my most professional smile and say, “Would you like a carryout on this, sir? ... or ma’am? (whatever the case might be).
If the customer said yes I would run and grab my handtruck, and on it carry the customer’s groceries out to his car, and all the time making cheerful con-
. by MICHAEL MAJOR
versation to show what a delightful fellow I was (in spite of my raggedy coat.)
Then I would put the groceries in the back seat or trunk of the car, handling them with such tenderness and such love, making such caution as not to mangle the blueberries that the customer could not help but to think to himself, “What a fine fellow this lad is.”
And then he would give me a tip which I would receive with such joy and gratification that he would think to himself, “What an appreciative little beggar, I’ll have to remember to give him more next time.”
“Gee, thanks a lot,” I would say.
“You’re welcome,” he would say.
“See you next week,” I would say.
And I would.
He would get into his car and drive away and I would drop the tip into my left pocket which would be lopsided with pennies, nickles, dimes, quarters, and every once in a while, a half dollar.
A half dollar or anything over I considered a tremendous tip, something you didn’t get very often, only on Christmas Eve, or after helping push the customer’s car out of the snow, or perhaps carrying his groceries tto the apartments which were a couple of blocks away.
A “good tip” was a quarter.
Fifteen cents was ok.
A dime was average.
A nickle was cheezy, really cheap.
And the people who didn’t tip anything, well, either they didn’t know any better, or else they were just plain knotheads.
Without tips, my regular pay was 5-5 cents an hour, but with tips, I was usually disappointed if I didn’t average at least $1.55 an hour.
At the store where I worked, the carryout business had always been good, but just before I left it was great, and just after I left, it was nothing.
The big bosses destroyed the carryout business by suggesting to the customers by posters, signs, etc., “Why don’t you push out your groceries in the regular grocery buggies?” And the customer, realizing that here was a way to get out of tipping the carryout boy and thereby save some money, jumped at the chance. The practice spread like wildfire. Soon every customer in the store was pushing out his own groceries. Soon every customer in Detroit was pushing out his own groceries. And what happened to the carryout boys? They were reduced to the role of floor sweeper or buggie - gatherer - upper -once - the - people - got - through - pushing - their - groceries - out - to - their -car - and - left - their - buggie - out -on - the - lot - for - somebody - else - to -push - back - into - the - store - instead -of - pushing - it - in - themselves - like -they - were - supposed - to.
The big bosses destroyed the carryout industry by dirty business practices. And do you want to know wrhy they did it?
Me.
I was responsible for the whole thing. And do you want to know why? I’ll
22
The Scholastic
tell you why. I made too darn much money, that’s why. They were all jealous f of me.
On just any ordinary Saturday night ; I’d walk up to a cashier, waddling a J little, my left side being heavier than ‘ my right, and then proceed to dump out on the counter $10 worth of pennies, nickles, dimes, quarters, and every once in a while, a half dollar.
Ten dollars in tips for 10 hours work. That’s the way I operated things. .
And if you think that I didn’t let anybody know about it, you’re crazy. All the other carryout boys used to gather around me to see how much money I would make, and then when the cashier \ would hand me a ten dollar bill with one or two ones extra, they would gawk and gape in disbelief, “How did you do I* it?” they would ask, and every single time I would always say, “Talent, just talent,” and I have to admit that there was quite a bit of that involved, and a lot of technique too, but more than that, work, plenty of hard work. I used to work my head off running in and J out of that store.
Then the cashiers would start cackling back and forth, saying that they thought I was making more money than they were, married women, with kids, and here this loud-mouthed carryout was probably making more money than they ■< were.
The stock boys came around too. They were older than I was and they hated my guts because they knew that I was making more money than they were. Ordinarily the jump from carryout to stock was supposed to be a promotion, but whenever Clem (our- manager) asked me if I wanted to be promoted to stock, ► I used to say no thanks, I was making more money on carryouts. Boy, did those guys hate my guts.
And then Clem himself would come over and watch me get my money changed into bills from the cashier. He would give me a check for $8.42 or : something like that and I would put it in my wallet with 15 or 17 dollars I got from tips. He’d start to complain that I was making more money than he was. At first his complaining was friendly complaining, but as time went on and I made more and more money, a his complaining became less friendly and more sarcastic.
Everybody talked about it so much that finally the big bosses found out i about it and said that they didn’t want the customers to be throwing around any money that they themselves wouldn’t be getting, so that was when they got their- brainy idea about having the customers pushing out their own groceries.
Within six months, the carryout business all over Detroit was finished.
I wasn’t around to see it die though.
I got fired.
At the Movies
GRANADA
The Ten Commandments: (A-l). This movie employs all the technical know-how of the Hollywood artists. It includes all the big points of interest ! in the Old Testament story, even down to fiery bushes. Although it is a j good spectacular, as spectaculars go, it does get a trifle long if you know the story beforehand.
COLFAX
The Helen Morgan Story: If you read Frederick L. Allen’s Only Yesterday and found that you liked it then this one should be enjoyed as an audio- . visual accompaniment. It depicts many of the scenes in the ‘Twenties’ that Allen mentions and also runs through most of the hit tunes of the decade. | i
RIVER PARK	!
Friendly Persuasion: Gary Cooper and Tony Perkins. It may be a long way out to the River Park but if you missed this one the first time around it’s well worth the trip. It features fine acting, a catchy ballad, and also does a commendable job of depicting an actual historical situation. All in all it’s one of the best along in sometime.
Spirit of St. Louis: (Oct. 20) (A-l). A full-scale blowup of a major . event of recent history. Jimmy Stewart does a fine job of navigating his aircraft over to Europe and contrary to Brady’s Popular Geography he didn’t fly ovei’ the Pacific in doing it.
Co-hit: Seven Men From Nozu.
AVON
Time Is My Enemy: (A-l). This is another of those complicated British I suspense-murder movies. Supposedly dead husband No. 1 comes back to j haunt his wife (now married to husband No. 2) and blackmail her in return for silence. In panic wife shoots No. 1. Eventually all is rightfully settled in a tidy conclusion which has a few twists.
Co-hit: Journey to Freedom. This show has a story to tell that we all should listen to and remember. It tells of a group of people who no longer could stand the oppression of a totalitarian rule and seeking the right to | freedom of speech, academic freedom, and the other rights that we all enjoy	j
decide to risk everything on an escape to the West. A fine action show.	|
STATE
Target Earth: Like nothing else you’ve ever seen.
Co-hit: When Worlds Collide. Shows like these two are factual evidence that the Soviets aren’t ahead of us in every phase of technology. The motion	|
picture industry of our country is unrivaled in the category of technical	|
fiction. The value of this superiority is obvious.	a
Attack of the Crab Monsters: (Oct. 20). Clutching drama.	|
Co-hit. Not Of This Earth: A close and thorough analysis will reveal g that this is a real triumph for the metaphysician.	|
Bringing Up Baby: (Oct. 23). The story of the American educational S system.	|
Co-hit: Follozv the Fleet.	j
PALACE
Restless Breed: This Western is a story of hateful revenge. Mitch comes I to the lawless town to avenge his father’s violent death. Angleina, Marshal	H
Evans, and Reverend Simmons all side with Mitch who guns down Newton	9
to bring the show to a triumphant end.
Co-hit: The Coztrage of Black Beauty.
Young and Dangerous: (Oct. 20). Nothing said could do this one proper justice.
Co-hit: Rockabilly Baby.	.
WASHINGTON HALL
Invitation to Dance: (Oct. 19). Gene Kelly and Tamara Toumanova.
—George Oess
October 18, 1957
23
History Symposium
(Continued from page 15)
written several books on this subject. “Protestantism in Contemporary American Culture” will be the subject of Dr. Wilhelm Pauck, professor of Historical Theology at the Union Theological Seminary. Dr. Pauck will cover religion and politics. The Rev. Francis X. Curran, S.J., professor of History at Loyola Seminary, Shrub Oak, New York, will discuss “The Religious Revival and Organized Religion,” winding up the first session.
On Saturday morning the second session will get underway with The Rev. Edward D. O’Connor, C.S.C., of the University of Notre Dame acting as chairman. Father O’Connor is a member of the Faculty Seminar and has been active in theological promotion. The subject of the second session is “Catholicism in America.” The Rev. R. L. Bruckberger, O.P., of the Dominican House of Studies, River Forest, Ill., will begin the discussion with the subject “The American Catholics as a Minority.” Father Bruckberger is from France and will point out the problems involved as viewed from overseas. “The Newer Catholic Immigration” will be the subject of The Right Rev. Monsignor Edward Swanstrom, Director of the Catholic Relief Services, N.C.W.C., New York.
LEARNING^
IS MORE FUN
A NIGHT AT
TO DANCE
THEATRE
Come in now and join in
THAN
THE
the
fun at Arthur Murray's . . .
Yes, a night at the theatre is over when the curtain falls but your fun is just beginning when you learn to dance at Arthur Murray’s. Not only will you win new friends and popularity through your dancing skill but you’ll be included in all sorts of gay studio parties at Arthur Murray’s, too. So don’t wait. Come in now and get started on this quick and easy way to good times. Studios Air-Conditioned
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne
ARTHUR MURRAY CE 2-3339
Dr. Abell will terminate the second session with a discussion of “The Catholic Factor in the Social Justice Movement.”
The final session, on Saturday afternoon, will consider “Unresolved Problems.” Professor Marshall Smelser, professor of American History at the University of Notre Dame, will preside as chairman. The first topic will be “Catholic and Church-State Relations in America” by The Rev. Raymond F. Cour, C.S.C., assistant professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame. The Rev. Joseph H. Fichter, S.J., professor of Sociology at Loyola University, New Orleans, will speak on “The Americanization of Catholicism.” The third session will be terminated by Professor Jerome G. Kerwin, professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He will discuss “The Catholic Scholar and the Secular University.” Professor Kerwin is particularly well qualified to speak on this subject, as he is a Catholic professor at a secular university.
This, then, will wind up the first of what Father McAvoy hopes will be a series of Symposiums designed to promote the intellectual study of Catholicism in America. The next such discussion planned by the Faculty Seminar is tentatively set for next spring and will delve into the ethical and religious aspects of twentieth century America.
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
• 1,000 suits in stock
• All the newest styles
• Boys’ sizes 2 to Men’s 56
• No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
24
The Scholastic
Seem
THE AUTHOR
I guess it would be an understatement to call the win over Army a great one. Any time you can come back to win from a 14 point deficit with only 16 minutes to play, you’ve accomplished something.
a Army is a fine football team and they battled all the way. It was a cat-and-mouse game for sixty minutes and was bitterly contested by both sides. We both wanted this one badly. When Notre Dame plays Army, it is a little more than just another football game. You are playing years and years of tradition that goes way back to the time
* when an unknown Irish team went East
and upset a fine Army squad. Every time we get together, there is an exciting ball game. Certainly, Saturday was no exception. It has to go into the books as one of the most exciting games in the series.
i We had quite a bit of trouble with Army’s unbalanced line. We weren’t completely surprised when they threw it at us but it did take us awhile to " adjust to it. You have to remember that this was the third straight week that we had a different offense thrown u at us and it takes a little while to orientate yourself.
Again as against Purdue, our play showed marked improvement. It was our best offensive effort of the year and we must give a great deal of credit to the line which did such a wonderful job in the fourth quarter when we really needed it. Off that performance Saturday, there is no telling just what we can do in the future.
When it was 21-7, things looked pretty dark but after Nick’s (Pietrosante) run we really picked up. We knew we
Notre Dame's Head Coach Recaps the Big One With Army Calling It His
"Greatest Game"
by TERRY BRENNAN as told to JOHN GLAVIN
could move the ball. Bobby (Williams) did a wonderful job of quarterbacking out there. He was a great field general.
Nick’s run started to turn the tide it was his pass interception, with a big assist from Frank Geremia, that really-turned the tables.
The play that he scored on was one off guard with the halfback leading the way. He appeared stopped for a second but his tremendous drive shook him loose and there was no stopping him then.
A number of people have asked me what I said to Monty (Stickles) after he missed the tying point. Well, I never said a word to him. You have to forget about those things. Even three year veterans have missed in crucial situations.
I knew that he was capable of kicking the field goal, so with the ball in the center of the field, I sent Bronk (Nagurski) in with the orders to let him try it.
Monty is a strong boy who gets a little
COMEBACK
Nick Pietrosante goes 65 yards for the Irish
better each week. He’s got a lot to learn but he is a real worker. He’ll never quit out there. Just look back and you’ll find that out.
Nick also did a fine job. Last year he had a lot of tough luck and just couldn’t get started. He had a bad ankle for most of the year. I always knew he had the stuff but when it was time for him to go, he would get hurt. He really got hot this past spring and just shot past the other fullback candidates.
We can’t forget the extremely fine play of our line. Without them, the offense wouldn’t have jelled as it did. In fact, everyone out there deserves credit.
Those two Anny halfbacks did a good job. They weren’t the fastest halfbacks I have ever seen but they certainly were the strongest.
It is always good to win, but this game was a little out of the ordinary. Till another one comes along, I’ll have to call it the greatest game of my coaching career.
October 18, 1957
Coining Football Opponents Win Five of Six; SMU Drops One-Point Decision to Missouri
Once again last Saturday the Irish opponents won five out of six games. Only the highly favored SMU Mustangs were beaten, with Missouri turning the trick, 7-6.
Pittsburgh, Irish foe next week, used strong line play to defeat Nebraska, 34-0. The Panthers completely out-manned the flu-weakened Cornhuskers and but for six fumbles would have run up an even higher score. Joe Scisly, junior halfback, was the offensive star as he scored two touchdowns, one on a two-yard plunge, the other on a 29-yard jaunt. This was Pitt’s third straight win since an opening game loss to Oklahoma.
Navy bounced back from an upset loss to North Carolina and beat California, 21-6. Overcoming a 6-0 halftime deficit, the Middies struck for three second half touchdowns. Quarterback Pat Flood engineered the Middies to their* first TD in the third quarter with a three-yard scoring pass to Tom Hyde. Captain Ned Oldham sparked the other two scoring drives. He scored the last touchdown on a one-yard plunge and set up the second score with a 53-yard run. The victory was Navy’s third against only one loss.
Michigan State amazed 101,001 fans at Ann Arbor by rolling over unbeaten Michigan, 35-6. The State forward wall gave a brilliant demonstration of fundamental football that left the Wolverines helpless. The Spartans gained 326 yards on the ground and 160 passing. Walt Kowalczyk opened the way for the rout by recovering a fumble on the Wolverines’ 37-yard line. Nine plays later
CLENDON THOMAS Sparks Okies
State had a 6-0 lead on Kowalczyk’s one-foot line plunge. After that it was all State as Jim Ninowski threw two touchdown passes and Art Johnson broke through for the most spectacular play of the day, a twisting 62-yard run. By winning, the Spartans kept pace with Minnesota atop the Big Ten.
Mighty Oklahoma had to fight all the way to beat a supposedly weak Texas team, 21-7. Texas scored early in the game and held on for a seven point first period lead. But Oklahoma power was not to be denied, and the Sooners scored in each of the last three periods. AllAmerican Clendon Thomas sparked a 66-yard drive in the second quarter and scored from the three-yard line. Late in the third period Jakie Sandefer capped an 80-yard march by cutting off tackle for the tie-breaking score. Quarterback Carl Dodd scored the final TD on a keeper from a yard out. The win was the 43rd straight for the Sooners.
The University of Iowa rolled up a 33-0 halftime lead and coasted in with a 47-7 win over Indiana. Bill Gravel led the touchdown parade with a pair on twelve- and ten-yard runs. Randy Duncan, Hawkeye quarterback, tossed scoring passes of 29 yards to Bob Prescott
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK Villanova over Boston College Florida St. over Abilene Christian Cincinnati over Marquette Navy over Georgia Penn State over Vanderbilt Army over Pittsburgh COP over Idaho Syracuse over Nebraska Minnesota over Illinois Yale over Cornell Ohio State over Indiana Michigan over Northwestern Colorado over Kansas State Oklahoma over Kansas Duke over Wake Forest North Carolina over Maryland LSI! over Kentucky Mississippi over Tulane Tennessee over Alabama Holy Cross over Dartmouth Iowa over Wisconsin Arkansas over Texas Oregon State over UCLA Baylor over Texas Tech ' UPSET OF THE WEEK: Purdue over Michigan State LAST WEEK:
20 right; 5 wrong.
SEASON:
59 right; 14 wrong; 2 ties. Pct. .808.
and 36 yards to Jim Gibbons. Ray Jauch, Bill Happel and Collins Hagler got the others on short runs.	,
SMU ran up against an inspired | Missouri eleven and came out on the i short end of a 7-6 count. Missouri made a second quarter TD and extra point hold up against the Mustangs thrusts. Southern Methodist made it close, scoring on a pass play from Billy Dunn to ' Leon Rudolph, but Dunn’s conversion attempt failed. The Missouri defense held the remainder of the game and dealt SMU its first defeat.	i
Southern California was not scheduled.
Tomorrow afternoon Pitt and Army । meet at West Point. Pitt is Notre Dame’s next foe. Navy plays a not too I strong Georgia team at Baltimore. Michigan State returns home to face Purdue in a Big Ten game. Oklahoma takes a 4 breather against Kansas at Norman in a Homecoming tilt. Iowa takes on surprising Wisconsin for another Homecoming tilt at Iowa City. USC faces I California at Berkeley. Southern Meth- | odist is host to Rice at Dallas.	|
Irish Oppose Indiana i In X-Coun+ry Saturday j
Two of collegiate cross-country’s most | promising squads, Notre Dame and B Indiana, meet on the Irish course to- M morrow at 11 a.m. Indiana, an annual * Big Ten power, and the highly rated Irish team both feel this encounter will indicate the time strength of each squad.
The Irish harriers took their initial contest from the Marquette Warriors 19-36 in impressive fashion. In the Oct. 11 match at Milwaukee, Notre Dame runners nabbed five of the first six ' places. Ed Monnelly took first with a time of 20: 48.5, a new Marquette course record. Sengulab of the Warriors was second, Dave Cotton, an Irish soph, third, Vic Dillon and Mike Haverty of Notre Dame tied for fourth, and John Burns of the Irish was sixth. Galen A Cawley, a Notre Dame sophomore, fell during the meet, injuring himself and was unable to finish the race. Coach Alex Wilson termed the opening clash as, “encouraging for an opener.”
The Notre Dame mentor feels that the squad should have a very successful sea- * son, especially since team Captain Dale VandenBerg, weakened by the flu, did not compete at Milwaukee, and should bolster the team’s future chances.	I
The Irish will be host to Central Michigan, Bowling Green, Loyola, and	I
Western Michigan on	Oct. 25. Early	J
season predictions had	Notre Dame as	’
a heavy favorite in	this event, but	1
Western Michigan upset Michigan State, last year’s NCAA champions, two weeks ago and should pose serious opposition to an Irish victory.
26
The Scholastic
Basketball Workouts Begin For Freshmen;
Gibbons to Pick Eleven, Completing Squad
Some eighty boys began tryouts for the freshman basketball team a week ago last Monday. Pacing those trying out are the five scholarship winners. However, there are still eleven open berths on the sixteen-man squad.
Coach Jim Gibbons, in his second year as coach of the freshman squad, has been putting the players through various drills and frequent scrimmages to determine the top eleven frosh who will complete the team.
The five freshman scholarship winners are: Denny Wall jasper, 6-5, who attended St. Mary’s High School in Iowa City, Iowa. There he distinguished himself as an All-City and All-State star. Wall jasper will aim for a forward position this year.
Another Iowa boy is Bill Noonan, who played his high school ball at St. Ambrose in Davenport. Noonan was also named to Iowa’s All-State team as well as Davenport’s All-City squad. At 6-2, Noonan is the only guard among the five.
Jim Sullivan is a 6-5 Chicago product and played his basketball at St. Patrick’s. An All-Chicago representative, Sullivan worked from the forward slot last year.
Bill Crosby hails from St. Benedict’s in Newark. Crosby, 6-4, was an AllCity and All-State forward in New Jersey last year.
Johnny Tulley attended Regis High School in New York City. Tulley is 6-7 and will occupy the pivot position in the freshman offense.
Since the Irish varsity is well manned at the guard positions, four’ of the five
JIM GIBBONS
Freshman Coach
scholarships were directed toward boys with forward or center experience. The over-all size of this squad will top the average of last year’s freshman team.
The final cut to sixteen was made on Monday, October 14. Since October 15 was the official opening of practice sessions according to Western Conference rules, the freshmen were ready to begin workouts with the varsity. Since the Big Ten also rules that freshman teams may play no official schedule, the season will consist of drills among the team itself. During the varsity’s regular season, the frosh will play intrasquad games prior to all Irish home games.
Seven Games Open Hall Football Slate
Interhall football will start next week with seven games scheduled among the 15 teams entered in the two leagues. In the West league will be the upperclass halls of Alumni, Badin, Dillon, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey, Pangborn and Off-Campus. The East league is composed of Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Keenan, St. Edward’s, Stanford and Zahm. Three halls, Sorin, Walsh and Fisher have not entered teams in interhall competition this season.
The schedule for the second week of play, beginning Oct. 27, finds in the West league: Alumni vs. Badin, Dillon vs. Howard, Lyons vs. Morrissey and Pangborn vs. Off-Campus. In the East league are scheduled these encounters: Breen-Phillips vs. Cavanaugh, Farley vs. Keenan, St. Edward’s vs. Stanford, while Zahm draws a bye. Games may start no later than 4:15 p.m. and coaches must agree as to what day games will be played. No game can be played later than the week set for the contest.
The interhall sports director wains that rules pertaining to the eligibility of players are to be followed strictly. Any infractions of these rules will be brought before the intramural advisory board and they will rule accordingly. Coaches will be held responsible for any breaking of the rules by their teams. Off-campus students have their choice of playing for either Off-Campus or the hall they have moved to, if they have done so. However, once they play in a game with a particular team, they must play for them the remainder of the schedule. A student whose team abandons interhall football during the season is not eligible to be a membei- of any other team.
Kampus Keglers Now In Fifth Bowling Week
With four weeks of keen competition completed, the Kampus Kegler leagues have swung into high gear at the University bowling alleys.
Early action has indicated that the leagues are well balanced with the results showing the probability of tight races for the year. In the 8:30 Wednesday league, the California, Cleveland, and St. Louis clubs are tied for the lead. Strong teams in the two Thursday leagues are the Architects, Holy Rollers, A.S.M.E. number one, Cleveland number two, and the Ten Pins. The Padres and the Villagers number one jumped out in front of the Friday league entries.
Individual leaders among the Keglers included Jerry Cangiano, Bill Zawie-rucha, and Father Davis. Nick Ranieri rolled a 642 series in the second week of action for the individual high thus far this season.
Monday evening’s Notre Dame Classic League has been dominated by Virg Minnick’s five-man squad. Among the individual leaders in this high-average league are: Frank Mullen, Bob Miller, Lew Solomon and Hank DeCaluwe.
In addition to the Keglers and the Classic leagues, a new twist has been added this year for the bowling enthusiasts. A mixed league, in which Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students may participate, has been organized. The league will bowl every other Sunday afternoon, and it is hoped a second league of the same type will be organized to fill in the alternate Sundays.
A correction in the schedule of open bowling has been announced by the University Alleys. Non-league bowling may be done daily from 12:30 to 5 pan., Friday evening from nine to eleven, and on Saturdays and Sundays from 6:30 to 11 p’.m.
ATTENTION FRESHMEN
The Notre Dame Gymnastic Club is interested in gaining new freshmen. The squad works out every day, Monday through Friday, in the Navy Drill Hall from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. Also, additional instruction is being given to all interested freshmen in the Rockne Memorial from 4:30 to 5:30 every day, Monday through Friday.
All those wishing to try out will be instructed in the fundamentals after which individuals may specialize in any of the events. These include the horizontal bars, parallel bars, side horse, tumbling, flying rings and the trampoline. No experience is necessary.
October 18, 1957
27
TIME OUT
What more can be said about the Army game. It will go down among the great ones of the finest series in college football. Bill Early, salesman, sportscaster, and part-time Irish assistant called it the greatest coaching that he had ever seen. Coach Terry Brennan called it the greatest game of his coaching career, and 9-5,000 fans in Philadelphia called it the most exciting thing that they had ever seen. One press box observer stated that it was the first time in his career that he had seen seasoned press-men so overcome that they stood speechless at the game’s end.
If anyone can be singled out it would have to be Grantland Bice awardwinner Nick Pietrosante. He did everything; scored two touchdowns, intercepted the game winning pass, and excelled on defense. However this was a team victory. The line play was ferocious and the backs just wouldn’t quit. This was the one they wanted, and they went out and got it.
This game is one that will go down with the great Notre Dame victories of all time. Nick Pietrosante and Monte Stickles will only be around for a little while but when they start recalling the Army-Notre Dame series and are pulling out the heroes, Stickles and Pietrosante will be remembered along with Blanchard, Davis, Rockne, Gipp, Cagle, Brennan and all the rest.
However, this is all behind us. Pitt and six others are ahead. The first three victories should give the necessary momentum to carry the Irish to a fine season. But more than momentum will be needed against the next six, and it looks like the Irish have it. Notre Dame will be tough on everybody including Michigan State and Oklahoma. But, they must take them one by one.
The next game will be tough. Pitt has a fine team built around the biggest line in the country. Their only loss, as of this writing, was to Oklahoma, which is certainly no disgrace to any team. Therefore, Pitt cannot be taken lightly. The rin over Army was a big one, but there are seven big ones left, and all are important. We are on our way. Let’s keep it going.
PRESS BOX FACILITIES
After traveling to Philadelphia one thing was certainly obvious. It was the fact that the Notre Dame Press Box facilities are much better than those of Municipal Stadium. Charley Callahan and his department deserve a great amount of credit for keeping the press informed at the Notre Dame home games. It’s not an easy job.
BASKETBALL BEGINS
Coach John Jordan unveiled his 1957 basketball squad last week and everything points to the best season in the school’s history. One of the leading sport magazines picks the Irish to be number four in the country. When told of this, Coach Jordan remarked, “I’d rather be there at the end of the season.” He might be. The only loss, though a great one, is last year’s center and captain, John Smyth. If his replacement can turn in an adequate performance, the Irish should be close to great. Returning are: Bob Devine, John McCarthy, Gene Duffy, and Tom Hawkins. These four should form the nucleus of a good team, both offensively and defensively. In any case we will see a ball club that won’t know how to quit. Only time will tell.
SHORTS
It would be well worth everyone’s while to drop out to the golf course for the cross country meet. The Irish are facing one of the toughest in the Big Ten, Indiana. Also on the support kick, it would be well to go out to the Interhall games once in a while. And finally since there is no DIVERSION this week it might be well to hit the books as two big week ends are coming.—M. F.
Varsity Jordanmen Open First Practice
Notre Dame’s varsity basketball team opened practice sessions for the forthcoming 1957-58 season last Tuesday afternoon in the fieldhouse. The Irish will have a solid team nucelus built around the experience afforded by four returning starters from last year. With them, plus some promising sophomores and other returning veterans, ND will be striving to live up to a very high national ranking predicted of them in preseason polls.
Last season, Notre Dame compiled a 20-8 record and wasn’t eliminated from the NCAA tournament until the semifinals at Lexington, Ky.
Finding a replacement for the graduated John Smyth, departed captain and second leading scorer for the Irish the past two seasons, is the main problem confronting head coach Johnny Jordan.
Junior Tom Hawkins, who set an alltime scoring record for the Irish last season, is a mainstay with a year’s starting experience at foi-ward or as a pivotman on the double pivot offense. Hawkins, who was also last season’s leading rebounder, stands 6-5. Co-cap-tain John McCarthy returns at the other-forward post. McCarthy was third highest scorer over the 1956-57 campaign. He relies mainly on a pumping onehanded push shot. At 6-5, he is a powerful rebounder.
Bob Devine, co-captain and starter at a guard position for two seasons, will again add class to the Irish backcourt. Devine’s speciality is a two-handed set shot. He also is a hard-driver and a solid defenseman. His running mate at the other guard spot is expected to be Gene Duffy, the most capable ball hand-• ler on the team. Duffy, though only 5-7, can hit with either a one-hand push shot or a driving hook.
Another veteran likely to see plenty of action is Ed Gleason, a senior who has started several times during the previous two seasons. Gleason can drive and passes well. Prominent players among the candidates for the vacated center position are veterans Tom Rhein-hart, Jim Williams, Mike Ireland and sophomore Harry Morgan. All are over 6-4, with Ireland the tallest at 6-7. Another veteran with two seasons of play is Lee Ayotte. 6-4, who can handle either the forward or guard slots.
A fine backcourt prospect among the sophomores is Bob Bradtke. He is a good ball handler and has an effective, outside shot. Emmet McCarthy, younger Brother of co-cantain John, is a soph who can play either guard or forward. Mickey Bekelja and Mike Farrell are two other upcoming forward prospects.
The Scholastic
28
Student Trip
(Continued from page 20)
. them for beating the Armies to get it, 1 since I remember once defending the / Yales goalpost against the Harvards with the encouragement of Clarice Van Cleves of the Massachusetts Van Cleves.
A little while later some of the college guys are asking about places to go with which I am none too familiar. Knowing only lower class joints I give Red , Henry the pssst and ask for some suggestions. Now, Red having been a boot-leger in his youngei- days would know and does. Immediately he wants to know if they are suckers but I say not, since I’d hate to have Red send them where they’ll get soaked and he’ll get a little ,• something for duty above and beyond.
So he says that the German-American Rathskeller, the Biltmore, and the “86” Club in Greenwich are the hangouts. I proceed to relay the information as if from first hand and intimate acquaintance.
, Now at this point they were ready to leave and someone called for the tab. I immediately entered into the confab and was invited along but not wishing to desert my post at Mindy’s and also a little whoop fear I declined. I asked how long they were staying and found out that they would leave on the morrow. This was rather unfortunate as I figured that perhaps Harry the Horse would like to take them on his conducted tour of the city, a little steep in price perhaps but it wouldn’t be nice to call them cheaters. Anyway, I bid them goodbye after learning that they expected more creamed cheese and would prepare this time. And so, I take up my watch in front of Mindy’s and, with one thing and another, I still think they could be had.
Sophs Visit 'Eternal Rome' a For Annual Cotillion Nov. I
‘ The Sophomore Cotillion will be held i in the Student Center on Friday, Nov. 1 from 9 p.m. till 1 a.m. The dance will I be formal and will feature Russ Carlyle i and his orchestra. Sunday, Nov. 3, there | will be a Communion breakfast follow-f ing the 8 a.m. Mass with The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C. as the guest speaker.
The invitations will be printed in . purple on genuine parchment with a gold seal. The theme this year is “Eternal Rome” and the decorations will j include a replica of the Colesium with <,A an emperor’s chair in the middle to sig-' nify Rome in it’s glory while sculptured busts of Roman personages will be set at various places around the dance floor.
Tom Lamont is chairman of this year’s Cotillion committee.
British Representative To Talk on Diplomacy
Sir Pierson Dixon, permanent representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations, will give a public address on “Diplomacy in the United Nations” at the Law Auditorium Thursday at 8 p.m. The veteran British diplomat, whose address will coincide with the world-wide observance of United Nations Day, will speak under the auspices of Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations. He will be honored at a dinner at the Moriis Inn preceding his talk.
Appointed to his present post at the United Nations in March, 1954, Sir Pierson formerly served as principal private secretary to two of Britain’s foreign ministers, Anthony Eden and the late Ernest Bevin. He has been deputy undersecretary for both political and economic affairs at the British Foreign Office and attended all the major World War II conferences including those at Yalta, Cairo, Casablanca, Quebec, Moscow and Potsdam. From 1948 to 1950 he was his country’s ambassador to Czechoslovakia.
Before embarking on his diplomatic career in 1929, Sir Pierson studied at Pembroke College, Cambridge, and at the British School of Archaeology in Athens. He returned to the university to teach classics for a year immediately prior to entering the Foreign Office. He is the author of The Iberians of Spain and Farewell Catullus, a historical novel. Sir Pierson and his wife have a son and two daughters.
Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations, headed by Dr. Stephen Kertesz, former Hungarian minister to Italy, was established in 1948. Since that time it has published twelve books and sponsored a continuing series of lectures and symposia.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
W Limin nd BOOK SHIP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Where Notre Dame Shops with, confidence for fine Diamonds, Nationally Advertised Watches, Jewelry and Gift Items.
Jewelry and Watch Repairing
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
Indiana University Center Art Film Forum
OCTOBER 23—Umberto D (Italian with English subtitles). Directed by Vittorio DeSica, winner of the New York Film Critics Award, ‘‘Best Foreign Language Film of the Year.”
NOVEMBER 20—Masquerade in Vienna (German with English subtitles). Featuring the voice of Caruso in “Rigoletto” and the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra. With Anton Walbrook.
DECEMBER 11—The Proud and the Beautiful (French with English subtitles) . Based on a story by Joan Paul Sartre. Directed by Yves Allegret, with Michele Morgan. Filmed in Vera Cruz.
JANUARY 15—The Night My Number Came Up (English). A study in suspense, produced by J. Arthur Rank, with Michael Redgrave and Alexander Knox.
2 Performances nightly—7:30 and 9:15
Shown at the RIVER PARK THEATRE, Mishawaka Ave. at 30th
Series enrollment $2.40. Mail check to River Park Theatre or Indiana Univ. Center, Room 220, Central High School, South Bend, Ind. Single tickets 90c
October 18, 1957
29
SOPHOMORE COTILLION
LOUIES TUXEDO
RENTAL
222 Laurel
FIVE SHORT BLOCKS WEST OF MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON
Special Student Rates
Heffernan Presents First Wrangler Paper; Twofold Purpose of Organization Explained
The first Wranglers meeting of the year was devoted to planning the work of the club for the coming months. President Pat Heffernan recalled that the purpose of the Wranglers as expressed in the preamble to their constitution is to “dedicate ourselves to the pursuance of truth” and to “resolve to dispel ignorance both in ourselves and in our fellow man insofar as we are able.”
The purpose of the Wranglers then is twofold: first, to add to their own knowledge, second, and no less important, to stimulate thought in others. It is for this second purpose that the Scholastic is here resuming the significant task of placing the work of the Wranglers before the student body and presenting the problem that has stimulated the Wranglers for the thought and discussion of all students.
Pat Heiferman delivered the first paper of the year on the problem of Scientism, “the ideology which believes that the totality of man’s knowledge can be obtained through scientific instruments whose verification is essential to
Have a WOW of FUN!
Travel with UTA
Unbelievable Low Cost
60 Days
Also
$149
low-cost trips to Mexico up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up.
03-65 Days „X.	$998
Man/ fours include college credit
Europe from $585 Orient
Ask Your Travel Agent
25tt
Year
L 332 So. Michigan Ave. IMC. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
Quinn Announces Dates For Grad School Tests
Edward Quinn, head of the Department of Testing and Guidance, announced recently that six tests will be offered to Notre Dame students by the department in the next two months.
The medical school admission test will be administered on Tuesday, Oct. 29. On Nov. 2, the admission test for graduate study in business will be given.
The law school admission test and the graduate record examination will be conducted on Nov. 9 and Nov. 16, respectively.
Quinn reported that the professional qualification test will be given Dec. 7. This test is free and anyone who is interested in government work can take it. Dec. 14 is the date for the Navy college aptitude test.
In a recent telephone conversation with the head of the Selective Service test division, Quinn learned that the government will probably not offer a fall Selective Service test.
An official announcement from the government should soon be forthcoming, Quinn added. There is a possibility that the test will be offered in April or May, but no date has been set.
According to Quinn, this 'information would seem to indicate that the drafting of college students is undergoing reexamination by the government.
the truth of the thing in question, and which further believes in man’s ability to perfect himself through the perfection of the sciences.” This problem, maintains Heffernan, reaches its crux in the sociological order when the scientific method is applied to man himself. Heffernan began his paper with a statement by Reinhold Niebuhr, one of America’s foremost theologians, who says, “Big cities, big factories challenge man’s sense of his own worth,” and “This depersonalizing element of modern life destroys something that can never be reclaimed.”
It is of course impossible to capsulize ■ the paper and discussion which fill the Wrangler’s Wednesday evenings in this short column, but we can draw the seeds of thought on which to build another thought and another discussion as Pat Heffernan closed his paper with the words of Romano Guardini: “In life as ) a whole, precedence does not belong to action, but to existence . . . What ultimately matters is not activity, but development. The roots and the perfection of everything lie not in time, but in eternity. Finally, not the moral, but the metaphysical conception of the world is binding, not the worth judgment, but the important judgment, not struggle, but worship.”
The next paper will be given by Marty Murphy on “Education’, the formation of a necessary personal image of creation” and will be the subject of next week’s column.
Torruella Appointed to Head Local AFROTC Detachment
Lt. Col. Matthew H. Merkle, professor ! of air science, recently appointed Cadet I Major Juan N. Torruella group com- J mander in the Notre Dame AFROTC Unit. Due to a decrease in enrollment • this year the 225th AFROTC detachment will be organized on the group i level. Members of Torruella’s staff in- | elude Cadet Capt. Charles Kilb, executive officer, and Cadet 1st Lt. Paul W. | Pickell, adjutant.
Squadron commanders for the four group subdivisions are Paul Lynch, Thomas Swiatowski, Franz Scheuer- -mann and Algis Rimkus.
Torruella and’ Swiatowski were selected recently to teach classes in aircraft power plants and aircraft flight ’ characteristics to the local branch of 1 the Civil Air Patrol. The class started last night in the South Bend National Guard Armory and is expected to run six or seven weeks.
The Scholastic
30
Prof. Ingold to Deliver Annual Reilly Lectures
The annual Reilly lectures in chemistry at the University of Notre Dame > are being given during October and November by Prof. C. K. Ingold of ; University College, London. Dr. Ingold is delivering a series of thirteen lectures on the general subject of “Theoretical Organic Chemistry.”
. The Reilly lectures were established at i Notre Dame in 1945 by a gift of more than $1 million from the late Peter C.
। Reilly, an Indianapolis, Ind., industrialist, and a member of the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees. Mr. Reilly’s benefaction also provides five annual graduate non-teaching fellow-, ships in chemistry and chemical en-j gineering.
Professor Ingold has been a faculty member at University College, University of London, since 1930 and has served as director of its chemical laboratories since 1937. He is the author j of Structure and Mechanism in Organic Chemistry published by the Cornell University Press in 1953. He delivered the Baker Lectures at Cornell in 1950 and is the “3M” lecturer at the University of Minnesota this year.
Professor Ingold is delivering the , Reilly lectures in 123 Nieuwland Science at 3:30 p.m. on Oct. 21, 23, 28 and 30. He will give two additional lectures on dates to be announced during the week of Nov. 3.
ND Debaters Schedule Marquette Tournament
Tuesday night at 8 p.m. in the La Fortune Student Center, Paul Coffey and Jack Martzell will represent Notre Dame ' in the annual debate competition with Marquette University for the Raether-Houseman trophy. Notre Dame now ■> v has two legs on the trophy which requires three consecutive wins to retire.
The topic is the National Collegiate debate question, “Resolved: that the Requirement of Membership in a Labor Organization as a Condition for Employment Should Be Illegal.” If the Notre Dame team should retain the trophy this year, the two schools will meet Nov. 4 in competition for a new award, the Coffey-Martzell trophy.
f On Nov. 1 and 2, Coffey, Dennis Shaul, I Tom Clusserath, -and Bill Barrett will attend the Tau Kappa Alpha regional m discussion tournament at Purdue Uni-r versity. Coffey is president of the region 1 at the present time. On the following week, Martzell, Coffey, Bob Dempsey, and Tom Banchoff will travel to the University of South Carolina where they will compete.
Flu Strikes Campus; Virus Fills Infirmary
A tiny bit of nothing—25 million of them can fit on the head of a pin—has come to the Notre Dame campus. Since its arrival here around September 29, it has put about 5% of the student body in the infirmary. This visitor is a flu virus. The first tests taken to identify it were inconclusive, but then they started to come back positive, and the doctors knew that the Asian flu was here.
At first, there were 20 or 30 men admitted to the hospital, then the figure rose to 70. 168 came in on the peak day. On October 12, there were 115 under medical care.
Countermeasures were taken in the form of vaccine shots administered to the students. The football team, arriving early for practice, received the first dosage. Then the freshmen were inoculated on Oct. 1.
Dr. Joseph Crowley, University physician, stated that: “the disease is influen-enza, and some cases are definitely the Asian variety. The inoculations given to the team held the incidence of cases down. A very few were identified as Asian flu, and the rest were questionable. We will compare the occurrence of cases in the groups immunized at different times to test the effectiveness of the vaccine. The epidemic should taper off about October 24, but we will continue the shots.”
“Experience has shown that when a virus comes to the United States in September or October, it clears up in two or three weeks, then reappears in the Spring in a more virulent form. The infection rate is usuallv around 20%, but the chances of infection are much higher when the germ returns in the spring. We will give the rest of the shots as scheduled to minimize the effects of this second occurrence.”
The doctors and nurses were not the only troops in the fight against this unwelcome visitor. Almost 60 students gave invaluable aid in volunteer work at the infirmary. Sister Margaret Ann, the head nurse, said that their help was indispensable.
3-Minute Pizza Pies PIZZA BURGERS
CARRY OUT ORDERS Eve’s Drive In SOUTH BEND AND EDISON RD.
OPEN 5:30 A.M.—1 A.M. BREAKFAST—LUNCH—DINNER
REAL ITALIAN AMERICAN FOOD
Enjoy a Private Party, in the Seclusion of Our Hideaway Room
713 East LaSalle	CE 3-0951
STEAK SPECIALS — on — Tuesday and Thursday A Long-Time N.D. Favorite
Flaaingo Restainit
610 NORTH MICHIGAN Open Sunday
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
OPEN HOUSE
Pat Rogers, chairman of social activities of the Student Senate, revealed that the Saturday night open houses in the LaFortune Student Center will be continued tomorrow night. The open house will last from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Record music will be featured. There is no admission price and all students ere invited.
Chests, Book Cases, Record Cabinets
SAVE ONE-HALF BUY THEM UNPAINTED WILLIAMS 312 SOUTH MICHIGAN FREE DELIVERY
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J. TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
October 18, 1957
31


Notre Dame Bookstore
no lever ...
Army ROTC Resumes Rifle Competition Here
Intercollegiate rifle team competition began last Monday, revealed Capt. John Brady, cadet adviser of the Army ROTC drill team. The competition is a gallery-type in which all shooting is done on the range underneath the Stadium.
Afterwards the scores are mailed to the opposing school, whose rifle team competed on their own range. Scores are then compared and the winner determined. A shoulder to shoulder match with the Bendix Co. of South Bend is scheduled for Thursday.
Capt. Brady also disclosed the loan of a 250-year-old Japanese bow to the Museum of Military Science and History. The bow was made by a famous bow maker of southern Honshu for the shogun of Osaka. The 40-50 pound bow is made of laminated bamboo, bound with reed, and coated with 35 layers of lacquer.
Another specimen of Japanese ancestry is a “hachi wari” dagger. The dagger is an exact copy of the type carried 500 years ago by the mounted sammari. A blunt blade on the weapon was used to penetrate the skull at the point where the foot soldiers helmets did not cover- the center of the head.
The museum is on the second floor of the military science building and is open to the public at all times.
ItWTURBOW \PPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Concert and Lecture Series
(Continued from page 17) concert-goers have come to anticipate eagerly the new musical experiences these performances bring.
The value of this tradition has been repeatedly recognized this year as Mr. Mitchell was honored by five important national awards, three of them citing specifically his “distinguished services to American music.”
In the 1956-57 season, the National Symphony made 184 public appearances before an estimated audience of 349,000 persons.
In the past two years, none of the Concert and Lecture Series presentations have been as prominently successful as those rendered by the Julliard String Quartet. On March 13, this foursome will return once again to Washington Hall to capture and enrapture an enthusiastic audience with their unique exhibition of technical mastery and artistic excellence.
Quartet-in-residence at the Julliard School of Music, New York City, the ensemble’s members, all of whom have distinguished themselves as solo performers, are Robert Mann and Robert Koff, violinists, Raphael Hillyer, violist, and Colaus Adams, cellist.
Since its inception this group has played hundreds of concerts, and had hundreds of triumphs in the United . States, Canada, and Europe. The reper- | toire of the Quartet extends through four centuries of music, encompassing ? more than 125 major works.	v
These four musicians concertize annually throughout the United States and ; Canada. They spend the months of July and August in Aspen, Colo., where they are on the faculty of the Aspen Music School and give frequent performances at the Aspen Festival. In 1955 they " made a tour through Europe which met with tremendous success, probably the greatest success the group has ever achieved on such a tour.
The Julliard Quartet has made numerous outstanding recordings for Columbia records, including the six quartets by 4 Bela Bartok, the four quartets by Arnold Schoenberg, the two quartets by Alan Berg, as well as quartets by Mozart, Ravel, and several living American composers.
Spring, or more accurately, April 20, will bring to the Navy Drill Hall the r South Bend Symphony Orchestra. This year the symphony features Byron Janis, pianist.
This is a special year for this orchestra since it marks its twenty-fifth anniversary;
Classified as a community orchestra, 4 the artistic standards of its concerts are on a higher plane. Ten of the 85 musicians are charter members. A large number have played with the orchestra for many years. Most of the dozen or so Chicago Symphony musicians who augment the personnel have also played with the orchestra for a long time. These factors have resulted in a disci- , plined, well-integrated group. Visiting artists are delighted to be re-engaged to appear with the orchestra.
In 1939, the University of Notre Dame invited the orchestra to give its final concert of the year on the campus, agree- I ing to provide Percy Grainer as soloist. j | This arrangement has become a tradi- | tion which has been continued even to n this year when Byron Janis, nationally M known piano virtuoso, will appear with -1 the symphony.	I
Season ticket sales for the ’57-’58 j Conceit and Lecture Series will start on Oct. 28 and close Oct. 31, in the Wash- I ington Hall ticket office each weekday from 3:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Prices for students, faculty, and campus em- A ployees are $7.50 for orchestra seats j and $5.25 for balcony. Prices for the j public are $11.50 orchestra and $7.50 J balcony. If the tickets are bought in- 1 dividually the price increases one dollar for all the performances. Thus by buying a season ticket, the buyer saves the. price of one admission and also is assured of a good seat.
32
The Scholastic
Taxi's Fumes Cause Campus Light Failure
A taxicab, a concrete housing, and the 1:30 class bell added up to a freak accident that darkened four campus buildings for ten hours Tuesday.
The action started about 1:20 in the afternoon when a cab driver from South Bend misjudged his distance and backed over part of a foot-high concrete housing for an electrician’s manhole between Morrissey Hall and the Library. Gas spilled from the cab’s tank and leaked into the hole through the iron grating. By the time the 1:30 bell rang for class, there were enough fumes in the shaft for the arc from the relays to ignite, causing an explosion and fire.
Two transformers were burned out; wires were damaged leading to Morrissey, the Library and the Old College and those servicing Howard were completely ruined.
Trouble bells sounded in the fire panels in Sorin and St. Ed’s. The power for the entire campus was shut off until the defective feeder was located. Fire equipment from the University fire department extinguished the smouldering wires.
According to the campus electricians, this is the first major power failure since the University installed its own power system four years ago. The campus electrical staff and about nine men from the Koontz-Wagner Electric Company in South Bend began to work at replacing the transformers and wires in the 10 by 20 foot manhole. Leads for Morrissey, the Library, and the Old College were connected to old lines and a new set of cable was pulled for Howard.
Lights in the first three buildings were back in by 11 p.m. Howard was operated from an auxiliary transformer for part of the evening and received its electricity around midnight.
Repercussion
(Continued from page 12-
the Sisters and doctors and nurses but also the cooks and the various helpers about the Infirmary shared in the most edifying way.
As so many of those on duty expressed to me, the attitude of the student patients and their cheerfulness in bearing with all the little inconveniences which necessarily arise on such occasions made things so much easier. In this tribute I wish to include also the various students who have voluntarily contributed their services in helping to meet the present demanding situation.
Notre Dame fans like to recall the thrilling response of our various football teams when the obstacles were almost overwhelmingly against them. There are other crises in the University, however, in which that same generous and self-sacrificing spirit has arisen to meet most difficult situations — and this present demand upon the Student Infirmary personnel and the student patients thereof is definitely one of them.
Hence this tribute to all of the good Sisters and nurses and doctors and lay help as well as our student patients for the edifying and inspiring way in which they have combined their efforts to meet the present situation. '
Very Sincerely
Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., Chaplain, Student Infirmary Notre Dame
BREEN’S JEWELRY . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Silverware Men’s and Women’s Costume Jewelry Four Ways to Buy. Cash, Charge, Layaway, Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing 325 South Michigan	AT 7-3630
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Monday of the week of insertion.
WANTED TO BUY—Four copies of 1957 DOME wanted. Will pay S5.00 per copy. Must be in good condition. Phone 555 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
DISPLAY and window decorating. Part time. Excellent experience for art major. Apply at Frances Shop, 129 N. Michigan.
GOING SOMEWHERE? Want a ride? Save time and expense of posting notices on the bulletin boards. Do it the easy way with Classified Ads.
ANNOUNCEMENT: Club meeting, ticket sales, lose something? Save time and expense of posting notices on the bulletin boards. Do it the easy, cheap way with Classified Ads.
Very, If ery Reasonable V ery, Very Luxurious
CaftdeMal BuA/eA, Jac.
JOHN W. BIRK, Charter Agent
158 Alumni Hall ■
GEOEL’S
Soith Bead’s Largest Sirplus Store
NAVY OXFORDS —PARKAS
MILITARY INSIGNIA
ALL KINDS OF WORK CLOTHES
512 S. MICHIGAN AT 7-6277
'October Jubilee1 Scheduled For St. Mary's Tomorrow
“October Jubilee,” the SMC all-student ? fund raising project, will be held tomorrow and Sunday.
A day of informal fun for St. Mary's students and their dates is scheduled for tomorrow. There will be games, races, I and contests on the order of the annual winter carnival in the afternoon. .
At 5 p.m. there will be a picnic supper 1 and a bonfire on the campus, followed ' by dancing in the Social Hall from 7 to 11 p.m.
The feature of the week , end will be the performance of Erroll Garner in O’Laughlin Auditorium Sunday evening.
October 18, 1957
DAVIES
Offers Special Student Discount DAVIES eabiaA I
Choice of Eight Style Cummerbund Sets Open Evenings by Appointment Drive In Parking
DAVIES
Complete QommI Wea^ Hernial
117 South Lafayette	Telephone CE 4-9644
33
i Each
letter from
by MICHAEL KENNEDY
a
bird-watcher
| As I write this I am sitting in the |	lifeguard’s chair on the dock at the
§	northeast end of St. Joseph’s Lake. This,
I	I thought, would be a novel point of view
|	from which to write this column and a
I	good place to get a kind of perspective
I	-on the University and its natural sur-
|	roundings. It is Tuesday morning. A
5	strong October sun has dispelled the
|	early morning fog that hung over the
|	campus and the lakes a few hours ago.
3	As I walked along the path the surface
1	-of the lake was entirely placid and
8	mirrored quite distinctly the shapes of
1	the trees on its shore; now a light breeze
I	from the west ripples the surface, and
1	only the blurred colors, the October reds
and yellows, are reflected.
1 Way up against the blue sky and the high clouds there is a single gull on arched wings soaring in slow circles.
«. What is it that is so very wild about high-flying gulls? Perhaps looking up to £ see these white sea birds and the inS	finite blue of the sky, which somehow
«	becomes more vast in the fall, makes
<5 us feel we are floating free on the ocean $ with nothing but the waves around us. £ It’s a good feeling to have now and then g in this mechanized midland. I think £ everyone, even the Texan, at sometime , -experiences a secret desire for the hugeness and the wild freedom of the sea. Well, the sky is very much like the sea, but it is even bigger.
I see that I am disposed to ramble today, and that I seem to be neglecting the purpose of this column which, I ' suppose, is a critical one; so here I • inject my bit of criticism: we don’t look up enough. Will anyone take that ; .seriously?
It is remarkable how insensitive and ■	indifferent the modern man has become
’	to the, beauty and meaning of nature
.	in its wild state. Only an occasional
!	.sunset or the view of an entire mountain
-	range from a roadside stopping place
■	can impress us now. This is an unfor-
=	tunate, perhaps even a dangerous situa-
i	tion. Unfortunate because we are miss-
J	ing the source of a good pleasure that
i	is almost inexhaustible, and dangerous
|	because we actually need the experience
2	-of nature to maintain the purity and
I 34
freedom of our souls. The so-called “beauties of nature” are not to be treated as trivialities. It is a fact that we are more closely related, in our descent from God, to the plants and animals, even the lakes and hills, than we are to the gadgets of our own making; and yet we become so occupied with our own world, civilization, in which we men are absolute masters that we begin to think that machines are our closest brothers and that by understanding them we can achieve some sort of understanding of ourselves. We begin to take them as our models. We become wrapped up in the easy mastery over the world we have ourselves created, and forget our humble position in the whole world which is almost entirely beyond our control. There is no insoluble mystery in machines, nor is there anything to indicate the existence of a higher being than man. In the birds and the living trees and the dark water of the lakes there is a mystery which man cannot understand, and this is the mark of their Creator.
So, as I say, look up. Take your eyes off the pavement for a while. You have to climb up into a high place before you realize how seldom people raise their eyes above the horizontal. Climb a tree or stand in full view at the top of a building and see how many walk by without noticing you. Unfortunately we have to see where we are going, and for this reason we have a horizontal plane of vision and have to crane our necks to look upward, but it’s not so unpleasant to spend a few minutes lying on the grass. The sky is never a blank. When it is just blue its infinity is fascinating. Then sometimes it is crowded and wild with a mottle of dark and light clouds and open patches. There is a certain freedom and a very valuable detachment available to those who look upward. Try it sometime.
A moment ago, over the trees on the opposite shore of the lake, I saw a cloud of small birds cavorting in the air as one. Through the trees I can catch the glint of the sun on an aluminum roof, and from somewhere on that side a little column of white smoke is rising
into the clean October air. The busy sounds of sawing and hammering from the new seminary that is under construction are pleasant from a distance, and 4 even the terrible noise that comes now and then from the power plant behind me is not disturbing in the warm sun. It’s a good time to think or just to be at rest.	|
However, as I’m beginning to get uncomfortable, it might be good to climb , down and skip a few stones out over the surface. In a few months the first thin ice will have formed and then the stones will make a wonderful whistling ; sound as they skim along. Have you ever noticed that? It’s worth investigating when the time comes. It is un- I fortunate that college men are apt to '*1 forget the value of such pursuits and underestimate the achievement of the man who can make a stone skip five times instead of two. There are lots more wasteful ways of spending one’s free time.
We are fortunate to have a campus with enough trees and water and espe- , cially enough room to be called beautiful. For Heaven’s sake, take advantage of it! Indiana is not so lacking in natural beauty as some of us claim: to the northeast there are farms and little outcroppings of wood that make very pleasant surroundings for a walk. Examine the trees: in what respects is a pine more beautiful than an elm, • and vice-versa? If you have no opinions on this then either you are downright insensitive , or a part of your education has been neglected.
I, for one, would like to see more attention paid to such things. I cannot claim to be an avid reader’ of the Religious Bulletin, but when they remarked the other day on the value of the common walk I could not help but agree. Not that the University should offer courses in stone skipping or hiking, but I do think that as students we should be looking around us to find out how we fit in the world, and books and classrooms are not by any means the only place to look. We might try the lake, the trees, and the sky, too. •
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
WHAT THEY ASK ABOUT:
A series of twelve booklets
By Monsignor J. D. Conway
KEEPING COMPANY LOVE and DATING ENGAGEMENT MODESTY, CHASTITY AND MORALS
MIXED MARRIAGES
MARRIAGE OUTSIDE THE CHURCH
MADDIAPE- CATHOLIC and mAKKIAUL. NON-CATHOLIC
MARRIAGE CASES
MARITAL LIFE
THE RHYTHM BIRTH CONTROL DIVORCE
Order the complete set. Twelve 2 color booklets; size 4 % x 6 !4 inches. An excellent addition to the home library, a wonderful gift for young people. The entire series is chock-full of answers to over 200 questions. Order your set now.
SPECIAL only (postage paid)
OFFER
Send your order to:
AVE MARIA PRESS Department S. Notre Dame, Indiana
Your $1 remittance must accompany your order.
Live Modem
Free up! Get more out of life... get mure out of smoking!
HANDY PACKS (King and Reg.)
CRUSH-PROOF BOX (Costs no more)
©1957 Liggett X- Mjers Tobacco Co.
“vens tObacco co


Light into that
Live Modern flavor!
miracle tip
Smoke today’s most exciting cigarette... L&M! Only L&Mgives you "Live Modern” flavor...the full, exciting flavor that means more taste...more aroma! Every L&M pack ever made has carried this statement: "A blend of premium quality cigarette tobaccos including special aromatic types.”
LSM lets you pick the pack that suits you best!