Vol. XXI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 3, 1887.	No. 13.
An Advent Greeting’
TO
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C.,
Founder and Father General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in America.
Amid the shadows of the year departing, Set like a brilliant on the brow of Night, The Star of Bethlehem, serenely sparkling. Conducts to Jesus with its hallow’d light.
. Each Advent-cloud suggests the blessed hour When Majesty and Might were veiled and dim, And star-led sages,—childlike in their power,— Carne, thro’ the night, to greet and worship Him.
And tho’ the heart o’erflow wiQt tender sadness, Yet, when the holy Christmas-tide is o’er, The smile that woke His baby lips to gladness, Shall light our souls, and grief shall be no more.
’Tis in this mystic moment, we salute thee, Our Father and our f- iend thro’ weal and woe;
Whose kindly sympathy hath cheered each duty,— And hope upraised, when hope was stricken low.
•
It seems but yesterday that on the mountain The first, bright sunbeam of the year had birth,— And now, the vase is broken at the fountain, And friends have parted, ne’er to meet on earth.
Yet, glancing backward thro’ the days that leave us, Mii'ing and mournful on the shores of Time, ’
There come glad thoughts of those who ne’er deceived us, Whose words are grateful as a Christmas chime.
And thhie are ’mid those memories of pleasure, Of friends and friendships that are not of dust;
For Father Sorin is the name we treasure, And Father Sorin is the friend we trust!
Peace be thy portion, then, O friend and Father!
Peace in the grief or gladness of thy heart!
May God’s rich graces ever round thee gather, And strength be thine to do'thy noble part!
And when the shadow of Death s gloomy portal, Darkens_thy brow and dims thy trusting eye, May angels bear thee, glorious and immortal, To dwell forever with thy God on high!
Eleanor C. Donnelly..
Advent, 1SS7.
James Montgomery.
There is no species of genuine poetry which does not touch a responsive chord in the human heart. Nor can the effect produced be at all measured by the tone of the note that has been struck. For, elevated, inspired, ambrosia-nourished as is the soul by the lofty thoughts, heaven-born sentiments, and their verdant, calyx-like robing, which tell of a master whose feet had trod the summit of the mountain of genius, whence his eye had pierced, with more than human vision, the subtle mists which shroud this mortal vale; yet, more sympathetic, more kindred, more comforting to the soul in her everyday tread of earthly existence, are the beautiful though unassuming works of those who hymn the charms and pleasures of their own sequestered nooks, far down the sides, and half hidden, it,may be, by the foliage of the. sacred mount.' The mind is dazzled and transfigured by the brilliancy of the former; it is lightened and relaxed by the' nearer, sweeter fellow-feeling of the latter. Hence, if the study of the one becon-ducive to the acquirement of an exalted and ennobling sense of human capabilities and aspirations, that of the other is not less fruitful in the production of those more humble, perhaps, yet just as important qualities of mind and heart, without which the battle of life*cannot be successfully fought. To" this latter class belongs a poet the productions of whom are distinguished no less for their peculiar simplicity and happy originality of expression, than for the sweetly religious sentiment which seems to permeate theih all,—a brief narration of whose life and labors is the purpose of the. present sketch.
Tam'es Montgomery was born at Irvine, in Ayrshire, Nov. 4, 1771. His father, a Moravian mis- * sionary, sent him, when quite young, to a school of that persuasion near Leeds, with the intention of having him trained for .the ministry. After a time, however, evincing no signs of a vocation for propagating the Gospel, he was: apprenticed to a grocer in the little town of Mirfield. This occupa-~tion at length, through The harsh treatment and -unending toil to which he was subjected, having become distasteful, he ran away, and, after much
tHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLAStlC
suffering and misery, obtained employment as a shop boy in the village of Wath, in Yorkshire. It was while at this humble occupation that he first began to write verses. It was here, in the cold, cheerless garret which he made his home, that the ambition of becoming a poet and of accomplishing great thing-; first fired his soul. Years afterward, when the Olympic olive had crowned his efforts, he used to delight in narrating to an admiring circle of fireside friends the boyish pride he took at that time in spouting to a wonder-stricken group of villagers these fiist rude effusions of his muse.
When nineteen years of age, Montgomery, with high hopes and splendid anticipations, left Wath, carrying with him a collection of his poems, and, in the firm belief that fortune and fame awaited but his call, as hundreds of aspiring authors before and since have thought and done, turned his face London wards. For days and weeks he roamed the streets. His few hoarded shillings gradually dwindled away, and along with them went his lofty fancies. Not a solitary publisher could he find willing to launch upon the sea of criticism the little volume; but, worse still, he was unable to obtain employment of any kind. Disappointed, abused, dejected, and wellnigh starved, the aspiring bard at length abandoned the metropolis, and with extreme difficulty, made his way to Sheffield. Here he obtained employment as clerk in a newspaper office.
Within a few years his master died, and Montgomery, through the generosity of the friends his faithfulness to duty and happy, cheerful disposition had won, was enabled to establish a weekly journal, entitled the Sheffield Iris. He conducted it with marked ability until the year 1S25, at which time he retired from active journalistic labor. At the instance of Sir Robert Peel, a yearly pension of £300 was conferred on him, and this, together with the income derived from his books and occasional lectures, enabled him to spend -in blissful plentiness an old age which terminated peacefully at the age of eighty-three.
- Montgomery’s first volume of poetry, entitled “The Wanderer in Switzerland,and Other Poems,” appeared in 1S06. Although by no means up to the standard of his best poetry, and although criticised most harshly by the Edinburgh Review^ whose dictum was regarded as an uncontrovertible .criterion respecting merit, it brought him at once into popular favor. His next important work was “The West Indies,” a poem written in honor of the abolition of the African slave' trade in 1807, and by far superior, as regards vigor and freedom of description, combined with power of pathetic painting, to anything in the former volume. In 1813 was produced a poem in the heroic couplet, entitled “The World Before the Flood.” The plan of this work does not indeed exhibit any profoundness of genius; but his sweet, touching^ and romantic picturing of p itriarchal life in the antediluvian period, could not have been more happily portrayed.
Montgomery’s two best poems were “Greenland,” produced in 1819, and “The Pelican Island,” written after his retirement from active newspaper work. The former is made up of five cantos. It
contains a sketch of the ancient Moravian Church, an account of the origin of the missions by that people to Greenland, and many interesting, as well as thrilling, delineations of the marvels of the polar clime. No one can read his description of that stupendous aggregation of ice, known to the Danish navigators by the appellation of “ice-blink,” whose
“____Blocks of sapphire seem, to mortal eye Hewn from cerulean quarries in the sky; With glacier battlemems that crowd the spheres, The sl >w creatio 1 of six thousand years, Amidst immensity it towers sublime, Winter’s eternal palace, built by time: All human structures by his touch are borne Down to the dust; mountains themselves are worn With his light footsteps; here lorever grows, Amid the region of unmelting snows, A monument, where every flake that falls Gives adamantine firmness to the walls,”
without admitting that the poet was possessed of great refinement of taste and judgment, no less than imaginative power of a high order.
“The Pelican Island” is written in blank verse, and consists of nine short cantos. The narrative is supposed to be delivered by an imaginary being who witnessed a series of extraordinary events on one of a group of small islands, for ages the haunt of the pelican, which were situated near the coast of New Holland. Nowhere else does the poet display such fertility and delicacy of descriptive power. The most wonderful phenomena are described with an elegance and a minuteness so vivid that it is difficult for us to understand how one who had travelled so little could have so successfully blended the imaginative and the natural.
Of Montgomery’s shorter poems, the best, probably, are “Night,” “The Recluse,” “Home,” “The Aspirations of Youth,” and “Prayer.” Through these, as through his longer ones, there flows the same undercurrent of religious sentiment which had at first caused him to be classed as a poet of the distinctly religious world. This undercurrent of pious thought, however, which, in a greater or less degree, pervades all his poems, is entirely different from the rabid, sectarian enthusiasm so often embodied in English verse a century or so before Montgomery’s time. His has the tone of a generous and enlightened morality. It seems, indeed, but an unconscious overflow from a heart filled with Divine love, just as from the atmosphere, out of her abundance, there descend imperceptibly upon the earth the dewy vapors which mantle her nocturnal form.	B.
The Irish Language.
“ The language of the conqueror,” says Tacitus, “in the mouth of the conquered, is ever the language of the slave.” Well did the Roman historian know what a powerful influence the preservation of a language exercises upon a conquered people. The poet says the Russian never rested satisfied, nor did he regard his conquest of Poland complete, as long as a vestige of its national language remained. Spenser knew equally well when he informed Queen Elizabeth that she could adopt no more
TILE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*95
powerful means to uproot Irish nationality than to suppress the Irish language. Nor need I tell you that any suggestion on that point was likely to pass unheeded. In the outset, her harsh measures were spurned and despised, and only excited the people to love it the more—a character especially inherent in the Irish people. The more they are persecuted, when their cause is just, the more devoted they are. They may persecute as they will, “ their spirit may break, but it never will bend.” They may proscribe our bard, but he cannot yield; he still tells them he is not ashamed of what they call his whining. He says that
“ He was born for much more, and in holier hours.”
The harsh laws enacted by Queen Elizabeth for the suppression of the Irish tongue did not avail much, hut it led to ultimate decay. Her worthy successors have contributed to this result, for they never slacked a rein. During a persecution of such long duration, the plantation of a king that seemed favorable to them, at least in whom they confided; the ravages, the cruelty and the devastation of the pions Protector; the settlement and intermarriage, contributed much to the decline of the Irish language.
I shall refrain here from mentioning the thirst the British Government always had both for the spoliation and confiscation of everything that was most sacred and dear to us. Suffice it to say, that for ages our habits, customs and manners were the incessant objects of their attack. There was, for instance, a law enacted against wearing the hair in a particular fashion,but to speak the native language was, if I may say, a capital crime. It was banished from Ireland’s schools—the cradle in which it should have been nursed—to meet no warmer reception at the hands of .the hedge-schoolmaster, who knew very little of the English language himself. There are in this country to-day men who remember in their young days having to’ carry around their neck a piece of wood on which there was to be an incision for every time they committed themselves by speaking Irish.
That unhappy spirit which pervaded so many centuries reaches even our own time, as we see from the reports of the national schools. One man is reported, not for teaching or encouraging it in his school, but simply because he recreates himself by musing over Irish manuscripts. Another because he admits that he devoted some portion of his time to translatings MSS., is censured. Well did the great Archbishop of the West call these schools the “Sepulchre of the Irish language.” This is only a slight idea of the efforts made to stifle that grand old tongue.
There is no language in existence more pathetic in giving expression to the outpourings of a loving heart. No one who has lived in an Irish-speaking district but can and must appreciate the powerful effect of that language. A proof of the preference which the Irish peasantry give to their native tongue may be seen in the effort they make on Sunday mornings, even walking from five to eight miles sometimes in order to hear an Irish sermon.
Nor do the fervent blessings you hear from their lips make a less impression. Meet an Irishman where you will, when he speaks his native tongue, his greet will be, “God save you!” nor is the answer less Christian-like, “God save you kindly!” If, while you are at work, he passes you by, his salutation will be, “God prosper you!” and his farewell, equivalent to that familiar Latin expression, Pax vobis. Nor should I omit the “ God speed you!” which he receives. There is something more in it which I cannot describe, but I will leave it to Very Rev.Canon Bourke, M.R. I. A., President of St. Jarlath’s College, Tuam, and author of some Irish works, to which I shall have occasion to refer hereafter. On the language, he says: “A national language is the epitome, the miniature picture of the nation. The dignity of the ancient Spanish character is impressed on the language of Spain, and the Italian tongue reflects the attributes of that music and pleasure-loving people. This seems to have been felt by Charles V when he said that he should speak to his mistress in Italian, to his horse in German, to his birds in English: while the majesty of the Spanish language, he hoped, made it a suitable medium for reverent and awful communings with the Deity.” He continues to show from another illustration that the language is so associated with the Irish character, that we cannot separate one from the other. In the Hebrew language he says that we find the people ever contemplating the past, or vainly imagining the future, and consequently that the verb in their language admits of no present tense. So also the generous and disinterested character is portrayed in the fact that we do not, as all covetous people would certainly do, possess a habeo. No effort whatever could introduce such an expression. Whether it is modesty or pride that deters him from saying boldly that he has anything, I know not. In fact, he cannot say it, for he has no word to express it in that way. He merely says, Ta again, which is equivalent to Est mihi, or in English, simply that it is with him or to him. He again calls attention to the nature of the imperative mood. The root of the verb is found in the imperative mood. He infers from this that the people speaking this language were never intended to be slaves: and he deduces as a necessary consequence that from the nature of the language it harmonizes and blends with the nature of the people who speak it.
That the Irish language is peculiarly adapted for poetical purposes, is a subject too extensive to embrace here. I shall, however, use that erudite work which I have already so freely used. To persons unacquainted with the history of the Irish language, it would seem as absurd to say that the style of writing hymns adopted by the Latin Fathers, so many of which we have in the Roman Breviary, was learned from the. Keltic bards, as the paradox of Parsons who says that the Iliad in Greek was an excellent translation from the Irish edition by his Grace the Archbishop of Tuam.
That versification was unknown to the classic poets, I need only quote Ziiss: “Formam in-cognitam poetis classics. vetustatis et peregrinam
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
certe.”—Grammatica Celtica. Now Father Bourke puts this very clearly, and proves it on the authority—I shall say only for brevity—of. Ziiss. He shows that “the hymns used prior to the period in which Ui ban VIII flourished were composed either by ( i ) Irishmen, such as Sedulius Columbanus, Columba, Secundus; or (2) by men of Keltic origin, as St. Ambrose; or. (3) by those who, like St. Augustine, were of the same metrical school as St. Ambrose; or lastly (4), those who flourished between the fourth and fourteenth century, and followed in the composition of hymns the metre and melody of the great master of hym-nology, St. Ambrose.” He goes on at length to show that the Saint just quoted, who lived in the fourth century, being himself a native of Gaul, learned the method of verbifying from the Keltic bards. But the beauty of Ii ish is not confined to this alone. It was equally adapted for other purposes, whether in treating of history, law, medicine, dhinity or astronomy. When Rev. Geoffrey Keating wished to write a hisiory of hi< native country he would write it in Irish. Nor was it less suited to Uulfadda for composing his famous laws; nor to Brian when he tired that heroism which for freedom blazed forth at the battle of Clontaif; nor to St. Patrick when announcing to our heathen sires the glad tidings of the Gospel.
Such, and only such a language could survive centuries of persecution, of confiscation and proscription, pure and uncorrupted. It might have, become extinct, but never could it be corrupted. When y«-u hear people speak of Munster Irish and Connaught Irish I would not have you understand there is any difference in the language; it is only in accentuation.
To many the Irish language seems to have passed through its stages, according to what Webster, the dramatist, says: -	■ ’
-	. . . . “ All things have their end—■	:
Churches and cities which have diseases like to men Must have like deaths that we have.”
Not so with the Irish language. It is in some way immortal; but .as I am not going to write a history of it, I need not mention the stages through which it passed. Certain it is that there was always an admirer to be found, for what was excluded from the school-room found a home in the hearts of an enthusiastic people. That language which could not be tolerated was keptalive,as the poetsays:
- “ In songs and sermons, rants and rhymes, Enlarged some fifty fold.”	.	-	.
The thirst of learned philologists and antiquarians within the past half century led many men of thought and erudition to study the ancient languages. Even in English and German universities it began to be prized, and this, Father Bourke says, brought about a reaction among the higher and more enlightened class of our'countrymen. “Hence,” he says (in the preface to the fifth edition of his Irish Grammar), “the baneful effects produced by that blighting spirit of false shame to speak their mother-tongue, which was fast sucking out of the hearts'of the peasantry the very life-spring of their
venerable old gaodailge, will soon, it is hoped, be outdone.” This must be very consoling to Father Bourke, for in a former edition he laments the cold neglect of the people. They would make an excuse that they had no text-book. He set to work and wrote a grammar and easy lessons at a time when there was little hope of success. May I not say that it was in the same state as the Hon. Charles Gavan Duffy described Irish politics, “as a corpse on a dissecting table”? Now I mention this to show that our Rev. author was actuated by no motive of mere speculation or gain.
The many editions through which these two works have passed point to a brighter future. When we have men who admire our language such as Pritchard, Latham, Blackey, Newman, and Lewis, all Englishmen; Pistet of Geneva, Zcuss, Gluck, Herr Korner, Herman Gbrres, and a host of others in Germany, with Ward in Fiance, no wonder that we should find men at home able and willing to u>e their voice and pen in so praiseworthy a cause. Truly, it ought to he a noble cause to keep alive such a relic of the glories of the past; to oppose a policy which has waged a war so incessant against our Faith and our language: the latter, indeed, has somewhat succumbed, but the former, like its Founder, has risen from the grave to which heretical hate had consigned it. But he may say, “What good is Irish to me?” Away with- such talk! Suppose there was no other advantage than the pleasure and satisfaction of cultivating his national language, would it not be, if not a claim to scholarship, at least a laudable boast of having learned for her own sake his country’s language? But besides, “he can unlock those sealed tombs which contain the science, poetry, the history and romance of our country ”; “or he can read in numbers full nigh as bold and sonorous as Homer’s own, his masterly descriptions of the battles of the Greeks and Trojans, the debates of hoary octogenarian warriors, and the glowing harangues of God-like men ”: “ or should he desire to know how those soul-stirring airs, which Moore, has rendered immortal, flow on and affect the soul when gushing forth through the medium of the sweet Celtic, he may open Dr. McHale’s translation of the ‘Irish Melodies,’ and sing, as Carolan would have sung, the woes of his heart for his afflicted lone land, because, like Sion, her ‘parent,’ ‘fallen from her head is the once regal crown: in her streets, in her halls, Desolation hath spoken, and whilst it is day yet her sun is gone down.’” “Or should he be inspired with any hope, he may go further, and exclaim in prophecy that ‘her sun shall shine out when the brightest shall fade.’” “.... Build ye up the Celtic tongue above O’Curry’s grave; Speed the good work, ye patriot souls, who long j our land
• to save.	, :	,
Who long to light the flame again on Freedom’s altar dead, Who long to > all the glories back from hopeless Erin fled, Who long to gem her saddened brow with queenly wreath again,	-
To raise a warrior people, up. a nation in her train. . Speed then the work: be scorn our lot, our ancient pride is , flown, .	‘	.
If’midst the nations of the earth we stand in shame alone.”
' '	■ '	\ \	' • ■'	P.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	_
'	Perpetual Youth. .
. \The Century for December^
’Tis said there is a fount in Flower Land,—
De Leon found it,—where Old Age away
Throws weary mind and heart, and fresh as day Springs from the dark, and joins Aurora’s'band:
This tale, transformed by some skilled trouvere’s wand From the old myth in a Greek poet’s lay, Rests on no truth. Change bodies as Time may, Souls do not change, though heavy be his hand.
Who of us needs this fount? What soul is old?
Our mere masks age, and still we grow more young, For in our winter we ta k most of Spring;
And as we near, slow-toitering. God's safe fold, Youth’s loved ones gal her nearer;—though among The seeming dead, youth’s songs more clear they sing '	Maurice Francis Egan.
Local Associations.
It has long been a disputed point how great an influence the surroundings have upon a man. In other words, the world has been discussing for a Ions; time whether circumstances make the man or man the circumstances. Be it as it may, no one can deny that it is inherent in man’s nature to fashion his life that it may be in accordance with the circumstances of time, place, customs and manners; in short, “ being in Rome to do as the Romans do.” This is all very commendable from some standpoints; but it would be much more so could man discriminate between what is and what is not worthy of imitation, and, so discriminating, guide his life by what might be good, while rejecting the evil. But, unhappily, this is not the case. We imbibe principles which are at once good and evil, wise and foolish, beneficial and hurtful, where with a little disci imination we might be greatly improved, and this not at the expense of some opposite error counterbalancing the good.
That the associations we form may be good, wise and beneficial, and at the same time not endanger us by contact with the opposite errors; that by contact and conversation with men of superior mind and talents we may imitate them, and so doing become better, morally and mentally—this is what we should strive to attain, and this is the greatest reason why all who are able should receive a college education. Not but that there are good men, men whose lives are worthy of emulation, outside the college walls; but here you find men who devote their whole lives to the attaining and diffusing of knowledge; and here, it must follow, is the best place to form the mind and body, that they may be able to endure the hard knocks they will receive when brought in contact with the world. 'It is not simply to learn the rules of Prosody and Syntax, to learn to talk a little French, or to write a Latin verse, that we are sent to college. Far from it! Youth is the springtime of life; and as in spring the appearance of the vegetation is a sign of what
it will be upon maturing; and as the husbandman takes good care to have his crops well started, knowing well that they need but a careful watching in the start to make them yield well when the time^ of harvest comes,»so it is the object of parents to inculcate into the minds of their children principles of uprightness, honor and integrity.
Therefore, as youth is so quick to receive impressions, it should be our care to cultivate the society of those whose examples we are most apt to imitate, and who will benefit us thereby, while, at the same time, we should model our own lives so that they might be good examples for less perfect persons, who may perchance look up to iis fur example. Some wise man—I cannot recall the name—has said that he never was so proud as when he was the least distinguished member of a party. Nothing else than a firm conviction that infinite good resulted from communication with his superiors could have suggested this remark. The Protestant father of Edward Gibbon, the celebrated author of the “ Decline and Downfall of Rome,” mu>t have also been convinced of this fact when he sent his youthful son to Geneva to prosecute his studies under infidel and atheist professors, in a place which was notoriously infidel, knowing full well that the Catholic Faith, so lately professed by his son, would quickly he lost by communication with these men. Edward Gibbon’s mind was yet susceptible, and his father was sure that the only way to root out of it the'Faith he despised, was to throw him into the companionship of those who openly scoffed at Christianity, and who by a sort of philosophy could convince him of the fallacy of its teachings. How well they succeeded, you all know; and it is this alone, this “sapping solemn with solemn sneer,” as Byron has it, that prevents his work from becoming one of the most faithful histories in the English language. But who is inclined to place any confidence in one who openly avows his disbelief in his Maker? We often wonder at the customs of foreigners, and we ourselves never think that a year’s sojourn in a foreign country would change us so much as to make it a subject of remark to our own countrymen. .
But it is when one keeps bad company that the evil effect of association shows itself most clearly. We see a young man, whom we have known as a polite, gentlemanly and honorable man, change almost before our eyes. Bad books are surely a great curse to mankind; but it is, in my mind, almost useless to prove that they effect so much harm as bad compiny. For man is prone to follow where others lead, especially in his youth; and when he falls into the hands of an artful villain, one who can make the path of iniquity as mse-■ colored as possible, then it does not take long for him to run his downward course. " It needs a more lively and creative imagination than it is the luck of most men to possess, to be so moved by a vellow-covered novel that we would leave our homes and follow the course of its hero; but it would only need a man such as the herd of that might be, to persuade the youth of the-brightness of his life. It should be the ambition of everyone to seek and
198
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
form such associations as will be of benefit to him, that will enlarge his ideas and strengthen him for the journey of life he is about to take.
W.
Art, Music and Literature.
—There are to be translations of novels from the Hebrew. France discovered that there were Hebrew novels worth translating some years ago. The first translation in English ever published will shortly appear.
—The Empress Eugenie’s jubilee present to the Pope is a poitrait of the late Prince Imperial (godson of Pius IX) framed in violets of amethyst and gold bees, and supported by an enameled eagle with outstretched wings.
• —Harper & Brothers have .bound in handsome form a copy of “Ben-Hur” for presentation to the Pope. It will be forwarded to the Rector of the American College at Rome, who will make the formal presentation.
—It is announced that Dr. Chrysander is about to resume work upon his biography of Handel, and, it is hoped, to complete it. The first volume of the work was published in 1858, the second in i860, and the first part of the third in 1867, since which date the publication has been suspended.
—S. C. Griggs & Co., Chicago, are bringing out the fifty-eighth edition of Professor Mathew’s popular book, “ Getting On in the World.” This makes fifty-eight thousand copies from this house. Numerous editions have also been published in England, and it has had the honor of translation into Swedish, Norwegian and French.
—An exhibition of objects of art—paintings, sculptures, jewelry, bronzes, china, carvings, etc.— formerly, the property of the late King Louis II, of Bavaria, and comprising 2,000 numbers and representing a value of nearly a million marks, will be exhibited in Stuttgart by Councillor Ehni. It is supposed that it will be offered for sale wholly.
—A German Edition of the life of Leo XIII, by Dr. Bernard O’Reilly, has just been issued in Cologne. This edition is gotten up in the finest style, and is more beautifully printed and bound than the original woik. Besides this German translation, there have now been published also editions for England, France, Spain, Italy, Holland, and Australia.	.
—Readers of Mr.Robert Louis Stevenson’s books will be glad to know that he will contribute to each number of Scribner's Magazine during the year 1888. He will write of many topics, old and new, and in a familiar and personal way, which will form new bonds of friendship between the author and his thousands of readers. In the first of the series, entitled “A Chapter on Dreams,” he tells some interesting facts-concerning the origin of the famous story “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.”. This paper will appear in the January number.
—The remarkable publishing house of Munshi
Newal Kishore, in Lucknow, has no rival in the civdized world, except, perhaps, the Anbe Mignd’s great publishing establishment in Paris. The publisher is a Mohammedan, but keeps his religious prejudices in the background. He prints school books, scientific treatises, sacred works for the Hindoos, editions of the Koran, and voluminous commentaries for his fellow worshippers in the Sanskritt, Persian, Arabic, Urdu, Bbrashe, and English languages. His “book ascents” are to be found not only in all the great Hindoo centres of population, but in the East Indies, among the Afghans, in Teheran, Constantinople, Cairo, and in the Soudan.
—The Benedictines of Solesmes are about to publish an important contribution to the ecclesiastical and monastic history of the eleventh century in the shape of a “Life of St. Hugh, Abbot of Cluny.” The volume, which is printed at their own press, is a large octavo of nearly seven hundred pages, and is enriched with three chromolithographs, reproducing in fac-simile twelfth century representations of incidents in the life of St. Hugh. Dom 1’Huillier, the author of the letterpress, has been fortunate enough to discover a twelfth century MS. of the first life of the saint, namely that of Gilon or Gilo, which is printed in the appendix to the forthcoming volume.— Catholic Book Nezus.
Scientific Notes.
—By the improved method of welding by electricity, a broken bar of metal can he easily reunited, or bars of diffeient metals welded together, and those metals which previously resisted welding most strenuously are now joined with ease, while those previously easily welded remain the same by the new. process.
—An engineer who has been studying the question of irrigating unreclaimed land in Nevada, says that there is enough water in Lake Tahoe to irrigate 1,000,000 acres, and he believes that the water can be taken out of the lake by means of a gigantic iron siphon a mile and a half long. The lake is 400 feet above Carson Valley, and the power generated by the consequent enormous water pressure could be utilized by all sorts of manufacturing establishments, and by a system of check valves the water could be taken out anywhere between the highest point of the lake and the lowest part of the. valley. This engineer thinks that it is only a question of time when, by some plan like this, all the lands of Nevada will be reclaimed.
—A band of forgers of antiquities, purporting to come from prehistoric lake dwellings in Switzerland, has been unmasked. Some of them are being prosecuted before the cantonal tribunal at Freiburg, and some have made admissions which fully bear out suspicions long lurking in the minds of Swiss archaeologists. Staffs seems to have been the headquarters of the spurious trade. What led to the discovery was the forgery of the name of
THE JNOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
199
Wavre, the custodian of the archieological museum at Neuenburg, to a certificate of the genuineness of a pretended lacustrine shield, which had been made out of a copper plate, that was subsequently steeped for a long time in fine tufa mud. It may be remembered that some years ago there was considerable satisfaction among the friends of prehistoric Swiss archie ilogy at the discovery of a “horn age,” several objects made of horn of various animals having been discovered, benringstrange carvingsof diversegradesof imperfection. According to admissions made by some of the accused, these horn objects were carefully made and deposited in places where subsequently excavations were made to satisfy the curiosity of the antiquarians.
Play Handball.
Not a little interest has been aroused recently in a sport that, although considerably in vogue in various parts of the country, is not much known to the general public. It is the old-fashioned game of handball. This sport originated in Ireland, and by many people there is considered as the national game. In fact, it comes as near to recognition as such as baseball does in America. It i-, in one sense a very simple game, and yet it seems to require a peculiar skill of its own, and a great deal of endurance for playing it properly. It is also worthy of being placed in the rank of recognized sports, if for no other reason than that it has its own code of rules, and its own peculiar arrangement for playing the game. That is, as the baseball field has to have its diamond marked on the turf, and billiards is played upon a regulation table, so handball has its regulation court, without which no game can be considered complete.
This game is so simple in its rules that those who have not seen a contest, or who have not played it, may think it a silly and rather tame sport; but it is quite a different thing from simply knocking the ball up against a brick wall. Those who know the game are aware of the qualities which it brings into play—agility, good wind, quick running, and skilful movement of the hands which frequently has to be decided in the flash of an eye— are necessary for a good handball player. After a sharp game of half an hour or forty minutes, the player will generally find himself in a state of profuse persp:ration and of considerable exhaustion. The beauty of the game is that there is no let up from beginning to end. When there are only two players, as is the case in nearly all expert matches, the ball is driven in every direction, and it takes the greatest activity and perseverance and close watching to do one’s proper work. As an exercise, it calls every part of the body into play. The ball must be taken now with the right hand, now with the left; or it may be necessary for the player to throw himself on the palm of his hand to get a low ball, or reach as far as possible to one side or the other to succeed in batting it. Sometimes, too,
the player is obliged to spring into the air and strike at the ball as it is pissing over his head. When an opponent has the ball near the wall, it is imp >ssible to tell what he will do with it, whether he will barely “put” it, or whether he will strike it a rousing blow that will send.it a good distance. Generally one player on a side attends to out play and one to the in play, when the game is more than single-handed.
Sometimes a line is drawn along the w til about fifteen inches from the fl >or, and any ball which strikes within that gives a score to the opponent. There is considerable difference of style in the play. The best players stand sidewise and bring the hand with the palm open and slightly curved open to the hip and very near the ho ly and strike the ball there. It is not easy to secure good form and force in this, one of the most graceful methods in driving balls. Where the line is not drawn requiring the ball to be struck at a certain height, some expert players can send in a “ nailer” or a “dead nailer,” in the slang phrase of the game, that is, the ball gets in and strikes the wall on the lowest brick, so that it is sent rolling out without any bounds at all, and cannot possibly be taken, no m itter what skill or activity may be possessed by the opponent. A player who can deliver this sort of stroke has a strong point in his favor, but it does not afford any opportunity for good play on the part of his opponent. Sometimes a tricky player will drive the ball against the side of the alley so th it it ricochets or carroms on to the m lin wall. This brings it back at an angle which is unexpected, and the ball usually bounds very near the wall, so that the opponent is very often caught. In this kind of play it becomes very necessary to have the sides of the alley fairly smooth, for a slight inequality in the surface may cause the ball to bound in a most unexpected angle after it has struck it, a feature of the play as embarrassing to one side as the other. The wall should be in such condition, therefore, that the player can determine with fair accuracy what sort of a carrom the ball will take. It is almost as important a feature as a good rail is on a billiard table.
If the enjoyment, the steady excitement, the judgment, the quickness of action and supple exercise of all the members of the body this fascinating game presents were better known, it would certainly enjoy a favor which it does not seem to have at present in this country. It is a manly game, and calls for all the physical and mental qualities which a true game ought to demand. There is nothing of the delicate, boyish work in it which m ly be imagined by those who are ignorant of its requirements.
There is no especial training required for becoming a handball player except practice at the game. For any one wanting to develop his lungs there can be .no better exercise th in handb ill. It is fully as good as long-distance running for this purpose, and better as a general exercise, because it calls into play the arms almost as much as the legs, and because the whole body is brought into action by the demands of the game.—N. E Sun.
200
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
me dame seHomsnc.
Notre Dame, December 3, 1887.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twenty-First year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.jo fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
G. H. Craig, ’88,	P.VD. Brownson ’88,
J. A. Burns, ’88,	Chas. P. Neill, ’89.
—A letter received from his Grace Most Rev. Archbishop Ryan, of Philadelphia,says: « My dear Professor Edwards: I sail on the 3d of December for Rome to pay my official visit, Ad Limina, and to attend the Jubilee Celebration of our Holy Father,and possibly to extend my journey tojerusalem. May I ask you and my Notre Dame friends to remember me when on the wintry ocean?” Many fervent prayers will be said at Notre Dame for the Archbishop that God may grant him a safe and pleasant journey.
The Annual Retreat.
The annual retreat for the students will begin next Monday evening, and we trust that all are thoroughly alive to the importance of making it well. A retreat is a time set apart for reflection on matters to which none can be indifferent. Education when properly understood is not simply the development of the intellectual faculties of man, but likewise the development of his moral nature. It has well been said thattheeducation of the intellect alone makes us worse than men, but that the education of the intellect and heart conjoined makes us what God intended us to be, something stamped after His own image and likeness. The student lives not on the bread of science alone; in common with all other men, his spiritual nature has wants and longings which proficiency in. studies, no matter how
great it may be, can never satisfy. It is therefore to minister to these wants and longing*, to devote special attention to the education of the heart and the development of the moral nature, that the retreat has become in all Catholic institutions a regular college exercise. That much of the success of the scholastic year depends on the manner in which it is made, on the profit which students derive from it, needs no demonstration. “ Unless the Lord build the house,” savsthe Royal Prophet, “ in vain do they labor that build it”; so also, m ty we add, unless the Lord bless the efforts of the student, in vain are all the.labors which he may impose upon himself.
Now, a retreat ma le with the proper dispositions, is precisely a means of drawing down on the labors of each and every student the blessings from above without which we know that these labors would be fruitless. Bishop Dupanloup, than whom no man in Europe more thoroughly understood the educational needs of the age, was accustomed to say that a good retreat at the beginning of the year was an infallible sign that all would go well till the end. In one of his discourses, in alluding to certain memorable triumphs achieved by the cause of religion and morality in France, he attributed much of the credit of them to the success of a students’ retreat twenty-five years befo.e in the seminary of Orleans.
Since the opening of the term, all those who are in any way connected with the m magement of the College have had only words of prai e for the exemplar}? deportment of the students, and the admirable spirit with which tiny are animated; the retreat is therefore looked forward to with not a little anxiety, since, if it is entered into and carried out with the proper dispositions, all will feel assured that the year ’87—’88, will be one to be long and favorably remembered in the annals of Notre Dame. The time is short: let the most he made of it. No grumbling or fault-finding of any kind, even though, as is generally the case, nothing may be meant by it. Especially no putiing off—as sometimes happens—all serious thoughts about the business of the retreat till the last moment. From the opening exercise it should clearly appear how firmly all are convinced that the retreat is one of the most important events of a college career, perhaps of a lifetime. More particularly for those whose college days are drawing to a close, and who are soon to take their place in the busy scenes of the world, should it be a season of serious and prayerful reflection. They cannot clo.^e their eyes to the fact that in this, as in other matters, their example will be powerful in influencing others for good or evil. Besides, they should remember that happiness and usefulness depend on one’s occupying the place which Providence has marked out for him. The choice of a state in life will soon be forced upon them. It is therefore for them a -solemn duty during these few days of retreat to seek the light to guide them in selecting the station in which God wishes them to be, and to deserve the graces necessary in order to discharge its duties faithfully,	W,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
201
The First Commencement at Notre Dame.
[The fallowing. taken from the Philadelphia Catholic Herald of Aug 28, 1S45. is a report of the first Commencement of our Abna Mab-r after its ch irter in 1844. We are sure it will not be without interest to our readers:]
Bertrand, August 7, 1S45.
Air. Editor.—T attended the public distribution of premiums to the students of the University of Notre D.tme du Lac, which took place on the first of this month; and, being the first thing of the kind which ever took place in this section of the country, the numbers who attended the novel scene were large and respectable. About 9 o’clock in the morning, the entire vicinity of the University was crowded with all kinds of travelling vehicles; while the different apartments of the University and its vicinity were scrutinized and examined according to each one’s taste. The different apartments of the University were closely examined by many strangers who had never before visited the institution; all expressing themselves highly pleased with everything they saw, especially the clean, airy, and spacious dormitories of the pupils; others ranged along the shores of the adjacent lakes, while the Catholic portion, especially the ladies, might be seen clustering round the chapel on the island dedicated to Our Lady of the Lake, and entering, as it were by stealth, (for its doors are not open to the public) to offer a hasty but earnest prayer for the conversion of sinners, of which the good Father Marrivault was sure to remind them. But the greatest rush was to the saloon occupied by the splendid museum—lately purchased by the institution from Dr. Cavalli, of Detroit, who had been collecting it at a great expense for many years. It is a splendid collection of beasts, birds, fishes, rep. tiles, antiquities, etc., etc., from the various parts of the globe, and the rapid changes undergone by the features of many an unsophisticated child of the west, while scanning the big black bear, the gaudy and magnificent bird of paradise, the austere and imperative tribe of eagles, until he arrived at the inexplicable Chinese curiosities, exhibited the admiration and interest they felt in reviewing the valuable collection. • All were deeply engaged, and apparently forgetting what had brought them to the lake, when the warlike sounds of the big drum of the South Bend Band was heard booming through the woods. Shortly after the Band came into view, drawn by four horses, and accompanied by a number of ladies and gentlemen; on their arrival, the music saloon was thrown open, and was soon crowded to a complete jam: how many remained outside I cannot tell, as I made sure to be among the “ ins.” As soon as all the apartment could contain were admitted, the students commenced a play, which for the space of an hour kept the audience in a roar of laughter; after which the great work of the day, the distribution of premiums, commenced. This pleasing task was performed by the Rev. Mr. Shaw, of Vincennes, who appeared several times to he much interested ■whilst bestowing the coveted prize, and placing
the crown of distinction on the brow of .the delighted and victorious. During the distribution many incidents occurred which drew forth' the warm applause of the entire audience; out of many 1 will relate one—among the number who received the greatest number of crownsand premiums,was a little fellow named Haquin, about 12 years of age, from your good city of Philidelpbia. His great success enlisted the entire audience in his behalf, even the Rev. Mr. Shaw could not conceal his admiration of the young and promLing’pupil. The boy’s dress, though comfortable, still denoted that he was not among the favored children of fortune. Feeling a more than ordinary interest in the little fellow, 1 ascertained after all was over, that he is an orphan hoy, and was brought to the University of Notre Dame du Lac from St.John’s Orphan Asylum, Philadelphia. But here he stood, equal, aye, superior to the cherished sons of the rich and wealthy, carrying away the marks of honor and distinction, which would occupy such compic- ’ nous places, if acquired by his wealthy competitors.; but he poor fellow, has no place for them but a small wooden box, where they will be unseen and uncared for by all save him-elf. But they will not be useless, far from it I they will cheer and encourage him to greater efforts, and remind him of the unceasmg care and more than parental kindness which God provided him with in the place of his natural parents. I select this from many similar examples at this institution, as being calcu'ated to give a better idea than the most geneial. description of the things~noiselessly and silently being done at the U. N. D. du Lac.
I am, Mr. Editor, yours truly,
M. R. K.
Books and Periodicals.
. —We have a primer entitled “A Modern Wonder” which sets forth with singular fulness and brevity what is going to be in Wide Awake for a year ahead. The primer is not very long. The little pages are ea-^y to read. But it holds such wealth of learning and entertainment, you wonder how so much can be got into a dozen months; and yet you read on the title page that the half is not told. Itz'5 a wonder! Wide Axvake is a veritable, changing from month to month and from year to year, and alvyays growing better apparently. The Holiday number .contains the Premium List of 32 pages. They give a boy or girl who gets subscribers almost as much in his choice of two or three hundred things as the money he sends amounts to! And the things are such as people want; a good many of them new to most of us. Even the Premium List is good reading. Send for, the primer to D. Lothrop Company, Boston.	.	.
—The readers of St. Nicholas will discover in the December number, that Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett has created a worthy companion character to “ Little Lord Fayntleroy,” in the heroine of. her
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
story, “Sara Crewe; or, What Happened at Miss Minchin’s,” and, as in the earlier story, the author’s conceptions are aided in their setting forth by the work of the illustrator, Mr. R. B. Birch. Mr. Frank R. Stockton administers a salutary little lesson to both voung and old in one of his admirable stories, « The Clocks of Rondaine,” the first pirt of which appears in this number; and the Reverend Washington Gladden, in “ Santa Claus in the Pulpit,” reveals the good old saint in a new role. H. H. Boyesen tells the strange story of “The Bear that had a Bank Account.” Edward Duffy, who took part in the ascension of the great air-ship from St. Loui<, in June last, recounts the stirring adventures which attended the start, the voyage, and the descent, and tells of the novel, and often thrilling experiences with which he met on his trip, “ Three Miles High in a Balloon.” “ The Children’s Christmas Club of Washington City,” is a brief history, by Edmund Alton, of the origin and development of a notable organization which each year gives a Christmas dinner and an’enter-tainment to the poor children of Washington City. Mary Mapes Dodge, Mary E. Wilkins, Amalie Rives, Edith Thomas, and H. C. Bunner contribute . the poetry for the number, and there is the usual complement of short sketches jingles, and pictures.
— The Art Amateur for December contains a charming colored plate of “ Pansies,” fine studies of “ Holly and Mistletoe” and “ China Asters,” and a page of timely and useful suggestions for Christmas decoration. The other designs include a beautiful extra size classic figure (Hero)—the third of a series of six panels for painting or outline embroidery; an admirable arrangement of “ Orange Lilies ” for a vase or embroidery, a very pretty fishplate decoration—one of a set of six; a large and bold design of blackberry (vines and fruit) for wood carving; three musical cupids for tapestry painting, a fine pomegranate altar frontal and su-perfrontal design with full directions for treatment,, and some pleasing diaper motives for curtain embroidery. Specially notable features are an excellent drawing of Knaus’s “Holy Family” in the Catherine Wolfe collection, four delightful studies of children by Lobrichon,and two pages of very attractive studies of furniture and interior decoration for the ordinary home. There are valuable practical'articles on still-life p tinting (dead game) and flower painting in oils,tapestry painting and artistic picture framing. The collector receives p irticular attention in a new department called “ The Cabinet,” which includes a fully illustrated article on Japanese “ Snuff Bottles,” a curious account of “Collecting in China,” and numerous interesting notes. The Metropolitan Museum Exhibition, art in Boston, Mrs.Wheeler’s show of embroideries, and other current topics re- ceive due noticei.and “My Note-Book” bristles as usual with fresh and piquant paragraphs. A , special illustrated series of articles on the furnish* ing and decoration of the average country house is announced to begin .with the January number. .
■■—The-December number of The Popular Sci-ence-Monthly is one of .even more than the usual
\ ■ ■ . - -- ■
variety and attractiveness. The opening article, “Inventions at Panama,” by Stuart F. Weld, embodies descriptions of the engines and devices of recent invention by means of which the excavation of M. De Lesseps’s canal, which certain engineers had pronounced a chimerical undertaking, has been made practical. The new article by the Hon. David A. Wells—the sixth in his “Econom:c Disturbance Series”—relates especially to the “Changes in the Relative Values of the Precious Metals.” In it ' the author shows that the selection of metals for coinage will be determined by the wants of the peoole using them, and these by the scale of their traffic; that instead of one or two, three metals are, and are likely to continue, in use; and that all attempts to regulate the matter by legislation, except in recognizing what is, will be futile. In “The Rise of the Granger Movement,” Mr. C. W. Pierson narrates an interesting chapter in the recent economic history of our country. Mr. Grant Allen gives, in “American Cinque-Foils,” a bright and valuable contribution to American botanical lore. Professor B. E. Fernow, in a lecture on that subject, explains the nature and importance of “Our Forestry-Problem.” Mr. H. W. Bartol points out “The Dangers of Receiverships,” some of which have been imposingly enforced in recent years by the wrecking of corporations which might have worked out of their difficulties if they had been left alone. M. Berthelot’s “Metals of Ancient Chaldea” and Mr. Newell’s “The Color of Words” are articles of peculiar and curious interest. A portrait and sketch—the latter by J. Howard Gore—are given of John Jacob Baeyer, a distinguished German geodetist.
Personal.
—William H. Arnold, ’83, has left Washington for an extended tour through Europe.
. —EugeneF. Arnold,’82,is meeting with merited success in legal practice at Washington. He is now one of the leading lawyers of the Capital.
—Miss Lizzie Hutchinson and Miss Annie Towle, amiable and highly esteemed young ladies of Chicago, were at Notre Dame last Sunday on a visit to relatives.
—Notre D.ime boys have come to the front in the Temperance Cause. The organization of the Diocesan Union of Grand Rapids,. Mich., resulted in the election of James E. McBride, ’73, as President, and Joseph V. P. Mukautz, ’70, as' VicePresident.
—Rev. T. M. O’Leary, Assistant-Rector of the Cathedral at Ff.Wayne,hasbrganized a new lecture course to he given at Library Hall this winter. In the list of bookings occur the names of Rev. Father Cook,of Detroit; Rev.Father Walsh,of Notre Dame; Rev. Dr. Quigley, of Toledo, and Rev. Father Cusack, of Day ton.	. . '
—Miss Rebecca Carroll, a near relative of Charles Carroll, of iCarrollton, and of the first Arch-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	203
bishop of Baltimore, died Saturday morning in Washington, D. C., after having received the rites of the Church. All at the University and Academy who met Mi>s Rebecca Carroll, when she spent the summer here a year and a half ago with her amiable sister, will not fail to remember her before the altar, and they offer their heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved relatives. The Divine Sacrifice of the Mass was offered here Tuesday morning for the repose of her soul. May she rest in peace!
—Among the visitors during the week were: Rev. Charles Deceuninckz, Bruges, Belgium; Miss I. Ford, Elkhart, Ind.; E. G. Lodeman, Lansing, Mich.; P. Frain, C. R. llaitman, Denver, Col.; Dr. E. L. Buckey, Baltimore, Md.; Miss M. Dillon, Chenoa, Ill.; W. Y. Chute, Minneapolis, Minn.; Miss E. Flannery, Mrs. S. Post, L. Simon, Mrs. A. Rintelman, Mrs. F. Schaub, M. Curran, N. Nicolai, Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Healy, P. Cavanagh, Miss H.Winslow, Misses M. and N. Cahill, Mrs. G. Koester, the Mis«esHutchinson, Chicago,Ill.; Mrs. A. Eschbach, Warsaw, Ind.; R. W. Park, Florence, Italy; Mrs. Fuerbringer, Jefferson, Wis.; J. H. Roush, Lindsey, O.; J. P. Roush, Bellevue, O.
—Rev. Father Fitte, C. S. C., preached in St. Mary’s Church, Chicago, on Thanksgiving Day. The Chicago 7'irnes of the 25th ult. contained the following:	-
“The members of the Catholic Library Association turned out en masse for Thanksgiving services at St. Mary’s. R--v. Father Fitte, Professor ol'Philosophy at Notre Dame University, delivered an eloquent address on the relations between religion and science, forecasting the period when their mutual harmony and independence should be triumphantly vindicated. He gloried in the magnificent advances of science in the nineteenth century. The human mind, which reflects the glory of the Creator, had harnessed to its chariot of progress the titanic forces of nature. Tntelli gence had been spread broadcast on the wings of steam and electricity. The press had opened the treasures of human knowledge to the most humble. It was the modern fever of Arch medes. But these gigantic forces needed guidance to prevent moral, social, and political catastrophes. Religion was this wise and safe guiding power. The Church had ever been the foster-mother of science and national progress. Leo XIII was the patron of philosophy and let. ters. He has given a new impetus to the cultivation of the muses. It is the duty of all Catholics, not only to improve their own minds by all available sources of knowledge, but to lift up and enlighten the masses by correct moral, religious and social principles, and thus counteract those modern errors of materia.ism and positivi-m which must degrade humanity, and logically end in socialism and anarchy.” .
Local Items-
—Retreat!	,
—Navigation is closed.
—“Ah! there,‘tin horn’!”
—The lakes are frozen over.
—Christmas falls on Sunday this year.
—Simon is the first to invest in a «tile.”
—The ice will soon be thick enough for skating.
—The parts have been assigned for the next play.
—Repairs are being made in the college chapel.
—The Juniors prefer the “rush ” football game.
—For first class printing, Hellas is still in the lead.
—The lecture course opened with a good attendance.
—Frank Oakes Rose, Washington Hall, next Friday.	’
—Special classes have been organized in calisthenics.	=
—One more dramatic entertainment before the holidays.	•
—The first “skate” of the season was enjoyed on Wednesday last.
— Company “A,” Hoynes’ Light Guards, will have a dress parade soon.
—The cold weather will cause'the usual number of exciting billiard contests.
—The drama of “St. Peter” will be presented in Washington Hall Dec. 15.	‘
—The St. Thomas’ Academy will soon have the first disputation of the scholastic year.
—We hope the winter weather will not, as in former years, he open—to many objections.
—The Rugby football fiends will p acti.-e daily until the beautiful snow drives them from the campus.
—Frank Oakes Rose, the popular lecturer, next Friday. The lecture will be illustrated witn. the stereopticon.	•	’
—A long-felt want, in the shape of a more extensive system of steam-heating apparatus in the smoking-room, has been supplied.
—Over fifty Sorin Cadets have been enlisted thus far. Their equipments are entirely new this year and were ordered especially for them.
—-Let it be well understood that the managers of the Lecture Course are in no way responsible for the appearance of the “ man-bear.”	-
—There has been considerable talk about sub- • stituting oil for coal as fuel at the University this winter. As yet the plan has failed to materialize.
—Judging from the reports of football games, it would seem that the rules require considerable modification in order to meet the demands of civilization.
—Prof. S. M. Spedon’s delightful entertainment was greatly enjoyed by those who witnessed it. His crayon work was excellent as were also his impersonations.	.	_
—After a long explanation the Professor wished to know if anyone had any question to ask. He was astounded when an impatient Junior asked him' . what time it was.	,	,
—The delightful little musical soirees which have been given by the Johnson Glee Club, in the reading-room, during the past week, reflected no small credit on the young musicians, and should* be continued by all means.	.
—Notre Dame’s College cheer, “'Rah! 'Rah! 'Rah! Nostra Domina!" was adopted-by. the stir-'
204
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ dents of the Senior department in 1879, in preference to “ S—s—st! Nostra Domina / Boom! ” “ S—s—st 1— Boom!—Ah-h-h!” and similar cries.
—Few persons can realize the baneful effects of voiceful, but tuneless, singing, until they themselves become the victims thereof.	.
—Oa leaving your room, either for a long call or a short call, see that your light is turned off. Before retiring, do the same.
—The Pansophic.il Conversation'll Society spent Wednesday evening pleasantly. Several new members were duly initiated. Essays were read by several erudite writer-, and there was a hot debate. Refreshments were served during the meeting.
—The students in the Law Department this year are doing excellent work under Prof. Iloynrs, and the Moot-courts held this fall do credit to the Professor and his pupils. The trials and debates have been of a character highly complimentary to those' participating.
—Additional facilities have been provided for the purpose of raising the temperature in the Senior smoking-room. This will prevent the possibility of anyone shrinking up with the night air. The old wooden benches have been replaced by more luxurious seats.
—Mr. Mo<es Livingston, the enterprising clothier of South Bend, has presented the students ’olhce with an elegant French plate glass mirror. It is a thing of beauty and well ad ipted to reflect the manly forms and splendid “fits” of the youthful gleaners in the fields of science.
—A member of the Faculty, lately returned from New York, says that The Sun is the great paper in the Metropolis. Thedemand foritamounts to a perfect craze. Its noble work in the late election was the cause of the greatest “ boom” in journalism ever witnessed in this or any other country.
—The many friends of the Michigan University football team will be pleased to hear of the boys’ success in the game played at Chicago, on Thanksgiving. Day against an eleven picked from the Chicago alumni of Harvard and Yale colleges. The Ann Arbor team won by a score of 26 to o.
—The Orchestra is composed of the following members: E. Howard, A. Plato, C. Senn, C. Burger. J. Pfau, E. Melady, C- Spalding, N. Franklin, L. Preston; Brothers Basil, Leopold; Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C.; Professors Paul, Gallagher, and Prof. Krugg, Director. With such talent the
. Orchestra cannot help but be a success.
—The Law Debating Society considered the following question at its last meeting: “ Resolved, that clergymen are more beneficial to society' than lawyers.” Messrs. Hummer, Nelson and. Griffin upheld the affirmative, and Messrs. Pollock, Rochford and Chacon argued in behalf of Blackstone’s disciples. Strange to say, the question was decided in fivor of the negative. There must be something wrong with the Law Society.
—A meeting was held Tuesday evening to form a Rugby football association. The organization was completed Thursday with the election of thefol-
lowing officers for one session: President, Bro. Paul, C. S. C.; Secretary, G. Craig; Treasurer, C. Stubbs; Captains, J. Cusack and G. Houck. Great enthusiasm was manifested in the meetings, and prospects are bright for a football team which will be able to cope with any eleven in the West.
—Wednesday, the 30th, the feast of St. Andrew, Apostle, was the forty-fifth anniversary ofVvy Rev. Father General’s_first Mass at Notre Dame. The fact that he is absent only increased the fervor of the prayers which were offered up to heaven that the heroic Founder, who has, under G"d, accomplished so much for religion and education, may return renewed in health and strength, and that he may be spared to celebrate many other happy returns of this memorable anniversity.
—A grand celebration in honor of the Golden o	_
Jubilee of our Holy Father Leo XIII will take place at Notre Dame on Thursday the 15th inst. In the morning solemn High Mass will be sung in the college church, anda sermon appropriate to the occasion delivered. In the evening musical and literary exercises will be held in Washington Hall, and the new drama, entitled “ St. Peter,” will be presented by the Thespian Association of the University. A “Jubilee” number of the Scholastic wilt be issued about the same time.
—Next Friday evening, Dec. 9, Mr. Frank Oakes Rose, the distinguished lecturer, humoiist and reader, will deliver his popular illustrated lecture, “Through London with Dickens.” A peculiar and most attractive feature of an evening with Mr. Rose is that it is abundantly illustrated with a costly triple lighted stereopticon. The views are all original, and were made in London some months ago especially for this purpose. The entertainment will be given in Washington Hall, Notre Dame. A.small admission fee will be charged!
—Only one inning was played in the Rugby football game Thursday, which resulted favorably to Captain Houck’s eleven. The wini ing team was composed of the following: Rush line—tj. Houck (centre), F. Albright, W. Springer, W. A. Matthews, J. Wilson, M. Smith, A. Joyce; Quarterback—P. Brownson; Halfbacks—H. Jewett, G. Cartier; Goal—E. Prudhomme. Those comprising Captain Cusack’s eleven were: Rush line — F. Fehr (centre), P. Nelson, F. Bernhart, A. Laikin, W. Boland, G. Cooke, S. Campbell; Quarter-back —B. White; Halfbacks—J. Cusack; '1'. O'Regan; Goal—P. Prudhomme. The score was 8 to 4.
—The second regular meeting of the Total Abstinence Society was held on last Sunday evening. A marked increase of members—and members of the right sort—was apparent. After the various committees had reported, the Rev. Director delivered a striking and highly practical discourse on temperance and the temperance question, which, if one might judge from the interest depicted on the countenances of his hearers, made a lasting impressions on the minds of all present. Father Walsh then announced that the members would soon have
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	zoi
kJ
an opportunity of listening to the distinguished lecturer of the National Union.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic in promptness is. proverbial. Through this and its many other merits it has attained to a circulation of twelve hundred and fifty, thus out-ranking Dartmouth, which, with a subscription list of eleven hundred, has hitherto claimed to have the largest circulation of any college paper. The Scholastic shows what a success a college paper can be with the financial and moral suppoit of the great body of the students and alumni, while, on the other hand, some of our exchanges are living or rather existing examples of the fact that without this moral support success is almost impossible.— 7'he Wabash.
—The eighth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Society was held in the society-room Saturday evening, Nov. 26. The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. The following were elected to membership: Messrs. M. Smith, G. Bombeck, V. Morrison, G. Cooke, O. Melady and S. Eyanson. The debate for the succeeding meeting was given out and to be impromptu between the two sides of the house as it sits. The subject of discussion for the evening was “ Resolved that executive clemency should have been shown to all the anarchists,” on the affirmative were Messrs. Paschel, Barrett and Dore. Their opponents were Messrs. Hughes, W. Larkin and Morrison. The debate was on the whole good, the shining light of the same being Mr. Larkin of the negative. The judges selected, Messrs. Barnes, F. Jewett and Hull, will hand in a sealed decision for reading at the next meeting.
—The Director of the Bishops’ Memorial Hall returns thanks for the following contributions: Mitre of green and white silk interwoven with sil-ver, owned by the first Bishop of California, presented by a Rev. friend. Last Ordo used by Most Rev. Archbishop Wood, with his signature and marginal notes; two engravings owned by Archbishop Wood, presented by Father Elcock. Fleur de Nazareth from the Holy Sepulchre, presented by Rt. Rev. Mgr. Straniero, as a remembrance of his pilgrimage to the? Holy Land, in April, 1887. Large photograph, of Rt. Rev. Mgr. Cochrane in his study, presented’ by Rev. Father Hannigan. India print engraving of Rt. Rev. Bishop Laval, presented by Dr. John Gilmary Shea. Life-size oil painting of Rt. Rev. Bishop Barry; opinion of Rt. Rev. Dr. Rico relative to the Hogan case; three letters written by Mathew Carey, received from G. L. Life and defense of Dr. Bonner, Bishop of London; “History of the Tractarian Movement,” by Edward G. K. Browne; “The Primacy,” byRt. Rev. F. P. Kenrick; Life of Lacordaire; Finotti’s Dibliographica; several rare pamphlets; photographs of American converts; photographs of Father Kirner and several priests who have lately died; complete volumes of the Catholic Rcviezv lor the years 1882-83, presented by Mr. E. Edgerly. Life-size lithogiaph of Archbishop Croke, Bishops Gilmour, Borgess and McMahon, received from H. L. Johns. “Discourse,” by Rt. Rev. Bishop
Shanahan, presented by Rev. Father Hannigan. Eight-page manuscript relating to Bishop Lavalie; six large photographs of the Abbey of Gtthsemani, presented by Rt. Rev. Abbot Benedict. Four-page manuscript written by Bishop Rappd in 1S73, presented by Rt. Rev. Mgr. Buff.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of thoce students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty]
SENIOR DEHARTMFNT.
Messrs. Alv right, Beckman.'P. Burke, Rarrett, J. Burke, Barner, Beckwith, Bombeck, Bronson, Ball, Barnard, Bles-.sington. J. Burns Bush, Brewer. E Burns. Boldrick, Cosgrove, Campbell. J Cassidy, Chacon. Craig. Carlier, Chute, T. Coady, E. Coady, Donohue, Dempsey, Dulaney, Ewing, Eyanson, Francka, Fi zhtirri-. Finckh. Fenton, Fisher, F. Fehr, Franklin, Fink, Griffin, Goebel, Gallardo, Gibbs, Gilmartin, Henderson; Higgins, Hobart, Heinemann. M. Howard, Hummer, E. Howard Houck. Jennings. Jacobs, Keating, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lappin. Leonard, Luhn, Langan, W. McDermott, Meehan. Metzger, Mulkem, J. McDermott. Major, V. Morri-on, Maloney. Maier. McAllister, McCart, Mack. McAuliff, McGrath, Melady. McCune, W. Morrison, Nations, Andrew N.choll, A. Nicholl, Norton. Neill, R Newton Nelson, Orr, O'Shea. Pollock, Pears, Plato, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme. Pender, J. Roper, Rochford, Rodriguez, Rothert, Rudd, Russell, G. RuelT-amen, Stubbs, Scholfield, .Sullivan, Schang, Short, S'ephenson, Su;ng, M. Smith, Tivnen, Velasco, Webb, Wall, Woods, Welch, M. White Wilkin, Whakn, Wright.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Allen, Berry, Bombeck, Bronson. Boyd, Backrack, Beaudry, Bolderick, Blake, Burger, Brown, Brady, Cunningham Cautho'rn, Campbell, Carelton, Crotty, J. Connors, Case, Coad, Chacon. F. Connors, Cavanagh Carney, < onnelly, Chute, J. S. Doherte, J. Doherty, Delaney, Daniels, Davis, Devine, Darragh, Falvey, Fleming, French, Freeman, Frei, Goodman Gal-breth, Graham, T. Greene, J Greene, Gale, Gonzales, Elder, Ebner, Girten, Houlihan, Henderson, Howard, R. Healy, P. Healy, Heiler, Hall, Hampton, Hoerr, Hackett, Hake,* Johnson, Jewett, Johns, Kinsella, Kutsche, Kellner, Kahn, Lane, Lahey, 1 eona d, Moncada, Monaghan,* J. Martin, W. Martin, Munroe, McGuire, McMahon, John McIntosh, James McIntosh, McGurk, H. Mallay, McIvers, McPhee, Miner, McGrath Mulqueen. McKenzie, McCartney, Neef, O’Hearn, W. O'Brien, G. O'Brten, O’Donnell, O’liara, M. O’Kan-', Oaks, Priestly, Paquette, Power-, Pritchard, J. Peck. Pecheux, Plau* Patterson, Quinlan, Rierdon, Reinhard. S. Rose, Rows«*y, Reidinger, Stephens, R. >palding, Shenk. Senn, L. Scherrer. Siher. Simpson, Smith, C. Spalding. Talbot, Thome, Wood, Wile, Wageman, Welch, Weldon, Wright, Wilbanks, Walsh.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters S. Backrack, A. Backrack, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour, G. Black, L. Black, Beerman,' C. Boettcher, Bates, Burns. Bradley, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Connelly, Cummings. Clendenin, Car. lile, Cudahy, Crane, Durand. J. Dunn, F. Dunn, Jessie Dungan, Jas. Dungan. Davidson, L. Dempsev, F. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, H. Dench, Ml Elkin, E. Elkin, G. -Franche, C. Franch-, Goldmann, Griffin, Greene, Hagus, Ha!lan, Healy, Halthusen, Jennings, Jaramillo, Johns, T. Kerwin. Kutsche, Kehoe, Koester, Keefe, Kinsella, Kane, Kaye, A.(Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Moonev, Marx, Mor-genweck, Maternes, A. Mayer. L. Mayer. G- Mayer. Mott, j. Marre, A. Marre, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, Oppenheimer, O’Mara, Perry, L Paul, C. Paul^ Plauntz. Parker, Quill, Rogers, Ricks cker, Sweet, Savage, Seerey, F Smith, E. Smith, Stephens, Speir, Tomkins, J. Toolen, F. Toolen, P. Trujillo, Thornton, Wal. Williamson. Wm. Williamson, Welch, W. Walsh, Wilson, Willien, Zieman. -
* Omitted last week by mistake. -
20(5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Class Honors.
[In the following list will be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
A. Fitzharris, J Burke, D. Donahue, F. Henderson, J. McWilliams, J. Fravcka, AV. Towle.J. Lappin. W.T ernan, II Barnes, R. Pollock, C. Pear', F. Kelly. A Longmire, L. Longmire, S. Boldrick, E. Burns, A. Nicholl, Allred Nicholl, J. Norton, J. Donelson, J. Jennings, F. Albright, AV. Monroe, W. Short, M. McCart. F. Bernhart, E. Stephenson, J. Mithen, E. Sawkins T Dempsey. S. Hummer, L. Preston, E Chacon, 1). Brewer, ft. Mack, J. McAuliff. F. "Wilkin, M. Kerwin, T. Brady. J. Hart, A. Beckman, J. Kelly, E. Fink, H. Wright F. Hagen, M. Quinlan, J. Kin sella', C. Fitzgerald, J. S. Doherty, J. Doherty, E. Roth. J. Cunningham, W. O'Neill, 11. Henuerson. L Hoffman P. Houlihan, F. Wile. E. Campbell, C Scbillo, F. Schillo. J. Galbreth, H. Bronson, P. O Hearn, J. Talbot, J. Howard, N. Beaudry C. Priestly, R. Bovd, J. Riordan, E. Decker, E. Howard, G. Monaghan, R. Spalding,*P. Healy S. Ro-e, J. O’Donnell, G. O’Brien, W. Martin, 11. Figge, F. Duffield, W. Lahrv, F. Powers. J Hackett, J. Greene, R Case, A. Daniels, J. McIntosh, W. Bray, J. Connors, L Hoerr, S. Fleming, W. Welsh. R- Graham, T. Falvey. J. McMahon, J. Hampton. L. Davis, V. McGuire, E. Jewett. E. Do<s, T. Gonzales, W. Brown, AV. Hartmann, G. Connolly. K- Newton, E. McIver', F. Connors, J. Wright, G Gale, W. Row-sey. F. Simpson, T. Wilbanks. F. Flynn, J. Cooke. S. Ciar-coschi, T. Noud. L. Thome, G. Frei. L. Reidinger, L. Kehoe, J. Mulquven, D. Cartier F. Chute, C. Johnson, M. O'Kane, H. Leonard, J. Peck, E. McCartney.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have . been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director OF STUDIES.]
SPECIAL COURSES.
Christian Doctrine.—A. Larkin, W. Larkin, C. Spencer, T. Goebel. E. Chacon, J. Mackey, M. Tiernan, M. Fenton, M. Reynolds, F. Baca, J. Whelan, B. Tivnen. E. Decker, L Keating. C. Pears. J. Burke, S. Tewkesbury, C. Cavanagh, J Reinhart, AV. Blake, F. Chute, J. Pecheux, W. O’Brien, F. Schenk. J. AVnght, F. Carney, R. Boldrick, E. Doss, J. McCormick, V. McGuire, E. McIvers W. O’Neill, G. O’Brien, R. Weldon, J. Connors, J. Girsch, L. Kehoe, E. Ryan, J. Bray, F. Connors, W. Row>ey, R- Npalding, P. W ood; Carman—F. Neef, J. Meagher, B. Hughes, S- Boldrick, F. Schillo, I. Ro'e, Fl Wile, J. 'I hat- her, G, Cooke, G- Monroe; French—AA7. Johnson, J. Geisler; Drazving— F- Fehr, C. Kerlin, J. Meagher, E. Roth, A. Fitzharri*, V. Morrison, W. Morrison; Piano—E. Stephenson, J. McWilliams, V. McGuire, E. Howard, A. Preston, P. O’Hearrr, AV. Wright. L Thome. W. Johnston, G. Freeman, A. Kut-sche, F. Schenk, R Velasco, J. Keating, L. Chute. J. Rem-hart, M. O’Kane, B. O'Kane, J. Gallardo F. Baca, F. Wile; Violin— J. Plau, A. Plato, Spalding. A. Schloss, R. Case; Telegraphy—R Vela-co,T.Gr-ene; Type-Writing—J.An-fenger, J. Brady; Phonogr phy—F. Wile, J. McGurk, E.
* Blessington, P/Piudhomme, S. Hummer, D. Cartier, AV. Monroe.
PREPARATORY COURSE
Latin-—H. Smith, H. Luhn, AV. McPhee, AV. Larkin; Greek—AV. Larkin. J McGrath, C. Cavanagh; Algebra— J. Fitharris, H. Leonard, W. O’Brien, C. Pears, C. Senn, C. Cavanagh, J. Mackey, L. Scherrer, D. Tewkesbury; Arithmetic—F. Wilkin, J. Fitzgerald, E. Sawkins, W. Short, E. Stephenson, L. Ebner, AV. Rowsey, E. Roth, AV. Jos-selyn; Grammar—S. Fleming, W. Lahey, R. Monroe, H. -: Miner, E. Sawkins, A\7. Short, R. Spalding, J. Nichols; ...Geography — V. Healy, AV. Lahey; United States History— AV. Lahey, N. Beaudry; Hading—G. Jack>on, AV. Jos-selyn, R. Case, J. Fitzgerald, F. Nichols, F. Neef, W. Wel>h, L. Thome; Orthography—^. Stephenson, G.-Monaghan,
E. McIvers, G.Jackson,J Fitzgeral-4,J. McMahon, E. Neef; . Poetry—K. Newton, Prose—E. Stephenson.
St. Paulina’s School, Chicago.
The writer of this recently had occasion to visit Chicago and, taking a deep interest in schools, called at St. Columbkille’s, corner of Paulina and Indiana Streets; there he found seven Brothers— Brother Urban, C. S. C., Superior—having under their charge some five hundred children, from the wee toddler of four up to the (in his own mind) important joung man of eighteen.
The'building is one of the finest of the kind in the city: four stories high, of pressed brick, and stands back some fifty feet from the street, the space in front being used as a play-ground for the children. In the basement, to the left, is a large 7	A 7	®	-
room used as a play-hall during stormy weather;
to the right is a room for coal, back of which is the I boiler room. The building may be heated by steam j or hot air as may be needed, thus doing away with : stoves and consequent danger therefrom; ventila- ■ tion, too, is well attended to, as fresh air is intro- ; duced direct from the outside into each room. The	;
class-rooms are large and well lighted, there being	1
six windows in each; and each pupil—of whom 1 each room can accommodate seventy-two—has a '■ desk for himself.	;
Taken altogether, it is one of the most complete 1 schools the writer has ever had the pleasure of vis-	i
iting, and the Brothers are doing a vast amount of	;
good, and trying to keep up the reputation they ’ have already earned, of being one of the very best teaching bodies in the United States. One feature of this school is deserving of special mention, and it is this: the boys who are large enough • and who have voices are trained to sing at Benediction ; and truly was the writer edified and astonished when he heard them sing" for the first time; they are under the direction of Brother Tobias, and they < are a credit to him and the school.
The school was built by Rev. Thomas Burke, ’ one of the oldest and most zealous priests of the Archdiocese; and the fact of there being not a cent of debt on it best exemplifies his ability and zeal.
Visitor.
THIRTEEN GREAT MISTAKES.
To yield to immaterial trifles.
To look for perfection in all our own actions.
To endeavor to mould all dispositions alike.
To expect uniformity of opinion in this world.
To m asure the enj -yment of others by our own.
To expect to be able to understand everything.	]
To believe only what our finite minds can grasp.	i
To look for judgment and experience in youth.	j
Noi to make allowance for the infirmities of others.	]
To worry ourselves and others with what cannot be | remedied.	* j
To consider everything impossible that we cannot per- I form. .	.	|
Not to alleviate all that needs alleviation as far as lies in our power.	-	’	|
It is a great mistake to set up your own standard of right I and wrong, and judge people accordingly.	1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLAStlC.	207
Saint TFlary’s Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—At the last regular reception, the Misses McFadden, Rend and Moran entertained the young ladies assembled with choice music.
—Rev. Father Fitte delivered ah eloquent sermon at High Mass on Sunday last and gave Catechism instructions at 2 p. m. instead of Very Rev. Father Corby.
—The Seniors in the 2d Prep. Class will not like it mentioned, so we are almost afraid to say that Emma Churchill “spelled down” all the girls in the class, Seniors included.
—Rumor says there is a French play in progress; but secrets should not be divulged before the proper time. If the rumor prove true, all will have a treat, for the French plays are always interesting and well carried out at St. Mary’s.
—The 2d Preparatory Class held a competition in Grammar lately, and those who excelled were, Misses Churchill, Brewer, Hull, K. Quealey, Bourne, Rogers,Young, O. Butler, Davis, Rannells, S. Dempsey, Plake and Rowsey.
—At the Academic meeting of Sunday evening, low notes were the exception. The Misses M. F. Murphy and C. Prudhomme were the young ladies selected to recite, and both deserve praise for the graceful natural manner in which they acquitted themselves. Rev. Father Fitte gave the good points.
—Last week recorded as welcome visitors at St. Mary’s: Mr. O. Burdick, Miss L. Hutchinson, Miss C. Beck, Miss A. Towle, F. S. Wright, Miss N. McEwen, Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Rend, Mrs. S. Port, Chicago, Ill.; Dr. W. H. Rowsey, Toledo, Ohio; C. D. Saviers, Columbus, Ohio; L. P. Chute, W. Y. Chute, F. B. Chute, Minneapolis, Minn.; Miss L. Haynes, Hartford, Conn.
—A visit to St. Luke’s Studio well repays one, for there are to be seen the efforts of the young ladies in all stages—those just beginning, as well a> those who are clashed as arti>ts. The first piece one notices is a beautifully finished crayon portrait of a little boy, whose eyes follow you as you go around to view the young ladies’ woik. Those deserving mention are the Misses-Gordon, Henke, Wehr, N. Meehan, Hutchinson, Sear, E. Coll and L. McNamara.
Individuality.
Decided traits of character which mark the individual and distinguish him from others, when united to an ingenuous and docile temper of mind, are the materials out of which sterling worth is made. The word individuality does not stand for any one endowment, faculty or gift, but it rather represents the sum total of characteristics which impart independence of mind—a strong personality; integrity of purpose.
Were we to venture an opinion, we would say that this independence of mind is the one thing necessary in the moral world to-day, not to our sex alone, hut to society at large. Remember our stipulation respecting the “ingenuous and docile temper of mind ” as the groundwork of sterling worth. and our proposition stands unimpeachable. Without strong individuality there can be noreal bravery. The mind and heart easily succumb to surrounding influences, and the person does what others do, not because the actions are right and proper in themselves, but because he is a coward and does not dare to differ from those about him. Fortunate for such a person if his associates are good: pitiable if they are not; fortunate, likewise, for society on the one hand, and pitiable for the commonwealth on the other.
The marked principles which proclaim in the soul, “Let justice be done, though the heavens fall,” were they to take deep root in the hearts of the rising generation, an easy remedy would be found for the chief defects which mar the happiness of so many home circles. Moral courage i< something above wealth, above position; aye, ami it is even superior to genius itself. Money cannot buy it; rank cannot ensure it; genius cannot command it. Wealth exalts the individual to a material distinction; correct principles elevate him to a plane far higher. They place him above the power of circumstances, and even of reputation.
Marked and nobleindividuality is notsynonymous with intellectual ability, for there are examples of persons possessed bf excellent talents who, notwithstanding, are completely devoid of strength of character; yet we must remember that public opinion is not an infallible tribunal. How many have been misjudged by this criterion! That superior talents cannot he found associated with sound judgment and deep integrity of morals is a very faulty conclusion, and worthy of none but shallow minds; unless, as the “Bard of Avon” declares,
“ Best men are moulded out of faults.” '
It is much more probable that when a reputation of weakness has been fastened upon one of superior mentality, that gossips and reckless writers have taken it upon themselves to stand as judges upon a nature which was above their appreciation, or, maybe, as one has said, “ Character is a matter of health,” that poor pay for good work, has brought the fine genius to bad fare, bad lodging, and consequent bad health. In such a case, surely, they who live sumptuously have no right to pass sen-, tence upon him.
But to return. Individuality may be compared to a reservoir into which the rills and streamlets of available traits are accumulated, and from whence they flow forth to benefit society at large, as waters are conducted to the numberless dwellings of a city from some unrecognized source, perhaps forty miles away. The dignity of a well governed state is due to men of sterling character, as the health of New York city may be due to Croton Lake. The civilization, the strength, the security of nations, depend upon the wise legislation which is
ids	The notre dame scholastic.
due to their well balanced, collective judgment.
Intrinsic moral woith constitutes a rank in itself. It is sure to exert an influence which always tells. One may have had comparative!}’ few advantages; mav be devoid of what the world calls culture; but his shrewd good sense is a secret epitome of advantage-; his culture is of an interior sort that imparts an intuitive understanding of the best thing to be done, and of the best way in which it should be done. Endowed with this good sense, the individual will make his mark; his influence will be felt and acknowledged, w hether it be in the work shop, counting house, or senate chamber.
Lord John Russell said: “ It is the nature of party in England to ask the assistance of men of genius, but to follow men of character.” Our ou n Fiauk-lin-attributes his success, political and literaiy, not to his personal talents or eloquence of speech, but rather to his industry, his perseverance and his earnest integrity of purpose. Fixed principles of right and a strict adherence to their dictates, constitute the sceptre by which men of mark rule the destinies of great nations. Their influence is more potent than that of kings and empeiors, because it finds a warm response and co-operation in the hearts of all good men.
We have said that a noble individuality is the one thing necessary in the moral world to-day. Possessed of this, youth who have acquired lessons of purity and virtue at home, would find the bravery to cairv them out when the surroundings of home and religion are not brought so forcibly to bear upon their lives. Dudes would be an extinct species, and shallow society belles would find some more noble employment than following extravagant fashions, and devouring confectionaries ad libitum.
Frances Carmien ( Class ’<&?).
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS. ORpER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AXD EXACT OBSERVANCE OF
RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	’
Par Excellence—Mi-ses Allen, Arpin, Andree, Brady, Balch, Bub, Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Boyer, Beschameng, Bourne, Bray, Butler, Bates, Beck. Claggett, Carey, Conners, Campagne, Clore, E Coll, 11. Dempsey, Ducey. M. Desmond, C. Destnond. Davis, Dunkin, Daube, English, Early, Ftannery. Fravel, Fitzpatrick. Fenton, Geer, Guise, Gordon, Hummer, Hughes, Hertzog, 1 lellmann. Hyland. M. Horner, I Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlen, Hellion, C.Hurley, Hillas, Hoflmann, Hutchinson, Hepburn. Kearns, Kennedy, Kohler, Kron, Keyes, La Berge, Si. F. Murphy, L.'Meehan, N. Meehan. M^r-e, E. McCarthy, McCormick, McEwen, McNamara,* Moore, C. McCarthy, Marsh,-Moran, McFadden, Mitchell, MarLy, Neff, L. Nicholas, E. Nicholas, O’Brien, Orr, Prudhomme, Piper, Papin, Quill, Quealev, G. Regan, Riedinger, E. Regan, Richardson. Robinson, Rowsey, Rannells. Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler, Sheehan, Saviers, M. Smith. B. Smith, Sloman Sear, Spier, Trask, Thompson, Van Horn, Van Mourick, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Wehr, Young, Zahm.
. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses T. Balch, Blaine, Butler, Burdick, Campbell. Crane, Churchill, Davis. Dempsey, Dolan, Dreyer, Farwell, Fritz, Foster, Hake, Hagus, Hull, Knaucr, Kloth, Lewis, Lauth, Longmire, Mercer, Miller, McCune,
B McCoimick, N. Morse, M. Morse. Newman. G. Papin, Rceu, Rhinehart, Rose, Rogers, Stapleton, Wyatt.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses A. O’Mara, A. Papin, L. Reeves, S. Smith.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Advanced Cot rse—Miss E. Horn.
Graduating Class, ist Course—Miss IT. Guise.
ist Class, 2d Div.—Misses M. F. Murphy, M. Rend, L. Van Horn
2i> Cl ss Mbses A. Reicinger, B. Snowhook.
2D Div.—Mis- O. O’Brien.
3d Class—Mi-ses E. Brady, M. Desmond, K. Gavan, G. Regan. L. Sears.
2d Div.—Misses M. Barry, II. Coll, L. Ducey, E. Flan-nety, M. Horner L. Hillas.
4TH Class—Misses C. Dempsey. T. Hinz, J. Latta, C. Mot an, E. McCarthy, L. P:per. G. Stadtler.
2D Div.—Misses M. Clifford. J English, K. Heffron, A. Keyes, I. Stapleton. M. Sheehan, M Smith.
5TH Class—Misses M. Bates, A. Blacklock, I. Bub, B. Claggett, F. Carmien, L. Dolan, L. Fravel. M. Hughes, L. Henke, 0. Hoffman, C. Hurley, M. Hummer, O. Knauer, E. Kearns, M. McEuen, N. Morse, M. Sullivan, E. Wright, M. Davis.
2D Div.—Mis-es M. Beck, M. Carev. E. Dempsev, J. Daube, M. Fitzpatrick, E. I larlen, B. 1 lellmann, F. I Jertzog, M. Hull, E. Lewis, L. Meehan, H. Meehan, E. Quealey, P. Sloman, G. Wehr.
6rn Class—Misses J. Bloom. E. Balch, T. Balch, E. Churchill, E Foster. H. Hake, A. Johnson, M Kennedy, B. Fenton, L. La Berge, M. McCormick. M. Newman, C. Prudhomme, M. Rhinehart, R.Van Mourick,L.Waterbury, K. Wagner.
2D Div.—Misses M. Andree, M. Arpin, M. Burton E. Bl.line, M. Coll. E. Fritz. M. Kohler, C. Kron, M. Loomis, G. Murpln, F. Marley, L. Nicholas. V. 0>r, M. Papin, H. Pug-ley, E. Regan, M. Richardson, J. Robinson, M. Simon, M. Thompson, A. Wyatt.
7TH Class—Misses C. Bray, E. Burns, M. Burns, C. Conner, M. Campbell. E. Davis, N. Dunkin, M. Geer, K. Hurley, E. Hagus, E. Longmire, L. Mercer, M McCune, K. McCarthy, M. Mitchell, E. Nicholas, E. O’Conner, N. Quill, G. Rowsey, D. Rogers, M. Rannells, B. Smith, I. Zahm.	.
2D Div.—Mi<ses M. Morse, A. O'Mara, L. Wiesenbach.
8th Class—Misses L. Dreyer, C. Kioth, B. McCormick, G. Papin. L. Reeves.
9TH Class—Misses F. Burdick, M. Miller, M. Rose, M. Reed, S. Smith.
10T11 Class—Miss Ella Burns.
.	- HARP.
Advanced Course—Miss M. Dillon.	.
first course;
6th~Class—Mi-ses L. Hilla.-, B. Snowhook.
7TH Class—MisS L. Waterbury.
.	GUITAR.
6th Class—Misses M. Burton, K. Desmond, L.Nicholas.
violin.
4TH Class—Miss B. Morse.
6th Class—Miss II. Studebaker.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Miss M. F. Murphy.
2D Div.—Mis-es K. Gavan, H. Guise.
2D Class— Miss C. Moran.
3D Class—Miss E. McCarthy.
2D Div—Misses M Barry, F. Carmien, N. Dempsey, C. Dempsey.
4m Class—Misses I. Bub. M. Carey, F. Hertzog, B. Hellmann, B. Mor.-e, H. Studebaker, C. McFadden. ’
5th Class—Misses E. Balch, B. Claggett, L. Hillas, C. Hurley. E. Kohler. C. Kron, M. McCormick. L. Nicholas, E. Nicholas, O. O’Brien, C. Prudhomme, M. Papin, B. Wagner.	"	.