LETTERS
Pf^hite ‘T Shirts
For tennis, golf or loafing .... their absorbency makes them ideal for any under the sun conditions. Get a supply tomorrow at Adler's.
$p5
«TK ORNBk... BOHN ( MSNNMN
Woody Herman Plug, by Woody
R K O Building
New York
May 1, 1946
Dear Editor:
Since you’re the man everybody looks to for keeping your College in the spotlight, I’m writing you about an idea that can be the biggest thing that ever happened to your Alma Mater.
Your College can have my entire Band, flown right out to the Campus in a 58-passenger PCA Capitoliner, to play free-of-charge for an end-of-the-semester dance or a big party for the whole College, if any one of the fellows or girls turns out to be the winner- of our Win A Band Contest.
Besides, the winner will get a thousand dollars in cash plus a self-charging portable radio.
The more students you can get to enter the Win A Band Contest, the better the chances are that the grand-prize winner will be in your College.
Now’s the time to get started. There’s just one way to get details, and that’s to get as many students as possible to tune in the “Woody Herman Show,” Friday nights over your local American Broadcasting Company station.
Here’s hoping that someone from your College will be the grand-prize winner.
Sincerely
Woody Herman
❖
The Pleasure Was Ours!
411 So. 4th St.
Aurora, Illinois May 1, 1946 Sir:
Last Monday I had the pleasure of visiting your campus and attending the American Society of Mechanical Engineers conference. I found the inspection tour thru your press building especially interesting as I am working on our own college newspaper (Illinois Institute of Technology). I want to thank you and your personnel for the courtesy shown us. . .
Sincerely yours
।	Paul A. Thompson
Dr. Mermens Assails American Daily Press
The American daily press must return to its high standards of fairness
and accuracy if it is
Dr. Hennens
to safeguard the interests of the people and further the cause of peace, Dr. Ferdinand A. Her-mens, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, declared in the current issue of the Ave Maria, leading Catholic weekly published at Notre Dame.
“It is difficult,” stressed Dr. Hermens, ‘to secure adequate information after a long and bloody war. During a war the propagandists on both sides simplify their tasks by combining black wash for their enemies with whitewash for their own country. . . . During the war we were told that little could be done about such developments. However, hostilities in Europe have been over for nearly a year now, and the propaganda mills are still rolling, grinding out the old combination of praise and damnation. It is time for these propaganda mills to close down.”
Dr. Hermens cited an example of one newspaper correspondent in Europe who said that he “had more visible evidence of malnutrition and hunger in New York in the winter of 1931 than he has seen anywhere in Germany.”
“Something is wrong,” continued the Notre Dame educator, “with the timing on the type of newspaper articles referred to. Hardly was the paper dry on which they were printed than news from Germany took an alarming turn. Rations in the British zones were reduced to slightly above 1,000 calories a day, and there is talk of further cut. On top of it all, there comes the report that in the British zone dairy cattle will be slaughtered in order to provide additional meat. The children’s milk supply is endangered, and many a small farm will lose its draft animals.”
Dr. Hermens concluded: “American policy is not ordinarily governed by lunacy. Our people have retained their good sense. They need the facts, and they need leadership. Our daily press which, in the past, has observed higher standards of fairness and accuracy than the press of many another country, should be mindful of the obligations imposed upon it by its own traditions. It is only by returning, to such standards that it can safeguard the interests of the people and further the cause of peace.”
BELL
TELEPHONE
SYSTEM
s')
Laboratory in a Birch Thicket
This thicket of birch trees is one of the Bell System’s scientific workshops.
Here our scientists have strung telephone wires through the crowded branches to learn just how much tree rubbing and abuse the protective coverings and insulation on new types of wire will stand.
Important? With more than fifteen million insulated "drop wires” connectinghome and business telephones to nearby poles, we’ve got to be sure that the wire we use is the very best that can be produced.
This is but one small example of hundreds of experiments and research projects carried on constantly by Bell Laboratories to make Bell Telephone . Service more dependable,more useful, to more people.
3
ALL AMERICAN POEM
Kan. someone maybe tell my Wy.
I’m Ga.—Ga. over you?
Each day I love you Mo. and Mo.
And I sure Minn, it too!
I asked your Pa.—he says Ok.
So Miss, why fret Ore. fuss
When all it Tex. is U. and Me.
To make a perfect U.S.A.
A COUPLE OF JOKES
Gently he pushed her quivering shoulders back against the chair. She raised her beseeching eyes in which faint hope and fear were struggling. From parted lips, her breath came in short, wrenching gasps. Reassuringly, he smiled at her. Bzzzzzz, went the dentist’s drill. (Had you fooled, didn’t we?)
Mr. (Name withheld by request): How ‘ is it that you and the boy next to you handed in identical answers in my history test?
Mr. (ditto) : Have you never heard, history repeats itself?
Who is the wise sage that said “Clev-ermen don’t make good husbands, because clever men don’t become husbands.”
And then there was the one about the three Chinese girls that never got married: To-Young-Tu, Tu-Dumb-To, and No-Yen-Tu.
❖
THE COLLEGE SAGE POETIZES
Lots of little zeros
Not so very quaint Make my graduation Look as if it ain’t.
❖
PA'S TO BLAME
The gangling inductee was being questioned by the doctor with reference to past illness. The doctor asked him: “Have you ever had pneumonia, scarlet fever, mumps, pleurisy, diptheria?”
To which the inductee replied: “Pleurisy.”
“On which side?” asked the doctor.
“On my father’s side.”
(That's O.K. Bud, we don’t get it either. Some Pre-med asked us to put it in.)
❖
Bob: “So Frank’s fine now, but what did they operate on him for?
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
Paul “They removed a brass rail that had been pressing against his foot for years.”
ADAM PHOOL REPORTS
Dear Lovers,
This past weekend I went nuts watching the wolves of the junior class trotting their queens around. However, all the boys were not exactly the gay, young debonair type that is expected of N.D. B.T.O.’s. For instance, I overheard one gal say to a local Romeo, “If wishes came true, what would you wish for?” Taken back a little, he replied, “I’m afraid to tell you.” She, “Go ahead you sap. What do you think I started this wishing business for?”
Then, of course, there was the eager beaver homme d’amour like I came across in the Caf. His girl friend, pouring him a drink, (You see, it had to be the Caf because through an unfortunate set of occurences, I am campused — but use your imagination) said, “Say when.” My eager friend replied, “Any time after the first drink is OK by me.”
Well, hungry one’s, I must toddle along to dream about my woman, Mabel Sue, and the day when I can import her —Hubba, Hubba!
Your buddy-buddy, ADF
AROUND THE CAMPUS
Tino was in Physics class one day, when the prof asked him, “How many natural magnets are there?”
Tino:“Three, sir.”
Prof. “Name them.”
Tino: “Blondes, brunettes, and red heads.”
Now I lay me down to sleep,
The lecture dry, the subject deep, If he should quit before I wake, Give me a poke for heaven’s sake.
Senior: “There are some 30 odd profs in the Engineering Departments.”
Soph: “So I’ve noticed.”
PD: “It seems to me you have been coming before me for the last three semesters.”
Offender: “Can I help it, Father, if you don’t get promoted.”
4
1
America Learns to Make Its Own Camphor
For years, the Japanese maintained a tight hold on the world’s camphor supply.
Americans had to have camphor in ever-increasing quantity for the manufacture of photographic film, celluloid, plastics, perfumes, medicines, lacquers and disinfectants. But they were forced to pay whatever price the Japanese chose to ask. And even at 1919’s exorbitant top figure of $3.75 a pound, they were never sure of a full supply.
Men of Du Pont undertook to make this country independent of such an unsatisfactory source. They knew that camphor could be synthesized, but to make it at low cost and in large quantities was an entirely different matter. Long years of experiment and research produced little but disappointment. But finally, in 1932, a way was found to produce low-cost chemical camphor on a commercial scale that matched nature’s product in color, texture, scent and usefulness.
C]0H]6O from Turpentine
Basic material from which Du Pont camphor is made is pinene, obtained from turpentine from southern pine trees. The formula of pinene (CioHi6) seems to differ but little from that of camphor (CioHiG0), but the structural difference is considerably greater than is indicated by the single atom of oxygen. Although the chemical conversion of pinene to camphor is not difficult to accomplish in the laboratory, to do so economically on a commercial scale taxed the ingenuity of many Du Pont chemists, engineers and designers.
World War II completely shut off the supply of natural camphor. But within a few months Du Pont production men were able to step up the output of the man-made product to take care of military, medical and civilian needs. Today this supply is going into the manufacture of hundreds of products that will bring
I More facts
about DuPont—Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 6 P.M. CST.on NBC
more comfort, more satisfaction, more joy into the lives of millions.
All the men at Du Pont—chemists, mechanical engineers, civil engineers, and hundreds of others who worked on this development—feel great pride that they were able to free their country from foreign sources for such a vital material in our industrial life.
• • • .
SYNTHESIS OPENS NEW ERA IN PERFUME MANUFACTURE
Some of the most interesting discoveries at Du Pont have come from "fundamental” research groups assigned to establish new scientific facts without regard to immediate commercial use.
Synthetic musk is an example. Musk is the most important single ingredient used in perfumery, a fixative blending many subtle odors into one fragrance and making it lasting. Until recently its only source was the musk deer of Tibet, an animal nearing extinction.
Then Du Pont organic chemists, in their long-time study of giant molecules, noted that a group of ring compounds called macro-ketones resembled musk in odor. Following up
n
their observations with intensive research, they produced compounds of even more pronounced likeness.
Now, in "Astrotone,” perfumers are offered a synthetic musk that is of a determined strength, immediately usable and as powerful as the pure essence of natural musk.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
"WILL AN ADVANCED DEGREE HELP ME AT DU PONT?"
There are many Ph.D.’s at Du Pont. However, the majority of our chemists, chemical and mechanical engineers, ' physicists and biologists are Bachelors or Masters. Every effort is made to see that full recognition is made of a man’s scientific training, as well as his special experiences and aptitudes. For certain openings, a higher degree is a distinct asset.
RES. U.S. PAT. off-
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . ..THU O UGH CHEMISTRY
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS a CO. (INC.) WILMINGTON 98, DELAWARE
5
^he ZNotre Qame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Qneen, feaHMeb
By BILL BRAUN and FRANK McCARTHY
JOHN DEFANT, Editor
JACK HUMMEL PAUL WEYRAUCH GEORGE COLLINS JOHNNY WALKER JOE CHENEY
Managing Editor Sports Editor
■ Navy Editor Feature Editor News Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
SAM SMITH ----- The Crow's Nest BILL BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	-	- Soph Soap
JERRY OLWELL -	-	-	_ Campus Clubs
¥
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL -	-	- Photographic Editor
AL KUNTZ	CHRISTY WALSH
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA (Cover by Jim Ferstel)
CONTRIBUTORS
JACK SULLIVAN BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY ROBERT J. LEANDER JACK MINZING JOHN A. O'CONNOR
JAMES JOHN JIM REGAN JOHN THOMAS DICK DEITZ
JIM CLEMENS .PETE BROWN
JIM MALER MEL GODDARD DICK DOWDLE CLARENCE ZIMMER LEONARD DENTE JOE WILCOX JOHNNY KRUEGER
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
ARTHUR COUGHLAN -	-	-	- Circulation Manager
M. E. VARGA ’	-	-	-	-	-	-	- Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles— San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
As often happens in large universities, many of the administrative decrees cause momentary rebellion among the student body, but are soon forgotten . . . we wonder if this will be so in the case of the recent bulletin issued by the Student Accounts Office announcing an advance $50.00 registration fee for the Fall Semester.....As this is being written, the Student Council is facing its first big test, arbitrating the matter with a representative faculty group to determine its validity. . . . Outside of the almost inevitable question, “where am I going to get the fifty bucks?” . . . there is being built up a feeling among the student body that a barrier exists between them and the Accounts Office . . . and they would like to have this bulletin rescinded . . . or* at least modified to agree with the pocketbooks of those who have very few dollars to meet such occasions. . . . This is not said in irony . . . but with the sincere hope that the Accounts Office will realize that it has struck deeper than the bottom of our pocketbooks . . . and that adjustments would be appreciated. . . .
The big weekend is over . . . Alladin’s lamp has burned out . . . the genii have faded into the shadows of the Rock . . . and the echoes of Jimmie Lunceford’s solid music has diminished to a murmur scarcely audible above the soft spring breezes . . . but in our memories will live and be relived many times the events of a most complete and enjoyable Junior Prom ... to the committee we say “well done.”
And in a special way the Prom will not soon be forgotten ... at least by Bill Walsh who missed connections and nearly ended up by going “sandwich” ... or by Frank DeLeo who had to dance on his tiptoes all nite . . . just to keep up with his date . . . nor by Alvin Stolze . . . who spent half of the evening staring at the aviatrix on the flying carpet . . . who incidentally was not a Saint Mary’s girl . . . and most tenderly ■will it be remembered by the campus florists . . . with posterior emphasis on the “tender” . . . and perhaps by a trio from Alumni Hall . . . who put the finishing touches on a big weekend by receiving a traffic ticket from a policeman on the flaming motorcycle. . . .
❖
If the current coal strike continues to be enforced, the Senior Candle-Light Banquet may prove to be more practical than novel . . . and as graduation draws nearer, the halfway mark has been bluntly announced with the distribution of pinkies ... a pinkie, by the way, is a blushing reminder that your marks may soon be in the red . . . which brings to mind a recent suggestion that they be issued on green paper . . . and cut in the shape of a banana . . . with apologies to Chiquita . . . and to Lido Shiamanna . . . who is still reaping the benefits of a recent Outdoor Advertisingcontest of which he was the proud winner. . . .
❖
Out on location where the pageant of Dorm F is enacted daily from dawn till dusk, we overheard one of the laborers bragging to a ND sidewalk engineer . . . Said he . . . “My boss thinks that I’m working hard, but I’ve fooled him . . . I carry the same hod of bricks up and down the ladder all day long ... we learned later that this man gets paid weekly . . . very weakly that is . . . another issue and still no nylon ad . . . Oh, well, the bowling season is almost over anyhow
(Continued on page 33)	1
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
- VOL, 87, NO. 7
MAY 10, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Cardinal Tien Visits Notre Dame
Foreign Service Exams To be Held Sept. 30th
June 17 is the deadline for applications to take the competitive examination for appointment as Foreign Service Officer, Paul C. Bartholomew, head of the department of Political Science, announced early this week. Written examinations will be held September 30 and October 1, 1946.
Eligibility for appointment includes: 1) Applicant must have been born between July 1, 1915 and July 1, 1925; 2) He must be a citizen of the United States for at least 15 years prior to July 1, 1946; 3) May not be married to alien; 4) Must have bachelor's or equivalent degree from an accredited college oi- university, or if course was interrupted due to war, he must, at time of submit-ing application, have completed approximately three fourths of the course for the degree; 5) Must be able to read French, German, or Spanish; and 6) Must be a member of the armed forces, active or inactive, or have been honorably discharged.
The Foreign Service, under the direction of the Secretary of State, conducts American political and economic relations abroad through diplomatic and consular channels. Foreign Service officers are the career officers of the Service, assigned abroad as counselors of embassies or legations, consuls general, secretaries of embassies or legations, consuls, vice consuls, commercial attaches, agricultural attaches and in other special capacities.	•
Applicants entering this service in the unclassified grades usually start at the minimum base salary of $2,870 per year although age and previous experience warrant special consideration. The maximum base salary for the highest rated officers is $10,000. While abroad their salaries are supplemented by rental and cost-of-living allowances.
Further information and a sample examination may be obtained from Mr. Bartholomew.—Billy Slavick.
Golf Tourney. Dance Sponsored By Vets
Monday, May 13th through Friday, May 17th, the Veterans’ Club will sponsor its first annual golf tournament. Only the usual Greens Fee will be charged Vets contending for the “beau-coup” prizes.
Duffers, experts, and all others will have an equal oportunity at the many prizes, for the event will be in the nature of a blind bogey to be drawn at the dance held on the last evening. Eighteen holes will be played by contenders to determine the handicaps; all in all the golfer will shoot 36 holes. However, there will be pri'es awarded for the 3 low gross scores.
Golfers and all veterans are invited ' (Continued on p. 34)
Cardinal Tien visits Notre Dame. Left to right: Father John Cavanaugh. CS.C.. Vice President* Father Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial oi the Holy Cross Fathers; Thomas Cardinal Tien; Father J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., President and Henry Linn, Chinese student.
The hope that the Congregation of Holy Cross will “come to China to help me erect a university in honor of Our Lady, an institution to be known as the Notre Dame of China, even to the reproduction of the Golden Dome,” was voiced at the University of Notre Dame last Saturday morning by His Eminence, Thomas Cardinal Tien, S.V.D., Vicar Apostolic of Tsingtao, China.
Cardinal Tien visited Notre Dame last weekend as the guest of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He was welcomed by the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross Fathers, and by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
Arriving at high noon, the Chinese Cardinal and his party went directly to (Continued on p. 33)
Students to Attend Army Gome in New York
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, told the Executive Committee of the Student Council at a meeting last Wednesday morning that the student trip next fall will be to the Army game in New York on Nov. 9.
The Student Council proposed the student trip two weeks ago. At the meeting Wednesday, Father O’Donnell said, “Gladly does the University Council accept the recommendation of the Student Activities Council that the student trip to New York and the Army game be included on the calendar of the fall semester.”
Across the hall from Father O’Donnell’s office, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, remarked, “Let us hope that the presence of the students and the band in New York on the day Notre Dame meets Army, inaugurates a post-war era a little more easy on the ears than the games of ’44 and ’45.”
Detailed plans have not yet been formulated, but tickets have already been set aside for the students. Yet to be worked out are the date of departure for New York, the hotel in which the students will stay, whether seats will be made available in the same stand for parents and girl friends, and the cost of the week-end.
Coach Frank Leahy, when told of the student trip, said, “As director of athletics and head football coach, I should prefer having our students attend the Army game over any other contest. I am firmly convinced that their presence in Yankee Stadium will increase our chance to make a representative showing against Anny’s juggernauts”
On the last student trip to New York, Notre Dame defeated Army.
—Joe Cheney
Engineers to Open Labs
The seven student engineering societies, AIEE, ASME, ASCE, ASChE, Aero Club, Architects’ Club, and Metallurgists’ Club, are planning to throw open the doors of all laboratories, drawing rooms, and offices of their departments to the public on Saturday, May 25.
Complete details of the engineers’ open house will be announced in next week’s Scholastic.
No+re Dame to Award Admiral
Nimi+z Law Degree May 15+h
Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, chief of naval operations, will come to the University of Notre Dame May 15 to receive an honorary degree of doctor of laws, awarded on the occasion of Notre Dame’s centennial in 1943, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced.
According to tentative plans, the admiral and his party will arrive at the St. Joseph county airport at 11 a.m. on that day by airplane from Washington, D.C. He will be greeted there by university, naval and city officials, including Father O’Donnell; Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the Indiana province of Holy Cross Fathers; Capt. J. Richard Barry, commandant of the naval units at Notre Dame, and Mayor F. Kenneth Dempsey.
Admiral Nimitz will be escorted in a motorcade from the airport through South Bend to the university, where he will be a guest at a private luncheon in the lay trustees’ room in the university dining hall. Further plans of the route of the motorcade will be announced later.
The admiral will receive his degree at a convocation to be held at 3 p.m. on that day in the navy drill hall on the university’s campus. Announcement of . the awarding of the honorary degree was made by Father O’Donnell at the 100th commencement exercises at Notre
William Mills and Vincent Meli
Take Male Leads in "The Mikado"
The Notre Dame Savoyards will present the sixth in a series of the famous Gilbert and Sullivan operas on May 27, 28, 29, and 30, in Washington Hall. This year the production will be the popular comical favorite The Mikado. A repeat performance will be given Commencement week, Saturday evening, June 29.
The cast, chosen by popular audition, is now in rehearsal. It includes: The Mikado of Japan, William Mills; Nanki Poo, Vincent Meli; Ko Ko, Ralph Thorson; Pooh Bah, John W. Owen; Pish Tush, John Commerford; Yum Yum, Jennie Papandria; Pitti Sing, Patricia Czolgosz; Peep Bo, Irene Ku^mac; Ka-tisha, June Anderson; Chorus of School Girls and Chorus and Nobles and Coolies - of thirty-five.
• The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will accompany the opera. Mr. Ingersoll and Mr Scheurer are getting the orchestra ready for the big performance, with William Gibbons at the piano.
Dame, Oct. 29, 1943. However, Admiral Nimitz, until now, never had the opportunity to receive the degree because of his war duties.
Admiral Nimitz long has been con- ' sidered a friend of the university, Father O’Donnell said. Upon notification of his honorary doctorate, Admiral Nimitz wrote a very cordial letter' to Father O’Donnell: “I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your very fine letter of Oct. 7, 1943, in which you advise me that the University of Notre Dame, through its academic council, wishes to honor me with the degree of Doctor of Laws. This is indeed an honor which is of the very highest order, and I am most appreciative. Needless to say, I accept the honor with great pleasure and in all humility.”
The admiral was head of the naval Bureau of Navigation in 1941 when the naval reserve officers’ training corps was established at Notre Dame. He was the Navy day speaker at the university, Oct. 27, 1941.
In the evening after the convocation Admiral Nimitz will be a guest at an informal dinner to be tendered in his honor in the faculty dining hall at the university. Other guests will be university and city officials and prominent persons from this area.
It is very interesting to note a common fallacy about The Mikado. Most people believe that it has a great deal of Japanese atmosphere, but as Mr. Birder, the producer, points out, only in costuming and staging is it Japanese. Only twice during the entire opera does the composer use imported Japanese melodies, and this to introduce the Mikado late in the second act, and at the entrance of the chorus. Contrary to popular belief, Gilbert and Sullivan directed mos£ of their gibes against the English rather than the Japanese.
The story of The Mikado is a very interesting one. It is a love quadrangle centered around the Mikado’s son, Nanki Poo, and Yum-Yum, a beautiful maiden. However, uproarious situations involving Katisha, the woman designated by the Mikado as his son’s wife, and Ko Ko, guardian and suitor of Yum-Yum, add to the terrific audience appeal of the most brilliant of all Gilbert and Sullivan’s works.—Jim Manning
8
Johnny Walker Rhythms to Feature
Knights of Columbus Ball May 24
Carbine and Chris Cochrane, Patrons; Ray Flynn, John Power and Bob Purcell, Arrangements; and Bill Waldron, Joe Doran and Jerry Wayno, Guests.
Final arrangements were made this week for the traditional Knights of Columbus Spring Formal, to be held Friday evening May 24th, and for the reception of one of the most popular musical favorites of the midwest, Johnny Walker and his orchestra.
the Indiana Club the setting for this gala event, with dancing from 9 till 1. Sign in books will be available at 2 a.m. in the respective halls for use by ball goers, and those attending the formal ■will also enjoy the added pi-ivilege of being able to drive a car for the entire week-end, and it is safe to say that hardly a Knight will be without this otherwise forbidden luxury. Every available car in South Bend has been reserved by farsighted men.
Committee Chairmen who have been working on plans for the Ball are: Pat Trixler, Music; Frank Kowalski, Tickets; Jim Sullivan, Publicity; Jim Evans, Programs; Mike Hines, Decorations; Warren Leary, Patrons; Vic Gulyassy, Arrangements; and John Regan, Jr., Guests. Assisting these chairmen are: John Trixler, Fred Earley, and Bill O’Neill, Music; Jack Beyerle, Tom Bro-den, Frank Gaul, Phi Lyons, and Don Brady, Tickets; Jim Webb, Joe Brady, and Frank Cacciapaglia, Publicity; Len Aull, Tom Amer, and Paul Scalise, Programs; Chuck Hasson, George Kennard, Larry Turner, Joaquin Sole, and Art McGrath, Decorations; Al Masters, Bill
A most important announcement came, from Ticket Chairman Frank Kowalski. It was .to the effect that “bids for the . dance will go on sale the 17th of May, and despite current rumors from Washington concerning the post-war mild inflationary period, bids will not exceed $3.50, tax included.”
Decorations chairman Mike Hines has made it clear that the motif of the dance will remain secret to surprise those attending the dance. However, he admitted that his plans were “super collossal.”
PHYSICS DEPARTMENT
Are you interested in learning about the various departments on the campus? Are you sure of your major?
The next vocational lecture is Tuesday night. May 14, at 7:30 in the Biology Amphitheatre with the Department of Physics in the spotlight. All are invited to come and find out what is offered in the department and to learn about the field itself.
Johnny Walker
With the recent signing of maestro Walker and his aggregation, dancegoers are assured an evening rich in rhythms and delightful in dance moods. Members of the Ball committee said that they considered themselves fortunate in obtaining the talents of young horn footer Walker, currently billed in one of Chicago’s better niteries. Having a wealth of experience behind him in the business of providing smoother dance music for lovers of Tin Pan . Alley and the Hit Parade, the selection assures a rounded evening of full entertainment for the Caseys’-and their guests.
In announcing the details, General Chairman Ralph Hayman predicted that the first major social event highlighting the Knights’ 1946 calendar would be an overwhelming success. “With the enthusiasm of the entire Notre Dame Knights of Columbus Council behind this undertaking, its success is assured. The ball is being restored to its pre-war- status as a strictly social function, providing the campus members with an opportunity to attend another of the manifold activities to reach each and every member of the Knights here on campus.”
Contracts have been signed to make
Knights of Columbus Spring Formal Committee Chairmen. Seated, Left to right: Patrick Trixler. Music; Ralph Hayman, General Chairman; Robert Sullivan. Grand Knight of the Council; Michael Hines, Decorations; and Frank Kowalski. Tickets. Standing: Victor Gulyassy, Arrangements; James Sullivan, Publicity; John Regan. Guests; James Evans, Programs; and Warren Leary, Patrons.
9
Father O'Donnell Delivers Second
Talk on Catholic Hour Broadcast
Instead of sun-worship, or materialism, mankind must return to the worship of the Son of God, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, declared last Sunday in an address on the Catholic Hour which was broadcast over the National Broadcasting Company network.
Father O’Donnell’s talk was the second of five he will have on succeeding Sundays over the Catholic Hour on the general subject of “Hail Holy Queen.” His next address will be given at 6 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, next Sunday, May 12, Mother’s Day. His title will be “The Merciful Mother.”
“A characteristic of the philosophy of the world,” stressed Father O’Donnell, “is that being agnostic — that is, not knowing — it has neither vision nor retrospection. Indeed, both must be alien to it, because by its nature the philosophy of the world is of the present, and of the present only. It recognizes no spiritual origins, and hence can have no destination beyond the limits of this world’s horizons. According to this philosophy, life has only a material purpose; and since there is no spiritual end, those who live by it have no choice but to be of the earth, earthy; and to pervert the natural order and use earthly means as ends in themselves.
“Consider today’s cult of sun-worshippers,” continued the Notre Dame president. “Like the pagans, they offer their bodies to the sun, in the hope that the alchemy of its titillating rays will somehow enhance and ennoble them. In performing the rite, some get well browned. Others, we might say, go so far as to give their bodies to be burned—and coconut oil is no soothing ointment. Now, doctors have long recognized the therea-peutic value of the sun, and in certain
JOB PLACEMENT
.The Detroit Edison Co. of Detroit, Mich., will have two representatives on the campus on Friday, May 17. Mr. Joseph Sullivan, Assistant Employment Manager, and Mr. A. Hellworth, of the Department of Personnel, will discuss the Company's plans for employment for the next few years. Summer work for a limited number of undergraduates is available. Applicants for interview may secure an appointment at the office of the Placement Counselor, Bm. IIS, Main Building, from 9 to 11 aan. and from 3 to 4 pjn.
ailments advise sun-bathing as a restorer of health. Within reason, the practice is good.
“But what concerns me,” emphasized Father O’Donnell, “is that so often the sun-bath is prolonged into a moon-bath accompanied by bodily pleasures that are ruinous not only to the body but also to the soul. Sin in some of its various aspects follows. The tragedy is that such cultists confuse the means with the end; in glorifying their bodies through obeisance to the sun, they are losing their souls, by not recognizing the Creator of the sun, God Himself, their last end. For God sent His only Son to redeem men in order that they might become sons of God. Instead of sun-worship, mankind must return to the worship of the Son— of God.”
Father O’Donnell pointed out that although without the soul the body is a lifeless thing, the philosophy of the world does not believe in the soul. “The philosophy of materialism takes many forms,” he said, “ranging from the hedonism of the sun-worshipper to the pragmatism of the utilitarian, and all forms have this fault in common: they see man as a soul-less automaton, self-made, sufficient unto himself, coming out of nothingness, and to nothingness returning.
“What is the body without the soul?” interrogated Father O’Donnell. “Look at the body in death, so strangely meaner than in life, as it is consigned ot its narrow grave. Is this the end of man? Is he as inconsiderable as this? If so, then we may say with Carlyle that the stars look down ‘as if with pity from their serene spaces, like eyes glistening with heavenly tears over the little lot of man.’ But this is not the end, for after death comes life, life eternal. The soul leaves the body and returns to God who made it! ‘As you sow, so shall you reap,’ was not spoken of the body, but of the soul.”
Father O’Donnell concluded: “To all who are maimed in body, or bruised in spirit because of the war; to the crippled and ill; to sinners who have put God out of their lives for some created thing; to boys and girls whose lives are before them with the temptations that may lead them from the path of happiness; to fathers and mothers oppressed with daily and heavy burdens as they struggle to maintain a home in which to rear children in righteousness; to all who are wearied and distressed, remember that we have a powerful intercessor and helpmate, if we but have recourse to her. She is the Blessed Virgin Mary, Mother of God,” he added.


Sessler Identification
Plan Adopted by AAF
Two new, unique methods which greatly expedited the identification of vessels and planes by the Army Air Forces during World War II, were developed by Professor Stanley B. Sessler, Head of the Department of Fine Arts at the University of Notre Dame, it has just been learned here.
Professor Sessler, who served as an AAF officer in the war, perfected a Professor Sessler method of identifying vessels which stressed a simplified silhouette of vessels in the far distance and the difference in proportion in various types of vessels. His drawings, done in connection with vessel identification, placed emphasis on the definite shape and proportions of vessels even in the far distance.
His method of plane identification featured the superimposing of colored slides of friendly and enemy planes which immediately brought out the differences between the two. This was the first introduction of color to the Army Aii- Forces course in plane identification which previously had been taught using only black and white drawings.
Both new methods of vessel and plane identification were adopted by the Army Air Forces and Professor Sessler’s drawings in connection with the methods were used in training manuals by the Air Corps. Professor Sessler, during his 2% years in the Air Corps, served at various times as instructor in vessel and plane identification combat intelligence officer, and in the ground training program.
OPA and Price Control
Subject of Forum Talk
William J. Whelan, senior in the College of Commerce, presented an address on the OPA to the Commerce Forum Wednesday evening. Jim, who hails from Wapakoneta, Ohio, discussed the history of price control and also the war record of the OPA. The speaker elaborated on the OPA’s record since V-J day and he emphasized the danger of inflation which would inevitably follow from the abandonment of the OPA at this time.
Professor Edmund A. Smith, assistant dean of the College of Commerce and moderator of the Forum, led a spirited discussion following Whelan’s talk. A General Motors’ movie entitled, “How Not to Conduct a Meeting” was shown to the group.
10
N.D. Sophomore Pat O'Meara Elected
Ft. Wayne Region NFCCS President
Setting a unique pattern for Notre Dame-St. Mary’s participation in collegiate activities, fifty-nine students from here traveled to Grand Rapids, Michigan, last week-end to attend the Third Regional Congress of the Fort Wayne Region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students. The theme of the Congress was “The Spiritual Rehabilitation of the Nation,” and nine regional commissions heard speeches, questions and discussions on the general topic treated at sessions which opened Saturday afternoon at 2:30 and closed Sunday at noon. Aquinas College in Grand Rapids was the host for the conferences.
The purpose of the Congress was to stimulate interest in the purpose and workings of the federation. This year’s meeting was the first since 1942, as the region has been floundering for the past three years under wartime exingencies. The work accomplished at last week’s congress brought student and administrative leaders high expectations for the re-activation of the NFCCS in the Ft. Wayne Region.
Besides St. Mary’s and Notre Dame, St. Francis College of Ft. Wayne, St. Joseph’s College of Rensselaer, Indiana, Nazareth College of Kalamazoo, and Aquinas sent delegates. A total of more than 120 students atended the conference.
Intermingled on two chartered busses leaving here Saturday morning were twenty-four Notre Dame men and thirty-five delegates from across the highway. The rain which beat down on the busses during the 115-mile trip did not dampen the spirits of the delegates. Fairer weather on the return trip made the ride even more enjoyable, and the bus drivers were pursuaded to take the long way home—the scenic route along the shore of Lake Michigan. It was after eight o’clock Sunday night when all students were safely back on campus.
The regional council meeting was held Saturday night on the Aquinas campus in conjunction with the congress. The council is the governing body of the region. Two delegates from each school and four student officers comprise the council. Delegates from Notre Dame are George Igel and Pat O’Meara, and Frank Grimaldi has served as regional president. Plans for a regional congress to be held early in the fall semester were discussed and will be formulated at the next regional council meeting which is being
held at Notre Dame on October 5. A commission on International Relations was established for the Ft. Wayne Regional and Notre Dame was voted the chairmanship. Other regional commissions held here are those in Catholic Action Study and Veterans Affairs.
O’Meara, who is a sophomore architecture student from St. Louis, Mo., was elected by the council to the presidency of the region for the next year. Other-regional officers are: Dorothy McFarland of St. Mary’s, Corresponding Secretary; Gerry Byrne of Aquinas, vice-president; and Mary Bishop of Nazareth, Recording secretary and treasurer.
Notre Dame’s outstanding part in the
Senior Weekend Bids Go on sale;
Davies to Play for Formal Ball
By JOE CHENEY
The Senior Ball Committee has announced that the bids for the ball will go on sale next week. Although the price of the bids, $13.50, may seem high, it ' includes the candle-light dinner and dance Friday night, the picnic Saturday, and the Communion breakfast Sunday morning.
This dance is open to seventh and eighth semester seniors only. When you buy your bids, make sure that you also arrange to have a reservation at one of the hotels made for your date if she is coming from out of town. Most of the hotel space in the leading South Bend hotels has already been taken up for the ball wek-end by delegates to a state convention which will be held in South Bend. The hotels have promised to save a few rooms for the guests of the seniors, but reservations must be made ahead of the usual time.
Get your ticket from the ticket committee listed below at .the appointed time:
Ticket Chairman_________John Vaughan
Badin Hall___________________John Eno
Alumni Hall---------------Joe Neufeld
Sorin Hall________________John O'Neil
Walsh Hall____________Chris Cochrane
8th Semester Seniors May 14 and 15 7th Semester Seniors----May 16 and 17 Hours to purchase your
ticket______________7 pun. to 9 pjn.
Reservations for rooms may be made at the same time that you buy your bid.
Sectional Meetings held Saturday afternoon was contributed in the sessions of the Commission on Catholic Action Study which was conducted by O’Meara, and the Commission on International Relations under the chairmanship of Pat Nolan. Sunday morning before a general session of the congress delegations, the Commission on Veteran’s Affairs from Notre Dame conducted a program which treated the vital problem of the spiritual rehabilitation of veterans. Presiding at the meeting was James Webb, president of the ND Vets Club. The speakers at this session were Thomas McCaffrey and Jerry Feeney. They were followed by Miss Gertrude Trainor, an Army Nurse vet who now attends St. Mary’s. Concluding the Vet’s programs was Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., chaplain of the ND Veterans Club and himself a veteran. Ignacio Lozano served as secretary for this session.
The dress is optional formal dress, winter or summer.
The Friday night dinner-dance will be set off with a sea-food dinner par excellence. Jack Davies and his band will pro-ride the musical background for dancing. Jack and his 12-crew members have become widely known in the mid-west and should provide the ball-goers a night of soft music. It will be the night of nights, the extraordinary pageantry of the sen-ior social. It’s the seniors’ hob-nob affair.
The mood of formality will give way to the carnival atmosphere of the Saturday festival. A varied program has been outlined by the commitee in order to please the tastes of all. This is something of an innovation that promises to be revolutionary. Away with the tea dance . . . the seniors have broken the ice of formality. The conventional has been substituted with an afternoon of outdoor picnicking at the popular Lincoln Park in Mishawaka. (Hope someone remembers the ant powder!)
Picnic lunches of hot dogs, potato salad, etc. will be served. Refreshments, liquid and otherwise, will be available throughout the day. The festival will carry over into the evening with informal dancing at the American Legion Home nearby until 11 p.m.
Sunday will brings the week-end to a close with a special Mass for the seniors and their dates at either Alumni or Dillon chapel. After Mass a private breakfast will be served in the University dining hall.
11
Notre Dame Professor Took First
Step in Mother's Day Observance
It is a winter Sunday, February 7, 1904, and a man is speaking. The place is the English Theatre in Indianapolis, Ind., where the Indianapolis aerie of the Fraternal Order of Eagles is holding a memorial service. The speaker is a Notre Dame professor, Frank Earl Hering.
Frank Hering is a young man, six years out of the school where he is now teaching, and like many young men, he has a dream, but he differs from the majority of dreamers in that he has set out to bring his plan to reality. The speech he is now giving is the first step in a crusade to realize his dream. Professor Hering wants to set aside one day each year to publicly honor ‘Mother.’ He speaks quietly, with tenderness and reverence, and his plan is received enthusiastically by the audience.
Thus we see that the first step for a nation-wide observance of Mothers’ Day was made by a Notre Dame alumnus. Frank Hering graduated from Notre Dame in 1898. He taught English and American Colonial History there from 1896 to 1905. It was during his early teaching days that he made the discovery that “practically every boy had as his sweetheart, his mother; and the surest way to appeal to him for his best efforts in building his character and his grades—these things greatly to be desired—was to remind him of the deep happiness his mother receives.” Mr. Hering achieved many honors in later life. He was a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame, Grand Worthy Master of the Fraternal Order of Eagles for two terms, editor of the Eagles Magazine, and for a number of years was football coach at Notre Dame.
In the course of the next eight years, Mr. Hering spoke all over the country from San Francisco to Boston and from Milwaukee to Savannah, in Baltimore, Seattle, Omaha, Minneapolis, San Antonio and in dozens of other cities. Everywhere he went he spoke strongly for the dedication of a day to ‘Mother.’
A Miss Anna Jarvis of Philadelphia, three years after Mr. Hering first spoke, conceived the plan of commemorating ‘Mother’ on the second Sunday in May, the anniversary of her mother’s death. She chose more aptly than she knew, for May is the month set aside by the Catholic Church for the honoring of the Virgin Mary, the universal eternal mother. The Lincoln Library of Essential Knowledge credits Mr. Hering with the conception of the day and Miss Jarvis with the manner and time of the celebration. 12
Professor Hering’s years of crusading were not useless, for gradually, in cities and occasionally in whole states, people took up the practice of honoring ‘Mother’ on one day of the year, until, on May 8, 1914, Senator Thomas J. Heflin of Alabama introduced a resolution calling for the president to issue a proclamation setting aside the second Sunday in May as Mothers’ Day and providing for the displaying of the flag on public and private buildings. The president issued the decree and sent a message to our foreign possessions ordering the flag displayed in honor of the mothers of America. Two days later, May 10, 1914, the United States celebrated, as a nation, the first Mothers’ Day.
The American War Mothers made a thorough study of the origin of Mothers’ Day in their pamphlet, Memories of Mothers' Day, gave full credit to Mr. Hering for pioneering in the observance of it. He was invited to be the principal speaker at their first Mothers’ Day program, held at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, May 10, 1925. However, an even greater honor was to come to him from this group of women. On November 14, ’ 1929, at a quiet dinner in South Bend, his home, he was presented with the Victory Medal. This award had been made to only three other men, all of them military. On the ribbon of the medal were two bars, one with his name engraved on it and the other, bearing the inscription, “Father of Mothers’ Day.”
The brightly uniformed bands circled the Soldiers and Sailors Monument and blared to a stop before the low porticoed English Theatre. A ceremony followed in which there was an unveiling in the vestibule of the theatre of a plaque set in cool green marble and bearing a likeness of the young Frank Hering. The plaque bore the words, “On this site, Sunday, February 7, 1904, the first known public plea for a nation-wide observance of Mothers’ Day was made by Frank E. Hering, teacher, orator, humanitarian.”
A.I.Ch.E. Meets
The second meeting of the student chapter of A.I.Ch.E. was held May 2.
Mr. R. E. Rich, head of the department of Chemical Engineering, spoke on what a Chem. Eng. can expect in the way of a job after graduation, and in the opening of the graduate school for Engineers in the fall.
The Chapter plans to have a banquet on May 20.
John J. O'Brien, Lay
Trustee, Dies in S. B.
The University of Notre Dame recently mourned the passing of John J. O’Brien, co-founder of the South Bend Lathe Works, and eminent member of the board of lay trustees, who died on April 24, at his residence, 730 Park Avenue after an illness of several weeks. He would have celebrated his 74th birthday today. For years he had been one of South Bend’s outstanding business and civic leaders. ■
At his bedside when death occurred were members of his family including Mrs. O’Brien, his two daughters, Mrs. Clarence E. Manion, of South Bend, and Mrs. Elizabeth Metcalf, of Little Compton, R. I., and his son, John W. O’Brien, a student at the University.
In addition to serving as a lay trustee of the University, Mr. O’Brien evidenced his interest in the school by founding the MUes and John J. O’Brien Felloiv-ship in Metallurgy and Allied Sciences, established on December 31, 1938 by a gift of $15,000.
At the funeral services which were held in St. Patrick’s Church in South Bend, Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., officiated at a low requiem Mass and gave the funeral sermon. Interment was in Highland cemetery where the Very Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the Holy Cross Order, gave the final absolution.
On the occassion of Mr. O’Brien’s death, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S. C., President of the University issued the following statement:
“The death of Mr. John O’Brien has occasioned much sadness at the University of Notre Dame, which has lost a loyal friend and benefactor of long standing. He was loyally interested in Notre Dame long before he became a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees in 1941. His associates on the board held him in the highest esteem, and had profound respect for his penetrating judgment and personal devotion in everything concerned with the welfare of the university.
“Mr. O’Brien will be sorely missed at Notre Dame, which he served loyally and well. In particular, he will be missed by his many friends. on the faculty who prized his constant friendship. May he rest in peace!”
Prof. Robert Tschan has accepted the post of Assistant Director of Admissions at Penn State.
Three Days Before
Photo Contest Closes
Only three more days before the doors close on the First Annual Notre Dame Photographic Contest sponsored by the Scholastic Board of Editors. No photographs will be accepted at the Publications Office, Room 118, Main Building, after 4:30 p.m., Monday, May 13. The photographs which are submitted before closing time in this contest will become the property of the Scholastic. This contest is being conducted to choose the best 15 pictures of people, events, and still life on the Notre Dame campus.
Cash prizes and certificates will be awarded to the first, second, and third photographs. Twelve certificates will be awarded for honorable mention merit. Any number of photographs may be submitted by a contestant.
The three winning photographs will be printed in the May 24 issue of the Scholastic and will, in addition, be syndicated to various newspapers throughout the United States. Together with the 12 photographs to be awarded honorable mention, they will also be printed in various other publications of the University, such as the Notre Dame Alumnus.
Spanish Professors
Meet at Notre Dame
On Saturday, May 4, Notre Dame was host to the annual spring meeting of the Indiana Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese. Some 50 members were in attendance and were taken on a tour of the campus before luncheon in the Faculty Dining Hall, presided over by Prof. Langford.
The luncheon speakers were Mr. Jose Corona of the University Spanish Dept., Father Kenna, and Miss Edith Allen, president of the Chapter. Music was provided by Mr. Lee Hope and the woodwind section of the band.
In the afternoon, another session was held in the auditorium of the Law Bldg. Louis Beltranena, graduate student in Political Science at Notre Dame, gave a well-received talk on his native country, Guatemala. A panel discussion on the subject of coordinating College and High School Spanish then followed.
Another meeting of the Chapter is scheduled for next fall.
Test by Weight
While writing a term paper at Kansas University, a student decided to test the theory that a prof doesn’t bother to read the papers, but grades them by placing them on a scale and weighing them. In the middle of the paper he inserted this, “If you read this far, I’ll buy you a coke.”
400,000 Manuscripts in Archives;
Father McAvoy Catalogues 50,000
By BILL LEAVEY
Stored away in a closely guarded and fire-proof room in the University Library is the largest collection of Catholic Historical Manuscripts and Letters to be found in Mid-western United States. If one were to read all of the ecclesiastical papers and records in the Notre Dame Archives, he would have a complete history of Catholicism in the Mississippi Valley and Great Lakes region of our country. Here in the northwest corner of the second floor of the library, Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., University Archivist and head of the department of History, and his student assistants labor at the ceaseless task of reading, filing
Father McAvoy at Work on Photostats
and cataloguing the thousands of documents that have been drifting to Notre Dame since its founding.
The history of the Notre Dame Archives began in 1929, when the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., then president of Notre Dame, called in one of the youngei* priests in the community who had shown ability as an organizer of facts, and instructed him to go to work in sorting and cataloguing a roomful of old letters and manuscripts. The young priest was Father McAvoy, who in 1929 was appointed the University Archivist..; The data which Father McAvoy' first Began'to sort came to Notre Dame chiefly through the collecting efforts of Professor James F. Edwards, former
librarian at Notre Dame. Professor Edwards spent more than three decades of his life gathering up every Catholic document he could find. He found most of his material in the various diocesan offices throughout the mid-west. At the time—the latter part of the 19th century —the diocesan authorities not realizing the historical value of the various documents in their possession were thinking of throwing most of them away. Had it not been for the farsightedness of Professor Edwards a great wealth of historical information would have been thus destroyed. The late professor, however, succeeded in bringing most of these records and manuscripts to Notre Dame. Besides the collections of Professor Edwards, there were letters written by Father Sorin and Father Badin whose wide correspondence left a wealth of archive material behind them. There were also trunk loads of old letters of historical interest bequeathed to the university from time to time.
The task facing Father McAvoy in 1929 was a mammoth one. He spent two years sorting the documents alone and finding places for them in cardboard envelopes which in turn were filed in large steel cabinets. Here they are arranged according to the locality from which they were received, An index card is made on every document containing a synopsis of document giving enough information on the card so that one doing research work would know by checking the card exactly what is contained in the manuscript. Very often the letters and manuscripts were written in foreign languages; these first had to be translated and then catalogued. Work on a single document can. take anywhere from 10 minutes to 10* days, the latter taking place when the document is either mutilated or illegibly-written.
Father McAvoy’s own comment on the work of an archivist is, “An archivist has no choice, only to go through everything. Not a single scrap or note can he missed —it may contain knowledge of paramount importance some day.”
Some facts brought to light through a perusal of these long forgotten manuscripts are sensational. However, more frequently they are just interesting. Take for example one manuscript which is a petition asking the President of the U. S. to furnish the territory of Michigan with a missionary to live with the Indians. It was addressed to John Quincy
-- (Continued-on-page 29) "	-
19
THOMAS CARDINAL TIEN
By PAUL ABRAHAM
(This is an exclusive interview granted by His Eminence, Thomas Cardinal Tien, S. J7. D., to Paul Abraham. Most of the facts herein related were given to the Scholastic by Louis J. Maloof, newsjmperman, author, and personal aide to Thomas Cardinal Tien.)
Thomas Cardinal Tien, S.V.D., the first Chinese elevated to the sacred College of Cardinals, stated that he was grateful for the invitation to visit one of the greatest Catholic Universities in America. “I wish,” he said, “to express my gratitude for the prayers and material help given by Notre Dame.”
Through his private secretary, Louis Maloof, I was able to learn many hitherto unknown facts in the Cardinal’s life. Thomas Cardinal Tein was born on October 28, 1890, in. Changtsiu, Yen-chowfu. At the age of eleven lie was Baptized and already quite determined to enter the priesthood. Those who knew Thomas Tien as a boy were impressed by his deeply religious nature. A quiet lad of frail health, he was interested, inquisitively so, in the world about him. At the young age of fourteen he entered the seminary at Yenchowfu. Easily his outstanding characteristics at the seminary were piety and diligence. But his health was poor. Three times he was
Cardinal Tien (center), Fr. Christopher O'Toole, C.S.C. (left), and Fr. Howard Kenna C.S.C. (right), leave Sacred Heart Church after Cardinal Tien spoke to the students.
forced to leave his studies for rest, and at least once, on this account, the shadow of dismissal from the seminary darkened his way. He was to suffer his third trial only two months before his sub-diaconate. He had developed tuberculosis. The seminary rector sent for him, “Thomas Tien, you are sick. The seminary is no hospital. For me, this is a sign that you have no vocation. You must go home.”
Tears gathered in the young man’s eyes—he cried openly. What should he do? His confessor—to Tien’s utter amazement—gave this reply: “Stay in the seminary until the rector forces you to leave.”
The Cardinal never since has been troubled by any signs of tuberculosis, nor has he ever undergone medical treatment. Some attribute his cure to a miracle.
He was ordained a secular priest on June 9, 1918 and labored in the mission fields of Yenchowfu for eleven long, wearisome years. He then entered the Divine Word Novitiate—a natural desire on his part for the Divine Word priests had ably guided him through the many years from his conversion to his ordination. He made his final vows in 1934, consecrating himself to God for life as a missionary.
Within the next five years he became, successively, the first Prefect Apostolic of Yangku; Vicar Apostolic of Yangku; and, on October 29, 1939 (the Feast of Christ the King) the Holy Father himself, Pope Pius XII, elevated him to the Episcopacy with 11 other missionary bishops, known affectionately as the • “Apostles.” He was named titular Bishop of Ruspe and Vicar Apostolic of Tsingtao on November 4, 1912. Rev. Karl Hentrich, S.V.D., remarked about Bishop Tien: “The Bishop lives the ordinary life of the Chinese. The Christians are glad to see him and love him. He belongs to them. He has a kind word or a smile for everyone. He is the spiritual father of his children.”
The war brought many hardships to the Tsingtao Vicariate. Long before Pearl Harbor the Japanese had occupied Shantung Province and Bishop Tien’s See City. The Japanese closed schools, imprisoned religious, - and confiscated church property. Consequently, it was a happy day for the starving city when the Sixth Marine Division, veterans of the Pacific war from Guadalcanal to Okinawa, landed in China on October 11, 1945, to accept the official surrender of, and to disarm the powerful enemy forces situated in Tsingtao. Soon thou-ands of Marines and Sailors were trekking to St. Michael’s Cathedral on the hill to attend Mass and to receive Communion. Everyone at the mission was suffering from malnutrition, so the Americans did as much as they could to alleviate the sufferings of the poor.
The 29th of December, 1945, was a day never to be forgotten by Tsingtao. The reason? A telegram came from Cardinal Spellman congratulating Bishop Tien on his nomination to the Cardinal-ate. The Bishop himself said it “could not be true,” that such a thing would not happen to China, a mission field. Everyone at the mission waited with bated breath, trying to discover an answer to what they knew needed no answer. At this time, Sgt. Maloof was stationed at the mission as liasion officer and when Cardinal Spellman’s cablegram came the Bishop went to Maloof’s room to warn him against believing the news of his elevation to the College of Cardinals. Maloof’s account of the conversation goes as follows: “The Bishop opened my door and peeping in with a shy look on his big, round face, smiled at me,
(Continued on p. 34)
14
ND Alumni Participate in Rome Consistory
ASCE Elects Officers
At the last meeting of the N. D. student chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers, Ernest Clausing was elected president for the coming year. He is a senior in the Civil Engineering Department and comes from New Philadelphia, Ohio. He succeeds Harry Sur-
kamp, of St. Louis, Mo.
William Berk, a junior, from Chicago, Ill. was elected vice-president. Richard Lander and Cyril Weiler were elected secretary and treasurer, respectively.
The next meeting of the Society will be held May 15th in the Engineering Auditorium. Cyril Weiler will be the student speaker on “Harmonics.”
Professor Walter Shilts, head of the C. E. department, is moderator of the club.
The recent risit of Cardinal Tien to Notre Dame recalls the fact that three honorary Notre Dame alumni were among the small group who held the attention of the world during the recent consistory in Rome wherein four United States archbishops were raised to the dignity of the cardinalate. These three alumni were: His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, Litt. D. '36; Edward Cardinal Mooney, LL.D. '36, of Detroit; and Francis Cardinal Spellman, LL.D. '35, of New York. Pictured here with the Holy Fa
ther and Cardinal Spellman are other Notre Dame men who were in Rome for the ceremonies.
Upper left, (left to right), are Cardinal ‘ Spellman, General Mark Clark, Frank C. Walker, '09 and James Farley. Upper right: Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11. Lower left: Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., '16. an Army chaplain. Lower right: Capt. Jerome Parker, '3G, kissing the ring of the Holy Father. (Cardinal Spellman and Bishop O'Hara are in the background.)
15
their dates started their home-ward treks.
fore
Fyt-y^
' •" fl#

Time to prepare for the highspot of the weekend—the Prom. Above, Barbara looks at her gown approvingly, and ditto for Joe at upper right. Below, the king and queen laugh it over with Band Leader Jimmy Lunceford.
The lights are dim and the setting appropriate for cheek-to-cheek dancing; Barbara and Joe (right) make the most of it. The ball ended at one a.m., but the Promgoers still had the Saturday afternoon tea dance and Saturday evening ahead of them, as well as Sunday, be-
16
JUNIOR
PROM
focal point for students last week
To car-famished students who stared longingly at Joe's runabout, big mystery of the week was where Joe picked up the sleek-looking convertible (above); Joe points out the lovelier spots on the campus to his guest.
A tour of the University buildings was the order of the day, and at right Barbara and Joe look at the crypt of Father Badin, first priest ordained in the United States, in the Log Chapel.
The Junior Prom was the
as dates trooped in for the spring event. Above left, Joe O'Toole greets the queen of the Prom, Barbara Sullivan, with a smile in anticipation of a big weekend. Barbara, an East Orange, N. J., lass, was graduated from St. Elizabeth's College and is employed in the research department of the Bell Telephone Laboratories in Murray Hill, N. J. Above, Joe removes the lady's bag. Left, Barbara registers at a downtown hotel, but Joe has more interesting things to look at.
17
Communism-the Contemporary Religion
(Address of Rep. Claire Booth Luce at the Alumni Association Dinner in New York, on Notre Dame Universal Night, April 29, 1946.)
Communism a Religion
Mrs. Luce said, in part:
“There have been many sects and denominations of this religion of materialism, but I think we will all agree that the true faith is Communism, and that its titular head is one, Joseph Stalin.
“As befits a world-wide religion of great power and persuasion, this supreme pontiff is declared to be infallible. Now, there is nothing half-hearted about the infallibility of this avuncular head of the Communist State. One questions the infallibility of Stalin in Russia at the cost of one’s life; and outside of Russia, left-wing drawing rooms of Chicago millionaire-publishers, or in certain offices of the Chamber- of Commerce, or the State Department, one questions that infallibility at the risk of being called ‘a reactionary’ or a ‘Fascist Beastie.’ . . .
The demands of the (Communist) believer, what he asks of faith, you and I, God help us, would be incapable of. The power—no Christian Saint even trusted so much in the power of God’s grace to transfigure his own human nature as a Communist trusts in the power of electricity and plumbing, provided they are State-controlled, to transfigure all of human nature.
“We cannot attempt to follow their reasoning, that when everybody has nothing, everybody will have everything, and that when everybody has everything, nobody will have anything more than anybody else,.and that if anybody else has any more than somebody else, somebody else will shoot somebody who has the more; and that everybody will be happy except perhaps the relatives of him who got shot.”
Citing the imperfections to be found in the United States and pointing out how the Communists exploit these faults, Rep. Luce continued:
“All over America, beneath the apparent orderliness of the scene, there is an undercurrent of fear that disorder is creeping into our midst. We are frustrated by a lack of spiritual cohesion. Even in America. Think if it.is like that here, what it must be like in Europe. I say that against all this here and abroad it is the duty of men to protest, but there is a vast difference between revolution and the reforms advocated by revolution-ists.To demand the cessation of abuses
18
and to remove the abuser, to advocate better ways of bringing ivelfare and happiness to our people, and to place in positions of authority those who will carry out these things, is the proper end of all democratic political action. Such action must never be controverted.
A World-Wide Plan
“But according to what plan?—according to what philosophy—in the light of what religion shall men take political action in order to try to perfect their hitman situation? Even the most starry-eyed Communist in the world ivill not contend that Russia is altogether perfect, but he ivill swear to the death that if you give Communism half a chance, it will not only perfect Russia, but it will perfect the rest of the world. Indeed, such is the nature of any religion which possesses a sufficiently complicated theology—that it is always universal in its intent. And however violently the men of the Kremlin may deny this fact, or however nationalistic the men in the polling bureaus themselves may be, the fact remains that Communism is a supranational doctrine, and that the application of Communism must be world-wide.
“Now, since America isn’t perfect, what religion then will help to perfect America? I think our answer here tonight must be and is Christianity. Today, all over the world, these two religions are in conflict. They are in mortal conflict for Communism—in immortal conflict for Christianity.’’
“I am always asked by my friends what I think the difference between a Communist and a capitalist is. In Amer-: ica the answer is fairly simple. An American Communist is just’ generally a. man who has given up any hope of being an American capitalist.
“If there were only American Communists to worry about, the problem wouldn’t be too serious. It would be simply an economic one, and then all we should have to do to avoid Communism would simply be to make this country sufficiently prosperous so that all the Communists would very soon turn into —well, obviously, Republicans.
“The American Communist is not a menace, but the religion of Communism is,” Rep. Luce continued; “not as it opposes our economic ideas, but as it op
poses our religious ideas, it is a menace on an ever-ividening and ever deepening front all over the world. For Communists and Communism, as I say, are fundamentally material, and Christianity is fundamentally spiritual. Christianity is dedicated to love and peace among all men; and Communism is dedicated to
war and hatred. Christianity seeks to glorify God; Communism denies Him. Communism denies individual rights; Christianity exalts them. Christianity insists on the rights of private property insofar as they are not exercised to abuse the community. The other denies property rights, however much this may hurt or hamper the individual.
Contrasted with Christianity
“Communism says that man and all his institutions and all his enterprises are the tools and the agents and, if need be, the slaves of the State; Christianity teaches that the State is the servant of man and his institutions. One says the State is omnipotent; the other says that only God is all-powerful. One denies the validity of the family unit; the other says that the family unit is the fundamental unit of every society. One disrupts the home; the other seeks to preserve it. One demands warfare; the other seeks to ameliorate all racial and group frictions. One says that the only participation a man may have in politics is to point a predestined finger at a pre-selected candidate and call him elected. In a Christian democracy, every man is a politician, who simply allows some to hold office.
“In a Communist State, all police powers are delegated from above to a few individuals. In a democratic state, every man is a policeman, who simply allows a few to wear a uniform. Communism says that a man has the right to say only what he is told to say and do what he must. Christianity says he has the right to say what he will and to do what he ought. . . .
“It is to be noted throughout the world today that those who refuse to fall on their knees in a world in which we live are generally in the end driven to them anyway by a tyrant. But the difference is that a man who falls on his knees of his own free will is allowed by God to
£

rise a free man. But ivhen you are driven to them, no dictator ever lets you get up. . . .
Need of Personal Effort
“And also tonight, I prefer, in closing, not to tell you what our Government can do abroad to combat Communism. I’d rather tell you—but I and you already know—which each one can do here. We can all conquer Communism, and I am going to tell you quite simply how we can conquer Communism—simply by being Christian.
“Now, that is not as simple as it seems, because, unhappily, it is not so simple to be a Christian, which is, incidentally, precisely why there are so many Communists. But I think there is a vast personal exaltation and excitement and even joy in living in an age where one’s beloved faith is so deeply and even dangerously challenged. . . . All that is asked of us, if we don’t wish to see Communism in America, is to become ‘Christophers,’ which is to say ‘Bearers of Christ’—every day, every way, every hour in all our thoughts, in our attitudes, in our actions, to be Christians. . . .
“Christianity hasn’t failed — because it hasn’t been tried. Now, let each of us try a little harder to be Christians in our dealings with our neighbors, in all of our conversations and our attitudes toward the public problems of today, and see who gets the most fellow-travelers—us or the Communists on the block. There is a sporting proposition which undoubtedly will appeal to a Notre Dame man. Let us forget the defeats of our statesmen and what they have suffered at Potsdam and Yalta and London, and may yet suffer- in Paris. Let’s count on ourselves and not them to secure America against all possibility of being Communist, by each of us, as I say, being Christians and making as many converts as possible. I hope I am an example. There is no other way to proceed, believe me. If we Americans wish to achieve peace on earth—devoutly to be wished—and, of course, if we wish to avoid for ourselves a rather protracted sojourn in Purgatory.”
Dr. W. Gurion Attends Conference in Chicago
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of Economics and editor of the Revieiv of Politics, represented the University of Notre Dame at a Conference on International Relations at the University of Chicago, May 4 and 5. Dr. Gurian was the only Catholic college representative of the 30 members present to discuss teaching and research in International Relations.
Recently, Dr. Gurian published an article in French in the spring edition of Gants du del.
This Is WND, Notre Dame, Ind.
By BILLY SLAVICS	'
“Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the radio audience. Your late noon news:”
“Francis J. Hanley, Lieutenant USNR on inactive duty, spoke Tuesday night on the comparison between radio and stage characterization before the Radio Club of the University of Notre Dame. He pointed out that while stage actors can rely on the visual—costumes, makeup, and stance—the radio actor must depend entirely on his voice, and his ability to present a “three dimensional” character as well as portray a variety of types and ages—always with real color. Mr. Hanley will assist in the expansion of the club’s activities.”
“The Radio Club is planning a banquet for the first week of June at either the Indiana Club or the Town Club. Besides the 35 active members of the group, a half-dozen girls who have aided in sci-ipt preparation and acting, and officials of the South Bend radio stations will be invited.”
“A week from Tuesday, May 21, Richard Sullivan, well-known script writer will speak before the Club. Plans for the banquet will be completed, and results of an attempt to secure radio keys for members will be announced.”
“The latest flash from the production department of WND is the coming 30 minute dramatics show produced by Bob
Going through fined rehearsal for the Monday night drama show over WHOT at 7 p.m. are, left to right, Charles Perrin, Gerry Hongue. Gene Slavin. Joseph O'Brien, and Dick Elliott. Producer Gorge LaBuda is checking from the booth.
Hartman over WHOT. Hartman’s first production, The Life of P. T. Barnum, will boast an all-star cast featuring Walter Bieschke as Barnum, and Alice Hoover of the Veterans’ Administration Office as Charity, Barnum’s wife. The supporting cast includes Joe Sargus, Al McNulty, Joe Wilcox, Bob Duffy, Tom Dowd, George Murphy, Sue Grace of the Publicity Department, and Mary Monahan of the Athletic Department. Sound effects will be handled by Pete Riener.”
“Alberto Garcia’s Musical Sketch Book, WSBT, Tuesdays at 4 p.m., will include the Moreau Choir, a Barber Shop Quartet, and the University of Notre Dame Symphony on its future broadcasts. The Band and Glee Club of the University will make return appearances soon.”
“For your listening enjoyment during the coming week, there are Bob Uhl and Warren Dana with their News and Views show over WSBT tomorrow afternoon at 2:45; George LaBuda’s fifteen minute drama program at 7 p.m., Monday over WHOT; the Sketch Book, Tuesday at 4 on WSBT; and ex-Armed Forces Radio Veteran, Hop Cordesman, with his Irish Lore, including College sports, interviews, and sidelights over WSBT, Thursday at 4 p.m.”
“So long for now. This is WND, Notre Dame, Indiana.”
19
JUGGLER MEMORIES
By JOE WILCOX
“Here’s to the ghost of the Juggler, To his merry cap and hells;
Here’s to the ghost of Laughter, Vanished where no man tells.”
Beyond the memory of most everyone now on the campus, and remembered faintly but lovingly by a few, the Notre Dame Juggler, 1919-1934, heads the list of Notre Dame periodicals now listed as defunct. Since the last issue in the Spring of 1934, the Juggler has jested no more; his mirth has existed only in the archives of the Library, and in the homes of countless Notre Dame alumni who remember it for the institution that it was.
The Juggler began in the early years of the Rockne era at Notre Dame. It lived and jested its way through the twenties, into the thirties; it spanned the period of the Four Horsemen, the great national championship teams, the death of Rockne, the great building programs on the campus. In the fall of 1934, it failed to make its customary appearance. Its untimely end, ironically, came at the height of its fame, when it had become a true tradition and achieved a mature stature.
In 1919, three students, Andrew J. Moynihan, Delmar J. Edmondson, and Lauren Cook began the Juggler as a private enterprise. The price was twenty-five cents. It began with what was more an apology than anything else for its existence. Its object was not, it said, to compete with the Scholastic, but to offer something that the Scholastic could not offer — a student humor magazine. The prologue of the first issue, Christmas, 1919, said: “As emerging from the darkness of backstage, the Juggler begs audience for a curtain speech that will, he hopes, explain and justify his performance.” The performance lasted fifteen years.
The first issue set the style that prevailed, with important modifications and improvements, until 1932. It was primarily a joke magazine. It relied mostly -upon two-line gags. In the first few issues, the gags were based mostly upon the current bane of the populace, the enfant terrible, — prohibition. There were a few cartoons. The cover style was more ornamental ’ than humorous. Yet, the Juggler grew and flourished. In 1923, it was acclaimed one of the best six in the college field by a poll of national advertisers.
By 1926, the gags about prohibition were getting stale, and, with the exception of a few Phoenix-like oldies, were
heard no more. The flaming twenties were in full swing; the vamp was asserting herself as the latest American phenomenon. The Jztggler fell into stride, and a slinking femme fatale adorned many a page and cover. There were more cartoons, more poems. Poesie had definitely taken its place as an important department. The South Bend girl, oddly enough, was the target of many a blistering essay, poem, or cartoon. Thus, even though the Juggler clung basically to the “that was no lady, that was my wife” brand of wit, it had broadened out. It was a better magazine than it had been. It was growing up.
1931 was a banner year for the Juggler. The quality of its cartoons was so outstanding that the National Association of College Comics chose its art as the best in the country. On the campus, a society called the Funny Fellow pledged itself to “solidify, strengthen, and preserve the spirit of the Juggler.” Supported by the Juggler, this organization gave shows in Washington Hall. The Juggler was a tradition.
In those years the Juggler was a vigorous, boisterous publication. In 1930, it ran an issue more or less devoted to the curse of the time and particularly the locale, the Chicago gangster. In a piece purported to have been told by Al Capone to a Notre Dame student who had declined to be plied with gin fresh from the bathtub, Capone wrote, “Why I Want College Men.” The current spotlight joke was bootlegging, the child of the earlier standby, prohibition.
In 1932, the Juggler was pronounced the best college humor magazine in the mid-West. Still, however, its humor was, mainly, of the he-she variety. Even with those limitations, the Juggler had gone far from the first issue of 1919. It was at the top of its particular field.
Then, in the school year of 1932-33, the Juggler abruptly changed its spots and put on a new raiment. It axed patriarchal, creaking dialogue. It introduced new departments, new columns, more modern style, cartoons with short, hard-hitting punch lines. Thus it began its greatest and most mature period, one destined to end in its untimely death in 1934.
During the last two years of its existence, it became a well-rounded publication, still remaining within its field as a humor magazine. Gone were the labored puns, the absent-minded professor. It introduced a department of dramatic criticism, written in a light-toned, but penetrating vein. In its last issue, it printed a review of the new Gertrude Stein monstrosity: Four Saints in Three Acts. It left nothing unsaid that could be said in so few paragraphs. It gave nobody any reason to be other than proud of it.
But it was, in those last two years, becoming apparent that the Juggler could no longer pay for itself. It had a deficit of $7,000 in its last two years. The reluctance of the students to buy copies and to rely upon borrowing one instead was a factor. However, a greater deathblow was the fact that the big advertisers felt no longer able to advertise in college magazines. The depression was at its depth. Many college magazines had already fallen by the wayside and had ceased publication. The tone of the Juggler itself reflected the times. It was hard to wring humor out of the miseries of depression. The handwriting on the wall was becoming clearer.
And so, in the summer of 1934, the University Council ended the life of the Juggler. It was a reluctant decision, but, under the conditions, a necessary one. The Scholastic of September 21, 1934, while mourning its loss, the loss of a tradition established in fifteen short years, passed sentence upon it as a luxury. In 1934 luxuries were out of joint with the times.
As an epitaph for the Juggler, the Scholastic declared: “The Juggler was an easy, witty commentary on Notre Dame life.”
20
Scholastic Sports Section 'f
Golfers Tie Badgers, 1 3x/2 — 13/2, in Storm
Braving the worst golfing weather ever experienced in the history of the sport at Notre Dame, Wisconsin and the Irish tied, 13% to 13%, at Madison, Saturday, May 4. Heavy rain, freezing temperatures, and a high wind prevailed all day, seriously hampering the play of both teams.
In the best ball matches played in the morning, Notre Dame won 6% points to the Badgers’ 2%. Dick Whiting and Joe Totten were defeated by Severson and Schlurer of Wisconsin, 2% to %, but Tom Kennedy and Jim Besenfelder won three points over Oldenburg and Fieh, while George Stuhr and Everhart Schleck also won, 3 to 0, over Sorgel and Wiedman.
Wisconsin rallied in the afternoon round as Severson defeated Whiting, 3 to 0, downed Kennedy, 2% to %, Schluter won from Besenfelder, 3 to 0, and Fieh took 2% points to Schleck’s %. Stuhr won three points for Notre Dame by defeating Oldenburg, and Totten defeated Wiedman of Wisconsin, also 3 to 0.
Summaries:
MORNING ROUND
Whiting 75, Severson 77; Totten 82, Schluter, 82; Kennedy, 75; Oldenburg, 80; Besenfelder, 77; Fieh, 82; Stuhr, 77, Sorgel, 78; Schleck, 78, Wiedman, 85.
AFTERNOON ROUND
Severson, 78, Whiting, 80; Sorgel, 79, Kennedy, 81; Schluter, 78, Besenfelder, 80; Stuhr, 73, Oldenburg, 82; Fieh, 80, Schleck, 81; Totten, 77, Wiedman, 82.
Wisconsin Defeats
N. D. Track Squad
Driving rain and a strong wind faced Notre Dame trackmen in a meet against the University of Wisconsin last Saturday. Apparently good mudders, the underdog Badgers defeated the Irish squad 69 2/3 to 521/3 to avenge an earlier defeat. Owing to the weather there were no sensational performances.
Bill Leonard paced the Irish with victories in both the mile and half-mile. Leonard finished the mile 50 yards ahead of the field in 4:31. He captured the half in 2:02.2. Outstanding for the Badgers was Jamaican Lloyd La Beach, who won
Klinemen, Rained out Last Saturday
Play Spartans Sat., Michigan Tues.
By DAVE WARNER
After a quick round trip to Kalamazoo last Saturday where it faced nothing but a rain-soaked diamond and a cancelled game with Western Michigan, Jake Kline’s baseball squad will try to complete its Michigan tour this week. Tomorrow the Michigan State Spartans furnish the opposition at East Lansing and on Tuesday the Irish haul travel-weary bodies and equipment to Ann Arbor for a tilt with Ray Fisher’s University of Michigan nine, consistently one of the best in the nation. Both Michigan and Michigan State will be met in return games at Cartier Field.
Up at East Lansing Coach John Herman Kobs does considerable horn tooting on behalf of his two ace flingers, Joe Skrocki and Keith Steffe, both of whom reflect great contol. It is almost certain that one of these two will be on the mound tomorrow against the Irish. During the latter part of March the mighty Spartan marched through Dixie where it swept aside nine out of nine foes in the corn pone and sowbelly belt including the Duke Blue Devils and the North Carolina Tarheels. However, since beginning its northern schedule on April 19, State has discovered that the northern colleges are not awed by those southern press clippings, for already it has lost to two intra-state rivals, Michigan and Wayne University. Kobs has selected an astounding defensive outfield in George Rutenbar, Detroit; Floyd Guest, Royal Oak; and Bob Ludwig, Muskegon, while there are plenty of base hits in the bats of Capt. Ben Hudenko, catcher;
the 100 and 220 yard dashes and the broad jump.
Notre Dame’s Fred Jones, Joe Berg-thold, Ernest McCullough and Pat Kenny upheld this year’s Irish relay records by winning the mile relay event in 3:33. Ray Sabota took the 440 in :51.4.
In the 120 yard high hurdles John Smith and William Fleming finished one, two with Smith finishing in :15.7. The Irish also dominated in the two mile run. Jim Murphy and Neil Styers wound up hand in hand with Bud Tracey coming in third. —Bob Bates
Marty Hansen, short stop; and Jack Breslin, first baseman.
Kline was uncertain who would pitch tomorrow. “It depends upon who works against Iowa. Right now it’s a scramble among Smullen, Kluck, and Mahannah.” Mahannah, a drawling six footer from Memphis, looked convincing in beating Northwestern here two weeks ago and is now one of four Irish hurlers to have chalked up wins. In the Notre Dame infield Pilot Kline has effected another’ change by moving reserve catcher “Stash” Krivik to replace Ray Petrzelka at first base. Petrzelka has been hitting at a good clip, but Krivik*s extra base blows is the difference. The move elevates Tommy Coccitti, Hulber-ton, N.Y., to the No. 2 catching spot. Another change in tomorrow’s lineup will bring back hard-hitting “Rebel” Raba to his right field job where Joe Gehring was filling in while Raba was out with a leg injury incurred in a practice game. Otherwise things remain the same with Sheehan catching, Kozlik at second, Hassett at short, Schneider at third, and Mayo and Gilhooley in the outfield.
One of Michigan’s favorite hobbies is winning the Big Ten baseball title. After stringing up twenty-eight consecutive victories it finally succumbed to Illinois, 4-3, last Saturday after taking the first game of a double header. Losing pitcher was Bliss (Bo) Bowman who had won nine Western Conference games before bowing at Champaign. Bowman may go against the Klinemen Tuesday. If he doesn’t it will be either Dick Bodycombe, Cliff Wise or Earl Block. Whoever it is he’ll have more than an equal in the presence of “Kewp” Barrett who would like to help square accounts with the Wolverines for trouncing the Irish four times last season. No doubt about it— Coach Ray Fisher has put together a hard-hitting lineup. Tomasi, second sacker; Don Robinson, short stop; Walt Kell, third baseman; and outfielders Jack Weisenburger and Bob Nussbaumer all exhausted the Irish pitching last season. At first base for Michigan this season Jack Tallett, who used to do his monogram winning at Notre Dame, is alternating with Tom Rosema.
21
Indiana, Purdue, Kentucky on Net Bill;
Tully vs. Reynolds to Climax Weekend
By BILLY SLAVICK
One of the top intercollegiate tennis matches of the season will be unreeled in the Blue Grass state capital Saturday, when two Junior Davis Cuppers, Notre Dame’s Bill Tully and Kentucky’s Albert Reynolds, clash in the No. 1 singles match at Lexington on the final day of the Irish netters’ three-meet weekend.
The Notre Dame tennis team met Indiana University here yesterday. This afternoon the Irish are playing Purdue at Lafayette, and will face the University of Kentucky at Lexington Saturday.
While the Navy beating is still well remembered by the N. D. netmen, the opening sendee of the match with the Wildcats from U. of K. should see the Irish with at least one victory marked up, and if past scores mean anything, they should be out of the red. In four matches so far, Coach Ralph Collins’ Hoosiers have been trimmed by Northwestern, Michigan, Kalamazoo, and Michigan State. Purdue has fared no better, losing to Wayne, Michigan, Northwestern, and Ohio State.
■ Indiana
The all-Hoosier Indiana team’s top strength lay in a duo of Indianapolis boys, Bob Bosart and Bill Manis, both
Bob Gaffney ducks the leather attacks of Jimmy Rotchford (in white trunks)
lettermen, and a pair of ex-G.I.’s, Henry Harper of Plymouth and William Joyce of Kokomo. The two remaining positions were filled by Mike Hunter of Converse and William Blackburn of Indianapolis, lettermen; and numeral winners William Williamson of Marion, and Warren Curley of Terre Haute.
Purdue
Coach Larry LaBree of the Boilermakers has been coming up with better and better teams every year, but a glance, and only a glance, reveals some weaknesses this spring. Al Matisse of Mt. Vernon, N. Y., no. 3 in ’45, and Alex Armendarez of Mexico City, no. 6 in ’45 are counted on in two of the top positions. George Alexander, ’39 letterman, and ’40 letterman Bill Van Camp, both veterans from West Lafayette, and a quartet of ’41 frosh squad members, Dave Rodgers, Rudy Witsman, Jack Cohen, and Marshall Gardner, will fill out the first six. A William and Mary transfer, Bruce Seddon of St. Louis, may also be in there today.
Kentucky
Although no figures on Kentucky’s ten matches that precede Saturday’s
weekend finale for the N.D. team have been found, Coach H. H. Downing’s racqueteers are consistently in the thick of the Southeastern race, and in the person of Reynolds has one of the top no. 1 men around. He was named to the Jr. Davis Cup Team in 1944 and the Lawn Tennis Tilden Bowl squad the same year. In 1945 he was co-winner of the New Jersey Invitational Doubles, and was ranked No. 13 nationally, and No. 6 in the men’s doubles division. It promises to be a bang-up match when he and Tully meet.
Supporting Reynolds will be Tommy McKinley, a freshman from Lexington and Kentucky Military; William Sullivan from Harrodsburg; Dick Meadors, a first year man from Lexington; John Meyer-holz from Lexington; Carroll Fears of Louisville; Tommy Asbury of Lexington, a second year man; and Juan Balzola from Napoles, Mexico, a quarterfinalist in the National Mexican Junior Singles. Bill Hedges, Morganfield, Kentucky, a senior, is second to Reynolds in experience. He was on the U. K. freshman team in 1939, and a varsity netter in 1941 and ’42.
And Notre Dame
Coach Langford said early in the week that while his boys may not have been in top condition for the Navy, the Annapolis team’s strength all the way down the line was just too much.
“Kentucky may be the strongest of the three opponents this weekend, and the Tully - Reynolds match should be Bill’s toughest test this season,” he added. The same six will be on the line for Notre Dame: Tully at No. 1, Ratterman No. 2, Ed Caparo No. 3, Harry Erd No. 4, Arti Hoffman No. 5, and Joe Brown No. 6. Tyke Hartmann may also make the trip. He saw action in the No. 3 doubles event against Navy.
Next Friday afternoon the Irish travel to Kalamazoo to meet Western Michigan, followed by Michigan State Saturday in East Lansing.
BP Beats Dillon, 7-2
Behind the splendid pitching of Dave Langely, Breen-Phillips Hall defeated Dillon Hall, 7 to 2, Monday in the opening game of the Interhall Baseball League. Langely had nearly perfect control as he outpitched his mound rival Neil Kelly. Other games were played this week but too late to include a report in this issue of the Scholastic.
Games in this league will be played on Monday. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. All postponed games will be played on Friday, Saturday or Sunday.
fi#*^***.............. .	...
Michigan Track Squad
At Cartier Field Sat.
In the feature attraction (the only one) of the Notre Dame home outdoor track season, Coach Doc Handy’s thinly-clads will entertain the University of Michigan cinder squad on Cartier Field tomorrow afternoon.
The Irish, who have not met with much success thus far on the outdoor tracks, will attempt to make up for past setbacks. During the indoor season Notre Dame finished second to Michigan in the Michigan State Relays and in a triangular meet which included Michigan State. Michigan also outscored N. D. in the Purdue Relays last March.
Coach Ken Doherty’s powerful squad will include such outstanding performers as Hugh Short, national collegiate 600 yard record holder; Herb Barten, Western Conference indoor 880 yard champion; high jumper Bob Harris; shot-putters Charles Fonville and George Ostroot; dashmen Ferguson and Coleman; hurdlers MacIntyre and Kenny; distance men Voegtlen, Thomason and Johnson; and a mile relay team composed of Johnson, Soble, Hadiler and Coleman. This team downed Purdue, 79 to 43, at Lafayette last Saturday.
Coach Handy will depend on Leonard and Tracy in the mile run; Ray Sabota in the 440; Thompson in the century; O’Neil, Smith and Fleming in the hurdles; Cliff Brosey in the shot and discus events; Murphy, Styer and Tracy in the two-mile run; and a mile relay team composed of Jones, Bergthold, McCullough and Kenny. Bill Leonard, star sophomore miler, will also compete in the half-mile run in an attempt to turn in another double victory.
The best races of the afternoon should occur in the middle distance events. Michigan appears to have too much talent in the field events for the Irish to have hope of gaining many points there. However, an upset in an event or two would enable them to outpoint the mighty Wolverines.—Mel Goddard
Softball League
Games in the Interhall League will be played on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, Frank Maxwell, director of the league, announced this week. Any postponed games will be played on Tuesday and Thursday. Games will be played on the five softball diamonds on the field south of the campus.
The diamonds have been numbered one through five. The number 1 diamond is that closest to Notre Dame Avenue with the diamonds being numbered consecutively as they approach the stadium.
N. D. Has .667 Average
In 924 Baseball Games
In 1887 one Adrian Anson, then a student at the University and later a star with the Chicago Cubs, showed the boys how to play a game called baseball, similar to rounders which was played -with a stick and ball by any number of boys. That year marked the introduction to baseball history of a school which was subsequently to send forth some of the outstanding college teams of the nation and a creditable number of major league players.
Although considerable interest was shown in the game as the boys played it among themselves, no outside contests were scheduled until 1892 when Notre Dame defeated Michigan, 6 to 4, in the only game played that season.
The period from 1906 to 1908 inclusive marked Notre Dame’s greatest success on the diamond. In these three years, the teams scored 60 victories to only 9 defeats. They had 20 games won in each of these seasons, five defeats in 1906, three in 1907, and only one in 1908, the greatest single season in Notre Dame history.
The 1908 team made a swing through the East and won over such outstanding teams as Williams, Dartmouth, Boston, Fordham, Syracuse and Georgetown, losing only to the University of Vermont in the middle of the trip.
Other good seasons were in 1900, with 13 victories in 16 games; 1902, with 16 out of 20; 1903, with 17 out of 22; 1910, with 19 out of 21; 1913, with 15 out of 18 and one tie; 1914, with 17 out of 22; 1916 with 16 out of 19; 1922 with 19 out of 23; and 1936, with 16 out of 19. Up until the present season, the Irish had won 614 games, lost 295 and tied 12 for* an all-time mark of .667 in 58 seasons of baseball competition.
Two current major leaguers, Ed Han-yzewski of the Chicago Cubs and Johnny McHale of the Detroit Tigers, had their grooming at Notre Dame. To mention only a few of the other major league performers turned out at Notre Dame there are Roger Bresnahan, Pop Anson, Billy Sullivan, Rufe Waldorf, Ed Walsh, Jr., Chief Meyer and Cy Williams. A total of 48 major league baseball players at one time attended Notre Dame, to give the Irish baseball history a bit of prestige.
Grid Game on June 1
To End Spring Drill
Saturday, June 1, will be the date of the annual Varsity-Old Timers game signifying the end of spring football practice at Notre Dame, it was announced by Athletic Diretcor and Head
Football Coach Frank Leahy. The contest, as in pre-war days, will be staged in the Notre Dame stadium.
The game serves the dual purpose of giving the boys about to be graduated one more chance to play in the Notre Dame stadium, and allows the coaches to observe the reactions of the coming season’s prospects under actual game conditions.
This year’s membership on the Old-Timers will not be restricted to lads being graduated in June. More than a few veterans of other seasons, recently returned from service and residing in the South Bend area, have indicated they will be on hand. Acting as co-coaches for the Old-Timers are Jim Brutz, 193941 tackle, and Bob Dove, 1940-42 AllAmerica end, who has been helping Leahy coach this spring in ex-officio capacities.
Bengal Bouts Committee Expresses Appreciation
The Bengal Bouts committee of the Knights of Columbus expresses its sincere and grateful appreciation to all those who gave so generously of their talents and themselves in behalf of the University’s annual charity show.
Last night 18 men participated in the finals of the Bengals before a packed house, yet it is not to these men alone, but to all-the 41 fighters that the committee says thanks, for a grand job and some terrific bouts, and to the instructors from the Department of Physical Education, Dominic Napolitano and his assistants Kermit Rousseve and Anthony Buono for their untiring efforts, advice, and work.
To director of Athletics Frank Leahy and other members of his department for equipment and cooperation—we say many thanks. To Dr. J. A. Scannell for his able assistance, and equipment manager John McAllister; to the men who refereed and punched those clocks, and the other men behind the scenes who erected the ring and stands—to the Scholastic—to all these and more the Bengal Committees are grateful.
The workers on the many committees; tickets, concessions, posters and all are not to be forgotten either, their work was all but indispensable.
To the business men who placed advertisements—to all of these we say your graciousness has not gone unappreciated.
Though it may appear last in order, it is not such in importance. Those who supported the Bengal Bouts by just attending were after all the ones who contributed to the ultimate purpose of the Bouts—the Bengal Missions.
—Christy Walsh, Jr.
23
Splinters from the Press Box
By PAUL WEYRAUCH—Scholastic Sports Editor
Irish Sports Calendar
Today, Friday, May 10 Tennis, at Purdue
Saturday, May 11
Baseball, at Michigan State Track, Michigan, here Golf, Michigan, here Tennis, at Kentucky
Monday, May 13 Golf, Michigan, here
Tuesday, May 14
Baseball, at Michigan
Ringside Remarks
The most - successful Bengal Boxing Tournament in the history of the annual campus show came to a climactic end in the field house last night as a large crowd roared approval of the 1946 champions. Seven boys were accorded the honors as champions of their class.
The tournament was successful in many ways. Large crowds attended every session from the first night of preliminaries through to the finals. The Bengal Mission undoubtedly benefited financially to a larger degree than in many years. However, the most obvious mark of improvement in the spectacle was the class of competition. The mere fact that so many of the 1945 finalists were defeated in the preliminaries proves that competition was much keener over that of last year. The returned vets, many of whom had much boxing experience in the service, highlighted the show. All of the bouts were cleanly fought. The boys slugged away for all they were worth during the fight but always left the ring on the usual friendly basis. The Knights of Columbus club deserves special plaudits for the excellent manner" in which they ran the program. Every minute detail was well handled. Referee George Vander Heyden had a big job taking care of the officiating all the way, but his work was flawless. He did not let any boy take too much punishment but at the same time he did not deprive the fans of any action.
It would take a long time to point out the boys who did the most outstanding boxing. The champions speak for themselves with their titles, but to those who didn’t quite make it the honors are just
24
as great. Each contestant worked hard in preparation for the fights and each did a fine job, win or lose. From this onlooker’s vantage point, John Gierek of Chicago gets the nod as the most courageous fighter. Gierek came from behind in his first bout to win a decision over John Farrell of Syracuse, N. Y. He appeared on his way to defeat in the first round of this bout but he finished strong to win. Against a far superior foe, John Agnone, Gierek stayed in there until the final two seconds of the third round when he went down on a t.k.o. While he was being hit constantly by Agnone,' Gierek kept coming in for more and dishing it out as best he could. Such spirit is one of the essential roots to the success of the Bengals.
Nominations for men with the most boxing skill would have to include Jack McGrath, Chicago 145 pounder, Harp Dougherty, Woodlyn, Pa., heavyweight who fought very well against John Trave, and Ralph Deem, 165 pound boy from Milwaukee. The boy who seemed to waste fewer punches than anyone else was Paul Porter of Beaumont, Texas.
Thus the curtain comes down on another Bengal Boxing show. The Bengals have gained a firm hold in the Notre Dame athletic program with continued success, an assurance in the years to come.
[■jiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiriitttiiiiiiiitiiiiiisitiaiiaiiiiiiiiiaiaaiiaaaaaiiiaitiiittiiiiiitiiiiiaaaiiiiiiiiiiiaiiitiiiiiiiitataiiataiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiHiQ SPEAKING OF OLD TIME NOVELS
i	By JOSEPH C. RYAN	!
|	Here are twelve characters in fiction. How many of the names are E
E	familiar to you? From the list on the	right can	you pick	the right	novel	:
E	for each character? A score of twelve	is	excellent; a score	of	ten is	good.	5
E	Anything under eight indicates that you	are no	authority on	English and	e
E	American fiction. Answers on page 34.	E
E	1—Rose Bradwardine a—The Mill on the Floss	:
E	2—Daniel Quilp b—Barchester Towers	=
E	3—Sir Willoughby Patterne c—Vanity Fair	:
E	4—Maggie Tulliver -----------------------------d—The House of the Seven	Gables	E
E.	5—Harvey Birch e—Moby Dick	=
E	6—Elizabeth Bennet----------------------------f—The Old Curiosity	Shop	E
E	7—James Wait--------------:-------------------g—The Spy	5
E	8—Hepzibah Pyncheon___________________________h—The Egoist	E
E	9—Henry Fleming ._____________________________j—Waverley	E
E	10—Amelia Sedley — .........................: j—Pride and Prejudice	E
E	11—Mrs. Proudie----------------------------------k—The Nigger of the Narcissus	E
E	12—Capt. Ahab------------------------------------1—The Red Badge of Courage	z
Uncle Tom's Cabin
A favorite spot on the campus since the beginning of the spring semester has been Uncle Tom’s cabin, perhaps better known as the Notre Dame Express Office.
Located at the rear of the Administration Building, the express office was established in 1930 for the greater convenience of the student. Before then it was necessary to deal directly with the main office in South Bend. And because Intra-state Commerce Commission law forbade express deliveries outside the city limits, a long walk faced the student who wished to ship or obtain a package.
That, however, was sixteen years ago. Today under the capable supervision of its original manager, Thomas Hartman, the N.D. office has been built up into a fast and reliable unit of delivery. Indeed, too much credit can’t be given to this friendly man who for a decade, with only occasional student help, has been regulating the supplies of the University. And yet, besides his duties here, Tom also looks out for St. Mary’s College and the surrounding countryside.
Now to most individuals, a job like this would seem rather wearisome, but Tom fiercely protests that this isn’t the case at all, and he heartily adds, “Who else carries more weight around this University?” After work each day Tom heads for his farm on Route four. And as often as not he has a hungry friend or two to greet the missus ■with. Concerning the future, Tom has two things he would like to see come to pass, longer office hours at the express office and a decisive victory over Army.
—George MacDonald
Bengal Bouts
At right, Gus Cifelli (left), holder of several Marine divisional titles, blocks a right by Jack Fallon, who took time out from spring grid practice to enter the Bengals. Cifelli carried a bruising 250 pounds into the ring but lost a split decision to Fallon.
Below, Dougherty and Trave again. This time Harp ducks under a left and is all set to pound his own left into Trave's midriff. Trave and Fallon met in the finals last night for the heavyweight championship.
The heavyweights fought it out in the semifinals for a berth in the finals and a crack at the Bengal championship. Left, John Trave (left), winner of the heavyweight title in last year's Bengal Bouts, moves in on Harp Dougherty, a champion in his own right. Harp, 175-pound titlist last year, thrived on the dining-hall food, added weight, stepped up to the heavyweight ranks this year. The Trave-Dougherty fight was close, but 6-foot-7 Trave left the ring with the decision.
The Bengals this year topped all previous records in the 15-year history of the charity fights. More than 6.000 saw the four prelims, including the semi-finals, which 3,000 attended, to surpass by far all previous attendances. Never before did more than 5,000 see the fights, a record already beaten with the returns not yet in for the finals. The finals were fought last night after the "Scholastic" had gone to press, but a record-breaking 4JJOO fans were expected to see the championship bouts. All proceeds from the Bengal Bouts go to the Bengal missions in India.
25
INTRODUCING
By JIM CLEMENS
Tom Duffey Addresses Economic Roundtable
Tom Duffey of Sharon, Pa., presented a paper entitled “An Analysis of Adver-
One of the smoothest operatives seen in the Notre Dame infield in many a season is George John Schneider, chunky little third sacker from New York who is currently catching the fancy and imagination of all Irish diamond adherents by his stellar play around the hot corner for Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline’s high-flying baseball team.
Born in the Borough of Queens. New York City, on May 13, 1925, George literally grew up wearing baseball spikes, and earned four monograms in baseball while cavorting in the outfield for Grovel' Cleveland High School from 1939 to 1943. A regular during the latter three seasons, he compiled batting averages of .305, .300, and .361, captaining the team during his senior year.
In 1940 he helped Cleveland annex the Public School Athletic League City Championship, defeating George Washington for the title, and in 1942 and 1943 sparked the team to the Queens Borough PSAL crown. Oddly enough, though he played the outfield for three consecutive seasons, he was pressed into service as a third baseman in the Queens title playoff game with Andrew Jackson in 1942, and turned in such a creditable performance that he received honorable mention on the Queens All-Star team as a third baseman.
Rounding out his athletic career at Cleveland, he won a monogram as a guard on the basketball team when the school revived that sport for the 1942-43 season.
Following his graduation from high school, he worked for the O.P.A. until he was drafted into the Navy in September, 1943. He received his boot training at Sampson Naval Training Station near Syracuse, New York, and later went to Electrician Mate’s School at Purdue University. In April, 1944, he was appointed to the Naval V-12 program and in July was sent to Notre Dame foi' further schooling.
George transferred to the N.R.O.T.C. in March, 1945, and when “Jake” issued a call for baseball candidates that spring, the 5' 9" 160 lb. youth was right on the job. A mistake by the manager who had him listed as an infielder instead of an outfielder led to his conversion into the former, and before the Irish opened their campaign the little pepper-pot had established himself as the regular second baseman. George didn’t compile any .300 average in his first year of college competition, but his smooth play around the
middle station proved to be invaluable.
In an effort to find the smoothest infield combination to back up his power laden nine this spring, “Jake” plugged his weak spot at third base by moving his dependable second sacker over to that station. That the move proved to be successful is substantiated by the fact the Irish have won four straight at this writing, due in no small part to the sensational playing of the little hot corner guardian whose every mannerism on the ball field resembles that of “Snuffy” Stirnweiss, New York Yankee great.
A sure and steady fielder, George has also found new power in his bat this year, and in the first six games of the season pounded out six singles in twenty-one trips to the plate for a neat .286 average.
George was. discharged by the Navy in February of this year, and is currently a first semester junioi' studying foi* a B.S. Degree in Business Administration. He hopes to go on to Law School when he graduates, but all his future plans hinge on the whims and fancies of a pretty blond Irish lassie by the name of Mary Scanlon, the home town girl to whom he became engaged at the N.R.O. T.C., Ball last February. The little lady who looks like Jo Stafford is currently a: Cadet Nurse and hopes to graduate from Long Island College Hospital in September, 1948.
tising in our Economy” before a meeting of the Economic Roundtable last Thursday night in the Ramble Inn.
The talk followed the weekly dinner of the club. Secretary Fred Funk proposed the establishment of a Plans Committee foi' the club which will begin functioning this semester and will take effect this fall. The men who will serve on the committee are Mike Yarbenet and Bernie O’Hara.
A Reference Committee was created which will have charge of the club library. The library is made up of books received from the Carnegie Foundation, which sponsors the International Relations Club on college campuses throughout the country.
Members who atended the N F C C S meeting in Grand Rapids last Saturday were: Joe Rud, Pat Nolan, Paul Qualy and Frank Grimaldi. Members of this group succeeded in establishing a regional commission for international relations in the Ft. Wayne region.
In his talk on advertising, Duffey stressed the ability of the business to create a demand for a product, which in turn lowered production cost. Three percent of the total income of the U. S. went for advertising in 1935. ’
26
COLLEGE PARADE
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
This week we can settle down to normal again after the gay whirlwind that ND studes enjoyed last weekend—those who attended the Junior Prom, that is. It was a refreshing sight to see once again so many delightful pieces of femininity strolling around this beautiful campus. Why is it that only visitors seem to enjoy it? . . . All in all, the Prom was a huge success. Congrats to the Committee members, especially to those who were responsible for those decorations and the tuneful orchestra. Superb job— Superb!
George: Do you believe kissing is unhealthy?
Mary: I couldn’t say. I’ve never. . . George: You’ve never been kissed? Mary: I couldn’t say. I never . . .
—Villanovan
Consternation was great around our hallowed halls last week when our stu-
TTp you're looking for a typist for your thesis work contact Mrs. G. E. McKnight Morningside Hotel, South Bend, Indiana.
10 CENTS PER PAGE
NOTICE
For your convenience we are beginning a classified section.
If it's lost or found—second-hand or new or what have we — it's the CLASSIFIED SECTION.
Publications Office
Main Building	Extension 255
dents read the screaming headlines, "Inmates of ‘Rock' seek to escape!” ... It was a huge sigh of relief that we heaved when we found out that it was only Alcatraz that the papers referred to and not SMC.
Table etiquette was invented by a dyspeptic. Being uncomfortable in the presence of food, he determined that others with good digestion should be equally miserable. —Butler Collegian
Irate saleslady to disagreeable customer: “Go easy, madam—the days when I used to insult customers are still fresh in my mind!” —Gonzaga Bulletin
Exams are just like women.
That is exactly right.
They ask such foolish questions, And keep you up all night.
—St. Benedict’s Rambler
WJOTW Department — Stolen this week from the Auburn Plainsman.
Customer: Do you know how to make anti-freeze?
Service Station Attendant: Sure, hide her pajamas.
There’s the one about the deaf man who had a lot of success with girls. He couldn’t hear- them say, ‘No.’
—McMaster Si’Z/iouette
*>
At Wisconsin, in a study of student eating habits, it was ascertained that on an average day, 1,140 glasses of milk were sold in the cafeteria to 430 cups of coffee. . . . Which proves nothing except that the survey wasn’t taken during Exam Week.
Then there is the draftee that claimed exemption because of poor eyesight — and brought his wife along as proof.
—Holy Cross Tomahawk ♦
School is like a bathtub full of steaming water . . . after a while it’s not so hot.	—Boston U. Neivs
S. B. Symphony, Glee Club Give Concert
Before an impressive crowd last Friday evening in the Navy Drill Hall the South Bend Symphony Orchestra and the University of Notre Dame Glee Club presented a very entertaining and enjoyable program.
The concert opened with the four movements of Tschaikowsky’s Symphony Number Four in F Minor. Under the baton of Mr. Edwyn Hames, the orchestra gave a brilliant performance of this very difficult work.
The second portion of the program featured the Glee Club with the Symphony in a beautiful rendition of Randall Thompson’s inspiring Testament of Freedom. This work also had four movements. It was written by Mr. Thompson, who is head of the music department of Virginia University, to honor the great Thomas Jefferson, founder of the University. The Testament was first performed by the University of Virginia Glee Club on Founder’s Day in 1943. Since then it had many performances. The most notable of these was the one given as a memorial to the great champion of freedom, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, a few days after his death. The Boston Symphony Orchestra and the Harvard Glee Club gave this notable performance. Factors that constitute the score of the Testament so great are its sincerity and simplicity. On this number the Glee Club gave one of the finest performances it has been my pleasure to hear.
The program concluded by featuring the brilliant Cuban pianist Jose Eschaniz in Franz Liszt’s Concerto Number 2 in A Major.
The South Bend Symphony Orchestra also announced a contest. The purpose of the contest is to select by popular audition one soloist for voice, one soloist for piano and one soloist for an orchestral instrument. All persons twenty-one years of age are eligible for this contest, provided they live in South Bend or attend Notre Dame University or St. Mary’s College. The winners of the contest will be heard in concert with the Symphony in March, 1947. —James Manning.
27
“Sailing, sailing over the bounding main,” “heave ho, my lads, heave ho,” and other such extremely nautical expressions drifted up from St. Joseph’s Lake as the RO’s swung into action on the high seas. If you have been wondering what all the commotion out in the middle of the lake has been this past week, it’s the result of the furious effort of some 11,973 fish trying to keep out of the way of wildly swinging oars handled by the navy trainees. “Give us a few more days and we’ll be able to race along the top of the water like a Yankee Clipper,” says George Case, but so far the RO’s have been digging those oars into the water like a sourdough cutting into the Comstock Lode. The navy chiefs say they haven’t seen anything like it since a midshipman coxswain dove overboard to escape the bedlam of twelve “ninety day wonders” trying to stop their whaleboat from running down the dock.
Armed with the knowledge gained from seeing motion pictures on the gentle art of rowing for the fourth time, the navy men reported for duty afloat. After having a physical check to make sure John Smith wasn’t lurking among any of the men (the government insurance doesn’t cover accidents when John is around), the first crew went to the boats. The fish of St. Joe’s promptly applied to Father Kehoe’s office for a redress of wrongs and permission to migrate to St. Mary’s Lake for the summer. Action is still pending.
The maiden voyage of the first crew was uneventful, but cost Chief Cook five dollars. He bet Phod Rod Washburne (P as in Phooey!) that he couldn’t navigate the lake without losing a man. As it was, the boat came back without Washburne, but he didn’t count.
Sometime in June the companies of the unit will hold their semester boat race, an occasion which draws doctors and nurses from all over this section of the country. The one this year will be a bit more important than those in the past have been. It is a second anniversary of the day when twelve eager mariners and a student officer coxswain (named Losie) were determined to set a modern record for the length of the lake. With heads
28
down and arms stroking, they overshot the lake and went zipping up the shore, through the woods in the direction of St. Mary’s. They haven’t been heard from since. The officers thought of sending a searching party out, but no volunteers could be found to enter that territory. So after a beautiful ceremony in which
And this. Smith, is the office of the disciplinary officer.—Lotze and Conklin
each missing man’s Seamanship Manual was slid off a plank into the calm waters of St. Joe’s Lake, the case was closed.
Battalion Commander “Cutter” Ruling believes that there is faint chance of the same thing occurring this year, but nevertheless, he is keeping an eye on “Higgy” Higginbottom who claims that he has a method of cutting three minutes off the record time. Of course, this would leave almost a minus result,
Headquarters — for BOOKS and RELIGIOUS GOODS
A very comprehensive selection of the best in Catholic Literature — a complete stock of Missals, Pamphlets, Breviaries, Rosaries, Bibles and religious articles.
AQUINAS LIBRARY & BOOK SHOP inc
110 E. LaSalle — just four doors down the hill from Elbel’s Music Store
but Higgy is an ingenious person. He is the fellow who is trying to invent a banana you can put in the refrigerator.
Perm (not from Culver)
Little Willie hanged his sister;
She was dead before they missed her. Everything went Okey-Doke,
But sister couldn’t take a choke.
The Worst Joke of the Week Department belongs to another columnist (Yes, we admit that there are other columnists in the “Scholastic”—of course, we don’t read them) but, we are sure that Tommy Higgins will admit that this is close to WJOTW.
A lad looking through a telescope muttered, “Gawd!” “Gwan,” said his friend, “It ain’t that powerful.”
ROs Are Talking About
Last week’s demerit list gave two new offences to be added to the list of forbidden pleasures, but at the same time it caused a bit of curiosity to prevail among the ROs. J. H. Smith was guilty of “Tussling in the chow hall”—what clever English—and Chuck O’Grady had his “chairs out of order.” We guess that the chairs didn’t jump to attention when the inspection party entered. Maybe they were “easy” chairs. . . . The situation in the chow hall is becoming worse each day—something we thought was almost impossible. We are not referring to the quality of the food, although it has been said that the recent message to all civilian halls for men to refrain from “taking food from the dining hall and feeding it to the fish” was for the benefit of the fish. We are referring to the service which is about as fast as Jack Stanley going over the obstacle course. . . . USN Widowitz claims he has to wind his watch twice while going through the

chow line. ... Ed Soergel argues that his time spent waiting for food amounts to 6 7/8 discharge points. . . . Hubert Williams says that he fainted from hunger one evening while watching a woman debate whether to give him thirteen or fourteen peas. . . . The Chief Crow believes that he could get a prize crew together and serve any meal in half the time now spent. Certain ROs will back this statement at suitable odds. Volunteers may form at 203 Morrissey. Come early and avoid the rush. . . .
Famous Last Words
“The Chief Crow” believes that he could get a prize crew together and serve any meal in half the time now spent.”
400,000 MANUSCRIPTS (Continued from page 13)
Adams, and bore the picture signatures of more than a dozen Indian braves.
Then there is another letter, the petition of an old bishop asking to be relieved of his duties. It was written in 1885 by John B. Lamay, Bishop of the Sante Fe, Arizona, diocese for many years. In the letter in which he tendered his resignation, the bishop told of his enfeebled condition and his desire to pass on his duties to someone else. The bishop was none other than Jeanne Marie La Tour whom Willa Cather made live in her novel, “Death Comes for the Archbishop.”
The oldest of the manuscripts at Father McAvoy’s fingertips is a letter written in 1717 by a bishop to a priest in Louisiana in answer to a request for a dispensation in a marriage case. The bishop’s reply has survived the years and today rests in the Notre Dame Archives.
The Archives can be divided into three separate collections. They include the Catholic Archives of America containing the ecclesiastical records of various dioceses throughout the United States; there is then the University’s own archives containing records and manuscripts referring to the history of Notre Dame. Finally there are the personal papers of various personages who have played an important role in the Catholic history of the U. S.
The ecclesiastical archives include records from the dioceses of Louisville, Detroit, Vincennes, Cincinnati, New Orleans, and Fort Wayne. Among them is a Papal Bull instituting the diocese of Cincinnati. Looking through these diocesan papers we would find autographs of Saints, Popes, and Cardinals. Perhaps the richest collection in the Archives is the diocese of New Orleans papers. They include the personal papers of the famous Luis Y. Cardenas, first bishop of New Orleans, from 1793 to 1801.
Going through the University’s own personal archives we would find a certificate stating that the Rev. Edward Sorin was received into minor orders on the 17th of December, 1836. Also among the earlier records of the school, there is a list of the benefactors of Notre Dame, dated 1843. Contributions ranged anywhere from four cents to five dollars. However, a written record including the name of the individual contributing was kept of all contributions no matter how small. There are minutes of the meetings held by the various societies on the campus dating back as far as 1851. Programs of graduation exercises, plays, and concerts are also on file. The proceedings of the first meeting of the University Council held in 1844 and the various meetings held since then, all have their place in the Archives.
Among the personal papers held in the Archives there are those of Charles W. Stoddard, Orestes Brownson, world famous author, literary critic and convert, and of his son, Henry F. Brownson, Lae-tare Medal winner.
At present, there are over 400,000 different manuscripts, letters and papers on file in the Archives. Over 50,000 of them have been catalogued in the past 17 years. There still remain 350,000. Who knows the bounds of historical knowledge yet to be found in these manu
LOWER'S 128 N. Michigan St.
scripts? It is sufficient to say that there lies hidden among these 350,000 documents information of great importance to future Catholic historians, which in time will be brought to light by Father McAvoy and his assistants in the Notre Dame Archives.
Mother's Day is Sunday
Remember her with a card from
29
CAMPUS CLUBS
By JERRY OLWELL
Hats off to the many Campus Clubs that have decided to receive Holy Communion this Sunday, Mother’s Day, in honor of their mothers. These clubs are going to attend Mass in a group and afterwards have breakfast together.
Cigarette ashes, Cokes and Bull Sessions were the order of the day as the Vets Club held its Spring Smoker last Tuesday night. Door prizes were awarded and one of the main prizes was an ND blanket. Chuck Perrin and Pat Sullivan, two of the winners in the recent vaudeville contest, entertained the mem-bers of the club. It was unfortunate, in-
AU Through the Day Dark Town Poker Club Ah Yes, There's Good Blues
Tonight
Seems Like Old Times Full Moon and Empty Arms
COPP'S MUSIC SHOP
122-24 E. Wayne St.
For Appointment Phone 3-0678
SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street
Chair No. 5
deed very unfortunate, that the third winner of this contest found it inconvenient to entertain the vets since he was not going to be recompensed. The less said about this the better.
As we passed one bull session we heard Christy Walsh relating a sad story. It seems that one Mike Weinberg received the “Burple Heart” out in the South Pacific when he bumped into an enlisted men’s bar . . . incidentally he has been up against it ever since.
For future reference keep in mind the golf tourney and dance that the Vets Club has planned for May 14, 15, 16, and 17, the dance coming on the 17th.
Roses Department: We feel that the two following men should receive a hearty pat on the back. They are Jerry Wayno of the Vets Club and Jim Kress, Prexy of the Campus Radio Club. Jerry was chairman of the Smoker that the Vets Club so successfully held this last Tuesday. Jim Kress has done a wonderful job with the Radio Club. They now have four interesting programs on a local station, and are planning a fifth. Jim has also announced plans for a banquet in the near future.
The St. Louis Club held elections this past week. Bill Murphy and “Red” Con-cannon were elected President and Vice President. Discussed during the meeting were plans for a dinner to be held in the near future. After the business was over
CYR'S BARBER SHOP "South Bend's Leading Barber Shop"
5 Barbers Manicurist
the members reminisced ovex- that swell mid-semester dance they had held in St. Louis. It was remembered, with a laugh, how Jim Evans was very dejected because he did not get his picture in the St. Louis papers. We reverently mention his name in our humble publication.
Several members of the Peoria, Illinois Club while on their weekly Sunday peregrination across the Dixie Highway, noticed the gates of a nearby venerable institution in the process of being widened. Could this be significant of a broadening of that institution’s conventions, or is it that they are anticipating 300 instead of 150 visitors to their weekly fete? We don’t believe it is either. It is our opinion that these stately portals had to be enlarged since two of the more corpulent students from this lyceum found it difficult and uncomfortable to stand side by side in the entrance.
The N. Y. Met Club proved true a statement I printed two weeks ago. I said in this column that the Alumni of many cities would be only too happy to help the campus clubs representing these cities. The Met Club got in touch with the ND club of N.Y., and asked cooperation on a dance that the Met Club would like to hold during the summer. The Met Club was promptly told that the N.Y. Alumni would not only cooperate, but handle all the business for the affair. This should prompt many club presidents to write immediately to the Alumni of their city.
- The California Club shuddered recently when they read a news item in the daily papers that revealed California as the No. One hard liquor consuming state in the Union, surpassing even New York. We are happy, however, to report that the Californians on the campus in no way contribute to this report.
Incidentally, just what is stopping the California Club from having that summer dance that was proposed by some members? The distance between Frisco and Los Angeles should be no obstacle.
It was announced this past week by the Knights of Columbus that the first post-war edition of the Santa Maria will appear towards the end of this semester. Jim Sullivan will be the editor of this fine paper which will discuss all the achievements that the K. of C. made during this past year.
In the passing parade we find Frank Cacciapaglia quite unhappy. He attended the National Federation of Catholic College Students where he claims the girls outnumbered the men 2-1, but he didn’t make a contact.
(See next page, col. 1)
30
Control Atom-Bomb by Three-Power
Military Pact: "Review of Politics"
The only way that the atomic bomb can be controlled so that it will not be a threat to civilization is by a military pact between the great powers. Such is the opinion expressed by Stefan T. Possony in the Spring number of the Review of Politics, in an article entitled “The Atomic Bomb, Political Hopes and Realities.” Possony points out that since surprise is such an important element in military attack it is useless to expect any agreement outlawing the use of the bomb to be kept.
Neither can the Security Council, nor a World Confederation, nor even a preventive war save us from the evils of atomic bombs. But if the three great powers get together and pool their military might, this would prevent war or “at least it would make for a short, therefore less devastating, and victorious war.”
Dr. Possony, who has written much on the technicalities of war, devotes much
CAMPUS CLUBS
(Continued from preceding page)
The Toledo Club, not waiting for anyone to get ahead of them in finding jobs for their members, has printed questionnaires which they are having their Club members fill out. These papers will then be forwarded to a summer job placement committee in Toledo and shortly after the members will be notified as to where they can work.
This last Tuesday the B.T.O.s (Law Club) had a rough time. They had planned a quiet smoker for the evening, at the Indiana Club. Upon arriving there they found the Vets Smoker in full swing. They also learned that the Student Council was holding a meeting this same evening as was the Knights of Columbus. One would think that a bunch of lawyers could plan better than that.
At its May 6th meeting, the members of the Columbus, Ohio Club elected Georgie Igel, President; Pat Hughes, Vice Prexy; and Jack Corrigan secretary-treasurer. This past Wednesday they held a dinner at Rosie’s which was well attended and enjoyed by all. Father George I. Smith, 0. P., the Columbus Club’s moderator, was heard to say, “Corby Hall was never like this.”
Incidentally, Vice-President Hughes reported exclusively that Christopher Columbus had been chosen honorary president of this club and that he would make an appearance on the campus any day now. “That I gotta see.”
of his article to an examination of the other solutions which have been made since the fateful attack on Hiroshima. He makes fun of the direful prophets who predicted a sad end to mankind “in an earth-shattering chain-reaction,” but does admit that the problems consequent upon the use of the bomb are not of easy solution. One interesting objection of Possony to the general supposition that free inspection of all countries by an international body could prevent the creation of bombs in secret is that “prefabricated” production could render such inspection futile.
Other articles in this issue of the Notre Dame quarterly, just published, include a study of international law by George Schwarzenberger, of London, an examination of the nationalism of Vlad-imar Soloviev by Michael Karpovich of Harvard University, and study of the life of a German professor in the Third Reich by such a professor, Gerhard Ritter. In a very interesting article on “Architecture and Western Civilization,” Professor John U. Nef discusses the interesting question: “Could a new conception ( of architecture) grow out of the United States and perhaps out of the Middle West, which has been spared the material destraction of the second world war?” He points out that in the history of building among Western peoples, three main periods can be distinguished, the Gothic, that of humanism and the modern period which is marked by the “death of unified artistic tradition.” Discussing the failure of this last period Professor Nef says, “We have the means to create an art of architecture; what we lack is the imagination and the will.”
In a combination of two essays, one by the English economist R. H. Tawney, author* of Religion and the Rise of Capitalism, and the other by Christopher Hollis, Conservative Member of Parliament and one time professor of History at Notre Dame, the reader of the Review is given an insight into current politics in England since the recent election. Tawney points the way for the Labor Party. Hollis, incidentally, opposes the acceptance of the American loan to Britain.
Book reviews in this issue are by Otto von Simson, and the Notre Dame professors, Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Willis D. Nutting, Waldemar Gurian, William 0. Shanahan and Ferdinand A. Hermens.
Est.
1900
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
Just received!
Attractive Elgin American Cigarette Cases and Compacts
IDEAL GIFTS
SHE NEVER FORGOT YOU-DON'T FORGET HERon
Mother’s day
GREETING CARDS and a wide selection of GIFTS from
127 W. Washington Street
‘Tn the J. M. S. Building"
31.
First Prize of $100 in Oratorical Contest
The preliminaries of the Goodrich-Cavanaugh Oratorical Contest will start on May 27, and the final contest will be on June 4. Money awards of $100, $35, and $15 go to the first three winners.
The original orations must deal with the fundamentals of American government, particularly the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. A committee appointed by the president of the University will judge the contest.
This contest is open to any student who has not yet completed eight semesters of his undergraduate work. Any undergraduate who wishes to enter the contest should submit his name to one of the teachers of speech or to Professor
Y'OUR HAIRCUT by appointment at
South Bend’s outstanding Barber Shop —
FRED SKIVES 205 S. Main Street
JffftRSOn BARBER SHOP
Phone 3-9386 for appointment.
FOUR BARBERS ON DUTY
Paul Bartholomew, of the Department of Political Science.
Each competitor must submit three typewritten copies of his oration, doublespaced, on standard bond paper, 8 1-2 by 11 inches, to Professor Frank Kelly, of the Depaitment of Speech, at 319 Main Building, not later than the noon of Saturday, May 18, 1946. Two of the copies submitted may be good carbon copies.
The manuscript of any oration submitted in the contest must consist of not less than 1000 words nor more than 1,200 and must not take more than 12 minutes delivery. Quoted matter in an oration must not exceed 25 per cent.
The Orations in the contest will be judged on a basis of 200%: 100% possible on the thought and expression in the manuscript, and 100 per cent on the delivery of the oration.
The latest time for submitting the manuscript of an oration is the noon of Saturday, May 18.
3 Professors Added to Philosophy Dept.
The Department of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, long recognized as one of the outstanding departments of its kind in American higher education, has been strengthened by the return of three of its professors who rendered distinguished service in the United States Armed Forces during World War II.
The three are: Dr. Walter* L. Wilkins, Professor of Psychology; Dr. Daniel O’Grady, Professor of Philosophy;
and Dr. John J. Fitzgerald, Professor of Philosophy. They have been reappointed by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
Dr. Wilkins, who served on the Notre Dame faculty in the Department of Education from 1934 to 1937, recently received a discharge from the Navy. He was a Specialist in Clinical Psychology while in the service and assisted with rehabilitation work in San Diego, Calif. Prior to his appointment to the Notre Dame faculty in 1934, Dr. Wilkins was head of the Department of Education at St. Teresa’s College at Winona, Minn.
Dr. O’Grady, who obtained a leave of absence from the Notre Dame faculty to enter the Army in 1942, recently received a discharge with the rank of Captain, A.G.D. While in the service, the Notre Dame educator was clinical psychologist and personnel consultant. He also served on the staff of the Adjutant General’s School at Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.
Dr. Fitzgerald, who originally joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1937, obtained a leave of absence from the University in 1942 to join the Navy in which he served as a Lieutenant. From the University of Louvain, Belgium, he received his Ph.B. degree in 1934, his Ph.L. in 1936 and his Ph.D. in 1937. He is a Fellow of the Belgian and American Educational Foundation, and a member of the American Academy of Political and Social Science.
Music Department
Has Complete Staff
Rolf Scheurer, of Minneapolis, Minn., who was added to the staff of the music department at the University of Notre Dame this semester, further supplements an outstanding staff. Daniel H. Pedtke heads the department.
Mr. Scheurer, who specializes in musical composition, served as music instructor at the Chestnut Hill academy in Philadelphia, Pa., for the last three years. He attended the University of Minnesota from 1936 to 1939.
In 1939 he was awarded a scholarship in composition to study under the maestro, Rosario Scalero, at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia, Pa. He received a bachelor of music degree from the institute in 1944.
Mr. Scheurer’s mother, Mrs. Swan-hild Johnson Scheurer, is a pianist. His father Karl Scheurer- is violin soloist of the Minneapolis Symphony orchestra.
. Lee Hope, Hillsboro, Ill., is director of the Notre Dame band, and serves as instrumentation director. Frederic H. Ingersoll specializes in orchestra and string instrument music and Cecil E. Birder is instructor in the field of vocal music.
32
CARDINAL TIEN
(Continued from page 7)
Sacred Heart Church on the campus. Here he was officially welcomed by Father O’Donnell, after which he gave Bendiction and addressed a large congregation of faculty members and students assembled in the church.
In his short address, he hailed Notre Dame as “the most famous university in the United States.” Even in China, he added, Notre Dame and its great spiritual, academic and athletic accomplishments are well known. He spoke first in English and then in Chinese. His remarks in Chinese were translated by his secretary, the Rev. John Vos, S.V.D.
Afterwards, in an interview, he said that never before have the Chinese people been so favorably disposed towards the Catholic Church as they are today.
This is “the best opportunity we have ever had to convert my people to our holy faith,” he declared. From Generalissimo Chiang Kai Shek’ down to the humblest citizen, he added, the Chinese people remember how the Catholic missionaries protected them against the ' Japanese during the war.
“The salvation of China will be found in the acceptance by the Chinese people of the gospel of Jesus Christ,” he continued. “We must build a new and strong Christian state in the Far East. This state must be firmly entrenched upon the Bellarmine (Cardinal Bellarmine) principles upon which was established your American constitution.
“The youth of China have thrown off the old morality and are now without religion. We must seek to win them to Christianity through the arts and sciences. We must build schools and seminaries and perhaps more colleges and universities. If we missionaries do not work hard and fast the young men and women of China may accept some form of radicalism or atheism.”
In welcoming’ the Cardinal to Notre Dame, Father O’Donnell recalled that through the years “members of some of China’s most distinguished families have come to Notre Dame as students.”
“They came to learn the Christian principles of life and to nourish the seeds of sound character,” he continued. “We have observed with satisfaction that they are taking a responsible part in the affairs of their country. We recognize them as representatives of the best traditions of Notre Dame, and as living examples of the universality of the educational principles upon which Notre Dame was founded.”
Father O’Donnell also revealed that
Notre Dame had decided to reinstitute two full scholarships offered by Notre Dame to graduates of the Catholic University at Peiping, China, each year. The scholarships, founded some years ago, were suspended during the war.
Following the exercises at the Church, the Cardinal and his party were guests of Father Steiner and Father O’Donnell at a special luncheon in the Lay Trustees Room in the Notre Dame Dining Halls. They were taken for a visit around the university afterwards.
Cardinal Tien and his party motored to Notre Dame from the headquarters of the Society of the Divine Word at Techny, Ill. Besides Father Vos, the Cardinal was accompanied by the Rev. Anthony E. May, S.V.D., Mission Procurator of the Society of the Divine Word, and by Former Marine Staff Sergeant Louis J. Maloof of the Sixth Marine Division. Sergeant Maloof has been acting in a liaison capacity with Cardinal Tien since last January. He interpreted the Cardinal’s remarks during the interview.
GREEN BANNER
(Continued from page 6) anyone knowing of a likely feminine companion for the “Saint” . . . please contact his social secretary, Jack Boyer, in Zahm Hall. . . .
Thursday’s boxing card at the fieldhouse gave ring fans a good idea of what to expect in the finals . . . the Fal-lon-Ciffili match started out to be a good old fashioned slug fest . . . but Gus was pretty well “sugared” by the time the third round was over .. . weight reclass
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
ifications saw the return of three previous losing contenders . . . who slugged to the satisfaction of the crowd . . . and two who were slugged to the satisfaction of their opponents . . . Bob Satti being the lone victor of the trio. . . .
At a smoker last week the Cleveland Club played host to Ziggy “The Wheel” Czarobski . . . who broke away from a wedding party long enough to pocket a few El Ropos and spin a yarn or two about the Irish Grid outlook for 1946 .. . spiced with some well timed comments on the Czarobski outlook. . . . The S.A.C. suggestion box is up . . . and the first suggestion from this department is . . . if you have forgotten to send a card for Mother’s Day . . . borrow a nickel and call her . . . collect. . . see you all at the Vet’s Golf Tourney. . . .
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our 3wn laboratory.

Dr. E. J. Coin
OPTOMETRIST
50UThnsehoRE
33
GOLF TOURNEY
(Continued from p. 7) to an informal dance to be held at the Rockne Memorial Friday night, May 17th. Shufflers may socialize to the strains of Charles Bogers orchestra from 9 until 12. Men living on campus may have car privileges Friday until 1 a. m., together with one o’clock permissions. Bids to the informal are set at 81.50 per couple.
Chairman of the Dance Committee is Bill Shine, tickets are in charge of Bob Concannon, Decorations and Kefresh-ments will be handled by Bob Powell, and Publicity by Bill and Christy Walsh.
The Co-Chairmen for the Golf Tournament are Joe Totten and Tom Ferri-ter. Frank Ward will be in charge of awarding the prizes.
Members of the Varsity Golf team will not be permitted to compete in the tourney.	•
Hall representatives of the club will sign up contenders.
THOMAS CARDINAL TIEN (Continued from p. 14) raising his finger and shaking it as though he thought I was a naughty fellow. ‘Don’t you know,’ he said, sheepishly, and in all humility, ‘that such an
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. , SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
learned, to men of science, of culture, learned, to men of siencce, of culture, dignity? Such is not for me, the simple. You must not believe it. I am not worthy of such an honor. It must be a mistake!’
“Late that evening, like a dove from heaven came the answer to the question which did not need an answer. It was another cablegram, this time from Rome, confirming the news of Bishop Tien’s appointment as China’s first Cardinal.”
Then followed days of feverish preparations for Cardinal Tien’s journey to the consistory in Rome on February 18. The Cardinal used to come to Sgt. Maloof’s room and say: “I don’t think it is possible for me to get to Rome, Louie.”
And Louie would answer, “Trust in the Holy Ghost and Louie.” Finally, after much difficulty, the Cardinal-designate secured passage to the United-States. He traveled to New York to meet Cardinals Spellman and Glennon (who has since died) and early in February all three Cardinals flew to Rome to receive the Red Hat along with 29 others.
Cardinal Tien was one of the three Cardinals who stole the show. at the consistory in Rome. The little, meek man was taken to heart by everyone who saw him. He was the first Chinese to be elevated to the Sacred College and “came to Rome without imposing entourage, bringing only one aide besides himself and a very marked humility toward the whole proceeding.”
The year 1890 will henceforth be remembered as the date of the death of John Henry Cardinal Newman and the birth of Thomas Cardinal Tien, the first Cardinal of the Society of the Divine Word and the highest ecclesiastical authority in all the Far East. He is now the leader of the Chinese Church which is emerging into a trying period of China’s history.
I found Cardinal Tien a brilliant and humble little man. The virtue of humility is most predominant in him and is the main asset of his popularity. He has no academic degree and did not study
I	ANSWER TO QUIZ ON PAGE 24	1
5	1—Rose Bradwardine ___________i—Waverley	:
z	2—Daniel Quilp 			f—The Old Curiosity Shop	z
Z	3—Sir Willoughby Patteme 			h—The Egoist	z
	4—Maggie Tulliver 			a—The Mill on the Floss	z
	5—Harvey Birch 			g—The Spy	Z
z	6—Elizabeth Bennet 				j—Pride and Prejudice	z
	7—James Wait 			k—The Nigger of the Narcissus	z
	8—Hepzibah Pyncheon 			d—The House of the Seven Gables	z
z	9—Henry Fleming 			1—The Red Badge of Courage	
:	10—Amelia Sedley 			c—Vanity Fair	z
z	11—Mrs. Proudie 			.b—Barchester Towers	z
z	12—Capt. Ahab 					e—Moby Dick	
			
Hass, the Fuller Brush man uses footin-door promotion technique
in Rome, but in a little seminary at Yen-chowfu which wasn’t even an accredited school. Cardinal Tien, as Sgt. Maloof so aptly says, is “a humble instrument, who relied not on his own genius and strength but turned to the Holy Spirit of God, and has been chosen to mark China’s great forward stride toward fulfilling the Church’s sole aim and end: Adveniat Regnum Tuum.”
Keep Away, Women!
It’s a good thing that women dance backwards, says Dr. Gerald H. Chapman, associate professor of chemistry at Kent State university.
“A delicate little lady with her dainty 110 pounds balanced on a spike heel has about 10 times the toe-crushing power of her burly partner whose 180 pounds are carried on broad-heeled brogans,” he explains.
34
If You Want to be a Dapper-Dan, See Hass, the Fuller Brush Man
By JOE CHENEY
If we had some sound effects, we might be able to do a better than average job in describing the man in the picture. He is Joseph F. Hass, a junior in the college of commerce and a resident of Walsh Hall. We believe that he is the only Fuller Brush Man who ever attended Notre Dame.
When Joe arrived back this semester after spending a few months with the Indians of India, he opened his three suitcases filled with brushes of all sizes and descriptions. Of course he had his extra pair of shorts. When asked by his good friend, Charlie Wade (the guy with a girl in South Bend who owns a Buick), why he brought one extra pair of shorts and nothing else, Joe promptly (without a script) replied, “I heard about this new laundry schedule of sending our laundry only once every two weeks and decided then and there to bring an extra pair , along. By the way, do you want to buy a brush?” ’
Starting the nex* day, Joe made a house-to-house c^iivass of the homes in the immediate area selling his brushes. He claims that so far only two potential customers have done any considerable damage to his “foot-in-the-door” method of selling his products. Joe says that instead of sizing up his customers, he now sizes up the doors. Heavy doors are his chief hardship in putting his products over.
Joe intends to see Dean McCarthy about getting credit in the commerce school for his on-the-job training. He is wondering, too, if he might get credit in a language because some of his customers do not understand English well enough to know what he is talking about. In these cases Joe usually falls back on some sign language that he picked up in India. When this fails, Joe picks up his suitcase and makes a quick exit, unless of course, his customer has a good looking daughter coming up the front walk.
Joe hasn’t decided as yet if.he will continue as a salesman this summer. He has received a tempting offer from his hometown of Plainfield, N.J., to act as a swimming instructor. During his free time in the afternoons you can usually find him over in the Rockne Memorial pool learning how to swim! As Joe puts it, “How can I refuse a job which is only five hundred feet from my bedroom window?”
At present Joe is wondering if his Detroit girl friend, who is planning to visit him in a couple of weeks, will squawk much if she has to accompany him on his daily selling expeditions. His friends have volunteered to take care of her while he is on the road but so far Joe hasn’t accepted their offers.
Joe hasn’t canvassed the campus yet but he is laying plans to do so in the very near future. So, fellows, if you hear a loud knock on your door and see a size nine shoe getting a firm hold between your door and the corner of the doorway, you can be sure that the Fuller Brash man is paying you a social call. Beware of his fast talk because listed among his selling feats is the role of a hair brash to a bald-headed man.
Friendly gesture... Have a Coke
35
Copyright W6. haem & Mros Tobacco Co