
VOL 146
SCHOLaSTIC 05 
28 Oct 2004 
-' '· 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 

~ MOCK ELECTION RESULTS page 4 page9 . -KNOWAS ACOLLEGE STUDENT 



NEWS 04 
NOTRE DAME ON THE CAMPAIGN Alisa Finelli and Daric Snyder Three Notre Dame students that defy the stereotype of .··• ·· undergraduates as apathetic. · 
PRESS-ING ISSUES Annie Robinson 
Alternative campus newspapers offer varying perspectives 
on news and politics. 

CAMPUS LIFE 12 
THIS DANCER'S NO DUNCE Katie Solan 

Anthropology professorJames McKenna balances his love. for teaching and tapping through his Irish and American Tap Dance Class. 
ENTERTAINMENT 22 
l'M WITH THE BAND Nick Kolman-Mandie Abehind-the-scenes look at the making ofaNotre Dame . halftime show. 

SPORTS 30 
I 00 YEARS OF HOOPS Christopher Meskill 
Alook at the history of basketball at Notre Dame. 

HUMOR 36 
MUSINGS OF A MISGUIDED MESSIAH Steve Mattingly 
;'?)·_ The author reveals little-known restrictions and privileges found in duLac. 
From the Editor . . . . . . . . 2 Snapshot . . . . . . . . . . . 20 ND Notebook ........ 4 Making Sense . . . . . . . . 27 Cribs . ............ 14 Being Like Mike . . . . . . . 38 Campus Watch . . . . . . . 16 Final Word • • • • • . • . . 40 
28 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 


Addressing Apathy 
From hippies to hawks, neocons to commies, political discourse on this campus at times seems bogged downininfantile label-slinging. Why? Because it's easy, gets laughs and doesn't require any original thought. 
But those charges aren't what really concern us at Scholastic-calling the 
Notre Dame student body as a whole "apathetic" does. It's a serious claim 
that demands equally serious attention. 
Maybe a shockingly large portion of Notre Dame students doesn't care about health care or homeland security-not to mention Pell Grants and prescription drug benefits. Butwewanted to find those Notre Dame students who do:those who are politically active-whether it be in journalism, cam­paigning or volunteering. Check out their stories starting on page 6. 
Are these students uninterested? Uninformed? Apathetic? 
We don't think so.
look for 
ISSUE 6 And for those who could use a little guidance cutting through campaign 
on 
NOV6 spin, assistant managing editor,Jim Ryan, breaks down the issues that every college student should know about on page 9. On page 4, see who 570 of your fellow students voted for in the mock presi­dential election, held on Oct. 26. Thanks to WSND-FM, WVF1, NDTV; Laurie McFadden and Bob Franken for joining Scholastic in sponsoring the election, and thanks to our own staff members who helped out as well. 

Annie Robinson Editor in Chief · 

2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
Vol. 146,No.5 • 28 OCT 2004 
SCHOLaSTIC 
Editors In Chief Mike Borgia 
Annie Robinson 
Managing Editor Jennifer Osterhage 
Executive Editor Meghan Gowan 
Executive Design Editor NickAbrams 
Assistant Managing Editor Jim Ryan 
General Manager Christopher Kelly 
News 
Emily Paladino, editor Alisa Finelli, assistant 
CarripusLlfe Lauren Wilcox, editor Katie Solan, assistant 
Sports Christopher Meskill,editor Mike lselin, assistant 
Entertainment 
Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments Mike Healy, editor Erik Powers, assistant 
Design 
Nell Ryan, assistant David Redenbaugh, assistant Emma Daugherty Tekla Sauter EllenVoglrieder 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Graphic Design Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Mo Ertel, chief Jennifer Wadkins, ?SSistant Kourtney Bitterly Drew Dodge Diana Dolinsky Bridget McFadden· Maggie O'Connell Doug Schlarman Kelly Weaver 
Distribution 
Brian Lowery 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 

COVER ILLUSTRATION 
NICK ABRAMS 
Disce Quasi Se111pe1· Victzmes Vive Quasi CmsMoritunes 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The entire contents of Scholastk Magazine Is copyright 2004 University of Notre Dame, All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either In whole or In part. may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manusc~lpt.s or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center. Notre Dame, IN 46556,To be published in the next Issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the Issue, All letters must Include the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters . must be signed,Tho Issue of the tool. Names will be withheld upon request in certain Instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space, Requesis for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy: please specify volume and number; or date. Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expniSSed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
28 OCTOBER 2004 



Friends and Brothers in Holy Cross 

Seminarians Greg Haake, C.S.C., Pete McCormick, C.S.C., Stephen Keeth, C.S.C., and Jim Gallagher, C.S.C. 

ANSWER~ THE CALL}<:fY 

' 
I 
I
:! 
Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
YANKEES OUT OF THE 
WORLD SERIES 
Believe it or not, there are some 
toddlers in this world who have 
not been alive long enough to see 
the Yankees win a title. 

BLINDINGLY WHITE 
BOSOXHATS 
It's easy to spot those who jumped on the Red Sox bandwagon a little too late. 

THE BAND PLAYING 
"HEY YA" 
Most people probably thought 
this song was overplayed 
the moment it was heard in 
both dining halls. The Band 
apparently did not. 
0 
ND LOVE IN THE NEW YORK TIMES 
An article on Tariq Ramadan, A&L dean Mark Roche's Op-Ed 
· and a look at the impact of the PAC all graced the pages of the Gray Lady in the past month. · 

EMERALD NUTS COMMERCIALS 
Entincingly nonsensical. 




Students Pick Bush 
But not by much. Results from the Mo~k Election 
SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 
In a mock presidential election held in LaFortune Student Center this past Tuesday, 570 Notre Dame undergraduates and graduate students turned out to cast their votes. President George W. Bush won the election by a margin of four votes, im­plying that the campus is split fairly evenly between the two main party candidates. Interestingly, more students chose "abstain" on their ballot than voted for Reform Party Candidate Ralph Nader. Libertarian candidate Michael Badnarik notched an even 2 percent of the vote, as did the option labeled "Other." The results imply that students' preference for Kerry or Bush is dependent on their gender and class year. Female voters chose Kerry over Bush (56.6 percent to 40.0 percent) while male students chose Bush (54.2 percent to 37.9 percent). As the 
graph on the left shows, each successive class was more likely to vote for Kerry than the class below it. 
80 
Seniors and freshmen
Kerry/Bush Breakdownby Class 
had the highest turnout
Q)
..... 
70 
of all classes, but Scholastic 
~ 
will excuse the junior class, 
cil
..... 
as they are ridden with ab­
~ 
'-'-< 
sences from students study­
0 
..... 
ing abroad. No one will be 
i:: 
Q) 
u 
excused, however, for for­
I,.< 
Q) 
p., getting to vote in the real election next Tuesday. 
Class (Other) Badnarik 
Nader 0.5% 2·0% (Abstain) 1.2% \ / 2.0% 


Turnout by Class 

4 SCHOLASTJCNEWS 
28 OCTOBER 2004 




New Club, Old Faith 


Students start Jewish Club of Notre Dame 
ANNIEROBINSON 
Senior Leah McKelvey used to joke about starting a Jewish student club at Notre Dame with her friends when she was a freshman. Over the course of three years, what began as a lighthearted idea grew serious, and McKelvey now acts as president of the new Jewish Club of Notre Dame GCND). JCND's purpose, as proposed to the Office of Student Activites by McKelvey, is "to celebrate diversity and acceptance within the Notre senior, saysJCND is also an organization for non-Jewish students. "I feel that the club is a good resource for Notre Dame students to broaden their cultural and spiritual consciousness," she says. 
"I think it's a wonderful addition to the community," says Amy Geist, student groups coordinator. Geist, who guides interested students through the club rec­ognition process, also saw the]ewish Law Students Society proposed and approved 
as a probationary 
Dame community and club for graduate beyond by learning students this year. 
It's just about diversity and 
together through dis­In January, JCND cussion and events." exposing students to will be reviewed by 
Approved as a the office of Student
another belief system. 
probationary student Activities and the club, JCND is some­-Leah McKelvey Club Coordination thing of a first for a Council, at which 
school where around 80 percent of its students identify them­selves as Catholic. "To my knowledge, no one has attempted to put together a Jew­ish club before," says Claudia Kselman, associate director of international study programs at Notre Dame and the club's faculty advisor. 
"It's not even so much about the reli­gious aspect. It's just about diversity and exposing students to another belief sys­tem," says McKelvey, who was raised by a Catholic father and Jewish mother and practices Judaism. 
Club member Meryl Guyer, a Catholic 

time it will be as­signed active status, be declined official recognition, or be given another year of probation. 
While McKelvey saw more than 100 students sign up for the club at Activities Night earlier in the fall, her main hurdle now is to organize inexpensive club ac­tivities. 
"It's easy to start a club, but hard to progress with it because of funding," she says. 
JCND will not receive university fund­ing until it is assign~d active club status. Most funding for probationary student clubs comes from dues paid by club members. 
McKelvey plans for the club to visit South Bend-area synagogues, hold a Hanukkah celebration, and, with the assistance of t'entative official funding, take a spring-semester trip to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. 
"Initially we joked about the idea," se­nior Briget Brennan,JCND Social Chair, says. "But later we realized that it could be something really important to Notre Dame." D 
Lame Moments in Campaign 
2004 
s. 
Howard Dean sopnding his barbaric yawp after losing the Iowa caucus. 
4 John Kerry riding his 
• motorcycle onto the set of The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. 
3 Delegates to the. Rep.. ublican • National Convention 
· brandishing flip-flops in an attempt to be humorous while accusing Kerry of wavering on 
the important issues. 
l The Bush twins telling 
• the Republican National Convention viewers that their parents know how to "shake it like a Polaroid picture:• 
I John Kerry saying his favorite 
• current Red Sox player is Manny Ortez (who doesn't exist) and his favorite all-time Red Sox player is Eddie Yost (who never played for the Red Sox). 
28 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 
r------------------------1¢1ilii§0 *~113#l1iMST0RY]------------------------t­
_ __l __ 


The Notre Dame student body has been criticized in the past as similarly apathetic. In the months preceding the Nov. 2 elec­tion, however, political debates have dominated the classrooms, dining hall tables and even Washington Hall. Scholastic profiles three politically-active students who have contributed to this campus discussion. 





Henry Scott 
ALISAFINELLI
T**his past summer, President George W. Bush delivered an average oftwo speeches a day. Whether he was speaking to a small audience or giving a nationally televised address, each speech was carefully researched, written and edited by a small team ofwriters. Notre Dame senior Henry Scott spent his 
summer working on this team. As one ofthree interns in the White House's Office ofPresidential Speechwriting, Scott assisted in the fact-checking process and conducted research for Bush's speeches. Much 
ofhis research involved simply talking to Americans from across the country. An ongoing project ofScott's was tailoring the "stump speech" -the generic speech given at all campaign stops -that the President used on the campaign 
trail this summer. "What we would do is localize -add local color -to the speech" for each stop, Scott says. "It was always rewarding when you 
would be listening to the president's speech and hear facts or individuals that you found." 
Scott, a political science and history double major, feels strongly about having been politically involved this summer. "This election is so very importantnot only for America's place in the world, but for the future 
of our country," he says. "To be in the midst of Washington, D.C. at this crucial point in American history and to be amongst the key players ... was an experience I could not have turned down." 
Family friends who previously had worked in the White House rec­ommended thatScott apply for the internship last year. The application process included an interview, which Scott did over the phone while traveling abroad last spring. "I was actually on a payphone in Spain at 
11 at night, using a calling card," Scott saY-s. While studyingin London, Scott gained political experience by intern­ing for Nigel Marks, a conservative member of Parliament in the British 
House ofCommons. Here, too, he interacted closely with individual citizens'\ while helping Marks address concerns and complaints from his constituents. At Notre Dame, Scott works as the nation editor for The Irish Rover, a conser­
vative, semi-monthly student newspaper. "We try to come from a perspective that is uniquely Catholic conservative," Scott says. He says The Rover tries to "encourage an exchange of ideas that can move the political and religious discourse on this campus to a 
new and better level." · To Scott, political activism can be as simple as interjecting opinions into everyday discussions. "You're politically active when you have conversations with people, at the dinner table, at the dining hall." . 
28 OCTOBER 2004 
Peter Quaranto 
DARICSNYDER 
** 
usy would be the best way to describe the schedules ofmost Notre Dame students this October. 
B
With days of classes, nights of cramming for midterms and weekends dominated by football, most students have full plates. For junior Peter Quaranto, with the presidential election quickly approaching, there was much more to be done this month. 
"We're at a very pivotal moment in our country," Quaranto, a political science major with a supplemental major in international peace studies, says. Quaranto is involved heavily in numerous political and social justice groups on campus, including the Progressive Student Alliance and Common Sense -the university's monthly newspaper that focuses on social justice issues. He is also the student coor­dinator ofNotre Dame's Rock the Vote campaign -a campus group that encourages voting and political involvement. 
Quaranto grew up near Boston, where he became involved with com­munity service projects while in high school by working at an inner-city soup kitchen and by participating in the Catholic Worker Movement. After coming to Notre Dame, the looming threat ofwarin Iraq inspired Quaranto to take a stand. "The more I heard about it, the more I felt the need to get involved," he says. 
In February of his freshman year, Quaranto led 38 Notre Dame students on a trip to New York City to join 500,000 others gathered in a global antiwar protest. 
For the past _two years, Quaranto has helped organize the America Needs a Change· Rally, which brings together numerous politically-in­volved campus organizations. This summer, Quaranto traveled to pov­erty-stricken Cambodia where he worked with HIV-infected children and taught English. 
This semester, Quaranto has shifted his focus from the antiwar movement to the election. As student coordinator of Notre Dame's Rock the Vote campaign, Quaranto played a significant role in planning election-related events, including the presidential-debate watches and voter-registration drives. Through these drives, Rock the Vote registered over 1,000 students, as well as hundreds ofcommunity members. 
Rock the Vote came under criticism from various groups on campus, including the College Republicans, and has been accused of favoring the Democratic Party. Quaranto, however, says that the Notre Dame Rock the Vote campaign has remained nonpartisan. "Many of the criticisms are aimed at the national organization, and some of these are legitimate criticisms," he says. "We're not affiliated with the national Rock the Vote. Our organization was only authorized to use the name." In the last few days before the election, Rock the Vote will hold several more events to ensure that registered voters make it to the voting booth on Nov. 2. 
After the election, Quaranto plans to remain active on campus and to continue his service to the global community. He is motivated constantly by his experiences. "Whenyou see children starving, or abused mothers, or war-ravaged populations, it changes the way you see things," he says. "It changes 
~~ . 
28 OCTOBER 2004 
I
;!;...-.. J____
__-_­
1 • 
.J~r 
I 
! 
; 

ALISAFINELLI 
tanding, anxiously awaiting strangers to open their front doors, Notre Dame sophomore Helen 
Adeosun has only a few seconds to talk once the door is opened before it is shut again in her face. She must quickly find common ground and some way relate to the person she has just met. 
Whether canvassing in the South Bend area to increase voter registration or for Democratic congressional candidate Joe Donnelly's campaign, Adeosun has one main goal: to inspire political involvement and spark people's interests in the issues surrounding the upcom­
ing election. Adeosun has been active in politics since she was in high school, when she joined Young Democrats in her hometown of Marietta, Ga. After arriving at Notre 
Dame last year, Adeosun continued to pursue her interest in politics by joining Notre Dame College Democrats, where she first learned about Notre Dame alumnus Donnelly's campaign. Donnelly graduated from Notre Dame in 1977 and received a law degree from Notre Dame Law School in 1981. Adeosun met Jill Donnelly, the candidate's wife, and shortly thereafter 
was offered the opportunity to stay with the Donnellys in their Granger home for the summer of 2004 to work on the campaign. Adeosun ac­cepted the offer. 
Living in the Donnelly household allowed Adeosun a unique, inside perspective of campaign life. "I've worked on campaigns before," she says, "but this was the first time I got to see the life of the candidate, what it entails, and how much sacrifice it requires." 
After a summer of close work with South Bend residents, whether through soliciting political support for Donnelly or pushing for an in­crease in voter registration, Adeosun became very attached to the local community and its issues an9 concerns. "Now I feel I have a strong con­
nection to this area, even more so, maybe, than to my district back home," she says. Adeosun encountered a shockingly high level ofvoter apathy within the South 
Bend community, and she consequently made it her priority to counter this attitude. She came up with the idea of providing a feasible means for local residents to get to the polls on Nov. 2, free of charge, and began planning a voter transportation project 
with the South Bend Transpo bus system inJuly. Transpo welcomed Adeosun's idea and agreed to run routes to the polling places without charging passengers, provided 
S
f~'.~' 
.-..,; 
that she ensure a consensus of sponsorship from Notre Dame's student organizations and not solely the College Democrats. At the beginning of the school year, Adeosun asked the College Republicans to co-sponsor the Transpo project, but in the end the group declined her request. (Senior Tom Rippinger, co­
lil 
president of the College Republicans, says that his organization 
.· opted against supporting the project because his staff believed it was planned with "Democratic interests and would target mostly Democratic neighborhoods.") 
Because ofthe lack ofsupport from a variety ofstudent orga­

nizations, Transpo ultimately decided to cancel the project. 
Though Adeosun was disappointed in the cancellation of her project, she hopes to continue pro­moting increased political participation in the South Bend community. "Personalizing politics" is the key, she says, "I want people to realize that someone is going to be in charge of making decisions 
that affect their lives." O 
28 OCTOBER 2004 

---. ,,.. .--__,.......... ~ . . ..--·--------------.....-r•-----. ~-,..·----~------~------------·-~--·-··-~---------~---~~-~----~------~ -------~---~----·--·--~-----·----,-,-! ¦ 

Wb--1E¥8Lffl iRO•ef·
Scholastic'sJim 
~IL Ryan-breaks-----!=
* ·1Nreedste1Ki111n1r down tile issues 
----~-------' ~----------·--·---·······-·-·----------------------, 

KERRY
BUSH ® 
Opposes abortion -including partial birth 
Abortion : Wants to protect a woman's right to choose and 
abortion -except in cases of rape or incest; 
The Catholic Church says abortion is a "foun­
resists restrictions on abortion. Additionally, he 
or when the woman's life is endangered. He 
dational issue." Related to abortion is stem cell 
' wants to increase and expand federal funding for 
also opposes increased federal funding for 
research, another controversial issue in the up­
embryonic stem cell research. 
research on embryonic stem cells. coming election. 

The Draft . Has said that he will not reinstate the draft.
Has said that he will not reinstate the draft. 
Democratic Rep. Charles Rangel of New York in­
troduced legislation calling for a reinstatement of . 
the draft. The legislation has since been defeated. 

Wants to offer a fully-refundable College Op-
Wants to increase investment in Pell Grants 
. portunity Tax Credit on amounts up to $4,000
that will help an additional one million stu­
for up to four years of college and offer aid to
dents afford college. Also has said he will in­
states that will help keep tuition down. He plans
crease AmeriCorps funding to support 75,000 
to involve roughly 300,000 college students in
members. Full-time members will receive an 
Federal Aid for College Students 
• child-teaching programs and offer a $2,000 per­
increase to $4,750 to pay for college or gradu-! Tuition cos.ts have skyrocketed in the past several 
: year stipend to help pay for college. He also
ate school. He plans to increase loan limits for ; years. According to The Wall Street Journal, 6.2 
: wants to reform the student-loan program to
first-year students, as well. ' million college students received federal student 
loans last year. · · · reduce money paid in interest to banks. 

Wants to make health care more affordable for Advocates Health Savings Accounts (HSA), Americans of all ages by decreasing insurance which are tax-Jree accounts comprised ofwill­· · premiums and the cost ofprescription drugs. Heful payments from individuals with HSAs and ·· .. .. has pledged to expand Medicare coverage and their employers. The money in the HSA ~an ·. to give tax credits to small businesses so theybe used for routine medical expenses, and un­Health Care for Young Adults can insure their workers. He also proposes tospent money will earn interest and be saved 
19-to 35-year~olds are the most underinsured. 
open the health-care system that covers mem­for future i;nedical expenses. Bush says the ac­population in the country. 
bers of Congress and federal workers to allcounts give the patient more control over how Americans. 
_lli~or ~t!r ~t!~I~ <:art: ~011ey is ~pt!11t. 
1 

: Pledged to offer tax cuts to American businesses Wants to increase job growth by cutting that will foster the creation of jobs in the U.S.
taxes for businesses and individuals. He also rather than send them overseas. He also wants has pledged millions of dollars to programs to enforce international trade laws to protectto develop highly-skilled American workers. Jobs the jobs ofAmerican workers. 
Bush supports welfare-to-work programs, day : The U.S. economy has seen a net loss of800,000 care for working parents, and access to public jobs since 2000, but 1.9 million jobs have been added to the market in the last 13 months.
transportation for welfare recipients. 
----~-------·•---­
Wants to move toward privatfzation ofSocial .@)·...·.. . Wants to maintain the current system, in which
~ 
Security, in which young workers could place .~ the money taken out of employed individuals a portion ofthe money they pay toward Social · paychecks to contribute to Social Security hen-Security in apersonal account and investit. . . ···• , •. , .:, :: • .. . ,· efits that American retirees currently receiv-When these presently-young workers even-: . . ·. ,S~ct_al Sec~t,Y;:·Reform .•· ·,<::·::• ·ing benefits. He wants to tweak the program tually retire, they will receive fewer Social : Many_econ<>mISts ~ave predicted t~at the-Socxal ·. periodically to ensure that it never runs out of 
Security Program, 1f unchanged,· w1H run· out of-· Security benefits, but Bush says the profits · money before. today's coll~ge students will be able money. made from their investments would make up to reap its benefits. for the difference. · · · · · 
28 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 9 


ANNIEROBINSON 
Notre Dame senior BJ. Strew is all too familiar with labels. Many Notre Dame students see Com­mon Sense, the monthly campus newspa­per he oversees, as a left-leaning, liberal ode to the Democratic Party. "Labels are obstacles," Strew says. "Our concerns are the concerns of the worker, of the conscious and conscien­tious citizen. For Common Sense, social justice trumps partisan quibbling and dogmatism. It's incidental that being concerned with issues of social justice results in the 'liberal' label." With one head editor -Strew -and an editorial board comprised of under­graduates, graduate students and faculty members, Common Sense publishes several hers put Common Sense together using The Observer's computers and equipment in the basement of South Dining Hall. "It's always been a casual thing," Strew says of the informal agreement between the two campus papers. "We just stay out of the way of their production." 
Flexibility seems to be the hallmark of Conmzon Sense. Since there is no set page limit, the length of each issue depends entirely on the amount of content ap­proved by the editorial board. The paper's circulation varies from issue to issue as well, although Strew says 3,000 copies typically are printed. Circulation is increased for home football weekends. The publication dates were altered for this semester, because the editorial board decided that it was necessary to produce permission from the author to print it as a letter to the editor. We would be very, very careful approaching the topic [in the future]." 
But confronting controversial top­ics does not always lead to inundated inboxes. Unfortunately, Strew says, "there is a big 'preaching to the choir' aspect" because Common Sense is billed as an overtly liberal or Democratic pe­riodical. 
"That's the last thing we want, to align ourselves with the Democratic Party," Strew says. He points to Common Sense's upcoming election issue, which he says will pick apart the current Bush admin­istration rather than support Democratic presidential candidate Senator John Kerry. Strew adds that the Common Sense 

media, Pettifer and Walshe started Common Sense in order to tackle such issues as homosexuality on campus, the anti-apartheid move­ment and gender equality. Pettifer cur­rently writes a column for the paper, and Walshe serves as its faculty advisor. 
"An important part of [Common Sense's] success for almost two decades is that it is a cooperative effort," Walshe says. "The editorial board is democratic: one person, one vote." 
Common Sense is funded by donations from various faculty members and uni­versity alumni. This academic year, Com­mon Sense has a surplus offunds thanks to numerous generous donations following last sumlJ!~.t's death of the. paper's· for­mer advisor, assistant classics professor Robert Vacca. 
Strew and other editorial board mem­
two issues before the Nov. 2 presi­dential election. 
Feedback on each issue from the pa­per's advisors is crucial, especially when its content is controversial. 
"We have to walk on eggshells when it comes to issues like abortion," Strew says. "We are independent, but [the administration] can revoke our right to distribute on campus." 
The faculty members on the editorial board -typically College of Arts and Letters professors -advise Strew and his staff members on the best way to handle divisive topics. 
"It kind of is frustrating," Strew says. "[Last year] we had an open letter re­garding reproductive rights that we were going to print, but we were too scared to print it as an open letter from the Common Sense staff. So we got the 
activism. Many are mem­bers ofthe Progressive Student Alliance or the Peace Coalition; and a number write for other campus publications. 
"It's just very fitting for these people to write about issues from that perspective of social justice," Strew says (who him­self also reports on the music scene for Scholastic, The Observer, WVFI's Mindset; DJs for both WVFI and WSND-FM; and heads up both the Film Society and the Philosophy Club). 
Co-founderAnn Pettifer sees Common Sense's role on campus as crucial, no mat­ter what type of student is behind the masthead. "Our role is a sort of a gadfly -not taking any particularly liberal or ideological position," she says. "What we are trying to do is take a dissenting opinion from a kind of orthodoxy; we defy definition." . 

10 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
28 OCTOBER 2004 

•i•fm1s.TQRY+,------------------------, 







I **!~!p!~!!~i,-!Cfo"!!vemttS·
secOnd year~--,---~-~---. 
·  ANNIEROBINSON ven though he is simultaneouslyEconducting an editorial meeting  but [during] our production we always get caught up." Perceived biases among the Notre  Notre Dame, The Rover staff sees its role on campus as further solidified and not at all threatened. "[Nostra] has a different  
at Legends and an interview with  Dame faculty is a passionate topic to The  niche," Scott says.  
Scholastic, senior Joe Lindsley still is able  Rover staff. "The use of the term 'aca- When the topic turns to political  
tostatehisjournalisticvisionforTheirish  demicfreedom' [atNotreDame]iscom­ activism on campus, The Rover editors  
Rover bluntly: "We want a biting attitude.  pletely disingenuous," Lindsley says. "For  carry strong opinions that counter the  
We want to be intelligent and respectful,  example, that term is often used to defend  frequent charge of student apathy.  
but that doesn't rule out being feisty."  a thinly-veiled distaste for Catholicism,  "We don't want [Notre Dame] to  
Begun in November 2003, The Irish  rather than to promote any genuinely  become a [University of California at]  
Rover established itself as Notre Dame's  open academic discourse."  Berkeley," Lindsley says, adding that  
independent conservative newspaper,  Lindsley sees a liberal bias in the faculty  he believes visible protests are not the  
or ­as the paper's "Fine Print" states  at Notre Dame and on campuses nation- only indication of an active, passionate  
-"an organization that embraces a wider  wide and says that he all too frequently  student body on a college campus. Scott  
notion of conservative than merely 'Re- sees students affirming professors' opin­ agrees: "We should talk about a lot of  
publican."'  ions rather than challenging them.  Notre Dame students who take activism  
One issue was published in the fall  "We want to encourage rational dis- to the voting booth and not to demon- 
semester of last year, and three followed  course on campus," Lindsley says. "We  strations. Being politically active is not  
in the spring.  want to elevate and expand the campus  about being loud."  
Alumni subscriptions and donations,  dialogue."  Recent topics in The Rover run the  
in conjunction with funding from The  Achieving this aim is challenging, he  gamut from Rock the Vote's campaign  
Collegiate Network ­an organization  says, so much so that his staff feels it has  on campus and a future response to an  
that provides financial and technical as- to exercise caution in disclosing the iden­ editorial in The New York Times written  
···-sistance to independent student publica­ tities of the professors who are informal  by Mark Roche, dean of the College of  
tions at various universities ­help The  advisors for The Rover. Lindsley says he is  Arts and Letters. Another section, en­ 
Rover staff produce roughly 3,500 copies  even more reluctantto revealthe names of  titled "The Rambler's Rover Report," is  
each issue. The paper does not receive any  graduate students who work for the paper,  a campus watchdog, Scott says. The edi­ 
financial assistance from the university.  given what he perceives as the frequently  tors of The Rover promise future inves- 
Despite increased funding from out- hostile attitude toward conservatives in  tigative reports on fellow campus-news  
side sources, production of The Rover  college settings.  publications, and readers can also look  
as a semi-monthly newspaper is still a  ButTheRoverstaffhasnoqualmsabout  for a new sports section in the upcom­ 
challenge. Lindsley, The Rover's editor  promoting its conservative orientation.  ing issue.  
in chief, puts the newspaper together  "We're comfortable with that," Lindsley  Scott is confident in the paper's evo­ 
on his own computer. "The material we  says. "[But] when it comes to politics, we  lution. "We are making progress each  
have for each issue is always too much  are officially non-partisan," and he adds  issue," he says. "We are a new campus  
-which actually helps us. We can be  that there is a wide spectrum ofpolitical  voice. We want to be a comprehensive  
selective in what we put," senior Henry  views expressed by The Rover staff.  newspaper that has a political outlook,  

Scott, The Rover's nation editor, says. "So, With the arrival of Advocata Nostra, the and there's not that on campus." . I think our content is often really high, orthodox Catholic student newspaper at 
*~Ad,ygg\_q_,.t~_R$i.£i\,____.,,-:.l,;-~~~~ 
Jlllf' * * 1,ew s1.uuen paper ueuu1.s 
ANNIEROB.INSON
Notre Dame junior Christopher Life and Children of Mary. Nostra currently relies on donations -Brophy believes that a lot more That newsletter morphed into what is mostly from alumni and faculty members can be said on campus from the nowAdvocata Nostra, an orthodox Catholic -to pay for publication costs. 
Catholic perspective. newspaper run by Notre Dame students. Brophy and his fellow editors lay out 
So Brophy left his post at conserva-"I wanted something that was beyond Nostra on his personal computer, and he tive campus newspaper The Irish Rover Qust] politics," Brophy, the editor in chief, aims to publish the paper monthly. and planned to start a newsletter for says. The editors envision Nostra as poten­probationary student club the Orestes "Other publications on campus also fo­tially playing a pivotal role in the minds of Brownson Council on Catholicism and cus on broad topics, such as politics and voters on Nov. 2. "It's quite apparent this American Politics. As president of the the economy. We try to focus on those election is a crucial turning point in our Council, Brophy says he saw:·a·need for··-things as.well; but try _to always put a culture," Sikorksi says. "Ideally, we hope written recognition ofthe work ofgroups Catholic spin on them," sophomore Na­that what we present affects how. people such as Notre Dame/St. Mary's Right to tion Editor John Sikorski says. vote." . 
28 OCTOBER 2004 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 11 
' . 
--------~--­

DomeLights 
COMPILED BY ERIK POWERS 

And You Thought it was All Just a Popularity Contest ... 
Source:The Notre Dame Department of News and Information 
Well, here it is, October of an election year (2004, for those ofyou keeping score at home), and students from across the nation have settled in at Notre Dame, much to the delight ofsuch political groups as the College Democrats and their aptly named Republican counterparts, the College Republicans. Rock the Vote initiatives and Op­Ed pieces permeate campus mailboxes and newspapers as both political groups try to convert undecided voters. \Vb.at do these politicians-in-the-making do once they graduate? Judging by a few ofNotre Dame's political alumni, some impressive stuff ... 
Notre Dame has graduated ... 
2Ambassadors to foreign nations 2 Members of presidential cabinets 2 State governors 1 I Governor of Puerto Rico 
I 
ii 8 Members of the U.S. Congress
a
., 
·;" I Presidential campaign manager (for Reagan) 


: I I President of Panama 

How did you get started juggling? 
My sister, Roxi, challenged me to see who would learn it first. I did. That was 14 years ago, or so. She still 
can't juggle[...] I've only been 
hooked for the last five or six [years]. 
Why do you juggle on North Quad? 
It's closest to my office. Some days, when it strikes my fancy, I go to South Quad, or elsewhere. 
What are you studying at Notre Dame? 
I'm a graduate student in the physics department. I study open and globular star clusters. 
What other hobbies do you have besides juggling? 
I play table tennis. I'm no stranger to a good poker game. I like watching birds 





:--ci~H~1,;iP·•-•• ··-•-ttt] 
•-c~~fies..:~~-s=.~~~f!l:)'1n~~hcl~~J 
-3-4 scoops of va.nilla ice cream (use cookies 'n' cream, if available) -4 spoonfuls of 
Oreos -chocolate sauce -I cup of milk Combine all ingredients in a dining hall cup. Health-conscious diners may substitute non-fat vanilla yogurt for the ice cream and use 
, skim milk instead of 2% . Stir with a spoon 8!1-d enjoy. 
submii yourowndish to scholasi@rici:,idu 
and other wildlife. Tons ofthings, actu­ally. 
What comments have you heard from students watching you juggle on North Quad? 
Mostly compliments, sometimes . heckles. I heat people do the 'toot toot too doo' circus song thing, like, five · times a daY: I guess that's a comment. 
What kinds of items can you juggle? 
\Vhaddaya got? 
What is the best thing about jug­gling? 
It's fun, but also challenging and keeps me in shape. And I enjoy teaching people who ask...:... so feel free to stop by and say "Hi!" 
-Lauren Wilcox 
28 OCTOBER 2004 


Does your business 

stand out in the crow-d? If not, we can help. 
Advertise in the Scholastic Football Review­
~;-~. 
t)..~.;.\ 
µ>,;'Ji 
;·,~::· J ;---­
~::1 ·::!##' Contact Chris at scholast@nd.edu 


Eclectic, but Definitely Not Hectic 
The residents of 305 Walsh relax in style 
ANNAO'CONNOR 

As the school year trudges onward and the pressures of academic life increase, you may find you need a 
relaxing place to hang out. That's what the residents of 305 Walsh Hall had in mind when they created their cozy haven away from the stress of school: a place where you do not need to worry about doing homework, studying for tests, or about the work that keeps piling up. 
Juniors ChristyTabit, Gretchen Byars, Jenna Leary, Maggie Manning and Kara Whalen transformed their common room from an empty, impersonal dorm room to a dynamic and welcoming space. Com­fort is key here. Rather than commit to a single theme, the girls brought together several of their posters, tapestries and other adornments to give the room an eclectic atmosphere. "We pretty much just threw together all of our stuff," Manning says. 
The posters, ranging in subject mat­ters from The OC to Van Gogh paintings, show the wide-ranging interests of the five residents, who have different majors in different colleges and participate in diverse activities. In addition, more than 
a few advertisements for Absolut embel­lish the space around the windows. Gauzy curtains cover the windows, in front of which sit a couch, a loveseat and a La-Z­Boy recliner. "This place is so conducive to having people hang out," Tabit says. The couch folds · out into a bed, giving visitors a place to crash. 
The focal point of the room is a star­shaped lamp that hangs above the couch in front of the windows. It brings all of the other elements together and adds a mystical aura to the space. 
Beyond the appeal ofthe varied decora­tions, this room is also the perfect place for the roommates to spend time together and bond. "You will usually find us watch­ing Sex and the City and eating chips and salsa," Byars says. So next time you are near God Quad and need.a snack or just a break from the daily grind, come to 305 Walsh .:_ the girls, and maybe Car­rie Bradshaw, will be there to welcome you. D 
28 OCTOBER 2004 

SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15
28 OCTOBER 2004 



I. 
l 
j 
,:j 
l 
that she was grabbed by an usher who said he thought she might have been throwing marshmallows, but wasn't sure. He at­tempted to cart her off but, thankfully, was unsuccessful. Then there are the stu­dents reportedly ejected after not having touched a single marshmallow. And the student ejected for yelling "power trip" at an usher. And the student threatened with expulsion for watching an usher remove another student. Gipp could continue, but there's no need. After all, these ac­tions only occur in front of thousands of people. Hey, ifGipp was a pathetic, wan­nabe law-enforcement officer practicing martial law, he would at least wait until and no one else was looking to bust somebody without proof. 
Now, the word on the street is that the Queen Bee of these operations has never been a fan of the Gipper, so, once again, Gipp has to declare this crew "Tyrant of the Week." 
Someone Call the W.H.O. 
Gipp received a couple of minor tips this week rel_ated to the topic of poor health care a~d sanitation standards. These tales don't have zingy punch lines, but hopefully they'll still mildly amuse your wandering minds. 
We'll begin with the tale of a student who was experiencing prolonged, inflam­matory pain down in his jimmy johns. Obviously this was a problem, as you won't feel at ease showering at the Rock when your rocks are as inflated as the ego of a jersey-chaser who just reeled-in her first catch(er). He reportedly went to our friends at the University Health Center, where he was inspected by a doctor. He wouldn't have minded dropping his draw­ers for his jewels to be examined, but the fact that the doc left the door wide open during the entire peep show made it a little less comfortable. "Well, Jeff, I'd love to go to your SYR, but I was getting a flu shot yesterday and happened to walk by yozer examination ... wasn't that impressed, to be honest." The tipster proceeded with an awkward story in which our wounded soldier had his cannonballs waxed by a nurse's cool gel, but Gipp can only pack so many stories about male readers' packages into one column. So, we'll move on. 
The second concern was raised by a student who attended a local beerhouse. Waiting in line for the bathroom, he was approached by"an employee of the bar, who insisted that, to speed up the line, the student should just relieve himself in the bathroom sink. Gipp's glad to see personnel take such pride in their workplace. Unfortunately, the sink's drain was clogged and the sink was filled to the brim with the natural nectar. Gipp's never seen or smelled a sink full of sitting urine, but he's pretty sure it's not the worst thing the tipster has ever witnessed in a local pub. Let's just say that many-a-boy has had himself "relieved" in other ways in those very same bathrooms. 
Gipp's out of time, kids, but tune-in next issue. It just wouldn't be fun without you here. . 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 
28 OCTOBER 2004 




HUDDLEMart 




BUDDLE 
F O O D COURT 



NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 



I' 

Anthropology professor teaches social science and tap 
KATIESOLAN
The exuberant, middle-aged man tap-dancing around Washington Hall on a Monday or Wednes­day afternoon is not your typical dance instructor. Professor James McKenna, instructor oflrish and American Tap Dance, is also the Edmund P. Joyce C.S.C. Chair in anthropology and the director of the Mother-Baby Behavioral Sleep Lab at Notre Dame. McKenna's seemingly unrelated interests make him a unique and immensely popular profes­sor. McKenna is a biological anthropolo..: · gist, which means he studies the evolu­tion of human behavior. In his work at the Sleep Lab, he studies the physical and physiological effects of contact between mothers and babies, including co-sleep­ing and breast feeding. In addition to anthropological research and teaching, McKenna demonstrates his tap expertise to about 70 students each semester in his Irish and American Tap Dance class.· McKenna says dancing comes naturally to him, and that he was practically born 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
with tap shoes on his feet. His parents tell' him that he danced up a storm in his crib, his feet constantly moving and tapping out rhythms. McKenna found an outlet for this natural instinct at the age offour, when he saw Fred Astaire dance across the screen for the first time. With movies as his guide, McKenna tried to replicate the sound and rhythm of tap, learning the basics without lessons. When McKenna began formal instruction at the age of 10, he had already been dancing for over five years on his own. "There was nothing more the instructor could teach me to do with my feet," McKenna says, but lessons helped him integrate the rest of his body into his dancing. 
DuringMcKenna's formative years, the '50s and '60s, tap-dancing was not an ac­cepted pastime for boys. "At the time, a lot ofassumptions were made [ about boys tap-dancing]," McKenna says. His father was particularly concerned about formal tap lessons, although McKenna says his dancing was "irrepressible." He eventu ­ally became known throughout the San Francisco Bay area as a dancer, and was commonly featured on television pro­grams and area productions. McKenna even made an appearance on the popular 




J-----~---------------l!i'.1(DlDJIJ-LJf[li-F:]lE[:7].:---------------------, 
'60s program The Lawrence Welk Show, and his dancing was included in the initial promos for the Mickey Mouse Club. 
As he grew older, however, it became challenging to reconcile being a dancer and a young scholar at the same time. "It was an odd combination," McKenna says. As he bec_ame seriously involved in his undergraduate and doctoral studies, McKenna performed in fewer shows. He chose academia 
was all the rage, McKenna created a dance class that incorporated elements oflrish dance with tap. This one-credit class now fills up quickly almost every semester due to the student buzz about N:J;cKenna's teaching and dancing. Junior Caitlin Diffley says McKenna's charis­matic personality makes the class worth­while. "He's really fun and an awesome dancer," Diffley says. "You just don't 
expect a pro­for his career I think the skills that make me a good fessor to be over 'life on the dancer are precisely the same skills an excellent stage, although that make me a good professor. tap· dancer." 
for him there -James McKenna, anthropology professor and tap Fifth-year was never a _1_·n_stru_c_to_r______________ 
architecture 
choice. "Dance, to me, is intrinsic -I never saw it as a potential profession. I always knew it was a normative part of my life, but I never thought I would become a dancer -because I already was one." McKenna knew instead that he wanted to be associated with educa­tion, and so decided to pursue a career as aprofessor. 
When he first arrived at Notre Dame in 1997, McKenna says he was surprised that there were no dance classes offered for students. "I thought I would change that," he says. At a time when Riverdance student Kalinda Brown agrees: "It's fun to see him move around -he's very agile." 
Aside from teaching three anthropol­ogy courses and working at the Sleep Laboratory, leading a tap class is not something McKenna does because he has spare time. Instead, McKenna says he does it because he loves both teaching and tap. "It would be easy for me not to budge out of my office those Mondays and Wednesdays [for tap class]," he says. For McKenna, the minute he sees the tile floor he knows why he's there. "Dance refreshes my soul-itmakes me better," he says. McKenna's love of tap is appar­ent to his students, as well. "[In tap class] he's having as much fun as us -maybe more," Diffley says. 
McKenna sees a strong connection between the seemingly unrelated disci­plines ofanthropology and tap-dancing. "I think the skills that make me a good dancer are precisely the same skills that make me a good professor," McKenna says. For him, tap dance is the act ofcon­stantly moving by integrating sound and rhythm, a total left-right brain exercise. Anthropology deals with integration as· well; McKenna says the intellectual skill of relating behaviors between mothers and babies parallels the physical skill of integrating sound and music in dance. He calls tap-dantjng his "propio-scep­tivebehavior," a self-rewarding activity of hearing and doing, much like the mother­baby relationships he studies. 
In this way, dance and anthropology both have a place in McKenna's daily life. But McKenna is not sure which is a greater part of him: "I was either born an anthropologist who became a dancer, or I was destined to become a dancer and never did." . 









Fact or Fable 
*****
Unicorns master the art of pop -CDREVIEW 
CHRISRAINVILLE 
The Great Shalimar** * * W 
Authentic Indian restaurant provides break from franchise fare 
The Unicorns say it best: "We're more than just horses." The Ca­nadian duo's debut album proves that this magical breed still does ex­ist, and they have written a beautiful pop album to prove it. Who Will 
Cut Our Hair When We're Gone? with catchy, guitar-driven lyrics and features 13 tracks driven by ending with tender string-or­raging '80s Casio keyboards, chestration. pop-rock guitar and even While the vocals aren't pennywhistles. Any band a showcase of the front that introduces a rock men, Nick "Neil" Dia­song with a flute solo monds and Alden Ginger, obviously has the creative they do demonstrate fantastic juices flowing. song writing. "The Clap" fea­
WWCOHWWG? hits the ear tures straightforward, light punk 
like a blend of highly-caffeinated Ween, The Shins and They Might Be Giants. The Unicorns play catchy lo-:6. pop, yet their songs come together like illustrated, tripped-out fables· instead ofthe verse-chorus-verse yawners that 
JESSICAWHITE 
Driving down Grape Road, you're sure to find every type of res­taurant chain available. From Olive Garden to Outback, the typical assortment of Americanized dining is at your disposal. But if you travel far­ther south on Grape, authentic Indian cuisine awaits the adventurous diner at Shalimar, located in the Martin's/ K-Mart shopping center, off West McKinley Avenue in Mishawaka. The word "Shalimar" dates back to the 17th century, when Moghul Em­peror Shah Jahan built the Taj Mahal and the beautiful Oriental Gardens, both of which he deemed Shalimar, meaning "The Great Place." 
True to its name, Shalimar is a great place to dine. Upon entering, you find an open dining room swathed in pink with gold7framed pictures ofvarious as­pects of Indian culture hanging on the walls, while the aroma of curry wafts 
· through the air. Once seated at the table, an atten­tive waiter brings a basket of pappad -crispy lentil wafers -to snack on while you peruse the menu. To begin, 
currently plague pop. "Tuff Ghost" at­tacks with about 12 different rhythms and pounding keyboards. "Sea Ghost" -the album's single -demonstrates the Unicorns' range, starting with the aforementioned flute solo, progressing 
rockin', while "Let's Get Known" 
harmonizes with simple, naive ease, carelessly blending fuzzed-out key­boards, bass clarinets and strings. 
This album is a success because it features enough ideas and raw musical try some of 1il1:e vegetable appetizers, soups or freshly-baked breads. The ex­tensive menu includes a wide variety of chicken, lamb and seafood meals, as well as a large array of vegetarian options. Rice and tandoori specialties .._ dishes prepared in a clay oven -feature prominently on the menu as well. 
All items can be prepared to the degree of spiciness that the diner re­quests, ranging from mild to extra-hot. To complete any spicy entree, you can cool down with a refreshing dessert of ras malai-from Bangladesh, a delicacy 

____, ,/, --·~~ 
·-~\ 
~--"--·•=.:; ... c> 
talent for about 10 albums. Monumen­
tal guitar hooks and lyrics are used 
once and then tucked away, showing 
supreme restraint and musical care. 
The Unicorns are packed with more 
potential than a young Bono :fiddling 
with melodies. 
Their label, Alien8 Records, boasts 
two descriptions: "The Unicorns have a gift for blending a morbid sense of humour with irresistible pop melodies caked with beautiful vocals employing thoughtful, near-sacred lyrics," and "The Unicorns don't push the envelope, 
these [guys] sign, seal and deliver their . 
work to the north, south, east and west 
in limited edition holographic 3-D!" 
Looks like it's time to start believing 
in Unicorns. 
Listen to DJ Rain and Nunez 
Titesdays at 10 p.m. on wvfi.nd.edu. 
22 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
28 OCTOBER 2004 
--------------------ll=~-t•e:m:t(!•ll!!~;$~:jii]j~C5:i#JENTERTAINME~-----------=--------------, 

Get JACKED! for the Halloween Dance 
What do Casper, The Addams Family, little kids and Notre Dame students all have in common? They're all jacked for Halloween to be here! The classes of '07 and '08 are sponsor­ing JACKED!, a Halloween dance to get everyone excited for trick-or-treat day. The dance is Thu, Oct. 28, from 10 p.m. -1 
a.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
It Takes Two to Tango 
Putyour best dancing-foot forward and learn how to dance like a pro. The Ballroom Dance Club is hosting beginning, social and advanced-level dance classes, so don't be shy ifyou've never danced the tango before.Meet at Rockne 301 on Tue, Nov. 2, 8 
p.m. -9 p.m. for beginners, 9 p.m. -9:30 p.m. for social dance, and 9:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. for advanced. 
Seethe Gershwin Musical ComedyCrazyforYouat 
the Morris Performing Arts Center 
Many movies have featured classic Gershwin songs, like "I've Got Rhythm," "They Can't Take That Away From Me," and "Someone To Watch Over Me." Now you can see Crazy For You and hear the songs in person at the Morris Center. Playing Oct. 29 -31. Visit www.broadwaytheatreleague.com for ticket 
information and times. 

Hear the Renowned Irish Tenors 
Here is your chance to get in touch with your (campus) roots and listen to the Irish Tenors sing traditional Irish music. The Irish Tenors are award-winning performers who have entertained au­diences all over North America and Ireland. They will be at the Morris Center, along with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra, on Nov. 5. Tickets are on sale now. Visit www.morriscenter.org for more information on show times and prices. 
made of fresh cheese in sweetened milk, with tomatoes and cucumbers), naan tering for private parties. topped with nuts -or kulfee, which is (soft unleavened bread), kheer (a sweet Shalimar provides a casual atmosphere, homemade ke cream. rice pudding dessert) and Indian tea. yet serves exquisite Northern Indian: .· 
On this occasion, Sebo/as-The lamb curry was a per-cuisine. If you're looking for a unique tic decided to try one ofthe . sonal favorite, with its sue-restaurant that costs roughly the same house recommendations: ; • culent meat dripping with a as Applebee's or Chili's, why not venture the non-vegetarian thali. · : tangy and spicy sauce. For the down to Shalimar and find a truly "great This plate is an excellent i-· price of $13.95, either version place" for a new dining experience? . choice for those unaccus-;------------.. ofthe thali (vegetarian or not) tamed to Indian dining. It is a meal large enough for two provides a sampling ofboth people to shai:e, lamb and chicken curry, The restaurant offers cus­chicken pakora, tandoori tamers a daily lunch buffet chicken, dal (lentils), rice, for $6.99, a take-out menu, raitha (whipped yogurt frequent-diner cards and ca-

Visit the Studebaker National Museum 
Did you know that South Bend is home to the world's largest wagon manufacturer? That's right, the Studebakers lived in downtown South Bend, and their claim to fame is that they were the only manufacturer to transition from horse-drawn wagons to gas-powered vehicles way back in the early 1900s. Nowadays, you can see the famous, old-fashioned cars at the Studebaker Museum. Some cars in the museum have been featured in movies, like The Color Purple, and TV shows, like Mr. Ed. Visit www.studebakermuseum.org for more information on admission fees and hours. 


VOTE! 
Cast your ballot for the next U.S. president. Ifyou aren't regis­tered, you should be. Ifyou are registered, fill out your absentee ballots or head to the polls on Election Day, Nov. 2. It'll be a tight race: Apathy may be followed by regret. 
Get Spooked 
Take a trip north on Route 31 to the Niles Haunted House. In addition to the haunted house, the frightfest includes at­tractions like The Field of Screams, Ripper's Revenge and the Dark TERRORtory Haunted Hayride. Each attraction is priced individually (the haunted house is most expensive at $8), or you can buy a nightly, all-inclusive package for access to all the attractions for $20. The midway features food and games (free admission). Up-and-running through Oct. 31, the Niles Haunted House is open Fri -Sat, 7 p.m. -11 p.m., and 7 p.m. -10 p.m. all other nights. Visit www.haunted.org for directions 
and more information. 
-Compiled by Nick Kolman-Mandie and Dana Ergas 
28 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 23 

1. 
I'm With the 
A behind-the-scenes look at the making of a Notre Dame· Band halftime show 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
71e road to a successful halftime show s paved with 22.5-inch steps. Or, as a and member might clarify, about eight steps per five yards. The process is as technical as it sounds. A halftime routine takes hours of practice on the part of a band and months of planning byaband's directors. Scholasticshadowed the Band of the Fighting Irish as it prepared for its Boston College halftime show (with a weekoffin-betweenforfall break).And what were the results? Scholastic was able to gain a greater appreciation for "the greatest band in the land," as well as get a fascinating look at a devoted community of entertainers. While music is generally rehearsed only a week before its production, preparations begin half a year before ... 
January 2004 
The search begins for the next football season's halftime songs with preference given to pieces that have a catchy melody, good rhythm and harmony. Band Director Ken Dye and his staff frequently use iTunes to keep up with the trends. 


Summer2004 
'jenny (867-5309)" was written by Tom­myTutone in 1981 for the guitar, bass and drums. Dye's job is to translate that music into something playable for the more than 360 members of the Notre Dame Band. 
Throughout the summer, Dye tailors each of the season's songs to fit the Band. "It's a fairly tedious process of writing it for the Band," Dye says. "Each song takes about a week." In his office, Dye uses a keyboard at­tached to a computer to dissect, re-assemble and assign sheetmusic to eachinstrument in the Band. Thanks to computer technology, he is able to preview a synthesized version of what the Band will sound like when play­ing a song. 
With the_ help of Assistant Band Direc­tor Sam Sanchez and a computer program called Pyware, the Band staff combines the music with possible :field formations. ''It's like Pixar for the football field," he explains, referring to the popular animation company while watching hundreds of tiny specks on the computer screen. Each speck is labeled by a letter: "S" for saxophone, "G" for Irish Guard, and so on. With the Pyware pro­gram, Sanchez and Dye can view the Band on a three-dimensional virtual football field from any point in the stadium or even from 
24 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
28 OCTOBER 2004 
a plane flying overhead. 
The Band directors are able to watch the entire halftime show unfold before them on the computer screen. Forma­tions are choreographed so that the cli­mactic portions of the music accompany the most applause-worthy configurations. During the few seconds oflesser-known 'jenny'' lyrics, the Band changes forma­tion to assemble the digits of the famous phone number, just in time for the audi­ence to belt out, "Eight-six-seven-five 
-three-oh-ni-ee-ine!" 
Writing music specifically for the Band formations "is like writing for a movie score," Dye says, though more complicated in many aspects. While an orchestra recording a soundtrack is static, 
"we don't have that luxury," the director says, "our positions are constantly chang­ing." Abasic grasp of"stadium physics" is necessary when devising formations as sound delays and instrumentalintricacies must be taken into account. The saxo­phones are the most flexible instruments for placement. Drums, however, are not very flexible at all, hence their constant central location on the field. 
While a formation's choreography may not become finalized until the week before the game, the Band's music is completed well before. 
Now, fast forward. 
MO'flday,Octoberll,2004 
5:30p.m. 
Practice begins for the Boston College halftime show in parking lot Cl, next to theJoyce Center. 
Part of the C-lot has been designed specificallyfor the Band. A reproduction of the football field is painted on the as­phalt, withextrahashmarks for guidance. A metal tower has been constructed for Dye, which allows him to survey forma­tions and listen to the Band as ifhe were aviewer in the stands. He issues instruc­tions overloudspeakers from his headset microphone. 
The Band members received their individual sheet music this morning and are playing it together for the first time. 
"We work in groups of four," trumpeter senior Tim Gibeau says. "The hardest part is getting all the groups to work together." 
Before marching, the Band gathers around Dye inasemicircle to record this 
·SC:H0CA.STIC 
week's songs for the Band's yearly CD. 
Dye stands in the center with his arms 
crossed and head down, listening with 
a trained ear. A wave of his arms stops 
the entire ensemble: "Get a full breath 
of air before playing that last part. Let's 
do it again." On cue, the drum majors 
blow their whistles, start the music, and 
keep time. 
When Dye is satisfied with the record­
ing, he climbs his tower, and the Band 
arranges itself according to agraph. First, 
a single drum beats out the rhythm and 
the Band members silently move from 
position to position, studying their place­
ment on the artificial field. Next, half of 
the Band plays the music while the other 
half masters its marching. They switch, 
and eventually they play and march 
together. 
After an hour and a half of their first 
exposure to the music and formations, 
practice ends until the next day. 

Tuesday, October 12, 2004 
6:30p.m. 
Once again in the C-lot, Band mem­
bers chat while waiting for instructions 
from Dye, who overlooks the field. A 
single instrument pipes out a melody 
amid the hum. 
"Shhh. There's a miserable clarinet 
playing." 
Dye's joking admonishment silences 
the lone woodwind and prompts a wave 
of "Ohhhhh!" from the other Band 
members. 
The Band marches and plays through "25 or 6 to 4," originally by Chicago. At 
the end, Dye commends them: "That 
looks really good. A very nice-looking 
drill. OK, onto '99 Red Balloons."' 
Band members once again check their 
positions, and the trial-and-error process 
starts anew. Dye bounces in his tower 
to each count, and the tune has nearly 
everyone tapping their feet. 

Wednesday, October 13, 2004 
6:30p.m. 
Threatening rain clouds force the Band into the Loftus Sports Center, where another full-size football field awaits, though without the parking lot's extra hash marks. The Loftus field most closely resembles the stadium field, Dye 
28 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 


says, and it gives the Band a chance to prac­
tice in a realistic setting. 
"That sounded sloppy at the end," Dye 
says of "99 Red Balloons." "Let's check 
that out." 
After cleaning up the second song, the 
Band moves on to the show's final act, "Jenny." Dye, now situated in the rafters of Loftus, watches as a seemingly nondescript set of lines instantly transforms into "867­
5309." 
Only one practice remains before a week-
long fall break. 


Thursday, October 14, 2004 
6:30p.m. 
With the skies clear, the Band has its final 
practice ofthe week in the C-lot. As it runs 
through the entire show, some nearby ele­
mentary school kids throw a football around. 
Others watch the Band, mesmerized. 
The children are part ofa joint program 
between Holy Cross and Christ the King 
elementary schools and the Notre Dame 
Band. Through this program, Band mem­
bers assist musically-inclined children in 
playing instruments, and the children turn 
out to watch the Band practice. "I think it's 
a great thing they do for the kids," says Dan 
Kelley, father ofone ofthe elementary school 
students who participates in the program. 
After the run-through, senior Katie 
O'Sullivan, head drum major, addresses the 
seated Band via Dye's microphone headset. "I'll see many ofyou at Navy," she says after a short pep talk, "and the rest ofyou at BC, when we'll cream the other Catholic school." The prospect incites a collective cheer. 
"I'm really confident with [the BC show]," 
Gibeau says, "although a couple ofcharts still 
need work. We really rely on the crowd to 
see how we're doing." 
Before dismissal, a grade-schooler climbs 
the drum major's ladder. His name was cho­
sen from a hat, and he ecstatically leads the 
entire Band in a spirited rendition of the "Notre Dame Victory March." 

Friday, October 22, 2004 
The Band returns early from break, and only one day ofpractice remains until game day. 
1:00p.m. 
In the early afternoon, the Band runs through the show again. From now until game time, the Band members will be see­ing a lot ofeach other. 
4:30p.m. 
The Friday afternoon step-off usually is heard across campus, but watched primar­ily by early-arriving fans. From the Main Building, the Band, led by the Irish Guard, takes roughly the same path as on game day. However, today they veer right at the stadi­um and march toward the C-lot once again. A quick practice follows, and is watched by many of the spectators who followed the Band's march from the Dome. 
6:05 p.m. 
The pep rally already has begun, but the 
Band is amassed ina long column next to the Band Building. With a blow of the whistle, the Band moves out in its second step-off ofthe day. The campus is virtually deserted with most fans at the J.A.C.C., and the basses, trumpets, piccolos and others prac­tically dance their way around Stonehenge, across Library Quad and toward the rear ofthe J.A.C.C. A good 50 yards before the final saxophone has entered the door, the group strikes up the "Victory March," and the roaring mass offans inside can be heard singing through the domed ceiling. Like being suddenly pushed through a curtain -only to turn and find an expectant multi.:. tude on its feet cheering for you -the rush 
is palpable. 
"Ifyou think this is cool," saxophonist 
senior Greg Salzler says, "wait lmtil tomor­
row." Exploding into the stadium is a whole 
different ballgame. 
public debut for the day (in tl1e pouring rain) 
at its concert on the steps ofBond Hall, play­
ing the usual medley ofNotre Dame songs 
plus the week's halftime tunes. 
12:45p.m. 
Now it is time for the step-off, the fourth 
and final. After entering the gate ofthe sta­
dium, the Band divides itself inhalf, making 
wayfortl1efootball team to head backuptl1e 
tunnel from the field to the locker room. The 
Victory March is played at least four times 
as every team member passes through. As 
the Boston College Eagles follow, the Band 
stands starkly and silently at attention, with . 
the Irish Guard staring over the helmets of . the oncoining players. . 
1:10 p.m. 
The Band of the Fighting Irish explodes onto the field for its traditional pregame routine. 
While the game itself may have been 
disappointing, the halftime show elicited 
cheers and song from the crowd. 
"Ithoughtitwas one ofthe bestwe've done 
this year," Salzler says. 
Dye was equally pleased and glad that 
the show's theme went over so well with 
the students. "The Band did an incredible 
job, having been gone for fall break," he 
says. "ND students are a lot smarter than 
other students, so they're able to retain the 
knowledge of the music and the show and 
then take a break. Not every school can do 
that." 0 
. -'. 
NOT IN UNIFORM, BUT STILL IN UNISON Preparations for a

Saturday, October 23, 
halftime show begin six months before the game, and music is rehearsed for 

2004 (Game Day) 
at least one week to ensure that the show is perfect. · · 
8:00a.m. 
The third step-off in two days comes bright and early. The Band marches from its build­ing to Loftus for a final run-through, followed by announcements and a comedy skit courtesy of the Band's student officers. 
12:00p.m. 
The Band makes its 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 


.. 

lit • 
NEWS--:7 
Pdl"I< f<>r1 the Elderlj 
Social Security and why it won't change
As my mailbox stuffed with pre-ap­proved credit cards bears witness, it is not difficult for anyone to attain a line of credit these days. In fact, the average American owes a whopping $8,000 in unpaid credit card bills. This rapid growth of debt is by many accowit~, a. relatively new pheno.:ri;ienon. The rapid growth of the tech bubble in the late '90s induced an exuberant spend­ing spree that continues today. Though the bubble has since burst, Americans still have savings rates three times less than the Japanese and well below most other industrialized nations. So what does this dismal savings rate mean for young Americans, like you and me? As our parents and other members of the 77-million baby boomers are set to retire, they will have inadequately prepared themselves for retirement and will be very dependent on Social Security. Unlike our parents, who heavily outnumber their elderly counterparts, our generation will be forced to fund an overwhelming elderly population whose life-expectancy is increasing and who expect their Social Security benefits. With fewer people paying into the system and many more collecting from it, the current Social Security plan will run out of money in about 30 years, leaving many elderly people without the funds on which they depend. For a major crisis to be avoided, some­thing has to be done. Both President Bush and Senator Kerry have tossed up half-baked proposals in an attempt to avoid seriously addressing the issue. Each recognizes that any rea­sonable solution involves the unpopular decision of either restricting benefits to the elderly or increasing trures on young people, like you and me. In an election that could swing on a few hundred votes, promising to raise taxes or reduce benefits isn't high on either candidate's agenda. Bush believes in the concept of an: "ownership society," and he has outlined a plan that allo~s younger generations, like 
us, to opt out of part of Social Security by allowing workers to place part oftheir contributions in a private account, which they could then invest for hypothetically higher returns. 
This proposal has a number of glaring flaws. It exposes workers to volatile mar­ket returns, which in a flat stock market 
·turn out not to be very profitable at all. But most ostensibly, it fails to address the fact that if we allow younger workers to pull their money out of the system, the money won't be there for our parents. 
101,rnc.lANS 

This means that Bush's plan eventually either must limit benefits to baby boom­ers -an unlikely move,. considering their voting power -or increase the taxes imposed upon younger workers, like us -also an unlikely move, considering his 
penchant for cutting taxes. 
In the end, Bush's reform policy leaves 
some very big questions unanswered. But 
the president cannot afford to clarify the 
issue during his campaign, because touch­
ing the topic of Social Security benefits 
would be equivalent to political suicide. 
Without the power to actually imple­
ment policy as president, Kerry has had 
the opportunity to present a more pleas­
ant-but no more realistic-alternative 
for Social Security reform;. In. order to 
stop the Howard Dean onslaught in the 
primaries, Kerry lambasted his former 
rival for proposing to raise the retire-

RICH MCIVER 
ment age. This leaves Kerry with little to propose by way of reform, except raising the amount of income subject to Social Security payments. Currently, workers must pay a Social Security tax on the first $87,900 oftheir income. This is consistent with his platform ofrolling back tax cuts on the rich, but in the end the change will hardly keep Social Secu­rity afloat. 
Kerry says he intends to create the funds needed to maintain current ben­efits with a faster-growing economy. But even this idealistic hope, many critics argue, is merely a temporary patch on an impending crisis that gets worse by the year. Kerry, like Bush, is unwilling to alienate voters by proposing a serious 
remedy. 
So if neither candidate is willing to 
tackle the issue, what will happen? 
Politicians must follow the votes ofthe 
elderly -who currently receive Social 
Security-and ofthe many future retir­
ees above the age of 45, who have a real 
interest in passing on the bill to future 
generations. As a result, the full impetus 
for reform falls to young people, like us, 
who have historically been unorganized 
and apathetic about the voting process. 
But just because change is unlikely now, that does not mean that there are no solutions. 
The solution, however unlikely its implementation, should begin with re­stricting those who receive Social Secu­rity benefits. Social Security was founded by Franklin D. Roosevelt to curb some of the extreme poverty in our nation,· and it should return to that purpose. That means that people who earned more than some lifetime-average income level, say $60,000, should not be eligible for Social Security benefits upon retirement. 
While many Americans will be paying into a system from which they will never receive benefits, it is the only real solu­tion, barring big increases in taxes. But as for seeing something like this being proposed anytime soon, don't hold your breath. . 
28 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICNEWS 27 

fS€P,10IBA.Smt0 




All Fired UpWith Nowhere 
An inside -look at 
to Go 
one Notre Dame student's attempt to make The Apprentice 
[THE DONALD Real-estat~ mogul Donald Trump (above) never ' ~had the _chan_ce to fire f\Jotre Dame senior Judah',A,'ilson (le.ft)..
BETH MURPHY
Notre Dame senior Judah Wilson was "fired"_ ear­lier than he would have liked, and it did not even come from the man himself, Mr. Donald Trump: In March 2003, Wilson's uncle urged him to apply for a spot on the second season of Trump's televi­sion series, The Apprentice. As a junior transfer student from John Carroll University, Wilson did not hesitate to make his mark in his first yearatNotreDame. Wil­son won an award from the Entrepreneur's Club for starting a trivia -game-based Web site called ·riddlemeirish. com. (He also had plans to start a site similar to 
thefacebook.conz 
at Notre Dame. But, he says with feigned bitterness, "Someone beat me to it.") After some re­search, Wilson learned that Kevin Monahan, as­
sociate director ofNotre Dame's Career Center, had received a letter from The Ap­prentice to spark interest among graduate MBA students. Wilson inquired to see if his undergraduate status would hinder his ability to apply, and, after getting the go-ahead, he decided to give it a shot. Wilson snagged a ride from a girl whom he had been "spending a bit oftime with" to the open casting call in Chicago. And so began his long, strange trip. 
Wilson was one of 3,000 hopefuls waiting in line that cold Chicago morn­ing, and one of only 1,000 people lucky enough to be granted entrance into the NBC studios. Once inside, Wilson says that the contestants were randomly di­vided into groups of 13, with one casting director assigned to each group. Seated at a round table, Wilson and the others were asked to briefly introduce them­selves. The casting director then began firing a series of ethics-based questions aboµt business at them, such as, "Is it ever OK to lie on the job?" The situa­tion soon became a dog-eat-dog conver­sation, with every contestant fighting to stand out. "Peciple just started going at it," Wilson says. "Everyone was trying to get noticed, myself included. I tried to wow them as much as I could. 
28 OCTOBER 2004 

.. 
--------------------f.lft:i:@li:::Jt~•l[!!4:~:.i;~:ji)ij~!)§IENTERTAINMENTJ:----------------------, 
"I talked as long as possible to steal the limelight. I jumped in and tried to dominate," Wilson admits. "But about halfway through, I realized that I was being kind ofloud. So, instead, I decided to take charge and kind oflead the con­versation by helping others that were struggling to get a word in." At the end of the group discussion, as the contestants started filing out of the room, the casting director asked Wilson to hang back to fill out a waiver form. Wilson was con­fused, since he thought he had already filled out a waiver form, but he soon discovered that the casting director's request was actually just a ploy for her to say that she had selected him to return for a second interview. 
"I was ecstatic," Wilson says. 
"They sent me home with a nine­page questionnaire and told me to come back the following day." The questions ranged from: 
"What are your three best job references, and what are your three worst?" to "Have you ever hit anyone out of anger?" Wil­son needed to list family and peer contacts, and the questionnaire even requested that Wilson draw a self-portrait. "It was unreal," Wilson says. "They [ eventually] knew my entire life story." 
At the second interview, Wilsen t©©k a different angle. "I tried to distinguish myself, and I thought Notre. Dame could help me do that." Wilson says the inter­view went extremely well; he spoke with casting directors for over an hour, while other applicants only took 15 minutes of their time. 
The next step in Wilson's application process was a take-home assignment. "I had to put tog.ether-a 10-minute video to get my personality across, as well as to show directors how I move and how I come across on camera." Wilson pur­sued the Notre Dame angle yet again. He asked the Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C and the Rev. Peter Jarret, C.S.C. his Keough Hall rector, to say a few words. 
"They tried to plug me as much as they could," Wilson says, "and they jokingly said that they'd light a candle for me down at the Grotto." 
Things were looking up for Wilson, and he waited for the good news. Un­fortunately, it never came. At the end of the summer, he received an e-mail from the casting directors. It explained that he did not qualify for Season Two, but that he would be a good candidate for Season Three. Satisfied with the news, Wilson responded with enthusiasm and expressed his continued interest in the show. Shortly after, however, Wilson: received a second e-mail stating the di­rectors' decision not to take him out of school in order to tape the show. "I was disappointed, of course. I replied to the e­mail immediately, explaining that I'd be willing to take a leave ofabsence, ifneed 
MILAN? I'll PACK MY BAGS Wilson hopes that his entrepreneurial s~iU_s and__b~si~ess ~-a~ w_m sco~e him_a spt,t o~_a_'.~tUrE! se~son. 
be. But I never heard back," he says. 
"Part of me is glad I didn't get it, be­cause being on that show means stepping into a whole different world," Wilson says. "To be honest, I don't know if I want to be on national television. I couldn't even fathom how that might change my life." 
When asked if he found his status as an Arts and Letters major -Wilson is studying English and anthropology 
-to be disadvantageous compared to contestants with more business-focused backgrounds, Wilson shrugs. "I decided to study English because I thought I was weak in it. I wanted to get better at my writing, and I thought it might 
help me for law school later on." 
Only 20 years old when he ap­plied -though he would have been 21 by the time the show started taping -Wilson would have been the youngest con­testant on The· Apprentice. "The young guy always gets nailed in these shows. I mean, ·yeah, I'm an undergrad, but I still have experience." 
Putting The Apprentice on the back burner for a while, Wilson is eager to concentrate on his current studies and post,-graduate plans. "I've actually just decdded-to stay a fifth year," he says. Wil­son recently picked up an anthropology majpr·and is thinking about pursuing an MBA, and/or going to law school -all preferably at Notre Dame. "Iwant to stay at ND, as long as I can," he says. "This place is great." 
His next big project in the works is another Web site: domerdating.com. "It's for.those that didn't meet that ' special someone at Notre Dame, but are still looking." Wilson continues, "I think the biggest fear about online dat­ing is not knowing the people you're dealing with. But with DomerDating, you'd be dealing 
with family." 
:l : Wilson says he will not planf • his future around The Appren­
.. ;~ : tice, but he will adjust his plans ;~ • if an opportunity presents it­:!:i self. Wilson plans to re-apply iE i for Season Four this year as 
soon as the online application process begins. "I'll knock on the door, and if it opens up, then that's great," he says. 
Wilson looks back on the process as a 
worthwhile and educational experience. 
"It was fun, and I learned so much from the interviews alone," he says. Though Wilson may not have come away from his experience with a spot on a hit TV show, he did come away a winner in another sense. 
Wilson and the girl he had been 
"spending a bit oftime with" bonded dur­ing those trips to Chicago and continued to spend time with each other in the fol­lowing months. They are still together and got engaged last week. 
How's that for good television? 

28 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 



.Oh, JIQSto,n,., You Break My Heart! CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
H.as there ever been a worse week in sports? For me, the answer is no. Allow me to explain. In 1985, I was 
blessed to be born in the quiet shadow of the NewYork skyline, where I was molded into the debonair, handsome man you all know and love today. In my years of schooling and refinement, I learned to appreciate the finer things in life, includ­ing Shakespeare, Mozart and the Yankees. Eventually, it came time for me to leave my dear old NewYork for the strange and wild wilderness ofthe Midwest. Venturing four states west, I found myself at the Universi­tyofNotre Dame. Here, I quickly became the university's faithful little sports guy with two true passions: Yankee baseball 
and Notre Dame football. 
Just two weeks ago, the sports scene in mylife was looking fantastic. TheYankees had a 3-0 lead over the Boston Red Sox, and the "Curse ofthe Bambino" was in full effect. Meanwhile, Notre Dame defeated NavyatGiantStadium,makingit41 years since the Midshipmen last beat the Irish. And I was lucky enough to be back in the Empire State to see both the Irish and the Yankees play. 
Then something terrible happened. "Whether the city of Boston finally built up the confidence it had lacked for 8 5 years, or whether the ghosts of Yankee Stadium finally were laid to rest, the Bronx machine was shut down. With my broom in hand during Game Four, I watched as the Red Sox tied the game in the bottom of the ninth and won it with a David Ortiz moon­shot in the 12th to avoid the sweep. 
Nevertheless, I was not worried, as the Yanks only needed to take OI).e of the next three games to move on to the World Series. The next night, I watched the next chapter of the rivalry unfold. Again, the Sox rallied late in the game and forced extra innings. In the excruciating 14th inningj Ortiz struck again, this time with a single that drove in the game-winning run. The Yankees were now only one game ahead of the hated New Englanders. 
The last two games were the most painful I have ever watched. In Game six, Curt Schilling finally came through on his promise to "shut up 55,000 New Yorkers" by holding the Yankees to just four hits and one run through seven innings, and Boston went on to win, 4--2. Then there was Game seven, which was over in the second inning. "WhenJohnny Damon hit a grand slam off ofJavier Vazquez, I could feel my stomach turn as if his bat had struck me in the gut. 
As anyNew Yorker knows, there is nothing worse than when Boston wins, and there was no worse day in Yankee baseball history than Wed, Oct. 20, 2004. 
I returned to lovely and lively Indiana on Fri, Oct. 22, 2004, to the good-na­tured heckling of my dorm mates and a campus crawling with Bostonians. "What I witnessed the very next day absolutely broke my heart.Just as the Sox are a thorn in the side ofthe Yankees, Boston College is a thorn in the side of the Irish. Unfortu­nately; this Boston curse did not end. After an Irish-dominated first half that looked like it would end a three-year losing streak against Notre Dame's Catholic rival, the Eagles climbed back into the game. "When Boston College quarterback Paul Peterson completed a last-minute, 30-yard touch­down pass to Tony Gonzalez that edged the Eagles past the Irish, I realized the extent of my hatred for Boston sports. 
Now I'm a sad and bitter person,·and while I watch the New England Patriots beat the New York Jets, only two things that could cheer me up come to mind: the Cardinals beating the Red Sox in the World Series and the Irish beating the Trojans to end the season. . 

STATZONE 
Mike Coyne brings you ... 
r,c" . •.:;;:,:,.. ·::::·:==;:::::=:A::::L::i:L:z:::T:z::=:H=:E==::S::::T,:::::'A.::::::::T:::S=:il 
you need to know 


Football (5-3): 
With a final score of 24--23, the Irish lost to Boston College last Saturday for the fourth time in four years. After entering halftime with a 20-7 lead, Notre Dame ·gave up 17 points in the second half and only managed to score three themselves. Boston College quarterback Paul Peterson was 19-23 for 297 yards in the second half. He followed a fourth-and-13 conversion on the final drive with the game-winning, 30-yard touchdown pass to Tony Gonza­lez. The difference in the final score was an extra point missed bysenior kicker D .J. Fitzpatrick, his first miss ofthe season and only the second of his career. This loss trimmed Notre Dame's lead in their ri­valry with Boston College to 9-7. After this week's bye, the Irish play No. 11/12. Tennessee in Knoxville. 
30 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 28 OCTOBER 2004 


~e_oR:rs<:,--------------------~ 
IRISHEYESON ~~!LAKSON 
Katie Thorlakson is a junior psychology major and a forward on the top-ranked women's soccer team. As a sophomore she was a huge asset on the team's front line, recording l 0 goals and 11 assists. Last summer, Thorlakson made her debut with the Canadian national team. She had the opportunity to 

OPPONENT:TENNESSEE
travel to Thailand in November to compete in the under-19 
WHERE: KNOXVILLE,TENN,
World Championships, but she decided to stay here and play WHEN: SATURDAY, NOV. 6, 3:30 P.M. EST
for Notre Dame. 
What position did you play growing up? 
I have honestly played every position, but as I got older and better, I settled in at midfield and forward. I was usually put into the "floater" role, which meant I was free to create and didn't have a lot of defensive responsibilities except for pressuring the ball. 
What are your personal goals for the season? 
I think our team needs to re-establish our dominance in the Big East and bring back the championship this year. Also, I want to continue establishing myselfas a leader on the :field. My personal goal is the same as the team goal: towin the national championship and do whatever it takes to getthere. 
Do you have any superstitions? Ifso, what is the most interesting one? 
Soccer is basically a ritual for me, so everything pretty much comes natu­rally in the superstition category. Ifsomething changes in my ritual before games, I get thrown off a little bit, bud try not to think about it and adapt to the changes. 
What is your most memorable moment as a Notre Dame soccer player? "When we lost to Michigan last year in the second round ofNCAAs is prob­ably the most memorable moment. Even though it's not a very positive one, our team learned valuable lessons, and we never want to have to feel like we did after that game again. 
Who is your favorite professional soccer player, and why? Probably a three-way tie between Ruud Van Nistelrooy and Ryan Giggs of Manchester United and Roberto Carlos ofReal Madrid. llike VanNistelrooy because he is just a wicked forward; Ryan Giggs because ofhis amazing skill and underdog image; and Roberto Carlos for his flare and speed. 
-Mike Iselin 
Notre Dame goes to Tennessee and comes out strong. Tennessee has struggled the past few weeks and the Irish have yet to lose two games in a row this season.That trend will continue as the Irish post another upset and beat the Volunteers. Notre Dame 24,Tennessee 20 
MIKEISELIN 
ASSISTANT SPOITTS EDITOR 
The Irish will be facing their toughest opponent so far this season in the Tennessee Volunteers.The Irish will have a hard time getting yards on the ground against the Vols' tough rush defense and Tennessee's quarterback ErikAinge will outplay Brady Quinn. The Vols take Notre Dame down, 34­
17. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
SPOITTS EDITOR 
KEYTOTHE GAME: 
Sacking Up 
Notre Dame's blitzing game must improve. In order to have a chance, the Irish will have to apply constant pressure to Tennessee's freshman quarterback Erik Ainge. If they can rough him up early, Ainge is apt to make some big mistakes that could lead to some big points for Notre 
Dame. 
Hockey (1-3-1): 
Notre Dame won its first game of the season last weekend when the Irish beat top-ranked Boston College, 3-2. Sopho­more T.J. Jindra scored the game-win­ning goal with 14.6 seconds left on the clock and the Irish down a man. Irish senior goalie Morgan Cey stopped a career-high 50 shots. "While the Irish were outshot 52-17 by the Eagles, Notre Dame made its shots count, scor­ing three goals against Boston College goalie Matti Kaltianen. Next weekend the Irish take on Northern Michigan at the J.A.C.C. 
Women's Soccer (16-0-1): 
The Irish came one win short of tying their record for all-tim~ best start when they played to a scoreless tie against Big East opponent Rutgers. The Irish con­trolled the game and outshot Rutgers 20-5, but none of their shots found the back of the net. Two days later the Irish recorded a victory over No. 25 West Vir­ginia. Notre Dame next plays Michigan in Ann Arbor to finish the regular season before beginning the Big East Tourna­ment. D 
28 OCTOBER 2004 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 31 

100Years 
of Hoops 
A look back at the highs and lows of Irish basketball 
CHRISMESKILL
The last century ofAmerican history has seen the introduction of five new states, the election of 18 presidents, and the passing of two World Wars. While William McKinley was president of the United States, the University of Notre Dame founded its basketball pro­gram, and much like American history, Notre Dame has built quite a record. With 27 NCAA Tournament appear­ances, 16 head coaches and two national championships in their history, the Irish have a lot to look back on. TheEarly Years and George Keogan's R u n I 8 9 8 ­1943 Despite this year's celebration of its 100th season, Notre Dame basket­ball actually began in 1898, when Coach Mar­tin O'Shaughnessy's boys played three home games against regional club teams: First Regiment, Rush Medi­cal and the Cyclones. However, after 1899, the team was dis­banded and did not return as an official athletic team un­til late 1907. Under its first official coach, Bert Maris, 
Notre Dame went 33-7 in the 1908-09 season, but despite its successful inaugural year, the program suffered a number of 
OLD SCHOOL IRISH Edward "Moose" Krause played basketball, 
shaky seasons before Notre 
football and baseball for the Irish before serving as a coach and athletic 
Dame hired its first great bas­director. ketball coach. 
In 1923, George Keogan took the helm for Notre Dame and introduced an innovative style ofplay, which included both a man-to-man de.:. fense and pivot play. During his 20-year tenure with the Irish, Keogan had a 327­97 record, never had a losing season, and won two Helms Foundation National Championships -the championship that predated the NCAA Tournament. 
The Irish won the first of these early championships during the 1926-27 sea­son. The Irish went 19-1 that season, and their only loss came against Indiana-rival Franklin College, who the Irish beat later on in the season. 
Notre Dame's second Helms Founda­ti~n championship came in 1935-36, when the Irish went 22-2-1. The only blemishes on a nearly-perfect season included a 20­20 tie with Northwestern and losses to Purdue and Ohio State. However, Notre Dame was clearly the most dominant team in the country that season, out­scoring its opponents 1053-667. 
Aside from coaching the basketball team, Keogan served as head baseball coach and as an assistant. football coach. Many of Keogan's players participated in more than one sport. One example is Edward "Moose" Krause -the famed Notre Dame athletic director -who played baseball, football and basketball for Keogan from 1932-34. Reisman­winning quarterback Johnny Lujack also played basketball in 1943-44, his freshman year. · 
From Krause To Phelps: 1.943­1970 
After Keogan passed away in 1943, Notre Dame basketball declined. Krause served as the interim coach but did not fare well in his first season, finishing 1943­44 with a 10-9 record. Notre Dame tried a few other coaches, but could not find a coach as consistent as Keogan. In 1946, Krause tried again and found more suc­cess. This time, his team went 20-4, but . each following season saw worse results. In 1951, Krause resigned from coaching basketball in order to focus his attentions on his position as Notre Dame's athletic director. 
John Jordan,· another of Keogan's for­mer players, replaced Krause.Jordan's 13 years as coach saw great highs with four NCAA Tournament quarterfinal appear­
32 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 28 OCTOBER 2004 

!----------------------lffl:~:iC!•!:=~t0!l!)D:~4,.~:)iiiiit!@ls~p~·9RI_~----------------------, 
ances, but also with the first losing record at Notre Dame since 1922. 
During Jordan's years at Notre Dame, a number of players came into the spot­light, but none compared to Tom Hawkins. Hawkins, a 6-foot 6-inch forward from Chicago, set Notre Dee's recruiting prowess included the ad­dition of Austin Carr to the team, who eventually became a team captain and the leading point-scorer in Notre Dame history. Carr was unstoppable in 1970 and 1971, scoring 50 or more points in a single tive 20-win seasons by the Irish, Phelps was thrown into the national spotlight. Unfortunately, Phelps also inherited a team that lacked the talent of Dee's pre­vious teams; without Carr, Phelps lost 20 games in his first season. 
The 1971-72 sea-
Dame scoring re­Now in his fifth year ofcoaching at Notre Dame, son proved to be one 
cords in the three ofthe only blemishes 
seasons he played. Brey leads a squad that analysts are calling one on Phelps' record. In 
During his sopho­
more and junior of the top teams in the country. 
years, Hawkins led Notre Dame to the NCAA Tourna­ment, but the team lost in the third round both years. After being named the co-cap­
tain for the 1958-59 season, Hawkins and Notre Dame had a disappointing season, finishing 12-13. 
After a few more inconsistent seasons under Jordan, the head coaching job was given to his assistant coach, John Dee. Despite starting his Notre Dame career with three unsuccessful seasons, Dee recruited some of the most talented players in Notre Dame history and led the Irish to four straight 20-win seasons. 
game nine times. Carr and the Irish went to the NCAA Tournament in both 1970 and 1971 before Dee retired from coaching basketball to practice law. 
The Digger Phelps Era: 1971-1990 
Notre Dame had to find a coach that could fill the big shoes Dee left behind when he retired from basketball. The Irish felt that they had found the perfect replacement in 29-year-old Digger Phelps, who had recently coached Fordham's team to a 26-3 record. Inheriting both the mo­mentum and the pressure offour consecu­1973, Phelps' Irish 
went 18-12 and 
earned a spot in the 
NIT, where they ad­
vanced to the finals, losing in overtime to Virginia Tech. 
The following season, the Irish won their first nine games and were ranked No. 2 in the nation when No. 1 UCLA came to South Bend. In one ofthe most historic games in Notre Dame history, the Irish made a last-minute comeback to upset the Bruins, ending UCLA's 88-game winning streak and ascending to first place in the nation. However, UCLAbeatNotre Dame in a rematch later that season, and the Irish finished the season No. 2. Notre Dame proceeded to lose in the second round of the NCAA Tournament to finish with a 26-3 overall record. 


In his 20-year tenure at Notre Dame,sh of the Ti Phelps led the Irish to 13 20-win seasons and helped ~otre Dame to the NCAA
Jan.19,1974 
Tournament 13 times. Phelps' Irish even71-70 made a Final Four appearance in 1978, fol­lowing a 23-8 season. But in the late 1980s
Joyce Center 
_and early 1990s, Phelps met with less suc­cess and resigned as the head coach of the
From 1971 to 1973, UCLA was literally perfect, 
Fighting Irish. 
recording an 88-game winning streak, with three of those wins coming-against the Irish. On Jan. IC), 1974, in one The Recent Era: 1991-2004 The 1990s was a disappointing de­
of the most historic basketball games in Notre Datri·~ history, 
cade for Notre Dame basketball. After 
UCLA came out strong in the first half, mounting a 17-point lead 
Phelps r~signed, the head coach po-­over Notre Dame. Near the end of the game, with the Bruins still . sition was filled by John MacLeod. MacLeod was bequeathed a few
leading, Phelps refused to give in, telling his players, "If you don't 
quality basketball players, includ­
believe that we can do-this, then leave and go to the locker room 
ing team co-captain LaPhonso right now. If you stay .here and believe, then we can do this." With Ellis. Elljs and the Irish went 18­
15 in 1992 and played in the NIT,
just minutes left, the Irish went on a 12-0 scoring run.The Bruins 
where they reached the finals but 
failed to mount a comeback and were forced to v'.tatch Notre Dame· 
were denied the championship in 
an overtime loss. 
break their winning streak an~ take their No. I ranking. 
. . 
28 OCTOBER 2004 

In the next seven years, MacLeod's teams fared poorly. In 1999, MacLeod was fired. Matt Doherty, an assistant coach at Kansas, replaced him. Doherty did extremely well in his first and only year, finishing 22-15. Again, the Irish were selected to play in the NIT. Led by Troy Murphy, the Irish advanced to the finals, but a loss to Wake Forest made Notre Dame the NIT runner-up for the fourth time in its history. 
After the 2000 season, Doherty unex­pectedly left Notre Dame to coach his alma mater, North Carolina. To replace him, the Irish hired then-Delaware head coach and former Duke assistant Mike Brey. 
As the current head coach, Brey has done very well in his first four seasons, with three consecutive 20-win seasons, three consecutive NCAA Tournament berths -which include a Sweet Sixteen appearance -and a Big East West Divi­sion Championship. 
Now in his fifth year of coaching at Notre Dame, Brey leads a squad that analysts are calling one of the top teams in the country. ESPN ranked the Irish 19th, saying, "Ifthis squad is 100 percent healthy, it could easily shoot up into the top-IO. It's not out of the question to say this team could win the national title." 
.~ill laimbeer ('79) Monk's Got Acenter from Palos Verdes High Dunk Scho6Lin California, Laimbeer had ',~ <' quite a~~a,reer at Notre Dame, Everyone knows the Rev. ·f~,--:i.; t especiall/i:l,uring his junior and senior Edward Malloy, C.S.C. ('63) ."t/; .year-s,=Averaging 8.1 points per game, as ~he I_6th president of th71 
.I ----JI he led-fh!:!,,.._1977-78 Fighting Irish ,..,.=-L-,_ University of Notre ~am,: through the NC(AToJrnamebt before they fell to /,-/ ! "-'\lesser-known fact is th~~/ Duke in the Finai Four. laimb~r had his best season1 Mapoy was a scholarship{
·1' 
his senior year l\,vhen hJ was a Eeam captain, leading!! baslfetball player for the~ 
1 
the team in reJoundingl (5.5 refuounds per game) and J' Fig~ting Irish from 1961 \~3-, blocked shots ((1'~7 blo~ks pe?/ game). Drafted third\\ ·. A.~hough ~all~y never Sft . / overall by the Cle~la11d:,,___Ca(aliers, Laimbeer continued''-,""' .. ~,,,much playm_g time _at Not{e'¼,,._,_,,~-~ 
d · b b d 1• h I NBA Aft b · d d --Dame, he did receive the 1 .,_=;;~~:;m.;::~~t ~-~~~a~;-~'~ ;8;, Laim.bee~~e~;!~r:o:e National Association of \ c t· NBAAII St ./ ·1 10 OOO . t Basketball Coach.es Balfour\
a 1our-1me -ar, comp, e over , pom s . and I 0,000 rebounds, andset the record for most Silver Anniversary Award• ''-, . / . which honors a former
consecutive games played m the NBA at 685.After k h 
retiring from plc1-yi' Laimbeer became a successful · varsit_Y ~as ~tball P!ayerlfw 0 . /'..--. . . has d1stmgu1shed h1mse or
•=_b_us1rig_s_sman -as the president of La1mbeer Packaging If. . . · d h" 
. herse m c1v1c lea ers 1p
Corporation -and a successful coach -as the head coach of the WNBA's Detroit Shock. and service. 
The Irish are strong in both the front­from last year, analysts consider court and backcourt this year and are the Irish backcourt one of the nation's returning many familiar faces. best. Senior Chris Thomas has a number 
The Irish have one of the best front­ofNotre Dame records already under his courts they have had in recent years, fea­belt. The Irish will also rely on junior turing seniors Jordan Cornette and Den­Chris Quinn and sophomore Colin Falls, nis Lattimore. Also returning is junior who are both excellent three-point shoot­Torin Francis, who averaged 14.2 points ers. per game and 8.8 rebounds per game Looking ahead to this season, Brey says, before getting injured last year. Despite "It's an honor to be coaching here in our a shortened season, he was named to the 100th season when you think back to all All-Big East Honorable Mention Team. the tradition that has surrounded this 
With their top three guards returning program." . 
WantTo Learn-More? 
Michael Coffey recently published 
Echoes on the Hardwood: I 00 Seasons of Notre Dame Men's Basketball. It offers more information on many of the great players and coaches in Notre Dame's history, including many of their anecdotes and jokes. Echoes on the Hardwood can be purchased on amazon.com, ndnation.com, and several other online book-distributors. 
1":.,•...,'::1:, 11 ,-c::11,; ii1" 
,@t~~n..-.•··~¥tttwt:~-J.@ff~t4....f.. ~%·t•t'.:,rf·l 

28 OCTOBER 2004 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 35 




LISTENING 
"Oh no! Boys don't like me. I must seek solace in the soteriology of soft serve." -male student at NDH 
"There's a sort of cheap porn aspect to all of this. Isn't there?" 
-literature professor referring to Edith Wharton's The House ofMirth 
More Entertaining than a Debate: 
A dorm door dons a poster making light of the contentious presidential election, while the message board takes a jab at a certain embattled football coach. 

. . . / 
97 Years Ago 
A Dangerous Throw The football team's offense has suffered several injuries. Maurice Stovall's foot has spent time in a walking cast that bears a sizable resemblance to Italy. Brady Quinn's noggin suffered ;i concussion. Anthony Fasano's shoulder decided to take a break from attaching his arm to his body. Like Kenny Loggins' bedroom, the Irish's passing downs have become a danger zone. But, as noted in a 1907 issue of Scholastic, throwing the ball used to be an even riskier business. 
Theforward pass, the mostradical change, was consider­ably altered this year. Last season ifthe ball would touch the ground on any down, it was awarded to the opposi1zg team where itfell. Now, however, ifthe ball touches, the ground on first or second down, instead oflosing it, the offensive team loses fifteen yards, but the ball remai'ns in possession. On third down, however, in case offailitre, the ball goes to the opposing team where it went i1zto1play. 
Not mentioned is the fact that on fouuth down the stakes got even higher. In case of failunre, the opposing team received the ball and tw0• offensive players' kidneys. 
-Eiik Powers 
36 SCHOLASTICHUMOR 28 OCTOBER 2004 
iSCHOLlASTIG H0FiOR. 

The Law of the Lake 
The strange and fascinating world of duLac 
STEVEMATTINGLY 

Nearly every Notre Dame student has heard of duLac, 
the university's nearly 300-page guide to student 
conduct. Many of its rules have inspired all sorts of 
fiery student protests, from duLac burnings to coed camp-out 
sleepovers to declarations ofJihad against those responsible 
for writing it. Well, maybe not the Jihad part. But my point 
stands. Dulac is certainly a part of the average Notre Dame 
student's consciousness. 
Yet hardly anyone has actually read the damn thing. That's 
probably because most students believe there isn't much in 
duLac beyond what upperclassmen tell them when they are 
freshmen. You may not drink hard alcohol, have anyone ofthe 
opposite sex in your room beyond a certain hour, or otherwise 
do anything stupid that might embarrass the university, since 
the university is already quite adept at embarrassing itself and 
really doesn't need your assistance. 
Until recently, I hadn't read duLac either. But before fall 
break, while most ofyou were doing things like studying, tak­
ing tests or going out, I took a break from my daily routine 
-chugging O'Doul's, stalking the skunk that lives behind my 
house, and searching for nude photos ofJohn Candy online 
(very tough to find .these days, FYI) -in order to read the 
infamous guide to student life. 
What I found was nothing short of astounding. Far from 
the mundane read I expected, duLac reveals a strange and fas­
cinating world of unknown opportunities and bizarre rules. 
If you don't believe that it's a quirky little book, I invite you 
to peruse the following list of excerpts and their implications. 
My first three years would have gone a whole lot better had I 
known these things ... 
"Students may applyfor short-term emergencyfunds[. .. ] Monday through Friday in the Main Lounge ofLaFortune from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m." 
· You mean to tell me I've been stealing from Grab 'n' Go and eating out of the SDH dumpsters when, all this time, I had a two-hour window of opportunity each weekday to get a loan from the school? 
"Demonstrators may not impede the freedom of the University community." 
I think this means the annual Right to Life demonstration is illegal. It impeded my freedom to not be scared s*&%less when I happened upon the little white crosses at 4 a.m. during my freshman year and thought I_ had been taken to Arlington National Cemetery in my sleep. 
"Non-carnivorous fish in an aquarium [. .. ] are permitted in student rooms." 
So this is why I got sent to ResLife sophomore year when my piranhas chewed off that Papa John's delivery guy's hand. Speaking of delivery guys ... 
"[The University} does not restrict an individual student from in­viting and completing a business transaction in his or her own room, e.g., with an insurance salesperson or pizza delivery person." 
What better place to iron out the details ofyour collision cov­erage than within the friendly confines ofyour dorm room? 
"Group sales, demonstrations or parties are prohibited in residence facilities." 
See, Justin Tuck, this is why I said you shouldn't have hosted that big "Tupperware, Tofu and Tutus" sales party a couple ofyears back. Not only was it weird, it was also against university rules. 
"Students oflegal age maypossess or transport [ ... } alcohol [. . . and] sttt­dents must ensure that the containers are closed and in suitable packaging such that the contents ofthe package are not readily identifiable as alco­

miivusifrop l«liii: l>AllE . ' 
' . . · ,·._·.• ·_. ·, · :__~J holic beverages." 
~---Obviously, appearance is what really matters here. So does this mean that I can bring kegs on campus as long as I parade them in from D6 inside of gi­ant birthday cakes alongside a group of mimes dancing the Charleston? 
"In rooms with more than two elevated beds, their total area shall not comprise more than 35 percent ofthe total room area [. .. ] El­evated beds shall abut only on the short end except when placed in an 
'L' shaped configuration." 
Does this rule imply that I have to take down the lofted beds in the vacant O'Neill dorm room where I run a brothel, store dead bodies, and keep a stash of cocaine? Because I'm pretty sure they take up 3 7 percent of the total room area, and they definitely abut on the long end. 
"Possession or use ofanotherstudent's [ID card} orallowing another to use one's Identification Card is prohibited." 
Fess up, guys. I know you've all broken this rule. Remember when the temptations ofthe flesh were simply too great and you finally caved in and gave your friend your ID card to purchase football tickets in the lottery? Go to confession now, for you are unclean. 
And as part ofyour penance, read duLac from cover to cover. It just might make your Notre Dame experience a little bit easier. After all, you really don't want to have to explain to the friendly folks at ResLife why you were keeping a carnivorous fish_ in your room. Trust me. . 
37 SCHOLASTICHUMOR 28 OCTOBER 2004 

Beating Around the Bush 
Some People Just Don't Care 
MIKEHEALY 

Earlier this month, I settled down to watch the vice­presidential debates in my dorm, and when Democratic nomineeJohn Edwards' name was announced, my friend Miller looked up from the computer game he was playing and asked, "Who's John Edwards?" At the time, I couldn't believe he honestly had no idea who our nation's potential vice presi­dent was, but after thinking about it, I came to realize that not everyone is a political loser like me. I wasn't always this way, though. I used to be normal, just like you, believing that politics was a waste of valuable time that could be better spent drinking or roller-skating (or both!). But over the course of the last year, several factors turned me into the nerd I am today. First and foremost, there was the American Politics class I took last semester. I learned a litany of interesting things in this class, such as the importance of vot­ing and that-ifyou chew on a pen too much -it can and will explode in your mouth. While this class height­ened my political aware­ness, the real turning point in my electoral interests came this summer, largely as a by-product of my sum­mer job. No, I was not an intern for some congressional campaign, nor was I even an errand boy at a local newspaper; I was a crewman for Chicago From the Lake -a tour boat company on the Chicago River and Lake Michigan -and my main responsibili­ties included cleaning up the vomit of seasick passengers and protecting them from pirates (I was much better at thelatter). Furthermore, working in the maritime industry entails some pretty crazy hours; itwas not uncommon to work 60-70 hour weeks, with most ofthe hours falling on weekends. My days off came on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, when all my friends (yes; all six of them) were working· at their own jobs. Thus, I was left home with no companions but CNN, FOX News Channel and The Naked Chef. Long story short, this being an election year, politics quickly became my favorite sport. I understand that this may sound very lame to many ofyou (thankfully most Notre Dame students don't read my column), but you should take it upon yourselves to become more informed, if for no other reason than . . . · To Feel Good About Yourself: I understand that you may not care about politics, but politicians think you do (or count on the fact that you don't). The fact is that ifmost ofthese guys 
are talking, they want you to listen to them, and none more so than John Kerry-the saddest man in the world. He has the face of a little boy who has just been told he inadvertently killed his own dog, were that little boy a 61-year-old man. He's really been down, and it would mean so much to him if you could at least pretend to pay attention to him while he runs for president. 
Identification: Although these are (potentially) the most powerful men in the world, who can't look at these fellows running for office and see a similarity to characters in their own lives? George W Bush is the party-guy goofball who isn't quite sure what he wants to do with his life.John Kerry is the serious, kind of mopey friend that has a strange fetish for for­
eign women. John Edwards is the great-looking, charming romancer who everyone secretly hates out of jeal­
ousy, and Dick Cheney is the friend who has heart attacks all the time. 
TheNames:There is no arena where names are more indicative of potential success than politics. George W. 
Bush is a presidential name. John Kerry is a presidential name. Both of these men can get elected. You need a prestigious sounding name like this to be elected president. Pennsyl­vania Senator Arlen 
Specter will never be elected president. "Specter" is too scary a last name; people don't want a ghoul in the White House. Radio personality Rush Limbaugh could never get elected; his name sounds too intense and/or made-up. University ofWest Virginia cornerback and punt returner Pac-Man Jones? Don't even think about it. 
In short, politics is something you should pay attention to, and it isn't even that large ofa time commitment. For guys in dorms all across America, it means two fewer games ofNCAA Football 2005 a week. For my roommate Kenton, it means one fewer night a week playing Magic: the Gathering. For girls on our nation's campuses ... Well, I don't hang out with many girls, so I'm not quite sure what they do, but I'd venture to guess that they too could devote some time to exercising civic duty. . 
38 SCHOLASTICHUMOR 28 OCTOBER 2004 
.Notre D~me Symphony Orchestra: . 
. November:4 cit 8 p.m, . . · ·.·. . . ··. · · . . Tickets: $6, $5 ND/SMC/HC; $3 students 
King's Singers . . November7 al 8 p.ni; : •· : . O : · :. . . . _,. · lJckets:· $44, $35 ND/SMC/Ht, $15 students 
r H E. A t r~ E 
Fortinbras By lee Blessing. November 3, 4, 5, 6;7, 9; 10, 11, 12, i3 licke,s: $12, $ 10 ND/SMC:/HC, $8 ·.. 
. A Mid~um~er Night's Dream .· 
Ncweniber 3 and 6 al 7:30 fm.:. . . Tickels $18, $16 ND/SMC/HC, $12 students Periormed by Actors From The London Stoge . 
·. . .. ,• 
MacHomerby Rick Miller · Novembe(S.cind 6 .:,:: :. / · . . . .Tickets: $~7; $30 ND/SM.C/HC, $15 sludents_ 
MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
http://performingarts.nd.edu Call 574-631-2800 to order tickets Discounted tickets ore underwrilfen by the DeBortolo Pe(forming Aris Center. There ore a limited number of student 
discounts available. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
•Arnleto (1915) Thurs~ay, November 4, 8 p.m. 
Titu~'(1999} . . 
•Fridciy;November5 at 6:30 p.ni. 
··.·. F~~idden Planet (1956) . 
Friday, November 5 al· l O p.m. 
. Richard m(1955) 
•Sr:ilurday, November 6 al 11 :30 o.m. 
·Ran (1985) 
Saturday, November 6 al 3 p.m. 
Rol11e.o and Juliet. (1996) Solurday, November 6 ot 6:30 p:m. 
Hamlet (2000) 
Saliirday, November 6. at. IO p:m. 
DO YOU WANT TO BE THE NEXT PRESIDENT OF THE SHIRT? 
Gain amazing business experience and 
leave your mark ·on Notre Dame history! 
Kesponsibilit~es include: SELECTING THE DESIGN OF THE SHIRT 2005 COORDINATING THE UNVEILING CEREMONY DESIGNING THE MARKETING PLAN AND MUCH, MUCH MORE••• 
APPLY ON-LINE AT: 
theshirt.nd.edu/2005 
Applications due Friday, November 5 th 

,··i 
ii I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Ji ,1 
Louis Ayala is an assistant professor in Notre Dame's ProlJram in American Democracy. He teaches and researches American political behavior. 
YourVote Counts 
Dr. Louis Ayala 
Why should the average 18-to 24-year­old citizen vote? As a political scientist, I would be remiss ifl tried to convince you that your one vote at any one election would be likely to change the outcome of that contest. Florida and New Mexico in 2000 notwithstand­ing, the probability that your one, single vote would alter the outcome ofthe presidential race is lower than the probability that you will be struck by lightning on the way to the polls. Indeed, you should take with a grain ofsalt any­one's claim that your exercise of the franchise on Nov. 2 will lead to any radical difference in your short-term good. Since I am not Biggie Smalls, I don't believe P. Diddy's "Vote or Die" exhorta­tions that my personal existence will come to an end ifl do not engage in the activity ofvoting. The fact is that ifyou are looking for immedi­ate material gratification as the end product of your ballot-box experience, you are going to be sorely disappointed. I mean, we all know that going to the gym for five minutes and doing one set of bicep curls is not going to turn you into Arnold Schwarzenegger on your way out. So why should anyone expect all the world's problems to be solved by your checking a few boxes on Nov. 2, 2004? However, as a political scientist, I can still think ofmany good reasons to vote. Yet, in order to keep some of the mystery alive in my teaching, and in the interest ofconciseness, I want to focus on one attempt to demonstrate that electoral participa­tion is in your own self-interest. Just as we all recognize the need for short-term sacrifice (I must go to the gym, thus foregoing the local age-appropriate beverage establishment's social hour, in order to get in better shape for spring break) for long-term gain when it comes to our personal lives, I would like you to think of voting this coming Tuesday in a similar manner. Only by registering your interest and preferences will elected leaders and the govern­ment machinery they control take you and your interests seriously. "Guffaw," I hear some of you say. "Politicians don't talk about issues that impact voters like me; they don't take our concerns seriously." Baloney! Politicians are talking about issues that will have a direct bearing on your life all the time. However, because turnout rates are so highly correlated with age, they don't address these issues in ways understandable or favorable to younger voters because these customers (read: voters) can't be counted on to pay (read: vote). 
The third presidential debate gave us perhaps the best example of this when both Kerry and Bush were asked to explain their plans for "fix­ing" the loomingfinancial problems of Social Security and how they would pay for these plans. Ifyou go back and read the transcripts, while doing some verbal gymnastics and insinu­ating that their opponent's approach threatens the benefits of current and soon-to-be retirees, neither candidate answered the question! They had nothing to say about how they would pay for their approaches. 
But why should they? The people most likely to vote (the 40 million current beneficiaries) and coming baby-boomer retirees (some 80 million) want to hear about benefits, not paying. And be­sides, the ones who will be left holding the bag and having to pay for their approaches are you, the younger voter and future worker, and you don't vote. 
One way or another you will pay, because, as most experts agree, some combination of benefit cuts and tax increases will be needed to pay for future Social Security benefits. And since about 75 percent ofpeople over the age of65 vote ( compared to a little more than 40 percent of 18-to 24-year­olds), I'm not holding my breath on benefit cuts. 
Furthermore, the longer we put off the problem, the more severe tax increases or benefit reductions will need to be. Have fun trying to buy that new car in the future, or make your house payment, or send your kids to private school if the government decides it needs more of your paycheck. Or get used to having Mom and Dad around the house if future benefits have to be radically curtailed and the population has not been prepared. 
If I made you a politician, whose concerns about particular issues would come to the top of your list? Increasing the turnout rate ofyounger voters is in your own long-term self-interest, not because complicated problems will be magically solved overnight, but because it is the only way . to scare elected officials 'into taking the concerns of younger citizens seriously. Otherwise, elected officials will continue to write ever-greater checks that your posterior will find harder to cash. Vote every chance you get, and harass your friends to do so, too, because it is about your self-preservation. But hey, you do what you think is best. I already have my house. D 
40 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 28 OCTOBER 2004 

Student Union Board· brings you ... 
AcoustiCaf e 
PRESENTS 
I love the ao•s 
THIS Thursday in Lafortune Basement 10:00 PM-12:00 AM 
isten to your favorite 80's covers aturing: anthony iannamorelli, m schreck, jason wise 
ee giveaways!
. . . 
Every third Thursday of the month 
.at Legends 
10:00 P M-12:00 AM 
check out SUB.ND.EDU $ for other great SUB events! brought to you by the student union board. 
ALEXANDRO 
: In addition.to his half-hour special, "Comedy : Central Presents Ted Alex<;1ndro," Ted has ' appeared on ''The Late Show with David · Letterman,'' "Late Night with Conan O'Brien," 
"The Late, Late Show with Craig Kilborne" and 
. ''The View. Come watch this young comedian make you laugh until you weep, or weep until. you laugh! 
.Ted Alexandro II 
-COMEDIAN ' 






