
It. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
HAVE A REAL CIGARETTE
Discover the difference between “just smoking”... and Camels!
Enjoy the difference!
Taste the difference!
Camels are full-flavored and deeply satisfying — pack after pack. You can count on Camels for the finest taste in smoking.
Feel the difference I
The exclusive Camel blend of quality tobaccos is unequalled for smooth, agreeable smoking. Camels are easy to get along with.
Try today’s top cigarette. You’ll see why more people smoke Camels, year after year, than any other brand. They’ve really got it!
Walter Paulson asks:
Does Du Pont have summer jobs for students?
Walter A. Paulson, honor student at Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, and member of the honorary engineering fraternity, Tau Beta Pi, expects to receive his B.S. in Chemical Engineering in June 1957. He is interested in the professional advantages that a student may derive from technical experience obtained during summer work.

Carter answers:
Robert G. Carter received his M.S. in industrial engineering from Ohio State in 1951 and joined Du Pont soon afterward. After varied plant experience, he recently undertook an interesting new assignment in the Polychemicals Department at Du Pont’s Sabine River Works, Orange, Texas. The major function of his current work is to coordinate cost information as an aid in maintaining cost control.
You bet we do, Walt! They’re part of a regular Technical Training Program which Du Pont has had for years.
Ordinarily we try to assign summer employees to work which ties in with their fields of training in college and £	with their long-range interests. Informal or formal instruc-
tion on Company matters is usually provided.
We’re definitely in favor of these summer contacts, for they provide students with practical technical experience and make them more valuable to industry when they graduate. And it gives us a chance to become better acquainted, too, with some of the men we’ll be considering for permanent employment, later. It’s a program of mutual benefit.
In addition to the Formal Technical Training Program, we frequently have a number of vacation replacement jobs and other temporary positions which are available to college students.
Last summer we hired a total of 720 students from 171 different colleges and universities. Most of these were juniors, or were graduate students about one year away from permanent employment.
You can see our program is a fairly substantial one, Walt.
FREE FILM: “Mechanical Engineering at Du Pont” available on loan for showing before student groups and clubs. Write to the Du Pont Company, Wilmington, Delaware.
•t® U.S.F*TOff
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING...THROUGH CHERUSTRV
Walch “Du Pont Theater” on television
3
The Notre Dame	$ 1
Scholastic
Vol. 98 February 8, 1957 No. 14
GOLF CHAMPION, SAYS •'
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
"VICEROY HAS THE SMOOTHEST TASTE OF All!"
SMOOTH!
From the finest tobacco grown, Viceroy selects only the Smooth Flavor Leaf... Deep-Cured golden brown for extra smoothness*.
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
CHARLES McKENDRICK
Editor
SUPER SMOOTH!
Only Viceroy smooths each puff through 20,000 filters made from pure cellulose-soft, snow-white, natural!
Copx
JOE NORTON Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER ..........  News	Editor
JAMES McDonald ...........Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL ..........Feature Co-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ... Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS.......Assistant News
JIM DULAN ...........  Assistant	News
BOB VONDRASEK..........Assistant News
HARRY McKEE...........Assistant
MARSH PIDGEON.........Assistant
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON............Business Mgr.
JOHN GLAVIN.....................Sports	Editor
BOB EARLY....................Assistant	Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK .......Assistant Sports News Staff: Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, Jack Coughlin, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Karnath, Bob LaMontagne, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Jerry Leppek, Ji^ Naughton, John O’Hara, Ed Plumly, Walt Rudge, Dave Schwartz, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Bob Williams, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Pat Defoe. Jim Goethals. Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson, Doug Zilliox. Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon. Business Staff: Loran Sheffer, Milw Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.	’
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: 54.00 per year. Single copies 25c;
The Scholastic
f
BsasasasasasasaEasasasKasasasasasasasasasasMKMKasBSiiHsasHEasasasasasasasasKasasasasasasasasasasasasasasaEe
LAST CALL
FOR
APPOINTMENT
Burroughs
Engineers
BURROUGHS
Accounting and Finance
CORPORATION
a worldwide leader in the manufacture of business machines, electronic computers, data processing systems and other electronic equipment for both industry and defense...
WILL OFFER YOU EXCEPTIONAL CAREER OPPORTUNITIES HERE ON
FEB. 11,1957
See or phone your college placement office now for your appointment.
Exceptional opportunities for men with a BS, MS or PhD in Ind. Eng., ME, EE, Chern. Eng., Math or Physics. At Burroughs Corporation, you start on the work for which you’re trained— no getting lost in the shuffle. You work on some of today’s most challenging problems in ballistic missiles, electronics, computation, data processing, optics, magnetics, communications and electro mechanical, equipment. Full program of activities for government, defense, business and industry. Fine starting salary. Realistic promotion-from-within policy.
Growth opportunities for men in Business Administration and allied fields. Burroughs Corporation offers you positions leading to a topflight career in Corporate Accounting, Financial Planning and Control, Distribution, Cost Accounting and Analysis, Manufacturing Accounting, General Auditing, or Methods and Procedures. Good starting salary. Plenty of chance to know the corporation inside out, from every point of view. If yon want to start as a traveling auditor, you can see the country, too. And promotions come fast because we’re expanding fast.
252525E525a525252525E525E52525E5E5E52S25B52Sa52Se525?5B525e5E5252525E5E5B5B5a52SE525252S25E525252S25252525252S25E
| February 8, 1957
Parker- Wiiterrowd Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115 V2-I IZ’A No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
At the Movies
COLFAX
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-ffiaterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
1151/2-1171/2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult our campus representative: JOHN E. KUHN, 366 Alumni
Oklahoma. (B) Gordon MacRae, Shirley Jones, Gloria Grahame, Gene Nelson, Rod Steiger. A particularly good musical with an outstanding cast. There is no plot to speak of, but the excellent music would overshadow any plot. Besides the song “Oklahoma” there are such hits as “Oh, What a Beautiful Morning,” “Surrey With a Fringe on Top,” and many others.
Summing up: Real topdrawer entertainment.
Bundle of Joy. (A-2) Sunday: Debbie Reynolds, Eddie Fisher. Eddie and Debbie try valiently to provide comedy entertainment, and almost achieve their purpose. The chief drawing power will be the fact that they have their own bundle of joy.
GRANADA
Top Secret Affair. (A-2) Kirk Douglas, Susan Hayward. This one doesn’t quite live up to the entertainment standards set by its predecessors but does provide some enjoyment. The story is based on the novel by John P. Marquand, “Melville Goodwin, U.S.A.” Kirk is a rough and tough two-star general and Susan is the publisher of a national news magazine who gives him nothing but trouble until the inevitable marriage takes place.
Summing up: With Melville and Bilko in the same Army let’s pray for peace.
STATE
Rawhide Years. (A-2) Tony Curtis, Coleen Miller. A western about the old west, shot in one of our great western states, with an eastern cast.
Co-hit: Bztffalo Bill (?)
PALACE
Thunder Over Arizona... (A-l) Skip Homier, Kristine Miller, and a whole host of other screen personalities too numerous to mention. Skip comes roaring into Tombstone and gets a welcome comparable to the one Saud got in New York. But the townfolk soon find out that this stranger is on the right side of the law (facing east). After the smoke clears who do you think is dead and who do you think rides away with the beautiful girl?
Co-hit: Accused of Murder. (A-2) Vera Ralston, David Brian. This is an excellent co-hit for the top feature and should provide unbounding entertainment for those who accidentally enter the theater.
RIVER PARK
Sailor Beware. (A-2) Dean Martin, Jerry Lewis of the old team of
Martin & Lewis. One of the by the team in their hayday.
Co-hit: Whispering Smith.
older and more entertaining pictures put out
(A-2) Alan Ladd.
AVON
Private’s Progress. (A-2) entirely pleasant story about
Richard Attenborough, Dennis Price. An the tremendous military training an army
private is subjected to. In the forward, the producers acknowledge the official cooperation of absolutely nobody, and you can easily understand why. The private receives complete training in Japanese which qualifies him for a secret mission behind the German lines. He finally winds up as a German prisoner of the British. Even if you aren’t interested in the movie it does provide the necessary info to become a successful goldbrick.
Summing up: I hope the effect of the last movie has worn off the Avon.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Man Who Knew Too Much. Saturday. James Stewart, Doris Day. Four Showings: 1:15, 3:40, 6:20 and 8:50 p.m..
6
The Scholastic

a misnomer
The members of the Blue Circle will probably become somewhat incensed at the things I shall write in the following paragraphs. However, there are several things concerning the organization which I believe deserve some attention at the present time.
The first facet of the organization that merits discussion ~is its title. I definitely believe that to call the group “The Blue Circle Honor Society” is a misnomer. In order to be consistent with its present title, the Blue Circle should I necessarily demand that its members have gained some degree of distinction before admission to the society. How-। ever, the fact is often overlooked each spring when the Blue Circle initiates its membership drive.
I believe that if the men in the Blue Circle would honestly appraise the duties of the organization and its requisites for admission, then they would attempt to cease laboring funder a misleading title. A rather cynical senior told me the other day that he thought the group should be renamed the “Grand Old Irish Tour-Guides and Ushers Society.” In reality, this name does describe part of the group’s activities most accurately.
The Blue Circle is a service group. It should be so titled. It may be an honor to belong to the Circle, but the group is not properly an “honor society” as such. In order to avoid misleading the students and those others concerned with the Blue Circle’s activities, the organization should ^properly term itself the Blue Circle Service Society.
As the only group on campus that bears great resemblance to a fraternity, in the sense that its members have the right to select who will be allowed to join the Society, the Blue Circle enjoys a special privilege. But in receiving this concession, the Circle should not forget that it exists to serve the student body through the performance of tasks in the students’ behalf.
Some of the Circle’s members are under the impression ^hat their membership connotes a position of leadership at , ^the University. This is not necessarily true. If anything, the person in the Blue Circle should feel sincerely humble at being granted the opportunity to serve his fellow students. ' Ever since I have been at Notre Dame, the Blue Circle has been claiming that the student body is antagonistic . toward it. Gentlemen of the Circle, the student body does not have to prove itself to you. It is your job, your only k Job, to serve the students—and to serve them well.
j *	—C. McK.
| February 8, 1957
mixed marriages
Father Hesburgh opened the 1957 Marriage Institute Tuesday night with an enlightening and entertaining talk delivered with his usual excellence. In discussing his topic of selecting a partner, he emphasized the point that marriage is the most important step a man takes during his lifetime, and he provided the attending seniors with a sound framework of things to consider in choosing a wife.
No doubt a man could use the accumulated wisdom of all the ages in such an undertaking, but in the few short hours he had, Father Hesburgh did a good job in reviewing some of the more prominent problems and offering advice that would not require a great deal of explanation and argument.
The purpose of the Institute is to offer counsel not to provide an arena for “free-thinking” Catholics to challenge the pronouncements of the Church. There are always some of these self-determined rebels around and they do their best to rationalize unreasonable points of view (which they have one way or another been forced to adopt.) A number of them have created a distressing situation for the Church by refusing to abide by the laws pertaining to mixed marriages.
This is quite an extensive problem and I’m sure Father Hesburgh would have gone into it further had he another three hours to speak. But the Ave Maria, national Catholic weekly magazine, recently issued a special report on a survey made of the mixed marriage situation throughout the country in 1956, and the results of that survey might open the eyes of potential non-conformists.
In 1956, the survey shows, 85,000 valid mixed marriages (witnessed by a priest) were reported in the Official Catholic Directory. This figure represents more than one-quarter of all valid Catholic marriages during the past year, and it indicates a steadily increasing trend.
When supplemented with the resulting facts of the mixed marriage situation, this figure points up the agonizing proportions of the problem. And these “facts” can hardly be written off as clerical propaganda, since they are taken largely from the findings of secular sociologists and are O J	O	O
supported by eminent non-Catholics.
Quoting from the Ave Maria report:
Three separate studies in Michigan, Maryland, and Washington, covering a total of 24,184 families, found that the divorce and separation rate is three times higher in Catholic-Protestant marriages than in marriages where both parties were of the same faith.
A YMCA study revealed that in cases where both parents were Catholic, 92 per cent of their sons were practicing Catholics. Where both parents were Protestant, 68 per cent of their sons were practicing. But where one parent was Catholic and the other Protestant, only 34 per cent of their sons were practicing members of either faith.
The Catholic Bishops Committee on Mixed Marriages found that almost 30 per cent of Catholics involved in a mixed marriage eventually became lost to the faith.
The Ave Maria report goes into the problem at much greater length, offering testimony of disillusioned couples and opinions of Protestant and Jewish clergymen opposing mixed marriages. But these few undeniable conclusions of the survey should be enough to convey the impression. Mixed marriage just doesn’t seem to be worth the trouble.
THE FINEST CLOTHING OBTAINABLE ...
At the Campus Shop you can choose from America's finest brand name clothing ... in the style and model most becoming to you. If you like Ivy League you’ll find a big selection ... if you prefer a more conservative styling, the Campus Shop can show you that, too. The important thing is, that no matter what you select the quality is there, backed by the names you know, and the entire resources of the Gilbert establishment.
0

SAVINGS!
Exquisite compacts, musical compacts, cigarette lighters and cases, carryalls, mirror-lipsticks and baby sets
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED!
• many shapes, beautifully engraved or jewelled.
• gift-boxed,
wrap.
• a luxurious gift that everyone can afford.
accommodates pressed powder.
You’ll recognize the name instantly—and thrill to these inviting low prices! Buy several of these lovely gifts at just one-half of their regular price. Our quantity is limited ... come in now and make your selection
Ufatnaiiiion
SOUTH BEND ANSWERS
Editor:
I am writing in regard to a piece entitled “An Expose” which appeared in the Scholastic of January 11. It left-me feeling, shocked, disappointed, and" insulted: disappointed, because I feel the writing is far below college caliber; shocked, by the un-Christian reference to the Polish population here; and insulted, by the derogatory statements concerning South Bend in general, and South Bend girls, in particular.
Granted, South Bend is no Manhattan. But I’ll wager it offers as much interest^ and activity as any city of its size. And in any city, there live all kinds of girls. It would be unfortunate if South Bend residents judged all Notre Dame students by the few who are not, perhaps, everything they should be.
I fail to see much humor in this type of writing. Isn’t there anyone who can use just a spark of imagination, instead of resorting to the same, wornout gripes^
In closing, two important points:
1.	I’ve never owned a black motorcycle jacket, nor known anyone who did.
2.	Never let it be said that I am antagonistic toward Notre Dame men. Quite to the contrary. I married one!
Mary D. Houck
402 Peashway
South Bend, Ind.
Notre Dame Bookstore
AN ADMIRER
Editor:
I respect your attempt to be all things to all men and nothing to anyone, as I do appreciate your sentiment in avoiding snobbery of thought. Your wonderQ fully human approach is as manifest in the wealth of challenging pictures incongruously captioned as it is in the sincere misspelling and as it is in the practical news of Mickey Mouse clubs.
Robert Duffy
312 Walsh
------------------------------------*
ON THE COVER: Ivan Osorio ushers in a new semester with his impression of a typical Noter Doter. While some similarity may be noted between Ivan’s character and George Winkler who appears further on in this issue, w^ can assure it is purely coincidental. v
10
The Scholastic
Jby Bryan Woods
bermuda to bananas
There is a common tendency to look ^t the stretch between now and Easter
as a two and a half month desert to be somehow suffered through until it’s 1 time to leave for Ft. Lauderdale, or i Bermuda maybe, since that seems to be , the latest kick. (No, I am not going to r offer another desert survival kit.) This L is the wrong attitude. Don’t you know fc- about the power of positive thinking?
Just think for a minute on all the ft ci opportunities staring you right in the P	face. Why, what could be better than
?,	. . . Look at all the . . . There’s always
1	... Well, uh . . . see what I mean. Just
’ kidding, men. You thought I’d forgotten all about good old St. Mary’s I bet. Don’t think I haven’t tried. But what red-blooded Domer could ever for one moment forget about the delightfully daring and devoted darlings of the Dixie? Just answer me that, but not * -all at once; my mail-box is kind of small.
But just in case you are crushed because once again you have failed to get an invitation to that event that is at once the highest product and proudest boast of Western Civilization, the St. Mary’s Winter Carnival, don’t lose hope. Here in one short article I have tried 0 ^o gather together* all the secrets of the ages concerning how to be a hit at ! SMC.
s The first thing to do is get to meet ( one of these fascinating creatures. There 5 have been many different methods tried, f including going over on a Sunday after' I noon and picking names at random from
| ^the hall roster or Student Directory, but " | ™this technique has certain drawbacks,
| February 8, 1957
as you can guess.' Probably the best bit of all is the good old-fashioned mixer.
Now that you are face to face at last, and you still want to go through with it, what do you talk about? You naturally pick the most different, interesting, and altogether fascinating topic around, namely you. Tell her all those things about you that make you so unique among all 5,400 Domers. Here is a list of possible subjects for you.
1	.) Gee, this South Bend weather is so much worse than the weather where I live.
2	.) After the gay mad social life I am used to leading, I find South Bend very dull.
3	.) The rules here at Notre Dame are awful, especially the one about drinking. It’s especially hard on me because I was a big drinker before I ever came out here.
4	.) I don’t know how long I can go on breaking all the rules that I have been breaking, but I don’t care because nobody can tell me what I can and can’t do.
5	.) Now let me tell you what’s wrong with St. Mary’s and St. Mary’s girls.
6	.) Listen, let me tell you, the people in this,part of the country are really odd.
7	.) If I were running this place things would be a whole lot different, you can believe that.
8	.) I told them. . .
9	.) I think . . .
10	.) I . . .
Now that you have made that first initial, all important impression, you can’t quit there. When you take her
out, take her to such different and exciting places as the Granada, The Volcano, the Philly, and best of all the Student Center. That’s all there is to it men. Follow those simple rules and you will join the charmed circle of ND-SMC society. What more could you ask, hey? (That’s right, I’m bitter.)
ESCAPE’S GOOD GUY AWARD
To the student corrector who deducted five points from a class-mate’s test for lack of neatness.
TIME MARCHES ON
Next month will see the installation of automatic pinsetters over at the bowling alleys. Gone forever will be the friendly helpful comments of pinboys to bowlers who are trying to make an important spare. Gone too will be the friendly laugh that comes when toes are crushed by a 16 pound bowling ball thrown by the guy that was in a hurry and couldn’t wait for the pinboy to get out of the pit.
Remember way back when we had music with our meals in the dining hall?
Gone too, so I hear, are those delicious things with the sticks in them, affectionately known as pre-fabricated chicken legs. Don’t worry though, liver still plays an important part in future menus.
Calypso is the big new teen-age rage. The question now is whether Elvis will sweat it out or turn in his guitar for a set of Bongo drums. One thing I have yet to figure out though. Just what is a “Hill and Gully Rider,” and how is he connected with the banana industry? .
11
r
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Planning for growth. Joe Hunt (left) talks with Jim Robinson (center), District Construction Foreman, and 0. D. Frisbie, Supervising Repair Foreman. In Joe’s district alone, 600 new telephones are put into service every month.
“I’ll take a growing company”
70,000 telephones to keep in operation ... $20,000,000 worth of telephone company property to watch over — 160 people to supervise — these are some of the salient facts about Joe Hunt’s present job with Southwestern Bell. He’s a District Plant Superintendent at Tulsa, Oklahoma.	■
“It’s a man-sized job,” says Joe, who graduated from Oklahoma A. & M. in 1949 as an E.E. “And it’s the kind of job I was looking for when I joined the telephone company.
“I wanted an engineering career that would lead to management responsibili
ties. Moreover, I wanted that career to be in a growing company, because growth creates real opportunities to get ahead.
“But to take advantage of opportunities as they come along, you must have sound training and experience. The telephone company sees that you get plenty of both. Really useful training, and experience that gives you know-how and confidence. Then, when bigger jobs come your way, you’re equipped to handle them.
“If I had it to do all over again, I’d make the same decision about where to find a career. Now — as then — I’ll take a growing company.”
Joe Hunt is with Southwestern Bell Telephone Company. Interesting career opportunities exist in other Bell Telephone Companies, and in Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Tour placement officer can give you more information about these companies.
BKU.
TKLEPHONE
SYSTEM
12
The Scholastic
SamfMi SetM
ROTC FORCES TO ASSEMBLE ’ AT MILITARY BALL TONIGHT
Queens of Land, Sea, and Air to Reign Over Dance; Don Glasser's Band to Set Mood for 300 Couples
Three hundred ROTC men and their dates will dance to the music of Don Glasser at the 1957 Military Ball tonight. The dance, a formal affair, will be held from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Car permissions have been granted until 2 a.m.
Highlighting the Ball will be the crowning of queens representing each of the three military branches by the (B respective commanding officers: Col.
Milton M. Towner, Air Force; Col. Edwin W. Grenelle, Army; and Capt. Thomas L. Green, Navy.
Miss Ann Gates Rodabaugh, date of General Chairman Bob Duffy, will reign as Queen of the Land. Miss Rodabaugh, from Stuart Manor, N. Y., is a sophomore at Mary Washington College, Fredericksberg, Va.
Miss Mary Needier, date of Donald W Machenberg of the NROTC, will reign as Queen of the Sea. Miss Needier, a senior at St. Mary’s College, is from Fort Wayne, Ind.
Miss Patricia Glynn, date of AFROTC
MISS ANN GATES RODABAUGH *	To rule the Land,
twj	fv t*
cadet Brian McMahon, will reign as Queen of the Air. Miss Glynn, of Nyack, N. Y., is a recent graduate of Mary-mount College, Scranton, Pa.
MISS MARY NEEDIER
Sea and,
The featured vocalist with Glasser’s orchestra is Miss Lois Costello, “Miss Energy of 1956.” Glasser’s music follows the “sweet band style” of the Lombardo-Kaye-Garber tradition.
Decorations for the dance will be “military formal,” consisting chiefly of unit flags and flowers. Dance Chairman Bob Duffy said this is in line with the committee’s objective of making the ball a formal, social tradition on campus. A favor-program will be given each date at the ball.
The commanding officers, executive officers, and their wives will be the chaperones and will form a reception line to meet the couples attending the dance.
The ball is sponsored by the tri-mili-tary council, coordinating organization of ROTC units at Notice Dame. John
MISS PATRICIA GLYNN Air tonight.
Thomas, of the AFROTC, is president of the council.
Other members of the dance committee in addition to Chairman Duffy, Machenberg, and McMahon, are: Edwin Buckley, Army, business; Robert McHale, Army, tickets; Hugh Plunkett, Army, dates; Dave Noland, Navy, hotels; Robert Cushing, Navy, entertainment; James Behme, Navy, publicity; Frank Hennessey, Air Force, programs; Thomas Berg, Air Force, refreshments; and Albert Reichert, Air Force, dec-" orations.
Prof. Schultz Designs Award-Winning Stamp
A new U.S. postage stamp, commemorating the 100th anniversary of the American Institute of Architects, has been designed by Robert J. Schultz, associate professor of architecture at Notre Dame.
Postmaster General Arthur E. Summerfield has authorized the printing of 120,000,000 of the 3-cent stamps which will be first placed on sale in New York City on Feb. 23, the centennial anniversary of the founding of the AIA.
Schultz was recently awarded the $500 first prize for his stamp design in a nationwide competition sponsored by the AIA. Subsequently his design was officially adopted by the Post Office Department. .
In addition to his teaching at Notre Dame, Prof. Schultz is engaged in the professional practice of architecture* in association with Frank Montana, head of the department of Architecture.
February 8, 1957
!
i i
I
Second Marriage Lecture Set for Tuesday: Couple to Discuss Male, Female Psychology
The second in a series of six lectures of the Sixth Annual Marriage Institute will be given in Washington Hall next Tuesday at 7:30 pan. by Mr. and Mrs. David Matthews of South Bend. They will speak on “How the Man and Woman Looks at Marriage.”
The talk will be followed by a question and answer period and a coffee hour in the LaFortune Student Center. Tickets will be sold at the door of Washington Hall.
This is the first appearance of the Matthews as speakers in the Marriage Institute series. They will discuss male and female psychology in relation to the different ways that man and woman look at marriage.
Mr. and Mrs. Matthews were married in December, 1950. They have four children, David, 5, Ann Marie, 4, Cathy, 3, and Maureen, 2 months. They have been members of the Christian Family Movement since 1954.
Mr. Matthews is a graduate of the Notre Dame College of Commerce and the Notre Dame Law School. Presently
SMC Sophs Schedule Annual Winter Carnival
This year’s Winter Carnival at St. Mary’s College has been scheduled for two weekends, Feb. 9 and Feb. 16. A show in St. Angela’s Hall Clubhouse, outdoor activities, and an ice-show will make up the afternoon entertainment.
Tomorrow night, Feb. 9, Ed Pistey and the Lettermen will be on hand to provide the music while Bob Byrnes and the Irish Jazz Quartet will highlight the evening of Feb. 16.
Committee chairmen for the Carnival are: activities, Katherine Miller; arrangements, Gail Clements; decorations, Suzanne Starshak; entertainment, Patricia Carey; finance, Nancy Pugh; hostess, Louise Schulte; house, Gail Kong; bids and invitations, Anne Meagher; publicity, Martha Gillis; refreshments,' Patricia Malumhy.
B-X REFUNDS
Cash refunds will be paid by the Book Exchange to those students whose books have been sold. The redemption period will take place Monday through Friday, from 1 to 4:30 p.m. Bill McCullough, head of the Book Exchange, requests that the students do not forget to bring their receipts.
he is Deputy-Prosecuting Attorney for St. Joseph County. Mrs. Matthews is a graduate of Mundelein College in Chicago.
On Monday, Feb. 18, Rev. Arthur Maloche, diocesan director of family life in Windsor, Ontario, will speak at the Institute on “The Image of the Trinity in ’Sanctity, Sanity, and Sex.”
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, opened the Marriage Institute series with a lecture on Feb. 5. Father Hesburgh spoke on “Selecting the Marriage Partner.”
Remaining lectures in the series, after Father Maloche, include “The Doctor’s Viewpoint” on Feb. 26 by Dr. Louis B. Leone of Chicago. On March 6, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe, also of Chicago, will speak on “Unity Through Love.” The series will be concluded on March 12 when Mr. and Mrs. John Clark of Chicago speak on “Success in Marriage.”
THE DAVID MATTHEWS A look at marriage
Commerce Head Names Murphy Assistant Dean
Mr. Thomas Murphy officially replaced Mr. Edmund Smith as assistant dean of the College of Commerce on Feb. 1. As an associate professor of finance, Mr. Murphy taught at Notre Dame from 1946 until 1955 when he became director of the program for administrators.
In addition to his new duties as assistant dean, Mr. Murphy will continue to teach in the field of investments and security analysis. Prof. Smith, a faculty member since 1945, will now devote all of his time to teaching insurance and business administration.
Rev. Pu+z Edits Book f On Catholicism in U.S.
The history, regional diversity and influence of Catholicism in this country is analyzed in The Catholic Church, USA a new book recently published by Fides Publishers Association, Chicago. Rev. Louis J. Putz, associate professor of re-* ligion at the University of Notre Dame' and a national leader in the Catholic Action movement, is editor of the volume which contains essays on various aspects of Catholic life by 25 clergymen and laymen.
Bishop John J. Wright of Worchester, in the introduction, writes that “Catholicism sometimes seems an unknown quantity in the American community.” De-^ spite “widespread and sometimes even' violent” anti-Oatholic criticism as well as considerable publicity about Catholicism and things Catholic, “Catholicism is in many ways the least well, at least accurately, known of the myriad religions whose names are familiar to Americans,” the prelate contends.
The Catholic Church, USA deals with the history, organizational and financial structure of the Church in America as* well as with its relationship to the Vati- ' can and its far-flung parochial school system. It also treats the Church’s influence, or lack of it, in such areas as racial segregation, labor and the intellectual life. A third section traces the growth and development of the Church in New England, the Rural Midwest, and the Deep South and other geographical areas.
Among the contributors to the book* are Rev. John Tracy Ellis, Rev. John A. O’Brien, Rev. John LaFarge, S.J., Edward Marciniak, Archbishop Robert E. Lucey of San Antonio, Dale Francis, Rev. John L. Thomas, S.J., Rt. Rev. Msgr. Frederick G. Hochwalt, and Rev. Henry J. Browne.
yCS 'Study Day' Discusses r Student Goals, Responsibility
The YCS held its annual Study Day at Eagle River, Michigan between semesters this year.
The purpose of the Study Day was to determine the general principles of “Student Social Responsibility,” examine
past YCS activities, and to plan the*, program for this semester.	'
“Student social responsibility in the community of the hall, college, and university,” was the topic developed by the sophomore group leaders. Leaders from the college groups discussed and built their program around “How the Catholic college graduate fits into a profession and the rest of society.” ’.J
14
The Scholastic
*Lack of Qualified Student Leaders Deplored By Leadership Training Program Speakers
More than 200 students from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College attended the Student Leadership Training program last weekend in the LaFortune
^Student Center.
” The program featured major addresses by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame; the Rev. Celestin J. Steiner, president of the University of Detroit; and the Rev. James Norton, vice-president of student affairs. In special seminar sessions the students discussed the “what, why, and how” of leadership both on the campus and in the world at large.
> The conference opened Friday evening with Father Steiner’s address in which he defined a leader as “anyone who makes a significant impact on the
Securities Purchased By Finance Students
Forty finance students in Notre ^bame’s College of Commerce are scanning the stock market quotations with more than casual interest these days.
Members of Prof. Thomas Murphy’s “Investments” class recently became “stockholders” by purchasing approximately $1300 worth of securities.
Actual student purchase of securities, an unusual opportunity in collegiate business education, has been made possible by the College of Commerce Advisory Council Investment Fund. The §10,000 fund was created by William R. Daley, Cleveland, O. industrialist, and a member of the advisory group.
The Notre Dame commerce students chose two unidentified stocks for their initial purchase. Before the class as a whole made its choice, each of the forty students prepared a written analysis of particular industry and of a company tvithin that industry. The class decided on its investment after scrutinizing the background and financial status of the various firms.
The stocks were purchased through Albert McGann Securities, Inc., South Bend, by a student committee composed of David Solomon, Johnstown, Pa.; Vincent Hohl, Copley, Pa.; and James QRurns, Monrovia, Calif.
According to Prof. Murphy, the students will purchase additional stocks later in the year as they build a security portfolio. He described the Investment Fund as a “valuable teaching tool which has inspired unusual student interest.” Serving as faculty directors Of the In-westment Fund are: Dean James Cullison; Prof. LeClair, and Prof. Murphy.
■February 8, 1957
thought or actions, or the thinking or acting, of the people in his environment.” He also outlined qualities necessary in a leader, stressing the fact that such men or women must “know and like people.” Following the talk, the students had an opportunity to discuss the points of the speech among themselves and with Father Steiner personally.
Saturday’s sessions were devoted to “role playing,” with the students acting out the roles of different types of leaders, and a discussion of the role of the individual in student government.
Sunday morning at the Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn, Father Hesburgh spoke on the “why” of leadership and the need for good leaders both at Notre Dame and throughout the world.
Father Norton spoke Sunday afternoon on the amount of authority a student has and the fields which are open to student leaders. Representatives of the Scholastic, Dome, WSND, student government, the Blue Circle, NS A, YCS, and the NFCCS were present to answer questions and talk with the students.
According to Jerry Murphy, vice
“I had a big one, Tom, but it got away.”
president of the student body, no conclusion can be drawn from these meetings, but it is hoped that the results will show in producing better Notre Dame student and graduate leaders in the future.
Meanwhile, the Hall President’s council met this past week under the guidance of Chairman Murphy to “find out just what is the council’s position in student government.” This self-evaluation program was stimulated by the Leadership Training program.
Ticket Sale Announced For Greco Appearance
Tickets for the performance of Jose Greco and his troupe of Spanish dancers will be sold Wednesday and Thursday at the Washington Hall box office from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and from 6 to 8 pan.
There are approximately 400 seats remaining after the advance sale of season tickets. The prices for Notre Dame students and faculty and for St. Mary’s girls are $1 for the balcony and $1.50 for the orchestra. For others the price is $1.50 for the balcony and $2 for the orchestra.
The Greco troupe will perform in Washington Hall at 8:15 p.m. Feb. 21. This is the third performance of this year’s Concert and Lecture Series.
15
the new draft program and the college man
by Frank Spiering
1955 will go down in history as the year that the United States of America adopted the policy of Universal Military Training. The effects of this program have affected and will continue to affect the future of every citizen.
It was with a great amount of deliberation that President Eisenhower proposed this plan to unify our national defenses. Congress accepted it with heated debate and controversy. In essence the program provides for two important aspects of peacetime mobilization:
1.	An active military force, prepared and ready at all times.
2.	An organized reserve, capable of banding together on a unit basis.
WHAT DOES THIS PROGRAM INCLUDE?
All men from the ages of nineteen to twenty-five are eligible for the draft. Of these, four out of every five will definitely be inducted. The draft now summons 15,000 men a month.
WHY IS THE DRAFT NECESSARY?
There are two reasons why induction into the armed services is inevitable. First, in order to build a strong army which will adequately protect the nation 2.1 million new men are needed by June 30, 1959. Secondly, the backlog of eligible individuals who are older than twenty-one has dwindled. Consequently, the regular drafting age is between nineteen and twenty-one.
WHO IS DEFERRED FROM THE DRAFT?
Those who will not be drafted, except in the case of a national emergency include :
1.	Fathers of children.
2.	Men from the ages of twenty-six to thirty-five.
3.	Undergraduate and graduate students.
Undergraduate and graduate students are subject to take a Selective Service Examination which they must pass to remain in deferred status. An undergraduate must have a score of “70,” and a graduate, wishing to continue his studies, must have a score of “80.” However, if you are in this category you are still eligible to be drafted until you are thirty-five.
WHAT IS THE DRAFT?
If you are drafted you must serve two years active duty and continue in the Regular- Reserve for an additional two years. One who is in the Regular Reserve must attend weekly drills and must take part in two week maneuvers each summer.
Recently, these restrictions have been modified, giving the eligible draftee a choice. He may accept the regular conditions of service, or he can enroll in the new Six Month’s Training Program.
WHAT IS THIS NEW PROGRAM?
In order to be eligible for this program you must enroll before receiving your induction papers. It consists of six months active service, followed by five and a half years of Regular Reserve.
After this time you gain inactive status on a standby basis for two more years.
The armed services pose a tremend-.^ ously complex and crucial problem to all -who are subject to them. They are necessary, and yet they can be costly to your future unless you are willing to survey the problem from every viewpoint. ’
If the nation is to be secure in the future it must continue to build its defenses. By learning the part you can play in this plan you will not only be putting yourself in a better position, buk > you will be helping to safeguard America.
16
The Scholastic
OCS Program
The following is a list of opportunities for the College graduate in the Armed Services: In order to qualify for these programs you must not have received an induction notice.
NAVAL OFFICER CANDIDATE PROGRAM
The various designations in this program include:
1.	Line—The functional naval officer, eligible for command at sea makes up the bulk of the Navy.
2.	Staff—Professional specialists who are in the following corps: Medical Service, Medical Corps, Dental Corps, Supply Corps, and Civil Engineering Corps.
3.	Restricted Line—This category is limited to applicants not physically qualified for Line, who have an engineering or scientific background.
4.	Aviation—A Naval Aviator who comes under the Line status.
To apply for this program there are no restrictions concerning marital status. When you are sent to Officer Candidate School you are in the Naval Reserve on active duty. Your classification is Seaman Apprentice, receiving $85.80 a month, unmarried. Indoctrination period takes place 'at Newport, Rhode Island, and is 16 weeks duration. Upon graduation you will be commissioned an Ensign, earning $222.30 a month. You will then be required to serve three years of active duty.
MARINE OFFICER CANDIDATE PROGRAM
At the end of your senior year you will be sent to Quantico, Virginia, for a ten week training period. Upon successful completion of the course you will be commissioned as a Second Lieutenant. Requirements are basically the same as the Navy’s and the pay scale is proportionate to that of an Ensign. Three years active duty is required for this program, after which you may apply for a regular commission if you wish to continue in the Marine corps.
MARINE AVIATION CANDIDATE COURSE
This program includes a training program of ten weeks at Quantico, after which a commission is granted for successful completion.
AIR FORCE CADET
Only a limited number of graduates are accepted into this program. You must be between 19 and 26 to enroll. Four years active duty are required for all who are commissioned.
COAST GUARD O. C. SCHOOL
This course is open only to college graduates. You must sign up within 120 days of graduation. A 17 week course follows after which you graduate as an Ensign. Service requirement is three years active duty.
If you wish to go on to graduate school you must follow this procedure:
1.	Have the Dean of the Graduate School send the Draft Board notification of your acceptance for advanced studies.
2.	Have your class standing sent in.
3.	Write the Draft Board a personal letter, telling them of your interests and the steps you have taken. Remind them of your score on the College Qualification Test and of your class standing. Request a continuation of your II-S Deferment.

3
S
3

February 8, 1957
17

THE BENGAL TIGER
£
by JOHN QUAGLIANO
with photos by CHICK MARTIN
*
The way he pummeled the big bag caught oui- attention. The other boxers were sweating easily, working on their footwork, and practicing some combination over and over. But this guy wanted to kill the big bag. Sweating profusely and making growling noises,^-he kept up such a steady beat of jabs and haymakers that we thought the guy holding the bag would drop from exhaustion. I motioned for Chick to take a pic. The flash must have interrupted his train of thought.
“What are youse guys got there? A camera?”
“Yeah, Mac,” I said, “we want to do a story on the Bengals and we thought we’d get some action shots for the* Scholastic.”
He tried to rub the sweat out of his eyes with his glove. I threw him an old T-shirt. “Thanks. Well I can tell youse guys all you want to know. I’ve been studying up on all the old fights. Just back about ten years, you understand, but you can learn a lot from the old pugs’ mistakes. I’m scientific myself.”	~
“Well, I’m John and this is Chick.” We shook his glove.
“My name’s George Winkler, but youse guys can call me Lash. All my friends do. I’m a senior in bizad and I’m taking an opera course this semester. Anything else you want to know?”
“Why do they call you Lash?,” I asked. “Is it because of the way you swing your leather?”
He blinked. “No, nothing like that.”
Feeling that I was treading on dangerous ground and not wishing to antagonize him by asking why he’s taking an opera course, I asked him to tell us about the history of the Bengals. It was very exciting the way he gave us a blow by blow description of every fight,^
The Scholastic
18
NAPPY TEACHES STYLE
but all I remember is that the Bengal Bouts are sponsored by the Knights of Columbus Council on campus and that the proceeds go to the Bengal Missions. The bouts will take place next month in the Fieldhouse, and a boxing celebrity will referee the championship bouts. While I was writing all this down, he gave me a light jab.
“Hey, if you put me in that story, work in something about steel-like sinews will you? I read a Ring Lardner story once and the fighter had steel-like sinews. It sounds pretty literary, don’t it?”
I assured him that it did and that I would do my best.
“Have you done any amateur boxing,
Lash? I don’t remember seeing you on last year’s card!”
“No, John, you see I’m not a glory boy. Say I had gone out freshmen year, and maybe taken the trophy away from some deserving junior or senior. Do you think I could stop at that? No, I would have to defend my crown every year. That means that three other guys would never get a chance for a trophy. I think one trophy is enough for any man. As I say, I’m not in this for the glory. It’s more of a way of life. A lonely one at that.”	■
“Why do you say it’s lonely?”
“Oh, of course, you’ve got the fellows that you spar around with, but when
UP BEFORE THE COUNT
February 8, 1957
I
19
you have to keep in shape, and get plenty of sack action, there’s not much time for a social life. That’s why Marciano quit, you know. And if you guys think that St. Mary’s girls take an interest in a guy’s hobbies, you’re punchy. I admit this semester I’ll be able to discuss operas with them, but there ain’t one of them that wants to watch my old fight movies.”
“What weight class are you fighting in?” It wasn’t a stupid question, as he’s really not very tall.
He patted his stomach proudly. “It was rough going, but I’ve made the heavyweight class.” He patted some
more. “Four years of training in spite of the dining hall food.”
“Well at least you’re proud of it,” Chick said.
“Sure I take pride in my training!”
Chick pushed his index finger in up to the knuckle, “I meant that beer gut.”
“Listen, you don’t want to fool around with a quick-forming beer gut in this business. They can’t take much punishment, while a muscle gut wears your opponent down. No, I got this from milk-rich malts. You have to train right. I admit I have a beer now and then. It’s a food, too, you know. But I do some road work for it. Every Sun
day I jog up into Michigan for a few brews, and then jog back.”
“Well, aren’t you thirsty when you get back?”
“No, I leave the pretzels alone.”
“Have you learned anything new about boxing in your four years out here?”
“Why yes, I have to say that I have,” he said. Big Joe taught me a lot about motion and the axiom that a fist and a jaw can exist in the same place. He helped me a lot considering that I’m scientific-minded.”
“Who is Big Joe?”
“He was my philosophy prof. I had
20
The Scholastic

flb,
THE KILL!
him last semester for the philosophy of nature. One thing, he’s a dirty fighter. He grades below the belt, and my friend Frank. . .”
“Well, let’s forget about that,” I said.
“Oh don’t worry, he won’t read the $ Scholastic.”
I tried to calm him down. “Look, Lash, this is your story. You say that you don’t fight for the glory. What makes you drive yourself this way?”
He smiled. “Fighters are like gladiators used to be. We all fight to have beautiful girls swarm around. You’ve heard it said that everyone loves a fat man. I wouldn’t know anything about
that, just being a trifle stout, but I can tell you this: everyone loves a hero. Even if you get cut up a bit, the girls admire you and want to mother you. There’s nothing more impressive to a a girl than a gold trophy.”
“What do you think about when you’re in the ring?”
“Like I told you, I think of my girl.” “She must be a nurse,” Chick grinned. “We better get going Lash,” I said.
“Could you give us an idea of your strategy?”
“Well, I don’t want to really show my stuff in here, so the other guys can get me pegged. But I’ve worked out two
systems. I try and please the crowd. I dance around keeping leather in the other bum’s face. The crowd likes to see a stout fighter show a little fancy footwork. But if the guy gets wise and tries to rough it up early, I just barge in like Fullmer. I’ve got the armor to wear him out and once I connect with a few combinations, that’s it brother. Hey, it’s my turn to do a little sparring.”
“Go right ahead, Lash. I want Chick to get some action shots.”
“Don’t forget to keep your dukes up,” Chick said. We couldn’t hear what he mumbled through his mouthpiece, but we’re sure that he won’t.
February 8, 1957
21
“DIG THAT IVY LEAGUE SQUARE!”
Ed Pistey played and 350 couples danced to what gatecrasher Frank Spiering called the “most enthusiastic Center party of the year.”
The cast of Carousel was there, but the surprise hit of the evening was Remy singing “Old Man River.”
“BUT THIS IS A BLUE CIRCLE FUNCTION!
52
The Scholastic
CABARET
Photography by
Dean Singewald
HERB SCORED, WHY CAN’T I?'
DON’T WORRY, HE’LL BE RIGHT BACK!
“IT COULDN’T BE TRUE.
February 8, 1957
CAROUSEL
Worth a Whirl
♦
♦
by DAVE KUBAL
The musical that fascinated Broadway for so many months, Carousel, opened in O’Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary’s College Wednesday night and highly pleased a small opening night audience. After various setbacks in the past two weeks a cast of 70 students took the music, lyrics, and book by Rogers and Hammerstein and proved once again the vitality of the musical as well as their adeptness.
The male lead, Robert Vrancken, who also took the leading role in last spring’s Finnian’s Rainbow, came from a hospital the day before to offer a very nice performance. However, the production lost the complete services of Patricia Quinlan, who was scheduled to play Nettie. Miss Quinlan is expected to be fit for tonight’s curtain.
These disappointments did not seem to bother, to any great extent, Director Edward Warren and his players. Even though the play did seem spotty in various places, and unity was lacking between a few scenes, it is probable that by this weekend a well polished production will be achieved.
Wednesday evening the dancing chorus at times showed a good deal of skill with the rather simple movements, but there was a noticeable awkwardness in the ballet number. However, Peter Dodge and Ciretta Ann Buczkowski displayed a professional giace in the last few scenes. Dodge was especially entertaining, and gave a breath of freshness to the dancing. He was last seen on the Washington Hall stage in his portrayal of Og in Finnian last spring.
The singing chorus handled the tunes very well, except on one occasion when Mr. Rocco Germano, the music director, was forced to remind them of the gayety of a song.
The audience was presented for the first time with the talent of Miss Susan Hacker,- the female lead, in the role of Julie Jordan. Miss Hacker possesses a delicate singing voice which one thrilled to. She is quite capable singing the ballad, “If I Loved You” as well as the happiest tune in the show, “June Is
24
PRINCIPALS
Billy Bigelow ______ Robert M. Vrancken
Julie Jordan .............-	Susan Hacker
Carrie Pipperidge .......  Suzanne	Brown
Mr. Snow ................   Martin	Tierney
Jigger .............—..... Joseph S. Maier
Nettie  Eleanor	Murphy
Mrs. Mullen .................. Ann	Hurley
Louise _________________  Margaret	Barnish
Starkeeper and Dr. Sheldon -----------
________________________ Robert Moran
Director, Edward Warren; Music Director, Rocco Germano; Choreographic Director, Marie Buczkowski.
Bustin’ Out All Over.” The volume of her voice, however, is low at times.
Miss Hacker acted as well as she sang. The death scene of Billy Bigelow was her weakest showing, but she was vibrant during the love scene with Billy and tender when she told him of her pregnancy. Susan Hacker should definitely improve, and we look forward to other performances by the young lady.
Vrancken, although not in the best of health, played a difficult role with a certain amount of precision. He was called upon to express nearly every emotion and did all concincingly. The audience followed him well throughout the show, proving his ability. His death was a bit over-played, but this is a complex task for any actor.
His voice during several of the songs was weak. This, probably, can be attributed to his illness. Vrancken’s most fascinating performance was the “Soliloquy,” where he avoided a touch of stiffness exhibited in other tunes.
Another familiar face accompanied the role of Carrie Pipperidge—that of Suzanne Brown. Miss Brown starred in Finnian’s Rainbow also. Her voice is well suited for the musical, and she achieved a magnificent contact with the audience. She sang “When I Marry Mr. Snow” and established the raport that was never lost. A comedy height was reached in the show when she and Joseph Maier displayed the art of selfdefense.
Maier, who played the cut-throat,
acted the part well. His occasional foray into the role of the subtle comic supplied the audience with many laughs. He was the reason for Billy’s downfall, but he was thoroughly enj"oyable during ' the entire time. His voice was also good and added to the quality of his performance.
One of the most interesting and amusing characters of the play was Mr. Snow, enacted by Martin Tierney. Tierney played the bashful and reserved boy friend and husband of Carrie Pipperidge. Created by the writers to apply the gentle barbs directed at New Eng-land conservatism, the character was carefully interpeted by Tierney, and he produced a most pitiable Mr. Snow. His duets with Miss Brown drew much praise from the audience.	■
Eleanor Murphy replaced Patricia Quinlan in the role of Nettie on less than | three day notice and contributed a re- ' markable performance. Her acting was above average, and for the most part her songs were well executed. She por- * > trayed a very convincing ‘aunt’, reaching her best when she sang “You’ll ' Never Walk Alone.”
The role of Louise, the daughter of Billy Bigelow, was taken by Miss Margaret Barnish. She danced quite well, and sparkled especially during her routine with Dodge. In the part of the lonely little girl she supported Miss Hackei- extremely well during the scene * when Billy returns to earth.
Robert Moran provided further excellent comedy as the Starkeeper and Dr. Seldon. Never has Moran walked on the stage when he hasn’t delighted the audience with his character roles. His timing during his two short appearances was extraordinary.
Another newcomer to the vicinity is Ann Hurley. She executed the part of	I
Mrs. Mullen adequately, although at	I-
times became quite dramatic.	' J
The show is well worth seeing. The K acting and the singing are both, on the whole, done well. The production, which runs until Sunday night, should reach its peak sometime this weekend.
The Scholastic

•SMC Slates Concert By Marian Anderson
Marian Anderson, world-famous American contralto, will present a concert Thursday, Feb. 14 in the O’Laughlin Auditorium on the St. Mary’s College campus. The program, a part of the annual national tour by Miss Anderson, $ will begin at 8:30 p.m.
Miss Anderson began her current itinerary following appearances in Verdi’s “Masked Ball” with the Metropolitan Opera, where she made her debut last January.
In the past three years, she has sung not only in the United States but in Japan, Korea, Israel, South America, North Africa and in England, Scandi-navia, Spain and France.
One of the world’s most honored artists, Miss Anderson has received awards and degrees from cities, universities, societies and governments. Among these was the $10,000 Bok award which she received from her native Philadelphia in 1942 and which has been used to establish a foundation that has given assistance to more than 50 promising young singers.
® Last year Philadelphia dedicated the $75,000 Marian Anderson Recreation Center in the neighborhood where the artist spent her childhood.
The singer has performed nearly 1,400 concerts before more than 5 million persons. Millions more know her through radio broadcasts, television appearances, and many recordings.
Ticket information and reservations for the performance may be obtained by writing Box 114, St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, Ind., or calling CE 3-9042. The ticket office in O’Laughlin Auditorium is open week days from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m.

Applications to Close Feb. 17 For Navy Reserve Program
Sophomores or juniors interested in ® obtaining a commission in the U. S. Navy upon graduation, and who are not now affiliated with any military program have until Sunday, Feb. 17, to submit their application for the Reserve Officer Candidate program.
This program requires two summer sessions of eight weeks each at Newport, R. I., and offers a commission as a Ensign, USNR, upon receipt of a bac-. ~ calaureate degree. In the case of jun-j iors, the second summer- session may be ~ completed immediately after receipt of a degree.
j Further information can be obtained from the director of the Office for Military Affairs, Rev. Robert Woodward, | C.S.C., or from the professor of naval a® science of the campus NROTC unit.
I February 8, 1957
Engineering & Science Students!
Representatives of the world’s largest aircraft manufacturer
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT CO.
will be-on campus to interview for positions in design, development and testing of aircraft and missiles. Openings in Santa Monica, Long Beach, or El Segundo, Calif., and Tulsa, Okla.
See the Placement Bureau for Interview Appointment on
FEBRUARY 14 and 15
STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA
California Research Corporation and other Subsidiaries
•
Representatives will be on the campus Feb. 11 and 12, 1957 to interview
•	CHEMISTS
•	CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
•	ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
•	MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
FOR CAREER EMPLOYMENT in California and other areas
25
You’ve been contacted by many companies, all offering many and varied advantages. But you owe it to yourself to consider which of these will, in the long run, offer a future that will keep pace with your ability.
At Martin you’ll have a chance to measure your background against your chosen engineering field, whether it is aerodynamics, electronics, nuclear, electrical, civil, chemical or mechanical. Your future will grow with an expanding company, pioneering in tomorrow’s sciences as well as projects a decade in advance—anti-gravity research and ion propulsion.
Measure your opportunity now. Contact your placement office for an appointment with the Martin representative visiting this campus
FEBRUARY 18
Dorsey Band to Play * At '57 Junior Prom
Preparations are underway for the May 3 Junior Prom and the Prom committee has tentatively signed Jimmy Dorsey and his band for the dance.
The Student Senate has granted permission for the Navy Drill Hall to be used as the site of the dance. This alsc^ is tentative, since a Notre Dame Band concert is scheduled in the Drill Hall on the day proceeding the Prom. This will leave little time for decorating the Hall.
Dates for ticket sales have been set for sometime during the last week in March. As yet, the price of tickets has not been determined.
As a supplement to the Prom on Fri-^ day night, the committee is working on plans for a Dinner Dance and a Communion Breakfast for the Prom couples. Efforts are being made to obtain a name speaker from out of town to speak at the Communion Breakfast.
In order that the girls may know what to wear on these various occasions, a pamphlet is being prepared containing this information, which will be sent to each of the girls who will accompany a junior to the Prom.
Refreshments will be served at the Prom.
The juniors who have been appointed to fill the prom-committee posts are: i Jack Doyle, general chairman; Charles ; Susano, business; Charles Henzy, tickets; Stu McKeever and Gene Berton-cini, entertainment; Don Corbett, publicity; Jerry Shank and Gerald Hayes,. w . decorations; Don Roney, refreshments; Tom Murphy, hotels; Joe Ryan, Communion Breakfast; John Hirschfeld, Dinner Dance.
More complete information about ticket sales will be given in subsequent issues of the Scholastic. Any questions about the Prom will be answered in 1 il Sorin or 38 Pangborn.	'!
9 r
ND Delegation to Attend Catholic Student Meeting
The University is sending a delegation to the Tri-Regional Workshop of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at Saint Xavier College in Chicago on Feb. 16-17.
Among the representatives from Notre^ Dame will be Pat Logan, student body' president; Jerry Murphy, student body vice-president; Bob Kiley, NS A regional representative and Tony Yurchak, sen-ior delegate of the NFCCS on campus.
John Bure, senior political science major, will preside over the international affairs seminar on the afternoon of Feb. 16 at the conference.	♦
26
The Scholastic
Jiiik Scatut
IRISH ON ROAD AT LOYOLA AND BUTLER
5
§ s
£
@ Indoor Track Team Hosts Purdue Saturday; Irish Impressive at Michigan State Relays
By TED THOMPSON
Following their fine showing at the Michigan State Relays last Saturday, the Notre Dame tracksters will entertain Purdue in the fieldhouse tomorrow afternoon at 1:30. Notre Dame was definitely among the team standouts at East Lansing as they walked off with three first places and the same number of seconds.
Bill Keegan and Aubrey Lewis led the Irish to their very promising showing. Although no team winner is announced, Notre Dame finished second to Missouri in the unofficial point count.
Keegan was the only individual win-a ner for the Irish, posting a :31.4 mark ™ in the 300-yard dash, as compared to the meet record of :30.8 by Olympic sprinter Thane Baker. Jack Cote finished a close second in the broad jump. His leap of 22 feet 5 inches was only five-eighths inch behind the winning effort. Lou Pilliod added a fifth in the broad jump.
Olympic champion hurdler Glenn Davis from Ohio State shaded Aubrey £ Lewis in the 75-yard intermediate hurdles. Davis tied the record Lewis set last year, topping the timbers in :08.3. Mike Kauffman took a fourth in the shot, but his best throw was only 5% inches out of second place.
However, the meet is called the Michigan State Relays, and it was in the relays that the Irish excelled. Aubrey Lewis, following the quarters of Bill Keegan, Barkley Ewart, and Joe Fore™ man, came from behind to anchor the mile relay squad to its winning time of 3:23.2. He also teamed with Keegan, Frank Hall, and Dale Vandenburg to bring home the victory in the sprint medley relay. They won with ease in 3:31.1.
ND’s shuttle hurdle relay team of Jim Holzbach, Steve Dornbach, Lewis, a and Booker Rice finished second to a w good Missouri quartet, and the distance medley squad of Marty Clynes, Al Porter, Dick DiCamillo, and Mike Haverty came in third.
The Irish will throw experience and depth against the young Boilermakers, whose strength lies in a fine group of sophomores up from last year’s strong $ freshman squad.
The mile figures to be one of ND’s best events. Here Coach Alex Wilson can call on lettermen Johnny Michno, Ed Monnelly, and Dick DiCamillo along with Mike Haverty, a promising sophomore, for service against the best Purdue has to offer in this race.
Notre Dame will send Booker Rice and Steve Dornbach in the hurdles along with Don Faley in the lows. Neither Rice nor Dornbach competed last year. Lettermen Joe Foreman, Notre Dame’s gift to the Canadian Olympic team, and Frank Hall will take on all comers in the sprints. Foreman is favored here in view of his :06.3 sixty last spring.
Co-captain Bill Keegan, sophs Barkley Ewart from Jamaica and Bob Has-senger will handle the quarter and will probably form the nucleus of the mile relay squad. The fourth member will be chosen during the meet.
Two good half-milers, senior Al Porter and junior Dale Vandenburg should prove tough in the 880. Both covered the indoor distance last year in around 1:57. Sophs Marty Clynes and Mike O’Connor back up these two.
The two-mile will feature Stan Weg-rzynowicz, Bob Huetz, and Neil Wallace. Some of the distance men may be used to fill the open berths on the mile relay team.
In the field events, Mike Kauffman, the other co-captain with Keegan, will handle the shotputting chores. Soph George Chappell will help out.
Jack Cote, a South Bend junior letter winner, was scheduled to handle the broad jump, high jump, and pole vault, but a hand injury he sustained at Michigan State will prevent him from competing in the pole vault. However, he’ll still be available for use in the other two events.
He’ll be joined by Lou Pilliod and Faley in the broad jump and Mike Kearns in the high jump. John Stephenson and Jim Redmond will take over for Cote in the pole vault.
The underdog Purdue team is paced by pole vaulters Bill Jones and Jim Johnston and distance and middle distance men Vic Blumenthal, Ron Ether-ton, and Paul Hoenstine.
Cagers Face Loyola In Stadium Tomorrow
With its NCAA hopes soaring higher every day, the Notre Dame basketball team will attempt to break a jinx when they face Loyola in Chicago Stadium tomorrow night. The last four times that the Irish have played in the Stadium, they have lost. The Ramblers will be out to avenge an earlier defeat this year by Notre Dame in the Fieldhouse.
Hopes for an NCAA bid were dampened last Saturday night when Canisius won a thrilling 94-89 victory in double overtime. But the Irish renewed their hopes when they came right back as they have done before this year as they beat Holy Cross 99-82 in the Boston Gardens last Monday. (The SCHOLASTIC went to press before last night’s Portland game.)
Leading Coach George Ireland’s charges will be Art McZier, Paul Sheedy, and Paul Krucker. McZier is a 6-4 forward who can be depended on for a better than average performance, shooting well from both inside and outside. Sheedy, a 6-2 sophomore guard, proved the thorn in the Irish side last month, leading his teammates with a 20-point performance, with most of them coming on driving lay-ups. Krucker presently is the leading scorer on the' Rambler five, although at the last meeting he could garner only 14 points.
TED GUZEK
Butler Forward
February 8, 1957
BOBBY PLUMP
Butler guard
Al Norville and Jim DeWulf will round out the starting lineup, with O’Brien and Beals serving as the leading reserves.
Another return engagement will take place Wednesday night when the Irish travel to the state capital to meet Butler. The Bulldogs downed the ND basketballers January 5th here when Ted Gusek tapped in a missed shot with seconds remaining to give Butler an 86-84 victory.
That evening the Bulldogs managed to contain the Irish through the use of a collapsing zone defense while Gusek and Bob Plump, a 5-11 guard, were accounting for 70 points between them. Guzek hit for 14 of 28 from the floor and added 10 charity throws for a total of 38 points. Butler as a team hit for 32 of 61 from the floor for an excellent 525 percentage besides adding 22 of 28 free throws.
Although virtually knocked out of contention in their conference by St. Joe’s last Saturday night, the Bulldogs will be playing to make it two in a row over the Irish. Besides Guzek and Plump, the starting lineup will probably include Sheddrick Mitchell (6-3), Hank Foster (6-4) at the center spot, and Wally Cox (6-3) working the other guard post.
Second semester activity at home for the Irish basketballers got under way Tuesday evening, Jan. 29, with the Jordanmen downing intra-state rival Indiana by a 94-82 count.
Forwards Tom Hawkins and John McCarthy pushed a total of 65 points through the hoop in leading the Irish to their ninth win in 15 starts. McCarthy, enjoying his finest night on the court, hit 14 of 22 field goal attempts while cashing in on seven of ten free throws, 19 of these markers coming in the first half.
28
Though Coach Branch McCracken’s Hoosiers were outclassed at the end, they did manage several leads. The biggest margin was at 25-17 and they managed a tie at 62-all shortly after Captain John Smyth fouled out with 13 minutes remaining in the first half.
Smyth’s replacement, Jack Bedan, lasted only a minute when he was forced to leave the floor because of an injury. With the addition of Joe Morelli the speedy lineup turned the game into a rout with a flurry of points that pushed the lead to 79-66 in the next four minutes.
Nationally ranked Canisius outlasted the Irish Saturday night at the Buffalo Memorial Auditorium when they bested the Irish 94-89 in two overtimes before 10,000 fans.
The Irish, starting on a two game swing into the East, matched the Golden Griffins at 74-all after the regulation time and again after the first five minute overtime the score was deadlocked at 82.
Baskets by Bobby Devine, Hawkins and Smyth gave the Irish an 89-88 advantage in the second overtime period but with play-making guard Tom Sullivan out of action due to personals, the Irish were shorthanded for their stalling tactics. Joe Leone stole the ball from the Irish “freeze” and counted for a quick basket to make it 90-89. Then Hank Nowak stole the ball for a marker and a 92-89 margin with less than a minute playing time remaining. Leone added another basket before the final whistle, giving the Griffins their 15th win in 17 starts.
Last Monday, with McCarthy and Hawkins leading the way with 25 and 23 points respectively, the Irish easily defeated Holy Cross. Ahead by only five at the half, the locals upped their lead to 57-45 and were never headed.
REBOUND!
Smyth and Hawkins Battle I. U.
Kickoff Dinner Opens Annual Bengal Bouts
The 1957 Bengal Bouts officially got underway last Monday night with a kickoff dinner at Eddie’s. The contest-ents themselves, over 60 strong, began training this week under the capable direction of Dominic “Nappy” Napoli-,* tano.
Present at the dinner were all the committee members, Joe Doyle of the South Bend Tribune, Joe Boland of WSBT and Joe Bride representing the Sports Publicity Department.
Banquet Chairman, Chuck Grace introduced all of the guests as well as the committee. Bengal Bout Chairman Terry Conway pointed out the necessity of r suporting the bouts since all of the funds go to the Begal Missions.
The bouts are slated for March 25, 27 and 29, with tickets going on sale early in March. Season tickets will be sold for $1.00. Crowley said that “the students should think of it as a dollar for the missions rather than for the fights.
Highlight of the three night event will be the awarding of the Bengal Bout Award. This trophy is given annually to the fighter, who during the past year, has done the most for boxing. Recipient of the award this year will be named in the near future.
TYLER'S PICKS OF THE WEEK
TONIGHT:
Seton Hall over Temple	*
Dayton over Villanova
Army over Siena
Bowling Green over Ohio U. California over Oregon State Syracuse over Holy Cross Kentucky over Mississippi UCLA over Washington
SATURDAY:
Niagara over Holy Cross
Canisius over Manhattan	p
Notre Dame over Loyola Seton Hall over LaSalle Syracuse over Army Butler over Ball State Bradley over Marquette Providence over Brown Buffalo over Toronto Gncinnati over Regis Wake Forrest over Clemson Pennsylvania over Cornell	*
Dartmouth over Harvard DePaul over Portland St. Louis over Detroit Duke over North Carolina Tulane over Georgia Tech
SEASON:
59 Right; 11 Wrong; Pct. .843
The Scholastic

^Swimming Club Upsets Ohio as Records Fall; Face North Central Tomorrow in Rock Pool
by ROGER LAUR
Last Saturday afternoon in the Rockne Memorial pool, the Notre Dame Swimming Cluh upset a highly favored Ohio 9 University team by the close score of 47-39. Coupled with an earlier 1957 I victory over Chicago, 57-29, the club, as ' yet unrecognized as a varsity team, now boasts a 3 win and 2 loss record.
Today, at 2 p.m., North Central College of Naperville, Ill., will be the opponent as the Irish attempt to extend their winning streak at the Rockne pool. Over-all team depth, as witnessed by -	the fact that Ohio won six out of ten
=	first places on Saturday but still failed
• to win, has been the club’s forte this season.
LUNDRIGAN BIG SURPRISE
Tom Londrigan, competing in the 440 yard free style, was the biggest surprise of Saturday’s meet. His winning time of 5:17.6 set a new pool and a new team record. The old record of 5:21.4 had ® been set by Al Von Wormer of Loyola in 1955 at the first intercollegiate swim meet held at Notre Dame by the present club. The Irish 400 yard medley relay team of Jim Garrity, Ed Healy, Tom Moran and Dick Nagle also set a new pool record of 4:20.6, while Ohio’s Dave Costill in the 220 yard free style and Al Lephart in the 200 yard breast stroke broke existing pool records in their a events.
In the Chicago meet, held on Jan. 30, the club had a fairly easy time in chalking up a 57-29 victory. Jim Garrity broke a team record with 2:25.7 in the 200 yard backstroke, while Mike Connolly set what then was a team record of 5:19 in the 440 yard freestyle event.
NORTH CENTRAL STRONG
North Central has been outstanding in the past as one of the best small college swimming teams in the midwest. Last [year the Cardinals beat out 13 other teams to win the Midwest Invitational Swimming Meet. Co-captain John Mol-litor, swimming in the 220 and 440 yard freestyle events, as well as the 400 yard freestyle relay, and Jim Rank, who swims in the 200 yard butterfly, 100 yard ' ® freestyle, and the 400 yard freestyle } relay, are the men to watch on the North { Central team. Then, on Friday, Febru-- - ary--15 at 4:30 p.m., the Irish have • . another meet in the “Rock,” with Ball State providing the opposition.
Paul Kerwin in the free style sprints Ji and Captain Mike Connolly in the free style distances have been the pace setters thus far on the Notre Dame Swimming 1 February 8, 1957
Club. Club president Ed Healy has been hurt somewhat by filling in at the breast stroke event in addition to his diving duties. Kerwin, Connolly and Healy are all seniors. Sophomores Jim Garrity and Dick Kadis are one and two in the 200 yard breast stroke and each swims in at least one other individual event plus the 400 yard medley relay.
The freshmen this year have been particularly promising. Tom Kennedy, who has been doing very well this year in the free style sprints, was an AllAmerican swimmer in high school, as was Tom Moran who competes in the butterfly events and is third man on the 400 yard medley relay. A third yearling is diver Paul Chestnut who has maintained about a .500 winning record this season.
Wrestlers Whip Chicago; Two Illinois Teams Next
Two important matches for Notre Dame’s improving wrestling team will be featured at 3:30 this afternoon and Saturday at 2:00 p.m. in the Navy Drill Hall. Today the grapplers tussle with Western Illinois and tomorrow Northern Illinois of DeKalb will provide the opposition.
Both are expected to be rugged matches for ND, now showing a 2-3 won-lost record and overwhelming 34-0 winners in their last meet against Chicago nearly a week ago. Last winter Northern Illinois was beaten by the Irish but their fellow state school from Macomb merged the victors in a close and exciting match over the Notre Dame squad.
Coach Tom Fallon is depending mainly on the consistent improvement of sophomore Jim Rankin, a 137-pounder with three straight wins, Bucky O’Connor, sporting a 4-1 record in his 177-pound class and wrestling captain Terry Crowley, who also has subdued four of the five opponents he has faced in his 147-pound specialty.
Against the University of Chicago last Saturday, the Irish swept through all eight matches, gaining pins in five of them. Buddy Day, in the 123-pound division, gathered five points for Notre Dame in the first event by pinning his man. Jim Rankin, who had managed to shed several pounds, dropped into the 130-pound match and quickly pinned his opponent. Two more pins were registered by Jack Mullikin and Bob Pivonka in the 137 and 147-pound struggles. Cap-
COACH LANDRY
Moves to Nebraska
Frosh Coach Landry Moves to Nebraska
Freshman football coach John Landry announced his resignation last Monday to accept an assistant coaching job at the University ".of Nebraska.
Before joining the Notre Dame coaching staff in 1955, Landry was engaged in government work for four years.
Landry played at the University from 1948 through 1950. His best game was against Northwestern in 1948. Going into the last quarter’ Notre Dame was behind 7-6. Then on a sustained march which led to the winning score, Landry carried the ball on nine of twelve consecutive running plays. This drive kept a three year winning streak alive for Notre Dame.
As a senior in 1950, Landry was the workhorse of the Notre Dame backfield. He carried the ball 109 times for 491 yards for an average of 4.5 yards per, carry. His best performance that yerr was against Navy when he. carried 21 times for 161 yards as the Irish won 19-10.
Landry is a native of Rochester, N. Y. and prepped at Aquinas Institute.
tain Crowley out-wrestled his man for a decision triumph as Coach Fallon moved him ahead from his usual welterweight class to the 157 division. Mel Larson followed with a decision victory in the 167-pound event and Bucky O’Connor easily pinned his man in the 177-pound class. -In his first wrestling match, Bronko Nagurski overpowered his opponent in the final heavyweight clash..	.
29
Victorious Fencers Face Iowa, Ind. Tech
The Notre Dame Fencing team won its first two matches of the 1957 season by downing Oberlin College 21-6 and the University of Buffalo, 15-12 in a triangular meet in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse last Saturday afternoon. In
the third match, Buffalo won over Oberlin 15-12.
Pierre DuVair in the foil division, Joe Klein and Dick Fagon in the sabres, and epee men Denis Hemmerle and John Kearns led Coach Walter Langford’s charges over Oberlin. Klein and Hemmerle each won three times while DuVair, Fagon and Kearns took two wins apiece. Dave Katz won two foil matches for the losers.
The Irish lost both the foil and sabre divisions to Buffalo by identical scores of 5-4. Denis Plewniak, John Hamilton and Jim Gunning game UB their early lead by winning six matches among them. However, Hemmerle, who is cocaptain of the squad, and Terry Laughlin led the way in the epee division to overcome the deficit and clinch the victory.
Notre Dame’s fencers will next be in action tomorrow afternoon on the basketball court in the ND Fieldhouse. They will oppose Iowa and Indiana Tech in another triangular meet scheduled to get under way at 1:30.
How to Watch A Fencing Match
By JOE BRIDE
This is the second in a two-part series on Fencing by Joe Bride, senior assistant in the Department of Sports Publicity.
One of the most difficult things to understand about, fencing is the theoretical right-of-way. It occurs when both fencers touch and one is not clearly ahead of the other. The director- in the foil and sabre determines who has it, and awards the touch accordingly.
Here is how the director determines it. The fencers engage in a “give-and-take” effort, trying to touch. One attacks. If the defender parries and then attempts to touch he has the right-of-way. The action of the defender is a riposte. If the defender attempts to touch without parrying, he has no rightof-way.
If the original attacker parries and starts a counter-riposte, he has the rightof-way. If he starts a counter-reposte
without parrying he has no right-of-way continues with each action, back and » forth.
The theoretcial right-of-way has been violated by the defensive fencer who attempts to touch before the attack is completed, and by the offensive fencer who attempts to touch after having been parried and before the. riposte is completed. Without the right-of-way, the W fencer will have the touch scored against him unless he lands one full action ahead, and this is not normal in collegiate fencing.
At the fourth match watch the different techniques between the weapons.
With the foil, the object of duelling was to kill or disable your opponent by thrusting the point into his body. Foil fencing carries on this spirit, thus the < point must be scored by a thrust. In ” the true sense of the foil it would be useless to touch with any portion of the weapon that would not kill or wound.
Because of this, you will often hear the judges say that a touch was not good but paisse or flat.
A TOUCH!
Hemmerle Scores For Notre Dome
A touch is paisse when the point of the blade makes only glancing contact. A touch is flat if the thrust is straight and good but the point does not touch.
It would be also useless to touch without a theoretical right-of-way. The foil dueller did not want to be touched because he could be killed or seriously wounded. And in foil fencing without the theoretical right-of-way, the fencer would be interested in touching his opponent only, and not protecting himself. This idea of reacting normally to a _ threat by a sharp point governs the play. *
The target in the foil is the trunk of the body. The weapon has a small bell-shaped guard for the hand and a flexible four-sided blade.
In the sabre, the same spirit prevails as in the foil, and the target includes anything above the waistline. Points may be scored by hitting with the front edge and upper third of the back * edge as well as the point. This weapon has a flexible three-sided blade and a large round covering for the hand.
In the epee, touches are valid any place on the body and equipment, excluding the weapon. There is no such thing as right-of-way. It was fenced to
(Continued on page 33)
30
The Scholastic
PRELUDE TO EXHIBITION
Hungarian and ND Fencers stand at Attention.
A Hungarian Reports
By BRUCE HUOT
“We were damn glad to escape from Communism. The United States is our @ ideal,” said Bela Rerrich, a member of the Hungarian fencing team which appeared in the Fieldhouse last Sunday. But the United States only watches and applauds the great Hungarian sport show. Meanwhile they are missing the main event—the horrid Communist way.
In light of this, the U. 'S. Olympic program seems to be grossly inadequate. If we continue our present policy, Rus-^sia will continue to dominate the Olym-™pics. “The state spends a terrific amount for their Olympic program,” Rerrich said. “Russia will start polo this year,
miners, crane operators, and they even hold positions in the army’s fighting ranks. They are unbelievably strong and adept at everything.
The athlete behind the Iron Curtain is considered an aristocrat, and valuable to the state. Rerrich said that people are placed in two categories: the worker and the peasant. In the Communist country, the working class is comparable to our middle class. Most workers are uneducated. A subdivision of the workers are the intellectuals. These are the country’s engineers, scientists, technicians and others. These with the educated mind are under the authority of
the worker. It is he who is the voice between “Big Brother” and the minds of the country.
The peasant is the man of the soil. It is not his soil, but the soil of the state, and he reaps his harvest for the state.
“When the Communists take control of a country they use three steps. First, they nationalize the bank. Secondly, they nationalize the soil. Finally, all enterprises are brought under state control. The frontiers are fortified, spread with barbed wire and patrolled.” It is necessary to hold the people under rigid control in such a state.
Rerrich said that the Communists have no consideration for human life. He tells a story of a Russian naval captain who was in a motor boat crossing one of Russia’s huge lakes. Halfway across, a spotter saw four men signaling for help from the cold waters. He pointed them out to the captain. After looking at the straggling men through a pair of binoculars, the officer turned to the spotter and said, “Forget them.”
It is not unusual for a kindergarten or grammar school teacher to tell her pupils to go home and pray to God that night for candy. The next day when the youngsters return to school there will be no candy for them. Then the instructor will tell the students to pray to Georgi Malenkov for candy that night. This time when they return to school, each desk has a small box of candy upon it.
Approximately 70 percent of Hungary is Catholic and only four percent is Communist. “More people than ever are attending church in Hungary,” said Rerrich. The church property, however, is state owned. Holy Orders have been eliminated. There are no nuns. Every parish has to be supported by the
(Continued on page 33)
and polo is not a proletariat sport. But they want to win gold medals. Fencing is not a money making nor popular sport in Russia either. But Russia wants to win at any cost.
“An Olympic championship is excellent propaganda. There isn’t a better way to , ^influence the sports-minded youths that the Communist way is the right way.
1 “Russia wants to dominate the world ; and they want to distribute cheap propaganda. These are their two big aims,” .. continued Rerrich. “Athletes behind the Iron Curtain can’t be technically consid-
•< ered professional. The Iron Curtain athlete receives no money. He does have a job, but this is only a cover-up. His real I. ’ .^obligation to the state is to become the " best in his sport.”
J There is no doubt that Russian women are the best female athletes in the world.
q According to Rerrich the reason for this is that everyone works hard. “There is no difference between men and women.
-ji They hold equal jobs—things Americans Ij^never expect women to do.” Girls are
February 8, 1957
^0
FORM AND SKILL COMBINED
Hungarian women put on dazzling exhibition.
31
TIME OUT
With the basketball season moving into its final weeks, conference champions and tournament choices become the topic of conversation among roundball enthusiasts. Seattle got the ball rolling by becoming the first team to accept a bid to either of the big tournaments by announcing it would play in the NIT in New York. It was a big victory for the NIT Committee in getting Seattle because Madison Square usually gets all the “also-rans” in the Midwest and the West. It didn’t use to be the case when the two classics ran one after the other. Now, with both running at the same time there is a big scramble for the independent teams.
There are sixteen automatic berths in the NCAA, these teams being the winners of their respective conferences. Eight members at large are also chosen making a total of 24.
The big speculation now is whether Notre Dame will compete as one of the at large teams in the NCAA. The NIT is definitely out because the players would be away from school for over a week. The NCAA, though, is not out of the question.
In fact, it is highly probable that Notre Dame will receive and accept a bid to the tourney this year. Highly reliable sources say that a 15-10 record will be good enough to receive a bid but that a 16-9 record would insure the Athletic Board’s acceptence.
As we go to press, the Irish record is 10-7. (This excludes last night’s Portland game.) It is this reporter’s opinion that the Jordanmen will lose no more than one more ball game.
John Smyth, the Irish captain, remarked after the club returned after the Eastern tour that “I think that we are going to take all the rest.” Certainly the play of the locals in most of their past few ball games would warrant such an opinion.
After the double overtime loss to Canisius last Saturday, one wondered if the same thing that happened last year might happen again. Last year, after a couple of tough losses, the Irish collapsed. But right there is the difference in this year’s club. They never quit and they never give up. They came right back and beat Holy Cross on Monday.
By rights, the Canisius game should never have gone into overtime. The Golden Griffs had the game all locked up with 45 seconds to go and four points ahead. But the Irish kept pressing and Hawkins dumped in the tying basket with three seconds remaining. True, Notre Dame blew it in the overtime. On a couple of occasions they also seemed to have the ball game wrapped up but the ball-hawking Griffs showed why they are the third ranking independent in the country behind Louisville and Seattle. (Canisius beat Louisville earlier in the season.)
Two independent teams will be chosen from the Midwest for the NCAA. Teams under consideration with won-loss records (as of Feb. 2) in parentheses are: Dayton (11-7), Cincinnati (10-5), DePaul (5-11), Xavier (12-4), Marquette ((9-9), Loyola (10-6) and Wayne (9-3).
Dayton, Cincinnati and Xavier usually go to the NIT. With this in mind the Irish need only a fair amount of success in their remaining ball game against these other teams.
If the Irish get a bid, the first game will be played against the MidAmerican Conference winner, probably Bowling Green, or the Ohio Valley Conference winner, either Morehead St. or Western Kentucky. The other Midwest independent will play the other team. The probable site for this game will be Ft. Wayne on March 11 or 12.
The two winners then go to Lexington, Kentucky on March 15 and 16 to meet the Southeastern Conference champion and the Big Ten Champs. The winner here then moves on to Kansas City for the final March 22 and 23.
While the semi-final round is going on in Lexington, similiar rounds will be taking place at Philadelphia, Dallas and Corvallis, Ore.
PREDICTION OF THE WEEK: The four finalists in the NCAA at Kansas City will be North Carolina, Kansas, UCLA and Notre Dame.—J.G.
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Trave! with fITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
^Europe
60 Ooys from $525
Orient
43-65 Day* „X;, from $998
Mony fours include college credit.
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up* Hawaii Study Tours $528 up and Around the World $1398 up.
HTA Chicago
ARE ELIGIBLE
— ** * Send Today for FREE
Professional and Businessman's Wholesale Diamond Brochure. Write Jackson's Diamond Brokers, Dept. D 644 Broadway, Gary, Ind.
INDIANA UNIV. CENTER FILM FORUM presents
Patrice Hansel
As the Golden Voiced
WMELBA”
Wed. Feb. 13
River Park Theatre
Mishawaka Ave. at 30th
A Classified Section appears in the SCHOLASTIC for the convenience of readers who wish to buy, sell, rent, etc.
32
The Scholastic
INTERVIEWS '
for CAREERS with HERCULES
Here’s an opportunity for a career with one of the nation’s most rapidly expanding chemical companies. If you will have a BS or MS degree in...
•	CHEMISTRY
•	ENGINEERING
Chemical
Civil Mechanical
Electrical Mining
... a Hercules representative will be on the campus to discuss with you employment opportunities in ...
•	RESEARCH
•	SALES
•	PRODUCTION
•	ENGINEERING
Arrangements for interviews should be made through your placement office.
HERCULES POWDER COMPANY
INCORPORATED
Wihninqton 99, Del.
FEBRUARY 25
- _
GYMNASTS IN ACTION
Hungarians perform for locals.
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE & AMATEUR COED CREW wanted for VAGABOND SCHOONER summer college cruises, third season 2 WEEK BAHAMAS CRUISE $230 write qualifications if applying as representative, or request for brochure to
VAGABOND SCHOONER 11307 Church St., Chicago 43, Ill.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J.TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
A Hungarian Reports (Continued from page 31) people — a further financial strain. Priests are continually persecuted and are considered by the majority as national heroes. That is the religious situation in Red controlled Hungary.
Josef Cardinal Mindszenty, who escaped 'prison during the recent revolution, is the people’s national idol. According to Rerrich. the Cardinal will remain in hiding only long enough to bring the truth of Communist oppression into light by his memoirs.
Back in their native country, the Communist machines are shouting their motto—“Workers of the World Unite.” Here in the United States, the Hungarian Olympic athletes work to free their loved ones, caution against the evils of Communism and warn of the onslaught Russia will bring with them to the 1960 Olympic games.
Watching a Fencing Match
(Continued from page 30)
wound, not kill. Therefore first blood ends a bout and first touch scores the point.
This weapon developed when sword duelling died out because victorious duellers were sometimes tried and executed for murder. It has a stiff three-sided blade and a large guard for the protection of the hand.
You are now ready to attend your first fencing match. The fencers will compete on three rubber mats with foil, sabre and epee bouts going on simultaneously. Do not try to watch them all. Remember to concentrate on one bout and one fencer. As your knowledge grows, so will your interest.
FLUOR
An outstanding name in ENGINEERING and CONSTRUCTION for the
- Petroleum, Chemical and .
Power Industries
ENGINEERS (B.S. — M.S. — Ph.D.)
*	Mechanical
*	Civil e Electrical * Chemical * Instrument
See Your Bulletin Board
MR. ARMOUR MORRIS WILL CONDUCT
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
9 a.m. — 5 p.m. Wednesday, February 27
THE FLUOR CORPORATION, LTD.
Engineers - Constructors 2500 South Atlantic Blvd. LOS ANGELES 22, CALIF.
February 8, 1957
33

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
... with a Growth Company
A relatively small (1350) but very progressive and rapidly expanding manufacturer of xerographic equipment and supplies (a physical means of graphic reproduction based on solid state and electrostatic phenomena), photocopy equipment, photographic and photocopy paper's and negative materials for the graphic arts has excellent opportunities available in the following fields:
MACHINE DEVELOPMENT
PHYSICS RESEARCH
.	CHEMISTRY RESEARCH
QUALITY CONTROL
GENERAL ENGINEERING
South Bend Interviews
TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 19
Make arrangements at your Placement Bureau to see Haloid’s Industrial Relations Representative, when he visits the campus.
fZj The Haloid (ompaiiy
Rochester o. New York
SYLVANIA will be on this campus
FEBRUARY 28 for the purpose of interviewing engineering applicants See your Placement Director to arrange an appointment & SYLVANIA SYLVANIA ELECTRIC PRODUCTS INC.



Martin Elected Head ' Of Engineering Board
Tom Martin, a senior chemical engineer, was recently elected chairman of the Joint Engineering Council for the second semester. Other officers are: Don McCrory, vice chairman; Tom Fogarty, secretary, and Bob Norris, treasurer. McCrory is a senior chemical engi- * neer; Fogarty is a junior mechanical engineer, and Norris is the business manager of the Technical Review.
Last semester the student Engineering Advisory Board revised its constitution. Under the revision the group will be known as the Joint Engineering Council. The council is composed of two representatives of each of the seven engineering professional societies, the editor -and business manager of the Technical Review, a YCS engineering representative, and the engineering senator.
The group voted to change the name of the organization after it was pointed out that it served more than just an advisory capacity. Last semester the group sponsored three talks by representatives of industry, a faculty panel discussion, a College of Engineering football league and the 1956 Engineers’ * Ball.
This semester the council is planning the Engineering Open House and several talks for engineering students.
Union-Management to Meet In Annual Coherence Here
The University of Notre Dame’s fifth annual Union-Management Conference will be held Feb. 22 in Washington Hall, it was announced this past week by Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., conference director. More than 500 midwest industrial executives and labor officials are expected to attend the sessions whose theme will be “Contract Issues Now and Later.” The conference is sponsored by the University’s department of economics.
Robben W. Fleming, director of the1 Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations at the University of Illinois, will preside over a morning panel discussion on the policy of obligatory retirement, new issues under pension benefits, and trends in coverage under health and welfare plans.
Charles H. Alsip, regional director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Chicago, will moderate an afternoon panel dealing with contract experience under automation, advantages and disadvantages of the long term contract, and the costs and returns from the shorter work week.
Major addresses by representatives of labor and management and a conference^ luncheon will complete the program. * '
34
The Scholastic
A
May Exam Scheduled For Medical Students
Candidates for admission to medical school in the fall of 1958 are advised to take the Medical College Admission test in May, it was announced today by Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the test for the ^Association of American Medical Colleges.
These tests, required of applicants by almost every medical college throughout the country, will be given twice during the current calendar year. Candidates taking the May test, however, will be able to furnish scores to institutions in early fall, when many medical colleges begin the selection of their next enter-gxing class.
Candidates may take the MCAT on Saturday, May 11, 1957, or on Tuesday, Oct. 29, 1957, at administrations to be held at more than 300 local centers in all parts of the country. The Association of American Medical Colleges recommends that candidates for admission to classes starting in the fall of 1958 take the May test.
The MCAT consists of tests of general ^scholastic ability, a test on understanding of modern society, and an achievement test in science. According to ETS, no special preparation other than a review of science subjects is necessary. All questions are of the objective type.
Copies of the Bulletin of Information (with application form bound in), which gives details of registration and administration, as well as sample questions, are available from pre-medical advisers ®or directly from Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau St., Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must reach the ETS office by Apr. 27 and Oct. 15, respectively for the May 11 and Oct. 29 administrations.
Fall Vaccine Shot to Finish Campus Polio Inoculations
The third and final Salk vaccine in-^oculation will be given to the student body during September or October of the fall ’57 semester. Graduating seniors, and those students who will not return to the University next fall, must obtain the final inoculation at their own expense. Twenty-six hundred students have already received the first two inoculations.
Chairman John Reardon says that the inoculation program has been an overwhelming success. By its completion next semester, it is expected that approximately 65 per cent of the student body will have been inoculated with the Salk vaccine. This figure is far above the 30 percent inoculation average in ^other universities throughout the country.
February 8, 1957
DR. N. HZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
idHIiS UlUKYui
NIK SUP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bead A Non-Profit Organization
55
know true from false
Men in the know
TRUE
False. Last year, major and minor league, school and sandlot baseball drew 70 million fans. Basketball drew 105 million.
False. Although more than a third of our population is on farms, only one-tenth of the college students were farm-reared.
More than 25 percent of today's college students came from farms
Baseball attracts more fans than any other sport
Jockey brand briefs are tailored from 13 separate pieces
True. Only Jockey brand briefs are scientifically designed and tailored to fit the male figure trimly and comfortably. 13 separate pieces are expertly sewn together to achieve this perfect fit.
Men on the go
K^U underwear
BRAND "
made only by
Cana Conference Set 5 For Married Students
The University of Notre Dame’s annual Cana Conference for married students will be held this Sunday. Under the direction of the Rev. Bernard Murchland, C.S.C., this special service aims at deepening the married couples’ understanding of their vocation.	*
The conference will open with 9:30 Mass in the Farley Hall Chapel. Father Murchland will deliver the opening talk at this Mass. Following the Mass a light breakfast will be served in the Vetville Recreation Hall.
The remainder of the day will be spent in talks and discussions on husband-wife relationships and family problems. The first conference and discussion will be held from 10:45 a.m. until 12 noon. The second conference is scheduled for 2 p.m. This conference will close with a complete renewal of the marriage vows.
There will be no charge for any of the day’s activities including sitter-service. Vetville residents will be contacted by their Councilman for reservations. South Bend residents who plan to attend * the Conference are requested to call either CE 3-1515 or CE 4-0815 for reservations.
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is ♦ necessary and all advertising must be presented ' 7 days before insertion date.
ROOMS: Close to Campus on Notre Dame Ave. Available immediately. Phone CE 3-7254.
SLEEPING ROOMS, single or double, for rent close to town and bus. Use of phone. Reasonable. Inquire at 606 North Scott Street after 4:30 P.M. or all day Saturday and Sunday.
A SET OF KEYS has been found in Farley Hall and are available for identification in the Publications Office in Farley Hall.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
BURROUGHS CORP.. Monday. Feb. 11—Placement Office.
STANDARD OIL OF CALIF., Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 11 and 12—Placement Office.
DOUGLAS. Thursday and Friday, Feb. 14 and 15— Placement 3ffice.
ESSO, Thursday and Friday, Feb. 14 and 15— Placement Office.
SIKORSKY, Friday, Feb. 15—Placement Office.
BENDIX, Monday, Feb. 18—Placement Office.
MARTIN, Monday, Feb. 18—Placement Office.
CREOLE, Tuesday, Feb. 19—Placement Office.
HALOID, Tuesday, Feb. 19—Placement Office.
FLUOR CORP., Wednesday, Feb. 27—Placement Office.
SYLVANIA, Thursday. Feb. 28—Placement Office.
36
The Scholastic
^O'Brien Re-Appointed As Graduate Director
Hugh P. O’Brien, director of the Indiana State Board of Corrections during the past four years, has been reappointed director of the Correctional Administration program at Notre Dame, according to an announcement made recently by Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., vice-president for academic affairs.
O’Brien served as head of Notre Dame’s graduate correctional administration course from 1947 to 1952. In March, 1953, he was appointed chief of the Indiana penal system by Gov. George N. Craig. In returning to the campus he succeeds Robert Pollitt who will devote full time to his duties as director w of family service of South Bend. O’Brien’s appointment is effective with the beginning of the spring semester.
Prior to his original appointment to the Notre Dame sociology faculty in 1947, O’Brien was associated with the New York State Division of Parole, seiwing as parole officer, senior parole officer and administrative assistant to the chairman. From 1932 to 1937 he was director of education at Clinton Prison, Lannamora, N. Y. He is the author of several manuals and books dealing with the training of prison staff workers.
O'Laughlin Auditorium
FEBRUARY 6-10,1957... 8:15 pjn.
Orchestra $1.50 Balcony $1.00
For Reservations Call CE 3-9042
Employment Opportunities in VENEZUELA with
Creole Petroleum Corporation
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co. (N. J.)
Representatives of Creole will be on the campus
Tuesday, February 19 to interview unmarried graduates with majors in ENGINEERING and GEOLOGY
See your Placement Director for interview schedules
■0 I
February 8, 1957
37
38
That’s why American Express Student Tours are expertly planned to include a full measure of individual leisure— ample free time to discover your Europe—as well as the most comprehensive sight-seeing program available anywhere! Visit England, Scotland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy and France—accompanied by distinguished tour leaders—enjoy superb American Express service throughout.
11 Special Tours ... 53 to 63 days ... via famous ships: He de France, United States, Liberty, Saturnia,
Guilio Cesare, Flandre. $1,448 up
Also Regular Tours ... 42 days . . . $1,301 up
You can always TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express. For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service, member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel
,.. or simply mail the handy coupon.
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
American Express Travel Service
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. c/o Travel Sales Division
Yes’ Please do send me complete information C-69 about 1957 Student Tours to Europe!
Name................................
Address....................................
City.................Zone.....State.......
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES-SPENDABLE EVERYWHERE • ••<>•••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—J ewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
OA*FIW TURBOW \pPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
TOM O’REGAN
New Program Director
O'Regan to Supervise WSND Programming
Thomas O’Regan, a junior in GP, has been appointed program director at radio station WSND, it has been anVl' nounced by Fred Corkill, station mana- ~ ger.
O’Regan, who has been on the WSND announcing staff since his freshman year, is the producer and one of the originators of “Adventures in Sound,” a program which is in its second year on the program schedule. He has also been heard on “Afternoon Concert” and “Invitation to Music.”
The new program director, a native of^ 1 Chicago, has served for two years as an announcer on WNIB, a Chicago FM station. He has also worked as a disk Jockey on WHFS, an FM station in South Bend, and has been employed for general office work by WMAQ, an NBC outlet in Chicago.
In addition to his work at the student radio station, O’Regan lists membership in the Wranglers, a campus discussion^ group, among his activities. Besides his new duties as program director for WSND, O’Regan will also continue his work with “Adventures in Sound.”
O’Regan stated upon assuming his position that “with the talent, ingenuity, and interest of the staff members of WSND there is no reason why the station cannot maintain a high level of_ programming comparable to any com-^ mercial radio station in the area.”
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
________________________________________F
The Scholastic
^Campus Knights Hold Communion Breakfast; Grace Presented 'Knight of Semester' Award
The Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame Council 1477, held a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn last Sunday following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
John T. Rocap, a member of the Supreme Board of Directors, was the principal speaker at the affair which was attended by some 85 members and candidates. Rocap, a lawyer in Indianapolis, Ind., graduated from Notre Dame in 1929.
The K. of C. official congratulated the collegiate council on their excellent organization and activities. He pointed Q>ut the fact that many Notre Dame Knights of former years are now taking leading roles in the activities of Knights of Columbus councils throughout the country. He urged the council to further
its efforts, to expand its membership to the utmost, and to continue to produce graduates who are interested in the K. of C. and its programs.
In addition to commenting on the past and present achievements of the local council, Rocap pointed out that the Knights of Columbus are expected to be outspoken in Catholic beliefs on governmental and political issues. He used as an example the Order’s fight to stop an invitation by the U. S. government for Marshal Tito to visit this country.
Fraternal Activities Chairman Cari Edmundson announced and presented the “Knight of the Semester” award to Chuck Grace, a commerce senior from Kokomo, Ind. Grace was recognized for his contributions to Columbianism on the campus as chairman of the council ac
tivities and Bengal Bout Banquet committees for the past two years. He has also served as an officer and in other capacities during his four years in the organization.
Sunday afternoon, 40 candidates were initiated into the Third Degree of the Order at ceremonies held in Mishawaka. Included in the class of candidates, were the Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C., and the Rev. Roman Ladewski, C.S.C.
Bob Porst, the council’s membership chairman, announced the opening of the second semester membership drive on Monday. Students interested in joining the K. of C. can contact Porst- at the council office in the basement of Walsh Hall. Office hours are from 4 to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. The dates for the First Degree initiations during this semester are March 13 and April 10. On April 14, the K. of C. will conduct another Second and Third Degree exemplification.
INI'UMBWUXUMISJV JW
0IKORSKY AIRCRAFT

0

TO 0 HEUCOHE"-
FEBRUARY 15

February 8, 1957
39
Grad Students toHold Meeting Next Monday
There will be a general meeting of the Graduate Student Association at 8 p.m. next Monday, Feb. 11, in the La-Fortune Student Center. Plans for this year’s annual dance and the coming retreat will be discussed. Also on the
agenda is a report on the new Graduate Student Orientation program to be inaugurated next Fall.
Graduate students should also note the introduction of a variety of types of Masses into the GSA Sunday Mass schedule. From now on the traditional High Mass with the congregation acting as choir, the Dialogue Mass, and the Low Mass will be said. Confessions will
also be heard from before Mass until tht/ ■ Gospel.
Last Wednesday, the Graduate Student Forum, sponsored by the GSA, heard Dr. Astrick Gabriel, director of the Medieval Institute of Notre Dame, speak on “The Medieval Roots of Our Academic Freedom.” The lecture was given in the Rockne Memorial Lounge and was followed by a discussion period. -
FEBRUARY 18
ttys
Will be on campus
a
8
I
/or placement interviews in the following areas

£
AIRCRAFT ENGINE CONTROLS
GUIDED MISSILES—COMPLETE DEVELOPMENT
AIRCRAFT LANDING GEAR
AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS
MECHANICAL
ELECTRONIC
AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEERS

I
CIVIL
METALLURGICAL
Products Division
South Bend, Indiana
40
The Scholastic
^No+ed Poet Assumes Teaching Post Here
Poet Robert Fitzgerald has assumed teaching duties at the University for the spring semester, Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vise president for academic affairs, has announced. Fitzgerald, who —has received critical acclaim for his 'translations of the classics as well as for his poems, will teach a graduate course in “literary theory” and an undergraduate course in “seventeenth century English poetry.”
Since 1953, Fitzgerald and his family have lived in Italy where he began a verse translation of the Odyssey on a Guggenheim Fellowship during 1953-54. His poems have been collected in In The ©J? >se of Time published last year (New Directions). He collaborated with Dudley Fitts on the translation of Oedipus Rex which was recently seen on “Omnibus” over the ABC Television Network.
Born in Geneva, N. Y., and raised in Springfield, Ill., Fitzgerald was educated
at Harvard University and Trinity College, Cambridge. He worked briefly as a reporter for the New York Herald Tribune and for several years before and after World War II he was a writer and editor for Time. During the war he served as a Navy officer at Pearl Harbor and on Guam.
Fitzgerald is a former poetry reviewer of the Neiu Republic and has taught literature and creative writing at Sarah Lawrence College, Princeton University and Indiana University.
Drill Maneuvers Performed By Air Force Marching Unit
Notre Dame’s AFROTC Drill Team executed an array of drill maneuvers during the half time intermission of the ND-Portland basketball game last night.
The Irish marching unit is under the command of Cadet Lt. Lynn Hankes. The team is composed entirely of freshmen and sophomores except for the commander who is a junior. Sixteen men do the actual marching and there is a staff of four which acts as alternates.
MENU of SPECIALS
Sun.: J/2 Fried Chicken .....$1.35
• Prime Rib of Beef ....... 1.25
Mon. & Wed.: Prime Rib of Beef 1.25
Spaghetti & Meat Balls .. 1.00
Tues. & Thurs.: Sirloin Strip—T-Bone .... 1.25
Fri.: French Fried Perch ..._.	1.00
Pasta Fazool ............ 1.00
Sat.: Ham Steak	.......... 1.45
Pork Chops .............. 1.25
includes Salad or Vegetable
Coffee or Milk	Dessert
(all meat 14 oz. or above)
1003 N. Notre Dame CE 3-0444

FOR MEN	in UNBREAKABLE
PLASTIC!
Formulated for a man's hair and scalp.
Conditions while it cleans. 1.25 Diu< >□«
&
SHULTON
New York • Toronto
$
February 8, 1957
41
^ack Paq&
‘f'F’ ’’.i
by JOE TAFT
pandemonium cocktail
plus chaser
Shall I take another tranquilizer? If he asks a question on chapter 986 I’ve really had it. Do you have any instant coffee? These are a few comments that all of us have heard too recently. Finis to the great purge of exams. Now we can rest our self-bruised nerves until May. But was the last great purge really worth the strain? Do these memory-a-thons justify the energy expended? I don’t think they really do.
A typical scene in the corridor of O’Shaughnessy Hall at 10 o’clock on the morning of an exam day—excited voices build to a defening crescendo of pertinent queries: “What he said in class contradicts the book. What do I do now? Punt? If I can only get an 84 on this one my average will be 85.897 or is it 85.898? Do you have any notes on that case, Joe Gott versus The Fall Cycle Co.?”—only to be rudely interrupted by the Eternal Footman’s ring— D-Day. A perspiring pool of bloodshot eyes rolls out of the vacuum-packed class room. The scramble for desks begins: “I sat there all semester.” “Do you have your name on the desk?” “No, I have Sylvia’s—she’s my miniture mate.” A blanket of tension covers the room as the Royal Examiner enters—the Royal Examiner who has also stocked up on tranquilizers and had his optometrist’s newest prescription filled in prepaiation for the ordeal of translating and cor-■ recting the final examinations. Ticktick-tick mocks the clock . . . beat the clock, beat the clock—RING chuckles the Eternal Footman. The perspiring pool of bloodshot eyes rolls out' of the vacuum-packed class room and another moves in for the brain washing.
Why don’t these memory-a-thons justify the energy expended? First, it seems that the psychology employed by the examining authorities is abused by the students at the sacrifice of the faculty. “If the student did his daily assignments,” the authorities state, “he would have no cause for alarm during final examinations because he would have a manageable control of the course material. What other indicator can be employed to show his knowledge?”
Nice theory but the normal individual wants to use his time for other activities that are directly and indirectly related
to his education. If the student did all of his daily assignments he would not, I believe, have enough time to broaden his interests—interests such as reading non-text books, attending movies, plays, sporting events, or merely relaxing. If the student were tested by unannounced weekly quizzes and given a small number of oral examinations during the course of the semester, these marathons would, I think, be outdated.
PROVE IT!
The weekly quiz system would help the student to realize the necessity of keeping a good control of the course material. It would seem more desirable to have this weekly quiz during the later days of the week. The three oral quizzes would enable the student to learn oral self-expression. The development of this method of self-expression would benefit the student in his college life and post college work. The majority of college students will express themselves vocally in their post college work and one who is capable of expressing himself well—one who can get an idea across quickly, clearly, and intelligently is indeed in great demand.
These three oral examinations would also aid the student in the mechanics of taking an exam. If the student is in verbal contact with his examiner, error through a misunderstanding of the question would be alleviated. The examiner would profit from this technique as well. The percentage of error through his misunderstanding the student’s answers would also be alleviated.
This system would also give the student a closer contact with the professor —he would not be a mere name to be called from an impersonal class card. This closer contact between student and professor would prove valuable to the student for he would be able to discuss, outside the pressure of the class room, course material and other material that may be of interest to the two “friends.”
MERE OPINION!
This new oral and weekly quiz system seems, to me anyway, to have advantages over the present system of monthly and final written exams. It gives the student the opportunity to develop himself through the written and oral mediums
of self-expression. After the semester’s work is completed and exam time arrives, the student need not panic through the gross memory-a-thons—he will have a seasonable control and confidence in handling the semester’s material.
The student who completes the re* quired material and begins the stuffing ordeal abuses the principle of the learning process—a process that requires the student to pick out the essential material from his class and text presentation and represent it to his professor in an intelligent manner. Students who merely stuff a whole semester’s work in their mind over a concentrated period of study do not have the proper control of this material; not only do they abuse thei* health but they abuse their cognitative process.
This system would undoubtedly have its short comings but it would, I believe, be an improvement over the present : system.
MORE?
I would like to see the abolishment^ of the cut system for the benefit of th* . student and professor. This would bene-' fit the student who need not attend all of his classes in order to have a grasp of the essential material. He could use . this time for required study or other reading that will extend his development. This non-roll calling class would benefit the professor not only from the mechanical point of view but also from the teaching angle. Those who enjo^ cross word puzzles during his clasi periods need not be disturbed by his lectures—they would have the privacy of their rooms. These Sun-Timesers
would not bother the professor by their
distracting actions. This non-roll calling class would present a challenge to . the professor—a challenge that would require his efforts to make the class ; interesting enough to attract the stu*/, dents.	~
Although this non-roll calling system has its obvious advantages and disadvantages it will not be practical as long as the University accepts the student’s tuition in exchange for parental authority but it would, I am convinced, benefit the majority of the University’s occupants.	-	V
42
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
I
Sneak Preview of a new hit
on campus
The critics rate this Arrow Glen a smash hit on all counts. This handsome broadcloth shirt comes in a new hairline stripe. (Three new stripe widths available.) Wide range of colors. Famous clean-cut Arrow Glen collar.,Shirt $4.50. Bias-striped shantung bow tie, $1.50
ARROW
—first in fashion shirts • TIES
You are the show
in these new Arrows
This good-looking Arrow Glen shirt is tailored in a new weave. Broadcloth that looks for all the world like oxford cloth. Our wide assortment of colors includes several to team up with any suit or sports outfit you own. Collar has just the right spread to wear with a bow tie. Arrow Glen, $4.00 up. Shantung ties, $2.50. Drop in anytime!
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
4