GILBERTS
SOLE AGENCY In South Bend For
DOBBS
NAVY OFFICERS’ CAPS
■produced by famous Dobbs craftsmen, these are the finest officers’ caps made. You can have complete confidence in your Dobbs. You know it is not only correct in style, but it gives that extra measure of smartness and distinction every officer wishes to command. $18.50, including 3 covers.
In South Bend — TAXI FREE to Gilbert’s
813-817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
GILBERT'S
2
r
GILBERT'S
SOLE AGENCY In South Bend For
HICKEY-FREEMAN
Customized
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
/^fficers of the Navy insist, and rightly
so, upon fine uniforms. Not only do they want style, fit and serviceability, but individuality as well. These qualities are found in the uniforms tailored for the Modern Gilbert’s by Hickey-Freeman. There’s nothing finer than Hickey-Freeman Navy officers’ uniforms. $60 and upwards.
Appointed by U. S. Navy
REGULATION UNIFORMS
Commissioned Officers’ Service Blue, $40 Raincoat, $37.50
7#/ MODEM
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
"Okjl Man ~fjt£Ed /faot/wb —
3
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Discs Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi Cras Moritanis
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
JOHN LYNCH
Said Hon. Jones:
HEAD OF THE WEEK
SPRING:
Roller Skates, Outdoor Gym Classes, and Lovers Take Campus by Storm.
—The DePautv
Just a little something to replace the E.R.C.’s.
FLOPHOUSE FORMAL
Advance public--ity for the Flophouse Formal at Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, comes in the form of a press statement by Hon. Augustus Jones, newly elected head of the North American Panhandler Association.
“This year’s dance
will be the greatest gathering of bums in the history of North America. Last year at the famous Bum’s Rush only 350 couples attended the festivities because we were snooty in those days and only the better bums were allowed. However, this year any bum can go as long as he has the necessary lucre.”
COLGATE SURVEY
Our hats go off to Colgate University for the biggest blow of the week. As the result of a recent survey at Colgate, wherein seniors were investigated as to intelligence in relation to participation in extra-curricular activities, the following notation was made:
“The most intelligent group, sixteen per cent above the average, worked on student publications.”
DRAINED
750 Students Give Blood During Year.
—Queen’s Journal, Queen’s U.
And a pound of flesh every now and then.’
PURDUE DOG DAYS
Purdue University comes into the news again with, its campus dog show, wherein and whereby fraternity dogs and just plain campus strollers are mingled regardless of pedigree. As explained in the Purdue Exponent, “Any University fraternity, cooperative, or organized group
may enter one dog providing the entry has four legs, at least six teeth, which includes two incisors and four grinders, a tail or remnants, and the correct attitude toward life and property.”
At latest local reports the Evil Eye ■ Club of Sorin Hall will undertake a like gesture to doghood on our own campus. Demerit of U. S. Navy fame is favored by unattached observers; Mr. Connolly has made no entry from his dining-hall kennel as yet.
YON YONSON
There was once a Swede who finally turned away in disappointment after standing an hour in front of the sweater counter in a department store. This greatly puzzled the salesgirls at the counter—probably because they couldn’t see the sign directly in front of them, reading “V-Neck.”
—The Tomahaivk, Holy Cross
DORM DIALOGUE
“Does your girl smoke?”
“Not quite.”
—The Oredigger Colorado Mines
SINGING IN THE RAIN
Tradition was upset at Ohio State in the recent initiations for the Bucket and • Dipper pledges when said pledges mutinied at midnight, after standing three and a half hours in the rain singing “Jack the Ripper,” while pointing to the North Star. The neophytes of the men’s honorary society took refuge at midnight in the Commerce Building and refused to vacate when a two-minute ultimatum was offered, knowing that they outnumbered the active members.
Plans are now afoot to disband the entire organization for the duration. Just one more horror of war.
SEEN AT....
The captain suddenly appeared in the messroom while the crew were eating.
“What’s this I hear about your complaining about the food? Here let me try it.”
He took a spoonful to his mouth, tasted thoughtfully and said, “Seems all right to me. I would say that is very good tea.”
“Yes, sir,” spoke up a timid sailor, “but they tell us it’s soup.”
Daniel Downey, Editor
Ted Weber.............Managing	Editor
Bill Boss...............Sports	Editor
Dave Condon.............Campus	Editor
Robert Kopf.............Admin.	Editor
Phil Keen.........Asst.	Sports Editor
Robert Lonergan.............Promotion
Al Schaefer..........Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 313 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through -Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
War Charities Carnival Planned 5
"Tailor-Made Man" is Success______9
Musical Comedy in Rehearsal 7
Economics Comprehensive _________27
ADMINISTRATION
Story of Notre Dame Farms________11
Father Ward to Lecture 12
NAVY PAGE ________2 15
SPORTS
New Bengal Champs Crowned______16, 17
Trackmen Continue Victory Drive___..18
Interhall All-Stars Named ________19
FEATURES
College Parade 4
The Week 6
Man About Campus 14
• Pressbox Splinters______________22
Warming the Bench 23
Introducing -__________________-._20
.Music __.....____________________28
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 78
MARCH 26, 1943
No; 7
Star-Spangled Midway to Mark 2nd Annual University-Knight's War Charities Carnival
Entire Campus to Co-operate in K. of C. Venture
With harking barkers, games of chance, and games of skill, and blaring bands holding forth along the Midway, the second University of Notre Dame War Charities Carnival, sponsored by the campus Knights of Columbus, will open a hilarious four day stand in the University fieldhouse on Wednesday evening, April 14. The show will run through Saturday night, April 17.
It will be four days of fun and frolic for Notre Dame, St. Marys, South Bend, and the University Midshipmen’s school. Already several organizations in South
Tommy Nolan drums up some business.
Bend have signified their intention of participating; and the gigantic bingo game, one of the popular spots at last year’s show will again be managed by the South Bend Knights of Columbus. Efforts are being made, it was said, to enlist the interest and aid of St. Mary’s College.
Last year’s initial venture in the war charities field was sponsored by the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus and netted over $2,000 which was divided among several worthy organizations. It is expected that proceeds of this year’s show will greatly exceed last year’s total, when the show, a three day
affair, was more or less strictly “Notre Dame.”
The usual games of skill and of chance will predominate along the midway and already several campus clubs have asked for various booths. Spinning wheels and many lucky numbers will be in evidence throughout the four nights, and the Cavaliers, the University super dance band, will color the air with melody and provide a background for the special entertainment features which have been added to the show.
Several new innovations, to be announced soon, will be added to the program this year. And it won’t be a case of everything costs, because the program committee has made arrangements for much free entertainment and for several door prizes to be raffled nightly.
Despite the increasing wool shortage, the ever popular Notre Dame monogram blankets will again be an attraction at the booths, and with the rationing program being what it is, the booths offering groceries and meats as prizes are expected to enjoy a heavy run.
The Red Cross and local charities will share in the proceeds, and one of the principal beneficiaries will be the U.S.O., which has been extremely generous to the Notre Dame Midshipmen’s school.
Offering every conceivable carnival game and contest, the event should prove a field day for all “men about the campus” and the legion of big time,operators who dot the residence halls. It will also show that Notre Dame men remaining on the campus have not forgotten their buddies now in the service, and many of the participants in the festivities may be looking forward to next year, when they will be on the receiving end of the aid. The carnival clearly stands as an effort on behalf of Notre Dame men. to think of others.
Members of the . carnival committees have spent the past two weeks contacting carnival men throughout the whole Mid
West, and many of the chairmen already know the entire business from the back of the book to the preface. Equipment will be brought down from Chicago and other centers in the immediate area.
Inaugurated under the auspices of the Knights of Columbus, the program will extend to all clubs on the campus. AU the Scholastic staff will participate.
Under the patronage of the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., and president of the University, the event will be under the special supervision of the Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., and Rev. John Burke, C.S.C. “Red” Lonergan actively is in charge of promotion.
Juzwik and Brutz look over the "auto."
Executive committeemen are Frank W. Lloyd, J. Arthur Haley, Herbert E. Jones, Frank W. Leahy, James E. Armstrong, William R. Dooley, Eugene F. Connolly, Earl J. Redden, Hal Miller, and Tom Mills.
Mr. Miller, a distinguished alumnus residing in South Bend, and Mr. Redden have consented to help on the arrangements committee. Mr. Jones will be chairman of the financial committee, and Mr. Armstrong and Mr. Dooley will handle the publicity. The special gifts and public relations committees wfll be headed by Messrs. Lloyd and Haley, respectively.
Student committeemen are “Red” Lonergan, who recently promoted the Bengal Bouts and last summer handled the selection of University footballers for the All-Star game; Thomas Rolfs, grand knight of the K. of C.; John Anhut, president of the student council; Dan Downey, Dave Condon, Reggie Flynn, Pat Filley, Paul Rooney, and Chase Black.
5
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
St. Mary’s Can Go.
LA DE DA
JACK WOELFLE
Ove r.h e a r d in a freshman hall last Friday night: “Gee I wish it was Saturday. I need a bath.”.... A big blow to Dave Curtin and the supporting cast of “Tailor-M a d e Ma n” for a really fine perform
ance. ... “Iron Lip” Pedrotty, first trumpet with the Cavaliers, has finally met a colleen at St. Mary’s, name of Kathie McLoughlin. Says Dick: “Sure and be-gorra, and she don’t woik down by Bahn-dix either.”__We’ve finally learned what it is that gives the mystery ball it’s distinctive flavor—Oh wouldn’t you like to know!
THE GREAT WHITE WAY
South Bend provides the best entertainment for boys and girls together. Especially if they’re both defense workers. Let’s take an untypical example of a Notre Dame student and a girl from the Rock on a Saturday date. Ah, they’re out to make a day of it. They have to. The gal has to be in before sundown. They step out to the Dixie. The N. D. lad suggests hitch hiking. It’s not the money of course, but it would be great sport. The St. Mary’s girl explains .that the best girls of all have to walk, run, 01* crawl. She flags down the crimson chariot of the N.I.T. “Two to South Bend,” cries the Saint Mary’s belle as she thrusts two Wheatie coupons into the hand of the would be sky pilot. As you can already see, we are speaking of the typicalVl.D. student. No money. Well the gay couple spend a hilarious afternoon in the big city. They tour South Bend’s finest hot spots. Ah yes! cocktails at Kewpees, dancing at the Bowl-More, the latest floor show at the smart Granada, pop corn at Woolworth’s. Ah, it’s just one delightfully gay whirl! “Does it ever have to end?” she coos.	•
“It can go on forever darling. As long as your money holds out.” Romance, glamour, mystery. What’s Casablanca got that South Bend hasn’t got? Right the first time. And as the golden, sun
6
sinks in the west, (just north of the Bendix chimney), we see our two romantic sophisticates strolling up the Dixie. (Her money didn’t hold out forever.) She sings softly: “Oh that old green banana has me in its spell,” while he looks for golf balls in the cornfield. Curtain.
DISCOURAGING COSTUME
Two of the chefs went strolling into the dining hall last week and instead of wearing the customary white uniform, these lads were sporting boots and spurs. One swung a lariat. Of course it’s only a dirty coincidence but every morning at seven sharp a truck from the glue factory pulls up behind the kitchen.
SURREALISM POME
Roses are red
Violets are blue
Bananas are green
Except February ivhich has 28.
CALAMITAS CALAMITATIS
Perhaps the biggest blow to the student morale came last week when Wal-green’s, off-campus BMOC headquarters, caught fire. The cause of the fire has been laid to the sharp boys of N. D. “They sure are hot stuff,” said the manager. Ergo, last week-end the famous corner, scene of a century of romance, was as empty as a St. Mary’s expression after a moron joke. It was a sad day. Bitter tears rolled through the gutters of South Bend. Joe Brfsk, corner-stander of four years standing said: “This is a calamitation. It was just gettin’ so I could see four directions at one time.” It was learned later that he was not a student. Looking four ways at once is a simple feat for an N. D. man. “This is enough to drive us hot dogs into, the dining hall,” said another. Hooks did a thriving business all day long. Some of the more sophisticated did riot think Hooks as cosmopolitan as Walgreen’s. Said Harry Holmfst: “Dese here seats is too bouncey and the service is abom-inationable.” You said it Harry. Oswald Abernacker, a neutral observer said: “Well I did like the green banana splits
at Walgreens but the soap here tastes much better.” St. Mary’s could not be ..reached for a statement. However, messages have been sent aloft from the tower every hour* on the hour via balloon. They read: “We cannot get to town because of seat priorities on the buses. Our hearts are with you in the rebuilding. Let us know if you need any riveters, welders, or foremen. Come to think of it, if you have four men, send them over here. Signed,
The Sweetbriar Choir.
A COUPLE OF HOT DOGS
Those two mascots of the Navy are something to watch. “De-Merit,” the black dog, runs ahead of a group of sailors biting anyone who gets in the way. The brown one looks as if he had been with Dewey at Manila. That the dogs can take it is proven by the fact that they are steady boarders. “Clash-more Mike” when approached for a statement said: “Vulgar, really. Very vulgar. Why that black thing even eats mystery balls. I eat chop meat exclusively.” When the lads heard this, Mike had a hundred guests for dinner* the next night. A dog’s life is a happy life, isn’t it?
OVER THE PILLOW
‘ The student infirmary is filled these days with everything from measles to mumps. The food is the infirmary’s pride and joy. In fact they’re so proud of it they have put it into poetry. One plump nurse thinks it clever to confuse you with sophisms. If you have a cold the slogan is: “Feed a fever and starve a cold.” If you have a fever the slogan is: “Starve a fever and feed a cold.” The meat is a little rare though. One patient complained about the fact. The nurse said: “Why brother we’re cookin’ with gas.” They ought to try lighting the gas.
DOWNTOWN EVENINGS
, The inan shortage is-so bad in South Bend that you can pick up everything but a frosty bottle of Royal Crown. Most of the feminine defense workers put all their money into clothes. Evidently they don’t make much. Ah well, the E.R.C. deadline is growing nearer.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
St. Mary’s Went.
Premiere of Student Musical Comedy Set For April 12; Large Cast Staging Rehearsals
Behind locked doors in Washington Hall a group of amateur student players and singers are this week swinging into the production of an original musical comedy, “Let’s Get Going,” the first production of its kind on the local stage in many a year. The musical is unique in that it is reportedly the first show in 25 years to be entirely student-written, student-directed and student-produced.
The musical, to be presented April 12, 13, 15 and 16, is the outgrowth of the work of three students last summer, and the more recent work of an additional number of students. Edward Cashman, Peoria, Ill.; Gerry Hogue, New York City, and Jack Woelfle, Lynbrook, N. Y., were the original three. Ed and Jack are still with the show, but Gerry has long since gone with the U. S. Army.
Last fall the show suffered the ups and downs of all student ideas and failed to materialize on the stage. The new year saw the show get under way with added interest and new names. John Van Benton, Beech Grove, Ind., and John Lynch, Detroit, Mich., added their names to the roster of student producers-to-be shortly after Christmas.
At present some 20 student players and a student chorus are preparing the
Planning a great show. Left to right: Jack Woelfle. Johnny Lynch, Herb Clark, Ed Cashman (at piano), John Van Benton, and Bob Gschwind.
show for its April opening in Washington Hall. The entirely original musical score has been done by Cashman, while Lynch and Woelfle have collaborated on the dialogue. Van Benton is acting as production manager and general front man, the while helping to maintain order in the ranks. The production will be directed by Lynch, and Cashman will conduct the orchestral score from the “pit.” Robert Black, Toledo, 0., in charge of scenery, is painting two original back-drops portraying scenes on the campus.
While essential elements of the script and the musical score are being withheld from the general public at present, the entire show will portray a light musical comedy with accent on satire of life at Notre Dame.
The student lead will be played by Herb Clark, Park Ridge, HL, who will be ably supported by Noel Digby, New Orleans, La.; Owen Donley, Elk Point, S. Dak.; Bob Gschwend, Canton, 0., and Joe Flynn, Youngstown, Ohio.
Others in the male cast include: George Bariscillo, Bradley Beach, N. J.; Bill Boss, Franklin, Ohio; Dave Curtin, Rochester, N. Y.; Frank King, Richmond Hill, N. Y.; Joe Gallagher, Manhasset, N. Y.; Gene Slevin, Peoria, Ill.; John
McKeon, River Forest, Ill.; Elmer Silha, Chicago, HL; Nolan Sheehan, Tulsa, Okla.; Brock Lynch, Winchester, Mass.; Clarence Slyngstad, Havre; Mont.; Jerry O’Reilly, Brooklyn, New York; George Bastyr, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Tom Schreiber, Wheeling, W. Va., and Howard Garrigan, Montclair, N. J".
Members of the Notre Dame'Glee Club will -work in the male chorus, while the female voices of the chorus will be provided by a South Bend school of the song and dance. South Bend girls, yet to be: chosen, will play the female parts in the musical.
’	—I	»	■
Gutowski Whips McAneny
For Campus Ping-Pong Title
John Gutowski, red haired first floor representative, blazed through the sturdy defense of Joe McAneny, of the fourth deck, to annex the Zahm Hall Table Tennis championships, 25-23, 21-11, 21-18, 19-21, 21-19 last Thursday evening in the Zahm Recreation room.
The Gary, Ind., first semester premedical student, rocked the favored McAneny in the first game winning after four deuce points. Stimulated by this narrow margin of victory Gutowski continued, his blistering pace in the second game, winning 21-11. His “shuffle service” again proved a jinx as he racked . up his third straight game 21-18 in the four out of seven match.
The husky favorite from the fourth floor finally broke the blight in the fourth game waving aside the thrusts of the new champion to edge a 19-21 verdict. McAneny appeared his old self in this set as he continually dumped push shots over the net and out of the reach of Gutowski who was playing in a deep position.
The winner was presented a gold plated victor’s trophy immediately after the match by tournament director, Jack Conway. The trophy will be suitably, inscribed and given to Gutowski for permanent possession.
John “Red” Gutowski, Zahm Table Tennis champion, has issued a challenge for a match to be played in Washington Hall, or any other location, to anyone on , the campus for the undisputed championship of the University. All challengers contact Jack Conway, 441 Zahm Hall, for the arrangements for the contests. '
Sorin Hall Victory Garden Enters
Saint Joseph County Competition
Harry, den grow building.’’
Harry, where does your gar-
“Directly east of the biology
several Harrys from Sorin
hall told us, as they explained the whereabouts of the new Sorin Super Victory Garden.
Sorin, it seems, has stolen another march on the rest
of Notre Dame, and is the first hall to come out with plans for a victory garden, complete from streamlined hoes to Brussels sprouts.
The board of directors of the Sorin Hall Victory Garden Association, after a series of meetings, announced through William Boss, chairman of the publicity department and public relations of Sorin hall, that spring planting on the garden site would start around April 1. Plowing and grading will be undertaken by the University within the next few weeks and seeds have already been ordered from a reliable wholesale house in Chicago.
The garden, founded by the Sorin hall chapter of the Evil Eye club, will run 130 feet by 120 feet, and its purpose and end is to have a victory garden for every hall. Cavanaugh, it is reported, plans to grow their produce on top of the Huddle via the roof garden method.
Produce to be grown in the garden are: Swiss chard, leafy Alpine; Beets, rosy red; Beans, Irish green; Leaf Lettuce, A grade; Peas, early summer; Onions, small table; Radishes, early scarlet; Brussels Sprouts, small Belgian;
” 'Tis rumored the Sorin Chapter is starting a Victory Garden."
Cucumbers, fall canning; and Carrots, Sorin orange. Special arrangements are being made with the St. Joseph county agent to have a cooking school and canning school conducted in Washington Hall sometime this semester. At present members of the Victory Garden Association are getting valuable information from the Old Dirt Digger, of Station WSBT, as to Victory Garden maintenance.
The Association expressed the belief that its only nemesis would be the competition given by another victory garden being tended by a few faculty members. At latest reports Mr. Walter Langford, tennis coach, was reported as saying that the University courts would not be available for gardens unless the occasion became super-extraordinary.
Conflicting reports have it that the St. Mary’s chapter of the 4-H club will soon enter St. Joseph county victory garden competition by growing rice in evacuated Lake Miriam, while others say that they are going to try to obtain a plot of land along the railroad right-of-way.
Board of director members and committee chairmen are: Robert Nenno, chairman of garden zoning; Arthur T. Kartheiser, chairman of finance; William Boss, chairman of publicity; J. C. R. Clark, chairman of labor registration; Gus A. Zuehlke, chairman of labor management; John A. Lynch, chairman of farm machinery.
The official song of the Victory Garden Association is “Mrs. Lonergan in the Cabbage Patch.”
Potential Sorin Aviator
Starts at Top—as a K.P.
It has been hardly three weeks since they left us to spread their wings over southern training fields, to fly for the Army Air Corps. Bases in Texas, Florida, Mississippi and other southern states have absorbed Notre Dame’s 146 candidates, and the aspiring fledglings are enjoying life under the southern sun—we hope!
Take, for instance, Pvt. John R. Edwards, 130085783, at Keesler Field, Mississippi. Pvt. John was once a sedate member of the Sorin Hall Chapter of the Evil Eye Club. He didn’t hate anyone, he lived a good life, and he made his morning checks. He didn’t need a road map to get to Andy’s though; maybe that’s where he erred. But Pvt. John was called by the Army Air Corps to serve his country at Keesler Field.
We will let Pvt. John speak for himself; he does have something to say:
“We had Sunday off, and, like the gullible little souls we are, we suspected nothing. At chow time we were informed that we were going on K. P. at three o’clock in the morning, and would stay on continuous duty until 8:30 in the evening. Figure it out for yourself.
“First thing I did was to scrub tables in the kitchen with a steel brush. From this I was promoted to stirring soup, but after I let about 100 gallons scorch, I was demoted to mopping floors. Due to an outstanding success in this field I was promoted to clipper skipper. A clipper is a dishwashing machine. A clipper skipper is a gentleman who runs around carrying metal food trays, bowls, cups, silverware, etc., from the clipper to the various dining halls. After two and a half hours of this, during which time we fed the entire U. S. Army, my diligence and endeavor were duly rewarded by my being promoted to the soup bowl detail.
“It seems that some corporal picked up a dirty bowl and decided we should wash every one in the place. By actual count they totaled 2357. They were to be my sole responsibility and, if even so much as one bowl was dirty, I’d have to wash every one of them by myself—and by hand—before I left that night. Needless to say I personally inspected each one of them.
“I did various odd jobs until about seven o’clock, when I decided to end it all and grabbed a hot toast tray. This neatly blistered my hand and relieved me from duty. At eight-thirty I staggered the mile and a half back to my hut and collapsed.”
Poor Pvt. John! He so wanted to fly!
8

"Tailor-Made Man" Scores Smashing Hit;
Curtin Stars in Two-night Performance
“The best laffs of all come from Washington Hall” so someone said last Monday night after seeing the smashing hit of the University Theatre. A cast of 28, under the capable direction of Rev. Matthew A Coyle, C.S.C., scored a marked success with Harry James Smith’s “A Tailor-Made Man.” In spite of all requests for a hold-over, only three performances were given, a dress rehearsal Sunday afternoon for members of the community, and public performances Sunday and Monday nights.
An audience of over 1,000 filling every available foot of space, including aisles and stairways, thronged Washington Hall to see David J. Curtin, Sorin Hall senior from Rochester, N. Y., turn in a remarkable performance as the tailor-made man, John Paul Bart. Curtin displayed extraordinary skill, for which he is famous in campus theatrical productions, in por
A scene from the second act. Left to right: Miss Kay Landing, Bill Boss, Dorothy Abel, Jim Killoran, Miss Florence Greco, and Dave Curtin.	‘
traying the tailor’s hand, who, possessing the “right degree of self-confidence,” rose to a high position under false pretenses.
Supporting Curtin in the leading feminine role of Miss Tanya Huber was Barbara Dolezel of South Bend. Miss Dolezel, remembered for her part in “The Merry Wives of Windsor,” gave a fine performance.
Sophomore Joe Flynn of Youngstown, 0., surprised the filled house with his excellent acting as Mr. Huber, the tailor. This marks Joe’s first appearance in campus theatricals, though many an audience in Washington Hall has enjoyed his vaudeville imitations in former Variety Shows.
Peter McConkie, the tailor’s first assistant, proved to be one of the more colorful characters of the four act comedy. Noel Digby of Dillon Hall and New
Orleans, La., drew many a laugh, from the enthusiastic crowd.
Miss Grace Sullivan and Miss Florence Greco of the Department of Speech at St. Mary’s college supported the play well with their professional talent. Miss Greco was especially notable as the society widow, Mrs. Kittie Dupuy. Miss Sullivan was seen as the aristocratic wife of a millionaire, Mrs. Stanlaw.
Frank King, senior from Richmond Hill, N. J., played the part of the despised Dr. Sonntag, who imperiously sought the hand of Tanya Huber. Mr. Rowlands, the newspaper man covering all important happenings, was taken by the sage of Sorin, Joe Gallagher of New York. William Boss, Franklin, Ohio, showed definite stage talent as Mr. Nathan, a financier who proved to be the salvation of John Paul Bart.
Dan Downey, West Palm Beach, Fla., and Sorin Hall, played the art of the effervescent yachtsman, Mr. Jellicot, whose well-fitting clothes were stolen by Bart, the tailor’s hand. Mr. Jellicot’s valet, Pomeroy, was ably portrayed by George Bariscillo, Bradley Beach, N. J., well known for his connections in local radio circles.
Judging from audience applause and talk about the campus, “A Tailor-Made Man” stands out as the best play staged in Washington Hall in several years. The outstanding ability of the cast, together with Fr. Coyle’s masterful touch, made it the campus hit of the year. Scenes were done-by two architects, Willoughby Marshall arid Bernard Slater, who also took bit parts in the society act; Walter Riley took care of sound effects, and the music was furnished by Mr. Frederic Ingersoll’s University orchestra. '
Following is a complete cast of characters :
John Paul Bart	 Mr. Huber	 Tanya Huber	 Peter McConkie 			David Curtin 	Joseph A. Flynn 	Barbara L. Dolezel 	Noel F. Digby
Dr. Sonntag.			Frank A. King
Mr. Rowlands	 Mr. Jellicot			Joseph Gallagher 	Daniel Downey
Pomeroy			George Bariscillo
Mr. Stanlaw				James W. Killoran
Sirs. Stanlaw ---------------------Grace	Sullivan
Corinne Kay	Landing
Wheating John B. McKeon
Mrs. Fitzmorris---------------------------Fronie	French
Mr. Fitzmorris_____________________Emmet O’Neil
“Bobbie” Westlake,	 Mr. CarroH ,.				Willoughby Marshall Bernard Slater
Mr. Crane	 Mr. Fleming	 Mrs. Kittle Dupuy			Warren Dana 	Edward Cashman .	Florence Greco
Bessie	 Mr. Nathan		—		Dorothy M. Abel . William
Mr. Grayson	
Miss Shayne	 Mr. Whitcombe 	 Mr. Russell	 Mr. Flynn	 Mr. Cain	 Guests at the Stanlaws’		Agnes Haney 	Emmet O’Neill 	Warren Dana 	C. A. Slyngstad 	:	Walter Riley Reception
9
K. C Initiation Coming Sometime Next Month
The Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus has formulated plans for an initiation of candidates in the near future. Tentative plans call for candidates to take the first degree on Sunday, April 5, and receive the second and third degrees on Sunday, April 12. Several students have filled out membership applications and have signified their intentions of taking the degrees, but the exact number has not yet been announced.
The Knights of Columbus have also announced that they plan to put a new “Twist” to their war stamp and bond campaign and plan to have the.east and west sides of the campus waging war against each other soon. The plan of the war, first to hit the campus since Alumni blitzkrieged Dillon last semester, will be according to purchases of war stamps in the weekly campaign. Advances will be made according to the total hall sales.
In the event that the war is declared, aged Sorin hall would probably be neutral, or be occupied by the other campus halls, since the tradition boys have dropped behind in the purchases of the war securities.
The council has been contacting the armed forces and efforts are being made to have a jeep, bought by funds coming from student stamp and bond purchases, to be brought out on the campus.
The Knights plan to sponsor bond and stamp sales on the campus was instituted in October of 1942. The first Thursday night brought returns of $350 and many students started a goal of “a bond by Christmas” as they purchased stamps each week for their album. There were cases on record when students went all
Alumni Seniors doing their small part. Jack Doyle. left, buys war stamps from Salesman Tom Shellworth.
out and purchased bonds instead of the lesser priced stamps. In the first four weeks of the campaign last semester the Knights disposed of $1,800 worth of stamps and bonds—enough to buy two jeeps.
Going further, the K. of C. proved that they could practice what was being preached and reached into their building fund to- purchase $1,500 worth of war bonds. This sale greatly increased the campus total.
At a time when war stamp and bond sales at the local post office were very small, the Knights stepped in with their weekly room-to-room canvass, and with the efforts of the Commerce Forum, who sold war bonds, stamps, and war stamp boutonnieres at the football games, the Notre Dame purchase total started a phenomenal rise.
That the campus efforts attracted attention can be seen from a letter received by the local K. of C. council soon after the drive started. This letter, from the Treasury Department in Washington, said, in part, “We greatly appreciate the fine support which the Kinghts of Columbus council of Notre Dame is . giving the War Savings program.”
Three Cadets Nominated
For Annapolis Awards
Three freshmen, Arthur L. Andersen, of Ault, Colo.; Janies A. O’Connor, of Ft. Wayne, Ind., and Daniel A. O’Donnell, of Trenton, N. J., were named by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, to represent the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. in the competitive examinations for appointments to the United States Naval Academy. These three were chosen from a list of 17 candidates who took a preliminary exam.
Andersen, O’Connell and O’Donnell will take the three day final exam under Civil Service supervision in the South Bend postoffice building beginning April 15. The subject matter includes algebra, geometry, chemistry, physics, English and history.
The examinations are held in competition with the members of other Naval R.O.T.C. units throughout the country. The highest 20 from this group will be awarded appointment to the Naval Academy if they can later pass the physical checkup. Last year, John A. Jennings, of Monessen, Pa., was the only Notre Dame N.R.O.T.C. student to win an appointment.
$200 in U. S. War Bonds
To Be Raffled at Carnival
With the university War Charities . Carnival in the offing, sponsors of the program announced early this week that chances on grand prizes totalling $200 in wax- bonds would go on sale around the campus immediately.
Chances, to sell at ten cents per single and three for twenty-five cents, will be sold at several points on the campus, and each residence hall will be canvassed about twice weekly. Hall captains, it has been announced, will be appointed for each hall, and the hall selling the greatest percentage per student will be rewarded with some prize—in all likelihood a smoker.
The drawing for the $2C0 in bonds will be held the final evening of the Carnival, scheduled for Saturday, April 17.	-
Two Students Make "Sun's"
"Letters To The Editor"
The Letter Box of the Chicago Sun was dominated by Notre Dame students Monday. Not only did Jim Sattler and . Tony Pizzarelli each submit letters but Sattler’s was judged the best of the day and awarded a five dollar prize.
In his letter Sattler said “In spite of our dislike for the Soviet form of government, we must remember that the Russians are keeping German divisions plenty busy on the eastern front.” Jim is a science student from Toledo, Ohio.
Pizzarelli, a pre-med junior from Rochester, N. Y., contributed a letter on the entertainment industry. In it he asked Hollywood to produce pictures about subjects other than the war. Said Pizzai’elli: “People who have dear ones in the services shouldn’t be constantly reminded of the war and its horrors during their leisure . hours in the theatre.”
10
!—MM
,	,	,	, jAdminUifudiOH, AeoAl ,	,	,	,	,
SC*
Victory Garden on a Large Scale Might Describe Efficiency of University Farms
On beholding the strange sign in the Main Building marked “Farm Director” the new freshman blinks and wonders what that can be. The chances are ten- ' to-one that he never does find out, and goes through four years of college, or as long as the army will let him, with the vague idea that there are farms somewhere,, or there wouldn’t be a farm director, Chut wherethey are and'what they do he couldn’tvtell. In fact, he might have a hard.^timefdescribing the workings of any farm^t all. '
To the’noxth, south, east, and west of Notre Dame' stretch, the Notre Dame Farms-^ijSOO’ acres' of them. They are' maintained by Brother Leo, C.S.C., whd knows the-“ins” and “outs” of the farming game from way back. He is assisted by Brother Niliis, C.S.C., in the adminisj trative, duties, and .six men are hired for the upkeep and actual farm work? These six experienced hands enjoy the distinction of being over draft age, and therefore do not have to rely on the bickerings of Congress or the fickle orders of the various war boards as to whether they shall reap or not. Thus no manpower problem complicates the efficient working of the Notre Dame Farms.
In the fertile Indiana land, (winter weather, apparently has nothing to do with fertility) every year a variety of crops are planted. In addition to a small amount of garden truck, which is grown solely for the use of the farm hands who board at the farm, the. acreage is planted into several staple crops. Corn, which Hoosiers claim grows very well hereabouts, occupies about 150 acres. Another 100 acres is planted in oats, while 150 also go into the cultivation of wheat.
Like the sessions in the room next door, the farm raises beef. An average herd of 150 prime cattle for butchering purposes is maintained. These are sold, to be scrambled over by housewives at the local meateries. There are also 500 hogs, which consume the entire amount of the com grown, in addition to more which must be purchased. These hogs also find their way to the butcher’s knife.
The farms are cultivated both by horse and by tractor. As yet the horses have not gone to market, and the rumor about the Bing Crosby scout is definitely untrue. There are three barns, large and modern, used for general purposes, and
Super-Victory Gardens.
eight which house the cattle herd. There are also a conglomeration of sheds housing tools and such.
In case you are wondering, the produce from the farms does not form a part of your diet, and I do mean diet, in the dining halls or caf. All is sold on the market and is not available to the school. The amount grown by the farms would hardly feed the students and midshipmen over a school year. The dining halls are entirely dependent on outside sources for all foods except milk, which comes in part from a large dairy farm belonging to the University, located seven miles from South Bend. Here is kept a large herd of dairy cattle. Besides the bovines, hogs are raised for the Chicago market.
Any students interested in growing a victory garden, window-box style or otherwise, can profit by a look at the efficiency of Notre Dame’s farms. These huge victory gardens are producing food —1,200 acres’ worth. Think how easy it would be in a flower pot!—J. V. Wilcox
Alumni Office Gathering
N.D. War Correspondence
Correspondence from Notre Dame men in the war zones is beginning to reach the campus in increasing volume, and to contain the color and the tradition and the information that will contribute much to the ultimate history of this era.
To concentrate and preserve this ma
terial, all faculty members, members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and students, are asked to send such letters to the Alumni Office where a central file of this material has been set up.
Alumni will undoubtedly receive much of this type of material. The concentra-. tion of it will give to Notre Dame an invaluable source of material for the compiling of its World War II record, already glorious in the best traditions.
Those who are familiar with the rich -literature of the letters from chaplains and alumni which appeared in the Scholastics of World War I can readily grasp the significance of this move to preserve these current comments from the many fronts of the present war.
Kramer Talks to Forum
Members of the Notre Dame commerce forum, the university’s largest organization, gathered in the Law Building last Monday evening to hear a talk by Mr. Herbert Kramer. Kramer is an official of the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company.
A representative gathering attended Kramer’s talk, which was a feature of the club’s regular meeting.
Brazilian Professor
Will Lecture Monday
Dr. Jernane Tavares, professor of biology at the University of Sao Paulo, in Brazil, will present a lecture for faculty and students of the University of Notre Dame on Monday night at 8 o’clock in the engineering auditorium.
Dealing with Pan-Americanism in the Post-war world, the 32 year old South American, who was educated in Louvain, Belgium, will attempt to present a very clear picture of some of the post war problems of the western hemisphere.
He has visited almost one hundred colleges and universities in the. last' year and a half, and is very highly fated-by the Institute of International Education.
Dr. Tavares will lecture Sunday evening at a dinner meeting of the. La Baza club of the university to be held in the LaSalle hotel. This group, made up of Spanish speaking students, will have as its guests the 12 Spanish speaking students of St. Mary’s college. _ - - ’
Any student may attend the dinner meeting, the only charge being for" the food.	i--1
fi
Next Lenten Lecture
Features Fr. L. R. Ward
The second in a series of Lenten lectures, sponsored by the Aquinas Library and Book Shop, will be delivered tonight, March 29, at the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel by the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. Father Ward’s subject will be “The Spirit of Nova Scotia Co-operation.”
Rev. Leo R. Ward
. Professor William Shanahan of Notre Danie’s history department and a student of military science opened the series last Friday discussing “Strategic Issues of the War.” Other prominent speakers scheduled to complete the Lenten series include Sister Mary Madaleva, C.S.C., who will speak on Catholic Poetry on April 4th at 3, and the Rev. John A. O’Brien who will recount his travels in Mexico on April 12th.
Tickets for the series can be procured at the Aquinas Library, 110 E. LaSalle Street. The revenue derived will be used to further the Apostolate of Catholic Literature.
—James Murphy
String Symphony Will Play Concert April 5
A concert by the Saidenberg String Symphony, starring Virginia Haskins, coloratura soprano, will be given here in Washington hall on Monday, April 5.
The Saidenberg Symphony acclaimed by critics as “the finest little orchestra in the country,” is under the direction of Daniel Saidenberg. Mr. Saidenberg entered the music field as a child prodigy at the cello, was a member of the Philadelphia orchestra under Leopold Stokowski at 17, first cellist of the Chicago Symphony orchestra under the late Frederick Stock at 21. He was early steeped in the greatest symphonic, chamber, and solo music, ever dreaming of the day when he would conduct his own orchestra.
In 1936 his dream came true; a group of young solo artists, picked from the best instrumentalists of Chicago orchestras, met for their first rehearsal. This entire group is young in years and old in experience, young enough to throw themselves whole - heartedly into the many rehearsals which breed perfection, and old enough as artists to know "how to work to perfect the master-works of the ancient classics and to meet the difficult problems presented by the unusual programs which their alert director chooses for them to play. -
Miss Haskins, although very young for the prominence she has won in her field, made her debut at Verona,'* Italy, as Gilda in “Rigoletto.” A contract to sing leading roles at the world famous La Scala Opera in Milan was cancelled due to the present war conditions. Her American debut was made in Chicago Symphony Opera Company as Filina in “Mignon.” The splendid handling of this role brought her a contract with the company and definitely placed her in the front ranks of today’s leading opera stars.
The programs of the -Saidenberg String Symphony concerts are unhackneyed. Rarely heard music of the old masters is played side by side with that of the moderns. First performances are unearthed by careful research for the masters of the Bachian era as well as new works of the present. Old or new, all have the same quality of vital youth, and for whatever combination of instruments they are scored all are performed by the String Symphony as originally intended by the composer.
A quick glance over the audience of one of the Chicago concerts by the orchestra will reveal a large number of the musical intelligentsia of the city. In Chicago, among those who rarely miss a performance by Mr. Saidenberg and his fine group of instrumentalists are such musicians as, Dr. Rudolph Ganz, Leon Same-tini, Leo Sowerby, Amy Neill, and a score of others. Not only do these concerts appeal to the musical elite, but to the masses as is shown by the fact that their Chicago concerts are repeatedly completely sold out.—Joe R. LoCascio
Broadcasting Company Lauds N. D. Graduate
Joseph F. Mansfield, a University graduate in 1936, has recently been lauded by the National Broadcasting Company, for which organization he serves as a production director. NBC has proclaimed Mansfield to be another example of the Horatio Alger, quick rise to fame boys.
Since his graduation from Notre Dame eight years ago, Mansfield has steadily
risen in the radio world. Always interested in radio work, he was instrumental in presenting various University programs over South Bend’s WSBT. His summers he spent in working for several eastern stations.
Joseph Mansfield, extreme left
Graduation from the Irish campus failed to sever Mansfield’s connection with the University, since of late he has been directing the famous sports broadcasts of Bill Stern, a rabid Notre Dame fan and the country’s top sports announcer. Many times Stern’s broadcasts have originated from Notre Dame, and he has carried many Fighting Irish gridiron battles over the ether. Besides the Stem spot, Mansfield is director of several other NBC programs.
The father of three children, Mansfield ■will be remembered by many followers of radio newscasts for his covering of the 1938 New England hurricane and his special broadcasts from these areas.
Washington Conference
Calls Dean Schubmehl
Raymond J. Schubmehl, dean of the college of engineering at Notre Dame, is conferring this week with army and navy executives and. Gen. Lewis B. Hershey, head of the selective service, in Washington, D. C.
Dean Schubmehl is attending meetings together with other members of the Society for Promotion of Engineering Education, and will seek to clarify the status of graduate and undergraduate technical’, students in -the recently announced deferment plan for engineering students.
Short Story Anthology Takes Sullivan's Work
Richard Sullivan, assistant professor of English at the University, has been notified that his short story, “The Women,” which appeared in the fall issue of Accent, literary magazine published by the University of Illinois, has been chosen for the 1943, O’Brien Collection of Best Short Stories.
A short story of Prof. Sullivan’s appeared in the 1942 0. Henry collection. He is author of the novel, Summer After Summer.
Meteorology Training
Applications Now Open
Civilians, enlisted men of the Army, and those in the Army Enlisted Reserve Corps may now apply for special training in the field of Meteorology. Those in V-l, V-5, and V-7 are not eligible. All subjects are given at the college level, and it is expected that credit toward a degree is to be granted.
No qualifying examinations are given, but all candidates must have sufficiently high scholastic records to receive consideration, and must be at least eighteen years of age.
The period of instruction is six months for Premeteorology and eight months in Advanced Meteorology. One year of college math, in addition to high school math, is required.	.
The status during the course of those accepted is Aviation Cadet, Ground Crew, U. S. Army Air Forces. Pay is $75 per month plus ration and quarters allowance. Upon successful completion of the course, the cadet is commissioned Second Lieutenant, Army Air Corps.
Applications, which are sent to the University of Chicago, may be obtained from Father Trahey’s office.—John Misz
N. D. Radio Department Presents Three Shows
The Notre Dame radio department has announced three weekly programs being broadcast from the campus studio of WSBT, the South Bend Tribune station.
On Tuesday afternoon at 3:45 its the “Sportscast,” with Bill Boss, SCHOLASTIC sports editor, Tony Earley, and Gene Fehlig. -
The “Notre Dame Authors” program is broadcast on the 3:45 spot every Wednesday with Joe Flynn and George Bariscillo at the mike.	-
Vail Pischke and Warren Dana have the “Views and Pre-views” program on Saturday, at 12:30.
The department announced that all
are invited to attend the actual broadcasting of the programs. All that is asked is that those attending be on time. The broadcasts originate in the campus studios on the third floor of the Cushing Hall of Engineering. .
Graduate Aids Country
In Saving Rubber Stock
A former member of the department of economics of the University, Joseph
L. Apodaca, is directing an important war program aimed at building up the United States rubber supply.
Mr. J. L. Apodaca
Mr. Apodaca is in charge of the procurement of rubber in three Central American republics, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Panama, and is working from the American legation in San Jose, Costa Rica.
He aided vice-president Henry A. Wallace, then secretary of agriculture, in mastering the Spanish language.
Student Aid Enlisted
In War Relief Drive
A collection for the local N.F.C.C.S. War Relief Commission will be taken up sharply at ten p. m. next Monday. Every student will be asked to contribute fifteen cents for the furtherance of this activity which will lessen the hardships of students in war areas.
Notre Dame, along with all other Catholic colleges and universities in the United States, has been asked by the National Federation of Catholic' College Students’ War Relief Commission to contribute to the students’ War Emergency and Relief Collection. This collection is used for the relief of students of the stricken areas in war-torn countries. .	.
This year the Cincinnati Conference of the Catholic Collegiate Congress decided that the special aim of the N.F.C. C.S. War Relief Commission was to be the aiding of students in military prison camps through the collections taken up. These funds are administered by the • Bishops’ Relief Commission through which relief is actually transmitted to prisoners of war. The students’ collection will'-coincide with the nation-wide
War Emergency and Relief Collection authorized "by the General Meeting" of Bishops for April 4..	.
Student contributions will be forward-\ ed to the N.F.C.C.S. so that money ' received will be used solely for student relief.
The continuance of this global war makes it more necessary than ever that students who are still attending the college of their choice here in America help our -fellow students who are less fortunate. It is hoped that the collection will exceed the amounts for the past two years.
Here at Notre Dame the project is being sponsored by the Student Council and the Notre Dame Federation of Catholic Activities. It is under the general guidance of John Terry vice president of the Fort Wayne region of the N.F.C. C.S.	.	. '	'
Sectional heads are: John .Anhut, . Alumni, Dillon, Walsh, Sorin and Brownson; and Charles Metzger, St. Ed’s, Zahm, Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips.
Heading the drive in the halls are: Alumni, George Bariscillo; Dillon^ Tyke Hartman; Walsh, Brock Lynch; Sorin, Jim Cunningham; Brownson, J. D.\ ; Usina; Zahm, Jack Conway; Breen-Phillips, Carrol O’Connor. St. Ed’s man has not yet been appointed.	.
Exams for A-12, Y-l 2;
On Slate for April 2
The new joint Army-Navy plan pro- . vides for the examination of all students who have attained their 17th, and who have not reached their 22nd birthday, by July 1,-1943, and who have graduated or expect to graduate, from secondary schools prior to that date. It is designed to provide information useful to the Armed Forces in selecting students for college training under the Army Specialized Training Program and classifying all others in respect to relative trainability.
Those students who prefer the Navy Program should fill out the “Admission and Identification Form for Navy College Training Test (V-12).” Those who have no preference may use either card, noting that they have no preference. Tn either case, the card properly filled out should.be presented by the candidate to the Supervisor at the time of the test, 9 a. m., on April .2, 1943.
The examination is to be held in the Engineering Building in some room, as . yet not selected, on April 2, 1943, and the admission and identification forms, may be secured at Father Trahey’s . office all through this week.
—Jim Daskatoff
11
History; of Notre Dame's Fire Fighting Equipment Makes for Blazing Future
.	JOE WILCOX
On Nov. 24, 1900, the Scholastic (yes, there was one then) hailed the new Notre Dame Volunteer Fire Department. It was, said Scholastic, a great achievement. Fr. Morrissey, C.S.C., then president, and the famous scientist, Fr. Zahm, C.S.C., had conceived the idea of a volunteer fire department on the campus to supplement the South Bend department in case of campus fires by providing protection at vital points.
Since the great fire of 1879, Notre Dame’s fire fighting equipment had consisted of three hose carts, which were stationed at the handiest points. In case of a real fire, the South Bend department did the job. Need for campus equipment was great, because fire wagons in those days were not what they are today, and it took a long time for equipment to be set up and sent from South Bend. Meanwhile the hose carts would have to make out as best they could.
In the system set up in 1900, there were three stations each manned by a volunteer company in case of fire. Station 1 was located at the rear of Sorin Hall, and Station 2 at the back of the Main Building. This station is still standing, the building being used as a repair shop. Station 3 was located at Holy Cross gymnasium. Scholastic quoted a fire expert of the time—said a Mr. Jardine, “You have the best fire protection of any institution in America.” The chief of the volunteer department was J. C. Kinney, E. P. Gallagher was fire mashall, and J. P. Curry was assistant. Some of the volunteers had been firemen at one time and all were capable. And just to make it jolly, tournaments between the companies were held in the Spring. Competition was high between the companies.
This protection, modern for 1900, would not have a look-in with Notre Dame’s efficient fire fighting equipment of today. Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., fire chief, has just cause to be proud of the Notre Dame Fire Department, lodged now, somewhat out of the way, next to the steam plant.
In 1940 Brother Borromeo and his assistants built a modern, up-to-date fire truck in the power plant shop. Starting with only the chassis, Brother Borromeo built a seven ton truck with the latest equipment available.
The truck is a combination pumper, hook-and-ladder. It carries 1,000 feet of
14
two and a half inch hose, and 500 feet of one and a half inch hose, and 150 feet of what is known in firemen lingo as “booster” hose. The truck is fully decked out with lights, gas masks, and the latest chemicals. Its pumps are capable of churning 750 gallons of water per minute. There are 50, 30 and 14 foot extension ladders, and an 18 footer which is used for roof and attic fires.
The fire squad is composed of the men " working at the plant. The truck is called on an average of twice a month throughout the year. Most of the fires are on the campus, with some in the nearby territory.
The latest fire of importance was the conflagration which swept the chicken house near the Community Infirmary and the contents. (Schol. Feb. 12, 1943, p. 12) Last year’s biggest fire from the point of view of damage was the one at Science Hall which threatened the newly-acquired atom smasher.
The Notre Dame Fire Department is supplemented by the South Bend department which aids when necessary. In 1940, when the washroom in the basement of Carroll Hall was burned, 65 South Bend firemen helped in the prevention of a more disastrous blaze. This fire will be recalled by some of the juniors and seniors.	.
Notre Dame has come a long way in the fire fighting department since that evening in 1879 when “the pride of the West was reduced to the church and a pile of hot, smoking ashes and rubbish. The stage of the bucket brigade of ’79, the hose carts of the ’80’s and 90’s, Fr. Morrissey’s volunteers^ and today’s truly, fine fire fighting apparatus are markers in the history and progress of Notre Dame.
Another Notre Dame Man killed in World Conflict
The. list of Notre Dame casualties in World War II has risen to 36, only ten less than the number of N. D. men killed in the first world conflict, following receipt of word concerning the death of Lieutenant James Carrol.
Commissioned in October, 1942, Carroll was killed when his army plane • crashed near Orlando, Fla., on March 12. He was a Notre Dame student from 1§36 to 1938.
Besides the thirty-six casualties, six Notre Dame men are listed as missing in action, and four have been reported as prisoners of war.
Among those recently listed as prisoners of the Japanese was Ensign George K. Petritz, ex. 38, and brother of former sports publicity Joe Petritz, now in the U. S. Navy. Ensign Petritz was formerly listed as missing in action.
Three of the Notre Dame reported prisoners are held by the sons of heaven and the fourth, Richard J. Carroll, member of the class of ’37, is held by the Italians.
Jim Cunningham
Not a varsity athlete or class president this week. — Just a second semester junior who knows more of the boys than you can get under a dining hall tent.... James Bernard Finucane.... Third floor Walshman and inconspicuous business administration major.
Bernie never even dated a St. Mary’s girl until two weeks ago.__Commenting on the experience, “I’m sorry I never went over sooner.... But been kind of busy.”— Bernie has changed'halls six times in five semesters.
. This Kansas City, Missouri ! (his emphasis), six foot, 175 pound ERC man wants a post-war existence out west where he can move around.... Formerly spent his summers at Camp De Smet in , the Dakota badlands.... Once had three stallions go lame on him in one day.... “It was the nags.”
High school at Rockhurst where he earned a letter in baseball.... Got his N.D. numerals on the freshman diamond but stopped there.... Now serves as Walsh’s council rep.... Also occasionally fills in behind huddle counter, where he claims he can give as bad service as anybody.	'
After doing any type of fighting the army gives him, he would start at bottom in some air industry and work his way up to be an executive.... Favors labor unions in that they give’workers needed protection.... Last summer he sweated at Kansas Structural Steel.
Followed brother Tom (Dec., ’42) to Notre Dame_____	 Does justice to dining hall food.... With roomie Frank “Pancho” Duggan usually has gang gathered in large plain room.... On Chicago weekends visits Hayes’ with rest of the thirsty mob.	__.	. ..
s
>	5%e Navy at Nolte. ^bcutte	,
*eg= "	■■	—- . .	"~ "	„	—	—	■	■—	■■■	■ 11	' .	— -Wii'
Navy Basketball Finals
Scheduled for April 5, 6
Eliminations are now going on in the Naval Midshipmen Training school at Notre Dame to decide the basketball championship for the- regiment. Each company is represented by an A and B team, and with six companies in the regiment, the champions will be decided from among the 12 teams.
Many former big names in Eastern collegiate basketball are represented on the various company teams.
The finals will be played in the Notre Dame fieldhouse on April 5 and 6 at 4:50 p.m., and all the students and faculty have been invited to attend.
Poem
I’m a graduate of West Point, and I came up from the ranks;
And I’ve never had a dollar, and I own a dozen banks.
I’m a corporal, lieutenant, sergeant, major, brigadier,
I’m an ensign, captain, private, pilot, gunner, bombardier.
I’m a boilermaker’s helper; I was fullback for the Bears;
I’m an auction bridge instructor, and I worked a farm on shares;
An Annapolis Midshipman, by the Severn I zvas taught;
And I got my zoings at Randolph, and I leazmed to fly at Scott; .
I’m a fellozu at old Hazward; and I never zoent to school; ■	.
I’zn a fine zuhite-collaz' worker; and I used to skin a mule. .	-
I’m a seven-hitch Coast Guardsman, and a boot-camp-fresh Marine;
I’m a grocery clerk from Brooklyn, and a loggez' from Racine.
I’m a salesman from Milwazikee, and a butcher from St. Joe’;
I’m a bartezidez- from Reno, and a pug frozn Kokozno.
I’m a transient cotton-picker, I’m azi engineez- from ’Tech;	■
I’m a French-Italian-Eziglish-Iz-ish-Szved-ish-Polish-Czech.
I’zn a Moz-mon, Catholic, Bziddhist, Pres-bytezuan, Methodist;
I’m a Lutheran, Judaic, Baptist, Christian Scientist.	,
I’m a zing tailed catawampus when it’s time to start a scrap. .
I’m a walking, talkizig nightmare to a Nazi, oz' a Jap.
I’m ten thousand different felloivs, znulti-plied a thousand times;
And you’ll find me at the znoment in a dozezi different dizzies.
I’zn the roughest, toughest hombre since the'day that time began;
I am youth; I’m strength; I’m manhood; I’m the U. S. fighting man.
Bureau Warns Against Divulging Locations
(Reprinted from Bureau of Naval Personnel)
It has come to the attention of the Bureau that there is a growing tendency on the part of Naval Personnel to indicate the names and locations of ships when registering at hotels. This practice violates security and should be carefully guarded against. An explanation to the clerk when registering that an address concerning a ship cannot be divulged normally will be sufficient. In no case, however, should the information be given, even if this means going to another hotel instead.
A proper way of registering would be: Joe Gish, S2c, U. S. Navy.
Another way would be: Joe Gish, S2c, Cedar Falls, Iowa—the name and home town of the registrant.
The “Sending Station" on Zero Deck of the U. S. S. Morrissey.
On Report
By P. C. M.
That crossed - finger complex which Storekeeper Bill Keefe became afflicted with some time ago was just another part of his all out effort to Stay unrestricted long enough to get home over a week-end. Evidently it did the work for Bill kept his record clean last week and stayed off report. We found him contentedly sleeping in the Chicago South Shore station at midnight Sunday awaiting the 12:20 train to South Bend after having spent that long sought week-end at home.
Incidentally, for an effective disciplinary measure, we suggest a sentence of one round trip to Chicago on the same train that took us there and back. Anyone who survives that ordeal will surely refrain from committing the same act again.
Seaman MacArthur, drill hall habitue, is gradually losing all contacts with other members of the drill hall crew. In other words, he is being shunned like a black sheep. Seems as though heavy work assignments so consistently include the small but willing Mac in the working
(Continued on page 27)
Five Freshmen Win Bengal Championships: Quinlan and Farrell Register Knock-outs
BILL CAREY
one sided airair was finally stopped by Referee George Nate after 1:53 of the second round.
A break in the program was featured by a three round exhibition by two of the Chicago Golden Glovers, who will show their wares in New York. It
Five two-fisted Freshmen slugged their way to titles in the 12th annual Bengal Bouts, at the Fieldhouse, last Friday evening. Before an enthusiastic crov.d of 3,000 fight fans, the men of ’46 placed a contender in every class, save one, and furthered their domination by salvaging five runner-up positions. The . program was a winner from the opening bell, and maintained the high standards set by the Bouts in the past.
The first contest bi ought together Tim Crowe of Chicago and Breen-Phillips, and Dillonite Harry Osborne from Elgin, Ill. Osborne, a rangy 120 pounder, boasted a reach and height advantage over the stockier Crowe. The first round saw Harry forcing the fight, but on the receiving end of a series of sharp rights. Dazed momentarily, Osborne came back to throw a flurry of blows to Crowe’s head. It was anybody’s battle going into the third stanza. Both boys cast defense to the winds, and tried for a quick knockout. Crowe hit the canvas shortly before the bell. The winner by a decision— Harry Osborne.
Frank Debitetto, the Brooklyn battler, danced and pounded his way to victory in the 127’s over Brownson’s Tom King. The Saint Ed’s lad took the initiative, and
Bengaleers Trade Punches Before 3,000 Enthusiastic Fans in the Fieldhouse
stalked his foe from the start. King countered with some looping rights, but Debitetto more than made up for this with a number of point winning wallops. Flashing a long left in the face of his shorter foe, Frank was then forced to relreat before Tom’s wild charges. Debi-tetto, however, had the defense to hold him off, and drove several rights to King’s chin in the interim. The third round was an all out effort to make up the difference, on the part of King, but Debitetto shut the door in his face, and ccupou the title.
Summer champion, Sorin’s own Joe Farrell, proved his worth as he clammed out an impressive two round T.K.O. over courageous Don Hummer. Hummer, quite appropriately from Defiance, Ohio, just didn’t know when to quit, and was a gamester to the very end. The bout, throughout, was a torrid one. Farrell, at , the outset, kept lashing through Hummer’s defense with a crisp right. Don, representing the N.R.O.T.C. and Walsh, fought his best from in close. Farrell floored him for a five count, as the first round ended. Joe came out eager for the kill, but Hummer hung on stubbornly. Once, twice, three times he went down before the flying fists of Farrell. The
brought together welterweight Harry Sparrow, a former Chicago CYO champ, and chunky Tony Allicino, a middleweight and the U. S. Coast Guard title holder.
Reigning Champion of the 145 pound class, Bob Lee, an Off Campus student from Cicero, Ill., fought an exhibition. His scheduled opponent, Bill Leonard, a track satellite, had to run in the Chicago Relays on the following night, and was forced to default. However, Jack Murphy, another of the fine St. Ed’s A.C. aggregation, pushed Lee to the very limit, and made the bout one of the evening’s best. Both lads displayed polished styles and good, strong punching ability. From bell to bell it had the crowd yelling approval. During the set-to, the tide turned many times. Both Champion Bob Lee, and Jack Murphy, a lad who evidently doesn’t respect a king, gave a topflight exhibition. .
Farrell Quinlan quickly quenched the title aspirations of Freshman Lou Twar-dzik, when he K.O.ed the threat to his welterweight crown in 1:12 of the first round. The 1942 victor — blonde, wiry, fair-skinned—stalked his foe, throwing a barrage of lefts and rights at the Zahmite from Shenandoah, Pa. Twardzik countered for a time with a stinging left, but couldn’t stand up under the blows ■ that hit him from all sides. He got up once, but the next count of 10 found him a split, second late in getting up. A whip-like right cross was the killing shot. The one returning titleholder on the entire card, the pride of Lake Bomeseen, Vt. and Alumni Hall, Farrell Quinlan did not disappoint his many, supporters.
. Two chief specialists from the Midshipmen’s School on campus, W. W. Sheerer and Charles Aherne, gave an interesting Judo exhibition during the intermission period. Their demonstration of the elementary breaks -and throws were well received by the crowd.
With three of the evening’s most promising matches coming up, the fans settled down for the climax of a thrill-packed card.
When announcer Harry “the . Horse” Wright called Frank Lombardo and Virgil “Dugie” Turner to battle it was the final showdown between two directly conflicting styles —the slugger and the boxer. The pattern of the meeting .saw Turner — charging, always coming in — and Lombardo—feinting off roundhouse swings, and countering with telling blows
16
of his own. The bout was marked by several toe-to-toe sorties, that had the entire house on its feet. Turner came from his comer at the outset, chopping furiously. Frank, taking a good number of these on his pawing mittens, tatooed a pair of beauties on the chin of the Texan. The second was a repetition of the first.
Dan Scherrer leaves ring after his fight.
The finale, however, was perhaps the most rugged canto of the night. Both boys, tiring under the strain, were slugging away with every ounce of their 165 pounds. From one corner to the other, they socked and brawled. Turner’s right arm was raised in victory because of his aggressiveness. It was one of those decisions that could have gone either way. It was a truly great bout.
St. Edward’s courageous. Bill Martin, and rugged Mike Cutt of Zahm made the customers wince, as they traded punch for punch in the light-heavyweight class. In the end, Martin’s superb conditioning paid off, as it had in his two previous fights. The Detroit lad proved himself the fightingest champion of all, by winning the third’in a row, over the toughest boys an the tournament. Cutt in his semifinal elimination had scored the quickest K.O. of the three nights. In the opening minute of the first round, Cutt, using his longer reach, caught Martin with a stinging left. Bill rallied, however, and evened the score before they went back to their corners. In the second, the St. Ed’s worthy tagged his taller opponent with some power laden rights that cut inside the Tonawanda, N.'Y. boy’s crosses. Martin built up a substantial point lead at the finish, as he drew blood, and filled the air with leather. Even to the end though, Cutt stayed in there, and his right was a constant threat. The judges gave Martin; the palm in a rugged interesting contest.
A 20 pound weight advantage, and a
dynamite-loaded right pillow, won for Ted Budynkiewicz in the heavyweight division. Foe Danny Scherrer fought a courageous battle, but couldn’t combat the rushing tactics of the Chicopee, Mass, footballer. The Bull connected with some of his evil-looking roundhousers, and Scherrer did well to tie him up. In the second round Danny rallied momentarily, as he snapped a trio of hard rights to the head of Budynkiewicz. The Bull, however, came back quickly and was in complete control for the rest of the route.
Boxers, Judo, and Band;
Hi-Lighted at Bengals
A record crowd of 3,000 rabid boxing fans who crowded into the Notre Dame fieldhouse last Friday evening for the finals of the 12th Annual Bengal Bouts were presented two shows that ranked with the best ever presented in the long line of Bengal programs.
Shortly after Joe Farrell conquered Don Hummer via the T.K.O. route, an announcement boomed: over the public address system presenting a pair of Chicago’s Golden Gloves team. Harry Sparrow and Tony Allicino continued from there and proceeded to give the crowd an amazing exhibition of in-fiight-ing and ring tactics. The two Coast Guardmen, although lacking some of the vicious death-dealing blows that characterized the Bengal titlists, displayed technique that can only be acquired by many years of careful training.
The big man and the little man trade punches—and one is headed for a fall.
Two Chief Specialists took over the action after two additional bouts and proceeded to show every foul trick employed in the art of judo which was originated by the Japs. Chiefs W. W. Scherer and .Charles Aherne displayed methods of breaking almost- every hold in the books and some that would not be found in the principles of sportsman
ship and fair play. A few holds featured by the Navy men included the three primary blows to the bridge of the nose, to the Adam’s apple, and to the lower abdomen; choke holds and various ways of breaking, them; and two trick holds consisting of a gentle breaking of the wrist and the use of both hands to break an opponent’s grip. Three modern Judo tricks climaxed the show. In disarming an attacking c'ombatant with a gun, several methods were shown. Grabbing the right hand and breaking the wrist, kicking the gun from the hand of the opponent, and bringing the arm around to deflect the weapon and thrusting a foot to the. stomach, were among, those demonstrated. By the time the specialists stepped off the mat, the crowd had a very good idea of what the Japs started and on what the Yanks are putting the finishing touches.
The top-notch entertainment out side of the ring was undoubtedly the fine rhythms presented by the band. Director. H. Lee Hope arranged a program -that was befitting a Fighting Irish evening. Special Irish airs were presented along with a medley of patriotic tunes and several fast-stepping marches.
Colorful Fight Program
Presented at Bengals
“The winnahl — Ted Budynkiewicz,” and thus the close of the 12th annual Bengal Bouts. Amid the rafters, partially wrought by the resounding noise of the throng, Notre Dame has seen the crowning of seven new campus champions and one repeater.
Excitement played its own glorious role in the three day extravaganza, but the best one was the anxiety of the second doing an amazing drop from the ring to terra firma with the water receptacle.
All the services and corps seemed to be scattered at ringside and in the bleachers, but a consensus of opinion gave the edge to the apple cores, which were strewn here and there throughout the place.
Celebrities? but we did see Bobby Faught, Chuck Butler, and Bonnie Bon-icelli dragging in the odd nickels and dimes at the grub stand.
The antics of Dave Curtin, Dick Murphy (although he did the vice-versa on a few bouts), and Harry “the horse” Wright, as ring announcers put across a nice presentation of the matches. Bill Boss was situated at the ringside mike and gave out with the commercials and prominent hullabaloo.
(Continued on page 21)
17
X y .	>	> fatte Thorne	,	,	,
V&e^==^^^=2^=^^=!=^^^==^=:^^=^=^^^^2=^=!^=^==^=^=^^==^^^^^^^^^==^==:^=^===2=3MV
Irish Long Distance Men Win at Chicago: Set For All-Out Offensive at Purdue Relays
definitely going there to run. The big contest of the week-end will still be the one at the Purdue Fieldhouse where all the Irishmen will appear.
BILL BROWN
From where Cornelius Warmerdam saw the Chicago Belays last Saturday, at a spot close to 16 feet above the floor, it was a great night for the Irish. The affair was an invitational meet so that there was no team championship at stake but merely a chance to display individual brilliance which the Irish past and present did very well.
The past and present Irish established a clean sweep of the two mile run with Greg Bice, Ollie Hunter, and Tony Maloney finishing in that order.
The Irish Head for Another Victory
Bice and Hunter put on their two man . show with Ollie following Greg around the track all the way only one stride behind until Bice put on his finishing kick to break the tape some 35 yards ahead of Hunter. Together the two lapped the field and Greg, during his sprint finish, managed to pass some of the contestants again before hitting the tape. Maloney had to content himself with a third place finish that might have been a first had supermen been barred from competition.
The one mile relay team which has been plugging along unheralded all year
added the relays championship to their laurels. Austin Jones, Don Lundergan, Dick Tupta, and Gene Fehlig have run in that order as the relay team all season and have as yet to meet a defeat. In Saturday’s showing they won over teams from Indiana and Purdue which they will meet again this Saturday at the Purdue Belays.
The two mile relay team which established a record two weeks ago at the Illinois Tech Belays ran a faster race in this meet but were outclassed by a revised Michigan team anchored by Bob Ufer. The team finished third behind fast Michigan and Illinois teams.
This Saturday the Irish trackmen are invading Lafayette for- the Purdue Belays which are taking the place, of the Old Butler Belays for this year and more to come.
Coach Handy is taking a formidable squad down there with all intentions of bringing back to Notre Dame Sunday morning the team trophy of the Belays.
There will be four relay races in this meet and Mr. Handy is out to win all of them. He will revise the personnel of the teams except the mile relay which will remain intact. He is not certain who will run on any of the teams but is rather definite that Ollie Hunter and Don Currie will be on one or two of them as will most of the men who have served in relays already this season.
Hunter will probably see more limited relay service than will Currie since Ollie will be used in bringing home the two mile run bacon.
It would be hard to get the team championship' without taking some of the sprints, hurdle races, and field events so there will be Irishmen in those too. Dillon, Delaney, Murphy, and Wiethoff will carry the burden in these events and will be bolstered by Miller, Zilly, Yonaker, Tharp, and White.	-	.
Friday night some of the runners will go to Cleveland with Mr. Handy to appear in a Catholic Youth Organization meet. Again Mr. Hunter was the only one that Coach Handy could say was
Lombardo and Zahm Hall
Cop Bengal Trophies
Last Friday evening rang down the curtain on the Bengal Bout action for 1943. Early this week, the Scholastic, promoters of the bouts, came forth with the announcement of the winners of the trophies awarded to the fighter exhibiting the greatest sportsmanship and to the hall scoring the highest number of points according to the A.A.U. rules.
Despite a frosh-dominated card, an upper-classman in the person of Dillon Hall’s stocky Frank Lombardo copped the individual award. About to go into the army upon completion of the Ben-gals, the New York City battler matched blows with Dubie Turner for three torrid rounds before losing the decision by a scant three points. Frank, a veteran of the 1942 bouts, will receive the Bengal Bout Sportsmanship Trophy donated by the “Huddle” through manager E. F. Connolly.
In the race for the hall championship trophy, donated by William Lubbers, South Bend sports enthusiast and proprietor of the Becreational Equipment Co. (Beco), Father Maloughney’s Zahm Hall topped the list of halls entered. The Zahmbies, although failing to gain a title, placed Lou Twardzik and Mike Cutt in the final rounds. St. Ed’s boasted champions Debitetto and Martin while the Gold Coast lads from Dillon scored with Harry Osborne, Ted Budynkiewicz and Frank Lombardo. Sorin, Alumni, and Off-Campus had one champion apiece.
Diamond Stock Rises
As Season Approaches
Dick Grant
Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline stated that this is the best material that he has had to work with in quite some years and that he is very sorry that most of the boys will be entering the armed forces soon after the semester terminates. In recent infield workouts he has had Tom Sheehan, a power hitter from New Haven, Connecticut, behind the
18
bat; John Hickey, firstbase;, Ed Ghigli-otti, second; Bob Kline, is stationed at short; and Jim Carlin covers the hot corner. This team is supported by: Artie Metzger, brother of the famous Firebailer Johnnie Metzger of last year’s squad, catcher; “Red” Beagley, first-base; Tom Carlin, key stone guarder; Frank Vignola, shortstop and Dick Grant, third. As yet the outfielders have not had a chance to show their wares but with the weather becoming milder-as the days roll by, they are expected to go outside for fielding at a moment’s notice. Those who presumably have the inside track are: Angelo Bertelli, Jim Thomas, leading hitter of the frosh nine of last year, and Steve Pavella, speedy La Crosse, Wis., youth who came from the basketball squad. Dick Kisgen, senior rightfielder, who played quite a bit of ball last summer for Coach Kline, is also a strong candidate for the outer garden. Smullen, Creevy, Judy and Manyak are four possible starters for the Klinemen. Harold “Audery” Smullen being the only returning letterman among the mound corps.
With the first game only three weeks away, Jake has .cut his squad from approximately 100 candidates to two teams. The opener is scheduled for April 13, with the University of Michigan at Notre Dame. Other tentative games are: two games with Indiana, here, a return game with Michigan, at Michigan; and a home and home series with Western Michigan and Michigan State. There is also a possibility of arranging games with Great Lakes, Navy Pier and Camp Grant, but there will be no- games with major league teams because of the short playing season. The dates of the games have not yet been announced but the schedule has been submitted to the faculty board for adoption.
The building of the Navy Drill Hall necessitated the construction of a new diamond which is now taking shape under the capable hands of the University workmen. It is expected to be ready by the end of the present week, weather permitting. The new field will be located southeast of the former site, and as soon as the diamond is completed, Coach Kline will continue his drills in the open air. Because of the inclement weather and the short season, daily infield workouts have taken place in the field house with Saturdays being devoted to hitting practice. “Jake” said that there was no time to waste and a team must be whipped into shape as soon as possible in order to afford competition to any teams that the Irish are liable to meet.
Interhall Net Prexy
Announces All Stars
the last week
The Interhall and the New League basketball games were not held during cause of the Bengal Bouts. Play will resume this week, and the finishing games promise to be very good.
Bill Amann wishes to express his appreciation for the organizing and leading of
the Interhall basketball teams throughout the season to the following men:
James Gormley, Cavanaugh; Andy McKay, Dillon I; Bob Martin, Dillon II; Dick Froehlke, Dillon III; Tom Cody, Sorin; Steve Weigal, Breen-Phillips; Dan Casey, Alumni I; Frank Vignola, Alumni II; Tom Conley, Alumni III; Walt Jones, Law Club; Mike Romano, Zahm; Chief Jablonski, N. R. 0. T. C.; Ted Furman, Brownson; John Moore, Walsh; Bill Carey, St. Edwards.
Coaches Interhall Lights
Bob Gorski, Dillon; Joe Knickerbocker, Cavanaugh; Walt Rogers, Sorin; McIntyre, St. Edwards; Steve Weigal, Breen-Phillips; Frank Stumpf, Walsh; Chief Jablonski, N. R. 0. T. C.; Sam Meyer, Alumni; Lewis Shiolend, Brownson; Bill
Ferrick, Zahm; Hal Hunter, Law Club; Bob Schoonover, Off Campus.
He also wishes to thank Bill Waddington, who has done more than his share officiating throughout the pre-season and the regular season Interhall basketball games. He most highly recommends him to take over Messinger’s job to referee for the varsity.
At this time we are able to print the entire All Star Heavyweight and All Star Lightweight teams. These boys are picked by Bill Amann as the best in the leagues.
All Star Heavy
Team I
Jones, Law Club-----F
O’Connell, Walsh ---F
Duffy, Sorin --------G
Begley, Dillon, II _G
Santiano, Zahm-------G
Team II
Wade, NROTC_______F Gaffney, Alumni I — F
Suty, Brownson____G Pesut,' St. Ed’s__G
Huber, Cavanaugh — C
All Star Light
Team I
“Bed” Gilligan, NROTC Knickerbocker, Cavan.
Carmola, Breen-Phillips Shioleno. Brownson Mike Kelly, Sorin
Team H
P. Doyle. Off Campus Gorski. Dillon Sterrett. St. Edwards Altendorf, Zahm Meyer, Alumni
—Bob Erkins
Victories Foreseen
For Varsity Netmen
Tennis enthusiasts cast anxious eyes toward their rackets hung neatly on the walls of their rooms this week as the weatherman provided a few' decent days. A number of the diehards even struggled out in a valiant effort to attain early season form.
Coach Walter Langford, also encouraged by a charge of spring weather, outlined a seven match varsity schedule subject to the approval of the athletic board. At present these matches are planned to include Michigan State, Chicago, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Indiana, DePauw and Western Michigan, with the possible addition of Michigan and Purdue. Varsity practice will commence as soon as weather permits. Competitive matches will begin April 16.
The Irish squad, despite heavy losses to the armed forces, is expected to compile a victory string similar to that of last year’s team, which was unbeaten in nine matches with the finest net units in the Mid-West. Bob Faught is the only returning member of last year’s “Big Four” which included Dan Canale, Olen Parks, and Bud Ford. Bob -will hold down the second spot. In the lead-off position there is a fellow who has already notched victories in some of the nation’s topflight amateur championships — Jimmy Evert. Jim copped the University tennis title last fall defeating Faught in the finals. Johnny Troup appears firmly entrenched as the number three man with a summer of tough tennis backing him up in the experience division. The remaining two places are wide open. Artie -Hoffman, Lyle Joyce, Jim Quinn, Ray O’Connell and Ed Capard are all in the running in addition to a field of sophs and frosh.
Rockne's Anniversary
Notre Dame clubs throughout the nation will pay tribute to the memory-of the late Knute Rockne coach and athletic director on the 12th anniversary of the great sportsman’s death, Wednesday, March 31.
Annually, Notre Dame alumni groups gather at Communion breakfasts in America’s larger cities to commemorate Rockne’s death.
The Notre Dame Monogram Club -will again visit the grave of the great coach.
19
INTRODUCING
BILL WADDINGTON
Anthony Joseph Maloney . . . everybody calls him “Tony”, naturally . . . no kiddin’, he’s from the much publicized New York “Bronx” .... Being just a little bang when he came into being July 13, 1921, he’s now a campus big shot. . . . Standing 6 feet one inch and weighing 170 is a particularly visible part of his character . . . has resided with Bill Sweeney for four years and presently holds forth in 262 Alumni ... . No, he didn’t go in for sports in the grades . . . not even in the first three years of high .... Two weeks after his first cross-country run as a senior, he copped the New York City cross-country championship . . . prac-
Tony Maloney
tically an overnight job . . . says he got his ground-word for track by delivering the “Bronx News” for three years in high school .... After that he was THEE Tony Maloney getting the indoor track Nat’l. Championship in “the garden” with a 4:27 mile . . . also grabbed the city championships for the mile indoor and outdoor ... oh yes, this was still his first year at the track racket. ...
Tony naturally wanted to work under John J. Nicholson . . . he met him in New York . . . plus his father’s wanting him to come here . . . guess those are reasons enough ... so, he’s here!
As a freshie, he proudly dusted off Greg Rice’s cross-country record and added a new shine to it . . . with tha^ and three year of varsity competition, he’s been a four-year harrier . . . Since getting rid of the freshman nemesis,
he’s become a miler of quite some .note but doubles occasionally on pair of miles . . . snatched the Central Collegiate mile with 4:25 in his sophomore year . . . but his fastest time for the 5,280 feet was 4:14 when he finished second . to Indiana’s famous Campbell Kane in last year’s renewal of the Central Collegiate meet at Milwaukee . . . member of the 1942 distance medley relay team at the Drake Relays . . . one that set a new mark, by the way...
Recalls winning about 22 of a possible 30 races in varsity competition . . . holds the Marquette mile meet record, 4:18 ... . Last year’s four mile-relay team, Butler Relay -winner, had Tony an the anchor .... He concludes that this year’s cross-country season was very successful . . . has already won the two one-mile events in dual meets with Navy Pier and Indiana . . . appeared in “the garden” a month ago, his high school stamping grounds . . . titlist of the Michigan Relays with a 4:18:8 for the mile . . . was invited to run against Rice, finished third with Ollie second in Chicago Relays last week ... has two monograms and is in the process of earning his third . . . picked up the nick-name “Gunner” because of the habit of trying to always kick in the gun lap of the mile. . .
Plans to run for the New York Athletic Club after graduation and possibly a post-war plan ... a V-7 lad . . . commerce man with a cum laude to brag about . . . intends working on the New York City fire department and going to Fordham night law school . . . Owner of a private flying license . . . flew with C. P. T. last year at Bendix and logged a total of 60 hours in the air . . . was president of the freshman class . . . member of the student council for two years . . . presently, v-n. of the Met Club . . . likes his Mom’s Irish Stew, and how !!!... is the family pet cause he’s the one and only . . . next to track, golf is his favorite sporte but only in the track off season . . . takes a liking to Sammy Kaye and Andre Kostel-anetz . . . Attention future New York voters !!!... his ambition is to be. mayor of New York . . . starting with the fire department job ought to be a start he says . . . sounds like a La Guardia junior to me ...
Another cinder path man who hails from the Bronx and Morris High School . . . Frank Joseph Conforti . . . running
mate with Maloney in his senior year . . . born December 26, 1920, . . . now carries a 5 feet 9% inch stature and 145 pounds of flesh and bone . . . “In spring a young man’s fancy, turns to love,” but in Frankies case it turned to track and baseball . . . taking up the distances in the former and shortstop in the latter . . . had to give up the diamond sport as he was only allowed to compete in one . . . also tossed the shot to be out of the ordinary . . . recollects running a 4:29 mile six or seven times during high school career . . . Broke Les MacMitchell’s mile rec-
Frank Conforti
ord in the Dickerson High School meet with 4:32 . . . championships include a couple of “Bronx” medals and a few “borough” victories, but too hard to remember times and specific meets . . . Greatest pep thrill was getting nosed out by a foot by San Romani in the A. A. U. meet although Frank had 60 yards to start with . . . still finished up with a 4:15 . . .
John Nicholson saw him run with Maloney while at Morris and competing in the Public School Athletic League . . . since being here he started his initial year with cross-country, mile, and half mile... last year he finished fourth in the N. C. A. A. mile in Lincoln, Nebraska . . . presently a member of the relay team that set the new mark in the Illinois Tech Relays two weeks ago . . . Going out to Nebraska was greatest college venture ....
Personal aspects include his accounting major . . . wants to be C. P. A. after the war ... a V-7 man now . . . will put a third ■ stripe on his sweater after this season . . . expresses preference at mile but contends he’ll take any ' distance offered ... Likes to play and watch baseball . . . his favorite sport... even though his track ability is quite superlative, he still has a looming throb
20
for the diamond in his heart . . . but. he was a better runner than ball-player, that’s why he gave it up . . . takes a liking to spaghetti and Harry James . . . they call him “Irish” . . . claims he’s got a little shamrock in him from his mother’s side . . . goes in for Jackson Benny . . . now, he can furnish putting on his tie to go to Chicago . . .
COLORFUL FIGHT PROGRAM (Continued from page 17)
But where was Promoter Robert “Red” Lonergan? We think because of his absence from the buck seats, noncushioned at that, that he was doing a few slow laps around Cartier Field to gather a slow cooling off after his heated efforts to put over this year’s show.
Omnipotent boos and hisses were claimant to a few of the T. K. O.’s registered by the refs. Frankie Lombardo and Virg Turner received quite an ovation after their six minutes of continual pounding—everybody went nuts over that mix, a few more went nuttier aftei’ the decision.
Professor Lee Hope’s assemblage of musicians gave out with some rhythmic airs including their old standby “Praise the Lord and Pass the Ammunition.” The band probably lost the services of
Lou Twardzik for the night as he entered the ring against Farrell Quinlan, at least we think he’s in the band ’cause he’s the only guy who got a fanfare when the boxers were introduced, —his stay was abbreviated, however.
The Beginning of the end for the Blue.
No fight would have been complete without the Irish blue and gold, which were similated in the trunks worn. There was an outburst of corny gags that added to the amusement of the spectator division. . . never forgetting, of course, the gals still get a whistle
from the males when they walk in a public place,—you’d . have thought it was “Sloppy Joe’s.”
We managed to grab a few opinions on the fights at the conclusion of this year’s classic:.	.
Rod Hayden - Brownson — “Fights were awfully close, but I thought a few decisions could have gone the other way.”
Frank Conforti — Sorin — “Best crowd ever out and there was a lot of effort by the promotion manager to put across a good show. They were really swell, we ought to have ’em more; often.”
Dave Champion — Zahm—“There was sportsmanship in all the matches, no cowardice and all seemed to have the necessary guts plus the boys all being in pretty good condition.”
Bert Apker — St. Ed’s — “Man, they’re swell, well worth watching.”
All that takes place now is the handing out of the class belts, lock up the book, and wait till next March. Huh?
P. S. I’m glad the vendors didn’t infest the stands during the bouts, that would have put the joint in an uproar. Nice going, peanut man.—B. Waddington
PARKER-WINTERROWD.
115% N. MAIN ST. — UPSTAIRS — NORTH OF OLIVER HOTEL
REPRESENTING M. BORN & COMPANY — CHICAGO
ALL GARMENTS MEASURED AND FITTED IN OUR OWN FITTING ROOM
ENSIGN SUITS
SERGE, 16 OZ. .	.	.	38.00
ELAST1QUE, 16 OZ.	.	.	47.00
WHIPCORD. 16 OZ.	.	.	47.00
WIDE WALE SERGE. 16 OZ. 47.00
WHITE TWILLS AND
KHAKI GABARDINES
WHITES, TWO FOR 25.00
KHAKI .	.	.	17.00
.^.CUSTOM TAILORED
RAINCOATS
SERGE .
ELASTIQUE WHIPCORD
42.00
42.00
42.00
ALL ACCESSORIES AT REASONABLE PRICES
SEE OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES — BOB DAVIES — REGGIE FLYNN .

"MUCHAS GRACIAS"
Yes, many thanks to all who assisted in presenting the twelfth annual Bengal Bouts. ... To the fighters goes the credit for putting on one of the finest of boxing shows seen at this University in many a season. To Mr. Scannell and the physical education department we must credit the smoothness
-KEh” LONERGAN of the sh0W; the fights were run off in record time this year. For the fact that this year we set an all-time high in attendance for the final night, we can thank the student council for their ticket drive which netted over five hundred tickets sold in advance. To all these factions and to the others whom we haven’t the space to mention go our sincere appreciation and thanks for the services rendered. . . . Lt. Donovan’s failure to appear was something that was beyond the control of any of us, as all the planes were grounded coming out of New York, this making it impossible for him to get here. . . . Harry Sparrow, the C.Y.O. champion has participated in over three hundred fights since he first entered the ring. . . . The tough luck boy of the fights seemed to be one Mr. Murphy who weighed in at around 145 pounds. In . his first fight he lost a very close decision to Walt Romito, then in his exhibition match with the bouts biggest surprise, Bob Lee, he put on a beautiful show. So to John Murphy goes the . presidency of the Bengal Bout “Wailing Wall” ....
UNION HOURS????
That’s one thing Lou Rymkus, Harry Wright, and Bob Webb are sure not working on. They are putting in the standard days work at Studebakers and then taking classes in physical education at the downtown high schools, plus their classes here on the campus. Now- don’t tell me you have heard of a schedule like that anywhere outside of the funny papers. These boys will be using the Army as a place for a rest-cure. ... We wish to congratulate Ralph Vinci-guerra for his grand showing in his initial night in professional basketball, playing for the Detroit pros.... Bill. Earley, veteran right halfback on the 1942 varsity squad, was married recently
"RED" LONERGAN
in Charlestown, West Virginia, to Miss Louise Schilling, of Parkersburg, West Virginia. She was his boyhood sweetheart. Bill and his wife are just returning from their honeymoon which was cut short by Bill’s call to report to service at Fort Hayes, Columbus, Ohio.
"WING ON THAT ICE-COLD COCA-COLA
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
ask T«e STOKSK
'NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT
“Letters come from war plant managers telling how a pause for Coca-Cola is welcomed by workers. If you had to stand up to a hot furnace, you’d see the word refreshment in a new light. And as for refreshment, that's what ice-cold Coca-Cola is. No wonder everybody agrees that the only thing like Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola, itself.”

. . .. Here he is entering the Army Air Corps, and will be shipped to Kessler Field, Biloxi, Mississippi. . . . Wally Fromhart, Notre Dame quarterback in 1933, ’34, and ’35, has acquired another position at Mount Carmel high school in Chicago; he is now head basketball coach replacing another ex-Notre Dame man, Jimmy Jordan. . . .
BASKETBALL BITS
An all-time Notre Dame record (for a normal season) of 1,071 points were scored by the Notre Dame basketball team, which won 18 of it’s 20 games


this season. . . . Bob Faught led the squad for the second straight year in scoring, compiling 196 points in twenty games at center. . . . Guard Bob Rens-berger of Nappanee, Indiana, threatened to become the first guard in the history of Notre Dame basketball to lead the team in scoring, but his one point lead dwindled as the lanky center piled up fourteen points in the Detroit game against Rensberger’s 2. . . . The lifetime record of the late George Keogan has finally been compiled, his winning percentage is .773, and he never had a losing season while head coach of the Notre Dame team. This is a record which is almost phenomenal, and one that will be equalled by few coaches in this era. . . . The graduating seniors are Vinciguerra, Butler, both forwards, and Rensberger a guard—to them we say, “a job well done”. ... We may have stopped playing Stanford due to this war, but we will take up where we left off when we take on Pittsburgh in our opening this September 25th. For we will undoubtedly run into Coach Shaughnessy and his famous “T” again when we meet the revitalized Panthers. .... We missed meeting this disciple of the famous formation, which the Chicago Bears and his. own Stanford Indians hoisted to national fame, when we met Stanford last fall. . . . Harry Osborne, the runner-up in the 120 pound class in this year’s Bengal Bouts was just notified to report for induction into the service. That training Harry picked up while working out for the bouts will undoubtedly aid him in getting into shape for Uncle Sam. . . . Jack Zilly held captaincies in three sports while at the academy at Cheshire, Connecticut, these sports being basketball, track, and football. . . . Those who claim that “Ziggie” Czarobski has too big- a “line” to combat, ought to be allowed to know that it was a long line, which many of us call a tie, that nearly cost “Ziggie” his life. You see he got one of his ties caught in a meat grinder and was nearly strangled to death before someone came to the rescue. . .*. That would have put an awful speedy 'end to one of Notre Dame’s most1'renowned politicians and mouthpieces.	-
~ — — -
Warming the Bench
With Bill Boss
On July 4, 1776 the United States declared her independence to the world.
The 167th anniversary of this great writ
BILL BOSS
may see the outstanding middle - distance runner of the world declare his independence.
From Bob Considine’s column in the New York Mirror- last week, relayed to us by Nick Amato, a loyal
Notre Darner, who is recuperating from an illness at his home in Kingston, N. Y., comes the intimate story of how Greg Rice feels about meeting Sweden’s two mile swiveler, Gunner Hagg, on the Fourth of July.
Rice, always the alert and considerate sportsman, told Considine that he felt American track authorities should give Hagg “two or three weeks to acclimate himself.” “He must be the best there is,” added-Rice, “we should give him every chance to prove it.”
QompuA Oe/tiewiAM PtwlicatiOM^
NOTRE DAME - 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS $2.50 of Charles L. O'Donnell

According to Considine, Rice did not believe that the two whirling decisiions he lashed from Taisto Maki, the fabulous Finn, were fair competitive duals. J. Gregory spoke, “That wasn’t a fair test
Gregory Rice
of Maki. He was a much better runner than he showed himself to be here. No wonder. He was taken out of action in the Finnish-Russian war, was separated from his wife and child, hadn’t been training or eating well, and was tendered too many banquets when he did get
Squash Tourney Scheduled
A handball doubles tournament started Tuesday of this week with twenty-five teams looking forward to being the final victors. The handball singles title is scheduled to be decided this coming week. All those students interested in playing in a squash tournament will get their chance next week when action starts. There is still time for squash enthusiasts to enter.
tut....................................................................................................................................
NAVAL UNI ri
Individually Hand to Individual Measures
NAVAL OFFICER’S BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL OFFICER’S KHAKI WORKING UNIFORM
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient service that literally reaches from shore to shore . . . an advantage of great value to men on the move. For instance, an order placed at Notre Dame may be delivered and fitted at Corpus Christi ... or New York ... or St. Louis ... or Jacksonville . . . or at any one of a score of Simpson Naval shops in all parts of the country. Wherever you find a Simpson Naval Shop you find trained, courteous, efficient personnel to serve you.
The long experience of J. B. Simpson assures naval officers the standard of quality, design and tailor-
IX 4
ing that will give complete satisfaction. All Simpson uniforms are skillfully designed for best appearance and durability and are sturdily constructed for more days of wear.
CHO top withi
NAVAL OFFICER'S WHITE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S „r , WINTER ■I- Al WORKING /iOVERCOAT
NAVAL OFFICER’S^ OVERCOAT^ (Two-piece half belt in back)
J. B. SIMI
NAVAL
IN SOUTH BEND - 2^
or our Campus location in the
“Zero Declipf i
CHICAGO LOOP, CHICAGO W. S., CHICAGO N. S., WACEG BOSTON, PITTSBURGH, DETROIT, ST. LOUIS, KANSAS (CY, WAYNE, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN DIEGO, MEMPHIS, HOl|rOT
24
' O R M S of Character
d lut and Tailored s y J. B. Simpson, Inc.
IANY DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OFFERED 1 J. B. SIMPSON NAVAL UNIFORMS
i OUR NAME IN YOUR GARMENT: in addition to a smart monogram ■ bel bearing your initials on the inside pocket of your jacket or blouse, ' ery Simpson garment contains a linen label with your name and date id number of order. Printed in fade-proof ink, quick and positive
■ sntification can always be made.
BODKIN BUTTONS with the attached slide that can't be lost and which are so easy to remove are a feature of Simpson garments. This permits easy removal when garments are to be cleaned and pressed and eliminates loss of buttons.
iCRET MONEY POCKET IN TROUSER WAISTBAND: hny officers find this neat and convenient pocket is mighty |idy. It is right on the waistband of the trouser (inside) ;
and does not interfere with your comfort.
Easily accessible
TALON SLIDE CLOSURE AND GRIPPER FASTENER STANDARD ON ALL TROUSERS: We have set aside a large supply of metal grippers and Talon zipper fasteners to use on military uniforms. (At present, it seems we will be restricted in our use of these items for civilian purposes.)
CKET OPENING IN FACING OF COAT FOR QUICK IEMOVAL OF BUTTONS: Buttons are easily removed in lust a minute’s time through the little pocket opening in lie facing. This opening will not gap or fold over, as is lie case with the old-fashioned method of leaving the facing open.
CHOICE OF POCKETS; You may have regular side pockets or quartei top or half top pockets in trousers. Individual preferences, as allowed within regulations, are followed on all personal details.
IPSON, Inc.
' TAILORS
NORTH MAIN STREET
MAIL COUPON TODAY-
FM FREE ILLUSTRATED	|
naval uniform unite	।
with price list and actual samples of	।
uniform materials.	I
J. B. SIMPSON, INC., 205 N. Main St., South Bend. Ind. .
Gentlemen:	I
Please send me your Free Illustrated Catalog of Naval Uniforms with price list and samples of materials.
-W the Dining Hall — opposite your Naval Store
Name-------------------------------------
ACEGAN, PHILADELPHIA, NEW HAVEN, NEWARK, NEW YORK, ► H, CLEVELAND, TOLEDO, INDIANAPOLIS, YOUNGSTOWN, FT. )l|rON, CORPUS CHRISTI, PENSACOLA, JACKSONVILLE, SO. BEND.
State
25
here. No wonder he couldn’t run very well.”
But Hagg will be a well conditioned fellow when he arrives in America to race Greg. He will be accompanied by a small band of Swedish athletic officials and friends, who will see that hospitable Americans do not over-feed Gunder or keep him up after lights should have doused.
The lanky Swede has swept around the outdoor two mile course in the record clocking of 8:47.8. J. Gregory has never
nudged this time in the open air, Considine points out, having only churned the distance in 9:02 in his finest sprint against Maki.
Greg told the writer that he attributed his fine running ability to the closeness of the crowd and to the Victory March feature that ripples loudly in the air as he swings through the final 400 yards with his spectacular “kick.”
There are many things to be considered in the Rice-Hagg running classic. There are grouped cinder theorists who
believe Gunder’s stretching strides will leave little Gregory puffing in the background on an outdoor range. But it is almost considered a truth that Greg would lance into the lead on a hardwood oval and lash himself to the fore throughout in such a race, for his stubby legs would bank him around the numerous turns on a wooden saucer so quickly that the long-limbed Hagg would be left far in the rear. But on the outdoor cinder paths it may be different. The drive of the skinny Swede may throw him around the shortened Rice. This remains to be seen.
DO YOU DIG IT?
SEND US YOUR SLANG AND GET $10 IF WE USE IT
Address: College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y. _______________O ________ -
To us, Greg Rice is the ideal athlete. The most courageous leader in contemporary sports annals. He is durable and dependable and has never been greatly pressed by any contender. Ollie Hunter has come the closest, but even Oliver, number three of the first class Hunters, couldn’t edge nearer than 20 yards to the miraculous mite. Should Rice be insistently pressed by the Swede this summer he may unveil a new depth charge of energy conserved in the bulging kegchest. He will pound faster and faster, harder and harder. The Hagg test will be the greatest he will ever face. Gregg will make the best of it. He is yet to fail.
Condon-Sa+ions
Dave Condon
Despite rumors to the contrary, university officials have stated that the present semester will conclude as originally planned in the schedule. Rumors had the semester ending before the Easter vacation. With the program already reduced to a minimum, it appears unlikely that the administrative department could see it clear to chop several additional class days from the year.
Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City,N. Y. Bottled locally by Franchised Bottlers.
Significant
Some significance and indication of a trend toward which way the wind is blowing as regards college life may be had from the fact that pre-registration for the summer semester, which had been ! scheduled for March 15-20, has. not yet. become a reality.
An End to Racketeering
Professional bookbuyers were back on the campus last week, exchanging bits of silver for student texts. Students able to round up a sufficient quantity of ; books were able to pocket a considerable bit of change, although the sums rea- I lized were insignificant in comparison to	|
the actual value and cost of the books.	J
Perhaps after the war* a plan such as . >
26
NAVAL OFFICERS
E. V. Price & Co. offer you
AN APPROVED UNIFORM SERVICE
has been suggested by several university instructors, may be adopted. The plan, which would call for the establishment of a local book exchange, would call for a buying .and selling program on the part of the exchange. Since many of the books sold to the transient racketeers are standard texts, it seems that students might not only be able to receive more for their used books, but be able to purchase needed second-hand books at a considerable saving. Even with this there could be a small profit angle for the promoters.
Our Uniforms are hand cut and individually tailored to your own measurements. Entirely in our own shops.
ENSIGN OUTFIT - complete from $160.70
DE LUXE OUTFIT finest quality, only $231
We carry a complete stock of Haberdashery and Accessories.
Successful	.
The sophomore Cotillion, held for the first time on a semi-formal basis and open to the entire student body, did not attract the crowd that formerly congregated at peace-time Cotillions. This can, perhaps, be explained by the sophs late decision to sponsor the dance, and its mid-week date. Probably the last class affair for the duration, the Cotillion broke a little more than even financially when last minute rush, lasting until three hours before the Palais doors swung open, quenched the anticipated monetary drouth. The sophs had an uncalled-for scare when it was announced that St. Mary’s girls could not be allowed to attend, and bid sales for the first three days did not total the hundred mark.

Awakening
There has been increasing evidence that the Student Council has awakened from a long hibernation. The SC was active in aiding the promotion of the Bengal Bouts and will assist with the War Charities Carnival. It is to be hoped that with increased activity and continued cooperation from the student body, the council will realize many of its long-sought aspirations.
Convenient terms —
Satisfaction guaranteed.
117 West LaSalle
Across from Hoffmann Hotel
Economic Majors
The Comprehensive Examination for those 'majors in Economics who expect to graduate in May or September of this year will be held on the afternoon of April 1, 1943, at 1:15 p.m. Place to be announced later.
The examination is also open to Second Semester Juniors Economic majors.
Students taking the examination must notify the Department of Economics of their intent by mail (postal card) before or on March 27, 1943.
Address card or other communications to Box 92, Department of Economics, Notre Dame, Indiana.
ON REPORT
(Continued from page 15)
party that his crew mates consider him a sort of omen synonymous' with labor. We know he expects work but when a man asks for a drink of water he doesn’t expect to have a fire hose turned on him.
Anyone wishing duty on a sylvan retreat for the duration, contact Lt. A. M. Babich. He knows just the spot and probably would like to share this Shangri La or maybe just give the whole thing to you.	•
•
Bobby Neff, heir to the Chick Neff millions, has cut a couple of teeth, according to his proud fighting father. Good thing Chick has a shoe business back in Burlington, la., ’cause he’ll get plenty of midnight mileage toting little Bobby around the house as more incisors make their appearance. Or would it be _ Millie’s shoes that pace the floor?
Does anyone know the identity of that young thing Helmar Nelson was so intimately conversing with in 'a corner booth of Hotel Sherman’s Celtic Boom? Do you know, Nelson?
And what becomes of that old Texas Longhorn, Seaman Boy Epps, when he intermittently disappears from the presence of his shipmates while week-ending in Chicago?
•
For a guy with only an “A” card, and who has to drive to Buchanan to do his courtin’, Storekeeper Nespital does all right for himself. Hear as to how he slipped a diamond on the gal’s finger in one of her weaker moments. Or was it one of those Zircons?	.
Veteran Jim Tennell says every other week-end is often enough to go ashore!
- • ‘
And then there is the pharmacist’s mate who says, “How’s everything going? All right?”
And now we hear that Lorraine Eich-ey, that head-turner on the zero deck of the mess hall building, has to keep her office door closed all the time. Could it be that the fleet comes in too often? And who. wouldn’t?
.	27
J. C. R.
One day last week, an English major was expostulating on the merits of Dmitri Szostakowicz. He claimed that Szos-
J. C. R. CI-ARK
takowicz’s music will not live. We thought of many people in the past who must have said the same thing about Brahms, Verdi, Rossini, Wagner, and Hayden. Yes, these men w ere popular, some of them, while
they lived, but some who thought themselves music critics and above the com
mon popularity would insist that a man like Verdi or Brahms could not live, for he was merely popular among classical music lovers; they would charge that “it is merely the fad to admire Wagner or Hayden, but they really won’t live; they are unoriginal, copyists.” Our English major friend charges Szostakowicz music as being unoriginal, merely a fad, copying Mozart and Brahms.
We must admit that Szostakowicz music has been played a great deal in the last two years since Russia became our ally, and that other Russian composers have also been played a great deal more than before. But that can hardly be a condemnation of the composer. His music now is serving a purpose which perhaps music is not meant to serve: propaganda. But, as we said before, that can not be a condemnation of the composer of his music. Some of the great music of the world has been written under similar conditions or inspired by similar nationalistic feelings.
Had our friend merely been speaking about the famous “Leningrad” or “Seventh Symphony,” we might have been inclined to agree. For the Seventh symphony hardly came up to our expectations. The famous 15 minutes of drums was not quite so effective as we thought it would be, or as it could have been. And the second and third movements are complete bores. We don’t really think it will live as one of the world’s great symphonies, but we do like the First and Fifth Symphonies of Szostakowicz and think they are original, electric, swift, sharp, despite the unbalancing effects. They are great symphonies and his “Prelude in E Flat” is a great piece of music. He will live for those two symphonies alone, in spite of anything else he has written or will write.
As we have hinted above, our friend sees that it is the fad to admire Szosto-
kowicz and because he imagines himself above such things, he rebels against the popularity of one who has come to the front in times of crisis and pressure; he rebels against the man and the fad, not understanding or bothering to understand the music.
We feel the band again deserves acclamation for its latest successes at the Bengals last Friday night.. Mr. H. Lee Hope has really made a great contribution to the school’s musical life this past year. We think the symphony orchestra or what there was of it deserves mention also for its performance at the play last week. And having mentioned it, we should like to add that we did recognize something by Saint - Saens and some things from Tschaikowsky’s “Pathetique” Symphony.
CBS’s broadcasts at 10:30 for the last week have reminded us to say that Jimmy Dorsey’s band is the best swing, jazz and popular band in the country. For-several years, he had a sort of popularity based on Helen O’Connell’s and Ray Eberle’s vocals and his recordings and programs were pleasant, good, danceable, but a bit of a bore. His popularity began to decline, though nobody said his wasn’t a good band. He just wore out his welcome. But within the last three months, Dorsey has come out with some wonderful arrangements of popular numbers and some beautiful instrumental introductions that have held nothing back. As we see it, the best arrangement yet of “Back Magic” is Dorsey’s, and the introduction ot the vocal is the best piece of popular music we have heard this year.
It is well to mention at this point a musical presentation to be given Monday, April 5 in Washington Hall by the Said-enberg string symphony which will probably be the best musical entertainment on campus so far this year.
Cavanaugh and Walsh
Top Interhall Fencers
Fast action and narrow margins of victory highlighted the Interhall fencing-tournament which got under way last week. Cavanaugh and Walsh were the two teams that finished tournament play without any defeats marring their records. These two teams met yesterday to decide the championship. Third place was not decided until last Monday when the All-Stars defeated Alumni for that spot.
The top meet of the tournament was played between Cavanaugh and the AllStars. It was not decided until the last bout when Ray Zando of Cavanaugh
flashed his sabre through Al. Ortiz’ guard for a 5-4 decision.
The results of tournament play: Walsh 9, Alumni 3; Cavanaugh 7, All-Stars 6; Walsh 9, All-Stars 4; Cavanaugh 8, Alumni 4.
In the championship game Walsh was led by such standouts as Silha, Slevin, Roney, Miley, and Fisher. The Cavanaugh squad was headed by Stratter, Zando, Dillon, Repilado, and Sampierre.
—Tom, Reagan
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of
Desirable Gifts
on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
7a
Mawf Men
HAVE YOUR INSIGNIA ON YOUR CORRESPONDENCE
'We offer a selection
of
NAVY STATIONERY
Notre Dame Bookstore
Badin Hall
28
At AdleJi Oa.
South Bend's Quality Store since 1913
NAVY OFFICERS
now you can outfit yourself on your $250 allotment without sacrificing quality
THANK THE U. S. NAVY FOR THAT
The U. S. Navy didn’t cut down the quality of these uniforms to fit your $250 — not for one minute. They went to America’s best woolen mills for the fabric — to America’s best clothes makers for tailoring skill. Quality couldn’t come too fine for the U. S. Navy — and these officers’ uniforms show it — in everything but the price — and you don’t wear that.
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM._S40 — OVERCOAT___S50 OVERCOAT-RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING.______S37.50 — DRESS CAP__S10.50
DUNHILL
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly Tailored and Styled to your Individual Measurements.
STORE IS OPEN
Saturday ’til 9 p. m. All Day Sunday
Regulation Fabrics . . . ELASTIQUE —WIDE WHALE SERGE WHIPCORD — GABARDINE TROPICAL WORSTEDS KHAKIS — WHITES
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend's most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
*
29
Xaverian Brothers Founder
Worked With Fr. Badin
The University of Notre Dame Archives, through their director, Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., have revealed a story of historical interest. It seems that Theodore J. Ryken, founder of the Xaverian Brothers, came to Father Badin’s mission in this vicinity and worked with the zealous missioner among the Indians.
Father McAvoy’s attention was called to this fact and his curiosity aroused by the request of Brother Aubert of the Xaverian Brothers for any information that might be contained in the archives pertaining to Ryken.
Theodore Ryken, of Belgian extraction, entered the Trappist novitiate of Strasbourg where he assumed the religious name of Nicholas. Due to unsettled political-religious conditions he left Europe and the religious life in 1831, coming to America. Three years were spent in the New World, much of the time working among the Indians near Father Badin’s mission. Father Badin mentions “Nicholas” in one of his letters preserved in the archives: “.__ Nicholas tends a kitchen garden of two acres, but I’ve been obliged to employ other hands....”
Having received the approval of several American bishops, Ryken, upon his return to Europe, asked the permission of the Bishop of Bruges to found a congregation. Permission was granted. Ryken returned to America in 1837. In 1839 the Xaverian Brothers were founded in Bruges. Theodore Ryken took his vows
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
and the religious name of Brother Francis Xavier in 1846. He was Superior General of the Congregation for a period of 27 years. Xaverian Brothers are now principally engaged in high school education.
Thus is unfoldled the outlines of a dramatic story in the annals of American missionary work and religious education.
—Jim Murphy
War Information
The Office of War Information has received the following stories which are being circulated underground in Occupied Europe. These stories, passed from person to person, serve to keep up the morale of oppressed peoples:
Norwegian patriots in a Trondheim movie palace were astonished to see a propaganda film showing the German forces giving food to the Norwegian civil population. For a few minutes they were too amazed to speak. Then one of them stood up and cried, “Stop! You’re running the film backwards.”
* * *
In parts of France the Germans have imposed a fine of ten francs for the use of the French language. An Alsatian girl one day entered a shop and said, “Good morning, everybody,” in French. A Gestapo man reminded her that the use of French was prohibited and asked her to hand over 10 francs. The girl gave him 20 francs without so much as looking at him and said, “Now I can say ‘Goodbye everybody’ in French as well.”
Affirmative Debaters
Win 11 th Straight
The dynamic affirmative debate team, composed of Bill Lawless, Buffalo, N. Y., and Jim O’Dea, Lowell, Mass., ran their remarkable string of victories to 11 straight last Tuesday in defeating the negative team from Kent State University, Kent, Ohio.
Sheffield Pierce and Herbert Shirr of the opposing negative team were unable to defeat the cogent arguments of the winning team. Calling for a post-war world that would embrace an international Federal Union with an assembly of nations controlled by the United States, Russia and England, O’Dea and Lawless argued for the internal autonomy of all nations.
Mr. Gifford Blyton of Western Michigan College acted as judge.
The Notre Dame debate team is now advancing plans for tentatively attending the Southeastern meet in South Carolina. At present, it is not known whether the team will be able to attend this important intercollegiate conference.
Lonergan to Represent "Scholastic" on Council
In view of recent action by which a position on the Student Council has been given to a Scholastic representative, Robert “Red” Lonergan, promotion manager, has been appointed to the council.
Lonergan, from Wilmette, Ill., writes “Pressbox Splinters” in addition to his duties as promotion manager. He was actively engaged in promoting the 1943 Notre Dame Bengal Bouts, University boxing championships, and at present is handling the promotion of the Notre Dame War Charities carnival, scheduled for next month.
A student in the College of Arts and Letters, Lonergan contributed another sports column to the Scholastic last year. He was largely responsible for the selection of several gridders from Notre Dame’s undefeated 1941 aggregation to play in the All-Star game in Chicago last summer.	.
30
Notre Dome HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS . SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.
M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Patronize Our Advertisers
STRICTLY INSTRUMENTAL
Frank King
We hate to be so consistently happy about the bands that are flocking to our midst, but let it be said that Gracie Bar
FRANK KING slightly rotund
rie really did a fine job at the Sophomore Cotillion. She had the best band that a school dance has had here in a long time. The brass was fine: loud, coordinated, and was packed with good solo men, especially that
fellow who played the
slip horn. The saxes, even though they lost their best man when Dick Stabile, who used to run the band, left for the Coast Guard. The weak spot was in the rhythm, and that wasn’t very weak. The bass man was solid, the pianist was above average, but the guitar man who took the vocal spots, and the drummer were kind of sad in comparison with the rest of the band.... even at that they were quite good.
In fact, I shall go out on a limb and say that it will not be long, barring accidents, before that band has a lot more renown than it has at present.
We heard some of the tunes from the all-student musical show soon to be aired
to the public and some of them are really fine. Cashman really did a good job with both the lyrics and the music.
Just off the record that V-7 band that can be heard blasting from the U. S. S. Badin is not too bad.... they have some very excellent and talented men.... viz the drummer, director (Ensign Hardy) who plays a wicked piano, and a good lead trumpet.
We Beg Pardon !!! It was erroneously stated in last week’s column that Roy Eldridge, Krupa’s trumpet ride man, was a local boy. It was pointed out to me during the week that Downbeat gives the lie to that little rumor by saying that he was born and reared in Pittsburgh. Well, I tried to find something nice about the thriving metropolis at the bend of the Saint Joe River.
Speaking of the Saint Joe River, I almost jumped into it the other night. I was riding along in a car (you fellow sufferers from the East probably don’t remember them). The radio was giving out with some pretty good music. I remarked that fact to the fellow with me and sat there contentedly listening.... The music stopped and the announcer burst in with, “You have been listening to the music of Eddy Howard!!!” Shades of the Soph Cotillion.
nuui
>tm im, mmmu
Bruggner's in the I. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes — Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
Mai/n amJ
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner's News Comer for magazines, books, maps, and greeting cards.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
31
U.S. BONDS
id
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Myeks Tobacco Co.
MAKING HOME PORT
The men of the American Merchant
Manne are doing the greatest ocean
transport job in history
where a cigarette counts most...
C^£Sr£Rf/ELD
. .. and Chesterfields count plenty these days . . . they give pleasure where other pleasures can’t he had.
’! When your hours are ions and vou’re working hard you’ll like Chesterfields . . . they’re Milder, Cooler and have the Beller Tasle ihat only the right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos can give you.
IL™* CHnnRHnos T0DAY “ Y0U CANT BUY A BEniB CIGARETTE
—r___

