

/

't
<c
3 J

Ki F* »2±S I
^aneverb^6
It's ART MOONEY'S hot arrangement of
rm Looking Over a Four Leaf Clover"
(An MGM release)
“Four leaf clover” has turned into a real four leaf clover for ork-pilot, Art Mooney. His record is keeping jukes in clover.
An experienced hand in the music biz—Art follows that famous experience rule in the choice of a cigarette, too. “I’ve smoked many different brands and compared,” says Art, “and Camels suit me best.”
Try Camels! Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience”!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company Wlnstnn-Satein, North Carolina
CAMEL
is my cigarette!
I
LETTERS
CUPID CERTAINLY WAS BUSY!
Dear Editor:
The Feb. 27 issue of Scholastic reached our home today, and my husband and I read with amusement the announcement of our engagement in the “Cupid Was Busy” column on page 24, since we have been married for over a month.
Your staff is either eight months behind with the news, or else they confuse the words “engaged” and “married.”
In any case, we certainly would appreciate your correcting this error before too many eyebrows are raised.
Mrs. Ernest J. Kirstein
748 Lincoln Way East, South Bend.
Scholastic blushingly offers its sincere apology; points finger of scorn at ‘Names’ Editor for failing to report correctly which arrow Cupid shot. — Editor.
DEPT. OF THANKS
Dear Editor:
The following is a paragraph of a letter sent to Father Kenna from Mr. W. D. Robertson, General Chairman of the St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League:.
“The Board of Directors of the Tuberculosis League joins me in expressing our sincere thanks to you and the students of Notre Dame for their splendid cooperation in this community responsibility. Along with the numerous contributions of the students themselves, we had numbers of letters expressing their interest and endorsement of the Tuberculosis League program. The fact that the Notre Dame students took such an active and philanthropic interest in this Christmas Seal Sale is real evidence of their interest in the South Bend Community.”
Office of the Director of Studies
LATIN-AMERICAN STUDY AVAILABLE
Any student interested in studyin? Latin-American culture this summer in either Cuba or Mexico and Guatemala may obtain full information on the University of Houston's International Study Center program by writing Dr. Joseph S. Werlin, University of Houston, 3801 St. Bernard Street, Houston, Texas. The study center is recognized by the Veterans Administration as an accredited school.
Re: MORNING PRAYER
Dear Editor:
Your editorial on the abuse of morning prayer after Mass was a smooth piece of writing, which contains a fundamental error in theology. I comment on it, because your over-sight or inadvertence is, indeed, not uncommon.
Look at the priest himself saying Mass. The Church forbids him, after he consumes the Sacrifice, to delay the Mass with his own private reflections. And, it is an ideal of the Church to have the whole congregation join in a High Mass with their singing voices, even that part after the Communion.
Maybe we could change our attitude toward the communal prayers, which Christ Himself blesses, and see the real thing behind raucous voices. This will be a good lesson in learning that true religion is based on faith, and not emotion.
(Rev.) A. W. Near
St. Edward’s University,
Austin, Texas
Typing Done
Accurate and Neat Work
Phone—4-3036 t
UNIVERSITY
FASHIONS
Preference in wearables is becoming more distinctive with university men as sharper lines of demarcation are drawn by undergraduates for accepted fashions.
The men at leading universities are wearing the extra long jacket with center vent, made in flannels, tweeds, homespuns, shetlands, herringbones, checks and diagonals and small designs.
Parker - Winterrowd furnishes all of the newest fashions either in ready-made or made-to-measure at very moc erate prices.
Don’t fail to place your order for your tuxedo or full dress suits for the Junior and Laiv Ball (on a rental basis).
Parker-Winterrowd
115% -117% N. Main, upstairs
(North of Oliver Hotel)
MARVIN JEWELERS
(Inc.)
126 N. Michigan St SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
BOSTON
SHOE STORE
for Notre Dame men with a good understanding!
Styled by W eyen berg
Rugged moccasin style with hand sewn vamp, ghillie tie, and triple thick leather sole.
Exclusive in South Bend at .
BOSTON
SHOE STORE
3
TOP OF THE WEEK
The laundry issued a bonus this week. When I opened my sack the other day, a dandy pair of red and blue socks rolled out. I never saw them before. If you’re missing a dandy pair of red and blue socks, drop around. I’d hate to see anybody go barefoot in this weather.
ST. PATRICK'S DAY
Next Wednesday is the feast day of good old St. Padraic, patron saint of the bravest people on earth. 4,640,000 Irish came to this country between 1840 and 1930, and everyone of them that’s still above ground will be out celebrating the glorious day all night. In Boston, New York, and Cleveland, they’ll be parading up and down the streets till you won’t be able to turn around without seeing a shamrock. The bands will play, the Hibernians will march in their fine uniforms, and the rain will come tumbling down.
On the radio, the comedians will say “begorra” seven thousand times and make hilarious jokes about the Fighting Irish being full of Polish . . . and as if to verify the comical remarks, Emil Ciechanowicz will wear a green hat. In Ireland they started the celebration early by throwing out DeValera, but there’ll be plenty of stomping on the old sod next Wednesday.
There’ll be fist fights at Notre Dame too, but of a somewhat more gentle variety. The K of C will stage the Bengal Bouts final, with Irishmen like Bill Roemer and Jim Klockenkemper defending their championships, and the fieldhouse rafters will ring with traditional Irish battle cries.
All together it will be a great day, but somehow we wish there was going to be a bigger celebration at Notre Dame. This is th 3 home of the Fighting Irish (when they’re not away on lecture tours) and we ought to raise the roof on March 17. St. Patrick’s Day ought to be a free day, with parades and speeches and Christopher Lynch singing in Washington Hall and all the festivities that gladden an Irishman’s heart. St.
4
Patrick’s Day comes but once a Lent; we should make the most of it. How about it, Student Council? . . . Oops, sorry; the Council seems to be out fighting for a coke machine for Badin Hall.
Oh well, the dining hall will probably come through with green shamrocks in the ice cream.
NO WAR THIS WEEK
Put away your trench mortar souvenirs, gentlemen, there won’t be any war for a while yet. Students who had kissed their sweethearts goodbye, paid up their insurance, and cut out all their classes were extremely discomfitted last week when Dr. Gurian flatly denied that he had ever predicted war in sixty days. It was all a little disappointing. . . . Commerce students interested in making many a fast buck found the last issue of Look fascinating reading. . . . Leahy’s legions start spring practice next week. Cartier will doubtless be knee deep in blood, sweat, and crocodile tears for the next two months. The quarterbacks will have a chance to relax now. . . . The Navy game probably won’t be in Baltimore next fall (because of stadium renovations), but don’t count on it being played here either. The latest Cleveland Alumni manual tentatively lists the usual Navy game hoopla for that city in early November.
DID GUNTHER MISS SOMETHING?
Speaking of football, it appears that the art of winning national championships is still about the only recommendation Notre Dame has among certain sections of America’s literary intelligentsia. John Gunther’s Inside U.S.A. (reviewed elsewhere on these pages by our Messrs. Kelley and Herrington) mentions ND three times, and each time the reference is concerned with football. While other universities get reams of space for their cultural and intellectual activities, Gunther can see nothing but pigskin here. Mr. Gunther is, of course, nearsighted, but much more scholarly water will flow over the dam before outsiders begin to see the university instead of the football players.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
South Bend basketball bugs were getting blow-by-blow radio accounts of every crucial struggle in the state tournament this week, while Notre Dame men were getting sore ears. Every year about this time Indiana high schools end their season with one, grand, pathological smashup, with little girls screeching and people collapsing all over the place. Last Saturday the Met’s Tannhauser was thrown off the air to make way for a game between Bletchville and Hooper’s Ferry, or somebody. Why not confine the hysteria to one station next year?
CAMPUS CLUBS
MET CLUB COMPLETES AGENDA
A large turnout heard the Met Club’s tentative agenda for the rest of the year, at the New Yorkers’ last meeting. President Ray Bushey received names for the NYC Easter vacation train and also got the ball rolling on organizing a soft-ball team and a golf tournament. George Stuhr, who is in charge of the latter event, gave a short talk on the rules and regulations of the contest.
Discussion was held on whether or not to have a summer dance or a summer field day. John Caemmerer was unanimously elected to head a findings committee. The meeting closed with announcement of the forthcoming beer bust, picnic and elections.
ND TEXANS PLAN BIG ROUNDUP
Plans for a giant “junto” to be held this summer in a large Texas city were revealed at the last meeting of the Texas Club. According to the present tentative program Alumni groups from all over the state will meet with present students in a giant Notre Dame rally. The Club here on campus is now deep in work on the project although no definite plans have been made.
The last meeting of the Texans also brought about the semester elections, the results of which pushed Johnny Brogan into the president’s spot, succeeding Coy McGee. Bob Brown from Sweetwater was elected vice-president, Pat O’Conner of Fort Worth, recording secretary, and Jim Ford of El Paso, treasurer.
UTICANS TO HOLD EASTER DINNER
The exclusive Twin Ponds Golf Club outside Utica will be the scene of an Easter Monday informal dinner sponsored by the Utica Club under the chairmanship of Dan Callen.
Last Tuesday the Club held their (Continued on Page 6)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
nttniBmtmimmimHiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiittiimmeitiniiiiiumiiitttiiiimiiiaiiiiiimmiiiiiiiii
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR, Editor
Associate Editors
EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX Features
PETER BROWN Sports
SHAUN McDERMOTT News
ROBERT T. STOCK Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL Photography
Editorial Associates HARRY MONAHAN	BUZZ WRIGHT	KEN THOREN
JOE HERRINGTON VIC DORR	GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN Librarian
JOHN CLARK Circulation
GEORGE KORHUMEL Circulation
B. T. KYSER Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiititHiiiiiiiiiitniiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiniiiiiiirniiiiiiiiiiiitiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiit
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. - Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Don't Miss — In This Issue
FEATURES	Page
IRISH—Erin Go Bragh  11
MUSEUM—Bones and Stones  12 GIRLS—Barat College, ND's Parallel -----14-15
TAXES—T-Day at ND  16
NEWS
POLITICS—Mock Convention ----------------- 9
COUNCIL—Spring Elections Advocated _______ 9
SPORTS
BOXING—Opening of the Bengals  9
FOOTBALL—Spring Grid Practice 17
COVER
Heavyweight Champion Jack Fallon and his second, Marty Brutz, await the opening bell. Photo by Jim Ferstel
CALENDAR
MARCH 12	'
PALACE, The Swordsman, with Larry Parks. Now they’ve put Parks in tights, as they did with Fairbanks, Power, Wilde, and all the other dashing fellows. But the second attraction promises to be a gripper: Dick Tracy versus Gruesome. Karloff is Gruesome. In fact so is the picture.
MARCH 14
GRANADA, The Last Round-up, with Gene Autry. If we could be sure this would be the last round-up it would be worth turning out in droves to see off. But don’t be fooled. The bawlin’ steers and smokin’ six-shooters will be back again in a week. Companion feature: Angel’s Alley, with those honored American actors, the Bowery Boys.
PALAIS ROYALE, Gene Krupa and his orchestra. The madman with the sticks is still at large, to the indictment of American entertainment seekers. Should be of special interest to sociology students who wish to study personality types.
OLIVER, Merton of the Movies. Without a doubt Red Skelton’s worst effort so far. But give him time.
STATE, Drums Along the Mohawk, with Henry Fonda and Claudette Colbert. An oldy in technicolor with prowling savages and burning cabins in the upper New York of Colonial days. Companion feature, Mark of Zorro, with Ty Power and Linda Darnell.	.
MARCH 15
FIELD HOUSE, Bengals continue, with semi-final round of the slam-bang boxing tourney slated for tonight.
MARCH 16
WASHINGTON HALL, Anne Byrne, concert pianist. ND men will have a chance to hear and see this attractive, talented young musician who is on the way up. Program includes selections from Beethoven, Chopin, Schumann, Liszt and Debussy. Starts at 8 p.m.
JOHN ADAMS AUDITORIUM, Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, rated by competent critics as one of the six outstanding orchestras on this continent. A quiet evening’s contemplative entertainment between Bengals. •
MARCH 17
FEAST OF ST. PATRICK, patron saint of Ireland.
FIELD HOUSE, Bengal Finals. The champions will be crowned tonight among the raspy cheers of those fighting men who have bellowed them on.
MARCH 18
COLFAX, That Hagen Girl, with Shirley Temple. If you like the way Shirley pouts and dimples, then by all means.
MARCH 19
FEAST OF ST. JOSEPH, Model of Workmen.
PALACE, Pirates of Monterey, with Maria Montez and Rod Cameron. This makes about the 14th picture in which Miss Montez has been pursued by those knaves of the deep. One of these days they’ll catch her and they’ll probably do what every movie-goer has wanted to do since she first appeared on the American screen: pack her back to Colombia on the next banana boat.	'
S
SCORN ER'S SEAT
Moguls Flustered By Drooping Tills;
Congress Stalls While Italy Burns By Joe Wilcox
Mr. Frericks has addressed me in bor
rowed robes. A more careful reading of
my column of two weeks ago would have
revealed that I was merely reporting Mr. Cosgrove’s article on the T.-H. affair, not necessarily reflecting my own political beliefs. But lest Mr. Frericks continue in the naive belief that an immoral law cannot be constitutional, I shall
cite to him three
examples of the
same: 1) Under the original Constitu
tion, slavery was officially provided for;
2) state laws for the sterilization of the
‘‘unfit” have been held constitutional
under the federal constitution; 3) free and easy divorce laws go their merry way unchallenged on constitutional grounds. The framers of the Constitution were not quite divine.
SEATING ANYWHERE DEP'T.:
A spectacle to move the hardest heart is the sad state of the Hollywood moguls, who are weeping and gnashing their teeth because of the decline in box office receipts. The public, which lined up in long lines before the flicker houses during the war, has now become discriminating. No longer will we pay $1.25 to see Hollywood’s latest extravaganza, which, as likely as not, was based on the presumption that millions of cretins wouldn’t know the difference. Millions of dollars, half the stars in the film colony, and no plot at all seemed the magic formula—until the public heard the gobble of the turkey in the expensive pen.
The lush rush to the box office has come to a halt. So far, the brilliant minds in the studios have failed to grasp the situation enough to lower the prices. They now speak of lowering the quality of the pictures in order to save money. Even the most yessy of the yes-men, however, should eventually come to the realization that the goose Hollywood has been so assiduously cooking is not the public’s, but its own.
Poorer pictures will not solve Holly
wood’s approaching woes. What will solve them is honest pictures, shorn of tinsel, made at reasonable cost, and sold at sane prices. Otherwise, the empty rows in the movie houses will multiply, and the moguls will reach for another gross of aspirins.
WILL CONGRESSMAN NERO YIELD?
As everybody knows, the Communists are casting a covetous eye on Italy. The elections there will be held April 18, and the chances for Communist success are far better than they should be. Italy, virtually ruined by the war, is now struggling with perhaps the worst inflation in Europe. Meanwhile, the American Congress, which, apparently, is unable to read the writing on the wall, mumbles into its collective beard about cutting the amount in the Marshall Plan or not giving any aid at all. Joe Martin says that no aid can possibly be extended before April 1.
I admit that political considerations are a poor reason for extending aid to starving and economically bankrupt people. Nevertheless, the Communist threat to Italian democracy is very great. Unless the Congress perks up and votes some sort of aid to Italy, at least, prior to the elections, we may well see Italy in the same sorry state as Czechoslovakia. The moral effect of a Communist victory in Italy, the seat of Christianity, would be tremendous, and might well swing France, as well, within the Red orbit.
It is therefore incumbent upon the American Congress, as a moral duty, to extend immediate aid to Italy. It is foolish to waste time talking about “bribes” and “throwing money across the ocean.” We have a vital stake in the affairs of Italy, and if we fail to protect her against Russian imperialism, we will be morally guilty of furthering the advance of an unChristian system.
We have before seen the effects of an American retreat in the face of confusion abroad. Our refusal to meet our obligations to humanity after the first world war resulted in a second. Our refusal now to speed aid to Europe may well result in a third. While Rome burns with the fires of Communistic intrigue, Congress fiddles with politics.
Campus Clubs
(Continued from Page 4) meeting over plates of Rosie’s spaghetti with Mr. Sheehan, economics professor and club moderator, as guest of honor.
A week ago Sunday the Utica club united with the Central New York Club for a joint Communion Breakfast in the Faculty Dining Hall which featured a speech on the importance of the ND diploma by the Rev. Robert Sweeney, c.s.c.
A novel plan for transporting its members homeward for the Easter vacation has been initiated by the Oklahoma Club. The club is hiring private cars of 1946-47 vintage with radio and heater included, which, for a price below railroad fare, will pick up club members (five to each car) at the circle on the 24th and return them the morning of the 31st.
PITTSBURGH DANCE PLANNED
The first meeting of the spring semester of the Pittsburgh Club was taken over by Jim McLaughlin and Bill Dickson, co-chairmen of the Club’s annual Summer* dance. (The dance this year is to be held in the Urban Room of the Hotel William Penn.) A tentative date of June 11 has been set for the affair. Chairmen Dickson and McLaughlin appointed their committeemen and reported on the progress of the dance.
Any Pittsburgher who wants to bus home for the Easter vacation is asked to contact Dick Keady in 254 Cavanaugh as soon as possible.
WOLVERINES ORGANIZE
After two organizational meetings, during which a constitution was drafted, the Western Michigan club has materialized with Harvey Nedeau, Jr., as president. Ed Fritz is the vice-president, while Jim Hooper and Bill McCarty serve as secretary and treasurer, respectively.
Open to all past and present Michigan residents not in any other territorial club, the next meeting will be held on March 16 at 7:30 p.m. in Room 100 of the Law Building. Plans are being formulated for a smoker and a dance, both of which will be held in conjunction with the alumni of Western Michigan. The club is also considering the possibility of having a Communion Breakfast.
MEMPHIS CLUB ELECTS DUKE
Big Ed Duke, of Lyons sub, was elected president of the Memphis Club for the spring semester at the club meeting last week. Ed Angier took over the vice-president slot, Bob Barry is the new secretary, and John Ryan is treasurer. Jack Salmon is the outgoing president.
6
Music * Books » Radio
A REPORT ON BEST SELLERS
The inflationary trend seems to have hit the publishing companies just about as hard as it has the rest of business. The order of the day for the new books seems to demand that they be big and bulky—at least in the number of words and pages. But the content of those books, which are resting high up on the best-seller lists, seems to be in the throes of a violent depression. Naturally the prices have kept pace with the size and not with the content.
INSIDE U.S.A.
Although it has been over half a year since John Gunthei- finished the latest of his “Inside” series, Inside U.S.A. is still among the leaders in sales of the nonfiction class. It is a perfect example of inflation in books. This volume, which tries to give the facts behind the facts of all the localities in the country, runs over 950 pages. This topic could validly require that much, but after reading it, one gets a feeling that much of Gunther’s version could be cut without vitally injuring the book.
Overlooking its defects, however, Inside U.S.A. is a book that should be read by anyone who wants to get a true idea of what really makes this country tick. For students of an intersectional university, such as Notre Dame, it is indispensable. In order to understand adequately the thoughts and ideas of men from an entirely different section of the country, it is necessary to know quite a bit about their regions. Not just the geographical and economic facts, either. The story behind that section must be ferreted out. Inside U.S.A. generally does just that, in an interesting, readable manner.
It’s hard to understand why Harper’s had to rush this volume into print last summer, when a little more time in research and editing would have done much
JUNIOR PROM BIDS
Junior Prom bids may be sold only to seniors, juniors, and veterans over 20 years of age. Sophomores are not eligible to attend the prom. Bid sales will continue in the cafeteria basement and in the various residence halls.
to perfect the book. There was a definite need for an Inside U.S.A., but Mr. Gunther’s book could have been much better. Perhaps they hurried it along in order to hit the inflationary trend before it sloped off. Really, if that was the case, they should not have worried. The reading public is still paying five dollars for a book without flinching. In fact, they seem to want more of them.
RAINTREE COUNTY
Parallels Inside U.S.A. in the field of fiction. It uses up 1,066 pages before the author, Russ Lockridge, Jr., is through with his subject.
One point where the two volumes differ, however, is in the time of preparation. Mr. Lockridge spent seven years in writing his first book, and, sadly enough, it was a waste of time — at least for the reader.
Raintree County was an attempt to produce the great American epic. But Mr. Lockridge fell far short of his goal. The result is far from an’ epic of any sort. There is some sort of consolation for the author, however, in his Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer prize of nearly $200,000, although what they will do with the novel is far from certain. It will have to be changed radically to appear on the screen in any form whatsoever, and if it is edited enough, the resulting story will have little backbone.
The scene of the “epic” is laid in a mythical Indiana county. The time is one day — the Fourth of July, 1892. But in an attempt to crowd in everything that happened from 1816 to 1892, the authoi- resorts to no less than 52 flashbacks. Each of the flashbacks is a short story in itself; you may remember one that appeared in Life last August — “The Race to Determine the Fastest Runner in Raintree County.”
It is regrettable that this first book of Lockridge’s turned out to be his last. He proved himself to be a good writer, but the man seemed horribly confused by the deeper aspects of life. After another seven years, he might have discovered the best use for his talents. Raintree County is cluttered with incoherent snatches of false philosophy— and if Lockridge’s thoughts were as confused as his writing, it is easy to see why he would commit suicide.
A good book needs more than just good
writing. There must be a story and it must be told well. It is on the last two points that he falls short. The only connecting link between the often interesting flashbacks is a hodge-podge of psychological and surrealistic writing.
His basic idea is this: John Wickliff Shawnessy, the main character, would like to leave the restrictions of the American life and return to what he wants to do. The author seems to think that anything is all right if you really want to do it. Mr. Shawnessy seems to know no restrictions or laws in his daydreams.
The author does bring up a serious question of present-day America (and past-day, for that matter) and its silly self-imposed pomps and social restrictions. However, Mr. Lockridge’s solutions are not the answer. A return to Christian values in everyday living would do quite adequately, but that is one thing that he doesn’t propose.
The best seller lists are no place to look for a good book until people realize that quality is far more important than quantity.
—Verne Kelley and Joe Herrington
Chern Engineers' Institute Celebrates Tenth Birthday
Ten years ago last week the Student Chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers at Notre Dame was founded. Last week the present student chapter met to celebrate the occasion. George Resnick, chairman of the program committee, arranged for showing a film on the uses and manufacture of ether.
The A. I Ch. E. each year offers two awards to student chapter members. One is nationwide and has just been revived after a lapse during the war. It goes to the student with the best solution to a chemical engineering problem assigned by the A. I. Ch. E. The other is local, consisting of a certificate and gold pin, and is made to the junior earning the highest scholastic average during his first two years. John O’Connor of Lyons Hall is the latest winner.
SHEEHAN LECTURE TONIGHT
Prof. John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, will lead a discussion on '‘Tariffs and the Christian Concept of Interdependence of Nations" Friday. March 12. at 7:15 in room 108 of the Law Building.
This is the second of the series an current affairs sponsored by the science group of the YCS. AH persons interested are invited to attend.
7

For Veterans — Some Advice
Sounding board for* student opinion at Notre Dame has always been the caf at coffee-time. This week, while nations of the world seemingly were choosing partners once again for the Mars Polka, while American supplies were being rushed to Greek Republican forces, and while the American Congress was meeting by night to hurry the aid-to-Europe plan, Notre Dame veterans of the most recent world conflict were stirring their coffee a little slower, and gripping the thick white mugs a little tighter. Like the panicky public everywhere, the GI, often still wearing the OD field jacket to keep out Indiana’s pneumonia-geared blasts, was falling into the jittery war psychosis.
This should come as a surprise. For of the thousands of veterans enrolled at Notre Dame, few if any have even the slightest desire to return to the ranks. Most lived for the day of liberation from the service, and swore on their discharge that they’d never go again.
But, with rumors of reservists being alerted, the veteran looks around somewhat stunned to find himself actually deliberating any move that might afford him a “better deal.”
The returned veteran has not turned out to be the potent force he was dreamed to be. Evils within the armed forces remain pretty much as they were. Recent press reports of President’s southern tour report Mr. Truman “walking near the Enlisted Men’s beach.” The old class distinctions are too sweetly entrenched for an idealistic band of crusading journalists to uproot within a few months. Current clashes within major political groups over the rights of Negroes have served to highlight the unsolved minority problem right here in the veteran’s back yard, the place where he was going to set his house in order as soon as he shook off the Army brogans. Both within the service and out the problems that were to be solved have remained ragged sores. The returned vet, sword of justice in hand, has been a laugh.
Given time, much more time, maybe he can get something done. Maybe after adjusting himself, absorbing a little schooling, getting out into the world and cutting himself a place in society, the veteran can see his way clear to striking out for those ideals of justice so dear to him at discharge-time.
But right now he’s an apathetic character. To a good many he is a necessary evil, who will pass and be blotted up in the great sponge of the indifferent business world. To a lot he is emotionally upset, embittered, over-critical, grist for psychometrists and movie scenarios.
That’s why it’s up to the veterans to fool everybody. Get on those rosaries to Our Lady of Fatima and pray for God’s sake that war will be avoided. Snap out of the lethargy that there’s nothing the vet can do and reorganize the vet’s club right here at Notre Dame, and upon graduation, keep active in parish social work and local politics.
It must be appreciated by each and every veteran that once he goes again it’s cheerio for keeps. The veteran will be just what a lot of stuffy little people want him to be: a lost generation, so much chaff in the wind. The ideals will be shot, the reforms will be forgotten.
The veteran at Notre Dame should not despair of present war jitters. On the contrary, he should energetically pray for a just and lasting peace, for only in a long period of peace will he find time to carry out the dreams of his lonely service hours, the ones he talks about now over a cup of coffee at the caf.
S
For St. Mary's — Closer Relations
Notre Dame men who took in St. Mary’s jocular Variety Show the other- night came away chuckling at the clever ribbing poked at ND by the all-girl production. It was clever because there wasn’t too much of it. The satire on ND’s big-time-operators was sandwiched between other hilarious scenes that took off on the college life of the beany-wearing, in-by-eight-thirty St. Mary’s girl. What most ND men wanted to know was, why couldn’t the Variety Show, loaded with tunes and talent, be brought to Washington Hall for a command performance?
But aside from that, the surface question was the old thorn: Why aren’t ND-St. Mary’s relations closer and smoother?
To the average St. Mary’s girl, Notre Dame is that big wonderful man-jammed institution across the highway that turns out such wonderful football teams. They depend on ND men for dates, which come all too few. Often times these are the usual party-boys, the telephone-booth-hoggers, the tea-dance variety. The average St. Mary’s girl never meets more than a handful of ND men in all her long stay. She’s not allowed on the ND campus except for special events. She’ll not be at the Bengals; goodness no! During football games she’s crammed, fur-clad and screaming, into frontier seats in the end-zone.
Meanwhile, to Mr. Notre Dame the institution across the Dixie is “that place.” Upper-class wheels warn incoming frosh of the dangers that await the curious. The ridicule heaped on any young swain who slicks up on Sunday afternoon to make a call is spirit-breaking. Most ND men never see St. Mary’s girls except in huge bundles as they burst from the bus and click off to shows or scurry into sodafountain booths to grab a smoke. As a result the average ND man goes through his college days with a minimum of social contacts, and very often with nary a date. There is an ever growing clique of self-isolated bachelors on this campus.
What can be done? First of all, count St. Mary’s girls in for activities on campus that would better function with cooperation between the two schools, like combined glee club concerts, combined dramatic efforts, combined club affairs (there’s no reason why the North Idaho Club of ND should not meet with the North Idaho Club of SMC). Count them in on campus attractions, like the carnivals, picnics, rallies. That recent Mardi Gras in the drill hall couldn’t rely on games-of-chance alone for attractions; ask any ND man. What’s more, drop the campus barriers. When good spring weather comes a nice stroll can liven up the place. Finally, give them better football seats.
Who Will It Be?
Who will it be? Dewey? Stassen? MacArthur?' Taft? Warren? Or maybe some unmentioned dark horse?
The Notre Dame student body will decide this issue, two months before the G.O.P. does, in a mock convention planned for April. Sponsored by the Department of Political Science, it offers students an opportunity to learn and practice the mechanics of their country’s politics. Such insight and training .better prepares them for their duties as voters.
The men behind this convention deserve the wholehearted cooperation of all. With it, they should provide the campus with a rip-snorting, real-life, tub-thumping confab, with nothing, save the odors of Philadelphia’s Convention Hall, lacking. The general results should be more than pleasing.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89. NO. 19
MARCH 12. 1948
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Mock Convention Slated for April
Council Sounds Call For Spring Elections
The recuperating Student Council made another attempt to mend its ailing body last Monday night. An hour and a half of vigorous debate and discussion brought forth a revamping in the requirements for candidates to council and class offices. Also changed was the method in which the elections are to be held.
Broken down, the new measures provide for: (1) Student Council officers to be elected by a plurality vote of Council members and not by the student body at large; (2) Class officers to be chosen by a plurality vote of their respective class members in Spring elections; (3) The maintenance of scholastic averages of 80 or above by class and council officers; (4) Class officers to hold their rating throughout the entire school year (eliminating men changing class in midyear from holding office); (5) Nominations of class officers to be filed at least three weeks before the elections are to be held; (6) Nominations for class officers to be accompanied by a petition of 50 or more class members, nominations of council candidates from the various colleges to be presented with a petition of 25 or more students; (7) Council members to serve from the first to the last day of the semester.
Lou Burns opened the evening’s business with a report on Notre Dame’s withdrawal from the regional NFCCS at Fort Wayne. Burns said that local representatives went to the sessions without the viewpoints of the student body, and, thus, only the delegates benefited. He declared that this university has been victimized by the smaller Schools who voted down all of our proposals. Their lack of support in the Foreign Student Relief Drive was cited as an example of failure to cooperate.
The purpose of the NFCCS is to bring about a unity of common groups among .
(Continued on Page 24)
Record Crowd Sees Bengal Bouts Opener; Heavies Clash Tonite
By HARRY MONAHAN
Opening before a crowd of 3500 action-thirsty fans, the 17th Annual Bengal Bouts fired its first leathery blasts on Wednesday evening. It was a new attendance record for opening night and gives evidence that this year’s tourney will probably top all existing attendance marks.
BENGAL WEIGH-INS
Trainer Dominic Napolitano checks the avoirdupois of Mike Conley durin?
Wednesday morning's weigh-ins
Excitement and enthusiasm have followed the preparations from the publishing of the first list of contestants. The number of defending champions and capable veterans returning to Bengal competition has set partisan feeling running a high fever.
Wednesday night’s slugfest of 157 and 167-pounders was followed on Thursday evening by the featherweight show. As usual the lighties put on a fast card that may have lacked the weight, but never the excitement.
Tonight the heavy beef swings into (Continued on Page 25)
Delegates to Choose G.O.P. Candidate
Spring was coming to Notre Dame this week, but not the dreamy lethargy often associated with the season in the past. The Bengal Bouts hogged the spotlight, but in the background, from lowvoiced huddles of campus politicos, the word was spreading from Lyons to Farley. The mock National Political Convention was being revived with explosive enthusiasm.
The mock National Committee labored over the innumerable details of convention administration. Tentatively set for the latter part of April, the Convention calls for much work to be accomplished during the intervening six weeks: state delegations to be formed from every state, methods of organization to be outlined, a detailed convention program to be formulated, the machinery for the efficient functioning of the convention to be built, reams of publicity to be published.
Sponsored by the Department of Political Science, the convention comes under the immediate supervision of Professor Paul C. Bartholomew, who originated the idea in 1940. Actual administration of the convention is the task of the allstudent National Committee.
From out of the Committee this week came these general principles:
1.	The convention will operate as a mock Republican National Convention, using the rules of the Republican Convention, and restricted to nominations of candidates eligible for Republican nomination. Reason: the last convention was Democratic.
2.	All Notre Dame students, regardless of political affiliations, are eligible and are urged to contend for positions as delegates from their respective states.
3.	State delegations will be selected or elected, through the campus geographical clubs as far as possible.
4.	Dates and location of the convention, as well as the specific details of the convention’s operation, will be announced later and periodically.
9
ROCKNE GRAVE CEREMONY
A sheet of driving snow veils those who took part in last Sunday s memorial ceremonies at the grave of Knute Rockne
Beaucoup Supply of Talented SMC Girls Puts Snappy Musical Revue into Winner’s Circle
Ey KEN THOREN
Where have they been hiding all this time? That’s the question ND men were asking last week after seeing the rollicking, uncensored St. Mary’s Variety Show, a hilarious evening of catchy songs, clever dances, and gobs of gorgeous girls. About 71 luscious lassies from across the Dixie joined in the successful amateur effort that delighted a jammed St. Angela’s Hall audience two nights running.
The show, an annual affair, depicted scenes in the life of a typical St. Mary’s girl. Letters to “Mom,” narrated by Bernadette Sacha, served as the transitional links. Proceeds from the production, an all-student venture under the ingenious direction of Joan Midkiff and ‘Barbara Granfield, go to the St. Mary’s building fund.
Outstanding among the many joshing skits that so cleverly ribbed Notre Dame was the scene entitled “Sorry, Line’s Busy,” a scathing satire, spoofing the lamentable telephone situation between ND and the Rock, and taking off unmercifully on ND’s big-time ’ operators. Elaine! Bruck was a showstopper as one of ND’s clogged-line Lotharios, and the other talent was abundant: Patti Olsen, cute redhaired warbler, Rosemary Kis-
10
gen, blonde songstress, and Marjorie Russ, medley vocalist.
Dodo Ritter, who opened the show with “A’s and Boys Don’t Mix,” was a delightful hit. Barbara Schuster displayed defiinite stage class throughout. Jo Ann Carroll’s tap arrangements were well done.
For individual talents the nod should go to Constance Libano, a promising soprano with plenty on the ball. Her “Desert Song” was most pleasing, and she gives indication of heartening possibilities.
Penny George, dependably clever with popular songs, did a nifty job with “Shine,” “Goody, Goody,” and “Your Red Wagon.”
Among other bouncy scenes that were peppered throught the review were ones lampooning the SMC section at the ND football games, entitled “End Zone Perspective,” and be-idiotizing South Bend night-life (for the SMC gal), where, “if you don’t want to go to a movie, you can always go to a show.” Northern Indiana Transit’s smooth, safe and sure bus-ride back to the well-illuminated St. Mary’s front porch was artfully needled, as well as the very practical ND men who dump their St. Mary’s dates for the “little town gal.”
War Rumors Persist; Top Campus Interest
Acting upon statements attributed to various foreign relations expei-ts, the campus last week was flooded with talk of war in the immediate future. After the word had been well circulated, those most consistently linked with the original statements — Dr. Waldemar Gurian and Mr. Robert D. Brown—denied having made any such predictions.
However, the talk still persists, and is gaining impetus throughout the country. Radio commentators, who maintain their following at least to some extent by heart-stopping predictions of the future, see war breaking out within the next 60 days. Not confined to government outsiders, stern action has been called for in Congress with Sen. Edward McKellar (D. Tenn.) asking that the United States warn Russia that any further Communization of nations will be considered a cause for war by the United States.
Speaking in South Bend last week, Hallett Abend, for 16 years chief Fai-Eastern correspondent for the New York Times, stated that “Soviet Russia is a terroristic state, an expansionist and aggressive' state on the march. Unless Stalin dies or retires, and the Soviets gain a new leadership, conflict is inevitable.” To some, the idea of a successor to Stalin bringing with him a dove and olive branch is mere wishful thinking. They believe that the Communist system is dedicated to world domination, and will continue to pursue that end as they see fit.
In the immediate future, the international spotlight is focused on Italy, which is generally conceded to be next on the list to come under Russian influence. With one of the world’s largest Communist parties, Italy is now in a state of turmoil—a situation welcomed by the Communists. While at present the Communists are excluded from the de Gasperi government, national elections are scheduled to be held on April 18. The fear exists in all anti-Communist quarters that the Russian controlled party will garner enough votes to' put them back into the government, possibly into complete power. As a measure to prevent this, His Holiness Pope Pius XII recently warned Italians not to vote for any party which would act contrary to the welfare of Christianity.
All the predictions revolve about the Italian election on April 18. Those who see war coming, see it as a result of Italy’s being dragged into the Communist orbit and the consequent decision of the United States to end completely any semblance of appeasement.
ERIN GO RRAGB
’Micks' a Minority but Outnumber AH Others
By GREG HALPIN
They’ll be painting towns green all over the country Wednesday. The patron Saint of the “old country,” Saint Patrick himself, is celebrating another of his famed anniversaries, and shamrocks will be bloomin’ in all theii' Irish glory.
And in Indiana, just outside an alien hamlet known as South Bend, there is a school of learning called Notre Dame which carries the proud nickname, “Fighting Irish.” This would seem to imply that this institution is in the form of an Eire satellite, that the blood flows green by the shores of the St. Joe. But does it? Just how many of Notre Dame’s sons are Irishmen?
By approximate count, the Irish population at Notre Dame is 1120. Of these, 920 are students and 200 faculty members. Out of a total count of close to 5,000, this leaves the Irish in a definite minority.
But though it may be outnumbered by “outsiders,” this clan of old sodders is nevertheless representative. Take a look at the breakdown of those figures. Of the 920 Irish students, the Murphys (God bless them) lead all others with 42 tribal descendants, followed by the Sullivans with 31, then the O’Briens with 24, the Kellys with 20, the O’Connors with 19, 17 McCarthys, 12 O’Connells, and 10 O’Donnell’s. The Mc’s and Mac’s total 181 and the O’ lads have 133 representatives.
As usual, the Irish here are a power in their community. You need go no further than Father John Cavanaugh, (one of the first Cavanaughs recorded in Irish history won fame for taking over small towns and organizing them) to see evidence of this. If you insist on more
Inspection Tour in Chile Calls C.S.C., Provincial
The Very Reverend Thomas A. Steiner, c.s.c., provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the Reverend Howard S. Kenna, C.S.C., director of studies, 'will leave by boat from New York on March 13 for Santiago, Chile, where .they will visit St. George’s College.
St. George’s isXconducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross and Father Steiner’s visit is a part of his regular tours of various Congregational institutions.
proof, there’s Vice-President Father John H. Murphy. (Although not autheni-cated, there is strong indication that the first fire chief to put out a fire in County Mayo bore the Murphy label). The president of the Senior Class is a wearer of
ND's NO. 1 MURPHY The Sullivans were next
the green by the name of Sullivan. And of course the leader of the “Fighting Irish”—Frank Leahy. Need we say more?
And so come Wednesday, 1120 N.D. men will be looking towards the Dome hoping to see a little green reflected from the gold.
Aero Engineers Feature Intensive Film Program
As the result of plans laid at theii-first meeting of the semester, the Notre Dame student branch of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences is now in the midst of an intensive program of .films on the aeronautical industry. Among the pictures that have been shown or will be shown within the month are “The Birth of the B-29,” “Target for Today,” “Oil for the Age of Flight” and “The Gyroscope and You.”
Mr. John A. Parchem, Notre Dame professor of Aeronautics,'will represent the University at the Third National Flight Propulsion Meeting to be held March 19 at the' Hotel Carter in Cleveland.
WND Beams Bengal Bouts Students' Way
Station WND moved another kilowatt closer to big time radio production this week with the broadcasting of the Bengal Bouts from the field house. WND inaugurated its special events series February 8 with the play-by-play of the St. Louis-Notre Dame basketball game from the local gym. Since then the station has broadcast every home game and wire-recorded part of the Mardi Gras carnival for later play-back.
For those students unable to attend, WND beams the Bengals again tonight at 8 p.m., with Frank Tripucka handling the blow-by-blow and Bill Halligan the between rounds chatter. Monday night’s semi-finals will he miked by Walt Garrity and George Engler with between rounds color by George Murphy. The championship finals on Wednesday will again be handled by the Tripucka-Halligan combination.
WND PROGRAM SCHEDULE
For week beginning March 15
Monday Evening
6:00 Jumptime
6:15 Travel Time
6:30 Moonlight Serenade
7:15 Winter Theater
7:45 Uninterrupted Music
8:00—Bengal Bouts
Tuesday Evening
6:00 Sack Time
6:15 Travel Time
6:30 Moonlight Serenade
7:15 Winter Theater
7:45 Uninterrupted Music
8:00 Sign Off
Wednesday Evening
6:00 Sack Time
6:15 Travel Time
6:30 Moonlight Serenade
7:15 Sports Parade
7:30 Winter- Theater
8:00—Bengal Bout Finals
Thursday Evening
6:00 Sack Time
6:15 Travel Time
6:30 Moonlight Serenade
7:15 Scholastic Concert
7:45 Uninterrupted Music
8:00 Sign Off
Friday Evening
6:00 Jumptime
6:15 Travel Time
6:30 Moonlight Serenade
7:15 Winter Theater
7:45 Uninterrupted Music
8:00 Sign Off
11
BONES
AND
STONES
Curios Galore Cram Old Museum
By JOHN KRUEGER
CURATOR SMITH INSPECTS OSTRICH SKELETON
There are many strange things to be seen on the Notre Dame campus. It might be embarrassing to list them all, but by far and away the biggest collection of the unusual is housed in Science Hall. There, under the direction of Dr. Knowles B. Smith, the Science Museum has grown into an attraction of interesting exhibits for all who are weary of looking at the ordinary, or for anyone who likes to be carried back to prehistoric times.
After 40 years as an instructor in mining engineering and geology at Notre Dame, Dr. Smith last year took over the directorship of the museum.
“The important function of a museum is in its educational value. All large universities recognize that their science museums supplement the student’s edu
cation by visual and descriptive means illustrative of facts learned through their courses of study.”
Professor Smith earnestly desires to promote the museum, to make it more attractive to the students, and as M.C. he makes the exhibits more alive with his sidelight commentaries.
Remember the meteor explosion that rocked several midwest states not long ago? A meteor tried the same stunt over Bourbon, Indiana, some years ago. It proved to be a dud but not before almost giving one of the residents rocks in his head. This bolt from out the blue buried itself at his feet. Mr. Smith made a hurried trip to Bourbon and came back with this prize.
Another souvenir rated a writeup in the New York Times. Ten years ago
the university received a specimen of uranium from a mine in Canada. Later the United States and Canada took over this same mine: their reason — you can’t make atom bombs without uranium.
There’s trouble brewing for the cotton industry in the swamplands of Florida and Louisiana. A New York textile company has taken a cue from the ancient Egyptians and is conducting experiments in those southern climes with the growing of Ramie, a plant fiber that has better properties than cotton. All Professor Smith needs is a balmier climate and he could conduct some experiments in Badin Bog with the museum’s specimens.
Besides willingly giving his time to explaining these various displays, the
URANIUM ORE
From the prehistoric . . .
METEORITE . • . to the extinct
12
Professor has undertaken the .relabeling of all specimens with informative descriptions. You’ll know that’s an ostrich skeleton when you come to it; or that the skeletal frame next to it once belonged to a bounding kangaroo. You’ll be able to identify the variety of birds from North America and Europe that peer solemnly from their perches, including the now extinct passenger pigeon and heath hen. For students of anthropology there’s a collection of stone tools of prehistoric men from Europe, Africa, and the Americas. You’ll come away knowing a lot about the earth’s geology, paleontology, and astronomy.
These displays have found a good home in Science Hall. Designed in the 1890’s purposely for the museum, the building has a three-quarter balcony from which the entire exhibit can be viewed. All through its history the museum has presented a contrast between the culture of the past and the rare oddities of present civilization.
Correspondent Pays Tribute To Far Eastern Missionaries
Hallet Abend, for 16 years chief Far Eastern correspondent for the New York Times, gave tribute to the work of Catholic Missionaries in China in an interview following his lecture at Central High School last week.
He said more than 2,500,000 Chinese Catholics can testify to the great work of these missionaries who have been working under ever-increasing difficulties and opposition.
Catholic Theatre Guild Stages Jerome Play
With a cast and production staff including many persons connected with Notre Dame, “The Passing of the Third Floor Back,” famous drama by Jerome K. Jerome, was presented last night by the Catholic Theatre Guild at St. Patrick’s School Hall, 308 South Scott Street, South Bend. The play also will be produced again tonight and Sunday, starting at 8:30 p.m.
Unusual interest centers in this production because the cast is composed of some of the outstanding actors and actresses in this area. The players are: Paul Kruyer, June Anderson, Rosemarie Buzolits, Michael Van Houtdreve, Hugh Farrington, Edward Jordanich, Jeanette Leahy, Robert Finnegan, Robert Donahue, Janet Wheeler, Jane Simon and Ann Ray.
The play is being directed by Helene Bauer, formerly associated with the LaPorte Little Theatre and the University of Michigan Theatre. Tickets priced at sixty cents each may be purchased at the Notre Dame book store or at the door. A special invitation has been extended to Notre Dame students
MEXICAN SUMMER SCHOOL
All persons interested in the Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico from June 22 to August 27 are asked to attend a meeting on Monday, March 15, at 3:30 p.m. in Room 225C of the Main Building.
NAVAL AIR UNIT FORMED
An Organized Reserve Squadron of the Naval Air Corps to be located in South Bend is looking for all former naval aviators and aircrewmen. Anyone interested in joining should contact Herb Melton, 21 Sorin Hall, or be at the Bendix American Legion Post, 110% West Colfax on Thursday, March 18, at 8:00 pun. where details will be discussed.
Electrical Engineers Present
Papers in Al EE Contest
Electrical engineering students will compete in the presentation of oral papers to choose a candidate for a contest held by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Des Moines, Iowa. The March 18 meeting will be in Room 212 of the Engineering Building at 8 p.m. The South Bend Section of the A.I.E.E., which together with the National Council of the A.I.E.E. is co-sponsoring the contest, will meet with the local chapter.
Over 50 students have entered papers for consideration. A series of three sessions will be held to choose the finalists who will present their papers at the March 18 meeting. The first prize will be an expense allowance to cover the trip to Des Moines, $10.00 in cash plus a certificate of award. An additional cash award of $25.00 has been added hy the local A.I.E.E. section.
Rosary Fetes Visiting Notre Dame Glee Club
Shown above are glimpses of the party tendered the Notre Dame Glee Club by Rosary College prior to the combined concert held last Sunday before over 1,000 persons in the Stevens Hotel's Grand Ballroom. At left: Dorothy Wolf, Rosary's Glee Club yiden*, and Margaret Papin, co-chairman of the concert, help Ralph Thorson, president of the ND songsters, enjoy an after-dinner smoke. At right: Denise DeLano and Rosemary Duncan join George Bariscillo, Glee Club business manager, in some pre-concert einjinj. A dinner, entertainment, and dancing made up the party schedule.
13
BARAT COLLEGE—’
ABOVE: Seniors Nikie Pattavini from Omaha and Eileen Loftus from Merion, Pa. Both are majorin? in psychology.
LEFT: Isabel Lyman, a senior in history, and her sister, Louise Lyman, a junior in speech, both from Chicago.
Jane Williamson, a senior from Winnetka
Jamee Martin, a sophomore from Wilmette
Maureen Kieley, a sophomore from Providence
14
<«<ND’S PARALLEL
Cute Collegians Have Heavy Crush on Irish
By WILLIAM H. LYMAN
Every Thursday night before Notre Dame played a football game last fall, the girls of Barat College held a pep rally in their smoker. They sang Notre Dame songs, shouted Notre Dame cheers and talked over the Notre Dame game to be played the following Saturday.
Obviously Barat College has a crush on Notre Dame. Barat girls will flatly deny it. They’ll say it’s Notre Dame that has the crush on Barat. They’ll point out the large group of Notre Dame men that continually entreats them for dates. They’ll remind you that all Chicago Club dances swarm with Barat girls. But it’s more fun as a Notre Dame man to think of it the first way—that Barat has the crush on Notre Dame.
Barat College of the Sacred Heart is in Lake Forest, Illinois, about thirty miles and a short North Shore train ride north of Chicago. It’s a neat, one-building affair equipped with class rooms, laboratories, library, chapel, assembly hall, dining hall, social rooms and bedrooms. It stands on a hilly, wooded estate of forty-five acres. About 300 students from all parts of the United States and six foreign countries work there for degrees in Arts and Sciences. Almost twice as many of these students live in Chicago and surrounding area as elsewhere, however, and the rest often take weekends there.
This partly explains a standing mystery at Notre Dame: what does Chicago have that impels men to brave four hours and forty minutes of South Shore riding and risk possible Cum Laudes and Magna Cum Laudes just to spend weekends there?
If you compare the history of Barat with Notre Dame’s, you can see a close relationship. Saint Madeline Sophie Barat, who founded the Society of the Sacred Heart which administers Barat College, was a contemporary of the Rev. Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Both Mother Barat and Father Moreau began their Orders in France during the troubled days of the early nineteenth century.
Both foundations grew rapidly, but just at the time when followers were needed most, Mother Barat sacrificed one of her first companions, Blessed Philippine Duchesne. This Mother came to the United States to extend the work
of the Society by establishing its first American house in Saint Charles, Missouri, and laying the ground for its many others like Barat that followed. Father Moreau made the same decision as Mother Barat: he, too, at a time when every priest was needed at home, had to send one of his most promising followers, Father Edward Sorin, to the United States to establish Notre Dame.
Both Founders dedicated their Order to the Sacred Heart of Jesus; a statue of the Sacred Heart, almost a duplicate of the one facing our Main Building, faces the Main Building at Barat. Both left their foundations a singularly French religious tradition; there is a grotto like Lourdes at Barat about identical with ours.
Among the students at Barat, your McDonalds, O’Briens, Conertys, Kellys and Caseys are far in the majority. Notre Dame got the name Fighting Irish, after it went through a similar transition. That brings the two schools up to today with a common tradition.
When young folks are brought up together in the same neighborhood, you can allow them a crush—a least a little one.
Third Lenten Retreat Begins Tomorrow Night in Farley
The third in a series of four Lenten Retreats will begin tomorrow night in the chapel of Cavanaugh hall. This retreat will be for the students of Cavanaugh, Zahm and St. Ed’s Halls and for all those students on the west side of the campus who were unable to attend either of the previous two.
The services, which begin at 8:45 p.m. with a talk on “The Soul and Salvation,” will be conducted by the Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., and Rev. Aloysius Cussen, C.S.C. This conference will be followed by the recitation of the rosary and singing of hymns at the Grotto. Confessions will then be held in Sacred Heart Church.
The Retreat held last week was another success with overflow crowds at all the services. This series, sponsored by the YCS, will close next week with the services being held in the Farley Hall Chapel. All students who have not yet made one of the first two Retreats may attend either of the remaining two.
WALKER AND FR. CAVANAUGH For an Alumnus — an award
Frank Walker Given 1948 Laetare Medal
A former Postmaster-General of the United States and a Notre Dame graduate, the Honorable Frank C. Walker was named last Sunday as the 1948 recipient of the Laetare Medal, annually awarded by Notre Dame to an outstanding Catholic layman. Mr. Walker is the fourth member of the alumni to be so honored.
In announcing the award, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of the University, stated that “as a cabinet member for five years during the trying period of World War II, and in many other positions of responsibility in the Government of the United States, Mr. Walker has been for many years the ideal public servant.”
“In his extensive business relationships, and in his personal and family life, Mr. Walker has exemplified at all times the highest Christian and American principles,” Father Cavanaugh added. “He has given generously of his time and resources to every good cause, and the University of Notre Dame is especially proud to honor this noble and gifted alumnus and member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees.”
Born at Plymouth, Va., in 1886, Mr. Walker attended Gonzaga University before entering the Notre Dame Law School, from which he was graduated in 1909. In 1925, after having served in the army during World War I, he became general counsel and manager of Comerford Theaters. In the late 1920’s he became an intimate friend of the late President Roosevelt. A former treasurer of the Democratic National Committee, he became its chairman in 1943.
15
T-DAY AT ND
Taxables Tremble as Deadline Draws Near
By GREG HALPIN
Ringing across the Notre Dame campus next week will come the far-reaching voice of governmental authority. If, perchance, the Treasury Department has been bitten by the vermin of culture that voice might very well boom out ■ominous words with a Shakespearean tone, to wit: “Beware the Ides of March.”
Not that there is a Brutus in the United States cabinet sharpening, at this very moment, a long stiletto for a stab at Harry Truman. Rather, March 15 is coming up (it is Monday to be exact) and once again the Department ■of Internal Revenue waits for America to open up its pocketbook and let it have a peek. Said peek more often than not results in the cleaning out of said pocketbook.
HARRIED TAXPAYER Uncle Sam played Brutus
At Notre Dame, T-Day is the cause of a multiple commotion of anxiety, op-portunity and rebellion. Though there are none on campus whose earnings for the past year (fiscal that is) are of such proportions that they need explain them to a Senate committee, nevertheless a few enterprising souls, most of whom are backed by an enterprising wife, have worked themselves right up into the taxable $500 group and are faced with a government blank. Because so many of them turn an equally blank face to the tax forms these entrepreneurs are nearly up a tree without a deduction.
Ah! But to their rescue come the gallant men of Commerce. Armed with the confidence of one who “knows all about it,” they clamor to help. What care they if Section III, 6b, 1 can only be answered after you have checked and filled in Section L35c2 (please note footnote). What care they if employees, male, may not deduct .0002%% from statement 23y if there is a galvanized steel water cooler at his place of employment. What care they for the small print hidden under the form number that any fraud perpetrated by a taxee may be punishable by an extended visit to the Atlanta lock-up. What care they? Nothing, nothing at all. Only a Commerce man can make that statement. For only a Commerce man “knows all about it.”
And should the government, through error, take a dim view of a Notre Dame student’s return to the point of accusing him of undermining the economy of the United States by withholding tax funds—what then? Then there is a -shout, nay, a chorus of shouts that rise from the Law Building. It is the voice of justice calling out against injustice. It is the voice of morality crying against the debauchery of tax machinery. It is the squawk of protest from the infant lawyer. The Notre Dame law students will defend their fellow-scholar even if, “We have to take this to the Supreme Court!”
So with the assuredness of a man who knows he is surrounded by the surety of knowledge and the protection of justice, the Notre Dame taxpayer listens to the ringing voice and watches his door sill for a long envelope.
Look, Fitzharris Top Bridge Tourney With Six Victories
The campus bridge tournament ended Tuesday afternoon with a decisive victory by Tom Look and Bill Fitzharris over Johnny Lu jack and Bill Hoene. The winners swept the tournament by winning six consecutive games.
This is the second straight year that Tom Look has been one of the champions, while Bill Fitzharris was in the semi-finals last year. As a prize each of the winners will receive a deck of plastic playing cards. This concludes the tournament that was started last fall with sixty entries.
Photography Courses Added to Art Dept.
The expanding Department of Fine Arts has announced the addition of photography to its courses. The department has acquired the very latest and best of photographic equipment and has complete dark-room facilities.
PROFESSOR SESSLER
For Journalism Students — more work
There will be no specific courses in photography, but the equipment will be use<i as a supplementary aid to the art students in the design and drawing courses, and also in the instruction of the 25 or 30 journalism students who must take publicity media courses from the Art Department.
Professor Sessler, head of the department, said that this will be an effort to clarify the misconception the average layman has of the important place photography has in Art. By studying the whole process of photography, the art and journalism students will get some idea of how good photographs are made, and will realize both the possibilities and limitations of photography in relation to other of the graphic media.
ARCHITECTURE LECTURE
John O. Merrill, of Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, New York, will lecture on “Apartment Design" to the Architects' Club on Wednesday. March 17. Mr. Merrill is recognized nationally for his work in the field of apartment design, and was featured in the October and November issues of the “Architecture Forum." All students are welcome to the lecture which will be in the Engineering Auditorium at 4 pan.
16
SCHOLASTIC SHCCTT
Leahy's Whistle Calls 100 Cleated Men On St. Patrick's Day
Sure and the Irish will start wearing off the green of Cartier Field on St. Patrick’s Day when Captain Bill “Moose” Fischer reports to Head Coach Frank Leahy with some 100 candidates for the 1948 pigskin donnybrook.
The opening session will be to the accompaniment of exploding flash bulbs and grinding newsreel cameras as the nation’s press representatives invade South Bend to watch the 1947 National Champions start the long title defense trail which will lead through 10 games and end in the Los Angeles Coliseum next December 4.
ONE. TWO. THREE. FOUR Bengal Bout contestants caught in last-minute, pre-fight calisthenics
J. McAllister, quartermaster of the Notre Dame athletic forces, has opened a new crate of towels for the coaching staff and is expecting a rushing business. From last year’s 37 monogram winners Coach Leahy will have 25 reporting back to duty. While the statistics look fine, the prospects dim when the names of the missing 12 are considered. Lujack, Connor, Czarobski, Sullivan, Urban, Signaigo, Ashbaugh, Earley, Gompers, Livingstone, Clatt and Simmons are serious losses which the coaches must fill before next fall. Some measure of relief can be seen in the competent B team and freshman material moving up as replacements. The return of Jack Fallon and Ernie Zalejski will bolster the Irish power.
The most serious problem to be solved is at the tackle slot. With the first four tackles from the 1947 squad gone, the line mentors will have to reach deep into the reserves to plug these holes in the Irish forward wall. Fallon’s return makes the picture a little brighter and the possible conversion of Fischer from guard may be their answer. Bull Budyn-kiewicz, Gus Cifelli and Ralph McGehee and other returning monogram tackles will be fighting for the No. 1 call.
To find replacements for the Lujack-Ashbaugh duo, the smoothest quarterback combination in collegiate play in the last two years, is the second big headache to be solved this spring on Cartier Field. Frank Tripucka was playing in the Luj’s shadow all last season, but is due to coihe out in the open now. His passing in last year’s Navy game raised a lot of eyebrows in the press box and
stands. But the competition of Roger Brown, Gerry Begley, and Bill Heywood can’t be ruled out.
The brightest looking spot in the football picture is at end. In Hart, Martin, Wightkin and Waybright Notre Dame will have the strongest college combination in the 1948 campaign. The switch of Fischer to tackle will probably prelude the change of Strohmeyer from center to guard. Either Fischer or Strohmeyer teamed with Wendell will discourage too many attempts to try the center of the Irish line for yardage. Frampton, Lally and Oracko will be backing up the guard slot. Reliable, hard hitting Bill Walsh will be back after his center job.
When the names of returning halfbacks is read off it’s easy to see that the Irish have little to worry about adequate replacements. Terry Brennan, Coy McGee, and Emil Sitko head the parade with Coutre, Smith, and Zalejski to keep them company. Brennan will probably miss spring practice to rest his injured leg. Coach Leahy will probably spend all season looking for a breakaway runner while the above sextet romps to pay dirt. A shortage of fullbacks will trouble the Irish. Panelli will be back, but Notre Dame found out the danger of only one fullback last year as halfback after halfback was thrown into the spot when “Pep” was injured. One of the transfers, Mike Swistowicz, showed up well in the plunging spot and may be there again this fall.
—Harry Monahan
Clubs Donate Awards To Bengal Fighters
As the semi-finals of the 17th annual Bengal Bouts, sponsored by the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, loom on the schedule for Monday night, the prospect of sharing in the division of the biggest set of trophies ever offered in the tourney will put the fighting Irish in the mood to deliver a fast punch-packed evening of boxing. The interest will be even greater for those vrho get into the finals on Wednesday, March 17.
In past years only one trophy in addition to the regular sweater awards was presented. This was the Sportsmanship Trophy donated by the Huddle and awarded during the evening of the finals to the most sportsmanlike fighter in the tourney. This year, however, the loot will be supplemented by eight trophies to be given to the champions. These trophies have been donated by various campus organizations and a South Bend merchant.
The trophies and their donors are: Heavyweight Class—Student Council 180 Pound Class—Gilbert’s
167 Pound Class—California Club 157 Pound Class—Law Club
147 Pound Class—Vetville
142 Pound Class—Cleveland Club 137 Pound Class—Gilbert’s
127 Pound Class—Rebels Club ,
(Continued on Page 20)
17
Runners Make Good Showing in Central Collegiates; Tech Relays Next Goal
By JIM HOWARD
Notre Dame’s cinder kickers will enter big time relay competition tomorrow when they compete in the 17th Illinois Tech Relays at the University of Chicago fieldhouse.
The Irish held the Tech relay crown only one year, in 1943, the last meet held before the war cancelled the 1944, ’45, and ’46 contests. Up to now the ND spikesters have engaged in only one battle with top flight teams. In that competition, at the Michigan State Relays, the local cindermen fared badly. Tomorrow will probably be a repetition of that contest, as Notre Dame will be running against Big Nine indoor champion, Ohio State, and the defender of the relay title, Illinois.
Despite the fact that the Irish showed unusual strength in capturing second in the Central Collegiates at East Lansing, they do not seem to have the power and over-all balance necessary to score heavily in a contest with schools like Illinois, Ohio State, and Michigan. Illinois will be seeking its third title. The Illini won last year in so handy a fashion that they almost doubled the score of their nearest competitor, Michigan.
Ohio State, if it repeats the dazzling performance of last Saturday in which it took the conference title from Illinois by ai scant three points, may unseat the orange and blue thinclads for the second time. In the Big Nine battle, Lloyd Duff of Ohio State set a new American indoor record for the 70-yard high hurdles of :08.4 seconds. In Chicago he will meet Harrison Dillard of Baldwin Wallace and Bill Porter of Northwestern, whom Duff beat out for the title last weekend. With a star field such as this, another record smashing performance seems a certainty. John Smith, the Irish hurdler may figure in the battle, on the basis of winning the 75-yard high barriers at East Lansing. It was the first win of the year for Smith who last season was seldom bested.
Notre Dame will probably show in the Tech relays in the various special events such as the sprint medley, distance medley, and the two-mile relay. The mile relay has a chance of placing, but the Irish quartet has not come close to the times of some of the leading Big Nine teams, and they lost to Loyola in the Centrals last Saturday.
The ND trackmen may take some places in the mile, the shot put, and the 440. Coach Handy may conserve the
strength of some of Notre Dame’s top performers in hopes of showing well in the Chicago Relays the following weekend.
The Central Collegiates developed into a duel between Michigan State and Notre Dame last Saturday in the absence of other comparative competition. The Irish did unexpectedly well by gathering 52 iy5 points to place second behind the Spartans who won with 61 11/14.
Capt. Ernie McCullough took the quarter mile with a brilliant finishing kick. Third place in the same event went to Steve Provost of the Irish. A blazing finish - carried John Smith to first in the 75-yard highs over Horace Smith of the Spartans. Bill Fleming took fourth in the high stick battle.
The two-mile was won by a 60-yard margin by rugged Jim Murphy, who toured the distance in 9:37.6. Corny Styer’s sprint carried him from seventh to third in the distance battle.
John (Babe) Murphy and Bob Smith captured second and third in the 300-yard dash, in which Dave Murphy’s last year record of :31.7 was equalled.
George Sullivan tied for second in the shot put and Floyd Simmons was fifth. The Notre Dame mile relay team of McCullough, Paul Schwetschenau, Provost, and Bill Leonard was second to Loyola.
There is a possibility that Notre Dame will take part in the inaugural Southern Relays April 3 in Birmingham, Alabama. The contest is after the last Irish meet, and a token squad may compete.
REJUVENATION
Bill McGehee and Mike Swistowicz at work in Father Lange's gym curing injury weaknesses incurred during the past grid campaign. By fall both should be ready for action again.
Central Illini Edge 3rd Campus Cage Foe
A smooth working Central Illinois team won their third straight this week and established themselves as the team to beat in the club league race. The Kentucky squad was the victim, 42-24. Pacing the winners accurate attack were Bill Hoescheidt and Jim Marshall with 16 and 12 points respectively.
Central Illinois Club	Kentucky Club
	B	F	P	B		F	p
Hoescheidt	7	2	2	Tafel	3	1	2
Marshall	4	4	2	Willenbrink	3	1	A
Ryan	1	0	1	Riess	2	1	1
Murphy	1	0	0	Micheal	2	1	1
Cassidy	5	0	1	Jones	0	0	2
The New Jersey Club, meanwhile, preserved their unbroken string of victories by downing the Knights of Columbus, 25-18, in a rough and tumble brawl featured by 27 fouls and two near-fights. Eleven of the winner’s points were tallied on free throws.
New Jersey	Club B F		P	Knights of	Columbus		
					B	F	P
Tripucka	4	2	4	Jost	1	0	
Zmijeski	1	2	4	Donoghue	1	2	1
Hurley	1	4	z	Neidhart	4	2	3
Regan	1	3	1	Lombardo	1	0	3
Rooney	0	0	1	McLaughlin	0	0	2
In interhall competition, Cavanaugh edged out St. Ed’s in a 30-29 thriller.
Also in interhall play a smooth and aggressive Walsh quintet scored an upset victory over Lyons Hall 35-29. Lyons tied the score in the final minutes, but Walsh rallied to win handily.
Charlie Wolfe’s squad defeated Emil Garofalo’s crew 33-31 in the week’s highlight in the open league. Other scores: Cavanaugh Gold 46, Lyons Blue 34; Dillon Gold 49, Morrissey Gold 39; Dillon Orange 54, Lyons Orange 39; Dillon Blue 40, Morrissey Red 28; St. Ed’s Gold 54, Lyons Red 31; Morrissey Orange 35, Lyons White 28.
The Villagers beat the Italian Club 38-31 and the New Jersey Club also trounced the West Virginia Club 47-35.
Cavanaugh 56, Breen-Phillips 33; Badin 47, Morrissey 28; Zahm 30, St. Ed’s 13; Vets 42, Farley 38; Breen-Phillips 35, Zahm 25; Breen-Phillips Lightweights 35, Morrissey Lightweights 32.
SCHEDULE MARCH 15 Walsh vs. Badin Lyons vs. Howard W. Virginia vs. Villagers Lyons Orange vs. Morrissey Red Lyons Red vs. Morrissey Orange MARCH 16 Morrissey Blue vs. Dillon Orange St. Ed’s Gold vs. Lyons White MARCH 17 Badin vs. Lyons Howard vs. Morrissey Dillon Blue vs. Lyons Red Morrissey Blue vs. Morrissey Orange MARCH 18 Walsh vs. Off-Campus St. Ed’s Gold vs. Dillon Orange Lyons White vs. Morrissey Red Morrissey Lightwts. vs. Cavanaugh Lightwts.
MARCH 19
Kentucky vs. St. Louis
—Tom McNally
18
Zalejski Looms As Irish Threat In '48, Sees Good Season
Italian Club Keglers Maintain Gold Lead;
Toledo Pushing Vets for Blue League Crown
By BOB CASURELLA
Ernie Zalejski, sophomore halfback from South Bend and Lyons Hall, has been working out during the winter, and expresses hope that his injured leg has finally healed enough to allow him to play football next fall.
One of the greatest athletes Indiana has ever produced, Zalejski came to Notre Dame after receiving brilliant notices for his high school play at Washington High School in South Bend, and after serving some time in the army.
ERNIE ZALEJSKI
After Tulane — a year's rest
Ernie, though only enrolled here a few weeks before donning a Notre Dame game uniform, and thoroughly unfamiliar with T-formation plays as taught by Mr. Leahy, made his Irish debut in the closing stages of the 1946 Purdue battle in the stadium. Purdue players thought they had seen everything the Leahy lads had to offer in the line of speed, but as soon as the home town boy stepped onto the field they quickly changed their minds.
After each huddle the quarterback would whisper a few well-chosen words relaying the general direction of the next play into Ernie’s ear, and the freshman flash would grasp the ball and take off toward, and past, the opposition.
However, it was in the Tulane game that he really attracted nationwide attention by scoring two touchdowns in the rout of the Green Wave, but in so doing, he injured his right knee, putting him on the bench for over a year. Although most persons believed he damaged a cartilage a la Terry Brennan, it was really some ligaments which were harmed. During the months following the season Ernie underwent an operation on his leg and then rested in order to allow the knee to mend.
Chuck Derrico of the Italian Club rolled a 596 series last week at the Bowl-Mor alleys as the Romans swept two of three games from the Jet Propulsion outfit. Derrico’s series moved him to second place for the individual three game honors. Chuck is right behind his teammate, Art Arquilla, who leads the three game pack. These boys are two big reasons why the Italian Club leads the Gold League by six games.
Paul Pukish kept his second place Rochester team in the running with a high 203 game as they took two from Boston. The Villagers cleaned Youngstown for three straight to move into a second place tie with the Rochesterites. The boys from South Bend loom as a possible threat to the high riding Romans, who have dominated Gold League play since the start of the season.
In the Blue League Vetville remained on top by grabbing three games from Milwaukee. Art Ulsrick of the Columbus Club rolled a 213 game which enabled his last place club to take one game from the powerful second place Toledo team. Toledo is now three full games behind the Vets. Fox River Valley took two games from the once hot Pittsburgh Club to tie the two teams for third. Bill Reily hit the maples for a 213 game to lead the Met Club to two wins over the Aeros. Tom Simon had his Syrian-Lebanese Club in top form to sweep three games from the Chemists. The Syrians moved from tenth place into a three-way tie for sixth place. They are a team to keep your eye on.
Now he expects to be able to do the running, twisting, and cutting as before. This winter besides exercising regularly he applied his talents to coaching the Villager’s basketball team.
When asked what he thought of our chances this year, he replied, “Well, that’s hard to say this early, but I think the team will be as good or better than last year’s.”
“Why?” I said.
“Because,” he answered, “everybody wants to play good ball, and with that kind of spirit a team can win ball games.”
Winning ball games has always been easy with Ernie carrying the ball. And since he still has three years of eligibility left, fans, sportswriters, and broadcasters had better learn how to pronounce that Zalejski name now, and remember it for a long time.
—Verne Kelley
BLUE LEAGUE STANDINGS
Team	W	L	Pts
Vetville 					 24	6	32
Toledo 		..... 21	9	29
Pittsburgh 			 17	13	22
Fox River Valley			 16	14	22
Chemists 			 15	15	20
Syrian-Lebanese 			 14	16	18
Monogram 		..... 14	16	18
Met Club 			..... 14	16	18
Aero Club			..... 13	17	17
Texas Club		..... 12	18	16
Milwaukee 		..... 10	20	15
Columbus 		..... 10	20	13
Schedttle for March H Vetville vs. Toledo Syrian-Lebanese vs. Met Club Aero Club vs. Columbus Club Milwaukee vs. Fox River Valley Monogram vs. Pittsburgh Texas vs. Chemists
GOLD LEAGUE STANDINGS
Italian Club		22	8	31
Villagers		19	1	25
Rochester 		18	12	25
Inter-American Affairs	18	12	24
Detroit 			16	14	22
Boston 		16	14	22
Buffalo 		16	14	21
Rockford 		14	16	18
ASME 		12	18	15
St. Louis		10	20	13
Jet Propulsion		10	20	12
Youngstown 		19	21	12
Schedule for March H Youngstown vs. Jet Propulsion Rochester vs. St. Louis Rockford vs. Italian Club Villagers vs. Buffalo Inter-American Affairs vs. ASME Detroit vs. Boston
Marquette Five Falls As Last Irish Victim
Notre Dame closed its basketball season at the Milwaukee Armory last Saturday night, beating Marquette 76-62. The Irish finished the season with 17 wins in 24 starts for a seasonal record.
For the first half the Hilltoppers were definitely in the ball game. Featuring Gene Berce, a crew cut crackshot who bagged thrity-five points for his night’s work, Marquette kept pace with Notre Dame. At the half-time buzzer Notre Dame held a slim 38-34 lead.
Then Brennan and Gordon went to work and the Irish pulled far ahead to stay. Both these boys hit for nine field goals to lead the scoring bee for Notre Dame.—Dave Warner
19
WHERE DID IT GO?
Asks tins bewildered Marquette player as O'Halloran leaps and fires in last Saturday's season finale at Milwaukee
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
Prospects for a top-notch golf squad are not too bright at this point. Monogram men returning from last year’s
team (won 5, lost 4, tied 1) are Captain Dick Seidel, Jack Fitzpatrick, and George Stuhr. Also coming back to battle for the other three berths are Tom Dore, who won a monogram during the war, Paul Hudak, Tom Cawley, John Quinn, Bob Rolfs, and Maury White. White is tabbed as
a hot prospect.
The Faculty Board in charge of athletics has approved the sending of three men from the fencing team to the National Intercollegiate at Annapolis, Md., on April 3. Coach Herb Melton will select one man from each of the three events, the foils, the saber, and the epee.
It’s hard to figure college basketball. When the same ball club can reach the
heights by whipping Kentucky and New York University, and then scrape bottom by losing to an ineffectual Michigan State outfit (on our home floor, too), the only conclusion is that there is no such thing as a sure thing.
A question that has to be settled fairly soon is who will replace Ed Krause as tackle coach of the Irish. Krause has given up his football duties to concentrate on his new assistant athletic director post and basketball. Prominent among names suggested has been that of Lou Rymkus, who played under Leahy in 1941 and 1942. Since his All-American days at ND, Lou has been an all-league tackle with the Washington Redskins and the All-American Conference champions, the Cleveland Browns.
Because of the overflow of entrants this year, the Bengal Bouts have been presenting from 12 to 14 bouts each night in the preliminaries. This is an added incentive, to those who need it to come out and add theii- 25 cents to the gate receipts. The quality is strictly top-flight, and now that the quantity has increased, there’s no reason for not turning out in droves to see tonight’s last program of preliminaries.
BASKETBALL REVIEW
A comprehensive word and picture review of the past basketball season will be featured in next week's SCHOLASTIC.
N.D. Fencers Seeking Ninth Seasonal Win
Tomorrow in Chicago Coach Herb Melton’s fencers take on Illinois Tech in the final match of Notre Dame’s most successful fencing season since 1936. With eight wins and a single loss to date, the Irish could tie the all-time record of nine wins in one season set in 1936 when the Gold and Blue went unbeaten for the second straight year.
Regardless of their opponent’s calibre, Notre Dame should rate no worse than an even bet to send the Techawks down to a defeat similar to those handed Ohio State, Case, Michigan State, Northwestern, Illinois, Cincinnati, Detroit, and Wisconsin.
Against Wisconsin, Notre Dame expected a stiff battle, but they were not even pressed in scoring a 20%-6% win, their most convincing of the year. Oddly enough, it was in the epee and sabre events that the Irish piled up most of their points. The foils team came through its nine bouts with a 6-3 margin over hte Badgers. Mike DiCiccOj winning his 26th bout in 27 attempts, and Capt. Lou Burns accounted for all six of those points.
John Vincent set the pase as the epee squad outscored Wisconsin 7-2. Vincent won his three bouts while Ralph Dixon and Jerry Dobyns each won two of three. The sabre men also came through with a 7-2 advantage over Wisconsin. Bob Schlosser, Tom Roney, and Ralph Wi-tucki each scored two wins in as many tries, and Bob Bosler won his only bout.
—Jim Blitz
Bengal Trophies
(Continued from Page 17)
These will be presented on the. night of the finals.
The Central New York Club has completed arrangements under which they will present a trophy to the outstanding fighter of the tourney. Committee co-chairmen Bob Gaffney and Jim Farrell are prepared to furnish ballots to the spectators on the night of the finals and to collect them at the conclusion of the fight card. From the tabulation of these ballots the trophy will be awarded on the night of the Knights of Columbus banquet honoring the participants. Central New Yorkers hope to make this a regular award at all future Bengal Bouts.
Sweaters will be presented to the champions and to their finals opponents. In addition, all participants will receive gold keys donated by the sponsors. These awards will be made at the banquet which will be tendered the contestants.
—Harry Monahan
20
Seek Grid Trophy To Honor O'Donnell
The Notre Dame National Monogram dub, under the direction of President Joseph Boland, WSBT sportscaster, has inaugurated a drive among its members to establish a fund for the purchase and maintenance of the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell Trophy to be awarded the national football champion.
Notre Dame, by winning the National Championship crown in 1943, 1946 and 1947, retired from competition the Dr. Henry L. Williams Trophy, the previous award emblematic of national grid supremacy.
The O’Donnell Trophy will perpetuate the memory of the former president of the University who guided Notre Dame through the war years from 1940 to 1946. He was also the first president of the Notre Dame Monogram Club, serving in that capacity in 1915. Fathei- O’Donnell died last summer following a lingering illness.
This trophy will join a line of memorable trophies extending back to the inauguration of the Rissman Trophy in 1924 by Jack F. Rissman, Chicago sportsman. This trophy was also retired by the Fighting Irish in 1930, following previous National Championship ratings in 1924 and 1929. The Knute K. Rockne Trophy followed. Minnesota nosed out Southern California and Michigan to capture the Rockne plaque in 1940. At that time the Minnesota “M” Club placed the Williams award in circulation.
Like its predecessors, the O’Donnell trophy must be won three times before a university may keep it permanently. The winning school will hold it for one year following its presentation. Miniatures of the award, however, will become permanent possessions of the winning schools.
In order to cover the expense of the basic award, the miniatures, necessary maintenance costs, the Monogram Club has set a goal of $3,500 to be collected in this drive. President Boland, in a personal message to* members in the March 3 issue of the Notre Dame Monogram News urged immediate attention to this matter so that the trophy will be ready at the conclusion of the 1948 grid season.
FOR SALE
Scrap Book of Notre Dame Football and Basketball from 1944 to date. Many glossy photos. Phone 2-8109.
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Pugilism Tops Intramural Sports Because of Action, Spectator Interest
By Pete Brown
Wednesday night saw the start of the 17th Annual Bengal Bouts. This enterprise into the pugilistic art sponsored by the Notre Dame Council of the
Knights of Columbus marks the only concentrated effort on the campus by either University or student agencies to make intramural efforts by students appreciated by anyone other than the competitors.
There is a good reason for the lack of interest in any other intramural sport and the strong follow
ing given the Bengals. The reason lies primarily in the action provided by the Bengals. You don’t have to be a boxer to enjoy boxing, and any kind of pugilism —professional, amateur, or street brawl —will draw a crowd. On the other side of the fence, it takes a great deal of courage, interest and fortitude to watch unpolished basketball players, swimmers or wrestlers compete. It is true that the competition in such events is very strong, but the lack of skill and finesse by the contestants more than negates the competitive value.
Back of every successful boxing tournament is good management of all phases of the tournament. There are many wheels that have to be set in motion before the boxers can take the ring for the actual slugging matches. In that the Bengals are fought for the Congregation of Holy Cross missions in Bengal, India, the most important man in the organization is General Promoter Joe Dillon. Under Joe there are numerous committees which take care of the minute preliminary details so that the fights could start last Wednesday night. All these men hold membership cards in the local Knights of Columbus council, and are answerable to either Dillon or Father Tom Brennan, the faculty overseer of the Bengals.
The actual management of the fighters is done by Dominic Napolitano and
Frank Lombardo, who whip the men into shape and pair them off in the elimination bouts.
On Wednesday night the ringside in the Field House resembled a small scale Madison Square Garden. Besides the above mentioned Knights of Columbus, circulating around, there were the necessary judges, referees and announcers to make the Bengals “big time.” The referees were George Vanderheyden and George Nate; the judges Harry Richwin, William Lubbers, Al Doyle and Edward DesLauries; and the timer, Elmer Tepe. However, the announcers had the biggest fieldday. Mike Hines, the old veteran, opened up the evening in his usual masterly fashion. He was followed by John Trave, twice Bengal heavyweight champion, Joe O’Reiley, and Bob Azar. Hines retained his announcing championship even though he got strong competition from O’Reiley. Azar blew his chances when he made a miscall on the Evans-Mahoney fight decision.
Other workers at the ringside included WND and Scholastic representatives. The only thing lacking to make the Fieldhouse into the Garden was the billowing clouds of cigarette and cigar smoke filling the arena.
Zahm Hall’s first entry, Tom Kenney of Orlando, Florida, was the first man to strike a blow in the 1948 Bengals. It was a left jab to Bob Conaty’s face. From that punch Kenny went on to take the decision in the first 157-lb. bout. Dick Finn of New York scored the first knockout when he floored Joe Harmon of Indianapolis in 1:28 of the second round in the 157-lb. bout.
In the ninth bout of the evening in which Dick Cordasco from Newark defeated Charley Mattingly of Indianapolis, there ocurred a surprising thing never before seen in Bengal Bout history. Mattingly was seconded by his brother, the Rev. Basil Mattingly, a Benedictine monk, who is studying for a doctorate in philosophy at Notre Dame.	‘
21
JOE SINGLETON Snow, snow, snow
Snow Plow Jockey Is Wholly Impervious To Snow, Students
It was the morning after an Indiana blizzard. Dawn was just breaking over Vetvi lie as the more energetic students trod their bothersome way through the snowy depths. Then from behind the flakey white curtain there came a rumbling and a roar that thrust most of these early risers into a fearsome panic. Eyes went wide in anticipation as throats clogged in expectancy.
Imaginations ran the full gamut from lecherous dragons to blood-sucking polar bears. The victims, who sought protection behind the nearby trees, waited with baited breaths while their cardiacs acted like toyful yo-yos. The jangling cacophony grew louder and louder and louder. Then in a hazy outline it appeared . . .
The rather prosaic snow plow glided down the pathway with Joe Singleton piloting its maneuvers. Completely impervious to the mental tortures of the amazed onlookers, Joe blithefully swooped past his audience. Down one path and up another.
Many thought they recognized a sadistic gleam in the driver’s eye and quickly attached to their thoughts the supposition that he was rather bored with just scooping up snow, snow, snow and was methodically looking for a body! Nothing could be farther from the truth.
Joe, a married man and father of two, has a kind, leathery, weathery sort of face. He has worked for the ND
maintenance department for two years and regretfully reported that five ayem is his waking hour. Swaddled in a parka, several pairs of pants, boots, and gloves, Joe starts to work. Many laborers get paid according to piece-work, but poor Joe has to be satisfied with an hourly wage and not a scale based on the number of snow flakes he disintegrates.
Like turtle doves, -wild geese, robins and every red-blooded college slave, Joe Singleton is mighty glad when spring rolls around.—Ken Thoren
Alumni To Celebrate 25th Annual ND Night
Notre Dame alumni clubs throughout America will celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night April 5. The Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia will be the “key” club of those scores which will join in paying tribute to the school “planted immovably on the moveless rock.”
Major theme in this, the twenty-fifth annual observance, is to put into the spotlight those alumni who typify that responsible leadership which is the basis of the Notre Dame Foundation, men who have made outstanding contributions to the civic, fraternal, and religious life of their cities.
The Alumni office is co-operating with clubs the nation over in order to supply speakers to all clubs who wish to obtain them from the campus. The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, Dean Clarence Manion of the Law School, and Mr. Harry Hogan, president of the Alumni Association, will be guests and the principal speakers at the Philadelphia Club celebration. The Philadelphia Club is dickering for a national radio hookup for their observance, but as yet no agreement has been reached.
Rev. John H. Murphy will be the principal speaker for the St. Joseph Valley club in its observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. Other guest speakers are now being arranged, but at present there are no other definite commitments.
Twenty-five years ago the late John H. Neeson, Sr., ’03, of Philadelphia, then president of the Alumni Association, instituted Universal Notre Dame Night, a night when Notre Dame men everywhere would join in expressing their oneness with their school. Mr. Neeson’s particular purpose — and this purpose has remained steadily through the years — was to emphasize the full stature of Notre Dame as an institution of higher learning.—Dan Brennan
CARROLL (CENTER) & ASSOCIATES For SMC — another mixer
Frosh Meet Sunday; Fete St. Mary’s Girls
The freshmen have taken the initiative once again and are planning a general meeting of the class next Sunday night at 7:30 in the Vetville Rec Hall. The meeting will be held in conjunction with the freshmen YCS.
Tom Carroll, president, said an important announcement will be made at the meeting which will be of great interest to every member of the class. The ■election of a chairman for the Sophomore Cotillion will also be held. Another point on the agenda will be the distribution of questions concerning the class attitude towards the Cotillion.
A Communion Breakfast, with Ward McCabe as its chairman, is planned for the latter part of this term, and will be discussed. A picnic committee will be organized for that spring event.
At 2 p.m. on the same afternoon in the Rec Hall, the freshmen YCS and class will play hosts to 75 St. Mary’s freshmen for the second in a series of Sunday afternoon mixers. The intellectual part of the afternoon will consist of a debate between two ND freshmen and two corresponding St. Mary’s girls with the NSA as the topic. It will be followed by the pattern of dancing and informal mixing that was inaugurated two Sundays ago at St. Mary’s.
Prexy Carroll said, “The class has definitely proved that they are a spirited lot. There are only about 500 of us and if we continue to work as well as we have been doing then I feel certain that we’ll be a class to reckon with during our remaining years at ND.”
22
Profs Talk Turkey; Students Eat Steak
Gripes concerning the student-professor relations have always been long and endless. Like talking about the Indiana weather, nothing has ever been done in regard to this matter. Nothing, that is, until last week when a group of Commerce students came up with a solution to the matter.
This enterprising group decided on meeting once a week for dinner at the Ramble Inn with a professor invited as their guest. An informal chatter period will follow each dinner with multi questions being fired at the intellectual victim. Mr. Smith, assistant Dean of the Commerce school, was the first guest and highly endorsed the inaugural meeting.
Skeptics might cynically question such a mixer with the question, “What—and listen to those profs spiel off another of their blankety-blank lectures?” To the contrary, however, the committee tells the prof in no uncertain language that the chow-hungry members are not interested in a frigid lecture, but rather in an informal discussion with no holds barred. The prof is told that they want to probe his mind and see if he really knows anything that is not in the text book—anything goes!
Requisites for offspring movements include ten or twelve interested students and an eatery that will supply a good sized table. Professors are only too willing, after a free meal, to spend a, night shooting the breeze with a batch of steak-stuffed students.
Business Firms Start Raids On Commerce Grads-to-Be
Representatives of various business firms began their semi-annual raid on the Commerce School last week. Leading the invasion were Mr. H. Bigler, personnel representative of General Motors Detroit office, who was on the look-out for prospective employees among both the Commerce and Engineering graduates-to-be, and Mrs. G. S. Dewhirst, vice-president of the National Bank of Detroit, who was interested in finance majors.
Mr. John Queenan, vice-president of Haskin and Sells Accounting firm, who was interviewing accountants, stated that his company “prefers Notre Dame accounting graduates . . . because, unlike students of most schools, Commerce students at Notre Dame receive an excellent background in A.B. courses, particularly English.” Mr. Queenan also said that Notre Dame’s Commerce school supplies some of his best men and for that reason he had made this special
trip “just to make sure that we have the first crack at your accounting graduates of this June.”—L. P. Stanton.
Prop Club Graduates Can Expect Five Job Offers
Members of the Propeller Club, Port of Notre Dame, who are graduating this June, received encouraging news on the foreign-trade employment market from their moderator, Professor Herbert Bott, at a meeting held last week.
Professor Bott, in relating the results of recent contacts with national Propeller Club officers, held the hope that he will have five offers of employment for every graduating club member. He stressed the fact, however, that these were just job opportunities and that the student would have to sell himself into the position itself.
At the same meeting, Professor Bott
PICTURE OF THE WEEK
SCHOLASTIC Photographer Jim Ferstel was intrigued by the new soft drink machines so he broke out his strobo-light and produced a graphic study of how the device operates. Note how closely soda water resembles an icicle.
announced plans for a forthcoming placement week to be held soon, the purpose of which will be to acquaint students with the correct approach to personnel directors. Leading personnel men from industrial concerns will lecture here during that week.
Student of Congenital Cysts Aesculapian Club Speaker
Dr. J. V. Cassady, eye specialist of South Bend, will address the Aesculapian Club next Thursday. He will also show Kodachrome slides on his optical work.
Dr. Cassady has done research work in the study of free floating congenital cysts in the vitreous humour of the eye and embryological studies of the nasolacrimal duct.
The Vincentian Club of St. Mary’s, a group of nurses at the college will be invited to attend this meeting.
Anne Byrne, Juilliard Star, Reopens Series
Notre Dame’s concert series leaps to life again next week when lovely Anne Byrne, an Irish lass from Brooklyn, comes to Washington Hall to make the Steinway talk like Liszt and Chopin. The 22-year-old New York girl brings a program of classical piano selections that includes Beethoven’s Sonata, Debussy’s Footsteps in the Snow and favorite works of Prokofieff.
ANNE BYRNE
From Brooklyn to Washington Hall
Miss Byrne is a graduate of the Juilliard school of music. Music lovers at N.D. should recall tha expert and pleasing performance of the Juilliard string quartet which appeared here last fall.
Possessor of absolute pitch, Miss Byrne first became interested in music at the age of four, and has been studying the piano for fourteen years. Since her graduation from Juilliard Miss Byrne has been under the personal supervision of Mr. James Friskin, noted disciple of the Bach school.
Her program for the concert besides the above mentioned Sonata and Footsteps in the Snow will be Fantasiestilche by Schumann, Nocturne Opus 37, No. 2 and Scherzo Opus 54 by Chopin, and Grilles’ Lake at Evening. Also scheduled are Visions Fugitives Opus 22 by Prokofieff, Etude No. 2 by Liszt and Paganini, and Toccata, Adagio, and Fugue by Bach and Biesoni. Miss Byrne has purposely selected these to present a balanced program to the music lovers of Notre Dame, whoever they may be.
FOREIGN SERVICE TALK MARCH 18
Fred W. Jandrey. assistant chief of the Division of Foreign Service Personnel. State Department, will speak here on March 18 at 4 p.m. in Room 202 of the Commerce Buiding. All students interested in a career in the foreign service of the United States are invited to attend.
Father O'Brien Urges Laity Help to Aid Conversions
With 80,000,000 non-Catholics in the United States and only 40,000 priests, there is an urgent need now for active participation of the laity in bringing new members into the Church, according to the Rev. John A. O’Brien, Notre Dame Professor of Religion.
Speaking before the Catholic Laymen’s First Friday Club of Chicago, Father O’Brien showed how, by distributing pamphlets and books on the faith to non-Catholics and by sending magazines to their friends, the laymen can lend a concrete contribution to the conversion program.
Rare Gothic Manuscript Added to Library Shelves
Notre Dame students with a taste for Gothic literature now have the opportunity to devour the original best-seller in the language. Miss Lois Dozier, head of the Library’s Gift and Exchange division, has announced that the Library has received a copy of the Codex Argen-teus, the oldest and most complete Gothic manuscript now existent, from the University of Uppsala in Sweden in exchange for Notre Dame’s Publications in the Mediaeval Studies.
The book, containing a complete translation of the New Testament into the Gothic language, represents the sum total of Gothic literature and practically the sole source for knowledge of the Gothic language. The translation is believed to have been made about the year 370 by Ulphilas, Bishop of the Goths.
Council Sounds Call
(Continued from Page 9) the member schools while preparing students for future Catholic lay activity. With such aims in mind, Burns suggested that the Council consider sending representatives to a national convention slated to take place at Philadelphia this Spring. Final decision on the matter will be made after the next meeting when financial and committee reports will be made.
There was repercussion from the Southern campus clubs as a result of the ruling forbidding students to belong to more than one geographical club. After due consideration the Council repealed the old decision.
In other business, a smoker for the Kampus Keglers was approved, and the resignation of James Evert was accepted. The Council is continuing investigation of the possibility of forming honorary Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Chi fraternities here at Notre Dame.
Midnight Ride Moves Rock to Soc. Science
It being the time of Knute Rockne’s birthday, there is an appropriateness in the disclosure of a new legend concerning Notre Dame’s famed coach. This latest one concerns a bust of the “Rock” which of late took a strange midnight ride with two ND professors.
It seems this bust was originally located in the old Alumni Office where it
ROCKNE BUST Tradition was moved
was held in due reverence and bound by tradition. But with the big shift in office space in the Main Building, there came new tenants to the Rockne shrine, namely the Journalism Department. Now the Journalism Department, collectively or to a man, has nothing against Mr. Rockne, but it was held by certain of its members that Mr. Rockne’s likeness might be moved to greener fields. When this move was met with determined opposition by the MB janitors, a Journalism Department member resorted to more drastic means. There was a midnight automobile excursion from the Main Building to the Social Science building by said Journalism officer and ND professor. As a result the bust of “Rock” now resides on a History professor’s desk where it may again find a traditional home.
ND BEATS XMAS SEAL QUOTA
The report of the 1947 Christmas Seal sale of St. Joseph County released last week shows that Notre Dame exceeded its quota by more than 600 per cent. The goal set for the ND students was $300.00. The total returns amounted to $1,849.00.
24
O'Shea on All-American; Barnhorst Gets Mention
Notre Dame’s shifty guard Kevin O’Shea has been named to the Associated Press 1948 All-American basketball team. O’Shea’s high scoring roommate, Leo Barnhorst, received honorable mention from the national sportswriters voting in the poll.
Also included in AP’s star-studded cage five are two other names who have seen action on the Notre Dame home court this season. Sharpshooter Ralph Beard of the high riding Kentucky squad was given one of the first team slots. The beanpole that broke the Irish home court victory streak, lanky Ed Macauley, of St. Louis, took over the center assignment. The remaining two nominations went to Murray Weir of Iowa and Jim McIntyre of Minnesota.
BREEN CONTEST BOSS
'William J. Eisen, assistant professor of speech, and chairman of the Breen Oratory Finals, goes over last-minute preparations for Monday night's gab-fest at Washington Hall.
Morrissey Wins Interhall
Swim Meet; Off-Campus 2nd
Morrissey Hall’s jet-propelled tank squad topped a field of seven contenders to win the Interhall Swimming Meet Tuesday in Rockne Memorial Pool. The Morrissey paddlers, paced by Ray Monaco, Al Ifflander, and Jim McCarthy, garnered 29 points to eke out the formidable Off-Campus crew which collected 26 points.
The three-man Howard squad placed third with 15, followed by Zahm with 7 points, Dillon with 6 points, Alumni with 5 points, and Walsh with 3 points.
Johnny Winn, of Dillon Hall, exhibited rare form and near-perfect timing to win top honors in the diving competiton.
—Tom Adams
u • Record Crowd Sees
(Continued from Page 9)
action with the first round of lightheavy and heavyweight eliminations. Zip Roemer is expected to launch his title defense against a field of eager and capable contenders. Jack Fallon, Jim Martin and other top-tonnage challengers will also swing into action. The second round in the middleweight division will also take to the boards to pick the semifinalists for the Monday show.
The opening night’s matches started with a wrestling demonstration between Bob Conaty and Tom Kenney. Both contestants hit the canvas several times, but never from a clean knockdown. A third round flailing rally won the points and match for Kenney. Frank Cryan and Jim Driscoll put the show on the road with a fast and furious three rounds. The antics of handlers Terry Brennan and Bull Budynkiewicz would have overshadowed the ring feature if Driscoll and Cryan hadn’t made it a close hard-fought fight. Driscoll took the close decision.
The 157 class then drew on two capable sluggers in Bernie Boute and Bob Wagner. Both operated as well trained and confident boxers. Boute took the victory by the decision route. New York’s Dan Finn furnished the first and only knockout of the Wednesday card by putting Joe Harmon away in 2:48 of the second round. Finn brought in a sleep-producing right from the bleachers to cool Harmon.
The roundhouse right of Dillon Hall’s Ned Dailey battered down a game opponent in John Durkin. Dailey carried the fight from the opening bell and after pounding lefts and rights to Durkin’s head for 40 seconds of the second round the referee stepped in and stopped the fight. The sixth bout brought the only 147-pound class fight of the evening into the ring. The Windy City’s Tom King slugged it out toe to toe with Joe Stewart from Kansas City with King taking the decision.
A 1947 finalist, Walt Evans, opened his bid for a spot in the 1948 finals by taking a decision from South Bend’s Jerry Mahoney. It was a slow bout; the audience thought they were too careful and started the chant for action. They got it in the third round as both went after the extra points. Evans’ boring-in tactics were enough to take the edge away from Mahoney. The single 142-pound bout of the evening brought Jim Farrell and Al Santangelo together. Santangelo mauled Farrell through the first round and at one point the referee moved to stop the fight. But he had not considered the fight of one Jim Farrell. Jim came back in the final two rounds
to track and batter his opponent all over the ring and gain the decision.
Charles Mattingly lost his defensive battle to Dick Cordasco in a 167-pound contest. Mattingly couldn’t solve the Cordasco defense and stood outside taking a beating. Cavanaugh Hall’s Pete Varda took the lead and the decision from Jim Carroll in the next bout. Varda’s sledgehammer rights and lefts pounded Carroll’s face for three rounds while Jim seemed unable to ward the blows off.
Waiting for the second round to open up, Paul Boulous moved in with a whirlwind barrage to take the measure of Bill Carew by a technical knockout in 37 seconds of the final round. Carew tried to take the advantage as the second stanza opened, but fell back under the Boulous onslaught. Poker-faced and poised, George Dickson, 1946 lightheavyweight title holder opened his 1948 title quest in the final bout of the 167-pound class to outpoint Bill Hopke of Washington, D. C. Hopke had the champ worried a couple of times, but these occasions were not numerous enough to take the advantage from Dickson.
Wednesday night’s winners and their weight classification were:
142-Pound Class
Jim Farrell defeated Al Santangelo 147-Pound Class
Tom King defeated Joe Stewart 157-Pozind Class
Tom Kenney defeated Bob Conaty Jim Driscoll defeated Frank Cryan Bernie Boute defeated Bob Wagner Walt Evans defeated Jerry Mahoney Dan Finn KO’d Joe Harmon Ned Dailey TKO’d John Durkin
167-Pound Class
Dick Cordasco defeated Charles Mattingly
Peter- Varda defeated James Carroll Paul Boulous TKO’d William Carew George Dickson defeated Wm. Hopke
Freshman Oratory Contest Announced by Speech Dept.
The Freshman Oratorical Contest will be resumed this year. Preliminaries will be held in Room 327 of the Main Building on April 5 at 3:15 p.m., and the finals in Washington Hall on April 12. Only those who have not completed two semesters in school are eligible. Any subject may be chosen, but the orations must be original and from five to seven minutes in length. Submit entries to Mr. Govern in 225B of the Main Building before March 23. A cash prize of §10 will be awarded to the winner.
25
NOTRE DAME NAMES MAKE NEWS
Talking & Listening
The University’s annual tribute to St. Thomas Aquinas was presented by Rev. GERALD B. PHELAN Sunday night in Washington Hall. The director of the Mediaeval Institute told historians that their search is necessarily directed towards God, the final end of all human activity. Said Father Phelan: “Only when the whole movement of history is seen in the unity of one orderly universe can the historian proceed with confidence of success.” . . .
The Parents and Teachers Club of South Bend Catholic High school heard publicity director JOHN V. HINKEL at their meeting Monday night. As usual, FRANK LEAHY is in the news. The head grid mentor spoke at the annual banquet for Central Catholic High football and basketball teams Sunday evening. HUGHIE BURNS was toastmaster of the affair. . . .
J. ARTHUR HALEY, Director of Public Relations, was the program director for the Wednesday evening session of the Rotary Club at the Oliver Hotel. Speakers were Notre Dame students JAIME VELEZ, of Colombia; Brother LUIS GALVEZ, F.s.c., of Ecuador and GUILLERMO DENEGRI, of Pera. . . .
Mr. EDMUND A. SMITH, assistant dean of the College of Commerce, spoke in the “Philosophy of Catholic Education” at a Communion breakfast of the Philadelphia Club of Notre Dame recently held at the LaSalle Hotel. . . .
Mr. BROOKS SMEETON, Notre Dame’s expert in marketing, last week attended the meetings of the board of directors and committee chairmen of the National Federation of Sales Executives at the Drake Hotel in Chicago. . . .
Attending a conference of the Committee for the Marshall Plan in Washington, D. C., last week was Rev. FRANCIS J. BOLAND, C.S.C., Head of the Department of Political Science. Father Boland was representing the University at the conference in place of Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., who could not attend. The principal purpose of the conference was to expedite the adoption of the Marshall Plan.
26
FATHER PHELAN For St. Thomas—tribute
Hurdles & Hardwood
An old Scholastic man, BILL FAY, now heading the sports staff of Collier’s magazine, is preparing an article about Dundee, Illinois, the hotbed of midwestern high school basketball. Evidently Bill failed to absorb his full share of Hoosier hysteria while at Notre Dame. . . .
Limber timbertopper MADILL (BUD) GARTISER, former Irish hurdle ace and grid prospect, was clocked at :6.8 in the 60-yard low sticks while performing for the Missouri thinclads. His time was one-tenth second below the old world mark.
JOHNNY NIE MERA and EDDIE RISKA, former Notre Dame hoopsters, appeared in the Fort Wayne-Oshkosh pro exhibition game in South Bend Thursday night. Niemera tallied five markers for the winning Fort Wayne aggregation, two more than Riska contributed to the losers’ cause. In the prelim, CARL LOYD outshone both as he bagged 18 for a South Bend independent quintet. . . .
Last night in Cleveland the battle of the century took place. It was football on the basketball court with LUJACK, LIVINGSTONE, CONNOR, O’CONNOR, DEE, and others of the Chicago Shamrocks competing against the Cleveland Browns, who feature Notre Darner LOU RYMKUS, along with the stellar Otto Graham and Co. of the AAC champions.
Pictures & Praises
Last week BOB KUEHNER of Howard Hall found out that he had unconsciously played a role in the air corps film, Target for Tonight, which was presented on campus by the aeronautical engineers. Besides himself, Memphis Bob was able to identify his old crew members, the commanding officers, and even the driver of the “Meat Wagon.” . . .
Rev. EDWARD A. KELLER, c.s.c., isn’t the only local personality in the March 16 issue of Look. Another is ERIC REY DE CASTRO, La Raza Club prexy, who is shown dancing at the Argentine Embassy party. Oh yes, the young lady seen with him was Teresa Monteza. . . .
The Italian Club of Notre Dame received a telegram of thanks for their well-wishes sent to Alcide De Gasperi, Premier of Italy. In its message, the Club congratulated the Italian government on its successes in establishing a free government and expressed hope that communism would not gain control in Italy. The telegram to the Premier was signed by Dr. PASQUALE PIRCHIO, professor of Italian and faculty advisor of the club; JOHN PANELLI, of Morristown, N. J., club president; L. HENRY DI GIROLAMO, of Montclair, N. J., and ANTHONY MISTRETTA, of Brooklyn, N. Y. . . .
In a recent Northern Indiana Art Salon exhibit, Mr. FREDERICK S. BECKMAN, instructor in the Department of Art was awarded one of the principal prizes for his oriental still-life oil, Blue Peking. . . .
If this column lacks homey southern words and pharses, it is due to the hospitalization of our regular NAMES columnist, VIC DORR. “Lantern-jawed” Vic hails from Blackville, S. C., and is a junior in the journalism department. We-all expect him back next week. . . .
(( IIK t PARADE
According to the Northwestern, these men automatically succeed.
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM O'RIELEY
ARE YOU MENTALLY ILL?
The Butler Collegian reports one Dr. R. N. Whitefield of Jackson, Miss., as saying that the heavy mental fare forced on the American school children has given them “mental indigestion.”
HOGBURGERS
Ohio State students will be able to purchase sufficient food at one time now, the Daily Lantern reports. Claiming the old style hamburger may be on the way out, the Stadium dormitory dining hall staff says, aftei* much research, that a great “hog-size clubburger” consisting of a “hog-sized” piece of meat and an “overgrown” bun has been perfected.
B.M.O.C/S EXPLAINED
The Ohio State Lantern also carried an article designed to define a B.M.O.C. First of all, they are to be divided into foui* groups. Group one is the Tablehopper type. He is the fellow who roams from table to table in the dining hall or restaurant with a continuous smile and
For the benefit of somebody or other a survey has been conducted on the Northwestern University campus by the Daily Northwestern to determine the things which amuse the typical Wildcat. Results:
Type A, The Awkward Professor:
Even well-poised young ladies (they have them at Northwestern) can’t contain themselves when a professor drops his notes in front of the class.
Type B, The Bucolic Professor:
After hearing him drop an occasional “ain’t” or “damn,” the student writes home about her “stimulating frank” professor.
Type C, The Cute Professor:
This one establishes his solid reputation by frequent reference to his undergrad days such as: “Holy smokes—I remember at Harvard when I drank some beer and got a load on.”
Cavanaugh Concerts
MONDAY, MARCH 15
Szostakowicz—Symphony No. 5 Bach-Stokowski — Passacaglia and
Fugue in C Minor
TUESDAY, MARCH 16 Tschaikovsky — Romeo and Juliet Overture
Brahms — Symphony No. 1 in C Minor
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17
Brahms—Concerto in D Major for Violin
Bach—Brandenburg Concertos Nos.
2 and 3
THURSDAY, MARCH 18
Sibelius — Symphony No. 5 in E Flat Major
Kleinsinger — I Hear America
Singing
Anyone interested in classical music is invited to the Cavanaugh Reading Room Noon Hour Concerts, 12:30 to 1:30.
stale joke on his lips. Group two is the Jollyboy. He is the fellow who strides robustly around shouting greetings to all, even in bad weather. His energy seems to be unbounded, which gets the girls every time. Group three gives us the Sharpy. Clothes are his first love. Slaughtered saddle shoes, white sweat sox, grey flannel slacks, a black Windsor tie with three-inch knot, and a yellow cardigan jacket complete his wardrobe. He really is sharp. Group four contains the One Point Wonder. He attends a minimum number of classes and barely squeezes a passing grade out of his profs, but it doesn’t daunt him. He tel’s everyone he’s going to Raspberry Institute next semester anyhow, so why should he try now. He might overstudy.
ROLLING DOWN TO RIO . . .
The days of adventure are not yet over for us Americans if we will take the trouble to look it up, as did Dick Walker of USC. Walker, a sophomore civil engineering student, set off several days ago for Rio de Janerio via motorcycle and the incomplete Pan-American highway. The Daily Trojan (Southern Cal) reports that he doesn’t expect to arrive in Rio until fall because of a few obstacles such as several hundred miles of wilderness road which has only been surveyed.
Webster says that taut means tight. It appears that guys in college are taught a lot after all.—the Champlainer
“Have a pack of Dentyne. It’s fine after meals!’*
“Just as I reached my boiling point I gave the chef a pack of Dentyne. That got me out of the royal stew fast! Naturally—because Dentyne’s keen, delicious flavor always makes friends fast! Dentyne also helps keep teeth white!”
Dentyne Gum—Made Only By Adams
27