< DISCE-QUASI- SEMPER-VICTURVS-VIVE- QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS
Vol,. LI.	- NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 23, 1918.x	No. 18. J -
' > ■ ■ ■ ' . - .
♦
K	Freedom’s Hero.*
BY BROTHER AUSTIN, C. S. C., ’l8.
( Read in Washington Hall at the . Washington Day Exercises, )	.
February 22, 1918. f	”	*	’	*	“
From the serried peaks of the snowy Alps •
To the Baltic’s restless stream:
From Russia’s weltering blood-red tide	■
To where the Belgians fought and died; .	;	’
There -lies a land, and its people’s pride
Is the pride of their war-lord’s dream,. f	_
And the sodden clouds hang darkly down, '	From the plains of the sun-kissed southern land
Where the war-lord’s minions fight;	•	To the frozen northern sea; •
And.the lurid glare flames red and blue,	From the wild Atlantic’s rock-bound shore
Where the screaming death whirls madly through. To where the western breakers roar, And the bloody sabres hack and hew -	’	. There’s another face, and, waving o’er, t
To prove that right is might.	Is the banner, of the free.
1	No boundless dreams of a conquest here,
Where the lights of freedom flame;	.
No frenzied war-dream hold them bound, ' No tryant heels them to the ground, '	Their.herd’s name is far renowned;.
t	No blemish mars his fame. .	'
» - ' - ' ' *
Great Washington, what vaunting lord, .	But thy laurels won were as naught to thee,
In his war-like panoply, •	1 .Whom the war-lust lured in vain.
Could boast of shield so fair and white .	Thy. life was calm as the river wide,
As thine, O Freedom’s.noble knight,	-	■ That rolls its way to the swelling tide,
r-	Who dared the tyrant’s haughty might,	Too deep for the froth of an empty pride,
To keep the home-land free. ’	'	Too clear for a bloody stain. .
’ . • * - - > ■ 1 -
'	Then sing, ye. sons of your noble sire,	'	. '
•.	'	. As ye battle beyond the sea; '	.	.	:
A.	*	-	*	'
With your star-lit colors waving high,	'
,	With a dauntless flash in every eye, .	. .	,
Go forth like him to fight and die,	'	-	*	.
*	For God and liberty.	; i
290
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC -

Notre Dame Men in.the Army and Navy Service.
The following , names have been'reported of Notre Dame men in the Army and Nayy Service of the United States in the present war.- Of this number 243 represent students of last year arid this year who have enlisted. The remainder, are alumni and the. list of these is incomplete. Any_ one knowing of others-who are in the service and whose names do not appear-here, will confer a favor on the Rev. William A. Moloney, C. S. C., Secretary of the University, by sending misssing
names to him.	.
Ahern, Private David . Arnfield, Lieut. Fremont
' Bachman, Charles-W.—Navy Bailey, Private Guy -Barrett, Private Edward Barry, Private Paul F. , 'Baragrey, Wilfred—Navjr Bates, Private Paul Baujan, Lieut. Harry E.	'
Beacom, Private Patrick	.
Beck, Corporal Severin .
’ Beckman, Corporal Edward Benoist, Private Theodore Bergman, Lieut. Alfred Bergman, Lieut. Arthur . Berger, Private Alfred Berkey, Private Kenneth Berteling, Lieut. Charles Birmingham, Seaman Frank E. Birmingham, Private James A. Bosshard, Lieut. Royal H. _ Boos, Sergeant Frank B. Boucher, Robert—Apprentice ■ Breslin, Private H.
Seaman ;	-
Breslin, Private John J.—0. T. S. 7 Corrigan, Jr. Captain Bat
Browne, Private Robert -Bouza, Private J. J. .
Boyle, Stephen J.-—Seaman
- Boyle, Lieut. John . Boyd-Snee, Lieut. Dr. Harry Bower, Private Fred .
Brennan, Private Patrick A Canadian Army	..
Burke, Private Harold ' Bullene, Lieut; Jack ' ’
Burke, Private Thos. J. A Burns, Private "Red” Burns, Private R. J. . -	.
Bums, Lieut. Stephen / Burtt, Willard C.—-Navy A
Bush, Lieut. Hardy ... A Byrider, Private George .	?
Byrnes, Private Robt; L.
. Byrne, Sergeant Joseph .. . ;
’ Cahill, Private Harry S. ‘ : Callaghan, John H. —U. S. N.
Callery, Sergeant Philip —r 1
France	' A
Campbell, Captain George A. Carey; Private Charles M. - Carey, Captain Frank ; Carmody, Private Arthur .: ' Carmody, Private Frank ;
Carroll, Private Eugene ' Carroll, Lieut. John F.
Carroll, Private Leonard Carroll, Sergeant, Stuart H-Casey, Lieut. W. C. ' ’
«Cassidy, Lieut. Clifford Cassidy, Lieut. John. . Cavanaugh, Private John Cinden, Private Leo Clay; Private Odin E. — Absent on leave
Clements, Lieut. W. S. -	’
• Clifford, Lieut. Twooney
Clohessy, Sergeant F. J.
Coker, Wallace—Navy Aviation
Conboy, Sergeant Columbus
Coriboy, John—U. S. N-
Conners, Lieut. H. H."
Connors, Private Wm. ' Connolly, Private E- J.
Conroy, Private Edward T.
Cook, Private Charles Lawrence , Coppinger, Private Lucian
Corby, Captain Joseph -Corcoran, Private Wm. .	.
' - Costello, Sergeant E.mmett Costello, Private John W.
_ Coughlin, Seaman Frank . . Countiss, Lieut. Fred . . _
. . Craine, Sergeant James . :Crimmins, Major Timothy C. .. Cull, Lieut. Frank X. ■ - . A
. Cullen, Lieut. Rodney Cullen, Lieut. Daniel Curley, Yeoman William A
Duffy, Private Paul • . t
Duggan, Private Edward-DiL Cusick, Dwight—KI of C. Sect.: ; . Durrell Louis F.—K. of ,C. Sect. Curran, Lieut. C. J.
. Curtis, Lieut.' Daniel	.
' - Cusack, Major Joseph . J .
,'A Daly, Lieut. W. O. . A, A, Daly,/Private Eldon . . ;	-
A Daly, Hugh J.—K. of C; Sect. '
.. Davis, C. S/C. (Rev.) Lieut;
~ : A Ernest - A A ’ . ■/. A J
Dean, Lieut.; John R. , .A
-Deary, Private;William A died in Dee,'Private Allerton S. .
■ f Dederich, Lieut..R. JV-AAA/AfA .DeFries,; Private Erich Hans 1:. A: DeGfee, Private-WalterAOAT- S Delana, Private EdwardA-/A. A A
- Dell’-Era, Lieut/Josephj A A/4AA-;. Dehey,- Captain Dr. Thomas.J/A
Dennison, Lieut. John .
Denny, Sergeant Harry
Dent, Private Lloyd _
Derrick, Private Clarence
Derrick, Private Frank
Desmond, Private John W. ' - Desmond, Private James .
Devitt, Private James
. Devlin, Private James
Dewey, Private Thomas
Diener, Lieut. John V.
Dixon, Private John Sherwood— \ -O. T. S. _	,
Dolan, Sergeant William T.
Dollard, Lieut. Vincent .
Donahue, Sergeant George . Donahue, Private James
Donnelly, Private Edwin
- . Donovan, Private Rupert .
Dorais, Sergeant Joseph - -
. Dorais, Private Charles E.
. Douglass, Private Walter J. ’ ' Downing, Yeoman W. Poynt ’	-
- Doyle, Private Frank—O. T. S-
Dubuc, Private.Jean	.
. Ducey, W. J—U; S- N.
1	Dugan, Private Paul M-
A.	. Absent on leave	A .
. /Duncan, Private Archibald:	.
Duncan, Private Mark	A
. Diindon, L:eut. Ned.	h
- Durbin, Francis W.-—K. oFC. Sect. -Durch, Lieut. Bernard	-r. t;
. Duffy, Private Drexel, n. .1	"
- f

, Dutrieux, Private Charles ’.A .Eek, Private.Vincent J.
■ Eckel, Private John .
7 ' 'Edgren, Private Paul . .	..
A Egan, Lieut'. Wm: J. .. A :	_
. . Egan, .Private: William— -r (killed in. France).. -A A .Eggeman, Captain F. - ',	. ..
7 f Eichenlaub, Sergeant - Raymond-.7.	S-.	—- A- _	■
A ; Ellis,/Private Howard7J.
. 2 .4Elward, AIRn—U. S N. t ~ h .yA:Erpelding;. Private, Donald.H.. . ■ ’ A?arrington, Private Frank -.: A .AFarwick;^	Arthur .A
AAJ?ase^ .Private Anthony' ‘


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
291
Feiwell, Private Samuel
Fink, Yeoman Carl J. *
Finegan, Private Charles T. ' -
Finnegan, C. S. C. (Rev) Lieut.
Edward.	'
Finnigan, C. S. C.(Rev) Lieut._
George.	_	■
Fitzgerald, Corporal Leo ’
Fitzgerald, Major C. C. -
Fitzgerald, Private Freeman C.
' Fitzgibbon, Private Gerald Fitzpatrick, Lieut. George W. Flaherty, Private Frank James

>X
J
Flaherty, Maurice—K. of C. Asst.
Sect. •	.	'
Fletcher,. Private Forrest Flynn, Sergeant Gerald ~ Fogarty, Lieut. Paul J.	_
Foley, Private Daniel Foley, Private Edmond I. Fordyce, Lieut. John
■' Fox, Lieut. William F. Fox, Seaman Kenneth B. Frantz, Lieut. George F..	.
Fredell, Lieut. George . Freistedt, Corporal Herman
4 French, Lieut. Jasper	.
Fricke, Private Louis	.
Friedman, Lieut. John Freyerrriuth, Lieut. John W. " Gallagher, Private Willard , Gallagher, App. Seaman Patrick Galvin, Lieut. William ■ Galvin, Timothy1—K. bf C. Sect. Gargan, i Lieut. Joseph'F. Gerber, Private’Clem ent J. Gibbons, Private Hugh . / Gibbons, Private Walter’ Glynn, Private Thomas/ ■	.~
Gooley, Lieut. Philip E.
- Goyer, Private -Frank . . Granfield; Private Patrick w . Grady, Private William -
. Graham; Lieut. R. J.	-
Grant, Lieut. Donald .C. ; . • / Grasso, Lieut.' Antonio—	5
ItaliamArmy; .	' . ..
GriffinpPrivate Joseph . -Grimes Sergeant Chas. .	;
Grimes, Private A. K. , 4	:
. . Guedelhoefer, Private John- /. Guilfoyle, Seaman Luman : ■ S Haberer, Lieut. Bernard V. . . 7 Hagerty, Private Leo .	7
Hagerty, Private George . .. / Halmes, Private George	-
Absent bn leaved '7. . , .	-
Hanley, Private^ William.	. 7
Hamilton, Private Donald M. ’ / ~. Hanna, Seaman John . .. r Hannan,. Private RL E.' ' > ~; 7 Hansberger, Sergeant : • : ? ,' < -Hansel,4 Private	7
Hardy, Private'Russeil- ;' /L	7
Hart, Private. Pa’ur.7'5 r^	7
Haydon, Lieut. Ci J.
Hayes, Private Thos. —O. T. S.
Hemmer, Lieut. W. J. . Henry, Private William C. .
. Hilgartner, Private D. E.—-’ Absent on leave __
Hoerr, Private W. K.
Hodkin, Private Samuel J.
Hoffman, Corporal Eugene , Hogan, Private William Holland, Lieut.- T. V. / Hopkins, Private Robert Horn, Tyree—West Point
Howell, Charles—Navy	•
Hubbell, Private Lawrence 4
Hubble, Private Manuel .	’
Huber, Private E-	-
Hughes, Private Arthur . . - ~
Hughes, Private Gerald
Hunter, Lieut. Arthur Bi
. Hurley, Apprentice Seaman Ira ’
Huxford, Private James
Hyland, Lieut. Justin E.
Hynes, Lieut. John .	'
Hynes, Lieut. William J.
Irving, Ambrose—Radio Service
Irwin, Private Clinton
Johnson, Lieut. Charles Hermain McBride, Private Eugene—O.T.S.
Jones, Private Francis Jones, Lieut; Keith J. Jones, Private James B. Joyce, Captain T. M. , - Kane, Private Edwin ...	'
Kane, Lieut; Eugene A. ..	.
.Kane, Lieut. Joseph -Kasper, Lieut. Thomas Cyril. . Kauffman, Corporal D. E. Keenan, Joseph—Radio Service Keenan, Seaman Philip >	.
Keifer, Lieut. Louis.F. . ;	\
Kelly, Lieut; Harry F; . ' Kelly, Lieut.. C. A. .	/
Kelly, Private R.. J. "	' .
Kemler, Sergt. Major. Wm. P.
. . Kennedy, Sergeant John -Kennedy,. Lieutenant William . Kenny/ Private T., . '	- -
' Keys, Private Arthur -Kilgallen, Lieut. Michael. ' -
- • Kallelea, Private John -King, Corporal Frank—CL T,, S.
* - King, Lieut. Hollis E. -4 . . \ .
: .King, Sergeant Michael , ■ / . King, Private ,Thomas—O.T..S. Kiplihger, Private. Don ’ .	: .
Kirkland, Sergeant Frank M. '
. Kline; Private .Clarence J.;	. *'-■
/.Kowalski, Private Geo; W.’ / * .
' - Kramer, ^Private-James G." 5 . . •3 Krien, Private John R.//.
. ' Kremer, Lieut. Frank .
.5 Krippene;. Private Kenneth 7 -
,.. Leary,1 Private Dennis: ' : . . J -/' Lahey, Lieut. Chas:W..J; . ‘7 / J r. Lahey/ Private'W^^	": . //- •.
Lajoie, Lieut..E. Pi
’ Lamb, Private Jack Lamb, Private Led
’ Lang, Private Leroy
Lane, Apprentice Seaman Bernard Larkin, Private Arthur B.
Larney, Private Edward Larrazola, Private Octaviano Lathrop, Lieut. Ralph LaVallette, Private Paul -	"
Lawler, Private James W..
Lenihan, Lieut.;Emmett Lee, Private Jay L. _	' '	'
Lindeman, Private Ed. G.—O; T. S. Lindeman, Private Joseph
. Liseniski, Corporal Casimir J. ■ Locke, Private Archibald " Logue, Private Francis C. •	.
Lynch, Brennan, Navy . '	. '
Lower, Isaac—Aviation'Navy -Lucas, Private Charles Luhn, Captain Fred Lynch, Captain1 George A. -	.
Makielski, Lieut. Stanely J.
. Marshall, Private Guy Mason, Private Walter McAdams, Corporal G. E-
McCabe, Private James E.	"
McCabe, Private Edward . McCafferty, Private James '
’ - McCaffery/ John—IL S. N. _ McCarthy, Private Charles 4	4
McCarthy; Private Dennis’ -McCarthy, Private Louis McCarthy, Vincent—K. of C^Sect. McCarthy, Private George . McCausland; Private Harry . _	-
- McConnell, Private Harold .
4 McConolpgue,. Lieut. Ray B. .
'McCourt, App.-SeamanWalter McDermott,' Private Francis F.' :	.
.. . ’ McDonough; Private Andrew * . McDonald; Lieut. Lawrence E- 4 .
- McDonald, Lieut.'Williani B. ■ .
. McDonald, Private Dewald • McElroy, Private Leo C. -	.
McEriaine, Private Maurice J--’ McGahan, Lieut. Leo J. . . McGay, Private / - -	.	. .
McGinn; C; S. C. (Rev) Lieut. -1 \
. , ~	• John /	•	•-	- -
McGlynn, PrivaterDan—O.-T. S; McGlynn, -Lieut:4 Joseph - r
\ McGinnis, Lieut;.D. V-. ' > -	4;
'..McGovern, Private.Eugene— .7 .
■' ' O.T.S. /'• ■	/
McGuire, Private James.Emmett_ ;
’ Mclnerny, Lieut. Arnold M.:	. - \
■"-.--Mclnerny,'Private-Leo	-
J McIntyre, Private Harry C. • / ' . ’ McKenna, Lieut-.4Joseph W.
. /McLaughlin, Private T.’A. McMahon, Lieut. James F. • 7-< -7 ; McNulty/Lieut. James M, /	-
292	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
McNichols, Lieut. Austin McOsker, Lieut. E. J. McPartlin, Lieut. J. L. McShane, Private John L-Madden, Private Harold Francis Maher, Lieut. Francis T.
. Mahaffey, Lieut. Fred Maloney, Private Patrick Malley, Lieut. Edward Mangan, Lieut. Dr. Louis A. Marillery, Private Ralph Marmon, Major Joseph Martin, Paul R.—K. of C. Sect. Martin, Lieut. John -Martin, Lieut. Jerome Martin, Lieut. Gerald Martin, Private Herman Martin, Seaman Joseph
. Malone, Private Grover J.—O Matthews, Lieut. James Maj^, Sergeant Sherman _ Meagher, Private John Mee, Sergeant Sim T. Meehan, Lieut. Edward J. Meifield, Private Paul
• Mej'ers, Lieut. Aloysius P. Mileski, Private Frank ' Miller, Apprentice Seaman Ward Miller, Private Frank J. Miller, Private Pierre A. Miller, Lieut. Raymond Miller, Private Raymond C. Miller, Lieut. John M.‘ Miller, Apprentice Seaman Jerry Milroy, Private William Mills, Private Rupert—O. T. S. Mooney, Private Wm. J.—O. T. S. Mooney, Private Charles Moliski, Private Andrew _ Mollory, Private Adrian S. Momsen, Private Gus J. . Moore, Private Thomas -Moran, Private Cyril G. -Morency, Yeoman H. L: Mottz, Private Peter Mulcahy, Lieut. Frank-
. Mulholland, Lieut. Emmett Paul-Mulqueen, Private Leo Murphy, Captain Pierce Murphy, Captain John B. . Murphy, Private John P.
Murphy, Private Paul Murphy, Private George Murphy, Lieut. Kingsley Murphy, Lieut. Jeremiah EMurphy, Lieut. James " Murphy, Private Owen J. Murray, Private Raymond	'
Absent on leave '	'
Newgass, Private Mitchell . Niezgodski, Private Stanley Niemier, Melchior—Navy.
Norman, (Rev.) Lieut. H. A. Nowers, Lieut; Paul Noud, Lieut. Reuben -	-
Nugent, Private John F. . Nusbaumer, Sergt. F. E-. Noonan, W. J.—Aviation Navy Newman, Lieut. L. J- ’ Newning, Lieut. Harry M. Newning, Sergt. Sam D. Nolan, Private John Noonan, Lieut. Gerard Norton, Private Edward O’Boyle, Private Desmons—
Canadian Army . O’Brien, Lieut. James F. O’Brien, Lieut. Dr. Wm. A. O’Brien, Sergeant S. F. O’Brien, Private W. C.—
Absent on leave O’Brien, Lieut. William J. O’Bj'rne, Private Thomas -T. S. O’Connor, Private Earl O’Donnell, C. S. C. (Rev) Lieut.
Charles -
O’Hara, Lieut. Joseph P. O’Hara, Lieut. Herman B. O’Hearn, Private F. W. Ohmer, Lieut. Robert O’Laughlin, Lieut. G. L. O’Malley, Private O’Malley, Sergt. Major John M. O’Neill, Lieut. Hugh L. • O’Neill, Private Henrj' O’Neill, Brigadier General Joseph . O’Neil, Private Thomas Francis O’Reilley, Private Frank ..Ostergeu, Private William -O’Sullivan, Private Clifford Ovington, Private Robert Parker, Private Eugene—died in
Camp	*	, .
Parker, Private Howard—O. T. S. Parker, Lieut. Reed Pasquini, Lieut. D.'B. Italian'
Army	.	-
Parrish, App. Seaman Varnum Paulger, Private Russell D. Peck, Private James A. Pe:l, Apprentice Seaman Edward Pepin, Private Donat J. Phelan, Private M. J.—O. T. S. Perley, Private Harold Otis Perkins, Lieut. Walter E- -Perrott, Lieut. Samuel Ward Philjips, Apprentice Seaman Roy Pliska, Lieut. Joseph -Plunkett, Lieut. Homer Powers, Private Harry Quinlan, Private Paul C. Quinlan, Private Daniel—
Absent on leave Raab, Private John—O. T. S. 'Ramacciotti, Lieut. A. L. Rausch, Private L-A. . . . Rebillot, Private L. J. • Regan, Sergt. M. G.
'Richwine, Lieut. Harry A. Reeves, Provost Marshal-Charles
Rentschler, Lieut. John M.
Riley, Apprentice Seaman Wilfred Riley, Lieut. John U.
Riley, Lieut. Robert S. Roach, Lieut. James ERoach, Captain Edward Roach, Private Robert L. Roberts, Sergeant Burt L. Roberts, Lieut. Louis Robbins, Lieut. James Robinson, Lieut. Charles J. Robinson, Private Gerard Rogers, Private’Harry Rogers, Lieut. W. ' Rohyans, Sergt. Emmet A. Ruell, Private Ulric	.
Ruffine, Private Raymond C-Rudolph, Private Simon R. Russell, Private Leon T.
Ryan,- Private Arthur Ryan, Sergt. Paul J. Ryan, Private E- S-Ryan, Seaman J. H. Ryan, Private Frank Rydzewski, Private Frank Sackley, Private Rigney Sanford, James—K. of C. Sect. Saunders, Private Fred Sax, Private Carrol W.
Scanlon, Private John Sclieibelhut, Lieut. Leo Schiff, Private Al. Schlotzer, Private Ward C. Schmitt, Private William F. Schmucker, Private Walter Schuster, Private George Scott, Lieut. Harry E.
Scollard, Private Stephen -Scott, Stanley, Navy Engineers • Shahgnessy, Private Thomas Canadian Army Shannon, Lieut. Leo J.
Sheehey, Apprentice Seaman Carroll Sheehan, Privare Tuomas H.
SheeKan, Lieut. Joseph^ Shelby, Private Norris J?. Shurte, Apprentice Seaman French Schurtee, Private George Skelly, Private R. ESlackford, Captain Fred Smith, Sergeant Joseph .
Smith, Lieut. Clovis
Smith, Lieut. Paul J. '	'	.
Smith, App. Seaman Delbert D.
' Smithson, Private Forrest Soldani, Private Clarence M. Somers, Lieut. C. P.
Stark, Sergeant John—O. T. S. Starrett, Seaman Morris Sticelber, Private Paul Stickney, Sergeant Harold J.
Steis, Lieut. Gerald .	•	•
Stogsdall, Major Robert	'
Story, Lieut. Edward J.	“
Strickfaden, Private Aloysius ’.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
293
“ Strong, Private George E. Struhall. Private Louis Sturn, Captain Leo A.
D	Sullivan, Private Lloyd
Sweeney, Captain Charles— French Army .
Sweeney, Lieut. James L..
r	Sylvester, Lieut. Ed. E.
Symonds,-Lieut. Edward L-Symonds, Private Harry R..
. Talcott, Lieut. Vaughan Tighe, Sergt. John F. — Thomas, Private Walter G.
Thompson Lieut. Paul R.
*	Tipton, Private William.
Townsend, Private Jerry
■	Tuivell, Private Samuel
"Truder, Private Thomas— Absent on, leave
Thole, Corporal Joseph J.
Toole, (Rev.) Lieut. James V.
1	Tracey, Private Thomas' F.
Trainer, Private Leo Joseph . Trudelle, Apprentice Seaman Matt. Turner, Private W. W.
Twining, Simon E-—Investigator Tyner, Private Richard H.—O. T. S. Ulatowski, Private Clement L-VanHeuval, Seaman Howard Vaughn/Vincent D.—K. of C. Sect. Valker, Private Leo Vaughan, Lieut. Robert E-Voedisch, Private Hugo Voelkers, Lieut. Carl Voelkers,- Private Jerry Vogel, Lieut. Leo J.
Voll, Lieut. Bernard VonThron, Private Leonard C. Vurpillat, Sergt. Francis J.—O.T. Vyzral, Private Sylvester ' Wagner, Private Lee Wagner, Private Theo P. Walsh, Private Arthur B.
Walsh, Lieut. Joseph M-
Walsh, Sergeant James Robert Walsh, C. S. C.,' (Rev.) Lieutenant ’ Matthew J. , Walsh, Mate William M.
Ward, Private John J.
Watters, Lieut. Edmund
Welch, Lieut. Lawrence
Welker, Captian Vincent B. -
Walter, Lieut. Martin Emmett Welsh, Lieut. Frank B. • Whalen, Private Neil
White, Captain Carl	.
Wildgen, Private Jerome Wilkerson, Captain .
Woitalewicz, Private G.— ■ Killed in France
S. Witteried, Corporal George C. Wolff, Apprentice Seaman James Wood, Lieut. Frank
Wrape, Apprentice Seaman Valda A.
Yearns, Private Peter
Yates, Private Charles
Young, Lieut. Jack
Our Athletes in Khaki.
CHARLES W. CALL. ’18.

“ ‘	This world war. has proved a number of things
but none more emphatically than that intercollegiate athletics, often as they have been 1 * questioned in time of peace, have made sinewy and adroit the arm of a nation hastening to .the conflict of battle. Greater than that of any other *	’ group of athletes has been the service of	the col.	legebred athlete since the United States	entered
this war last April. Not having learned to ’	capitalize his skill or strength as his	profes-
sional brethren, he was the first to rush to the colors when Uncle Sam assumed the gigantic task of warring with- the Raiser. In the pink .	of condition, just entering that decade in a
young man’s life where mind and muscle' cor / ordinate for the highest efficiency, he hurried ! to his biggest game. Taught many a time the value of a good beginning in any athletic event he got away with a flying start, and set The pace . for the representatives of other bodies of men who followed after him.
4	As a, corollary of the prominent part inter-
collegiate athletes in general have taken in this game of games, Notre Dame athletes have more r than held their, own with the competitors of j their college days. Endowed physically better ,	than most men, coached to do big things
in a? big way, accustomed to accomplish the things they set out -to do, the brawny Notre
Dame men promptly packed away with the camphor balls their monograms and put bn the khaki tendered them by Uncle Sam. Their fitness was soon recognized. The first officers’ reserve camps were no sooner history than a large number of Notre Dame men were lieutenants. Brilliant service, and steady promotion . have marked their careers thus far, but no one can but believe that these men habituated to fight hard till the whistle blows are just preparing for far greater work to come.
Military men have often commented upon the readiness and eagerness of the Notre Dame man for the difficult tasks in the service. They were not petted or privileged while in school; they ask no particular favors now. Used to discipline throughout their years in college, they find army regulations no great burden now. Fed on competition dining their years at school, they welcome the chance to spar for position with their fellowmen in the army to-day. Above all they ffight, fight with that relentlessness that asks no quarter and( gives none, fight with that good old Celtic dash that made them the wonders in the athletic world, fight because they like to fight, fight because it is their duty to fight.	...
Go on, men of Notre Dame, Uncle Sam has greater honors in store for you.
294	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame in the Civil War.
BY THOMAS FRANCIS BUTLER, ’19.
From its ver}r foundation, the University of Notre Dame seems to have been destined to fulfill the great ideal of its sainted founder— loyalty to God and to Country. As far back as 1S59, the martial “Right, Face!” and “Forward, March!” which are now so familiar to our ears, first sounded across the old campus. In that year, when the issues of slavery and secession were being feverishly debated in North and South, -Captain William F. Lynch, at the request of Father Sorin, came to Notre Dame to teach the students the rudiments of military science. Two companies were organized. Their uniforms were fashioned after those worn by the soldiers of the Revolution, buff and blue, with elaborate braidings and trimmings. Out of his great reverence for the character and the achievements of Washington and his Continental Army, Father Sorin named the two ..companies the Continental Cadets.
Military drill was doubtless a very novel spectacle in those -days. We may even imagine, indeed, that while the two companies marched back and forth across the broad green campus, passers-by would stop and gaze in admiration at the attractive uniform, and marvel at the strange manoeuvres. Little did these young cadets realize at the time the nearness of war and the actual value of their training in view of the mighty struggle that was coming so soon. Nevertheless, the young continentals must have taken wholesome pride in their drill. Fancy suggests that on festive occasions in the spring and autumn, when the weather was mild and clear, Father Sorin would station himself at some vantage point on the campus while his young charges, proud of their parade attire, and prouder still of their president’s approval, passed in review.
For nearly two years ' the two companies drilled, while the breach between the sections was widening day by day, and a final resort to arms was becoming inevitable. The students were kept well informed on the questions and policies of the hour, and were so well versed in the elements of military tactics, that when war came Notre Dame was a camp of preparedness.
Although we can find no authentic statement as to the precise number of the students that went forth in answer to President Lincoln’s
first call for volunteers, it seems safe to say that all who were available for military service joined the colors.
Among the first to leave for the front was Captain Lynch. In February, 1862, he entered an Illinois regiment of the “three-months” men and was immediately made the colonel of ' his regiment. His war record is noteworthy for his noble daring in the capture of Fort Donaldson and for his splendid leadership in the battles of Pittsburg Landing, Corinth, and Yellow Bayou. At the close of the war the Senate, at the suggestion of President Lincoln, conferred upon him in recognition and appre-	1
ciation of his services the brevet of a brigadiergeneral.
The late and lamented Timothy B. Howard, who was professor at Notre Dame even in 1S62, distinguished himself as a private in the Twelfth Regiment of Michigan Volunteers. Having been wounded in an early engagement, he was forced to retire from actual service. -Although his wound incapacitated him for further service in the army, he exerted, by his broad-mindedness and contagious patriotism, a powerful influence on the civil affairs of Indiana.- -
Colonel Hoynes, our genial veteran and founder and dean of the Notre Dame School of Law, is one of the last survivors of the “Old ♦ Guard.” The story of his war experiences, told and retold to the generations of students who have gone out from Notre Dame, has kindled in <e many hearts the fires of love and loyalty to America. That the Colonel’s influence and	'
prestige is still most efficient is evidenced by the large number of his students, old and young, who have enlisted voluntarily in the present great cause “to make the world safe for democracy.” Many other students of the early Sixties, some in the administrative departments	.
and some in the field and in the hospital service, ... I played a conspicuous part in helping to the ' successful termination of the Civil War.
Although their part may have been less notable, <still Notre Dame cherishes them on her roll of honor among the greatest of her loyal sons. A
But the high patriotism of Father Sorin	(
reflects better than anything else perhaps the	\
spirit of Notre Dame during the Civil War.
Those beautiful qualities of mind and heart < which were at all times remarked by those who
knew him were never more manifest. The college at that time was but some fifteen years old, and consequently the enrollment was small.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Know-Nothing movement had aroused throughout the Middle West a frenzy of religious
' bigotry and antagonism towards Catholics and Catholic institutions. The number of priest-professors constituting the University’s faculty was small, and the labors of each long ■ and arduous. Nevertheless, when President
Lincoln called upon the religious denominations of the North for field chaplains, Lather Sorin hesitated not a moment in his decision, nor did he stop to consider the consequences to his little community when there was question of > serving the nation. Father Peter Cooney was in Chicago when word came to Notre Dame of the need of chaplains, particularly for the Irish
295
Regiment of Volunteers. - Father James Dillon was a member of the missionary band which Father Sorin had just organized; but when the Irish Brigade, then being recruited in the State of New York, appealed for a chaplain of their own faith and blood, Father Sorin abandoned his cherished missionary project, and sent Father Dillon for the service. For two years Father Dillon was the great favorite with “his own boys.” Then a weakness in health developing from exposure in the changeable weather of Virginia, he contracted consumption and died in 1868. Father Paul Gillen was associated with the Union Army operating in Kentucky, Tennessee and Mississippi. His warm companionship
Father Corby Giving the General Absolution to the Irish Brigade at the Battle of Gettysburg.
regiments. Lager to accompany his countrymen / into battle, Father Cooney offered his services, and on October 4, 1861, received a chaplain’s commission in the Union Army, with assignment to the 35th Regiment of Indiana Volunteers. He served throughout the war, discharg-* ing his duties heroically and entertaining his ‘ comrades between times with his resourceful wit and his wealth of story.	' .
Father Carrier, a Frenchman by birth, had ’ come to America as late as 1855, just six years before the outbreak ofithe war. But the haunting desire to take some part in the great ' struggle was" strong in him, and he was given a commission as chaplain in the Sixth Missouri
was eagerly sought by all the soldiers, irrespective of religious opinion. Commenting upon one of his hobbies, Father Corby writes: “He had a singular faculty for finding the Catholic soldiers, and among them he did a remarkable amount of good. His way of going through the army was thoroughly practical, and by his own ingenious plans he had a very successful time of it until Gen. Grant spoiled ' his fun. The mode of travel adopted by him was this. Having secured a strong horse, he purchased also an old-fashioned, flat-bottomed rockaway in Washington, D_. C. From this vehicle he h^d the front seat removed and from the Lv. 1 treat he drove his faithful horse
- - - .. v/
^96	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
whom he called ‘Sarsfield.’ In this rockaway were transported a few army blankets for sleeping purposes, a small amount of provisions, a chapel-tent—constructed accdrding to his own architectural plan—and a folding altar. Tn this conveyance he lived. He travelled in it by day and slept in it at night. By turning the ‘northend,’ as he called it, to the storm, after the fashion of the buffalo in the West’ he could stand against the chilling winds with great security.”
We possess very meagre information concerning the war record of the two chaplains, Fathers Leveque and - Bourget,. which is accounted for by the fact that both, having been enfeebled by the hardships suffered. in their war work, died soon: after the termination of hostilities.
It was a happy day in December, 1861, when Father Corby received from the Governor of the State of New York, a chaplain’s commission with a rank of cavalry officer. He had always been very popular among the students at Notre Dame, and now that he was taken away, his loss was deeply deplored. Entering into that grand army of the Potomac and enduring the varying vicissitudes that befell it during the first years^of the war, Father Corby achieved a record which, for all his humility, bespeaks the largeness of soul and' the fearlessness in the discharge of duty characteristic of truly great ' men. In his very interesting volume, “Memoirs of Chaplain Life,” there is evident on every page his quick wit and his cheerful humor, the ardent spirit and ideals of a crusader, the accurate account of- many interesting phases and incidents of the war which have escaped popular knowledge, and the soul-stirring experiences of a man who Kas known the emotions of battles won and lost; the high-born hopes, the racking heart-aches, and the fond affection which soldiers on the battlefield share generously with one another.	.
During the peninsular campaign so adverse to the Union Cause, Father Corby relates some singular experiences: “Just after the battle of Fair Oaks, I wished to send, word home to Notre Dame. I had no paper, but, after much searching, I found an old envelope, which had nd paste or mucilage to fasten it. I found a - stamp, however, and on the inside of the en-- velope I wrote ‘The battle is over and we are safe.’ I sealed the letter by pasting the stamp . on the laps of the envelope.' This I addressed - to my sister, who . handed it to Very Rev. E,
Sorin, then. President of Notre Dame. He was so pleased with the real war-like message that he had it read in public to the faculty and the students of the University.” Agam he writes: f “During the winter we spent our time in much the same way as parish priests do, except in this—we had no old women to bother us, or pew-rent to collect.” And of the May devotions: “When prayers commenced, the soldiers dropped down, on their knees, mud or no mud. Many, however, were sharp enough to provide at least a chip to put under, their knees to keep them from sinking too deep in the mud caused by recent rains. . . . Many officers and soldiers came here from various parts of the Army, and it was like a parish service—all except the ' collection.”	'
At the battle of Antietam, Father Corby performed his most memorable act of heroism. Perhaps there is not on record another case in which a priest adyancing with his regiment under fire, knelt beside his fallen comrades and heard * their confessions, while from all around him poured the withering fire of musketry and artillery. On the morning of September 17, 1862, ' the Irish Brigade was commanded to advance “double-quick.” Father Corby’s description of what followed is of unusual interest: “I shall never forget how wicked the whizz of the * enemy’s bullets seemed as we advanced into that battle. As soon as my men began to fall, I dismounted and began to hear their con- ; fessio'ns on the spot. It was then I felt the danger even more than when dashing into battle. Every instant bullets whizzed past my head, any one of which, if it had struck me, would have been sufficient to leave me dead on the spot, with many of my brave soldiers, < as the bullets came from the Confederates at close range.”	.	.	'
It is a familiar matter to all who have knowledge of the great events at Gettysburg that Father Corby gave general absolution to the Irish Brigade just before they were ordered into battle. He describes the scene briefly: “Addressing the men, I explained what I was about to do, saying that each one could receive the benefit of the absolution by making a sincere *| Act of Contrition and firmly resolving to embrace ’ the first opportunity of confessing his sins, urging them to do their duty, and reminding them of the high and sacred nature of their trust as soldiers and the noble object for which they fought. . . . The Brigade was standing
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
297
at ‘ Order-Arms 1 ’ As I closed my address, every ijian, Catholic and non-Catholic, fell on his knees with his head bowed down. Then
stretching my right hand toward the brigade, ‘ I pronounced the words of the absolution.”
1 Commemorating the event there stands on the field of Gettysburg to-day a sculptured figure of Father Corby, his right hand uplifted, - his face to the valley, in which ‘‘his boys” were kneeling, so many of them for the last time, for the absolution and the benediction of their
- beloved chaplain.
In the Community House at Notre Dame, ripe in years but still strong of body and cheery < of soul are the two survivors among the Holy Cross men who saw service in the civil war, Brother John Chrysostom and .Brother Raphael.
< They have seen our country recover from its great losses, and have viewed with satisfaction the healing of old wounds and the knitting of a * firm bond of brotherhood-between-“the North ' and the South. What a joy it must be to them to know that their services have contributed
something toward making our country what it . is. What optimistic patriotism must be theirs when they witness to-day the departure from Notre Dame cf six chaplains and some six’
• hundred of her students—of the past and present—to vindicate a cause as righteous and as sacred as the one for-which they fought a
half-century ago.
.Such in brief is the story of Notre Dame’s part in the Civil War.. True, it was but a very modest part in the work of saving the Union, and still it must always be to us of Notre . Dame a matter of .pride, and in these trying days an unfailing source of inspiration to loyalty and service.
No Sodger.
? - -----------------------------
Yas sah, Ah reckons Ah’s twenty-one, But say, Boss, I can’t tote no gun, J	Cuz when thah’s a fight Ah all run,
No sah, Ah ain’t no sodger.
u	'Sides, Boss, Ah ain’t quite all right—
Ah’m off en ma feet, head an’ sight, ( No sah, Ah ain’t no good to fight, No sah, I ain’t no sodger.
. ‘Sides Ah’m a scahr’d o’ Liza’s flat iron She’s fiercah en mos’. eny lion
She shied me unct, Ah thot Ah’z dyin’, No sah, Ah ain’t no sodger.
j. s. M.
To the Chaplains.
BY THOMAS E. HEALY, ’19.	. - '
Yea! it is sad to part	:
And feel the absence of fond faces fled
„ From field
And campus and the accustomed haunts so near;
And hard to have in heart
A void—where all but memory is dead, Memory of hallowed presences so dear.
A clarion call— ’
That broke the sacred stillness of our air—
And lo!	.
-With unreluctant step and lips well-drawn
You left the hall,	-
And all the quietude of the classroom there;
With glad faces to the distant dawn.
And now what fears,
And what full plenitude of poignancy
You gave to her,
*
Gave to the great heart of Notre Dame—_
And many tears: ■	•
But sweet withal will that proud hoarding be Of memory of those her lips can name.
Beneath the charging skies, Braving the bursting of the battle-flame
. She sees you—
In sunny fields or in the rich,-red loam
With glad, unchanging eyes
And.that high love always the same— Hunger and love for souls yearning for home.
For you are going—
Going with the thoughts of olden days, With hearts aglow;
Treading the brave paths where Corby trod:
Yea! past wide waters flowing
Going back the valiant, wilding ways
Whence Sorin came for Holy Cross and God.
Tear-Bejewelled Joy.
“Dear mother, do not look so sad;
To-day you should be proud.”
“But, son, if you return to me Wrapped in a starry shroud? ”
“If such high glory take from you Your cherished soldier boy,
Then let your gladdened eyes teem full Of. tear-bejewelled joy.”
G.D.H.
29S	THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
| otpe]|)ame||^ tic
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER- VICTURUS-aVvE ■ QUASI- CRAS- MORITVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every. Saturday during the School Term at the - UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LI.	FEBRUARY 23. 191S.	NO. iS
’	Board of Editors.
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’iS , Charles W. Call, ’18 John A. Lemmer, ’iS John L. Reuss, ’iS
George D. Haller, ’19 Thomas F. Healy, ’19 Brother Austin, C. S. C., ’iS
Leigh G. Hubbell, ’iS Thomas J. Hanifin, ’19 Alfred N. Slaggert, ’20
—It is with, the loneliness and pride of the patriotic mother that Notre Dame, names her brave sons gone forth to battle for home . and country. She has
A Mother’s Godspeed, raised them to be soldiers if their country needs them to fight, as now it does. In calling them over she dwells lovingly upon each name as if it were the only one. She appreciates their .worth, their spirit, their sacrifice as. only the mother can. Every day ,she prays with her best fervor that God in his great goodness may bring them back every one safe and sound in victor}’-. But whatever fortunes of battle may befall, she bids them as the Spartan mother of old, “With your shield or upon it!” ' -------------------:-------------* - -
—The regular life of the army, gives to the soldier, it is certain, a good physical bearing. It squares his shoulders, gives spring to his step, makes his muscles firm
Army Discipline, and sinewy, his eye alert, . his movements sure and decisive; but it does much more than this. It takes a flabby and elastic will, and makes it firmi-too. It teaches him that yes means yes and no means no as nothing else can teach it, and that procrastination and forgetfulness are capital sins in military life that bring sure punishment in their wake.	'	.
A common theme in recent years for the lamentations of sociological workers has been the loss of parental authority in the home’. The old-fashioned father whose word was law— a law to be obeyed with thoroughness and dispatch, has given place to the tender, pleading parent, who fears to counter the whims of his growing offspring lest lie mar that filial affection which is the wine of family happiness. The ’ result is that the father steps down from the position of master, and the son-promptly takes the whip in hand and manifests an obstinate firmness of will that would have been admirable in his parent. The.life of the army will do much to reverse this condition in the home. An officer asks no favors of his soldiers, and is no respecter of persons. He gives his men a~ command and they have no choice but to obey. Soldiers must do what they aie told to do, and do it when and how they are told, without question or delay.	-
- Their’s not to make reply	'
Their’s not to reason why, Their’s but to do and die:
But if they should stop to reason why, the why would be obvious enough. In every organization that is to. be effective there must be unity of action. The members must work in harmony and in time. A decisive battle may be lost by a moment’s delay in obeying orders. The general in planning his attack upon the enemy makes no allowance for hesitation or indecision in his subordinates. They are cogs in the big army machine, and they must fit in place at a set moment. This promptness and punctuality is the backbone of military discipline. It is not restricted maneuvers on the battle-field, but runs through even’ moment of the soldier’s day. He has a time for everything, a right way of doing everything, and his preferences and dislikes must be thrust aside when there is question of duty. It is not the easiest life to be sure, this life 'of strict regularity, but it is a life that bears as its fruit big results; and no one can regret the influence it will have upon American young men in the future. When 'the actual fighting is at last over, there will come back to . our cities—to office and factor}’- and field,—a mighty army of men who have learned to rise and retire, to eat.and work and.play at a regular time, and who can “carry a message to Garcia” no matter what difficulties or dangers beget the way.- ’	, i

r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
299
The Notre Daine Chaplains.
The stirring chapter in Notre Dame’s history that tells the story of Cooney and Corby in the Civil War, was bound to have its modern parallel when the peaceful hum of America’s industries became lost - in the clank of arms, and the boys of Notre Dame exchanged the cheerful occupations of the college campus for the grim business of war. If Notre Dame could ascend today some high _ mountain from which she might be shown all in one view the cities within the confines of these states, she would see her sons in khaki at every military camp arise to call her blessed. Indiana, Mississippi, California,Iowa, Pennsyl vania, Texas, Kentucky, Michigan and New York, every State that claims a military center, has men from Notre Dame, marking
time,- anxious to spend and be spent for the great cause they call their very own. them/ when they
(Rev.) First-Lieutenant Matthew J. Walsh, C. S. C. . VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY, CHAPLAIN' TO THE I35TH MACHINE GUN BATTALION, U. S. A., AT CAMP
"	SHERIDAN, MONTGOMERY, ALABAMA.
The old spirit that animated asked for four chaplains, the Provincial and his entered a contest on the council selected six from the list and offered
gridiron, the diamond or the track, the throbbing energy that stirred them in debate, make them square a shoulder to-day and march •steady and confident to what our one-time
campus philosopher, Rupe Mills, admits is the biggest war he was ever in. -
It was natural that the men who had drunk in the stories of Corby and Cooney, of Dillon and Carrier, should turn their eyes to Notre Dame in this new hour of strife .for chaplains to stand beside them in the field. And they are not disappointed.. Behold they come, cheerful and happy, glad to be with the soldier lads, and consoled by the , thought that they can.minis- .
ter o n-field the things of to boys
the good. God . who
I they know are as eager to be
I strong of soul I as to be strong I of body, and I quick and alert | of mind.
I In the summer
I of 1917 Father
I Morrissey, the I Provincial of the I Congregation of Holy Cross ap-.
I pealed to his I priests for vol-1 unteers f 1 o m whom he might select chaplains for the new army. A long
list of names was soon in his hands, and when the Government
them for service in the army.
The Reverend Matthew Walsh, Vice-President of the University, and professor of history, was the first selection and was assigned by the War
oo
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Department to Camp Sheridan, Montgomery, Ala. Father Walsh is universally beloved by faculty and students at Notre Dame. Possessed of rare judgment, a delightful sense of humor and a whole-hearted sympathy .with young
men whom his • work had taught him to understand thoroughly, he brings to his work as chaplain resources that cannot but effect big results. Notre Dame misses him every day but rejoices in the thought that she is giving through him and his fellow priests the best that she has to her country.
To Camp Shelby at Hattiesburg,- Miss, were assigned Fathers Edward Finnegan, John McGinn and George Finnigan. Father Edward Finnegan was known and loved by the boys of Notre Dame. As professor, as rector of Corby Hall -and Prefect of ' Discipline, h e learned to know young men and t o sympathize with them, and he has an enthusiasm for doing
(Rev.) First-Lieutenant Edward J. Finnegan, C. S. C.
PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS AT THE UNIVERSITY, CHAPLAIN TO THE I39TH MACHINE GUN BATTALION, U. S. A., AT CAMP SHELBY, HATTIESBURG, MISSISSIPPI.
and who solved it as expeditiously and tactfully as an expert, a man who made the work of charity his daily pleasure, will bring to his care for the boys at the Front a generous zeal, ard will infect them with a desire for what is great and good that- they will not easily satiate. Father ’ George Finnigan leaves the Notre Dame mission band for the duties of chapl-lain. He brings a highly trained. mind to his work' and a disposition that will endear him to the soldiers.
The last chaplains to leave Notre Dame will be the first to see the scenes of battle. Fathers Ernest Davis and Charles O’Donnell bade goodbye +o cheering crowds of students a short time ago to join the Rainbow Division that is now in active
service in France. Father Darns will bring to bis new du- ' ties the same zeal and self-forgetfulness with which he labored at Notre Dame and the men for whom

things that is infectious. Father John McGinn who was perhaps the most popular professor at Notre Dame, will be everywhere, and will do everything that a chaplain is allowed to do. A man who was never happy without a problem
he labors will find him the kindest of fathers and the truest of friends. Father Charles O’Donnell will bear to his work on the fields of battle the energetic zeal that characterized his work among (Continued on page 30.9.)	- • «
nV

Ji S
‘J,
fi
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
.	z
1
i
Y
f
t
Washington Day Exercises.
The annual exercises ifi commemoration of the Father of our Country were held in Washington Hall this morning. iFor the Seniors it was the first donning of the sedate caps and gowns—a preliminary to the grand finale in June. Though the customary quota of University Cadets was absent,the celebration was not lacking in martial spirit, for our hearts were with those loyal sons of Notre Dame who have so willingly offered their services that Columbia may be all that Washington had hoped her to be.
Following a selection by the orchestra, Charles Call, representing the class of ’18, presented to the University the Senior Flag. His speech which follows was well delivered:
(Rev.) First-Lieutenant John C. McGinn, C. S. C.
PROFESSOR':OF SOCIOLOGY AT THE UNIVERSITY, CHAPLAIN TO THE I13TH SANITARY TRAIN, FIELD HOSPITAL SECTION, U. S. A., AT CAMP :	I SHELBY, HATTIESBURG, MISSISSIPPI.
Just a month before this class, three and a half years ago, assembled for the first
time beneath the golden dome; of Notre Dame, the more important countries of Europe had plunged into the mighty conflict which has: not yet spent itself. Peacefully we took our places in the ranks of a great educational institution while) 'ithe young men of Europe were filling up the ranks of the greatest
301
armies this world has known. Whilst we were gathering to learn; they were mobilizing for the great death struggle.	_
For some three years we remained spectators of the tragedy that was gradually enlisting every civilized nation of the Old World. Then about a year ago came the severance of our. diplomatic relations with Germany, and a little later our declaration of war upon the intolerable autocracy of the Teutonic Powers. The wrongs necessitating our entrance ' into the world war are well known to everyone. They have been admirably stated several times by our great President, and for us to review them here would be a waste of time. Suffice it to say that history will surely vindicate the justice of our cause for taking part in this struggle. Now we are fighting, and are going to keep on fighting to the day of victory, that history may just as surely record our triumph in this great battle for human rights.
Patriotism in time of peace is a more or less negative thing. It is decidedly negative as contrasted with the
positive demands made upon the citizens of a nation prosecuting a great war.
Then patriotism worthy of the name must be practical, spontaneous, . sincere, unselfish, and effective. Just such' patriotism is now being^displayed in abundance by the American people. The great Washington, the prince of American patriots, whose birth we commemorate to-day, would, were he alive, be proud of
302
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the patriotism of the people who honor him as “Father of his Country.” That people are .now being called upon to make sacrifices such as they have not known before. With an enthusiasm unparalleled in • the history of any people, they are making those sacrifices, and are ready to make whatever greater ones the need of their country may require.
This is essentially a time of service, a time when our ' American men and women are co-operating as never before in one huge, perfectly concerted effort to wan this -war. On every side are the insignia of
service, the signs of what each citizen is doing for his country. Among the actual fighting forces of the nation, the title, the cord, the stripe, distinguish one from another. Outside the service, the button, the badge, the medal, tell of what each patriot at home is doing for the fighters at the Front. But all these varieties of service are but distributions of the one great service in the cause of America. Over and above them all, co-ordinating them all to the one great purpose, are the Stars and Stripes, emblematic of the American Republic and of all our American ideals.
We, the members of the class of 1918, in keeping with one of the most cherished traditions of Notre Dame, have gathered here on this birthday of the great Washington ,to present to the University as our class flag the banner of our country. We ask you to accept it, Father Cavanaugh, with the best wishes of our class as a token of the great gratitude we owe to you and to the University. We ask you 'to accept it also as an earnest
(REV.) First-Lieutenant George J, Finnigan,- C.S.C.-
MEMBER OF The HOLY CROSS MISSION BAND,' AND CHAPLAIN TO THE I37TH FIELD ARTILLERY, U. S. A., AT CAMP SHELBY, HATTIESBURG, MISSISSIPPI.
of the loyalty and service which, under God, we pledge to our country and to. our school.
And now, members of this war-ridden class of I91S, just a word about the sacred responsibility which this presentation imposes upon us. We are facing a future, nay, almost a present, in which our souls may be tried most severely. Within the coming months many of us, possibly all of us, may be called upon to risk our lives in the fiercest struggle ever waged, to die, perhaps, in defense of the flag which we are now presenting to our Alma Mater as a
pledge of our loyalty and, our patriotism. Shall we be equal to that trial? I have not the slightest hesitation in answering “Yes” for-every member of the class. It has been the steady purpose of Notre Dame to educate us for life and for death, in whatever form they'may-come,-'and it-is our’ambition to prove that she has not laboredJn_vain,‘..Many of our class-' mates are already' in the ranks-.- It is for us to follow7 at our earliest opportunity in-their footsteps,
Let us never forget that we are from a school wrhose patriotic zeal has ever been one. of hei chiefest glories.
• The best patriotism of which .we are capable will be unworthy enough' of the. school which has voluntarily sacrificed her vice-pr.esident and five other of her ablest priests for"the service to w'hich - she has educated us so carefully. Here in this hallowed hall, under the beloved flag we are giving to Notre Dame,- let us take to heart seriously, bravely, and proudly/ the-grave responsibility which otir act involves. And let us resolve, one and all, that- we shall live up to that responsibility through .thick and thin;’ that 'this sacred banner . shall never be disnohored in .the slightest way by anyone of our number, and that—after the example of our brave Alma Mater herself—this flag may, regardless of tost, -be carried to triumph in the justice of its cause by that invincible American patriotism which Notre" Dame and Notre Daine men have so com sistenily llustra’ted.
An. .unexpected feature of the program was" the presentation to the University of a huge Notre Dame Ser
vice Flag, the materials for which were furnished by the New England Club, while the flag was completed by the girls of St. Mary’s College. The flag with its service star and 243, symbol of our part in the world struggle, was presented by Miss Ruth Beatty, ’18, of St. Mary’s with the following words:
In one of the rooms of the new Library is a picture with which you are all familiar of Father Corby giving -absolution to the soldiers of the Irish Brigade before
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3°3
the battle of Gettysburg. This, I believe, is Notre Dame’s first service flag. There is no Paul Wood among us today to see with an. artist’s eye and to paint with an artist’s skill the color and form of the light and the life which, since last April, have gone forth from Notre Dame to the defense of our nation, in the persons of its six army chaplains and two hundred and fifty students. Nor would the facts and the spirit behind the facts yield to artistic reproduction or facsimile. They are not only the fruit of your legacy of heroic patriotism from the past but the consecrated inheritance of the students of • Notre Dame for all future time. In the colors of our country and with the emblems of faith and hope we have tried to symbolize this vigorous and hallowed patriotism of which your University has given such glorious expression during the past year. And we deem it a privilege, unique andunprecedent-ed, to present to Notre Dame, in the name of St. Mary’s, its second service flag.
We do not forget for a moment the tremendous drama of which
(REv.) First-Lieutenant Earnest A. Davis, C. S. C..
PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY AT THE UNIVERSITY, CHAPLAIN IN THE 42 ND DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN EXPEDITIONARY FORCES, FRANCE.
this day’s ceremony is but a passing scene—
. Imeanthisgrow-
ing miracle of your school—whose impelling force is the spirit of your great founder, Father Sorin, whose enveloping action is religion; whose theme is educated Christian mahood. Father Corby and your other soldier-priests and students of former wars have spoken the stirring prologues to the greatest
acts which are to come. The knighting of the Priest and the finding of America’s Holy Grail are scenes for which you_ have supplied and trained the leading actors. And as we anticipate the final triumph of the Holy Cross, we rise to honor the men, priests, and students, from this University who have made that triumph possible, and we offer this service flag, their tribute and ours, to Notre Dame, the Mother of Men.
As a fitting accompaniment to the-offering of the Service Flag, Mr. George Harbert, Law ’18, made the formal presentation of the' Notre Dame Ambulance. He said:
Reverend President of the University, Ladies and Gel tiemen:
We of the Class of 191S, privileged to return to Notre Dame this year, while so many o_t hers, have been called to the defense of our country, have felt that we too should render some service to that cause. When we decided to raise the funds to place an ambulance in the field, it was with a feeling that in no other way could we better
prove our patriotism. To-day, aided by the hearty co-opera
tion and generous contributions of our fellow students and friends, we are able to consummate our purpose. To you, Father Cavanaugh, we present this ambulance as a token of our sentiment, as a mark of the devotion which we bear to our country, as an appreciation of the patriotism of the Notre Dame men who are already
3O4	' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
enlisted in the service of the nation, as an emblem of the affection we feel for our alma mater.
With this ambulance goes our hope that it will carry the name of Notre Dame wherever the battle rages the fiercest, wherever the wounded lie the thickest; wherever the need is the greatest. May it serve in a small measure to prove, that we partake of the spirit
which has prompted our fellow students to enlist in this great cause of liberty, which has prompted our heroic chaplains- to abandon their pleasant home in our midst for the rough life of the army camp and the’ perils of the battle-field,
loving hands will lift it to its place on the great flagstaff where for the next year it will fling its folds to the free winds of heaven; a symbol of the lessons of patriotism taught in this ancient school; and of the loyalty and love of Notre Dame mdn’ wherever they are.	'
Gentlemen of the Senior Class, on behalf of the
University I accept this flag. With something almost of the tenderness and reverence with which I take into my hands the sacred host, L gather the folds of this flag mystically into nw arm's and I wrap it about the ■	’ heart of Notre Dame. Fit-
I
3
ft
t
<’
i; ii
<
and to align themselves among the defenders of our land. To the Notre Dame men already in France, and to the many more who will- be there before the war is ended, may if be a message of cheer, a word of encouragement from the Nctre Dame men in America. To them and to all the other brave soldiers who are fighting our fight, may the Notre Dame ambulance be an angel of mercy.
To you, Father Cavanaugh, on behalf of the class of 1918 and the other, students of Notre Dame, I present this check, as the seal of our pledge of patriotism.
Father Cavanaugh in accepting the flags gave the following address:
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The beautiful exercises of this day constitute one of the oldest and sweetest traditions of this University. For a quarter of a century each succeeding senior class has made this
tingly will it rest for a - moment in the sanctuary
at the feet of Christ; fittingly will fall athwart its glorious colors the shadow of the cross of Christ, for as the cross is • the most sacred symbol of religicn that humanity has ever . known, so is this beautiful
flag the sublimest emblem of human liberty-that ever gladdened the hearts of mankind. All flags.Jook beautiful when seen through the eyes of ■ lov.e, but this flag is peerless and alone. Jealousjr . itself dare not rise in its place and deny that of all the banners that fly under the breezes of heaven, of all the standards that have all the standards that have ever assembled mankind to live or to die under their colors, there has been no other flag , -since the dawn of history ' so innocent of • human - blood, so chaste- in its . .purposes and aspirations, . .so sublimely dedicated to
human freedom.- As the ' Son’.of God was born and
lived and suffered out of infinite love for all
offering of a large American flag on Washington’s Birthday. The sincerity and fervor with which the custom is perpetuated and
(Rev.) First-Lieutenant Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C, PROFESSOR OF POETRY AT THE UNIVERSITY, CHAPLAIN IN THE 42ND DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN
expeditionary
the genuine patriotic emotion with which the air is each year vibrant, makes this one of the most treasurable and inspiring memories of Notre Dame life.
Next Commencement on the morning of Baccalaureate Sunday, this beautiful flag will be gathered up lovingly in the hands of the Senior men, will be brought into the sanctuary of the college church, where for a few minutes it will lie close to the feet of Christ. It will be blessed with pomp and chant and ritual, and then
mankind, so that beautiful flag was born of a divine fury against injustice. It-never waved over a battle-
forces, France	field where men fought
for an unworthy end—:for land, for money, or for hatred. As from the midnight skies of Bethlehem there fell upon a wondering world the music of angels and the promise of “peace to men of good will,” so with the first appearance of that flag in the heavens came the fullest evangel of human ‘ liberty, its own dedication to the sublimest ideals of human life, its promise of. friendship and brotherhood and peace to meh' of good will. ; '	’ -	■
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	365,
To-day the presentation of the flag is invested with a strange and wonderful solemnity. To-day for the first time in many years that flag is carried into foreign lands; it floats under alien skies; it moves at the head of the greatest army ever assembled in the name of America. Its summons is a call to battle,—to battle for the same principles of liberty which gave it birth and strength and glorious achievement in the past, and which in the providence of God are destined to give it glorious perpetuity. And as the Stars and Stripes represents that summons to honorable battle, so the Service Flag represents the answer of Notre Dame men to that call to the post of honor, of danger and of duty. Six crosses, the sacred signs of faith and love and courage, symbolize six gentle priests, leaders of the host of God, who a year ago to-day assembled with us to pledge their fealty to the flag, and who are now in humble imitation of Corby and Cooney and Dillon and Gillen sharing the hardships and perils of the soldier’s life. The star represents the sign in the heavens which appeared to the upward gazing students of last year and -which they followed faithfully into foreign lands as the Magi followed the Star of Bethlehem. Of those who gathered here with- us a year ago, two-hundred and forty-three are known-to be wearing . the uniform of our country. How many others are not yet recorded we do not know; how many -more will answerzthe summons in the coming months, we cannot say, but in the heart of every Notre Dame man there arises a feeling of gratitude and of solemn pride that- in this hour of destiny the men of Notre Dame have answered so nobly this heroic call. That beautiful flag we shall cherish till the last shred of it has been consumed by the teeth of envious time. It comes to us from the hands of pure and devoted womanhood; it comes to us from the Sisters of the Holy Cross and the students of Saint Mary’s College. It comes trailing clouds of glory after it, for of all .the noble arid devoted religious orders who have served God an.d Country in war, as well as in peace, there is none in America whose record is so noble as is the record of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Of all the schools in America which taught beautiful lessons of patriotism and duty in peace and illustrated them heroically in war, there is none whose story is so brilliant as the story of Saint Mary’s. As among .men, the bravest are the tenderest, so among women the tenderest are the. bravest, and when the roar of cannon has ceased and, the smoke of battle has been lifted from the ruins of Europe, the one sweet memory of this monstrous conflict will be the remembrance of the mothers and sisters and friends, who in their own way and in their own place, helped to win'this titanic struggle and to reestablish liberty on earth. As the stars and crosses on that flag symbolize the courage, the faith, and the duty of the men who went into battle, so every loving touch bestowed on that flag, every line of beauty added to it, every stitch that went to the making of it, represents the courage, the loyalty of the noble mothers and sisters who first inspire men with lofty ideals and then fill them with courage to fight and to die for them. This exquisite Service Flag—the niost beautiful, 11 believe, in all Ainerica—presented with sweetest womanly eloquence, I accept in the name of our absent heroes and in the name of their brothers here who will
cherish it, not only for the brave men it commemorates, but also for the noble women whose love and devotion make it doubly beautiful.
And, finally, I pay my tribute to the generosity which impelled the students of the University to provide an ambulance for the care of our stricken soldiers on the field of battle. War means death; it means wounds; it means bloodshed and suffering. It is the most brutal manifestation of human life, but side by side with its monstrous ugliness there is a manifestation of sublimest Christian virtue,—Taith, courage, unselfishness, charity. The ambulance represents Tinman science and Christian mercy. It is your way of saying to the boys who have gone out to battle. We can’t -fight beside you, but we can at least be grateful. By a little sacrifice here we can help to assuge the pain and heal the wounds you have received in battle for us. From over the sea we send up this shout of sympathy and brotherhood. Across the waste of waters we send you this sign of sympathy, and should the hour come in the providence of God when you feel the anguish of wounds received in battle, may the sight of a Notre Dame ambulance recalling our love for you and our pride in you help to mitigate your sufferings. And as a token of the brotherhood of all good men the world over, we shall inscribe upon the tablet which identifies this ambulance, these words: ‘From the men of Notre Dame to Cardinal Mercier of Belgium, the noblest moral figure manifested in this war.’
Old Glory to represent the courage of men; the Service Flag to represent the sympathy, the applause, the gratitude of women; the ambulance to typify all that knowledge and mercy can bring of comfort,— how wonderfully they betoken the enthusiasm and cooperation with which American faces this great crisis! The worst mistake that we could make would be to underestimate the gigantic struggle that lies before us: we are face to face with the greatest engine of war that the world has ever known. The next most. lamentable error would be to over-estimate the crisis; one thing is absolutely certain, we are going to win this war! It is sheer insanity to think that Schreck-lichkeit can terrorize civilized men. Its only effect can be to nerve the arm of resolution more and more. It is no great credit to say of any nation that it excels in the monstrous business of war, that it leads the world in brutality and terrorism. The Turks were brutal and terrible and they succeeded in arousing, not the fear, .but only the disgust and hatred of mankind. The Iroquois Indians practiced Schrecklichkeit and they did terrorize other Indians, because they were savages; but brutality cannot terrorize civilized and Christian men. Courage is a spiritual and not an animal'quality, and it is one of the noblest victories of the spiritual that it lifts men above physical terror. America can lose only through the failure of the spiritual quality in her men.
God grant that this beautiful flag may never fly over an unworthy people. God grant that every 'century until the end of time that spotless flag may be more and more worthy of the love of God and the loyalty of noble men.
The oration of the day was delivered by Con-
' {Concluded on page 308.')	.	’	'
3o6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Letters from Camp.
Camp Sheridan, ^Montgomery, Ala.
February i, 191S.
The Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana. ~ Dear Editors:—
.... The Notre Dame men fortunate enough to be in the camps to which the six Holy Cross priests have been assigned as chaplains can guess my surprise and pleasure a few days ago at having a tall man in the olive drab overcoat and barracks cap—whom only at second glance I recognized as- none other than Father Walsh, our vice-president at old N. D.— ' walk into the office of the 135th Machine Gun Battalion—of which I am the acting adjutant—:and say: “Here I am, your chaplain—where are you going to put me?”
I can scarcely realize yet my good fortune in being on the same staff with Father Walsh, in being near him in his work, and, if we are lucky enough to ‘ go into action and lucky enough to return, in having been an eye-witness to .such incidents, mayhap, as brought renown to the brave Father Corby in the Civil War.
Can you imagine me, who “used to come shivering into Father Walsh’s room for permission to “go to the dentist”—in reality to go to the Orpheum— being now his superior officer? Can you imagine Father Walsh now coming to me for permissio'n to go to town? Can you imagine Ray Miller, who “subbed it” on the football team when “Eich” was a whirlwind, now being the superior officer of the vicepresident of Notre Dame, with authority to give or refuse him “per.”	-
[Editor’s Note:—We take the liberty of interrupting Adjutant Miller’s letter at this point to pres&nt our readers the evidence that said “per” has been secured at least once. The card below is a copy of a recent pass issued by the Adjutant. .
CAMP 135th MACHINE GUN BATTALION
• January 27, 1918.
■. To AU Military Police:	-
Pass First-Lieutenant M. -J. Walsh, Chaplain, 135th Machine Gun Battalion this date. Business under ex-. ceptional circumstances. .	.	'
’	Ray L. Miller,
'	. •	First-Lieut. Adjutant.
135th Machine Gun Battalion
As to the details of the interview and the difficulties involved , we refer our“ readers to the Valve of this issue.].	■	-	‘
Is it not. as strange as "From a Canal Boy to a President,” in three reels? . •	.
As Notre Dame men in this camp are not numerous and as there was need of some to give the-finishing touches and atmosphere to the 37th division, the War Department simply sent down the - vice7. president of Notre Dame to make up the whole deficiency. He arrived on Friday and that night was in thte harness, leading some men out of the 135 th to a big general singing class. Because he comes from
Notre Dame he was immediately made athletic officer of this battalion. .
And still another wonder—who ever imagined that Father Walsh smoked cig—[deleted by Scholastic censor]—and that I could smoke one with him in his own quarters after every meal? Father and I eat at the same table, and we have no wheatless, meatless, or sweetless days. You N. D. men can envy us. Father Walsh, being a staff officer, will be mounted, and I understand that his knowledge of horses would fill a volume as large as an unabridged dictionary.......
He has now been on the job a week and is quickly adapting himself to military life and to the customs of the service. He salutes with exactness and generally has all his buttons buttoned. We do have some trouble still in getting him out for reveille, but he knows which of the calls means mess and obeys it with perfect promptness.
We have very few Notre Dame men in this camp; for a while I thought I was the lone representative, but later I found Ed Beckman, Harry Rogers, Rodney Cullen and Captain Wilkerson. I seldom hear of another camp, however, except in reference to Notre Dame men. I have come to the conclusion that it is the loyalty and patriotism Notre Dame instils into her students that, has caused them to respond so numerously and so enthusiastically to the country’s call.	,
.	Sincerely,
z	Ray T. Miller,
,	Lieutenant-Ad jutant 135th M. G. B.
On Active Service with the American
* Expeditionary Forces, France.
January 26, 1918. Reverend John Cavanaugh,
Notre Dame, Ind.	'	.
Dear Father:	■
A few days ago while looking around a little shell-swept village I found a Ritual, which. ! am sending you. The pile of stones where I found it must have been the Cure’s home, as beside it lay part of the church steeple and the face of the church-steeple clock. The book was in part of an old bookcase, which I forced open with a stick I was carrying.
If a year ago some one had told me that I should be here at this time, I am certain I would not have believed him. But here I am anyhow, living for the .present in- a hole in the ground and quite often wishing the hole was deeper. And as a room-mate I have a lieutenant who left DePauw University last spring, as I left Notre Dame, for the training camp. So being Hoosiers, we spend .much of our idle time talking of things "back home.”
I am becoming quite proficient in French!—with the help of my hands. I find that the gestures and expression of the face constitute about half the language. I hardly think Father Doremus would classify me as a French scholar,-but I am getting so I can get along very nicely with the French officers.
France is surely a nation of soldiers. In England one can feel that the country is at war, but not as you do in France. Here you sense it in every walk of life nbt'as a hardship, but as a gigantic task that is grad-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
‘ uall'y being accomplished. The British have a wonderful army, but that of France, man-for man; is its equal. I spent four weeks at a British school and£a*weekin a their lines, and so have seen something of both armies;
and I am convinced that the Allemand has just a little bit more'than he can handle. . But ycu people back in the States know more about the war than we do. I ' have not seen a newspaper for nearly three weeks.
That reminds me of something I must tell you. You know we have. Paris editions of. the Chicago Tritune and the New York Herald. About the middle of December I was reading a Herald and ran across a ■ piece quite familiar in style. And I am quite certain it is by “Stue” Carroll of the Lilacs and Scholastic.
•	Since I have the piece I will send it along hoping it
,	will find its way to Father Eugene Burke and the
■ Scholastic. .
I came over with three of last year’s graduates. Charles Reeves, Arnold Mclnerpy and Leo McGann. Reeves is deputy' Provost Marshal at the First Infantry School, but I do not know 'what has become of ( the other two.
I send my regards to the Faculty and hope to some day see Notre Dame againY
Sincerely y.ours, '
A .	Lieutenant Frank Woods,
ist Brig. M. G. B., ist Div., A. B. F.
-----------------—
Camp Shelby, Hattiesburg, Miss. '	Feb. it, 1918.
. Rev. John Cavanaugh, Notre Dame,.'Ind..	.' •
- s My dear Father:—
.... To begin at the beginning, Father Ed and L arrived Jan. 25, 'the feast of St. Paul, anil as I said Mass that morning in New Orleans I thought it auspicious that we should become army missionaries on that day. •	'
At Headquarters we were received most kindly by Major White. He went out of the room to see about" . our appointments, and an officer stood up and said he was at N. D. back in Father Sorin’s time.. His name is King. . . . He was at N. D. in the early nineties.
.Major White gave us, to a certain extent, our choice of work, naming the places that were open; Fr.'Ed had heard that Major Carpenter, head of the 139th Machine Gun Battalion, wanted a priest and so he asked for that place and got it. Then I chose the 137th Field Artillery. A car was brought and we were carried over, the hills to the last camp about a mile away. I didn’t in the least know what awaited me. .What was my surprise to find myself ushered into the office of Colonel Freyermuth, of South Bend. He had wanted a priest from Notre Dame and received me most cordially.. Everyone has been kindness itself. .
:	Qne of the finest surprises I had was to find two
Notre Dame men among the officers. Lieut. James McNulty and Lieut. Eddie Meehan, and surely, two better Notre’Dame men never walked. I can’t tell, you, Father, how much they have helped me. • They live together'a few tents from ine. I was wishing, you could have seen Jimmie McNulty a >few-nights ago. It was cold. Eddie came up to my tent and then I
* went -down with him. There was Mac outside their tent standing over a hot. stove. The pipe had fallen
307
apart and he had picked up the whole stove and walked-out with it. They fixed up the pipe, and carried the stove back in as though it were a stove drill, an everyday occurrence.
.... As to my religious work: it began the first Sunday. I had Mass in an empty mess shack. . . . At nine o’clock Church Call was sounded for the Regimental Service. . . . Then_ Colonel Freyermuth introduced me to the regiment. (He had already introduced me to the officers at the Officers’ Training School). He urged them all to come to the chaplain for advice and in all spiritual difficulties. I spoke to them on the need of religion, the founding of the Constitution of the U. S. on religious principles, how it was in keeping with these principles that chaplains -were appointed. I told them I was a Catholic priest, but that at the Regimental Service nothing would ever be said to offend anyone’s religious belief. . . . On the second Sunday I said Mass in the Y. M. C. A. They came to me and offered me the hall. . . . Say Father, I wish the Catholics of America could understand what the' K. of C. are doing. Their big hall is-crowded every night. The boys love that place. They go there to write and talk, and read and sing. It is very homelike. . .
We have organized a Lenten Service for Friday night there. We have chosen our subjects for talks and are going to advertiseit. But my! we ought to have three more K. of C. buildings. There are six Y.M.CA., and only one K. of C. But what’s the use of talking? I suppose our people are doing all they can. But why don’t more of our rich Catholics put up a few buildings? ...	-
Father McGinn came and is living near the Hospital. He is to be in charge of all the Trains (Medical, Supply, and Ammunition) wrhen we move. Maybe it didn’t seem good to see him. I go to the K. of C. every morning for Mass and meet him and Father Ed there. Father Ed is living with the high-brows at Brigade ' Headquarters. ’
There are several French officers here. teaching. I met two of them, Fortiere and Primard. They are graduates of St. Cyr, the West Point of France, and are splendid Catholics, never missing Mass and going, to the Sacraments often. This delights me and makes everyone sit up and look.	'
.... Please remember my work in your prayers. There is much to be done and I want to do it, but I realize more than ever before that prayer alone can do-many things. Give my best to all the Fathers and Brothers. I appreciate beyond words the Scholastic and -Ave that Brother Albinus sends me every week. Please have a few copies of both sent to the K. of. C. building each week. They will surely be read. . . . ' Yours devotedly in Holy Cross,
George J. Finnigan, C. S. C., .
'	First Lieutenant Chaplain, 137 F. A.
_• ----------—-------------- ’ • ■ . ’ . American Expeditionary Force, France.
- .	" January, 8, 1918'.
Rev.: William A. Moloney, C. S. C.,	"	"
NdtrADame, Indiana.	'	'
Dear Father: .	-	-	'
Your most'welcome letter of December the Fourth arrived to-day and I was indeed pleased to' hear from’
308	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
you and all about Notre Dame. This is the second letter I have received from you since my arrival in France and as yet I have not received a Scholastic, which I dearly long for.
Before I get married, Father, if I ever do, there are two things that my wife will have to agree on with me. They are, that the day Notre Dame plays West Point and Commencement week at Notre Dame belong entirety to me. This is all I shall ask for and I will have to have it. Those two celebrations belong to me. You will never be able to realize, Father, how much joy a victory by Notre Dame over West Point brings to me. I shall try to explain it.
You see, all the officers in the regulars with me are graduated from West Point or Annapolis. I am in the best fighting body of regular troops that Uncle Sam has over here. Everyone admits that the marines are the best. Well, I am first-lieutenant and actingcaptain of the Ninety-fifth Company of Marines, which proves'that Notre Dame can hold her own with either West Point.or Annapolis in military matters.
Now, imagine if you can,, a little school like Notre Dame in the Middle West, coming East and beating West Point in football, and West Point usually beats the Navy. This further goes to prove what I have . always told these boys—that Notre Dame is the mother of real men.”
.... I have received Communion once a week since I have been in France and shall continue as long as God spares me. I have never enjoyed better health in all my life,'and I am perfectly happy and prepared for death, if that be my lot. I love this life and I am , getting along fine and would not change for anything. When I wrote you that letter to which you referred, I was doing a "hitch” up on the front with the British. Within six days I shall be on the front again, but this, time we are to be in for ourselves^ We expect to lose a good many men, but you can bet your last cent that if I ani among those that are lost, I shall go with that old Notre Dame spirit, and the-word "fight” is tame when one has-the conception of Notre Dame spirit which I have. Every Boche that we kill means that the war will be over that much sooner, and this is our motto.
By the way, Father, I never told you about calling on my grandmother. Well, I did, and there she was, a paragon of virtue, a colossal monument of beauty! She greeted me with the same outstretched arms and tenderness that her daughter greeted me at Notre Dame some six years ago. I felt that I was the only one that realty belonged there, and a strange
feeling^ carne over me and the tears welled in my eyes	....
when I looked up at my grandmother again. There Catholic High quintet in a 23 to 15 fray last
seemed to be a look of pity and tenderness on her face arid an expression of sorrow for us all. I left there • feeling better and - stronger for the visit I had
paid her. It was the famous old Notre Daine Church of France.	L
While we fully realize that oh account of being the
first up on-the line that we shall lose a great many Ambulance Fund launched a further campaign men and.officers, there'is something that, seems to to swell the fund to its required amount, $2,000, even it I do, what harm?	\ . 7 , by March i . The combined contributions to
Please remember, Father, that. I: am. not in the date amount to $1,428, $553 which was engineers’ corps, the ambulance'corps, or that half- given by Walsh Hall. The personnel of the Notre
baked army, and that I am not a reserve officer. Our one purpose over here is to fight, and I am with a fighting unit. It makes us boys that are in the regulars a little sore to see the boys at Fort Benjamin Harrison getting all the write-ups in the. papers. . . . The engineers who do hot even carry arms, the ambulance drivers who stay behind and wait for our hospital apprentices to carry back the wounded, get all the credit and they don’t even know we’re alive.
Well, Father, give my regards to Father Hagerty, Father Corcoran,v Father Crumley, Father McGinn, Brother Alphonsus, and "Mac,” and to all the priests and brothers and students of old Notre Dame.
Wishing you and Notre Dame the best of luck, I remain, your sincere friend,
Lieut. Joseph F. Gargan,
. 95th Co., 6th Regt. U. S. M. C.,
Am. Ex. Force, France, c-o Postmaster, New York City.
P. S.—The enclosed snap-shot will show .you I have been up against it a little bit. But come what may, I shall be in at the'finish. Don’t forget the Regulars,

4’. • y
and please write soon.
Good-bye,
Joe.

{Concluded from page 305.) gressman John F. Miller native of St. Joseph County, and at present a representative in Congress from the State of Washington. Mr. Miller’s address was as interesting as it was impressive.
At the conclusion of Mr. Miller’s address, .Brother Austin, Litt. B., ’18, read an exceptionally well' written ode to Washington: Thomas Hoban , of the Senior Law Class then delivered with much feeling the Fai ewell Address of Washington. The program, made all the more appropriate by the present national crisis, was completed by the singing of the Notre Dame Song by the entire audience.
s

Local News.'

—On account of lack of space this week we have to postpone several news items until our next number.
—The Notre Dame Preps demonstrated their ability - by defeating the fast Fort Wayne
3
u
Sunday. Kirk and De Sio starred for the Preps, showing frequent flashes of varsity form. The Waynites, with a good support built around Hbgan, formed a worthy opposition.
—The several committees of the Notre Dame
z
f .J
i i
309
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Dame Ambulance fund Committee includes: John Reuss, James Hanlon, Frank Monighan, Edwiu Harbert, Leonard Mayer, Joseph Riley and Frank Cullinan. ■	•
—Spring is here—or ought to be. Brother Alplionsus Reports that the first robin arrived on Monday. We don’t know much about ornithology, but we have a suspicion that since Tuesday night’s cold wave, the robin in question is winging it back to the South several miles an hour faster than he came.	.
.	—“General Thomas—Our Inspiration” is
the title of the oration John Lemmer, Senior in Philosophy, delivered in. Indianapolis Washington’s Birthday, February 22. The Interstate Oratorical Contest has eight entries this year including among others representatives from Indiana University, Wabash, and Notre Dame.
—Badin Hall was the scene of the Iowa Club’s initial social activity, Wednesday evening, February 14; The event was in the nature of a smoker-luncheon, with the various members of the club contributing to. the entertainment." Harr}'- Godes welcomed those assembled, and also assisted the soloists of the evening, Messrs. Weinrich, Walsh and Heidei. The" Western organization is planning several innovations for the future in the attempt to arouse interest in- State club circles. - '
- —Mr. Arthur J. Stace, Managing Editor of the Grand Rapids Press, delivered an excellent lecture on “The Relation of the Editorial and Circulation Departments of a Newspaper” to the journalists last Saturday afternoon. Mr. Stace traced the dependence of both the circulation and, subsequently, the advertising departments upon the calibre of the Editorial Staff. In addition he illustrated the methods used by big papers in gleaning scoops, by a detailed citation of the famous 'Dr. Warren Waite mystery.	•	'
"■ 1 1“■ ' -“ •
(Concluded from page 301.}
the students as Prefect of Religion and as professor of English,, and from his beautiful poet-mind he. will bring forth- good things to console, encourage and delight those whose eyes must look: upon the. ghastly scenes of war.
Notre Dame chaplains! Every day you are near us in prayerful thought—you and the? fine fighting .men you.now call your “boys.” God speed your return to these fields of peace!
Personals.
—From Keyport, New Jersey, Mrs. Vincent J. Eck has informed us that her husband, who in ’15 graduated from the Architectural Course, is now a member of the Coast Artillery Corps, Company One, Fort Hunt, Virginia.
—Corporal Ward C. Schlotzer, sophomore last year, Camp Sherman, Ohio, has been united in marriage to Miss Jessie Gibson, Rochester, New York. The Scholastic extends congratulations to the newly-married officer and his wife.
—Word has recently been received at the University that Mr. Early, student in ’03, who for the past few years has been a professional skater in Riverview Park, Dubuque, Iowa, has enlisted in the 463rd Depot Brigade.at Camp Dodge, Iowa. Severin Beck is also in the same camp, but in a different company. .	.
*—William McKenna, member of the class of 1.921, is Notre Dame’s latest contribution to the colors. “Mac” left for the Great Lakes Training Station to enter the Pharmacy Department of the Navy. Although his residence here has been short he leaves a host of friends who wish him every success in doing his bit for America.	.	.
—Lieutenant Arnold Mclnerny, who for several months has been attending an officers’ school in France, recently sent a message.to his -mother in South Bend, stating that he was safe, well, and happy. The message seems to indicate that “Mac” has already been exchanging shots with the Germans. Lately,'Lieutenant Mclnerny, on a tour, of inspection with his regiment, .spent two nights and a day in the first line trenches.	■
—“Nig” Kane (C. . E. ’14) has already experienced one encounter with the enemy, having been'on board the Tuscania when it was torpedoed by a German submarine. We have no doubt that before long he will be in the first line trenches repaying this little debt to the Kaiser. Soon after landing on the Irish coast Lieutenant Kane sent the following cablemessage to his mother in Williamsport, Pennsylvania: “Safe over seas, Eugene.”
—Arthur D. Walsh (B. S. in Chern., ’12), in responding to the notice that recently appeared in the columns of the Scholastic asking for information regarding the Notre Dame men in the' service, has written the following concerning himself: “I am a private in Company
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
310
G, 311th Infantry, Camp Dix, New Jersey. I have been here three months now and like the life immensely. I have gained twelve pounds since my arrival, and I have never felt better in my life.”	-
.—Lloyd Morency, who is now profiting from the military experience that he accumulated at Notre Dame, visited here last week. Lloyd is in charge of a training squad at the Great Lakes Naval Station, Illinois.
—Drexel L. Duffy and his brother Paul A7-., old Notre Dame students, are members of the K. of C. Hospital Unit which recently left Kansas City, Missouri, on its way to Prance. They are now in Camp McPherson, Georgia, awaiting the mobilization of one hundred nurses who are to accompany the expedition .when it sails for service on foreign fields.
—The Scholastic gratefully acknowledges the receipt of the following item from an old student, J. B. O’Connor, M. D., of Oelwein, Iowa: “I wish to inform you that Paul Jules La Vallette, of Oelwein, who was a Freshman Lawyer at N. D. in ’15-T6, is now in Prance. He is in Company C, 13th Engineering Corps, Regular U. S. Army, A: E- F. via New York.”
—Francis J. Clphessy, sophomore in law last year, has been promoted to the rank of Sergeant, First Order, and has been transferred from Camp Johnston to the Raritan River Ordnance Depot, situated near the city of Metuchen, New Jersey. While in Camp Johnston, Jacksonville, Florida, Frank met “Shorty’’ De Fries (LL- B., ’15), who, as a member of. a receiving company, is doing duty in a warehouse at that camp.
. —.Clement J. Gerber of Chillicothe, Oliio> former student, in Architectural Engineering, enlisted at Fort Thomas, Kentucky, and is now a member of Company D, 25th . Engineers, Camp Devens, Mass. “Clem” expects to be sent' to France soon. “Red” Regan is also at : Camp Devens. In a recent basketball game between.Companies F and G, “Red”, was a\ prominent point-getter for Company F, which
,^-We publish, the following extract from a letter addressed to the Rev. Father Cavanaugh, .	.	_C. S. C., from Paul-Martin, a faithful alumnus
registered a victory .over its opponents by a ofNdtre Dame: “ Enclosed is a copy of an insert .15 to 9 score. .	,	..	which will form-one paragraph of the general
—The Irish .coast may be a long way off, letter which we are sending but today to all but it has. certainly. helped to. bring the war .Knights of Columbus camp- secretaries —The closer to Notre" Dame. On board the same Publicity Department directs the attention of transport with .Lieutenant Kane was Kenneth secretaries .to; the fact that the Notre Dame Krippene . of Oshkosli, Wisconsm, who; as a . Scholastic, the official paper of Notre Dame Minim , and a Carroll' Haller, attended the University, will devote its issue of February. University from ’n to-’14'.: “Nig” and “Ken” 22nd'to'theNotre Dame men in the army and
were at Notre Dame together, although the former’s college career was rapidly closing when the latter’s was Only beginning. Both, however, suffered simultaneously in- the same U-boat attack, and now, to complete the story, it but remains for both to be enrolled in the same U. S. Contingent, that strikes the decisive blow for democracy.
—We quote the following from the February Cohtmbiad:	\
Patrick Granfield, a star athlete of Notre Dame University, has been added to the secretarial force of the Knights of Columbus War Work, and has left school that he might go to Camp Dodge to take up his duties there. Notre Dame js well represented in this patriotic work, having a number of men who are serving as executives of the Knights of Columbus Committee on War Activities, and in the camps. Notre Dame also has hundreds.of men in the service, and six members of the faculty, including Rev. M. J. Walsh, C. S. C., vice-president, have applied for chaplaincies in the National Army. Thus is the patriotism of the venerable Father Sorin being perpetuated by the sons of the University .which he founded seventy-five years ago.
—Again Timothy P. Galvin goes on record for his loyalty to Notre Dame. “Tim” is -general secretary -of the K. of C., Camp Greene, North Carolina. After scouting around the. camp in an endeavor to locate the N. D. men.that were there, “Tim” has sent the following names to the Secretary of the University-:—Sergeant Frank Kirkland-’17, and Sergeant Joseph Dorais ’17, Ordnance Depot Company, and Corporal Herman Freistedt, student ’15-16, Company C, 61 st Infantry, Camp Greene, N. C. “Tim” mentioned in-his letter that “Kirk” and “Dory” have recently been promoted, and that Freistedt is in line for early advancement. It might-be well to add here that Charles “Gus” Dorais (LL- B. ’14), brother of Joe, is also in the service. “Gus.” is in Company 2, in the Third Officers’ Training School, at Camp Dodge, Iowa.
THE'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
311-
navy. The co-operation of Knights of Columbus secretaries is desired in this matter, and it will be greatly appreciated if a notice- be posted on all bulletin boards urging the Notre Dame men in your camp to send information regarding themselves to the Editor, Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana. - Announcement of this fact should also be made at all Masses. Those wishing extra copies of this number of the Scholastic should order them in advance.”
Mayer, Si; E. J. McEllen, $1; C. J. Kramer, $1; A. Uebbing, $1; C.Billeaud,Si; G.Billeaud,$i; R.Billeaud $1: F. O’Neill, $1; Joe Mullin, $1; E. J. Shanahan, $1; K. G. Pfeiffer, $1; R. B. Kremp. $i; Phil’ Bort, Si; J. Rick, $1; C. Morrison .50; Aloy Heck .50; F._ B. Watson, .50; E- F. Burke, .50; G. J. Hoar, .25; T. F. Farrell, S5.00. Total—$1433.25. *
John L. Reuss,
Chahman of Committee-.
Book Review.
Mr. Maitin is a member of the Supreme Board of Directors, Knights of Columbus Committee on War Activities, Washington, D.‘ C.
Notre Dame Ambulance Fund.
In an effort to close the campaign for the Notre Dame Ambulance Fund’on March 1 with $2000.00 in the treasury, the committee started recently a new drive which was in a measure successful. Many have responded, but many more that should be on the list of donors are still missing. It is hoped that the final list will show the name of every student in the school. Donations may be made to any of the following men: Father Thomas Burke, John Lemmer, Frank Monighan, Frank Cullinan, Joe Riley, Leonard, Mayer, Geo. Harbert, James Hanlon, John Reuss.	•
J. J. McGraw, $100; B. R., Brady, $100; J. L. Ruess. $100; Frank Purcell, $100; E. Sattler, $50; L. Sattler, $50; E. Fl Bunn, '$50; J. H. Hayes, $50; J. F. Peschel, $50; J. H- Ryan, $50; M. P. Gooley, $50; A. Rodriguez Castro; $50; James Hoskins, $50; Mrs. E. J. O’Brien, $50; Paul Ryan, $50; Earl Jeannett, $50; Senior Class, $25; Arthur Vallez, $25; Bonald Fitzgibbons, $25; W. N. Oehiri, $25; P. L- Bryce, S25; James Wheeler, $25; Geo. Slaine, $10; Maj. T. F. Crimmins, $10; John Birdsell, Sio; W. P. Hayes, $10; James Bonovan,
$10; Rosa C. de Arles, $10; Joseph Berra, $10; Jose	from dispassionate-heights of imperturbable calm. He
Gonzales, $10; Mrs. J. L. Rogers, $10; Bewey Rosen tfial,	is absolutely honest intellectually, and he is about as
$10; Lieut- M. E- Walter, $10; Thomas Baley, $5;	emotional as a table of logarithms. A volume like this
B. Parker, 5; C. E- Bean, 5; Mrs. M. Balfe, 5;	is worth a hundred of the gushy, saccharine volumes
G. J. Baley, $5; Martin Kennedy, $5; James .Bolley, S5; Bale Vohs, $5; Ned F. Barrett, $5; John Lemmer, $5; L. Musmaker, $5; L. A. Musmaker, $5; Clancy Bros, $5; R. S. Welch, $5; Harold Foley, $5; A. B.-O’Brien, $5; John Moran, $5; John Malloy, $5; L- J. Welsch, $3; H. Crockett, $3; J. P. Belaney, $3; G. L. Sullivan, $2.50; L. Momsen, $2.50; A. J. Cusick, $2; Gregorio Velasco, $2; K. G., Pfeiffer, $2; S. Velasco, $2; J. Meersmon, $2; Wm. Ong, $2; L- L- Ward, $2; Paul Ting, $2; H. McEllen, $2; H. Goddes; $2; L.
Goldcamp, $2; H. P. Nestor, $2; John’Jennings, $2Ty catcher; his old students, when he was professor of ■C. H. McBonoiigh, $2; Edw. W. McFeely, $2; P. J.	chemistry. in the. University, and’ his loving,	loyal
Conway, $2; G. La Blanc,'$2; A. K. Bott, $2; Wm. M..	slavesl during the years when he was rectcr of	Sorin
White, $2; C. Wilhelm, $2; O’Neill de'Sio, $2; Wm.’ -Hall, will all want this book. No one interested in Sherry, $1; Chas. Williams, $1; J. L- Trent, Si; B.	present-day conditions of Catholic education can	afford
McBevett, $1; O’Toole, $1; H. C. Grabner, $1; R.	.to be without it.
Catholic Education: A Study of Condi. tions, -By the Rev. J. A. Bums, C. S. C., Ph. D., author of “The Origin and Establishment of the Catholic School. System” and “The Growth and Development of the Catholic School System.” Longmans, Green and Co. Price $1.50.	'
In this stimulating, informing and suggestive volume, Boctor Burns presents educators and the general public with some of the most valuable essays ever written on Catholic Schools, their conditions, prospects and problems. The range of topics is wide and every problem touched upon is vital. It is long since so pungent and piquant a book has been published on the subject of present-day education.
Naturally, Boctor Burns is a friendly critic. He uncovers weak spots with admirable frankness, but his devotion to the cause of Catholic education is so evident, as well as his sympathy with the noble men and women whose self-sacrifice makes Catholic education possible, that the criticism not only avoids giving offense, but even arouses the enthusiasm of those whose work is under discussion. So great is the power of tact!
It w'ould be a pleasure to summarize -the more important conclusions arrived at by Boctor Burns in this interesting volume, but that would require a long article. There is less verbiage, more originality, sincerity and "stuff” in the work of Father Burns than in that-of any other writer on educational topicsin our time. He is an enemy of platitudes and of padding. Also, henever gets excited. He views all problems
on education that clog the presses nowadays and ulcerate the public mind.	-
We are already indebted to Boctor Burns for two volumes which constitute the authoritative history of the Catholic school system in the United States. This makes a trilogy, and while it cannot be said to be the most valuable of the three, it is unquestionably the most readable and suggestive. Boctor Bums’ contemporaries at Notre Bame—he <is- A. B., ’88,
LL. B.
■in the. old days when he was Varsity
312	THE NOTRE Di
Safety Valve.
Time: Jail. 27, 1918-	•	.
Place: Camp Sheridan, Montgomery, Ala.
{Lieutenant AdjCMiller is seated at his desk redding
“Bright Pays in No-Man’s Land.”)
Chaplain Walsh (entering) Pardon my . interrupting you Adj., but I’d like to have a pass through the Camp. I have important business in the city.
Adj.'Miller (surprised) The city again? Why it seems to me you were in the city yesterday or the day before.	•
Chaplain W. (confused) Yes, I was, but this is really something that must be attended to at once. It’s business, not pleasure. -	'
Adj. M. (gravely) I understand that perfectly’, but there is business here at camp that must be attended to. I’d rather see you devote all your energy here and pay iio attention to the city. It’s simply a distraction thatdakes your mind off camp duties.
CIiAplAIn W. (irritated) But this has all been arranged for. I really can’t back out now. It’S very important that I gO.
Adj. M. (in astonishment) All arranged for? You certainly don’t mean to tell me that you arranged for something without first obtaining permission. What kind of discipline would the army have if every soldier made his own dates and insisted on keeping them? Can’t you see it would work havoc with army discipline.
Chaplain W.—Yes, I see that. In special cases, however, that can’t be foreseen I should—
Adj. M.—It seems to me I didn’t see you around at roll call this morning?
Chaplain W.—No. I had a late Mass for the men off duty. They wanted it, and—=	. "
Adj. M.—That’s all very well, but you should have reported for roll call just the same.	. .
Chap. W.—Yes, .1 suppose I should have, but the long fast would—	.
Adj.«M- (picking up letter)—You are reported here for missing two of the staff meetings. Were you excused?
. Chap. W.—I was quite ill that day and did not dare venture out.
Adj. M.—The hospital is the place for the sick. We don’t consider an officer sick who goes to bed in his quarters. .	'	.	/
Chap. W. (peeved)—Really, Adj. I wish you would write me out that pass. I am nearly due in town now.
Adj. M. (hesitating)—Well, I’ll do it this time, but remeipber that in future you’re to get* permission before making appointments. Remember also that your first duties are here at camp and the less you have to do with town the better. Be on hand for all the meetings, etc., etc., (writes out, pass and hands it to him) there you are, and don’t be out later than ten o’clock.	.
Chap. W.—-But Adj. I can’t possibly— .	'
Adj. M.—T'en.o’clock, no later. <	' .	. .
Chap. W.—But listen, I must-—
- Adj. M.—Ten o’clock. . ; i .	' •	, -.	.
‘ Chap. . W. (goes out mumbling)—And to think I taught , that, fellow history and - passed him with a grade of. ninety. If -1 only , had the' chance again 'wouldn’t I rub it in.. Why, that feUdw<-never knew any-history.
ME SCHOLASTIC
I bet he couldn’t name .the crusaders right now.. His . grade should have been about 32%. I’ve never: seen Such ingratitude. ■
Adj. M. (to himself) Important business! that’s all rot. Why I went to that -same Father Walsh one day at the University and told him that I had made	;
an appointment with'the dentist, that it was business.	3
and not pleasure. What did he do? He simply smiled at me like the villain in a melodrama'and said, “old	1
stuff! Your classes are the most- important business	j
you have. See me. Thursday.”	.	?
curtain.	- x 1
- * ** 1 '	At Camp.	I
(A number of soldiers are gathered in the K. of' C. 1 Building talking. One of them happens to mention Notre Dame.)	•
Simon DeGree (entering)—You from Notre Dame? •	’
Private—Yep.	, z
S.—Notre Dafhe’s a pretty fine place, isn’t it?
P.—Yes, I liked it.'	1
S.—Way ahead of camp in every way, eh?
P.—Well, I wouldn’t say that,'I—
S.—Don’t have to get up at midnight at N. D. and wash while you are fast asleep, eh?	'
P.—I like to rise early. •	'
S.—Prefects don’t wait for you with a gun when you skive, and demand “who goes there?’’, at the point of the bayonet when you’re coming home.	'
P.—That’s very necessary, in the Army. .
S.—No one here in camp to bring coffee and buns when you’re in bed on a cold morning.	•
P.—No, but it’s better perhaps.
S.—Don’t have to walk all day with a fool giin at
N. D. and get blisters on your feet.
P.—But the drill is necessary.	-
• S.—No fool setting-up exercises at N. D. That work. is all done by the coal heavers and steam fitters. .	.	''
P.—But think of the hard classes and the worry?
S.—Yes, the classes .were hard—at least they were hard to find. I only found where two of mine were taught last year. But there wasn’t any worry except -the worry that a fellow might miss the last car and have to walk out from town. .
P.—I don’t mean anything, like that. I mean the worry caused by the\ thought that you would .probably fail in the examinations. .	■
S.—No worry about that. I never failed in an examination, iii fact I never took any examination. I used to go to Hullies on Hxam days.
. P.;—But you certainly never passed doing that, did you? .	‘ ’ , ..	; ■	■	“ ' •	• .-	.
S.—Passed? Why of course I did. , Ain’t I here at camp with the rest of you? Don’t I race-around from morning till night like a maniac with a gun on ■> my shoulder, turning this way or that according as a lunatic shouts' atme? Don’t Ldig ditches just like a •sewer digger and:haul wood and work myself into a sweat? What d’mean, didn’t- pass? -
P.—I mean you never got a degree ■	. .
: S.—Why, _I got that -the day I was born, though I -didn’t know what.kind.it was till I was. christened. .	<
: P.—(to friend)'C3^3- guard. He /may get .violent.