The Notre Dame
cholastic
O’Shea Completes N. D. Net Career
March io, 195°
AetgoM, own/AS/Eond fHROAT he the judge/
FOR SMOOTHNESS AND MILDNESS .. .
There's never
Distinguished actor Maurice Evans playing Hamlet—ano of Ns greatest stage roles.
•	COPA., THKAMCAICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
Lucky Strike...so round, so firm, so fully packed------------------------------so free and easy on the draw
a rough puff in a Lucky
MeafU nttt fioacc^
Maurice evans says: "7 always count on Luckies for a perfect performance!”
Correct, Mr. Evans... you can always count on Luckies to give you the real smoothness, mildness and deep-down smoking enjoyment you want.
And, smokers, you can depend on Luckies because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco—fine, light, naturally mild tobacco that’s always smooth. Yes, let your own taste and throat be the judge. Find out for yourself—get a carton of Luckies today!

7
The Scholastic
Editor:
takes a very trite, wornout sour grapes attitude.	Emil J. Walcek
Vetville
Agreeing with Sports Editor Jack Meaney (see “Splinters,” page 25), we believe reader Walcek has confused
the issue somewhat. The column didn’t try to run doivn Holy Cross. It only stated that a team that plays mediocre teams can’t be judged the best in the country until it has proved itself.— Editor.
In my estimation the Scholastic hit the “Journalist’s Zenith” in Jack Meaney’s article evaluating the Holy Cross College basketball team — typical sports writer’s “style,” tearing down the top team. How common this was last fall when you same writers tore down Notre Dame—not you personally, but “men” in the same “business.”
Holy Cross has an enrollment of from 1200 to 1500 men, and the majority of schools they play are two and three times as large. Tradition is a big thing at Holy Cross—and more so (I would say) than here at Notre Dame. A large portion of their games are traditional—dating from the first days of basketball. You can’t toss over all these games just to make several jaunts to the midwest oi- west. For that matter, what are the geographical limits to college teams? After all, these boys are students, even as you and I (and in many cases, more so).
r Two things every " college ma,n should know!
I also believe that Buster Sheary is more the man in admitting his own team’s weakness than Haggerty who
• This is an Art Major. Really' a sketch. Thinks Monet makes the world ■ go round. His question in life is where does Kan Gogh Vermeer'Knows Rem brand is nothing to sneeze at. Often goes to bed with shades half drawn.
FAMOUS
MANHATTAN
SPORTS SHIRTS
available in
South Bend
at
Men’s Shop—First Floor
This is a '"Manhattan” Sportshirt. We've a whole gallery of these solid-colored rayon masterpieces, in a paletteful of colors. Just picture yourself in one.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
Q March 10, 1950
3
University of Notre Dame Press
THEOLOGY FOR LAYMEN:
“Christian Virtues” by Fr. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., presents moral theology in an easy to understand fashion. “God and the World of Man” by Fr. Theodore Hcsburgh, C.S.C., makes doejna understandable to the modern mind. Each volume onlv $3.
NOTRE DAME:
Every friend of Notre Dame should own Father Hope’s History of Notre Dame. Illustrated and easy to read, the new edition costs $4.
PIONEER AVIATION:
The collected papers of Albert Zahm have just been released in two giant 9 by 12 volumes of 1,000 pages complete with drawings and photographs. It is a set that belongs in the air enthusiast’s library. Two volume set, $15.
DOMES:
The Dome is the Notre Dame annual. Each year it includes hundreds of campus pictures. Our storehouse includes a few assorted copies of the 1947 and 1948 Domes and we’re offering them for general sale. They did cost $8 each, now only $5. Order it with any of the above bargains and we’ll send it to you for only $4, just half the original price.
Send all orders to
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
Notre Dame, Indiana
4
The Scholastic^ ’
THE WEEK
by flack McGoldrick
Top of the Week
In the Spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to . . .
Home in Indiana: IV
The Kelleghan-ScHOLASTic feud is still in evidence, although somewhat diminished in volume. One of the original, and never refuted, charges against the mag was that it has never devoted much space to the fair city of South Bend, which lies directly to the south.
With regard to this, the WEEK will have to agree; there is a noticeable display of indifference, ignorance and even hostility displayed by many ND students towards this Hoosier metropolis, and the Scholastic has never helped to overcome the situation.
We’d like to point out that South Bend does have its good points. There’s one particular spot in town, preserved in its present condition by one of the city departments, that is so unique that it’s almost indescribable. Just passing by it races your pulse, chills your spine and gives you that heart-in-your-mouth feeling—it’s the spot on East LaSalle street where the bus hits that big bump on the way out to school.
The Spoils of War
Jim (I’ve been here longer than anybody) Clarke had a personal interest in the recent two-day revival meetingpublic confession exercises held at Wheaton College in Illinois.
Back in ’42, when Jim was a sophomore (he’s a junior now), Uncle Sam called. Jim joined the Navy, and left his radio at school, with his roommate, for the duration. That was the last he heard of roomie and/or radio, except that he learned that the fellow now attends Wheaton College.
Last month, when the Wheaton students’ public renunciation of their past
transgressions became news, Jim muttered, “I wonder if that guy stood up and mentioned my radio?”
Two Birds, One Stone
The Department of Journalism Press Club, with a minimum of advance publicity, sold out the Engineering Auditorium for its annual showing of classic films. So far, subscribers attending the Thursday night programs have seen oldies featuring Greta Garbo, John Barrymore and Budolph Valentino.
The Press Club deserves a pat on the back for its effort in this non-profit venture, which has become an annual affair since its inception in 1947.
However, one unique feature of the series was not planned, and cannot be accounted for, by Press Club officers. That is the amazing fact that although practically the entire audience at these shows is students, there is a total lack of the witty remarks, cheers, whistling, yodeling, that takes place at Washington Hall screenplays, every time a girl over thirteen appears on the screen.
Perhaps this mystery, baffling as it may seem, can be explained by the fact that Press Club audiences are more decorous because they want to get their money’s worth out of the show. (Admission comes to approximately fourteen cents a week), while Washington Hall pictures (sometimes even older than the Press Club flickers), are shown gratis.
If this is the case, perhaps the long-sought remedy for Washington Hall “noises” would be to charge a nominal Saturday admission fee — say a dime. By doing this, not only would there be less noise (theoretically), but, according to present attendance figures, the sum of 240 bucks a week, or approximately $8,000 per school year would be raised.
Now $8,000 is a sum not to be whistled, booed, etc. at. The University Entertainment Committee (if there is one), might use this money to bring a top play, personality, performer, or show, to the campus every so often.
A less conventional means of utilizing the cash would be to take a year’s gate haul, play a long-shot at Hialeah on the nose, thereby immediately raising enough money to build a new Student Union building, where free movies could be shown weekly. But that would just start the whole problem over again.
Bottom of the Week
. . . thoughts of a fifty dollar preregistration fee.
DANCE
Alice and George Davis
for 1 rates
Now two can learn to dance for the price of one and save 50%. Call 3-8229. Come in for a Free Lesson.
LIFE IS SHOUT COLLEGIANS!!!
Why not devote it to God as a FRANCISCAN TEACHING BROTHER? In the Classroom—On the Ball Field-—In Club Activities—At Camp CHRIST and YOUTH need YOU!
Write: BROTHER LINUS, O.S.F. 41 Butler St.; Brooklyn 2, N. Y.
3 March 10, 1950
Northern Indiana's Largest Dance Studio
106 W. Monroe at Michigan South Bend
Entertainment
MARCH 10
COLFAX (through March 15)—Westerns can either be awfully good or else awfully bad. Montana (Legion of Decency Rating A-l) is the latter type. The technicolor is too garish, the plot too inane and the acting too amateurish. Errol Flynn and Alexis Smith have nevei' been worse. And what an ending! It’s almost as bad as the one that wound up Duel in the Sun. The heroine blithely shoots the hero, realizes the import of her actions, and then runs sobbing to him, asking for forgiveness.
PALACE (through March 15)—Pictures have a way of coming out in trends. The next trend on tap is one about jet planes. Chain Lightning (A-2) starts the ball rolling. It’s not half-bad. It has good pace, so long as it stays up in the sky. Once the action becomes earth-bound, however, the plot mires down, too. Teeth-tight Bogart stars in the pic with Eleanor Parker, Raymond Massey, and Richard Whorf offering support. The co-feature is Port of New York (A-2), a so-so documentary filmed in the East.
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—The Journalism Series presents John Ford’s Stagecoach. This has been declared one of the finest westerns ever made.
EUROPE
MEXICO
RLRSKR 2 2	jc.f’-tu'f $295
THE WEST 2: :a> tamping '-o-r $29:
-■ :	O’QC' ;c' or ’o' Ecucc*<o*ic
SITA, 141 W. Jackson, Chicago, Ill.
> STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL ASSOCIATION S'TA . Santa Barbora California • Booklet L
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
arm
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
MARCH 11
WASHINGTON HALL—Special Agent (A-l) has William Eythe and Laura Elliot (who’s she?) in the top parts. It is a second rate picture, but you can’t complain with the campus Bijou. Remember how good the pictures have been lately, especially in comparison to what they used to be?
MARCH 16
COLFAX (through March 22)—Now here’s a picture you should see. 12 O’Clock High (A-l) is being called throughout the country the finest war film to come out of Hollywood. Also, Gregory Peck and Dean Jagger are supposed to give superlative performances. If it is as good as they say, it must really be tremendous.
PALACE (one day only)—The WLS Barn Dance will turn the Palace into an old-fashioned barn for a one-day stand. Military Academy is the pic played between the stage show.
MARCH 17
WASHINGTON HALL—Dylan Thomas, reputably one of the world’s greatest living poets, will give a lecturereading. Thomas, a Welshman, is on a tour of the U. S., and all interested should take advantage of this ConcertLecture Series presentation.
OLIVER ROTARY ROOM—The Irish Culture Club hold their second annual St. Patrick’s Day banquet. Tariff is $2. Entertainment and guest speaker Mr. Thomas O’Shaughnessy will supplement the meal.’
GRANADA—So Proudly We Hail and Wake Island were two of the first war pictures to be produced. They were both good and should prove interesting comparisons for the more recent war products. -
MARCH 18
WASHINGTON HALL—Vaughn Monoe will air his weekly broadcast from the tiny campus stage. Tickets will -be harder to find than ice on the new skating rink.
CHICAGO—The Chicago Club sponsor a Concert-Dance with the Glee Club providing the songs at the Terrace Casino Room of the Morrison Hotel.
Corsages
FLOWERS for All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A rare opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, Qthers yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to Spanish Student Tours 500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
6
The Scholastic -

The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91. March 10, 1950 No. 18
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors
KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI _______________ News
JOHN J. POWERS ________ Assistant News
ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE ________ Features
JOHN F. MEANEY _______________ Sports
JACK R. VARLEY ________ Assistant Sports
RICHARD CULLEN____________Photography
LEON GARDNER________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER___________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO .............Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY  Circulation ROBERT WILDMAN __________ Circulation
DALE FRANCIS_________Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Rod Belcher. Frank Blanch, Roller Blatz, Justin Bolger, Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan. Bob Butler, Don Carbone, Jim Carrig, Jim Clark, Joe Conerty, Jay Conlon, John Corrigan. Frank Cotter, Bryan Coughlin, Dave Driscoll. Charley Dullea. Carl Eilberger, Bob Finney. Tom Foote, Bill Gorman, David Hayes. Jerry Howell, Tom Kelley, John Kelly. Rik Klein, Joe Lang, Lou Meece, Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy. Tom Murphy, Jim O’Brien, John Quetsch, Tom Reedy, Neal Scarlett. George Schwartz, Roger Vorce.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Jack Econo-mou. Jack Keane, Ted Prahinski, Frank Ronnenberg. Rudy Unger.
FEATURES :Jim Carroll. Jim Kingsley. Larry McDermott, Robert Romaker, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
Member of the Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame.
• Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
COVER: Captain Kevin O’Shea, who played his last game for Notre Dame against Marquette last Saturday, is probably one of the best netmen in Irish history. A real team man, Kevin still managed to break three records during his Notre Dame career; the one, three and four-year scoring marks.— Photos by Wally Kunkle; Montage by Jim McLaughlin.
From the Editor's Desk..
College Boxing Shows the Way
Professional boxing can be cleaned up if the men who administer and control it would think more of a contestant’s life than they do of dollars; if they prohibit men from boxing who are not fit; if they would stop bouts whenever there is any question of unequal competition; if they would use heavier gloves, heavier mats, and other safety devices; if they would force boxers to engage in longer training periods before a bout; and if they would use only qualified coaches and medical men to supervise boxing activity.
Intercollegiate boxing has done this. Intercollegiate boxing is clean as the records will show. The collegiate boxing authorities have adopted a sound body of rules. Last year, in the National Intercollegiate boxing tournament only five men out of 61 failed to last the three rounds. In our 1949 Bengal Bouts only seven, men out of some 70 failed to go the distance. This is a definite proof that our emphasis is on skill and not brute power or force.
Intercollegiate boxing as a sport has as its prime purpose the out-scoring, out-thinking and out-maneuvering of the opponent by well placed blows — to win on points, to decision an opponent because of superior technical skill, ring strategy and physical condition.
Skill is the criterion, not brute power or force; points, not knockdowns; clean hits, not knockouts. A well conceived skillful attack that builds up points is indicative of college boxing. A knockdown or knockout is considered incidental to the bout, not the objective.
Our methods of training, teaching, supervising and scoring are different from the other amateur groups and certainly different from the professional class. On the collegiate level we use proper equipment, have properly qualified coaches and medical officers, and use every' safety measure to protect the boxer from avoidable accident.
Good leadership assures the teaching of the fundamentals of boxing so that skill will result and builds courage, self-confidence, sportsmanship and clean living through the medium of sound instruction.
It must be remembered that most of those who report adversely on boxing have not established facts based upon collegiate activities, but have expressed opinions and conclusions based upon boxing on a professional level. Most of the fatal injuries sustained in professional boxing are chiefly due to head injuries sustained when a victim’s head hits a poorly padded platform or when an official permits a bout to continue after a contestant has been rendered defenseless by the previous pounding of his stronger adversary. The individual boxer has no control over these situations. Rather such injuries must be blamed on the criminal negligence of those who administer and control professional boxins'.
—DOMINIC NAPOLITANO, Trainer 1950 Bengal Bouts
March 10, 1950
7
£
For the	.
FRESHMEN of the FUTURE
Kid’s Kaps
NEW — A genuine Collegiate Frosh Cap . . . made just like Dad’s (or Grandad’s), in school color felts . . . complete with school letters and the all-important query “19??”
STURDY — Made of grade “A” felts (70% wool, 30% cotton), the six-piece crown has lapped seams and is sewn to withstand the rough handling of small children.
ATTRACTIVE — in bright school colors and lettering; the small wearer will be a stand-out in any Kid Krowd. Sizes 6%, 6/2, 6^ and 6%.	95c each
For the
GRADUATES of the PAST
New ND
Ashtray
UNIOUE — an attractive furniture piece in any room, this chrome-plated ashtray is topped by the distinctive crossed N. D. monogram, and has a black plastic bottom.
BUTT IN, BUTT OUT ... no smashing of butts on the bottom of the tray; just place the burning end into one of the two holes in the metal top for a quick put-out!
$2.65 plus 15c postage
Come in or order them both NOW from
THE BOOKSTORE, Notre Dame, Indiana
----------------------USE THIS COUPON
Gentlemen:
Please send me
-------Kid’s Kaps, size ________, and
Notre Dame Ashtrays.
Enclosed you will find my check (or money order) for $_____________
Name____________________________________
Address.________________________T_______
City____________________________________
8
The Scholastic W
&
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 18
MARCH 10, 1950
Frosh Plan Dance
For May 5 at Palais
Plans are being formulated for a Freshman class dance, to be held on May 5 at the Palais Royale ballroom in South Bend. The dance will be —. limited to Notre Dame freshmen and w their dates.
Use of cars has been approved and 2 a.m. permissions granted already. Bids will be placed on sale in the Dining Hall aftei* Easter vacation. Their price, the band, and the time of the । dance will be announced later.
Brian Kelly of Farley Hall is general chairman of the dance committee. In charge of the various dance committees are: Mickey Dolan, entertainment; Ray Korzen, band; Jerry Kelley, arrange-ments; Tom Field, decorations, and Bill ™ Dargan, “diplomacy.”
Other committeemen are Jim Britt and Bob Munns, programs; Bill McMurray and Bill Reidy, tickets; and Jim Blackburn, transportation. Jim Gallagher and Joe Gores are in charge of dance publicity, while Joe Finan will handle finance.
Program of Latin American Studies to Begin For History, Language and Marketing Majors
NOTICE TO SOPHOMORES
All Arts and Letters sophomores who propose to major in Journalism, English, or Economics must obtain permission from the heads of these departments before pre-registration for fall courses.
Prospective Journalists are asked to see Professor Thomas J. Stritch on the main floor of the Main Building between the hours of 10 a. m. and 1 p. m., or between 2 p. m. and 5 p. m., Monday through Friday. Economics majors should get in touch with Professor John H. Sheehan in the Social Science Building on Tuesdays or Thursdays between the hours of 9 a. m. and 4 p. m. English majors may see Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., either on Tuesdays, Thursdays or Saturdays between 10 a. m. and 12 noon, or on Monday, Wednesdays or Fridays between 3 p. m. and 4 p. in. in Room 329, Main Building.
Permission for these major subjects should be obtained before pre-registra-tion begins on March 27.
Beginning in September, 1950, the University of Notre Dame will offer a new program in Latin American studies for undergraduates and a limited number of graduate students. The program will formulate a program of studies which will be followed by major students in the Departments of History and Modern Languages and Foreign Marketing in the College of Commerce.
The purpose of the new program is to draw together the various courses dealing with Latin American history, literature and science in the various departments and to add to them those special studies useful to students interested in this field. The program does not create a new major.
Five distinct types of students will be served by the program: those who wish to concentrate their scholarly interest in Latin American studies; those who wish to increase their knowledge of Latin American affairs and history; those who hope to follow a business career dealing with Latin America; those who are interested in the foreign service in Latin America; and those who are interested in scientific matters of Latin America.
Suitable courses of the University curriculum will be offered in Latin American geography, history, literature and geography. Two new courses have been specifically begun for the program. Professor Thomas E. Downey of the Department of History will teach two classes in Middle American and Latin American Geography, and the Department of Marketing in the College of Commerce will offer two courses in Economic Geography of Latin America and Business Problems of Latin America.
New courses will also be added in the second year dealing with Latin American economics, political science and ethnology. The College of Law will offer lectures comparing American and Latin American Law. At the present time, the graduate program will be limited to Master’s degrees in the Departments of Modern Languages and
History, but a doctoral program will be added when the number- of students justifies the expansion.
Work in the program will be based on the courses in Latin American history, literature and geography; in addition, students will take those courses pertaining to their special field of interest. Courses in the geology and botany of Latin America will be offered to science students when the demand warrants it. For those interested in a business career in this field, the program will offer special classes in trade and business conditions south of the Rio Grande. Studies. in the international relations and government of Latin America will be offered to those men planning on a career in the foreign service. Special courses of this type will be offered in each field of interest.
The present undergraduate program will be primarily for students in the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Commerce. For the first two years the program would be the same as that now required by .the two colleges, except that the language followed must be either Spanish or Portuguese.
Students wishing to pre-register for the Fall semester in the program should consult with Assistant Dean Edmund R. Smith in the College of Commerce or Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., or Mr. Langford in the Departments of History and Modern Languages, respectively.
In the Junior year for students majoring in this program in the College of Arts and Letters the following would be required:
History 71: The Colonial History of Latin America; History 72: The Republican History of Latin America. Spanish 81: Spanish Civilization and Culture; Spanish 82: Latin American Civilization and Culture, or Spanish 23: Commercial Spanish I; Spanish 24: Commercial Spanish II, or six semesters
(Continued on Page 29)
March 10, 1950
9
The Juiiliard String Quartet, after winning critical acclaim in New York, is to present a Washington Hall concert next Wednesday under Concert-Lecture auspices.
Concert Wednesday By Juiiliard Quartet
Fresh from triumphs in New York s Town and Carnegie Halls and from appearances with the New York Philharmonic, the Juiiliard String Quartet will present a concert here next Wednesday evening in Washington Hall. Under the auspices of the Concert and Lecture series, this appearance promises to be one of the highlights of the current season according to Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Student Welfare.
The Juiiliard String Quartet was founded to stimulate in America the development of chamber music. Having received endless praise for their concerts, the group has been termed one of the finest quartets in the country. Conductor Leonard Bernstein has appraised the group as being “America’s one great contribution to quartet history.”
Young and new in the field, nevertheless very experienced, the members of the quartet are Robert Mann and Robert Koff, violinists; Raphael Hillyer, violist, and Arthur Winagrad, cellist. In residence at the Juiiliard School of Music in New York, the four musicians are members of the ensemble faculty of the school.
This year marks the second appearance of the Quartet at Notre Dame. In last season’s concert they were well received. Rev. John D. Gallagher, C.S.C.,
10
of the Department of Music, urges Notre Dame men to attend a “very worthwhile program.”
Selections which the ensemble will play include Quartet in C Major by Mozart, Third Quartet (1927) by Bartok, and Quartet in D Minor No. 14 by Schubert.
yCS Admits New Members At Communion Breakfast
Members of the YCS received Communion in a body last Sunday at the 8 o’clock Mass in Morrissey Chapel. Rev. Howard J. Kenna, c.s.c., celebrated the missa recitata Mass and Rev. Robert J. Fagan, C.S.C., delivered the sermon. Following the Mass the group attended a communion breakfast held in the banquet room of the Dining Hall.
The initiation of new members was the primary purpose of the assembly and opportunity was provided for all members to review the promises and aims of YCS as a student organization. The breakfast also gave the members a chance to make and renew acquaintances.
Jim Kelleher, YCS vice-president, introduced the new president of YCS, Bill Rich, who spoke to the group. Following Rich’s talk, Mr. Dale Francis, Director of Publications, gave a talk entitled “Our Part in the Problems of Today.” After a short prayer by Rev. Louis J. Putz, c.s.c., the group adjourned.
Halls Are Assigned For Pre-Registration
Rev. James Leahy, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, announced last week the hall assignments for the four classes.
Seniors will be assigned to Dillon and Sorin Halls. Alumni, Badin, Howard and Walsh Halls will be reserved for Juniors. Sophomores will select a their rooms from Cavanaugh, Morrissey and Lyons, and freshmen will be put in Breen-Phillips, Farley, St. Edwards and Zahm.
These groups will be allowed to live off-campus: those who live off now, Law students, first and second semester Seniors, and all men 23 or older. Father Leahy stipulates that those who wish to live off-campus should register with his office before March 1-5. This is so that some estimate can be made of campus rooms available.
Students will register for rooms between March 15 and 24. They will be called according to the class they will be in next September, Seniors first, then Juniors, and finally Sophomores. Second semester Seniors have no preference over first semester Seniors, however, and this is true for all classes.
In each class the men with the higher cumulative scholastic averages will register first. All the student's grades are computed in figuring his average, ineluding all flunking grades, even if the flunked course was repeated.
The $50 deposit will be collected at the time of room registration.
The office of the Director of Studies reports that pre-registration for courses in the 1950 Fall semester will begin around March 27. Announcements of specific times will be posted beforehand by the Deans of the Colleges.
Thirty-Five Already Sign Fer Summer Pilgrimage
Thirty-five persons have signed for the Notre Dame pilgrimage to Europe next summer. The schedule and expenses for the tour are the same as previously published in the Scholastic.
At a recent meeting, the group discussed such matters as passports, visas, currency exchange, and travelers’ cheques.
Although anyone planning to make ~ 1 the trip has until April 17 to decide, $100 must be deposited with the Director of Student Affairs by March 17.
The pilgrimage will reach Rome in time for the canonization of Maria Goretti.
Family groups are invited to make the trip. Anyone interested should contact either Rev. Richard J. Grimm, c.s.c.. or Rev. Edmund J. Murray, C.S.C., Prefects of Religion.
The Scholastic ~1
St. Mary's Presents Annual Variety Show Featuring Singing, Dancing, Wit and Gaiety
St. Mary’s College annual variety show, presented last Friday and Saturday nights, was a two-and-a-half hour session of wit, songs, dancing, skits, and fun. Produced in St. Angela’s Hall by a 54-girl cast, the 1950 @ show was entitled “It Happens Every June.” It included a good deal of talent, a lot of laughs, and much true entertainment.
Living up to a tradition that is gradually being recognized for its worth, the girls West of the Dixie equalled in this year’s show the superb performance they staged last year. The song parodies were clever and timely, the cracks were well-placed and grinful, the ability of the performers was mani-w fest. It was the kind of show that took the audience out of themselves and diffused its gaiety throughout the hall.
It is hard to select planets from such a galaxy of entertainers. Plaudits should be scarce commodities, but deserving recipients are so numerous in this case that only the top ones can be mentioned.
The show was concerned with senior graduation — beginning with the much-desired day itself and followed by a -st look backward at the highlights of the four years of preparation. A fine takeoff on “Kewpies,” which includes incidental take-offs on ND and various major departments in the AB school, was the skit entitled “Fit For a King.” Patricia Kelly stole this part of the
show with her Ingle-Stafford interpretation of Temptation. A trifle more “local” was the next skit, entitled “D-Daze”— a marvellously well-done satire on the lay faculty of the College.
A tap dance by Patricia Dean and several songs by Patricia Gregoire were further highlights of the show.
Much credit is due Patricia Miller, general chairman of the show, and to her entire staff of behind-the-scenes help. Particularly noteworthy in this field of the production was the lighting and scenery, the former being handled almost professionally, and the latter adding immeasurably to the life of the show.—Walt Collins
Foundation Receives Over $3000 Per Day
An average of over §3000 per day in contributions to the University of Notre Dame has been rolling into the Foundation office since the beginning of the year.
After a highly successful year in 1949 during which over 2.33 million dollars was contributed to the University, the Foundation has already received for the first eight weeks of 1950 a total of §165,416. Last year during the same period §83,036 was contributed, approximately half as much. The §165,416 was contributed by 1432 donors, while last year’s amount came from 978 donors.
The Foundation is aiming at reaching, during 1950, the goal set for the new Science Building. During 1949,
§484,365 was given to construct and equip the new building. Together- with this amount the fund now stands at §1,171,546.
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
president of ND, has announced that §915,634 is still needed to cover the costs of the long-awaited project. In the first eight weeks of this year the Foundation has realized §45,511 of the needed sum.
Soph Vocation Talks Continue Next Week
Vocational guidance lectures, sponsored by the AB group of the YCS, will continue this week. On Monday, Professor Bernard Kohlbrenner will discuss Education as a major subject. Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., will speak Tuesday on English and on Wednesday Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., will speak about History as a major subject.
The talks are presented in an attempt to remedy the indecision of Sophomores in choosing both their majort subjects in college and their careers after graduation. The object of the lectures is to acquaint the students with all the related aspects and opportunities of the different fields of study and how these studies are applicable to various vocations in life. A question period follows each talk.
Last Monday, Professor Thomas J. Stritch discussed the various fields and opportunities relating to Journalism. Professor John J. Kane spoke Tuesday on the subject of Sociology. Very Rev. Gerald Phelan talked Wednesday on Philosophy as a major subject. On Monday, March 20, Professor John H. Sheehan will speak on Economics.
The talks are held in the Law Auditorium at 4:15 p.m. of the days listed. The series was initiated by the YCS under the direction of Ken Hoelscher, Dave McBride and Frank Marzolf.
A rag-tag band invades Kewpie's, seeking money for school building fund. This show-stopper was one of the revue's hits.
March 10, 1950
St. Mary's thespians go "arty" for one number in their annual Variety Show, forsaking the hilarious satire of the best skits.
11
Sophs Sponsor Show For University Talent
With cries of “The devil take the Hasty Pudding Club!” the Sophomore class launches an all-University talent show, open to all students and faculty members. Though the production may bear more resemblance to a chorus number at Sammy’s Bowery Follies than to the sedate carryings-on of Ted Mack and his cohorts, it is still felt that the urge to tread the boards and the sheen of filthy lucre will outweigh all else in the contestants’ eyes.
Under the direction of co-chairmen Bill Toohey and Gene Hull, prizes totaling $100 will be offered to the local ocai’ina virtuosi. The public will be admitted to only one show, the finals, all eliminations being held in private, possibly somewhere in the St. Joe River. There will be no admission charge, the prospects of a local “barter theater” having been found uninviting.
The aim of the show, says Toohey, is “to get out the talent on campus and give them a chance to win some money.” This is expected to cause quite a depletion in the ranks of Washington Hall’s balcony.
Members of the Department of Music have been contacted with a view toward acting as judges. All those interested in erasing the memory of the Cherry Sisters, Will Rogers, or Harry Lauder, should contact Bill Toohey or Gene Hull, in 326 and 228 Cavanaugh, respectively. Alas poor Yorick!
Four ND Men Participate In NFCCS Regional Talks
Four members of the local NFCCS council represented Notre Dame at a regional meeting of the federation in Chicago Sunday. The four were Jim Garvin, Bill Kirchner, Ed Farrell and Art Frericks.
The purpose of the meeting was to review progress made by the various regional commissions and to discuss plans for the national convention, to be held April 11 through 14 in Pittsburgh, Pa.
Among the measures to be considered at the national meeting will be the “Manhattan Plan,” whereby each stu. dent in the member colleges will be taxed approximately 15 cents to support the NFCCS offices.
Details of the student pilgrimages to Europe, sponsored by the NFCCS, have been settled, and a full boatload of passengers have signed for the tour.
Among the matters under review at the meeting Sunday were the accom
12
plishments of the Mariology Commission. This group, of which Notre Dame is a member, has already conducted an art contest and a Marian Congress, a symposium on Our Blessed Mother. Future plans call for a “Mary’s Hour” in Chicago.
Father Lahey to Lead Third Lenten Retreat
Rev. Thomas Lahey, c.s.C., assistant editor of the Ave Maria magazine, will conduct the third Lenten retreat tomorrow and Sunday. Men of Dillon, Badin, and Howard Halls will participate.
Services tomorrow evening will consist of a conference at 8 o’clock in
Father Lahey
Alumni Hall chapel, rosary at the Grotto, and confessions in the main church.
The schedule for Sunday has been changed slightly. Mass has been moved up to 8 a.m. A conference and holy hour follow at 10 and 11 o’clock. The retreat ■will end Sunday afternoon with a conference at 1 o’clock, Stations of the Cross, and bestowing of the apostolic blessing. This schedule will also be in effect for the two final retreats.
Father Lahey, who is noted for his stories and sermons for children, also serves as Catholic Action moderator and retreat master for the nurses at St. Joseph’s hospital.
Popularization of retreats dates back 400 years to St. Ignatius. Wounded while serving in the Spanish army, he was given The Lives of the Saints to read. He recorded and later published his meditations during this “retreat.”
Many followed his example, and retreats became a common practice for laymen, as well as religious.
Speech Dept, to Give New Courses in Radio
The Department of Speech under the direction of William Eisen announces the initiation of several new courses for the 1950 Fall semester into the curriculum of the department, subject to budgetary restrictions. •
The courses in Radio for the first a, semester will be Radio Broadcasting and Radio Announcing. In the second semester, courses entitled Radio News Writing and Radio Acting will be offered.
For the Theater division of the proposed new schedule, Fundamentals of Theater Practice and Stage Acting are on tap in the first semester. Stage Directing and Fundamentals of Dramatic Writing will be available for all students.
Another addition in the new program will be a Corrective Speech course for persons with any type of speech deficiency. A course labeled Survey of Speech Science, Voice and Diction will be aimed at Speech majors especially, and Individual Problems in Speech will be a class for special treatment of individual speech problems not covered by other courses.
The extra-curricular activities of the department: Speech Workshop and Radio Workshop will continue when the new program goes into effect. Students now participating in this semester’s Workshops will be offered advanced sections in these activities in addition to the regular workshop training courses for beginners.
Chicago Club to Sponsor Glee Club Concert in City
The Chicago Club will sponsor a concert by the Notre Dame Glee Club at the Terrace Casino Room of the Morrison Hotel in Chicago, Ill., on Saturday, March 18, at 8:30 p.m.
A forty-man traveling squad from the Glee Club will leave the campus in the afternoon and appear that night under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke. The program will consist of religious, popular, classical, and folk tunes by the chorus and soloists.
Following the concert there will be dancing. An added feature of the evening’s entertainment will be the presentation of awards to ND football players by the Club. Only native Chicagoans and seniors will be eligible for these awards.
A capacity crowd of 1,000 is expected to attend the mammoth Chicago Club affair.
The Scholastic
Concert Band Performs At American Legion Show
The Notre Dame Concert Band traveled to Indianapolis last Sunday afternoon to perform at the American Legion of Stars show. The band played several light pieces before the 2003 spectators who saw this part of the two-day Legion show. The charity af-w fair was held at the State Fair Grounds in Indianapolis.
The band shied away from heavy music, sticking to light classical and popular compositions. Besides the regular band numbers, a trumpet trio played Three Jacks, Bill MacMillan soloed on the marimba, giving an interpretation of Fiddle Faddle, and Gene Hull introduced a new composition of his own for sax and orchestra known @ as Contrasts. Hull worked out the score for the band accompaniment for his composition as well.
Clevelanders Hold Breakfast
This Sunday at 8:15 members of the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame will hear* Mass in Dillon Hall Chapel. Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., will celebrate the Mass. After Mass, the clubbers will breakfast in the upper dining room of the cafeteria. Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.s.c., will be guest speaker.
The Club also announces that six members have been appointed to the Executive Council. They are Charles Condon, John Coyne, John Curran, George Hammer, Denny O’Neill and Jack Weisend.
Council Okays Soph-Sponsored Talent Show;
Grants $200 Donation to Bengal Bout Fund
By CHARLEY DULLEA
Authorization of an all-university talent show and appropriation of §200 to the Bengal Bout Fund highlighted this week’s Student Council meeting.
The production, to be staged by the Sophomore class, will be open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Following an exposition of plans by Co-Chairman William Toohey, §140 was voted for purposes of the undertaking.
Bengal Bout Trophies
Citing past donations of trophies by the Student Council, Dick Cullen called for and received a donation of §200 to the Bengal Bout Fund to be sent to the missions. The sum, coming from the Student Council’s fund, is to be replaced by a grant from the Charity Chest.
At the suggestion of Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., the Council directed §10 toward showing a group of old films in the university’s possession, some'of them dating back to the first decade of the century. Among the various subjects covered in the series are Rockne’s funeral, the reception by the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt of a degree of Doctor of Laws, and the laying of the “Rock’s” cornerstone. “These films,” said Father' Kehoe, “are of invaluable worth as a pictorial and historical memorial.”
A letter from the North Dakota Club received discussion both pro and con as to its charge of inefficiency in the judging of Mardi Gras booths. Ed Farrell of the Blue Circle explained the circumstances under which the change in judges came about. Originally slated to render the decision, Orville R. Foster of the Audio-Visual Department was unable to be present because of sickness in his immediate family. This necessitated the change in officials, Miss Almarie Sackley, of St. Mary’s College, assuming the task. The New England Club was the eventual recipient of the prize.
Cheerleaders’ Letters
By a change in the recently-adopted cheerleaders’ constitution, only seniors are eligible' to receive monograms and all recommendations for monograms must pass through the office of the Vice-President in charge of student welfare.
A request of the Big Ten Young Republican Club for delegates to a meeting in Ann Arbor, Mich., met with the decision of leaving attendance up to the individual student himself.
Cancelled postage stamps will be collected by the YCS Liturgy Club for aid of the missions, according to action taken.	’
Student Publications Move to Farley
Miss Margaret Alexander, publications secretary, pauses from work in her office to talk with Dome editor Dennis O'Neill.
Though new Scholastic offices still need a coat of paint, the rewrite staff makes itself at home preparing next week's mag.
March 10, 1950
13
A Fieldhouse, jam-packed rooting section goes wild as the Notre Dame basketball quintet plops in a two-pointer to take the lead
Netmen Win 15, Lose 9
After Early Loss Streak, Irish Gain Strength
To Beat Kentucky, St. Louis in Fieldhouse
The 1949-50 Notre Dame basketball 42*' season produced many an anxious moment for the rabid Irish fan as he saw his team soar to great heights to become a giant killer, downing two of the nation’s perennial powerhouses, Kentucky and St. Louis, and then fall into the pits of mediocrity at the hands of weak Butler and much defeated New York University.
The 15-9 record posted by Coach Ed "Moose” Krause’s quintet this season is the worst since the amiable hardwood mentor took over the reigns from the late George Keogan in 1943. The reason is hard to fathom, unless it was inexperience. Sophomores Leroy Leslie, Don Strasser, Jack Neumayr and junior Dan Bagley, four of the usual starters, were playing their first year of varsity collegiate ball. However, the fifth member of the starting quintet, Capt. Kevin O’Shea was having a great year. He set three Notre Dame records — an all-time scoring record of 1,065 for his ® March 10, 1950
By JACK VARLEY
four years of varsity ball, a single season record with 358 points and a three-year record with 855 points.
The Irish opened the season by felling Creighton University, 57-50, to cop the 600th victory for a Notre Dame basketball team. Soph Leroy Leslie led the scoring parade with 16 points.
Next came the Badgers of Wisconsin, but the Irish soon found that all was not to be rosy for- them this season as the Badgers walked off with a 56-48 decision. The gloom continued as again and again the Krause eagers wound up on the short end of the score. Northwestern, Iowa, and Indiana continued to hold the spell cast by Wisconsin to give the South Bend lads four losses in their first five starts. At Madison, the Irish had a 21-20 half-time lead taken from them as the “hot” Badgers
played consistent ball right down to the final gun. Kevin O’Shea was top man for the night with 21 paints while Don Rehfeldt was high for Wisconsin with 20.
Four days later- the Irish invaded Chicago Stadium and found that the roaring Cats of Northwestern were too ferocious that evening to be tamed as the Big Ten eagers conquered the Irish lads, 66-56.
Back in the Old Gym, Iowa, led by Bob Feller’s 20 points, eked out a 64-62 victory over the Fighting Irish. Notre Dame stayed within striking range all the way, but an effective freeze of the ball in the last moments of the game by the Hawkeyes kept O’Shea and company from penetrating the Iowa hoop.
While the rest of the student body was enjoying the bliss of the holiday season, the cage crew traveled to Indianapolis to take part in the annual Hoosier Classic. Notre Dame first took the floor against a strong Indiana quin-
15
Butler, ND reserve go all out for ball
a

tet. The Irish looked better than they had in weeks, but even the sharp-shooting O’Shea with 21 points couldn’t stop the vicious onslaught of Branch McCracken’s Hoosiers as they downed Notre Dame, 79-69. The following night, the improved hoopsters met Purdue. Led by Leslie, Strasser and O’Shea with 14, 10 and 10 respectively, the Irish vanquished the Boilermakers, 59-41, for their first win since their initial game.
The thirst for victory was not to be squelched as Butler invaded the Old Gym and fell to the Krausemen. The Bulldogs’ star, Ralph “Buckshot” O’Brien, was kept in check very well by Strasser. Bagley led his teammates with 18 points in a 54-33 victory.
Taking to the road again, Notre
Dame went to East Lansing to clip Michigan State, 76-65. O’Shea and Leslie peppered the Spartan basket at will as the San Francisco smoothie netted 21 markers and Leslie tossed in 19.
Two days later the Old Gym was the scene of another Notre Dame victory as the Irish prepared for a short Eastern tour by dumping a persistent group of Demons from DePaul, 58-53. O’Shea again showed the way, looping in 21 markers.
On their Grand Tour of the East, Krause first sent his charges into the fray against John Carroll at Cleveland. Carroll found it difficult to hit anything but the floor from the seventeen-foot line and gave the Irish a 73-66 gift. Concluding their tour in Buffalo as the guest of Canisius, the gentlemen from South Bend had their victory streak cut at five as they lost out on a disputed 53-50 heartbreaker.
Arriving back in South Bend, Krause sent his boys into a warm-up game against Michigan State in preparation for the great Kentucky club. The return match with the Spartans was much the same as the first encounter despite the great playing of Bob Carey who scored 28 points for the Spartans. The 71-65 victory was the seventh in twelve starts as Notre Dame cleared the decks for ol’ Kaintuck.
The Fighting Irish came out on the court amid the thundering applause of a student body that had braved the wrath of professors in a period of final exams to give moral support to the underdog Irish, facing the fourth ranked team in the nation. That night
the Irish were hot. They outplayed, outfought, and outsmarted Coach Adolph Rupp’s Bluegrass five. Sevenfoot Bill Spivey scored 27, but the all-around play of the whole Notre Dame quintet gave the Krausemen a 64-51 upset victory.
In a return encounter in Chicago Stadium with Northwestern, the Irish, intent on revenge, stopped the ’Cats despite the scoring fanatics of Ray Ragelis who got 27. Leslie was high for Notre Dame with 15 points.
Sporting a three-game winning streak, the South Bend lads invaded Butler Fieldhouse for another return engagement. The Bulldogs caught the Irish at their lowest ebb of the season and soundly trounced them, 63-57.
Back home again, the hoopsters met Marquette and dumped the Hilltoppers, 79-61. John Foley had a perfect evening, scoring 13 points, six baskets and one free throw in as many attempts. O’Shea paced the scoring with 17 while Bagley was not far behind with 16.
Three days later the Irish met Loyola in Chicago in a warm-up for St. Louis. The Irish were behind, 27-24, at halftime, but a rejuvenated team took the court in the second half. Krause’s eagers pegged them in from all over the court to win, 56-41.
Traveling to St. Louis to take on the mighty Billikins, Notre Dame had another bad evening as they starved for periods of six to ten minutes without connecting with the hoop. The Irish eagers never really got in the game. Hickey’s crew possessed a 29-20 lead at half-time and the barrage continued until St. Louis had piled up a 55-45

The 1949-50 team—standing: Assistant Coach John Brennan, Gene Kenny, Dick Clancy, Mike Jaekels, Jim O'Neil, Coach Edward Krause, Hughes Wilcox, Jerry Stricker, Ralph Hernan, Jean Butz, Mgr. Joel Bullard; seated: Neal Fichtel, Bob Wray, Tom John- -son, Leroy Leslie, Don Strasser, Capt. Kevin O'Shea, Dan Bagley, John Foley, Jack Neumayr, Marty O'Connor, Trainer Hugh Burns.
O'Shea drives in, then passes ball off
Leslie signals from atop
opponent
an
Three Butlerites gang up on a rebound
March 10, 1950
olis, they met Navy and promptly pedoed the fighting Middies, 65-59. Middies fought bravely making game a rough one all the way as
tor-The the the
Neumayr goes high up to tap ball from fingers of two Michigan State opponents
victory. O’Shea was high for the evening with 18.
The Irish returned home to again meet Loyola. The outcome of this game was the same as the first encounter as Notre Dame chalked up their twelfth victory in 18 starts. Led by Leslie’s 20 points, Notre Dame scored 67 to the Loyola five’s 60.
Avenging an earlier defeat at the hands of the Irish hoopsters, the Blue Demons of DePaul played unusually good ball, boasting a .426 shooting average, and downed the Gaelic lads, 68-58, despite Bagley’s 22 points.
Next came a return match with St. Louis in the Old Gym. The team was up for this one. A few hours before the game Ray Espenan, Irish grid star, had died and Coach Krause and the team had promised to win this one for him. It was close all the way. At the half Hickey’s charges had a 29-27 lead, but the Irish kept hammering away until in the last few minutes the Irish had a 53-52 margin. O’Shea and crew held onto the ball and tossed in another basket at the gun to make it 55-52.
With the season’s end rapidly approaching, Notre Dame went on another eastern tour. Traveling first to Annap-
lead changed hands nine times. Bagley was high for the game with 19 points. Continuing their journey, the Irish went to New York to engage the Violets of New York University. The Violets had been having a bad season, but both teams traditionally play their hearts out and many an upset occurs when the Fighting Irish meet the Big Town boys. That night in Madison Square Garden John Brasco, with 21 points, led his Violet teammates to a 66-63 win over
the Irish. Leslie was high for Notre Dame with 15.
The final game of the season was played in Milwaukee against Marquette. In this game O’Shea led his teammates to a 65-58 victory over the Hilltoppers. The San Francisco senior, playing his last game for Notre Dame, established a new single season record of 358 by racking up 23 points to eclipse the 355 mark set by Leo Klier in the 1945-46 season.
O’Shea had had a good chance at Klier’s record, and most observers thought he would have little trouble in breaking it. However, Kev’s shooting slumped during the St. Louis, Navy and New York University games at the end of the season. Going into the Marquette game, the Irish captain needed 21 points to top Klier. With the odds against him, O’Shea came through with two extra points on ten field goals and three free throws.
Thus, a mediocre season ended with a 15 and 9 record. The inexperience of the sophomore studded squad should by next season be overcome. If Coaches Krause and John Brennan are able to find a replacement for the great Kevin O’Shea, next season’s prospects should be good. There will be many returnees who played good ball this season — Leslie, Bagley, Strasser, Neumayr, O’Connor, Wray, Fichtel, Wilcox and Kenny. Nevertheless, the valuable services of John Foley and Tom Johnson will be lost as they join O’Shea in graduation this June.
At the conclusion of play, the Notre Dame squad chose an all-opponent team. The first five men included: Bill Garrett (Indiana), Don Rehfeldt (Wisconsin), Bob MacKinnon (Canisius), Jim Doyle (Butler) and Bato Govedatica (DePaul). Indiana was named the best squad the Irish faced.
Who is the only Notre Dame athlete ever voted a trophy by the Irish student body? Give up? Your answer should have been Moose Krause. But cheer up because few campus men are • aware of the athletic achievements of one Ed Krause.
Like many other Notre Dame “greats” Krause migrated here from Chicago in
1930. The famous shock troopers claimed him in their ranks during his sophomore year after which he was promoted to a regular tackle berth where he was accorded All-American recognition.
Not content with his turf antics, big Ed next turned his talents towards the spheroid which he found he could
propel through the hoops with remarkable regularity. So much so, in fact, that center Krause found himself an All-American each of his three years at this post.
As would be expected, our lad naturally turned to coaching. After five years directing all sports at St. Mary’s College of Winona, Minn., Krause went to Holy Cross as assistant football coach. Notre Dame’s gain was Holy Cross’s loss as “Easy Ed” went West to land a similar position at his old alma mater. Once here Coach Moose merely switched swivel chairs to guide the Irish hoop destinies which he has done since 1943 with a two-year stint in the Marines included in that span. His more recent achievements include 1948 coach of the West team in the annual East-West tilt and his appointment to Athletic Director in February of last year.
Now if anybody asks you about a certain man Krause, tell ’em lad, tell ’em!
John Brennan, three-time monogram winner during his playing days at Notre Dame, served as head coach Ed “Moose” Krause’s right-hand man through the season just completed. Big John took over the assistant coaching job as a means of staying solvent while
NOTRE DAME INDIVIDUAL		SCORING (Final)			
PLAYER	POS. GAMES FGA	FG		PCT.	FTA	FT	PCT.	PF	TP
Kevin O’Shea 	   G	24	390	133		.341	141	92	.652	67	358
Leroy Leslie 	     F	24	327	114		.349	107	62	.579	78	290
Dan Bagley 	  F-C	23	270	94		.348	117	67	.573	93	255
Don Strasser 		     G	24	273	88		.322	68	39	.574	53	215
John Foley 	F-C	24	183	63		.344	52	36	.692	80	162
Jack Neumayr 	   F	20	125	34		.272	23	13	.565	47	81
Marty O’Connor 		   G	23	<	6	7	.252	30	24	.800	28	38
Bob Wray 	    C	17	39	10		.256	14	5	.357	23	25
Neal Fichtel 	 F	14	24	7		.292	12	5	.417	15	19
Hughes Wilcox 	 C	12	17	5		.294	6	3	.500	13	13
Gene Kenny 	   F	4	11	4		.365	6	3	.500	2	11
Tom Johnson 	   F	8	4	1	.250	1	1	1.000	5	3
Mike Jaekels 	 C	4	0	0	.000	1	1	1.000	2	1
Richard Clancy 	 G	3	1	0	.000	0	0	.000	0	0
■■ —		—— —	—— — ...	—- —	■ •	■ '
N.D. Totals 	 24	1715	560		.326	578	351	.607	506	1471
Opponents Totals 	 24	1667	516		.310	604	350	.579	451	1382 ■ _
SCORES					
Notre Dame, 57; Creighton, 50	Notre	Dame, 64; Kentucky, 51			
Notre Dame, 48; Wisconsin, 56	Notre	Dame, 64; Northwestern,	57		
Notre Dame, 56; Northwestern, 66	Notre	Dame, 57; Butler, 63			
Notre Dame, 62; Iowa, 64	Notre	Dame, 79; Marquette, 61			
Notre Dame, 69; Indiana, 79	Notre	Dame, 56; Loyola, 41			
Notre Dame, 59; Purdue, 41	Notre	Dame, 45; St. Louis, 55			
Notre Dame, 54; Butler, 33	Notre	Dame, 67; Loyola, 60			
Notre Dame, 76; Michigan State, 65	Notre	Dame, 58; DePaul, 68			
Notre Dame, 58; DePaul, 53	. Notre	Dame, 55; St. Louis, 52			
Notre Dame, 73; John Carroll, 66	Notre	Dame, 65; Navy, 59			
Notre Dame, 50; Canisius, 53	Notre	Dame, 63; New York University, 66			
Notre Dame, 71; Michigan State, 65	Notre	Dame, 65; Marquette, 58			
18
The Scholastic
Irish Captain Kevin O'Shea's Name Becomes Synonymous With Top-Notch Basketball Play
Butler’s Buckshot O’Brien. Nevertheless, the O’Shea-led Irish have managed to gain better than an even break in all these contests.
By JACK ECONOMOU
Throughout the 1946-1947 basketball season, sport headlines everywhere acclaimed the achievements of a Notre Dame freshman guard. While newspapermen tabbed him as the logical successor to Hank Luisetti, the youngster was selected on various All-American teams, including the “All” quad of both the Chicago Stadium and Madison Square Garden. Today the newspapers do not shout his name as loudly,- but only because good basketball and Kevin O’Shea have become synonymous.
The O’Shea saga approaches a Disney fantasy. As the young hero piled up success after success in his first two seasons, that old villain, injury, lurked in waiting. Last year it almost triumphed over the curly headed Irishman, as Kevin was constantly handicapped by torn cartilages in both knees. All fantasies end well, however, and
picking up additional scholastic credits prior to entering medical school.
During World War II he served with the Eighth Air Force in England and upon discharge in 1946 he entered Notre Dame. He led the Irish scoring parade that season with 289 points in 24 games, but injuries kept him on the sidelines a goodly portion of both the 1947-48 and 1948-49 seasons and the promise he had shown in his initial campaign was never realized.
Brennan’s worth is demonstrated by the manner in which he assisted Krause in whipping together a green Irish team.
The third member of the troupe guiding Irish basketball fortunes is a 22-year-old senior Economics major, Jim Conway, of Tulsa, Oklahoma.
This season Conway was busy coaching a freshman squad that beat the varsity reserves on every occasion that they met in the fieldhouse. Jim attributes much of his success in the coaching line to the efforts of “Red” Foley, ex-assistant coach here. According to the likeable Conway, the frosh should greatly bolster next season’s quintet and a bright basketball future is in the offing.
Conway is yet undecided on postgraduate plans. Although he’ll have an economics degree to fall back on, he has a distinct affinity for the coaching profession. But a twinkle in his eye and a sigh as he glanced at a certain picture gave this writer the notion
that Jim’s approaching marriage is uppermost in his mind.
the hero finished out his cage career this year in a final blaze of glory.
While leading his predominantly sophomore teammates to a victorious season, including triumphs over Kentucky and St. Louis, Captain Kevin quietly tucked away three Notre Dame individual scoring records. His .358 1949-1950 point output topped “Crystal” Klier’s total for one year, and Johnny Moir surrendered the three-year totals to this 23-year-old Californian.
During Kevin’s stay at Notre Dame, the Irish hoopsters have copped 69 victories in 96 attempts. In the ’46-47 season, the Krausemen took 20 triumphs while dropping only four. The two following seasons each produced 17 victories and seven defeats. This past year the eagers barely managed to escape the double figure loss column, ending the season with a 15-9 record. In these many hardwood battles, O’Shea has emerged with an overall average of better than 11 points pel' game. This past season was his best as he almost reached a 15-point average per session.
Kevin, in these past four years, has been a formidable opponent of such court greats as Ralph Beard and Alex Groza of Kentucky, St. Louis’ Ed Macauley, Sid Tannenbaum of NYU, and
Basketball ace Kevin O'Shea forgets record-breaking play to relax with his wife, ■ Jeanne, and his seven-month-old daughter, Mary Ann, in their Vetville apartment.
Born and raised in San Francisco of strictly Celtic parents, Kevin was early attracted to Notre Dame. After starring in baseball and basketball at St. Ignatius’ High School, where he -was chosen All-City in ’42 and ’43 Kevin spent a 34-month hitch in the Coast Guard. Here he met and became the friend and protege of the great Mr. Luisetti. Upon arriving in South Bend, Kevin was struck by the Indiana weather, which remains as his pet peeve, but he overcame the elements and was quick to name Notre Dame the best college anywhere.
At the present time Kevin, his wife, the former Jeanne Lordeaux, and his seven-month-old daughter Mary Ann, occupy an apartment in Vetville. Next to providing for his family, Kev’s chief desire is to maintain his 83 average in the Department of Marketing in the Commerce School. After graduation, he hopes to be an accountant in San Francisco.
As the Irish captain reminisces about the past four years, he names the victory over Kentucky in the ’47-’48 season as his biggest thrill. For students reminiscing over the same period of time, seeing No. 7 dodging enemy defenders and sinking fantastic shots with ease sticks out as their greatest sports experience.
March 10, 1950
19
Dan Bagley • . . Alternating between the center spot and one of the forward posts most of the season, “Bag” proved to be one of the mainstays on this year’s squad. He started every game of the campaign and finished the season as third highest scorer on the team. Fast and aggressive, he was equally a threat on defense. His work under the baskets was an important factor in the Irish victories this season. Along with teammate Don Strasser, Big Dan hails from Leo High School in Chicago, where he won two I monograms in basketball. One of the biggest men on the team, Dan stands 6’4” and weighs in at a healthy 190 pounds. Although he’s a junior, Dan has two more years of eligibility left, due to the fact that he did not play last year.
Richard Clancy . • • Another of the fleet-footed sophs on this year’s squad, Dick didn’t see much action this season, although he did make most of the trips. He comes from Kankakee, Ill. He was an outstanding athlete in high school, making a name for himself in all the sports. He captained both the football and the basketball teams in his senior year, making All-State in the latter sport. He was sent to Notre Dame as the best player in the Kankakee area upon graduation from high school and is expected to see a good deal of action on the hardwood next season. Dick is vice-president of the Sophomore class.
Neal Fichtel • • . Neal was one of the top-flight reserves this year and will be out fighting for a starting role next season. Fic is fast and aggressive and his hard driving lay-ups are his trademark. Neal calls Aurora, Illinois, home, attending Marmion Military Academy there, where he earned three letters in basketball. Neal’s all-out play in the NYU game sparked the Irish to within (I three points of the leading Violets but time ran out before Notre Dame could go into the lead. Fichtel is a junior in the College of Commerce.
John Foley • • . Completing his fourth year on the Notre Dame varsity, John turned in many fine games in late season. One of the best liked men on the squad, he is also one of the two married players, the other being Captain O’Shea. He first played for the Irish in 1942 and then put in three years in the Army. John hails from Worcester, Mass., where he won letters in football, baseball and basketball at St. John’s High school. He captained the basketball and baseball teams in his senior year and led the quintet to the New England Catholic high school championship. John was named All-New England center in both his Junior and Senior years.
20
|	Mike Jaekels • • • This big sophomore pre-med student hails
f	from the largest city in Wisconsin, Milwaukee, where he attended
/	Marquette High School. Mike played on Marquette’s all-confer-
?	ence championship basketball teams in 1947 and 1948. Jake
:	didn’t see too much action this year but is looking forward to
more playing time next season. Jake is a rugged lad and should 0 be a great help under the boards. Mike is also a pretty fair high jumper, clearing the bar in the vicinity of six feet. He is 6’5” tall and weighs 200 pounds even.
Tom Johnson ... A valuable substitute for the past two seasons, Tom is the “Dad” of the team, being the oldest at 25 years. He entered Notre Dame after serving three years in the Army Air Force. While in the service, Tom played basketball for the Maxwell Field, Alabama, quintet. Being an ex-pilot; he was right at home when the squad took to the air for their trip East and kept everyone informed on weather conditions and the like. A senior Sociology major, Tom hails from Chicago where he played for Hirsch High School, winning three letters.
Leroy Leslie • - • After a great freshman year that promised much, Leroy Leslie lived up to expectations and this season he became one of the highest scoring sophomores in the history of Notre Dame. Combining great speed with a deadly accurate lefthanded push shot, Leslie racked up 290 points in his first season. Against Loyola of Chicago in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, Leslie had his greatest single night as he scored 20 points, most of them in the hectic second half. Leslie was graduated from Johnstown Catholic High School in Pennsylvania where he gained All-City cage honors in 1948. Last year, Leslie was the leading scorer on the freshman squad. Leslie is in the College of Commerce but he is undecided about his major subject.
Jack Neumayr ... A product of St. Ignatius High School in San Francisco, Jack was a comparative unknown when he first reported for freshman basketball. However, in the short space of two years, he has captured a starting berth on the varsity and, in addition, is a high jumper on the track team. This season Neumayr knocked in 81 points, proving to be a deft ball handler and a strong man under the boards. In High School Jack won letters in basketball and track and was captain of his school quintet in 1947. Jack is in the College of Arts and Letters but as yet he hasn’t chosen his major subject.
.	21
Marty O'Connor • • • While playing his second year with the Notre Dame basketball team Marty O’Connor was Coach Ed Krause’s sixth man. One of three returning lettermen, Marty was called on to play forward, guard and sometimes even center according to the situation and he had to play them all equally well. A graduate of Kewanee High School in Illinois, O’Connor was well prepared for his position. He won 12 monograms in five । major sports — football, basketball, baseball, golf and track— ' and he was an All-State basketball selection in his senior year. Marty is a pre-law student in the A.B. school and is majoring in speech.
Don Strasser ... A graduate of Leo High School in Chicago where he gained four monograms in basketball, Don Strasser is another sensational freshman who moved right into a starting berth on this year’s varsity. Strasser, an exceptionally aggressive and tight defensive man, was paired with Kevin O’Shea at the guard posts. Strasser was often assigned to guard the top offensive threat of an opposing team. Ralph O’Brien of Butler found Don a tough man to lose and the vaunted Bulldog star wound up with a single field goal for his evening’s labor. Strasser, however, did not confine himself to defense as his 215 points for the season attest. Strasser rarely missed with his long twohanded set or his driving layup.
Hughes Wilcox • . • Tall, rangy Hughes Wilcox is, at 6’6”, the tallest member of the Notre Dame basketball team. Hailing from Council Bluffs, Iowa, where he was a basketball and track star, Wilcox played forward on this year’s edition of the Notre Dame basketball team. While at Abraham Lincoln High School in Council Bluffs, Hughes won three letters each in basketball and track and in his senior year he was named on the Iowa All-State basketball team. Wilcox, an Economics major in the A.B. school, is most noted for a left-handed fall-away shot that he generally f lets fly from the left corner. Hughes’ height makes him very effective under the boards and Coach Ed Krause expects Wilcox to be one of the Irish’s main threats next year.
Charles (Bob) Wray • • . Although he did not play basketball for his High School team at Brooklyn Tech in New York, Bob was one of the most experienced of the sophomores on this year’s varsity. Bob played for Our Lady of Angels CYO team in Brook- gp. lyn before coming to Notre Dame and this past summer he competed in a summer resort league which boasted such All-American greats as Bob Cousy of Holy Cross and Charley Cooper of Duquesne. A strong rebounder and the possessor of a wicked hook shot which he can throw up with either hand, Wray gave fair warning this season that he will be first in line to take over the pivot post vacated by John Foley’s graduation. Bob is studying in the College of Arts and Letters and he expects to major in Political Science.
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Trackmen Run in Illinois Tech Relays Tomorrow
Bengal Bouters begin conditioning program in preparation for annual foreign mission benefit slugfest. Finals will be held Saturday night, April I, in the old gym.
Bengal Contenders Step Up Exercise Pace As Training Period Approaches Final Stages
With barely more than two weeks of training time left, contenders for the eight Bengal Bout titles stepped up the pace of their conditioning exercises under the direction of Dominic Napolitano in the gallery training room in the Fieldhouse.
As training progresses, some changes in weight classifications appear certain. eMike Merrigan, last year’s light-heavyweight champ, will probably have to try for his second Bengal crown in the heavyweight division. He and Russ Skall now rank as Bill “Zip” Roemer’s strongest opposition as the South Bend Strong Boy seeks his fifth campus title. ' Merrigan worked his way through the light-heavy competition last year on some clever boxing, while two years ago Russ gave champion “Jungle Jim” Martin all the flying leather he could handle in a semi-final bout.
March 10, 1950
Too much avoirdupois may also trouble Wes Dyson this year. One of the crowd’s favorites last year, the Negro athlete will probably move up from the 167-pound class to try for Merrigan’s vacated throne. But South Bend’s Bill Sheehan will be waiting to challenge Dyson’s right to the lightheavy title when March 27 rolls around.
With Dyson stepping up and George Dickson declining to defend his title, the 167-pound class is thrown wide open for the Bengal Bouters. Among last year’s contenders in that division, one of the most promising candidates for the title is Tom Carroll. The California boxer ran into experienced Paul Boulus in his opening fight last year and lost on a decision.
But in losing he still showed enough signs of ring ability to give promise (Continued on Page 27)
ND Division Includes Most Big Ten Schools
By TED PRAHINSKI
It’s the Illinois Tech Relays for Notre Dame tomorrow night. The Illinois Tech people annually “borrow” the University of Chicago’s fieldhouse and put on what is probably the Midwest’s biggest collegiate meet.
Competition is in two main divisions, College and University, and a few high school races are thrown in for kicks. -
The University division, Notre Dame’s class, includes most of the Big Ten schools and a few outside powers such as Kansas State, Missouri and Michigan State.
Notre Dame has won the meet’s team title only once, in 1943, but last year the Irish were second.
Bill Fleming is the defending champ in both the high and low hurdles and if Bill, who has been bothered with leg troubles the past few weeks, could re- . peat, the boys might do something.
The depth and balance shown so far this year by the team should pay off in the four big relay races, the mile, two-mile, sprint medley and distance medley. Places in these events count twice as much in the point score as places in the individual contests.
Besides the hurdles, the other individual events are the races at 70, 440 and 880 yards and one mile, the broad and high jumps, the shot put, and the pole vault.
Johnny Helwig looks like a good bet for a second and maybe even a first in the shot while John Worthington and Jim Miller will be good for points in the broad jump and pole vault, respectively.
Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy still is not set on who to use in the individual races and who in the relays, but Paul Schwetschenau and Jerry Johnson, who took second in the 440 and 880, respectively, are still around. Among the others available for either individual or relay duty are Bob Smith, John Mohar, Vai Muscato, Bob Boyne, Jim Bollas, Joe Riley and Bucky Ewing.	'
23
NROTC Rifle Team Wins National Crown; Midshipman Murphy Leads Sharpshooters
Navy Drill Hall early in spring. Most likely the University will again present monograms to the Navy Champs as it did last year.
Last week the Navy Department in Washington revealed that for the second consecutive year, the Notre Dame NROTC rifle team and Midshipman Don Murphy are National Champions. Coached by Captain .Daly, USMC, and Sergeant Sova, USMC, the Irish were ranked first in a 73-team field.
The Irish sharpshooters scored 924 out of a possible 1000 points to capture first place with Midshipman Murphy leading the way with a card of 196 out of a possible 200. Last year the team tallied 934 points and Murphy racked off a 194 total. In second place for the second consecutive year was the University of Washington unit.
Making up the rest of the squad with Murphy were two repeaters from last year, Jim Hartman, 188 points, and Frank Brickson, 183 points. The other-two members of the team were sophs Wayne Six, 182 points, and Bill Hayden, 185.
All units were allotted five shots in each of the four firing positions: prone, sitting, kneeling and standing. Each shot counted ten points if a bull. Murphy fired a perfect 50 in the difficult standing position and scored 49, 49 and 48 in the kneeling, sitting and prone positions, respectively.
Sometime during the last week of
this month, the Irish NROTC champs will face the champs of the Army and Air Force ROTC units for the Department of Defense Trophy, symbol of the overall reserve unit championship.
Also on the reservists’ agenda is the defense of their Secretary of the Navy Trophy in early May.
Thus far the Navy boys have compiled a 16-1 season record, losing their only match by an upset to Marquette. Highlight of the season was the 14051403 conquest of Annapolis’ Middies.
Captain Daly’s riflemen are also the nucleus of the University’s newly formed squad which sports a 9-1 slate. Other members of the squad are air reservists Don Riley (a high school teammate of Murphy on New York City’s Xavier High School rifle squad which captured first place in the high school division of the Hearst shoot in 1945 and 1946 and took second in 1947) and Stan Brons, plus non-reservists Pat Dougherty and Bill Wier.
The University squad hopes to end its first season of competition by participating in the National Intercolle-giates at Ohio State the early part of April.
Presentation of team and individual championship trophies will be made by Naval officials in a ceremony in the
Capt. Daly Congratulates Murphy
With all five members of the squad back again next year, plus sophomore Oscar Beumel who could not compete this year, it looks like Notre Dame has a better than even chance to retain its monopoly on the National Championship.—Rudy Unger
Fencers Best Wildcats
Notre Dame’s NROTC rifle team, consisting of (l-r) Midshipman Frank Brickson, Wayne Six, Don Murphy, and Jim Hartman, is National Champ second straight year.
To Keep Slate Clean
The Notre Dame fencing team continued to keep its undefeated record intact last Saturday by taking the measure of the Northwestern University squad by a 16%-10% count.
In winning their eighth straight match of the season, the Irish encountered some very unexpected opposition in their toughest meet so far this year. Notre Dame won the foil, 6-3, the sabre, 6-3, and rallied to win the last three epee matches to settle for a 4%-4% tie in that division.
Despite this rough opposition, Notre Dame’s left-handed sabre artist, Bob Bosler, enjoyed one of the best afternoons of his career, winning all three J of his matches. Nick Scalera, Dan Parisi, and Bob Westrick each won two while losing one in the foil. Ralph Dickson paced the Irish in the epee with a two and one count.
By virtue of his 2-1 record in the sabre matches, Captain Bob Schlosser boosted his won-lost record to 20-3. Bob is now out to set a new all-time Notre Dame scoring record for fencing. If he wins his next six matches,
The Scholastic $
24
Schlosser will become the new record holder.
Saturday afternoon at 1:30 in the Fieldhouse, Coach Herb Melton will bring the Irish swordsters against a strong team from Detroit University. Notre Dame will be out to avenge the loss suffered at the hands of Detroit last year. That loss spoiled an undefeated season for Melton’s charges and this match should prove to be one of the top meets of the year as Coach Melton has keyed up the team to take this match by a good margin.
—Bill Reidy
Air ROTC Riflers Show Improvement; Score High ©One hundred points in three weeks! _ One sentence sketches the rapid improvement of the rifle team of the ND Air ROTC unit. Formed last fall under the leadership of Captain Thomas Hardy the team practiced in the stadium rifle range last semester and began competing in pistol matches with other schools during February. For the first week of competition, ending Feb. 4, the team accumulated a total of 1766 points out of a possible 2000 to defeat Colo. State, but fell before Mich. State and Ball State.
Three weeks later on Feb. 25 the team score had risen to 1866 and that I week saw victory over Purdue, Michigan College of Mining and Technology, and the University of Illinois with a four-point defeat by the combined Army-Air University of Pennsylvania.
The team also entered the Hearst meet and the National Intercollegiate Air ROTC competition held under the Department of the Air Force. Results in these matches cannot be announced until a later date.
High man with an average of about 191/200 and captain of the team is Don Riley of Brooklyn, N. Y. Others on the team are: Stan Brons, Flushing, N. Y.; Ralph Dixon, of Long Beach, Calif.; Texan Bob Crump; Lyle Pearson, Twin Falls, Idaho; Sommers Brown, Memphis, Tenn.; Charles Crowley and Joseph Norway, of Chicago, •® Ill.; William Hagan, Lexington, Ky.; ?	Lou Meece, Chicago, Ill. Also Don
Mahrt, of Custer, S. D.; Bill Donelan, Colorado Springs, Colo.; and Joe Cusack, of River Forest, Ill.
Formed and coached by Capt. Hardy with the assistance of Master Sergeant Bill Melton, the team plans matches with all other Air ROTC units in the 10th Air Force area. This will include schools in 13 states bounded east and west by Wyoming and Indiana, north
"|® March 10, 1950
SPLINTERS from the Press Box
by ‘Jack Meaney
Number Three
A clarification of our stand on the Holy Cross basketball team seems to be in order after reading a letter sent in by Crusader rooter Emil Walcek of Vetville. We had no intention of “tearing down the top team” and we are not anti-Holy Cross as Mr. Walcek seems to think we are. Undoubtedly Holy Cross has a fine team and now that they are in the NCAA Tournament, we’d like to see them go all the way.
Mr. Walcek points out that the majority of teams played by the Crusaders are from schools with enrollments two and three times larger than Holy Cross. Now the size of a school may have something to do with the success of an athletic team in high school or in small colleges where athletics are not emphasized, but in college athletics, it’s another story. When we speak of a “big” college, we mean one that goes in for athletics in a big way. Holy Cross is a “big” college in that sense. Maybe not in all sports but most certainly in basketball. Yet, its schedule is not as “big” as warrants a team with as high a ranking as Holy Cross had two weeks ago. This year’s Crusaders schedule lists 27 games, and of those 27, only three were with teams listed in the top twenty last year. The majority of games are played in the newly built Holy Cross gym, the first one they ever had, or at the old “home” court, Boston Garden. And playing in friendly surroundings means more in basketball than in any other sport.
Holy Cross’ position is analogous to the one held by Army’s football team last fall. The Cadets played a couple of tough games but they didn’t have the back-breaking schedule of Notre Dame or of a Big Ten school. It had plenty of time to rest up between the big ones. So it is with Holy Cross. Army never had a true test. It finished the season undefeated; yet no one recognized Army as national champions. In our estimation, the real strength of Holy Cross has not been measured as yet. We’ll all have to wait for the tournament to find out.
In the last two weeks, the Crusaders continued to extend their long winning streak before losing to Columbia last Saturday. Even though they did so, the poll conducted by the AP luted them as second two weeks ago, and last week they dropped to third.
and south by Minnesota and Kansas. These are expected to last through April. There will also be matches with several schools outside of the 10th Air Force area.—Lou Meece	•
Maybe Holy Cross does belong in first place but the sportswriters evidently feel that the top spot should go to a team that has earned it.
As for the arguments that tradition is a bigger thing at Holy Cross than it is here at Notre Dame and that the boys on Mount St. James put in more time on their studies than do ND students well, we’ll have to pass on those. We are not in the position to answer Mr. Walcek’s assertions. Why compare Holy Cross and Notre Dame anyway?
A Look Back
Ask a neutral observer to sum up in one word his impression of the Notre Dame .basketball season just passed and ten to one the answer will be “interesting.” For a Notre Dame rooter the word would probably be “disconcerting.” But whatever word you’d use, you’d mean that it was really an up and down season.
After watching the conquest of Kentucky, it was hard to believe that the team could have such a complete reversal of form to lose to such teams as anemic Butler and much-slaughtered NYU. But when you consider that this year’s Irish quintet was the most inexperienced to represent Notre Dame since pre-war days, you’ve got to give them credit for the fine games they did win. Games they lost and should have won, chalk up to experience.
It isn’t very often that you find a basketball team’s leading scorer, defensive ace and playmaker all rolled into one man. But Notre Dame had such a phenomenon this year.
A look at the record book will tdl you that Kevin O’Shea was quite a ballplayer. But record books only go so far. They don’t tell the whole story. They don’t tell how many times passes were intercepted or the ball was stolen. They don’t show assists on scoring plays or measure the steadying influence of one old hand on four raw rookies. Just imagine what kind of a season it would have been without O’Shea out there. In this depression year of Notre Dame basketball, we were pretty lucky to have Kevin O’Shea “quarterbacking” the team.
Kev will also have a hand in any success rung up by next year’s squad. The 1949-50 juniors and sophomores on the team will long remember some of the things he has shown them. With a year of experience under their belts, we believe, along with the experts, that Coach Krause will field a promising team in December.
25
HEROES OF PAST
; •
! What Former ND Stars Are Doing Today
By RUDY UNGER
It was back some thirty years ago, at the turn of another decade, when Notre Dame was boasting of another great era in its gridiron history. Rock was coach then, and his squads were touting a three-year record of 21 wins, one loss, and two ties.
At one halfback was the immortal George Gipp; the fullback chores were being handled by a big, bruising, curly headed Belgian called Curly Lambeau, and at the other half was a slashing, hard driving back, Norman Barry, who was already at that time, as much a Notre Dame fixture as venerable Washington Hall.
As Gipp’s running mate, Norm Barry was the second barrel in Rockne’s explosive first string backfield, which stepped in and broke the opponent’s back after the shock troops had worn down its resistance. Quite often it was Barry who streaked downfield and over the goal line with one of the Gip-per’s payoff heaves; on defense, Barry and Lambeau were the two stalwart backs that checked the enemy’s power drives through the line.
It became almost a habit that when the blue chips were at. stake and the Irish attack was slowed to a crawl, Barry would come in and supply the offense igniting spark. It happened against Army in 1919’s drag it out, slug it out brawl; it happened against powerful Indiana and lethal Northwestern in 1920. Without the Barry spark, Rock would have come away with three more defeats.
Norm also played baseball for the Irish. He started off as an outfielder but when Coach Gus Dorais desperately needed a catcher, Norm volunteered to fill in and wound up as the team’s permanent backstop.
When Norm put on the varsity squad’s uniform, he was in his fourteenth year of education on the Notre Dame campus, and so he became the first and only Minim in Notre Dame’s history ever to play varsity ball for the Irish. Norm, a Chicago lad, attended first grade and mastered his • primer in St. Edward’s Hall where he resided for eight years as a grammar school student. He followed this up by attending four years high school in the branch of the Main Building which was -then called Carroll Hall. He afterwards
26
attended the University proper and graduated in 1921 as a lawyer.
He was admitted to the Illinois State Bar the same year, and began practice as an assistant corporation council lawyer in Chicago afterwards, became attorney for all of Illinois’ defunct banks.
In the meantime, as a sideline, he managed to coach at De La Salle Institute in Chicago during the roaring twenties and gave that school a record which still stands today as being perhaps the most admirable football record ever compiled by any high school in the Midwest. They were city and midwestern champions with monotonous regularity. One of Coach Barry’s players went on to become one of Notre Dame’s greatest all around athletes, a lad who was one of the few collegians ever to become an All-American player both in basketball and football. Today he’s Notre Dame’s athletic director and head basketball coach, Ed “Moose” Krause.
Today Norman Barry is an Illinois State Senator representing the 21st Senatorial District. He has a son, Norman, likewise a lawyer who also is a Notre Dame graduate and former Irish football star. A great defensive end in the early forties, he played ahead of such men as John Yonakor and Bob Zilly. A second child, Margaret Mary,
Basebailers Try Out Cartier Field
Coach Kline's eager-for-Spring baseball squad can’t wait for the snow to thaw. Warming up are (l-r) Jim Gillis, Dick Maher and Dick Giedlin. Tom Martin umps.
'	The Scholastic
is now attending college in Wellesley, Massachusetts.
Norm still keeps in contact with the alma mater. He’s been averaging at least six Irish football tilts every fall, whether they are here on the campus or on the road.
Tom Simon Paces Keglers
In Win Over Valparaiso £
Paced by the sterling bowling of Tom Simon, the Notre Dame intercollegiate bowling team last Sunday defeated the keglers from Valparaiso University. Simon amassed a 1004 pinfall, with the startling average of 201 per game. His scores were 189, 185, 199, 216 and 215.
In addition to the intercollegiate match, Valparaiso sent four teams from their bowling league to meet four teams from the ND league. Three games were bowled in these matches — a point being scored for each game and two points for total pins giving a grand total of five points for each match — while the intercollegiate teams bowled five games with a single point for each win.
Going into the last game of the evening, the score stood at four points for the Irish league teams and four for the Valparaiso league teams, while the intercollegiate opponents were
locked at two points each. The intercollegiate match was decided in the last frame by the two anchor bowlers, Steve Janto getting two strikes in succession, and Tom Simon rolling three with a slim five-pin edge in favor- of Notre Dame separating the two teams. Then Simon came through for the Irish and threw three strikes in succession, giving a safe victory to the home team.
The ND league teams did not fare so well in the final rounds. The best effort was turned in by team number three for the Irish, captained by Joe Nemeth, and sparked by the fine bowling of Bob Hensler who turned in a 528 pinfall for the three games. The best Valparaiso league group was team No. 2. Their high team total was 2496 and they were paced by W. Knoblock who ran up 530 knockdowns during the match.
The final tabulation, including the intercollegiate match, put Valparaiso University out in front with a 13 to 12 victory, thus giving them the tournament.
Howard Aquamen Win Novelty Relay
Howard Hall ended the long domination of the freshman swimmers by churning its way to a decisive win in the novelty relay meet held last week in the Rockne pool. The closest frosh team was Zahm, which was edged out of second by Cavanaugh.
Howard took five firsts in piling up 68 points. Cavanaugh had 42, two better than Zahm. A disputed decision on the last event, the obstacle race, may have cost Zahm the loss of second place. They won, but with only seven 0 men, instead of the required eight and hence were disqualified.
Gil Burdick, director of the meet, attributed the strong upperclass finish to a more enthusiastic turnout on their part. In all, 172 men, largest number ever to compete, swam in the elimination and final meets.
A regular swimming meet is scheduled for next Wednesday, March 15. It will have all the events of a college meet: diving, dashes and longer distances, and relays.
Each hall will enter two men to an event, except for the medley and 200 yard relay in which only one team -will be permitted. Swimmers will compete for their’ team and for themselves, points for the hall and medals for themselves. Points will be awarded on a five-three-one basis for the first three finishers, and eight-six-four in the relays. Thirty-nine medals will be presented to the first three in each event.
—Hay Dittrich
" March 10, 1950
Bengali
(Continued from Page 23) that his second appearance in the Ben-gals will be more successful. He had plenty of poise and with a little shot of aggressiveness will make a strong bid for the title.
No one is counting out Ed Smith’s chances to repeat in the 157-pound class, but Dick Windishar’s long, looping left is expected to wield some influence in the final decision. That left eliminated Frank Fahey, a veteran of the 1948 bouts, during the preliminaries last year and gave Dan Finn, another 1948 veteran, a tough two rounds two nights later.
Finn finally decisioned Windishar, but had to rely on first round points to see him through a second and third round rally by Windishar which actually left the loser looking fresher than the winner. With his ability to put on a strong finish like that, Windishar’s presence in the 157-pound division will keep other contenders worried.
Tickets for the campus tourney will go on sale Monday afternoon in the Huddle and during the meal hours in the Dining Hall. Tickets will also be on sale from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. at the Athletic Office ticket window in Breen-Phillips hall.
Students will not only save money, but also will be assured of a good reserved seat every night of the five-night boxing card if they purchase the §1.50 student season ticket. Only 990 of these seats, however, will be available on a first come, first served basis.
Law Students Hear Address By Bar Association Leader
“The lawyer should keep his aim fixed on the public service,” contended Harold J. Gallagher, of New York, president of the American Bar Association, in addressing students of the College of Law last week.
Introduced by Dean Clarence E. Manion, Gallagher held that the practice of law was a privilege and not a right. “Admission to the bar is not a mere license to carry on trade,” he continued. “The interests of young men,” said the Association’s president, “are of paramount concern to the group in its efforts to point out their duties and obligations in the legal world.”
Among the guests at the address were Russell M. Kuehl, president of the St. Joseph County Bar association, and Aaron H. Huguenard, past president of the Indiana State Bar Association.
Gallagher, on his way back to New York after a speaking tour of the Mid-
Arthur Murray Expert Knows All the Latest Steps
Whether a smooth Rumba, a tricky Fox Trot or a sophisticated Samba . . . smart Arthur Murray instructor Frances Cochran knows them all. And, she can teach them to you quick and easy, thanks to “The New Arthur Murray Way.”
Club Dance
EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT for pupils and their guests .
Arthur Murray of South Bend
120 E. Wayne. 2-3339
west, described communism as a “transitory illusion” eventually doomed to failure “because its roots are not in order but in chaos.”., “The substance of universal law is order and reason,” he pointed out.	,
*
University Plans Workshop For High School Teachers
A special four-week teachers* workshop will be sponsored by the University this summer for high school history and geography teachers from June 27 to July 25.
The workshop will carry regular graduate student credit. Professor Marshall Smelser will supervise the curriculum for history and Professor John J. Hooker, graduate of London and Cambridge Universities, will he in charge of the geography courses in the program.
Both workshops will be under the supervision of the Department of History, which is headed by Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
27

Notre Dame Takes Second in CCC Meet;
Johnny Helwig’s 54’4” school record shot put featured the track team’s second place showing in the Central Collegiate Championships last Monday.
The meet was held in the Michigan State Fieldhouse two days later than originally scheduled. Plans were made to have the meet at Notre Dame but were later vetoed.
Helwig’s shot put performance was
: PROVE:
► TO YOURSELF <
A. .
^PHILIP MORRIS
L/«MiipaWWMWNW$
THEN, just take a puff—DON'T INHALE— and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come’ through your nose. Easy, isn’t it? And NOW ...
2.. light up your present brand
Do exactly the same thing—DON'T INHALE Notice that bite, that sting? Now you know why you should be smoking PHILIP MORRIS I
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
F HERE’S ; ALL YOU L DO!
when you smoke Philip
Morris! /
In just a few Seconds you can prove PHILIP MORRIS
IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING than the brand you’re now smoking!
almost a foot better than the old indoor standard of 53’5%” set by Jim Delaney, the second place winner in the last Olympics. Johnny also holds the school outdoor record of 53’6”. Joe Helwig too eased into the spotlight with a second place 48’5%” flip that was more than a foot bettei' than his previous best.
Bill Fleming won the 75-yard high

hurdles crown but came up with a new leg injury that kept him out of the low hurdles race.
Three other men picked up injuries during the afternoon. John Mohar was severely spiked in the trials of the 880 and could not compete in the finals even though he qualified. Notre Dame’s other half mile entrant, Vai Muscato, hurt his leg just before the start of his trial heat. Sophomore Bucky Ewing pulled a leg muscle in the 300-yard dash.
Despite these injuries, Notre Dame still lived up to the advance dope and took second to Michigan State’s crack squad. The Spartans scored 57% points to the Irish’s 34.
Jim Miller and Bob Smith picked up silver medals for their second places in the pole vault and 300-yard dash respectively.
Three Irish third places, a fourth and a fifth also came into the Irish total. John Worthington picked up one of the thirds in the broad jump, while Ben Almaguer got another.
March History Discussion To Be Held Tuesday Night
The March History Discussion will be held next Tuesday evening, at 7:45	;
p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. The general topic for the discussion is “The Relation Between History and = Theology.”	;
Rev. Charles Sheedy, c.s.c., of the Department of Religion, will open the meeting wtih a paper entitled “History > Aids Theology.” The discussion will be continued by Professor Anton-Hermann Chroust of the Department of History who will speak on “The Relation Be- • tween History and Religion.” Chairman of the discussion will be Rev. Gerald | Phelan, Director of the Mediaeval In- 1 stitute. Discussion from the floor will ; follow presentation of the two papers. ;
Press Club Will Be Host	;
At 'Great Pictures' Exhibit	j
The Notre Dame Press Club will be | host to the South Bend Press Club at an exhibit of “Great Pictures of 1949” Ji from 7:30 until 9 p.m. Monday, March Q 20, in the Rockne Memorial lounge. ■
The 150 photographs — news, sports . and features — were selected from | 2,454 pictures entered by 586 newspa- i per, magazine and free-lance photog- | raphers. The contest was sponsored by g Encyclopedia Britannica and the Uni- ] versity of Missouri.	]
A one-week exhibit	of	the	prize	\
photos is scheduled for	the	University	|
Library starting tomorrow.	I
The Scholastic
28
Latin American Program
(Continued from Page 9)
of other advanced Spanish courses if the student has already taken Spanish 81 and 82 or 23 and 24.
In the Senior year in this program the Senior in the College of Arts and Letters (besides the six credits required & in philosophy) must take six credits in - the advanced classes in Spanish or Portuguese and six credits in one of the following groups:
(A)	Economics 246: Contemporary Economic Systems; Economics 275: International Trade and Policies; Economics 285: Western Hemisphere Economic Relations (to be offered in 1951-52).
(B)	History 181: The History of Ar-gentina, Brazil and Chile; History 182: IP The History of the Caribbean Area; History 183: The Republics of Central America; History 184: The History of Mexico; History 187: History of the Spanish Empire in the 18th and 19th Century.
(C)	History 185: Geography of Middle America; History 186: Geography of South America.
(D)	Marketing 34: International Trade; Marketing 35: Export and Import Techniques; Marketing 36: Eco-nomic Geography of Latin America; Marketing 45: Business Problems of Latin America. Finance 45: International Finance.
(E)	Political Science 181: International Law; Political Science 104: Comparative Government in Latin America; Political Science 196: Contemporary Latin American International Relations (to be offered in 1951-52).
(F)	Spanish 31: Readings in Spanish American Literature; Spanish 76: £ Cervantes; Spanish 121: The Picaresque Novel; Spanish 158: Spanish Literature of the 19th Century; Spanish 159: Spanish Literature from 1898 to the Present; Spanish 161: The Literature of the Generation of 1898; Spanish 162: The Spanish Novel of the 19th Century; Spanish 173: The Modernista Movement in Spanish American Literature; Spanish 174: The Gaucho Literature; Spanish 177: The Social Novel in Mexico.
(G)	Sociology 275: American Prehis-- tory (to be offered in 1951-52); Sociology 276: American Ethnology (to be offered in 1951-52).
(H)	Two public lectures to be given each year in the Law School. 1. The Historical Background of Latin American Law; 2. The American Lawyer Looks at Latin American Law.
Mixed combinations of classes in groups A, B, C, D, E, F and G may be substituted for groups A, B, C, D, E, F or G.
For the student following this program in the College of Commerce, in the Junior year he must take the following:
FIRST SEMESTER
Special Section of cither Spanish or Portuguese.— 3 Mkt. 31—Prin. of Marketing _________________ 3
Mkt. 34—Prin. of Int. Trade _________________ 3
Bus. Ad. 31—Business Law, I  3 Rei. 31—Catholic Dogma ____2 Hist. 71—Colonial History of Latin America _ 3
(Subst. for Fin. 31)
Total 17
SECOND SEMESTER
Special Section of either Spanish or Portuguese.... 3 Mkt. 33—Market Statistics __________________ 3
Mkt. 36—Economic Geography of Latin America 3
Bus. Ad. 32—Business Law, II ________________3
Rei. 32—Christian Sac. Life ______________’._ 2
Hist. 72—Republican Hist, of Latin America___ 3
(Subst. for Mkt. 32)
Total _____________________________________17
In the Senior year he must take:
FIRST SEMESTER
Fin. 31—Money and Banking (Subst. for Mkt. 42) 4 Mkt. 44—Ocean Trans, and Marine Insurance— 3 Phil. 42—Ethics  3 Special Section of cither Spanish or Portuguese— 3
Pol. Sci. 181—International Law or Elective
in Groups A , B, C, D, E or G ___________ 3
Total ___16
SECOND SEMESTER
Mkt. 45—Business Problems of Latin America___3 Mkt. 35—Export and Import Techniques_________3
Special Section of either Spanish or Portuguese— 3 Finance 45—International Fin 3
Elective from Groups A, B, C, D, E or G...... 3
Total 15
All students receiving a bachelor’s degree under this program in either the College of Arts and Letters or the College of Commerce must submit a sat
MASS SCHEDULE FOR THE WEEK
SATURDAY, March 11—Mass of the feria—violet;—no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us, 3rd Living and Dead, 4th Against the Persecutors; Preface for Lent, (all ferias).
SUNDAY, March 12—semi-double—priv. I class—violet—THIRD SUNDAY OF LENT; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Comm, of the feast of St. Gregory, 3rd for the Pope; Credo; Pref. Lent.
MONDAY1, March 13—Mass of the feria—violet;—no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us, 3rd for the Living and Dead; Credo.
TUESDAY, March 14—Mass of the feria—violet; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us, 3rd for the Living and Dead, 4th Against the Pers.
WEDNESDAY, March 15—Mass of the feria—violet; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us, 3rd for the Living and Dead, 4th Against the Pers.
THURSDAY, March 16—Mass of the feria—violet; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us, 3rd for the Living and Dead, 4th Against the Pers.
FRIDAY, March 17—double—white—St. Patrick, Bishop and Confessor; 2nd Coll, from the feria, 3rd Against the Pers.; Tract; Last Gospel from the feria.
isfactory essay on some phase of Latin American study. The director of the essay is to be appointed by the Head of the Department sponsoring the student from those teaching in this program and the essay is to be approved by a committee of three instructors in the program.
For students in the College of Science: It is hoped that classes in the field of Latin American Geology and Botany will be offered in future years.
The graduate student who wishes to major in Latin American studies for the Degree of Master of Arts, with Latin American studies as his major program, must obtain at least eighteen credits in the history and literature of Latin America and fulfill the other requirements of the Department in which he is studying. In the Department of History these credits must include:
History 339: Historical Method; History 287: The History of Spain; History 282: Special Studies- in Latin American History. Materials are available for special studies in the History of Chile and of Mexico.
No Doctorate in the field of Latin American studies will be offered until the increase in students following the program justifies that development.
CAMPUS CLUBS
Campus clubs will receive more extensive coverage of their activities by leaving their notices in the new “Scholastic” offices in the northeast wing of the basement of Farley Hall.
March 10, 1950
29
Names Make News
. i____3
New head football coach at St. Bonaventure college, of Olean, N. Y., is JOE BACH, who became famous as a tackle of the famous “four horsemen and seven mules” Irish football teams of 1923 and 1924. Bach, former line coach for the New York Bulldogs, replaces HUGH DEVORE, now head coach at New York University. . . .
Another former Notre Dame tackle has been appointed as a coach. He is January graduate RALPH McGEHEE, who will be line coach for the University of Dayton, Dayton, Ohio. . . .
Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, professor of the philosophy of religion, was the chapel speaker before the student body of Wabash College, Crawfordsville, Ind. this week. His topic was “The Great Commandment.” . . .
Notre Dame graduate VINCE DOYLE, program director and sports editor of radio station WJVA, served as toastmaster for the annual monogram banquet of Central Catholic High School in South Bend last night. JOE BOLAND was the principal speaker at the dinner. Central Catholic is South Bend’s only boys’ high school and is under the supervision of the Brothers of Holy Cross. . . .
Rev. EDWARD A. KELLER, C.S.C., director of the bureau of economic research at Notre Dame spoke of “Some Popular Misconceptions Regarding Wages, Prices, Profits, and the National Income,” at a meeting of the South Bend Association of Commerce. . . .
JOE REUTZ, former Notre Dame
All-American guard, has been signed as head football coach at St. Mary’s college, Moraga, Calif. Reutz succeeds Joe Verducci, to whom he was an assistant. . . .
Two members of the Notre Dame fencing team, captain ROBERT SCHLOSSER and CHARLES DOSCH-ELE, gave an exhibition of fencing for the Columbian Squires in South Bend last week. . . .
Conducted by Rev. PHILIP HANLEY, O.P., and Rev. FRANCIS NEALY, O.P., a unique experiment in teaching theology of the Catholic church begins tonight at 8:15 in St. Joseph’s parish hall in South Bend. The purpose of the classes is to better acquaint laymen with the theology upon which the teachings of the church are based. Father Hanley and Father Nealy are both teaching in the Department of Religion. . . .
Dr. D. L. FALKOFF, professor of physics, talked of “Nuclear Forces: Their Physical and Philosophical Implications” at a meeting of the Sigma Xi club of Notre Dame last week. . . .
The value of history to a businessman was discussed by Prof. WESLEY BENDER, of the department of markets, and Prof. WILLIAM 0. SHANAHAN, of the department of history. Prof. JOHN J. SHEEHAN, head of the department of economics, was chairman of the discussion. . . .
Mr. JOSEPH J. MILLER, Jr., Assistant Professor of Accounting and Business Administration, has been appointed to the Unauthorized Practice of Law Committee, Junior Bar, of the American Bar Association. . . .
In an interview over radio station WHOT, Dr. MILTON BURTON, director of the radiation chemistry project at Notre Dame, approved the construction of the hydrogen bomb. He said, “Even if there were no possibility of war, it might be necessary to build a hydrogen bomb to extend our knowledge of nucleai- forces.” He feels that present security measures hamper our own scientists from making progress, not only toward the bomb, but also toward a host of peaceful objectives....
Rev. PHILIP S. MOORE, C.S.C., dean of the graduate school, recently returned from a meeting of the problems and plans committee of the National Catholic Educational association in Washington, D. C. The committee advises the executive board of the association on urgent problems confronting Catholic education.
Zurich Chemist Is Giving Peter C. Reilly Lectures
Dr. Vlade Prelog, noted organic
chemist from the Federal Institute of Technology of Zurich, Switzerland, is currently giving the Peter C. Reilly chemistry lectures. His present series i of lectures concerns “Ring Formation i-and Ring Properties.”
Previous topics discussed by Dr.
Prelog have been “Ionone Derivatives > from Natural Sources” and “New Developments of Strychnos, Yohimbe, and Cinchona Alkaloid Chemistry.”
Dr. Prelog has isolated several compounds from the urine of pregnant mares which are a series of related
degradation products of Vitamin A. This study will give further- information on Vitamin A and carotinoids in the bodies of animals.
Dr. Prelog studied at the University ; of Zagreb, Croatia, and at the Institute of Technology at Prague, where he re-ceived his doctorate. After a period of :• employment at the Driza Chemical Com- < pany Dr. Prelog returned to the Uni- 7 versity of Zagreb as a professor of	:
Organic Chemistry where he remained	:
until joining the Federal Institute.
Speaking of the Institute Dr. Prelog | said: “I am only a small member of a research team that is interested in nat-ural compounds and which works on the elucidation on the constitution of these compounds. The final aim is to discover ■ the regularities in these constitutions and to learn to understand the chem- |-istry of life.”	g
The Department of Chemistry wel- V corned Dr. Prelog on his first visit to	|
the United States and to Notre Dame	g
with a reception in his honoi- last Sun- £ day afternoon in the Faculty Dining Rooms.
The February issue of The Chemical | Bulletin of the American Chemical Sq- $ ciety features a story on Dr. Prelog. i
La Raza Elects Officers
The recent election of officers of the La Raza Club shows four foreign countries represented by the ND student winners.
Abelardo Patino of Colombia is the new president. Javier Guardia of Panama was chosen vice-president and Adolfo Calero of Nicaragua and Jaime Castiello of Mexico were elected secretary and treasurer respectively.
The La Raza club is currently sponsoring a contest to find the student who shows the most efficiency and interest in the study of the Spanish language. The Department of Modern Languages will announce the winner and award the prize.
The Scholastic
30
Decision Is Given
On Sterilization Topic
Pointing out the potential conflict arising between natural rights and arbitrary assumption of governmental power, Professor William F. Roemer of the Department of Philosophy has handed down his decision on the recent £ Student Law Association debate on sterilization of mental deficients.
Upholding the resolution in the contest held Feb. 27, were Edward Coleman and Norman Kopec, while William McLaughlin and William Wombacher formed the opposition. Also judging this first in a series of Natural Law debates were Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., professor of philosophy, and Robert Sullivan, professor of law.
Professor Roemer’s decision on the question of the presentation of the case follows:
“In this discussion, the rights of the natural person were weighed in the balance against the rights of civil society, with respect to sterilization of mentally deficient persons who are presumed to be affected with hereditary forms of insanity. Personally, this judge thinks that too much emphasis is often given to the good of the state as a whole when there is apparent opposition between the good of the state and that of the natural person. Those who want to play “God” with the lives and powers of their fellow men can find subtle excuses for so doing.”
“The urge to grant more and more power to administrators and supreme courts in legislating spuriously should be held in restraint until satisfactory evidence is adduced to justify the assumption of control by men in a position of power over citizens whose natural
Prof, I can't classify this specimen!
• March 10, 1950
AUDIO-VISUAL FILMS
■ Tuesday, March 14, 1950
DEEP HORIZONS (Color—30 minutes)	12:30 p. m.
Film takes the audience into a typical oil field. Shows by the use of animated charts and regular photography, how the seismograph method of locating oil deposits is used. This method is contrasted with earlier methods of discovering oil. Picture deals with actual drilling of a well, setting casing and bringing in the oil well.
Wednesday, March 15, 1950
MODERN CARAVANS (11 minutes)	12:30 p. m.
In this picture a modem caravan plows its way through sand, rocks and forest growth as it places buried telephone cable between Omaha and Sacramento . . . 1500 mile link. Scenes show the crews of the huge plows—a 100-ton caravan ... in dramatic battle against nature and time.
HORIZONS UNLIMITED (17 minutes)
This film shows our highway transportation system in operation and reveals the part played by the motor vehicle in America’s national economy.
Thursday, March 16, 1950
SIGHTSEEING AT HOME (15 minutes)	12:30 p. m.
Television is explained in simple words and by scenes photographed in General Electric’s television studio.
STEPPING ALONG WITH TELEVISION (11 minutes)
This film portrays the Bell System’s role in expanding the horizons of television. It shows how a program originating in New York City is delivered via coaxial cable and radio relay facilities to a residence in Wisconsin. Map animation demonstrates how a program is carried over the telephone network from the east to the middle west.
Place: 219 Main Building *
rights are challenged. A person’s power to procreate is protected by a right which is naturally antecedent to the right of civil society to sterilize men. Emphasis must constantly be put on the far-reaching effects of allowing such encroachments on personal rights. Legitimate freedom as well as life are too precious to be played with. We know in this twentieth century how hard it is to retrieve our rights from an excessively authoritarian government.”—Justin Bolger
Dylan Thomas Will Lecture On Campus Next Saturday
Dylan Thomas, who is fast becoming recognized as the greatest modem English poet of the decade, will give a reading and commentary of his works on March 18 at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall as part of the current Concert and Lecture series. Thomas is making a nation-wide toui* and will arrive here Saturday afternoon, March 18, from Chicago University. He had previously lectured at Cornell.
Modem critics consider Thomas as the top present day poet and he has been ranked with such poets of the
twenties and thirties as T. S. Eliot, Auden, and Day Lewis. Thomas, a Welshman, was 20 years old when his first book of poems was published in England in 1934. Although., in the midst of a trend in poetry toward the regeneration of man as a member of society, the young. Welshman directed his poetry at the individual and his spiritual regeneration.
Also regarded as a gifted speaker and reader of poetry, Thomas has had . much of his poetry circulated on records.
Sinclair Co. Again Sponsors ND Radiation Chern Project
The work being done by the University Radiation Chemistry Project will continue to be sponsored by the Sinclair Refining Company for the next two years, as a result of the recent agreement between Sinclair and Notre Dame.
From 1947 the Sinclair Company has supported ND research to the amount of $100,000. The petroleum research project is directed by Dr.. Milton Burton, war-time atomic energy scientist with the Manhattan District Project.
31
Talks on Science Teaching Scheduled Tuesday Evening
The third of four panel discussions on Teaching and Research in the Humanities and Sciences at Notre Dame will take place at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, March 14. The meeting is open to all members of the faculty.
The Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Physics, will preside and Professors Jump of the Biology Department, Lasalle of Mathematics and Quigley of Electrical Engineering, will discuss the evening’s topic: “Teaching of the Sciences at Notre Dame.”
A general discussion, open to the floor, will follow the panel papers. The meeting is sponsored by the Notre
Dame Chapter of the American Association of University Professors.
John Burns, '34, Appointed 'Alumnus' Managing Editor
John P. Burns, former Detroit newspaperman, has been appointed Assistant Secretary of the Alumni Association and Managing Editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus.
Mr. Burns, a member of the class of 1934 at ND, succeeds William R. Dooley in the post. Mr. Dooley was recently named Placement Director of the University.
The new Alumni officer is a native of Michigan City, Ind., and a brother of Hugh L. Burns, Notre Dame’s Athletic Trainer.
Mass and Symposium Mark Feast of St. Thomas Aquinas
Last Tuesday Notre Dame celebrated the feast of St. Thomas Aquinas, Universal Patron of Catholic Schools, with a recitative Mass at 6:30, a solemn high Mass at 9 and a Symposium and Discussion in the afternoon and evening.
The celebration was held under the _ auspices of the Mediaeval Institute, The Department of Religion and The Department of Philosophy in cooperation with The Moreau Seminary and The Liturgy Club.
At the Symposium and Discussion St. Thomas’ doctrine on private property was dealt with and questions were asked of the discussion leaders.
Quinn Will Conduct Forum On Job-Finding Thursday \
Edward R. Quinn, head of the Department of Guidance and Testing at Notre Dame, will on next Thursday, March 16, conduct the third in a series of job-finding forums sponsored by the Placement Bureau. The meeting will be held in the Law Auditorium at 4:15 p.m.
Mr. Quinn will give seniors and other students interested in the subject practical advice on the means of analyzing personal, individual abilities and on the ways of applying such an analysis ) to fields of work.
Emmet Talley, supervisor of counseling, and George A. Mead, supervisor of employment, both of the Indiana State Employment Service, Indianapolis, appeared in the Law Auditorium yesterday afternoon under the sponsorship of the Placement Bureau. William R. Dooley, placement director, introduced _ the speakers.	■
Solid Color Shirts
By Arrow *3.65 up
Be sure you have plenty of these new Arrow solid color shirts on hand! Good looking and practical addition to your wardrobe, these Arrows are Sanforized-labeled, of course — and specially cut for body-conforming fit. Come in for yours NOWI
ROBERTSONS
======= FOJt ARROW UNfVERSfrr STYLES =
32
Music
By JIM BRETT
This week the nation’s musicways are being filled with the confused and bemused chirpings of master TonyMar-tin and Fran Warren as they team up on a snappy arrangement of I Said My Pajamas. This number, featured on RCA Victor record number 20-3613, gives an excellent demonstration of the follies and foibles resulting from that well beloved institution, the good-night kiss. We also have a bit of baby talk in a disking by Dick Todd called Daddy’s Little Girl on Rainbow record 80088. On the flipover we shed a few salty tears over a tune known as A Who’ll Be the Next One to Cry Over f You?
Our old favorite Der Bingle has hitched up -with his three best gals — namely the Andrew Sisters — with an etching called Quicksilver. On the reverse of Decca 24827, Crosby and crew give out with Have I Told You Lately That I Love You? For all those who liked the Anniversary Song and The Wedding of Lili Marlene we have another number that should score a hit with music lovers who want to do their newly-weddin’ with a Latin beat. The title is the Wedding Samba, and done by Edmundo Ros’s Orchestra on London record 499 it gives us a bit of the old South American tempo.
oxford give your wardrobe welcome variety and reflect your good taste!
They come in regular, wide spread, button-down and many other collar styles—every shirt carefully tailored of fine fabrics.
$3.65, $3.95, $5
ARROWshirts & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
And here’s a bit of good news for all lonely admirers of Dinah Shore: It seems that our little songstress is currently giving out with a few notes to the effect that It’s So Nice to Have a Man Around the House. It’s on Columbia 38689, so stick around lads. Who knows? One of you might be the lucky gent in question. There’s also a message this week for those who are caught up in the mad whirl of love. The combo of Jimmy Wakely and Margaret Whiting is back again with a ditty called Broken Doivn Merry-Go-Round on Capitol 800, and their results are as pleasing as ever.
LOST AND FOUND
The official University lost and found department is in the Prefect of Discipline’s office. Persons who have lost any articles are requested to check with that office, since it has many valuables on hand.
The Place to Go for the Names You Know
GILBERT'S for 4RROW
• March 10, 1950
33
Irish Tunes to Spark St. Pat’s Day Feast
Plans for the second annual Saint Patrick’s day Banquet sponsored by the Irish Club of Notre Dame to be held in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel next Friday night are progressing rapidly. George Keough, chairman for the affair, has announced the program of entertainment.
Thomas O’Shaughnessy, noted lecturer, will be the featured speaker of the evening. He will be followed by John Broderick and Jack Powell who will sing a few Irish selections accompanied by Rev. John D. Gallagher, C.S.C., on the piano. Miss Eileen Duffy, who participated in last year’s banquet, has been asked to play the harp again. As an added attraction, the Irish Club will start community singing to foster the Irish spirit.
The principal speaker, Mr. O’Shaughnessy, is an outstanding Irish lecturer, artist, and historian. He received an award from the Art Institute of Chicago for design in connection with the Eucharistic Congress in 1926. He also was given a place of honor in the Hall of Religion and designed the windows of the Host House for the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago in 1933. The next yeai* he drew up the plans for the Tara House at the Century of Progress Exposition. Besides this work, he is the co-founder of the De Paul Art League.
The committee for the banquet has invited Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, the five vice-presidents, and Coach Frank Leahy, among others, to be guests of honor. Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, c.s.c., moderator of the Irish Club, will be present, and he will probably say a few words about the club.
The general public has been invited to attend this affair. For the convenience of the South Bend residents, an effort will be made to sell tickets downtown. Otherwise, tickets may be purchased, at $2 apiece, in the lobby of the Dining Hall or from any member of the Irish Club.
Weak Main Building Ceiling Gets Fresh Coat of Plaster
According to Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, c.s.c., Supervisor of Maintenance, the ceiling in the executive wing of the Main Building has been in a weakened condition for several years. Last week, repairmen moved in to strengthen and ' replaster the dangerous area.
Ray Riffle, a South Bend Contractor, used a new type of ceiling reconstruction to restore the weakened spots. In-
34
Roughly Speaking by Ken Xhoren Ml—
Forgiven
Even though the Mardi Gras is only a memory now, we received something pertaining to it the other day that we think is worth passing on. One of the carnival’s committee members gave us a donation book cover, on which was written the following:
I tried awful hard to sell these but couldn’t. Please forgive me. Thanks a lot.
The one responsible for these sentiments is a Zahm Freshman. Honest!
Talcnl, In?.
Last Saturday night four of us sloshed over to the non-athletic Rock to see the annual St. Mary’s Variety Show. The shindig was so good that we even forgot about our sopping feet. Such praise!
The Saturday night house was filled with entertainment-seekers from this side of the highway. And as usual, the show was packed with talent. The musical portions of the production were out of the top drawer. The humor sometimes fell below that mark (c.g., 1st Prof.: I hear we’re getting a new gym. 2nd Prof.: Oh, a boy from Notre Dame?) but the girls who wrote the show certainly had an eye for satire. Their take-off on Kewpee’s and one on a date night in South Bend were show-stoppers.
The biggest impression we got from the show was how much talent abounds in the SMC area. The original songs, especially one entitled Remembrances, could easily become traditional tunes. The lyrics put to popular hits bristled with sharp wit. The girls who did the singing, dancing and acting were all excellent.
It all brought the question to mind, if they can do it, why can’t we? There must be as much, if not more, talent hiding on this campus. Why, then, doesn’t it present itself? We heard a rumor the other day about some plans the energetic Sophs have of putting on a vaudeville show. These have been missing from the ND entertainment calendar- for over two years. Let’s hope there’s some truth to those rumors.
stead of ripping out the old plaster, as is usually done, it was used as the base for a new ceiling. Metal braces were placed over it and a new plaster face laid on top of the braces.
If St. Mary’s can do it, we should be able to do it, too.
Long Ago
There’s a story in this issue about the Freshmen’s spring dance. They’re going to hold it at the Palais and are going to get 2 o’clock permissions! The only reason we mention it in passing is that three years ago, when our class was planning their spring dance, many cries were raised that such an idea was unheard of. In the first place it would be against tradition. There had never been a freshman dance at Notre Dame.
But, happily enough, tradition was thrown to the winds and the class was allowed to have a dance in the Drill Hall. Everything turned out great. And now the ’53 men are moving the “traditional” Freshman dance downtown. Things sure do change! We only wish the eastern-campus class the best of luck and may their dance be as good as the first tradition-breaker. Progress: it’s slow but wonderful.
Season Ends
Since this is the annual basketball issue, we would like to add our two cents worth about the hardwood squad before the cry of “Play Ball!” becomes too loud.	.
The ND quintet doesn’t get the nationwide publicity given to the football team, nor the wholehearted support from the student body that is given to football. Just the same, the squad deserves a great deal of credit.
Whether it was an ‘ off” night or an “on” night, Coach Krause’s men were always out there playing to win. People think that the gridiron team has a tough schedule, with the Fall season and Spring and Fall practices. But look at what the basketball players go through. They’re out doing laps around the lake even before the Badin Bog World Series begins. Then they go into the Fieldhouse for daily practice. Therefore, from early Autumn until nearly Spring, the hoopsters are giving their all.	•„
There aren’t many here who do as much. Those on the squad whom we know personally are all fine guys. One is as unassuming as they come. Another is a wonderful clown, would give the shirt off his back, only knows it wouldn’t fit. Now that the season is over, they’ll all dissolve back into the stream of students. Okay, now let’s get the baseball season going.
The Scholastic
Mediaeval Institute Gets New Degrees, Documents
Several innovations concerning the Mediaeval Institute were announced last week. Two new degrees can be earned by qualified graduates of the Institute and several additions have been made to its extensive collection of documents.
The administrative council of the University of Notre Dame has voted to confer two special degrees on qualified graduates of the Mediaeval Institute. They are Master of Mediaeval Studies (MMS), and Doctor of Mediaeval Studies (DMS).
The master’s degree will be given after three years of study, and the doctor’s degree after five years of study and the publication of a monograph embodying the results of research on some problem of mediaeval life, culture, history, or thought.
Notre Dame is the only university, in the United States where these two degrees may be obtained.
Several new and valuable collections of documents have been added to the library of the Mediaeval Institute in the Main Library.
The collections include both Hungarian and Polish documents on the history of Middle European countries in the Middle Ages.
Starting in the 1950-51 schoolyear
the Mediaeval Institute will offer a new major section of research on Byzantine culture. Professor Elie Denis-soff will head the new section.
Professor Denissoff will also place his library on Byzantine materials at
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
THIS IS no “yoke”, son. If people have been calling you egghead because your hair looks soft-boiled, here’s eggs-actly what to do. Get busy with popular Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tunic It grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that
the disposal of research students in the institute.
At present the institute offers three major sections of research on philosophy, history, and mediaeval vernacular’ literature.
NOTRE DAME
FIGHTING IRISH
gooey look Relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Fingernail Testi Wildroot CreamOil is non-alcoholic ■ . . contains soothing Lanolin. Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil at any drug or toilet goods counter today. Always ask your barber for a professional application. (Better be hard-boiled with your roommate — keep egging him to get some Wildroot Cream-Oil of his own. It’s tops for keeping your sunny side upl) + of 327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11. N. Y.
Get If our
School Album (To qe
in Blue and Gold
Clip this ad because it is worth 75c on your purchase of an ND Album at Ault’s . . . Stop in today.
AULT CAMERA SHOP
(Inc.)
122 S. Main Phone .3-5041
WALKER’S
DOWNSTAIRS STORE	138 NORTH MICHIGAN
CORNER MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
THE BENGAL BOUT FEVER IS IN THE AIR.	';
COME TO SQUIRE'S TO BE BELTED AND SOCKED —
Hickok Belts . . . Largest Sock bar in South Bend (cottons, nylons, ; argyles) . . . Spring selection of fine Sport Shirts now arriving ... : Nylon Shirts, U-Shirts, Polo Shirts . . . Spring Neckwear, Bows-
March 10, 1950
35
Copyright 1950, Liggett & Myehs Toiacco Co.