0
0
. ........ '
(£ the deck Tiecord/
It’s MONICA LEWIS’ top Decca recording
.. "The Gentleman Is a Dope"
ER MONIKER is Monica (Lewis, that is)...and she has one swell set of pitch pipes.
When it comes to cigarettes — well, let Monica sing it:
Camels are my choice —they suit me to a ‘T.’”
Millions of smokers agree with you, Monica. That’s why more people are smoking Camels than ever before!
Try Camels! Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience”!


AND HERE’S ANOTHER TOP RECORD

CAMELS than ever before/
II. J, Keynnlds Tobacco Company Winston-Salem. North Carolina
CAMELS
choice w experience with me!
LETTERS
WHAT ABOUT JUNIOR PROM?
Dea? Editor:
Recently I have heard many reports and rumors, most of them undoubtedly spurious and unfounded, concerning the feverish activities of the co-chairmen of the Junior Prom. It has been some time now since the election of Messrs. Raymond and Manning as co-chairmen of this much anticipated event, and to this day I am unaware of any attempts to enlighten the members of the Junior Class as to what preparations have actually been made in our behalf. Has a certain name orchestra (the sole plank under which these two men were swept into o'Jice) been contacted and signed, or was the information appearing on the mimeographed forms so freely passed around before election time just some more political bunk, balderdash, and promises in order to get the co-chairmanship? Just what is, has been, and will be done? Let us hope that some stellar musical crew is not imported from far-off Niles or Dowagiac, because
Scholastic Begins Campus Wide Polls
With this edition SCHOLASTIC inaugurates a campus-wide student opinion poll, in which the opinions of Notre Dame men on important international, national and local questions will be culled by reporters and printed in subsequent editions.
The "question of the week," thrown out for student consideration, is: What should the U. S. do about the Palestine problem?
Notre Dame men, exposed to journalistic and academic views on this and subsequent questions, are encouraged to do independent thinking and sound off for publication.
SCHOLASTIC reporters, in making the rounds of the halls, will choose rooms at random for selection of opinions, but these contacted ideas may be supplemented by letters-to-the-editor on the week's question.
there will be many disappointed Juniors if such is the case. Some of us might want to make a few pre-arranged plans, so how about a bit of enlightenment, Messrs. Raymond and Manning?
Gerald J. Lawson Cavanaugh Hall
ATTENTION. BATMAN!
Dear Editor:
What will be the next intrusion upon the rights of students. I protest against the latest outrageous action of the school authorities in placing the following sign on the wall of the HUDDLE, “Keep Your FEET Off The Wall.”
The heck with you, Mr. Huddle Manager. I’ll keep my feet where I jolly well
H's the talk of the campus
Toa’re the man most likely to succeed in
Q Van Hensen Shirts
Here’s "Comfort Contour” the new marvel of collar styling, now featured on all Van Heusen shirts. Low-setting, neater, smarter, it’s making the grade on every campus from coast to coast. You’ll find it on fine white shirts and exclusive Van Heusen patterns, all Sanforized, all laundry-tested, in your favorite collar models. §3.50, §3.95 and §4.95. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, New York.
TIES • SPORT SHIRTS . PAJAMAS -
It s new!
it’s "comfort
contour
collar styling

please. And if you don’t like it, I’m liable to stroll across the ceiling. So there.
Ted Prahinski Breen-Phillips Hall
B.L.N.T. DEPARTMENT
Dear Editor:
The No. 1 killer of adult Americans is high blood pressure. We have high blood pressure. Not from mad Russians, not from cyclotrons. We have no housing problems. However, you are bringing on our arteriosclerosis. Yes, it is Notre Dame!
Throughout the football season, we never shout, On Army, On Navy, On Michigan—how can we, we never get to the games! But then the Southern Cal vs. Irish clash, ah, our chance! Promptly
3
“I’m Western Electric. I bock
we rush our applications to the Cartier Field headquarters. Promptly they are rushed back to us, marked B.L.N.T. (Better Luck Next Time). . . .
. . There’s our story. And here is our question. Must we anticipate ’47 developments in ’48; or will Notre Dame nurture its followers? Will we inhabit the L. A. Coliseum come next season?
Eileen Hunkee Geri Cassutt Mt. St. Mary’s College, Los Angeles, Calif.
Ask Bob Cahill.—Editor
ORCHIDS AT LAST
Dear Editor:
Orchids to the Scholastic and to Joe Dukert for their fine coverage of the University Debate Team. I consider it as your best feature story of the semester. It certainly merits high praise. Keep up the good work.
Frank E. McBride 346 Morrissey Hall
There’s a good reason why WESTERN ELECTRIC is in this family circle
Western Electric is a member of the Bell System family circle for exactly the same reason that your local Bell Telephone company is a member—to assure the close teamwork that is essential for efficient, economical, nation-wide telephone service for you.
As the supply member of the family, Western Electric makes telephone equipment, buys all kinds of supplies, keeps these things in stock at 29 distributinghouses for delivery to the telephone companies, and installs central office equipment.
This unified service of supply results in many economies to the Bell Telephone companies and, in turn, to you who use the telephone.
Since 1882, Western Electric has been a member of the Bell Telephone family — helping to make your service the world’s best at the lowest possible cost.
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL	SYSTEM SINCE 1882
WANTED—
Men For Sales Work Contacting Physicians, Hospitals, Etc.
Long established nationally known ethical pharmaceutical manufacturer has limited number of openings for men interested in contacting physicians to promote and interpret most recent developments of medical and pharmaceutical research.
Permanency, security and excellent opportunities for advancement for successful men in this organization. Salary and Expenses.
Minimum of 3 years college work with major in biological sciences such as zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, bacteriology, organic chemistry, etc. Age 23-30.
Replies held strictly confidential. Give full information regarding background.
BOX 185
NOTRE DAME, IND.
4
TOP OF THE WEEK
Notre Dame man with ideas: “Darling, will you marry me?”
SNAP COURSE
Prof. Wumphf, the genial conductor of Advanced Domestics, opened the current semester under the Gold Dome like almost all other profs.
He smiled his usual assurance that his class was an easy one; anyone who played square would get square treatment. No text books, but there would be a few outlines from Wumphf’s Practical Domestics, constant reference to Domestic 'Nature by Wumphf, and a few weeks’ study directed to Domestics and You (Thos. Wumphf, Bruggner Bros. 1948). The last book was to be ready for text material, but the publishing company was so late —
No, there is no GI allotment. No fe~ts except the usual weekly half-hour quizzes every Friday, and the easy one-question “grade booster” before each class. Term papers? No, but three or four reports — don’t knock yourself out — of about twelve thousand words apiece.
Any more questions? No, well (prof’s broad face broke into a toothless smile), “class dismissed.”
ALTAR-ATIONS
St. Mary’s College blossoms hundreds of sweet smelling rosebuds in Notre Dame’s backyard every year. A new crop arrived last week. Custom demands that the new St. Mary’s students inch over to this campus the first Sunday after their arrival and gaze upon the sights, i.e., John Lujack, George Connor, Washington Hall, and Mr. Ford’s cash registers.
One of these belles floated over last Sunday. She was well informed in advance by her classmates in regard to Notre Dame men, their habits, their questions, the ready answers.
James Heaney, Brooklyn commerce man, had just escorted her through the Main Building-, avoiding the main stens as if they were covered with sticky paint. The couple stopped before Sacred Heart Church. Jim said. “You should see the altar in the church.”
“Lead me to it,” she said, hopefully.
NICE ONE
Seldom do you find student cooperation as high-pitched and sincere as it was during the recent Foreign Student Relief program. Every student, from the campus wheel who politicos from a table in a dark corner of the cafe to the little guy who comes around to clean off the tables, opened up his heart and wallet to do something for the have-nots in colleges overseas. Jack Murphy and his associates spent many hours peddling the books, collecting the donations, and sorting out the stubs for the final drawing. There were few books unsold, largely
New ways to make the famous Fingernail Test !
IF you’re not the athletic type, get yourself a Siamese twin to doodle your noodle. Then, at the first sign of dryness or loose dandruff, head (get it?) for the drug store for a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. Just a little bit will help you get ahead (get it again?) with women, if you have . nothing better to do. Wildroot Cream-Oil grooms your hair neatly, naturally—without that gooey look. Relieves dryness and removes embarrassing loose dandruff. Wildroot Cream-Oil is non-alcoholic. Remember, however, it contains soothing Lanolin. Try Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic today. See for yourself why it’s “again and again the choice of men who put good grooming first!” For generous trial supply free, send this ad with your name and address to Wildroot Co., Inc., Dept. C-B, Buffalo 11, New York.
because every student had one eye on the short rationed undergrad in France, Germany, and China and the other eye pinned to the Plymouth coupe—a sort of super booby prize to the winning ticket seller. Hats off also to the campus clubs who helped staff the Mardi Gras Carnival. Also in there plugging was the Chicago Club which .turned over the proceeds from its mid-semester dance-athon to student relief. Congratulations to all—and that’s a mild word.
—♦—
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
St. Mary’s girl: “No, but I’ll always admire you for your choice.”
OPPORTUNITY
Are you a sales manager? Do you lean more toward sell’ng than to any other activity? We need several men about 30 years of age who are capable of directing their own sales activities. Openings in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, representing a reputable manufacturing firm. Good income.
ADDRESS: BOX 185 Notre Dame Scholastic
5
Campus Clubs
By BOB CASURELLA
GOOD NEIGHBORS
The Inter-American Affairs Club expanded its good neighbor policy to include neighboring campus clubs at a special meeting last week. The Commerce Forum, the Propeller Club, and the Inter-American Affairs Club sat in on a joint session at which the Pan American Airway’s sound and color film entitled South America was shown. Hernan Rojas from Santiago, Chile, special student at Notre Dame, Inter-American Affairs Club member and Pan-American Airways’ best customer, supplied the film. At the last business meeting the Inter-American Affairs Club elected Harold Hoffer to the new post of recording secretary and treasurer. The other officers are Al McAhron, president; Eric Ray de Castro, vice-president; and Dan Norander corresponding secretary. Club members are asked to keep their eyes glued to the hall bulletin boards for announcement of the clubs next important business meeting.
SMITH FOR PRESIDENT
The Mr. Smith of the movies isn’t going to Washington again but Detroiter Larry O. Smith was elected to the presidency of the Detroit Club, a spot left vacant by the graduation of ex-prexy Lou Jansen. Lou was the king-pin on Detroit’s bowling team and his steady 180 game will be missed. Other Detroit Club officers are: Bill Stockman, vice-president; Justin Stockwell, treasurer; Jim Groves, corresponding secretary; and Tom Roney, recording secretary. The club’s ‘drop-the-man-in-the-water’ booth was one of the high-spots of last week’s carnival. Smith hopes his boys won’t have the same trouble getting their- 2500-pound tank out of the Drill Hall as they had getting it in. Maybe they will knock out a wall or something. The Detroit Club is planning an after Easter dance at the swank Glen Ellyn Country Club in Detroit. Dick Moons is the dance chairman.
ROUND TABLE ROUND-UP
The Economic Round Table, the only weekly dinner-discussion group on the campus, elected officers for the new se
6
mester at their last meeting. The meeting was held at Clark’s restaurant downtown. Following the dinner, Frank Sierawski, retiring president, called the meeting to order and elections were staged. Lou Tondreau was the unanimous choice for president. Al Gilbert was re-elected to the secretary post, and Pat McCarren got the treasury job. The paper for the evening was presented by Merle Fleming, and the topic he so ably handled was the Marshall Plan. Four prospective members were on hand and participated prominently in the discussion that followed, as was evidenced by all being formally accepted into the club. The four new members are Charley Hickmann, Don Lueck, Chuck Romer, and Bob Surkamp.
THE GLAD HAND
The Washington, Maryland and Virginia Club has formed an official welcoming committee for all freshmen coming from their area, to show them the ropes, etc. All present officers were reelected to continue in office until Universal Notre Dame Night this coming April.
Prexy Mike McGuire of the Utica Club appointed Tom Walsh to the post of chairman of a spaghetti dinner to be held in South Bend in the near future. Mr. Sheehan, head of the economics department at Notre Dame, will be guest of honor. At the same meeting Felix M. Aquino was re-appointed as club publicity director.
NO '48 DOME DELIVERY
The Publications Office has announced that students returning to" Notre Dame next fall will receive their 1948 Dome upon return in September.
Only graduating seniors, and such students as will not return in September, will receive the 1948 Dome through the mails at home this summer.
SaMeA.'l Seat
floe Wilcos
SUNSET . . .
Last fall, when the Chicago Sim first abandoned its excellent format and went the way of the tabloid, I hoped, without much conviction, that it would continue to be the fine newspaper it had been. But it has not. Its latest trick, the complete subordination of its personality in the wishy-washy Times, with its ugly typeface, has proved beyond all doubt that it is now firmly committed to sensationalism, sentimentalism, and unreadability, the occupational diseases of the tabloid.
The present Sun-Times presents a fine hodge-podge indeed. It is enough to send your blood pressure up trying to find something in the newspaper; when you have found it, what have you got? About three lines, all of them squeezed in between an ad for corsets and the latest racing form. The sports page seems to have dropped Jack Clarke, a very clever sports writer, and to have retained from the Times one Kessler, -who, in my opinion, can’t begin to compare with Clarke. The editorials have been reduced- to practically nothing. The columnists, albeit excellent, seem to be cut; in general, the Sun-Times is worse than a poor excuse for a newspaper.
The victims of the Sun-Times’ defalcation are the people of Chicago who, after having supported the Sun for nearly six years, deserve something better than this adaptation of the Bedlam Express.
The new Sun-Times presents a collection of nothing, and is a disservice to the cause of good journalism.
THE OPERA AGAIN . . .
I have bent ear to the Chicago Theater of the Air, and I fear ’tis all mine adversaries said it was. Two weeks ago, the theater presented “The Marriage of Figaro” in a truncated form which was carried along between arias by specially written quatrains. The translation was bad; the singing was bad; the whole thing was perfectly awful. If opera in English must come to this pass, I agree that it is highly undesirable. But I do not think that the Colonel’s opera fairly represents opera in English. In Manchester, England, in 1945, I heard two one-act operas, Gianni Schicchi and II To-baro, sung very well in English. The translations were excellent, the words made sense, and the operas were much more enjoyable to those who would not have been able to understand them in Italian.
Furthermore, I wish people would stop (Continued on Page 33)
Th e Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
tiutnimniiiiiitutiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiatniMinnittumtmiitiHiiiiiuiiHiiimatiiiiiantiiiiatiiiiimiHiiiaatii
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR, Editor
Associate Editors
EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX Features
PETER BROWN______________Sports SHAUN McDERMOTT _________ News
ROBERT T. STOCK _________Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL _________________________     Photography
Editorial Associates
HARRY MONAHAN BUZZ WRIGHT KEN THOREN JOE HERRINGTON GREG HALPIN VIC DORR
WILLIAM GORMAN ____________________________________  Librarian
JOHN CLARK__________________________Circulation GEORGE KORHUMEL ____________________   Circulation
B. T. KYSER _____________________________________  Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN_____________________________Faculty Moderator
iiiiiiiiHtimimiiii'iintiiiitiiiiUitiiiiiiiuuiiiiitiiiMiiiMiutmiiiiiiiiMiiititiiiiiiiiuiiiiiMMiiaimiiiiim
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Don't Miss — In the Next Issue
Any of your friends snap their caps lately? Do you have coffee nerves? Are you jittery about that new prof? Are you happy here? Perhaps in the race for intellectual honors, you have neglected your mental health and the development of your personality.
In any case you’d better watch for next week’s Scholastic’s main feature, the story of the TESTING AND GUIDANCE CENTER, where lost intellectual souls are returned to the grace of a happy state of mind. Read about the facilities offered for personality mirroring, available to any student any time.
Keep posted on the scheduled entertainment events around town in the Calendar, Wilcox’s barbed blasts at anybody, Pete Brown’s insides on sports and many other features in next week’s Scholastic.
CALENDAR
.	FEBRUARY 13 .
CENTRAL HIGH AUDITORIUM, Bruce Marshall, noted Scottish author, lectures. First of the Aquinas lecturers, Mr. Marshall, author of top works, The World, the Flesh and Father Smith and Vespers in Vienna, promises a charming evening.
COLFAX, Gone With the Wind. Though it’s advertised as back “at popular prices,” seme Notre Dame men, and a good many professors, still can’t afford it. Vivien Leigh doesn’t look as saucy as she did when the epic was first released, back in 1939, but Gable is a spry rogue. Sort of makes one wonder why he didn’t retire before becoming involved in Adventure and The Hucksters. Hattie McDaniel * is rare as a pokey colored servant. .
RIVER PARK, Vigilante's Return. No one knows why. Companion feature, The Brasher Doubloon, with cutie Nancy Guild.
STATE, Dick Tracy’s Dilemma. Hatchet-chinned Dick collides with “The Hook,” a poor unfortunate with a “C” clamp for a hand who goes around blocking people’s hats while their heads are still in them. “The Hook” is excellent.
FEBRUARY 14
NOTRE DAME versus DEPAUL, basketball, Chicago Stadium.
FEBRUARY 15
JOHN ADAMS AUDITORIUM, South Bend Symphony Orchestra, featuring James Wolfe, concert pianist. Included in the program are the Smetana’s Overture to the Bartered Bride, and Rachmaninoff’s Rhapsody for Piano and Orchestra on a theme by Paganini.
RIVER PARK, Centennial Summer, with Jeanne Crain and Walter Brennan, and Pete Smith’s Football Thrills of ’47.
FEBRUARY 17
NOTRE DAME versus MICHIGAN STATE, basketball, at Michigan State.	•
FEBRUARY 19
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM, Citizen Kane, one of the film classics being brought back by the Department of Journalism. This was Orson Welles’ first, and probably best, picture. It introduced Joseph Cotten to the motion picture world, and displayed Welles’ flair for keeping ahead in direction, continuity of story, and photography. Observers note the story’s parallel to the life of William Randolph Hearst. All interested parties are invited. Site of showing may be moved to Washington Hall if large turnout is anticipated.
COLFAX, Secret Life of Walter Mitty, with Danny Kaye and his ever present eye-full, Virginia Mayo. Readers of Thurber’s rollicking yam found it uproariously funny. Thurber thought the studio didn’t do justice to the original, but enough madness remains for all to get a big laugh. Needless to say, Kaye has been drawing the best assignments-of any comedian in Hollywood, plus the most attractive billingmates. Good for a bright sojourn away from dull lectures.
7
the, .
Departmentalization 111
Scholastic cannot help but ask, is the ever-increasing departmentalization of courses, as crystallized in the recent departmental finals, a good thing for the individual student?
The longer one remains in college, the closer he becomes to that hoped-for goal, the “well-rounded gentleman,” the more it becomes evident that one must get more out of studies and lectures and note-taking than merely a forced memory trace that shows up to such a happy advantage in final examinations.
The subjects themselves will probably not be remembered as such. But the professors will.
A student who finds his professor a genuinely interested friend, who cultivates this friendship to the point where the two can volley ideas back and forth, will really get something out of a course. He will get more than text-book pablum. He will receive that intellectual inspiration that comes from mutual understanding between the learned and the learning.
But if and when such a desirable situation is developed, when such a meeting of the minds is nurtured, all can be lost by way of the frosty bite of disinterested testing and grading apparatus. It reduces the role of the professor and substitutes the cold eye of the department.
If all professors were stamps out of the same mold, if all used the same teaching methods, then departmental tests might prove justifiable, but this supposition is so far from the truth that it’s funny.
Therefore we cannot see where anything worthwhile is gained.
For Critics — a Lesson
Elsewhere in these pages is carried the story of the return of several Notre Dame students from the ranks of professional football. -
These men, strapping athletes that we have been proud to have carry the Irish gonfalon to victory over gridiron foes in years past, have been working in the outside world. They’ve been working for a living in professional fields.
But playing for pay, earning their livelihood in the lucrative, if not strenuous, field of professional sport, has not deterred them from seeking the continuation of their education. The diploma from Notre Dame means so much to these fine specimens that they are returning in the off-season to pursue their studies.
Critics of Notre Dame athletes, the best in the land, learn a lesson from our education-minded ball-players.
On the Safety Front
With the departure of Ralph Thorson from Sludent Council, Homicide Highway loses a fixed foe. The state and certain others are probably quite happy that they have succeeded in keeping the St. Mary’s Crossing a death trap for over three months.
The slow, old state finally got around to replacing its vest-pocket caution signs with a pair of large, bright yellow ones, but it has still failed to erect a promised floodlight at the crossing. Now there’s talk that the University might take the initiative and do it. As far as a manually-operated stop light is concerned, the state is citing numerous reasons why one shouldn’t be erected — some valid, some specious.
The only heartening safety news of the week is that St. Joseph County has condescended to give the University permission to erect caution lights on Eddy Road to safeguard
the lives of aero engineers and Vetville inhabitants. The reason: A deputy sheriff just missed being flattened out when directing traffic there recently.
Relief Campaign — a Roaring Success
From baking cakes to sponsoring dances; from selling footballs to awarding cars; from soliciting business firms to decorating booths; all kinds of activities were combined to make the Foreign Student Relief Campaign a success unparalleled in the University’s history. Some thought last November, when the staggering sum of $35,000 was announced to be Notre Dame’s goal, that the task would be impossible to complete. This pessimistic forecast has now been proved emphatically wrong.
Hundreds helped to drown this above mentioned presumption and although each and everyone of them deserves an unceasing amount of huzzahs, it would not be feasible to list this vast number of students, vet-wives, alumni, Co-Hop girls, faculty, members of the administration and friends throughout the world. A special bow of gratitude, however, should be made towards Lou Burns, the foreman of this successful harvest. He unselfishly toiled for three arduous months -with unbelievable patience and exemplary leadership. Bill Duggan guided the massive and unwieldy Carnival through its difficult straits with noteworthy skill and alacrity while Jack Murphy handled the car awards with fine effectiveness. Jack Slattery and Bob Schellenberg served as keymen on the Carnival committee with Joe Conerty taking care of the exacting job of chief tub-thumper for the entire Campaign.
The mammoth charity drive was not an easy task to undertake. For the successful completion of it, everyone who helped has good cause to attemnt to break his arm, patting himself on the back. Without the proverbial doubt, the job was well done.
For Country
On Saturday, February 21, in Washington Hall, George Sullivan, president of the senior class, will present an Ameri-ican flag to the President of the University on behalf of the graduating seniors of 1948.
It’s an old Notre Dame custom, this presentation of the flag. This same flag, presented to the President of the University as a symbol of the patriotism of the men who learn and live here and go on as men of Notre Dame, will be blessed at baccalaureate Mass on Commencement Sunday in June, and hoisted above the campus to spank the breezes till another year rolls round.
It’s a great tradition, this flag presentation. It’s been going on for almost a hundred years now, ever- since a French priest settled on the shores of the nearby lake and founded a university which would teach a universal philosophy to students of all nationality backgrounds.
It’s symbolic Notre Dame tradition, this flag presentation. It’s the first occasion for the graduating seniors to turn out in their caps and gowns. It’s a holiday (this year Monday) for the student body. The University places this emphasis on Washington’s birthday to bring home to all the recognition of loyalty to country as part of our three-fold philosophy: “For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame.”
Observance of Washington’s birthday is our peacetime symbol of patriotism. We Fighting Irish are always 100 per cen* American.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 15
FEBRUARY 13. 1948
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Council Prexy, Secretary Resign
S. B. Couple Get Cars As Relief Drive Ends
By KEN THOREN
Like an extra-point kick, the pledged §35,000 went sailing over the goal mark at the Mardi Gras Carnival, the climax of the three month Foreign Student Re-lief Campaign. The Carnival closed with the awarding of the two prize automobiles.
Lady Luck smiled on two localities in the car awards. Miss Barbara Stain-hoffer, of 116 N. Allen Street, South Bend, was the speechless recipient of the 1948 Chrysler Town and Country convertible. The flashy blue Plymouth student award went to Elmer Horvath, a
Other Campus Carnival Pictures on Page 13
Commerce major, of 2201 S. Catalpa Avenue, South Bend. Father Joseph D. Barry, c.s.c., who made the hurried phone call after the drawing found both winners at Miss Steinhoffer’s home. He later reported that they are engaged and plan to use the car on their honeymoon. The task of deciding which car they will take is a pleasurable problem that few ever have to face.
Jostling mobs, bawling barkers and fun-seeking revelers were mixed together for two nights in the Drill Hall cauldron, producing a final, jangling concoction of flaming merriment. Gaudy booths, numbering 26 in all, were spotted throughout the Hall, offering amusement to all comers.
The best received booth was the Detroit Club’s ingenious Dunk’M stand. A lucky baseball shot released a lever, sending a befuddled victim into a huge tank of water. Throngs were also attracted to the Italian Club’s meat ball, salami, and cheese sandwiches. A con-
HORVATH AND PLYMOUTH The honeymoon will be brighter
Flag Ceremony February 21; Following Monday a Holiday
Since Washington’s birthday falls on Sunday this year, the traditional Washington’s Birthday ceremonies, in which an American flag is presented to the President of the University by the president of the senior class, will take place on Saturday morning, February 21. Classes, beginning with the ten o’clock class, will be dismissed.
In addition, emphasizing the high regard which the University holds this day of patriotic symbolism, no classes will be held on Monday, February 23, it has been announced by Rev. Howard Kenna, Director of Studies.
tingent of Vetville wives sold cakes, cookies and pies while the Buffalo and Washington-Maryland-Virginia clubs with coke, and the Rockford club with ice cream completed the refreshment concessions.
A wide variety of wheels, in all shapes (Continued on Page 16)
Guion's Letter Cites Lack of Confidence
Student Council lost its second president in a semester’s time this week as Ralph Thorson submitted his resignation, which was immediately followed by the resignation of Secretary Jack • Guion.
And rumor had it that Interim President Ivo Fatigati, who moved up from the vice-presidential spot, would soon throw in the towel himself.
Although Thorson was mum on his reasons for quitting the Council, Guion cited a new job which would prevent his attend-a n c e at future meetings as the main cause of his resignation. But he added:
“Although this	Thorsoa
move was precipitated by the work, I feel it my duty to say that it was merely the hastening of an eventual withdrawal from the Council. For some time I have felt that the Student Council as. such was not functioning as it should. The Preamble to its Constitution reads in part, ‘no student council can properly perform its work unless it enjoys the confidence of the University and students alike.’ In my opinion, this Council enjoys neither.”
By his action, Thorson becomes the second Council president to throw up the gavel since the opening of the fall semester. Larry Turner was the first.
Recent developments inside and outside the Council, however, have given hint of Thorson’s impending action.
Fatigati, who represents Morrissey Hall in the Council, entered the vice presidency when Thorson replaced Turner.
Guion became secretary of the Council last fall when John McCormick, who held that office, resigned with Turner. Prior to that, Guion had been a member of the executive council.
9
Mystery of Brownson Monument Cleared:
Naval Shell Pays Tribute To N. D. War Hero
Mr. Hush, Mrs. Hush and all the little Hushes have kept the nation intermittently mystified for the past two or three years, but now the Scholastic pops up with another “guess who?” guaranteed to keep N.D. students puzzled.
Having a little more consideration for frayed nerves and racked brains than Ralph Edwards and his diabolical crew, however, we’re letting you in on the secret after only a few anxious moments.
In the recess just to the right of the Administration Building’s front entrance stands a small monument, telling in a few words the story of our mystery man.
“To the memory of John Henry Shillington of Brownson, who went down with the Battleship Maine in Havana harbor, February 15, 1898, this marker is raised by the men of Brownson as a symbol of then* sorrow and their pride.”
It was not until almost 20 years after his death, on Memorial Day, 1915, that the memorial was dedicated. One of the Maine’s 10-inch shells had been presented by the Navy Department to Shillington’s parents, and this was placed atop a red granite base to form the marker. The dedicatory plaque was cast from metal recovered from the sunken ship.
Josephus Daniels, then Secretary of the Navy, formally unveiled the monument and paid tribute to the first Notre Dame casualty of the Spanish-American War. Keynote of his address was the need for preparedness in the midst of “growing international apprehension.” After his speech, Secretary Daniels reviewed the University’s Cadet Regiment. He later told a reporter from the South Bend Tribune, apparently as a compli-
N.D. Sends Seven Delegates To NFCCS Regional Parley
Seven delegates from Notre Dame will be present at the annual Fort Wayne Regional Congress, NFCCS, to be held tomorrow and Sunday, February 14 and 15, at St. Joseph’s College of Indiana, near Rensselaer. They are Lou Burns (senior delegate), B. J. Bedard (junior delegate). Tom Murray (recording secretary of the region), Frank Keenan, Tom McCaffery, Jaime Velez, and Pat O’Connor.
Jaime Velez is scheduled to speak at the International Relations session on Communism in Latin America, and Tom Murray will give an account of his mission activities amongst the migrant workers at the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine session.
SHILLINGTON MEMORIAL The hush-hush was over
ment, that the cadets “marched like little men.”
According to a contemporary Scholastic account, visitors from South Bend, Chicago and “cities further removed” came to honor the first hero of the last war.
Fifty years and two wars later the memorial still stands, a silent reminder to “remember the Maine!”—Joe Dukert
Rumors Say Vaughn Monroe Will Play at Senior Ball
Preparations for the Senior Ball are taking on the aspect of a juggling act, the deftness of which foreshadows eminent success for the big brawl. The date of the affair has already been changed to May 7, 1948; the favor committee has been accepting and rejecting ideas for a suitable favor for three weeks and Larry Ryan is doing extensive bickering with name bands all over the nation.
Latest rumors concerning the band gives Vaughn Monroe top billing, but according to band chairman Ryan he has plenty of competition from other bigname orchestras which have been contacted. But no matter who’s on the bandstand of the Palais on the big night he’ll be no stranger to music-loving N.D. men.
Dick Jacobs, Robert Flannery and Tom McGowen make up the favor committee. They hope that the fruits of almost a month’s labor will produce a favor which will be a memorable souvenir of a great event.—Greg Halpin.
WND'S 2nd Debut Brings Big Station, Bigger Broadcasts
Frizzy debs are sadly limited to only one coming-out party. With an air that best resembles condescension, the Notre Dame radio station WND can now be as haughty as it likes, insofar as its history lists not one but two official debuts. After months of tenacious fighting, the rejuvenated station went on the air last Monday night, knowing its battles had resulted in a victory. Following weeks of jumping from pillai’ to post, the commendable addition to campus life has finally come to roost in new and ultramodern quarters under the balcony of the field house. The specially-built studio is as modern and as up-to-date as any commercial radio station. The University granted $1,300 towards the construction of the studio while the Student Council donated §50 for records.
Under the faculty sponsorship of Rev. A. M. McDowell, c.s.c., the station resumed its broadcasting schedule last Monday night at 6 o’clock. An innovation of the first evening’s progiam was the airing of the St. Louis basketball game, with Frank Tripucka and George Murphy handling the mike. The station will be on Monday through Friday from 6 to 8 at 630 kilocycles.
The Monday and Friday night programs tee off with a 15-minute session of jazz records with Walt Garrity offering the transitional patter. “Travel Mike,” which features name bands in various home towns, follows. Felix Saurez introduces the platters on a 45-minute program entitled “Moonlight Serenade.” The remaining time is occupied by “Winter Theater,” which musically dramatizes operas and musical comedies.
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday are highlighted by similar record shows with the various student tastes and fancies constantly being remembered. A program of classical music is sponsored by the Scholastic on Thursday night.
Frank Cronan is acting as program director and chief engineer for the ambitious undertaking. Jack Donahue is in charge of production with Fallon Evans serving as chief script writer. Cronan expressed his hope that all those who might be interested in any facet of radio work would contact him because there are still many jobs that are sorely in need of occupants.
The struggle of Station WND has been long and difficult but the fight was certainly not in vain. Its past was rough and rocky while the future appears to be quite encouraging.—Ken Thoren
10
Local Warblers Tour Three Sou+h'n States
Notre Dame’s crooning vagabonds, better known as the Glee Club, slinked onto the campus in the wee hours of the morn last Thursday after treating the public of five southern cities to some of the finest vocalizing they have ever heard. The choristers spent six days on the road and covered three states.
Under the direction of Daniel H. Pedt-ke, they gave their first performance in Indianapolis on January 30. After singing for their supper at St. Meinrad’s Abbey, they again gave forth in Evansville on January 31.
Father Barry, acting as chaplain for the group, said Mass for them early Sunday morning, and then they were off for Nashville, where the next concert was in order. There was an unseen audience in Nashville; as a wire recording of the entire program was made and played back to the patients of the local childrens’ hospital.
Coats began to peel off the next day, February 2, as their two buses approached Memphis, where the mercury was at 60° even though there was still a white blanket of snow over the city. The Irish warblers gave both a matinee and an evening performance in this city, and were rewarded by the CYO with a buffet supper and dance.
The last concert on the trip was given in Paducah, after which the weary singers headed for home.
Featured in the concerts throughout the tour’ were religious, semi-classical, and semi-popular music. The solos were rendered by Roy O’Neil, baritone; Robert Ruetz, tenor; Nolan Sheehan, tenor; and William Gibbons, pianist.
—Tom Murray
Seminar on Current Affairs Begins With UNESCO Talk
A series of seminars on current affairs, sponsored by the YCS group of the College of Science, will begin tonight at 7:30 -with a discussion on the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization.
Claude Julien, a representative to the General Conference of UNESCO at Mexico City last November, will lead the discussion, which will be held in Room 108 of the Law Building. The seminar is open to all who are interested.
PICTURE PAGE
Pages 18 and 19 of this week's SCHOLASTIC are devoted to the pictorial highlights of news which broke during the change of semesters.
NIGHTMARES GALORE BRING BLOOD 'N' GORE ON FUTURE FRIDAY 13ths
So you think you’ve had your troubles? You think the Friday the 13th hoodoo has kicked you around? Gather ’round the crystal ball, brother, and catch a gander of what’s going to happen to Notre Dame on that fatal day in the years to come:
Friday 13, 1966—An ND ROTC unit, by error, fired a live V-2 rocket causing the demolition of half of the city of Houston, Texas, and the Rebels Club promptly seceded from the University.
Friday 13th, 1967—Bill LaFortune, local merchant, was discovered laying a bet on Army for tomorrow’s game ana was promptly boycotted by the Chartreuse Circle, a campus organization.
Friday 13th, 1983—The Notre Dame Department of History was called before a Senate Investigating Committee on charges that its examination procedure leaned towards Socialism.
Friday 13th, 1993—A plugged up beer spout in the Notre Dame Student Union backfired today completely demolishing the new $2,000,000 building which had been opened but two weeks previously.
Friday 13th, 1999—The Notre Dame basketball team lost its first game in 249 starts on their home court.
Italian Premier Receives Club Congratulatory Cable
Hope that the present government of Italy “will attain further successes in establishing a permanent free government by Italians” was expressed in a message cabled recently to Premier Alcide diGasperi of Italy, by the Italian Club of the University of Notre Dame.
The text of the message from the club, which is composed of nearly 100 Notre Dame students of Italian-American background, reads as follows:
“The members of the Italian Club of the University of Notre Dame wish to congratulate you on the achievements your government has gained in rescuing your people from chaos and despair, and leading them back on the road to national order and honor.
“Our sentiments are shared by all good people of this glorious and freedomloving nation. We hope you will attain further successes in establishing a permanent free government by Italians, and that the forces of foreign tyranny will not prevail against your people.”
Journalists To View Old Film Classics
With the showing last night in the Engineering Auditorium of Greed, a motion picture of the early post-World War I period, the Journalism Department inaugurated a series of film classics to be presented on campus at regular intervals this spring.
Primarily for students of Journalism, the showings of the films, which include early Buster Keaton and Harold Lloyd works, are open to all interested persons.
Of prime interest to motion picture fans will be the appearance of Emil Jannings, considered by many to be the greatest screen actor of all time, in the German production The Last Laugh, billed for April 22. Other standouts will be chubby-cheeked Harry Langdon in The Strong Man, Orson Welles in Citizen Kane, and Buster Keaton in The Navigator.
Here is the booking list:
February 19, Citizen Kane, with Orson Welles.
February 26, The Strong Man, with Harry Langdon, and Professional Patient, with Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Drew.
March 18, A Nous La Liberte, a French fantasy directed by Rene Clair.
April 8, The Navigator, with Buster Keaton; High and Dizzy, with Harold Lloyd, and the Dream of a Rarebit Fiend.
April 22, The Last Laugh, with Emil Jannings; and an excerpt from Hamlet.
All showings begin at 8 p. m.
Cavanaugh Concerts
FEBRUARY 16
Tschaikowsky—Symphony No. 6 (Pathetique)
Offenbach—Gaite Parisienne
FEBRUARY 17
Beethoven—Sonata in F. Minor (Appassionato)
Gershwin—Rhapsody in Blue
FEBRUARY 18
Khachaturian—Gayne Ballet Suite Rhimsky-Korsakov—Scheherazade
FEBRUARY 19
Strauss—The Music of
Prokofiev—Classical Symphony in
D Maio.'	:
Mendelssohn—Scherzo from Date';
Anyone interested in classical music is invited to the Cavanaugh Reading Room Noon Hour Concerts, 12:30 to 1:30
11
THI$ VALENTINE BU$INE$$
Tomorrow is Saint Valentine’s Day All in the morning betime, And I a maid at your window To be your Valentine.
Thus raved Ophelia, the dotty heroine of Hamlet. Her silly little ditty about St. Valentine’s day was no whit sillier than the laborious efforts of thousands of Americans, who feel called upon to wax poetic every February 14. Those not able to wax poetic leave the waxing to the greeting card manufacturers, who, at the same time, wax rich.
The origin of the custom of sending valentines, fortunately, is buried in antiquity. For some reason, writers who are paid more than I am come up every year with a sentimental and entirely untrue exposition of the life and times of St. Valentine, who is reported to have run a date bureau or something suchlike. These tales have no more basis in fact than a report that the Loch Ness monster is dwelling in St. Mary’s lake.
St. Valentine himself was actually three people; one, however, was a third-century Roman martyr whose feast day happens to fall on February 14. This St. Valentine was far too busy keeping ahead of the emperor’s lions to play Beatrice Fairfax to lovesick Romans. But February 14 roughly coincided with
PAIR OF PROSPECTIVE VALENTINE BUYERS
Greeting card manufacturers did the waxing
Hearts Are Bled, Pocketbooks Too. Dealers Get Rich, Mailmen Turn Blue.
BY JOE WILCOX
an old Roman festival, on which young ladies and gentlemen drew each other’s names from a receptacle.
This custom managed to survive into mediaeval times, when it was reinforced by a belief, shared, among others, by Chaucer, that] the birds began to mate on February 14. Anyone knowing anything about European winters ought to know that no bird would be so foolish as to set up housekeeping in the middle of the winter, but nevertheless the belief persisted.
During the later Middle Ages, one who drew a maiden’s name from the hat on Saint Valentine’s Day was forbidden by custom to woo anyone else for a year, and so perforce, the custom resulted in a great many marriages. This practice seems to have died out entirely, to the great loss of no one. •
But around the end of the eighteenth century, a new bane made its appearance—the valentine card. These, soon to be decorated with cupids, hearts, arrows, bows, and-other such nonsense, were at first writ by hand, but later were published commercially. Some wise character with an eye on the lovelorn started a card factory, and the present observance of Valentine’s day began.
During the heyday of the decorative Victorian period, men about town vied with each other to present the fanciest valentine. Nothing was too elaborate, and the price was immaterial. Silk, satin, velvet, and lace bordered the sweet nothings, some of which still carried verses from the pen of the swain.
About 1895, something happened to the valentine industry. Somebody conceived a reverse valentine, a pointed insult, sent to one’s best enemy, telling him off in proper fashion. Thus began the “comic” valentine, which flourished during the first two decades of the century but later, happily, seems to have languished until it is now near to perishing. Alas, the same cannot be said for the “serious” variety.
For the valentine business in this country is big business indeed. The day has completely lost its original significance, and one now sends Valentines to wives, mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, uncles, aunts, cousins once, twice, and three times removed, in-laws, friends, acquaintances, and so on into the night. Everybody, in short, assails everybody else with valentines. Why this is done nobody seems to know—but the answer is really very simple. The people have been duped and cajoled by the card manufacturers.
There is no rational reason for' sending valentines. Absolutely none whatever. But America’s card manufacturers, who have a card for everything from the christening of a boat to the catching of a particularly large fish, have put the mark of the untouchable upon those who do not send valentines. And Americans, who are mortally afraid of being different, and who must, at all costs, conform to the custom, have been persuaded that valentines must be sent. And so, accordingly, valentines are sent by the millions.
But the foolishness has gone even farther than that. Stores now furnish valentine “gifts,” and it is rapidly becoming a necessity to present one’s love, or would-be love, to say nothing of cous-
(Continued on Page 29)
12

CAMERA GLIMPSES OF CAMPUS CARNIVAL
TOP LEFT: A quartet of weight guessers charm a lovely Carnival-goer; TOP RIGHT: Part of the crowd which jammed the Carnival Tuesday night; CENTER LEFT: joe Hipp brings home a ham; CENTER RIGHT: Elmer Horvath and fiancee, Barbara Steinhoffer, try out her new Chryster; BOTTOM LEFT: Detroit Club stooge starts one of many descants to a miniature Davy Jones Locker; BOTTOM RIGHT: Rock River Clubbers peddle their wares to the hungry throng.


13
The visiting maid tries out the local networks with an interview over WHOT. Others: Dance Co-Chairman Dick Bevington, WHOT's Ed Berryman, and Rebel President Coy McGee.
The queen and her date, Willoughby Marshall, cut a rug during the Rebel Club Dance
Writer Knocked Silly by Interview With Cotton Queen Hilma Seay
By GREG HALPIN
Her name is Hilma Seay. Among other things she is the Maid of Cotton. Her conquest was a remarkable one. She took South Bend and Notre Dame without firing a shot.
From somewhere in the background a voice was saying something about an interview for the Scholastic and how I ‘ would be pleased if Miss Seay would answer a few questions.
I was supposed to have said all this myself but I couldn’t. I was just looking and looking—at Miss Seay. You don’t get the opportunity to see something like this lovely Southern importation every day. She is one of those things that steps out of a picture and never impresses you as being true. And that is as it should be, for Hilma is almost too good to be true.
Somehow my voice was back where it should be. I suppose it was doing some ogling of its own. There was somebody taking pictures and somebody else asking if I wouldn’t hurry as Miss Seay had a dinner date in a few minutes, and there was a little black book in my hands and there was Hilma sitting next to me on one of those things some guy with a sense of humor called a love seat. A few drops of red blood that weren’t bubbling and boiling over the “Maid of Cotton” remained loyal to the Notre Dame Board of Publications and I pulled together what there was left of me that hadn’t melted and started asking questions.
Did Miss Seay like South Bend? She certainly did. It was “very nice and I like it very much.” BUT, “Memphis is the garden spot of the country.” This last came with a smile and that smile is not to be argued with. In fact that smile is a lethal weapon and the number of ND men wounded by it over the past weekend makes an appallingly long casualty list.
Had she found any difference between Southern and Northern men? With a voice that is being trained at Southwestern College in Memphis, Hilma cooed the diplomatic words: “The only difference I can see is in their accent.” Was this observation based on inexperience or just reluctance to agitate one of the two factions? “Why neither; that’s just the way it is. Boys will be boys all over the country.” That was enough for us.
How about the female of the species? Was it true that Southern girls were more forward than Northern girls and why? Miss Seay was shocked. Miss Seay is twice as pretty when she is shocked. “Why I certainly don’t think they are.” She was going to say more but we stopped her. We knew — “girls will be girls all over the country.”
The $64 question was pure inspiration. Miss Seay’s answer was worth 64 million. Could she coin a phrase describing the typical Notre Dame student from her observations so far? Miss Seay thought. Miss Seay is three times as pretty when she’s thinking. “Why, yes, I think I can. How about ‘all-around smoothie’? I think that will do it.” That did it.
By this time the flash bulbs had stopped flashing but (Continued on Page 33)
Hilma meets the press as SCHOLASTIC'S Greg Halpin fires questions while the DOME'S Joe Hipp lines up some camera angles.	.
14
Rebels' Boll Weevil Boogie Beat Blasts Belles and Beaux at Blowout
By PHU SHEA
The marquee at the Palais announced “Mardi Gras To- ' night,” but gave little indication of the frivolity and festivities taking place in South Bend’s mecca of dance, as the Rebels of Notre Dame swung out in true boll weevil boogie beat to present to Yanks and Westerners then- recipe for a pre-Lenten carnival concoction.
Southern hospitality famed the world over charmed the atmosphere. Black faced doormen cordially welcomed all with a congenial “Good evening, suh! Good evenin’, m’am! Welcome to the Rebels’ 1948 Mardi Gras,” and as an afterthought added, “please have your name and campus address on the back of your ticket to facilitate matters.”
In the spacious ballroom 472 couples danced to the music of Bob Ruehle and his orchestra, featuring Madge Robson as vocalist. Decorations consisting of huge flambeaux and pictorial representations of the 13 Confederate states appropriately emphasized the combined Mardi Gras and Rebel spirit. The flambeaux, colored torch bearers, dressed in ankle length white frocks, lead the annual Mardi Gras parade in New Orleans. A Confederate flag backdropped the band stand. Atmosphere prevailed!
Three wild men of Dixie Land jazz fame broke up the band intermissions and all but took over the serving of musical dishes to the starved cravers on the dance floor. Bob Armstrong, clarinet, Chet McIntyre, piano-vocalist, and Tony Papa on drums composed the Campus Trio. They entertained with hot licks, vocal novelties and noisy drum solos.
At 11 o’clock th? grand march promenaded about the place as pranksters poured confetti and streamers over the paraders. Some mighty bad cases of technicolor dandniff resulted, but it was all taken in jest. During the grand march the band medley included the chant from across the State line, but the crowd proved healthy for they played back many dissenting notes.
The finale of the march came with the crowning of the Mardi Gras Queen, Miss Hilma Seay, by Rebel Club President Coy McGee. Miss Seay was escorted by Willoughby Marshall. Hei* Maids of Honor were Miss Rosemary Paulin, Miss Nancy Curry and Mrs. Coy McGee. Misses Paulin and Curry were escorted by co-chairmen Richard Bevington and William Slavick, respectively. The Queen and her Court, flash bulb victims for a good 20 minutes, made a striking picture as the ceremony took place on the mid-floor stage backdropped by an impressionistic view of old New Orleans.
Just prior to the ceremony as dancers edged toward the stage, the shield for an overhanging set of spot-light bulbs lowered to shed light on the coronation scene. One bulb, improperly affixed to the mechanism crashed to the floor. Fortunately, no one was injured.
As the evening wore on men appeared comfortable and women happy. The refreshments of coke and potato chips were gobbled up in double quick time and checkrooms had all ports open for business.
The hour of 10 nears and a crowd gathers at the Palais Royale entrance
A pair of blackface lads tantalize one of the charming dance-goers
Grand march gets underway with dance royalty in foreground. Left to right: Mr. and Mrs. McGee. Willoughby Marshall, Queen Hilma Seay, Dick Bevington, Miss Rosemary Paulin, Bill Slavick and Miss Nancy Curry.
.15
NO WORK IN THE COUNTRY--EITHER
John strode out of the hot, humid city into the country. The country was not hot or humid, but it smelled rather badly of barnyards. But John did not care. He had been told that there was work in the country. He wanted work, and he had left the city to find it.
He walked slowly along a lane shaded with tall burdock bushes, the burrs sticking to his clothes as he passed. There was a fence along the lane, and on the Other side of it a pig was sunning itself in a mud puddle. When the pig saw John it grunted and turned over* on its other side, exposing its soaked and matted hide.
John thought that the pig (it looked like a very intelligent pig) might possibly know of some work in the country. “0 Pig,” said he, “is there any work in the country?”
The pig turned a small, beady eye upon John and grunted again. “How should I know?” he growled sulkily. “I am only a pig. Somebody feeds me twice a day and that is all I am interested in. Perhaps the cows need someone to feed them. There are some cows on the Committee on the Consideration. Ask them.”
The pig, material creature that it was, gave a final, long snort and went back to sleep.
The cows were farther down the lane eating grass in another field. John approached a distinguished looking Guernsey, which was busily chewing an oversized cud. “How now, brown cow,” said John, “do you know anything about the Committee on the Consideration?”
The cow put her long tongue out of her mouth and captured a fly on her nose, which she apparently swallowed. Burping, she addressed John in a low, unpleasantly grating voice. “I know nothing of the Committee on the Consideration. Why should I tell you if I did?”
“I am looking for work,” said John. “They said the cows were on the Committee on the Consideration. I must have work or I shall presently, starve.”
“Then starve,” said the cow. “It is no concern of mine.”
“But they said I should find work in the country,” sgid John, plaintively, “and now I cannot even find the Committee on the Consideration. What shall I do?”
“I neither know nor care,” said the cow. “The grass m'-this pasture is of superion<quality and ifiy needs are quite satisfied-^What kind of work do you do?”
“I anf a fletcher,” said John.
“What is a fletcher?” asked the cow.
“nn arrow-maker,” said John. “We make arrows for knights.”
“But there has been no need for fletchers since the Middle Ages,” expostulated the cow.
“I know,” said John sadly. “That is why it is so difficult to find work.”
“Undoubtedly,” said the cow. “But that is none of my business. You will have to ask the Committee on the Consideration, but I am not at liberty to say where that is.”
And so John wandered about the countryside for a week, but no one would hire him. He did not find the Committee on the Consideration. He starved to death.—Archie McBitters
Rev. J. A. O’Brien Outlines Courting Plays for youth
Standard operating procedure to guide young people safely through the stresses and strains of courtship are presented in “So You’re in Love,” a new pamphlet by the Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien. The spiritual strategy outlined is based upon the author’s experience of more than 30 years in the priestly guidance of young men and women of college age.
Father O’Brien points out that the girl plays the role of a quarterback, calling signals in courtship, and he stresses the importance of calling the proper signals so that the friendship will be kept on a high plane. The greatest danger confronting young people keeping company, according to the author, is that of allowing the emotions to over power reason and conscience and thus impede the essential purpose of courtship which is the cultivation of true friendship on its highest plane.
Commerce Forum Feasts;
Group Honors New Grads
Termination of the fall semester was received with restrained enthusiasm by the Commerce Forum. The enthusiasm was evoked- by the appearance on the Commerce social calendar of the regular semester banquet held again this year at the Four Flags Hotel, in Niles, Michigan. The restraint was due to the Forum’s loss of four members, including President Jim Murtagh, through graduation.
At the banquet Mr. Richard Sullivan, noted novelist and artful humorist, delivered the main address of the evening in which he discussed “Fiction and Its Frauds.” Toastmaster John McCormick
introduced the newly-elected Forum officers who will be headed by presidentelect George Burns of Sorin Hall.
The graduating seniors, Bill Farrick, Bob Feltes, Roy Laughlin and Murtagh, received Forum Keys, gifts presented annually by Mr. Smith. Also a recipient was the Forum Moderator, Professor Thomas Murphy, who was presented with a useful and rust resistant token of the group’s appreciation.
Applications are presently being considered in order to return the Forum to the constitutionally authorized strength of 30 members.
South Bend Couple Gets Cars
(Continued from Page 9) and forms, were sponsored by the Pittsburgh, California, West Virginia, Milwaukee, Propeller, Toledo, Syrian-Lebanese and Law Clubs. The Florida group ran an over-and-under booth while the Met Club attracted the crowds with their penny pitching stand. Succulent hams were awarded by the men from St. Louis with Oklahoma taking care of a paddle sale. The athletic-minded displayed their basketball prowess at Philadelphia’s stand and their baseball skill at the Commerce Forum’s.
Darts whistled back and forth beneath the Inter-American decorations. The bustling auctioning of sundry merchandise was handled by the Chicago Club with radios being awarded by the Minnesota men. Donations for the cars were accepted by the Northwestern organization. Crowds surrounded the Freshmen YCS booth which boasted a wheel and also the extra award of an ND blanket. South Bend Co-Hop girls joined with the Liturgy Club to run the dancing concession.
Lou Burns was chairman of the entire campaign with Bill Duggan in charge of the Carnival. Jack Murphy directed the car donations, assisted by Bill Braun, Jack Nolan, Len Boykin, Tom Francis, Joe Reninger, and George Sullivan. Jack Slattery handled the booth props while Bob Schellenberg chairmaned the soliciting of prizes. Jim Carr, Tom Green and Jim Fitzsimmons served on this prize committee. Joe Conerty was general chairman for the entire campaign’s publicity. Blue Circle members acted as the standing committee for the Carnival.
A final financial report was not completed at time of publication but it is thought that the campaign goal was reached. The drive and the Carnival were the results of extensive planning. For all those who aided these endeavors, it was work. For those who attended the Mardi Gras, it was fun. And for those students who are suffering in foreign lands, it will mean relief.
16
N. D. Varsity Debaters Trounce 61 Opponents At Purdue Novice Invitational Tournament
Notre Dame’s varsity debaters registered one more victory last Saturday when, they rolled up another triumph in the Purdue Novice Invitational Tournament against 61 opponents.
Lou Duerinck, Quintin Marlow, Joe Shelly and Larry Gilling represented the University at the tourney, open only to students who had never debated before in intercollegiate competition. They were the only team to win all its contests as they garnered eight consecutive decisions.
Along with news of the latest conquest came an announcement that Professor Leonard Sommer, Irish debate mentor, had been elected chairman of the committee to name the team from this region which will participate in the annual national championship debate tournament at West Point this spring. This group, which nominated Notre Dame’s team last year, makes its selection from the states of Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Wisconsin and Michigan.
Still further praise for the ND speakers came from the H. W. Wilson Publishing Company, which has invited them to take part in a special debate, to be recorded in the 1948 volume of the University Debaters Annual. Each year the book contains what are considered the 10 best debates of the year. In the special contest, the Notre Dame speakers will uphold the affirmative aspect of universal military training against Loyola University of Chicago.
Debating by mail is the latest activity in which the Irish arguers will participate. Represented by Walt Collins and Joe Dukert, ND has begun the exchange of pro and con speeches with the University of New Mexico on the subject: “Should intramural sports be substituted for inter-collegiate athletics.” Notre Dame wijl uphold the negative view of the question.
Next home venture will be against Mt. St. Mary’s, of Maryland, February 28. Sam Hazo and Tim Kelley will carry the verbal battle to the invaders. On February 23, Hazo and Kelley will clash with two of their own colleagues, Frank Finn and Quintin Marlow, in an exhibition debate before the American Legion Auxiliary, Post 50. Both debates will be on the national collegiate topic of “Federal World Government.”
Prior to that, the debate squad is facing the outstanding debate teams in the East at the second annual Boston University Debating Society Invitational
tournament held today and tomorrow on the Boston University campus. Coach Sommer, whose wranglers will debate the question “Resolved: That a Federal World Government Be Established,” is sending Frank Finn and William Carey to uphold our Midwest reputation. Finn and Carey will debate the affirmative side of the question. A seeding round opened the tournament this morning and will be followed by the first round of the meet tomorrow morning. Semi-finals will be tomorrow afternoon and the finals that night.
Georgia's ex-governor. Ellis Amall, during his recent address before a full house at Washington Hall
Among the top-flight teams opposing Notre Dame will be: Yale, Columbia, United States Naval Academy, M.I.T., McGill University, Colby College, George Washington U., Army, N.Y.U., Rutgers, University of Maine, Pittsburgh, Richmond, Vermont, and Boston University.
Meanwhile, four other outstanding members of the Notre Dame debating team will open the home wrangling season against Georgetown University at 7:30 p. m. Thursday in the auditorium
of the Law Building. Notre Dame debaters against Georgetown will be Timothy Kelley, of Bay City, Mich., and James Beymer, of Pittsburgh, Pa., on the affirmative team, and Louis Duerinck, of Riverside, HL, and Joseph Shelly, of Wilmette, Ill., on the negative squad. The question to be debated will be the same as the topic in the Boston tournament.
Merchants Donate To Campus Carnival
South Bend merchants came through in fine style to help make the Mardi Gras Carnival a success. Donating everything under the hazy Indiana sun, from a fur coat to stationery, they gave without question to the worthy and charitable cause.
Of the stores that were contacted, the following contributed: Ames, B & M Tailors, Bagby Studio, Berg Jewelry Store, Beyers’ Florist Shop, Block’s, the Book Shop, Boston Shoe, Bruggner’s, Bunte’s Shoe Salon, Business Systems, Clark’s Restaurant, Cyr’s Barber Shop, Douglas Shoe, Elbel’s Music Store, Ellsworth’s, Garnitz Furniture and Gilbert’s.
Also Goldblatt’s, Goldtone Studio, Greenblatt’s, Green’s 5 & 10, Greene’s Dress Shop, Hans-Rintzsch Luggage Shop, Hickey Construction Co., Irene’s Hat Shop, J. C. Penney Co., Jay Bee Hosiery, Julia Holmes, Kinney Shoe Store, Kresge’s 5 & 10, Little Folks’ Shop, MacDonald’s Studio, Marvin’s Jewelry Store, Max Adler’s, Meyer’s Hardware Store, Miller Jones’ Shoe Store, Moderne Candy Shop, Noisom’s Jewelry Store and Parker-Winterrowd.
Others were the Philadelphia Restaurant, Philco, Red Robin, Reid’s, Robertson’s, Rose & Katz, Royal Hawaiian, Shaw’s Jewelry Store, Simmond’s, Smith’s Camera Shop, Sollitt Construction Co., Sonneborn’s, Uptown Restaurant, Wheelock’s, Widener’s, Worth’s, Wyman’s, Yousim’s Fur Co., The Leather Shop, Kuehn’s Shoe Store, Grant’s, Woolworth’s, Dainty Maid Bake Shop and The Jewelry Store.
LENTEN DEVOTIONS
There will be daily adoration during the Lenten season from 8 until 5 in Our Lady's Chapel in Sacred Heart Church. Benediction will take place at 5 pm. each day.
' 17
FROM THE WGN TO ND's NROTC
Capt. A. L. Danis pins Chicago Trib's silver medal on Midshipman Herman H. Hamilton, of Montgomery. Ala. Right: Midshipman Martin J. Deutch, Union City. N. J., gold medal recipient.
BONNIE BAKER rakes in Chicago Club Dance gravy fc Chairman Emmet O'Neill. Relief Publicitor Joe Connei


WHY MOTHERS GET PREMATURELY GREY
Mary Bernadette Greeley, seven-month-ola daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William J. Greeley of Vetville samples the icing on a cake her mother (right) and Mrs. John K. Kerber baked for the Student Relief Campus Carnival.
WHO SAID THOSE MC
This interesting strobe-light shot w< Kentucky game as Wildcats' Ken Rollii horst for a loose ball. Picture's highligl
18
HEAD GAL OF SMC's JUNIOR PROM
Miss Mary Lou O’Donnell. Louisville. Ky., general chairman of recent St. Mary's College Junior Prom, throws a Blue Grass smile at her date, Frank Santchi. Note the veil which enhances the tantalizing effect of her evening gown.
gravy for Student Relief . . Standing: Club President Ed Hoban. Dance Connerty. Flanking Miss Baker: Ticketmen Ed Anglin, John O'Neill.
OSE MOUNTAIN BOYS CAN'T SPELL?
shot was caught by SCHOLASTIC'S Jim Ferstel at the sn Rollins and Ralph Beard scrambled with Leo Barnhighlight is misspelling of Kentucky on Rollins' jersey.
CELEBRATING 50 YEARS OF IRISH BASKETBALL
Irish Cage Mentor Ed Krause and DePaul Coach Ray Meyer (behind trophy) admire the George F. Keogan Memorial Trophy presented by the late coach's widow at the Chicago Stadium.
19
SCHOLASTIC SPCLTT
PROSPECTIVE RING CHAMPS SIGN UP FOR THE BENGAL BOUTS
Leather and liniment at the Rockne Memorial
First Victory Sought by Irish Fleetfeetsters Against Strong Hawkeye Indoor Track Team
Defeated by Missouri and failing to capture even one first place in the Michigan State Relays, the Irish trackmen will seek their first victory of the current indoor season tomorrow against the strong Iowa spikesters at Iowa City.
Iowa crumpled a bewildered Grinnell College track squad last Saturday 82 to 26, but the score fails to give an accurate or complete picture of the Hawk-eyes’ strength. Iowa has practically the same team which Notre Dame humbled last spring 59 2-3 to 39 1-3 in the local field house. The Hawkeyes have improved consistently, however, whereas the Irish have lost some key men, 'and the others are not performing up to last season’s marks.
One of the more important clashes tomorrow will be between John Smith, Notre Dame hurdler and Ike Johnson and Russ Merkel of the Iowa City group. The yellow clad cindermen are expected to prove too strong for the local blue and gold in the high jump, broad jump, and dashes. Iowa sprinter Jack Simpson, high jumper Dick Erdenberger, and broad jumper Ike Johnson showed their superiority to the Irish in their respective events last year.
Jim Murphy and John Oxley will again fight for honors in the two-mile, possibly for a new record. Murphy set
20
the standing record of 9:43 last year. If the Notre Dame thin-clads can overcome their weakness in the dashes and the field events they will win without too much trouble, but if the dashmen are not yet up to their peak, the meet will be decided by the margin of a few points.
The Notre Dame cinder kickers got off to a bad start in their match with Missouri, and were unable to recover in spite of brilliant performances by Bill Leonard, Jim Kelly, Jim Kittell, Corny Sty-ers and Jim Murphy. After a loss in the shot put and the failure of the dashmen to get better than third, Bill Leonard came through with a dazzling 4:21.5 mile to close up the contest. Jim Kittell, running in his first year at Notre Dame, took second in the same event.
Then came the two-mile in which Murphy beat Bosworth by increasing the pace to force him out at the mile and half mark. Styers made his bid and passed the Missouri runner on the last quarter. The thrilling climax came as Kelly closed a gap of thirty yards on the last lap to give the Irish a clean sweep in the event.
Star of the contest was Madill “Bud” Gartiser, a former member of Coach Elvin R. Handy’s track team in 1946. Gartiser won both the high and low hurdles (Continued on Page 29)
Sluggers Answer Call For Bengal Scraps
The leathei’ and liniment bovs are now busy rounding into shape for the forthcoming Bengal Bouts to be held in the Fieldhouse March 8, 9, 10, with the finals on the 12th. This will be the 17th Annual Bengal Bouts presented here by the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus. The proceeds of the contest will be given to aid the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, Pakistan.
Training got under way this woofe jn the Rockne Memorial and the Fieldhouse with the rope skippers and bag punchers starting their necessary training to trim., off the excess tonnage that accumulated1 during the winter’s hibernation.
Under the scrutinizing eye of Fight Director Dominic Napolitano, of the Physical Education Department, at least 150 men are expected to weigh in this week. The requirements for the Bengals include passing a physical examination at the Infirmary and registering with Mr. Napolitano at the Fieldhouse.
Last year’s bouts were dominated by the sons of Old Erin. Of the eight championship crowns awarded, five were captured by the Irish. None of these Champs has signed up for this year’s competition as yet.
Last year Jim Sullivan won the 125-pound title by defeating Dick Greenwell. Sullivan overcame his opponent’s reach advantage in a three-round slugfest. In the 130-pound division Frank Debitetto pounded out a split decision over Tom King. The fastest fight of last year’s championship matches was the 135-pound classic between Mike Conley and Russ Van Keuren. Conley took the unanimous decision after three vicious rounds.
Jim Klockenkemper effectively tied up Walt Evans for two rounds and gained enough advantage to win the 147-pound crown. By out-sparring Jim Driscoll in a cautious fight sparked with action only in the final round, Jim Brennan captured the 155-pound championship. Jim’s brother, Terry, won a very close decision from Jim Carroll in the 165-pound heat.
Light-heavyweight Bill Roemer lived up to his press clippings by-knocking out Dick Cotter in one minute and twenty-three seconds of the second round. The final bout of the evening saw Jack Fallon cop the heavyweight crown from Ted Budynkiewicz by a unanimous decision.
—George Sweeney
Red Hot Billikens Rout Irish, End Home Streak;
High Riding DePaul Meets N. D. in Chicago
By DAVE WARNER
It took a smooth-working, fast-breaking, ball-controlling band of St. Louis Billikens to squelch the home court magic and that great Irish trait for defying all obstacles which had combined to give Notre Dame 38 straight victories at home. The Bilks, bolstered by a minimum of reserves, barreled into the game and didn’t stop rolling until they had pasted a most humiliating 68-51 count on the board. Most of their success was deservedly due to the spot playing of Marv Schatzman and calculating, slender- Ed Macauley who fed his mates lay-ups and sets with all the experience, authority, and aplomb of a veteran switchman routing trains. To many of the 5,000 it was apparent why St. Louis is regarded tops in the Midwest, very close to tops in the nation and that it is the suavest crew to appear in these parts yet.
Meanwhile, Krause’s eagers face a rocky road ahead. To date the season’s record stands 11 wins, 5 losses. Sandwiched between . those two defeats by St. Louis they had played sensational ball featuring masterful clutch playing at its best. On the road they took two close ones from Northwestern and Butler and eased by a breather in Detroit. Then reaching what indeed must have been its season’s peak, they laid in ambush and bagged the Kentucky Wildcat. To win, Notre Dame knew it would
have to play its best ball game. Moreover, the victory was well earned since Kentucky was every bit as good as everybody said it was with its All-Americans Ralph Beard and Alex Groza hitting baskets like crackshots at a carnival, and Kenny Rollins, a floor player of few equals.
To salvage satisfaction from its rugged schedule, the Irish will be trying to take some of the devil out of the DePaul Blue Demons tomorrow night in Chicago Stadium. This game always has been a great little crowd pleaser particularly since DePaul is invariably red hot on the Stadium court.' Ray Meyer’s boys, defeated once this season by the Irish, go into the game with a 13 and 4 record, two of those losses administered by Kentucky who has beaten the Northsiders on its own court and once in Stadium a fortnight ago. One change has been effected in DePaul’s starting lineup since Notre Dame last faced it. Up front Pete Coorlas is teamed with Whitey Kachan. Coorlas, a pint sized pepper pot, got his break in the Kentucky game, replacing the injured Gordon Gillespie. The little fellow made the most of it. Against the Cats he looked like the greatest thing since bottled beer and kept DePaul in the game all through the first half. Then to prove he might be there to stay he plunked in twenty (Continued on Page 25)
Irish Gridders to Play Ten Games This Fall
The route of the 1948 Notre Dame pigskin parade was announced recently. Head Coach Frank Leahy’s Irish gridders, defending their 1947 National Championship and seeking their third undefeated season in a row, will tangle with 10 opponents in the fall campaign. Three newcomers to the schedule are Washington, Michigan State and the downstate rivals at Indiana. They will replace the traditional Army foe and the Tulane Green Wave in the ranks of Irish opponents.
Purdue will help the Irish open the 1948 season in the Notre Dame Stadium on Sept. 25. Other teams to be served up on the campus grid menu will be Michigan State, Northwestern and Washington. Notre Dame will be on the road from Oct. 9 to Nov. 13; only the rumored transfer of the Navy game on Oct. 30 to the local stadium will check the football famine during' that month.
The Irish will wind up their season in the limelight and sunlight of Los Angeles against the Southern California Trojans on Dec.'4.
The complete schedule:
Sep. 25—Purdue at Notre Dame
Oct. 2—Notre Dame at Pittsburgh Oct. 9—Michigan State at Notre Dame Oct. 16—Notre Dame at Nebraska Oct. 23—Notre Dame at Iowa Oct. 30—Navy, site pending Nov. 6—Notre Dame at Indiana Nov. 13—Northwestern at Notre Dame Nov. 27—Washington at Notre Dame Dec. 4—Notre Dame at So. California
BARNEY TAKES HIS WINDUP
Leo Bamhorst draws back out of Wildcat Barker's reach to make a pass to Kevin O'Shea
WHOOPS, I LOST IT
Exclaims Wildcat Barnstable as John Foley steals the bail from his hands. At right: O'Shea
21
iniiiMiitiiiiMtiiiiiiiittceiiiiiite......
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
ailllllttlllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllltlllHIlilllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIlltlttlllllirlllllllllllllllltllllimlllllttlillllillllltlllttdKlllllltlttlllltllllllltltlllllltl
With Pete- Pumum,
Ed Krause’s ball players discovered a few surprising things during the break between semesters. First of all, the Irish found that by playing basketball for 40 minutes, instead of their usual 35, they could win those tough games: witness, Kentucky and Butler. Three of the four games in which Notre Dame came out on the short end of the score could nave
play of Notre
been won if the Irish hadn’t put their hands in their pockets and watched the other team score. In all three Notre Dame led at the half and were leading or close to it with five minute! to go; but then proceeded to blow up or give up (take your pick) and lose by one or. two points.
It has been claimed that the in the Kentucky
game was inspired, but I like to believe that inspiration had nothing to do with their victory. That is the way they can play and should have been playing all season if their minds were on their work. If they can beat the best in the country by nine points, why then should any of the teams left to play be given a chance to beat Notre Dame?
On the individual side the basketball men of Notre Dame also found something new. Eay Donovan, ND’s basketball publicity director, tells us through Jim Costin that Kevin O’Shea broke the school scoring record for guards. Adolph Rupp, Kentucky’s coach, said that O’Shea is as much an All-American as anyone can ever get. That is fine, but we have known that for two years. However, we also will have to admit that the Kentucky game is the first time in two years that O’Shea has come close to looking like another Luisetti. Like the team he plays on, he has been running hot and cold. But again, we believe that the Kentucky game was the start of a streak that will set the basketball-minded people of the country on their ears.
Buster Hiller, acting as team captain against Kentucky, regained the fight and ball hawking ability that was his in 1942-43 at Notre Dame and in 1943-44
at Great Lakes. John Foley, who appeared as a misfit in the Irish lineup during last semester because of his stage-fright, came to life and outplayed Alex Groza, Kentucky’s All-American center. Foley fought all the way. During most of the second he had four personal fouls, but still played hard without having the fifth personal called.
Looking around we find that our old boss and fellow columnist Joe Cheney has been forced out into the cold working world. Rumor has it that Joe has landed a job in the publicity office of the Chicago Rockets. Also, Leo Murphy, Hugh Burns’ first assistant, is taking over the training job with the Rockets next season. Good luck, men, you sure picked a “winner.”
InterhallCagers Begin Schedule in 4 Leagues
With the opening of the spring semester, the interhall basketball competition, expanded to four leagues for this year’s play, has commenced. Mr. Ernest Szekely, who is in charge of the hardwood program, has announced that the teams in each league will play a round-robin schedule until March 18, when a tournament mil be held among the outstanding quintets in each league.
Teams taking part in Division I of the Club League are Central Illinois, Aescu-lapians, Toledo, Kentucky, and St. Louis. Division II is comprised of squads from the Italian, New Jersey, West Virginia, Villagers Clubs and the Knights of Columbus.
Halls represented in the newly formed Lightweight Division, composed of players 150 pounds and under, are Lyons, Morrissey, Cavanaugh, Zahm, Howard, and Breen-Phillips.
The Interhall League consists of the Western and Eastern Divisions. .In the Western Division are teams from Walsh, Badin, Lyons, Howard, Morrissey, Dillon, and Alumni Halls. The Off-Campus net-ters are also included in the Western Division. In the Eastern Division, Breen-Phillips, St. Edward’s, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Sorin and Farley Halls and Vet-ville will vie for top honors.
In addition to these three leagues, an Open Division exists, consisting of seventeen squads.
—Tom Adams and Tom McNally
Off-Campus Tankmen Defend Title Tuesday
Football, baseball, swimming in a tank, Excel at these, you'll have money in the bank.
The University of Notre Dame offers nothing resembling negotiable instruments, but Tuesday evening, February 17, at 7:30 a gross of gold medals goes on the block at the Rockne Pool. The occasion is the annual Interhall Relay Swimming Meet which invariably attracts all manner of aquatic stars, no two of whom cover the distance in exactly the same way. Nor is that always desirable.
In the 200-yard sweat shirt relay, in which eight men divide the distance for each team, style and grace generally take a back seat to choppy strokes and a strong kick with sometimes only dogged strokes propelling the entrant over the last few waves. This event and the butt relay, details of which will be made public the evening of the meet, constitute valuable opportunities for point gathering, on which basis the medals will be awarded.
All campus residence halls are eligible to enter teams of unlimited manpower and indiscriminate skill. In addition to these possible 13 outfits, an Off-Campus squad, the defending champions, -will compete in the aquatic gyrations. As a note of confidence to hesitant challengers it might be mentioned that last year’s vaunted title winners also achieved a high degree of scholastic success thereby meriting diplomas and a chance at the outside world. Consequently, this year’s Off-Campus edition bears little resemblance to the previous champs.
For those who would practice prior to churning the waters next Tuesday, the Rockne Pool is open for swimming every day, Monday through Friday from 4 p.m. until 5:30 p.m. and in the evenings from 7:15 until 8:30. Saturday and Sunday the hours are 1-4:30 p.m.
As previously announced the events scheduled are as follows:
200-yard free style relay (4 men) 200-yard backstroke relay (4 men) 200-yard breast stroke relay (4 men) 150-yard medley relay (3 men) 200-yard sweat shirt relay (8 men) 200-yard butt relay (8 men)
Formal registration is with Mr. Gil Burdick the evening of the meet.
—Bob Leander
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
From his showing in the season’s first indoor track meet, Bill Leonard may be on his way to his greatest year at Notre Dame. Leonard came home first in the mile in the respectable time of 4:21.5 and later won the half mile in 1:55.5, a mere six-tenths of a second behind the fieldhouse record.
As a freshman in 1943 Leonard turned in a sensational 4:17. mile that made
the experts tab him as one of the country’s outstanding mile prospects. Then the war came along and Bill did leg work for the 30th Infantry Division. He saw ac-t i o n in Europe that earned him five battle stars, the Bronze Star, and citations from the French and
Belgian governments.
Leonard returned to Notre Dame early in 1946. He experienced difficulty throughout 1946 and 1947 in rounding into the condition that enabled him to break 4:20 in his pre-war days. Last spring, however, Bill gave an indication that he was definitely among the best in the college mile class by winning the Indiana State mile from Earl Mitchell of Indiana in 4:15.7. That mile is the fastest ever run by a Notre Dame track man, breaking the old mark set by Greg Rice.
Leonard’s fast start this season might lead to that promsied land that he and Coach Handy have been pointing for.
The fencing squad promises to be a top-notch outfit for the next several years. Nine sophomores, four juniors, and one senior make up this year’s team.
TICKETS FOR N.Y.U. GAME.
There are still a few tickets available to the student body for the Notre Dame-N.Y.U. game to be played in Madison Square Garden on March 1. Apply at the ticket office in Breen-Phillips Hall.
Capt. Lou Burns is the only man who will be lost through graduation from the present team.
Last year, Notre Dame’s first in fencing since 1942, the Irish won four and lost three. They edged Northwestern’s Big Nine champions 14-13 here at home and lost by an identical score in Evanston. They should improve on that record during the preesnt season.
Home meets are held in the fencing room under the north grandstand in the field house.
At last count Johnny Lujack had picked up ten post-season awards for his football ability. In addition to the highly publicized Heisman Trophy, Johnny has also been given trophies from: Collegiate Club of Chicago, Touchdown Club of Washington, Touchdown Club of Detroit, Catholic Player’s Award from Brooklyn Prep, Player of the Year from Sport Magazine, All-Catholic War Veteran’s Award from Washington, D. C., Most Valuable Player Award in the East-West Shrine game, Associated Press Male Athlete of the Year, Player of the Year award from Quarterback. Lujack also led the voting in the Chicago Tribune's Players' All-American.
Good news for basketball lovers: Tomorrow in Greensburg, Ind., the Irish All-Stars, a team made up of Notre Dame men, will do battle with an all-star team from Greensburg. The Irish will have George Connor; Herb Coleman, former ND All-American center; Tom Brennan, assistant cage coach at Notre Dame; Bob Livingstone; and Fred Earley. Coaching the squad and filling in as top reserve man is Bill Earley, back-field coach of the Fighting Irish.
Interhall Cage Slate
FEBRUARY 16
3:00 Cavanaugh Gold vs. Alumni Blue 4:00 Lyons Gold vs. Howard Gold 5:00 West Virginia vs. Knights of Columbus 7:00 St. Edward’s vs. Sorin 8:00 Walsh vs. Morrissey
FEBRUARY 17
4 :00 Alumni Gold vs. Dillon Gold
5:00 Zahm Lightweights vs. Breen-Phillips Lightweights
7:00 Cavanaugh vs. Vetville
8:00 Badin vs. Alumni
FEBRUARY 18
3:00 Lyons Blue vs. Morrissey Gold
4:00 Lyons Orange vs. Morrissey Orange
5:00 Aesculapians vs. Toledo 7:00 Breen-Phillips vs. Vetville 8:00 Lyons vs. Off-Campus
FEBRUARY 19
4:00 Dillon Blue vs. Dillon Orange
5:00 Lyons Lightweight vs. Zahm Lightweight 7:00 Zahm vs. Sorin
8:00 Howard vs. Dillon
FEBRUARY 20
3:00 Lyons Red vs. Morrissey Red 4:00 Morrissey Blue vs. Lyons White 5:00 Central Illinois vs. St. Louis 7:00 Cavanaugh vs. Farley 8:00 Walsh vs. Dillon
Unbeaten Swordsmen Face Sharp Challenge
Three matches within the next six days will give Coach Herb Melton an idea of just how good his fencing team is. To date the swordsmen are undefeated, but matches at Northwestern, Chicago, and Illinois will provide a much/ sterner test for them than have the three teams which they have already conquered.
On February 2 the fencers invaded Ohio State to open their season successfully by downing the Buckqeyes 15%-11%. The Irish were never pressed in this victory as they opened fast to score a 7-2 triumph in the foils. The epee was split 4%-4%, and Notre Dame dropped the sabre bouts 4-5, but their early margin was too much for the Bucks to overcome.
Case Institute of Technology, which calls Cleveland home, stopped off at the Irish Fieldhouse on February 6 and suffered an 18%-8% shellacking for their efforts. Once more Notre Dame started fast in the foils and clinched the match in the epee. Capt. Lou Burns and Mike DiCicco each scored three points in the foils while Pete Gross swept his three epee bouts to set the pace for the Gold and Blue. Capt. Joe Micksch of the visitors tried in vain to stem the Irish tide as he tallied 3% of his team’s total, but the depth of the Irish was not to be denied.
The following afternoon Notre Dame played host to Michigan State and managed to edge the Spartans 15-12 after a thrilling up-hill battle. .Melton’s men sported a slim 5-4 advantage after the foils, the result of DiCicco’s three wins and two by Burns. Michigan State bounced back in the epee to outscore the home team 7-2 and assume an 11-7 lead. Chandler Washbume won his three bouts in the epee to show the .way for the visitors.
The sabre, the final event of the match, went to Notre Dame 8-1 through the magnificent efforts of Bob Schlosser and Ralph Witucki. Each swept his three points in the sabre, which, along with the two tallies scored by Bob Bos-ler, clinched the win for Notre Dame[
Northwestern and Illinois have two of the Big Nine’s most' powerful fencing squads, the Wildcats being defending champions in that conference. Should the Irish come' through their next week of competition without defeat, they stand an excellent chance of finishing their season that way.—Jim Buts.
23
Utter despair
014^	CgGcJi£A>—/
Meehan Mixes N. D. Law with C. C. Basketball
By HARRY MONAHAN
Sweating and cramming for final examinations as a senior in the Notre Dame Law School is a full assignment. To have the additional burden of nursing a dozen others through their examinations is enough to make one a chain smoker or a prospect for Alcoholics Anonymous, particularly if that dozen happens to be a group of erratic teenagers struggling through high school finals. But William A. Meehan, Notre Dame law student from Philadelphia, has just weathered such a storm with his Central Catholic High School basketball team and is relieved to find no history-weak guards or science-slow forwards missing from his lineup due to scholastic deficiencies. Bill’s young charges faced their semester finals a week before the blight struck Notre Dame and came out with flying colors.
“What a spot I was in,” Bill recalls. “What would have happened if the coach flunked?” Players and coach are now breathing easier and settling down to prepare for the state tourney.
The elements of law and his high scoring center’s history quiz may be able to back Bill into a corner, but he isn’t lost on the basketball court. The game is in the Meehan blood. Bill’s father, Austin Meehan, played 15 years of profes
sional basketball, having joined the play-for-pay ranks at the age of 15. Elmer Ripley, Georgetown coach, and the Knickerbockers’ Nat Holman w e r e among the hardwood clan setting the pace during his time.
Under such influence it is not surprising to find Bill very much at home on the court. In addition to playing two years of basketball at LaSalle Prep in Philadelphia, Meehan made his debut as a coach before the Quaker cage fans. Melrose Academy quintets played under his tutelage, but he was more successful during his three year tenure as coach at St. William’s. Bill directed the St. William’s club to two City League Championships and took it to the finals in the third year.
This is Bill’s first year as head coach at Central Catholic and, although he isn’t planning to garner any championships, he is hopeful of directing his boys to their most successful season in several years. He has had two years as assistant coach in which to become acquainted with his high spirited group of teen-agers who nightly batter the backboards and pound the hardwood at the South Bend Armory. With two recent wins over Jefferson Township and Kingsbury High, his squad has chalked up eight wins and seven losses thus far this season.
COACH MEEHAN GIVES HIS C.C. PLAYERS A PRE-GAME FIGHT TALK From torts and contracts to dates, cramming, and fast breaks
24
The 1948 edition of the Central Catholic quintet is being paced by lanky high scoring Dick Andrejewski, a junior who has been giving the opposition a tough time under the basket. To keep the racehorse element in check Bill calls on steady John Barany, another junior whose careful game keeps the team working smoothly. Co-captains Ted Christian and Phil Vanderbosch carry the sharpshooting duties for the five. One of the encouraging aspects of Central Catholic’s present basketball situation is that only three seniors will be lost by graduation in June. With a year of experience behind them, Bill’s sophomore-junior combination promises to be a power in the local cage competition.
Tall Men Sought
With a student body of under 150 to draw from, the pickings have been very slim. “We just don’t get any natural ballplayers. We’ve got to build our own,” he sadly recounts, “and that makes it tough.” But build them he does and turns out a quality product in the process. The tall ones don’t elude him long and soon get their orders to report to the Armory. Lack of experience is no excuse. “Just be there tonight. You can stand under the basket, then decide what to do ■with the ball when you get it.” The creditable scrimmage performances one such draftee is now giving against the first stringers is the profit Bill has realized from his scouting policy.
While sending his varsity through its evening paces Bill still keeps a critical eye on his freshman and B team hopefuls, waiting for that flicker of basketball sense to show in the candidates. Coaching three teams simultaneously doesn’t .seem to hold any insolvable problems for this slender Philadelphian. The record of seven straight wins his potent B team five has turned in for a seasonal tally of nine wins out of 11 starts is evidence of the powerful organization he is building. And is just the type of evidence which should give Central Catholic foes some cause for concern.
Beats Old Rival
The most satisfying event during his tour of duty at Central Catholic was the 33-24 victory his charges tallied against their traditional opponents at South Bend Catholic High School. His boys now have their eyes on the state tourney and intend to give the top teams a run for their money.
Timing, defense and offense are the elementary problems that Bill has to solve for his players. When the big school dances roll around, Bill has to set up a date bureau to see that all of his boys are kept happy. “It’s a fine thing!
I get dates for them with the cutest girls in town, but does that help me with their good looking older sisters? No, they just don’t appreciate my efforts.”
If training three teams and preparing schedules in triplicate leave Bill any spare time it is all quickly consumed by the detail work involved in supplying a local 14 team grammar school basketball league with referees. Bill draws most of his men from Notre Dame physical education majors, who, deliberately, or otherwise, act as his agents spotting likely prospects among the elementary school eagers. These same grammar schools draft Coach Meehan for speaking duty at their athletic dinners, which is one more drain on the time in Bill’s packed 24 hour day.
Rugged Schedule
The current Meehan schedule must find room for a three hour daily practice session, two games a week, the necessary contact work to prepare schedules and to assign grammar school referees, banquet speeches and the dating service for his prima donnas. At the same time there is the slight matter of his work in the Law School to be done. It would seem that a week is short of
INTRODUCING
the requisite hours to accommodate all of this, but Bill makes it fit and is thriving under the burden. In fact he would like to continue coaching after he receives his law degree. So if any Philadelphia high school is in the market for a workhorse to take over the reins of its basketball quintet, the Irish have a highly recommended candidate in Bill Meehan.
Red Hot Billikins
(Continued from Page 21) points against Michigan State his next time out.
The Demons, true to form, have beaten some good clubs this season—Oklahoma, Holy Cross, Michigan State (twice), and Oklahoma A. & M.
Three nights after the DePaul game Notre Dame will be in East Lansing trading buckets with the Michigan Spartans. Main threat of the Spartans is the campus-travelled Bob Brannum, who, among other exploits, has bested Eddie Mikan in two scoring duels this season. About a month ago Brannum came -within two points of beating one of his alma mammys, Kentucky, almost single hand-edly.
by John Krueger
25
PHILIP MORRIS offers
the smoker an extra
-tpg
I PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!
IITMUtMlg
ftMn

benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.
% W MORRIS
TRY A PACK
TODAY
26
'Soldiers of the Cross,' Civil War Manuscript, Reveals High Praise for Catholic Clergy
Tickets to the Aquinas lectures are on sale on campus and in South Bend and the $2A0 charge permits attendance at the five lectures.—Dave Yerex.
Letters of praise for Catholic priests and sisters written by the great Union and Confederate generals of the Civil War were released for the first time recently by the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the history department. The letters are a part of an unpublished manuscript, entitled “Soldiers of the Cross,” written by Major David Power Conyngham, New York Herald correspondent during the Civil War and author of a history of the Irish Brigade.
The manuscript tells the story of the Catholic chaplains and nuns who served in humanitarian roles for both sides during the conflict. After completing the book, Major Conyngham asked the various generals of both sides to express their opinions of the service rendered by the Catholic priests and nuns during the war.
General Robert E. Lee wrote that the “Catholic chaplains . . . were kind and attentive to the temporal and spiritual wants of the men of their brigades, and were assiduous in their attentions in encouraging the well and comforting the sick of the army. There were three regular chaplains attached to General Stof-ford and Heyz’ Louisiana Brigades,” General Lee continued, “namely, Father Sheeran, Father Hubert and Father Mulders. Other Catholic clergymen occasionally visited the army, conspicuous among whom was Bishop McGill of Richmond.”
General Lee had praise for the nuns, too. “The Catholic Sisters of Richmond, devoted themselves to the sick and wounded in the hospitals and I was told were unremitting in their attention to the soldiers.”
On the Union side, General George B. McClellan wrote: “My attention was very frequently drawn to their disinterested and most valuable efforts in the cause of humanity ...” Another famous Union military leader, Majoi- General A. E. Burnside wrote that “. . . The Catholic clergy were eminently distinguished for the self-sacrificing manner in which they performed their duties. They spared no pains and shrank from no exposure or hardships in their labor for the relief of the sick and wounded. Of the Sisters of Mercy there is little need for me to speak. Their good deeds are written in the grateful hearts of thousands of our soldiers, to whom they were ministering angels.”
Southern General P. G. Beauregard wrote: “The services of both chaplains and Sisters were most devoted and invaluable during the most trying periods
of the war; their efforts to alleviate the sufferings of the wounded and sick, Fed-erals as well as Confederates were indefatigable and unremitting. Even Protestant commanding officers were always happy to avail themselves of the selfsacrificing, untiring and generous assistance of the Sisters who were so kind and devoted to the poor, helpless, sick and wounded soldiers placed under their care, that these heroes of many hard fought battles looked upon them as their own sisters or mothers.”
Majoi- Conyngham’s book, which is still unpublished, tells of the many conversions during the war years and gives a full account of the lives of the chaplains and nuns.
Aquinas Series Opens With Noted Novelist
Five speakers of more than average repute in the world of literature and drama are scheduled to make their appearance in South Bend in the near future as guests of the Aquinas Lecture Series Committee. First lecture in this series will be delivered tonight at 8:15 p. m. in the Central High school auditorium by Bruce Marshall, noted Scottish novelist.
Mr. Marshall has for some years been widely recognized in the literary world for his novels, which have enjoyed wide popularity. A true Scot, Mr. Marshall came to prominence with The World, the Flesh- and Father Smith, Prayer for the Living, Vespers in Vienna and Father Malachy's Miracle, the latter having met with considerable success in the form of a play adapted from Mr. Marshall’s work.
The dramatic representative, to make an appearance in the lectures following Mr. Marshall’s, is Rev. Gilbert Hartke, director of the widely-recognized drama department at the Catholic University of America in Washington. Mr. Hallett Abend, former Far Eastern correspondent of the New York Times, is also due to visit South Bend under the sponsorship of the lecture series committee. To complete the group of five speakers invited to participate in this, the third annual series, the administrators have arranged for Frank J. Sheed, distinguished Catholic publisher, and Fulton Oursler, senior editor of the Readers Digest, to be guest speakers also at later dates. Both Messrs. Marshall and Oursler are converts to the church.
AVID RADIO LISTENER The comedians were cleaner
Radio Poll Reports Comedy Improved
According to the 13th weekly report from Radio Acceptance Poll tabulation headquarters at St. Joseph’s College there appears to be a definite upward trend in the cleaning-up of radio comedy programs. College students of all creeds think that “back-alley barbarisms and double-meaning jests” have seen -their day and are on the way out.
For the second time in three weeks every program was classified as “acceptable” with none being recorded as “barely acceptable” or “offensive.” An organized audience of 479 decency-bent students sent in ballots for shows they audited during the week of January 4.
The Fibber McGee and Molly program earned a top rating for the twelfth time in the poll’s 13-week history. Fred Allen earned the same rating for his show during that week. Burns and Allen, Baby Snooks and Eddie Cantor rounded out the top quintet on the rated pro- . grams.
Overall cumulative ratings are now based on 9,254 program ballots and 33,832 individual performer votes cast to date. Whether or not the Poll has had any concrete influence on the general clean-up tone is problematical. The fact that they are cleaning up is the thing that counts. Improvement has been made but the entertainment medium is still far from registering a perfect score.
27
Weaving of nylon yarn required the
(4) Optimum concentrations of PM A and the various plasticizers had to be determined, and application temperatures worked out for the different types of fabrics (satins, twills, taffetas, etc.) to be sized.
The basic reactions involved in making methacrylic acid monomer are straightforward:
(CHaJ’CO + HCN ------> (CHa);C(OH)CN
(acetone)	(acetone cyanohydrin)
(CHj)2C(OH)CN +
HsO.HsSOi -----> H2C=C(CH3)COOH
(methacrylic acid monomer)
development of special sizing material
Problem solved by Du Pont men with many types of training
Each new product that is created in the laboratory seems to bring with it a new set of problems to challenge the ingenuity of the scientist. An outstanding instance of this is nylon. To make practicable the weaving of nylon into textiles, it was necessary to develop an entirely new slasher sizing material —a coating to make the filaments adhere to one another, protect the yarn from abrasion and keep it clean. Sizes used on other fibers proved unsatisfactory on nylon, because of its unique chemical composition.
Five candidates were exhaustively tested by Du Pont men. Best by far proved to be polymethacrylic acid (PMA), [CH2=C(CH3)COOH]s, possibly because its acidic nature is favorable to hydrogen bonding with the polyamide structure of nylon.
Many technical problems involved
(1)	After weaving, sizing has to be removed by water. PMA dissolves in water readily up to 10 % at room temperatures, but precipitates between 7080°C. Awayhadto be formate prevent precipitation at the normal scouring temperature of 100° C.
(2)	PMA sets to a brittle, glassy material on fibers, giving a harsh wrap. Suitable plasticizers such as sulfonated vegetable and mineral oils, glycols and other polyhydric alcohols had to be found to correctthisconditionand permit stretching and flexing of the yarn without film impairment.
(3)	Good dispersing agents were necessary so that the powdered PMA would not agglomerate as it dissolved in the sizing bath.
G. W. Fossett, B.S. in Chemistry, Augustana *36, and W. A. Franta, M.S. in Chemical Engineering, North Dakota *34, inspect woven fabric made from PMA sized nylon warp in Du Pont Experimental Weaving Laboratory.
But several technical difficulties in the manufacture of the polymer had to be overcome:
(1)	The distillation of the monomer has to be controlled carefully to keep it from polymerizing in the still head.
(2)	The monomer must be obtained free of any color-forming impurities that might cause permanent discoloration of the fabric by the final polymer solution.
(3)	Polymerization of the monomer must be carefully regulated to get reproducible results and constant molecular weight. This is important because the molecular weight of the PMA determines the viscosity of the size.
(4)	Drying the polymer presented unusual difficulties. A special study was made to find an economical drying process that would give a uniform, finely divided product adapted to rapid solution.
Credit for the development of PMA textile sizing, is shared by Du Pont men with many types of training— chemists, physicists, chemical engineers and textile experts, as well as the technical service men who worked in close cooperation with leading textile manufacturers during commercial trials.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
J. M. Griffing, Ph.D. (Organic), Columbia *45, and A. DaschMmacker, B.S. in Chemical Engineering, Lehigh *41, inspect PMA size solution and check nylon warp at head end of a slasher. In slasher sizing, entire warp is coated rather than a single thread. ’
Where would my job be?
Openings for technical graduates may exist in any one of the 38 Du Pont research laboratories or 85 manufacturing plants. Every effort is made to place men in positions for which they are best suited and in the section of the country which they prefer. Write for booklet, "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” 2521-B Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
«E6-U.S.PAT.OFf.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to “Cavalcade of America," Mondays, 7 P. M., CST on NBC
28
Marine Brass Training Available on Campus
Interviews of qualified students for training in the Marine Corps Officer Procurement Program will be conducted by Major Bruce Hillam of the Notre Dame NROTC unit at the Drill Hall on the campus until March 7, 1948, when the present program will end.
The advantage for students selected under the present program for Marine Officer training is the complete academic freedom allowed the student in the selection of his courses during the school year. It is possible under this program for freshmen, sophomores and juniors to receive officer candidate training during the summer vacation months.
Students selected for the training are enrolled in the Marine Corps Reserve (Inactive) and are assigned to officer candidate training duty only upon their written requests.
Members attend one or two summer .training periods of six weeks each. Stu' dents enrolled when freshmen or sophomores attend two summer periods while students enrolled as juniors in college, with one year previous military service, are required to attend only the advanced training. The classes are conducted at the Marine Corps Schools, located at Quantico, Virginia, thirty miles south of Washington, D. C.
After successful completion of the required periods of military training and after graduation from college with a baccalaureate degree, Platoon Leaders are eligible for appointment to the commissioned ranks as Second Lieutenants, U.S. Marine Corps Reserve. A limited number of graduates, if they so desire, are commissioned in the regular Marine Corps.
To be eligible for enrollment in the Platoon Leaders Class, applicants must be male citizens of the United States with a freshman, sophomore or junior classification in college, between 17 and 25. They must not be a member of any other military organization, including the Army or Naval ROTC. They must be unmarried and agree to remain so until completion of the advanced course of summer military training. They must sign an agreement to serve for the required periods of active duty training and if a veteran, must have received an honorable discharge. Applicants must not have a claim pending for or be drawing a pension, disability allowance, disability compensation, or retired pay from the United States government.
Scholars and Music Lovers Flock to Cavanaugh Library
The soothing silence and cushy comfort of the Cavanaugh Hall Library attracted approximately 1501 students during the past semester. This figure does not include those who attended the bi-weekly noon record concerts. An average of 50 classical devotees were attracted to these sessions.
Voluntary contributions from halls on the east side of the campus added $117.05 to the library’s financial coffers. Miscellaneous contributions of $44.07 brought the total up to $161.12. On the debit side of the ledger was a bill for $60.55 for books. A new pencil sharpener claimed $2.25 while $21.50 went for periodicals. Stamps cost $4.00 and the final bill of $35.60 was listed next to new records for the bi-weekly concerts. In all, this left a bulging balance of $28.22 on hand.
For those who seek refuge from noisy roommates and for those who like to digest their noon meals while listening to the sometimes turbulent, sometimes pastoral classics of the masters, the Cavanaugh Hall Library is now opened again. After a brief closing, necessitated by a thorough inventory, the library is opened for business from 7 to 9:30 every evening save Saturday and Sunday. The noon-hour conceit; schedule will be announced in the near future.
Thi$ Valentine Bu$ine$$
(Continued from Page 12)
ins five times removed, etc., with expensive valentine gifts. You’ve got to do it. If you don’t, you’re nothing but an old tightwad. Add Christmas, Easter, Mother’s day, Father’s day, Mother-inLaw day, various birthdays, and where are you? You are at the finance company begging on your knees for money to buy presents to keep the family peace.
And so, while the regional customs observed on St. Valentine’s day were little more than silly, their offspring are Frankenstein monsters. They are a blight upon this fair land of ours. Americans, you have been sold to the card-and-gift manufacturers. You have been duped, swindled, cheated, sold a bill of phoney goods. Briefly, St. Valentine’s day is hogwash. Abolish it. Wipe it off the calendar. Let it pass, as it should, with a prayer to St. Valentine. Let the card manufacturers send greetings of comic valentines to each other, and let the stores keep their merchandise at the regular price instead of upping it for the purpose of the gift trade. Fellow men, you are oppressed by the valentine. Unite and destroy it!
Spring Lectures Lined Up By Mediaeval Institute
The Reverend A. J. Denomy, C.SJ^ Professor of Mediaeval Vernacular Languages and Literatures at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, will deliver the first series of spring lectures sponsored by the Notre Dame Mediaeval Institute February 16 through 20 and February 26 and 27 in the Law building. Father Denomy will speak on “The Mediaeval Stage,” “The Troy Legend in the Middle Ages,” “Courtly Love,” “The Mediaeval Epic?* and “Indo-European, Germanic and Romance Philology.”
The Institute will also present lectures by Dr. Anton C. Pegis of the Pontifical Institute and the Reverend Vincent L. Kennedy, C.S.B., also of the Pontifical Institute, later in the semester.
First Victory (Continued from Page 20) events and took second in the 60-yard dash.
Bill Leonard completed his task for the afternoon by besting Lancaster of Missouri in the half-mile and coming within one-tenth of a second of the Notre Dame indoor record of 1:55.4 set by Francis in 1938. Kittell did well, too, by capturing third place in the battle. Missouri’s Tigers were too aggressive for the Insh in all except the distances.
Besides these events the only other Irish win was a tie for first, earned by Jim Miller in the pole vault at 12’6”.
The Michigan State Relays provided two second places, a tie for another second, a third, a fourth, and three fifth places. In a close finish, Notre Dame took second in the 440 shuttle hurdle relay. The sprint medley relay team also took second. Miller tied for second in the pole vault with a leap of 13 feet, the best of his career.
In the shot put, which Chuck Fonville of Michigan won with an American record heave of 56 feet, 6% inches, Notre Dame’s John Helwig placed third with a toss of 49 feet, 6% inches. John Smith finished fifth in the 75-yard high hurdles, and the Irish distance medley relay team placed fifth. In the 600-yard run, Paul Schwetschenau took fifth.
Three former Jennison fieldhouse records held by Notre Dame were broken. The 600-yard mark of Gene Fehlig set in 1943 was lowered from 1:14.3 to 1.14.1. The distance' medley mark of 10:27.3 set in 1943 was eclipsed to 10:23.3 by Penn State. The Irish mile relay record of 3:21.8 was cut to 3.21.1 by a Michigan team.
Only one home meet remains for the Irish, a battle on February 21 with Penn State.
29
NOTRE DAME NAMES MAKE NEWS
Back to Work
With the advent of the spring semester at Notre Dame and the cessation of hostilities in the pro grid ranks many former Irish football stars returned once more to the campus to resume their undergraduate work or to aim at a higher goal as postgrads . . . and to bolster the Old Timers aggregation come the annual classic in May to mark the end of spring practice. Among the play-for-pay boys back under the golden dome are: Big JOHN YONAKOR, stellar end for the Cleveland Browns; JIM MELLO, who plays a lot of fullback for the Boston Yanks; GEORGE RATTERMAN, who was the toast of Buffalo for his quarterbacking with the Bills; BOB SKOGLUND, dependable end for the Green Bay Packers; HERB COLEMAN, aggressive center for the vacillating Chicago Rockets; and GEORGE TOBIN who was a guard with the New York Giants. . . .
Dr. HERBERT RATNER, who is best known in this area for his enlightening lectures on Christian Marriage, was named recently as a visiting lecturer in a seminar course for science students here at Notre Dame. Dr. Ratner, an important exponent of the college of med
SIGNAIGO, McGEE AND MISS BROWNE
Over the air
icine at Loyola University of Chicago, will conduct a course concerned with the “Aristotelian Philosophy on Health and Disease.” . . .
Versatile Rev. EDWIN C. BAUER, c.s.c., pastor of the Holy Family parish in South Austin, Texas, demonstrated his ingenuity when he utilized Army surplus 50 millimeter shell packing cases to construct a barber shop for his Negro parish. Father Bauer, who is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame, used the packing cases as a nucleus for the building and supplemented it with a stucco job. In addition to the badly needed barber shop he used more of the cases to help build a house for the housekeeper of the parish. . . .
Into the Limelight
In Boston recently, the Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, c.s.C., President of Notre Dame voiced his convictions that American colleges and universities can do more to secure the future of the United States than aw other single agency. Said Father Cavan:’- gh at rhe dinner given in his honor, “American institutions of higher learning must help to produce morally responsible leaders,
COACH KRAUSE Up the ladder
who can be trusted to handle the pro ducts of science avis sly.” . . .
Two of Notre Dame’s heroes of the gridiron, COY McGEE, of Longview, Texas, and JOE SIGNAIGO, of Memphis, Tennessee, were interviewed recently for the radio. Miss Olivia Browne, of Station WMC, Memphis, conducted the interview in the WSBT studio last week. The boys made a platter which will be played over the Memphis station in the near future. They both asserted that the game with Purdue was the toughest of the season and named Steffy and Rowan of Army; Tunnell of Iowa, and O’Reilly of Purdue as their most stubborn opponents. . . .
RICHARD SULLIVAN, Notre Dame’s novelist-English teacher spoke in Chicago before the literature group of Sheil School of Social Studies last week. As his topic the brilliant Mr. Sullivan selected “The Intention of the Novelist as a Catholic.” . . .
Appointed recently as “Trainer of the Year” by the American Football Trainer’s Association was suave, red-haired HUGH BURNS, the trainer of the Fighting Irish atheletic teams. . . .
Big ED (MOOSE) KRAUSE, head coach of the high riding Irish basketball
30
MR. AND MRS. THORNTON Down the aisle
squad was named as Assistant Director of Athletics it was announced last week by the University. . . .
Died. FRANCIS X. ACKERMANN, 83, beloved professor of mechanical drawing at the University of Notre Dame; of a five year illness, in St. Anthony's Hospital, Dubuque, lowa. A distinguished artist, Professor Ackermann came to Notre Dame in 1887 and conducted classes of mechanical drawing in the College of Engineering up until his retirement in 1938. He was a native of Lafayette, Indiana.
Went Dan Cupid
Married to DAVE THORNTON, January grad from Portland, Maine; Miss Margaret McNamara, January 31 in Marion, Indiana. . . .
Engaged to LEARY B. KREISSL, senior, from Chicago, Ill.; Miss Carmen Sigerfoos, of South Bend. The marriage will take place in early summer. . . .
Engaged to ROBERT J. MEAGHER, of Seattle, Washington; Miss Betty Kyser, of South Bend, Publications Office secretary, and former student of St. Mary’s College. . . .
Married to BERNARD A. CRIMMINS, of Louisville, Kentucky, assistant coach of the Notre Dame football teams; Miss Dorothy Marie Linning, February 7, in St. Paul’s Church, Louisville. . . .
Married to RICHARD F. BRANCO, freshman lawyer, from Holstein, Iowa; Miss Gladys Lucille Cassells, of South Bend. . . .
Engaged to DANIEL BARLOW, of Wichita, Kansas; Miss Teresa Murphy, of Logansport, Indiana, and St. Mary’s College. . . .
■ Book ■ Radio . ____________________sr
McGREGOR IS A QUESTION . . .
“She sounds like a woman wrestler. No ... on second thought, she sounds like a man wrestler.” That’s what Tom Muscatello of Lyons says about Evelyn McGregor, star singer of such respected radio programs as “Waltz Time,” “Manhattan Merry-Go-Round,” “American Album of Familiar Music, “American Melody Hour.”
Tom’s statement is quite debatable, however. Man Mountain Dean has a little, squeaky voice.
At any rate, Evelyn is anything but one of radio’s more vital singers. She is handicapped. Her voice flows perfectly into the swelling stream of watery music that has been flooding the country over radio waves since the days when people listened to Guy Lombardo through earphones.
That’s not to say Evelyn doesn’t sing pleasantly. She does. When the announcer sighs, “I don’t want her . . . you can have her . . . she’s too fat for me . . . Evelyn McGregor brings you the romantic love balad: Too Fat Polka,’' well, then you know you’re in for a pleasant few minutes. You know; you’ve heard other songs the same pleasant way. You’ve heard Donald Dame, Bob Hannon, Jean Dickenson, (The Nightingale of the Air) and Thomas L. Thomas sing them over and over to the same pleasant beat: one, two, three; one, two three; one, two, three. But Great Lujacks and Little Fischers! Do they have to water down every song they sing? Must all radio music sound like a leaking faucet: drip, drip, drip, drip?
WARING IS AN ANSWER . . .
People like Fred Waring say no. They say that the Blue Danube is a beautiful number, but they can’t see playing all
Engaged to GEORGE C. LEE, of South Bend; Miss Velda Hazenfield, also from South Bend. . . .
Engaged to RICHARD STACK, of Appleton, Wis.; Miss Alice Zuehlke, of the same town and formerly of Rosary College. . . -
Engaged to TED SCHAETZLE, of Akron, Ohio; Miss Doris Miller, of New York City, and formerly of Barat College. - - -
other songs to the same time or arranging them the same way. They think hillbilly music should sound like it’s coming right out of the McCoy’s living room; that negro spirituals should ba packed with low-down Hallelujahs and Amens: that cowboy songs should carry the smell of bacon fryin’ in the pan and the feelin’ of wide open spaces.
“String up all the Andre Kostelan-etzes, Mort Goulds, Ray Blocks and Dave Roses,” says music-lover Frank Gaul. “They’ve been stringing up American music with their watery violins for years. Boy, how they could use a couple of good old fashioned Zekes, Lums and Clems—a couple of fellers who could really handle a fiddle.”
AND SO IS JANE FROMAN . . .
Coca Cola sponsors a musical show you can hear Sunday nights at five-thirty over WSBT. It’s called The Pause That Refreshes, and it does just that.
This program has all the advantages of the watery shows E. McGregor sings for. It’s long on music and short on commercials. It has an announcer with a soft, pleasing voice. It avoids the tiresome technique of trying to be a comedy show, too; of having some worn out wits crack stale jokes in between numbers. It sticks to music.
But The Pause That Refreshes outshines the watery shows. For instance, Percy Faith, the man with the band, shows it’s possible for a basically string orchestra to be half way original. Unlike the Kostelanetz school, he arranges his pieces with a little daring and plays them with a bit of spark.
Then there’s Jane Froman. Coca Cola would have just another musical program if it weren’t for her. That woman can really sing. Her voice isn’t that dry, monotone type of thing you’re used to hearing. It’s full and vivacious; it has feeling; it has training.
And Jane sticks to Kern, Porter, Herbert and that crew; she doesn’t lower herself to “popular” jobs like “Pass That Peace Pipe” or burst out into operatic arias that are isolated from their proper settings. She sings songs you like, the way you like them.
So you might take a hint from The Pause That Refreshes: if you don’t like water, try coke; if you don’t like McGregor, try Froman.—Bill Lyman
31
((HUE PARADE
“She took a turn for the worse yes-
terday.”
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM O'RIELEY
ON THE SCOPE AND NATURE
OF UNIVERSITY EDUCATION . . .
A survey on why women go to college produced seme edifying answers at South Dakota University, recently. Conducted by The Volante, student newspaper, the question brought forth such replies as'
“I’m studying to prepare myself for a career.”
“I came to school to have fun and spend some of my old man’s money.”
Taking first prize was this confession:
“I came to school to be went with, but I ain’t!”
ATTENTION, PHILOSOPHY MAJORS!
Is the grind getting you down? Are your grades getting that old borderline anemia? Then may we suggest a change of scenery? The Miami (Florida) University Hurricane announces that a three credit hour course in sailing is being offered Miami students during the spring semester. (Classes held on Biscayne Bay).
They had been sitting in the swing in the moonlight alone. No word had broken the stillness for half an hour
roommate of snoring by good advice, cooperation, kindness — and by stuffing an old sock in his mouth.
From the Crown of King’s College we have extracted this so-called ‘inanity’:
In the middle of the Sahara, two Arabs were mourning over their infirm camel who had a hump on his hump. Asked one, “The nearest doctor is one mile away; will you go for him?”
Answered the other, “Why shore; I’d walk a mile for a camel.”
FOR LATIN STUDENTS ONLY . . .
Dry scurrying sounds rasp the noon quietude as the Latin student vainly pursues the lost conjugation buried somewhere on Crete amongst Cicero’s saliva-coated pebbles.
—The Crown
The Niagara Index carried a group of jokes in a column entitled Collegiana. They are intriguing to say the least.
Here’s a sample:
“How’s your wife’s driving these days?”
AMERICAN HISTORY . . .
“Children,” said the teacher, “be diligent and steadfast and you will succeed. Take the case of George Washington; do you remember my telling you of the great difficulty George Washington had to contend with?”
“Yes, Ma’am,” said one of the little boys. “He couldn’t tell a lie.”
PHOTO CREDITS
This week's cover. Maid of Cotton Hilma Seay framed in a Valentine, is by Jim Ferstel. Also by Ferstel: Kentucky game. Maid of Cotton pictures. Rebel Dance, Vet-ville Mothers, radio interview, married couple, and Campus Carnival. Carnival picture of girl and weight-guessers, as well as dance shot of black-face lads and SMC junior prom, by Gene Reynolds. Bill Meehan pictures by John Allport, Shillington Memorial by Jim McLaughlin. Chicago Club Dance by Bruce Harlan. Valentine shot and Bengal sign-up by Paul Jackson. NROTC awards by University Photographer. Amall and 50th anniversary pictures by Dick Gorman.
until—“Suppose you had money.” she said, “what would you do?”
He threw out his chest in all the glory of young manhood. “I’d travel.”
He felt her warm young hand slide into his. When he looked up she was gone.
In his hand was a nickel.
“Yes,” said the undertaker, “college boys are the easiest. They’re generally stiff when I get them.”
—The Log
The human brain is wonderful. It starts right in working the moment you wake up in the morning and doesn’t stop until you are called on in class.
—U. of Illinois Shaft
FOR SENTIMENTAL REASONS . . .
Ad from the University of Missouri’s bulletin board:
“Lost, twelve dollars — one ten and two singles. Requested back for sentimental reasons — such as eating for th? rest of the week.”
AN HONEST MAN . . .
The Squirl, from Bucknell University, tells us of the engineer on the campus who never takes a drink. You’ve got to hand it to him.
Also from the Squirl comes this notice: Attention! You can cure your
as a gift, please?”
"That dame drive* me nuta! ‘Wrap it a* a gift,’ she say*! As if anybody wanted to bother with fancy gift wrapping* to get at that delicious, clean tasting Dentyne Chewing Gum with the rich, long lasting flavor. Dentyne i* a gift at any price because it helps keep teeth white.”
Dentyne Gum — Made Only By Adams
32
Writer Knocked Silly
(Continued from Page 14) some guy was quite hoarse yelling about the time and how Miss Seay had a dinnerdate and didn’t I think I had asked enough questions? Officially I had. Perhaps Miss Seay thought I had asked too many? Miss Seay did not. “Why it’s been wonderful talking to you and I really appreciate your interest.” Anyone could appreciate my interest who has had a long look at Miss Seay.
Someone was pushing us into our coat and opening the door and as we turned to say goodbye Miss Seay was right there. “You know I’m just dying to see the campus. Really I am.” We submitted an offer but that guy was back again.
He must have been very hungry or very concerned about Miss Seay’s health. We said goodbye and Miss Seay said the same and “It’s been really sweet meeting you and you’ll be nice to me in your paper won’t you?” So we are being nice. What can a guy do?
Scorner's Seat
(Continued from Page 6) referring me to the Met’s English lib-rettoes. For fifty cents, a better investment would be five Superman comic books. The Met, when it translates its librettos into English, must procure an illiterate Siberian to do the job. I have never seen such masterpieces of mayhem
in my life. A good poet ought to be able to remedy this situation.
ADDENDA . . .
This ought properly to belong to the radio column, but perhaps it will do just as well here. WQXR, the New York Times’ Concert station, is audible at night in this locality, although I have been unable to pick it up on my little Motorola. A fair sized radio with a good pick-up ought to bring in WQXR’s full evening programs of news and concert programs, with a minimum of advertising. The frequency is 1560 kilocycles, which may or may not conflict with WHOT, depending on the strength of that station on your own set.
ENGINEERING NEW LAMPS
Conrad Bechard
“When I came back to General Electric after getting my Army discharge,” Conrad Bechard says, “the thing that impressed me most was the way the personnel people said, ‘What would you like to do?’ The way they said it meant very clearly that if there was any special field that interested me, they’d try to see that I got a crack at it.”
Con had an answer ready. He had heard a lot about Nela Park, General Electric’s “University of Light” in Cleveland, Ohio. “I’d like to go to Nela Park,” he said.
It was a big leap for him. He was asking for an assignment in a field in which he had had no previous training—not at Union College where he had gotten his degree in 1941, nor on “Test” with General Electric. In the Army he had worked in electronics. Nela Park would be a totally new experience.
But Personnel said Okay. In the two years since then, Con Bechard has contributed to better production machinery for making the new circular fluorescent lamps known as Circlines, and has helped improve their quality and life.
For your copy of “Careers in the Electrical Industry,” write to Dept. 237-6, General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.
Today Con Bechard works on lighting problems at Nela Park, center of research aiming at broader knowledge of light and lighting.
During his Army service in holy. Con won the Bronze Star for his invention of a "Chaff” dispenser used to foil Nazi radab
GENERAL ELECTRIC
33
Prop Club Accepting Members, Says Head
According to president Jack Nolan, the Propeller Club, Port of the University of Notre Dame, is now accepting membership applications. Ranked as one of the unique clubs on the campus, its Commerce school members can continue participation after graduation and upon entering the business world.
The Propeller Club of the United States consists of 100 Ports, with more than 60 within the continental limits. Six are active in Europe, three in South America, four in the West Indies and one in Hawaii. Thirty universities in this country have student or junior ports on their campuses.
Membership in the Propeller Club has many advantages, among which are the contacts that can be made with people in prospective business fields. All clubs, regardless of geographical position, welcome members and it is emphasized that membership is particularly encouraged for all those who plan to specialize in foreign trade or any form of shipping by water.
Prof. Herbert J. Bott will receive all those who are interested in joining the club in his Commerce Building office, as will president Nolan, in his room at 346 Sorin. The regular meeting, which is to be held tonight in the Commerce Building at 7:30, is also open for prospective members. A movie on South and Central America will be shown at the meeting.
Kind Coin Magnates Give Students Coke Machines
Occupants of Cavanaugh, Zahm, Farley and Breen-Phillips Halls, just recently flattered by the installation of icecream machines, have now become the recipients of another palatable consideration: coke machines.
These machines, chrome-spangled and attractive, dispense Coca-Cola and sometimes Hire’s Rootbeer a la squirt.
The contraption performs for a nickel. Once the coin is settled the whole works begins to throb and shudder, a dainty dixie cup comes tumbling down a hidden shaft to receive, just in time, twin jets of liquid, hissing from hidden apertures. One stream is sirup (either coke or rootbeer, depending), while the other is presumably carbonated water, chilled. The cup foams up, the little lights shine on the performance, the motor hums, and finally the whole shebang comes to a satisfied click-off, leaving the amazed audience pleasantly awed.
34
FOUND
MARIST COLLEGE CLASS RING
Owner may hove by identifying. Manager's Office — Dining Hall
TUXEDO FOR SALE
SIZE 38 — $20.00
Phone: 4-9150
EBERHARDFABER, v * j
Save Time with VAN DYKE Chisel Point Leads
With Chisel Point “Van Dyke” leads, you get 20% longer lines of unvarying width...save 20% more time between sharpenings. These exclusive pre-shaped, rectangular leads write with the same Microtomic smoothness as round HI-DENSITY “Van Dyke” leads.
PmiRD FABER
EXCLUSIVE .
Chisel Point leads in degrees: 43, 2B, HB, 2H, 4H, 6H.
Round leads from 9H to 7B.
k- CHISEL POINT LEADS
LADIES! THROW AWAY THOSE BEAR TRAPS
Lasso your Lil’ Abners come Valentine’s Day with a couple of well-chosen Arrow ties.
We suggest a couple of Arrow knits in solid colors or stripes, §1.50 (made especially tor college men) or some smart Arrow stripes and English patterned foulards from §1.00.
Drop in at your Arrow store and pick out a brace of beauties.
Arrow hand-1 ■ kerchiefs with your man’s initials from 35c.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
SB-----—---------------------------
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
cause for American Pride...
THE TREATY OF PARIS
Copr. 1048 by The Parker Pen Company
★ First formal recognition by any power of the independence of the United States. It provided, among other things, for the removal of all British troops from America. Article 10 of the original treaty, along with a hundred other famous documents in American history, is now touring the country aboard the “Freedom Train”. Watch for this train’s arrival in your area!
Be proud of what you write and the way you write it!
Parker "51
Just hold a new Parker “51” in your hand! Note its tapered beauty. Already you know the pride of owning the world’s most-wanted pen. You feel like writing! See how instantly the “51” starts —and the way it writes ..; smoothly, effortlessly, without a skip. Truly, here’s a pen that reflects credit on everything you write! So, ask for the Parker “51”. Two sizes: regular and new demi-size. Both with wide range of custom points to choose from. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, U.S. A., and Toronto, Canada.


Satisfy yourself
HESTEKFIH1)
1
12
Copyright 1948, Liggett & Myeks Joucco Co,
METROPOLITAN OPERAS WORLD 'FAMOUS CARMEN

... like Rise Stevens, that Chesferne/ds
ore always milder
® BETTER TASTING
^COOLER SMOKING



