\ 

; 
7 
if";_ :r,_~~r ,!s .. _ ~/~.: ~ 
1!{{:r;_~-:"':~ ,-~ 
;:ti~-,. :-,
~i ... 
,:,:.\;, ~~..­
,..__,~­
"-.
~ 
' \-:::. 4.......... • 

JANUARY 26, 1973 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

scholastic 
5 introduction 

6 so you want to be a quarterback dennis wall 12 the wrapup jim donaldson 24 statistics 25 91 's 7 days in m1am1 mike creaney 28 excerpts from "all la glory" michael lonier 
30 notre dame du press box terri lustic 
SPECIAL ISSUE 

3 I a network orange timothy standring a 32 idea. leo j. mulcahey 
football 
¦


review 

VOLUME 114, NO. 8 

The opinions expres;ed in the ScHOL\STIC arc those of the author; and editor; of the Sc1101.ASTIC and do not nece~sarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. -16556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue. New York, N.Y. 10017. Publi;hecl fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave ,\/aria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate i; $5.00 a year and back numbers arc ~l\-ailable from the ScHOLASTJC. Please addres; all manuscripts to the ScuoLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unrnlicitcd material becomes the property of the ScnoLASTJC. 
editor: greg stidham / art director: michael lonier / managing editor: 
jim munsch / assistant editors: george block, jim fanto, jim gresser, pat 
mccracken, dan o'donnell, jim pauer, terri phillips, joe runde, jack wenke / 
business manager: joe meyer / circulation: roger burrell / faculty advisor: frank o'malley I staff: pat ahasic, 1ay berry, paul bolduc, brian burke, 
t. j. clinton, paul colgan, greg conti, buz craven, jim delong, al depman, chris fahey, tom gora, don jaspers, mike king, tim kochems, juan manigualt, dennis mcintyre, kerry mcnamara, feo j. mufcahey, mare nishan, peggy perkinson, casey pocius, bob quakenbush, john ring, pat roach, neil rosini, mary siege!, tim standring, sally stanton, theresa stewart, ·katy sullivan, bubby vespole, pete weber, mark wenig, bob wielgos / business: gus brown, jim hoban / art & photography: earl hawkey, terri lustic, don nollet, nan smith. 
illustrations: the cover is an original lithograph specially prepared by don vogl of the notre dame art department / photographs on.. inside front cover, 5, 30, 31 by michael lonier / photograph on 7, 9 by dav.id iuppa / cartoon on 4 by huehnergarth in tv guide / photographs on 13, ··17, 19, 21, 26 by james hunt / photographs on 14, 18, 22 by joe raymond / photograph on 33 by dick lucas / drawing on 34 by don nollet. · 
copyright © I 973 scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be, reproduced without permission 

.PRE-MARDI GRAS ROCK FESTIVAL 
February 14-19 

featuring all of the Top Twenty Groups and 
many more just outside sunny New Orleans send now for tickets and itinerary ~~ly $28.00 each -$38.00 per couple 
To: Sidney Manix Enterprises 
1026 Conti Street 
New Orleans, Louisiana 70112 
HURRY! TICKETS LIMITED 


FREE FLYING LESSONS 
PLUS $9,800 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR 
And that's only the start of your career as 
a piloljnavigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial flying career .... or impressive executive credentials to go with the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You'll earn from $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits including 30 days paid vacation annually, free world-wide air travel, medical care and much more. If you're between 20½ and 26½, a senior or graduate student, you may qualify. 
United States Air Force 
109 ~. LaSalle St. ­
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46601 
Phone: 233-4747 

'.are all about.. · 
·. 
THE JOY OF LIVING·. IS JN THE JOY OF 
Giving· 
Praying 


Working 
Sharing the joys 
the laughter 
the problems 

the success 
and failures 

knowing that where there is human need in·the cities, ·the suburbs, 
in parishes, -~ncampus 
the Paulist is there 



he_fptng 

= F~moreInf~write:· · copn_selirig . : · FatherDonaldc.. (:amphell,_ . . rejoicing .. ' Room 193• . ·· ··· .. ·. .. in the prese_nce --· · 
, . · •·.··· : .::-· ·.· ...·· ·. ofth~good · · .· .. 
. D-..1!-& . . . . . .
~
.··rcauu..,amu.im.lj..-. :_ -.~~din· · ... :_:: .. -.< /4i5West 59thStretit=>·:.-_..· ·.=: . ·_ ·. th~l.signs pf hope._._. . ;-. NewYork~N~Y; 10019. .--: .....:...~>:., :·, ·around tis 
:.. -·..-:: ., . · ...

-----------------.J ........ ;·, .. ·. ·.=.,..:·.: ..:·.·'.·.· :··.:. -... · ·::· .-...-· .· ...... _:_.·.:.. 
Football has, in recent years, become a topic of much 
conversation at Notre Dame. Of course, the sport has 
always been a popular topic here, but lately many of 
the conversations have taken a new turn, no longer 
fixated on questions of why we should have been rated 
#1 this year, or "if only we had gotten that first down, 
and Ohio State had beaten Southern Cal." More and 
more students have called into question the real value 
of the sport, and that would seem to be a healthy sign. 
Notre Dame is a terribly image-conscious school, and for over half a century that image was built almost exclusively on the excellence of its football teams. And for most people not directly associated with the Uni­versity, football is still the first thing which comes to mind at the mention of Notre Dame. That is indeed a tragedy, for Notre Dame is much more than a Prepro­f essional Football Training School. But the job of convincing others of that fact is a difficult one, as any student will confirm who has attempted over summer vacations to direct conversations about Notre Dame to topics other than athletics. 
It seems to me that people like Mike Creaney and Greg Marx have done much to combat the jock image of the school. Mike's. plans for the future include the distinct possibility of returning to Notre Dame next year to make up two science courses in anticipation of applying to medical school. Greg's selection to the Scholastic All-American team is nearly as well publi­cized as his selection to the more conventional All­American football team. Last year's team co-captain and All-American guard Larry DiNardo, after an NCAA-sponsored tour of South Vietnam, had the courage to publish an article denouncing the war. John Dampeer took part in a similar tour last summer. The captain of the 1969 Irish football team, Mike Oriard, is now playing for the Kansas City Chiefs. But during the off-seasons Mike has been completing work for his Ph.D. in English and this spring will teach a literature course at Stanford entitled "Sports and Society." It is fortunate for Notre Dame that men who have made their name in athletics are also making a name in other fields. I am afraid, though, that the image still persists. 
In the last several months the editorial board of the SCHOLASTIC has raised several questions of its own, based on the fear that publishing a football review would only serve to perpetuate the jock image of Notre Dame. Finally, though, it was decided that, as there is likely nothing inherently wrong with football, we might be able to do a service by attempting to place athletics in a more proper and larger perspective. And with the same purpose in mind, we would like to invite our readers who have subscribed only to the "Football Review" to share some of the other issues -the special issue on the arts at Notre Dame, the issue on academia and mental health, etc. We would be more than happy to pass along testimony that Notre Dame is much, much more than just a football factory. 
-greg stidham 


JANUARY 26, 1973 





11111111I 
11-1 

I 111'11Pb1ck? 

-' -•'.' 
I don't -know where the idea came from. -I suppose­no, I know-that part of its origin springs from George Plimpton's Paper Lion. I kriow, too, that part of its growth is due to unfulfilled ambition as a high-school tackle. (In my last two years in high school, I missed ten out of sixteen games because of various injuries inflicted upon me largely by my own ineptitude on the practice field.) In any event, in November of 1971 I walked into Ara Parseghian's office in the ACC and told him that I wanted to be a quarterback for Notre Dame. I explained that I wanted to work out with the team and handle one series of downs, if possible, in the Blue-Gold game. Coach Parseghian didn't seem. too enthralled with the quarterback part of it; perhaps because I had never played quarterback in my life. He asked me what position I had played in high school, and I told him. It didn't exactly surprise me when he said that at 5'10" and 180 pounds, I'd be too small to be a lineman at Notre Dame -and too slow to be anything else but a quarterback. He finally consented to the proposition-"Yeah, sure, sounds good"-and then he .told me that if it came to the point where either I was damaging the team's progress or when I myself could get damaged, we'd have to forget the whole thing. I quickly agreed, and that's how my football career at Notre Dame began. Under the wing of Coach Dennis Murphy I "enrolled" in winter conditioning practice. What· follows are_ excerpts from the journal I kept during that time; some phrases have been changed into full sentences, otherwise what you will read is what I wrote when I was going through the painful process of 

being George Plimpton. 
Feb. 16, 1972:.What went through Plimpton's mind as he went out for that first practice? My mind is filled with fear and with the awareness that I really didn't ­and still don't -know what I was getting into. 

"Agility drills" is a euphemism for body-destroyers. You've got to combine the best features of a cat and a kangaroo, an·with the force of a Patton tank. First is the mile run, which· took me approximately ten min­utes, then up a flight of stairs running every step, then running every other step, then hopping up every other step, then every third, then every fourth. Then you run laterally over dummies laid on the ground, then to an upstairs gym to be timed·on the rope climb. I failed to reach the top both times I tried it. After the second time, I went over to Jim Musuraca, a linebacker and my-group leader -he shrugged his shoulders. I said, "You know, this is embarrassing." He said, "Don't ~ worry about it. Most of the guys are getting in shape all winter long. Shit,'this is our living." After the rope climb came the parallel bars, ·which I couldn't finish, and then skipping rope, which I couldn't do either. When we went to the last exercise of the day, the hori­zontal ladder, I couldn't jump high enough to reach the first rung. One of the players had to give me a boost. I caught the first rung this time, and for the first time in my life I went all the way across the horizontal ladder. It was epoxy for my shattered ego. 
At the end of practice, Coach Bill Hickey informed me that my moustache had to go -team rules. What is this, the Army? I walked up to Musuraca again when 
·it was all over, and I said, "Well, Jim, I know I have no 
JANUARY 26, 1973 
stellar abilities, but do you think I'll survive?" His reply: "As a quarterback, yes." 
While I was dressing in the locker room to go home, putting on my street clothes, I felt kind of sad -it was a• strange feeling -because you see, for an hour and twenty minutes today I was a football player. 
Feb. 18, 1972: Today was a new day. We went out­side-in balmy, breezy 25-degree weather. First, there was group· cal, as usual; it consists of stretching exer­cises·and the like to get warmed up quickly. Then we formed into our groups and went across the seven-man sled, at first hitting every section and then spinning off to every other one. Next we ran from pillar to post in the runway of the stadium, frontwards, backwards and laterally, then on hands and knees the same three ways. The last exercise was the chin-up. (I could do two and a half; ironically, the requirement was five.) We moved into the stadium and proceeded to run up the stadium steps, thirty-five or forty in all, in the snow. Today we had to run them six times. Next time it'll be a little more. 
There I was, in that stadium, pretending I was a football player. I was glad that Rockne couldn't see me; he was a harder driver than Coach John Murphy is, I'm·sure. 
I lucked out -we ran in sections of five guys, and my section was one of the last, so we got sent in before we ran the last time. However, it was not all over. We still had to run six laps around the stadium runway. I honestly don't know how many laps I ran. When I first started lapping it, I ~wear. I couldn't_ run at all -my thighs and lower leg muscles were so swollen that I had no kneecaps, literally. When I started jogging, I lost almost all track of numbers; although I'm sure I did less than six. To show what I mean, I met Coach Murphy twice while lapping. The first time he asked me what lap I was on, and I said, "Third, I think." The next time he saw me I was walking. I think I'm going to get an "F" for "desire." 
Feb. 21, 1972: It's over again. For another day I was a football player. The anxiety I felt so deeply be­fore practice began has changed into a quite different feeling. Pride. I am actually proud of myself -proud to have finished another day of "practice" without em­barrassing myself too much, proud that it's getting a little easier to do, proud that most of the players accept my presence. I think that for some I am something of an object of disdain, because I am, of course, perpetual­ly last in all of these drills. But, like I said, the majority seem to accept me almost "as one of them" and it feels good. 
Some of my friends are wondering why I'm spend­ing so much time at the ACC. I tell them that I'm going out for place-kicker with the football team. They don't find it easy to believe-until I tell them· that place­kickers do little more than k~ck. Now they believe me. I wonder what they would think if they knew the real story.· My right arm is killing me. (I think I strained a triceps a little bit on the damn chin-ups.) My head is throbbing, my knees ache when I walk -and I feel great. J've survived another day. Besides, this exercise is doing me good, and I've been forced to cut my ciga­

·rette consumption down to¼ of what it was (from two packs a day to eight or nine cigarettes a day). I'm 
• also building my self-confidence somewhat. So I sup­pose that even if I don't make it all the way to the Blue-Gold game on May 6, it will have been worth it. I'm still looking forward to that game, though! 
I saw Coach (Dennis) Murphy again today. I wanted to ask him a couple of questions and get my role here straight. He had a question for me as it turned out ­he wanted to know if I was to be "incognito" with the players -I said yes, but the coaches might as well know -and he said something very instructive as to my role: "I see, then, you want to be just another stu­dent." Significant that he didn't say "just another player" or even "just another walk-on." I'm not at all angry -I just find it interesting. Perhaps later I'll be able to put my feelings on this in order. 
Musuraca asked me how I felt after Friday's prac­tice. I told him about having no idea of t~e number of laps I did at the end of practice. He said it was true for him as well -that everything looked the same in the runway (which it did) and that he counted his laps by the number of times he passed a certain ice patch. 
One more thing: I'm going to find the guy who first thought up the idea of stretching ropes together to form squares and then having you run through this mess. First, we ran throug~ with our feet in every square, then (you guessed it!) every other square, then putting our right foot in the left-hand square, the left foot in the right-hand square, and so on, all the way to the end. Whoever thinks up this stuff ought to be committed. I almost broke my ass on that thing today. 

Feb. 23, 1972: Did the group cal today, then hit the sled (straight on and then spinning off), then chin-ups, running and crab walk "from pillar to post," then eight times up and down the stadium steps, then cross­country down Eddy, across Juniper and into the back of the ACC (cutting corners with the rest). Didn't stop on that last run! 
Enjoyed hitting the sled today. Might be a clue to how these joking, friendly guys can go out on that field on Saturdays in the fall and hit people. 
Heard an interesting conversation before practice began today. The black players tend to stand apart from the rest of the players until practice begins. One white player turned to another and said, "There's our Black Studies Group," pointing to the black guys. The other one said, "Yeah, I'd like to see those guys in spring practice." Cliff Brown was in that group of black players. Cliff wears a sweat shirt with "QB?" printed on the front of it. From what I've heard among the players, Brown is right to put a question mark after QB -Tom Clements, who lives in my hall, is supposed to be pretty good. At least Sorin will have one quarter­back in the Blue-Gold game this year. 
Feb. 25, 1972: We play basketball at 4:30 today and supposedly there's nothing to do between now and then. I'm glad for the reprieve. Talked to Brian Clemente, a linebacker who lives in Sorin, last night after I came back from Louie's. Clemente made the observation that he thought I wasn't quite sure of exactly what I wanted from this. I'm afraid he's partially right. What inter­ests me is the motivation of these people: what 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
makes them spend their Saturday afternoons in the fall hitting people. Clemente thought, as I do, that the answers will be as numerous as the players -although it intrigues me enough to find out if there isn't some small index of commonality after all. One answer is the NFL. It surprised me how many of the players ­at least the ones that I've talked to -are really going to give pro ball a shot if they get the chance. But that's only one of the reasons, and it really does not answer why they play football in the first place. 
In the basketball game today, I was terrible. I'm almost as bad at that as I am in regular practice. One of the guys on my team, a starting player, got on my back a little during the game. Darryll Dewan, a start­ing halfback, told me not to worry about it -and he said it loud enough for the other guy to hear. Thank God for Darryll Dewan! I know one thing -I find it hard to talk back to these guys. But then again ­today was the first time I might have had to. 
The succeeding days passed like the days before had. We got Easter vacation off and started again on April 5 -the first day of practice with pads. 
April 6, 1972: At training table now. Separate table for most of the black guys on the team. (Willie Town­send sat down across from me, though, with another guy.) Practice was amazing yesterday. First, all the varsity guys without equipment got their stuff, then the walk-ons got the leftovers. We were supposed to be on the field at 3:45, but we walk-ons didn't get out until 5:30. When we got out, there were four offen-


JANUARY 26, 1973 
those uads cost alot of monev 

use lbe1 

hit so1ebodv 

sive groups and three or four on defense, rotating in and out after b~ing in for one play each. They then moved up to four plays per group. The hitting -yes. they hit on the first day -was shocking. I mean that I was in a state of shock to begin with. I walked past Lou Ferello, one of the managers, without recognizing him even when he said hello to me. (Earlier in the day I checked with Coach Dennis Murphy about whether I should get equipment or not, and I was mum­bling so bad he had to ask me what I was talking about.) But I've never seen such a willingness to get somebody, such a willingness ("desire,'' as they say in footballese) to hit other people. The snap of the ball, the grunts and groans and growls, the hitting of pads all down the line, the "unh" let out by the ball-carrier as all the air in his body is forced outward by the force of the linebacker's shoulder pads. And the coaches run­ning all over the place. (Defensive coach to a player: "Dammit, those pads cost a lot of money. Use them! Hit somebody!") Parseghian seems to be everywhere. shouting the players to perfection: "Goddammit, what do you think we're out here for? Run that damned play! And hit! Now run that play right!" By the way, everything Parseghian says when on the field during practice is yelled. 
After practice, when the team gathers together, it is possible to hear Coach Parseghian speak in normal tones. Like yesterday: "All right, men. Today we were seeing what kind of a team we're going to have in nineteen-seventy-TWO. Tomorrow night we will have a meeting...." And so on. 
Anyway, about today. My helmet kills me. I have 
that name is vour final exam 
to wear the glasses with it because I'm blind without 
them and I can't afford contacts. I'm the only player 
with glasses on during practice, of course. Still, my 
helmet would be too tight. But according to Gene 
O'Neill, the equipment manager, it's the right size for 
me. I wonder if he has enough confidence in that par:­
ticular judgment to pay my Excedrin bill. But there's 
something in football about "the tighter the-helmet, the 

safer the head." My head must be like Fort Knox, man. One good thing today: we walk-ons got to watch the varsity again and see how the game is really played before we ourselves have to go in there. Clements really · does look good. About the only problem he's having is 
synchronization with his receivers. Once he gets that 
down he may answer Mr. Brown's -question for him. 
There is a freshman here named Eric Penick. It seems 
that if he ever gets the ball to the outside, whether on 
a run or a pass, he is gone down that sideline. He's the 
fastest person I have ever seen. Another thing I found 
out today-I hope Greg Marx doesn't get mad during 
the Blue-Gold game if I'm in there. Some offensive 
tackle put a sloppy block on him today, cutting him 
down from behind around the knees. Mr: Marx in­
formed him that that was not-the thing to_ do and he 
did it in a way that I'll bet that tackle will never forget. 
April 7, 1972: Today in practice we all took cal to­gether and then the walk-ons separated into a distinct group under the tutelage of Coach Dennis Murphy. We ran through the rope squares -two stuck end to end. I just about chucked the whole thing right then. Then we practiced the three-point stance, ran and touched the crossbar on the goal posts, ran laterally and frontal­ly over the dummies on the ground, then hit the seven­man sled individually .(first straight across and then spinning off), then practiced formations. (Of the twelve walk-ons, nine are out for defense and three for offense, including me.) Murphy showed me where to put my hands under the center and how to hold them. We practiced the pitch, and on one play, by the time I got back from center the fullback was on line between me and the halfback. By the time he got past him, the halfback was moving toward the line so fast I pitched it forward of the line of scrimmage. Murphy said: "What was that? That was a forward pass!" By this time, Coach Parseghian had walked to where we 
were. He saw what had been going on and was crack­ing up as he asked Murphy what we were doing. Mur­phy replied that we were working on t?-e pitch. Parseghian said: "That wasn't a pitch, that was a for­
ward pass!" (Next time I'll eat the ball!) 
Another time Coach Parseghian laughed was when we were doing passing drills. The center knew the snap was to be on the second sound, because Coach Murphy's assistant told him. But while the assistant was telling the center that, Coach Murphy was telling me how to come back from the ball and set up for the pass~ I walked up to the center, psyched myself up and said_ forcefully, -"Hut," expecting the ball ori the first sound. It didn't come. Then, softly, leaning closer, "Hut!" Nothing. Still softer and leaning still closer, "Hut!" Still nothing.: Then I leaned over to his helmet and yelled in the earhole, "Hike the -goddammed ball!" He hiked it. 
Parseghian was also delighted with my lackof pass­ing ability. All in all, I connected three out of ten times, but onc;e I threw to one of the def enders so I shouldn't really count that as a completion. The other times the defenders batted the ball down or it fell out of the air of its own accord, something like_ a wounded duck. All in all, a wonderful practice, capped off by standing around and watching the team go through tlle plays in the rain for about an hour. John Cieszkowski is running like he did last year-_ mostly through peo­ple. Andy Huff is running well, too. Needless to say, Eric Penick is getting ready to be a starter. 

Parseghian talked to me at the beginning of prac­tice today. (This was before he got into his tower, which is about forty feet tall and is pulled around by a pickup truck. He goes up there so he can see the entire field at once. He doesn't miss a thing; you never forget he's there.) He told me that if I messed up their coaching, I'd be out. Second time he's told me this. At first he didn't recognize me. He looked straight at me, pointed at me and said. "Who is this?" He looked around for anqther coach for an answer, then looked back at me, having failed to find another coach around. As I was walking toward him, I mumbled who I was, and he said, "Well?" I then reminded him of what I was doing, and we had the previous conversation. I don't think I really impressed him today -but I'm more of a writer than a Johnny Unitas anyway. 
April 8, 1972: As I was checking the blackboard in the locker room to find out what we were going to _do today, somebody walked into me and gave me a little shove away from the blackboard. I looked up, and there was Cliff Brown, just staring at the board. After a few seconds he -just walked away, without saying a thing. Strange man. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
Anyway, there was no practice today. South Bend 

is in the throes of its annual Easter-time blizzard. (One 
player said: "What is this? I want to go outside! I'm 
pissed.") 
Now to tell about last night's meeting, after training 

table in the North. Dining Hall. Ara, true to form, · 
started at exactly 7:30, like he said he·would. Town­
send had told· me not to worry, to relax and things 
would come easier. He thought I was a freshman­
but it didn't faze him a bit when I told him I was a 
junior. I told him there was something he had that I 
didn't have -talent. "Oh, you wouldn't be out there if 
you didn't have the talent," he said. Little does he 
know. He must have noticed that I wear glasses in 
practice (ifs not hard to, I'm the only one who does), 
because he said I ought to get contacts. I told him I 
couldn't afford them and he said I should try to get the 
school to pay for them. He thinks I'm an athlete! 
·Again, little does he know. 
Anyway, Coach Parseghian inveighed against the 

evils of alcohol, tobacco and drugs. He was rhetorical: "Does · (sic) alcohol and tobacco build endurance? No...." and he listed reasons why not. (I remember something about lactic acid being caused by alcohol and tobacco, which induces fatigue.) He did the same thing for drugs, capping that off by saying he knew of a former ND player who was in trouble because of them. He also introduced the coaches (for the benefit of our dozen or so walk-ons), and started the meaty part of his speech by saying: "I may not be as intelligent as some of you. I may not be able to take a test as well as some of you. But I've got something you haven't got: experience. That's something you'll have to wait to get." He went on to say that "A true expression of education is football. That game (gesturing in the direction of the stadium) is your final exam." Football · is a true expression of education "because it is practi­cal." He said that we are applying what we're learning. He also said that we've got "what's in here (hitting his stomach), intestinal fortitude -guts!" He said, "there's a lot of guys on this campus, I don't mean just the students, or the faculty" whom he wouldn't trust in a situation requiring intestinal fortitude. "In a situation that requires a real decision, I'd put my money on you, baby." He concluded by explaining the rules of the Notre Dame football team, which are those of the NCAA, and said that if we couldn't follow them, 
then we knew his opinion on that: we could leave. 
April 9, 1972: Asked Offensive Backfield Coach Tom 

JANUARY 26. 1973 
Pagna to talk to Coach Parseghian for me. Nothing has been said for some time about the Blue-Gold game. I've seen enough practice to know what goes on, and I'm certainly not getting the feeling of what it's like to be a quarterback thfa way. Pagna was really nice about it, .said he understood. Hope he's in my corner. No practice again today. We did have a "skull ses­sion," though. The team split up into its sp~ci.fic parts, . of which· mine was offensive backs. Coach Pagna went through his circles and x•s. He really knows this stuff. Interesting thing: we were all handed cards with a basic explanation of the system at ND, and a basic out­line of some new plays. Other plays were put on the board to be copied into our notebooks, and they used the terminology on this card. Anyway, Andy Huff came in late, sat down behind me, and asked to see my card. Now since he was a starter and I was a walk-on, he could have "pulled rank" and just kept it -I can think of one or two players who would have-but he didn't. He copied the whole thing into his notebook and handed it back to me. Andy Huff has class. 
Before we were told that practice was cancelled, we walk-ons were sitting together. Somebody said that he wanted to go out despite the weather, and he couldn't understand why the varsity didn't want to go out. Another guy said that it was probably because they were afraid of us, but that there were a couple of guys on the varsity who could be on the same field with us. We "walk-ans" are united in at least one thing-we are unbelievably in awe of Notre Dame football players. 
The next day in practice Ara Parseghian called me over to him. He said that Coach Pagna had told him that I needed to have the down or series of downs in the game or my purpose was defeated. I told him that that was right, and he enumerated reasons why I would not get into the game: he had eight quarterbacks already, and he wasn't sure all of them would get into the game; he had a lot of scholarship players to evalu­ate and a lot of people out for the team, so neither he nor his coaches could afford to spend any time watch­ing me; I might get hurt, which would look bad for the University, and wouldn't be good for me either. He ended by saying that "of course, it's up to you, but from my point of view, it's worthless." With that, he turned and walked away. I didn't know what to do. Coach Dennis Murphy tried to convince me to stick out practice at least, and Coach Pagna had offered to help me as much as he could, but it all somehow seemed futile. I went back to the locker room and took off my equipment. The last thing I put away was my helmet. It had just begun to fit. 


dennis wall 
AccoRDING to the records, the 1972 Fighting Irish football team was Ara Parseghian's worst club in his nine years as Notre Dame's head coach. Never before had a Parseghian-coached Irish team lost three games in a single season. Never before had an opponent scored 40 points against Notre Dame, but two clubs did it in 1972. And not since 1963, when Hugh Devore was head coach, had Notre Dame finished lower than their 1972 national ranking of 15th. 
A season-ending 45-23 beating at the.hands of An­thony Davis and Southern California, coupled with the humiliating 40-6 debacle against Nebraska in the Or­ange Bowl on January 1 led to ·widespread agreement that, yes, 1972 was the worst year in the "Era of Ara." 
But was 1972 really that bad a season? Was there greater disappointment over this year's 8-3 record than Irish fans experienced in 1967 when, after opening the season as the nation's number one club, Notre Dame finished with a 7-2-1 slate? Was ·the performance of the '72 squad more upsetting than that of the 1971 Irish, another highly ranked club before the season started, one that boasted of the nation's strongest defense, yet finished with an 8-2 record and the 13th spot in the polls? 
Eight members of that vaunted '71 defensive eleven graduated last spring. Two linebackers,· three members of what was considered to be collegiate football's best front four, and the entire secondary departed, includ­ing three All-Americans-Walt Patulski, Clarence Ellis and Mike Kadish. ·Nat o_nly was the defense riddled by graduation, but the offense lost split end Tom Gate­wood, Notre Dame's all-time _leading pass catcher. 
Viewing his graduation-riddled defensive unit and an offense that, even with Gatewood, had scored only 225 points in '71, Parseghian remarked early in Sep­tember, "This is the biggest rebuilding job I've faced since coming to N ot:re Dame." 
There were no delusions of grandeur surrounding the 1972 Irish in early fall. Some football analysts pre­dicted Notre Dame would win just six of its 10 games. The Irish were certainly young and definitely enthusi­astic, but how talented they were was questionable. What little optimism Parseghian permitted himself was evidenced when he said, "Attitude can make a big differ­ence in a team. A club with good morale, good leader­ship and determination can overcome inexperience. Those things are intangibles, ·but they become very :n:ieaningful on the field. I believe that responsibility makes new stars." · 
The new star did, indeed, emerge. Tom qements, up from the freshman team, ousted '71 regular Cliff Brown from the starting quarterback position prior to the first game and directed the Irish attack with poise and confidence seldom seen in a sophomore quarterback. He completed 51 percent of his passes, good for 1163 yards and eight touchdowns, during the regular season and finished the year as the club's fourth leading rusher, with 341 yards and four touchdowns. 
Sophomore halfback Eric Peni~k (a 9.5 sprinter) rushed for 727 yards, the best Irish total since 1954. Another speed merchant:, freshman halfback Art Best, averaged 9.3 yards on 17 carries, including touch­down runs of.56 and:57 _yards, the latter coming the first 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
time he carried the ball in varsity competition. 
Senior fullback Andy Huff, a steady but unheralded 
performer his first two years, came into his own in '72, 
leading the team in scoring with 60 points and 10 touch­
downs and finishing second to Penick in the rushing 
totals with 567 yards. 
HUSTLING wide receiver Willie Townsend, while 
hardly another Gatewood, became Clements' favorite 
pass catcher and topped the club with 25 receptions. 
But he was overshadowed by his younger brother Mike 
-"the little T"-a defensive back who, in his first year 
as a starter, set a Notre Dame record for pass inter­
ceptions with 10. 
Steve Niehaus, a massive (6'5", 265) freshman 
tackle showed promise of becoming one of the country's 
great defensive linemen in future years, bringing down 
47 ball carriers before a practice field knee injury side­
lined him for the rest of the season. Still, he finished 
seventh on the team in tackles made, despite playing 
only four games. 
Veteran linebacker Jim O'Malley led the squad in 
tackles with 122 and All-American tac_kle Greg Marx 
and lin_ebacker Jim Musuraca, both seniors, weren't far 
behind. Another talented youngster, sophomore line­
backed Drew Mahalic, was fourth on the club with 
77 tackles. 
But Notre Dame's youthful stars like Clements, 
Penick, Best, Niehaus, Mike Townsend and Mahalic 
were · still unproven in mid-September and Parseghian 
looked ahead with trepidation at his club's first three 
opponents-Northwestern, Purdue and Michigan State. 
"We'll have to grow up quickly," he said. "What 
happens in our first three games will go a long way in 
determining how well we do this season." 

Purdue, boasting players like Otis·Armstrong, Dave Butz, Gary Danielson, Darryl Stingley, Rick Sayers, Greg Bingham and Rick Schavietello, all professional prospects, and Michigan State, led by everybody's All­American safety Brad Van Pelt and offensive stars Joe DeLamielleure and Billy Joe Dupree, were considered prime contenders for the Big Ten title. Northwestern wasn't supposed to be a strong team but when the Wildcats only lost 7-0 to Michigan, which figured to have a shot at national honors, Alex Agase's club gave Parseghian a bit more to worry about prior to the sea­son opener. 
In the week before Notre Dame played its first game Parseghian acknowledged that, because of the gradua­tion losses, "There's no way we can be as good this year defensively as we were last year. 
"Because of our young defense it is mandatory that we improve our offensive productivity," he said. "We hope to be able to put more points on the scoreboard and take the burden off our defensive unit." 
NOTRE DAME did just that Sept. 23 against North­western in Evanston's Dyche Stadium. Scoring the first five times they had the football, the Irish built up a 27-0 lead in a little over 20 minutes and romped by the 'Cats; 37-0. 
· With senior halfback Darryll Dewan accounting for 

One of the three Northwestern fumbles. 

105 yards, Notre Dame rushed for 386 yards against a 'Cat defense that had held Michigan to only 259 total yards the previous weekend. Soccer-style placekicker Bob Thomas tied a record he already shared with Gus Dorais by booting three field goals, including one from 47 yards away. The Irish defense, led by O'Malley and the 17-year-old Niehaus, who each made 13 tackles, forced six Northwestern turnovers-recovering three fumbles and making three pass interceptions-to make Parseghian nine-for-nine in season openers at Notre Dame. 
JANUARY 26, 1973 
Andy Huff breaks away against l\lichigan State behind a l\Iike Creaney block. 
After the "green" defense stopped Northwestern's initial series of the overcast afternoon, it took the Irish just seven plays to go 53 yards for a score. Dewan picked up the first touchdown of the new season, sprint­ing 30 yards around right end behind blocks by Mike Creaney and Frank Pomarico. 
The next time the Irish had possession they marched 80 yards in 11 plays, John Cieszkowski going over for the score from the two-yard line with 1:48 left in the first quarter. 
Notre Dame settled for field goals of 23 and 26 yards by Thomas on its next two sorties but crossed the goal line again on its fifth turn with the football. An interception and 12-yard runback by O'Malley put the Irish on the Northwestern 31 and two plays later­after a 30-yard run by \iVillie Townsend on an end­around and a one-yard plunge by Huff-Notre Dame led, 27-0. Thomas' 47-yard field goal with three seconds to go in the half enabled the Irish to go to the locker room with a 30-0 halftime advantage. 
"I was apprehensive about ho~ good or bad we'd be," Parseghian said afterwards. "But we got good field position and were able to score early. Our execu­tion was good, our timing was good, we didn't make mistakes and we were able to keep them off balance." 
SPEAKING for his defensive mates, co-captain Marx said,· "The 'greenness' went right out of us today. Ev­eryone said how 'green' we were and how we were going to get killed. But the coaches worked hard to instill confidence in the younger guys, so what hap­pened? They went out there and they were cooler than I was." 
Northwestern's only scoring threat was a 30-yard field goal attempt that _was blocked by Tim Rudnick. "I thought our defense did well," Parseghian said with a smile. 
The Irish coach also praised his young players­especially ·Niehaus and Clements. "Niehaus was excep­tional," he said, "and Clements did a nice job handling the club." 
Backfield coach Tom Pagna was a bit more effusive about Clements, saying, "For the first game he was super. His handoffs and faking were just about perfect." 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



the 'greenness' went out of us today 
A week later, everyone was praising Clements. 
Before the usual sellout crowd of 59,075, Notre 
Dame played its first home game of the year against a 
Purdue club that was, surprisingly, 0-2, and the Irish 
and Clements turned in an awesome offensive perform­
ance. With Clements completing 17 of 24 passes for 
287 yards and two touchdowns, Notre Dame racked up 
636 yards in total offense and thumped the Boiler­
makers, 35-14. 
Jumping out to a 14-0 lead in the first quarter, the Irish led 21-0 at halftime and upped their advantage to 35-0 after three quarters before Purdue scored a pair of meaningless touchdowns in the final 15 minutes. 
While Clements was dazzling the Boilers with his aerial accuracy, Penick was running wild, accounting for 133 yards in only 12 carries and scoring a touchdown. 
The defensive unit came in for its share of honors, too, limiting Purdue to only 39 first-half yards-all on the ground-while the Irish offense rolled up 153 yards rushing and 250 passing in the first 30 minutes. Had it not been for the early-game heroics of the defense, Purdue might not have ended up on the short end of the score. 
A Penick fumble on the first play from scrimmage gave the Boilermakers the ball on the N.D. 33 and they quickly picked up a first down. But Niehaus and O'Malley got the Irish out of trouble, Niehaus separat­ing Purdue's Bill Pedhoretzky from the football with a jarring tackle and O'Malley recovering on the 17. 
Taking advantage of a roughing the kicker penalty against Purdue which enabled them to retain posses­sion, the Irish drove 83 yards for their first touchdown on the ensuing series. In a third-and-13 situation at the Boilermaker 39, Clements fired a perfect pass to Crea­ney at the 20 and the big tight end romped in for the score. Thomas, who didn't miss an extra point all season, converted, to give N.D. a 7-0 lead after only five minutes. 
Later in the quarter, another Irish fumble turned the ball over to Purdue 43 yards from the goal line but, again, the Irish defense was equal to the challenge and the Boilers were forced to punt. 

Notre Dame took over at its own 30 and, after a five-yard penalty, covered 75 yards in just six plays for its second touchdown. 
A 30-yard pass to Creaney was the big play in the drive, which ended with Penick darting 14 yards on an end sweep for the score. 
THE Irish moved in front 21-0 on the first play of the second quarter when Clements found ·wmie Town­send alone behind the Boilers' seconda:ry and co~bined with the junior split end on a 62-yarrl pass-and-run touchdown play. It turned out to be the longest play from scrimmage of the season. 
Notre Dame wrapped up its third straight victory 
over its long-time nemesis by scoring on its first two 
attempts in the second half. 

A 78-yard, seven-play drive, highlighted by Gary Diminick's 42-yard run, was. capped by Cieszkowski's one-yard TD trust and the Irish went 84 yards on their next march, Huff powering over from the one for the score. 
"Notre Dame has great balance," said disappointed Purdue coach Bob DeMoss. "They've got a fast, expe­rienced line, good running backs and Clements did a great job at quarterback. Their execution is excellent and, any time a team can run inside and outside and pass as well as they did, they've got people in a bind." 
"We couldn't stop them," he added, shaking his head. What the Boilermakers couldn't do, Michigan State did Oct. 7 in Spartan Stadium-almost did, that is. 
Notre Dame's offense, which had been so impressive in the first two games, was kept almost totally in check by a fired-up lVI.S.U. defense, headed by Van Pelt and linebacker Gail Clark. The Irish could manage only a pair of field goals during the first 55 minutes .of play in a game dominated by the defensive units. 
But, while the Spartans contained Notre Dame's potent offense, the oft-questioned, much-maligned Irish defense was playing its "game of the year." State's \¥ishbone attack was unable to move against the Irish and crossed midfield just once in the game. The Notre Dame defense proved to a capacity crowd of 77,828 in East Lansing and a national television audience that they were no longer "green." 
The outcome was in doubt until late in the final quarter when, fittingly, a great defensive play paved the way for Notre Dame's third win. 
After Penick fumbled the ball away on the State 20 early in the final session, depriving the Irish of a 
JANUARY 26, 1973 
chance to try to add an "insurance" field goal to their 
tenuous 6-0 advantage, the Spartans put together their 
best drive of the game, moving into N.D. territory 
for the only time. 
On a third-and-six play from the Irish 44, Spartan 
quarterback Mark Niesen tried to pass to tight end 
Dupree. Notre Dame's Ken Schlezes, a senior defensive 
back, diagnosed the play and came up with a critical 
interception, stopping 1he M.S.U. threat. 
He returned the ball to the 50 and, with Penick 

contributing a twisting, tackle-breaking, 26-yard run, 
the Irish were able to penetrate to the Spartan nine­
yard line in five plays. Faced with a fourth-and-eight 
situation, Parseghian elected to go for a field goal. 
Thomas came on and coolly drove a 26-yard place kick 
through the uprights with just 4:37 left to play. That 
wrapped things up for the Irish. 
DESCRIBING his game-breaking play, Schlezes said, "\Ve were in man coverage. I had one of the halfbacks but, when he stayed in the backfield to block, I followed the quarterback's eyes and got the ball. They had been throwing to Dupree a lot this season and I knew he was on the left. He hadn't run a cross pattern that they had run often and I was watching for it." 
After Schlezes' interception and Thomas' subsequent 

field goal (which again enabled him to tie the N.D. 
record for three-pointers in a game) 1he Spartans were 
forced to attempt desperation passes in order to catch 
up and sophomore Reggie Barnett picked one off to set 
up Notre Dame's only touchdown. Huff registered the 
six points, scoring on a fourth-and-goal play from the 
seven with 28 seconds remaining. 
"It was a matter of pride," Huff remarked. "We 

knew we could take the ball in." 
At the outset, it didn't appear that anything was less normal with the Notre Dame attack. The Irish marched within field goal range on their first posses­sion and Thomas made it 3-0 with a 47-yard kick. But thereafter, M.S.U. stiffened and Notre Dame mounted just one more threat in the first half, getting inside the ten early in the second quarter, only to settle for a 24­yard Thomas field goal. The Irish "O" could go no­where in the third quarter and it wasn't until the last period that an attack was generated. 
"We really needed this sort of game," Parseghian 

commented. "Vve had to prove we could play it to the 
hilt after two relatively easy games. The defense knew 
they had to stop the Spartans and they did." 
Notre Dame appeared to have a breather the fol­lowing weekend, hosting Pittsburgh's hapless Panthers, winless in six starts. 
"If Notre Dame loses to Pitt tomorrow, I'll jump out of the press box," ex-Irish great Paul Hornung pro­claimed at the pep rally the night before the game and the Golden Boy of the Green Bay Packers was growing re~tless midway through the third quarter with Pitt in possession of the ball in N.D. territory, training only 14-8. 
But Mahalic rescued Hornung by intercepting a pass by Pitt qb John Hogan and racing 56 yards untouched down the sidelines to give the Irish a 21-8 lead. The Panthers folded up after that and Notre Dame waltzed 
'i6 
to three fourth-quarter touchdowns. 
The Irish looked sloppy-they lost four fumbles 

and had a pass intercepted-and it was only due to 
Pitt's ineptitude that Notre Dame wasn't behind at half­
!ime, rather than leading, 14-0. · 
BOTH Notre Dame scores came on drives kept alive by needless Panther penalties (roughing the kicker and jumping offside on a field goal attempt) and Pitt was twice unable to score after recovering fumbles inside the N.D. 35. Huff collected both Irish scores on runs of one and four yards. 
The Panthers started to put things together at the 

beginning of the second half. Following a short kickoff, 
Pitt went 61 yards for a score in 13 plays, Hogan pass­
ing two yards to Dave Janasek for the touchdown. A 
penalty nullified Pitt's conversion kick, so the Panthers 
decided to go for two points and were successful, Hogan 
throwing to Bill Englert. 
Pitt was driving again when Mahalic turned in his 

game-breaking play. The Panthers were docile after 
that and Huff, Penick and Best scored in the fourth 
quarter to make the final count 42-16. Best's touch­
down-a 56-yard jaunt-came the first time he had 
carried the ball for the Irish. 
"One of the most difficult jobs for any football coach is to convince his team that games are won on the field and not in the newspapers beforehand," Parseghian remarked in a postgame interview. 
THE Irish, who should have learned the wisdom of that statement from the Panthers, had it drilled into them the following Saturday, Oct. 21, by Missouri. 
There seemed little to fear from coach Al Onofrio's Tigers, who came into Notre Dame Stadium after a 62-0 thrashing at Nebraska the week before, with a 2-3 record. But the Missouri team that played Nebraska and the Missouri team that posted one of the major upsets of the collegiate season by edging Notre Dame, 30-26, were different ball clubs. 
Utilizing a pass interception, an Irish penalty and two N.D. fumbles, Missouri built up a 30-14 fourth­quarter lead and withstood a furious Irish comeback bid to preserve its stunning victory. 
"This was a tremendous victory for us, our biggest since I've been a coach at Missouri," Onofrio, who suf­fered through a 1-10 campaign in '71, said happily. Missouri played the best possible game it could after dedication all week in practice. 
"We didn't do much different this week than we had done in the past," Onofrio said. "We knew that we had to have the big plays to win and we got them." 
Consistently making necessary yardage in third-and even fourth-down situations, Missouri penetrated the Irish defense for 329 yards (223 rushing, 106 on four pass completions) and ran 79 offensive plays to Notre Dame's 63. More importantly, the Tigers controlled the clock for almost 38 minutes. 
"Missouri was well prepared," Parseghian, shocked and disappointed, ·said. "They executed almost perfect­ly. We made mistakes, but that's part of the game." 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Behind the protection of DiNarclo and Pomarico Tom Clements looks for a receiver in the Pittsburgh secomlary. 
"We failed to control the line of scrimmage," he continued, "and they controlled the ball. The game is only 60 minutes, and they had the ball most of the time." 
An interception by Roger Pankey set up a score for Missouri on the Tigers' first possession. Covering 46 yards in 12 plays, three times gaining the yardage needed for a first down in fourth-down situations, the Tigers went ahead, 7-0, on Leroy Moss' 16-yard, fourth­down end run. 
Notre Dame quickly retaliated, marching 66 yards in 11 plays for the tying touchdown. Clements was daz­zling in the drive, making a couple of nifty runs and tossing a 23-yard pass to Dewan, and Huff scored from the one. 

games are 
won on the field, not in the 


newspapers 

The Tigers responded by slashing 67 yards in 11 plays to regain the lead. With Niehaus, lost for the season because of a midweek practice knee injury, out of the N.D. lineup, Missouri viciously attacked the mid­dle of the Irish line. Thrusts by Don Johnson and Tommy Reamon and a 33-yard pass from Don Cherry . to wide receiver Jim Sharp moved the Tigers down the field and Johnson dove into the end zone .from the one. 
Once again, Notre Dame battled back to tie the 

score, this time putting together an 81.ayard march, 
capped by a one-yard Cieszkowski touchdown. 
Undaunted, Missouri took advantage of a fourth­

down offside penalty against the Irish to retain posses­
sion after the · ensuing kickoff and took a 21-14 lead 
with 1:09 left in the half on another one-yard John.,. 
son dive. 
The score was a bl1+er one for the Irish because they 

cJaimed to recover a fumble by Johnson on the play. 
The officials ru!ed th:it Johnson had lost the ball after 
he crossed the goal line, but films later revealed that he 
never actually had control of the ball, and it was really 
behind him when he made his leap .for the end zone. 
N 0TRE DAME played give-away at the outset of the second half, Schlezes fumbling a punt and Diminick a kickoff deep in Irish territory. The Tigers converted those miscues into field goals, Greg Hill splitting the up­rights from 25 and 20 yards out. Missouri led, 27-14, with 7:40 to play in the third quarter and the Irish offense hadn't even gotten onto the field in the second half. 
Things got worse for Notre Dame when Hill added his third field goal, a 24-yarder with 10:14 remaining in the game. Then the Irish started to move. 

Clements, with the help of some fine running by Dewan and Diminick, made the score 30-20 with a 13­yard scoring run, but a pass attempt for a two-point conversion failed. 
The Irish drove 70 yards for another touchdown the next time they had the ball with an amazing 36-yard Clements to. Jim Roolf fourth-down pass play high­lighting the series. Clements almost fell when he faded back at the start of the play, but regained his balance and heaved· a bomb downfield for Roolf. Pankey, the Tiger defender, made a futile try· for an interception 
. and Roolf, after juggling the ball, squeezed it tightly for an all-important first down at. the 13. 
After Clements gained a yard with a keeper, Huff went off the left side and, breaking a couple of tackles, carried into the end zone to made the score 30-26 with 
4:10 yet to play. Huff carried again on a two-point con­version bid, but was stopped a yard short of the goal line.' 
Cliff Brown then tried an onside kick but Mizzou .alertly covered the ball and used up almost two min­utes· before punting to the Irish 13 with 2:26 to go. 
Hopes for a miracle Notre Dame victory were short­lived as Tiger defensive back Mike ·Fink intercepted a long Clements pass intended for Dewan and Missouri proceeded to run out the clock. 
TEXAS C~RISTIAN's _Mike Luttrell was quoted in. a Fort Worth, Texas, newspaper the· week after Notre Dame's loss· to Missouri as saying that he "wasn't im-
THE SCHOLASTIC 

pressed" by the Irish defense. Notre Dame, already smarting from its loss to the Tigers, was stung by the remark and took the field before another capacity home crowd determined to show the Horned Frogs' brash sophomore running star how impressive they really were. 
The result: a 21-0 Notre Dame triumph. 

"After Luttrell made that statement," Marx said, "we knew that either we would lose our pride, or TCU would lose a football game today." 
"We've got something you can't put on paper, some­thing you call pride," Marx continued. "You can't teach it. It's got to be in you. Nobody is going to badmouth Notre Dame and be glad they did. Ask Luttrell how many yards he got. Ask him how hard we hit. Ask him if this was a Notre Dame defense." 
Luttrell, properly chastened, had no more comments to make, but Parseghian proud of the way his team had bounced back from its disappointing loss to Mis­souri, said, "Our defense was really a Notre Dame de­fense today. They were super." 
Marx and his enraged defensive mates limited TCU to a mere 132 yards in total offense, 70 rushing and 62 passing. Luttrell had 26 yards in 13 attempts. In con­trast, the Irish pounded out 432 yards on the ground and added 88 more through the air. 
Despite six turnovers-four fumbles and two pass interceptions-the Irish offense was back in form. Pen­ick ran around the boys from Texas like a wild mustang, gaining 158 yards in 16 carries and scoring once. 
After a scoreless first quarter, Notre Dame drove 50 yards for a touchdown in seven plays on its first series of the second quarter. A Schlezes interception paved the way for the score, which came on an 11-yard Clements-to-Jim Roolf aerial. 
BOTHERED by their turnovers, the Irish were unable 
to chalk up their second touchdown until the midway 
point of the third· quarter, when Best broke the game 
open with the year's longest run from scrimmage---a 
57-yard scamper to the end zone. 
Late in the game, an end-around by Roolf netted 36 yards and, two plays later, Penick ran 11 yards through a gaping hole to round out the afternoon's scoring. 
Going back on the road after three straight home games, the Irish traveled to Philadelphia to meet Navy in the first collegiate football game ever played in the new Veterans' Stadium. As far as the Middies were concerned Notre Dame should have stayed home, but
' 

the 43,089 fans who turned out to see the 46th game between the old rivals were treated to an almost per­fect half of football by the Fighting Irish. 
Starting with Diminick's 84-yard kickoff return for a touchdown, Notre Dame ran roughshod over what Middie coach Rick Forzano called "the best Navy team since the Staubach squad." Navy was at the mercy of an Irish offense which, running both inside and outside with ease and passing infrequently but successfully, built up a 35-0 halftime lead. 
Notre Dame powered for 282 yards on the ground in the first half and amassed a total of 526 yards rush­ing by the end of the game. · Huff had the best day of 
JANUARY 26, 1973 
Tom Clements (opposite) demonstrates his 4.0 yards-per-carry running ability to the dismay of a frustrated TCU pursuer. All-American tackle Greg Marx (below) causes some second thoughts as TCU's quarter­back looks for a quick escape route. 

his career, gammg 121 yards in 16 tries. Penick, al­though he sat out the second half with a sore shoulder, picked up 101 yards in 11 carries and Clements wasn't far from joining the "100-yard club," finishing with 95 yards in 13 attempts. Including 71 yards gained pass­ing, Notre Dame accounted for 597 yards in total offense while winning, 42-23. 
Navy moved the ball well, too, but most of the Mid­dies' offense was generated in the second half after the 
tcu wasn't 
impressed with the 
irish defense--­

until the game 

a snowball nearly kept nd 

out of the orange bowl 
Irish, who had already put the game out of reach, had eased up. Quarterback Al Glenny completed 17 of 
_ 26 passes for 277 yards. He threw for two Navy touch­downs and ran for their final score. But it was too little, much too late. Diminick's game-opening heroics and Thomas' sub­sequent conversion (his 31st straight without a miss, a new Notre Dame record) put Notre Dame in front after only 12 seconds. It didn't take long for the Irish to pad that lead. Clements took the Irish 85 yards in nine plays, scoring himself from 18 yards out, for Notre Dame's second score with 7:09 elapsed. Just over three minutes into the second quarter Clements scored again, this time from the four, cap­ping an 80-yard, 15-play drive and making the score 21-0. Schlezes returned a Navy punt 46 yards a little over a minute later and Penick made it a 28-0 game by burning around the right side from the 27 with 10: 05 left in the half. The Irish were unstoppable at that point and put together another long march for their fifth· touchdov,:n of the half. Ten running plays, the last one a seven-yard burst by Diminick, brought N.D. 83 yards to paydirt. 
• The Irish were content to sit back on their lead during the final 30 minutes although, after Navy made the score 35-15, reserve halfback Al Samuels tallied Notre Dame's sixth six-pointer on a four-yard run. 
SEVEN days later, and 200 miles westward, Notre Dame was pitted against another service academy, the Falcons from Air Force, in Colorado Springs. Things were a bit tougher for Notre Dame, although the offi­cials, not the Falcons, gave the Irish the most trouble. 
Despite an assessment of 82 yards in penalties, which resulted in a loss of another 75 yards in nullified gains, the Irish handed the stubborn Falcons a 21-7 setback. It was the seventh win in eight games for Notre Dame and dropped the Air Force record to 6-3. 
"That was one of the most unusual games I've ever been involved in," Parseghian commented. "Some of the penalties called were totally unexplainable. It was very disturbing. There is such a thing as in­competent officiating and that's what took place on the field." 
Parseghian was most angered when an "inadvertent" whistle erased a 35-yard, Clements-to-Willie Townsend pass play. One official thought Clements had handed off to Penick and whistled the play dead when the soph halfback was tackled. 
But neither the efforts of the officials nor the Falcons could stop the Irish. Led by Penick's 82 yards in 12 carries, Notre Dame gained 294 yards rushing. With Clements connecting on seven of 13 pass attempts, the Irish added 92 more through the air, outgaining the Air Force, 386 yards to 300. 
Notre Dame had been concerned about the Falcons' dangerous passing game that had accounted for over 1400 yards in eight games, but the Falcons had no aerial success against the Irish. 
Switching from their usual 4-4-3 defensive align­ment into a 4-3-4 setup, the Irish limited the Falcons to a mere 99 yards passing. Air Force qb Rich Haynie completed only eight of 25 attempts and had four inter­cepted. Mike Townsend was Haynie's chief nemesis, pulling down three passes. 
Unlike their service rivals, the Air Force didn't do a fast fade. Only a pass interception in the end zone by Rudnick prevented an early Falcon score and it wasn't until Huff scored on a 13-yard run with 5 :07 left in the game that the Irish put it away. 
Two second quarter scores, a seven-yard dash by Diminick, and a 13-yard, Clements-to-Willie Townsend pass just six seconds before halftime gave Notre Dame a 14-0 lead at intermission. 
A fumble at the ten cost the Irish another scoring opportunity early in the third quarter and those missing points looked important when Joel Carlson carried the ball into the end zone for a Falcons' touchdown with 
1 :45 to go in the session. Haynie had set up Carlson's score with a flashy, 51-yard run. The N.D. defense kept the Falcons at bay thereafter and an Air Force fumble just 28 yards from the Falcon goal line paved the way for Huff's clinching touchdown. 
THE Irish wound up their home schedule.the follow­ing Saturday, Nov. 20th, against the Miami (Fla.) Hurricanes. And what would have been one of the most bizarre incidents in Notre Dame football history was almost written that afternoon. 
It was no secret that, if the Irish defeated Miami, they would be rewarded with a bid to the prestigious Orange Bowl on New Year's night. The team was well aware that a bowl bid hinged on its performance and played accordingly, scoring three touchdowns to build up a 20-3 lead by the fourth quarter. Cascades of oranges from the bowl-seeking fans were thrown onto the field after every Irish score. But oranges weren't 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
., 
I 
.. 
. ' 

~-c:·,
,;,,_ •),. 
f, ~ ­
Tim Sullivan drops the l\liami quarterback as Hayduk arrives to finish the job. 
the only thing being thrown. 
It had snowed in South Bend earlier in the week and a number of fans took to throwing snowballs at the players. After Notre Dame's second touchdown, an accurately aimed and well-timed snowball arrived in the hands of Brian Doherty at the same time as the football he was to hold for Thomas' conversion attempt. Disconcerted, Doherty fumbled the ball and, after retrieving it, tried unsuccessfully to run into the end zone. 
After the Irish scored again, the incident was nearly forgotten but when Miami, led by its scrambling quarterback, Ed Carney, scored two touchdowns late in the fourth quarter and got close enough to try for a 46-yard field goal before the game ended, the episode took on new importance. Had Mike Burke's field goal attempt been successful, Notre Dame would have be­come the first team to be eliminated from the Orange Bowl by a snowball. 
Burke, fortunately, missed his attempt, and the 

JANUARY 26, 1973 
Irish "gratefully accepted" a bid to the Orange Bowl. But it had been too close for comfort. 
The Hurricanes threw a quick scare into the Irish by intercepting a Clements pass at the N.D. 23 early in the game and converting the break into three points on a 27-yard Burke field goal. 
Notre Dame wasn't flustered, however, and pieced together a 90-yard touchdown drive after the ensuing kickoff. Willie Townsend hauled in a 10-yard pass from Clements for the score with 4 :16 to play in. the first quarter. 
Miami then fumbled the Irish kickoff, Notre Dame recovered at the 'Canes 32, and, five plays later, Huff scored from the one. Then came the infamous snow­ball incident. 
Notre Dame seemed to have its Orange Bowl trip in the bag when Clements capped a 48-yard drive by going over the goal line from a yard out with 3 :07 left in the third quarter, but the Hurricanes were brewing up a storm. 
Michigan for the Big Ten•title . .'_Suddenly, the upcoming game _between. Southern California and the Figh~ing --Irish· in the season· finale took on new_ importance. The 
: Trojans: and ~abama ,\V~re the .only un~efe~ted teams left in·. the_ country -·am:l,· if· the. Irish:could upset_ Johri McKay's_' number-:-one -~ ranki~.. squad, :well,_· who _· else would have a:better:daim to the top spot in the polls? . Quite, a· position' for. ·a ;!'{~fr:e·Dame team which was ' OIIly supposed-to···b~,rebuildiIJg. ' ' -'·._ ·-__ ,. '·_ ' ', There W~S no' doubt that the National Championship . was on the minq' ~f>the-Trojans, too~ Tpey w~ted .it 
-:badly.:..,:._-:a_rtd,: ·on,_a warip; _sunny.Dec. 2nd in the. Los A~geles. Coliseurri/-·"th~y · iirimediately set about the busine·ss of nailing:dc>wn their·n_umber qiie rating. 
L1ttle Anthcmy/Davis t_ook"·Brbwn's opening kickoff . on the_ three·, promptly _spef. past =0 the..stunned Irish defenders. to··tlie'enci:'zon:e: ~ The' game had hardly begun and Notre Dciine fohhd its'elf behind, 6-0; after blocking MikeRae'~-e~trapoinft.~y:·-:· .. '._. · ·:_· .. · . 
Davis'' touchdown" was :the-first of six he" scored that· day, mo;e-:..thari:any 'man 'ever scored ag.ainst a Notre Dame tea~. ;A nation~! felevision audience and 75,243 ,peop\e j~: attendance at:,the:Coli~eum ~atched the sophomore,-·taiiback·play agame that· will always be remen:ibere<i in S.C:. football history. . . . .--­
. But the .·Iri~h weren't."thinking about history that afternoon~ 'They ',shook off the, shock' of" Davis' .TD return" arid''~uf\lie T~oj~ns' lead "in'half.when Thomas hit a field ,go~l frs:nn the 35·~Ith 7 :08 gone irt the game. · 
Then Not~e Daine::started:ta 'make mistakes and the Trojans'converted=th~lll i~to ·sco~e·s: A pass interference penalty 0~ Barrietfin. the 'e~d zone; gave s.c. a 48-yard 

. completion: ~nd :DaviS: ~~nt ~_ver.l~ft guard· from the one.for tiis :·second _touchdown ·on the next° play. _.



End \Villie Townsend is hauled down by 
i.ater)n theJirst q{iar:ter;Penick_fumbled a Clements


l\liami defenders. 

pitchcnit at:the N.D. 'nine and_ the Trojans recovered. fl. d 12 d -t Aft~r -~{i .inc"omplete pass, Davis ran four yards-=then
Carney 1ppe a -yar scoring pass o Walt · · -.. ·. ,, ·_ -. . -· . --· · -. 
. . · . . . five-for,.the_:touchdown. -Rae missed -the convers10n,
Sweeting only three mmutes mto the f!nal quarter to · : b t. •s· c· h d·: -.19·-• · · d · d. •t· ---k. d ·1·k· ·-. · 
• • k .· . -·· h . 'C -. u . ~ a a -:.3 1ea an. 1 .1oo e 1 e a runaway.
put M1am1.bac m .contention.-And, _w en the anes. P · h ·•· · ·-:: ·· ,-.. --· ·t·h th·. -51 o·b··· 't• th·. rr· h
-. ,· ----· -• · . · -•. · .. · _-, er aps-one even worse. an. e -ea mg e 1s
drove 66 yards-for-another touc}:ldown-Cc!,rney i;cormg ·. ·h· .d-.h. ·· d-d. s· 'c'--t·h. -·-· > t· · ·'_.t·h·· '·b·~--t-·t_h, T · ·. ·· 
1

h. · -, -h . -.· ·· -... a an~ .. ·.: east. 1me_ .eY ea -e _roJans-.
from t e one wit-h•3 ..301·et-f to p1ay-t e situation was ·..· --6 ·:.· ·th-·t·· ·c· 1. ·· --,_:Th-t ·. t · ·-d 
·-:. · · · · · "'. · . -m·_196 ;m__ a ._~ame ?.1s~um._-. a_ .wm,-oo, secure
t

ense. . N . al Ch -·• . h. -.. -­
. -To make :things w:orse, ciements, ft1mbled a mhnite . a_ atI_on -ampions Ip., ' ·/ _; -_·. · 
later ori th_e Irish 35_and the. 'Canes recovered:· ..Carney's . 

-Inagic ran out,, tp.o_ugh;-ancLhe:coiild corr:rplete::-just qne. short pass:in three" attempts.. Burke.came. on ~"and his TnE Irish Weren't a~o~/f() cbn~ecl~ aJly~in~O With 
kick.was long enough,.bu1:too wide.--:-:.--. -. Clements :thrbwirig,for several key·completions, Notre 
-' -' ' --· --· ' 

~--' . . ; .. ~ Dame:~marched 77 yards in:-10 plays·.-t<>'.cut ,the-_·s.c. bulge t~_ 19~10." The· __touchdown came, on. 'a five.::yard
N oT~--~w· \V;s··iille -t~e---~~n~~~~g:~~~ii~da; ·and. 

'toss !rorri~Cle~ents·to Willie J'ownserid \viti{"11:24 ieft watched Ohio s·t~tE(, kn~ck;__,of{c::previous(v':~-un~eaten '. : ,in-the quarter, but neither team was able fo score ·again 
+ ----~ ----­

-----~~'-,--:--:--, ;;:.._~--:··'::-..,.:/--·hefore· halftime. · · · · · · · · 
_,_ •.:-" ' -:: ­

--· During intermission, it w~~ am:iounced· that· Auburn· .had beaten Afabama. Then: ther~ was no doubt. :This . 
game was for the National Championship. · :-Clements _came out passing in the second half but ._'?as intercepted early in the_ third quarter and the 
·-·· -·,.. · . _turnove·r Jed to the Trojans' fourth touchdown. Davis · . ·. carried the ball 11 yards for the score just 2 :44 .after ~--.·: the_ bands had left the field. Davis tried to run for the ' conver_sfon,· also, but was stopped short of the goal line. ··: -· .The Irish_ kept fighting. Sparked by a first play b_omb· from ·clements to .Creaney that covered 36 yards and a·. 20-yard pass. to · Dimi0:ick, N.D. moved to-the 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

two points from a national championship? 
Trojan -11. Three plays gained nine yards and, on fourth down, Best headed-for a hole in the S.C. line-and fumbled the ball away.: ­
--There was no Notre Dame letdown,_ however. A Mike: Townsend pass interception .gave the ball right back to_ the Irish offense and, this time, ·they took advantage of the _opportunity. A -swing _pass from 
. Clements to -Diminick went for 11 ·yards and a touch­down,. capping a 47-yard drive. After the conversion .kick, it was 25-16 with a little over five minutes _left in the third quarter. , 
-The momentumwaswith the Irish and another Mike Townsend interception (his 10th of the year, setting a new N.D. record), this time at the S.C. 44, brought Clements and the offense back onto the field again. 
. Staying on_ the ground, Notre Dame pounded to the 10 where on.second down and nine, Clements-threw to
' ' ' 

Creaney, who made a-great, diving catch for the touch-_ 
down. ,­
A two-point conversion try failed when Steve Fate broke up a pass intended for Willie. Townsend, but it was still 25-23, the Irish. were rolling, and .there was · 
·plenty-of time left. 
THEN 15 seconds later, everything-~ad -~hanged. -_Anthony Davis had done it again. __ Taking the kickoff after Creaney's touchdown, Davis . found another·hole ill' the Irish-_kick coverage, broke 
-into :the clear, .shook off. a.-couple of. tacklers, _and. -scampered 96 yards' for a touchdown.-, -­_. , :in 12 seconds, the game wa$ ayer.' Notre··Dame,.its 
. mo~entum lost and ·spirit at a low ebb, was -unable fo ­, _score:again, ·while the Trojans added t"1'o more _touch­
-_ · downs in the finaI-q!,larter. Davis scored his sixth·_-from :-the eight-yard line and Sam Cunnfrigham_conclud~d t~e · · scoring fest with a one-yard dive: 2 :44 beforeJhe fi~al 
, --' -' ' -+ ' ­
. gun. : -· _,-·= __ ..._ . , 
: · "Davis just broke our. backs,''. Pc:1rseghian said. "Hi_s­" --two long _kickoff returns really_ killed u~.·-I'm _s.uF~·w~'d 
',,_. ,. 

.---, ~. ­
--.. :::.:,.: 

) ,'"_ 
.. JANUAR~ 26,-1973 
have won if he hadn't run that second one back all the way." 
wHAT happened in the Or~ge Bowl isn't impor­tant. After Southern Cal~ the 'game wasn't critical. What is imp<:>rtant is to remember that, with 15 minutes left to play in-the regular season, the 1972 Notre Dame 
· football team was two points--one kickoff return-12 seconds, however you choose to look at it, away from the national championship. A team that, three months earlier, hadn't expected to get by Northwestern, Purdue and Michigan State without a loss, had come that close to being number one. 
Were they Parseghian's worst Notre Dame-team? ~ No matter what the record says, the answer is "No" here. 
iii donaldson 
: 

noire d11e 1001111 sllfistics/ten 111es 
SCORING BY QUARTERS  
Notre Da.me  ··-········-··  75  89  55  64 ­ 283  
Opponents  •..••.••.••••.••••  29  14  41  68 -152  

TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP Total Offense ·············-··················· 
4238 2571 Total Plays ························-······· 
766 682 Yards Per Play ·······················-··· 
5.5 3.8 Yards Per Game•••... ·-······_-·········· 
424 ·257 
Net Yards Rushing •...•....••.••..••.•.••.•• 3043 1427 59.! · 481
Attempts ···········-········· -·······-··· Yards Per Rush ••..•.•.•••......••...•••• 5.1 3.0 
Yards Per Game ···-··············:.• , •.• 304 143 · 
1195 1144, Attempts .•...•...••••.••••.•••••••.•.••••...• 172 · 201 Completions •....•• ' ..•.•••••.•...••• : ••.••.• . 85 86 Completion Percentage· ••.•.•:_.•.••• : _ .494 .428 Hod Intercepted ••••..••.•.••..•..•.••.•.• 13 23 Touchdown Passes •.••......••..•.•...•• 8 4 Yards Per Attempt ••.••••••..••.•.•.•••• 6.9 s.7 Yards Per Completion •••••..•.•... : •. :. 14.0. f3.3 Yards Per Gome ·······-·····;··-·····:. 120 114 
Net Yards Passing ·······················-· : 

Interceptions Mode •...•.••.••.•••..•.•.•.• 23 13 Yards Returned ····-····················· 
222 158 
235 86 Number of Returns···············-······ 23 19 Average Return ••••..•..••••• : ..•. ·-···· 10.2 4.5 
Punt Return Yards ····-····-·············· 

Kickoff Return Yards •..•••.• : •..•.•••••....• 488 863 Number of Returns .••.•.•.•••••.••.••..• 30 38 Average Return ···-········':_:••.•••.. 16.2 ·22.7. Total Return Yards •.••.••.••• : ..•... ~ ••• 774 809 
38.4, 37.1

Average Punt ···········-····················· Number of Punts -·-·······-·······:.. 
43 70 Yards Punting ···········-········-····· 
1650 2595 Hod Blocked .•••.•••..•.••...•..•••.••..• : · 0 0 
.46.

Penalties Against ·----55 Yards Penalized ················-·····:•• 
526 514 

Fumbles (lost) ·······-······-···-·· 35 (22) 26 (11) 
Total First Downs •••.•.••.•.••..••::•••·-··· 218 148 
by rushing ···············-······-·······-· 154 · 80 by passing •..••••••...••...•..•......••..••• 53 · 61 by penalty ·······-:·················-······ 11 7 
INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE LEADERS 
G . PLAYS' YARDS AVG. 

Tom Clements 10·-248. 1534-· 6.2: Eric Penick 9 . 115 735 -6.4· Andy Huff ____ 10 118 -607 ··5_1 
. ·' RESULTS ••_•• Won· 8, last 2, Tied·.o 
ND c OPP· Attendon_ce_ 

37 Northwestern (a)· _:··-··· 0 . 55,155 (c) 35 Purdue ·•.•• : ••••. :._._:.:••••:. • l.4 -59,075 (c) · 16 Michigan State· (o) .~.::. 0 77,828 (c) . 42 Pittsburgh' : •. ,.:•••::.......... 16 ' 59,075 (c) .. 26 Missouri ···-·_-30. _59,075 (cl· 21 Texas Christian ••.:...•:.:••.· 0 · 59,075_· (c). · 
42 Novy·· (o) ·······-···:·····'_-· 23 ,' 43,089 21 Air Force (o) ·······-··=·· -7 ,'·· -48,671 ·cc), 20 Miami ••..::•.••••••:•••••••, ..•• ; 17,. •"59,075 _(c) 23 Southern Col (o) •••,.;.• ..45 •75,243 
January 1 Orange Bowl 
TEAM SCORING 
. ND -OPP T I • · · · 283 152 
oto Points ·················-··············' · • . _ 

Average ••••..•.•..••.••.••••••.••.•• · · •••:·.. -28.3 , 15.2.-· Touchdowns :.----"'--38 ·.: 20.: by rushing . ···-········ '. :2a: .-">14 
:~ =~~:::~~~·~·~:~::~·-·::;~~;.~~:~.}t::~·: ::t· (!:t··; 

Field Goals (Mode:At_t)_ ••: •. !..::::,:. t -Z~-~ 1•_,'_ 4.:10 Safeties ______· ·:.:a::..... ; :::-a·· .0_ ·. :-:~-O·, 
;~i ~:: -------'-~~t_ril''\H 
INDIVIDUAi. SCORING 

G TD Kick R·PA FG TP 
Huff 10 10 60
···--------­

Thomas 10 34.34 7.11 55 
Penick 9 5 30 Clements ...... 10 4 24 Diminick ·10 4 24
--···­w. Townsend 8 4 24 Cieszkowski .. 8 3 18 Best 4 2 12
·--·-······ -Creoney ....... 10 2 · 12 Dewan ......... 8 6 Moholic 10 6
---··-

Roolf ............ 5 6 Samuel,......•• 9 6 
Notre Dame 10 38 34.34 0.4 ·, 7.11 i83 Opponents 10 20 '10.13 5.7 4.10 152 
INDIVIDUA!. PUNTING 

G NO. YDS. AVG LONG 
Doherty 10 43 ,1650 38.4 52. Notre Dome ...• -10 43 1650 38.4. 52 Opponents 10 70 2595 37.1 77 
RUSHING  
G  TC  Yds  Avg  TD ·long  
Penick  9  124  727  5.9  5  38  
Huff  •......•••...•  10 .' 115  567  4.9  10  21  
·  Diminick  10  71  377  5.3  2  .42  
Clements  10  86  341  · 4.0  ·4  26  
Dew·on  ••••..••..  8  62  319  5.1  ,1  30.  
Cieszkowski  •.,.  8  54  212  3.9  3  16  
Best  •.•..•......••  4  17  158  9.3  2  57  
Bullock  •.. : ......  9  27  123  4.5  0  14  
Kornman  •.••..••  4  10  79  7.9  .o  29  
Roolf  •..•...•.....•  5  2  49·  24.5.  0  37  
W. Townsend  .•  9  2  43  21.5 .·  0  -31  
Samuel  •••...•...  9  14  41  ·  2.9 :  1  19  
Demmerle  .••.••  ·5  23  23.0  0. 23  
Washington  ••  4  1  8  8.0  0  8  
Goodmon  : .••••  4  4  :3  .0.7  0  ·4  
Etter .:•••••-....•  1  1  .9  :c;>.O  . 0  .9  
Brown .••.•.....••.  10  3  -12  -4.0  .o.  6  
Not:e Dame ...•  10  594 3043  .  5.1  23  57.  
. Opponents  10  481 1427  3.0 ·  14  52  

PASSING 

G NO. Comp. Pct. INT. · YDS TD 
, ---...., .: Clements 10 162 83 .512 1_2. -1163. 8 Brown ....... 10 7 2 .286. o. ·.•_ 32 o.· Dewan 8 _1 0 ..000 .0..• · ·O--O Etter ........... r o .ooo_--o.,..__·:.-·0 _0 : Samuel :···· 9 0 · .000 -l · 0 · 0 
Notre Dome 10 · 172 85 .4«;>5 ,.'.)_3>. 119.5_ .~ , 
Opponents 10 201_ .86'--.428 23 ·.1144-4 
PASS RECEIVING :---~·_:. .::·__ :: G ' PC Yds __:. Av·g ~:TD long· 
W. Townsend;•• : 9 25. Creaney--······ 1o· Diminic{ ..••••. :: · 1 0 . 
' Huff· ••.•..••••••.•. l O_ Roolf •.•••••••••.:.-· · 5 

•·Cieszk~wski .:•.-· 8',. -.4 ·· ·oewon ·•••L:... 8 :. 
"-(:1~1:~k';.:~::~~~~:· ..~\: ~ 

4 1
·:.was_hi~gton_ -·:· · . : ·. ''. l . ·_. l 2::) 2•0 ..:, :'_O :.: .2_: .­· Casper •.•••• : .• : · 10 . · 1:· ': 6'· .· 6_.0,-'.; 0; ·, _6. 
RETURNS 
Interceptions. Punts Kickoffs 
M. Townsend· •• 10.39.0 Moholic .· .•.•••.•.. .,. 2.59.1 Musuraco . •••..... 2•28·0 . Barnell •..•..•...•• 2.16.0 O'Molley 1-12·0
0 ••••••• 
·Rudnick 3-18·0 · 13-106.0 
. Schlezes 2-16·0 c;>.122.0 Zonal •..•........ 1-34·0 1-7•0 2.4.0 Diminick ••••••:.... 15.331.1 Dewan •..•.•... : .• _5.77.0 
· H~ff-....••.....•...• 2.40.0. 
Penick •..•.•.••... 2.20.0 . Cieszk_owski ...• 1-7-0 . Goodmon •.... : •• 1-7-0 
W. Townsend •• 1-2-0 · Bolger •.••.••.•..• 1.0.0 
Notre Dome 23•222-1 23-235•0 30-488•l Opponents 13-158•0 19-86·0 38-863•2 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS. 
TM TL-YDS PBU FR O'Malley 122 3.31 Marx •. ' .••.••...•.•. 96 6-36 · Musuroco .•••••••• 85 3-16 Mohalic ...•.·••·_, 77 4-15 Schlezes 49 4-18 3 Sullivan 49 4.22 NiPhou's 47 2-14 · ·Maciag ~:.•.....•.• 39 3-21 ·, Nosbusch , ·:·····:. . 39 3-9 Hayduk·:•..•.....:. 37 5.23 2 .M. Tow·nsend .... 34 4 Freistroffer · •••:.. 29 2.2 2 Barnett · 24 4 Rudnick 21 2-13 2 Collins 18 Fonnin·g 13 2.10. ·Smith 12 Potempa ••••....•• 9. 1-28 Zo not · .~•. , .••••:••• 6 ·Alvarado •••. , .•..• · ·5 Hein· •..•... :: ..•.. :. -5 McGraw •••..•...• 5 Naughton •••,,•.•. 4 Garner •.•••••: •..• 3 
,
Cosper...:••::•... : . Creaney: ••••.•••.• _ Diminick' .•• : ..: .••• · 2 
.: M~ri~ni _•••.•. :.::.·. . 2 · · O'Donnell .•••••.• · 0 2 Roolf •..••c:.....:c~. 2 .··si-ow~··:::~~.~-..L::·,. ·1. 
~:~_;;~t7~~.~::~:-:·:~. ~ ·.: · 
; DiNardo· . ••.~a•••:.·.-.··· 1 . 
. N~tre D~m'e .:.." · ' · _· -· 44-258 · 11
., .19 
= 25
, =oh~ni~t~_-, ':i;... ·__ 39-175 
--:t.,~~~ ~·..._:-, , . ,--­
-r ,' -:. 
, ·.KEY:' TM· -· Tackles Mode; TL:YDS · -Tackles 
made,, tor, minus yardage ~o the opponent; PBU ._ Passes Broken Up; FR -Fumble , 
. ReC(!Veries.

.b,:.t--:: :~ :{il!:)f. -i(r._ 

24· .TIIE -SCHOLASTIC 


1·s 7davs in 1i11i 
December 26: Miami! The cultural advantages of had two consecutive days of nothing but sunshine and snow at Christmas time notwithstanding, Miami, none­clear, warm weather. Makes me feel as if I've spent theless, certainly appears to be the place to be in late four college years in purgatory, weather-wise, and -December and early January, especially if you hail although this might not be heaven, it's at least limbo, from north of the Mason-Dixon line. I left the cold, ·which would make us the Holy Innocents, i guess, if 
. wet South Bend clime for drier, nicer Maryland and · I complete the metaphor. Everyone is checked in by Christmas, but found to my dismay that I had been . now, including O'Malley and Musuraca and all the followed by the ghost 6f Christmas South Bend-.. rotten other snow-bound Buckeyes, so practice this afternoon weather. Even before being dealt by ten-day respite definitely picked up from the work-out yesterday. To­from the cold of the North, I spent four hours in day we got some work in. It feels a bit strange to have Friendship Airport waiting for the fog to leave so I waterways next to the field, with warm breezes and could. too. But here I am; at last in Miami Beach, re­waterskiers waving at you, but we're all doing our plete.with ocean, sun, sea breeze; and plastic snowmen! best to adjust. 
.So:rp.e p·eople must not know a good thing when .they have it:· Mr. T. Luckett Yawn, Jr., whose name, for.:. .. Tonight was our welcoming dinner with the Orange tunately, is no indictment on his personality, escorted Bowl Committee, the Orange Bowl Queen and her several .other players and me from the airport .to our court. I. had the pleasure of sharing a table with Prin­hotel, and then straight to practice. Since . we were cess Lynn Young, a 19-year-old stewardess from a small already late, and also since Mr. Yawn took one .or two . .town in Texas. Actually, if I'm honest, I merely had wrong turns; we only caught the last fifty minute~ or so the foresight. to sit at the same table as Daryll Dewan of practice, and somehow; somewhere along the line, and "watch events fall from there. Daryn said they 
.I'm sure Ara will see that we are not cheated of that _had met before, probably,the day before, but then who · hour we missed. We're practicing at the. Miami· Mili­. am I to give Dewan grief. Anyhow, Lynn certainly is .tary Academy this week, which makes the old Field-a striking beauty, much like all the girls from Texas, hou~e •look like the Astrodome. · But. it's close, clean, according to Dampeer, and· even evoking a "She's per­and-we're lticky to be able to use the facilities, so it's fect!" · from the usually hypercritical Herb Briick, really kind of good. mumbling something else about ecstasy. Anyhow, . ·· John Dampeer went to Vietnam with Doug Dumler, watching the guys stare at her, and even doing a little Nebraska's center, this past summer, as part. of the myself, helped to make the dinner a bit lighter. She l'fCAA-sponsored tour,. so we walked three hot~ls made an effort to memorize everyone's name at her down the street to see how the Nebraska team lived,· table, but Mike somehow got bartered for Tom. I didn't and hopefully to talk to Doug. But the team was ·at-have the heart to tell her differently. After all, it took 
.·.·tending an Orange Bowl welcoming dinner, ·the same Paul Hornung and Lindsey Nelson a year to get it affair we will attend tomorrow night. John .and I de­together. 
. cided _that they had a very nice hotel. We then walked next door, the coaches, team and · Some of the guys were a bit sluggish today; Ara's Orange Bowl Queen and princesses, to watch a produc­· nicknamed them the turkeys, for obvious reasons. tion of "Vie Parisienne," a review of dancing, singing . Seems he is going to get us into shap~ to "knock the and gala costumes. The comedy acts between produc­stuffin', out of Nebraska." (Remember when I told you . tion numbers were really good, as were some of the football coaches were corn people!) productions themselves. Somehow, I can't imagine the .•, coaches getting a real big kick out of this, though. If · December 27: Everyone on the team has been ab}e there is any shortness of breath tomorrow, I personally 
fo figure out we're not in South Bend by now ... we've don't think it would be from tonight. 
. . 

,,, JANUARY 26, 1973 

December 28: DiNardo and Pomarico must be in second heaven. There are so many Long Islanders and Brooklyners staying in the Balmoral with us, it must seem as if part of New York traveled South for Christ­mas. Their kids, and there are a thousand of them, are simply darling. Their parents sit, baking in the sun and sipping martinis, and say, "Don't do anything, precious," and the little cherub beams back, "I won't mamma," just before he pockets your sunglasses and room key. One kid claimed I stole his shirt. When I finally convinced him a size 46 would not fit him, his father joined the argument; then I showed papa the "ND" on the front, and he offered to buy it from me because the kid liked it so much. Frank and Gerry don't have to worry about getting jobs once they grad­uate. They could always come to Mfami ·and work as interpreters for the New . Yorkers. Actually, the Balmoral is both good and bad·news: First the good: it is only a short walk to the Americana and its coffee shop. Now the bad: cheeseburgers are $1.85 and Mc­Donald's is too far to walk. 
December 29: Speaking of Rich Glover, he and 
Johnny Rodgers were at a press conference tonight with Dave Casper, next year's captain, and myself. The usual barrage of questions were hurled at the two Nebraska All-Americans, questions about the Reisman Trophy, about Nebraska's feeling before Bob Devaney's final game, about their third consecutive Orange Bowl, about Alabama, etc. Then one clever man asked N ebras­ka what they thought of Dave and me, after seeing us in person. They agreed we don't look as big in person and seemed friendly ·enough. Then the same guy asked Dave the same question, and without a moment's hesi­tation, he drawled back at Glover, "Well, I'm glad to see he doesn't breathe fire!" Amid all the laughter, I hoped he was right. 
Today was the last hard workout before the game, and the last ever for me. The work is done. Now the priests and nuns take over until 8: 00 p.m. Monday night, and even they might as well rest and watch the game with everyone else. · We'll be the ones on the field, and while it may be advantageous to have God on our side, I haven't'seen him throw a good body block all year~ Still, he's a nice guy to keep around.... 
This is the final day we'll be in the sun before the 

26. THE SCHOLASTIC 
game, and the ocean and pool were accordingly filled 
with last-minute sun worshippers. It's the last chance 
for a lot of battle-earned friendships, too. There is a 
bunch of chatter and half-nervous talk going on, usually 
about Nebraska or Johnny Rodgers. All college careers 
have to end, and I'm lucky, 'cause Miami has to be a 
great place to end it. Sure would be nice to win.... 
The stage is set. 
December 30: The Orange Bowl Committee, whether 
by accident or design, held the parade tonight, two 
days before the game; some were lucky enough to be 
able to go. The usual number of High School Bands 
and decorative floats paraded by, and ip.uch to my 
chagrin, a dozen or so American flags. I don't mean to 
be unpatriotic, but we were sitting behind the review­
ing stand, and every flag that went by was saluted. 
That's not terrible, either, but my idea of watching a 
parade is sitting down and sighing "ooh's" and "ah's" at 
all the right times, not doing a jack-in-the-box imita­
tion just to be able to see what is happening. Actually, 
there were two highlights. Eric Penick and Art Best 
found room to bounce balloons for a while down the 
street with some kids in a Disney float. Amidst all the 
"Salt-and-Pepper" comments, someone came up with 
the original gem, "Butch Best and the Sun-Burned 
Kid." I don't think it was any of the coaches. 
The second highlight was meeting Lynn Young's 
parents, who were sitting just in front of us. Unfor­
tunately, we found out she was engaged, so Herb 
Briick's admiration will have to be directed elsewhere 
now. 
Rumor has itthere is a sellout Monday night. 
December 31: The seniors' last practice! No more 
spring ball, ·stadium steps, meatball drills, hitting the 
sled, hitting the end, practicing in blizzards, playing in 
mud, cold freezing days, cold wet feet ... all are gone 
now. And all that remains is tomorrow, and a few_wet 
eyes. The senior gauntlet was formed at practice's end 
tonight by all the juniors and sophomores, players and 

managers, as all the seniors, players and managers ran -through three years of football for the last time. 
Epilogue: "Adversity has a way of eliciting genius, which under less prosperous times would have remained dormant." You'll find this saying on a bulletin board 
it wasn't astaue that was set; it was an altar 

outside the coaches' office in the Convo. You'll also find it inscribed in the heart of anyone who's given a little piece of himself to the game, because we live what those words mean. Losing hurts. It eats at your belly and gnaws at your brain with a million whys and ifs. It doesn't let you sleep at night, makes you want to avoid friends, and makes you unforgiving, especially of yourself. Losing has a good memory. It'll come back to haunt you when you finally do sleep, it'll slip off a friend's tongue to slap you again, it'll arise any time circumstances are similar. And losing badly only makes things worse. 
In retrospect, it wasn't a stage that was set Monday night, it was an altar. We were the "Holy Innocents" all right, children slaughtered-only we built and fanned our own pyre. And the locker room was our morgue. We scraped together what vestiges of pride and strength we had left, and touched and prayed "Our Lady of Notre Dame...." These are the times you turn to friends, whose lives you've shared and been a part of for the past four years; when what you "did it for" means more than "what you did"; when you finally realize it is over . . . never again in my life. . . . How do you thank someone for four years? How do you let someone know that it meant something? How can you convince a coach that you blew it, not him? ... You can't. A warm handshake or a quiet nod somehow says it all so much better, and they don't say anything. And men do cry. 
Still, as we rose from that prayer, Ara called us around, and with a look that I can only describe as him, he spoke quietly and simply. "Some day ... somewhere . . . sometime . . . we will meet again." 
mike creanev 


27
JANUARY 26, 1973 
excernts frum 
all la olorv 
michael lonier 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

JANUARY 26, 1973 
"Ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to please be patient while we await our network hookup. Thank you." On the 50-yard line stood a man wired up in television cables. He was giving time cues to a min­ister who would begin the 39th An­nual Orange Bowl game _with a prayer from a cue card. The side­lines were strewn with wires and equipment that the television crews had assembled hours earlier. The moment was soon approaching for all of the festivities to begin. The minister was fidgeting. Already the game had been postponed ten min­utes. The announcer repeated the same mumble as before, which did not mean the delay was nearly over. 
The door slammed behind me and the voice became a muddle of sound, scarcely intelligible. Only moments before I had stood on the threshold of the lower press box, greeted by three smiling men. They informed 
"-me that I was to be the only woman in the press box this evening. Many thoughts flashed through my mind, one of them of a big, burly cowboy drawling, "We don't see many of y'all in these parts." One of the offi­cials escorted me to my seat, number 74 in the last row, across from the kitchen they had set up. From my seat I could watch not only the en­tire field but also the complete corps of journalists that I had joined.. An adjacent reporter informed me that there was a buffet in the upper press box where hot food was being served. Being more · curious thah · hungry, I rode the elevator to the upper press box and the elite world of AP and UPI sportswriters. The elevator door opened to a room filled with plain suits and a low murmur, subdued by the car­peted floor. Around the corner I found the buffet table, near the color TV which attracted the majority of the men in the room. Drinks in hand, they were attentive to the subject 
of our continual delay, "that other bowl game in California." The only other females in the room, aside from some wives, were the two girls behind the serving table. Passing among the men, I heard grumbles like, "I just can't get used to women in the press box." I turned my pass over and smiled as I read the note on the reverse side that stated I was allowed into the dressing rooms after the game. 
A voice rose over the others, ask­ing everyone to prepare for the game to begin. Several men kissed their miniskirted wives good-bye as I made my way back to the lower press box. While I settled in my seat, the announcer's drone contin­ued to penetrate our glassed-in haven, barely audible. A circus of activity was erupting on the field. Preparations for the pregame fes­tivities were in their final stages. 'fhe pressmen seemed oblivious. But we shared an almost omniscient view of the entire scenario. 
The game began. Here were men in competition, pitting themselves against each other for· the glory that could be theirs. This was the signal: the press went to work, intently fol­lowing the action. My thoughts went back to the heroic contests of ancient Athens, but only for a mo­ment. The action was abruptly stopped by the network program di­rector. He called an officials' time­out for a deodorant commercial. Somehow one cannot imagine a com­mercial interruption on the road to Marathon. 
NBC had installed monitors at each end of the press box, enabling us. to see. what the network was broadcasting in addition to what was happening on the field. Both scenes were behind glass, but the similarity ended there. There seemed to be two distinct games occurring, the one in the stadium and the one on television. The journalists followed 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



the game closely with their binoc­ulars. But after key plays, all eyes turned to the monitors for the instant replays, as if to see what had really happened on the field. 
Dividing the game was a half-time show that seemed to have as much importance, if not more, than the game itself. Three hundred people, mostly women in sequined costumes, were dancing or riding around an inflated rubber globe singing songs about love and peace. These songs, which had been youthful battle cries just a few years ago, were now suit­able for the evening's half-time pro­duction. The intention of the show as a powerful message of peace to the nation was never realized. It was lost in a televised extravaganza of gaudy entertainment. 
Returning to the field, the team prepared to meet the second half. They surrounded Ara, expelling all possible space from the huddle. T-Ie sank beneath their heads, enveloped by blue jerseys and gold helmets. The game began again, and again my thoughts returned to Athens and 
JANUARY 26, 1973 
the athletic excellence the Athenian games imply. That athletic excel­lence is the same excellence that is Notre Dame and its tradition. In an attempt to bring that tradition to the present, Ara had brought his team to the Orange Bowl. But an all-out Notre Dame drive halted by a gasoline commercial? Even the Four Horsemen would have been powerless. 
As the game wore on, I collected condolences from fellow pressmen. "We sure do like your cheerlead­ers." "You know, your fight song isn't that bad either. Kind of a catchy tune." 
The clock ticked off the remaining seconds. It was not the first time Notre Dame had lost a game, or even a big game, but there was some­thing more telling than the points on the final scoreboard. Wedged be­tween the tallies of the two teams was a sign proclaiming "Poly-Turf." More than the grass has changed for Notre Dame. So has the game. 
-terri lustic 
~ 
oornm1@~lli ®~~oo~rn 
A game is a game is a game. (Apologies to Gertrude Stein and anyone else who feels offended.) And yet it was more. Notre Dame's fame rides high on football, and as a con­sequence everything is seemingly at stake with respect to the result of a Notre Dame gridiron clash. An exag­geration, perhaps, but need one be reminded that people believe in Notre Dame as they do in God himself? 
The reason for i n v i t i n g du Lac to Miami was most likely the school's "reputation," surely not the team's record. One presumes this either because of its past football teams, or of echoes of Knute Rockne's charismatic qualities seen in Ara, or of the school's enormous drawing power. (More people watched the past Cotton Bowl games than any other on television.) A problematic question may be asked as to what exactly is Notre Dame's "reputation." In one sense it lies deeper than its football squad. Sub­way alumni, alumni, clergy every­where, and not to mention eager television viewer-s hoping to see the giant fall-all create ·what this "reputation" is. Or should one per­haps say was. 
The results of the Orange Bowl of 1973 said something rather profound about Notre Dame's football reputa­tion. 
-timothy standring 

rn~ ~®®ij~~~~ ~ij ~rn~~rn m~mrurn f 
ro ~~®W~ ~~ ftlrnooflWc~I 

DD 

In other times and places, Ara Par­seghian was directing these words to · a screaming mass of Notre Dame men and _coeds at a pep rally: 
·REVENGE! 
(Do not pass 'Go'")· 
(1) Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go.· Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. (The essence of the cheer can, by the very force of its sound, build the spirit necessary to keep a drive going. An excellent 

cheer could start a drive on a good team. A profound cheer could foster religious sentiments. For instance, conversions after touchdowns.) (Q) 
(2) 
To win football games in col­lege football today (that is,. the 1970's) a team has to be very good. There were times when I wondered if the 1972 Notre Dame Football Team was any good. There were times when I wondered how I could ever wonder such a thing because the team played so well. Most of the time I didn't wonder anything. I just watched and enjoyed the games. I wonder why. (C) 

(3) 
Quietly let us consider the wishbone offense as perpetrated by the Texas Longhorns. It was beaten in the 1971 Cotton Bowl. Consider variations on the "T" (formation. or bone?). Think now. (I) 

(4) Ibid. (C) 


(5) 
Consider Ara Parseghfan and Coaches Pagna and Kelly addressing a pep rally of campus literati and making use of Blake: 


Nail his neck to the Cross: nail it · with a nail. Nail his neck to the Cross: ye all have power over his tail. (0) 
(6) Wait till next year! 
To keep an adjunct to remember thee Were to impart forgetfulness in me. " -Shakespeare "Sonnet 122" (P) 
(7) Or the comments of the Notre Dame football team after December 2, 1972.. 
· This is the way the world ends ·This is the way the world ends .This is the way the world ends 
Not with a bang but a whimper. -T. S. Eliot "Hollow Men" 
Why was the team running out the clock onthat fateful December after­noon? Why? 0 Why? (W) 
(8)"Not even the Pope would say 
that Notre Dame is Number One." (Bob Devaney on January 2, 1971) 
(A) 
(9) 
Perhaps the approach is un­clear. Perhaps. But what is done is done and the die is cast; it is done. We can only look ahead. To what? Madame Sosostris sees all with her wicked deck of cards. (Tarot.). And she sees the color orange and the reconciliation of holy men in the orange cape of L'Empereur. (N) 

(10) 
Advance to W. Then win the Orange Bowl. Then follow. (W1) 

(11) 
"Nay I ask you, Madame Sosostris, how will we do? How will we do?" 


-Supreme Fiction I ­"I'm betting on nothing until I see what is my crystal cards. I turn over the orange card, but I cannot turn over the football card, only the score card. There are two minutes before the end of this reading of the game cards." "What is the score? What is hap­pening on the field? What is happen­ing on the field?" "I have the pass card on the table. I see a long pass from· Hume to Johnny Rodgers. (Pass the Johnny Walker.) He is circling under the high arching pass. He is circling and circling and circling across the sideline and into the stands. (Too much Johnny Walker for Johnny Rodgers.) And it's Notre Dame's ball, Dandy Don." 
Send the volley cheer on high. 
"Notre Dame is winning. Notre Dame is winning. Notre Dame has won." 
"Notre Dame is winning. Notre Dame is winning. Notre Dame has won." 
(Madame Sosostris and the seeker sing the "Notre Dame Victory March."· Madame Sosostris sings very well despite her cold.) (L) 
(12) (W1) (M) 
(13) Let us leave the remainder of the twenty-six ploys, er plays, to someone with more of an aesthetic attitude. After all football is for those of us who are crass enough to 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
enjoy such things as competition and physical exertion. We only appreci­ate things like that. We know noth­ing of divine symbols or sublime images or gamey progressions. We know only that it is entertaining and when it is done well it ap­proaches physical art. (It, of course, being football.) ( (The Place for the veneration of "it" being, of course, Notre Dame.)) (( (But what is col­lege spirit for, after all, I ask you?))) (F) 
(14) 
Even now it is felt. The need to know the future. Let us call on Someone. Madame Sosostris. Some­one. (P) 

(15) 
Forgetting nothing or no one: (For someone--Reine de Baton -someone) And yet thou wilt; for I being pent 


in thee, Perforce am thine, and all that is me. -Shakespeare "Sonnet 133" 
(E) 
* * * 
I remember once when Notre Dame was Number One (:ff:1) when it was fashionable (#1 fashion) to be a Notre Dame (#1) fan (#1 fan) or team (#1 team) supporter (#1 sup­porter). Even at Notre Dame (#1), people (#1 people) supported the team (#1 team). It was important (of #1 importance) then. Perhaps, we (#1) have grown to a point (#1 on the real number line) where it is fashionable (:ff:1 fashion, again) to pass (:ff:1 passing offense) off to (#1 pass receiver) as something which is below our standards (#1 standards). 
But, let it be remembered that football (#1 football) is a part of Notre Dame (#1) tradition (always #1) as much as any building or any person or any feeling. It is a part of the Whole (#1 whole). When a game is lost (not :/f:1) the University is the less for it. (T) 
PARTICULARS 

I 
1. 
Here. 

2. 
At Notre Dame. 

3. 
A trophy. 



i 
4. 
For winning the 


5. 1973 

I 
6. National Championship. 
leo j. rnulcahey 

I t 
JANUARY 26, 1973 


Tommy often finds school very difficult. He needs your help. 
Please. Call Mike Burns, 233-6280 Neighborhood Study Help 

R. K. MUELLER, INC. l . . Kggpsakle·®.® REGISTERED .DIAMOND RlillGS . . . . . l .· Dovvnto,vn 233-4200 218 S. l\1ichigan St.  
PARTY STORE Liquor Beer & Wine Champagne Gourmet Foods if we don't have it-we'll get it U.S. 31 South, Niles ,v\ich. 1 Block No. of Ind. line 683-9875  
YEAGER MOTOR Cc.5 Inc. BUICK--OPEL--VOLVO "Where customers send their friends" 215-225 South Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 288-2531  




TT{( WHEN 
YOU 
KNOW 
ITS FOR 
KEEPS. 
Love. captured forever ,n the beautiful brilliance of a perfect diamond Keepsake ... the perfect symbol of your special love. 
' 
c I
' {
( 
lll 
:'1 
,..-" 

Rmgs from S100 to S10 000 Tracle Mark Reg A H Pone! Co 
TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 
Send new 20 pg. booklet. "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" plus full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 251'.. F-72 Name ___________________ 
Address;___________________ City __________co_________ State _______________.._ip ____ 

KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS. BOX 90, SYRACUSE. N.Y. 
Hit the deck in shorts and a tee shirt. Or your bikini if vou want. 
You·re on a leisure!\· cruise to remote islands. vVith names like I\1m1inique. Grenada. Guadeloupe. Those are the ones\ ou\ e heard of. 
A big. beautiful sailing \'essel 
dides from one breathtaking
~ ~ 
Caribbean jev.;e·l to another. And you·re aboard. having the time of your life with an 
\ intimate group of lively. fun­loving people. Singles and couples. too. There·s good food. "'grog:· and a few pleasant comforts ... but there·s little 



resemblance to a stav at a fancy hotel. and you·11 be happy about that. 
Spend ten days exploring paradise and getting to know 

congenial people. There·s no other vacation like it. Your share from S2-l5. A new cruise is f 01111ing now. vVrite Cap·n Mike for your free adventure booklet in full color: 

'• -:.•)• -· 
---·----------~-----------·------~-------· -­

P O Box 120. Dept M1am, B,~ach Florida 33139 







