
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR 1SCTS. A COPY
MARCH 31 1933
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
(Office 4-5661	X-ray Phone ^Residence 3-4041 DR, E.S. LUCAS '	. •	Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana		Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service	,	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan „	(10 to 12 m. Hours/- , _ (3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST D entis ts Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
		
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
_	(10 to 11:30 a. m. Houra (2 to 4 p. m. DR. H. BOYD-SNEE Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat 716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana		FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
		
Space Reserved		Space Reserved
		- - - - •' 			- - - 	
March 31, 1933	One
Why is the Scholastic a Good Advertising Medium?
Because:
1	.—It has a guaranteed circulation of over three thousand copies. Every Friday the SCHOLASTIC is delivered to the DOOR of every student.
2	.—It is not only circulated but it is READ. Every issue is an account of campus happenings: News, Features, Sports—everything of interest to students.
3	.—Your advertisements are placed next to interesting read- • ing matter in the section of universal appeal—Sports.	.
4	.—Our representatives, who know students and their desires, will assist you in planning your campaign.
5	.—Finally, our rates are so low that the smallest business ■ can afford to contact this live market.
A call to 3-1121 will bring a representative.
THE SCHOLASTIC
UNIVERSITy OF NOTRE DAME
Minute Bennett Rockne
All Notre Dame bows her head.
March 31, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- ^^1	hk 1	.	1 I	B Entered as second-class
lished weekly at the Univers- I	I 1 MA A	I A Af*| A matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- I I	I 1VU	Iw^lOwUdiana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to	.	rr- ri ■	•	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, PubH- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section nos, October s. 1917.
cations Office, Main Building.	FOUNDED 1865	authorized June 25, 1913.
Edmund A. Stephan.....................Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON
LLOYD TESKE	LESLIE RADDATZ
WILLIAM DREUX
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY...........News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE........Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROOTOR.. .Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI.......ROBERT ERVIN
FRANK KELLY	MICHAEL WIEDL
JAMES A. HART	JOHN WALKER
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS..................The Week
ROGER BEIRNE .............Theatre Talk
ROGER McGOVERN..........College Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL..........Staff Artist
Sports Staff
FRED Macbeth	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD GEORGE LEYES JAMES FITZPATRICK
Business Staff JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH.....Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER....Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.
MARCH 31, 1933
No. 22
S UMM ARIES
NEWS
’33 Laetare Medal given to John McCormack, Irish
Tenor ................................-...-.. 5
A Report on Notre Dame’s most Popular Expressions.— 5
Committees and Price Announced for Senior Ball. 6 Colonel Hoynes, Dean Emeritus of the College of Law,
Passes Away :..............................   6
Final Performance of “Vagabonds” Tonight....... 7
Engineers’ Club Hear Lecture on Aviation.......11
First Public Concert of the University Glee Club Makes
Hit with Students............................12
“Politics Special” enroute to Washington, D. C. will visit Famous Places............................16
,	FEATURES
Mark Flanigan in “Man About The Campus”........ 8
“Voice of the Campus”.......................... 9
“News of The Week” reviewed by George Leyes......10
Rockne Death Two Years Ago Today...............14
Johnson:.Unemployment Insurance Impractical......15
A Study of Notre Dame Architecture.............16
Wauwatosa, the Indians “Rich Country”............17
SPORTS	.	‘
Baseball squad deserts gymnasium for Brownson field; Al Costello shines in early workouts...........20
Fifty-two candidates force cut of fencing squad; Exhibition planned for May..............-............20
Ward beats Murphy as track team finishes in tenth
place at Butler Relays.....................  20
Coach Nicholson glum, over prospects for outdoor track season ..........:........-....................21
Father Francis Ott, ’15, appointed coach of golf; practice starts early next week....................21
University tennis tourney opens with fifty-one entrants..22
Joe Dienhart, ex-’27, coaches Cathedral High of Indianapolis to National Catholic Prep Basketball Championship ...........................................23
Scrimmages feature workouts as spring football prac-
tice continues .................................  23
Introducing Leo Cummins.............................24
Splinters from the Press Box........................25
On Down The Line..................................  32
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, March 31. — Lecture, “Wrought Iron,” by Dr. James Aston at 8:00 p. m., Auditorium of Engineering Building; “The Vagabonds” in Washington Hall at 8:15 p. m.; Scholastic Editorial Board meeting, Editorial Rooms at 6:30 p. m.; general staff meeting, 7:00 p. m.; Rifle team vs. Culver, at Culver.
SATURDAY, April 1.—Beginning of Pre-registration for year 1934-’35; Movie, “Air Mail,” Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15; Opening of University golf course; Rifle team vs. Culver, at Culver.
SUNDAY, April 2.—Masses at 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m. in Sacred Heart Church; Benediction at 7:00 p. m. for upperclassmen, and at 7:30 p. m., for Freshmen and students of Morrissey and St. Edward’s Halls; Debate, Affirmative team vs. Albion College, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.	.
MONDAY, April 3.—Academy of Science meeting; Symphony Orchestra practice, Washington Hall, 6:30 p. m.; Knights of Columbus meeting, Walsh Basement, 8:00 p. m.; Wranglers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law Building.
WEDNESDAY, April 5.—Lecture, “Chain Broadcasting,” by T. J. Jenkins, 8:00 p. m., auditorium of Engineering Building.
THURSDAY, April 6.—Spectators Meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law Building; Lecture, “The Lure of Pictorial Art,” by Mr. Frank M. Ludevig, 8:00 p. m., Washington Hall.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
X^ ROM the first exquisite bars of the “Laudate Patrem” to the last stirring line of the “Victory March,” the Glee Club concert was a success. It would be hard to determine which number received the greatest applause, or which soloist was encored the most, because the audience was absolutely non-partisan. That is one nice thing about a columnist. You feel obligated to attend everything that happens on the campus, even when you don’t want to, and after it is all over you realize what you might have missed. That group of fine singers shouldn’t be allowed to beg off with one concert. Professor Casasanta should arrange an open air affair in the stadium some time in the spring and give the whole school, and South Bend, too, a chance to hear them.
X HE Girls’ number of the Juggler swaggered onto the campus Monday. We took a few over to Dillon for mercenary purposes, to wit: to do the very things the Girls’ number warns you not to do! That is a great hall for browsing. You can find everything in there from an upright piano to a Metropolitan Club political caucus. The feminine touch is much in evidence there, from huge, expensive glass-mounted photographs leaning coyly on dollar-down-and-dollar-a-month radio cabinets, to modest little snapshots pasted on the comers of book-store blotters. But the effect was always the same: the most adamant sales resistance would crumble by a nod towards the picture of THE one and saying, “It’s the Girls’ number; hadn’t you better send one to her?” Oh, yes, sales are picking up!
ERE you there Wednesday night, or last night? No? Well, you’d better get over there tonight. You know where we mean, to see the “Vagabonds.” You wouldn’t want to be caught in a Fourth of July parade in a derby hat, and you won’t want to admit that you missed this operetta. We knew we were going to hear the best singers on the campus, but no one told us that we would also see a group of polished actors. We enjoyed
it thoroughly. We can’t give any one man, or any five men for that matter a “blow” without faithfully naming the whole cast. We saw the “Student Prince” back when a $4.40 a seat was a bargain, and we were just as thrilled Wednesday night.
X HE campus political pot is beginning to simmer again. There is no halfway course at Notre Dame — either you go in for them, or you stay completely out. And it is much more fun to go in for them. Even if you “have been defeated for every office on the campus” (thanks boys!) it’s, still fun. It is still too early to do any predicting, but we know that four men have declared their intentions to run for the presidency of the senior class, and a fifth man is going to declare himself at the last moment and run as a dark horse. The big fight this year will be in the tax-exempt city clubs. They are the real political plums on the campus, and they will draw the efforts of the more able politicians. We’ll review the sophomores for you next week!
E ought to say something nice about Ed Krause being elected basketball captain, but we have a better one yet. After the last Southern California game the team had a fleet of Packard cars put at their disposal. Ed and a few of his cronies came out of the hotel where they were stopping and got into a Packard car waiting at the door. They did Hollywood and its environs, and returned sometime in the yawning hours. They got out of the car and thanked the chauffeur. He acknowledged the thanks and said, “Twenty dollars, please!” The boys didn’t pay any attention to him and walked into the hotel. The irate cabby complained to Coach Anderson. It seems that the boys had not been particular about their Packards, and had taken a cab by mistake. The cabby couldn’t tell “Hunk” any of their 'names but, “there was one big guy they kept calling ‘Moose’ all the time!” The bill was paid.
March 31, 1933
Five
IT SEEKS N. D. HAS A
SLANG ALL OF ITS OWN
Local Boys Responsible For Many Fine Idioms.
An inquiring reporter, inspired by the list of collegiate colloquialisms in last week’s “College Parade,” was on the alert this week and gathered a representative group of Notre Dame’s most popular expressions.
Before presenting the list, it should be noted that some of these words and phrases are typically Notre Dame’s, while others are a part of that composite slang resulting from the cosmopolitan character of the student body. No effort toward separating these two groups has been made.
Here they are:
Take it easy, expression of leave-taking.
Hoiv they gain’ ?: greeting.
Howya hittin’ ’em, or Howdja hit it"!: pertaining to exams and quizzes.
Babe: girl.
You goof!: used for everything from a friendly greeting to a debating term (informal).
Screwy: slightly off, balmy, cracked or eccentric.
Chicken: quite deficient in courage.
Duties: those out-of-class papers assigned by most professors.
Skiving: French leave, generally taken in the stilly night from a hall window; believed by many authorities to be an extinct species.
Squirrelly: synonym for screwy; less severe.
Wolf: those fur-coated denizens of the Hook’s-Palace of Sweets corners.
Goin’ to town: progressing quite excellently along any given line of activity: football, dancing, speaking, etc.
Bloiv: publicity, or effusive greeting, or doing a bit of self-boosting (latter rare interpretation, however).
Dumb cluck: somewhat wanting mentally.
Chiseller: (quite varied, this) a political hanger-on, a cigarette bummer, etc.
Brother Postoffice, or Bookstore, or Express-office, or Lost and Found, etc. self-explanatory.
Can’t take it: lacking in mental, moral, or physical stamina.
JOHN McCORMACK, RENOWNED IRISH TENOR, AWARDED ’33 LAETARE MEDAL
A Break at Last! Emily Tells Girls to Finance Part of Dance Week-End
The following letter sent to Emily Post and the answer given by the authority on etiquette throws some light on a question long disputed, never settled:
Dear Mrs. Post: I have been invited to an affair at Annapolis for the week-end. What are my obligations? My visit will necessitate an overnight stay and will of course mean train fare and meals.
Answer: According to best usage, “affair” means a love intrigue. Of course I know that you mean a party of some sort. This much advice I can give: You do pay your own fare. You don’t let a man pay your hotel bill. You don’t pay for meals when staying with friends.
Examination For Sociology
Majors to be Held April 17
The comprehensive examinations for students with Sociology as their major subject will be held Thursday afternoon, April 27. All who expect to be graduated in June, August, or January must take the examination at this time.
In certain cases, described in the University catalogue, juniors are permitted to take a part of this examination. Additional details and a description of the subject matter for the examination may be found in the mimeographed instructions given to Sociology majors at the start of the year. A copy of these instructions is on file at the reference desk of the University Library.
The tinie and place of the examination will be announced later on the bulletin board at the entrance of the Administration Building.
In youth there is color and spark which dazzle, giving little knowledge of the soul within, but when time has dulled the sparkle, then is the story of the soul written full upon the face — that all the world may read.
PRESENTATION JUNE 4TI
Award Given in Recognition of Outstanding Catholic’s Achievement.
By Edward F. Mansfield
John McCormack, Ireland’s master of song, who has made his way into the heart of the world with the beauty of his voice, was given the honor last
John McCormack
His art teas acknowledged.
Sunday of being the fifty-first recipient of the Laetare medal, Notre Dame’s annual tribute to an American Catholic layman for merit and outstanding achievement.
Good Christian Example
Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., chairman of the Laetare medal committee, made it known that the famous tenor was chosen winner of the award because of the good he has brought to thousands with his singing, the aid he has given to many charities, and the splendid example he has set as an exemplary Christian.
Renowned for both his operatic and concert singing, McCormack is best known in the role of the concert artist in this country because of his many appearances in that capacity before American audiences. The radio and moving pictures have in recent years brought the magic of his voice (Continued on Page 13)
Six
The Scholastic
Colonel W. J. Hoynes Dies On Tuesday Afternoon
CEREMONIES TODAY
Dean Emeritus of Law School Succumbs in South Bend Hospital.
By Robert Dillon
Colonel William J. Hoynes, Dean Emeritus of the College of Law, died last Tuesday at St. Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend. Continually for fifty
Colonel William J. Hoynes
Requiescat in Pace.
years he was a familiar and much beloved figure at the University of Notre Dame. Lawyer, soldier, educator, and Catholic gentleman, his brilliant career was marked by toil, accomplishment and devoted sendee.
Represents A Generation
The oldest alumnus and this year’s freshman, all had seen or heard of Colonel Hoynes. Men of the past and of the present generation have felt his influence. Enrolling in Notre Dame in 1868, after colorful service in the Civil War, he finished his preparatory studies here, then attended the University of Michigan where .he graduated with an LL.B, degree. He was awarded an A.M. in 1878 and an LL.D. in 1888 by Notre Dame.
Having been a journalist in differ-
(Continued on Page 27)	'
Class Elections Are to be Last Week in April; No
Athletes to Compete
Campus elections have been set for the last week of April. As yet no definite date has been selected.
At a meeting of the S. A. C. election committee with Father Dolan, Prefect of Discipline, Tuesday night, March 28, new regulations regarding the coming spring elections were advised by the University.
It is to be definitely understood, as stated by the Prefect of Discipline, that no student participating in varsity athletics or who plans to participate in such athletics next year will be eligible to become a candidate for representation in the S. A. C. This also includes the office of class president, which by its very nature makes its holder an “ex-officio” S. A. C. representative.
Senior Banquet To Be Held
The reasons given for such action was that athletic competition and practice prevent the individual from being an active member of the S. A. C. This ruling is to be made applicable to all forms of athletics.
The off-campus representative to the S. A. C. is to be a man who has South Bend as his official residence, for there will be no off-campus students next year.
Plans for the senior banquet were discussed. It was proposed to hold it in the lay dining hall at 7 o’clock some evening near the semester examination period. This particular time was proposed because many of the seniors go home during the week prior to graduation. At the time of examinations, all seniors will be on the campus and able to attend the banquet.
This banquet will be an annual event. The S. A. C. will provide cigarettes, cigars, and incidentals. The Jugglers will furnish the musical entertainment. Rev Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, is expected to be the speaker of the evening.
The best things in life do not come by argument but by assumption.— Rev. C. J. McCombe.
PRICE, COMMITTEES OF BALL ARE ANNOUNCED
Tickets For May 12 Affair And Tea Dance Are $8.50.
A price which will include admission to both the Senior Ball on May 12 and the tea dance to be given at the Chain-o-Lakes Country Club on the following day was definitely set this week by Francis Werner and Thomas McLaughlin, president of the Senior class and chairman of the Ball respectively. Eight dollars and fifty cents per senior, it has been decided, will be the amount necessary to insure a representative dance.
Committee Personnel
Cognizance has been taken of the recent petition circulated in senior halls, calling for a substantial reduction of the ticket price, with the result that a 30 per cent slice has been made in respect to last year’s figure.
With the above bit of news was the announcement of the personnel of the various committees in charge of the dance. The committees follow:
TEA DANCE: Chairmen, John J. Collins. John J. Galla: John H. Travers, Allison J. O’Brien, Marion J. Blake.
TICKETS: Chairman, Thomas A. Hughen; Thomas J. Meeker, John F. Cary, Bernard M. DeLay. Edmund L. Moriarity.
MUSIC: Chairmen. H. A. Douville and J. B. Clark; John H. Poynton, Joseph J. Dockman, William A. Burke, Gerald L. Finneran.
FAVORS: Chairman, Charles A. Conley: Edward G. Siegfried, Peter J. Connelley. Charles B. Lenahan, Leonard D. Reagan.
PROGRAMS: Chairman, Anthony J. Pugliese ; Natt G. McDougall, Francis E. Marra, James C. Galligan, John F. Gill.
PATRONS: Chairman, Hugh M. Colony, Theodore A. Nolan, Murray J. Booth, William J. Kennedy, Donald W. McCue.
RECEPTION: Chairman. Joseph J. Kurth ; John E. Tobin, Raymond J. Brancheau, Michael T. Coyle, Rolden A. Schefter.
PUBLICITY: Chairman Karl L. Vogel-heim; Edwardo Roxas, James L. Bourke, Edward W. Dailey. Nicholas P. Lukats.
INVITATIONS: Chairman, Paul F. O’Neil; Frederick L. Weniger, -Arthur C. Smith, Donald E. Schnabel, William E. Ackermann.
BALLROOM: Chairman. Robert' M. Johnson ; Charles T. Downs, Paul E. Gray, Norman J. Greeney, John H. Lynch.
ARRANGEMENTS: Chairman, Eugene M. Fieckenstein; David S. McCaffery, Robert B. Filson, Joseph F. Dempsey, Thomas F. O’Meara.
ENTERTAINMENT: Chairman, James B. McLaughlin; Donald G. Waufle, Charles M. Ryan. Laurence D. Chouinard, Francis J. O’Keefe.
(Continued on Page 27)
March 31, 1933
Seven
ALBION COLLEGE WILL DEBATE HERE SUNDAY
Last Showing of Operetta Will Be Tonight At 8:15
Will Meet Local Team at Eight in Washington Hall.
By Thomas Proctor
Washington Hall will house a decision debate between the University of Notre Dame and Albion College of Albion, Michigan, Sunday evening, April 2nd at 8 o’clock. Hugh Fitzgerald, Robert Schmellzle, and William Kirby will defend the affirmative side of the tax question for Notre Dame.
This debate is a return contest with the Albion men on the proposition, “Resolved: that at least half of Indiana’s and Michigan’s state and local revenues should be derived from sources other than tangible property.” Last week Max Baer and John Heywood argued the negative side of this question with the Albion College affirmative team in a non-decision contest.
W. J. Coyne, debate director, has secured the services of Professor William P. Sandford, Head of the Speech Department at the University of Illinois, who will give a critical judgment of the debate.
Albion College has made an imposing record on the question of taxation. It boasts a win by audience decision over Northwestern University.
Mr. Coyne wishes to state that the series of debates scheduled for April with Western Reserve have been cancelled by the Cleveland school. Negotiations are under way at the present time for a radio debate with Purdue University after Spring vacation.
Students May Still Enter
Breen Oratorical Contest
A definite date has not as yet been set for the annual Breen Medal Oratorical Contest. As was announced * last week, this contest will be held shortly after Easter vacation; that is, the elimination contest will be held at that time.
' W. J. Coyne, debate coach, who has been handling the details of the oratory meet says that several students « have already signified their intentions of entering the competition for the coveted gold medal. Any student who wishes to enter must hand in his name to some member of the Speech Department at once.
Lawyers Cut Their Ball Price to $2.25; Manley Made Ticket Chairman
John Manley, of Dyersville, Iowa, ticket committee chairman of the Lawyers’ Ball made known the price of this year’s dance early this week:
John Manley
Dyersville comes through.
Tickets may be purchased fox' $2.25, a figure which shows a substantial reduction in respect to last year’s fee. The sale will begin about the middle of next week.
A complete rostrum of committee personnel submitted to The Scholastic yesterday, runs as follows:
GENERAL CHAIRMAN: Norbert J. Christman.
TICKETS: J. Manley, chairman ; L. Hodel, T. Cannon, F. Dittoe, E. Barrett, L. Johnson. E. Valelee, C. Powers.
PUBLICITY: F. Brown, chairman; D. Lencioni, T. Reed, W. Keckich, A. Kata. J. Ruberto. F. Kop inski.
MUSIC: R. Prescott, chairman: L. Cook, N. Hoffman, P. Konop, E. Massa, T. Mor-awski, H. Zifferin.
INVITATIONS: C. Baxter, ehariman: B. Desenberg, F. Schumacher, J. Crimmins, A. Duffy, R. Daerr, J. Harrison, J. Dwyer.
RECEPTION: T. Coughlan, chairman: M. Schwartz, C. Randolph, V. Ponic, D. Madill, D. O’Keefe, W. Sullivan.
We can all have the comforting reflection that every time we drink beer we are performing a patriotic act.— C. D. Williams, secretary of the U. S. Brewers Association.
BIG CROWDS ATTEND
Cast Gives Fine Performances Wednesday and Thursday; Many Encores Received.
By James Byrne
Encouraged by the justifiably vigorous reception given them by the audiences of Wednesday and Thursday nights, “The Linnets” are primed for the final presentation of their operetta—“The Vagabonds”—tonight at 8:15 o’clock, in Washington Hall. The fact that Washington Hall was filled to capacity for both performances attests the quality of the production. The adeptness with which members of the cast have portrayed their roles has insured the future of “The Linnets” as a permanent campus organization.
One Act: Two Scenes •
A one-act musical play of two scenes, “The Vagabonds”—as the title suggests — is a story concerning the fortunes and woes of the knights of the open road. The aged king of Non-sensia ,John Egan, because of his advanced years is not in a position to cope with the unruly elements who take refuge in the mountains of his realm. Hence the task of subjugating these vagrants falls upon the shoulders of the Crown Prince of Nonsensia, John Ryan.
Attired in the garb of a woman, the Crown Prince, with his aides, sets out for the vagabond stronghold. His Royal Highness and the members of his entourage are taken captive by a contingent of the bandits. Upon hearing that his men have taken a woman prisoner, Furio, the leader of the ruffians, Robert Nesbit, orders his men to prepare the camp for a wedding— his wedding.	'
Roachs’ Part
S. Jerome Roach, as Ballikook, the vagabond chef, is commanded to perform the ceremony. With knife in hand, Jerry advises the heavily veiled woman to say, “I do.” “Say yes, and you lose your heart,” he informs her. “Say no, and you lose your head,” he threatens.
(Continued on Page 30)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
WRANGLERS HEAR TALK ON BANKING REMEDIES
It’s too bad that walking races are not a feature of intercollegiate track, for if they were, Mark Flanigan would have won a monogram in his first year of competition. Mark is undoubtedly the fastest walker on the campus. If he wanted to, he could give Father Farley a twenty yard head start from Sorin steps, and be eating his dessert in the Dining Hall when Father Farley rounded the Badin corner. Thats’ walking! No one can match that stride of Mark’s — the rhythmically swinging arms, the swift patter of those nimble feet.
Encyclopedia On Foot
But fleetness of foot is by no means Mark’s only accomplishment. Mark’s knowledge of horses and the history of horse-racing is so extensive as to be encyclopedic. They say that there are two or three fellows at Notre Dame, — one in Walsh Hall, particularly,— who know as much as Mark does about horses, but we doubt it. He can tell you anything you want to know about the sport of kings — the state of the track at Churchill Downs when Old Rosebud set the record for the Derby back in 1914, a record which lasted until Twenty Grand broke it the year before last; the exact percentage of races won by geldings as opposed to those won by stallions; the pedigree of any horse that ever ran in the big time. If you should ever have an argument that you can’t decide, just bring the problem over to 351 Sorin. Mark will gladly settle all bets.
Eludes Questions
Next to horses, Mark likes dogs best. He wouldn’t trade his collie for a Hispano-Suiza, with a villa on the Riviera thrown in. Unlike many previous men - about - the - campus, Mark claims to have no interest in that class of human beings laughingly referred to as the weaker sex. We say that he “claims to” because we are inclined to doubt that Mark is telling the whole truth. The evidence to the contrary is circumstantial, but no less strong. All we need to say is that he often dsappears from the hall at one o’clock in the afternoon, and does not show his face again until midnight. Mark is very reticent about these excursions of his. When questioned point-blank, he always manages somehow to change the subject.
They say that Jim Harris and Moe Lee know the whole story, but they’re afraid to tell.
Outside of this touch of mystery, Mark’s life is an open book. A phi-
Mark Flanigan
More than anything else—horses.
losophy major, he is one of those erudite individuals who are accepted as “authorities” in Father Ward’s Ethics class. At present, he is the authority on animal husbandry; next week it will be something else. After his graduation in June, Mark intends to study law at Harvard. His argumentative nature should be of great value to him in the legal profession. He likes to read, Thornton Wilder being his favorite American novelist. He has no use for golf, which he claims to be a waste of time.
Mark is very proud of his Irish ancestry. In speaking of this subject he must warn you never to spell his name Flanagan. For some reason or other he is very proud of the i in the middle of his surname. Perhaps Jim Danehy or one of the other campus authorities on Irish lore can tell you why. But however you spell it, it’s a good name, and Mark deserves to bear it if anybody does.
The gold King’s Crown is awarded annually to Columbia University students who rank high in campus activities outside of athletics. This year 19 students received the gold awards and 58 were given silver awards. Six of the gold recipients are members of the staff of the Spectator, undergraduate daily.
Blish Advises Organization of Small Banks.
“I propose three remedies for the existing banking situation,” said Eugene S. Blish, member of the Club, addressing the Wranglers’ society last Monday evening in the Law Building. By a rising vote the club approved the speaker’s plan as being sensible, practicable, and sound.
“First, absorb, merge, and consolidate small or poorly-managed bank institutions, into regional organizations,” stated Blish. “This would eliminate inefficiency and cut down unworthy banks. Second, require all banks to join the Federal Reserve System to prevent useless competition, rivalry, and jealousy. Keep commerical banks distinctly in the field of banking. At the present time such banks are nothing more than ‘financial department stores.’ Banks should serve industry, not compete with it.”
For a third remedy the speaker proposed the adoption of the Aldrich Bank Plan, which would separate the activities of commercial and investment banks, and limit speculation with its correlative, floating of worthless securities. Such a plan would also prevent the control of directorships and board seats of corporations by the bankers. “Banks have a stranglehold on industry,” he said.
James Boyle presided over the meeting.
Father O’Hara Begins Alumni Religious Survey
Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion, is sending a questionnaire to 5,500 lay alumni of the University this week. The questionnaire was printed the early part of the week.
It contains fifty questions, practically all of which were suggested by the alumni themselves when the alumni survey was made two years ago. The result of the questionnaire will be published in next year’s Religious Survey. Last year’s questions were sent to the students then at Notre Dame, and the results were published a few weeks ago.

March 31, 1933
Nine
LUDEVIG TO CONTINUE ART LECTURES THURSDAY
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Second Lecture of Series Will Be On “Pictorial Art.”
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full, initials will be used upon request.
By Robert Ervin
The second in a series of art lectures will be delivered by Mr. Frank M. Ludevig, April 6th in Washington Hall. “The Lure of Pictorial Art,” is the title of this lecture.
To arouse appreciation of the fine art of painting, and to stimulate aesthetic response are the purposes of the address. Mr. Ludevig will point out how any student, regardless of the course he is pursuing, may acquire a practical judgment of fine art.
To Correct Misconceptions
The first part of the talk will consist in the refutation of popular misconceptions concerning the art of painting, and in establishing correct notions as to the true function of paintings. Popular judgment sometimes considers a painting good when it looks natural or lifelike. Leading artists contend, however, that a painting should be criticized from the standpoint of its design qualities, and of the interpretation which result from the creative urge of the artist. This explains why some masterpieces may be hung upside down, and still gain recognition as consummate works of art.
A practical demonstration, with slides showing the works of a few leading American and European artists, will comprise the second part of the lecture. Mr. Ludevig will evaluate these paintings in the light of the principles listed above.
University Golf Course
Will Open Tomorrow
Opening of the William J. Burke memorial golf course for the coming season has been set for Saturday, April 1, Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, announced this week.
The failure of students using the course to start from number one tee will result in the loss of the privilege of playing for the remainder of the semester, Father Dolan stated.
A radio broadcast was recently held in which the noise made by the cosmic ray was trapped and amplified so that millions of listeners could hear it in their sitting rooms.
Joyful Souls
Dear Editor:
Editing The Scholastic is no small job and you do it pretty well. But you are not always so good on the editorials. Class and campus politics you seem to know, otherwise how would you have got the job of editor? Some of the fellows were discussing your “March 17” in the last issue. The general opinion was that there you got over your head.
This for instance: “March 17 is invariably a signal for every son and daughter of Erin to wave the green flag and grow wistful about the glories of the old country, and the magnificent battle she has waged for her independence.” This is simply to state a fact but to go on and assert that the Irish ignore the big thing behind the fact is simply to distort the truth.
Did you ever hear of King David? No. Well, he danced and sang before the Ark. Do you think it was just to make an exhibition, to let off his enthusiasm? No. It was because the Ark was a very sacred thing and he was a joyful soul. Well, so are the Irish. Did you take part in the Senior Washington Day exercises? Yet there are those who would abolish it as just so much parade and nonsense. Too, if you were on the comer of State and Madison at eleven o’clock on Armistice Day, no doubt you would think that solemn ceremony a bit of “hooey.” The list could be multiplied. But why go on? So just go slow when it comes to the Natural expression of a people’s loyalty.
*	—Q. E. D.
Morticians!
The Editor of The Scholastic
Sorin Hall
Notre Dame Indiana.
Dear Sir:
After reading every issue of your Scholastic since September it surprised and pained me to notice in your issue of March 17 an article in which your well known journalist, Mr. J. D. Porterfield, used quite frequently in his article about Charles Fiss, a word that is obsolete and which in this part of the U. S. is discontinued,
even by the best of “drug store cowboys”— I refer to the word undertaker. I am sure you will pardon my forwardness in correcting your erstwhile error, but — undertakers have gone the way of their trade name, and we moderns speak loftily of funeral directors.
I feel sure that if you again interview Mr. Fiss he will agree with me as to my statement. Then if you should desire more definite proof I can refer you to an active member of our R. I. Alumni Club of N. D., who though engaged in this far-famed profession, refuses to recognize the doubtful title of undertaker.
With best regards, and good wishes for more copies of The Scholastic, I am,
“Little Rhody,”
N. D. ’20.
Coincidence
Dear Editor:
April 6, 1933, the day when “beer comes back” to the U. S. A., is being-looked forward to with mixed feelings by the population, wise and foolish, of the country.
One set, composed of fools, are planning a “bust” that will be unexampled, unsurpassed and unprecedented as an orgy of guzzling.
Another' set of fools, the fanatical drys, are hoping that the wet fools will drown themselves, along with all hope of Volstead Repeal, in the Anheuser flood, so that the yoke of Vol-steadism may be kept on the shoulders of the people.
A third set, the wise wets, are cautioning the wet fools to go easy and to consider seriously and solemnly the real significance of the day—liberation from an unjust law, for which liberation they ought to thank God, instead of going the drys another chance.
For Catholics, by an historical coincidence of commanding significance, the day has a meaning that is worth being remarked. April 6, 1933, marks the formal opening of the Holy Year, proclaimed by Pope Pius XI in commemoration of the nineteenth centenary of Our Lord’s redemption of mankind by His Divine Passion. For that (Continued on Page 12)
Ten
The Scholastic
‘HITLERISM’ IS SUBJECT OF FR. SIGMAR’S TALK
International Relations Club Hears Talk on Germany.
By Richard Tobin
“The rise of Hitlerism to government is a sad story of intrigues and hatching plots. Not natural force, not genius, not a fair battle brought Hitlerism to the top, but suppression of political meetings before the election, the insufficiency of his adversaries, of an old, too old, president, and of a disregard for all human rights,” said the Reverend Julian P. Sigmar in his address on “Hitler and Hitlerism” before the International Relations Club last evening.
The speaker stated at the outset of his talk that he did not propose to speak about the question of whether the Jews in Germany are really persecuted, whether there will be war with Germany. He did not intend to settle, he said, the problems of what kind of Catholic Hitler is, or at what time the monarchy might be restored.
Pre-war Germany
“Rather,” he said, “I might give a report of the political development in Germany and the influence of the Treaty of Versailles. I intend to illustrate the causes and inhibitions of a political party called National Socialists, regarding this party only as a typical case of. a general political and social rule.”
The political structure of pre-war Germany and the character of the first revolution 1918-1920 were entered into in detail by the speaker in order that the sudden rise of Hitler and his party to power in Germany might be more thoroughly understood. He depicted the intense class distinction of pre-war Germany as well as the rights which were withheld from all except the ‘full-citizens,’ as they were called.
Influencing Items
The factors contributing to the rise of the present party ruling in Germany were enumerated and explained by the speaker. The political blunders of the ruling parties, the sudden change from a monarchy to the republic, the maltreatment of many of the officers returning from the war, .
(Continued on Page 22)
News of the Week
By George Leyes
The unsettled feeling in Europe has been heightened by the stirring events in Germany this week, particularly by those concerning discriminatory measures against the Jews. The Jewish people fear not so much physical maltreatment as they do boycotts in business, in the professions in which they excel, and disenfranchisement.
The average German Jew is conceded to be more intelligent than the average German, and naturally is opposed to such discriminations and restrictions. The Nazi government should be aroused by the fact that their actions have brought about world-wide protests. It is hoped that, such structure will lead to different treatment.
The new spirit of optimism that came with the new deal makes it natural to believe that all the other industries will follow in the footsteps of the beer manufacturers and will start a forward march toward happier days.
Rapid-fire legislation continues to be put forward in Washington under the partial dictatorial powers of President Roosevelt. Last Monday the President issued his first order under his sweeping powers of reorganization, and in effect abolished the federal farm board, establishing all federal agricultural agencies under one unit. A saving of more than S200,-000,000 is the immediate effect of this merger.
The conservatives and the usual discordant groups in Congress are already beginning to kick up their heels in hostility to the speed with which the new administration is putting forward its legislative program, protesting that it precludes any beneficial criticism or debate. It should be remembered, however, that these are emergency measures and are not meant to be permanent policies.
Many people in Chicago may be disappointed if they stay up after midnight, April 6, waiting for their delivery of beer, because of the great number of orders. At present it seems doubtful whether deliveries will be (Continued on Page 30)
RONAN LAW DISCUSSED AT PATRICIANS MEETING
Bookwaiter, Ballman Present Interesting Papers.
James W. Bookwaiter and Richard J. Ballman read papers, which had as their theme, Roman Law, at a meeting of the Patricians Club Tuesday evening, March 28. Bookwaiter presented a treatise entitled “Roman Legislative Assemblies” in which he traced the development of the patricia potestas through its successive stages to the imperium of the kings.
Rome’s Contributions
“Law And Its Enforcement in the Roman Republic” was the topic treated by Richard Ballman. After sketching the manner in which the Romans met and decided the legal issues of the day, the speaker concluded: “Even though the city of Rome fell, it left to the world something which has never lost its pinnacle position as a remembrance of the ancient world: that is, its law code and law enforcement system. Most of our court procedure and laws of today are modifications of the Roman courts and Roman code; in fact, the fundamentals of our criminal court procedure as found in our state constitutions, compare almost identically with Roman criminal court system. This fact alone stands as a monument to the legal-mindedness of the Romans.”
Both papers were well received and were indicative of intensive research on the part of their authors. Upon the completion of these readings, a general discussion ensued. Both Ballman and Bookwaiter acquitted themselves admirably in meeting the questions put to them by the members of the Club.
The next meeting of this organization is to be held immediately following the Easter holidays.
Engineers To Hear Lecture
“Chain Broadcasting” is the topic of a lecture to be delivered at a joint meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Engineer’s Club by T. J. Jenkins, division ? engineer of the Cleveland office of the | American Telephone and Telegraph I company, Wednesday, April 5, at 8 i o’clock.
The meeting will be held in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering.
March 31, 1933
LECTURER STATES U.S.
AVIATION RATES FIRST
Statistics Point To American Superiority in Air.
“America has more airplanes than any other country in the world, and we are flying each plane more miles per year than other countries are — a fact which is a direct answer to the cry of the uninformed that America is behind other nations in aviation,” said Captain Clarence Cornish, manager of the Airco flying service in Fort Wayne and former world war aviator, in his address to the Engineers’ Club last Tuesday night.
Have Most Licensed Crafts
“Air passenger traffic increased 310 per cent from 1929 to 1932,” Captain Cornish continued, “in contrast to a forty per cent decrease in train passenger traffic and a ten per cent loss in bus transportation.”
“48,000,000 passenger - miles were totalled by the principal American lines in 1929, fifteen per cent more than all other countries combined,” said the research expert and former Army flyer, “and U. S. airmail in 1929 amounted to 9,000,000'pounds.” The airmail figures for 1932 were lower because of increased postage rates, he explained.
“Statistics show that America also leads today in number of licensed planes, with Germany second, and Great Britain and France following in order,” added Captain Cornish.
Future Of U. S. Aviation
“An increase of airplane cruising speed from an average of 120 miles per hour in 1929 to 150 in 1932 was brought about by constant advancement in design of planes and motors, and present engineering progress along these lines indicates that new developments will come so rapidly that 85 per cent of our present Army and Navy planes will be obsolete at a not far distant date,” the captain stated regarding future aviation advancement.
Four reels of Army air corps movies showing the latest types of Army planes, and tests and experiments at Wright Field, army aviation research headquarters in Dayton, Ohio, were shown — the speaker having gone to Dayton last week to secure these reels for his lecture to Notre Dame engineers.
HEALY ANALYZES WORK OF CHEKOV IN TALK TO BOOKMEN.
“Chekov was not so bitter as Bierce, nor so taken up with the occult as Poe,” said Gene Healy in a paper on Anton Chekov read at the meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening. “But there is in him something of them both; a somberness, an outlook which is most certainly not roseate.”
Tire speaker related how Chekov began his literary career, writing bits of light, humorous comedy for the various newspapers. Their merit was more than ordinary. At the behest of his friends, Chekov began the series of social stories and drama which were to give him a high rank among Russian writers. He was a reformer at heart, and attempted to change the lives of his countrymen by picturing them at their worst, moralizing their miseries. His early training for medicine enabled him to develop a keen analysis of character, with the result that we are astounded at the lifelike qualities of many of his created figures.
Healy placed much stress on Chekov’s peasant origin as a vital factor in his philosophy of life. His father had purchased his freedom from an overlord, and had settled on a small plot of ground to furnish his family with but the bare necessities of life. It was this hum-drum, sordid existence Chekov revolted against, and spent the greater part of his life trying to better himself.
Entertainment Planned For French Club Meet Monday
The Notre Dame French Club will hold an important meeting in the music room of Washington Hall next Monday night. It intends to formulate plans for a wide program of activities to be carried out during the spring months.
Russel Stemper, tenor of the Notre Dame Glee Club, accompanied by John Hines, has prepared a series of popular numbers. In the form of further entertainment, John McLaughlin and Louis Grosso will read a French paper. Grosso has chosen the subject, “My Travels in France and Switzerland.” Three trumpet players of the Notre Dame Jugglers will also present several musical novelties.
Eleven
SPRING “SANTA MARIA” ON CAMPUS MONDAY EVE
Will be Distributed at Regular K. C. Meeting.
Green in color, but not in journalism, the Spring number of the Santa Maria will be handed Monday evening to all members of the local council of the Knights of Columbus.
Four new pages filled with feature and news stories of the activities of the Notre Dame Council have been added to this issue, making the magazine nine pages in length. .
Once again the Santa will be forwarded to 3,000 Knights of Columbus Councils in the United States, for the edification of many a K. C. reader.
Said Editor Becklenberg about the coming issue: “It represent a substantial amount of work by the fellows on the staff. I have not done an awful lot .	. I hope people like
it.”
Complete Arrangements For Chicago Club Dance
Plans have been definitely completed for the Chicago Club Easter dance, according to John Collins, general chairman.
The grand ballroom of the Stevens hotel has been chosen as the most convenient spot to hold the dance. Jack Chapman, popular Chicago orchestra will play.
Thomas A. Gorman, president of the Chicago Club, has issued an invitation to those students who are spending Easter at Notre Dame.
Tickets for the dance are now available in all halls on the campus. Reservations may be made without purchasing a ticket. The price will be $3.50 a couple.
Junior Master Objects To Being Made a Peer
LONDON—The London Daily Mail last week reported the case of a teacher who was more than put out by being made a peer.
He was G. H. Northing, a junior master of Drax Grammar School, near Selby, Yorkshire, England.
By the death of a cousin he apparently succeeds to the Irish earldom of Altamont. Said he:
“A beastly nuisance. I am perfectly happy at the school and want no further distinction than that of junior master.”
Twelve
The Scholastic
GLEE CLUB CONCERT
WINS STUDENT ENCORE
Two Hours of Fine Singing Given; Plaudits Many.
Music lovers at Notre Dame were thrilled last Sunday night when they attended the first public concert of the University Glee Club. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta and his singing organization of some fifty voices presented two hours of excellent entertainment.
Opening the program with a trio of religious airs, the Glee Club literally sounded like “the chords of a mighty organ.” The motets offered were “Laudate Patrem,” “Plorate Filli Israel,” and “Ave Maria.” So powerful was the rendition of these selections, that the audience’s tribute was one of silence.
Solos Well Done
Russel Semper made his debut as a tenor with the singing of “Because” and “The Sunshine of Your Smile.” These vrere followed by a negro spiritual part song, “Were You There?” featuring Justin Tompkins, baritone soloist.
John Ryan, tenor, and S. Jerome Roach, baritone, were featured in solos that were loudly applauded by the audience. Both Ryan and Roach rendered several encores.
George Menard’s interpretation of “Why Darkies Were Born,” was warmly received. As an encore, he sang the ever popular ballad, “My Hero.” Other selections that received encores were “In Old Nassau,” and “Czecho-Slovakian Dance Song.”
Semi-classic And Humor
Two Victor Herbert numbers, “The Mascot of the Troop,” and “The March of Toys” were rivaled in popularity only by the two humorous selections, “There’s A Hole in the Bottom of the Sea,” and “Why Don’t You Try?” Soloist Roach featured the latter selection.
“Songs of the Campus” were presented as the final group on the program. ' All the official school songs were sung by the Glee Club members. The concert ended with the “Victory March.”
The sober fact is that the world is nearer today a catastrophe of major proportions than at any time since the World War.—James G. McDonald.
Six Senior Lawyers Pass Indiana Bar Examinations
Six of the seven seniors in the College of Law who tried the Indiana State Bar examinations last week at Indianapolis were successful. They are Talbot, Randolph, Prescott, Dit-toe, Sullivan, and Ruberto. Of the seventy-two men who took the examinations, only thirty passed.
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 9)
day Pope Pius has asked that Holy Hour devotions be held with special solemnity, including the exposition of the Blessed Sacrament.
In expressing his desire for this commemoration of Our Saviour’s sufferings, on April 6, the Holy Father his said:
“Among the sacred mysteries of the Redemption of mankind — the nineteenth centenary celebration of which, announced by Us, is imminent —one of the most touching for every Christian who is not insensible to the sufferings of his Lord, is that of the Agony of Jesus in the Garden of Olives.”	---
It was in the Garden of Olives that Our Saviour cried out that the bitter cup of passion be taken from His lips.
One cannot escape the striking coincidence: on April 6 “the cup that inebriates” will be drained by many, even to the dregs of sin.
On April 6 the bitter cup of Christ’s passion will be commemorated by Catholics the world over.
. F. C. L.
Carr, Olympic Champion, May Never Run Again
Philadelphia, Pa. — Bill Carr, the Arkansas flyer who last summer ran to fame in the Olympic games and who is now a student at the University of Pennsylvania, will probably never run again, following an accident here last week in which he broke both ankles and his pelvis bone.
Lawson Robertson, coach of the University track team and the American Olympic track teams, said the accident occurred while £arr was standing on the running board of an automobile which crashed into another.
Carr, who held the 400-meter _ world’s record, was thrown to the street.
GLASS MAKING PROCESS DISCUSSED RY CHEMIST
Lecture and Demonstration is Given at Chemical Society!
Dr. W. T. Levitt, technician of the Corning Glass Society, Corning, N. Y., was the speaker at a meeting of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society, held Monday evening in Chemistry Hall. He demonstrated and lectured on the art of making scientific apparatus.
Uses Slides
Dr. Levitt began by showing slides of the processes and equipment employed by the ancient glass blowers. The glass which was incorporated into the apparatus of the early alchemists was of a very poor quality. Be cause of this fraility, artificial heat could not be used satisfactorily in laboratory operations. In distilling, for instance, the sun’s rays were utilized instead of oil fires. Thus, it took the alchemist approximately 20 days to do what a modern chemist could accomplish in ten hours.
Apparatus Costs $40
Using a combination oxygen-gas blowpipe and Pyrex glass, the technician exhibited the more important steps in assembling glassware used in chemistry. By cutting, blowing, and fitting glass tubing, the lecturer made an upright condenser. Next, a separate funnel was fitted with stop cocks and a drip tube. Finally, an ordinary flash was equipped with three ground glass necks. The apparatus assembled during the demonstration, Dr. Levitt said, would retail at $40.
Fordham Cards Three Big Games for ’33 Grid Year
New York City — Fordham University’s long ambition to become known nationally as a big football school is to be somewhat realized in 1934 when at least three intersectional games will be played by the local outfit.
Purdue and Southern Methodist had been signed up earlier this year for the 1934 season, and last week Jack Coffey, graduate manager, announced the addition of the University of Tennessee to the schedule for that year. The game is to be played Nov. 3 at the Polo Grounds here.
March 31, 1933
Thirteen
LAETARE MEDAL GOES TO JOHN M’CORMACK (Continued from Page 5)	.
to thousands who would have otherwise been unable to hear him. Although a native Irishman, McCormack became an American citizen in 1919.
The golden jubilee of the presentation of the medal will be celebrated this year at the 88th annual commencement exercises of the University, on June 4th — McCormack’s 49th birthday, incidentally — by a special program. It is planned to have present all living recipients of the medal who may be able to come to the campus at that time.
Born In 1884
John McCormack’s life story from the beginning of his musical success when he made his debut in London in 1907 as Turrido in the opera, “Cav-elleria Rusticana,” to his present position among the leading figures of the concert-operatic world is a story of advancement to the heights through earnest effort.
Athlone, Ireland, was his birthplace in 1884 on June 4th, and his education was received at Summer Hill college, County Sligo, Ireland. After studying in Milan under Signor Sabatini, McCormack won the first prize at the Dublin music festival at twenty years of age. Later he returned for two additional years of study in Milan, and following this he went to London for his debut in 1907.
The Laetare medal will not be the first signal honor which has been awarded to the Irish singer, for he is a Knight of the Order of the Holy Seulchrpe, Knight Commander- of the Order of St. Gregory the Great — both honors conferred by Pope Benedict XV — privy chamber-man to Pope Pius XI, who also gave him the title of Count, and he is Freeman of the cities of Dublin and New York, and a Chevalier of the French Legion of Honor.
Meaning Of Medal
Deriving its name from the tradition of announcing its recipient on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent, the medal was first presented in 1883, one year before McCormack’s birth, and has since that time come to be recognized as one of America’s best known honors for true accomplishment among Catholic laymen.
Beautiful both in its tribute and its
Prof. Buckley Returns From Illinois Trip
Professor Louis F. Buckley, Department of Economics, has just returned from a trip through Illinois in the interests of the University. Wednesday, March 2, he addressed the students of De La Salle High School of Joliet. That evening he was entertained at a dinner given by the Notre Dame Alumni Club. Thursday, March 24, Mr. Buckley was a guest speaker at Fox Valley High School.
Dixon High School had a “Go To College Day” Friday, March 24. Representatives of twelve colleges addressed the students of Dixon High on this particular day. On all three occasions the Alumni Clubs of the towns visited cooperated with Professor Buckley in establishing a contact between Notre Dame and the high school students interested in attending or inquiring about the University.
College Usually Ruins
Faith, Says Professor
Dr. Philip A. Parsons, head of the Department of Sociology of the University of Oregon, recently declared in addressing a group of campus leaders: “After twenty years it is recognized that the influence of college is destructive to religious beliefs, and that spiritual influence is losing its hold on college students.”
The purpose of Dr. Parson’s address was to outline the means by which a survey of the religious conditions on the Pacific coast college campuses is being furthered.
“Religious education,” Dr. Parsons said, “is largely excluded from the university and college curricula, and a survey has been instituted because so many students from religious homes have come to the colleges and are not furthering their religion after a few months in school.”
simple form, the medal is a bar with “Laetare Medal” upon it, and a suspended disc of solid gold embellished with a symbol of the recipient’s field of endeavor, his name, the motto “Magna Est Veritas et Prevalebit,” (Truth is Mighty and Shall Prevail), and the name of the University in Latin; all the lettering is black on the gold background.
Among the recent recipients of the medal are Edward N. Hurley, Alfred E. Smith, and Dr. Stephen J. Maher, the last being named for the award last year.
JOHNSON GIVES PAPER AT ECONOMIC SEMINAR
Traces Unemployment From Early Peasant Days.
“Unemployment Insurance” was the topic of a paper read by Walter Johnson at a meeting of the Economic Seminar Tuesday evening in the Law building. Tracing its history from feudal times when serfdom and handicraft production were prominent, Johnson showed that unemployment was unknown in the more or less backward nations.
“But as the slave became a peasant, and the peasant a freedman, as the handicraft worker was replaced by the machine, and factories appeared, unemployment as it is known today became a major problem—as did the possibility of its solution,” he said. “At this point he brought in the laws that were necessitated as a 1’esult of the coming of unemployment.
British Plan Unsuccessful
Coming down to the present conditions, Johnson showed the experiences of such nations as England, Italy, and Germany. “The British plan, which is the oldest, has undergone 28 operations since it was eight years old, and in November, 1932, the royal commission on unemployment insurance, appointed in December, 1930, after two years of the most intimate probing, reported and recommended that there be still further changes.” Their plan turned out to be a dole; and as far as applying to insurance, it doesn’t. The German plan, as pointed out by the Metropolitan Insurance Company, ran into debt, being subsidized by the government.
“Fails Definitely”
“To attempt to draw conclusions from American experience with Unemployment Insurance,” he admits, “is rather dangerous. We can say, however that in general it has been more successful than that of Europe, since plans of the latter had they not relied on government subsidy, would have been eliminated long ago.”
Because of the impossibility of spreading the risk of unemployment among a large number, as is the case in Fire Insurance, and the general incompatability of Unemployment Insurance with the general principles of insurance, Johnson concluded that (Continued on Page 2!)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
When Knute Rockne Died Two Years Ago Today—
By William Kennedy
Knute K. Rockne is dead, they say. He died two years ago — two years ago today. Died in the blazing wreckage of what had previously been a crack western air transport. One minute the big plane was speeding westward with its cargo of human lives; the next minute, a wingless, uncontrollable monster, rushing madly to the earth. Transformed in a twinkling from a swift, comfortable, luxurious air liner into a grim, funeral pyre. Snuffing out the life of the best-known, best-loved figure in the world of athletics. Writing a dramatic “finis” to the existence of the greatest thing the sport of football had ever known. Knute K. Rockne, the papers said, was dead.
Hoping Against Hope
No one believed it. It was not true. It could not be true. “Rock” couldn’t die now. Notre Dame needed him. The boys back on the campus heard rumors. Some smiled in frank disbelief, some wore dubious frowns; the majority of them thought it just another crude story that was going the rounds.
But underneath all the skepticism was a feeling that maybe. . . maybe ... it was true. What if it should be so! What if “Rock” was gone? Oh no, it couldn’t be. It was just a rumor. But—
Telephones began to jingle in the publications office. Was Rockne dead? They didn’t know. Local newspapers were besieged with a hundred requests for official confirmation, or, what was better, official denial. The air was charged with expectancy. Examinations were forgotten. Everyone asked everyone else had they heard and were they sure. Dials on ■ radio sets were whirled furiously in the chance that some station might make an announcement. The students were hoping against hope that the rumor would prove false.
President Hoover’s Statement
Shortly before two o’clock, the reports were verified. A bulletin went up in the Administration Building. “Knute K. Rockne,” it read, “is dead.” The Scholastic confirmed the notice with an extra. Telegrams poured in from all over the world, expressing grief and extending sympathy. The President of the United States made
a statement that was headlined in nearly every evening paper.
The noise was gone from the dining hall that night. People sat around and scarcely mentioned the approaching vacation. Even the clanging of the plates and the knives and forks seemed a good deal quieted. Eating, itself, was a perfuntory process, something to be done in a hurry. Then more word about the Kansas catastrophe.
Grotto Visits — Masses
The scene at the Athletic Office was touching. George Keogan and the other coaches sat before their desks silently. Their eyes were unseeing. Each time the door was opened, they lifted their heads expectantly, then dropped them again. A hush hung over the room that was filled with men and women. They stood by themselves, or in small groups. Their faces were flushed. Some of them were softly sobbing. Knute Rockne was dead.	.
There were silent visits to the Grotto. A good many assisted at Adoration services in the church. The next morning there was a Mass, and people stood packed together in the aisles. A Universal Notre Dame Com-. munion Day was suggested. Novenas were begun. There was a solemn Mass planned when the students returned from their spring vacation. Numerous memorials were suggested. All this for “Rock,” who, everyone said, x had died.
The Cortege
On Saturday, the crowd began to assemble early for the services in Sacred Heart Church. Sad-eyed and grim-visaged admirers of Rockne lined the walks and spread over the quadrangle. Some of his more intimate friends and acquaintances were permitted inside to hear Father O’Donnell’s eulogy and to be with their associate for the last time. The porch of the Administration Building was packed with clergy-men, faculty members, and newspaper men. The roof of the Sorin Hall porch was filled to overflowing. Everyone—business and professional men, old players and famous coaches, successful politicians and young boys, the boys for whom he had devoted his life—
N. D. POLISH STUDENTS FORM NEW CANPUS CLUB
Drymalski Chairman Pro Tem Of Young Organization.
Students of the University with a bent towards things Polish last week organized what will be known as the Cracow Club in honor of the famous historic city of Poland, site of the University of Cracow, one of the most celebrated schools on the continent..
Purposes of the new group, in the words of Al Drymalski, chairman pro tem are: “To further a knowledge in Polish literature and culture, and to secure a course in Polish at the University.”
About 35 men have joined he club to date. Two meetings have been held. At the first, Father Lisewski, C.S.C., of St. Casimir’s Church spoke a few encouraging words. At the second session, Professor Charles Phillips talked on Cracow, and among other stories, told the one of the famed Trumpeter of that city.

Northwestern Prodigy Will Graduate at age of 17 Years
Evanston, Ill. — The youngster who is largely responsible for the special class of prodigies at Northwestern University here has won new honors.
He is Harold M. Finley, who entered the university in 1929, when he was 13, and he has been given membership in Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fraternity composed only of students who have won the highest marks in scholarship. Finley will be graduated in June at the age of 17.
Young Finley’s work prompted President Walter D. Scptt to experiment with students under the average college age by the formation of a class of prodigies this year.
An honor student at the McConnelsville (O.) High School, Finley entered the college of liberal arts here after the closest scrutiny by university officials.
everyone had come to pay his respects to this great moulder of men. They had come to bid goodbye to “Rock,” because he was going away forever.
But they were wrong—all wrong. “Rock” wasn’t going away forever. Not from Notre Dame. He would never go away from Notre Dame forever. He couldn’t.
March 31, 1933
Fifteen
‘THE WORLD TOMORROW,’ A.I.E.E. LECTURE TOPIC
Former Yale Professor Talks To Local Engineers.
Skyscrapers 500 stories high, win-dowsless homes, office correspondence by television, walls and drapes painted with light, sun-tan while one sleeps, room illumination to suit various moods, news of the world flashing on home television screens — these amazing predictions, and others just as startling were made with the aid of slides and electrical demonstrations by D. P. Cleaver, Westinghouse research engineer and former Yale professor, in his lecture on “The World Tomorrow” to the American Institute of Electrical Engineers last Wednesday night.
Technocracy ?
“These scenes of the world tomorrow have been already glimpsed in the laboratory test tube today,” the speaker explained to his large audience. He added that many of his pictures showing the new mode in homes, offices, schools, and factories were not merely imaginative dravz-ings, but photographs of actual buildings in use today.
“We will work much faster, we will work shorter hours — and we will enjoy that work,” the lecturer emphasized. “Labor trouble will be reduced to a minimum as a result of improved working conditions and the health and vigor produced by better living accommodations.”
Homes, schools, recreation centers, factories and offices will be air-conditioned and perfectly lighted with health-ray lamps; beauty will be the keynote of all construction, Mr. Cleaver brought out.
On World’s Fair Committee
“In the World’s Fair buildings we see the structures in which we will be living, working, playing in fifty to seventy-five years from today,” stated the engineer, after he had outlined in slide and electrical display a typical day of the future.
The splendid coordination of the lecture and exhibits, the graphic explanations and the wit of the speaker held the audience, which included a number of visitors, to the last word.
Mr. Cleaver is a member of the illumination committee of the World’s ’ Fair, and has perfected many new developments in the field of lighting.
Johnson Says Insuring of Unemployed Is Impractical
By Walter Johnson
Motives governing men’s actions have been substantially the same during the centuries, and one or more of them will usually be found a basic cause for the principal developments in the world’s history. Desire for security has always been one of the most important of such motives. It is not surprising, therefore, to find, in the present economic era, when employment by others has to so great an extent supplanted independent occupation, an urgent anxiety for protection against loss of employment, since, for the majority, necessities of life are obtained only through income received as the result of one’s labor for an employer.
Is Unemployment Insurable?
A condition of widespread unemployment such as exists today, and has existed periodically throughout the last century, may, with justification, be considered an ailment of our industrial organization. Therefore its causes should be diagnosed, the evil attacked, so that, if possible, recurrences may be prevented or reduced.
One of the most discussed, perhaps the most favored proposals of the present day, is unemployment insurance. We should not, however, in our anxiety prescribe for general application remedies in which we have only a hope of success, remedies which are not absolutely feasible. Rather, we' should first consider, as carefully and efficiently as possible, both the evil and the remedy, to justify our actions with logical, sound proofs. Therefore it seems only rational, before, blinded by possible benefits resulting from the application of insurance, adopting the measure, that we consider one of its most basic aspects: “Is unemployment, in itself, insurable?”
Previous Attempts In Europe
Toward a problem of this sort we have two approaches, from experience and from theory. Or, to phrase it differently, we may first ask, “Have previous plans seemed to justify further action, seemed to show unemployment insurance a solution to the problem?” and secondly, “Does unemployment, in the abstract, indicate itself amenable to the principles of insurance?” While the former would
seem to be a better justification for action, an affirmative answer to either is sufficient to permit serious consideration of the proposal.
Therefore let us consider the experience of such nations as England and Germany, over the last 20 years, with their plans of unemployment insurance.
It would be a matter for sincere rejoicing if we could turn to Europe and have that continent deliver over to us a perfected plan, the result of their extensive trial and error laboratory. But, unfortunately, the British scheme, which is the oldest, has undergone 28 operations since 1919, and in November, 1932, the Royal Commission on Unemployment Insurance, after two years of the most intimate probing, reported to recommend still further changes.
Britain’s Plan Fails
Great Britain, after 20 years of experience with a system designed primarily to bridge the gaps between jobs, now realizes that such a plan cannot adequately cope with her problem of unemployment. We find her most eminent statesmen advocating, as the permanent solution, such measures as an entire redistribution of population, while Prime Minister MacDonald, in the House of Commons, on November 7, 1932, stated that insurance “against temporary periods of unemployment will always be necessary, but it is entirely inadequate as a solution of those problems arising out of prolonged depression.”
The English plan, solvent and even successful in its early years, began to encounter difficulties immediately after the war, its surplus became exhausted and the fund went into debt, which debt now exceeds 300 millions of dollars. Government financial aid was sought, insurance principles were forgotten, and at present the system amounts to little more than an ineffective dole, abeting and subsidizing inefficient industries and insufficient wages.
Now consider Germany. Their plan went into effect in 1927, with all the experience of England as a guide, her failure a dire warning. Germany had over five million persons on un-
(Continued on Page 26)
Sixteen
The Scholastic
N.D. Architecture Replete With Oddities Seldom Seen
By James Fitzpatrick
GREER CITES PROBLEMS OF PACKING INDUSTRY
Accountants* Club Hears Talk By Chicago Professor.
Have you ever noticed, as you passed Dillon Hall Chapel, a rectangular plaque of stone depicting a seafarer with his head protruding over the side of a vessel? The mariner in question isn’t, so far as we know, seasick, nor is he a U. S. gob seeing the world through a porthole, but he represents St. Olaf returning to Norway from England after a missionary crusade, only to be martyred by his pagan subjects. The man in the ship is but one of the many figures hewn in stone, reminiscent of medieval Gothic architecture, which embellishes N. D. edifices along the old and the new gold coast.
Symbolic Figures
Figures carved in stone on various buildings at Notre Dame are symbolical of the use to which the buildings is put. Thus, a square and compass over the doorway of the engineering building embody an important factor in engineering. Similarly, on the southwest corner of Dillon Hall, a dormitory, there is the figure of a youth sleeping (not that the youth wouldn’t feel just as much at home in Sorin Hall or in any classroom building). On Alumni Hall there is an obvious incongruity, for on that imposing haven of playboys are two students flanking the main entrance, one with his nose in a book, and the other actually preparing a lesson. On Alumni also are two dogs which presumably are Irish wolf hounds, but which suspiciously resemble airdales. By no malicious :	stretch of the imagination can we in:	fer that Alumni is some sort of a
‘	glorified kennel, but the dogs remain
nevertheless.
:	Gargoyles Also Found
-	There is a fine example of bas-
relief work on the east side of Alumni depicting Rockne in football togs kneeling complacently and apparently '	watching his disciples drill on the
=	gridiron. On the same side of the
•	hall is a young man with an hour
i	glass, a silent remonstrance to pros	crastinating students. The tower on
•	i	the southeast corner of Alumni is an
j	imposing bit of architecture with its
four gargoyles protruding in every
P . direction. Gargoyles were originally £
used as water spouts and the most famous, are, of course, on Notre Dame de Paris. These grotesque objects are constant sources of speculation and wonder to thousands of curious art lovers.
On the southern wings of Dillon and Alumni are two sundials facing each other which are likewise reminiscent of a bygone day. The Dillon sundial marks ante-meridian, and the Alumni, post-meridian time. Just how accurate they are in calculations of time no one seems to know, but students who are without watches might avail themselves in these days of depression of the gratuitous service. The most interesting sculptural oddities on Dillon Hall are four “muscle men,” two on each side of the doorway opposite the dining hall. There are carved images of a tennis player, a baseball player, a football player, and another athlete, the nature of whose sport is somewhat doubtful. The last named youth is holding a short stick in either hand. Possibly he is a relay runner with some kind of an innovation in which two batons are used instead of one, or perhaps the two sticks are really the fragments of a broken horse-shoe, and the gentleman in question is testing his strength in a modest, unassuming fashion.
Athletes Represented
The east entrance to the dining hall is decorated on one side by a football man carrying a ball, and by a waiting tackler on the other. The counterpart of these figures is found on the West entrance to the dining hall where a baseball pitcher is winding up to throw a ball to a batter on the other side of the entrance who waits patiently for the pitched ball which never arrives. Over the arch of Howard Hall is the bust of another football player and with it a companion piece which is more or less baffling as to its significance. It is the bust of a man or youth with two large tears rolling down one cheek and a general look of agony on his face. It may be a representation of Shakespeare’s school boy “creeping like a snail unwillingly to school,” but it resembles still more a hod carrier who (Continued on Page 32)
Professor Howard C. Greer, Chicago University, gave a talk on “Accounting Problems in the Meat Packing Industry” last Thursday night in the Law Building Auditorium. About 150 attended the lecture. His services were secured by the Accountants’ Club. Prof. Greer is also director of the Accounting Institute of American Meat Packers.
Prof. Greer outlined his semester course at the University of Chicago. He pointed out the distinguishing characteristics of the meat industry. In his talk he followed these seven points: joint product cost accounting, salability of product, perishabiliy, variability of grades, production volume fluctuations, storage of products, and various channels of distribution-. Prof. Greer said, “It’s a business of price relationship. There is a margin between the cost and the selling price.”	.
Brother Cyprian, Honorary President
He gave a number of illustrations of cost accounting problems, and showed where the meat packing industry has been having its losses in the past two years, especially in byproducts.
The Accountants Club held a business meeting after the talk. Brother Cyprian, C.S.C., former head of the Notre Dame Accounting Department, was elected honorary president. The possibilities of joining the Beta Alpha Psi, national honorary accountants fraternity, .were discussed. It was decided to have keys for the club, the design of which will be chosen in a few days.
The Accountants Club has arranged for Mr. Finey, Northwestern University, to give a talk on May 17. Mr. Finey is the author of three text books used in Notre Dame accounting classes. He has some new theories on the analysis of working capital.

Having won his ten-year fight to -j abolish the lame duck in Congress and | to have the new President take office £ early in January after his election, I Senator George W. Norris of Nebras- { ka is now renewing his efforts to have the electoral college abolished.
March 31, 1933
Seventeen
WASHINGTON ITINERARY HAS MANY ATTRACTIONS
Trip Will be on Pennsylvania . Railroad Special.
It has been said that every travelling man has a cretain railroad which he prefers. • If this is true perhaps those students who because of railroad preference have hesitated to jump on the “Politics Special” enroute to Washington, D. C., can make up their minds now. Paul C. Bartholomew, instructor in charge of the tour, says that the Pennsylvania Railroad has been favored.
$32.75 For Whole Tour
Seme weeks ago the Baltimore and Ohio and the Pennsylvania roads offered to conduct the annual tour at a cost of $32.75. Each road made its offer as attractive as possible, with the result that the decision to take the Pennsylvania line brought important additions to the itinerary.
Leaving Sunday afternoon, April 23 on the Rainbow Limited Eastbound, members of the tour will enjoy a ride through country of interest and beauty. “Horseshoe Curve” at the crest of the Alleghany Mountains in Pennsylvania, will be the first of famous spectacles, greeting the travellers’ eyes in the majesty of sunrise. Then beautiful Harrisburg State Capitol . . . Baltimore . . . luncheon and dinner at the Lord Baltimore Hotel. . . .
Cherry Blossom Time
According to Associated Press reports, the groves of Japanese cherry trees in Washington will begin to bloom about Easter time. Thus the students of the tour are assured of a sight well-known over all the world — the Cherry Blossoms of the nation’s capital.
These are but a few of the added attractions to the tour itinerary. From Sunday, April 23 to Thursday, April 27, when the party will return to South Bend on the Manhattan Limited, each student is guaranteed a trip well worth time and expense.
Movie Schedule
Movies to be shown in Washington Hall during the month of April are as follows:
April 1.—“Air Mail.”
April 8.—“The Mummy.”
-April 22.—“American Madness.”
April 29.—“Washington Merry-Go-
Round.”
Who Named ‘Wauwatosa’?
Maybe Men With Cold Feet
Had Father Marquette, on his way from Green Bay to Chicago, deviated about eight miles in his southward journey he would have been the first white man to set eyes on Wauwatosa, a village of the Pottawatomie Indians. It is true that he had the good for-* tune to stop off at Milwaukee, then even smaller than Wauwatosa, but the present metropolis, not yet made famous by its universally loved product, did not compensate the missionary for missing the flourishing village only eight- miles west. Reasonably reliable sources have it that the Pottawatomies, who after 1700 occupied the eastern part of Wisconsin and the northern section of Illinois and Indiana, started from Green Bay and proceeded south leaving behind stragglers who settled along the way.
“Rich Country”
Father Petit came at the request of Chief Pokagon, a real Christian who saw the advantage of the real Faith. The Indians in this section were referred to as the “Prairie People” while the -other section of the tribe in Wisconsin was referred to as the “Forest Pottawatomi.” The Wauwatosa Pottawatomies apparently regarded the now fluorishing “Beer City” as little more than a passing fancy, for they used the lake front as their summer resort, living in temporary huts thrown up along the bluffs that form the present site of down-town Milwaukee. Though they preferred to live in Wauwatosa the Indians referred to their summer retreat as “Rich Country.”
Why the Pottawatomies gave Milwaukee, a spot which to them was of small importance, such a dignified and significant name, and gave to their home settlement a name which, to the average American, means nothing unless the last word in a “spelling bee” is an old Indian mystery. But the Indians, as usual, had an idea in mind, for the records show that there was at one time a Chief Wauwatosa of the Pottawatomies, and that gentleman’s name meant “Jaunty Walker” or “Fast Walker.” It is undeniable that good Chief “Jaunty Walker,” no relation, of course, to “Jaunty Jimmy,” the former Chief at Gotham, knew how to choose a pleasant site for a city. He placed Wau
watosa on the picturesque hills that rise from the Menominee River.
Indians Leave N. D. Region
The Pottawatomies were forcibly removed from the territory about Notre Dame, and were gradually forced out of then’ lands in the vicinity of Wauwatosa in 1838. The Indians in the former group, accompanied by Father Petit, were escorted by militia men to the Bad Lands of Kansas, although Chief Pokagon was allowed with his family to remain at his own home near the present site of Niles. ’ The latter group for the most part journeyed to the West, and established themselves in Western Wisconsin and in Minnesota. Since the Northern Indians moved with less resistance, they had evacuated their territory in 1833, after which time the fertile country attracted pioneers in great numbers just as the same land, teeming with game, had attracted the Indians years, and possibly centuries, earlier. It was after the steady influx of pioneers that legend changed the significance of Wauwatosa’s name. We are told that a southern immigrant to Wauwatosa had befriended a chilled traveller and, having placed him before the fire, made the unnecessary suggestion, “Warn ye toes, suh.” Later the grateful traveller referred to the settlement by that phrase, and it became sufficiently popular to be used as the name of that town.
Hospitality Still There
Without consideration for the authenticity of the story the people of Wauwatosa have preferred to believe that their city was named in this way. And it is rather an appropriate appellation for, although Wauwatosa has grown to be a city of twenty-one thousand people, this spirit of hospitality has survived. Wauwatosa is still a city of homes, having been spared the materializing inroads of industrialism through the fact that Milwaukee has been deemed more adaptable to commerce. This peculiar relationship between the two cities has resulted in the preservation of Wauwatosa as a typical small town enjoying all the warmth with which they are endowed, while it grows and progresses with the characteristic vigor of the average American city.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
<
COLLEGE PARADE
THE NEW DEAL!
According to a survey completed at Boston University, co-eds there insist that their hero * must be able to dance well, dress well, drink well, and not appear too ignorant when out in company. In addition he must be tall, strong, and handsome and kind to dumb animals. Male students insist on beauty in their ideal so that they can show her off before their friends and relatives.
▼
THIS NEWER SPIRIT!
Via the Denver Clarion and a round-about course comes the startling report that a Cornell professor recently informed his class that he had discovered an essay which had been copied verbatim from the preface of the text book. Moved by the newer spirit of professional philanthropy, he announced that he would not report the case if the guilty student stayed after class to see him. Five people stayed.
▼
PROFESSING ILLNESS.
Some professors really take their profession seriously, as is evidenced by the case of a chemistry professor at Syracuse University who lectured to his class from his bed in the hospital several blocks away. Using a microphone, the university’s telephone exchange, and a loud speaker, the instructor was able to lecture without any discomfort to himself, or without any inconvenience to the class.
CATNIPPING.
Add unusual occupations: Cat embalming.
That is what Ernie James, arts college sophomore, does to help pay his college expenses.
His job is to buy cats—some 70-odd during a year — put them to a merciful death in the methane gas chamber of the Northcott Science Hall basement, and “pickle” them to satisfy the scientific curiosity of Prof. W. I. Utterback’s classes in comparative anatomy and vertebrate zoology.
James says he gets all these unfortunate felines “from Gassaway, in Braxton county. Sometimes I buy four or five from a small colored boy in Huntington. And I get all kinds.” —Marshall College Parthenon.
GET OUT AND GET IN THE SUN.
Spring with her sunny days, her new life and reborn beauty of nature is here again. The campus has taken on a new air, and from morning until night some corner of the campus is occupied by students who have caught the spirit of the most beautiful season of the year.
The handball courts, the tennis courts, the baseball field, the swimming pool, the football field—all are bustling with activity. The golf courses near and far serve as outlets for the new energy of many of the students, and others who do not take part in the games mentioned are taking exercises in any number of other forms.
Still there are some who have not felt the urge or the need for outdoor activity. They spend the long bright day locked up in their rooms. . . . sleeping, idling, but seldom studying. If it were certain that they spent the day in study some justification could be made, but even for the eager student recreation and diversion are necessary ingredients of the daily schedule.
Man’s body is so made up that a certain amount of exercise and outdoor activity is necessary. Sunshine is conductive to healthiness of the body, and open air recreation and games refresh the mind after tedious hours spent in study and concentration. Games, top, are great character builders. The spirit of cooperation with team mates or partners, the competitive strife against opponents, and the necessity for keenness and accuracy are aids to building into the young man’s character those qualities which are most essential to his success in life after college.
Every student’s plan for the day should allow for an hour or more of outdoor activity, besides the few hours a week that are compulsory for under graduates. If certain young men have no desire to play games or participate in any other form of formal exercise, let them go walking. Regardless of the method or means resorted to, no student should acquire the habit of lounging around when the weather permits outdoor activity of every kind.—St. Edward’s Echo.
March 31, 1933
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
COLONEL HOYNES
Notre Dame today paid fitting tribute to the memory of Colonel Hoynes. His passing leaves thin the ranks of those who bind us to the founders of this institution. He drank deep of the. noble sincerity of those gallant, self-sacrificing pioneers. The lessons of his life should not be lost upon us.
Colonel Hoynes is the last of that numerous band of Notre Dame men who served in the Civil War. Enlisted at an age much younger than we are now, he already gave evidence of that nobility of character which later distinguished him.
When he was discharged it was the end of a duty for him. It was equally a duty for him to participate in functions of the veterans and to march the whole way. But to profit by any of this was quite another thing.
Colonel Hoynes never applied for a pension. He served his country, he would say, as a patriotic duty. He was able-bodied, could earn his living, and had no one dependent upon him. To accept remuneration, he thought, would be to belittle the service he had freely offered.
In a world where the word has all but lost its significance, the keynote of Colonel Hoynes’ character might be said to be reverence. Reverence for God, reverence for authority, whether ecclesiastical or civil, reverence for his Church and for her clergy, reverence for good in all men but especially in youth. “He that offendeth not with his tongue is a perfect man,” could justly be applied to him.
“All is well,
Safely rest,
God is nigh.”
Accompanying these words the plaintive notes of “Taps” this morning sounded the epitaph of Colonel Hoynes. Soldier, statesman, educator, true friend, Catholic gentleman, he walked always in the presence of his Maker. “God is nigh” is a fitting summary of his life.
SWISS SESSION
More than a year it is now since the cream of the world’s statesmanship pulled up their chairs to a table in an auditorium in Geneva, Switzer
land, to ponder the weighty problem of world disarmament. Undoubtedly, twelve months ago, these gentlemen were convinced that in their hands lay the future well-being of the greater part of the human race; and no less sure were they that they would make that peace secure. Ten days ago, with Europe boiling as it rarely has be-for, this fact was evident to anyone the least bit conversant with world affairs: the statesmen assembled might just as well have been twiddling their respective thumbs on the lawns of their respective homes during the last year. The possibility of scrapping even one broken-down, incapacitated aeroplane had not presented itself once in all their meetings. Editors have ranted at their inactivity. Their session has been called a diplomatic monstrosity.
But getting at the bottom of the whole business of war and armaments and peace conferences, does not this fact inevitably arise and call for sane analysis? How can a nation, such as France, for instance, be asked to reduce this and throw away that, when every time Ramsay McDonald smiles at Germany the whole French populace trembles from Marseilles to Calais ? The. average Frenchman looks upon the treaty of Versailles as the only genuine insurance of permanent European tranquillity; the German mind is inexorable in its opinion that the content of that document is not worth the paper it is written on. How can two such nations be asked to drop their hammers and get a flock of horns?
“But,” you say, “if both nations were disarmed, what reason could one have to fear the other?” Your question is rational and extremely logical, but, like many such questions, it has nothing to do with the practical solution of the matter. Try to tell the average Frenchman your story. He will pretend that he is listening to you, but constantly before his eyes is this image alone: a hundred thousand shining steel helmets, bouncing up and down on a hundred thousand hard German heads that are thinking only of Paris and its annihilation.
Maybe after this generation has passed away we will be able to come out of'disarmament conferences with something tangible. But right now we can hope to accomplish little with men who still hear hand-grenades in their sleep.
Twenty
The Scholastic
<•
ATHLETICS
BASEBALL SQUAB GETS FIRST OUTDOOR DRILL
Costello Shows Batting Skill; Infield Looks Strong.
By Nick Connor
Now that spring has paid the campus a visit, Coach George Keogan and his baseball aspirants have vacated the stuffy gym for the recently improvised diamond on the Brownson gridiron. Monday afternoon was the first practice held by the team out-ofdoors.
Al Costello can be truly termed a jack-of-all-trades, for, after forsaking the hardwood for the spring gridiron practice field, he came over to the diamond and staged a batting spree that has not yet been equalled. His long drives were giving the outfielders plenty of exercise as they tried to camp under them.
Infields Show Pepper
A snappy infield composed of O’Neil, Dunn, White, Cunha, and Mettler have been showing plenty of pepper and skill in handling the ball. From the way the infield practice has been progressing so far the Irish opponents are going to find plenty of trouble in trying to get a hit off of this talkative infield. But with Captain McGrath and Devore in the outfield, both veterans of last season, opponents will also have a hard time in getting safe blows from these two ball hawks.
But the above mentioned'infield is not the only one that has plenty of pep; another one composed of Robertson, Palmisani, Kane, Powell, and Cummings have been giving them plenty of competition.
Chicago Game, April 15
Norb Rascher, "who has a world of speed and control, will probably be the ace moundsman of Coach Keo-gan’s diamond squad this season, although many of the other pitchers will bear watching before the season has progressed very far.
The first game of the 1933 season ■will be played two weeks from tomorrow, at Chicago, with the University of Chicago.
DE LANDERO FORCED TO CUT SQUAD; PLANS EXHIBITION SHOW.
With fifty-two men working out under his direction three times a week, Coach Pedro deLandero has found his fencing charges so much on
Coach de Landero
Thrust .... parry .... lunge.
a parity that it will be necessary to have elimination matches in the near future to select his first squad. Moreover he plans to stage an exhibition card for the public some time in May.
He feels that the members of his team have shown marked improvement in the past week, and is delighted over their showing. One need only watch the swordsmen in action some Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday afternoon to appreciate the reason for their coach’s enthusiasm.
May Shows Good Form
A definite date has not yet been set for the eliminations, but in all probability they will take place about a week after Easter. They will be held in the gymnasium with capable referees officiating.
Although there is little room to judge between the candidates, there are a few that seem to have a slight edge. According to deLandero, Harold May, the former Culver swordsman, has shown the best form in the sabres, and looks like No. 1 man in that department. Dan Madden is another promising candidate in this field.
In the foils it is even more difficult to rate the men. Nevertheless the following seem to have a slight jump on the other foilsmen: John Careseo, George Mallet, Leo Brias, (Continued on Page 21)
IRISH TRACKMEN TAKE 1OTH PLACE AT BUTLER
Murphy Beaten by Ward; Two Relay Teams Score.
By Edward Van Huisseling
The efforts of the Irish tracksters netted them tenth place in the final scoring of the first Butler Relays at Indianapolis last Saturday. Indiana, with 22 points, took home the team trophy. Michigan registered 16 and Illinois 11 points for second and third places respectively.
The local squad scored in three events to register its total of six points. Roberts, Gough, Gilfoil, and MacBeth tallied two points with a third place in the one mile relay and the two mile relay team composed of Young, Roberts, Bower, and King sneaked into the scoring with fourth place and one point.
Slow Track Hinders
The latter quartet was clocked at 8:05 on a tack that was extremely slow. On the home soil where the track is hard and fast, this group is capable of reeling off the distance in 7:58. The condition _of the track affected runners and field entrants alike.
In the high jump the contestants were handicapped by the noticeably soft underfooting. Willie Ward, Big Ten Champion, won this event in a thrilling duel with Vince Murphy who placed second to the Wolverine ace and netted the Notre Dame squad its final three points. The lad from Ann Arbor cleared the bar at 6 feet, 5% inches. “Murph” sailed over at 6 feet, 4 inches but when the stick was raised, he found the elements too tough to conquer.
Judges Miss Murphy
In the dashes, Murphy failed to qualify through no fault of his. It was evident to “Nick” and another coach at the finish of the 60 yard sprint that the Blue and Gold runner had finished a safe second in his trial heat but the judges would not allow it.
Bill Freschi turned in the best per-(Continued on Page 21)
^March 31, 1933
PROSPECTS DIN FOR
OUTDOOR TRACK MEETS
Bowdren to Run But Sheils’ Injury Weakens Squad.
. With only the Armour Relays remaining on the schedule for indoor runners, Coach Nicholson is awaiting a definite turn for the better in weather so he can transfer his charges on to the outdoor track. When this plan materializes things should look a little better for the Irish.	'
Michigan State, Army, and Pittsburgh are scheduled for dual meets with the Irish this spring with the Blue and Gold men appearing at Indianapolis for the State meet and at Milwaukee early in June for the outdoor Central Intercollegiate Conference carnival.
Bowdren Back Soon
When the boys start breathing the outdoor air, Jim Bowdren, quartermiler who has been ailing for the past month with a knee injury, will be rounding into shape once again. The Boston lad has been on the injured list since the Ohio State meet when he suffered a partial renewal of the knee injury. A short time later, while wrestling, he threw the joint out altogether and made himself useless on the track.
With the good news that Bowdren will soon be back, comes the equally bad tidings that Shiels will be lost to the squad for some time because ' of a broken leg which he suffered recently while practicing.
The Troy Enigma
It appears that the tendons attached to the leg bone immediately above the ankle became too strong and under pressure, rather than give away themselves, tore the attached bone out of place. Clyde Roberts suffered a similar injury last fall and was unable to work for ajong spell. In his 17 years of coaching track teams, these are the only two such accidents that “Nick” has had to face —both in the same year.
The sudden and puzzling fade-out of Ray Troy still seems to have the Irish mentor puzzled. Ray looked good in the first two indoor meets and then suddenly found himself powerless. He is probably burned out and the rest that he has been getting should restore him in time to be of use to the Irish in outdoor competition.
Notre Dame Six-Man Rifle Team in Meet at Culver
Six members of the Notre Dame Rifle team organized under the auspices of the Reserve Officers Club, will compete today and tomorrow in the Indiana State Rifle Matches, at Culver, Indiana.
A team of five men will compete against the crack military and civilian teams from the entire state. A limited opportunity for practice will handicap the team, but they are confident of a creditable showing.
Those who made the trip are: Harold May, John J. McGrath, Charles Landmesser, Robert Hastetier, and William Bums. The team is accompanied by Professors Riordan and Scannell.
BUTLER TRACK MEET
(Continued from Page 20)
formance of his career in the shot put. Although not finishing in the scoring, Bill established a new high mark for himself at 44 feet, 6 inches. In the pole vault, Howard did the finest work for the Irish. Jack Edwards was decidedly off form and was unable to get underway. Coach Nicholson was pleased with the running done by Eddie King.
The carnival brought together practically all the prominent track luminaries of the Middle West. Among the most outstanding were Hornbostel of Indiana, who turned in a startling piece of work in the distance relay, Woolsey of Illinois, Fuqua of Indiana; Ralph Metcalfe of Marquette, who won the 60-yard dash with ease; Lennington of Illinois, and Pantlind of Michigan. The latter tied with five other contestants for high scoring honors and won the medal via the flip of a coin.
FENCING TEAM
(Continued from Page 20)
Louis Grosso, Bill Barrett, Cornell Derangoski, and Carl Markarsky.
The exhibition matches to be put on in May will bring together the best talent on the squad. In both these and the elimination bouts the five-point system of scoring will be used. Under this system the first man to make five touches on his opponent wins the match. In the case of inexperienced fencers the matches usually last about five minutes. With clever defensive men, though, the battles often last about 15 minutes.
______________Twenty-one ‘
GOLF TEAM TO OPEN
PRACTICE NEXT WEEK
Father Francis Ott, ’15, To Have Charge of Squad.
With the opening of University golf course tomorrow noon, first definite steps in the training season of the Notre Dame varsity golf squad will be taken.
The Rev. Francis Ott, ’15 has been appointed coach of the Irish squad and will be in complete charge of practice activities.
Father Ott will abandon the challenge match system employed during the past years in ranking the varsity players. In its place he will introduce a ranking system based on the players’ records made in competitive play against fellow squad members.
Two Matches A Week
The new system will call for two matches a week for each of the varsity aspirants. The men will be sent out in foursomes and the groups will be revised for each round on the basis of records.
Father Ott expects to send his squad through its first practice round early next week. A complete record of each round of each player is to be kept. The selection of the team personnel and individual ranking for the opening match against Loyola, April 22, will not be made until just before ■ that date.
A strong nucleus for the Irish varsity is seen in the presence of three veterans from last season’s team. Captain Johnny Montedonico, Vince Fehlig, and Bill Veeneman, all of whom were in the first five throughout the year, are available.
In addition to those men, Johnny Banks, Western Junior champion, Billy Cole, No. 1 on last year’s frosh team, Henry Cluver, runnerup in the fall tournament last October, and a host of other freshman squad products and upper-class golfers have turned out for the squad.
If all the gold bullion and gold coins in the world were brought together they would fill a cube 32 feet and four inches in each direction, according to estimates made by professors at the New York University. It would take a 729-foot cube to store the gold believed contained in the waters of the seven seas, the professors say.

Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Elimination Tourney For Irish Tennis Team Opens
48 PLAYERS IN MEET
Sixteen Matches Scheduled In First Round; Eight Men To Be Seeded.
Contingent on the continuance of favorable weather, the first round of the elimination tournament for places on the Notre Dame varsity tennis team will be played this weekend.
Sixteen matches, involving thirty-two players have been listed for the first round of play by James Baker, manager of the tennis squad.
New Drawing Will Be Made
The sixteen survivors of the first round will be paired in the second round with the entries who drew byes through the first round. A new drawing will be made for that round, and pairings 'will be announced by Baker as soon as the first round play is completed.
Of the sixteen men ■who drew byes through the first round, eight will be needed for future play in the tourney, thus avoiding any possibility of the favored players playing each other before the quarter-final round.
Varsity captain Louis Chreist will be seeded in the No. 1 position. Dick Kelly will be No. 2. The remaining six of the seeded positions will be awarded to the following players in this order: O’Hanlon, Staley, Power, Reeves, Weldon, and Gill.
Lukats To Report
Nick Lukats, better known for his varsity half-backing activities, will report for the tennis squad as soon as an injured ankle will permit him. Lukats’ entry into tennis competition for the first time since he has been at Notre Dame is expected to strengthen the Irish team considerably.
While a student at Froebel high school in Gary, Lukats won several interscholastic titles in state tournaments as well as the junior city crown in Gary. While still in the boys’ division of tournaments, he was ranked seventh in the country.
It is expected that the first round of the tourney will be completed over the weekend if favorable weather prevails.
First Round Pairings Announced For Varsity Elimination Net Meet
The following pairings for the first round of the varsity elimination tennis tournament were announced today by James Baker, manager of tennis.
The 16 survivors of this round will be bracketed in the second round with the 16 players drawing byes.
1.	Waldron vs. Morrison.
2.	Bintz vs. Joyce.
3.	Yeiser vs. Carton.
4.	Fallon vs. Haverick.
5.	Ward vs. Podraza.
6.	Shapiro vs. Lynch.
7.	Anzlovar vs. Weil.
8.	Penote vs. Fisher.
9.	Hoffman vs. Seward.
10.	Savage vs. Garland.
11.	McGinnis vs. Moran.
12.	Martin vs. Putterbaugh.
13.	Martersteck vs. Dillon.
14.	Shields vs. Walsh.
15.	Hackenbruch vs. Daly.
16.	Gibb vs. Leroux.
Band Concert Postponed
The initial spring concert of the University band scheduled for next Wednesday, April 5, has been postponed until after the Easter holidays.
Professor Casasanta announces that there will be an open air concert at that time.
“HITLERISM” DISCUSSED
(Continued from Page 10)
by those then in power were held up as significant considerations.
"At the bottom of their hearts (the social democrats) was aversion againts the soldiers, the war, and part-time. They yielded to all demands of higher wages and so came the inflation. The inflation afforded an opportunity to get rid of the indemnity demands of invalids forever,” the speaker stated. “That was the birth of Hitlerism, injustice and ingratitude against the helpless cripples.”
EMMERLING DI FINALS OF HANDBALL TOURNEY
Kozak, Levins, Jaskwhich, and Canale Play for Places.
By Al McGuff
By defeating Luce Daignault 21-15, 21-15, Lefty Emmerling went into the final bracket of the University Handball Tournament this week.
In the center bracket Kozak plays Levins, and Canale takes on Jaskwhich to determine the other two men who will enter the finals.
Many interesting games were witnessed during the past two weeks of tournament play. Perhaps the two best contests were those played by Emmerling against Daignault, and Kozak against Fredricks.
Canale Defeats Oitzinger
Daignault, of the Tonic Family, was unable to stop the hard, fast serves of Emmerling. Fredricks forced Kozak into the third game and just missed his chance to make the biggest upset of the year. The scores were: 19-21, 21-19, 21-18.
The biggest upset of the tournament came when Sturla Canale defeated John Oitzinger. Canale is the tournament dark horse, and should he defeat Jaskwhich, the other finalist will have a hard man to knock off.
Palmisani, the second part of the Doubles Champs, was defeated in the second round by Levins, and will be in the stands tomorrow when his conqueror meets Kozak.
Kozak dropped Fredricks, Neubauer, and D. O’Keefe. Jaskwhich defeated Georgio, Jordan, and Shields in his rise to the semi-finals. Canale defeated Tom Grady, A. Smith, and Begley.
To Use Round Robin System
Emmerling and the other two finalists will start championship play Wednesday, April 5. A round robin system will be used where each man will play each of the other five games, and the man with the greater number of games won takes the title.
To explain that point further, here is an example: A plays B five games; ■ not the best of five, but five games. . A plays C five games, then B plays • C five games. This same system is gone through again, and the man winning the greater number of games is champion.
>
March 31, 1933
JOE DIENHART, EX-’27, COACHES CAGE CHAMPS
Directs Cathedral High School To National Title.
By Nick Connor
If a ballot were taken last Monday morning to determine the happiest man in America, judges would have found Joseph S. Dienhart the winner by an overwhelming vote. The ambition of every coach, the winning of a national championship, was realized last Sunday night by Mr. Dienhart, when his splendidly coached Cathedral high school basketball team won with ease the National Catholic title. The Indianapolis five bumped off St. Rita’s of Chicago, 31-10, in the final game at the Loyola fieldhouse.
Former N. D. Athlete
For the past four years Joe Dienhart has been coaching football and basketball at Cathedral high school in Indianapolis. During these four years his basketball teams have won three state Catholic championships. His basketball team was the Indiana Catholic champions this year as well as being the National Catholic title holder.
Mr. Dienhart’s football teams of ’30 and ’31 won the city championship of Indianapolis. The team of 1931 was the runner-up to Central of South Bend for state championship honors.
Dienhart is a former Notre Dame athlete. He won his monogram in football under the late Knute Rockne as a substitute guard to Noble Kizer on the famous Four Horsemen team of 1924. He was also elected captain of the basketball team of ’25 and ’26; but, instead of returning here to school, he matriculated at Butler University where he was graduated in 1927. *
Indiana Places Again
Another team from Indiana, Reitz Memorial of Evansville, reached the semi-finals of the national tourney in Chicago last week-end. Reitz lost a thrilling overtime game to De Paul of Chicago, 25 to 24, in the consolation game. Both Cathedral and Reitz high schools are taught by the Brothers of Holy Cross.
We do in New York more uplifting of steel and stone than of souls.— John Sloan.
_____________________ Twenty-three
Grid Scrimmage Resumed As Spring Drills Continue
You Can’t Eat Medals— But They’ll Fix Your Teeth
Detroit — “You can’t eat medals,” has become a saying quoted by each and every athlete who steps over the line from amateurism to professionalism.
Until last week no one had challenged the statement. It seemed that eating a medal would be next step worse than eating one’s shirt.
Last week came John Lewis, onetime member of Detroit City College track squad and one of the 1928 American Olympic team in the 400-meter event, to disprove that famous remark.
Lewis, if it can’t be said he is eating his medals, is eating on them. Unable to find employment, his funds about exhausted and his teeth in bad shape, Lewis wondered what to do. Then he bethought himself of his medals.
Going to his big chest of medals, he selected three large gold ones and took them to a dentist.
The dentist melted them, used the necessary gold for Lewis’ tooth repairs and kept the rest as payment for the work on the athlete’s teeth.
College Men Prominent As Advisers To Roosevelt
Washington, D. C. — Unless something happens to change the situation, the rule of Franklin D.’ Roosevelt as President of the United States is to be one largely by the advice of college professors and other educators.
Among the President’s closest advisers, many of whose ideas are already incorporated in legislation passed at Roosevelt’s behest, are Prof. Raymond Moley of Columbia, now in the department of state; Dr. Rexford Guy Tugwell, now in the department of agriculture; S. Parker Gilbert, Harvard Law School, cum laude graduate; Prof. A. A. Berle, economist; Prof. M. L. Wilson of Montana State College, and Dr. H. Parker Willis, lecturer at Columbia and Washington & Lee and other colleges, who wrote the Federal Reserve act in 1914.
SNOW HINDERS WORK
Candidates Show Improvement In Daily Workouts; Two Games Tomorrow.
By Howard Waldron
A heavy snowfall, during the past week, has delayed the spring football practice sessions, and the division of the squad into teams has not yet taken place. Next week, however, if the weather stays clear, these teams will be chosen. Two teams will be drilled in the Southern California or Jones System, and the other two will learn the Warner system of wing-backs. These four teams will scrimmage against picked varsity teams to experience the men in the offenses of their fall opponents.
Men In Good Shape
With the return of spring weather, scrimmages have been the order of the day, and more new men are shaping up well. The first four teams scrimmaged on Monday and Tuesday, playing a half each day, and the games were extremely hard fought. In both cases, the Blue team, representing the varsity, won the game by a single touchdown. Particular impressive among the new backfield men in these contests were Shakespeare, Pitney, Hanley, Costello, Young, and Vettel, while in the line Mariani, Leonard, Solari, Jehle, Smith, and Shrenker stood out.
The men are all in good shape, and are showing marked improvement. The backs are blocking better, the linemen are charging harder, and the whole squad seems particularly adept at tackling. It is a difficult task to hold some of the hard-running, weaving, squirming halfbacks yet the gains are short and rarely is a tackle missed.
Kicking, Passing Good
The scrimmage sessions, so far, point to an unexpected strength in the kicking and passing departments of the game for next year’s team. Many of the backs are hitting better than fifty yards on their long spiral punts, and the passing is very accurate, considering the fact that some (Continued on Page 26)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Leo Cummins
By John D. Carbine
The score, in the seventh inning of the Notre Dame-Wisconsin game two years ago, was tied at six all. Notre Dame had runners on first and third; one man had been retired, and a weak batter was coming up to the plate. But that weak hitter never reached the batters’ box. Coach Keogan stopped him, and looked down along his row of substitutes. “Cummins,” he said, “go in and bat. We’ll try a squeeze. Hit the second ball pitched.”
While the signal was being flashed to waiting runners, a nervous sophomore, Leo Cummins, strode up to the plate to make his first appearance as a member of the Notre Dame varsity. The first pitch cut the center of the plate, and it took a tremendous effort on Leo’s part to refrain from swinging at it.
STRATIGQN “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD”
114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c
—dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c
—from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special
—served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
,We bake our own Pastries
—the best in town.
I Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet”
Open 24 Hours.
As the next ball left the pitcher’s hand, the Irish runners dashed for second and for home. The ball was low and wide — but it had to be hit.
Cummins stepped toward it and swung. He hit it, and the ball rolled lazily toward third base. A Badger infielder scooped it up, took a look at the runner sliding across the plate and threw to first to get Cummins. The throw beat Leo by a split second. He had been retired, but he had driven in what proved to be the winning run of the game in his first varsity appearance.
High School Captain
Cummins began to play baseball while at the Immaculate Conception Junior High School in Seatile, Washington. He was captain and first baseman of the team which won the Junior High championship of Seattle, in both 1924 and 1925. After graduation, Leo went to O’Dea High, in Seattle. Here he was not only captain of the baseball team, but also played football and basketball.
Leo got his first glimpse of Notre Dame when he saw the famous four horsemen ride roughshod over Pop Warner’s powerful Stanford team. Before the game, Nbtre Dame, to Leo, was just a mid-western college with a football team which, although good, would not be quite good enough to stop Nevers, Johnson, and Olson. After the game, Notre Dame was Leo’s future college. He had made up his mind to that long before the Horsemen had finished administering their drubbing to Warner’s team.
Cummins came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1929, the year in which his fellow Washingtonian, Tommy Yarr, was making his first bid for fame on the Irish gridiron. During his freshman year, he played freshman baseball and basketball, and gained a pair of numeral sweaters.
In the spring of his sophomore year, Cummins reported to Coach George Keogan as a candidate for varsity baseball. He made the squad and was used throughout the season as a pinch-hitter and utility infielder. Last year he gained his monogram as general handy man around the Irish infield. This year he is fighting to gain the first base position on the 1933 edition of George Keogan’s diamond outfit.
Leo shares the belief of almost everyone connected with Notre Dame athletics that this year’s team will be the best that has represented the Irish for a decade “Three or four good men are out there fighting for every position,” says Leo, “and that’s going to make it plenty tough for anyone who falls down on the job,” he concluded.
Every June, Cummins packs up his trunk, fills his car with gas and starts across the continent to his home in Seattle. Last year, with two other fellows, he made the trip in six days.
r?

Unemployment Insurance
(Continued from Page 13)
“Unemployment Insurance fails definitely on every test.”
“The Ohio Chamber of Commerce addressed a communication to American and Canadian Fellows and Asso-' ciates in the “American Institute of Actuararies,” which said in effect that a plan for general unemployment insurance covering seasonal and cyclical unemployment to be devised at the present time to meet standards of acturarial soundness was out of the question. “To summarize briefly,” Johnson ended, “governmentally controlled, general unemployment insurance, from a strict actuarial standpoint, is admittedly impossible.”
In the discussion that followed, Prof. Downey of the Economics Department, said that the consensus of opinion was with Johnson’s conclusion, but that last year this nation believed that Unemployment. Insurance was the answer to our grave problem. The meeting closed with the assignment of a suitable topic to the speaker of the next meeting.
1
March 31, 1933
Twenty-five
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
FIGHTING IRISH
Called to our attention this week was an editorial from the Indianapolis News entitled “The Fighting Irish.” It dealt with the recent survey that disclosed 999 Irishmen at Notre Dame. In one of its statements the editorial was guilty of a major error.
Attempting an interpretation of the University’s mind the writer said: “ . . . The Irish predominate at the Hoosier school it was explained and even if some other nationalities did play rather effective football, it was the Irish spirit that made for victory.”
That is not Notre Dame’s foundation for, nor her justification of her teams’ traditional nickname. We do not think that any such explanation was ever offered by Notre Dame.
The first use of the title came f in the 1909 season when such men as Collins, Duffy, Dolan, Dwyer, Kelly, Lynch, Maloney, Sullivan,
and Vaughan were in the Notre Dame football lineup.
In the Michigan game of that year, with the Wolverines ahead 3 to 0, Pete Vaughan, Notre Dame back, now Wabash college coach, made the remark that started the nickname.
Exasperated at his team’s showing, Vaughan rushed up to the line, slapped the linemen in their most strategic spots, and shouted: “What’s the matter with you guys? You’re all Irish and you’re not fighting!”
A reporter, following the play along the sideline, heard the speech and used it in his story. “The Fighting Irish” name grew out of that beginning.
In closing its editorial, the News made one admirable point that we hope will filter through to some prominent eastern columnist who shine up their time-worn “Irish” cracks each fall for the Army game. Said the News:
“It ought to be borne in mind that one other nationality prevails at Notre Dame and that is American. Regardless of whence the forefathers of these students came, the young men are preparing to take their places as American citizens, and regardless of what flag the football team flies, it will be as Americans they win or lose.”
ALL-AMERICAN
To College Humors Les Gage this week goes our ripest Bronx cheer for his all-American basketball team. Reason: Ed Krause is on the second five.
Admitting a strong school prejudice and personal bias in favor of the “Moose,” we still think that he was as great a pivot man as walked collegiate boards this winter.
' Last winter Mr. Gage saw fit to name him all-American without reservation. This year he catalogues him as “second team” and dismisses the subject of Krause with that and no more — not a word of justification in (Continued on Page 32)
Home For Easter Vacation!
09 Round Trip from South Bend to
CHICAGO
Take advantage of this low rate if you are going to Chicago for the Easter holiday.
Tickets will be on sale April 10 to 13, inclusive, with final return limit April 24.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for complete information.
South Shore Line
Every Hour on the Hour Between South Bend and Chicago.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
University Cafeteria
and
Soda Grill
Daily Specials
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
The Scholastic
<
Twenty-six
N. D. MEN AT BISHOP
RITTER’S CONSECRATION
Fr. O’Hara, Armstrong, and Manion, at Ceremony.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Mr. James E. Armstrong, Alumni secretary, and Professor Clarence E. Manion, attended the consecration of the Most. Rev. Joseph Elmer Ritter, D.D., in the Cathedral of Saints Peter and Paul, Indianapolis, last Tuesday morning. On the previous evening they addressed the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis at a meeting held at the Indianapolis Country Club.
The meeting was held in honor of the Reverend Fathers Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, and John F. O’Hara, Prefect of Religion. Unfortunately, illness forced Father O’Donnell to remain at the University.
N. D. Men Speak
Father O’Hara addressed the meeting on the topic of “Notre Dame and Catholic Action.” Following him, James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary of Notre Dame, spoke on the “Present Status of the Enrollment at Notre Dame.” Clarence E. Manion, professor of the Law School, presented the subject of “Loyalty” to the meeting.
Other speakers of the evening were Brother William, C.S.C., principal of Cathedral High school, Indianapolis, and Joseph Deinhart, head basketball coach of Cathedral. Deinhart’s team recently won the National Catholic basketball championship at Chicago, III.
Bishop Chartrand, Consecrator
The most Reverend Joseph Ritter, D. D., who has spent his entire career at Cathedral parish, Indianapolis, was consecrated Bishop last Tuesday morning in the Cathedral of Saints Peter and Paul. Bishops Alphonse J. Smith, D.D., Bishop of Nashville, Tenn., and Emmanuel B. Ledvina, D.D., Bishop of Corpus Christi, Texas, officiated at the consecration. Bishop Joseph Chartrand, D.D., Bishop of the Indianapolis diocese, presided as Consecrator.
Bishop Ritter w a s consecrated Bishop of Hippus, and Auxiliary Bishop to the Most Reverend Joseph Chartrand, D.D.
CONTRIBUTOR’S CLUB HEARS COSGROVE AND SHEEHAN.
The Contributor’s Club of the Department of Journalism had as guests Mr. Gerald Cosgrove, associate editor of the South Bend Tribune and Mr. John H. Sheehan, ’31, publicity director of the South Bend Lathe Works, at their regular meeting Thursday, March 30, in the University cafeteria.
Feature stories written by members of the club were read and criticized in a round table discussion led by Mr. Cosgrove. The Tribune editorial writer made a number of comments and suggestions concerning the emphasizing of some points and the “playing down” of others in order to make the features hinge upon a topic in the public mind at the present time.
In this way, reader interest would be assured, and the story would be timely as well as instructive and entertaining, adding substantially to the value of the feature.
The next regular meeting will not be held until after the Easter holidays, unless further anouncement is made in advance.
No Average Collegian At Amherst — So What?
Amherst, Mass. — Stanley King has been president of Amherst College for six months, but he has yet to see an “average student.” Moreover, he does not expect to see one.
One of his first acts was to abolish the freshman dean’s office and take over its duties himself, so he could come to know the students personally.
“I haven’t met an average student yet,” he said in an interview, “and don’t believe there are any.
“Every student is an individual with his own ambitions, merits and defects. They are all different, and all should be dealt with differently.”
In line with his belief in individual contacts, he abolished fourteen faculty committees and appointed individuals to take over their duties. That -was a “radical” move, he said, but the new system is working.
“The job of being president of a small college is the most exciting and interesting I have ever known, and I have had a good many different jobs,” he said.
Unemployment Insurance
(Continued from Page 15)
employed lists in July, 1931, out of a total of about 22 millions gainfully employed. The fund, of course, had been exhausted, and the Reich government has contributed immense sums for support of the unemployed, all of which had to come from the public treasury, through taxation.
Experience, in the main, was surprisingly similar to that of England. Originally solvent, the plan used up its premium funds early in the depression of 1929, when claims increase, while payments decreased in proportion. Government assistance was essential to continuation, which meant subsidy, and immediately took the plan from any category of insurance, as such. Germany, however, did not resort to a dole, but arranged to reduce the amount of payments and increase contributions of manufacturer and employee to the fund.
Defects Noticeable
It is obvious from these two examples that neither of the outstanding European plans of unemployment insurance has been successful. In both the defects noticed is the same— and that, inability to hold up financially under a prolonged period of unemployment, such as results from cyclical fluctuations in business. On the basis of Europe’s experience, not only with the countries considered here, but also that of Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, Denmark and France, we can say that from the viewpoint of strict insurance principles, inclusive, governmentally controlled and enforced insurance has been, universally, a failure.
(Consideration of unemployment insurance, as it conforms to the essential criteria of insurance, from a theoretical viewpoint, will follow in a subsequent issue.)
4
I
SPRING FOOTBALL
(Contniued from Page 23)
of the new men are just learning the plays and haven’t yet learned the finesse of perfect blocking.
If the spring weather holds out, the first four teams will engage in a scrimmage again tomorrow. These scrimmages are worth seeing for the • play is hard and the competition keen. These men are all striving for the coveted varsity berths. The new men are trying to displace the veterans, or are fighting it out for berths left vacant by graduating regulars.
1
1
i
March 31, 1933
Twenty-seven
COL. HOYNES DIES
(Continued from Page 6)
''*r'
ent cities, and a practicing lawyer in Chicago for five years, he returned to Notre Dame as a professor of law in 1883. He acted as Dean of the College of Law for a great number of years, retiring in 1918. He was also active in politics, having been a candidate for Congress from Indiana, and occupying several seats on Federal government commissions.
Catholicity and Colonel Hoynes were one. . In 1912 he was made a Knight of St. Gregory by Pope .Pius X. This order is composed of Catholic laymen, and is awarded in recognition of Catholic merit. His interest in Apologetics was deep and untiring; he had ideas for a treatise upon this subject, but he was not able to finish it; one of the few uncompleted projects in his rich and varied life.
Fr. Cavanaugh Preaches
Colonel Hoynes was one of the prominent members of the lay faculty of the University in years gone by. This body, marked by the names of Howard, McCue, Stace, and Lyons, forwarded Catholic ideals and developed Catholic culture in the minds and actions of all the students whom they taught, or with whom they were connected.
The Funeral Mass was held this morning in Sacred Heart Church at 9:00 o’clock. A large number of students were present, and the lay faculty, dressed in caps and gowns, together with all the members of the Law School, attended in a group. Immediately following the Mass all present gathered outside of the Church in the quadrangle; there a squad fired three volleys and taps were blown. From the quadrangle the groups marched in procession to the Post Office where the funeral cortege left the campus.
The Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., was the celebrant at the Mass; Reverend Leo Gorman, C.S.C., deacon; Reverend Charles Hamel, C.S.C., subdeacon; Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., master of ceremonies; and the funeral sermon was delivered by the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Putney-on-Thames, England.—While practicing for the annual crew races with Cambridge, to be held April 1, the Oxford University crew last week lowered a 36-year practice record by two seconds.
SENIOR BALL PRICE
(Continued from Page 6)
An Honorary Committee has also been named and is composed of the following men: Joseph McCabe, Editor of the Juggler, James Gerend, president of the S. A. C.; Fred Mac-Beth, captain of track; James McGrath, captain of baseball; Anthony Wirry, manager of football; John Baldwin, captain of basketball; John Cahill, K. C. Grand Knight; Charles E. Sheedy, Editor of Scrip; Maurice
EASTER MEANS NEW CLOTHES
New Spring
Suits and Topcoats Kuppenheimer and Others
•
Colorful Plaid Ties, $1.00 New Shirts, $1.50 Tattersall Check Pattern Sweaters, $2.95
Spring Felt Hats, $2.95 Nettleton Shoes Smart Plaid Hose, 35c
JLvHnqdbnA
Downtown and on the Campus
Lee, Blue Circle chairman, and Edmund Stephan, Editor of The Scholastic.
Next week should come the name of the band to be engaged for the Ball. The chairman is in correspondence with the Music Corporation of America and has practically decided upon the orchestra.
All chairmen of committees listed above are requested to meet in room 106 Howard Hall tonight at 6:30 o’clock.
ILLUSION:
The magician exhibits a flower pot with hinged sides on a table in the center of the stage. He opens out the sides to show that this container is empty. Closing it up, he places a screen between it and the audience. After a short period of magic incantations he removes the screen. The astounded audience sees a beautiful girl, covered to the shoulders in lovely flowers, rising ___________________	vryt.... - -!!_1 -1_r_
Zt’s .few TO EE ZboZEZ)
LL
^Trorn tnc empty -^oniaincr. vv uuc urn sue umuc num r
iris MORK JUNTO AlVOW
EXPLANATION:
The girl was hiding behind the drape of the table. There is a trap door in the bottom of the flower pot, with a hole large enough to allow her to crawl through. ' The flowers, called “magicians’ feather flowers,” are a regular part of a magician’s outfit. The flower girl wears a rubber tunic and a bathing cap to keep the flowers compressed into small space. She slides the tunic down and the flowers expand when she emerges.
A trick frequently worked in cigarette advertising is the illusion that mildness in a cigarette comes from mysterious processes of manufacture.
EXPLANATION: All popular cigarettes today are made in modern sanitary factories with up-to-date machinery. All are heat treated—some more intensively than others, because raw, inferior tobaccos require more inten
Copyright, 1933, B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
NO TRICKS
JUST COSTLIER
TOBACCOS
IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
sive treatment than choice, ripe to* baccos.
The real difference comes in the tobaccos that are used. The better the tobacco, the milder it is.
It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
That is why Camels are so mild. That is why Camels have given more pleasure to more people than any other cigarette ever made.
It’s the secret of Camels’ rich “bouquet”. .. their cool flavor... their nonirritating mildness.
Give your taste a chance to appreciate the greater pleasure and satisfaction of the more expensive tobaccos.
Thirty
The Scholastic
Railroad Advertising Is Talk At Journalist Meet
Check these points:
Workmanship Service Convenience
CAnd that’s about all you could ask for in your laundry and dry cleaning work.
^At Notre Dame you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience—what could be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at the appointed place in your own hall.
^So, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
University of Notre Dame
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
Senior journalists heard the inside story on railroad advertising Monday afternoon, when Robert Howland, ’24, lectured before the class in Journalism Ethics.
Mr. Howland is a former student of Professor John Cooney, dean of the department of journalism. He has been connected with the advertising department of the Missouri Pacific Railroad since his graduation from Notre Dame.
“Service is about the only thing you can advertise in the railroad business,” Mr. Howland said. “With the invention of air-conditioned cars and super-safety appliances, the advertising department has something else to talk about besides the health and pleasure resorts their lines passes through.”
After his lecture Howland answered questions concerning the general subject of railroads. The meeting was adjourned when Ben “Bing” Alexander asked Mr. Howland why they always call Pullman porters, “George!”
NEWS OF THE WEEK
(Continued from Pase 10)
made at all, (unless armed guards are placed on all trucks), because of the threat of hijackers to loot some of the trucks. With beer wagons rumbling over the town at night, it would easy picking for the gentlemen who never pay their income taxes.
The first part of. President Roosevelt’s three-point unemployment pro-. . gram becomes a law this week. The ‘ bill provides the President with the means of employing, housing and feeding 250,000 men. This novel method of federal aid to the unemployed will at least take 250,000 men off the dole and renew their moral stability.
Boo Is Mightier Than Hiss
Cleveland, Ohio. — For expressing disapproval, the “boo” is mightier than the “hiss,” according to Dr. J. O. Perrine, associate editor of the Bell System Technical Journal, who has compared the two noises on an oscillograph, a new instrument for testing the strength of sounds.
The strongest of the human voice, he said, is the good old college “rah” and the weakest sound is the “th” in “thin.”
VAGABONDS TONIGHT
(Continued from Page 7)
Upon the completion of the ceremony, the bandit Furio tenderly caresses his tall bride. In response to his affections, the object of his tenderness rapidly steps back, doffs the heavy veil, slips off the dark, flowing gown — which had served to hide the military uniform of the Prince, and demands the surrender of the vagabonds, as members of the royal guard arrive upon the scene. Recognizing the Crown Prince, the bandits become terrified and beg forgiveness. Imploring them to think of their relatives on the feminine side, Prince Ryan points out the dangers of the life of a vagabond, and induces them to return with him to town and live as loyal subjects of the kingdom.
“The Vagabonds” provides one hour of genuine relaxation. The overture begins at 8:15 o’clock sharp.

Hon. William Watts Talks . on Bar Exams to Law Club
The Hon. William Watts of Dixon, Illinois, spoke to the members of the Notre Dame Law Club last Tuesday night in the Lay Faculty Dining hall.	'
Bar examinations and all that they entail was the topic of his address. He pointed out the necessity for a stiff examination, and the manner in ■ which it should be composed and given. Incidents relating to bar examinations in the state of Illinois were related in a jovial manner.
The Hon. William Watts cited requirements for admission to the bar of Illinois. He is in a position to advise and quote in this respect. For many years he has been an outstanding member of the Bar Examiners of that state.
Recently he submitted numerous questions for those seeking admission to the Illinois Bar. As he stated, “Now comes the pleasant time—correcting the examinations.”
The meeting was held in the form of a smoker. Refreshments supplied the climax of the evening.
It is almost impossible to obtain a scientific answer to the question of just what is an intoxicating beverage. —Prof. E. S. Corwin, Princeton.
Should liberty fall there is nothing but compulsion to take its place.— Nicholas Murray Butler.
March 31, 1933
Thirty-one
^PREMIER
PRESENTATION OF Si LINNETS
WASHINGTON HALL
Last Appearance Tonight at_8:15 p. m.
THE CLASS OF 1936
presents
“THE LINNETS
in
^Vagabonds
A romantic comic opera by Arthur A. Penn
with
“THE LINNET” Orchestra
Under the direction of
REV. CHARLES A. McALLISTER, C. S. C.
and
PROFESSOR JOSEPH J. CASASANTA
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
ODD ARCHITECTURE
(Continued from Page 16)
has just dropped a heavy brick on his toes.
There are many cases where genuine humor may be found in architects’ whim wherever they are allowed to express themselves. In a fashionable church in New York City there is a “bride’s door” through which many debutantes pass to their nuptials. A large portion of these weddings are marriages of convenience and a substantial dowry is often given by the father along with the bride. For this reason a prominent architect intertwined money bags with orange blossoms over the door and thus created a mute satire in stone.
Hall Insignias
When the Notre Dame dining halls were being built one architect suggested that a “dog” on a griddle be carved out of stone and placed over an entrance, perhaps, to serve as a reminder for Sunday night supper. Someone has suggested that the motto on the coat of arms of the Lyons family which is on the Lyons Hall arch should be translated literally to read “Don’t worry the Lyons.”
Take a few minutes off some day and make a tour of the newer buildings on the campus with a view to make yourself familiar with the fantastic relief work thereon. Try to comprehend for yourself the significance of these eccentric carvings. It will be like a few minutes spent around a medieval castle or cathedral, and whatever aesthetic sense you possess will find recompense in the amusement and curiosity which they afford. . . .
*The Scholastic/ 50 Years Ago
March 31, 1883.—Among the many improvements made in the Auditorium of the Music Hall, the introduction of the gas fixtures form a very prominent feature. These, with the exception of the grand chandelier, which is to occupy the centre, have all been placed in position; they include lights throughout the auditorium, foot lights, head lights for the stage, etc. In connection with this subject, we may state that the days of “red fire” are over. An immense gas apparatus has been contrived, by which all the pleasing illuminating effects necessary for tableaux, etc., can be produced.
On Down The Line
—^By Fred MacBeth^^___^
The “PERFECT GOLF COURSE,” built at ATLANTA (Ga.) by BOBBY JONES, is really a composite of links on which the former champion has played in other lands . . . every hole is, in part, reproduced from some favorite hole BOBBY has encountered in his search for golfing honors . . . JOHNNY KILBANE, ex-world champion boxer, is now boxing instructor in the CLEVELAND public schools . . . he is writing a book on boxing . . . CLARK GRIFFITH, president of the WASHINGTON SENATORS, is said to be THE BEST GOLFER among owners of the major baseball clubs.
There are more than 5000 members of various tennis clubs in PHILADELPHIA . . . BARON EDOUARD DE ROTHCHILD heads the list of money-winners on the FRENCH turf during 1932, with total winnings of $100,438 . . . ALBERTO J. DUGGAN, the ARGENTINE owner who captured the 1932 GRAND PRIX, ranked second . . . LESLIE KNOX, 16-year-old schoolboy of HILLSIDE (N. J.), can pick up a basketball IN EACH HAND and hold them in the air with ease ... a few can hold a basketball WITH JUST THE FINGERS AND PALM OF THE HAND . . . fewer can do the stunt with both hands.
4
ROGERS HORNSBY is in excellent condition for his comeback with the CARDINALS . . . recently he was timed in “a little over” eleven seconds for one hundred yards ... he remarked, “At that I could outrun some of those nags I used to bet on!” . . . it took “THE RAJAH” a long time to find out . . . BOXING HAS BEEN REVIVED IN MOSCOW, RUSSIA . . . the existing world’s indoor record for three-quarters of a mile, set in 1925 by LLOYD HAHN at 3.03 2-5 still stands . . . his wonderful indoor half mile (1.51.2) has yet to be equaled . . . TRAVIS JACKSON, who went to the NEW YORK GIANTS as shortstop in 1922, is the oldest member of that club in point of service.
4
When the PHILADELPHIA ATHLETICS opened the 1932 season at SHIBE PARK, MAX BISHOP, leadoff man, walked four times during the game . . . AND YET FAILED TO SCORE . . . JEAN SHILEY, 20-year
old OLYMPIC HIGH JUMP CHAMPION AND HOLDER OF THE WORLD RECORD, is a senior in the physical education department of TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (Philadelphia) . . . she plans to coach track at some school for girls ... an artificial ( sunlight room is being built in the stables of FRANK S. CALLAHAN IN TIFFIN, OHIO, in which his racehorses WILL BE BATHED IN ULTRA - VIOLET and INFRA - RED RAYS . . . the treatment, it is believed, will be as helpful as a work-	4
out in the hot sun.
SPLINTERS .
(Continued fi-om Pase 25)
a page and a half of apologies and bouquets.
We see it this way: “Moose” scored 65 more points this year than a year ago, with a team that lost four more games. Granting that this year’s squad played two more contests, we fail to see any explanation for Krause’s increased total other than the fact that he was a more effective offensive player.
As to defense, what opposing center was a leading scorer when the Keoganites were in full strength and Krause was able to devote himself to his pivot opponent ? Certainly not Cribbs of Pitt, nor Berwald of Western Reserve, nor Johnson of Northwestern, nor Proffit of Butler, nor Freeman of Penn, nor even Hosket of Ohio State who, facing the “Moose” on a night when the Irish were crippled by injuries, scored exactly four points.
It is of course merely a matter of opinion and Mr. Gage is entitled to his. Ours is that the “College Humor” selector went long on humor and short on accuracy.
Buffalo Club Plans Dance
The Buffalo Club formulated plans for an Easter dance at their meeting Monday night, in the Law Buliding.
This formal affair will be held Easter Monday at the Club Mayfair in Buffalo. A reputed orchestra and floor show will provide the entertainment for the dance.
An official charm has been adopted by the Buffalonians; above and below a bison’s head are the words, “Buffalo” and “Club,” respectively. Across the head is an N. D. monogram.
After College WHAT?
HOLY YEAR::
RADIO?
Major Howard Angus, former V. P. of the National Broadcasting Company, says: "Radio offers a wide scope for talent—the technique of program production, merchandising, writing, scientific research, even financing. To succeed, the young man of today must have a thorough training, an alert mind, a clear head.”
REWARDS in radio go to the man with an "alert mind” and a "dear head.” This kind of man, in this business as in college, elects the pipe his favorite smoke. And any college man can tell you his favorite smoking tobacco—Edgeworth.*
This is only natural—for in all tobaccodom there’s no blend like the mixture of fine old burleys found in Edgeworth. In that difference there’s new smoking satisfaction, new smoking comfort. Like to try before you buy? Write for free sample packet. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
*A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready - Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AU sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
----------------
Via the Smooth Southern Route Most direct route to Italy. Connections for the Holy Land. Frequent sailings on seven great liners. Chapels. Facilities for Mass. Also Holy year Pilgrimages to Italy, Egypt, Palestine. Ask for special booklet containing complete information.
Apply local tourist agent or One State Street, New York, N. Y.
ITALIAN
in RAILROAD FARES
for Students' Spring Vacation
ONE FARE for ROUND TRIP in coaches only
Tickets may be purchased to many points in the United States good going and returning on dates conforming to closing and opening of College. For further particulars, consult railroad ticket agent.
SAVE TIME - TRAVEL BY TRAIN in SAFETY and COMFORT
ROME
HOLY LAND
REX Conte di SAVOIA Conte GRANDE
AUGUSTUS ROMA
Cosulich liners
SATURNIA VULCANIA
Round Trip Fares
From $162.50 (Third Class)
LINE @
1
_and I like CHESTERFIELD
Cigarettes.	.
To me, they are mild—that is, they don’t seem to be strong; and there is certainly no bite, so far as I can tell.
To me, they taste better and
they have a pleasing aroma.
Every CHESTERFIELD thatlget is well-filled, and I feel like I am getting my money’s worth—that there is no short measure about it.
I like CHESTERFIELDS. They satisfy me.
1933. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
THEY’RE MILDER
THEY TASTE BETTER