The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Frames^ |Dinr|sM5|
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
APRIL 28 1933
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
4-5661	X-ray {Residence 3-4041 DR. E. S. LUCAS Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana		Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service	at Moderate Prices ‘ J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan „	(10 to 12 m. Hours J (3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST D entists Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogen ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
		
_	(10 to 11:30 a. m. =<"”{2 to 4 p.m. DR. H. BOYD-SNEE Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat 716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana		FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Houn: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
Space Reserved	Space Reserved
A Seventy-five Cent Value for 39 Cents
Start the season right with the new 1933 Certified Golf Ball. You will find it the equal of any 75c ball on the market for distance, putting accuracy and durability—and it costs you only 39c—a saving of nearly 50 per cent.
The new Certified Ball—U.S.G.A. official size and weight—is made to the highest standards of quality. Created expressly for the Walgreen Company. Tests prove that it is one of the most perfectly balanced balls on the market and one
of the hardest to cut. It is the kind of a ball the professional enjoys using because it is lively and true—and the average golfer because it stands up under punishment. Use Certified Golf Balls this year. Buy them at your nearby Walgreen Drug Store. Get a carton of three and prove to your own satisfaction that although you can pay more you can’t buy a better all around golf ball.
•
One ball 39c	3 for 1.10	12 for 4.25
Peau - Doux Golf Balls
Golden Crown Golf Balls
19c
55c
These good Golf balls stand up well under hard play. As good as any 50c golf ball. A real value at ...........................
3 for 50 cents; 12 for $2.00
For those who like an extra long driving ball, we suggest the Golden Crown—the longest and finest golf ball made.................
3 for $1.50; 12 for $5.50
WALGREEN’S DRUG STORE MICHIGAN
Two
The Scholastic
April 7, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	hk 1	I I	Entered as second-class
lished weekly at the Univers- I I* A [MaLvA I	I* AI	matter at Notre Dame. In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- I I	I	I w^lClw	diana. Acceptance for mailscripts map be addressed to	’ .	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic. Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Vzcturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section nos, October s. 1917, cations Office. Main Building.	FOUNDED 1865 '	authorized June 25, 1913.
Edmund A. Stephan.....................Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors -	’
F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON
LLOYD TESKE	LESLIE RADDATZ
WILLIAM DREUX
News Staff	1
MITCHELL TACKLEY.........News Editor
JAMES BYRNE.......Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROCTOR.. .Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI	ROBERT ERVIN
FRANK KELLY	MICHAEL WIEDL
JAMES A. HART	JOHN WALKER
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors TIGHE WOODS..............The Week
ROGER BEIRNE ..........Theatre Talk
ROGER MCGOVERN.........College Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.........Staff Artist
Sports Staff FRED MacBETH	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISS ELING
Features Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD...Features Editor LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
GEORGE LEYES JAMES FITZPATRICK
Business Staff JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH.....Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER....Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
JOHN F. SWEENEY
Volume LXVI.
APRIL 28, 1933
No. 24
SUMMARIES
NEWS
Notre Dame Debating Team Ends Season.............. 5
Definite Plans For Breen Speech Medal Contest are An-
nounced ......................................   5
Burly Athletes Practice Skits, Dance Routines and
Lines As “High Jinks” Nears Presentation........ 6
Michael Leding Is Class of ’33 Valedictorian...... 7
“Richelieu” Players Now Busy........:............. 9
“Subpoenaed Ladies” Present Themselves To The Court
At Lawyer’s Ball Tonight........................12
1052 Notre Dame Men -Favor Thirty-Hour Working
Week, As Result of Commerce Forum Survey..........13 Dean McCarthy Touring East; Interviews Prospective
Students ................................-......17
FEATURES	•
Fisherman “Lefty” Douville Is Presented in “Man
About” This Week................................ 8
Church Collections, Badin’s Lawn and Smith College
Share Honors In “Voice of The Campus”............ 9
News of The Week..........•........................10
A New Menace To International Comfort, Espionage, Is
Discussed by Louis Hruby.....................   14
Father Badin: His Fiftieth Anniversary, by George
Leyes ........................................  15
Johnson Discusses The Business Cycle..............16
Inmate Sings The Glory of Alumni By The Links......17
SPORTS
Baseball team loses first three games.............20
Varsity comes back to turn tables on Alumni after dropping first tilt of two-game series................20
Several strong teams appear in opening of Interhall baseball season ..................................21
Nicholson takes relay teams, sprinters and high jumpers to Drake Relays...................................21
Tennis team beats Valpo 9-0 in	first match........22
Golf team beats Loyola 15% -2% in opener...............22
Interhall golf season to open Sunday................  .23
Splinters from the Press Box............................24	.
Introducing Fran Murphy..............................  25
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, April 28.—Scholastic staff meeting, editorial board, 6:30 p. m.; News, sports, and feature staffs, 7:00 p. m.; Editorial offices, Ave Maria Building; orchestra rehearsal 6:45 p. m., Music Hall.
SATURDAY, April 29.—Track, Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa; Baseball, Purdue at Lafayette; Golf, Purdue at Lafayette; Tennis, Michigan State at East Lansing; Movie, 6:45 and 8:15 p. m., Washington Hall.-
SUNDAY, April 30.—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00; Benediction for upperclassmen, 7:00, foi’ freshmen and students in Morrissey and St. Edward’s Halls, 7:30, Sacred Heart Church; Interhall Golf Season Opens; Interhall Baseball games.
MONDAY, May 1.—Preliminaries of Breen Medal Oratorical Contest, Auditorium of Engineering Building, 4:00 and 7:00 p. m.; Wrangler Meeting, 6:30 p. m.; Law Building; Primaries of sophomore elections, gymnasium, 12:30 p. m.; Last day for submitting graduation theses and Prize Essays; Orchestra Rehearsal, 6:45 p. m. Music Hall.
TUESDAY, May 2.—Preliminaries of Breen Medal Oratorical Contest, Auditorium of Engineering Building, 4:00 and 7:00 p. m.; Baseball, Michigan State at East Lansing; Primaries of junior elections/ gymnasium, 12:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, May 3.—Finals of Breen Medal Oratorical Contest, Auditorium of Engineering Building, 8:00 p. m.; primaries of senior elections, gymnasium, 12:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, May 4.—Monogram “High Jinks,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
O NE bad thing about returning from a vacation four days late is the lack of interest shown in the retelling of perfectly good escapades. The late arrival gets no further than, “That night after we left the Chicago Club dance . . . ,” when somebody bluntly cuts him short with the brief but relentless statement that the gang heard all about that night three days ago, and the next night, and the next afternoon too.
HE interhall massacre is on again. This time it is in playground baseball. Last Sunday afternoon every hall had a team of some sort out to win for dear Old Hall. The majority of the games were close, and while a few nearly ended in riots, everybody had a good time. There are a few suggestions which might be made though. Playground ball is played all over the country, but each section seems to have a few of its own rules. Sunday several contradictory regulations caused the umpires to beg for mercy. The athletic department should post a set of official interhall rules.
O NCE more the University makes an appeal to keep off the grass. The campus is literally “on parade” from now until June. Hundreds of visitors will be coming here every week. If you had charge of a lawn at home you would be the first one to hit the ceiling if visitors walked all over it. People are going to follow your example: if you use the paths here, they will. The University is spending thousands of dollars in landscaping the ground around the new halls. This work is
not being done to give agricultural students a little experimental work; it is to beautify your home. Even if you live in a tenement when you are away from school, at least pretend that you know a garden can be something besides a plot of ground for raising radishes. .
LOYAL Notre Dame rooter who knew little about football but a great deal about college men once said, “The Notre Dame student body is just like hundreds of others I’ve seen, with one exception: they fight like the very devil when their team is behind.” The Notre Dame baseball team is in a slump but there is no more activity in the stands than at a Meadowbrook polo match, where it is the “sporting” thing to stifle one’s emotions. Whether on the gridiron or on the diamond, it’s still a Notre Dame team, and it is running behind. Don’t be so critical until you have at least seen them play.
y^^N YONE who does not think the student body is art conscious should drop into the library some time this week-end and see the Monogram Club art poster exhibit. Some thirty-odd posters in all sizes and shapes have turned the library into a glorious rainbow. And the exhibit is not noteworthy only because of its numbers. There are oil paintings, pastels and pen and ink sketches worthy of any collegiate exhibit. The art students have responded nobly to this contest, and it would be only a just tribute to them to have every man on the campus see their work. “High Jinks” of 1933 is going to be a good show, but it would have to be to justify this splendid advertising.
April 1933
Five
DEBATING SEASON ENDS AS N.D. MEETS PURDUE
Candidates For University Editorships Must Apply to
Faculty Board By May 5
BREEN PRELIMINARIES SET FOR HAY 1 AND 2
Radio Contest in Fort Wayne Closes Year.	• '
“This is Station WOWO, Ft. Wayne, Indiana, broadcasting a debate between the Universities of Notre Dame and Purdue, on the question, “Resolved: that at least half of the state and local revenues of Indiana should be derived from sources other than tangible property.”
With this radio debate, the second of the season, Notre Dame’s debate teams, under the supervision of Professor William J. Coyne, concluded a highly successful season of nine contests.	~
Kirby And Proctor For N. D.
William Kirby, veteran debater, and Thomas Proctor, carried the affirmative arguments for Notre Dame against Messrs. Smith and Lovelace representing Purdue. There was no judge’s decision on this debate, but the station will receive cards, from the radio audience in this and neighboring states, on which the decision will be based.
Kirby and Proctor advanced the points that the present tax on tangible property is inequitable, inadequate, and antiquated, and proposed that the state adopt taxes on intangibles, such as the income tax, luxury sales tax, gross receipts tax, and severance tax, to reduce the burden on tangible property, mainly real estate, by at least 50 per cent. The Purdue team defended the present tax very briefly, and advocated the cutting of government expenditures as the real solution of the tax problem. The second negative speaker spent his time attacking the intangible tax proposal of the affirmative.
Kirby Gives Rebuttal
Kirby gave the rebuttal for Notre Dame, upholding the intangible tax plan very successfully and slashing the government expenditure decrease ‘ plan of his opponents. He pointed out many weaknesses and inconsistencies in the negative arguments. Smith, refuting the affirmative arguments, again contended against intangible taxes on the grounds that they are unfair and difficult to administer and enforce.
C. E. Damon, one of Purdue University’s debate coaches, acted as chairman for this radio debate.
The Faculty Board of Publications will receive applications from undergraduates of the University for editorships to the following publications for the scholastic year 1933-34: The Scholastic, the Dome, the Juggler, and Scrip.
Applicants must state in writing their qualifications and expedience. Letters should be addressed and mailed to the Chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications, the Reverend L. Broughal, C.S.C., Administration Building, not later than 4 o’clock in the afternoon of May 5.
Only those applications which are received by mail will be considered.
Siamese Royal Son Leaves Princeton For Ohio School
Oxford, Ohio. — Transfer of Prasob Mom Chow Sukhsvasti, young Siamese of royal blood, to Miami University here was announced by Miami officials last week.
Conditions at Princeton University “that have made it impossible to do himself justice there,” were given as reasons for the change.
The young Siamese recently withdrew from Princeton when that university’s Campus Club was disciplined after charges that the club had liquor in its quarters after 11 p. m.
Dr. A. H. Upham, president of Miami University, said Sukhsvasti “while distantly related to the reigning family of Siam, is not a prince as we understand the term.”
He described the youth as a “courteous, unassuming lad with an excellent record of scholarship.”
The youth, Dr. Upham said, “was brought here by Murray Sheehan, an alumnus of Miami, who is connected with the Siamese legation at Washington, and he was admitted on the basis of a personal telegram to me from Dean Christian Gauss of Princeton.”	-
An ice-water test has been developed to find in early life of an individual a tendency toward high blood pressure. This allows the prospective high blood pressure patient to care for himself before the infirmity is upon him, and possibly escape it.
Final Contest Next Wednesday in Engineers* Auditorium.
Monday and Tuesday, May 1st and 2nd, are the days set aside by W. J. Coyne, director of debating, for the preliminary sessions of the annual Breen Medal Oratorical Contest. On these days contestants will appear in the auditorium of the Engineering Building to deliver ten-minute original orations to a group of judges to determine the six speakers who will enter the final contest, Wednesday, May 3, at 8 o’clock in the same auditorium.
“Idols and Ideals,” “Hitlerism,” “National Defense,” “Old Age Pensions,” “Pioneer America,” “Tariff,” and “Disarmament” are but a few of the many subjects of vital interest and importance to be presented by the orators. Any one of the above subjects is of sufficient consequence in these days to insure time well-spent by the audience.
Schedule For Tryouts
Tryouts have been apportioned as follows: Monday, May 1st, 4 o’clock— Joseph Becek, Hugh Fitzgerald, Richard McMonagle, G. M. Menard, Lindsay Phoebus, Maurice Powers, and Theodore Prekowitz; Monday, May 1st, 7 o’clock—Max Baer, Justin Han-nen, Franklyn Hochreiter, Joseph Kehoe, John Clancy, John Logan, Don Quinn; Tuesday, May 2nd, 4 o’clock— James Boyle, Matt Leary, John J. Locher, Francis McGahren, William Miller, Thomas Proctor, and Matthew Leavy.
Contestants whose names have been omitted from this list should see Mr. Coyne at once or appear at one of the tryouts. A valuable gold engraved medal will be awarded the winner of the final contest on Wednesday, May 3rd.
125 *34 Pins Are Sold
The Junior Pin Committee has set May 17 as the final date on which pins may be ordered. Those ordered about that time will be delivered here or to the buyer’s home. Sales made before that date will be completed for delivery within a week and a half.
The committee reported at the first of the week that over one hundred and twenty-five pins had been sold.
Six
The Scholastic
Monogram Men to Stage “High Jinks" Next Week
TICKET SALE FOR BALL TO LAST ONLY ONE WEEK
SHOWS MAY 4 AND 7
Reach Final Rehearsals For Programs Wednesday And Sunday Evenings.
By Tighe Woods
With the arrival of something new and novel in costumes, “High Jinks” of 1933, the annual show of the Monogram Club is going through the polishing process before their opening, Thursday night, May 4th.
The shoes of the Dutch dolls are clacking in unison. That great dance team of Vejar and Krause is at the peak of its career and the seats are going, going, swiftly — like the coming of darkness in the Malay jungle.
The show is divided into fourteen skits, some serious and some as uproariously funny as anything that has ever appeared in Washington Hall. The cast has determined not to rest until they equal the laugh record made by that immortal melodramatic farce given by the University Theatre last year, so aptly called, “Gold In The Hills.”
Tickets 40 and 25 Cents
The dance numbers are fanciful and the two-ton chorus go through their routine as neatly and as lightly as so many fallen leaves scurrying over an asphalt boulevard. The audience is not going to laugh at this bevy of beef trust beauties as it has in former years; it is going to applaud them for doing a difficult bit of work in true professional style.
Director Joe Kurth is not deceiving anyone by that frown he is wearing these days. He is just using a little of psychology stuff, — he knows he has a good show but he is not going to tell the boys and have them go stale.
Jim Baker is in charge of the tickets. They will go on sale in all the halls early next week. The price of admission is forty cents and twenty-five cents. While the management hopes that there will not be any senior ball dates arriving that early, President Jim Harris has made provisions for every emergency and those bringing guests will receive special attention.
Prefect of Discipline Reminds Students of
Campus Regulations
The following reminders in respect to certain University disciplinary measures were issued this week from the office of the Prefect of Discipline:
1.	Students climbing the fence at southwest corner of the golf course will be subject to immediate and strict disciplinary action.
2.	Students are asked to wear fitting apparel in the dining hails, and to be particularly observant of the regulations in regard to ties, coats, sweaters, etc.
3.	No meetings of any campus organizations are to be held in the evening until after night prayer.
4.	Further cooperation of the student body is asked in respect to keeping off University lawns.
Dr. McMahon Will Talk At Italian Club Meeting
An important meeting of the Italian Club will be held next Tuesday evening, May 2, in Room 2 of the Main Building. Dr. Francis McMahon of the Department of Philosophy will be the principal speaker of the evening. His topic will be ‘ ‘Dante Alighieri and His Relation to the Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas.”
Following Mr. McMahon’s address, the annual club elections will take place. All members of the club in good standing are eligible to vote, and are urgently requested to be present at the meeting. A financial report of the club banquet to be held in May will be submitted by Andrew Maffei, general chairman of the affair.
Fr. O’Donnell Improves
According to a statement made by the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. the President of the University, will leave St. Joseph’s Hospital in a week’s time. By June 1st, the President will be back at the University.
Ducats Available From May First to Eighth.
Tickets for the Senior Ball, priced at $8.50, will be on sale for one week only, the period from May 1 to May 8. It will be impossible to obtain tickets at a later date.
Thomas Hughen, chairman of the ticket committee, announced this week that the following hall representatives will have charge of the sale: Corby, John Cary and Mike De Lay; Sorin, Tom Meeker; Walsh, Ed Moriarty.
As made known in the last issue of The Scholastic, Ted Weems and his band have been engaged for the Ball proper. Efforts are being made at the present time by Ball officers to secure a suitable orchestra for the Tea Dance to be held on Saturday, May 13, at the Chain-o-Lakes Country Club..
MILITARY NOTES
George William Gorman of Birmingham, Alabama, a freshman in Physical Education, was sworn in as a Second Lieutenant, Infantry Reserve, on April 11th. Lieutenant Gorman is a graduate of Gulfcoast Military Academy and is an active member of the recently organized Reserve Officers Club of the University of Notre Dame.
Harold Harkins May, Commerce sophomore, and graduate of Culver Military Academy appeared before a board of officers during the Eastei’ vacation at his home, Peoria, Ill. May had completed all requirements for a lieutenant’s commission, the convening of the board being the final formality.
The Notre Dame rifle team sponsored by the R. O. T. C. expects to begin outdoor practice soon. A trial consignment of ammunition has been received from the Peters Ammunition Company. Official reports of the match at Culver have not yet been received.
The 489th Field Artillery, in which Major Walter Clements, ’16, commands the second battalion and of which Captain Robert B. Riordan, ’24, is regimental adjutant, has received tentative orders for active duty at Fort Knox, Ky., July 2 to 15. Father Alan Heiser, C.S.C., Captain Chaplain Reserve, is chaplain of the regiment.
April 28, 1933
Seven
VOTING REGULATIONS ANNOUNCED BY S.A.C.
Michael J. Leding Named 1933 Class Valedictorian
Primaries Will Begin Monday Finals on Friday.
By James Byrne
“The Primaries for the class elections, which are to be held in the lower lobby of the Dining Hall on Friday, May 5, from 7:30 a. m. to 5 p. m. will begin with the Freshman nominations Monday, May 1, at 12:30 o’clock in the gym,” announces Jim Gerend, President of the S.A.C., sponsors of the campus elections.
Tuesday, May 2, the Sophomores will meet in the gym, at 12:30 o’clock, to nominate their candidates for the Junior class offices. The candidates for the Senior class offices will be nominated by the members of the Junior class, Wednesday, May 3, at 12:30 o’clock in the gym.
S.	A. C. Election Times
The schedule for the nomination of the Students’ Activities Council representatives by the Juniors is as follows: Off-Campus, May 1, at 12:30, in Room 2, of the Main Building; Arts and Letters, Tuesday, May 2, at 12:30, in Room 2 of the Main Building; Commerce, Tuesday, May 2, at 12:30, in Room 4 of the Main Building; Science, Tuesday, May 2, at 12:30, in Room 4 of the Main Building; Engineering, Tuesday, May 2, at 12:30, in Room 5 of the Main Building.
Men participating in any varsity sport are not eligible for an office in the Students’ Activities Council. This ruling was made by the University officials this year.
As in the past the officers of the S.A.C. will be in charge of the primaries and of the election itself. The President of the S.A.C. asks that you be at the polls early next Friday. While the hours for voting are from 7:30 in the morning until 5:00 o’clock in the afternoon of May 5, those in charge would appreciate the students’ voting early. In this way, they will avoid a last minute rush and its accompanying inconveniences.
NOTICE!
Anyone desiring admittance to the Bookmen for the year 1933-34 will please submit his name to a member of the club or leave a note at 159 Alumni Hall. All applications must be in by Monday, May 1.
*33 Class Averages Show 31.1% of Graduates On
Honor List; Law Leads
Senior Class averages and individual grades have recently been published. Statistics are based on grades received during seven semesters of work. Following are the data arranged according to the respective colleges:
Class Average____________82.2%
Class Average by Colleges:	'
Arts and Letters___82.9%
Physical Education_79.3%
Science___________  81:0%	V	*
Engineering________83.1%
Law _______________83.3%
Commerce __________81.0%
Number of Students in Class__565
Maxima cum laude__________	3
Magna cum laude___________ 32
Cum laude 141
Percentage of Honor Students_31.1%
Arts and Letters_______240 maxima cum laude_______ 1 magna cum laude________19 cum laude______________63
Percentage of Honor Students 34.5%
Science ________________45
magna cum laude________3
cum laude______________8
Percentage of Honor students 24.4%
Engineering ____________83
maxima cum laude______2
magna cum laude________5
cum laude_____________25
Percentage of Honor Students 38.5%
Law____________________34
magna cum laude_______1
cum laude_____________17
Percentage of Honor Students 52.9%
Commerce _____________142
magna cum laude________4
cum laude_____________28
Percentage of Honor Students 22.5%
Notice
Any members of the Class of ’33 interested in affiliating themselves with the Travelers Insurance Co. in Cook County are asked to call at the Alumni Office for a favorable contact.
4 YR. AVERAGE IS 96.5
Laskowski, 93.4%, is Class Poet; James Boyle To Be Orator.
Michael John Leding of South Bend, Indiana, Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, and varsity football man, has been named
Michael J. Leding
From him the Valedictory.
Valedictorian for the class of 1933, according to an announcement by the President’s Committee on Senior Class Honors which convened this week. The committee had as its personnel, the Reverend James McDonald, C.S.C., chairman, and Professors Charles Phillips, Paul Fenlon and Frank Kelly.
Leding’s quantitative average, the highest in any college of the University, is 96.5 per cent. .
Class Poet in the June Commencement exercises will be Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., who will receive his A. B. degree. Laskowski, who gave the Ode at the Washington Day ceremonies, has maintained an average of 93.4 per cent.
James J. Boyle, senior in A. B. who is at the same time working for his LL.B. degree, will be class orator. Boyle also took part in the last Washington Day exercises in a forensic capacity. His average is 87.9 per cent.
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
N. D. PARTICIPATES IN CATHOLIC CONFERENCE
By William Kennedy
The man was short and the field was long. The man wore high fishing boots and a trio of nasty looking bulls roamed the field. The latter, it seems, resented the intrusion of a man with high fishing boots and subsequently proceeded to do something about it. The man had been lugging a pretty fair catch of trout up to then, but he lost them in a headlong dive over a wire fence. At any rate, he figured, he was out of danger and a rather terrible personal catastrophe had been averted. Three minutes later his two companions strolled nonchalantly into the pasture and commenced gathering up the discarded fish. The bulls, which had been only kidding, looked on, amused. The man in the high fishing boots also looked on, not quite so amused. Abashed, in fact.
The abashed young man was and is Howard “Lefty” Douville, of the Alpena Douvilles. Alpena, Michigan, you know. Only Mr. Douville isn’t abashed any more. He has learned to be amused.
Modest Fellow
He was amused when they drafted him to be Circulation Manager of Scrip. He probably was still further amused when sales began to grow and the first edition moved into the sellout class. He discounts any suggestion of his being a super-salesman, and attributes the increased sales to the more general character of the publication this year. This theory is in turn discounted by the head discounter of Scrip, Chick Sheedy. It now rests upon Mr. Douville to make the third discount, if he so desires.
It is very doubtful if he will have the time, however, since he is always so busy doing things. At present his chief concern seems to be fish. He thinks about it, reads about it, lays plans for it, and presumably does everything but eat it. Each Spring he devotes a week to sloshing about in the streams of northern Michigan and, as the time is drawing near for this season’s trip, he is becoming impatient. Just so long as he can hold a rod in his hands he is happy. He doesn’t particularly care whether or not he catches anything. You see, it’s the sport he’s after.
Lefty is certain about sports, too. He’d rather take a long walk than
“chase a golf ball through the grass,” as he puts it. And he’d rather hunt deer than go sailing on Lake Huron.
Yet he puts in a little time on both.
Howard Douville
A rod—and he is happy.
He says he averages about a buck a year on the hunting proposition.
Last year, with three other fellows from the University, Lefty was in an auto. The auto managed to get itself into an accident, and the third scene shows Lefty in a nearby hospital. How he contrived to stay for nigh onto a week with nothing more the matter with him than a cut on the head is one of the unsolved mysteries of the day. Why he stayed is no mystery at all.
Will Turn Lawyer
Douville is an Economics major in the Arts and Letters College, but he is seriously considering switching over to Law after his graduation in June. Then again, he would like to get into the government conservation department, where he could inspect fish, hatcheries, nets, and the like. What the three prospective courses have in common is not known. But Lefty, from the privative confines of his three room suite in aristocratic Walsh, will have accomplished a selection or a solution by summer, he hopes.
PERSONALISTICS: Lefty follows religiously the ether program of the New York and the Boston Philharmonic Orchestras . . . reads Sinclair Lewis and books on Indian Reserva-
(Continued on Page 13)
Father Miltner, Prof. Roemer, Mr. McMahon Attend Meet.
By Joseph Bucci
Notre Dame was represented at the Seventh Annual Conference of the Catholic Association for International Peace held April 17, and 18, at Washington, D. C., by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, ~C.S.C., head of the Department of Philosophy, Professor William F. Roemer, and Mr. Francis McMahon, also of the Department of Philosophy.
The purpose of the Conference was to discuss principles and problems in international relations and to probe different studies of international complications with an attempt to discover some solution of present day problems. Father Miltner and Mr. McMahon were prominent in the discussions held during the two-day session in Music Hall of Catholic University. Professor Roemer contributed two pointed papers to the program.
Roemer For ‘Arbitrationism’
The first, “The Tradition,” delivered during the first afternoon session, presented the traditional theories accepted by the theologians and philosophers of the Church as the most practical in solving world problems. Professor Roemer advanced the idea that neither militarism nor extreme pacificism has been accepted as a workable theory by Catholic philosophers and theologians in past ages. “The middle course or arbitrationism,” he declared, “has been almost consistently identified as the most fruitful and legitimate method of settling international disputes.”
The following afternoon, Professor Roemer offered his second paper, “The Church and Peace Efforts,” in which he reviewed the historical efforts of the Popes to advance international amity by acting as arbiters in case of dispute between the various European governments. He also gave instances to show that the Popes in more recent years have been in the forefront in urging disarmament and peaceful negotiations.
Prof. Roemer was also chairman of the Historical Committee of the organization, whose work it was to study past schemes of arbitration and discover how they have worked in the (Continued on Page 16)
April 28, 1933
Nine
PLAYERS REHEARSE FOR “RICHELIEU” PRODUCTION
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Much Interest Displayed In Commencement Play.
Work on “Richelieu,” commencement production of the University Theater, is progressing rapidly. Keen interest is being displayed in the forthcoming presentation. Eighty-five scripts of the play were issued by Director Frank Kelly and 48 students reported for tryouts.
Veterans as well as new lights are working on the various parts in the show. Mr. Kelly is whipping the play into shape by what is known as the instruction method. He has three different casts interpreting the characters at the rehearsals.
Large Group In Tryouts
The cast of characters includes Richelieu, to be played by Albert Doyle, of the Speech department, De Mauprat, De Beringhem, and a number of other historical figures. Interpretations are being worked out by George Allingham, David Powers, John Finneran, Roger Beirne, James Boyle, Arthur Newman, Thomas Stritch, and Joseph McCabe.
The newcomers who have shown outstanding work are Gene Blish, Francis Cawley, Charles Fiss, Joseph Mansfield, Francis McGahren, Vincent Narisi, Frank Fogarty, Hugh Fitzgerald, Robert Stapp, Robert Ward, Sliff Brown, Al Chouinard, George Wenz, Tom Proctor, and James Burchell.
Special Prayers to Mark President’s Day at N. D.
Sunday, April 30, is President’s Day by proclamation of the Governor of Indiana. Father O’Hara announces that there will be special prayers for the President of the United States at all the Masses Sunday. Students are asked to offer their communions for him.
May devotions begin Sunday evening. There will be a sermon and benediction every Wednesday evening during May. In addition to this there will be singing of hymns at the Grotto every evening after supper.
Daily adoration of the Blessed Sacrament will be resumed again May 1. The Novena for Mother’s Day also starts May 1.
All letters to the Voice of the The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall, be used upon request.
Collection Approach
Editor of The Scholastic, Dear Editor:
I noticed your remark of some few weeks ago that Sunday collections in Sacred Heart Church have slumped 50% during the past year. Clearly, Notre Dame needs all that such collections would normally net. I have a suggestion that might boost them just a little bit:
The practice of taking up the collection at the first pew in one aisle and then continuing it from the last pew in the adjacent aisle is decidedly inefficient. The ushers take half the people by surprise as they come down backwards. In my own case I have frequently been unable to get my money out in time.
It is a little thing and its correction might mean only a few extra dollars but if those stories are true about Bengal the difference might mean a month’s livelihood for a family.
Sincerely yours,
J. A. C.
Badin’s Front Yard
Editor of The Scholastic:
Dear Sir:
I would like to call to the attention of a certain group of lovers of baseball the fact that the game is one that can be played as effectively on the regular playgrounds as well as on the campus proper. Many students evidently think that Badin’s front lawn is a ball field.
I am writing this letter for two purposes: first, it just happens that this plot of ground is Badin Hail’s front yard although some students only seem to think it is Walsh’s rear yard. Badin Hall is as desirous of keeping the grass green here as Walsh is for her front yard. Those who use this plot wouldn’t think .of playing ball in front of the Main Building, and to my mind it is as important to keep one part of the campus as clean looking as any other part.
Secondly, a ball being swatted back and forth isn’t exactly becoming to a school that is supposed to be busy at work. It is no fun to pass that section of the campus with the constant fear of being biffed on the head. What
Campus must be addressed to the Editor of Names must be signed in full. Initials will
would a stranger think if he should be knocked down on his way to the library?
Sincerely,
M.	0. T.
Smith Postures
The Scholastic,
Dear Editor:
On several occasions The Scholastic has printed articles or items that have been completely unfounded in fact.
Particularly, the issue of April 7th, when there appeared in the column “College Parade” the remark that Smith College girls went around the campus balancing books on their heads to correct their posture.
Nothing could be further from the truth. An eastern newspaper man, needing a bit of humor, invented the incident.
My complaint is simply this: Could you not instruct the members of your staff to gather their information from reliable sources, and avoid such blundering errors?
L. H.
Department Heads Confer With High School Seniors
Thursday morning representatives from each of the five undergraduate colleges of the University conferred with senior students at the Central High School in South Bend who are considering a college education.
This was at the request of Mr. J. S. McCowan, principal of the school. Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Ph.D. represented the College of Arts and Letters; Mr. Henry B. Froning, A.M., the Engineering College; Mr. Stephen C. Bocskei, M.S., the Science College; Mr. Lee T. Flatley, M.S., the Commerce College; Mr. Robert B. Riordan, Ph.B., the School of Journalism.
College students of today no longer maintain the blase or indifferent attitude to life that they had a few years ago, Dean Virginia C. Gildersleeve, of Barnard College, said recently.
Ten
The Scholastic
“INTANGIBLES” SUBJECT OF TALK BY FRONING
Chemistry Head Addresses Academy of Science.
Professor Henry B. Froning, Head of the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering of the University, last Monday evening addressed the meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science on “Intangibles in Physical Sciences.”
The fact that these intangibles embody not only the mathematical aspects of the student but also his appreciation of the relative importance of the various studies and the methods of investigations employed, was explained by the speaker.
Time Allotment
An illustration of this was given in the case of the student who apportions equal amounts of his time to courses of varying credit hours. His lack of the intended importance of these studies is easily seen in his estimate of the time which should be allotted to the respective courses.
In the lectures, also, many students fail to select the essential points and concentrate upon them. They attempt rather to master the entire subject matter because of this lack of estimation of the salient features.
“Size, in itself,” the speaker stated, “is a very important thing to keep in mind. Many students are handicapped by reason of the fact that they see things and yet do not perceive them. The man in the laboratory lacks frequently an appreciation of the accuracy of the instruments he employs.”
“Grasp Fundamentals”
“A naught,” he said, “is an intangible, but it keeps us from making errors. It is essential for the good student to have a grasp of this and other simple concepts such as valence,.atomic weights, and combining weights, for example, if he is to obtain the full import of his studies.”
In conclusion the speaker stated that ultimately the most important consideration which may be given to the study of such intangibles is the knowledge and employment of the interchangeability of these standards in the attainment of the qualities of a sdiolar and a gentleman.
News of the Week
By George Leyes _______
The spotlight this week is centered on the White House and the international conferences being held with the eleven leading nations of the world. It is the aim of Mr. Roosevelt to feel out these countries so that the way may be paved for a successful monetary and economic World Conference in June.
The President and his staff are stressing the need of the breaking down of tariff walls, restabilizing the currency, and the reduction of armaments. France and her allies, however, are trying to push the war debts to the front, while the United States maintains that they are of secondary importance to other problems. Mr. Mr. Roosevelt’s argument seems rational in that if the trade barriers are broken down, the currency is stabilized, and international trade begins to flow normally once more, the Europeans would be able to pay their debts,—at least in some modified form.
Meanwhile Congress struggles with the 30 Hour Week, the Muscle Shoals project, the regulation of farm commodities and industry, and various inflationary measures. These measures and other legislation already passed reflect socialistic tendencies so radical that even Mr. Norman Thomas might have hesitated to put them through. In fact, it was the fear of such radicalism that put Mr. Thomas in such a poor ‘third” in the last election. Which only goes to show how public opinion has changed.
In the heyday of the Anti-Saloon League, the organization received its greatest support from the agricultural communities. The fact that Michigan and (this week) Wisconsin, containing a great agricultural population, were the first two states to ratify the repeal bill further indicates our departure from the past era of conservatism.
New York City is faced with the huge problem of taking care of more than 200,000 needy families, totaling more than 750,000 individuals. This is • more than one-tenth of the population. During the last three years the city has appropriated almost $200,000,000 for their relief, and the end is not yet in sight.	.
BENNION WINS FIRST PRIZE IN ART CONTEST
N.	D. Student’s Poster Gets Him Ten Dollars.
First prize in the poster contest sponsored by the Notre Dame Monogram Club has gone to J. B. Hen-nion of Notre Dame. He will receive $10, for an excellent piece of work.
Second honors were won by John G. Darling. William Cannon’s contribution was judged third best. Both men are from the University. Marion Twomey of St. Mary’s came in fourth. Fifth place went to Sam Gibbons of Notre Dame.
The following contributors received honorable mention: William Dusch, A. Mulvaney, Jim Uprichard (all of Notre Dame), Agnes Waters of St. Mary’s, and Richard Peck of Riley High School, South Bend.
The posters, now on exhibition, on the first floor of the Library, are remarkable for their color schemes, their neatness, and advertising effectiveness.
c
I
Italian Club to Meet Next Tuesday Evening at 6:30
There will be an important meeting of the Italian Club next Tuesday evening, May 2, in Room 2 of the Main building at 6:30 o’clock.
Mr. Francis McMahon, of the Department of Philosophy, will speak on, “Dante Alighieri and His Relation to the Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas. Club elections wall follow Mr. McMahon’s address. All members are urgently requested to be present.

Dean Konop Speaks at Detroit on (J. N. D. Night
Dean Thomas F. Konop, of the College of Law, attended the stag party sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Detroit last Monday evening, April 24, in celebration of Universal Notre Dame night. Dean Konop gave a short talk in which he reviewed recent news of Notre Dame including the general improvements now being made on the campus.
The affair was held at the Knights of Columbus Hall, and was presided over by John T. Higgins, president of the Notre Dame Club in that city.
<
April 28, 1933
Eleven
“YOUNG LOVE” NUMBER OF “JUGGLER” ISSUED
i'
Springtime as Lovetime Theme of McCabe Magazine.
The seventh issue of the Notre Dame Juggler, the “Young Love” number, came out last Tuesday night. The cover by Art Becvar, representing the theme of the magazine, the articles of Joe McCabe, Joe Degnan, and Bill Dreux especially, and the drawings of Gerry Doyle and Dick Prezebel combine to make the number one of the year’s best.
Final Issue May 24
McCabe writes a satiric sketch of a young man stricken with spring’s malady composing a poem to his beloved. A farcical story of Babe Ruth’s present contract is Degnan’s contribution. Bill Dreux offers a tale on May Day festivities in Russia. Fred Becklenberg compares the lovemaking of the past with the methods of our modern age. Other contributors are Tighe Woods, William Kennedy and Harvey Stackman.
Two full page cuts drawn by Gerry Doyle appear, as well as the usual key-hole portraits of Prezebel. Doyle’s sketches deal ironically with an apparent reversal of the court scene of the Merchant of Venice in Germany to-day and with Jan Garber’s imitative orchestra.
The final, issue, the Commencement Juggler, will come out on May 24.
N. D. Professors to Attend Convention at Chicago
Earl Lang-well and Dr. Paul Menge will represent the Modern Language Faculty at the sixteenth annual meeting of the Association of Modern Language Teachers of the Central West and South which is being held today and tomorrow at the Drake Hotel, Chicago.
The discussion at the meeting will center on a basic French vocabulary and a minimum German vocabulary. The findings of this and similar investigations will determine the content of French and German readers used hereafter.
“The Scholastic” staff offers its sincerest sympathies to one of its members, Louis Giragi, on the death of his brother who was last week killed in an airplane catastrophe.
ALL PRIZE ESSAYS MUST BE SUBMITTED BY MONDAY, MAY 1.
Monday, the first of May, is the latest date for handing in prize essays and graduation theses, according to the announcement given in the calendar for the year.
Some of the prizes an undergraduate may obtain for outstanding work in the various departments of the University are as follows: The Meehan Medal for English, founded by Mrs. Eleanore Meehan, of Covington, Kentucky, which is awarded to the senior who writes the best essay in English. The Dockweiler Medal for Philosophy, founded by Mr. Isidore B. Dockweiler, of Los Angeles, California, in memory of his deceased father, Henry Dockweiler, is awarded to the senior in the College of Arts and Letters who submits the best essay on some philosophical subject.
Awards For Commencement
The Monsignor Francis A. O’Brien Prize, founded in 1917, by a gift of Mr. Edwin 0. Woow, of Flint, Michigan, in honor of Monsignor F. A. O’Brien, D.D., of Kalamazoo, Michigan, is awarded annually to one student, or to more than one, in any college of the University, for special study and distinction in a designated historical subject.
The various prize-winners are to be announced by the awarding committees before the end of the school-year in June.
Woods, Duffy, O’Shaughnessy, Speakers at Mundelein
Tighe Woods, John Duffy, and John O’Shaughnessy addressed the student body of Mundelein College, Mundelein, Illinois, on three phases of Catholic Action, Tuesday, April 18.
Woods, a senior journalism major in the College of Arts and Letters, spoke on “Catholic Action and the Press;” O’Shaughnessy, president of the Economics Seminar, chose as his subject, “Catholic Action and Economic Affairs,” while Duffy, Arts and Letters senior, had the topic, “Catholic Action and Politics.”
The three Notre Dame seniors were guests of the college at luncheon following the talks, and were also taken > on a tour of inspection around the picturesque Mundelein campus.
BAND TO TAKE PART IN ANNUAL BLOSSON FETE
Notre Dame Musicians Invited To Play for Festival.
The Notre Dame Band has been invited to participate in the annual Blossom Festival to. be held in St. Joseph, Michigan, Saturday May 13.
Seventy members will leave school on Saturday morning on an interarban and will spend the day in St. Joseph. They will march in the floral parade from St. Joseph to Benton Harbor, a distance of about three miles.
Last year the band led the procession immediately preceding the queen of the festival. The festival and parade is an event which has taken place for several years, the band taking part in it for the past eight years.
At present the band is preparing for its annual concert to be given on the quadrangle May 7, at 6:30 p. m.
Spanish Club Will Hold
Banquet Wednesday Night
Professoi’ de Landero has announced that the Spanish Club will conclude its activities for the year with a banquet at the Indiana Club on Wednesday night, May 3. The entertainment for the evening will consist of talks by members of the faculty and of the student body. A musical program will also be presented by both campus and South Bend talent.
This year has been the most successful in Spanish Club history. Meetings, with an average of forty-five membeis ' present, have been held weekly.
Symphony Orchestra Is
Preparing For Concert
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra, under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel, is preparing for a concert to be given sometime next month.
The program, a classical one, will contain several new numbers. Among them are “March Slav” by Peter Tchaikowsky, a composition of deep rhythm and emotion. The “Herod Overture” is another addition to the repertoire which will probably be played in the next concert.
Twelve
The Scholastic
Lawyers' Ball Begins at 9 Tonight
NORBERT CHRISTMAN
General Chairman
Dan Russo's Orchestra Will Play Until Twelve-thirty For Annual Formal at Palais Royale
JOE DEEB
Law Club President
MISS HELENE M. MOORE
Guest of General Chairman
MISS ELEANOR DRIEBORG
Guest of President
From nine to twelve-thirty tonight, the Notre Dame Law Club will sponsor its annual formal dance. at the Palais Royale Ballroom. Permissions for the evening have been extended to one o’clock. As The Scholastic has previously announced, Dan Russo and his orchestra, featuring singer Dorothy Joyce, have been engaged for the Ball.
Send Out Orders
This week to all sections of the countryside went the Law Club’s famed subpoenas, summoning decisively a necessary element of the dance. Their substance was ’ somewhat as follows: “To--------, Invitor, Greetings: You are hereby commanded to notify, summon, inform, and subpoena, as witness and invitee in the above entitled action (Notre Dame Law .Club, Plaintiff, versus Mary Depression and Charles Moratorium) Miss ---------------, to the effect
that it is the will of this court that the aforesaid person shall from this day forward have and hold open, free, and unencumbered except as hereinbefore and hereinafter mentioned, the date of April the twenty-eighth of the year 1933 anno depressioni.
Patron List Given
“Wherefore the said witness and invitee is further ordered, upon receipt of this Summons, to break any date heretofore contracted, and hold herself subject, only as this instrument herein sets forth, stipulates and provides. Therefore ... we hereby declare that upon the aforementioned date . . . the said plaintiff will institute his cause of action, to wit, The Law Ball, a mean formal, all demurrers, motions for change of venue being waived nunc pro tunc, said venue being herewith established and ordained as the ballroom doing business under the style and firm name of the Palais Royale, in the city of South Bend, in the county and state aforesaid.
“The plaintiff . . . does hereby covenant, grant, bargain, and warrant that if the said witness be ready nine hours post meridian, she will be present in the said court in due time. Witness the clerk of said court and the . seal thereof, hereunto affixed, this twenty-first day - of April, 1933.
Signed, ‘Hooper Hoople, Clerk’.”
With the ladies accordingly cor
ralled the dance will go on. Patrons and Patronesses for the evening include the following: Dean and Mrs. Thomas Konop, Judge and Mrs. William Cain, Professor Clarence Manion, Professor and Mrs. Elton Richter, Professor and Mrs. Homer Earl, Professor John Whitman, Professor and Mrs. William Rollison, and Professor and Mrs. Orlo Deahl.
Court For Those Who Tarry
The Law Club’s perennial custom of establishing a court of fines for late-comers will be in effect tonight. Willie Weasel and his two terrible assistants, The Scholastic is told, will be inexorable in their dealings with tardy barristers.
Leo Cronin, accomplished campus singer and one of the highlights in this year’s monogram “High Jinks,” will keep the dancers in good spirits from time to time with a few numbers.
Guests of honor for the evening are Miss Eleanor Drieborg of Grand Rapids, Michigan, who will accompany Law Club President Joe Deeb, and Miss Helene Maxine Moore, partner of General Chairman Norbert Christman.
April 28, 1933
Thirteen
WORK ON 1933 ‘DOME’
IS IN FINAL STAGES
Year Book Will Be Out Last Week in.May.
The 1933 Dome under the able editorship of Arthur A. Sandusky is in the final stages of completion. The staff has been working intensively for the last month clearing up details and completing the various sections. At present Sandusky is spending most of his afternoons at the Peerless Press reading proof and correcting copy.
The editor promises an annual that will be different from anything in the past. He says that of course it’s still a year book and can only be different in little details—but in these details he has tried to create a new effect. The manner in which the opening section is being handled is a distinct departure from former Notre Dame year books.
The staff is so pleased with the view section this year that it is considering the suggestion made that they perforate the pages so that they cah be used for wall pieces.
The art concepts that bind the book together are presented in a manner that is modern but not bizarre. The color proofs of the four main division pages have come back from the engravers. They surpass all expectations. These division pages and the end sheets reflect a characteristic of the University that is not commonly appreciated. Art Editor Leo Beaulaurier is deserving of much praise for his clever work.
A new type of photography has been introduced in the hall section, always a difficult one to handle. Frank L. Linton has done most of the writing for that division.
Prof. Downey In Milwaukee
Professor William H. Downey, A.M., Department of Economics, is making contacts with high school students in Milwaukee and suburbs. He is doing this in connection with the Go-to-College Campaign of the William Hor-lick and Washington High Schools of Racine, Wisconsin.
Economics Majors, Important!
The comprehensive examinations for Economics majors will be held Saturday, April 29, at 1:30 p. m. in Room One of the Main Building.
Prof. De Landero Addresses
A. B. Lay Faculty Club
Professor Pedro de Landero addressed the last dinner meeting of the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty Club at the Oldenburg Inn. Dr. Leo Kuntz was chairman of the evening.
Professor de Landero gave a sketch of his own experiences in and out of Mexico during the unsettled times, before and after the fall of the Diaz regime. While . deploring the unfortunate circumstances that befell his native land, he spoke hopefully of present indications. Professor de Landero had an opportunity last summer to make first hand observations of changes that had occurred in Mexico since he came to Notre Dame to teach. He spent the summer months in and around Mexico City, both lecturing and studying.
A graduate of the engineering course at Notre Dame with the class of 1911, adjutant of the old Notre Dame Cadet Corps, and now coach of the fencing team in addition to his regular duties, Professor de Landero looks upon Notre Dame enthusiastically as his second home. He has two boys preparing to follow the family engineering tradition.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 8)
tions . . . together with a lot of Time and a little Fortune. . . he finds keen delight in rustling up and buying socks, sweaters, and jackets that are different . . . Wears heavy woolen socks with a huge orange and black diamond patters . . . Insists that his taste in clothes is “nothing flashy.”
Wouldn’t give an inflated dollar bill for all of Chicago, which he terms a “heartless city” and a “madhouse” . . . Is a mild and surreptitious jig-sawer, but has his doubts about others who spend hours on the things. . . He has a fierce struggle to cross his knees and, according to reports, has a deuce of a job to get into bed . . • Goes in for close-cropped hair . . . Annoys his friends and associates by the way he walks . . . Whenever he has any spare time, he makes a pair of shoes . . . And although there’s a demand for them, it awaits his inclination . . • Sort of a Personal Satisfaction Manufacturing Company. ... He shouts at people a great deal . . . Has a nickname for everyone . . . Intimates call him “The Old Man of the Woods” . . . And in spite of this and that, he likes Notre Dame better than any college he ever attended.
1,052 N.D. MEN FAVOR
30 HOUR WORKING WEEK
Petition is Circulated by N. D. Commerce Forum.
The Commerce Forum, under the supervision of Francis Fogarty, president, and Arthur T. Cavender, has just completed the circulation of a petition in support of the principle of the thirty-hour week and the minimum wage, now under consideration by the national legislature.
It reads as follows:
“We, the undersigned students of the University of Notre Dame, do heartily favor the principle of the thirty hour week and the minimum wage law for the following reasons:
List Reasons
1.	It represents a definite legal effort to effect social justice.
2.	It should mark a more active and intelligent participation of the state in business activities.
3.	It should increase employment and thus bring about an increased purchasing power in the hands of the laboring class.
We recommend its immediate adoption and believe we represent the true judgment of the nation’s body of college students.”
Several professors of the Department of Economics as well as other members of the faculty were among the 1,052 signers of the, petition which was forwarded to the Honorable William P. Connery, Chairman of the House Labor Committee at Washington, D. C.
‘The Scholastic,’ 50 Years Ago
April 28,1883.—One of the merriest of the many merry parties the Academy of Music has seen this season, gathered there last Saturday to enjoy an evening devoted to social pleasure. When the guests had arrived, one of the Professors read from the note book the names of those who had a clear score for the past eight months. As each name was announced, the happy.owner was greeted by the hearty applause of his companions, advanced to the upper end of the hall, where he was presented, by the head prefect of the department, with a beautiful bouquet of tea-roses and pansies.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Espionage—The Newest Weapon of World Powers
By Louis Hruby
The sinister movements of suspi-cioning governments throughout the world are apparent once again at the present time. Similarly with the trial of six Britons on charges of espionage against the government of Soviet Russia, the nations of both hemispheres have sharpened the wits of their intelligence services. The New York Times featured an article by William C. White recently, which drew the attention of its readers to the existence of a system that now seeks industrial as well as military secrets.
Agents Plentiful
White reviewed the history of various intelligence groups of the principal countries of Europe. The presence of spies, operating in those countries is generally known by government officials, but they refuse to apprehend them. Their reason is obvious: A spy might be captured, and executed, but if the source from which he had obtained his information had not been disclosed, more spies could be readily secured to carry out their predecessor’s work.
Examples of this are commonly known. The six engineers from the Vickers organization suffered considerable embarrassment when native workers admitted their share of guilt in the espionage plots. The conviction of two of the six men indicted followed accusations made by the Soviet that they were in the employ of the British Intelligence Service. The weight behind the assertion is one of international importance. It has been interesting to watch how Great Britain accepted this news.
Great Britain Answers
Answering the international charge, it was flatly denied that the engineers had any official connection with His Majesty’s government, and further English officials deny that there is an Intelligence Service. The retaliatory step was an eighty per cent embargo on Russian goods, and Moscow is yet without a British ambassador. He was called back to England for instructions, and apparently is being detained, awaiting developments.
The sudden increase in espionage cases can be attributed to the economic depression. Nations eager for recovery, realizing the importance of industrial advancement, attempt to
eke from other countries industrial secrets. Espionage is one of the cheapest ways that this can be accomplished.
European Spies Active
But with all this, military information cannot be defined as useless. With warfare today so dependent on industry, a whole new field, that of economic espionage has been opened. Militarists know its importance, and most naturally encourage it.
Not since the war have meddling activities been so noticeable. German agents have been caught in Poland and have paid the supreme penalty. They were instructed to survey developments in the “corridor,” pending the outbreak of another war. At the same time Polish intelligence seekers have been imprisoned in Germany. Their task was to see that the Versailles treaty was abided by. French “professors” touring the Italian Alps faced Mussolini’s courts on charges of imparting to the French government information of Italy’s alpine fortifications.
The Ogpu Terrorists
- The strangest element in the entire scheme is the work of the Ogpu, or Soviet Secret Police. Here is an example of a nation’s distrust in its own people. By the most nefarious means agents of the Soviet pry into the lives of their own citizenry. No one knows who they are. Agents watch agents. The slightest utterance against the policies of the Soviet, are in most cases overheard by an agent. The result is a pitifully unjust “trial” without benefit of a jury, and subsequent death to the victim.
Heads are cheap in Russia. The rulers, standing by the sword and their ability to use it, and use it authoritatively, dare not be questioned. The world protests against these crimes but nothing is ever done about remedying them. Newspapermen, those who were exiled or who chose to flee Russia, have repeatedly stated that the condition in that country is nothing less than a revival of the “reign of terror” that gripped France in the days of the Bastile. •
The citizens of the world continue to watch these actions, fearful of what might be the disastrous outcome.
LIBRARY BOOK SUPPLY AUGMENTED HIS WEEK
Circulation Desk Receives, Many Additions.
Books dealing with biography, medicine and psychiatry, and religion are the outstanding additions among the new books which may now be secured at the Circulation Desk of the University Library. Other fields are also covered by books on aeronautics, camping, fiction, law, education, sociology, and history.
The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary on Historic Principles which has recently received high praise may now he found in the Reference Room. This work is complete in two Volumes.
John Masefield Biography
Gilbert Thomas comments biographically on the prolific John Masefield in respect to his life, poems, prose, and plays in the work entitled John Masefield. This is one of the latest books on Masefield, being published and printed in January of 1933.
The following is a brief list of the outstanding books in each field:
Aeronautics:The World in the Air —by Francis T. Miller.
Biography: John Masefield — by Gilbert O. Thomas; Mark Twain—by Stephen B. Leacock; Mary Baker Eddy—by Ernest S. Bates; Mental Healers—by Stefan Zweig, Saint Thomas Aquinas and His Work—by Antonio D. Sertilanlges, O. P.; Sherman, Fighting Prophet—by Lloyd Lewis, Sir Bertram Windle—by Sister Monica Taylor, S.N.D.; The Light of the Church in Kentucky—by Vincent F. O’Daniel, O.P.; The Ordeal of Mark Twain—by Van Wyck Brooks; Up the Years from Bloomsbury—by George Arliss, and William Shakespeare—by Harry Benjamin Epstein.
Camping: Camp Cookery—by Horace Kephart.
Criminology: Crime for Profit—by Ernest D. McDougall.
Description and Travel: The Mys-tick Krewe—by Perry Young.
Dictionaries: The Shorter Oxford English .Dictionary on Historical Principles (Reference Room).
Economic History: The Power Fight—by Hilmar S. Raushenbush.
Education: The University in a Changing World—by Walter M. Kot-(Continued on Page 15)
April 28, 1933
Fifteen
" BOH SPEAKS AT MEET OF UNIVERSITY CLUB
Defects o f Federal Reserve *	System Cited.
Professor Herbert J. Bott, A.M., of the College of Commerce, addressed the University Club at noon last Tuesday, April 25. He spoke on the Federal Reserve, why it was estab-•	lished, and its present condition.
When the Federal Reserve System was established it was said that its founding would eliminate panics and that the banks in the system could aid other member banks in distress. Professor Bott said that the •	present crisis or panic indicated some
of the weaknesses of the Federal Reserve System.
He recommended a closer centralization of the banks and banking in the future. Only a very small number of the state banks were in the '	Federal Reserve System—to be exact,
-	824 out of 12,700. This situation
could be changed into a more centralized system.
During the nine days before the closing of the banks recently 384 millions in gold and 422 millions in •	deposits were taken out of the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks. Mr. Bott attributed that to the banking crisis that was approaching.
Fr. Stephen Badin Dead Fifty Years April 19th
By George Leyes
NEW BOOKS
(Continued from Page 14)
schnig, and Psychiatry in Education —by Victor V. Anderson.
Fiction: Treehaven—by Mrs. Kathleen Norris (Thompson).
History and Description: Mah’kon-tah; the Osage and the White Man’s Road—by John J. Mathews.
Law: The Layman’s Legal Guide to Essential Laws — by Francis W. Marshall.	'
Medicine and Psychiatry: Backwoods Surgery and Medicine — by Charles S. Moody; Fads and Quackery in Healing—by Morris Fishbein; Medical Care for the American People—by Committee on the Costs of Medical Care, and The Cost of Medical Care—by Isidore Sydney Falk.
Religion: The Church in France— by Charles S. Phillips; The Golden Sequence—by Evelyn Underhill, and The Jesuits in Modern Times — by John La Farge, S.J.
Sociology: Lads’ Clubs—by Chas. Ed. B. Russell.
Notre Dame last week commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the death of Father Stephen Badin, G^G:, the first Catholic priest ordained in the United States, and donor of the land on which the University was built. Father Badin was ordained at Baltimore May 23, 1793, by Archbishop Carroll. Notre Dame thus traces her spiritual lineage through the proto-priest of the United States to the first bishop in the United States who ordained him, to the seat of the American primacy at Baltimore and the original Catholic colony of Maryland.
Early History Painful
The early history of the mission at Notre Dame before the coming of Father Badin was one of unheralded labor and toil by simple and selfforgetting missionaries, who spent their lives in the obscurity of the wilderness, that they might bring Christianity and civilization to the Indians. The first attempt was made about 1680 by Father Allouez, who having coasted down Lake Michigan from Green Bay, entering the St. Joseph River and proceeding some twenty-five miles from its mouth, reached the locality now known as the city of Niles. Here he built a mission and brought the faith to the two Indian towns of the. Pottawattomies and the Miamis.
English Attack In 1759
In 1759 the French garrison at Niles was attacked by a party of English soldiers, and the French were defeated after a fierce contest. The survivors of the garrison, including the priests, were carried away prisoners to Quebec. During the period from the destruction of the missions until Father Badin’s arrival in 1830, the poor Indians had only the spiritual ministrations of an occasional priest, but they preserved the memory of their faithful black robes and their belief in the Christian faith.
When Father Badin arrived at Notre Dame from the mission fields of Kentucky in 1830, he revived the faith of the Indians, built a log chapel, and made it the center of an extensive range of missions. He bought a section of land which he dedicated in the interests of education to the Church, and which is now the seat of our pres
ent institution of learning. This was twelve years before Father Sorin arrived, in 1842.
A touchingly interesting story is told of Father Deseille who succeeded Father Badin. He was alone at the little mission when he took sick. Knowing that he was soon to die, he dragged his spent body into the little log chapel and up to the altar. With his last measure of strength he gave himself the Holy Viaticum, and then laid himself down to die at the foot of the altar at which he had so often offered up the Divine Victim. Here is tradition, simple and self-effacing.
The Missionary Spirit
The real spirit of Notre Dame is to be found in the history of these lone missionaries who laid the foundations for this institution in the days when education was little more than a synonym for sacrifice. No wonder it is that this spirit has become a source of pride to all those who appreciate the ideals from which it sprang—the spirit which has become a badge of distinction for those thoroughly imbued with it, and an educational force for the University in which it dwells.
St. Vincent De Paul Group Of N.D. to Hold Celebration
This year- is the centennial of the founding of the St. Vincent de Paul Society. At a meeting held by members of the Society in the basement of Walsh Hall last Tuesday evening it was decided to celebrate it with a Solemn High Mass in the Church at Notre Dame. This Hass in thanksgiving of the founding, will be held at nine o’clock, Sunday, May 7. There will be a special speaker but not as yet chosen. Conferences of the Society in South Bend and Mishawaka have been invited to attend.
A letter from Father O’Donnell’s secretary was read at the meeting, thanking the society for the spiritual bouquet offered for him and wishing the group success in its undertakings.
It was also announced that a new institution, the Hering Home in South Bend, had been added to the list of institutions to which the Society will distribute magazines.
The Scholastic
Sixteen
The Business Cycle—Bane Of Modern Economic Life
By Walter Johnson
1835 — 1846 — 1854 — 1865 — 1873 — 1884 — 1893 — 1901 — 1910 — 1920 — 1929. At least the business cycle is no myth, no wild theory. It has occurred too regularly and too often, this period of depression, bringing hardship and suffering, to be disregarded as accidental. We know what happens—but the question is— WHY?
During a period of prosperity commodity prices soar and industrial activity is at its peak. Stocks boom, speculation is rampant. Advertising increases sales. Banks are prosperous and lend money freely and optimistically. Money rates rise and call money is high. Employment is almost universal, and consuming power high. Hectic industrial activity features the stage, and optimism leads to still greater attempts.
Then—The Tumble
Then, something goes wrong. Overproduction appears. The value of consumers’ goods produced exceeds the value of the total product of industry. Producers have been producing for a future demand, anticipating a rise in price to continue—but the consuming public, receiving its purchasing power from industry, can’t take off the market this excess of goods. A condition of over-expansion and over-production appears, and industry panics.
A period of hurried, bolting liquidation follows—in which everyone tries to get clear before the ultimate crash. Stocks collapse, raw material prices drop while retail prices follow slowly. Weak banks, trying vainly to liquidate, find themselves with assets frozen, and fail. Another depression is on its way.
At The Bottom
Then follows that phase of the cycle which alone seems to impress on us the necessity for action. Unemployment reaches amazing, alarming totals; millions suffer. Industry attempts to weather the storm, satisfied to meet fixed expenses, or even to take a small loss. Thousands of weak concerns fail. Failures of even good banks are common. Prices drop steadily. Consuming power is almost nil.
During this time production has been radically decreased. Meanwhile,
since the population must live, consumption of necessities has maintained almost its former position, gradually the surplus of goods, accumulated toward the end of prosperity as a result of over-expansion and production for non-existent future demand, is depleted, and ultimately exhausted.
Around The Corner
Industry, sitting tight, is ready to start production again, furnishing employment and starting recovery— but it must be offered the possibility of profits, which profits can come only through a rise in prices. Finally prices hit bottom, production costs have been reduced to a minimum, and the nation awaits any of the several things which can cause the rise, a war, a new industry, inflation, tariffs, or any of several others.
Ultimately, prices do rise, producers begin to buy capital goods, employment increases, consumptive goods are bought, prices rise again, and recovery has started its course, leading to prosperity, and a repetition of the cycle.
But Why The Cycle?
This we know, definitely, but it doesn’t explain why—and a simple description of the business cycle can’t explain it. There are, however, any number of attempted solutions, based on weather, on emotions, on economic institutions. Any of these, to be satisfactory in itself, would have to explain each phase of the cycle, and each detail, each phenomenon in it. Yet none of the proposed theories does this. Each is more or less true in what it says, each does explain some phase of the situation. But either it is not ultimate, assuming something which is in itself not explainable, or else it leaves too many aspects of the cycle untouched.
Therefore, to take any one of them, by itself, and present it as the utli-mate explanation would be foolish. The best, however, supplemented by those theories which consider aspects • disregarded by it, might give us a working concept of the cause.
. (A discussion of the theoretical causes of the business cycle will be continued in the next issue of “The Scholastic.”
N. D. PHARMACISTS TO VISIT DETROIT PLANT
Thirty Students Will Make Trip, April 30 to May 2.
William J. Kenney, President of the Pharmacy Club, this week, announced final arrangements for the annual trip sponsored by the Pharmacy Department. This year the Club will be the guest of Parke, Davis & Co., Pharmaceutical and Biological Manufacturers, Detroit.
Faculty members accompanying this group will be Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, and Mr. L. H. Baldinger, of the Pharmacy Department.
$5 Round Trip
The number of students making this trip will be limited to thirty. Those eligible include all Pharmacy majors, and juniors and seniors of the College of Science.
Arrangements have been made with the New York Central Railway for a five-dollar round trip rate. Other expenses such as hotel and meals, will be defrayed by the Parke, Davis & Company.
The party will leave the Union Station, South Bend, at 10:56 p. m., Central Time, Sunday, April 30. The special coach will arrive in Detroit at 7:50 a. m., Monday. Returning, the train will leave Detroit at 4:40 p. m., Tuesday, Eastern Time, arriving in South Bend at 8:10 p. m.

CATHOLIC CONFERENCE
(Continued from Page 8)
past and the prospect of how they will succeed in the future.
Among other notable speakers at the Conference was Reverend John A. Ryan of the Catholic University, who spoke on the subject of war debts at the International dinner which took place at the Mayflower hotel the evening of the 17th. Father Ryan expressed his belief that the creditor nations must accept as practical an almost total cancellation of post-war debts. Past conferences were held in New York, Cleveland, St, Louis, and Chicago.
Official Rings
All members of the student body, especially the senior class, are invited to inspect the official University ring on sale at Room 106, Howard Hall.
April 28, 1933
DEAN M’CARTHY LEAVES ON TOUR THROUGH EAST
Will Visit Eight Cities to Interview Prospective Students.
_____________________________Seventeen
Inmate Sings The Glories Of Alumni By The Links
By T. F. D.
Dean James E. McCarthy of the Commerce College is making a trip through the East to confer with boys who wish to attend Notre Dame, or with their parents. His itinerary includes Erie, Buffalo, Rochester, Albany, Springfield, Boston, Providence, and Bridgeport. Circulars were sent out to all pastors within a forty-mile radius of these cities.
There was a dinner in his honor at Providence on Tuesday night, April 25. Among the guests were Doctor Eddie Anderson, coach of the Holy Cross College, Worcester, and Charles Grimes, of the Associated Catholic newspapers.
Dean McCarthy will be in New York for the 28th, 29th, and 30th. In a letter to the school he related this experience he had in Albany. A woman approached him and said that she was most anxious to send her son to Notre Dame, but she didn’t know where she could get the $2,000 a year to send him there. This is just one of the many impressions that Mr. McCarthy has to correct.
Postmaster Farley Saves Scholar Gum-Chewer
Fond du Lac, Wis. — An assistant principal in the local schools has been put in his place good and proper.
Some days ago a letter went from here to Postmaster General James A. (Big Jim) Farley, an inveterate gum chewer, which said:
“Dear Jim: What part has gum played in your success? John.”
Farley took up his pen and wrote back:
“Dear John: I don’t know whether gum played any part in my success, but it was not a retarding factor. Jim.”
Back to Farley went a letter:
“Dear Jim: My assistant principal said chewing gum was a bad habit, that no gum chewer could succeed. I read your letter in class and it got a lot of applause. John.”
At times, disputants think they are in accord on priciples merely because their disagreement is hidden under ambiguous language. — Foster and Catchings.
The citadel of the junior class, the better half of the new “gold coast,” the pride of the University’s housing committee,—we give you Alumni hall.
First and foremost among our notables comes our beloved Rector, Father Clancy. His ever-smiling face and rotund figure are a testimony to his jolly good nature.
Next in importance we have our song and dance man from One-Eighteen. To the rest of the campus he is known as the president of the junior class, but to Alumni he will always be “just a little ray of sunshine.” Who knows, perhaps he will enhance Notre Dame’s reputation in a few years by captivating Broadway with his temerarious jokes and terrible dance steps. His “sidekick” and steadying influence is his room-mate, better known as “short stride” or “half • pint.” Lest we forget, this lad has attained a good deal of renown as a speed skater.
The Tale Of Peter Rabbit
One of the most interesting inmates of our illustrious hall is the renowned “Peter Rabbit.” A mere two hundred and fifty pounds of good natured indolence, his close friends have classified him as “cute.” His favorite pastimes are playing “Fan Tan,” and going to movies. It would take too long to give a complete report of “Brer Rabbit’s” doings. It is sufficient to say, along with someone or other, “To know him is to love him.” 0 yes, it is rumored that he has a pair of pajamas with the family coat of arms embroidered thereon.
“Peter Rabbit’s” next door neighbor is the hall’s own Walter Winchell. If you want any rumor spread as only a professional can spread it, just let the “Bugle” overhear you. He’s guaranteed to withhold absolutely nothing from circulation. Good old “Bugle”—he narrowly escaped death when he aroused easy going “Peter Rabbit’s ire by letting the boys know that “Peter” had received money from home. Result: “Peter” was besieged by his creditors.
Alumni also has its scholars, not the least of whom is our “Midget Philosopher.” He solves all philosophical difficulties with a ready smile and at the slightest provocation. He also
aspires to the title of ranking handball player of the hall. The author of this little masterpiece is slated as his next victim. The result will be announced later.
Colorful Mail Carrier
Although we can’t lay claims to any group so renowned as the Four Marx Brothers, we do have our own “Ravelli.” His surname is Hector, but this stalwart son of Mussolini so resembles the famed Marx brother that he has been re-named “Ravelli” by the lads.
If any one would like to see the whole group together, just drop around to the hall at 7:30 any morning. Gathered under the clock at the entrance to the main corridor the entire group may be found anxiously awaiting the arrival of our Arabian mailman. It really is too bad that he hasn’t a milk white steed—to lend color you know. By the way, our fair hall is the only one on the campus that can boast of such a renowned mailman. Believe it or not, he is an author. At least he wrote a sociology book.
Who Has Seen Marietta?
Perhaps the most talked of person in the hall is not a resident thereof. I am referring, of course, to Marietta, the toast of the hall. Unless the hall receives a letter every day from Manhattanville, Marietta’s hangout, the boys consider the day a total loss. Although most of us have never seen the fair maiden, we all love her. With this I will conclude my little expose of Alumni. Any further information will be cheerfully given upon request, and much will be cheerfully withheld.
President is Cramming
Washington, D. C. — No college undergraduate ever did any more “cramming” for an examination than President Roosevelt has done to prepare for the conferences with world leaders on economic subjects, according to word out of the White House.
The President learned how to “cram,” however, back in the days when he was a Harvard undergraduate.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
THE WEAKER SEX
More men than women are registered in the cooking classes at Michigan State College and the males also get the highest grades.
WOE IS ME!
In the course of a lecture at the University of Pittsburgh, John Masefield stated that “No amount of university training can ever make a poet.”
WHAT PRICE EDUCATION?
Failure to attend classes at the University of Maryland costs students three dollars a cut.
REVERBEERATIONS!
A majority of men students at Iowa State College prefer to date girls who drink beer, according to a questionnaire circulated by a church dignitary. As for the women, 60 percent said they would date men beer drinkers.
TECHNICALLY SPEAKING.
The University of Nebraska has most appropriate and touching names for the coeds. They are called, in the Nebraska vernacular, squaws, muddy plows, oil cans, and ice wagons.
LIFE’S LITTLE TRAGEDIES.
On the grounds of the University of Wisconsin, the alumni erected a $1,250,000 student club house including a spacious German rathskeller with a real bar and adorned with German mottoes and drinking scenes. The University officials, however, have forbid the selling of anything but soft drinks in this room.
THAT’S SETTLED.
Students in the engineering college of Columbia University have expressed the opinion that the world is not “going to hell.” One hundred and forty-nine say the world is o. k., 32 say it is bound the wrong direction, and 39 think it isn’t.
STUDENTS FURNISH THE OIL.
A new plan added to the list of features at Beloit College is to pay for gas used by students in commuting not more than 30 miles or less than 5 miles from Beloit.
IT’S ALL IN THE GAME.
College^daily editorials, along with the rest of the sensible world, have been showing marked changes toward the more serious aspect
of the world at large. Editorials used to be concerned mainly with college spirit and the cause and effect thereof. Slowly but surely they have shifted their field to encompass a broader scope. Ideas and opinions concerning goings on in the outside world occupy more space in the column each day.
Undergraduates are beginning to realize to a greater degree that the world at large plays a part in the every-day life of every individual. They are opening their eyes gradually to the fact that the campus bounds is not the limit of a college education. With less energy expanded toward the rahrahisms formerly connected so much with undergraduate tendencies, students are becoming aware that a world exists beyond the local community. It is not to be thought that students are prematurely undertaking the omnipotent burdens of adult existence. Luckily, this could never occur, not with , undergraduate mental capacity what it is today.
The days seem to have passed when the college student lives in a realm of dance, class, class, dance. Finances have caused a drastic doing away with dances. This does not mean that the individual is entirely taken up with class, class, class. Far be it from the college student to lead a humdrum existence. With extensive time on his hands, when studying and classes have been taken care of, the individual must occupy his mind with some entertaining and diversive recreation. Public affairs and national, state and local current problems are being annexed each day to the curriculum of student thought. Along with the natural trend of undergraduate opinion goes editorial comment.
It is becoming more evident daily that what is happening in the various countries of the world is just as much the concern of the undergraduates as are grades, courses, fraternities, dances or athletics. One’s mentality should not be circumscribed by the geographical boundaries of any environment. Many of these facts may be attributed among the boundless effects of that depression one used to hear so much about. Students, it has been noticed, have taken on a more mature social consciousness than their predecessors. Hence editorials have followed the interest of students.
—Syracuse Daily Orange.
April 28, 1933
Nineteen
E DI T O RIA L S
NEW OUTLOOK
Notre Dame students apparently favor legislation for a thirty-hour working week and a minimum wage law if the petition circulated recently by the Commerce Forum has any significance. Measures pending before Congress at the present time, will, if passed, supposedly increase purchasing power by attacking unemployment. The bills, they tell us, are a substantial leap in the direction of social justice.
Overlooking the shortcomings and the commendable aspects of the legislation for the moment, there is something of more than ordinary interest in the manner in which the constitutionality of the proposed laws has been established. Everybody knows that the Constitution of the United States gives to the federal government power to regulate commerce between the states. With that grant in mind, Congressmen have introduced bills which dictate that no goods may be shipped from state to state which are the product of more than thirty hour a week labor.
What amazing elasticity the interstate commerce clause must have! It takes no imaginative flight at all to see the government soon controlling the automobile industry because cars pass state boundary lines, the newspaper industry, the steel industry — any industry for that matter. For what is to impede such paternalism if words can be so suited to the action?
Framers of the Constitution have been lauded for their far sightedness, for their acumen in laying down pliable principles for an infant land. We wonder if they ever dreamt that their clauses would be so interpreted and their convictions carried to such 1933 extremes. The machinations of the American government today point categorically to one fact: The Constitution is inviolable when public opinion coincides with it; it is a piece of paper in the face of an emergency. Not many years ago a minimum wage law was de
clared unconstitutional. Today such an enactment will probably meet with little opposition.
We do not say that such a political philosophy is not the most expedient and the most practicable, but we will be very much disgusted with people who ever again speak seriously of the “inviolability of that immortal document” or of the “perennial respect of the American people for the written word of their fathers.”
PHARISEE
“Does The Scholastic represent Catholic thought in America?” asks a letter of recent date. A Colorado editor wondered about the same thing last Fall when we spoke about the Socialism of Norman Thomas. Many people would reason as follows if they were confronted with the question: Notre Dame is a Catholic University; The Scholastic is its official news organ; therefore, The Scholastic represents Catholic thought.
But what in the world is meant by “representing Catholic thought?” Are we asked if we speak ex cathedra, when we editorialize on federal inflationary measures, George Bernard Shaw, or the 1933 tennis team? The Scholastic speaks about things frequently which are . indifferent from a religious point of view. It might comment on a person, a philosophy, a law, or a situation on which Catholics themselves disagree. And then again, in cases of faith and morals, it might take a stand which is necessarily a strictly Catholic point of view — because some things, for a Catholic, have only one point of view.
Why are such questions as the one above asked of us? Because somebody is interested in The Scholastic and wants information? We hope so, but we are afraid that such is not the case. This letter in particular smacks more of the gentleman who would like to “get something” on somebody — probably the Catholic Church.
Twenty
The Scholastic
1
| ATHLETICS
N.D.NineLosesThree Games
Irish Drop Two Tilts To Chicago, ALUHNI AND VARSITY
One to N.U., as Season Is Launched SPLIT TWO-GAME SERIES
Weak Hitting, Poor Pitching, Wobbly Fielding Combine To Bring Defeats.
Faltering afield and at bat, Coach George Keogan’s Notre Dame baseball varsity dropped its first three intercollegiate games during the past two weeks. Stories of the games follow.
Chicago 6, Notre Dame 5
April 15, At Chicago
By AI McGuff
First Inning
N. D.—Cunha drew a pass. Kane singled to center. Kane was out on a fielder’s choice when White hit to short. White went to second while Costello was tossed out by Decker. Seidl grounded out to Beeks at first. No runs, one hit, no errors.
Chicago—Kane took Decker’s short fly. Banas struck out Wehling. Lewis singled to center and stole second. Offil struck out. No runs, one hit, no errors.
Second Inning.
N. D.—Krause hit the first pitch for a triple. McGrath grounded out to first. Krause held third. O’Neil hit a sacrifice fly to center scoring Krause. Banas fouled to Baker. One run, one hit, no errors.
Chicago—Lewis beat out a hit off Banas’s glove. Ratner popped to Banas who doubled Lewis off first. Beeks and Muim were hit by pitched balls. Baker struck out. No runs, one hit, no errors.
Third Inning
N. D.—Cunha walked. Kane sacrificed Cunha to second. Decker threw out White and Costello. No runs, no hits, no errors.	.
Chicago — Decker popped to Kane. Wahling was hit and stole second.
Levin singled and scored Wahling. On the play at home Levin took second. O’Neil dropped the third strike and caught Offil at first while Levin took third. Lewis singled to center scoring Levin. Ratner drew a base on balls. Beeks singled to left scoring Lewis. Muim struck out. Three runs, four hits, no errors.
Fourth Inning
N. D.—Seidl grounded out to Beeks Krause popped to short. McGrath beat out a hit to short. O’Neil struck out. No runs, one hit, no errors.
Chicago: Kane muffed Baker’s liner and he was safe at first. Decker was safe on a fielder’s choice. Wahling fouled to White. Levin got his third single to center. Offil fouled to White. No runs, one hit, one error.
. Fifth Inning
N. D.—Cummings hit for Banas and was safe on an error. Cunha was safe on a fielder’s choice. Kane fouled to Decker. White beat out a hit to third. Costello popped to Baker. No runs, one hit, one error.
Chicago—Rascher pitching for N. D. Lewis worker Rascher for a pass. Lewis stole second. Rascher tossed out Ratner. When Cunha went into deep left for Beeks fly he dropped it and Lewis scored. Muim singled to center scoring Beeks. Costello caught Baker’s long fly and doubled Muim off first when he went to second thinking it was a sure hit. Two runs, one hit, one error.
Sixth Inning
N. D.—Seidl was safe when Levin dropped his fly. He stole second. Krause sacrificed Seidl to third. McGrath hit a sacrifice fly to left scoring Seidl. Undertoffer batted for O’Neil and singled. Rasher struck out. One run, one hit, one error.
Chicago: Decker hit a homer over
(Continued on Page 26)
Old Timers Win First Game; Varsity Triumphs Sunday.
By Howard Waldron
New blood, injected into a badly faltering baseball team by Coach Keogan, proved the downfall of a previously victorious Alumni nine
_ Billy Sullivan
i^hite Sox form for the Alumn^
last Sunday in the second of a two game series. The varsity team had suffered a 16-3 humiliation on Saturday; but reciprocated on Sunday, with the aid of six new men, and downed the stiff and tired Old Timers by the same score of 16-3.
^iContinued on Page 30)
April 28, 1933
Twenty-one
FOUR INTERHALL GAMES PLAYED ON OPENING DAY
N.D. Sends Track Squad To Drake Relay Carnival
<
Campus Soft Ball Teams Start Race For Championship.
By Nick Connor
The Interhall baseball season opened last Sunday with several strong soft ball teams appearing on the miniature diamonds situated at various parts of the campus. Home runs featured the day as many heavy hitters of the different halls clouted the soft baseball for four bases.
The nines from Badin and Dillon seem to be the class of Group 1, although St. Edward’s and Corby have not yet played. Corby drew a bye last week and St. Edward’s won on a forfeit from Lyons, who failed to put in an appearance at the scheduled game time.
Walsh, Freshman, Strong
In Group 2, Walsh and Freshman will bear watching as will Carroll, although the team from the west wing of the 'Main Building lost a fast game to the sluggers from Freshman. It has been rumored that Brownson will have a strong heavy hitting nine to present to the rest of the school this week. Brownson won on a forfeit last Sunday as Off-Campus has not yet assembled its spring forces.
The games Sunday, April 30, 'will bring Lyons and Corby together on diamond 1. Morrissey and Dillon will tangle on diamond 2, and Sorin and St. Edward’s will match batteries on field 3. Badin drew a bye this week. These teams are all members of Group 1.
In Group 2 Howard is matched against Off-Campus on diamond 4. A good game is in the offing on field 5 as Brownson and Freshman come together. On diamond 6 Carroll and Alumni meet for the first time.
Badin 6, Morrissey 3
Badin started the scoring of the game with two runs in the first half of the first inning. The sophomore hall was held scoreless in their half of the same inning. Badin marked up two more runs, one in the third and one in the fourth innings, Morrissey scoring only in the second frame. After leading 4 to 3 in the fifth inning, Badin scored two runs in the sixth stanza. Eddie Alberts clouted the ball for four bases in the sixth inning for the junior hall. The pitching of
INTERHALL BASEBALL
STANDING l________________________
GROUP I	W	L	Pct.
Badin .............. 1	0	1.000
Dillon ............. 1	0	1.000
St. Edward’s ....... 1	0	1.000
Morrissey .......... 0	1	.000
Sorin .............. 0	1	.000
Lyons .............. 0	1	.000
Corby .............. 0	0	.000
GROUP II	W	L	Pct.
Walsh .............. 1	0	1.000
Freshman ............1	0	1.000
Brownson ............1	0	1.000
Howard ............. 0	1	.000
Carroll ............ 0	1	.000
Off-Campus ..........0	1	.000
Alumni ............. 0	0	.000
Keeny was the big feature of the game. Score:
Badin	2	0	1	1	0	2	0—6
Morrissey	0	1	0	0	2	0	0—3
Batteries—Badin: Keeny and Alberts; Morrissey: Nuss and Smith.
Dillon 4, Sorin 3
The first two innings both Dillon and Sorin went careless, but each scored two runs in the following inning. Both teams again crossed the plate with a run in the fourth stanza. The freshman hall won the game in the first half of the sixth frame when Gleason, pitching for Sorin issued a walk, and a double by Katz scored the winning tally.
Score:
Dillon	0	0	2	1	0	1	0—4
Sorin	0	0	2	1	0	0	0—3
Batteries—Dillon: Heckler and McKernan; Sorin: Gleason and Uprich-ard.
Walsh 6, Howard 4
Football hostilities were resumed in the Walsh-Howard game as Jehle, big tackle, opposed Vejar, diminutive quarterback, on the mound. Both pitchers pitched flawless ball, but Jehle did not receive the support that Vejar did. A last inning rally by the junior hall was cut short by three flies to the center garden.
Score:
Walsh	0	0	2	1	0	2	1—6
Howard	0	0	1	0	1	0	2—4
Batteries—Walsh: Vejar and Ackerman; Howard: Jehle and Shanner. (Continued on Page 30)
ENTER RELAY TEAMS
Mile and Two-Mile Teams To Defend Titles; V. Murphy,
F. Murphy to Compete.
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
In quest of additional honors, Coach John P. Nicholson will direct a crew of Notre Dame track athletes at Des Moines today and tomorrow where the Irish thinlies will make their first outdoor appearance of the year. The occasion of the running, jumping, etc., will be the annual Relays sponsored by Drake University.
Two, and possibly four, relay quartets will compete for Notre Dame. “Nick” has definitely decided to race his one and two mile relay teams. A half mile and medley relay group may also see action.
Expect To Beat 8:00
The two mile team, the Irish’s best bet, will have a big obstacle to overcome in the great relay team of Indiana. “Nick” figures on at least a third in this event and a possible chance of first. This group of Blue and Gold runners is capable of covering the distance in eight minutes or less. Whether they run it under eight minutes flat or not depends largely upon the showing of Jake Bower in his part of the jaunt. Roberts, Young, and King will team with Jake in this event.
The one mile group will consist of La Frambois, MacBeth, Gough, and Bowdren. Paul La Frambois has replaced Gilfoil because the latter suffered an injury to his knee a couple of weeks ago which has definitely forced him out of action.
Whether to enter the one-half mile and medley relay crew is a problem to Coach Nicholson. If these men run, Dilling, Murphy, La Frambois, and Captain Fred MacBeth will cover the one-half mile distance and the medley race will feature Bowdren, Troy, Roberts, and King.
Francis 'Murphy, who has turned in several pleasant surprises this year in indoor competition, will try his speed in the 100 yard dash. Leo Dilling is also entered. Once again the sprinters have the misfortune of fac-(Continued on Page 2")
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Net Squad Routs Valpo 9-0 In Season’s Opener
LOSE ONLY TWO SETS
Lukats And O’Hanlon Forced To Three Sets; Other Men Win Matches Handily.
Led by such mainstays from last year as Louis Chreist, Dick Kelly, F. Seton Staley, Ed Power, and a few new racquet wielders, the Irish tennis squad chalked up its first victory of the year at the expense of Valparaiso University last Saturday. The final count showed the local squad out in front, 9 to 0.
Lukats Makes Debut
The match was featured by the initial appearance of Nick Lukats in the role of varsity tennis man. Lukats, a former ranking boy player, put on a masterful exhibition to win his scrap after weakening noticeably in the second set.
Captain Louis Chreist, winner of The Scholastic tennis tourney a year ago, and No. 1 man on the squad, demonstrated his flashy brand of tennis and measured his opponent, Bill Diecker in two easy sets, 6-2, 6-2. Chreist later teamed with Dick Kelly to renew the glory that fell on the shoulders of this pair last year when they swept aside all opposition. This duet brushed aside Diecker and Kanka with ease, 6-4, 7-5.
Dick Kelly began where he left off last year with a two set triumph over Ed Mehl, 6-0, 6-2. Probably the most definite defeat of any was handed to Wilk, a midget red head. He felt the sting of Power’s racquet by the tune of two love sets.
O’Hanlon Victor
John O’Hanlon was the only contestant other than Lukats who was forced to- go more than two sets to insure victory. Oehlschlaeger, rangy Valparaiso star, made matters difficult for O’Hanlon but fell an easy victim in the third set as the Irish netter hit his stride once again.. Staley chalked up the remaining Notre Dame point in the singles with a win from W. Christopher, 6-0, 6-2.
A new doubles team made its appearance Saturday in the persons of Dick Reeves and Frank Weldon.
Lake Swimming Rules Posted By Prefect Of Discipline This Week
The following Official Bulletin, containing regulations for swimming in St. Joseph Lake, was issued this week by the office of the Prefect of Discipline:
“The hours for swimming in St. Joseph Lake are from 1 to 5:30 p. m. Also from 9 to 12 a. m. Sunday morning. During these hours a life guard is on duty.
“Students are prohibited, therefore, from swimming in the Lake at any other time. They should also use ONLY the pier in front of the boat house proper for swimming purposes. The adjoining pier is for the private use of the members of the Novitiate.
“The above regulations are to be observed strictly.”
These newcomers got off to a good start with a two set victory at the expense of Mehl and Christopher. Staley and Power combined to gamer point number nine.
During the next few days or a week the final rating of the men will be announced by Manager James Baker who plans on matching his charges soon.
The summaries:
SINGLES
Lukats (ND) defeated Knake (V) -6-1, 4-6, 6-2.
Chreist (ND) defeated Diecker (V) -6-2, 6-2.
O’Hanlon (ND) defeated Oehlschlaeger (V)—6-4, 5-7, 6-2.
Kelly (ND) defeated Mehl (V)— 6-0, 6-2.
Power (ND) defeated Wilk (V)—6-0, 6-0.
Staley (ND) defeated Christopher (V)—6-0, 62.	-
DOUBLES
Chreist and Kelly (ND) defeated Kanka and Diecker (V)—6-4, 7-5.
Staley and Power (ND) defeated Wilkand Oehlschlaeger (V)—7-5, 8-6.
Reeves and Weldon (ND) defeated Mehl and Christopher (V)—6-3, 6-1.
VARSITY GOLFERS WHIP LOYOLA IN FIRST NATCH
Outscore Chicagoans 1514-21/2 At Illinois Golf Club
The Notre Dame golf team opened its season with 15% to 2% victory over Loyola University of Chicago at . the Illinois Golf Club last Saturday.
The day was cold, and the biting wind made it necessary for some of the players to play with gloves. Although from the score it might be taken that Notre Dame had an easy time in rolling up the win it was anything but that, as Loyola made a determined bid in the early morning matches. For a while it seemed as if Notre Dame would finish on the short end of the score.
Vince Fehlig shot the most consistent golf of the day for Notre Dame. In the morning he teamed with Bill Veeneman to defeat Dick Cagney and Don Cavanaugh, two to one. In the other foursome the two Johnnies, Montedonico and Banks, conquered Grant and Hayes by the same score.
N. D. To Meet Purdue
In the afternoon twosomes Loyola gained their only score when Grant registered a half a point against Montedonico.
Tomorrow Notre Dame will meet Purdue, at Lafayette, one of the two teams that conquered Notre Dame last year. It was a five man team that left here for Lafayette at noon today. The ranking of the players for the match will not be made known by Father Ott till just before the match tomorrow.
The summary of the Loyola match last week follows:
Twosomes:	.
Fehlig defeated Cavanaugh, 3-0; Banks defeated Cagney, 3-0; Montedonico defeated Grant, 2%-%; Cole defeated Hayes, 3-0. ■
Foursomes:	'
Fehlig and Veeneman defeated Cavanaugh and Cagney, 2-1; Montedonico and Banks defeated Grant and Hayes, 2-1.	-
Swimming Medals
All swimmers winning medals in the S. A. C. swimming meet, held March 15th, may receive their awards by applying to George Shields, 125 Alumni Hall.
f
- 1
April 28, 1933
Twenty-three
SPRING FOOTBALL TO
CONTINUE UNTIL MAY 6
Plan Varsity - Freshman Game In Stadium on Final Day.
Inclement weather, which caused . numerous delays in the pre-Easter practice session, and the poor showing made by his varsity team in their annual contest with the Old Timers before the Easter recess, which ended in a 7-0 win for the graduating regulars, have caused Coach Anderson to prolong the spring practice period until May 6. Many faults in the play of his varsity were unfolded to the mentor’s watchful eye in this game and he wants to correct them immediately.
Five Teams In “A” Group
Starting next week, scrimmages between the “A” group, using the Notre Dame system, and a “B” group, playing with the Warner and Southern California or Jones Systems, will take place. This division of the squad into teams took place last Thursday, immediately after the return from the Easter vacation.
“The “A,” or varsity group, is composed of five teams, with nine quarterbacks, and is working out on Cartier field. The “B” group, which is now practicing Southern California and Army formations, is located in back of Freshman Hall.
Usually, this “B” group contains certain monogram men who act as a nucleus for the teams opposing the Varsity, but this spring Coach Anderson has departed from tradition and is keeping all the Varsity men in one group.
Varsity vs. Freshman
An innovation will occur this spring when the Varsity men returning to school and the freshmen who have started the upward climb to a varsity post, end this continuation session-with a game on May 6—to be held in the Stadium. The Varsity usually meets the undrilled freshmen in. a practice game before the fall season starts, but this game will pit a skillful and well-trained freshman team against the more experienced monogram winners.
Athens, Ohio.—For the first time in the history of the organization, the Ohio Academy of Science has a woman president.
X
1 \ 1
I
Irish Nine Faces Purdue, Michigan State Teams
Interhall Golf Play To Open Sunday; Frosh
Tournament Underway
A match play elimination tournament will begin Sunday for the golf championship of the halls of the campus. Eleven halls will enter the play with the twelfth place being a combination of the best players of Carroll and Brownson. This team will be known as the “Main Building Squad.”
Each hall will play a four-man team. Matches will be 18 holes and will start at 8:30 a. m. Both singles, and best ball doubles will be played in the one round with the Nassau scoring system of one point for each nine and one for the eighteen being used.
A consolation tournament will be played by the halls losing in the first . round and playoffs for third, fourth, and fifth places will be held between the losers in the quarter- and semifinal rounds.
The opening of the matches which will be played this Sunday are as follows: Dillon vs. Walsh; Lyons vs. Badin; Freshman vs. Alumni; Sorin vs. St. Ed’s; Corby vs. Howard; Morrissey vs. Main Building.
Frosh Tourney Underway
An elimination golf tournament for members of the Freshman class has been going on during the past week, and will conclude tomorrow. The survivors of the first round will meet next week.
Some of the players have been seeded. This has been done on the basis of their showing in the Freshmen trial rounds earlier this spring.
All of the matches will be eighteen holes with the exception of the final, which will be 36 holes.
A cup given by the Athletic Association will be presented to the winner.
The opening pairings were as follows: Day vs. Stillwagon; Huber vs. Doyle; Lang vs. Hughes; Whitaker vs. Musted; Donelan vs. Dunn; Nevils vs. Ostrander; Moorman vs. Bosken; Green vs. Schaffter; Kelly vs. Bauer; Campbell vs. Cannon.
/
(f^tJAMES AT PURDUE
Series at Lafayette Today and Tomorrow; Play at East
Lansing Tuesday.
Three tough games loom up for Coach George Keogan’s Irish baseball team during the coming week. Notre Dame will meet Purdue at Lafayette in a two-game series, and on Wednesday, the Keoganites will clash with Michigan State at East Lansing.	-
At Lafayette the Irish will find the Purdue club to be a smooth fielding team with fine pitching, but with apparently little hitting power. Coach Lambert has lost Hessinger, Palo, and Williams, three of the heaviest hitters of last year’s third place Big Ten nine. Paul Moss who led the Conference in hitting last year with an average of .441 is still in school but is ineligible for competition because of participation in the EastWest football game.
Expect Griffin To Hurl
Lefty Griffin will probably pitch for the Boilermakers in tomorrow’s game against Notre Dame. Griffin was one of the leading hurlers in the Conference last year and the Irish batters will have a tough time solving his curves.	.
Dutch Fehring will start behind the bat. Other lettermen include Frank Duff, an outfielder, John Husar, slugging first baseman and Dick Hartmann, right handed hurler. Red Smith, who was the third baseman on the 1928 team has returned to school this year and will undoubtedly get the call at the hot corner.
Michigan State presents its usual fine team and will make plenty of trouble for the Irish. Last Saturday, the Spartans gave Northwestern a 73 trouncing at Roycemore Park in Evanston, the Wildcat’s "home grounds.
Outstanding in the Michigan lineup are Captain Charley Fawcett, Al Kircher, Langer, and Gafner, all veterans who contributed in no small measure to the Spartan’s 5-2 victory over Notre Dame at East Lansing last spring. One of Gafner’s hits in (Continued on Page 31)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
BOOM
It is improbable that any other period in Notre Dame athletic history could match the one just opening in quantity of sports activity.
Between today and Commencement Sunday four Irish varsities, baseball, track, tennis, and golf, will engage in 30 intercollegiate contests. Exclusive of Sundays, that number provides an average of one event a day.
Notre Dame just plays football? Don’t be silly.
HEADS UP
To Vic Mettler, George Keogan’s hustling infielder, goes the palm for the most wide awake play of the spring thus far.
Just for FUN! Swagger into Havre
In the recent Northwestern game Buesch of the Wildcats was on third with two out in the eighth inning. With two strikes on Taylor, the batter, Buesch started to steal home. Taylor stepped out to bunt and the ball went foul.
Apparently the twenty men on the field — including the umps — were ready to accept it at just another foul and Buesch started back to third. Whereupon Mettler shouted bloody murder about bunting foul on a third strike. Taylor was called out and the nineteen men on the field — excluding Mettler — looked foolish.
RIGHT FOOT
Last Saturday Notre Dame’s two minor (?) spring sports teams opened their competitive seasons. The tennis team scored a shut out, the golf team approached that margin. Such an opening, if backed by a consistently representative season, is something to shout about.
On the tennis team Louis Chreist, Nick Lukats, Dick Kelly, and Jack O’Hanlon look like the leading four. Ghreist is the same steady player he was a year ago. Lukats’ game, apparently sound basically as to strokes, needs more polishing up to erase the effects of a long layoff.
The golf squad is as likely as not to be the most sensational in several years. Another match will give a better basis for judgment, but the scores made last week in the freezing gale at the Illinois Golf Club were more than encouraging.
SSH!
We don’t ordinarily like to champion any of the old-time chronic gripes, most of them are hopeless, but we’ve a pet among ’em now.
Notre Dame needs more than four tennis courts. We’ve noticed a large share of the racquetswinging gentry casting longing eyes at that section of the campus along Notre Dame Avenue Ihat was recently amputated from the golf course by the new fence.
It looks like a good spot for five or six courts. Maybe ?

> $110 50
A THREE-LETTER WORD meaning the time of your life .. . you’ll find it in informal Tourist Class on mighty United States Liners! And it’s fun with your own crowd... fun that’s planned for Americans, by Americans, enjoyed with Americans!
Travel is cheaper ($185 for a round trip to Europe); Europe’s rate of exchange favors American dollars (for $3 to $6 a day you can live, travel and have a grand time).
Travel with your own crowd on these ships: Leviathan; Manhattan and Washington (MaidenVoyage May 10), world’s fastest Cabin Liners; President Harding; President Roosevelt. Four "one class”American MerchantLiners direct to London. Fare $90.
and time to get a Stetson
To ROME in Holy Year
Convenient connections via all United States Liners from European ports direct to Rome.
THERE’S no excuse for looking winter-worn. Not when you can get genuine Stetsons for as little as $5! (That’s “Overhead Economy”!) . . . Spring styles —young men’s styles. Spring colors. They’re in the stores now as low as
UNITED STATES UNES
AMERICAN MERCHANT UNES
Roosevelt Steamship Co., Inc. Gneral Agents
S16 No. Michigan Ave., Chicago — cverywoere
. John B. Stetson Company
Philadelphia	New York	Loodoa	Paris
/ ’
April 28, 1933
Twenty-five
INTRODUCING Fran Murphy
By John D. Carbine
Fran Murphy, who might well be termed as the best dash man on Coach Nicholson’s present edition of the Notre Dame track team, has, during the course of his life, run in exactly five track meets.	■
Last winter he reported to. Coach Nicholson in response to Nick’s call for candidates. Fran’s first love was football, but because of an irksome injury, his football days were over. Although he had never run in a track meet, nor had ever worn a pair of spiked shoes for that matter, he was willing to try and learn something about the gentle art of sprinting.
Nick Saves Him
Nick put him to work in the sprints and every day patiently coached him. After about a month of training, Murphy was entered in the Central Intercollegiate Meet. Fran, although naturally fast, was far too inexperienced for such fast company and failed to place in this meet. Nick, seeing signs of promise in 'his new sprinter, did not enter him in any more meets last season because he did not wish him to become discouraged by defeats due solely to inexperience.
Early in the indoor season of this year, Murphy ran in the Ohio State meet—the second of his career. Fran was not in shape that night and failed to place.
He did not start again until the Central Intercollegiates. It was here that Fran scored his first points in a track meet. He easily qualified for the final heat of the sixty yard dash and placed fourth in the final to add his bit to the Notre Dame team total.
Judges Miss Him
At the inaugural of the Butler Relays, Murphy apparently placed in his qualifying heat of the dash event. Coach Nicholson and several other coaches standing around the finish line swore that he did. But the judges did not see it that way so Fran had to be contented with viewing the final from the sidelines.
Fran, at the Armour Relays surprised the dopesters who had not given him an outside chance to beat Johnson of Illinois State Normal in the 70yard dash. He- ran a great race and gave Johnson a tough battle all the way. Fran matched the Normal runner stride for stride during the first three quarters of the dis
tance and faltered only in the last second to lose to Johnson by inches.
Johnson’s time was :07.1, and Murphy was so close behind him that his
time hardly could have been more than :07.2, which would equal the record set by Bill McCormick in 1932. To place second to Johnson, the Irish sprinter was forced to beat such men as Coletti of Loyola and Brooks of Chicago.
First Outdoor Season
This spring will mark Fran’s first season in outdoor track. Despite his inexperience Coach Nicholson expects great things from Murphy. For one thing the longer hundred yard dash is more suitable for him, and furthermore the experience gained during the indoor season will prove to be invaluable. Some evidence that Nick’s hopes may materialize was given the other night in practice when Fran ran the hundred in a brilliant :09.8.
Before reporting for track, Murphy was interested in football. He made the freshman team but did not report for varsity ball because of his lightness and small stature. He played interhall football for Carroll, Sophomore, and Walsh Halls before an injury forced his withdrawal from the gridiron.
NEXT WEEK’S SPORTS CALENDAR
Saturday—Track: Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa. Baseball: Purdue at Lafayette. Golf: Purdue at Lafayette. Tennis: Michigan State at East Lansing.
Tuesday—Baseball: Michigan State at East Lansing.
Believe in signs? If you ever feel groggy and dopey early in the morning or late at night, that’s a sure sign that Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes are calling you.
They’re the active people’s cereal. Crisp and delicious with milk or cream. Packed with the famous flavor of Pep. Chock-full of the goodness of wheat. PLUS BRAN I Mildly laxative.
Enjoy a bowl of better bran flakes at breakfast. Start that first class,with energy. PEP is a good snack at night. Get it wherever students eat. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
IRISH LOSE THREE
(Continued from Page 20)
center field fence. Wahling struck out. Levin got his fourth hit of the day to center. Offil struck out and Levin took second. Lewis lined to McGrath. One run, two hits, no errors.
Seventh Inning
N. D.—Cunha out at first. Kane was safe on a wide throw by Decker. Kane went to second on a fielder’s choice. White was out at first. No runs, no hits, one error.
Chicago—Ratner lined to Krause. Beeks tripled to right. Muim struck out. Baker flied to Cunha. No runs, one hit, no errors.
Eighth Inning
N. D.—Krause struck out. Powell batted for McGrath and was out Decker to Beeks. Underkofler beat out a hit to short. Mettler hit for Rasher and beat out a hit to second. Cunha was out on liner to first. No runs, two hits, no errors.
Chicago—Huisking pitching for N. D. Decker hit to right and when Seidl dropped the ball, he took second. Huisking then went to work and struck out Walten, Levin, and Offil. No runs, no hits, one error.
Ninth Inning
N. D.—Kane was safe at first and stole second. Dunn hit to second who erred and Kane scored. Dunn then stole second. Costello hit to short who caught Dunn napping. Seidl flied to third. Krause drew a base on balls. McGrath singled to score Costello. Krause took second. On a wild pitch Krause took third and McGrath advanced to second. Robinson came in to pinch hit for Undeitoffer and after drawing two strikes Krause attempted to steal home with the tieing run and was out at the plate. Two
runs, two hits.	, two errors.					
Box score:						
Notre Dame	AB	R	H	PO	A	E
Cunha, ss 		. 3	0	0	1	1	1
Kane, 2b 			1	1	3	0	2
White, 3b	. 4	0	1	2	1	0
Costello, If 		. 5	1	0	1	1	0
Seidl, rf 		. 5	1	0	0	0	1
Krause, lb ....	. 4	1	1	4	0	0
McGrath, cf ....	. 2	0	1	1	0	0
O’Neil, c —		. 1	0	0	4	1	1
Banas, p 		. 1	0	0	1	1	0
Rascher, p 		. 2	0	0	0	1	0
Underkofler ....	. 2	1	2	7	0	0
xPowell 		. 1	0	0	0	0	0
xxVelcheck 		. 1	0	1 '	• 0	0	0
zRobinson 		. 1	0	0	0	0	0
zzCummings 			. 7	0	1	0	0	0
Totals ..........38	5	8	24	6	5
Chicago . AB
Decker, 3b .......5
Waaling, 2b ......3
Levin,	cf .......5
Offiil, c ........5
Lewis,	ss .......3
Ratner, rf .......2
Beeksc,	lb ...... 3
Muim,	if .......2
Baker,	p ........4
xWalter ......... 1
xxMerefield ......1
zConnorford ......1
R	H	PO	A	E
1	2	4	4	1
1	0	0	0	0
1	4	1	0	0
0	0	3	1	0
1	2	3	5	2
1	0	0	0	1
1	3	14-	0	2
0	1	1	2	1
0	0	1	2	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	0	0
Total' ............35	6	12	27	14	7
Three base hits—Krause. Home run—Decker. Stolen base — Kane. Sacrifice hits — Me-Grath, O’Neil.
Northwestern 9, Notre Dame 7
At Notre Dame, April 19
By James F. McKeon
Notre Dame baseball team, making its first official home appearance of the current season on April 19th, fought a game but losing battle with the Northwestern Wildcats and finished on the short end of a 9-7 score. The Northwestern victory was made possible through the fine work of Elmer Johnson better known perhaps for his exploits against Notre Dame on the basketball floor. •
Irish Outhit Victors
Notre Dame outhit the visitors 11 to 10 but no less than 12 men were left stranded on the bases. In addition the Keoganmen committed four errors and committed some serious blunders on the baselines.
Johnson enjoyed a field day, pitching a nice brand of ball till the Irish started getting to him in the seventh at which time they evened the score. He figured in seven of the nine runs that the Wildcats scored, getting four hits out of four times at bat. He knocked in five runs and scored twice himself. In addition it was he who started Northwestern to victory in the eighth, opening the inning with a double.
Tony Albosta started on the mound for Notre Dame and went along fairly smoothly till the sixth inning when Northwestern opened up a savage batting attack that netted four runs and brought about Albosta’s removal. Norb Rascher replaced him.
Notre Dame rallied to tie the score in the seventh with a three run outburst, but Northwestern tucked the game away in the eighth.
The box score:
NOTRE DAME AB R H O
Cunha, ss 3 1 1 6
Kane, 2b 5 1 0 4
Mettler,3b 4 12 1
Cost’lo, If 4 1 0 1
NORTHWESTERN AB R H O
Remus, ss 4 1 2 5
R's’nf’d.rf 3 110
Potter, c 4 0 16
Harris, If 4 0:0 1
Seidl, rf 4	0	1	0	Buesch, cf 3	2	1	4
Dunn, lb 4	0	1	0	Culver, lb 4	0	0	12
Un’k’fer.c 3	1	2	3	Welden.lb 1	0	0	1
O’Neil, c 2	1	1	1	G’nz’r, 3b 5	0	0	2
M’Grath.cf 1	0	1	0	Taylor, 2b 3	2	0	7
Velcheck,cf 1	0	0	1	J’ns’n,p-rf 4	2	4	4
Albosta, p 2	0	0	6	P’t’s’n,p-rf 2	1	1	0
Rascher,p 2	0	2	2	—	—	—	—
Banas, p 0 White, 3b 1 Cum’gs, If 0 xKrause 1 xxPowell 1 xxxR’b’s’n 1 xxxxPTmi 1 Total . .40	0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7	0 1 0 0 0 0 0 11	1 0 0 0 0 0 ' 0 42	Total ..37	9	10	42
Score by innings: Northwestern ................120	004 020—9
Notre Dame ..................200	011 300—7
Errors—Kane, Underkofler, Albosta, O'Neill. Taylor 2, Johnson. Two base hits—Seidl, Johnson 2, Peterson. Three basehits—Johnson, Beusch. Sacrifice hits—Remus, McGrath. Struck out—by Johnson 3, by Harris 2, by Albosta 4, by Rascher 1, by Banas 1. Base on balls—off Albosta 7, Rascher 2, Banas 2, Johnson 5. Double plays—Buesch to Remus. Wild pitch—Albosta. Winning pitcher—Johnson ; losing pitcher Albosta. Hit by pitched ball—Rosenfeld, Culver. Stolen bases—Potter. Passed balls—Underkofler. Left on bases— Notre Dame 12, Northwestern 9. Umpires— Daly and DeRose.
Chicago 13, Notre Dame 1
At Notre Dame, April 25
By John D. Carbine
Notre Dame’s baseball team, which looked so good on paper, continues to flounder about still seeking its first intercollegiate victory. Last Tuesday, after an orgy of wild pegs, errors, strikeouts and pop flies, they dropped their third straight intercollegiate game. This time the University of Chicago was the victor, and the score of the debacle was Chicago 13, Notre Dame 1.
But for a pair of hits to left field by Velcheck and O’Neil in the sixth inning, the Irish would have been shut out completely. The Keoganites collected nine hits off the combined offerings of Straske and Langford, but the majority of them came with the bases empty and with two out.
John Sagartz, the sophomore who looked so good against St. Joe A. C. and the Old Timers, started the pitching for Coach Keogan’s outfit. But the cold, raw, weather must have played havoc with John’s pitching arm for he was nicked for five hits and six runs during the two innings in which he worked on the mound.
Smith followed Sagartz to the rubber and pitched good ball for four innings. He was, however, greatly handicapped by his own lack of con-
April 28, 1933
Twenty-seven
trol and by lack of support by his teammates. Only three hits were made off Smith in four innings. Big Charlie Huisking finished the game for the Irish and yielded two hits and four runs in three innings.
Straske and Langford divided the pitching duties for Chicago. Straske allowed three hits and one run in four innings. Both of these men received excellent support from the snappy Maroon infield and from Levin, the diminutive, bespectacled center fielder, who time and time again captured long drives which looked like sure base hits, in addition to scoring three runs.
Coach Keogan used almost his entire squad in a vain attempt to halt the Maroon rout. Of these only Powell and Velcheck were able to do much good. Powell made two fine hits in three official times at bat and played a fine game at second base. Velcheck drove out a two bagger, the only extra base hit the Keoganites were able to make and scored the lone
Irish run.
The score:
Chicago (13)	AB
Ratner, rf ........5
Decker, 3b ....... 3
Levin,	cf ........4
Beeks,	lb ....... 5
Lewis,	ss ........4
Offiil, c .........4
Baker,	rf ....... 5
Geppinger, 2b ____2
Muim,	2b ........1
Straske, p ........2
Langford, p .......2
R	H	PO A	E
1	0	3 0	1
3	2	15	1
3	110	0
1	2	9	0	0
1	0	2	3	0
1	3	5	0	0
12	10	0
0	0	2	1	0
10	2	10
0	0	110
110	0	0
Totals .........37
Notre Dave (1) AB
Cunha, ss ........5
Powell, 2b ....... 3
White, 3b .........4
Rascher, xf ......4
Matthews, If . — 4
Costello, lb .....2
’Cummings, lb .. 1
Velcheck, cf _____4
O’Neill, c .......3
Saggartz, p ......0
Smith, p .........1
xxSeidl .......... 1
Huisking. p .... 1 zPalmisani ........1
13	11	27	11	1
R	H	PO	A	E
0	0	2	0	1
0	2	7	1	0
0	2	14	1
0	0	10	0
0	10	0	0
0	0	6 0	0
0	0	10	0
11110 0	18	11
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	4	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	10	2	0
0	10	2	0
Totals ........33	1	9	27	13	3
’Cummings batted for Costello in the eight. xRichard batted for Sagartz in the second. xxSeidl batted for Smith in the seventh. zPalmisani batted for Huisking in the ninth. Chicago .................240 003 004—13
Notre Dame ..............000 001 000— 1
Summary: Two-base hit—Velcheck. Stolen bases—Levin (3), Beeks, Powell. Struck out by Straske 2in 5 innings, by Langford 2 in four innings, by Sagartz 4 in 2 innings, by Smith 1 in 4 innings, by Huisking 4 in 3 innings. Hits off Straske 5 in five innings, off Langford 6 in four innings, off Sagartz 5 in 2 innings, off Smith 3 in 4 innings, off Huisking 2 in 3 innings. Hit by pitcher—Levin by Sagartz and Smtih. Passed ball—O’Neill. Umpires—Napensteck and Ray. •
TRACKMEN AT DRAKE
(Continued from Page 21)
ing Ralph Metcalfe, who is a decided favorite to win.
High jumpers will be bothered considerably by the Irish ace, Vince Murphy. It has been rumored that “Murph” will get another crack at Willie Ward, Big Ten champion who defeated the Irish jumper at Indianapolis in the Butler Relays.
University Men the
Country Over Choose
(Charter Kcmse
CLOTHES
Those who cannot pay a high price find’Charter House Clothes exactly to their liking. . . Correct Gentlemanly styles, rich attractive colorings, substantial woolens and a full measure of fine needlework. Charter House Clothes for Spring and Summer are finer than ever.
’25
With 2 Trousers $30
MAX ADLER
‘‘On The Corner”
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Jim Hagan, hurdler, will round out the list of Notre Dame entrants. The preliminaries are scheduled for Friday and the finals tomorrow.
Prospects for outdoor track look a bit brighter than indoor. Ed Krause, in the javelin, and “Butch” Pffeferle in the discus department will add to the prestige of the squad. Pffeferle, who achieved fame in high school, has taken up the discus after a three year layoff. He is rapidly rounding into great shape.

i IT TELLS IN THE PAPER HERE HOW A MAGICIAN
if MAKES A BIG BALL ROLL J UPHILL
THATS NOTHING. LAST NIGHT I SAW A MAGICIAN CATCH SIX HOOPS ON ONE ARM- WITH HIS THUMBS TIED TOGETHER.

M
HOW IT'S DON-E-
TURN THUMBS DOWN FOR VOLUNTEER ASSISTANT TO TIE THE KNOT ON TOP OF THUMBS
© SUP TIP OF F/RST FINGER BEHIND THUMBS TO GET SLACK.
URGE VOLUNTEER TO PULE HARD AND HE A GOOD HARD KNOT.
SHOW AUD/ENCE THUMBS AND CORD
THIS IS THE BEST TASTING CIGARETTE I EVER SMOKED
IT'S THE TOBACCO ]. THAT COUNTS.FRAN.
you're AN OLD SMOOTHIE WHEN IT COMES TO TRICKS, STAN.HAVE A CIGARETTE?
®SHP THUMB OUT TO CATCH HOOPS
-------------------H
I WON T SMOKE ONE OF THOSE.EVEN FOR YOU,FRAN. THEY ARE TASTELESS.
Copyright. 1933, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
VESS
BLEND
ARE YOU ONE OF THOSE GIRLS LIKE FRAN WHO -HAS SOMEHOW
MISSED THE PLEASURE OF
SMOKING CAMELS?
BETTER TRY THEM.YOU'LL ENJOY THEIR
MILDNE5S-THE ADDED PLEASURE
THEY GIVE .
FU* TO Know
Camels are made from
finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand. Hence they are mild, easy on the throat... yet full of flavor and enjoyment.

4fo	COfTVlf& T°£4CCO*
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL BASEBALL
(Continued from Page 21)
Freshman 7, Carroll 5
Freshman scored three runs in the first two innings, but Carroll tied the score in their half of the second stanza. Tice and Clark of Carroll each hit the ball for four sacks in the same inning. Freshman’s margin of victory came in in the first half of the eighth when they scored two runs.
Score:
Freshman 210 000 12 1—7 Carroll	030 101 00 0—5
Batteries—Freshman: Rubly and Gannon; Carroll: Tobin and Clark.
VARSITY, ALUMNI SPLIT
(Continued from Page 20)
The Alumni, aided by the sloppy fielding and indifferent baseball playing of the Notre Dame nine, pushed across six runs on “Big Lefty” Huis-king, in the first five innings of the first game, and hammered Norb Rascher for ten more runs in the remaining innings. Meanwhile, the rejuvenated Charley Mannix was pitching air-tight ball and holding the
Varsity clubbers to five hits, while striking. out eight of them. In this rout of .Notre Dame’s ball players, the supposedly old and crippled Alumni showed plenty of speed and smart play afield and at bat. They staged thefts of home, bat tipping, and “hidden” ball tricks on their less cagey opponents.
George Kozak, with his home run and two singles, and Ed Kolski, with a single, double, and triple, were the leaders in the nineteen hit attack of the Alumni. Billy Sullivan, White Sox star, played a classy game at second base, and Johnny Moran, playing in center field, showed the Notre Dame boys .how bases should be run. He climaxed his exhibition by stealing home on Norb Rascher, while Rascher was waiting for catcher Butch O’Neill’s signal.
Three new infielders and a brand new outfield started the second contest on Sunday and proved a rousing success from the start. The infielders were on their toes, making only one error, and the outfielders were no longer judging flies in Babe Herman fashion.
Then a new staff of pitchers was trotted out to oppose the veterans
and they held them to four hits and three runs. This change benefitted the team in every way, not only giving them pep afield but also introducing some hits into their batting. Charley Palt, last year’s captain, was clubbed from the mound by an 11 hit and sixteen run barrage.
Arnold Velcheck and John Matthews, sophomore outfielders, showed up better than did any of the veterans and are likely to remain on the first team. Both are good hitters and dependable fielders. Butch O’Neill .played good ball both at his catching post and at bat, getting a single and double to drive in four runs and make three himself. Billy Powell played well at second, having displaced Paul Kane, getting a home run and a sacrifice hit.	•
Scores:
First Game—Score by innings:
Alumni ..................400 021 405—16
Notre Dame ..............200 010 000— 3
Batteries: Mannix and Kolski; Huisking, Rascher and O’Neil, Robinson.
Second game—box score:	.
Alumni	AB
O’Keefe, 3b-p ... 3
Moran, cf ........3
Sullivan. 2b .....3
Mahoney, ss-p ... 4
R H PO A E
2	0	0	3	1
0	10	0	0
114	2	0
0	10	2	2
SOUTH SHORE LINE
Bargain Excursion Sundayl
ROUND TRIP
South Bend to
CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day.
Week-end Rate
ROUND TRIP
*	South Bend to
CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information..	..
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
April 28,-1933
Thirty-one
Kozak, rf	........ 4	0	0	1	0	1
Purcell, lb ......... 3	0	0	10	0	0
E, Kolski,	If-ss	,.	4	0	1	0	1	5
A; Kolski,	c-3b	..	2	0	0	5	1	1
Palt, p-lf	.........1	0	0	4	3	2
Totals .........27
Varsity	AB
White, 3b ........5
Mettler,	ss .....6
Powell,	2b .....5
Krause,	lb ......4
Matthews, If .... 5
Rascher, If ......1
Palmisani, rf ____5
Velcheck, cf _____5
O’Neil, c ........5
SaRgartz, p ......3
W. Smith, p .... 2
3	4	24	12	12
R	H	PO	A	E
•1	0	0	3	1
1	1	0	3	0
2	1	3	2	0
1	0	12	0	0
2	3	1	0	0
0	0	0	0	0
2	1	0	0	0
3	1	2	0	0
3	2	9	1	0
1	1	0	4	0
0	1	0	0	0
Totals .......46	16	11	27	13	1
Alumni ..................120	000 000— 3
Notre Dame ’...........034	331	02x—16
Two base hits—00,Neil, Palmisani. Three base hits—Moran, O’Neil. Home run—Powell. Stolen bases—O’Keefe (2), Mettler (2), Powell, Velcheck. Sacrifice hits—Palt, Powell. Hits off— Saggarts, 4 in 5 innings; off Palt, 7 in 3 2-3 innings; off Mahoney, 2 in 1 1-2 inning. Struck out—Palt 5, O’Keefe 1, Saggartz 4, Smith 5. Bases on balls—Palt 1, Mahoney 2. O’Keefe 1. Saggartz 2, Smith 1. Wild Pitch— Mahoney. Passed balls—A. Kolski 2. Hit by pitched ball—Palmisani by Palt.
THREE GAMES ON ROAD
(Continued from Page 23)
this game was a long triple which barely missed being a home run.
In the Commencement game at Cartier Field last June, Notre Dame beat State by the score of 6-3. But it was not the fault of this quartet who collected seven hits between them including two doubles and a triple.
Berwyn “Pern” Pemberton, the Spartans’ star southpaw, will, in all probability, start in the box against the Irish. The Keoganites were unable to get a single hit off Pemberton during the three innings of the Commencement game which he pitched last year. Northwestern, last Saturday, collected eleven safeties off Pemberton but were unable to connect when hits meant runs. \	.
Coach John Kobs will undoubtedly send the following team against Notre Dame: Eliowitz, lb; McCann, ,2b; Langer, ss; Bouse, 3b; Kircher, rf; Gafner, cf; Fawcett, If. Every one of these me with the exception of Rouse is a seasoned veteran. '
St. Paul, Minn.—For the first time, students at the state’s six tax-supported teachers colleges will pay tuition beginning next fall.
DICK REEVES IS BEATEN IN VARSITY TENNIS TOURNAMENT.
Notre Dame’s spring tennis tournament being conducted by James Baker, manager of tennis, has reached the quarter-final stage and only one serious upset has occurred. John McGinnis was the main party to the upset downing Dick Reeves, who opened the season with the varsity tennis team against Valparaiso, by a score of 613, 9-7.
All second round matches have been played and most of the third round contests are over. Louis Chreist, captain of the team and winner of the Fall tournament, has advanced to the quarter-final round by two forfeit victories. He will play the winner of the Gill-Hofman match next for the right to enter the semi-final bracket.
O’Hanlon Faces McGinnis
O’Hanlon, varsity player, who advanced to the quarter-finals by defeating Puterbaugh 6-3, 6-4, and Garland 6-1, 6-2, will meet McGinnis, who beat Hackenbruch 6-0, 6-8, 6-0 and Reeves, in the only quarter-final match ready for play. Seton Staley, varsity player, who conquered Brias 6-1, 6-2, and Margreet, 4-6,. 6-1, 6-3, will meet the winner of the PowerCashman match in the quarter-finals.
Dick Kelly, another varsity man, will match with the winner of the Weldon-Joyce contest in the quarterfinals. Kelly won a tough victory from F. Granger Weil by a score of 6-1, 6-8, 6-1, and downed John Yeiser, 6-1, 6-0.
MANY CROWING NEW HAIR
- YOU. too. may have luxuriant hair of lustrous -quality by using HAIRMORE and GLO-MORE. perfected by professor of chemistry at
Gonzaga U. Spokane
HAIRMORE grows hair even on bald heads; stops dandruff and falling hair; relieves scalp ailments. It is unusually penetrating and contains natural hair food. Trial size. 25 treatments, 75 cents. More than 100 treatments in a $2 bottle, in plain wrapper.
GLO-MORE. an antiseptic and stimulant shampoo, is healing and non-astringent. Use it with HAIRMORE for complete treatment and results. Trial 15c—regular size $1.
Send to Gilmore-Burke. Inc., Seattle, Wash . who handle royalties for the University.
Advertisers in The Scholastic deserve your patronage
Former Fencing Star To Aid Coach De Landero
Mr. Delmar G. Roos, former National Fencing Champion, has consented to lend his aid in developing the Notre Dame fencing team which is under the guidance of Professor Pedro de Landero.
He will be of great assistance in the development of Coach de Landero’s young team owing to the fact that he uses a left-hand stance instead of the orthodox right position. Coach de Landero fences from the right stance. The fencers will thus be able to practice against both stances and gain the experience necessary for match competition.
Mr. Roos, an engineer with the Studebaker Co., won the National Intercollegiate championship before his graduation from Cornell University, and the National Amateur Fencing Title later.
STRATIGON “South Bend's Distinctive" Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD” 114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
COMPLETE SUPPER 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet” Open 24 Hours.
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Aviation?
E. E. Wyman, Assistant to the President, Pan-American Airways System, says: "Aviation is sympathetic to the college graduate who has prepared himself. It demands, however, serious and thorough preparation: technical training, a natural aptitude for constant study of problems and conditions, and a natural enthusiasm for the tasks it develops.'
AVIATION requires a steady hand xx for the pilot, a steady mind for the executive. And a good tobacco... like Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco... is mighty helpfol in giving a man a steady hand, or a steady mind.
Only in Edgeworth will you find that indefinable distinctiveness that is brought about by a special blending of fine old hurleys. That’s why leading colleges have chosen it as their favorite tobacco.*
Want to try before you buy? Just drop a line to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., for your free sample pack. You’ll enjoy that cooling smoke that is so different.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AU sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
The first college basketball game was waged between YALE and PENNSYLVANIA 36 years ago . . . SQUASH is a popular game at DARTMOUTH . . . 24,000 games were played on the squash courts during the past winter . . . WILL REID, graduate manager and baseball coach at COLGATE, recently acquired a third job ... he was elected MAYOR of HAMILTON (N. Y.) . . . the IRISH WOLFHOUND is not only one of the oldest breeds, but is the largest dog to be found anywhere . . . INDIANA has passed a fishing bill which permits nurses who saw service during the World War to FISH WITHOUT A LICENSE.
The ROYAL BURGESS (Scotland) golf course, one of the oldest in the world, has planned a tournament for one-armed players . . . entries have been received from FRANCE, GERMANY and the UNITED STATES . . . STEAMBOAT JOHNSON, the BILL KLEM of SOUTHERN league umpires, has numerous scars on his head from pop bottle wounds . . . he claims every scar is the result of an honest decision ... it is very likely that the BOSTON MARATHON, run annually since 1879, will be discontinued next year . . . the UNITED STATES FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION has more than 2,000 soccer clubs under its control.
Part of the barge on which the late JAMES J. CORBETT and JOE CHOYNSKI staged a grudge fight in 1889 still remains afloat in SOUTHAMPTON BAY, near BENE-CIA, Calif. . . . CORBETT won by a knockout in the twenty-second round before a select circle of sport fans
. . . the sheriff had forbidden the fight . . . 140,000 people, probably the largest crowd ever assembled in an athletic park, saw SCOTLAND defeat ENGLAND in an international soccer match at HAMPDEN PARK (Glasgow, Scotland) ... SIR HARRY LAUDER led the crowd in community singing . . . probably the largest choir ever assembled.
♦
A ping-pong team from HUNGARY recently won the world pingpong championship . . . they won every one of the ten games played . . . JIM CROWLEY’S FORDHAM football team opens its season next fall with three tough games . . . SOUTHERN METHODIST, TENNESSEE and PURDUE ... in polo circles, CECIL SMITH of ATLANTA. TEX., is the only nine-goal man in the UNITED STATES ... he is rated the longest hitter in the history of the game . . . the BOSTON BRAVES will feature a hometown battery this season ... it is composed of BOB BROWN, pitcher, and FRANK HOGAN, catcher . . . LOU GEHRIG IS THE ONLY LOCAL BOY WITH THE NEW YORK YANKEES . . . he was born in MANHATTAN.
Norm Greeney Signs With Green Bay Packers Eleven
Norman J. Greeney, for three years a monogram winner at guard for the Notre Dame football team, signed a one-year contract this week to play professional football with the Green Bay Packers team of Green Bay, Wisconsin.	-
Greeney, a native of Cleveland, has played both left and right guard during his career at Notre Dame. He is to report to Green Bay next September 15. The Packers are coached by
• Curly Lambeau, a former Notre Dame gridder.
Spring
Fever!
SPRING FEVER? G’wan! All I you need is the right some* thing to eat. And here it is— two Shredded Wheat biscuits. Add milk or cream. Then fruit. And go to it.
You’ll soon be hitting high again, for Shredded Wheat is a born youth-preserver—a VITALLY DIFFERENT food that puts new spring in your
i VitM/
step.
Shredded Wheat is nothing more or less than true whole wheat. Packed with body-builders, energy-makers —and just the right propor
When job ui Niagara Falh on tie paciage, jnaKNOW job bare SbrttUed Wbtai.
tion of Nature’s friendly regulator, bran.
Eat Shredded Wheat any way you like it—with milk or cream, with fresh or preserved fruit, with butter or poached eggs. Eat it every day for ten days straight (your pocketbook won’t kick). And watch this VITALLY DIFFERENT food take the tempus vernum februs (spring fever, m’lad) foralong,longride!
SHREDDED WHEAT
A product off NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY “Uneeda Bakers'*
96%o square inches of Irotection
in every d^esier/^e/^Vac^ape
people know it
Doesn’t that really surprise you?
This machine wraps Chesterfields in Du Pont No. 300 cellophane—the best made.
But cellophane is just one of the four wrappings that keep Chesterfields as fresh as if you went by the factory door.
You’ll find that, first, there is a wrapping of paper, then the foil; next the Chesterfield wrapper, and then the cellophane. Adding the totals ... there are 96-7/10 square inches of protection in every Chesterfield package.
Wherever you buy them, Chesterfields are
Oalways “milder and taste better.”
lestenield