- Cbe
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DlSCe-QVASI-SeniPCR-VICTVRVS- -VIve-QVASI^RAS-IMORlTX/RVS-
Vol. XLIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 4, 1910.
No. 34-
Memorial Ode.*
Thomas A. Lahev, ’ll.
VE stalwart Sires, what need of printed page To speak your tribute in another age!
While son has heart to chalice such red flow
As quickens at remembered thoughts of woe, No silver’d tongue, no trumpet-call of fame, Can wake our love unto a whiter flame.
Enough, ye hewers of the rugged way
Unto the glory of our golden day:
That you have fought, that we your sons are free,— This be your best, your sweetest minstrelsy.
The bleeding hours, the leaden round of days, How fled our steps who walk the upland ways;
Yet down the vista where the dawn glows white We see you, toilers of the troubled night,
Your drawn lips pale; dead faces torn with pain Turned to the s’ ies, among the silent slain.
Veiled voices chant your battle-hymn of tears, But we shout back our joy-song through the years:
That you have fought, that we your sons are free,— This be your best, your sweetest minstrelsy.
The Blue and Grey are mustered out byr God, And silent corps, ranked deep beneath the sod, Wait at attention, soldiers still in death, As when they faced ths cannon’s flaming breath.
No bugling on the morning heights can thrill
Your patriot-pulses, for the day is still
Where Death encamps. Now, living comrades, come
To sing your prnan, though with muffled drum: That you have fought, that we your sons are free,— This be your best, yonr sweetest minstrelsy.
Oh, soldier-dead, to die you thought was sweet, But that your yielding might be more complete.
Your very hearts,—the Nation's early trust,— Have crumbled, now to form her drifting dust.
A wreath of green, a flag, a simple prayer,— ’Tis all you ask who sleep in silence there.
A monument would mar that humble grave
On which is built the Nation’s architrave: That you have fought, that we your sons are free,— This be your best, your sweetest minstrelsy.
* Read at the Memorial Day Exercises.
The Atonement.*
No man without sentiment can be truly great. The same mav be said of a nation; and so because this country of ours is great and has gratitude and sentiment, all over this broad land to-day, the people, in city cemeteries and country churchyards are strewing flowers on the graves of those who fought that liberty might live.
Memorial Day owes its origin to an order of the Commander-in-Chief of the Grand Army of the Republic, issued in 1868; in which order the veterans of the Civil War were requested to place flowers on the graves of their dead comrades on the 30th day of May in each year. And while since that time the custom of decorating the graves on that day has not been confined to the graves of the Civil War veterans, stilj the day continues to be most intimately associated with the men of that war, and this sentiment will continue to prevail as long as gratitude and patriotism exist in the American heart.
Poets have sung and orators have told in matchless speech the patriotic lessons suggested by the day. It is not my purpose to detail to you incidents and events that illustrate the deathless valor of those who fought in the defence of liberty in the Civil War. My object to-day is to impress upon your minds the lesson that the Almighty controls the destinies of nations as well as individuals; that He punishes, nations for their sins as He punishes individuals for their transgressions, and that the. Civil War was a great expiation for a great sin committed by the Nation.
* Memorial Day address delivered by Judge Scanlon in Washington Hall, Maj- 30, 1910.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
546
The hand of God can clearly be seen in the life of this republic, and no careful student of American history can study its past without coming to this conclusion. As truly as were the Hebrews of ancient times the Chosen People, so are the American people in these modern days the favored race of God.
This virgin continent was reserved for ages in all its physical wealth and grandeur that it might be a -fitting birthplace for this nation. Boundless in territory, with every variety of climate, with wonderful rivers and mountains and plains, with fields unsurpassed in fertility, with a wealth of minerals that made the riches of other lands seem poor indeed, it was a paradise fitted to be the home of a people favored by God.
The birth of this republic at a time when tyranny reigned supreme and when liberty seemed dead throughout the world, the triumph of the feeble colonies over mighty Britain is one of the miracles of history. Barefooted, ragged, hungry, poorly armed Continentals defeated the well-equipped and well-fed legions of the then mistress of the world. Then came the paradox of our history. When this country, that had been dedicated at its birth to the principle that all men are born equal, had won its freedom, and when the time had arrived to frame its Constitution, the Fathers, in the teeth of the Declaration of Independence, committed the great sin of recognizing and retaining slavery in the land. The framers of the Constitution realized the illogical position in which they wTere placed by this course, and they sought to justify their action on the ground that slavery was then on the wane, and that harmony between the states forbade its abolishment at that time.
It is only simple justice to the men who made the Constitution to say that they believed, and had good reason :to believe, that slavery would soon be a thing of the past, and with this end in view they provided that there should be no importation of slaves after the year 1808. Even in the South it was then a debatable question whether slavery was profitable. Aside from the economic question involved, Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and nearly all the illustrious Southern leaders from moral reasons favored emancipation by law.
Let us not forget that slavery at that time
still existed in the North, and that it was not until 1804 that the last of the Northern States, New Jersey, abolished it. However much it may hurt our pride, it is a fact that* the Northern States adopted the policy of abolishing slavery from a purely economic reason: slave labor having proved unprofitable. Pitiless history records the fact that the Northern owners of slaves transported them to Southern markets, in advance of emancipation.
The curse of slavery became apparent when negro labor became profitable. The Southern lands were capable of producing more cotton than the balance of the world combined, but because of the difficulty of separating the fibre from the seeds, its growth had never been encouraged. In 1792, just as slavery was sinking into a state of coma, an inventive Yankee, named Ely Whitney, made a visit to Mrs. Nathaniel Green in Georgia, and while there he noticed the primitive way in which the cotton fibre was separated from the seed. As a result, he invented the cotton gin, and at once negro labor became immensely profitable. A lust for gold entered the hearts of men, and from that day the sin of the Fathers in the Constitution began to bear fruit. The Declaration of Independence was discarded and discredited. A cry arose for more slaves and for more land in which slave labor might be used. Slavery, till then a species of gentle servitude, afterwards became slavery by the lash.
Then came the second terrible consequence of slavery, the Mexican war. This is a page in our history that the. thoughtful student studies with shame and regret. To steal lands that slavery migh be advanced, this nation, without reason or justice, commenced a brutal war of conquest against a sister republic, invaded that country, and at the cannon’s mouth forced her to relinquish some of her fairest possessions. Man proposed that this war should enlarge the dominions of slavery. God decreed that this war should destroy slavery. The wrath of the Almighty was aroused; the time had come for expiation. And then, like a prophet of old, came Lincoln to arouse the public conscience to the enormity of the crime of slavery, a man who had been born in a slave state, a man whose rise from poverty and obscurity to highest position and power,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
547
seemed providential and designed. Under his banner a mighty host arose, whose mission was to cut from the body politic the ulcer that was destroying it.
Then came the Civil War, and for four long years this land was drenched with the blood of its children. The awfulness of that' conflict, its magnitude, its horrors, appal the readers of its history. Counting the military and naval engagements, great and small, there were 2265 engagements in all. 360,000 Union soldiers were killed in battle or died during the war from wounds or diseases. 300,000 Confederate soldiers lost their lives in the same manner. Taking into account those who died within a few years after the war from wounds or diseases contracted in the service, we have the terrible total of 1,000,000 lives destroyed in this fratricidal war.
That we may have some idea of what this war of atonement cost, let us consider for a moment the number of dead and wounded Union and Confederate soldiers in a few of the great battles:
Murfreesboro..................20,000	men
Shiloh........................21,000	“
Chancellorsville..............22,000	“
Antietam......................28,000	“
Chickamauga...................30,000	“
Gettysburg....................50,000	“
The Wilderness to Cold Harbor, 55,000	“
The sin was great, the terrible atonement for it should serve as a warning to countless generations yet unborn. .
Intelligence, patriotism and valor characterized the men of both armies. It was American against American, brother against brother. The immortal Lincoln, his soul filled with anguish at the awful carnage, but his mind convinced that the country was expiating its sins, spoke like a prophet of old: “Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled up by the bondsman’s 250 years of unrequited toil, shall be sunk and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said 3000 years ago, so still it must be said, ‘The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether.’”
In the first two years of the war and before the Emancipation Proclamation came the outlook for the Union was very dark. The people still clung to the idea of saving.
the Union without emancipation. Lee’s army flushed with past victories, invaded Maryland and threatened the North. A great battle was imminent.
Lincoln, as he afterward told his cabinet, made a vow to God that if the Almighty gave the Union the victory in the approaching battle he would consider it an indication of the Divine will, and that it meant that it was his duty to move forward in the cause of emancipation. Antietam was fought, the bloodiest one-day battle of the war, and at its close 25,000 men lay dead or wounded on the field, but Lee’s army, that up to that time had been unconquerable, was defeated and driven back into Virginia. One of the greatest of the Southern generals said that the Confederacy received its death blow at Antietam. When the news of this battle reached Washington, Lincoln told his cabinet that God had - ordered emancipation, and that he was going to obey that order, and he did, and emancipation came. And then came Gettysburg and Vicksburg and Fort Hudson, and the North was never more endangered, and the “Father of the Waters flowed unvexed to the sea.” From the time of emancipation the issue of the war was never in doubt, and when the end came, God once more smiled on a reconstructed Union, on a reunited people under whose banner all men are free. And from that day the Almighty has bestowed all his blessings on this land, and it has become the haven of the oppressed of every land, the beacon light of Liberty and Justice throughout the world.
Will it continue so to be? Just so long as it stands for Truth and Right. It would seem impossible for a people with the bloody lesson of the Civil War before them to do otherwise; but nations, like individuals, soon forget. In every school in the land the children should be taught and retaught the lesson of the fearful atonement this country made for the sin of slavery. In this way each generation may be emphatically told the necessity of virtue in the conduct of this republic.
To-day a feeble remnant of the mighty army that gave a new birth to freedom unfurl the starry flag and wave it proudly to the breeze, and their comrades who have gone before know by this token that the living soldiers of the Union are still keeping the faith; know that the banner is still unsullied; the honor of the nation still maintained; know that those who died to regenerate the land did not die in vain.
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	•
On the Battlefield.
William A. Carey, ’ll.
THE shadows fell in silvery hosts, And bathed his fevered brow:
The stars came out their watch to keep,
While night was folding him in sleep—
In sleep that knows not how To waken.
The gray dawn tinged that battlefield
And struck one pallid face.
Far in the silent gloom of night,
A soldier soul took lonely flight
To meet its Master’s kind embrace
In Heaven.
Memorial Day Symposium.
The Great Cause.
In the vast recesses of the dim and distant past can be found the beginnings of an institution which was, in the passing of the years, to be the wedge which rent asunder the very foundation of our government. All things have a beginning: slavery had its beginning when a Dutch trading vessel sailed up to the shores of Virginia in the year 1619, bringing to the new America its first slaves. Two hundred and forty-five years later the boom of the cannon announced the beginning of the terrible struggle which was to undo the work of the trading vessel.
Slavery flourished in the Colonies, and later when independence was secure it was to be found as an institution in the States. When the North became the manufacturing portion of the country, the unskilled labor of the black man was no longer a necessity; then it was that the institution came to appear an inhumane and vicious one to the people of these states, and the movement for its extinction was begun. The South became primarily the producer of the raw materials of the country, and for that reason slavery was a necessity. The financial and commercial structures of the Southern states were dependent wholly on slavery for their continuance. It is little wonder, then, that we beheld these ’ men of - the South rising to protect their
interests when the government decided that slavery was no longer to be countenanced. It was a matter of self-preservation that sent these men into the field, and they marched into that contest believing their cause to be as just and holy a one as ever impelled a man to lay down his life for that of his country. The Federal government willed that slavery was to be curbed with a view to its final abolishment. The Southern states contended that the government had exceeded its constitutional rights; that the interests of the states were supreme to those of the central government. When their contention was overruled they seceded. The issue then became the definition of Constitutional authority and Federal supremacy, and the war was fought out on those grounds, with the abolition of slavery as an accidental consecpience.
Arthur J. Hughes, ’ll.
* *
The Men of the North.
Viewed from the perspective of that lofty ideal “For God and Country,” the “boys in blue” furnish a spectacle that can not fail to inspire the soul of every American son. When recurring victory would seem to insure ultimate triumph for the South, and the results of such battles as that of Bull Run were sufficiently discouraging to strike despondency and despair into the hearts of the bravest, the young heroes of the North, spurred on by grim determination and unflinching courage, revealed that type of character and civic worth for' which our country now pleads. The power of endurance of the men who fought in the uniforms of blue, offers to our admiration the spirit that makes for American aggressiveness.
Unselfishness is the test of nobility, and there is no characteristic more prominent in -the “boys in blue” than their uncompromising self-sacrifice. Following the young soldier full of life and vigor, on the march, in the camp, in the excitement of cannon roar and glittering steel, amidst the insidious perils of war, we feel at once swelling within our bosoms impulses of patriotism such as should fill the soul with exalted aspirations of love, loyalty and devotion. We see their courage and fortitude in never yielding to
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
defeat; we see persistence turning the tide of war; we see the valor of an army directed by the skill of a Sheridan conquering the forces of a Lee.
The historic spots of our land—the towns, hills and valleys, creeks and rivers, made memorable by storms of shot and shell, inspire reverence and awe in grateful recognition of the services rendered by the men of the North. • May we never forget these noble sons who fought for the preservation of the Union! May their deeds of valor and heroism stand as inspirations to future generations, and may their spirit live forever as a beneficent influence in moulding high patriotism, honor and civic duty!
Peter E. Hebert, ’10.
' * *
Our Brothers of the South.
After a struggle of five years, during which they exhibited all the courage and endurance that characterize the true American, the army of Lee, conquered by superior strength, laid down their arms and returned to the gigantic task of building up a new South. No thought of treason had entered their minds when they took up arms against our government. It was to them a question of defending their birthright, a question of preserving intact the privileges which they had enjoyed since their forefathers, hand in hand with the men of the North, had thrown off the oppressive yoke of British tyranny, and established for all time American independence. Neither their valor nor their honor has been for a minute in question. Aud when we honor the heroes of our country, we can not in justice fail to render homage to the “Flower of the South,” whose struggle, not only against what was to them an unjust foe, but also in the terrible period of reconstruction, was at alh times,, in the face of every discouragement, the battle of true and tried sons of the spirit of ’75.
Leo C. AIcElroy, ’10
' ' * * *
’	The Martyred Lincoln.
This new-born land of Union was darker, when the light_of Lincoln’s^ genius ceased
549
shining; the land of Freedom .was colder because the martyr’s heart ceased beating. Another name had been added to the honorroll of the nation. The grave which received Lincoln’s remains gave a martyr to the Union; the monument which towers over his last resting-place bears eloquent though silent testimony to the shallowness of human glory; but the greatness of this martyr will never grow dim. Mighty waves of discontent and party strife and sectional bitterness rolled high and threatened to wreck the nation; sorrow and distress filled the hearts of her citizens. But the martyr’s spirit still ruled, and peace and quiet were restored once more in the land. And so it is now. These same storms threaten, the same dangers are imminent. But a spirit like unto that of Lincoln still walks upon the waters, and bids the winds be still and the clouds disperse, and lo! the white stars of Union twinkle once more in their field of blue.
Francis J. Wenninger, ’ll.
*
Catholics in the Civil War.
In every time of need Catholics have always been foremost among the zealous upholders of our country’s cause, but never have they shown their deep-rooted patriotism more effectively than in the late war of the Rebellion. Thousands upon thousands of brave and loyal sons of the Church fell fighting gloriously for the priceless honor and unity of their country. Every field of conflict was stained with their life-blood; every * battle was marked by their deeds of valor and heroism. But not alone in the rank and file was the Catholic soldiery conspicuous. We may point with pardonable pride to the illustrious General Sheridan, who, after Grant and Sherman, was by far the ablest commander of the war. The son of poor but deeply religious parents, he fought his way step by step until he reached the top. He was an efficient engineer and a masterly commander who won the respect and confidence of his men. In severe straits his advice was welcomed by Lincoln, Grant and Sherman, and the most dangerous situations were promptly entrusted to his care. The ride at Winchester is immortalized in story
55°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and song, but it was onlv one of the greatvictories that we owe to the military genius of the great general.
Rosecrans, another Catholic leader, is ranked as one of the four most capable generals of the Civil War. He was responsible, in a large measure, for the success of the Northern cause, and his skill and genius havecalled forth unstinted praise from the historians. Simple, modest, deeply religious, he was the idol of the army of the Cumberland byr whom he is affectionately remembered as “Old Rosey.” Of the other distinguished generals we may name General Meagher, commander of the renowned Irish Brigade, General Shields, General Ewing, brother-inlaw of General Sherman, General Newton, chief of engineers, and General Henry Hunt, chief of artillery of the Army of the Potomac. A long list of distinguished minor generals might be given, but those already mentioned show how distinguished were the Catholics in the Civil War.
Admirals Sands and Ammen upheld our dignity’- in the navy, and they' were aided in their work by' a number of Catholic officers of lesser rank. Along with the laity the clergy worked hand in hand in advancing the Union cause. The unflinching courage and noble unselfishness of the Catholic chaplains in the great struggle have evoked the admiration of all, Catholic and nonCatholic alike. And the Sisters — what a a labor of mercy was theirs! The effect of their work can not be better shown than by' the following quotation from the New York Times: “Does not all this suggest to our Protestant churches the necessity of establishing some order of holy' women whose labors shall be akin to the Sisters of Charity, or,rather, we should say, akin to the angels ? If we can not have such an order, we earnestly hope, for the sake of suffering humanity, that the Catholic Church will devote itself more than ever to enlarge the numbers and extend the beneficent labors of the Sisters.”
Thomas J. Cleary, ’ll.
* * « .
t The Soldiers of Holy Cross.
Memorial Day has a special significance at Notre Dame. In the days of ’61, when rumors of imminent strife filled the air, and
the martial sound of fife and drum was the accompaniment of measured military tread, Alma Mater was among the first to lay her sacrifice upon the altar of freedom. Fathers Corby, Cooney, Dillon, Gillen and Carrier, all zealous members of Holy Cross, were sent from Notre Dame, where their absence was a most keenly' felt loss, to perform the duties of chaplains. On the battlefield where the fight was fiercest and men fell thickest, these devoted priests brought relief and spiritual consolation to the wounded and dying. On the march their presence was an inspiration to the flagging zeal of the men; while in the camp, where evil influences are always to the fore, the powerful influence of their spotless lives prevented many an impressionable young recruit from lapsing into evil way's.
The Brothers of Holy Cross are equally honored : Bros. Cosmas, Benedict, Leander, Raphael, John Chrysostom and Eustachius are among the noble band who still are with us. Bros. Ignatius, Richard, Sebastian, Agatho and Polycarp have answered the final summons and live with us in memory.
From her earliest years, Notre Dame has been a mother of patriots, and an unswerving adherent to the principles of true patriotism. In her glorious record of service during the sixty-five years of her history, the period of the Civil War offers an unsurpassed example of the courage and love of country which must always characterize an institution founded for the exaltation of religion and reared upon a structure of robust faith and lofty'- idealism. Her noblest traditions are the records of services rendered by her own men when peril beset the republic; while the high purpose which actuated her in times of peace finds its finest utterance in the glowing deeds of her Civil War heroes.
Denis A. Morrison, TO.
■Sr .	w *
Our Catholic Sisterhoods.
The ceremonies of Memorial Day' recall in an especial manner the part that the sons and daughters of Holy' Cross played in the great war of the Rebellion. The loyal action of that little band of priests, brothers and sisters shall ever stand in eloquent tribute to religious loyalty. True to the standard
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	551
of Christ, these generous men and women could not have been indifferent to their country's call. No sooner had the bugle sounded the call to arms than its echoes awoke a .response within the serene walls of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Side by side with the priests and brothers, who were *their co-laborers in religion, the sisters fulfilled their mission of peace and charity toward friend and foe alike on the field of battle. They were among the first to volunteer, and while the names of our soldierpriests and brothers are inscribed on tomb and monument, the golden deeds of charity performed by the sisters in the hospitals and on the field found imperishable record in the blessings of dying men and in the hearts of veterans who survived to give testimony to their heroism and self-sacrifice. It is therefore with feelings of mingled patriotism and reverence that we place our flags and flowers beside the simple cross upon the graves of these devoted dead.
Their work on the battlefield was the work of peace, of ministration to the men of the Blue and the men of the Grey whose life-blood ebbed away.. Other organizations have arisen since to supplant our Sisterhoods in the pictured records of great battles. Certain artists have pictured the lady with the red cross on her arm in place of the historic Sister. But no artist can brush away the sweet forms of our devoted Sisterhoods from the memory of the battle-scarred veteran.
Frederick AV. Carrole. ’12
* -* «
Great Battlefields.
An historian of the Civil War has selected twelve of its battles as decisive. It is true that of the many conflicts this small number seems to have had immediate results. In a larger sense, however, it must be granted that every battle of the immortal struggle was in one'way or another conclusive. The age had gone when antagonistic nations would mobilize their forces to the extent of spending all their powers and risking their fortunes . on a single blow. Many of the greatest battles were conclusive to but a o	,
particular stage of the great problem. To
one of us who may’ now visit the fields whereon great armies contended for what they’ felt to be the cause of liberty and equal rights, it is hard to picture the awfulness of the combat. The dread battle sounds have died away, the blackened cannon are dumb, and in the furrows plowed by the carriage wheels the tender violet springs. But to those who fought and bled on those fields of battle what graphic thoughts the scenes rekindle in their memories! Ghastly* are the reopened scars and glorious the field peopled with embattled armies. Be it Gettysburg or Antietam, Vicksburg or the Wilderness, the same cheer of the victors or cries of the wounded mingle with the clamor of arms. If only* the low-burning fires of patriotism in the hearts. of the weatherbeaten patriots could blaze anew in the breasts of the youth of our land on Memorial Day, how the nation would rise to honor the heroes who have consecrated those battlegrounds with their blood.
“There was perhaps not a battlefield during the four years of that noble strife,” says another historian, “ on which the blood of students of Notre Dame was not shed for the Union cause....” What a lesson we should find in that fact! It is .our duty to prove that we are worthy to be the successors of those student-soldiers. Let us not content ourselves with pointing to this record alone, but by imitating the virtues and patriotism of those whose deeds have been our inspiration, let us study our parts in preserving the priceless heritage of patriotism. The individual act, like the indecisive battle, may* in itself be all but insignificant. United with a thousand others, its titanic force excites the wondering comment of centuries.
John C. Tully, 11.
* * * •
Ulysses Simpson Grant.
Ulysses Simpson Grant became a national figure in American History at a time when the country* was disrupted by internal strife. There was need of a leader who would not be swerved by any of the emotions of pity, a man of severe, unrelenting determination, aggressive and faithful only to bringing into submission the insubordinate Southern
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
552
states; and Grant easily fulfilled these qualifications. He was skilled in all the subtle artifices of warfare, he knew how to drive men, he feared nothing in the accomplishment of his great aim. He gained the first great victory of the Civil War bv his “uncon—
ditional-surrender” stand at Fort Donelson; by his open onslaughts upon the Confederates he lost fewer men and won greater battles than McClellan did with retreats and covered attacks. By his merciless starving of the people in the besieged cities he captured his thousands of prisoners; by pitiless burning of the homes of the people along the Shenandoah Valley, on his “hammering- campaign,” he effectually crippled the resources of the Southern arnn\ No other general of his time would have attempted to such methods as he used, yet such methods were necessary, and because Grant followed them he justly receives credit for the great victories during the Civil War.
Leo J. Cleary, ’10.
* * *.
Robert E. Lee.
Loyal and faithful to the last, strong in hope for the success of a lost cause, firm in his belief in the justice of his course, zealous for the best interests of the people he had chosen to serve, unselfish in his defence of what he considered right, and persevering with heroic fortitude to the end that lay beyond human endurance, General Robert E. Lee stands out as one of the noblest figures in the pages of life’s misfortunes. A victim of fate, a pawn of fortune, he did. not waver in his acceptance of the side that seemed best to him, but bent all his energies to the faithful discharge of his trust. His life is one of those noble, inspiring mistakes that make the world better. Never was there a greater patriot than he, though his patriotism was wasted in a mistaken struggle. Robert E. Lee followed the dictates of his conscience: he did what he believed was right; and the world reveres his name to-day, for he had the courage of his convictions.
•	John F. O'Hara,’ 11.
. * * _
The General Absolution Under Fire.
High up on the North walls of the stairway leading to the University Library in the
Main Building there hangs a painting entitled “General Absolution by the Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Under Fire at Gettysburg.”
In a valley hedged in by hills from whose tops one hundred and twenty cannons are smoking the artist has depicted a priest standing on a large rock and with raised hand absolving a sea of soldiery who on bended knees, and with bowed heads are thus preparing for death in the interval between the command, “Take Arms” and “Fire.”
The priest in the painting was the army Chaplain of the Irish Brigade of the Army of the Potomac, and the fourth president of the University of Notre Dame. This was the first general absolution ever given to American soldiers under fire. During the battle of Gettysburg as the Irish Brigade was about to fall in line, Father Corby from a hugh rock explained what he was about to do, saying that each one, rebel and union-soldier alike, could receive the benefit of absolution from his sins by making a sincere act of contrition and resolving to confess at the first opportunity, and encouraged the soldiers by reminding them of the noble object for which they fought. An eye-witness, Maj.-Gen. St. Clair Mulholland, says of this profound feat which steeled the soldiers against the natural fear of death by assuring them of their peace with God:
“The scene was more than impressive: it was awe-inspiring. Nearby stood a brilliant throng of officers who had gathered to witness this very unusual occurrence, and while there was profound silence in the ranks of the Second Corps, yet over to the left, out by-the peach orchard and Little Round Top, where Weed and Vincent and Hazlitt were dying, the roar of the battle rose and swelled and re-echoed through the woods, making music more sublime than ever sounded through cathedral aisle. I do not think there was a man in the brigade who did not offer up a heartfelt prayer. For some it was their last: they knelt there in their grave clothes.” '
M: A. Mathis, ’10. ♦
Lest We Forget.
America is the golden land of the world. Her glories are numberless. In prosperity she leads all countries. In freedom none can compare with her. Brightest in her crown of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
many gems are the jeweled virtues of justice and friendliness. Fair upon her days shine the blessed rays of peace; peace with her sister-nations, peace with herself. Such is America today; but such she has not always been. A myriad soldier graves, dotting her every state, raise their green mounds in testimony of the hard struggles that placed her where she is.
The brave ones that are dead have labored; we now reap the fruits of their toil. They planted the seeds of nationhood, and watered them with their blood. God has given the increase, and we enjoy the harvest of their suffering, the foremost place among the lands of earth. All that we have, we owe largely to them. Our sacred duty is to love and reverence them, and to imitate the patriotism and„ sacrifice that they so well exemplified. They ask from us a prayer and a place in our memories. Thev beg us never to stain America’s escutcheon with the taint of disloyalty. Elaborate celebrations are but vain and empty, unless prompted by faith and love. The most noble remembrance of the heroic dead is a lasting loyalty, to God and country.
.	O faithful spirits, lead us yet,
I.est we forget, lest we forget.
George J. Finnigan, To.
* * *
Unity and Peace.
Brave hearts, heroic souls, noble patriots how preserve and" nourish the fruits of their sacrifices? The deeds they performed, the sufferings they endured, the blood they shed preserved a nation’s unity, atoned for a nation’s crime and won a nation’s undying gratitude. Theirs was the toil, the agony, the sweat, ours is the unity, the peace, the freedom. They sacrificed their lives that this republic might be, in very truth, a land of freedom; we must dedicate our lives to the preservation of that legacy. Theirs was the patriotism of war, ours must be the patriotism of peace. Next to the love of God, there is in the human heart no nobler nor more unquenchable love than the love of one’s country, and it is by inculcating this virtue into our daily lives that we can best secure the precious inheritance they have left us. “Patriotism means the love of the fathers: of their thoughts and hopes; of their
553
deeds and aspirations,” and “he is the truest patriot who strives day by day to make himself worthy of such a countrv, turning awav from no labor, no hardship, no self-deinal, which may help him to become an honest, honorable, enlightened and religious man.” With this ideal before us, let us strive for unity of national sentiment, national aims and national consciousness, and in unity will be not only strength but peace. In peace will we prosper, in peace will we advance in civic virtue and in peace will we be blessed.
Chas. C. Miltner Ti.
Memorial Verses.
A Tribute.
THE muffled roll of drum is heard
And measured tread, and- prayerful word.
The rifle shot o’er Erave is rung
And flowers are strewn and dirges sung.
Nor more shall sacred Freedom’s reign E’er cease to honor each loved name. Brave soldier, here we honor thee	.
With honor of a country—free.
T. P. Me.
O’er a Soldier Grave.
The flower fades and dies	"	-
We place o’er thee,
But memory will live on Eternallv.
’	T. B. N.
Under the Sod.
Under the sod,.
Awaiting the call
Of the Voice of God When the dead shall all Answer and wait At the golden gate
Of the city of light.	T. L.
The Patriot. ,
Who fights beyond the ocean wide To gather in s me feet of earth,
Knows not the love of those whose pride
Is for the lair land of their birth.-
To die for home, ah, sweet the thought! For freedom ’neath our native skies!
No tyrant’s chain is ever wrought
For him who struggles till he dies.
D. D.
554
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid • Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLIH.	June 4, 1910	No. 34.
BOARD OF EDITORS
GEORGE J. PETER E. HEBERT, ’10 DENIS A. MORRISON, ’10 MICHAEL A. MATHIS, ’10 THOMAS A. LAHEY, ’ 11 FRANCIS WENNINGER, ’ll CHARLES MILTNER, ’ll FREDERICK W.
FINNIGAN, ’10
LEO J. CLEARY, ’10
LEO C. MCELROY, ’10 JOHN F. O’HARA, ’ll JOHN C. TULLY, ’ll ARTHUR J. HUGHES, ’ll THOMAS F. CLEARY, ’ll
CARROLL, '12
—There enters into our Memorial Day sendees of each year an element of sadness. Those of us who saw the original members of the Notre Dame Grand Dedication. Army Post realize how many of those first members have already answered the final bugle call of death. Each year some familiar figure is missed from the group of brave men who struggled to conserve the Union of these states. Over in the green, tree-shaded graveyard that looks down upon St. Mary’s lake the soldiers of the sword and of the cross sleep their last under the sod that takes in the dew.
To those dear dead who shall never more march with the armies of earth we extend the wish and prayer that even now they keep time to angel music in the armies of heaven!
To those who yet remain we wish such an evening as when all the west is red with the sinking sun. And may a night follow that will be all golden with a myriad of shining stars! This our wish and this our prayer, even as we place this number of the Scholastic in loving tribute at their feet.
—The exercises that are to extend through the commencement period this year promise to be of most imposing character The presence of the Papal Delegate and the The Commencement Governor of the State will Program. add a high degree of dignity to the occasion. Very probably a large number of Alumni will gather
from near and far to spend a few days renewing college friendships and visiting favored haunts. The religious part of the exercises will consist of a pontifical mass of thanksgiving, carried out with that wealth of ceremonial for which Notre Dame has become so well known. Dr. Pace’s baccalaureate sermon will be delivered at this mass. A solemn requiem mass for deceased Alumni will be sung on Monday. The academic exercises proper will consist of graduate addresses and in the evening Governor Marshall’s discourse to the men of 1910. Nor are the athletic features neglected. The boat races and the Varsitv-Alumni game will awaken pleasant memories for the old students. All in all, the commencement exersices of 1910 should prove entertaining and attractive.
—The members of the Brownson Literary and Debating Society established a precedent in their final meeting of Friday evening, May 27th.
This consisted in ex-
A Law Senior on the tending an invitation Notre Dame Spirit. to Edwin J. Lynch, senior in law, to deliver what might be called a closing address to the society. Mr. Lynch was equal to the occasion' and read a paper which is not only a credit to Mr. Lynch but to the senior law men generally. It conveved a message from an elder student who has walked the road of collegiate life to vounger brothers to whom the wav is still unknown. The message was replete with high teaching which any young man might well emulate. The speaker took as his theme “The Principles for which We Stand.” Enlarging on this theme he thus discussed the “Notre Dame Spirit” to his younger brothers:
Now what is this fighting spirit of which Notre Dame is so proud? Is it something which impregnates a man simply-because he is on a football field in football armor? Decidedly not. It is something deeper and more far-reaching than that. Is it something which stirs within a man’s breast only when he is in the cheering section and his team is winning? I say again decidedly not. This inspiring principle is with us always; but particularly when our team is losing. It is the spirit of Sorin and his valiant band that braved the rigors of a severe winter in travelling from New York to Vincennes and afterward to the banks of the St. Joseph; a spirit that impelled them, even after the hardest reverses, to battle on until their end was attained. All through that winter’s journey of 1842, when sometimes they could proceed only at the rate of five miles a day; all through that
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	555
period, in 1S54, when disease and pestilence swept through the community, carrying off many of its best men; all through that period that began in April, 1S79, when the good men that had worked so hard saw the result of their labors swept away by lire; through all of this they passed, and, emerging, continued their work fortified by this very same spirit that obtains at Notre Dame to-day. This dominating influence, this spirit which pervades and tempers the conduct and thoughts of the student at Notre Dame is a peculiar one. It is distinctly the Notre Dame spirit. I claim it is a peculiar one, because it does not manifest itself in the burning of barns and fences, in raiding, rioting, and in the locking up o1' policemen in their own jails. It fights hard wi’l n.t show of malice. It cheers iir triumph, but dots not inebriate. Calm in defeat, sober in victory, it is distinctly the Notre Dame spirit.
The Brownson Society is to be congratulated in securing the services of Mr. Lynch, and Mr. Lvnch is to be commended for making use of an opportunity to preach a high lesson to the younger students of the University.
—Au editorial headed “A Word about Creeds” in the South Bend Times of last Saturday must have caused a jar to a number of its readers. The writer
A Word on calmly assures us that the “A Word about Creeds.” Apostles’ Creed, and all other formulas of belief, are man-made in order to hold religious organizations together, and that it is an evidence of superstitious bigotry to claim they are essential to the individual Christian life of him who sincerely strives to “do the will of God.” “How many Presbyterians, for instance,” to quote the writer directly, “ believe in the Westminster confession as it was understood a hundred years ago? How many Baptists think immersion essential to salvation? How many Roman Catholics believe that the Pope is infallible in his judgment?” Just what the Presbyterians and Baptists believe to-day as' against what they believed in more remote times the Scholastic does not presume to discuss. But when the writer asks how many Catholics believe that the Pope is infallible in his judgment he might as well know that any well-instructed Catholic child will furnish him the information. The child will answer that every Catholic believes in the Infallibility of the Pope, and the’ moment he ceases so to believe he ceases to be a Catholic. It is assumed, of course, the writer understood what is meant by Papal Infallibility when he gave his thought to the public, else the state
ment has no special significance.
The practice that maintains among certain newspaper scribes of informing Catholics where they are located in the matter of religious belief is not at all desirable. Very generally Catholics know where they stand. When they have doubts there are reliable information bureaus right within hailing distance, and there is small chance of missing the main line. A man who writes about what Catholics believe should not rest satisfied with a theory evolved from inner consciousness and then labelled, “ Catholic belief.” Most good men prefer to get the straight of the story and then write it up afterwards.
—The Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce and Labor, Washington, D. C., issues a report on Religious Denominations which contains interesting figures.
00
An Interesting	Comparing the Catholic and
Comparison.	Protestant population of
different cities^we note the following: o
The cities showing the largest proportions of Protestant communicants are Memphis, 84.4 per cent; Toledo, 70 per cent; Washington, 66.9 per cent; Kansas City, Alo., 66.2 per cent; and Indianapolis, 62.1 per cent.
The cities showing the largest percentages of Roman Catholic communicants are Fall River, S6.5 per cent; San Francisco, S1.1 per cent; New Orleans, 79.7 per cent; New York, 76.9 per cent; Providence, 76.5 per cent; St. Louis, 69 per cent; Boston, 6S.7 per cent; Chicago, 68.2 per cent; and Philadelphia, 51.8 per cent.
In the five leading cities the proportion of communicants to population was: New York, 44.7 per cent; Chicago, 40.7; Philadelphia, 3S.S; Boston, 62.6 and St. Louis, 46.6 per cent. It is stated that, in general, cities which have a relatively large Roman Catholic population show a higher percentage of church members than cities in which this body has a comparatively small representation. In Fall River S6.5 per cent of the total number of members reported were Roman Catholics, and the church membership represented 67.S per cent of the population, while in Memphis, where S4.4 per cent of the communicants reported belonged to Protestant bodies, the church membership was only 30 per cent of the population.
The statement that cities which have a relatively large Roman Catholic population* show a higher percentage of church members than cities in which this body has a comparatively small representation will not cause any surprise to Catholics. The reason is that only practical, or church-going Catholics are'eon-sidered members of the Catholic Church, not only for pew rental lists but for the census ’as' well.
556
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Varsity Debaters Add Another Victory.
The question: “Resolved, That Federal Legislation should be enacted establishing a Central Bank in the United States,” formed
Paul J. Doxovax.
the subject of a very spirited and interesting debate held on Saturday evening, May 28th, between the College of Law of Notre Dame and the Detroit College of Law. The former upheld the negative and the latter the affirmative side of the argument.
Air. Lippman opened the debate for the affirmative by stating that we had now reached a stage in the evolution of financial systems and institutions when it was necessary to abolish our “gorilla” methods of banking, and, following the general trend of economic and political forces toward unity of action and centralization of control, to establish a Central Bank.
. Air. Donovan, in introducing the negative argument, although admitting the need of currency reform, opposed the Central Bank because, aside from its being too radical, similar attempts to maintain such a bank, namely the first and second banks of the United States, failed. An institution of like nature, now as then, would inevitably be made a political issue, and like them would be foredoomed to failure. Taking up its practical aspect, he showed that no plan
could prevent panics which could not control the expansion of credit. This the Central Baiik could not do, because, so long as it could get security for its notes, it would continue to issue them, and speculation would thereby be facilitated.
Mr. Donovan’s logical argument and his lucid presentation of it were in striking contrast with the rambling, disconnected, and, by the way, unpolished speech of the second affirmative speaker, Mr. Entenzo, whose violent assumptions and too frequent assertions on personal authoritjr rather weakened than strengthened his side of the argument.
The point of Air. Hope’s ably delivered speech was that a Central Bank was contrary to the spirit of republican institutions. It would be a gigantic monopoly or corporation whose stock could by no means be kept out of the hands of the other big corporations which, by acquiring a majority of the shares, would be able to dictate absolutely the finances of the nation, and thus, under the impulse of self-interest, might work untold injustice upon the public.
An outline of the Central Bank plan, which was greatly elucidated by the aid of a chart, formed the burden of Air. Brewer’s speech and the closing argument for the affirmative.
James L. Bote.
Mr. Sands rounded out the negative position by showing that the difference in extent of territory and a more uniform
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
557
demand for currency in- European countries, enabled their Central Banks to foresee the fiscal needs of all localities and thus to meet every demand under a uniform-discount rate.
In the rebuttals this point was made the issue by the negative, and the failure of their opponents to meet this issue largely explains the unanimous decision of the judges in favor of the former.
In general, the local debaters showed a deeper knowledge of the question, better team work, and a more polished delivery.
The Judges were: the Hon. Vernon W.
'	George W. Sands.
Van Fleet, Judge of the Superior Court, Ind.; the Hon. John P. McGoortjr of the Illinois Legislature, and Mr. Edward Sonnenschein of the • Chicago bar. The Hon. Kickham Scanlon, Judge of the Circuit Court, Chicago, presided. Music was furnished by the University Mandolin Club.
Decoration Day Exercises.
As has been the custom for many years Memorial Day Exercises were held at Notre Dame on Monday, May 30th. The exercises were held under the auspices of the Notre Dame Post, No. 569, Grand Army of the Republic. At 8:00 P. M. a mass for the deceased members of the local post was celebrated in Sacred Heart Church by Father Burke. Immediately following the services in the church, the members of the local post and the students of the University assembled in Washington Hall. Here appropriate exercises were held which not only recalled the memories of the terrible war, but as far as possible the brave men who fought in this war were honored.
The program was begun by the reading of Gov. Marshall’s Proclamation by Mr. Edwin J. Lynch, after which the audience arose and sang ‘America.’ Mr. Otto A. Schmid delivered Lincoln’s ‘ Gettysburg Address,’ and Mr. Thomas A. Lahey read the ‘Memorial Dav Ode.’ Following this the audience again arose and sang ‘Nearer My God, to Thee.’ Hon. Kickham Scanlon, Judge of the Circuit Court, Chicago, the orator of the day, was introduced by VicePresident Crumley. Judge Scanlon is an able and impressive speaker and we are pleased to print his discourse in this issue. At the conclusion of the exercises in Washington Hall, the audience proceeded to the flag-pole. Here the flag, which had been placed at half-mast, was raised while the band played “The Star Spangled Banner.” After the raising of the flag the procession was again formed and proceeded to the Community cemetery where the graves of the deceased soldiers were decorated and given the customary military rites=
The' Apostolic Delegate Coming.
We announce with much pleasure that His Excellency Mgr. Diomede Falconio will preside over the Commencement exercises this year. The Faculty, Students and Alumni of the University appreciate this extraordinary act of kindness which involves a long and tedious journey from Washington, and even the cancelling of other engagements.
Contests in Oratory and Elocution.
The Freshman Oratorical Contest, held on Tuesday of this week, was participated in by Messrs. Heiser, Milroy, Burke, Stack and Trelton. Mr. Heiser was awarded first place and Mr. Milroy second. The subject of both these orations was “International Peace.”
Louis Cox won the Lyons Medal in Elo
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
558
cution in the contest for Preparatory classes held last Wednesday evening. William Cotter was a very close second. The contest brought out some of the best talent in the department, and showed the result of patient training by the contestants. Louis Cox won on his power for sustained delivery. The winner in the contest will deliver his selection at the Preparatory Commencement Exercises next week.
The Contest in Oratory in the Preparatory department took place Thursday, June 2d. The following took part: Messrs. F. Biter, J. Adiansen, B. Buckley, P. Dolan, G. Strassner. Mr. Biter, whose subject was Prince Gallitzin, founder of Loretto, was given first place. The contest gave evidence of training and ability, and augurs well for future collegiate oratory and debating.
In the collegiate Elocution contest, held Friday afternoon, Allan Heiser of Holy Cross Hall, woii the Barry Medal over several contestants. Messrs. Cunning,-Havican, Madden, Jansen and Stack were the other entries.
University Bulletin.
' All Preparatory students who are not ready to start for their homes at latest on Saturday, June nth, will go to San Jose Park on that day. See to it that transportation arrives in time.
No night permissions will be granted to Preparatory students after June 7th nor to Collegiate students after June 9th.
SENIOR EXAMINATIONS. .
Monday, June 6.—At 8:30 A. M. Latin. At 2:00 P. M., English.
Tuesday, June 7.—At 8:30 A. M., Greek. At 2:00 P. M., Economics.
Wednesday, June .8.—At 8:30 A. M., Law, Philosophy. At 2:00 P. M., Law, History.
Engineering and Science classes will be ex-• amined during those days at the hours indicated by the Deans of the Departments.
The candidates for graduation in the Com-merical Department will have their examinations June 6th and 7th, and closing exercises in Carroll Hall will be held June 10, 7:30 P. M.
Local Items.
—The Stationery Store has received a supply of duo-tone post-card views of. Walsh Hall.
—Have you been tagged?
—The Dome will be distributed to-night or to-morrow.
—The regular meeting of the Knights of Columbus will be held in Walsh Hall, Tuesday evening, June 7th.
—The K. C. outing, which was to be held last Monday, was postponed indefinitely on account of the vagaries of the weather man.
—The debate between the Freshman Laws and the Freshman Letters men will be held tonight in the Assembly Room of Walsh Hall at 7:30 P. M.
—The Notre Dame G. A. R. Post extends thanks to the Women’s Relief Corps of South Bend for the flags and 'flowers presented to decorate the graves on Memorial Dav.
—Editorial comment in the Triangle of Hanover College, and the Bachelor of Wabash, justifies the stand taken by Notre Dame with regard to professional oratory.
—Telegrams from the scenes of action bring the news that all our men qualified in the conference preliminaries yesterday, and that the baseball team met a 6-3 defeat at Michigan.
—The various societies of the University wound up the business of the year during the past week. The Engineering, Brownson, and St. Joseph Hall societies did especially commendable work.	.
—You will confer a great favor on the committee by buying tickets for the Sophomore Hop now. See Murphy, Duncan, Zimmer, Kramer, Rush, Burke, A. Keys, Donahue, or Skelley. They will be glad to accommodate you.
—Yesterday, Feast of the Sacred Heart, solemn high mass was sung in the Sacred Heart Church at S o’clock by the Rev. Father Maguire. The Rev. Fathers Schumacher and Dalton acted as deacon and subdeacon.
—Mr. Max Adler has donated the gold anchors which will be awarded the winning crews on Commencement Day. The action of Max in this matter is characteristic, and is heartily appreciated by every follower of this long-loved branch of athletics.
—The University is pleased to acknowledge the generous action of Mr. A. G. Pickens and Mr. B. S. Walters, of the South Bend and Mishawaka Gas Co., who donated to the Athletic Association 5600 gallons of petroleum tar for
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
559
the athletic field. The donation is considerable and the action is highly praiseworthy. We thank vou, gentlemen!
—The Rev. M. A. Ouinlan, Rector of Walsh Hall and Professor of English, passed a brilliant examination for Doctor's degree in Philosophy before the examining board ot the Catholic University, Washington, last week. The Scholastic extends the hearty congratulations of , everybody7 at the University.
—The long-expected, long-looked for trip of the Philopatrians to St. Joseph, Michigan, was realized on Decoration Day. While the rest of the students were shivering about the University the youngsters were taking in the sights of the Michigan summer resort. Despite the cold weather, however, the Philopatrians had a busy and happy day.
—Col. William Hoynes, Dean of the Law School, delivered a memorable as well as a memorial address at Michigan City on Decoration Day. Eloquence, experience, wisdom and especially patriotism marked the discourse, which has attracted much attention from the state press. The Michigan City Dispatch and the South Bend Times publish the Colonel’s address in full.
—The contest for medals in the Minims’ military drill took place on Monday morning. The rivalry was very lively, and brought out the qualities of quickness, accuracy and endurance that are essential in a good soldier. The prizes were awarded as follows : Company A, C. M. Richmond; Company B, B. A. Cagney; Company C, M. L. Lerned; Company D, J. L. Courcier. Professor J. J. Greene was Judge, and Captain Maris directed the exhibition. The Minims are deserving of great commendation for the faithfulness with which they have carried out the University regulation. St. Edward’s Hall appreciates the kindness of several of the Minims’ parents in donating the prizes.
Athletic Notes.
SECOND DEFEAT FOR ST. VIATEUR’S.
In the game against St. Viateur’s, with the exception of the last, two rounds, there was very little doing from a V. standpoint. In the eighth Lynch was hit amidships. D. O’Connell
hit a fast one at Maloney which evaded the shortstop’s mitt long enough to put all hands safe. Coss struck out. Conway hit to Maloney , who threw to Kelley, forcing O’Connell. Lynch overran third, and in trying to round up Connolly hit him in the back with the result that he scored. This section of the festivities was ended a moment later when Scanlon hit to “Gene” and was out at first. In the ninth A. O’Connell reached first on an error by Maloney, and went to second when Morse hit safely. Lynch struck out, but D. O’Connell made his third hit of the game, a three-bagger, which scored A. O’Connell and Morse. Coss doomed all hopes by rolling one to Maloney for the third out. The Varsity scored their first run in the third. Again in the fourth they scored, but it was in the sixth that Heyl tore the cover off, and scored Phillips and Maloney with a scorching three-bagger to left. Heyl scored on a sacrifice hit by Connolly. Quigley and Maloney were the numerous hitters of the day getting three apiece. Score:
Notre Dame....0 0110300* =4 15 3
St. Viateur’s.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2=3 5 1
Three base hits—Phillips, Heyl, D. O’Connell. Struck out—By Heyl, 8; by Coss, 1. Bases on balls—Off Heyl, 3; off Coss, 1. Sacrifice hits—Connolly, Quigley, Kelley, Ulatowski (2), Nourie. Hit by pitched ball—Lynch. Stolen bases—Connolly, Quigley.
* ♦ * '
THIRD DEFEAT FOR WABASH.
In a very loosely played contest the Varsity defeated the “Little Giants” for the third time this season. The affray was greatly marred by numerous “ boots ” and wild heaves. Ryan was on the mound, and held the visitors to seven hits which would have been enough to send them away runless in an ordinary game. The senior class from Saint Mary’s attended a box party at the game, and it may be that the diversity of colors had something to do with the error column. Score:
Notre Dame....0 2 2 0 1 0 0 4. *=9 9 8
Wabash........0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 1=4 7 7
• ♦ * *
THE CREWS.
As the day of the regatta draws near the crews are putting in harder work in getting into condition for the big struggle. Dope makers find it hard to figure out the winners, as most of the crews are paying more attention to regularity of stroke than to speed. However, it is almost certain the races will be close in every instance.
560
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Three base hits—Williams (N. D.). Struck out—By Ryan, 5: by Winnie, 2. Bases on balls—Oft'Ryan, 5 ; off Winnie, 2. Double play—Kelley to Malone}’ to Phillips. Umpire—O’Brit n.
* * *
WABASH IN LAST GAME.
In the last rarne of the series with Wabash o	.
for this rear the Varsity defeated the “ Downstate men” by the score of 8-3. Thirteen hits in all were gathered from the delivery of Myers and Hawkins, three of which were executed by Williams. Heyl held the visitors to six bingles and established a reputation for himself as a hitting pitcher by getting two singles. A feature of the game was a two-bagger by Ash, the one-armed right fielder of the Wabash team. Score:
Notre Dame.........1 3 0 2 2 0 0 *=S13 4
Wabash.............0 0000201=364
Struck out—By Heyl, 6; by Myers, 1. Three base hits—Bridge, Kelley. Two base hit—Ash. Bases on balls—Off Heyl, 3; off Myers, 5. Double play—Myers to Huffine to Staibuch ;,Heyl to Connolly. Umpire— O'Brien. . *
* *
WEST VIRGINIA TO.O.	'
Some moments before the game Kelley was handed a “Black Hand” letter from the east, conveying the pleasant information, “ Look out' for West Virginia.” It took but three innings for the Varsity to make the visitors look like little lambs toddling up to a “woolen gin,” and there is nothing to inspire fear in that. When the locals had secured six hits off Boone in the third, the authorities thought it best to keep him for another day, and Pass took up the task in the fourth. Mr. Pass has developed the duties of a pitcher to'a fine art, for in the remaining six innings but two hits were registered from his delivery. Ryan held the Eastern men to one hit until the ninth when three hits and a pass resulted in .three rims. Score:
Notre Dame......1 1 5 0 0 0 0 0 *=7 9 1
West Virginia...... 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3=3 4 3
Three base hits—Connolly, Phillips, Hamilton. Two base hits—Williams, Phillips, Wiley. Struck out—By Ryan, 5; by Boone, 3; by Pass, 6. Bases on balls— Off Ryan, 4; off Boone, 2. Hits—off Boone in three innings, 7j off Pass in six innings, 2. Sacrifice hit— Hamilton. Stolen bases—Hamilton (2); Ulatowski. Passed ball—Wyatt. Umpire—Cooke.
'	*	"Sr
‘ * .. * *
. TRIANGULAR MEET TO VARSITY.
In the first out-door meet of the season the Varsity gained ‘a total of 72 points, thereby distancing the Michigan Aggies with 42 and'
Armour Institute with 12. The hundred-yard dash was a pretty race. Martin won the first heat in the trials and Wasson the second. In the finals Wasson, who is alwavs a good starter, took the lead with Martin right on his heels. At the sixty-yard mark both men were running even, but Jimmie forged ahead and won by a small margin. In the mile Steers allowed Perkins to lead for the first half, but on the third quarter he took the lead, passed the third quarter line fifteen yards to the good, and finished an easy winner in 4:41. In the two mile Tillotson and Dana ran together until the last quarter when the “Rabbit” took the lead and won by a hundred yards. In the finish of the quarter mile “Long John” Devine cleared the tape with four yards to spare. Devine again won the half, and the 220 was Martin’s race all the way. In the 220 yard low hurdles Fletcher and Shaw came over the barriers “ neck and neck” until the second last hurdles was reached when Shaw took a tumble, letting “ Fletch ” win with ease. Summaries:
120 yard hurdles, won by.Shaw, M. A. C.; second, Fletcher, N. D.; third, Larson, Armour; time :i5 4—5.
100 yard dash, won by Wasson, N D.; second, Martin, N. D.; third, Forber, Armour; time :io.
One mile run, won by Steers, N. D.; second, Perkins, M. A. C.; third, Chambers, M. A. C.; time, 4:41.	•
440 yard run, won by Devine, N. D.; second, Knecht, M. A. C.; third, Duffy, N. D.; time, 151 1-3.
220 yard hurdles, won by Fletcher, N. D.; second, Shaw, M. A. C.; third, Hotchkin, Armour; time, :?4 4-5-	'
220 yard dash, won by Martin, N. D.; second, Forber, Armour; third, Giddings, M. A. C.; time, :2i 3-5-
Two mile run, won by Dana, N. D.; second, Tillotson, M. A. C.; third, Geib, M. A. C.; time, 10:09.
Half mile run, won by Devine, N. D.; second, Knecht, M. A. C.; third, Holden, Armour; time, 2:05.
Pole vault, won by Shaw, M. A. C.; second, Bercroft, M. A. C.; third, Rush, N. D.; distance, 10 feet 6 in.
Broad jump, won by Wasson, N. D.; second, Larson, Armour; third, Hill, M. A. C.; distance, 22 ft. 6% in.
Hammer throw, won by Vesper, M. A. C.; second, Dimmick, N. D.; third, Edwards, N. D.; distance, 126 feet.
Shot put, won by Philbrook, N. D.; second, Dimmick, N. D.; third, Campbell, M. A. C.; distance, 41 ft. 5 in. .
Discus throw, w J by Philbrook, N. D.; second, Dimmick, N. D.; third, Campbell, M. A. C.; distance, 125 ft.
High jump, won by Philbrook, N. D., and Lord, M. A. C., tied for first; third, Cheney, Armour; height, 5 ft. 11 1—8 inches.
Points, Notre Dame, 72; M. A. C., 42; Armour, 12. ..Referee and starter, “Bill” Draper, Notre Dame.