


sections Opinion News 1 Culture 15 -~ Cover~Story 24 .Sports 31 

•·,•''i:~,

Huinor 3~ 
•, 

features 
4 On Fear 
And a refusal to be held back 

1(0) Special Report 
Sex Education at Notre Dame 

1~ Mythbusters ND 
Does the leprechaun get a full ride? 

35 Talent Spotting 
Wom~n's basketball squad finds spark in toprecruit 
41 ChooseYour OwnAdventure 
Scholastic's guide to South Bend nightlife . 
42 Wanted: ND Singles 
The personal ads of the finest ladies and gentiemen this campus has to offer 
~­
4 FEBRUARY'2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 



EDN 
TES 
Love is in the air at Notre Dame. There is, of course, the fast approaching disaster 
.ofFebrurary 14, a holiday dreaded by both singles and clueless lovers alike (see Scholastic emerita Molly Slavin's opinion piece, page 5). Last week the Notre Dame campus was assailed with proof of an often ignored form of love on our campus. It was impossible to miss -the garish orange t-shirts dutifully donned, the posters, the viewpoints and the silent protest that began at the main gates of the university. Ultimately this protest ended with a tense and frigid wait outside of Main Building while students and faculty were denied entrance, until a secretary was dispatched to receive their letter for president Rev. John Jenkins, C.S.C. 
So let's take a walk to the other side of Highway 31. Saint Mary's non­discrimination clause does guarantee protection regardless of sexual orientation. Their non-discrimination policy reads: "Based on our Catholic values, the College also commits to avoiding discrimination based on sexual or political orientation." 
How about a roadtrip. Boston College? Check. Georgetown? Ditto. DePaul? You guessed it. Maybe it's not impossible for a Catholic university to reconcile the needs of an often silent minority and the Church's current stance on homosexual persons. Maybe the real impossibility is more of an issue of image. 
As perhaps the premier Catholic university in the United States, many consider Notre Dame an important masthead for the Church. Presumably, every decision the administration makes must be carefully weighed not only in its consequences for students, but for the Catholic Church's image in general. 
This also explains why culture editor Jason G'Sell's article "S*x Uncensored" touches on an especially delicate subject at Notre Dame. The Catholic Church is clear on its teaching about premarital sex and statistics are clear that most college students are having it anyway. How does a Catholic university enact its moral and real-world duty when it comes to students' sexual health? 
Speaking of real world duty, it's election time. Flip to page 24 for Scholastic's hard-hitting coverage ofyour 2010-2011 student body president hopefuls. Ifthat's not your cup of tea, humor editor Kathleen Toohill's "ND Personals" is sure to warm your heart. 
So in the spirit of St. Valentine, please enjoy the love. Through all the ups, down~ and perhaps even awkward squirming, we're in it with you. And so, I leave you with words from of the greatest romancers of all time: "Gentles, do not reprehend: / Ifyou pardon we will mend." 
xoxo, 
J,nt'Jluf 
Jen Wulf Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 

SOAPBOX 

ear 
An Essay by Malisha Samarasekera 
n the recent film "Up in the Air," George 
Clooney's character asks the audience 
during one of his lectures, "How much 
does your life weigh? Imagine for a second 
that you're carrying a backpack. I want you 
to pack it with all the stuffin your life ... you 
start with the little things." After watching 
the movie, I wondered what I would put 
in my own backpack. I would begin with 
something small, like textbooks from class 
and pictures of my family, maybe even my 
favorite book. Eventually, these little things 
would turn into big ones: relationships, 
morals, faith in a higher power. I could still 
lift my backpack -that is, until the last 
item is stuffed into the remaining space. 
Suddenly, the metaphorical backpack can 
no longer be moved, rendered stationary 
because of the excess weight. What holds my 
backpack down? Fear. 
We all have them: fears that impede our 
ability to live fully and without abandon. 
Ranging from a basic dislike of spiders 
or heights to more deep-seated fears of 
vulnerability or even death, it is what we are 
most afraid of that stops us from achieving 
what we want. We think as we grow older 
that our fears affect us less; what we do not 
realize is that these fears only grow stronger, 
manifesting themselves in ways we are 
oblivious to until the moment has passed. 
Our daily lives are perpetually altered by 
our hidden fears -the things that frighten 
us most become such a part of our identity 
that we cannot move past them because we 
forget that they are there. 
As a human being, it is impossible to live 
without fear. We may tell ourselves that 
nothing can scare us, might subject ourselves 
to the most terrifying of horror films or 
participate in extreme activities because a 
fear of pain is only for the weak, but in spite 
of our greatest efforts, we are always afraid. 
We care for our families and loved ones and 
therefore fear for their well-being; we have 
goals and ambitions and consequentially fear 
failure. Such worries and preoccupations 
4 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 
clearly illustrate our essential humanness, highlighting both our abilities to love and aspire to something greater than ourselves. In short, fear can be a good thing: it is what shows that we have passion. We need fear because being afraid means being vulnerable; it is only a positive, however, as long as we can move past it. Fear prevents us from being automatons by exposing a fracture in our facades of unconquerable strength, but when the fracture turns into a break, our fears become crippling. 
We grow up imagining that we will change the world, become a hero to someone, make a difference which will render our memories immortal; yet with every day, our resolve to go out blindly into the world with our dreams as our only guide weakens as we let the fear of reality grow stronger than our commitment to hope. This fear is silent, unknown, and often unacknowledged, and it is this that makes it most dangerous. We are frightened by the risk of venturing out into the harsh world armed with nothing but idealistic visions of a better .tomorrow, instead choosing to spend today wondering what could have been in the comfort of our stable lives. We are afraid to change because by changing we become different; we can no longer hide in the shadows of the conformed masses but are instead thrust into the light as everybody else stares. We are scared to be individuals because with individuality comes isolation -it is much easier to remain in the warmth of community than to prepare for the bitter cold which inevitably accompanies striking out on one's own .. We fear being alone in our quest to accomplish something great, and instead are content to revel in mediocrity with others as our talents decay along with our ambitions. 
As a soon-to-be-graduating senior, I see the decisions I've made about my rapidly­approaching future challenging these fears. I was offered the chance to work as an elementary school teacher in the Mississippi Delta as part of Teach for America -a 

_commitment which I was fully certain of until the minute before I (electronically) signed the papers. The reasons why I applied to Teach for America -the desire to open up the world to children through education, the need to do something with my Notre Dame degree besides immediately entering law school -no longer seemed as important when it became clear that I would be living ten hours away from my home in Ohio, on my own for the first time. My fear of being alone in uncharted territory was starting to win over my greater goals. 
And in spite of my fears, I pressed "Accept." I accepted a life which I am absolutely petrified of entering, because as a small individual in this great big world, that's often all you can do. I accepted moving to a region which I have never stepped foot in, to live with people I have never met before, because {-know that out of my fears will come something much more important. I accepted a career which I have never actually prepared for, because at some point, being afraid stops being an excuse. 
Though fear is an unavoidable reality of life, the only one which we should merit is the fear that we will leave this earth having not accomplished all that we are capable of doing. We must use this fear as a source of motivation, a call to move beyond the fright­induced paralysis which most ofus spend our lives trying to counteract. We face countless external obstacles on a daily basis without having to stuff the added burden of fear i_nto our already full backpacks. As human 
__ Q_~ngs, we are much stronger than we give oyrselves credit .for; every person should 
-be given the· opportunity to manifest this strength without the extra weight of his or her own personal trepidations. Let the world say "no" to our dreams; let our peers scoff at our nai've beliefs; let our parents chuckle that we are young and inexperienced. But never, ever let our fears inhibit what we are capable · of as intelligent and equipped members of society. 0 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine. · 


OPINION 
• , 
When I was in kindergarten, I choked on a candy heart during a class Valentine's Day 
celebration. My classmates laughed at the spectacle of poor, defenseless me choking. My teacher had to do the Heimlich, and the soggy treat lurched out of my mouth and descended to the ground. A long spit trail followed and I swear in my nightmares I can still hear the plop as it landed on the floor and coalesced into one giant spit puddle. I sat in humiliated silence, my cheeks turning bright red (festive) as a crowd of five-year-olds laughed and pointed. 
That is still approximately the feeling I get every time February 14 rolls around. It's like a bunch of five-y_ear-olds are laughing at me and spit is, against my will, spilling out of my mouth and onto the floor, making me, yet again, the most ridiculous, conspicuous and unattractive person in the room. 
If you can't tell, I really, really hate Valentine's Day -and for reasons other than my own personal , depression. I'm not ·. even going to talk about the loads of bright pink and red _Mylar balloons that taunt me With every · step I take that fateful day. I won't even bring up the flowers that are toted in my face · .. -by every girl 
i. 
Why Valentine's Day is DestrOying the World 
./" tiz?e's~ 211.:Uth~r,~ Mol,if Slat;_in; .·s~H6Ja.~Jc i/1~-;ritu1/'·;·
' ' " "'
• > ~ I ., -• , ..., 
who is apparently more lovable than me. I'm sure many readers are familiar with the sickening sense of doom and overwhelming, indescribable panic people like me get when they realize that they are destined to be alone for another year (at least). That feeling, along with the reality of spending the holiday looking up no-kill shelters to adopt the first of what is sure to be many future cats, are only the most trite and overdone aspects of this incredibly morbid, twisted, obscene holiday. 
Instead, for this rant against Valentine's Day, I'm going to get to the heart of the problem: my belief that Valentine's Day is going to bring about the apocalypse. No one thinks through his or her incredibly dangerous Valentine's Day actions, and that is why I am absolutely positive that Valentine's Day is going to destroy the planet. Hear me out. 
First of all, what about the environmental implications of the holiday? It can't be good to cut down all those flowers. I don't know a lot about botany, but I'm sure they provide some sort of important ecological service. And all those wrappings from chocolates piling up in landfills? Popped balloons littering the streets? It's just unethical. This is Notre Dame, the home of the Center for Social Concerns, and all the people who are ostensibly celebrating love are reaily causing global warming. Thanks a lot. We all really appreciate that your selfishness is going to destroy 
the environment. 

The views ofthis author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magdzini. 
, • l • 
I hope you're prepared for the inevitable wrath of Al Gore. And what about the upward spike in depressed parents around the holiday? I'm thinking beyond my own depressed feelings now -every year when my mom calls me on Valentine's Day and I still don't have anyone to celebrate with, I can hear her die a little inside. I think it's bad that people celebrating Valentine's Day cause sadness for mothers everywhere. 
Another point against Cupid. 
Last but not least, think of all the 
things that could be accomplished 
on ·this day. I am sure that there are 
scientific discoveries to be made, 
programs to be created, Nobel Prizes to 
be won, but the world's leading doctors/ 
politicians/peaceniks are probably too 
busy on February 14 comforting their 
bawling friends to do anything of real 
substance. Valentine's Day is why cancer 
still exists, the national unemployment 
rate is abysmal and why there is no 
peace in the Middle East. No one has 
time to devote to these pressing causes. 
when there are sad friends to so_othe: 
So in sum: I hate Valentine's Day for more than silly, lonely, "Why doesn't anyone love me?" reasons. I hate Valentine's Day -and so should you ­because it is destroying the world. vVhen your children are living in an ecological wasteland full of crying, unemployed parents, a continuing •Palestinian conflict and rising rates of cancer, don't you dare blame me. Blame yourselves for participating in the havoc that brought about the downfall of life as we know it. And you'll notice I said "your" not "our" children (because I won't be. able to have any). All altruistic notions about wanting to save the world from the ho.rror of Valentine's Day aside, I'm still pretty bitter about that. 0 
4 FEBRUARY 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I5 
I 

OPINION
!,, 
' 
I' 0 
j\ 

Ill Uganda
I 

' 
I 
l:agically, when genuine human rightsI candals occur internationally, there 
s often far too little media coverage devoted to them. A political war is currently being waged in Uganda to enact a policy that would systematically rob citizens ofmanyoftl1eir civil rights. Uganda's "Anti-Homosexuality Bill" is an affront to human dignity; worse, its threat has been virtually ignored in ilie United States. 
Under ilie bill, individuals who participate in homosexual acts are liable for life imprisonment. Those who commit "aggravated homosea1ality," which includes serial offenders, are subject to a deatl1 sentence. Citizens or permanent residents ofUganda who violate ilie law outside ofUganda would be extradited and ilien prosecuted, making it impossible for homosexuals to escape the tyranny by leaving the country. Ifilie bill's goal is to protect ilie traditional family values and youili ofUganda from ilie tl:ireat ofhomosexual influence as the text states, this clause seems unnecessary and counterproductive by forcing homose;,.1.rnls to return. It suggests, ratl1er, tlrnt the true goal of the bill is to marginalize and abuse a minority group. 
The bill does not just transgress upon the rights ofhomose;,."Ual persons -it compromises ilie rights ofany individual who happens to know a homose;,."Ual person. The bill reads: 
';4 person in fl1ttho1·ity, who being flwm·e of the commission offl1l)' offence under this Act, omits to report the offence to the relevmzt flllthorities within twenty-four ho111-s ofhflvingfi1·sthfldthflt knowledge, commits fl1l offe11ce fl1ld is liflble on convictio11 to fl fi11e not exceeding two lm11dredm1dfifty currencypoi11ts 01· i111priso11111e11t not exceeding three yem-s." 
Under this law one must choose between betraying neighbors and friends or suffering a potential iliree years in prison. 
The language of the bill is shocking both in its blatant violation of basic human rights and in its ignorant and dangerously broad language: For example, in tl1e "Interpretation" portion of the proposed bill, tl1e language utilized in the law is defined. A "sexzlfll flct" which is potentifllly pzmis!Jflble by deflth includes: fl) physimlse:x1tfliflctivity thflt does not 11ecesSflrily culminflte in intercourse mzd mfly include the touching ofmzother's b1wst, vflginfl, penis or flmts." This definition could include even accidental or joking contact between friends. 
\Vhile the bill has not yet passed, reports indicate that its enactment is not unlikely. Though the United States' attempt to assert political influence in developing countries could often be judged inappropriate and ultimately 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 detrimental, Notre Dame has a unique role to play in this development. Notre Dame has strong ties to Uganda which have been forged both tl1rough ilie Congregation ofHoly Cross, which leads seven local religious communities tl1ere, and tl1e Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative. TheMillenniumVillage Project, part of the development initiative, provides Notre Dame students and faculty an opportunity to work wiili villagers in developing interventions and conducting research. The university has invested substantial financial i;esources into fostering development in Uganda tlu-ough this initiative, including building a school in the region. Additionally, each year Notre Dame students travel to Uganda for service and study abroad opportunities. This intimate relationship with Uganda provides us with an opportunity to educate citizens on Christian beliefs on homosexuality and use ourinfluence to promote positive policy changes while discouraging policies which would allow the government to discriminate against its own citizens and foster human rights violations. 
The prospective passage of the bill also requires Notre Dame to retl1ink tl1e viability of sending students to Uganda for service initiatives. Can Notre Dame responsibly endorse initiatives which require students, especially LGBTQ students, to reside in a country threatening imprisonment or death to those who_ violate ilie bill? 
The Anti-Homosexuality Bill also sheds light on an issue which affects Notre Dame even more intimately. The rationale for the bill faintly echoes' Notre Dame's reasoning for excluding se;,."Ual orientation from its non-discrimination clause in iliat its cited objective is ilie protection oftraditional values. The bill reads: 
"The objectofthisBillisto estflblish acomprehe11Sive co11Solidflted legislfltion to protect the tmditioilfllfimzily byprohibiting (i) f/11)'Jann ofsextlfllrelfltio11s between persons of the sflme sex; mzd (ii) the pi-oniotion 01· recognition of such sexzwl relfltions in public institutions mzd other plflces through or with the suppoi-t off/71)' Govmmzent entity in Ugmzda or any non governmental orgmzization inside or outside the comzt:Jy." 
Though Notre Dame would certainly never allow iliis type of discrimination, this further emphasizes why we must clearly articulate our stance against discrimination railier ilian skirt tl1e issue. 
When a country like Uganda attempts to justifytl1e subjugation and brutality ofa minority 
group by appealing to Christian values, it is more 
important than ever tlrnt Notre Dame, as the 
premier Catholic university, sets an example tlrnt 
intolerance and bigotry are not acceptable. How 
can Notre Dame teach the Catholic doctrine 
of love and acceptance, taking a stand against 
_policies ofhate like ilieAnti-Homosexuaiity Bill, 
when it will not guarantee non-discrimination to 
all students and staff? 
Last Wednesday iliere was a demonstration on 
campus campaigning to have sexual orientation 
added to Notre Dame's non-discrimination 
clause. Over 200 Notre Dame students and 
faculty wore white and gatl1ered at tl1e gates of 
Notre Dame, covering tl1eir mouths witl1 purple 
tape to symbolize the silence forced on members 
of the LGBTQ community. After marching to 
the Dome in silence and reading a prayer and a 
letter to Father Jenkins, ilie five demonstration 
leaders peacefully attempted to enter Main 
Building in order to deliver the letter. They 
were denied entrance. The university's decision 
to bar these students' from entering their own 
administrative building clearly illustrates tl1at the 
LGBTQ community does not have a voice witl1 
which to address tl1eir president. Though Rev. 
'JohnJenkins, C.S.C. later met with the leaders, 
this does not excuse his refusal to acknowledge 
the presence ofhundreds ofconcerned students 
calmly waiting to be heard. 
As a Catholic university, the challenges facing 
society can become even more difficult to interpret 
and respond to. Regardless of the Church and 
one's personal views on homosexuality, itis fairly 
uncontroversial tlrnt tl1e message of Christian 
Scriptures is one oflove and forgiveness, openness 
and understanding. Discrimination and tl1e hate 
it reveals do not have a place in iliat message. 
Whether it is our failure to provide legal 
protection for LGBTQ individuals on campus 
or:to provide a voice for those being silenced in 
1,Jganda, Notre Dame students, faculty and staff 
cannot afford to veil tl1is issue any longer. The :...A:i1ti-Homosexuality Bill must be addressed in 
Uganda. \Vhether this means suspending student 
trips to tl1e country or establishing a campus­
wide campaign is for our campus community 
to decide. Perhaps by focusing on ilie wrongs 
occurring in Uganda we can begin to reflect 
upon what message our own policies are sending 
as well. 
The views expressed in these colunms are not 
necessarily the views ofScholastic·Magazine. 

4 FEBRUARY 2010 SCHOLASTIC I 7 
iPad Here's the sad truth: It may seem pointless now, but in three years we will all need one. 
LOST 
Fifteen exhilarating episodes until we are inevitably disappointed by the finale. 
Ii_ 

'] -Finny's Reverse Cover ==_-===~ -·==·-_-No joke, they are actually paying 
=-=· 
== 
=-=---=-===-=--====--== people not to go to Fever. Save 
·== 
i ' your dollars and your dignity. 

11:--------------,---­
i'------------------­
i! Saints in the Super Bowl 
__ ___ Their mascot makes them the 
=-==-==-=--=-=-===--== NFL's Catholic team, but ReggieBush is still the worst person ever. 
8 ISCHOLASTIC I4 FEBRUARY 2010 


HOWTO 
Creatively campaign for student body president 
Alyssa Morones 
When campaigning for the prestigious office of student body president, candidates have many options for self-promotion. While some may choose a more conventional route (i.e. Facebook groups, snazzy 
posters), others may appeal to the student body through more ... creative means. Here are just a few simple ideas. candidates can employ on this year's campaign trail.1Make promises that sound really" cool in theory: ·Everyone knows campaigning politicians never keep their promises, so why not shoot for the stars this upcoming election? Promise a beer dispenser in North Dining Hall (for the over-21 crowd, of course) or a recreational zip line that extends between the Dome and the Basilica. 2Dress up as your favorite obscure president during the week leading up to election day: Anyone can claim to be the "Lincoln of the present." As a result, such claims are more easily disregarded. Instead, dress as the obscure U.S. president with whom you most identify. Because, really, James K. Polk doesn't get enough credit. 3Sign a treaty with Notre Dame's squirrel population: Everyone's tired of the tense squirrel-student relations on campus. Promote a friendlier, more trusting campus environment while hyping your peacekeeping abilities. The downside is, this method of campaigning implies that you can (or think you can) talk to squirrels. Bribe the media: People saY. any publicity is good publicity, but in reality, 
4
good publicity is better than bad publicity. Therefore, it may be in your best interest to find a journalist willing to talk you up a bit in his or her election coverage. In the grand scheme ofthings, this is a more ethical alternative than, let's say, having your opponents "whacked." Just go to confession in a couple weeks. (I am currently accepting "donations.") 5Have free give-aways: Just because we're in a recession doesn't mean you 
can't still give away cool, if cheap, campaign favors. At your next campaign event "make it rain" Ramen noodles, or just collect a very large group of friends to hijack some free Costco samples that you can later hand out to your constituents. 
6Drive around in a Campaign Mobile: Steal a golf cart, strap a banner to it and drive around until you get caught. · g 


NBC News Anchor Chosen as Commencement Speaker 
Alexandra Moulton 
While this year's commencement ceremony will take place in an entirely different venue from the media circus that was the 2009 commencement, it will feature another promineritfigure in American culture. Brian Williams, current anchor of NBC Nightly News, has been named the commencement speaker for the graduating class of2010._The ceremony will take place in Notre Dame Stadium for the first time in school history. 
The process of choosing a commencement speaker at Notre Dame involves decision making by many university officials; students, however, have more influence than they think. 
"Anyone associated with the University of Notre Dame is encouraged to submit suggestions for commencement speakers," Dennis Brown, University Spokesman and Assistant Vice President for Public Information and Communications ·at Notre Dame, says. "We keep an active list of possible invitees, and Father Jenkins, in consultation with board members, officers and other leaders of the university, makes the final decision." 
Students can suggest names of speakers at any time to university leaders or student government representatives. 
"Some institutions annually have the university president serve as the primary speaker, others always select an alumnus, and others make a selection in ways similar to our 'process at Notre Danie," Brown says. 
Notre Dame's efforts are focused on bringing speakers from all walks of life to the commencement ceremony. Past speakers have corn,e fro!Il a variety of fields, including former NBC journalist Tom Brokaw, comedian Bill Cos by and former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
Williams has be.en awarded five Emmy awards and the prestigious George Foster Peabody Award in his career as a journalist. 
"He has witnessed success..,__suffering, confusion, chaos, peace and war," Notre Dame· Student Body President Grant Schmidt says.· "Given Mr. Williams' unparalleled experience with a number of pressing issues, I am confident that he will inspire us all with !ill extremely applicable address." 0 
things we should protest at Notre Dame 

The Carnivorous Fish Ban 
2People who play broomball sober 

aNGstY Facebook statuses :*( 
4 The Second Amendm;,,,t 
5 Section Events . 
. 
4 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 
SPECIAL REPORT SEX EDUCATION 


10 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 
!J 

SEX EDUCATION SPECIAL REPORT 
Jason G'Se/1
"sex kills. So come to Notre Dame 
and live forever." 
This is the slogan that graced the front of t-shirts worn by a faction 6f outspoken Notre Dame students in 2003. While this statement was made in jest, the underlying issues it represents raise questions as to the proper place of sex education at a Catholic university. 
One opinion on Notre Dame's ability to provide sex education to students lies in the 2009 Trojan ·Sexual Health Report Card, an annual report of sexual health resources at American colleges and universities issued by the condom manufacturer, Trojan. This report has consistently ranked Notre Dame as one of the least sexually healthy schools in the nation, listing it at 130th for 2009. 
Of the 141 universities ranked on the report card, all eight Catholic institutions fell in the bottom 20. Reasons include the lack of availability of condoms and the inability to obtain birth control from Health Services for contraceptive purposes. 
"Considering some of the categories that the report was j.udged on, such as 'contraceptive availability-and cost' and 'condom availability and cost,' I think that as a Catholic university Notre Dame should have scored badly on at least these two categories," senior~-/ Katrina Peller, co-L.. {_4._ 
Stein Project, says. "Perhaps we should 
form our own rubric on which · to base Catholic 
universities"sexual 
health."' The Edith Stein Project, an annual conference 
on campus, addresses how to integrate Catholic teaching .with issues of gender, sexuality and human dignity. 
While some have argued that Notre Dame students are . less sexually active than their state-school peers, results reported that they had engaged in sexual intercourse while students atNotre Dame. Results from an informal survey of 100 
undergraduate~·... -.. ·..
conducted by / £L.._ 
1 10
~:!: ::\erce: :.ot~ fC . 
respondents think I think that most students 
that percentage just think that the Catholic would be higher 
Church teaches 'sex is bad
today. The 
question, then, before marriage.' There is 1s not if Notre 
a lot more to the Church's
Dame students are sexually active, 
teaching than that. i'~··.·.·' they
i:·•·•·;·.··:w~ich live.
but what Notre .Y.:JY~. With over 40 Dame is doing in 
-KATRINA PELLER, CO-CHAI~ ! percent of current response. Notre Dame 
THE EDITH STEIN PROJECT
According to recent data released by the Center for Disease Control, approximately one­third of adolescents have not received instruction on methods of birth control before the age of 18, leaving Catholic universities in the unique position of having to educate students on sexual health while still advocating Catholic sexual values. Just how aware are Notre Dame students of sexual health issues? 
A Touchy Subject 
Eighty-two percent of respondents 
to the Scholastic survey reported having received some formal sex education before coming to Notre 
chair of the Edith'!W\A"°iJdo think sometimes the Dame. Despite this 
19 1· high percentage, shame or embarrassment 
many students are 
or guilt -or perceived still uncomfortable discussing matters guilt -that comes from related to sexuality 
breaking the church and sexual health. Heather Rakoczy teaching stops people from Russell director 
asking good questio.ns.1~........ fl-~of N~tre Dame's . 7~1..:;.jJGender Relations /J JI Center expla1·11s
-HEATHER RAKOCZY RUS,£ELV h ' . N,
t at most 1 otre DIRECTOR OF THE GENDER Dame students have 
RELATIONS CENTER had conversations 
before coming to 
college about being sexually active. She also says, however, "Where they seem to be really lacking is in a refined or a mature understanding discussing these things openly... If there is some lack of comfort discussing things, then people tend to live in ignorance." 
While the potential causes of this discomfort abound, many credit the high number of students coming from same-sex high schools and the Catholic environment in 
undergraduates graduating from Catholic high schools, the guilt and shame that occasionally accompany premarital sex have grown to pervade discussion and discourse about the issue. 
"I do think sometimes the shame or embarrassment or guilt -or perceived guilt -that comes with breaking the Church teaching stops people from asking good questions," Rakoczy Russell says. "Part of students being educated on a subject is them being willing to engage in the conversations and the dialogue and I think there is a general lack of comfort in that area." 
Discomfort with discussion, however, does not always lead to lack of action. "I hear too frequently that it doesn't stop them from having sex or engaging in physical relationships," Rakoczy Russell says. "\Vhat it stops them from doing is getting educated and so they don't learn about birth control." 
The Edith Stein Project features one opportunity for dialogue around the issue of birth control. This month, the conference will feature a presentation entitled "Natural Family Planning vs. Contraception: ·what's the Big Deal?" focusing on the positive and negative aspects of birth control and natural family planning. The conference tries to provide a forum for discussion that is both positive and optimistic surrounding many issues of sexuality. 
As the percentage of college students engaging in sexual activity increases nationally, what is Notre Dame doing 
from a school-wide survey administered of themselves as sexual beings, and so · to integrate faith formation with sexual in 1990 show that at that time, 50 what I think is a common issue among health education? percent of undergraduate respondents our students is a 'lack of comfort around 
4 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 
SPECIAL REPORT SEX EDUCATION 
Taking Action 
Since the creation of the Gender Relations Center (GRC)in 2004, Notre Dame has implemented a number of programs to educate students on issues of sex and sexuality. 
In order to reach students early in their college career, the Contemporary Topics course required for all freshmen includes a section on relationships, sex and sexuality. Students are asked to read a series of four articles followed by eight pages of frequently asked questions dealing with the Catholic Church's teachings on sex and sexuality and then write a two-page reflection paper. "I was 
terribly surprised, positively so, that resoundingly first-year students found the part that was most helpful was the Catholic Church teaching," Rakoczy Ru_ssell says. "Many of them had gone to Catholic schools and had never been told the Catholic Church teaching as plainly as it appeared in that document." 
"I think that most students just think that the Catholic Church teaches 'sex is bad before marriage,"' Peller says. "There is a lot more to the Church's teaching than that." 
Darrell Paulsen, a member of Campus Ministry working in the area of marriage preparation and enrichment, explains that the Catholic theology regarding sexuality is more than mandates of right and wrong. "The Church teaching is there to help people ... It's created based on life experiences and the tradition of the Church," he says. 

While the section includes resources for pregnant students and survivors of rape and sexual assault, it does not provide any information concerning sexual health, contraception or sexually transmitted infections. 
To fill this void, the GRC presents an annual panel discussion on sex education and sexual health. Part of their "Signature Series" of forums, this panel features a female university physician, a male alumnus OB/GYN practicing in the South Bend area and a Master of Divinity graduate student. Students can have questions answered about any topic, often ranging from university policy to general health to moral questions. 
While the forum was previously held in the residence halls to provide a single-sex environment, this past fall it was presented to a co-ed audience in Geddes Hall. "We've tried to do the Signature Series same-sex in the halls and we've also done it this last fall co-ed and I didn't notice· a diff~rence," Rakoczy Russell says. "People-were equally nervous, uncomfortable, reluctant to talk, single­sex or co-ed, so I think it's the subject." 
Notre Dame, Our Mothers 
The discomfort surrounding sex frequently extends to lack of knowledge about the risks of pregnancy. This is evident in the numerous myths on Notre Dame's campus surrounding student pregnancy. While many rumors point to students being expelled or kicked off 


12 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 
SEX EDUCATION SPECIAL REPORT 
campus for becoming pregnant, Associate Vice President for Student Affairs Ann Firth writes in an e-mail to Scholastic, "Notre Dame is committed to offering students resources to support the choice of life." "Student Affairs offers a wtde array of resources to assist students who ~re facing an unintended pregnancy .:,_· we support both ~omen -ancJ )Jlen· in these -situations, and we· are committed ··· to~--providing caring, nqn-juclgmental q~sistance," -Firth says. 
Resources include a reevaluation of fina-iicial aid and housing options, medical referrals to local OB/GYNs, assistance with academic matters and pastoral care. "Pregnant students can also choose to continue to live in their residence halls," Firth says. Students who are pregnant face no disciplinary consequences, and the university is committed to helping the mother carry her baby to term. 
These resources, however, are not always well known. Only 33 percent of survey respondents believe that Notre Dame provides enough resources to students who are pregnant. "I don't think they are well publicized," Rakoczy Russell says. "Part of what the university can be working on is to make sure that the right information is-out there and _ easily accessible." 
To help make this information more available, the GRC is launching a new pregnancy resources campaign. The campaign will feature postcards set out in chapels, posters around campus and brochui:e's. The pro-life task force founded by Fr. John Jenkins, C.S.C. in response to President Obama's commencement visit has also proposed a similar campaign to make better known the university's supportive policies of pregnant students. 
The Faith Factor 
But while some argue that Catholic teaching on sex creates a culture of ignorance, others push for tighter faith integration. "Might ~some students feel like they're not ha-ving access. to all 
,_ -of the information they want to get? 
! I guess some students could say that," Rakoczy Russell says. "But they could go just about anywhere online to get the practical information they want, and the deeper conversati9n about how do you integrate this into your faith development" 


SPECIAL REPORT SEX EDUCATION 
and your moral development ... actually happens here with great frequency." 
Many professors also use the classroom setting to further these conversations. Fr. MarkPoorman, C.S.C., vice president for Student Affairs, teaches a theology class entitled "Relationships and Sexuality" that deals with Christian ethics and Roman Catholic moral theology in the context of human sexuality and sexual ethics. "When given a serious venue to consider the issues, [students] are very candid about their own perspectives on the morality of premarital sex, cohabitation, contraception and other important issues," Poorman writes in an e-mail to 
I 
Scholastic. "They offer thoughtful
I 
I'.• 
i 
·i 
Vli 
j I 
·,: 

constructive discussions about the 
campus culture with regard to sexuality 
and the value of Catholic Church 
teaching in providing moral guidance 
on sexual° matters." 
Other, Catholic universities have 
taken· steps to create an atmosphere 
where dialogue about sex can flourish. 
Georgetown University, ranked 121st 
on Trojan's Report Card, introduced its 
first "Sex Positive Week" in February 
2009. Intended to stimulate a frank and 
open discussion about sexuality, Sex 
Positive featured events and discussions 
surrounding topics ranging from 
pornography and BDSM (Bondage, 
Discipline, Sadism, Masochism) to 
vfrginity and celibacy. As a product of 
three student groups, the event was not : organized by university officials, but did obtain university funding. . "I·think that the more we talk about 
,the integration of sexuality into our · psychology, into our spirituality, the /better off we'll be," Paulsen says. 
For many students, college is a time 
to solidify their identity and morals. As 
discussion surrounding sexual identity 
and sexual ethics at Notre Dame is 
suppressed or ignored, some students 
can be left in the dark. "As a university 
we can always do more to increase our 
students' education about sexuality 
and sexual ethics, both within the 
curriculum and in our co-curricular 
opportunities," Poorman says. 
14 j SCHOLASTIC j 4 FEBRUARY 2010 

4 FEBR{!~_RY. 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 15 

. . . ·. . . . -C;J:;~'F?:: ....~~?;>,,:·iJY .. 
Notre Dame SYmPh'cfny o·rchestra . .(i1f:1Wint.er 201OConcert ~t~:~1~13tpt;:~f~1f1;ii:!1 tt:lJ" . _
W)jen.,l<n;._021/12 ,}7;,3.0/P:M-·c,,, i __ ,,:' _ {"'·~ ; .. 
•,, ····,,,'••';it~ ~I)··Mu_sr~J1~~ifut~;l~1t~;i~.~1.:blyJ·B1u;~ei'jql~~~;th~' 1lls7f~tfitttt1!1i!i(~~;~f~iHtE!rt··~· · ''"· ~·~5f:'~~E:~!i1i2ittifii~I1:t~5;( 




CULTURE 

Kristy C/oetingh and Maria Sellers 
otre Dame is no stranger to rumors -whether it's about a famous pop singer 
stopping by for a campus tour or just who is going to enlighten graduating speakers 
at commencement, our campus is used to tall tales and hearsay. But what about the rumors that refuse to die down after weeks of Face book statuses and text.messages? Assistant Culture Editors Kristy Cloetingh and Maria Sellers uncovered the reality behind some of Notre Dame's most persistent legends. 
N
MYTH: WORN AND DAMAGED CRUCIFIXES FROM ND CLASSROOMS ARE SUBMERGED IN THE CAMPUS LAKES. NEW CRUCIFIXES CAN BE PROCURED VIA A CROSS HOTLINE. 
This myth is half true, half false. Worn and damaged crucifixes from ND classrooms are not being submerged in the lakes, but new crucifixes can be obtained by a call to Academic Space Management. 
"There are three ways that the Catholic Church allows discarding of blessed objects ... one to bury them, two to burn them and three to submerge them in deep water," Director of Academic Space Management Joe Schellinger says. "For the past 21 years that I have been with the university, we have never submerged any crucifixes into the lakes on campus." 
Instead, they have donated used crucifixes to local Catholic gra~e schools and high schools. The broken crucifixes are buried in new building sites around campus. Academic Space Management performs a classroom inventory biannually. Crucifixes are checked and replaced as needed during this time. In some cases, students or faculty will report a broken or missing crucifix to the office. · 
"I order the new crucifixes and have Fr. Rocca, C.S.C. or another campus priest bless them before they are placed into a classroom," Schellinger says. 
MYTH: THE GIPPER HAUNTS WASHINGTON HALL. 
In 1920, George "The Gipper" Gipp allegedly slept on the steps· ofWashington Hall, caught pneumonia and died on December 14. Ever since then, the t'umor that the Gipper haunts the dormitory­turned-theatre has practically become fact among the student body. But is this rumor true? 
"Perhaps this is d~e to the fact that I don't believe in ghosts, but I have never _se_en any evidence of the Gipp's existence," Washington Hall.Manager Ron Grisoli says. "I have never seen nor heard anytl:i1:ng in this building that could not be rationally explained. I will say that the steam heating system (like in many other old buildings) can produce unpredictable noises. Also, the sinoke hatches above the mainstage have rubber seals that create 
a 'creepy' noise on very windy days," Grisoli says. "Washington Hall is a very old building, so we have lots ofstrange noises all the time," assistant manager of 
Washington Hall Kathleen Lane says. Perhaps this is · why Scholastic failed to conjure the ghost ofthe Gipp er last year during a seance at Washington Hall. 
18 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 
t 
MYTH: THE LEPRECHAUN GETS 
A FULL RIDE. 
It makes sense, doesn't it? He's the mascot of the university, the face of Notre Dame, in charge of representing the sports teams and getting the crowds fired up for football and basketball games. Why shouldn't the Leprechaun get some sort of financial aid, if not a full ride? His commitment to the school is practically legendary. .. -<~~l 
~11,":;___ l ,.,
And yet, the Leprechaun does not get free 



l .·· • ,> "):?:~~,,,--,,,, E?;~,\\
tuition; this rumor has "zero basis in reality," Kyle Chamberlin, 2005 Leprechaun and current third year law student, says. "In fact, the leprechaun does not receive a dollar in 
-~-... 
scholarship aid, nor does any other member of the cheerleading team. But even in retrospect 
'·· 
I wouldn't trade the intangible rewards for a 
:J'." •
full ride." 
MYTH: CARBOHYDRATES ON THE VEGETABLES AT 
THE DINING HALL. 
This rumor has been discussed more than the football team's new coach. Ask anyone and they will tell you with conviction that the lettuce leaves and other vegetables at the dining hall salad bars are sprayed with a certain chemical that is high in calories to ensure that students who overdose on greens are still getting the nutrition they need. 
This rumor, however, has been busted. Manager of Nutrition and Safety Jocelyn Antonelli insists that "there is absolutely no truth to this rumor. We don't spray our vegetables with anything." The vegetables in the salad bars around campus are, she says, "no different than the ones you would get at home, a restaurant, or the grocery store." In fact, in regards to other rumors revolving around the food on campus, "our food is wholesome as if you purchased it at Martins," Antonelli says. Not only are chemicals not added to the food, but if they were, Notre Dame would be committing an illegal act. "Under the Indiana and Federal Food Codes, food establishments are not allowed to add such things to the food," she says. 
MYTH: YOU ARE NOT ALLOWED TO WALK 
ON THE GRASS OF GOD QUAD. 
Many have gathered on the grass of God Quad, especially during home football game weekends. But is it really against duLac to walk on that lawn? 
This myth is mostly false. It depends on the context of the situation. 
Assistant Director of the Office of Residence Life & Housing Kathleen O'Leary says, "While there is no policy discussing such behavior, there are policies th'<lt address damage to property or behavior that causes a serious disturbance to the University community."­
The Office of Residence Life and Housing makes decisions on a case-by-case basis, and sanctions issued in response to violations of these policies vary based on the nature of the incident. 
We suggest you stick to the sidewalks though. After all, there is that other myth about a walk on the God-Quad grass bringing bad luck to the football season... @ 
4 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 19 

CULTURE 






Campus Chat:t:er 
DEPARTMENT OF BENGAL BOUTS 

I'll be honest. The only reason I attend Bengal Bouts (other than to support its efforts in Bangladesh) is to feast my eyes upon some seriously cut Notre Dame man-candy. Don't deny it ladies, I know that's why you're there shoving down handfuls of popcorn while gazing in awe. I'm not judging, because I'm right there with you. So when the opportunity arose for one lucky Scholastic kid to spend the day observing Bengal Bouts practice, I jumped on it like The Situation on a Jaeger bomb. Fist pump. 
As I hurried to theJACC on Monday, trying to avoid being blown down by the South Quad windstorm, I started to get a little nervous. It started with one bike, then two, then six, then 10 whizzing past me. Without realizing it, I started to hum the Wicked Witch of the West theme song. Most of these guys were huge, and none of them were smiling. Inside the JACC, they moved as a herd, tramping down into the pit. I was the· only bouncing ponytail in the whole bunch. 
The first thing I noticed was the smell. Whoever cleans the football locker room needs to get down there stat and start sanitizing. I lingered in the corner as the boys wrapped up their hands, started hitting the bags or shadowboxed in the mirror. I finally figured out where Bengal Bouts president Chris Cugliari was and he gave me the run-down for practice: Novices would be sparring in the rings to start, with those not signed up doing calisthenics and technique work up in the field house. The veterans would be training up in Gym 1, returning downstairs to spar when the novices were done. 
I drifted towards the lower ring and started chatting with the student medic. After getting the basic name, dorm, major, etc. down, I asked him ifany serious injuries ever occurred during practice. His response: "Like, more than a broken or bloody nose?" I gingerly touched my conspicuous nose ring and shuddered. As I started to watch the fights from the otherside of the ropes, !_became my mother's daughter and winced with every hit. This was only practice and the boys were taking a serious beating. I wasn't surprised when blood starting spurting during the third fight. I took this as my cue to see what the other boys were up to. 
After observing both the novices and the veterans, I noticed a clear difference in fitness. While the novices were dragging their feet and trying to figure out who I was and why I was watching them, the veterans barely registered my presence. The focus and intensity in the 
veteran gym was palpable, and I was more than a little intimidated. These guys meant business. As I went back downstairs to watch 
20 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 
the veterans spar, their experience became even more evident. Coaches rarely stopped these fights, yelling advice from the side. The hits were harder, blocked more often. After talking to senior captain John Maier and junior captain] ohn Tchoula, it became obvious where the dedication came from. Both these boys had been disappointed their freshman year and came back each year more dedicated and in better shape than the year before. Maier, who traveled to Bangladesh to see the fruition of Bengal Bouts, attributed his improvement to a heightened perspective ofwhat Bengal Bouts could achieve, a greater focus in staying in shape year-round, paying attention to nutrition and taking a break from drinking while in season. Translation: Lay off the Natty so you don't become a fatty. 
As I began to gather my things and put back on the three layers of clothing (the most propriety would allow for removal) that I had peeled off in the pit's sauna-like climate, I ran into the medic from earlier. I asked him how the rest of the day's sparring went, and he replied, "There's been a lot ofblood today." Yikes. 
-Lauren Cook 

CULTURE 

.. 
</Jon't know what to get your sweetie? Squeeze? i:gl'e muffin? </Jarlin' honey bunny cuddle cakes? We know your schnooklefritz won't appreciate just any old -Valentine's gift. J\fo niatter what "</Jest Coup(e el'er!" you claim to be, we'l'e got the gift ideas to niake you the nwnber one romance,: 
Clara Ritger 
/,,.,,,,-~" ; . . . ,: . ' . . . . ...... -~­
( 'f'l}tJ<l! [bTa&~tfJXI!lil@JfJiJ@r;;f1,mmm@· (~«ilk(?! (P§u.tw@~~.\ 


,·i'. ~~K~1A~@'~jG£~~i~ i;;.k~1r<;x~©~itw~~'f:l®1;)' .··· · 
·· (~,{~~tcwlkfrf /,}f©t~'@ uv,•/,i,---f.;14llf-'~Il,9\w at~r!!Xm'5_}®J Lt[fl.<G •··· m.[f (~lf91t~k @J1'~q,,tjhi:,<§iJDLkor,;J}0sr;_-tikills@fffnX<fi it.@©'.~{ii'.li~ j~~Lf;~. · ... ' ,t~l0:itiil1Jef~-, .[~~ CQTh'.t@~;J iJIJ1m [h1)11,;@Y@Ji{t~,:,:. \f~f~'.t~ ii{~ La:~11g<t1 · fiitrwi«t..~~j~ ml~ r~~Q.l=',iffr1Jlif~t;~11@1§ @lnilir-® !i!t ~'f§J.w · 
' ,, , '. " ~Jll~:m~tif)§ <4lMW [§ §l[@©t<&ltii~ ILi}[[® . .., . . .· ·,·• (iJK'(41.ilrl~«f~J(g}ID\~iD,:k:f! h'iliilW·fi"\\\~<K':ii~1'·.·.. . Or ftD.iifn'r--l~'f&~nlffr'l;'i (ti.~ fn)itiJfil~ (qjJ ,,;•;f~nl~\J' .• \. ,@ui.cli {f!if@:~<'.Q)J:@ l~@iV;i.~, ltl~~i.n~ii!lik~f2 ·.. 
.;:.:;:=:~~:=:=~~l~~tt~]~r: 
..·. ··· t\it~ •rl.K-e'C%~itg)Jl ffiifil ij)]!r S1@:ttf}ioc:@~7 {i@Wl&Lir.fil ··©ifKi!It11iJ11~d)~j~{~l'i\i@irf!!1®ir. [~ill<@ ii• ,§:iJiitiil~@ 
•. . , ./~frn_iillih:iTi.~~ ,wl~, ,t'f@l! ©!\iii [!~fa Thx~wtt~:r

··.•,:.•::::?::::z~=:=it!~!!:::'•:'.··..· 
·••• lilt7'~ ~ ~i;j} !1.(~J.h.W@fila.iil 
4 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 21 

· Chris Milazzo 
''Fact or fiction?" That is the first question one might ask after seeing one of the many inspirational films that inhabit Hollywood's mythos, and occasionally Notre Dame's (R11dy, anyone?). "Is this amazing story really true?" For Extrao1·dinary Measures, the answer is "yes." In the film, John Crowley, frustrated by the slow pace of pharmaceutical research, leaves the security of his corporate job to start a biotechnology company to find a cure for his children's rare disease. "Itwasa buildup over two years till we finally got to the point where we were frustrated with the pace of research and we wanted to step up and make a difference," says the real­life Crowley, a Notre Dame Law alumnus and now President and CEO of Amicus Therapeutics. His children were diagnosed in 1998 with Pompe's disease, which prevents 
the breakdown of 
glycogen, key to 
muscle function, 
and can lead to 
death. Pompe's is one of thousands ·of rare diseases ­those diseases that affect less than 200,000 people that are often marginalized by pharmaceutical companies. In March 2000, to accelerate research into the diesase, Crowley took a position as CEO of Novazyme, a biotechnology company that was conducting 
research on Pompe's disease. As a result of the company's research, his children received an experimental treatment he credits with saving their lives. 
Despite Crowley's successful example, pharmaceutical companies are still not focusing on these diseases. "I think there's increased interest," Crowley says, "but there's nowhere near the level of inte~est that we need to see to develop treatments and ultimately cures." 
There are, however, some attempts to increase interest. 
The Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases (CRND) at Notre Dame is not the subject of a film or book, but after only 18 months of existence, the center has already "made very good progress," director of CRND Dr. Kasturi Haldar says. "We're the only university that does both rare and neglected disease." 
CRND's sole focus is researching rare and neglected diseases such as malaria and Niemann Pick, the latter causing dangerous levels of lipid accumulation in major organs. "There really is a tremendous need [for research]," Haldar says. "[The pharmaceutical companies are] interested in public health, it's just not a strong business model." 
CRND, hopes to bring these companies 
into die fold; To aid in their· research, the 
center collaborates with pharmaceutical 
companies. "By partnering with us, it 
gives them access to broad based discovery 
research, and gives us access to the nitty 
gritty of how ... you develop a therapeutic," 
Haldar says. 
Besides low interest from pharmaceutical 
companies, rare and neglected diseases are 
often ignored because of a lack of disease 
specialists. To increase the number of 
practitioners, the center has started a program 
for undergraduate students. "We have an 
undergraduate clinical research program 
that we've put in place," she says. "It's a class 
I teach in collaboration with clinical partners 
•, where undergraduates become experts in a -pa,rticular clinical area of either rare disease or neglected disease." 
Students study medical records and data to quantify particular symptoms and manifestations in a population. This becomes a "disease score," which allows patients to have a better understanding of the risk they face and what treatment to pursue. "If you can understand how the disease progresses in · a large number of people ... you can actually give the patients a lot of advice on how to manage the disease," Haldar says. 
22 ISCHOLASTIC I4 FEBRUARY 2010 
CULTURE 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazgu@nd.edu 
O_ffice of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center



CORE COUNCIL . : 
(Individual counseling)FOR CAY &LESBIAN Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at

STUDE T 
corecouncil.nd.edu 
·-. ~--:;-.---· -------.-----·----~~-------_------­








COVER STORY 
Here1s ta Grant Schmidt 


Mike Tresnowski
It is a widely held belief on campus that student government does a whole lot of nothing. It creates task forces and writes grand reports about certain aspects of life at Notre Dame that it presents at weekly meetings. But these meetings and reports never lead to real results. It's an elite club of people who want to feel like they are doing something important, but ultimately have no real effect on the university's trajectory. The motives of student government representatives have also been called into question. People think its members are just trying to build their resumes. They just want to tell the guys from Goldman Sachs about all the good leadership experience they have. Who cares about actually getting stuff done as long as you can talk yourself up in an interview? Two years ago, Bill Ehrlich (a joke candidate), came to the offices of Scholastic and said his campaign was guided by making "the implicit joke of Student Government · explicit." At the time, we generally agreed with this sentiment. Let's quit the charade and make the whole thing funny. We could all use something to laugh at and we don't necessarily need more empty statements and promises. As it turns out, however, the joke was on us. Not just on us, but on everybody else who had lost faith in the ability of the student government to be a legitimate force for improving student life on campus. Outgoing student body president Grant Schmidt has exceeded all of our expectations over his past year ofservice. The Notre Dame student body needed a strong leader last spring and Schmidt delivered. The media circus brought on by the Obama speech put us in an awkward· position. Each day in the newspapers and on cable news, we were forced to watch people mischaracterize and diminish the university we love. According to some, we were a bunch of conservative looneys for protesting the President. To others, we were a bunch of spineless phonies for honoring a pro-choice politician. As our elected representative, Schmidt was forced into the spotlight. He responded to this challenge with poise · and humility. In his various national media appearances, Schmidt was always fair to both sides of 
30 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 
the controversy, but never afraid to defend Notre Dame against its critics. On CNN's "The Situation Room" last May, Schmidt said, "We will always be one of the top Catholic universities in the country. And I think we will stand by that reputation." 
In addition to representing our school well in a period of crisis, Schmidt and vice president Cynthia Weber have followed through on their biggest campaign promise. They told us last spring they would reform the taxi system in South Bend. The reform that they gave us went beyond their promises; the introduction of the free weekend Transpo route on Friday and Saturday nights has drastically improved Notre Dame nightlife. Students save money, and despite this semester's assault, the bus is a much safer alternative to wandering the streets of South Bend or finding a cab driver. 
Schmidt and Weber have been active in making sure that students are adjusting well to the use of the bus. Weber was riding the bus on its first night, making sure everything was running smoothly. Schmidt has been known to respond instantly to late night e-mails about the bus's schedule. 
Schmidt and his entire administration deserve praise for their performance over the past year. For the first time in a while, Notre Dame students have found a student government that they know is responsive to their needs and that they can trust. Schmidt and Weber's shoes will certainly be difficult to fill. 0 


the games we play 
4 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 
SPORTS 

IRISH EYES ON: CO. CH B IAN ELLY 

I rl 
I 
I I 
I 
i 
i.•1 ·
I i 
I'' 
r 
Josh Flynt 
\i\Then Brian Kelly was introduced Notre Dames new head football coach, he spoke of a passion for winning and a desire to rejnvigorate the program he grew up watching. He understands the traclition of the program and the mystique surrouncling Notre Dan1e football. As lie prepares for his first spring practice, Coach Kelly has spent many hours on the road in pursuit of"RKGs" (shorthand for "the right kind of guys''), to bring ND back to prominence. Only time will tell ifBrian Kelly is the RKG for Notre Dame, but his arrival in South Bend and his history of winning have certainly given Irish fans a reason to be excited about 2010 and beyond. 
Growing up as nn Irish Catholic, being the bend football road, nt Notre Dame has been dest:ribed asyour "dreamjob." Sinceyou started roaching nt Gmml Tlalley State University in I99I, was this always a positimzyrm shm•e torench? 
I think it has always been, for me, the pinnacle ofcollege football. But, I can't tell you that when I got the head coaching position at Grand Valley that I was thinking of being the head football coacl1 at Notre Dame. I was trying to find out where the paper clips were. You lmow; it was my first head job. At times, I was really in over my head and itwas a tough start for me. \i\Then it came to the best jobs in the country, in my opinion, itwas Notre Dame. 
You've been on thejob for a little more d1mi a mollth 11ow. Describe wbnt it has been like. 
\-Veil I think that what I see more than anything else is that everybody that surrounds the program is rowing in the same clirection. In other words, everybody is here for the same reasons. To recruit, retain and graduate great young men and ,vin football games. 
Head ronch ofNDfoothnll is widely ronsidered one ofd1e 111ost d1allengb1g jobs i11 sports. HI/-!)' did )'Oil decide to leave your great; upstart progmm nt 
Ci11ci1111ntifor the NDposition? 
First, I thought we brought the program to its heights. In other worcls, back­to-back Big East championships, top ten ranking, back-to-back BCS games. There wasn't more room for growth. Itwas going to take five years orso before anything could be clone relative to staclium improvements. Really, for me, the challenge was going to be as great next year. At Notre Dame, the challenge is great To take over a program that has fullen on some mecliocre times and bring it back to its status ofyears past I'm always looking for great challenges, so Notre Dame is one for me. 
Whntis n 'l)picnl day like whe11you are 011 die road111ecti11gwitb recmits m1d tbcirfomilies? 
Well, it's a 15-18 hour day because you're up early and you're traveling. You're generally going to the school because the high school wants the [Notre Dame] head coach in the school. It means so much to the schools to have the ND head coach coming to visit Unlike being an assistant coach whose charge is to get after the recruit, the head coach has got to get into the school and meet the high school coach. Sometimes the head coach is not always in the school, so it means going to another location. Believe me, I've met a nun1ber of high school coaches in a McDonalcls. And then there's the home visit Most of the time, it doesn't take place until after clinner, so you're going all day. 
lfJ'Oll CQ11k/ have 011/y one book mid 011e nlbmu what would they be? 
The one book would probably be the Bible. I think you need to have that aroun.cl. Not only is it important in my spiritual growth, but I also use the 
32 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 

Bible to take passages and reaclings that are applicable to what kids do on a clay­to-clay basis. I can honestly say that without being like, ''Hey you're at Notre Dame, you said tl1e Bible and tl1at sounds good." I think as it relates to the music album, the one that gets me moving everyday is something from Bruce Springsteen. I just grew up on it and it's been my gas, ifyou will, ifI need tl1e tanlc filled or topped of£ "Born to Run" seems to be what my career has been about 
Ifyo1t rould i,rvite three people to di1111er, eitherJiving or deceased, wbo woultl 
yo1t d,oose? · The first one would be Bobby Kennedy. We all know the history with him 
speaking at Notre Dame. I love his quote, "There are those who look at things the way they are, and ask~hy. I drean1 of dungs that never were, and ask why not?" That has really stuck with me. \i\Thether at Central Micliigan, Grand Valley or Cincinnati I asked, "Hey, why can't you win here?" I'd love to have had an opportunity to sit clown and just tallc to Knute Rockne about tl1e game itself and tl1e transfonnation of the game from being a violent game to being a finesse game. He's themnov;tgr that threw the football when nobody thought 
--/
you could. The other person would probably be John Wooden, to have an opportunity to meet a living legend. IfI could get a chance before he passes to sit clown with John Wooden that would be unbelievable. 
What areyou 111ost/ookb1gforwurdto about tbe September4 mntchup with Purdue? · 
I'm looking forward to tl1e culmination of an intense five or six-month period where we get our football tean1 ready to play and create a lot of excitement I clon'tknowwhattl1e score is going to be, but we're going to be an exciting team to watch and I tlunkl'm looking forward to everybody leaving tl1at staclium and going, ''Wow, this is going to be fun." Wm or lose, obviously theres more fi.m when you win, but people getting a glimpse atwhatit's going to be like at Notre 
Dame, that's what I'm looking forward to. 


SPORTS 


Sur ays ... 
Tim 
Anything
ABROMAITIS Entourage The Situation 
works for me.
Basketball 
Rachael 
j Vinny, because 
GUERRERA 
: Dexte1· : I hate The 90'sJockJams Lacrosse j Situation. 
16-0. The playoff system is happening. 
Hopefully better than this year. 
The Cleveland Browns are out? 
j Saints! 
SSSIIICCCKKK. ...never seen it. 
Awesome in 3-D. 
Time Travel 
Matt Formica 
February 1) 1987 
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish stunned the No. 1 North Carolina Tar Heels with a 60-58 victory in front of a raucous crowd at theJACC.Junior guard David Rivers led a ferocious comeback for the Irish, who overcame a seemingly insurmountable 16-point deficit to end the Tar Heels' 16-game winning streak. Rivers scored all 14 of his points in the second half, including a basket and two free throws in the final minute to propel Notre Dame to the improbable win. The Irish trailed 32-16 shortly before halftime, but used a seven-point run in the final two minutes of the first half to trim North Carolina's lead to 32-23. Notre Dame clearly had the momentum and scored the first six points of the second half, cutting the deficit to 32-29. With the Irish trailing 55­54 and just over 30 seconds remaining, Rivers drained a jumper to give Notre Dame a one-2...oint lead. As the final seconds ticked off the clock, a euphoric celebration broke out among the students, who eventually poured onto the court in triumph. The upset marked the seventh time that head coach Digger Phelps led his team to a win over a top-ranked opponent, a feat that is tied for the most in NCAA basketball history. 0 
4 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I33 

,II 
'I 
:i 
•I 
I 
SPORTS 
A 
' A• -• 


~ 'l,il},~Jt~a:L J{}Jl
.,tl1::·.·. ~c0?~: 

,Qf ,tn~e· 
1

-----:\ //, 1 _: ,,~.. 
l . ., -,,,~" 1t -,ft, 
Marques Camp
Just 19 days ago, the No. 1 University sports are evidently inferior to men's. '\Vhat five second-place finishes and four national of Connecticut Huskies hosted No. 3 is most worrisome, however, is that the vast player of the year awards in its brief 21-year Notre Dame in a nationally televised majority of sports fans in the middle that _history.Flash back to exactly two months ago, matchup of two of this season's undefeated claim to live and die in the world of sport when the team suffered a heartbreaking 1-0 teams in women's college basketball. The seem simply indifferent or unaware of an defeat in the NCAA semifinals to eventual Huskies, winners of 55 consecutive games entire hemisphere. champion North Carolina. How many cared entering the matchup, soundly, precisely and Those who abhor the very concept of then? How many care now? unapologetically dismantled and dissected women's sports -and those who simply Not many ofus -probably because we had the Irish, an alleged peer of excellence, 70-could not care less -generally cite the our hands full with enraging ourselves at our 46. The game was a clinic on basketball aesthetic qualities, or perceived lack thereof, mediocre head football coach and praying p·erfection. as reason enough to change the channel when that our star basketball player could carry a Yet I found myself strangely unmoved by women's sports come on. pedestrian team· on his back to the NCAA the dominance displayed by the Huskies on But sport is not a collection ofAstaire films tournament. this night, and not at all enraged that the and Baryshnikov ballets. Let us not pretend . As college students and sports fans, Irish failed to provide any semblance of a we are amateur· critics deconstructing the much of the allure of attaching ourselves challenge in one ofthe most important games aesthetic qualities of an art form. Those to our athletic programs is the prospect of in program history. who live and die sports do so because of supporting our classmates and peers who In fac:!, Idon'tthi~kJ felt aI1yt_hinganlL ..__ competition, of compelling narrative, of happen to be among the country's best at . Mireaction to the game -did not seem-to _ victory and defeat, of joy and heartbreak, of what they do. Their struggle reflects our be anything strange or out of the ordinary. domination and unsurpassed excellence. struggle; their victory is our victory. Though the fact the game was nationally Tiie·se are the themes that give value and A blowout loss to Connecticut should be no televised impli~d some sort of sporting· meaning t6.'our sports fandom, yet these are less frustrating than a blowout loss to USC, ·. significarice·; Je~ sports_ fan~J know cated the themes we·ignore once women step out and a semifinal loss on the soccer field should apout or analyzed this game ·beforehand. · onto the court. We hang onto every word ·be no less heartbreaking than a loss during Fewer watched the entirety of the game---:-if of a brash, incoming California freshman March Madness. Our female peers are no less .any of it -and•even fewer cared ab6ut the promising us four natio~al championships, deserving of our half-primal/half-religious result. · but we just shrug our shoulders at the fact dedication to sport than our male peers. Nobody deb~ted whether Irish head coach that America's b~st women's high school· But we proceed in our fandom as if they Muffet McGraw adequately prepar~d her basketball player diose to stay home in Soudf wer~. We champion athletic excellence and team for such a big game; nobody rus~ed to Bend and has excelled in her inaugural season··-pnssion and become upset when they aren't lionize Connecticut forward Tina Charles as with the Irish. We always hope that the latest reflected in our athletic programs, yet we college basketball's most dominant player; in our long line of head football coaches will ignore them when they are right under our nobody :' lambasted Irish super-freshman bring a return to glory, yet most of us could noses. Many of our women's programs not Skylar Diggins as a choker for her 2-13 not name the head coach who is undoubtedly only give us the opportunity to witness shooting performance. one of the greatest this unive~sity has ever sporting excellence, but also the opportunity Our utter apathy not only about women's employed. to immerse ourselves in compelling sporting college basketball, but women's sports in ·Yet Skylar Diggins and Muffet' McGraw narratives that are too often underappreciated general, is startling. This apathyis a reflection will likely mean more to the history ofNotre for their emotional power. of a culturally ingrained sexism that still Dame's athletic prqgram than Jimmy Clausen We should care not because ofaesthetics or pervad~s o_ur sporting landscape. or Brian Kelly ever will. talent or winning or losing. We should care It is true that there are extremists on the Let us also not forget our women's soccer because sport is sport and fandom is fandom, gender/sports spectrum that believe women's team, winn~rs oftwo nation.fl championships, no matter who is playing the game. 
34 1 · SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 



SPORTS 

"' ~ 
S®©J~@ITTJ®dJ ~W©)u1Iil®uu1i~ ff]al§C~frfdQl@~~ ~CQlll. @d ir~trncdJ§ §fP©lli~t 0uu ·~c~v> u'®Cu"RJ0fc 

Andy Gray 
The Talented Newcomer 
n 2001, after 13 years with Notre Dame, 
head coach Muffet McGraw led the Irish 
women's basketball team to a national 
title. 
Skylar Diggins was 11. Still, it wouldn't 
be long before the established coach and the 
young phenom, a South Bend native, crossed 
paths. 
"She first contacted me when I was in eightl1 
grade," Diggins says. "From then on, we'd 
talk on tl1e phone, or I'd come here and visit, 
and you could tell that she really cared for her 
players." 
McGraw's eye fo_r young talent and the 
attractive program she has built at Notre 
Dame are already paying dividends. Last year's 
Gatorade Female Athlete of the Year, Diggins 
is now a starting freshman guard on the 
third-ranked Irish squad. She leads tl1e team 
in scoring at over 13 points per game, and is 
second in assists. But what most impresses tl1e 
seasoned coach about her new star is what the 
statistics leave out. 
"She's our best, on-the-ball defender, and 
she can defend tl1e other team's point guard or 
their best shooter," McGraw says. "She sets the 
tone on that end of the floor, and she hates to 
be scored on .. .It surprised me, but she enjoys . defense, which most young players don't." 
1 
Diggins' performance has earned her three Big East Freshman of the Week awards this season. But she did not arrive on campus expecting such immediate success. On a team that didn't lose a single player from last year's 22-9 NCAA Tournament squad, in fact, Diggins wondered how important her role could be. 
"I wasn't just going to be given anything," she says. "Returning five starters, all our scoring, I was wondering where I'd fit in ... but [Coach McGraw] pushed me, and I loved that challenge. I had to get physically stronger, and I had to learn." 
She has certainly risen to that challenge. 
The Tradition ofExcellence 
But year after year, basketball reminds us that youth, left to its own devices, is sure to stumble once or twice before finding true success. Fortunately, in a program as respected and accomplished as that which McGraw has fostered at Notre Dame, there will always be seasoned talent at the helm. 
Senior guards Lindsay Schrader and Ashley Barlow each pour in 11 points per game. Schrader, a First Team All-Big East player, also leads the team in rebounding at around eight per contest. And point guard Melissa Lechlitner, another senior starter, runs tl1e efficient Irish offense with over tliree assists per game. 
"They keep us poised at the end of games," McGraw says of her senior leaders. "We got down early against West Virginia, Purdue, Louisville. Theyhave that poise and experience, that calming influence, and we're smart down the stretch." 
This has also, of course, helped the burgeoning freshman talent. 
"The seniors have so much to offer young players like Skylar, so much experience. She didn't have to come in and be a star," iVIcGraw says.. Or, as Diggins herself puts it, "They just let me play like Skylar." 
That sort of successful melding of new and 
SPORTS 
experienced talent is exactly what one would 
expect from a team led by a coach ofMcGraw's 
caliber and experience. "She's just a seasoned 
coach," Diggins says. "She'll always explain 
something again, is always positive. She'll get 
on you, but it's always constructive." 
With their win over Louisville on January 
19, the Irish did more than improve to 16-1. . They handed their coach her 600tl1 career win, making her the 19th women's coach to 
reach the landmark. 
"It really struck me at the West Virginia 
game, when I walked in and everyone was 
holding up '600' signs," McGraw says of the 
milestone. "I took time to reflect on all the 
people and ilie great relationships I've had in 
iliat time." 
512 of tl1ose wins have come at the helm of 
a women's basketball program at Notre Dame 
that has tasted the greatest success -and one 
tlrnt has ilie opportunity and the desire to 
achieve iliat success again tl1is year. 
The Formula for Victory 
In order to reach that goal tl1is season, tl1e 
Irish squad will have to defeat other great 
teams, teams wiili assets they lack. 
-"We can score. But we're small, we don't 
have a dominating post presence," McGraw 
says. "So we need to use our speed to improve our defense and rebounding." 
Her team was made all too aware of their issues inside in the contest against Connecticut, as 6'4" center Tina Charles rolled over the Irish defense for 23 points and 13 rebounds en route to a 70-46 pummeling of third-ranked Notre Dame. Certainly, the dominant squad from Storrs, a Big East rival, represents an important obstacle to and measuring stick for ­success. With multiple potential matchups against the Huskies left on tl1e I~ish docket, learning from the loss will be important. 
"We need to start better," Diggins says. "First eight minutes [of the UConn game] ­26 to 6. Last 32 minutes -44 to 40. And we're still having trouble with it. Louisville, vVest Virginia, we started terrible. We need to come out with intensity and play all 40 minutes." 
McGraw knows it's her responsibility to get that out of her team. "We have tremendous potential," she says. "It's all about attitude. We can't dig a hole at tl1e beginning of games. So we're working on that." 
If iliat can be achieved, the sky may well be the limit for this Irish squad. In ilie 2001 Championship run, dominant post presence Ruili Riley was tl1e focal point of Coach McGraw's schemes. This year's team is far different, but McGra~ has found ways to get scoring from many places. 
"Our depth is as good as anyone in the country," she says. "We can go eight or nine deep." 
And they do, bringing talents like sophomore guard Natalie Novosel, junior guard Brittany Mallory and junior forward Deveraux Peters off the bench. Each averages · at least five points and 16 minutes per contest, providing dependable play while the starters rest. 
But this team's success will ride, at least in part, on the development of its freshman phenom. It may be a lot to ask of a first year player to lead a top five team, but Diggins seems ready for the challenge. 
"For me to do that, I had to learn first," Diggins says. "You could say I'm a little bossy ... nah, not really. But I welcome that leadership role. And thank Goel we have seniors who are teaching us for next year, helping me along the way." 
Only time will tell if it will be enough. But stay tuned to this team, because there are sure to be exciting games ahead. 
"We've got Final Four potential for sure," Diggins says. "We just need to keep believing in each other and our coaching staff, and our coaching staff in us, and we'll be fine. We still haven't played our best basketball yet". 0 

36 J SCHOLASTIC J 4 FEBRUARY 2010 

PARENTS: SUBSCR.IBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

Published Since 1867 
Serving the Notre Dame Community SCHOLASTIC
-
-----·-----------­
I 
IO ISSUES 35 DOLLARS First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. NAME~·---------------­ADDRESS:--------------­
National Pacemaker Award Winner 
I 
SEND THIS FORM AND $35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
OR 
ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS:1/MARKETPLACE.ND.EDUI STUDENTSHOPI 
38 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 
. . . . . -. . . . . . . .--. . 
HUMOR 

Welcome back to the glacial grasslands, my scandalous scoundrels! 
After a much-needed holiday in the motherland, good old Gipp is back and ready to relive some of the merriest mishaps and most sidesplitting stories of the New Year. For you seniors, it's the beautiful beginning of an employment-hopeful end; for you freshmen, it's time to step up and raise those GP.A's so that Daddy doesn't revoke credit card privileges come the end of the semester, and for everyone else in between ... well, just hunker down somewhere warm with your books and besties until you can at last legally buy your own alcohol. 
And speaking of alcohol, this month the Gipp will yet again explore the curious world of intoxicated college students. You lucky Irish men and women know as well as anyone that when booze gets throwri into the mix, all sorts of unusual decision-making occurs. Next thing you know you're on your hands and knees at a suffocating South Bend bar looking for a young woman's rouge veneer tooth. Or you're dancing with a girl dressed like Lady Gaga while belting . a bastardized rendition of something resembling an old Elton John song. Or you've come to the terrifying realization that instead of ordering just one Snuggie online, you've in fact ordered 
10. But just when you think you've seen it all, one more inebriated imbecile stumbles onto the collegiate drinking scene. 
One Domer found himself in a particularly precarious situation full of booze, babes and booby-trapped bathrooms while celebrating the dawning of the New Year in the Big Apple. Our friend -who we shall call "Houdini" ­was in a Red Bull and vodka state of mind with his evening well underway -several hours at a city bar had left him and his friends with the party ants in their pants. In the wee hours of the mornin' they hailed a taxi and were en route to the next big bash when Houdini decided that the cab wasn't worth the cash. At the next stoplight he disengaged the door and dashed off into the New York night. 
Soon after, Houdini was high-tailin' it on a train headed in what he hoped was the general direction of his friend's abode. He was seated between two fine female specimens, equally intoxicated as he, who found his mysterious musk to be worthy of their advancements. Quite pleased with himself and his dumb luck, Houdini made a quick exit to relieve himself in the train bathroom. But the lavatory was vengefully sabotaged -after zippin' it up he couldn't open the door! This was one trap that the great magician could not escape. When help arrived some 15 minutes later, the lady friends had already ditched the train. The dashing Houdini, while mourning his loss, came to the revitalizing realization that he had actually managed to board the correct train! But his adventure in the concrete jungle was not quite over. With a dead cell phone and no sober sense to consider alternatives, he embarked on the wobbly walk from the train station to his final destination. The journey included a trek across the three-mile-long, no-pedestrian­pathed, police-monitored Tappan Zee Bridge. From here the story goes as you might predict: Houdini was intercepted by the cops, who responded to his bizarre behavior by demanding that he drop trou in the middle of the bridge to search for weapons and drugs before agreeing to drive him home -drunk, disturbed and severely dispirited. Some kids would be better off sticking to small-town Indiana ... 
Our second story brings us back to the magical Midwest, where a recently single Loverboy looked forward to a long weekend of tl1ird-class beer, second-class basketball and, hopefully, a free first-class dinner, for his parents had plans to drive in from out of town on Saturday morning to go to the game against DePaul. As Friday night crept closer and grand party plans were made, his friends grew giddy with post-pubescent glee: Witl1 Loverboy's long-time girlfriend no longer on the fornication forecast, watching him navigate the newly-available Notre Dame hookup scene was almost as hysterically atrocious as watching Snookie do a cartwheel in a miniskirt. 
In the midst of the early evening cocktail consumption, an unprecedented instance of maturity overtook young Loverboy in the wake of his parents' impending visit: He needed to do laundry. At tllis same moment, his friends decided it was prime time to party and dragged Loverboy out tl1e door witl1 barely enough time to toss in the Tide and start the laundry load. 
The party proved to be an extraordinarily hospitable habitat for the restless rascal, and Loverboy soon found himself surrounded by a swarm of potential partners. One particularly enticing individual had her gooey gaze fixed on the charming chap for quite some time, and, throwing both caution . and decorum out tl1e window, she moved in for tl1e kill. 
Excited by tl1e evening's acquisition and well aware of the promise of prolonging the events long into the night, Loverboy had a sudden and distressing epiphany-his bed sheets were still in the washing machine. He stealthily sneaked back to his house, put his laundry in the dryer, returned to the party and resumed con~ersation (and activity) with his potential houseguest. An hour later he repeated tl1e process and returned knowing his well-dressed mattress was ready for action. Loverboy's cryptic disappearances didn't seem to disturb his eager escort, and the two relocated to his house for the rest of the evening. 
When they awoke the next morning, they were greeted by the alarming sound of Loverboy's parents' voices wafting up tl1e stairs -they had arrived several hours earlier than anticipated, and now Loverboy was faced with a fast-approaclling disaster. His roommates were stalling witl1 small talk, in the midst of a desperate attempt to bail their buddy out of the oncoming crisis. Leaving his guest upstairs, he descended to greet his parents and covertly alerted his friends ofa plan, and the house leapt swiftly into action. 
Mom and Dad were swept into the kitchen, located in the back of the house, to help the roonlies make breakfast. With his parents distracted and deep in conversation, Loverboy grabbed his gal and darted downstairs to the getaway car. He dropped her off unobtrusively and returned shortly thereafter, but the quick exit had not been executed as precisely as the previous night's endeavors. When his parents inquired suspiciously about his unexplained absence, the roommates cringed, preparing to witness tl1e entire plan unravel. But without missing a beat, Loverboy reached into a plastic bag, pulled out a gallon of milk and grinned: "I thought we could use this." 
From big-city brainlessness to crafty conundrum cracking, you Domers never cease to make Old Gipp marvel at the absurdity of your exploits. To those of you who sent in tips, cheers and many thanks! And to those of you who have stories yet to share, send them my way! 
I want your bad romance, 
TheGipper 

TfPTHegfPP 
O O o o at gipper@nd.edu 
4 FEBRUARY 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 39 


mm~~® ~@Ju '&~®vN®i··· 
,fA?@@O@~tl®l J~~H~:~ 
u{8\-'fc1 nn@~ITT~hW-f~nt,J~iirmftlrR\. 

\t~;r l.'iib ~w .~9'.~-~ij/~~@l
•,:i&fb . rnQJ, ,~,.,am~,@ -·w®JM fD) 
•. i,: ·c:;;<>,. ·)~:'('RJX:);, ·J_· :· .. :: IJ'u 
K,fahna Sum,; 
: ti:ftcll1@ ~Jl:fil~ [lj@~'·: 
,~,r:;;~:: /,'.' 
(] The first step to m~J<i~~yo~fireintegration into old friend grour,i·!}'.;~ Act like you care about sports th3:(po •·one in) ,(\merica cares U as abrasive as possip!.~:~.?gi~s'whileyou are still abroad. Make s11tr:</e) about. Show your faux devotion by":YJrldg!jJUe,r~\pi-scarves 

you upload an absurd,:n~:J.P,per of pictures ofyour adventures, even if there are multiple pi't:tuies of the same exact thing from different cameras. Quantity, not:iuality. This will set the groundwork for later on when you piss your friends off by telling them about all the things you did and act surprised that they didn't do them, even though you know they didn't. 
"Did you see my pictures from when we went windsurfing in Australia? It is so much fun, right? ViThat? You mean you have never been windsurfing?! Oh my God, you really should hav~ gone abroad somewhere; you really missed out." · 
Gj) Talk to the people who are going to study at the same place you ~ did the next semester and tell them every single thing you did and why it was the greatest thing ever. Remember: use superlatives. 
Incorrect: "The beach at Puerto Escondido was very nice. We were able to go surfing and the beaches were not very crowded. I highly recommend it." 
Correct: "OMFG PUERTO ESCONDIDO WAS THE SINGLE GREATEST EXPERIENCE OFMYLIFE! WE HAD THE BEST SURFING INSTRUCTOR EVER, HE WAS SOOOO COOL AND I WANTED TO HAVE HIS BABY! AND THERE WAS NO ONE ON THE BEACH EXCEPT US. IF YOU DON'T GO YOU ARE WASTING YOUR LIFE AND YOU WILL REGRET IT UNTIL THE DAY YOU DIE!" 
71, After your return, every time you drink you must start speaking 
t:J in a foreign language and explain that you now sometimes slip into it because you are so fluent. Also make sure to claim that you speak the foreign language much better when you are drunk. 
"Conducteur! AFievre, s'il vous plait." 
71-~ Ifyou studied abroad in an English speaking country, make eJoeJ sure to have adopted its lingo and use it in everyday speech. Cheers mate! 
~ Be sure to pronounce all words native to your foreign language LI ofchoice like they are correctly pronounced. Also look confused when someone says a word in an anglosaxonized accent and proceed to correct him with your awesome accent. 
"Notre Dame? ... Oh, Nohtre Dhaam!" 
40 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 
from your favorite team you know nothing about. '., .,/ j , ... "Why am I wearing this jersey? What are you talking about brnkJ V I've always liked cricket." '·· 
f2 Brag about how many times per week you went out while you ~ were abroad. The more times you went out, the more justified you will be in having chosen to go abroad and the more your friends will hate to hear you speak about it. 
"Hey man, did you go out a lot last semester at ND? When I was in Ireland we went out eight times a' week: once every day and twice on Sunday, baby!" 
c;z Make sure everything reminds you of a story from abroad. 
'Lf Smooth transitions are not as important as maki_ng sure that people hear all the things you did no matter how mundane. 
"Oh man, see that elevator over there? There was something like that in Guanajuato called El Pfpila. It's a giant transparent box that rides around above the city on·cables! Well that's what we thought at least. Turned out it was actually just a room with glass walls that didn't do anything." 
(.o) Ditch your usual Notre Dame friends for your study abroad ~ group and frequently attend study abroad parties. Feel free to invite your usual friends to come anyway, since you know they will not go because they feel uncomfortable around your abroad group and don't understand any of your jokes, which brings me to number nme ... 
. _____.,.,,/ ' 
(o) Make inside jokes:'._that no one understands except that small 7/ group of people who you.went abroad with. 
~ Brag about how your abroad college is the best in its country. 
LJ0 "Yeah, I studied at what is pretty much considered the Harvard of Uganda." 
HUMOR 

WANTED: ND SINGLES 

Having a hard time finding that special someone at Notre Dame? Looking for that girl or guy 
who will 
walk with you holding hands around the lakes, kiss you under the Lyons Arch and then marry you at the Basilica after a grotto engagement (and five or so years on the waiting list)? Just in time for everyone's favorite holiday, Scholastic providesyou with a collection ofpersonals showcasing the finest ladies and gentlemen this campus has to offer. 
READY FOR THE REAL DEAL 
Female student looking for. a serious, committed 
boyfriend. I'm anintelligent, independent andforward­
thinking young woman looking for someone who wants 
i. to spend time with me from 9a.m.-11~59 p.m. _during the 
;I week, 2:00 a.m. on the weekends (if only there were no parietals ... nothing could keep us apart!). The guy I'm looking for needs to be confident enough to ignore any immaturefriends who may call him "whipped'' because they're insecure and jealous of the close relationship we share. He should be willing to declare his love for me openly. Ideally, we'll be "Facebook-official" no more than two weeks after our first dining hall date. 
PERSONAL "JERSEY" CHASER WANTED 
Hot, smart, athletic, funny, ripped guy looking for cute girl to chill with. Let's just say The Situation's g nothing on me ... I was all about the Gym Tan Laund (GTL) routine before anyone had ever heard of "Jers Shore." The girl I'm looking for should be total impressed by how my roommates and I basically li ·. like we're in a frat, at least until our RA fines us playing beer pong. I mean, why do they even sell S cups in the Huddle if they don't want us to use the The girl I'm looking·for needs to at least understa the basics of a football game (no, a split end in footba doesn't have anything to do with poorly conditione hair) so she doesn't embarrass me. She shouldn't be full of herself either, cause that's totally not attractive in a girl. Also, the girl shouldn't want to do couple stuff like eating meals together or stopping to talk when we pass each other in LaForturie. I'm really not looking for anything serious. 
42 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 
COMFY AND COZY 
Female student looking for a guy who won't challenge my freedom to wear sweatpants anytime I want. I'm sick of guys giving girls a hard time for wearing U ggs too -whoever said "Beauty is pain" clearly never had to walk to class during a South Bend snowstorm. And what's more, this guy shouldn't mind when I show up to a party in running sho~s ~nd· a workout t-shirt-if 
. .you're not going to get dressed up, why should I? lwant a guy who would never complain that Notre Dame girls are unattractive or that we don't care about how we look. I'm tired of hearing that completely unfounded stereotype. And finall the guy I'm interested in won't mind that eup -I spent the last of mi ~~il'iir'I' is semester. 

ale student looking for a girl studies hard and plays hard -ideal one who can at least get to the third leve of Halo. This girl should enjoy spending time poring over textbooks as we further our education together. and planning our romantic spring break getaway to The Wizarding World,_ of____Harry Potter.-I'm looking for someone tb hold hands with as I w~lk across tp_§,,~uad, someone who won't shy away from occasional PDA inthe dining hall. Mostly, I'm looking for a girl 
ho won't look terrified or suddenly have unto the bathroom every time I come er and start dancing. 
. 
t::C-"TI'~"'::;;:.--~",C...~.._::;.•.::,,u,.-.::,~;::... 
~'l'r.m:;;,';:'.,z;n..~<;;::r~,;;::::r.,r~.;;,.~•. 
. 
O · 
Opportunities to 
:.:-:=;:cA.·~;:l'~~,:.&~~"'~'lt::U~~~'\'!t~~~-~=­
build your portfolio 
~~..:r:•:::;:1.::;:.:r;::1".i~~~~.:P-~~-P:-~-;-::::c,.~~~~~~~ 
Work in full color pages 
Contact jvantrie@nd.edu for more information 
EXIT INTERVIEW 

Professor William Krier 
What attribute do yort 11Zost adntire i11 another person? 
Something the poet John Keats called "negative capability." It means being able to delay forming an opinion about a person or an issue, being able to gather lots of information instead of rushing to judgment.
1, 
;:
1: 
1, Ifyou could "live in so11Zeone else's shoes" for a day,
I I 
whose would you choose? 
I Any major league baseball player, probably Jamie 
I I Moyer. 
·' 
What is the most useful piece ofadvice you have received? 
A roguish uncle of mine once tried to explain to me how to handle myself in a barroom :fight. I was 12. His advice was to "wait, your turn will come." I've 
i: never had to use that advice in a fight or a bar, but it I has always seemed to me an appropriate way to move
I 
through life. 
What do you thin~_our generation's most pressing 
issue is? · 
Global violence. 
What isyour idea ofa perfect day? 
Traveling, anywhere, with Terry, the woman I love. Perhaps in Venice. 
Yort can invite any three figures, living or dead, to a dinner party. Who would they be? 
John Keats, Francois Truffaut, and Terry. 

Mike Tresnowski 
Specializing in film and twentieth-century fiction, Associate Professor William Krier brings a unique perspective to the English courses he teaches -rather than purchasing text boo/es, students subscribe to Netflix as part ofthe "required reading." Presenting film as a form ofliterature, Krier teaches one ofthe most in-demand courses in the English department: American Film. Krier's film knowledge extends beyond the classroom, as he recently concluded a comprehensive study of the romantic comedy genre from the_ 1940s to today. 
44 I SCHOLASTIC I 4 FEBRUARY 2010 
What is yortr biggest worry? 
The health and safety of my children and fifteen grandchildren. 
Ifyou could have any one superpower, what would it be? 
Time travel. 
What isyourfavorite,quotation? 
"The time to make up your miJJ~ about someone is never," spoken by Katherine ·Hepburn in "The Philadelphia-Story." 
You are stranded on an island and discover a backpack with a single book in it. Which book do you hope to find when you reach in? Walker Percy's The Second Coming (although, ifthe island were properly equipped, I'd love to :find a DVD ofTruffaut's "Day for Night"). 0 

--Vi&it the new 



ill 


Ground Beef or Cheese · 
$1.99 each 
jlour Choice ot Sauce 
·Pico de Gallo, Chipotle, 
Fire Roasted Salsa, 
Cilantro Ranch, or Mild Salsa 
Houra 

NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES
Monday-Friday 










