
Street scene in Tehachapi ajter last July’s earthquake.
...EARTHQUAKE...
In the predawn of last July 21, the most severe California earthquake since 1906 struck the small town of Tehachapi.
Walls were collapsing, buildings were folding. The town’s telephone office shook to its foundation. But the night operator remained at her switchboard until it went dead. Main cables to the office were pulled to the ground when a nearby wall caved in.
This was at 4:50 A.M.
By 8:30 A.M. telephones were set up on the edge of town for use by the Red Cross and other emergency workers.
By late afternoon, the telephone switchboard was working. Tehachapi residents were able to contact friends and relatives concerned about their safety.
By 9 P.M. two TV stations were sending live telecasts of the damage. Telephone men had established a radio-relay system in less than 12 hours.
It was a typical disaster—brutal and unannounced. But telephone men were prepared. They quickly restored communication when it was needed most. They demonstrated the resourcefulness and technical skill typical of telephone people.
These are some of the qualities we seek in the college graduates we hire. Your Placement Officer can give you details about opportunities for employment in the Bell System. Or write to American Telephone and Telegraph Company, College Relations Section, 195 Broadway, New York 7, New York, for the booklet, “Looking Ahead.”
BELL TELEPHONE
SYSTEM
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
^2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey
Hot Buttered Rolls
$7.20
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT “Chicken in the Rough” 213 N. Main Open Sunday
GRANADA

Ask the Upperclassmen...
Ask any oldtimer, “Where’s Gilbert’s?” They’ll tell you where we are ...
The Place ta Go for the Names You Know
We have the largest selection of men’s clothing and furnishings. Come in and browse around.
G
Open every evening till 9
S
■L 8 E R
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Feb. 13,1953
“A-l Fit!” Collegians Say Of Arrow Gabanaro Sports Shirts
Carrying On In Carolina
College students report that precision-sized Arrow Gabanaro sports shirts bring them greater comfort—plus neater, smarter appearance. Gabanaro—washable rayon gabardine—is available in exact collar sizes and sleeve lengths, in a wide range of colors, at all Arrow dealers.
AfiUOW »»--------------->►
— SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS —
Make GILBERTS
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Editor:
Thank you very much for the kind words Scholastic had to say about me and about our work in North Carolina.
You know, the work here is never discouraging but sometimes God gives us extra encouragement—last week was one of those times. In one day a man and his wife came in to start instructions, a Catholic girl, married out of the Church, came in to make preparations for straightening out her marriage and bringing her husband and children into the Church, another Catholic married out of the Church made an appointment to straighten out her marriage and baptize her four children, two non-Cathc-lics came into learn how to say the Rosary, a committee from the city’s annual Christmas parade came by to ask me to work out a plan to put the real meaning of Christmas into the parade, two Protestant church groups invited me to speak on the Catholic faith, and then, to top it all, Scholastic came with the nice things you had to say.
That was an unusual day, but every day is exciting. Incidentally, the Presbyterian minister I mentioned in the article you reprinted has definitely made up his mind to come into the Church..
If any Notre Dame men come down our way—and those who become marines and soldiers probably will—I hope they’ll stop by and say hello. A half dozen or so have already. We’re next to the First Baptist Church, two doors from the public library. Maybe some of you will be interested in starting a place like this of youi- own some day.
It is, as you noted, a satisfying work. Maybe one of the best ways to show you how infectious the work is will be to tell you about our help problem. The young lady who has worked with us since the beginning, is leaving February 15th to go into the convent. Our part-time workei- is going into the convent in June. Those kind of help problems, I like, for everyone of The Sign of the Cross people who go to the convent or to the seminary—three of out most frequent visitors, one who became a Catholic since we opened, are going to the seminary in the Fall—will be helping us on their knees.
Again my thanks and may I say very truthfully that though I like this work very much, sometimes I miss Notre Dame and my Notre Dame friends so doggone much.
Sincerely yours in Christ, Dale Francis
The Scholastic
There are varieties of dress and mannerisms even among jazz lovers. Please notice our painstakingly authentic illustration.
■ .
St. Louis Blues
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
I’ll bet you thought the Scholastic wasn’t ever coming out again . . .
■
Dig That Crazy Music
For several weeks now local bulletin boards have been sparkling with signs announcing tomorrow’s Jam Session. In fact the signs were so sparkly that some thought the Campus Press had gone into the costume jewelry business. Most of us, however, feel that a genuine jazz concert rates a very sparkly sign.	.
For eons this general area has been a den of frustration for jazz lovers. Occasional relief came with the rare,
sporadic, expensive, and mismanaged appearances of people like George Shearing, William Eckstein, and Count (of what) Basie. The exotic effect of these affairs is always somewhat dulled because of allowance-melting fees.
Monsieur Joe Jasinski, a tall fairhaired boy from Toledo, Ohio, decided that he and his cronies could endure the abstinence no longer. So Joe set his quivering chin, marched through a few Toledo jazz emporiums, and plucked what he considers some real gone musicians.
Like most fellow jazz lovers, we are looking forward to tomorrow’s session with child-like anticipation. But the simple fact that we have had such a long vacation from the “art,” leaves us a little wary of the concert. Unknown
to the “Once Over Lightly” art group, then- boy Aardvark von Seed has published a sequel to his successful travel book, So You’re Going to St. Mary’s. It is called So You’re Going to a Jam Session.
What should one wear to a jazz concert this season? Blue suede or Alligator grain footwear is an absolute must. If one wears trousers, one must have said trousers pegged. Pegging is a process by which your tailor (against his better judgment) cuts down your cuffs so that they only measure about 15 inches around; the effect desired is to make the trouser legs look like a pair of inverted kig-kams. Other chic items is the jazz addict’s cigarette
holder, and several pounds of cotton batting to be used as shoulder padding.
How should I act? Mr. Seed says that at all times one must cultivate a “real gone” look. This occurs when one lowers his eye-lids three-quarters of the way down, letting the rest of one’s face fall where it may, and sending an occasional ecstatic shiver coursing down one’s back. While the musicians are performing one is required to stamp one’s feet very loudly and occasionally lift one’s head and scream “Go! Go! Go!” After each number one is required to turn to the person in the next seat and remark: “Wasn’t that just crazy?” One may use the word “crazy” only with a slight shiver and syncopated movement of the eyelids.
Tomorrow night in a big hall in the deepest, darkest, dankest depths of Chicago’s West Madison Street, our basketball team will tangle with St. Louis. Also on the bill is a laughable duel between De Paul and Duquesne (pronounced Doo- quess- knee). The last time we were in that big hall on West Madison Street, DePaul inched by us by some 27 points. It is hoped that Mr. Jordan and friends will be able to fracture theii- Stadium jinx.
Kiddies who are escorting their valentines to the Mardi Gras dance will not see the event as weekend permissions are taboo to ball goers.
Step Right This Way
Although we haven’t interrogated all club presidents as to their Mardi Gras booths, we have been assured that all games have been fiendishly designed to lure and vanquish even the shrewdest river boat sharks (excepting Tyrone Power). Nevertheless, it leaves you with that corny, happy feeling that it’s all going to a good cause.
We hope that they have another one of those dime-a-dance affairs over in the corner, replete with SMC girls. ’Cause that’s really living, man. Please, no snickers.
That Saccharine Trombone
According to the printed matter on the bids, the Mardi Gras ball will have its music supplied by Thomas Dorsey. To a campus used to the questionable musicianship of bands like Jimmy “Dancing Shoes” Palmer and Benny Strong, the promise of having T.D. around camp incites a certain amount of excitement and awe.
The sentimental gentleman, after all these eons, still tuims out some very danceable and listenable music- Unfortunately, T.D. doesn’t have crooner Frankie Sinatra with him as in days of yore. But since pugilistic Frankie takes such obvious delight in slugging boy reporters (like ourselves), perhaps it’s all for the better.
■
Bottom of the Week
. . . but it did.
Feb. 13,1953
5
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
FEBRUARY 13
PALAIS ROYALE (9 p.m. to 1 a.m.)—Tommy Dorsey and his crew launch the Mardi Gras season at the annual Ball.
AVON (through Feb. 17)—Olivia de Haviland plays the title role in Daphne du Manner’s best-selling novel, My Cousin Rachel (A-2). Rachel is a beguiling thing who seems to enjoy poisoning her lovers. To avoid confusion, she dies in the end.
GRANADA (through Feb. 18)—Blackbeard, the Pirate (B) has Linda Darnell; Fangs of the Arctic settles for Chanute, the Wonder Dog.
PALACE (two days)—Two “thrillers”: Invasion U. S. A. (B) and Target Hong Kong (A-2).
COLFAX (through Feb. 18)—Hollywood looks at Hollywood in The Bad and the Beautiful (B), and what it sees isn’t very pretty. Kirk Douglas and Lana Turner are supposed to fit the title.
RIVER PARK (two days)—The well-done Show Boat returns. With it .is the documentary Under the Red Sea, an excellent “fish story.”
FEBRUARY 14	,
WHOT will broadcast the ND-St. Louis rematch from the Chicago Stadium.
PALAIS ROYALE (1:30-4 p.m.)—For §1 you can “get sent” by the Mardi Gras Jazz Concert “Battle of the Bands.”
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30, 3:40, 6:20, and 8:35)—Jean Peters again, this time in Wait Till the Sun Shines, Nellie. Better bring a broom; the bats might be back, too.
DRILL HALL (7-11:30)—Bring your money. It’s carnival time.
FEBRUARY 15
PALAIS ROYALE (2 p.m.)—The Student Senate dance — the last till April — moves over to Sunday. One buck with your activities card.
PALACE (four days)—Prince of Pirates (another one!) and The Happy Time (A-2), an hilarious comedy about a wacky family and an adolescent lad with a roving eye.
FEBRUARY 16
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—The Irish five and its cheering section take on Michigan State.
DRILL HALL (7:30-11:30 p.m.)—Carnival again.
FEBRUARY 17
DRILL HALL (7:30 to 12 midnight)—Last chance to splurge before Lent, as the big give-away closes the Mardi Gras carnival for ’53.
FEBRUARY 18
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—Our busy eagers are at it again — this time against Marquette.
AVON (one week)—Ronald Reagan and Rhonda Fleming (appropriately .in color) star in Tropic Zone (A-2), which is all about bananas. The movie must have slipped on one.
RESTAURANT
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
z^ADVEHTURE^^
| EUROPE-60 Days S47S (all-expense ind. steamer) " Bicycle, Faitboot, Ski, Mo-& tor, Rail. Other tours to S Latin America, West, Orient sf and Around the World.
France, Germany, Spain, Scandinavia-ART, DANCE, MUSIC. Study Tours? Yes! College credit available on most, but still a wonderful experience in an atmosphere of camarad-^-1 erie. Mexico — 45 Days $350.
^TRAVEL
informally, off the beaten track, with _____________ SITA. Congenial groups with See More J similar interests. 150 col-Spend Lessi ,e8es represented on 1952 _____________1 tours.
Your Travel Agent or Students International
Trawl Association
545 FIFTH AVE, NEW YORK 17«MU 2-S544
What’s the Greatest Game You Ever Saw?
SPORT Magazine is offering $2,000
in Cash Prizes!
Here’s your chance to be a sportswriter! If you are not a polished writer, don’t worry. SPORT is chiefly interested in exciting sports moments told in detail.
For contest rules
Get March
SPORT Magazine	I
At Your Newsstand Now	|
I
The Scholastic |
6
Vol. 94 February 13, 1953 No. 14
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ................News
FRED C. ECKART .....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE .........Features
JOHN F. SAND.....................Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass'L Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ..............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bennet, Tom Bosse, Bill Burnett, Dick Callaghan, Irv Carrig, Joe Casser-ella, Bill Copeland, Doug Cole, Pat DiPasquali, Frank Donlon, Carroll Dowden, Fred Eckart, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Bob Gorman, Dick Hairsine. Tom Hartzell, Joe Leaser, Karl Martersteck, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Jim O’Shea, Dick Rupp, Jerry Shea, Dave Schlaak, Ray Schlitzer, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Lou Bourjaily, Tom Caplet, John Cywin-iski. Bob Ettlebrick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Don Swiegowski, Walt Touhy, Tom Welly.	'
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier.
Ignorant, Communist, or Atheist?
A recent issue of the Carroll News, the student publication of John Carroll University contains the account of a convention, known as the Northeastern Ohio Legislative Assembly, which, the News says, shocked the Carroll delegates. After reading some of the resolutions passed by the convention, whose purpose is to serve as a practical laboratory in legislative procedure and current problems, we were a bit shocked ourselves.
The assembly 1) called for repeal of the Smith Act, which makes it a felony to advocate overthrow of the government by force; 2) rejected a resolution asking recognition of spiritual and moral values in fighting communism; and 3) stated that the United States was as much endangered by “invasion of our liberties through denial of the democratic process” as by communists within the country. In addition, various individual delegates proposed turning over Formosa to the Chinese Communists, admission of Red China to the UN, and unrestricted trade between free Europe and communist nations.
The News states that Carroll delegates voted with the majority only twice in a total of ten ballots. Eleven Ohio colleges were represented at the assembly.
There are two main things, we think, which should be gleaned from this report. The first is a gratitude for Catholic training and a determination to use that training to the best advantage any and every time truth and right are at stake. We hate to think of the consequences of such “enlightened” college men attaining any future influence in our government.
The second point is the realization that we are somewhat sheltered in our ideas and opinions. We constantly hear only one point of view, and this reasoning seems so logical to us that it is difficult to conceive of anyone differing from us. If college students entertain such beliefs as the above it is a small wonder that an Asian peasant can be swayed. Accordingly, in religious, political, and moral matters we must not only learn the best reasons for Catholic beliefs, we must also be well-informed about opposition arguments so that we will be able to combat them.	•
This convention is another reminder that ultimately it is up to us and people like us, the graduates of Catholic Universities, to see that spiritual and moral values are recognized in fighting communism or any other evil. '
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Nbtre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Rev. C. S. Bachofer, C.S.C., is shown at work in the Radiation Biology Laboratory, one of Notre Dame’s important contributions in the field of atomic research. For the story of the investigation of effects of radiation on living things, see pages 20 and 21.
—Photo by Bob Huddleston
Roses Are Red ...
There are many people at this University who, in our opinion, don’t get the praise and gratitude they deserve. In an attempt to remedy this situation somewhat, the Scholastic extends big, chocolate-covered, creme-filled Valentine greetings to the following:	.
To any and every student who has ever served on a dance committee and worked many hours decorating, selling tickets, and the like. This is definitely action above and beyond the call of booty.
To the debate team, band, and glee club, for conclusively proving in their annual travels that Notre Dame is not synonymous with good football alone. *
To Tom Reedy, Student Senate president, for so unselfishly laboring for the establishment of the Student Center. The planning and equipping of the Center will cause him many, many hours of work, and, because of graduation in June, he won’t even see the results of his labor.
To the Student Senate, for so often serving as a scapegoat for things over which it has no control.
To the patient ladies in the Badin Hall laundry office, for, week after week, enduring the vociferous complaints of students regarding a situation about which they are powerless.
To the select group of University employees who act as if they believe that the University exists for the students and not vice versa.
And, finally, to all you troops for being such good boys last November that we got an extra day of vacation at Christmas.
Feb. 13,1953
7
—the only leading King-Size cigarette made an exclusively different way to avoid the main cause of irritation!
NOW! PHILIP MORRIS is available in the new KING-SIZE and the famous Regular Size.
Remember, you’ll feel better when you change to PHILIP MORRIS. In case after case, coughs due to smoking disappear . . . parched throat clears up . . . that stale, “smoked-out” feeling vanishes.
W qour choice but mate (pm choice RHIPNOMK
Yes, KING-SIZE er REGULAR
Wll feel better
smoking PHILIP MORRIS
?PIHIP MORRIS
«
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Dorsey's Band Opens Festival Tonight
MISS NANCY COLE A Queen . . .
MISS JILL CRAINE . . . and a Princess
Editorial
Buses, Cabs, and Economics
On page 12 of this issue you’ll find the account of the appearance of Mr. John T. Martin, president of the Northern Indiana Transit Co., before the Student Senate Monday night. At that time Mr. Martin stated over and over again that reduced rates for Notre Dame students are not possible, and that the NIT will not even consider such a move.
We have no particular bone to pick with the NIT—undoubtedly they have suffered increasing costs, although an 80 percent increase in one year’s time indicates a phenomenal cost rise. We do think, however, that Mr. Martin is wrong in his approach to the problem. The usually crowded Notre Dame buses seem to be a thing of the past since the fare hike. Students appear to have found other ways to reach downtown South Bend, methods which are both faster and cheaper. If this practice keeps up the NIT will soon find that a full bus under the old fares brought in more revenue than ten or eleven people paying the increased fares.
This is no great crusade against the bus company or anybody else. If you like to pay 18 cents for a ten-minute ride, go ahead. But we would like to point out to the uninformed that cabs have been abundant at the circle lately, and the top price is $.75 per load. Some are charging less.
They say in the econ classes that, under such conditions, price is directly proportional to demand. There seems to be a good possibility of ruining the bus company’s demand curve in the region of 18 cents or 3-for-50.
Carnival Weekend Offers '53 Mercury
The famous music of Tommy Dorsey will fill the Palais Royale Ballroom from 9 until 1 tonight, with the Misses Nancy Cole and Jill Craine reigning as queen and princess respectively over the gala court of Mardi Gras Ball goers.
Miss Cole, a St. Mary’s College student and date of Gene Howley, and Miss Craine, date of Brian Kelley and a sophomore at Western Michigan College, will be crowned at the Ball, which officially opens the five-day fun-packed Mardi Gras festival.
A carnival theme, using balloons and other decorations, will be followed in adorning the ballroom. The concession stands are to be set up as carnival booths and the ticket collectors and doormen will be attired in clown suits to add to the atmosphere. Horos, noisemakers, and confetti will be given for favors, and a unique program has been made up.
The dance is semi-formal and no corsages will be allowed. Entry must be by 10 p. m. and departure is optional after 12. Dancing will stop at 1, and residence permissions will be granted until 2 a. m. Car permissions are valid until tomorrow morning. For those without cars, busses will provide transportation to and from St. Mary’s.
Ticket sales had been scheduled for three days, but before the end of the second day, all 500 of the bids had been sold for $5 apiece.
Gene Howley is the chair-man of the dance committee. Other members are: Ned Griffin, business manager; Al Su-walsky, publicity; John Ryan, entertainment; Ron Mazzoli and Fritz Gan-ther, decorations; and Dave O’Leary, tickets.
The event given second billing on the schedule of week-end highlights is the Saturday afternoon jazz concert at the Palias Royale. Joe Jasinski, who is in charge of arrangements for the jam session, has signed a nine piece band
Feb. 13, 1953
9
that features three tenor saxophones. The hot bop will start at 1:30 and run till 4. Admission to the bop-opera will be $1, stag or drag.
The regular Saturday night Senate dance has been switched to fill in the Sunday afternoon spot on the agenda for the week-end.
Tomorrow evening at 7, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and Mayor Scott of South Bend will be on hand when the Navy Drill Hall is thrown open and the Msardi Grass Carnival opens for business. Monday and Tuesday evenings will again find the Drill Hall crowded with merrymakers.
The basketball game with Michigan State in the Fieldhouse Monday night will complement the activities of the festive week-end.
A total of 26 booths will flank the Drill Hall midway; four of them being operated by foreign clubs. This is the first year that a foreign club has operated a stand at the Mardi Grass Carnival.
A special effort is being made this yeai- to attract more people from South Bend and surrounding areas to the carnival.
All proceeds from the Mardi Gras are to be released to the administration for equipping the new Student Center. Work on the Center will begin as soon as sufficient funds are available.
Brian Kelley is the general chairman of the Mardi Gras festivities. The rest of the committee is composed of Dave McElvain, publicity; Jim Noonan, arrangements; Dick Rogers, contest; and Jim Britt, contest finance.
Returns on the contest books continue to come in. Alumni groups have also started to make returns. Anyone having book returns may turn them in at the Dining Hall or hall chairmen’s rooms until tomorrow. After tomorrow, a booth will be set up inside the entrance to the Navy Drill Hall. Deadline for all returns is Tuesday, Feb. 17, the
THE 1953 MERCURY SEDAN To the Winner
day prizes will be awarded.
To each of the persons from campus, from St. Mary’s, and from off campus who sells the most tickets, a prize of $50 will be given. Those who sell the second highest amount will receive §25, and third highest will receive $10. First place winner in Vetville will be given $25 and the second place salesman will get $10.
Plans are being made to have a noted Hollywood or Broadway celebrity to make the awards Tuesday night.
The first ticket drawn will be for the television set; and the student salesman of that particular ticket will receive a radio. The second ticket will be for the 1953 Mercury sedan. The student salesman for this ticket will receive a Chevrolet convertible.
WNDU Announces Staff Appointments
Mr. Jerome A. Fallon, director of radio for the University, today announced several new appointments to the student radio station, WNDU.
Bill Ryan, who has been the Station Manager of WNDU for the past two years, is now working on station WSBT and does not have enough time to handle the job alone. To assist Ryan in his duties is the former Program Director, Tom Knott. Knott, a native of New Jersey, is a junior and a resident of Badin Hall.
Freshman Dave Pfaff will replace Knott as Program Director. Pfaff had four years of commercial radio experience in Columbus, Ga., before coming to Notre Dame.
MARDI GRAS
Friday, 9 — 1 Palais Royale
Saturday, 1:30 — 4
Palais Royale
Saturday, 7 —11:30 Navy Drill Hall
Sunday, 2 — 5
Palais Royale
Monday, 7 — 11:30
Navy Drill Hall
Tuesday, 7 — 12 Midnight Navy Drill Hall
WEEKEND SCHEDULE
Mardi Gras Ball, with Tommy Dorsey and his orchestra.
All Star Jazz Concert by the nation’s leading artists. Admission, $1.00. Mardi Gras Carnival; Games, Booths, and Prizes.
Student Senate Dance.
Another evening of festivities at the Mardi Gras Carnival
Mardi Gras Carnival with grand drawing for 1953 Mercury and Chevrolet Convertible at close of evening.
New Chief Announcer for the station is Leo Zatta. Jim Gannon, who formerly held the position, is also working at WSBT.
Zatta, a sophomore, has been announcing with WNDU for one year.
John Kelsch replaces Jim Murphy as Business Manager, who had to resign because of ill-health.
Changes in the top positions on the staff are not the only ones that are being made at WNDU. A new program schedule has been created that has more variety than last semester’s. Probably the newest and most notable change that has been made is the insertion into the staff of feminine personnel. St. Mary’s ladies will do a nightly show of the disc jockey type.
10
The Scholastic
Poli Science Offers Soviet Policy Course
The University of Notre Dame will offer a special sequence of graduate studies on Soviet Communism and Eastern Europe in the Fall Semester of 1953, according to an announcement today by the Reverend Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School.
The new program, which will lead to the master’s degree and doctorate, has been established as a concentration within the University’s department of political science.
Courses, seminars and research will be organized under the program to increase the knowledge and understanding of Soviet Communism. Special attention will be devoted to its doctrine and ideology, its methods of propaganda and expansion and their impact on the United States, Communism’s attitude toward religion and its policies in the Soviet satellite states.
Classes and seminars will be conducted by foui- Notre Dame scholars including Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Dr. Stephen Kertesz, Dr. Ferdinand Her-mens, and Dr. Michael Pap. Gurian is Head of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame and editor of the University’s “Review of Politics.” An internationally recognized authority on Communism, Gurian is the author of Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism. Professor Kertesz, former Hungarian minister in Rome, is an authority on the Soviet satellite states. Professor Hermens is a special student of dictatorship and Dr. Pap has specialized in the study of non-Russian nationalities in the Soviet Union.
Catholic Action Group Publishes Bibliography
The most complete Catholic Action bibliography in the English language has recently been published by the NFCCS National Catholic Action Study Commission, centered at Notre Dame. Annotated listings of some 700 books of interest to individuals engaged in the lay apostolate comprise the bibliography.
The entire booklet is arranged in several sections dealing with texts on the basic principles of the apostolate, the liturgy and the apostolate, the organization of the apostolate, and many other topics. Combined with the extensive annotation, this arrangement is designed to enable the reader to choose quickly the books of greatest interest to him.
Written by a group of anonymous laymen, the booklet is intended to fill
Chinese Official Writes of Red China Rule In First 1953 Issue of 'The Review of Politics,
Articles ranging in subject matter from the Chinese Communist regime to the Political theory behind the American Revolution appeal- in the first 1953 issue of The Revieiv of Politics, a quarterly publication of the University.
The publication, primarily interested in the philosophical and historical approach to political realities, is edited by
DR. WALDEMAR GURIAN
His Periodical Discusses Communism
the need for a compilation of the hundreds of books dealing with the apostolate which have been published in the last two decades. It is the hope of the group that the bibliography will help laymen and especially students to guide their reading more effectively.
Established at Notre Dame by the National Federation of Catholic College Students to serve student Catholic Action groups throughout the country, the National Catholic Action Study Commission is engaged in publishing work of many types. But it considers the publication of the bibliography one of its major achievements.
NOTICE TO OFF-CAMPUS MEN
Starting tomorrow, and every Saturday until the end of the semester, the office of the prefect of discipline will be open from 8:30 till 11:30 a.m., to receive telephone calls from off-campus students who have to miss class because of illness.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of political science and chairman of the Committee on International Relations.
Ling Nai-Jui, a former- political science professor in the Chinese National University and member of the Chinese diplomatic service, who is now in this country on a state department grant, discusses the strength, weakness, and aims of the Chinese Communists in his featured article, “Three Years of Communist Rule in China.”
Power: How and Why
How and why the communists came to power, what they have accomplished and failed to accomplish, and whether they will be able to maintain, control of the Chinese people are the main topics covered by the author. Nai-Jui also includes a comparison of the Russian and Chinese brands of Communism.
In “The Rejuvenation of French Catholicism: Marc Sagnier’s Sillon,” Adrien Dansette, French historical writer and author of Histoire Religieuse de la France Contemporaire, examines the rise and fall of a spiritual movement of a Christian and democratic nature which thrived under the leadership of Marc Sagnier between 1894 and 1910 in France.
Clinton Rossiter, professor of government at Cornell University, outlines the theories and ideals motivating the American Revolution in his. article, “The Political Theory of the American Revolution.”
Also Featured
Other articles featured in the publication are: “The German Historians and Bismarck,” by Andreas Dorpalen, professor of history at St. Lawrence University, Canton, N. Y.; “The Origins of Totalitarianism,” by Eric Voege-lin of Louisiana State University; and “The Thought of Sir Henry Maine,” by Russell Kirk of Michigan State College.
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the department of history at Notre Dame and a managing editor of the publication, reviews Bernard Iddings Bell’s controversial book, Crowd Culture: An Examination of the American Way of Life.
Also in the book review section are reviews of books on China, Soviet problems, British foreign policy, sociology, and John Adams.
The Revieiv of Politics is on sale at the University Book Store and in Dr. Gurian’s office on the second floor of the Social Science Building. Price is $1.
Feb. 13,1953
11
Fr. Sorin's Renewed Popularity Is Declining After Long Leave Dampens Hope for Return
prominence pass them in the dark. Now they’re left holding the bag—and a bulky bronze statue.
■	—News Ed.
In the course of the last 111 years, Notre Dame students have done a lot to build up an impressive collection of traditions that have become an integral part of their everyday lives here on campus.
Their traditional scale ranges from the religious-like visit to the Grotto between classes to the reasonably ridiculous— such as monogram candidates’ shaving on the banks of St. Mary’s Lake with the conveniences of 20-degree water on cold January mornings.
Last week, however, old-timers around the campus were shaking their respective grey heads in dismay over what was either a gradual deterioration of traditional standards, or merely a new trend in college behavior: The disappearance of a three and one-half foot bronze statue of the University’s founder, Fr. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.
Last Seen Before Christmas
The statue, which formerly stood in a corner of Sorin Hall’s lobby, was last seen on Dec. 17, when students were departing for the Christmas vacation. An authentic replica of the larger monument which stands on the edge of the quadrangle facing the Circle, the statue was perched on the steps of the campus Post Office.
It has since failed to return.
Pranksters Missed Cue
University officials were at first complacent about the recent disappearance, thinking that it would return with some prankster after the Christmas holidays, but became concerned when it failed to do so. Now, they’ve resigned themselves to the fact that it won’t, and are content to let the thing die.
The puzzling element of the mystery, however, is that the parties involved failed to cash in on the tremendous amount of publicity which the situation received earlier last month. That, most students and faculty members are convinced, would have been the time for the statue to reappear and give the situation a sterling punch.
The South Bend Tribune carried several stories under the byline of James Carroll on the statue’s disappearance, and even the Associated Press wire services carried the first article. The Student Senate appointed Walt Werner, Sorin Hall president, to investigate the matter and possibly recover the “kidnapped” Fr. Sorin.
Several postcards with postmarks ranging from Washington, D. C., to Miami, Fla., have been mailed to Wern
er and some administrative offices, signed “Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.” The messages attached gave notice of Fr. Sorin’s attendance at the Inaugural Ball, and a “much needed rest” on the sandy beaches of Miami’s resorts.
This isn’t the first time the statue has been taken, however. It also disappeared one Saturday night last Spring, only to be found by a guard the following morning standing erect in a floating boat in the middle of St. Mary’s Lake, holding a fishing pole.
Each time, however, the statue was placed back in its corner at the entrance of the hall. This disappearance of Fr. Sorin has turned out to be the longest one yet.
Postcard Possible Clue
Werner and several Scholastic reporters investigated what they thought might be a clue when one postcard talked of “publicity” for the thing as “water off a duck’s back.” They combed the island off the shore of St. Mary’s Lake, where several ducks do stay, hoping possibly to find it. But the safari turned out to be a wild duck chase.
Now, interest is definitely on the decline. The Tribune has bled the postcard angle until its news value is bone dry. “So what,” is the usual reply a few yet-inquisitive students get when they display a concern in the matter. Coffee talk at the Huddle concerning the mystery is hinged on key words like “stupid,” and even “malicious.”
From all indications, the “kidnappers” have let the golden goose of campus
Take a 17'f
Irtbu'he. £	* Me	0/
i (at erf 'Tjrc.e	shout" ">ne	.
be i	puac't'Af	(Dt a	bsck~
j	*	/	■
hue.	■
„ * •
pk.	SafUAf C $£
A CLUE (?) IN AN UNSOLVED MYSTERY On the Other Side, a Washington, D. G, Postmark
NIT Delegate Denies ND Student Bus Rate
Appearing before the Student Senate last Monday night, John T. Martin, president of the Northern Indiana Transit Co., asserted that the establishment of a student rate on local buslines would be “impossible.”
The meeting was called to discuss the positions of the NIT and Notre Dame students in regard to the recent fare increase from 15 to 18 cents.
According to the NIT official, the price hike was attributed to “increased cost of labor.” Vehement debate directed from the floor by student senators and representatives lasted for an unprecedented hour’ and a half.
The Senate had hoped, through this discussion with Martin, to formulate some special policy of reduced rates for ND students.
New V.P.
Pat Mulrooney, senior representative of Walsh Hall, was elected vice-president of the Senate to replace graduated Floyd Blair. Mulrooney, as vice-president, automatically assumes presidency of the Hall Council System and the added duty of heading the Student Center Project.
An additional replacement for Blair’s activities resulted in the nomination and appointment of John Jones to the Dance Committee. Jones will assist Carl Eck who has been working in conjunction with Blair.
12
The Scholastic
CHRIS CUNNINGHAM, DON DY, JOHN ARTHUR, IVAN DEHUSZOVSZKY Give Cosmopolitan Touch to Fifth Floor Morrissey
Morrissey Tower Houses Foreign Students Who Overcame Perils For ND Education
BY MIKE WARD
Ever since the founding of the University of Notre Dame some 111 years past, there has been offered a good education with Christian ideals and standards to any man who desires them. It is the term “to any man” which makes Notre Dame exceptional.
Today the University boasts a student body of 5,500 men who come from all of the forty-eight states and twenty-six foreign nations. Although they usually pass unnoticed, these foreign students, like others, have come here to study and learn American customs. For some, this is their first separation from oppression, and as a result they recognize only too well the value of freedom.
Foul' such examples are John A. Arthur, Don Dy, Ivan DeHuszovszky, and Chris Cunningham. All are residents of Morrissey tower.
John A. Arthur, a graduate student in political science, is typical of these men. John is a native of Kumasi, British West Africa. He is here on a scholarship for a year and a half, which is the only way he can attend Notre Dame—for there are six brothers and four sisters at home besides John. Mild mannered, John occupies his leisure hours
by writing, planning to write a few papers about his native country. He feels that there are many things which people do not know about his country.
John is more than pleased with America and Notre Dame, and deeply appreciates the opportunities offered in education to all. The people and government of British West Africa speak highly of Notre Dame. After his scholarship has expired, John hopes to return home and work with the autonomous government of his people.
From Manila in the Philippines comes Don Dy, a member of Notre Dame’s graduate school. Don was born in Amoy in the province of Fookien, China, but settled with his family of mother, father, eight sisters and five brothers in Manila while he was very young. A graduate of the Dominican Fathers’ High School, he received his B.S. in Commerce at De La Salle College in Manila. Don is currently working at his own expense for a master’s in Economics and hopes to return to Manila and enter business.
Don especially knows the value of freedom. He and his family suffered throughout the islands’ occupation by the Japanese. Lack of food, strict martial
law and countless inconveniences made living difficult for a family of sixteen.
To the Irish campus from behind one of the Iron Curtain countries comes Ivan DeHuszovszky. Ivan hails from Budapest, Hungary, and is here on a fellowship studying political science. Under German occupation during World War II, he and his family were fortunate enough to leave Hungary in 1945, just two hours before a Russian invasion.	.
Ivan went to the University of Munich for two and a half years, then came to America and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Portland in Oregon. A member' of the Committee on International Relations, Ivan likes Notre Dame for its educational facilities. He has also learned quite a bit about football, a sport to which he was just introduced.
The home of the Fighting Irish boasts of. one native Irishman, Christopher Cunningham of County Donegal.
Chris, an exchange student, is taking graduate work in civil engineering.
At first confused by the Irish quality attributed to Notre Dame, he soon saw an explanation in *the pugnacious game known as football — perhaps an admission of the legendary Gaelic fighting spirit.
Lecture Series Plans Sontag Talk Feb. 20
The Department of History and the Concert and Lecture Series will co-sponsor a lecture by Professor Raymond J. Sontag in Washington Hall on Friday, Feb. 20,' at 8:15. Professor Sontag will speak on the intelligence process and its place in the American foreign policy undei' the title, “The Intelligence Background for American Foreign Policy.”
A historian from the university of California, Professor Sontag is now serving temporarily on the Central Intelligence Agency in Washington. His present title is Member of Board of Estimates, Central Intelligence Agency. Professor Sontag received his Doctor’s degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1924. After teaching at the University of Iowa and Princeton University, he went to the University of California in 1941.
Professor Sontag is the author of several volumes including European. Diplomatic History, published in 1933, Germany and England, published in 1938, and Nazi-Soviet Relations, published in 1948.
The lecture will start promptly at 8:15, and there will be no admission charge. This talk should be particularly interesting for those students interested in a career in the foreign service.
Feb. 13, 1953
13
Ford Grant Provides
AB Evaluation Study
The Ford Foundation has granted the University of Notre Dame $23,600 for the study of its academic curriculum in the College of Arts and Letters.
Purpose of the study is to determine the relationship in the academic propram between philosophy and theology, and secondly, to determine the association of philosophy and theology as a unit with the various other subjects.
A special Committee on Self Study has been appointed by Rev. Charles E.
REV. CHARLES E. SHEEDY, C.S.C.
Names Self-Study Committee
Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, to conduct the project.
The Committee is being directed by Professor Vincent E. Smith of the Department of Philosophy. Serving with him as assistants are Dr. Herbert L. Johnston of the Department of Philosophy, and Rev. Edward D. O’Connor, C.S.C., of the Department of Religion.
According to Professor Smith, the Committee plans to carry out this study by interviewing students of the various departments; submitting questionnaires to all seniors in the Arts and Letters school to determine how much the Departments of Philosophy and Theology have contributed to their education; do research on classical writings pertaining to Catholic education; and to invite a staff of consultants who are outstanding in philosophy and theology to help evaluate the program and solve its prob-
14
Louis Bromfield Blasts American Education;
Article Deplores 'Tragic' College Conditions
“In this country we spend a colossal amount of money, time, and energy in educating people from the age of six years upward and the results in terms of genuine education, of culture, and of civilization is appallingly weak and small,” says Louis Bromfield, author of The Rains Came.	,
This is the state of our contemporary college system, Bromfield indicated in the article, The Shame of Our Colleges, appearing in the March Es-
Among other- things, this “tragic condition stems from three ugly seeds: “our failure to discipline our children, our tolerance of downright subversion in the schools, and our emphasis on the college degree rather than the college education.”
“Without discipline,” says Mr. Bromfield, “education is impossible . . . the lack of discipline begins at an early age in the classroom. Sometimes in the elementary and grade schools physical discipline is made almost impossible by conditions of overcrowding, or very nearly impossible through the ir- • responsibility and anarchy of the American home carried ovex* into the school room. During recent years,” continues Mr. Bromfield, “this lack of discipline has been accentuated by the system of 'progressive education’.”
Writing about the “ugly seed” of subversive education, Bromfield feels that arguments about Marxian socialism and true democracy should be presented with complete objectivity and finally, the student should make up his own mind. Such a process rarely occurs in the U. S., and in all too many instances both teaching and textbooks degenerate into mere propaganda.
lems.
Results of these studies, Professor Smith added, should find the exact role of philosophy and theology as well as liberal education at Notre Dame. He also emphasized that the Committee will not have the power to change the present academic program, but only to offersuggestions for bettering a future academic system.
Opinions and suggestions of the students, as well as the results of the questionnaires will weigh heavily in the outcome of this project, Professor Smith said.
This study, sponsored by the Ford Foundation, began Feb. 1, and is effective until Oct. 1.
America’s small regard for the status of its professors, unlike in other countries, provides us with the answer as to why many of them turn to Marxian socialism, Bromfield writes. America thinks little of its professors and as a result they fall victim to the Communist doctrine, which promises everything to everybody but the staunch individualists. Under this influence many of them cease to be objective teachers and become engulfed in propaganda. Undoubtedly, this kind of teaching is one of the reasons we get such bad results from our schools and colleges.
“The answer is not to exact oaths of loyalty,” the author adds. “It lies in the vigilance of parents, editors, legislators, school principals, and our college presidents. . . . The professor who emphasizes propaganda rather than fact ... is incompetent and a bad influence on education and deserves discipline or dismissal.”
Elaborating on oui- emphasis on the college degree rather- than the college education, Bromfield feels “there are too many young people in our institutions of higher education who are there not to acquire knowledge but to get a job somewhere, or to make a club, or to escape from their father’s business, or, most commonly, simply to please their parents. There are too many who don’t want to be there at all, and make passing marks only because their teachers nag them or their parents scare them.”
“But whatever the reasons,” Bromfield says, “education at its' present state in the U. S. seems to be merely messy.”
LIBRARY CHANGES SUNDAY
SCHEDULE
Officials of the University Library recently announced that Library facilities will be available to students on Sundays during the Spring semester from 1 to 9 p.m.
Two members of the general library staff and the Reference Librarian will be on duty.
However, if only a very small number of students avail themselves of the opportunity, the Sunday Library schedule will revert to its former hours, officials said.

The Scholastic
‘TRIB’ FEATURES MILITARY BALL
S u n d a y's edition of the Chicago Tribune will feature pictures from the Military Ball in the “Youth on Campus” section.
This section regularly runs pictures of students and student affairs at various colleges and universities in the Midwest.
Deadline Set for Graduates Seeking Research Degrees
Sunday is the deadline date for requesting application forms on the Cooperative Plan for Master of Science Degrees offered to June, 1953, graduates by Hughes Research and Development Laboratories of Culver City, California.
Eligible for application are June, 1953 college graduates and members of the armed services being honorably discharged prior to September, 1953, and holding degrees in electrical engineering, physics or mechanical engineering. The plan offers outstanding individuals opportunity to obtain M.S. degrees while employed in industry and making significant contributions to important military work.
Those interested should write immediately for application forms to Committee for Graduate Study, Hughes Research and Development Laboratories, Culver City, Los Angeles County, California. Final date for submitting completed applications is February 28, 1953.
Designers Bayless, Ganther Snare Awards In Beaux-Arts Institute Architecture Contest
Two architecture students at Notre Dame have been awarded prizes in the annual nationwide competition conducted by the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design.
Raymond Bayless, fifth year student from Oak Park, HL, was awarded the Emerson Prize of $50 for his solution to a problem involving the design for an entrance hall to a municipal aquarium project.
A design of a warehouse for building materials by Fred Ganther, third-year student from Oshkosh, Wis., won the fourth prize of $25 offered by the United States Plywood Corporation.
In each problem of the Beaux-Arts competition, the students were presented with a rigid list of specifications closely approximating a professional assignment. Noted New York architects iorm-ulated the problems for the Beaux-Arts Institute and judged the entries.
Bayless is the second Notre Dame student to win the Emerson Prize. In 1942 a design for a service decoration submitted by J. J. Sherer received the same award.
Notre Dame students are participating in several architectural competitions, according to Frank Montana, head of the Department of Architecture. Students have just completed drawings for a parish church, subject of a competi
tion sponsored by Franklin X. McCormick, editor of “Church Property Administration.” A total of §700 in prizes will be offered for the best designs.
The student architects are also working on designs for a hospital in an international competition. The best designs will be assembled and placed in a traveling exhibit which will be routed to all the architecture schools participating.
Adoration and Benediction
Start Forty Hours Devotions
Forty Hours devotions will open at the 9 o’clock Mass on Sunday, followed by adoration all day Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday.
On Sunday and Monday evenings at 6:45 there will be a sermon and Benediction. The Forty Hours will close Tuesday evening at 6:45.
On Ash Wednesday, the Blessing of the Ashes will take place at the 6 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Ashes will be distributed in the halls at the hours assigned by the Rectors, and in Dillon Hall chapel at 12:30, 6:30. and 7 p.m.
The Lenten regulations for the campus will be published in the Religious Bulletin.
DRIFTING ON THE FAR SIDE OF THE MOON
SCIENCE BALL PROVIDES FUN AND NOVELTIES
(I.) Dancers Swing to Music of Tony Papa; (r.) Dan Collins and Date Inspect Robot
Feb. 13,1953
U
ND Theatre Group Prepares Washington Hall For U. S. Premiere Production of 'Vile Bodies'
Sweeney, Harold Sweet, Cas Taylor, Phelan Thompson, Thomas Wageman, Earl Ware, Louise Warnicke and Lee Wermuth.
Casting for the next University Theatre production, Vile Bodies, has been completed, and full scale rehearsals are underway in preparation for the production’s debut in Washington Hall March 5-8.
Evening performances will begin at 8:30, and a matinee performance will be staged Sunday, March 8, at 2:30.
Vile Bodies is an ultra-modern satire on the ultra-modem antics of London’s Bright Young People adapted from Evelyn Waugh’s novel of the same name.
John D. Tumpane, director of the Notre Dame University Theatre, and the Rev. John J. Walsh, S.J., director of the University Theatre at Marquette University, have combined their directive talents to mark up another “first” for Notre Dame’s theatre group in doing Vile Bodies for the first time on an American stage.
The University Theatre distinguished itself earlier this Fall in presenting the first U.S. non-professional production of T. S. Eliot’s Cocktail Party under Mr. Michael Casey.
James Nichols has been given the task of portraying Adam Fenwick-Symes, the young author, who drifts in and out of proposals of marriage with considerable charm and humor. Nichols has had previous acting experience in the other university productions this year: Comedy of Errors and The Cocktail Party.
Nancy Driscoll from St. Mary’s, with previous experience in The Cocktail Party and Stay Tuned for Addleman, will appear as Nina Blount, the partygoing young lady who, at first appears interested only in Adam, but finally marries another.
Jean Richards, previously seen in The Cocktail Party and Skin of Our Teeth, will be seen as Agatha Runcible, who finds it hard to concentrate on anything more serious than party-going. Hildegarde Vargyas, who has appeared in Faust, will play the part of Mrs. Melrose Ape, the female evangelist, who, with her angels, sweeps everything before her.
. The part of Ginger Littlejohn, the man whox unexpectedly marries Nina Blounft^will . be played by William Bleakley. .^he Drunk Major, whose dis-appearanfee -hnd subsequent reappearance prove to be motivating forces in the play, will be portrayed by Fr^nk
Jackman, who previously appeared in Harvey.
Jack Allesandrini, captain of last year’s football team, will make his first University Theatre appearance in the role of Gilmour, a motor racer who has trouble holding his champagne.
The parts of Father Rothschild, a Jesuit with a predilection for wearing false beards and running governments, and Archie Schwert, a Texas playboy who specializes in giving parties with other peoples’ money, have not as yet been filled.
Other principal parts in the play include: Margaret Boyle as Fanny
NANCY DRISCOLL, JIM NICHOLS
In Their Third Appearance
Throbbing; Eleanor Kaskey as Kitty Blackwater; Richard Gerken as Simon Balcairn; and Donald Rathgab as Miles Malpractice.
Also included in the cast are: Frieda Beezley, Jeanine Berner, Ludwig Breil-.ing, Donald Brophy, Frank Broucek, Mary Jo Bujarski, Charles Doherty, Jeanie Dosmann, Kay Dale, Jessie Flautt, Arlen Haffner, Donald Hanisch, Kay Howland, Joe Heubner, Gavin King, Jere Lloyd, Joseph Mead and Ann Murray.
Others in the casting are: Tim O’Hara, Nancy O’Hearn, James Patterson, Mary Regnier, Douglas Robertson, Peter Schils, Ed Sexauer, Charlene Skinner, Pat Smanda, Fred Sprinkel, Janet. Stahl, Peter Sturtevant, ■ Jerry
Religion Department Explains Fast Rules
The Department of Religion has released clarification of the new regulations concerning the Eucharistic Fast as issued by Pope Pius XII some time ago. These new rules will not be applicable, however, until official notification has been received from the bishops of the individual dioceses.
When the Holy Father removed the restrictions, he did so in order to facilitate the reception of Communion by the sick, workers, mothers and children. t In granting the new privileges, however, the Pope stated that all those • capable of observing the traditional j regulations of Canon Law should con- -tinue to do so.	i
The new regulations state that “or-	't
dinary water, without the addition of	?
any element whatsoever, does not break | the Eucharistic fast.” This is the only 5
I unqualified statement in the new rules. $ Thus, if one should accidentally take	J
water after midnight, he does not	f
break his fast.	i
With regard to other liquid nourish- * ment the faithful are permitted some form of non-alcoholic beverage, such as coffee, tea, or milk, up to one hour prior to receiving Communion; but only if certain conditions prevail, and if the confessor says that the person qualifies for the privileges. The conditions are:
1) engagement in energy-sapping work before Communion (or) 2) Communion be received at 9 a.m. or later, j (or) 3) that the person travels at least one and one-fourth miles on foot.
Night workers are permitted to take non-alcoholic liquid up to one hour before Communion. The same privilege is granted to mothers with families to attend to before church.
The sick are permitted to take medicine prescribed by a physician, or commonly recognized as such. It must be taken as medicine, and not as nourish-	|
ment. The sick need not be confined to	$
bed to be eligible for this privilege.
But even in this case it must be with the permission of the confessor.
In any case, all the liquids must be non-alcoholic, and in all cases, with the	i
exception of water, the person must	।
have the permission of his confessor,	|
or any other qualified priest, to be eli- g gible for the new privilege.	f
The Scholastic	S
16
How to Fool Prospective Employers
By Robert Piorkowski
How should I prepare for a job interview?
Of all the questions students ask William R. Dooley, head of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, that is the one he hears most. The answer to it was found by interviewing the men who interview students. The interviewers from The Kawneer Co., Marathon Corp., Ford Motor Co., and O’Brien Corp.— listed the following do’s and don’ts.
Don’t be late for the interview. If you are unavoidably detained state briefly why, but don’t harp on it. Even a good excuse isn’t apt to score in your favor.
When you walk into the room your personal appearance gives the interviewer his first impression. So be neat, but not showy. Be cleanly shaven, have a passable haircut, and avoid fingernails that are in mourning. However, this rule, like most rules, has its exceptions. One interviewer told of a student he hired because the student came in all sweaty, wearing a gym suit. The student had a Phy Ed class that ended a few minutes before the interview appointment. The interviewer was impressed with the student’s determination to be on time.
Introductions Are in Order
Don’t sit until asked. Sometimes the interviewer might let you stand awhile just to see how you react. So don’t jig around like a five-year-old. And don’t lean on things. Just stand there on both feet, relaxed, a gentleman with poise.
Introduce yourself. Both names. Forget nicknames. And when the interviewer introduces himself be sure to catch his last name. And call him Mr. So-and-so. Don’t get palsy-walsy and call him by his first name. It shows lack of taste and good judgment.
It is best not to smoke unless the interviewer does. There is no use getting the room all clouded up for him, if he doesn’t like smoke. And, please, don’t ask him for a cigarette. One student did that and his rating shot down like a toboggan on a slippery hill.
Don’t Bring Up Salary
Don’t ask about salary. Let the interviewer bring up the horrible subject. One student asked as an opening question, “What kind of benefits does
your company offer?” The interviewer answered, “One of our greatest benefits is that we are particular about whom we hire. Goodbye, young man.”
Sell yourself to the interviewer. Don’t just sit there and answer, “yes” and “no.” Volunteer to contribute information to the conversation—information concerning yourself and your extra-curricular activities. And be yourself when you do it. Don’t act out a part from Hamlet.
One interviewer told of a student who was sprouting with personality. He really had a “line” and laid it on thick. He told the interviewer how much he liked his product, and that he recommended it to all his friends. He didn’t get the job. So don’t you over-do it.
Speak up, but don’t shout. The interviewers aren’t deaf. Be distinct and don’t mumble. Nothing irks an interviewer more than having to strain to hear what you have to say.
Know the Company Represented
If you and the interviewer are both of the same religion, or belong to the same fraternal organization, don’t use
A JOB INTERVIEW, THE FIRST IMPRESSION
For Graduating Seniors, Many Do’s and Dont’s
that fact as a wedge. The interviewer won’t appreciate it.
Learn something in advance about the company the interviewer represents. But don’t go out of your- way to show how much you know about it; the interviewer will sense that in the course of the conversation and give you all the credit you deserve.
Don’t beat around the bush when trying to make a point. Be frank. If you have something to say, say it. The interviewer budgets his time, even if you don’t.
Before an interview you are usually asked to fill application blanks. A partially-filled or sloppy blank has never been known to score in a man’s favor. Your photograph attached to the blank favorably impresses the interviewer and the people who consider your case at the company office.
The student who doesn’t know what to do or what he wants to do has two strikes, against him. So think over these do’s and don’ts, add a little common sense, and your- chances of tying down the job are greatly improved.
The first impression is often lasting. Make it good.
Feb. 13,1953
17
ABOVE: Group watches changing of guard at Arlington Unknown Soldier's tomb.
BELOW: Reflecting Pool and Washington Monument from steps of Lincoln Memorial
SltidtnU	. .,v
What Makes
When the nine ND men and 18 St. Mary’s belles who joined Prof. Paul Bartholomew on his annual capital junket headed eastward aboard the B. & O. Columbian Jan. 29, they expected to see the shrines and govern- 1 ment buildings in Washington, Arlington, Mount Vernon, Jamestown, and’* colonial Williamsburg. For their money —$117—they got all this plus a few special events which made the trip such a memorable one.
Twice the group saw Ike and Mamie —in passing—and they chatted with
Notre Dame & St. Mary’s at Mt. Vernon
f
it the Senate Restaurant in the Capitol.
Uncle Saniny Run?
Vice-President Nixon in his office. A tour of the White House was another added feature on the five-day itinerary.
A regular feature of the tour was the party at the home of Walter Tro-han, head of the Chicago Tribune’s Washington bureau. But this time there was a special guest—Senator Robert Taft.
St. Mary’s Schwaun Robinson, a crack shot, was given the chance to prove her skill during a tour of the FBI headquarters. And she handled a submachine-gun like an expert.
Taft, Bartholomew, Trohan at party.
ABOVE: Student travelers leave the White House after touring the President’s home.
BELOW: Another president’s home—Washington’s Mount Vernon—also inspected.
BELOW: St. Mary’s quartet stands before Supreme Court Building in Washington.
Notre Dame’s
Atomic Scientists
Biologists Play Important Atomic Age Role By Studying Radiation Effects in Organisms
Room 105 in the Biology Building is not full of the stereotyped hustle and bustle so often pictured in a laboratory. The quiet air of business-like activity prevails. Men in white laboratory coats glide effortlessly about their work, handling instruments common to their research. Carefully they weigh and measure, watch and report. Carefully, quietly, they go about their work, marking a finding on a report sheet or squinting into a microscope with experienced eye.
In the midst of these white-robed figures, a Holy Cross priest, clad contrastingly in black, swishes about the lab, cautiously turning a dial here or taking a test tube from its rack there. Occasionally he will throw his cape back over his shoulders and run his hands through his thinning hair that sports just the slightest frost of grey at the temples. The simple typewritten card on the door announces to the visitor that this is the Radiation Biology Laboratory. And ready to greet anyone who is interested is that
Grad student Donald Braun records radioactivity counts with a Gieger-Mueller counter tube and automatic scaler, known commonly as a “Gieger counter.”
affable priest, the Rev. C. S. Bachofer, C.S.C.
Father Bachofer, a 1938 graduate from the University, served as a part-time instructor here from 1943-1945, following his ordination in 1942. In 1948 he received his doctorate from the University of Chicago and then returned to the campus once more for a year. In 1949 he returned to the Windy City to do a year’s research at the Atomic Energy Commission’s Argonne National Laboratory. Since 1950 he has been engaged in teaching and research in the Department of Biology.
The research program involves essentially an attempt to explain the mechanisms whereby high energy radiations (x-rays, gamma-rays, high-speed electrons, etc.) produce their effects when they strike living organisms. Now, to a commerce major who is at ease behind an accounting book or a journalism major who feels at home before a typewriter, talk of “high energy radiations” or the
The Rev. C. S. Bachofer, C.S.C., shown ; j adjusting apparatus during research. A
mention of “living organisms” may sound as foreign as any word in our language can sound. To explain them briefly, let us consider what the physicists call the Van de Graf electrostatic generator, known commonly as the “atom smasher.” It can pour out an invisible beam of radiations so intense and so deadly that if a man were exposed to this beam for a few minutes it would result in certain death.
Lead and Concrete Barriers
How does it kill him? We shall come to that later. The radiation biologists are of course not exposing themselves or anyone else to these very dangerous radiations. In fact, they work behind lead shields or extra thick concrete walls when they deal with these powerful rays, and they are constantly checking with delicate instruments to detect the presence of a few “stray” radiations which might cause them harm. But on the other side of these lead barriers and concrete walls they are repeatedly subjecting many organisms to this deadly treatment, organisms such as a test tube of viruses, a small green plant, eggs of a parasitic worm, or a vial of common flour beetles.
The procedure consists in placing these organisms in the path of the high energy beam and regulating the intensity of the exposure by remote control behind the barriers. At the end of the exposure, with the beam turned off the biologist begins a systematic examination of the survivors of this ordeal. Some are dead, some are dying, and some will linger for a long time. Here begins the difficult part of the work; namely, to make careful and accurate observations or measurements of effects, and above all, to discover and interpret the cause of these effects.
Similar procedures ai’e followed and

similar effects can be produced by using the high voltage x-ray machine or a very active radioactive isotope. Since the war the use of radio-active substances has become so widespread that samples, admittedly very weak, are being used for demonstration material even in our secondary schools. For use in the radiation biology laboratory, however, in order to produce exposures comparable to those of the high voltage equipment, very powerful sources of radioactive isotopes are often used. These isotopes give off invisible, deadly rays comparable to those of the high voltage equipment. Similar barriers must be used. There are certain advantages in the use of isotopes, insofar as they can be injected into the animals or mixed in with the animal’s food.
Protection Against Reduction
Closely allied to the problem of explaining how the radiations produce their effects in living cells is the problem of devising ways and means of protecting these cells against the radiations. The better one understands how a thing is affected, the better will he be able to figure out ways of protecting it. To correct any misconceptions, Father Bacho-fer pointed out that he and the graduate students and assistants who are working with him are not concerned directly with the protection of human beings against radiations, although he admits that some of their basic findings on simpler organisms might be applicable to man.
Attention in this field is now becoming focused more and more on the actions of radiations on a cellular level. The work, in fact, might almost be called cellular biology. It is becoming more and more evident that the fundamental reactions are pretty much the same, when one deals with radiations, whether the living thing be a sub-microscopic particle, such as a virus, or a bacterial cell, a cell of a green plant, or a cell of a higher animal.
Much of the work here at Notre Dame in radiation biology is centered on the simpler forms of life, such as the viruses, which, Father Bachofer points out, have advantages in that they do not involve many of the complications found in more complex biological systems, including those of man. Still the interest is by no means limited to the simpler organisms.
Work, for example, is being set up by Edward F. Cashman, a graduate student from Ottawa, Canada, on a fellowship from the Canadian government, to study the effects of gamma rays on Tribolium, a flour beetle. This flour beetle is of considerable economic importance in the milling industry.
Studies on the effects of radiations on Ascaris, an intestinal parasite of hogs,
are being pursued by Brother L. George Pahl, F.S.C., of St. Mary’s College, Winona, Minn. These and other studies are intended primarily to yield fundamental, basic knowledge concerning life but they may also be adapted to applied science.
Support by AEC
It would be impossible to outline even briefly the various individual projects being planned and carried out in the radiation biology laboratory by Father Bachofer, and :he seven graduate students and four assistants who have chosen to work in this field.
When activity of this type, requiring the use of scientific equipment, comes to light, there is usually a question in the minds of all who hear about it: might there be some special source of income? Father Bachofer stated that the work is supported in part by the Atomic Energy Commission and that his research contract for the present year is $8,575. Since the beginning of Father Bachofer’s affiliation with the Atomic Energy Commission in 1949, the University has received $26,800, which has been used to cover such items as research assistants, technicians, salaries, university overhead expenses, equipment, travel, etc. Father Bachofer spoke at some length of his gratitude to Dr. Milton Burton of the Radiation Chemistry Project for having given him assistance after his return to Notre Dame from the Argonne National Laboratory, thereby enabling Father Bachofer to organize his research program, obtain much-needed equipment, and ultimately secure his own research grant.
Bro. L. George Phal, F.S.C., and Edward Cashman, Canadian graduate student, assist Father Bachofer. Here they are checking respiration of small organisms.
One may wonder how the worth of a scientist can be measured. Prestige comes not by the feature articles written about him, but rather by the lasting contributions made by him. Such contributions must be vitalized by appearance in scientific literature. For the scientist this is an exacting and yet a fascinating phase of his work. First comes the long period of experimentation. Finally, data are pulled together, interpreted and tediously prepared for submission to a scientific journal, where the editor gives the article to judges who critically pass on its acceptability. After months the anxious experimenter receives word from the editor of the journal. If the article is accepted, there is great jubilation and a fresh impetus for further work. Those scientists whose names have become established usually have continued along this rugged path for a decade or more.
Several Articles Published
During the past several months Father Bachofer has published articles in Science, Bacteriological Proceedings, and the Journal of General Physiology. Another article is to appear- in Science next month. Two other articles are pending acceptance by the referees of two national scientifc journals.
The diversity of the research projects being planned and carried by Father Bachofer and his collaborators in this relatively new field attests to the interest it has stimulated and indicates that Notre Dame has done much to keep abreast in this new development in biology.
Popular Demand:
This week Once Over Lightly, the column for morons, presents by popular demand a list of persons who want to see their names in print.
Les Miserables:
Dan Collins, Norm Feltes, Bob Warner, Eugene Bergin, Ernest DuPraw, Robert Deak, John Campagnone, John Nelson, Jerry Connors, Tom Krug, George McCourt, George Lang, Harold Sweet, Jim Applegate, Jim Welsh, Roger Blatz, Dick Harvey, Joe Moresco, Frank Brennan, Willy Conroy, Marty Brennan, Bob. Schaefer, Ron Mazzoli, Dick Bennett, John Schmidt, Ed Cul-kowski, Charlie Cook, Bob Boemer, Leo Doan, Gene Gorski, J. William (Sleepy) Reeves, Tom Mangan, Dave Martin, Jack Fink, Bob Rust, Fran Paterra, Tom Melfe, Paul Anderson, John Hellman, John Elson, Al DeCrane, Hal Tompkins, Buck Hennigan, Walt Stuhl-dreher, Jim Gannon, John Hastings, Kevin Begley, Bill Nesbitt, Pat Carrico, John Roy, Bennie Suplik, Tom Hassen-ger, George Hadyka, Walt Swift, John Houck, Ziggy, George, Benny. . . .
man, “Tiger" Jim Brett, Tom Hamilton, Dave Fox, Nash Navar, Dick Wolfgram, John Corrigan, Pat Smith, Jack Powers, Louie Cavanaugh, Charlie Wolf, Jim Krug, Jim Finnegan, and GENE BERGIN. ...
And Back on Campus . . .
Dan Collins, Dan Hellman, Bob Berner, Ed Kane, Joe Pagliari, James Dale, Ed Powell, Tom Campbell, Andy Bauer, Jim Gibbons, Vern Essi, several freshmen, Bernie Del Bello, Jim McGlinn, Paul Anselmi, Walt Wolf, Jerry Higgins, Harry Newman, Joe Kurzeja, Jim McLaughlin, Jim Carson, Michael Les-so, Daniel O’Shea, George Painter, Darryl Eartly, Frank Dwan, Jim Mitchell, Frank Kittredge, Al Parillo, Bob Elliott, several sophomores, Rick Hicks, Pete Gantert, Joe Hayden, Dan Collins, Fred DeLany, Jerome Burns, Dick Al-fes, Dick Hairsine, Bob Voyt, John Queenan, Joe Rafferty, Cyril Lindemann. ...	.
And Let’s Not Forget . . .
Dan Collins, Fred lonata, Les Za-
czek, Bill Carson, Tom Lorson, Jim Terry, Gerry Keeley, George Zimmerman, Mike Yuhas, Tom Matey, John Sullivan (Cm. 3, Sci. 1, A.B. 3, Sci. 2, Law. 3, A.B. 3), Bill Bird, Niel O’Regan, Don Bergman, Jim McIntyre, Sil Schulte, Bob O’Neil, Ed Jennings, Tim Kett, Jerry Preece, Frank Jackman, Ed (Student Activity Card) Condon, Lou Basso, Joe Bill, Joe Saunders, Kerwin, Mike Long, Neil Butler, Jim and Ed Noonan, Ed Meunier, Bob Thomas, Art Lewis, Dick Casper, Charles Cazeau, Pat Lee, Dan Noe, Jim Silk, Gerry Marshall, Bob “Strap” Stanley, Jack Lee, Rockne Morrissey, Lee Getschow, Jack Clark, Ted Roemer, Jim Ronan, Bob McKenna, Jack Mooney, Bob Rossiter, Lambros Hatzilambrou, Mike Higgins, Joe Desautel, Bob Chickey, Bill Dempsey, Mike O’Toole, John Nolan, Bob Niquette, Bob Sargent, Larry Sullivan, “Bear” Sulick, Lee Travis, Tom Tubbs, Bob Tripeny, Joe Stadler, Don Turk, Neil Vasconcellos, and old faithfuls Norm Feltes, and Dan Collins.
The Last Word! . . .
... to the above Who’s Nobodies: May the wind be ever at your back and the road level itself beneath your feet, and please don’t bother us anymore this semester.
Walt Werner Gerry Voit Jack Dilenschneider
And at Saint Mary’s . . .
Dan Collins, Elizabeth Kiley, Rosemarie Murphy, Rody Oppenheim, Gloria Bird, Ann McCullough, Liz Gowan, Dolly McCaffery, Ann Tuttle, Sharon Mack, Bev Ritz, Pat McAndrews, John Bier-busse, Charles Manion, Bob Kelly, Bill Gaudreau, Marge Keller, Dor Antoinelli, Mary Ann Imonen, Joan Hoffman, Nancy Driscoll, Pat Rutledge, Beth O’Hanlon, Mary Cavaney, Mary Ann Cramer, Dick Perry, Janet Crowley, Sue Mitchell, Nancy Doersom, Harry Shay, Tom O’Neill, Jim Ingram, Woody Werner, Jim Hutchinson, Jack Dilenschneider, Bill Flick, Tom Moorly, Kathy Flanagan.......
And now Downtown . . .
Dan Collins, Joe O’Neill, Madeline Cosgrove, Nancy Miller, Donna Horvath, Frank Santangelo, Mark Jennings, Ron Joer, Bob Hoodecheck, Bob Strate-gon, Mark Tolle, John Wathen, Ray (Oozie-boozie) Smith, Cudmore Mac-Murray, Gene Renz, Jack Cahill, Bruce Fox, Gerry Voit, Rusty Vigil, Tom Reedy, Leo Cahalan, Harry Kelly, Brian Kelly, Gene Kelly, Gerry Kelley, Dave Eardley, Armand Deatrick, Bernie Cau-ghey, Joe Gores, Morton Luby, Bill Londo, Jim Barry, John Steepler, Jazz Jasinski, Spider Weber, Pierce Walsh, Paul Braunlich, Joe Clancy, Hubert Till-
Sa Mp> Me . . .
I’ve got influence around here. I’ll have my 8:30 classes switched.

The Scholastic
i
W MII Mike Chatter
A new semester always brings changes and new ideas as the past semester is reviewed and shortcomings noted, and new plans are made for the personnel involved in any student activity. Probably the most important change this semester is the appointment of new men to four of the top positions on the staff, "but the most noticeable is the completely revised program schedule. A copy of the schedule appears on another page, but here is an explanation of some of its more important points, and why.
Back to Local Flavor
“The Student Voice” grew rather rapidly in the past three-and-a-half years. In its attempt to sound “professional” it began to rely more and more on professional program aids, such as the Thesaurus transcription service and BMI scripts. It began to drift away from its “student” and local flavor. The evening schedule, with the notable exception of “Requestfully Yours,” was composed almost entirely of professionally planned programs. In an attempt to get away from this, and to make the station a little closer to the student audience, with comments about the activities of the students, and news that you recognize, the evening schedule has been brought closer to home. The main evening program this semester will be Tom Cassidy’s hour-long disc jockey show from 7:30 to 8:30. Three nights a week will find student-written and produced jazz shows from 8:30 tc 9:30. Monday night will feature the familiar “Story of Storyville,” written by Tom Knott, Wednesday sees another old friend, “New Sounds,” and on Friday we inaugurate a new companion to these called “Big Bands.” The titles say just what you are going to hear.
From Across the Highway
Another addition that will attract some attention on the campus is the new series by the girls from across the highway. Mort Linder, who many will remember as regular on WSBT for many years is coaching the girls, so the program should turn out very well. It will follow a disc- jockey format, and will bring quite a few new and intriguing voices to the WNDU mikes. You’ll be able to catch “St. Mary’s” five nights a week at 7:15 (more personal “Mikes” keep them busy on weekends).
The afternoon schedule shows our final step in the move that has been slowly taking shape from uninterrupted
A Tale of Two Colleges
A hundred years ago a new institution of higher learning suddenly sprung up in the wilderness of the Great Midwest. No one knew it then, but Erton Emad was destined to become one of the foremost Catholic girls’ colleges in the country.
Then, a few years later, another college was founded on the other side of the wagon trail that in more modern times was to be known as the Yankee Highway. St. Syram’s was a college for men, and was founded primarily as a complement to its predecessor to the west, Erton Emad.
Both schools were small in numbers and largely unknown for the next halfcentury, devoting themselves towards instructing and preparing Catholic men and women to be leaders in the society of the rapidly expanding nation. And chances are both colleges would have always remained in relative obscurity had it not been for a new spore that was sweeping the nation by storm.
■
into the Limelight
No one knew just how tiddlywinks got started, and at first there were many critics who couldn’t see much sense to it, but nevertheless it had caught the fancy of the American people and was not to be denied. Teams began to be organized on the college level, and since the game lent itself remarkably well to the talents and interests of young ladies, it wasn’t long until Erton Emad instituted it as a major sport along about the turn of the century.
From these humble beginnings Erton Emad suddenly rose out of the Midwest and into the national spotlight for their great tiddlywinks teams. The girls soon proved to be more than a match for other schools. Year after year, Erton Emad came up with top-notch talent and developed such strong team spirit that they were practically unbeatable. They, were so good in fact that many of their opponents including Stephens,
recorded music all afternoon to regular programming. The afternoon is now broken up into 11 shows, each with its own format for greater variety. Now, it’s up to you to tell us how you like the new set-up. A card does it.
—Bryan Coughlin
Wellesley, Vassar, and Byrn Mawr considered dropping them from their schedules.
*
An Ideal Place
As time went on, great heroines rose from the ranks to become legendary athletic figures and to instill even more spirit and tradition in the school. For instance there was Florence Flipp, “The Flipper,” and after her came the fabulous “Three Buttonieres.” For skill in dunking the discs they had no equals. Under the tutelage of Coach Ruth Knocknees, Erton Emad became the first name in tiddlywinks. The huge He-Mans Fieldhouse was constructed that more might watch the glittering girls play.
All this of course was not without its repercussions in the academic life of the two schools. More and more girls wanted to go to Erton Emad. In addition to its athletic fame, it was the ideal place for a Catholic education—a school of high scholastic ranking and one that offered moral and spiritual improvement as well. It was the dream of every Catholic girl to go to Erton Emad.
Meanwhile St. Syram’s noted this with considerable interest. True, the men didn’t know or care much about tiddlywinks, but they didn’t mind as long as there were plenty of beautiful girls around to explain the intricacies of the game at the regular Saturday night Victory Dances (they were invariably called victory dances since Erton Emad seldom lost). And then too, most of the men of St. Syram’s came to all the tiddlywinks contests where they distinguished themselves by waving bright red handkerchiefs from their section high atop the northwest wing of He-Mans.
■
Ten to One Odds
But, eventually St. Syram’s came to be completely overshadowed by the fame of its big sister. Interested statisticians soon discovered that there were .10 women enrolled at Erton Emad for every one man enrolled at St. Syram’s. It would not be correct to say that St. Syram’s was not expanding though, for their enrollment steadily increased from year to year. The College itself came to be quite respected for its own academic standards and character-building program. Obviously though, one of the (Continued on page 30)
Feb. 13,1953
R. A. HOWARD. Purdue University. Engineering Personnel Representative. Chance Vought Aircraft, will interview graduates of the class of ’53 in the Placement Office, FEBRUARY 18. Mr. Howard is looking forward to the opportunity of discussing with you.. .
Your Future as a Chance
Vought...
ENGINEER
Chance Vought Aircraft, a designer and builder of military aircraft for 35 years, offers the graduating engineer and scientist an opportunity to join in the design and manufacture of fighter aircraft and guided missiles.
The design of fighter aircraft is constantly being improved as new materials and more powerful engines become available. Guided missile design is in the pioneering stage and progress up to this point, in our opinion, can be compared to the period of development of piloted aircraft prior to World War I. Imaginative thinking as well as sound engineering is an important part of these programs. The young engineer through his creative thinking can rapidly assume a position of engineering responsibility in the Chance Vought organization.
Almost every type of academic specialization can be utilized in some phase of the design, development and test of a jet fighter or guided missile. Technical assignments are available in the design and analysis of specialized electronic components, structural and hydraulic testing, structural and mechanical designs, applied aerodynamics, power plant analysis and testing, stress and vibration analysis and flight testing.
If you are receiving a degree in Aeronautical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mathematics or Physics, Chance Vought invites you to discuss your future in these fighter aircraft and guided missile programs. Contact your Placement Director for an appointment with the Chance Vought Aircraft representative.
Chance Vought Aircraft
Dallas, Texac DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
24
The Scholastic
Irish out to Avenge St. Louis Setback
Interested in Boxing? Bengals Open to All
Attention Notre Dame students . . . no experience necessary . . . steady work guaranteed... fulfill your finest pugilistic dreams. . . . Apply to Dominic Napolitano, Notre Dame Fieldhouse at once.
Here’s your chance to get in on the formation of a new outfit. Those already chosen for the 1953 Bengal Bouts are still in the early stages of conditioning, working on the arms, legs, and wind. Even though “Nappy” has already assigned more than 100 lockers, there is still plenty of room for those who are interested.
Don’t worry about experience, either. Every student who turns out for the bouts will get personal attention from Coach Napolitano. “Nappy” reports that this will be facilitated by the good showing he had for this year’s novice tournament. Many of these boys will be around for the Bengals, with some know how and experience, so the coach will have more time for you.
Not too many of the old timers will be around this year, so there’s plenty of opportunity for you to win yourself a boxing title over in the Fieldhouse on March 17.
Young Man Makes Good
The history of any enterprising group, like the Bengal Bouters, has its success stories. A current one around campus goes back to the night of last year’s finals when Alex MJcAngus won the welterweight crown.
Alex was born in Honolulu on the island of Oahu, Hawaii some 19 years ago. He came to the U. S. two years ago, and now as a sophomore at ND, he is interested in English and Philosophy as a background for law school.
The scales swing up to 156 when this 5-foot, 10-inch Hawaiian steps on, but he intends to cut this down a pound for this year’s bouts. Perhaps his outstanding advantage, though, is in ihs surprising 36-inch reach.
(Continued on page 28)
Billiken, ND Fives Clash in Chicago Stadium; MSC and Marquette Are Faced Next Week
BY BOB O’MALLEY
Notre Dame’s Irish renew their sharp cage rivalry with the St. Louis Billi-kens tomorrow night in Chicago Stadium as the Jordanmen attempt to avenge one of the losses on their fine record. Following the St. Louis contest, the Irish eagers return home Monday to do battle with Michigan State’s Spartans, early-season conquerers of mighty Kansas State. Wednesday night the Irish will be out to repeat an early season win over Marquette as they tangle with the Hilltoppers at the fieldhouse.
Tomorrow night Notre Dame will be meeting a St. Louis team that found itself after a rocky start. For their first 18 games the Bills show ten victories but they have a commendable 7-3 mark for the last ten contests, one of these wins an upset over the Irish. Last Saturday, Ed Hickey’s five dropped a tough 60-58 overtime decision to highly-ranked Oklahoma A&M.
BOB DUBINICK
Helped Defeat Irish
BOB KLOSTERMEYER
Dependable Billiken Guard
A big factor in the Billiken’s late surge has been the play of a spectacular young sophomore, Dick Boushka, a 6’5” forward with a deadly jump shot, who has fashioned a 20-point average for the season. The steadying influence on the club is Captain Tom Lillis, who holds down the center post. Lillis, although small as college centers go, at 6’3”, is a great rebounder and as clever > a ball-handler as there is in any league. Boushka’s running mate at forward is 6’4” Jerry Koch, another fine young sophomore with scoring punch and rebounding ability.
At the guard slots are the team’s playmaker’s, 5’10” Pat Partington and six-foot Bob Klostermeyer, a pair of driving juniors who set up the plays from their back-court position and are (Continued on page 26)
Feb. 13,1953
25
JIM HARRINGTON A New Indoor Record
Wilsonmen Wallop Purdue; To Compete in MSC Relays
Fresh from an impressive victory over Purdue’s cindermen, Coach Alex Wilson’s squad will travel to East Lansing tomorrow to participate in the 31st annual Michigan State Relays.
Some 20 schools are expected to take part, including Big Ten and independent track powers. Two Olympic stars will be among the 325 athletes expected to perform. Keen competition should be provided when the current Big Ten champions and other individual standouts clash in this 18-event program.
Three meet records fell and others were seriously threatened last week as Notre Dame opened their indoor track season with a 68-36 victory over the Boilermakers. Two marks, the pole vault and the high jump, were set by the Irish, while Purdue’s ace two-miler shattered the other mark. The halfmile, low hurdles and the mile relay were just seconds off of setting a new record time.
The Irish captured eight of the 12 events, hurdler Harvey Newquist being the only double winner of the day. Notre Dame finished one-two in the high jump, 60-yard dash, broad jump, 880-yard dash and the pole vault. They also captured all three places in both dashes.
Junior Jim Harrington broke all ND fieldhouse and indoor records as he
soared to 13 feet, 11% inches. It was first believed that Harrington cleared 14 feet, % inch, but a sag in the bar cut it down to the final mark. The vault tumbled the mark of 13-4 set by Busby of Purdue in 1949, along with breaking Harrington’s own previous high of 13-9% set in 1952. Al Kohano-wich broke the old mark of 6 feet 2% inches in the high jump set by Boilermaker Jones in 1950 as he cleared the bar at 6-3.
The only bright spot for Purdue was in the two-mile and mile relay. Boilermaker Gene Matthews, a former South Bend Central runner, broke the old mark as he finished almost a full lap in front of his competitors in a record time of 9:22.3.
The Purdue relay of Zembal, Wiley, Weaver, and Youtsey just missed by .2 the old mark of 4:23.3.
Other Irish wins were: Jack Cunningham in the shot put with a toss of 46 feet, 8% inches; Jim Pitcavage in the 60-yard dash with a time of :06.5; both the high and low hurdles by Newquist who was only .1 off the low hurdle mark of :06.9; a jump of 21 feet, 2% .inches by Tony Genovese captured the broad jump, and Al Schoe-nig’s time of 1:58.4 in the 880-yard run was only .6 off the meet record.
Basketball
(Continued from page 25) important cogs in the defensive arrangement. Another man to watch is 6’1” Bob Dubinick, whose three consecutive baskets at the start of the fourth period put his team out of reach against the Irish on January 17.
Two days after the St. Louis struggle the Spartans from Michigan State visit the fieldhouse for what promises to be quite a game. Coach Pete Newell’s boys have copped eight of their first thirteen games, including triumphs over Ohio State, Minnesota, and Kansas State.
The Spartans were riddled by graduation with Keith Stackhouse the lone returning starter. Stackhouse, a 6’1” junior, was high scorer last year and lends much scoring punch and rebounding strength to this year’s squad. At the othei- forward is a surprising 6’2” sophomore, Al Ferrari, who has developed into MSC’s leading scorer with a 15.5 average for 12 games. Bob Armstrong, 6’9” soph, fills the post position adequately and boasts the best field goal percentage, making good on nearly half of his attempts.
Chief operators in the guard positions are a pair of small stalwarts, 5’5” Rickey Ayala and 5’10” Bob Derenny. Both
are expert defensive men and capable scorers. A first-line reserve is forward Erik Furseth, a sharp-shooting senior and defensive standout.
Two nights later, on Feb. 18, the Irish entertain the veteran Marquette team with a modest eight wins in its first 15 outings. However, this record could be misleading. The Hilltoppers, 84-64 losers to Notre Dame last Dec. 13, have improved considerably and could cause a lot of trouble for the Jordanmen on Wednesday.
Coach Tex Winter, in his second season at the helm has a solid club led by 6’6” sophomore center Russ Witt-berger, who tallied 22 points against ND in December. Foui- experienced seniors round out the starting five. At the forwards are Peter Basarich and Dick Schwab, both serious scoring threats, while smooth-performing Charlie Dunn and Glenn Sievers hold down the guard positions.
Irish Erratic
During the last month the Fighting Irish, striving to regain theii* brilliant early-season form, have played some good but often erratic basketball. Purdue’s Boilermakers presented no problem on Jan. 14 as Capt. Norb Lewinski and his mates notched a 71-55 win. Dick Rosenthal gave the score-keeper fits as he tallied 31 points.
Next, the Irish ran afoul of a hot St. Louis outfit in Kiel Auditorium and dropped a tough 86-81 decision. Lewinski and Joe Bertrand did all they could for the cause with the captain scoring 28 and Bertrand 25. Dick Rosenthal was held under double figures for the only time this season as he scored but four points and fouled out early.
Following that game, the Irish returned home to subdue the Bradley Braves, 74-64 in a raggedly-played con-
RUSS WITTBERGER In December Game, 22 Points
26
The Scholastic
test. Dick Rosenthal and Junior- Stephens led the scoring. Stephens also contributed a great floor game as Notre Dame came from behind to win going away.
After nearly a two-week layoff the Irish weren’t ready for a classy De Paul five on Jan. 31 and absorbed an 83-56 lacing. The Blue Demons had too many guns for the rusty Irish, who tired early and could never get back in contention. Ron Feireisal and Jim Lamkin paced the sizzling Demon attack.
Notre Dame regained its vanning stride last week against Butler, trouncing the outclassed Bulldogs, 80-58. Lewinski’s 22 points were high for the night with Bill Sullivan continuing to demonstrate his knack as a sparkplug.
Vasconcellos Leads Gymnas+s in TwoWins
Notre Dame’s gymnastics Club, one of the less publicized campus athletic groups, have been doing right well for themselves so far this year. Led by club president, Neil Vasconcellos, the gymnasts have copped their first two meets, beating Northwestern on Jan. 17 by a 51-45 score and the South Bend Turners, 50%-45% on Feb. 15.
Vasconcellos, a senior who doubles as ND’s head cheerleader, has been the chief point getter for the Irish. Dick O’Leary, the only other senior on the eight man traveling squad and junior Dave Engels are also key men. O’Leary acts as the club’s secretary-treasurer and Engels as vice-president. The team is rounded out by Dan Healy, Reggie Grimm, Ernie DuPraw, Mark Healy and Jack Goggins. Besides these men, there are several promising freshman club members who also work out each day. Ray Runkle of the Physical Education Department serves as volunteer coach for the club.
The gymnasts, who are in their fourth year of competition, paid for their own uniforms and finance their trips with some help from the Student Senate. The team suffers from lack of an adequate place in which to work out. At the present, they practice from 4 p. m. to 6 p. m. each afternoon in the heavy apparatus room of “the Rock” when it is available.
Three meets remain on the Irish schedule, including a duel meet with Illinois Navy Pier tomorrow at Navy Pier. Notre Dame and Navy Pier will also tangle in a three-way meet along with Kansas State later in the season. Macomb, Illinois will also be faced in a few weeks. Each meet has six events with three men from each team competing in an event.
Unbeaten ND Fencers Joust With State, Detroit, Wayne
The 1953 edition of the Notre Dame fencing team has successfully opened its 18th season of competition. Coached by Mr. Walter Langford and his assistant Brian Duff, they have won all four of their meets to date.
In the initial meet of the season the fencers defeated Northwestern, 22-5, at the fieldhouse. Notre Dame won the foil, 7-2, the epee, 7-2, and the sabre, 8-1.
Against Case Institute of Cleveland the Irish fencers were the victors by an 18-9 margin. Case won the epee, 5-4, but Notre Dame swept the sabre, 8-1, and won the foil, 6-3. The individual totals for the epee were: Lesso (1-3), McGinn (2-0), McBride, (0-2), Duff (1-1). In the foil the totals were: Mooney (3-0), Brainard (1-2), and Hull (2-1). Hurley (2-1), Mandolini (2-0), Finney (2-0), and Mulrooney (2-0) were the totals in the sabre.
The following afternoon Notre Dame defeated both opponents in a triangular meet at Columbus. Ohio State was downed by a 17-10 count and Buffalo
1952 MONOGRAM WINNERS
Kneeling: Pat Mulrooney, Jim Hurley. Standing: Rod Duff, Capt. John Mooney
eliminated, 20-7. Ohio won the foil, 6-3, but dropped the epee and the sabre to the Irish, 8-1 and 6-3 respectively. Captain Jack Mooney lost his first match of the season in the foil against O. S. U. Dave McBride reversed his early performances by sweeping three matches in the epee. Against Buffalo the Irish won the epee, 6-3, the foil, 7-2, and the sabre, 7-2. John McGinn suffered his first setback of the season in the epee. Jerry Finney won three matches in the
sabre to remain undefeated in competition to date.
Today the Irish fencers travel to East Lansing to face the Michigan State fencing team, and tomorrow they face Detroit University and Wayne University in a triangular meet at Detroit.
Turk Favored to Win Handball Tournament
Top seeded Don Turk of 312 Walsh Hall and Joliet, Ill., will be out to capture the singles hand ball tournament which he so narrowly lost to John Shannon last year.
The tournament, which is under the direction of Ernest Szekely, started last week with 74 contestants and will be completed by March 6 which is the deadline for playing off the finals.
Turk played Gerald Sparth of 119 Zahm Hall in the opening round.
Other seeded players that saw first-round action were Joe Durkin from off-campus and New York City; Bill Ahern of 102 Walsh Hall and Kings Park, L. L, New York; and Gerry Smith 'of 201 Walsh Hall, also of Kings Park, N. Y. Durkin met John Broderick; Ahern played Tony Carnevale while Smith went against the winner of the Bill McLain-John Juerling match.
The individual matches have not been given a scheduled date, but each round must be played off by a deadline. The deadlines, as designated by Mr. Szekely are: First round, Febi 9; second, Feb. 14; third, Feb. 18; fourth, Feb. 23; quarter-finals, Feb. 27; semi-finals, March; finals, March 6.
Interhall medals will be awarded for the first three paces.
Interhall Cagers Commence Championship Play Feb. 24
The Interhall Basketball Tournament, sponsored by the Physical Education Department, gets underway the 24th of this month with the first games of the afternoon league opening the schedule.
Mr. Szekely, the member of the Physical Education Department who is in charge of the tournament organization, announced that the tournament will be set up as it has been in past years. There will be an afternoon and evening league with ten brackets in each. The ten brackets consist of four (Continued on page 29)
Feb. 13,1953
27
By Jack Sand
Cage Polls OK, But ...	'
Tomorrow evening, the University of Notre Dame’s basketball team will have an opportunity to make up one of their three losses of the season when they take on St. Louis for the second time in what can be tabbed a “must” game for the Irish to win. The “must” factor in tomorrow night’s contest could actually bring about a twofold effect, in that besides increasing the Irish chances for an NCAA bid, it would undoubtedly reestablish them as one of the top 20 teams of the country — a place where they rightfully belong.
There has been much discussion of late on why the Irish are not placed in the top 20 teams of the nation. In answering this question we do not intend to incriminate the Associated Press pollsters because most of them supposedly know their business. They also know that the polls are actually only a tentative scale on which the teams can be rated. As far as most of them are concerned the record of the school and the type of a schedule they play is the standard of valuing a team’s worth.
For example, Seton Hall rated No. 1 has a spotless mark of 22-0, which has merited them this coveted position. But who really knows whether or not Indiana, rated second, with an 11-2 record couldn’t defeat the Pirates, especially since the Hoosiers have won 10 straight against some pretty classy competition.
The core of the whole matter is that Notre Dame has beaten Indiana and also UCLA, a squad that has handed third-place Washington its only defeat in 21 games. Surely then, the Irish with an impressive 12-3 mark belong among the second 10 top teams of the nation.
The complete picture of the polls can never really be painted until the last basketball game of the season has been played — and that includes tournaments.
Harrington Seeks to Clear 14 Feet
Headed by Pole Vaulter Jim Harrington, who will be seeking to clear a 14-foot level, a 25-man Notre Dame track team will compete in the annual Michigan State Relays, at East Lansing tomorrow afternoon and evening.
Harrington at first believed he had cleared 14 feet during Notre Dame’s dual win over Purdue last Saturday, but a later measurement revealed the true height to be 13 feet 11% inches. He will get a good deal of competition at Michigan State, according to Coach Alex Wilson, from his own teammate, Joe Springer. The latter has been consistent an practice in clearing 13 feet 6 inches.
Wilson is entering four-man teams in the mile relay, 240-yard shuttle hurdle relay, two-mile relay, sprint medley and distance medley. He feels Notre Dame’s best chance for a relay win will be in the shuttle hurdle event. There, his quartet will be Captain Ed Powell, John Campagnone, Harvey Newquist and Jim Baker.
Newquist, a double-wanner against Purdue, will also be a strong entrant in both the high and low hurdle races.
Interested in Boxing
(Continued from page 25)
A talk with Alex proved that he had some interesting views on boxing as a sport. He never did any boxing before he came to Notre Dame, but still was able to win the 147-pound, welterweight title last year as a freshman.
The professional ring doesn’t interest him because he’s not particularly interested in going into the ring to beat someone up. On the other hand he considers collegiate boxing more of an art which combines the figuring of a mathematician and the cunningness of a lawyer.
This invitation to “come out and fight” doesn’t only extend to the ambitious youths around campus. The old
ALEX McANGUS and DON BERGMAN
I
Bengal Bouters Start Training
and experienced upperclassmen can also play an important role.
The Old Pro
There is a need for a few more seniors like Don Bergman. After Don graduates this June he wants to return to his home in Kenilworth, HL, and use the knowledge he gained as a marketing major in the College of Commerce to start a retail business.
At present, though, he wants another try for a boxing championship which has eluded his two previous attempts. Last year Don was runnerup for the 167-pound crown, but this year the 22-year-old, 6-foot contender from Sorin intends to train down to the 157-pound class.
He is another “bouter” who never boxed before coming to Notre Dame. So you see you have an excellent chance. Why not give it a try?
28
The Scholastic
Rosenthal Top Irish Scorer; Seeks Good St. Louis Game
Tomorrow night Notre Dame’s basketball team seeks revenge against a St. Louis team that whipped the Irish, 86-81 in Kiel Auditorium almost a month ago. The winning Billiken total is the highest registered against Johnny Jordan’s crew this season. Whoever wins tomorrow’s Chicago Stadium battle will gain the edge in the series which now stands at eight apiece.
The Irish-St. Louis tilt will be the opener of a twin bill with DePaul meeting Duquesne in the nightcap.
Dick Rosenthal, ND’s star forward is especially looking forward to this return engagement with the Billikens. Dick, who leads the Irish in scoring is a St. Louis product. In two years of varsity play the 6’5” junior has consistently been a major factor in the Irish success, but has never had a good night against his home-town club. Last season, in the lone game between the two schools, “Rosie” tallied but six points, and in last month’s encounter, he scored but four points prior to fouling out in the third period. Both these games were at St. Louis however, and it could be the more friendly, if not more familiar surroundings of Chicago Stadium will help Dick in his effort to finally produce against St. Louis.
The scoring race among the regular members of the Notre Dame squad is just about as close as could be. Rosenthal’s 239 points give him a 30 point advantage over captain Norb Lewinski, who has 209. Forward Joe Bertrand closely follows Lewinski with 206 points; then comes guard Jack Stephens with 201 points. Bill Sullivan, an important clutch player all season long, .is fifth with 72, followed by starter Jim Gibbons who has tallied 63 markers.
In points per game average, the leader is again Rosenthal with 15.9. Lewinski with 13.9, Bertrand, 13.7 and Stephens, 13.4 trail in that order.
Sullivan is the top man in field goal percentage with .482 achieved by connecting on 28 baskets in 58 attempts. Behind him come the “big four” in a slightly different order from the previous statistics. Bertrand has made 77 out of 199; Lewinski 83 of 240 and Rosenthal 96 of 305. Gibbons has only taken 60 shots, making 18 of them for a .300 percentage.
Jim, however, leads the Jordanmen in the all-important foul shooting department. The Chicago senior possesses a .643 percentage from 27 connections in 42 attempts. Stephens is second with 77 out of 123 for .626 followed by Rosenthal, 47 for 76, .618; Bertrand, 52 for 85, .612; Sullivan, 16 for 27, .592 and Lewinski, 43 for 84 and a .512 average.
These figures do not include the Louisville game last Wednesday night. For the first 15 contests, Notre Dame had a point per game average of 70.5 while the opponents hit for 65.2.
Interhall Cagers
(Continued from page 27) teams representing either residence halls or campus clubs.
At the end of the regular league schedule the winners of each of the ten sections will enter into the playoffs, March 2, 3 and 4. These championship games will be played in the fieldhouse and according to Mr. Szekely gold and silver medals are presented to the first and second place teams.
The tournament has been in existence since 1940 and Mr. Szekely took over four years later. He has complete charge of the entire affair, making up the whole schedule, choosing and assigning the officials and, on occasion, reseeding teams to provide for a better playoff schedule.
Dillon Hall, last year’s winner, failed to make the “Szekely Pre-Tournament Picks”—The Generation Club, Howard Hall, and the Toledo, Milwaukee, and Cincinnati Clubs.
Notre dame’s john Hastings takes off in 440 Irish Show Strength in Win Over Purdue
St. Michael's Plans Brownson Symposium
St. Michael’s College, Winooski Park, Vt., will sponsor, as part of its summer session, a symposium on Orestes Brownson July 17, 18-
Brownson, who is buried beneath Sacred Heart Church here, crowded many careers into the full life that began Sept. 16, 1803 and ended at Detroit April 17, 1876.
A minister in many Eastern pulpits, a philosopher who railed against marriage, property and religion, an editor who was blamed by President Van Buren for his failure to be re-elected for* a second term, Brownson became a Catholic in 1844.
Turning his vigorous pen to the defense of the Catholic church, he earned the praise of the Plenary Council of Baltimore in 1849 and of Pope Pius IX in 1854. He published The Convert in 1857.
Brownson was a contemporary of George Ripley, A. Bronson Alcott, Thoreau, Emerson and other intellectual leaders of the country in the mid 19th century. Recent biographies have been written by Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., and Theodore Maynard.
Feb. 13,1953
29
Placement Bureau
On Monday, a representative of Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company will be on campus to interview engineering graduates. The company is especially interested in B.S. and M.S. electrical and mechanical engineers who will enter its own Graduate Training Course.
A.B. and commerce graduates will be interviewed for sales positions with the Kimberly-Clark Corporation, manufacturer of paper and cellulose products. Accounting majors will also be interviewed.
The American Cyanamid Company will be looking for B.S. and M.S. chemists and chemical engineers.
On Monday and Tuesday, Standard Oil Development Company and Esso Standard Oil Company will be shopping for M.S. and B.S. chemical, mechanical, electrical, and civil engineers.
Tuesday, men from the Monsanto Chemical Company and Electro Metal
WNDU Program Schedule
Weekday Afternoons and Evenings
WEEKDAY AFTERNOONS	MONDAY
11:45	Sign On and Music	5:15	Al DeCrane Commentary
12:00	News	5:30	Here’s to Veterans
12:15	Luncheon with Lopez	5:45	United Nations
12:30	Al Wood Show	6:00	Evening Concert
1:00	News	7:00	Lucky Strike News
1:05	Al Wood Show (continued)	7:15	Twilight Melodies
1:30	One Minute to Curtain	7:30	Penthouse Pops
2:00	Music by Roth	8:30	Story of Storyville
2:30	Showtime	9:00	Requestfully Yours
3:25	News	9:55	Flamingo News
3:30	Afternoon Concert	10:00	Music of Manhattan
4:30	Daily Express	10:15	Lucky Strike Sports Final
5:00	News	10:30	Music in the Night
		11:00	Sign Off
WEDNESDAY 5:15 Student Senate 5:30 Serenade in Blue 5:45 Let’s Go to Town 6:00 Evening Concert 7:00 Lucky Strike News 7:15 Twilight Melodies 7:30 Penthouse Pops 8:30 New Sounds 9:00 Requestfully Yours 9:55 Flamingo News 10:00 Music of Manhattan 10:15 Lucky Strike Sport Final 10:30 Music in the Night 11:00 Sign Off
Weekday Evenings
THURSDAY Masterpieces in Literature Marines Navy Evening Concert Lucky Strike News Twilight Melodies Penthouse Pops Hawaiian Students Requestfully Yours Flamingo News Music of Manhattan Lucky Strike Sports Final Music in the Night Sign Off
Weekend Programs
SATURDAY	9:00	661 Club
11:00 Sign on and	9:55	World News
Orchestras of the World 12:00 World News	10:00 10:15	Music of Manhattan Lucky Strike Sports Final
12:15 March Time	10:30	We’re at the Palais
12:30 Al Wood Show	11:00	Music Till Midnight
1:00 News	12:00	Sign Off
1:05 Al Wood Show (continued) 1:30 Request Marathon	7:00	SUNDAY Sign On and Obnoxious
5:00 News	9:00	News
5:15 Voice of America	9:05	Musical Scrapbook
5:30 Festival of Waltzes	11:00	Sizing Up Sports
6:00 Proudly We Hail	11:15	Hour of St. Francis
6:30 On the Town	11:30	Masterworks from Francis
7:00 Lucky Strike News	12:00	News
7:15 Saturday Night Record Party 12:05		Music by Castle
♦ALL OF THE ABOVE SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE.
lurgical Company will be looking for B.S. and M.S. chemical and mechanical engineers. The latter will also be seeking metallurgical and electrical engineers, as well as commerce and economics men for industrial relations positions.
Price, Waterhouse & Company, certified public accountants, will be scouting for accounting majors.
On Wednesday, B.S. and M.S. chemical, mechanical, electrical, and civil engineers and chemists may be interviewed by a representative of the Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation.
Chance Vought Aircraft will be looking for B.S. and M.S. civil, electrical, aeronautical, architectural, and mechanical engineers. They also need B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. mathematicians and physicists.
The Glidden Company wants B.S. and M.S. chemists for laboratory work and chemical engineers for industrial sales training.
The Inland Steel Company desires
TUESDAY Bill Bleakley Criticism Marine Corps Navy Evening Concert Lucky Strike News Twilight Melodies Penthouse Pops Music Hall Varieties Requestfully Yours Flamingo News Music of Manhattan Lucky Strike Sports Final Music in the Night Sign Off
FRIDAY Knights of Columbus Guest Star United Nations Evening Concert Lucky Strike News Twilight Melodies Penthouse Pops Big Bands Requestfully Yours Flamingo News Music of Manhattan Lucky Strike Sports Final Music in the Night Sign Off
1:00 News
1:05 Music by Castle (continued) 1:30 Political Science Academy 2:00 Your DJ, KJ '
(Wax and Words)
3:00 News
3:05 Grand Opera
6:00 The BBC Presents
7:30 Paris Star Time
8:00 Ave Maria Hour
8:30 Netherlands Composers
9:00 Night Watchman
9:55 News
10:00 Music of Manhattan
10:15 Sports Final
10:30 Flights of the Mind
11:00 Sign Off
engineers for its management training program and the General Electric Company will be trying to spot accounting and finance majors for its Business Training Program.
B.S. and M.S. chemists, physicists, and chemical and mechanical engineers will be interviewed by a representative of Linde Air Products on Wednesday and Thursday.
Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., will send a man to interview accounting majors, B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, and chemical engineers, chemists and physicists on Thursday.
Thursday and Friday, chemists and chemical engineers can be interviewed by a representative of the Ethyl Corporation.
Friday will be a busy day with the B. F. Goodrich Chemical Company looking for M.S. and B.S. chemical engineers; the American Can Company interviewing mechanical engineers and Ph.D. physical chemists; and the American Blower Company trying to find mechanical, chemical, and electrical engineers interested in design and research.
The Upjohn Company will interview accounting majors, as well as Ph.D. candidates in physical chemistry and physics. This company is also interested in junior chemical engineering students for summer work.
Thursday afternoon at 3:30, the Kroger Company will show a movie in the Audio-Visual Center. The company’s interview schedule will be made up at this meeting. They are interested in A.B. and commerce graduates who will enter a training program leading to merchandising, purchasing, or accounting.
The Other Side
(Continued from Page 23) primary inducements for a young man to enroll at St. Syram’s was the fabulous, unlimited supply of gorgeous girls across the way. This is not to say that all men came to St. Syram’s to catch a wife. There were always those who came for an education.
■
And So It Went
However, the relations between the schools were always somewhat strained by two factors: (1) the great number of females at Erton Emad and (2) the comparatively small number of males at St. Syram’s. It seems that competition for the men of St. Syram’s was quite, keen among the girls. In time the boys, accustomed to playing the field and being made a great fuss over by bevies
30
The Scholastic
of adoring queens, became a trifle aloof, even conceited, often cold (so the girls reported).
But fortunately the girls of Erton Emad had a means of getting back at the boys. They published a nationally-known newsmagazine, THE SCHOLAS-TICA. In this weekly publication they bitterly denounced the unfair distribution of population and the consequent social injustices through such media as letters to the editor and by such irate columns as “The Weak and The Strong,” “Once Upon a Time,” and “The Yakkity-Yak Page.” The men of St. Syram’s meanwhile just sat back quietly, flashing theii- big, wide, mischievous grins. And so it went—
—Tom Foote
Aquinas Library Sets Weekly Talks on Faith by Fr. O'Brien
Rev. John A. O’Brien will deliver a series of 10 lectures on the Catholic Faith at the Aquinas Library, 110 E. LaSalle Ave. All lectures will begin at 8 p.m. on Thursday evenings. Father O’Brien gave the first talk in the series last night.
These lectures on the Faith are being sponsored by the Aquinas Library and Book Shop, with the approval of Monsignor Sabo and the cooperation of the Legion of Mary.
The public is welcome to attend the series, for which no charge will be levied.
Mid-Term Grads Can Apply For June Air Weather Class
Mid-term college graduates who completed degree requirements in January may apply for immediate direct commissions in the United States Air Force Reserve and assignment to basic meteorology graduate training in June, according to a recent announcement by the USAF Air Weather Service.
Qualified graduates, who must have received credit for one year of college physics and mathematics through integral calculus, will receive complete application forms by writing to the Commanding General, Air Weather Service, Washington 25, D. C.
College seniors who will graduate in June with required physics and mathematics credits may also apply at this time for commissions to be awarded following graduation. June graduates will enter graduate meteorology school in September.
During the graduate training in either basic or, later, advanced meteorology, all tuition and other expenses are paid by the government and the student receives full pay and allowances in his current grade. For a second lieutenant
who is married this amounts to about $350 a month.
Following completion of the basic weather officer course, the officers will be initially assigned to officer basic military course and then to duty in an Air Force weather station.
Economic Group Lists Labor Dispute Panel
The procedures and techniques for peaceful arbitration of industrial disputes will be analyzed by representatives of labor, law, and industry during a one-day conference on “Arbitration in Labor-Management Relations” at Notre Dame on February 27th.
The conference will be presented by Notre Dame’s Department of Economics and the College of Law in cooperation with the American Arbitration Association.
In announcing the conference Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., of the Department of Economics and chairman of the planning committee, noted the in
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
"HUIRMPH"! trumpeted Sheedy, "What a elephant time to have my hair act up. Might as well break my date and get trunk!” Luckily he was overheard by a Pachydermitologist who said, "Tusk, tusk! You’ve got a messy big top from pouring those buckets of water on your head. Get out of your ivory tower and visit any toilet goods counter for a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil, "Your Hair’s Best Friend”. Non-alcoholic. Contains soothing Lanolin. Relieves dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test.” Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil, and now all the girls tent to him more than ever. So why don't you try Wildroot Cream-Oil? It only costs peanuts —29f • And once you try it, you’ll really have a circus.
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd.,Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc^ Buffalo 11, N. Y.
creasing reliance being placed on arbitration clauses in trade agreements by both management and labor, as a supplement to the bargaining process.
“There is a growing belief that arbitration provides an orderly and less costly way to resolve many industrial disputes,” Father Fitzgerald explained, “and our conference is planned to facilitate the use of voluntary arbitration and to improve its procedures.”
A major feature of the Notre Dame conference will be a practical demonstration of the use of the arbitration process. Arbitrators, with no previous knowledge of the proceedings, will hear representatives of management and labor present an actual dispute in concise form and will render their decision.
Officials representing the C.I.O., and the A.F.L., the Illinois and Indiana legal profession and major mid-western industries will join with members of the Notre Dame faculty and the Arbitration Association in panel discussions on important aspects of the arbitration process.
Feb. 13,1953
31
ATTENTION JUNE GRADUATES
Washington’s Birthday
Exercises
Saturday, Feb. 21, 10:30 a.m., Washington Hall
In keeping with long tradition, all seniors who expect to be graduated in June, 1953, must participate in the 104th annual Washington’s Birthday Exercises. Essential absence must be authorized in advance by the assistant to the vice-president in charge of academic affairs.
Academic cap and gown must be worn. Suit coat and tie are to be worn under the academic gown. Graduating seniors in the R.O.T.C. programs wear uniforms and not caps and gowns.
—Office of Academic Affairs
►	Zhe One and Only
(to keep it that way)
►	your Whole
Sugar Cist
(because it’s sound tactics)
^■Jiom... or Pop (for reasons you know better than anyone else)
►	Someone Somewhere
■ (a kid sister or brother—or grandma—or Cousin Mehitabel ...just because theyll like it so much)
send your Valentine greetings the nicest way there is . . .
by Western Union
105 N. Main St. Telephone 3-6101
Wagner, Barry Topple Bridge Tourney Field
Bidding their way through a field of 24 pairs, Seniors Robert Wagner and Jack Barry won the annual Notre Dame bridge tournament last Sunday in the Vetville Recreation Hall.
The afternoon matches determined the four official pairs to represent the University in the 1953 Annual Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament.
Others qualifying in Sunday’s rounds were: Ed Wessel and Mike Hussey; Joe Babbitt and Bob Barbieri; Paul Cardinal and John Gibbons.
Entered in this unique tournament— men and women can compete on an equal basis — will be 110 colleges throughout the country. Winner of last year’s tournament was Rice Institute.
More than 3,000 undergraduates throughout the country will play on their own campuses the hands which will be prepared and mailed to them. Winners— campus, regional, and national—will be determined from the scores compiled by Mr. Geoffrey Mott-Smith, author and leading authority on contract bridge.
Colleges winning national titles will be awarded cups, one for the college of the pair scoring highest on the East-

I am interested in:
University credits □
Resident study at a foreign university □
Special countries a areas □
(Specify)__________________
West hands, and one for the college of the North-South hand winners.
The winning colleges will have custody of the cups for one year. Individual winners will receive smaller cups for permanent possession.
Local duplicate matches will be held every Sunday at 1:30 p. m. in the Vetville Recreation Hall. Faculty advisor and tournament director is Mr. John P. Turley.
ND Press Announces New Fitzsimons Book
The University of Notre Dame Press has announced the Jan. 31 publication of The Foreign Policy of the British, Labour Government, the fifth in a series of books sponsored by the Committee on International Relations.
Author of the book, Professor Matthew A. Fitzsimons, is a member of the Department of History and is a well known authority on British history. During the past three years, Professor Fitzsimons has authored many articles on British foreign policy, several of which have appeared in Commonweal.
The book deals with the problem faced by post-war Britain in that she had world interests, but was no longer
Plan now to take a university-sponsored tour via TWA next summer and earn full college credit while you travel
Again in 1953, TWA—world leader in educational air tours—will participate in the travel-study programs that have proved so enjoyable to thousands in the past four years. Itineraries will include Europe, the Mediterranean, the Middle East and a tour around the world. Two to six weeks of resident study can be arranged in foreign universities. Other study tours will deal with special fields such as music, art, languages, political science, etc.
Whichever tour you choose, you’ll discover just how near you are to the rest of the world only when you fly. For 300-mile-an-hour TWA Constellations will whisk you to Europe overnight. And when you travel by TWA Sky Tourist, you save time and money. So start planning now for that thrilling, profitable vacation next summer. Mail the coupon below today.
ACROSS THE U.S. AMD OVERSEAS...FLY
TRAMS MfORlD AIRUMSS
John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director Air World Tours,	CM
80 East 42nd Street, New York 17, N. Y.
Please send me information on the Trans World Airlines Educational Tours to be offered in 1953.
Nnmp
Position___________________________________________________________
Address____________________________________________________________
City___________________________________Zone------------------------
State	Phnno No
32
The Scholastic
a world power. British world interests accounted for her ambiguous attitude towards European union. She has tried, with some success and failure in Egypt and Iran, to come to terms with Asian nationalism. Britain’s world interests and weakened power also help to explain her largely negative and cautious approach in resisting communistic aggression.
Fitzsimons has been with Notre Dame for 16 years and holds A.B. and M.A. degrees from Columbia University, an A.B. from Oxford and a Ph.D. from the University cf Chicago. His latest writing, The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government, promises very easy reading on a difficult topic.
Jesuits' 'Theology Digest' Treats Involved Subjects
Combining articles from various branches of theological learning, the Theology Digest recently made its debut in the literary field, the first such magazine in English.
To be published three times yearly by the Jesuits of St. Mary’s College, Divinity School of St. Louis University, at St. Mary’s, Kansas, the magazine presents outstanding works of theology and philosophy, translated and condensed
WANTED
Three used gasmasks. See Joe Hubner, property manager, Vile Bodies.
Microtomic
keeps pate with the world's fastest moving industries Microtomic —the finest example of research in drawing pencils. Designed to stand the most rigid drafting room comparisons. Test them today!
Only Microtomic offers you-
HI-DENSITY LEADS lines ore absolutely opaque to actinic rays.
ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM Every Microtomic of the same degree marking is identical.
NEW DUSK GRAY .
Professional men acclaim it the best color for a drawing pencil.
BULL'S SYS DEGREE MARKING Easier to read — aasiar to find — positive identification.
ALSO	.
Choice of holders and Microtomic leads in all degrees.
EBERHARD
FABER
from foreign originals.
The editors of the Digest, which was two years in the planning, felt a need for some means of conveying to Catholic laymen a simple version of the more involved religious and philosophical discussions of the world’s views on theol
’’Represents education that continues,"
says GEORGE GALLUP
Founder of the American Institute of Public Opinion; formerly Professor, Pulitzer School of Journalism, Columbia U.
”A serious weakness of the American educational system is the missing link between what we are taught in school and what we learn after leaving school. The Reader’s Digest represents education that continues. It arouses and satisfies keen interest in the vital issues of the day and in varied fields of lasting knowledge."
Look at the wide range of subjects in any issue—The Reader’s Digest is designed for the well-rounded individual I who cultivates interests far wider than the confines of any j particular field.
From the wealth of material that is published each month, the editors select those outstanding articles no thoughtful ; person would want to miss. Each article is condensed to present the essentials clearly, yet preserve the full content I and flavor of the original.
■ The Reader’s Digest offers a continuing liberal education ' for millions of men and women with alert, open minds.
In February Reader’s Digest, you’ll be interested in Silicones— Magic Sand—story of the new chemical family that may prove one of science’s most useful gifts; Our Children’s Debt to John Dewey—portrait of our "most complete expression of American genius,” whose own children inspired progressive education; 20-page book condensation: Back Down the Ridge—William L. White’s war classic on how new medical methods are saving our wounded in Korea.
ogy-
After two private experimental issues: had received overwhelming approval from noted figures in the Catholic hierarchy, regular publication was begun.
Editor of the Theology Digest is the Rev. Gerald Van Ackeren, S.J., S-.T.D.
tl»ot MARKS REC. U.S. RAT.OFF.
33
Feb. 13,1953
By Paul Zalecki
The Mardi Gras dance tonight ushers in a big weekend of activities. Interestingly enough, the Mardi Gras, which currently is one of the highlights of the second semester, is not very old at Notre Dame. It was started after the last war to raise funds for foreign students. For the past two years a large part of the proceeds from the Mardi Gras has gone to the Charity Chest, which is in its third year of operation.
The Charity Chest has proven to be quite a worthwhile project. Acting on behalf of the Notre Dame student body, it has allotted up to §6,000 annually for worthwhile charities and requests. One of the reasons which made it possible to allocate this year’s receipts from the Mardi Gras to the Student Center was the fact that the Chest had approximaely §12,000 at its disposal. This amount was deemed sufficient to carry it over for two years.
■
The Charity Chest
The Charity Chest operates under the Student Senate. All requests for funds are referred to a Charity Chest committee, which this year is headed by A.B. Senator Tom Field. The recommendations of the committee are reported to the Student Senate, which decides the size of the donation for any petition that it approves.
The Chest budget is divided into three categories: standard, domestic, and foreign requests. The first group covers various well-known drives like the Community Chest, the Heart Fund, and the like. The second category usually accounts for the largest section of the budget.
In the past two years, the largest donation, one of §1,000, has been for overseas student aid, the original purpose for which the Mardi Gras was established. The second largest, which ran around $500, went to the United Fund drive in South Bend.
Most of the donations are not so large and run anywhere from $25 to $1000. They cover requests from all over the country, as well as the world. A large part of these awards go to Catholic charities, to missionaries, etc. Money has been sent to Indian missions out West, to hospitals in the South, and to missionaries in India,
Africa, and other distant lands.
Like most things that run well, not much is heard about the Charity Chest. Since it has been in existence, it has been doing good work. Through its organization, the students of Notre Dame have been able to answer a good many requests that otherwise might have gone unheeded.
■
The Mardi Gras
Of course, the Chest has been made possible primarily because of the Mardi Gras. There is no doubting the fact that the Mardi Gras is a good money-making undertaking. Over the years the basic structure of the Mardi Gras has remained the same: the car contest and carnival still account for the largest share of receipts from the weekend.
In recent years the holiday character of the Mardi Gras has been emphasized, and its fund raising aspect minimized to a certain extent. Innovations, like bringing in a name band for the dance and the jazz concert, have helped to embellish the weekend.
In spite of such improvements the proceeds from the Mardi Gras have tended to decline ever since it has been in operation. It is not too diffii-cult to understand why. When it was introduced after the war, the carnival was new, not only to freshmen, but to the entire student body.
With a student body smaller than the one today, the first Mardi Gras managed to raise in the neighborhood of $40,000. This money was used to aid foreign students who unquestionably were in difficult straits at the time.
The proceeds this year should be about the same as last. The goal is $10,000. And, as we know, it will be used for the Student Center. It is not as altruistic a motive as the original one, but overseas students do not need the aid that they did formerly, and the old Science building definitely will need a lot of improvements to make it into any kind of a Student Center.
■
The Student Center
Compared with what the Science Building turned Student Center actually will need, $10,000 probably is not
too much. It definitely is insufficient to equip a really modern student union, but it probably can buy a paint job, some card tables, and sofas for the Center.
Since the Student Center will use only this year’s proceeds there have been a lot of suggestions as to how to use the proceeds from the Mardi Gras in the future. They range anywhere from a student union to a scholarship fund. In time, of course, the Charity Chest, if it is to be continued, will need replenishing, and some of the profit from the Mardi Gras will have to be used for this purpose.
In view of the recent action of the NIT, it probably would not be too difficult to find a lot of the troops in favor of using the money to buy some busses. If the cab companies prove unable to meet the new demand, perhaps a couple of University busses could provide reasonable and adequate service for the students of Notre Dame to the city of South Bend. It does seem a little strange that cab companies are able to offer cheaper service than busses. Now just so the cabs do not raise their rates.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
DRRW TURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
----OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces’3 ----EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	4-5777
Page 34
The Scholastic
Here’s a virus, which actually doesn’t look any more like this than a biology professor. Less. But then, not many people do know what a virus looks like. They only know what it does.
It sits around all day long, tireless as a bill collector, waiting for someone to invite it in. Then it goes to work like mad, multiplying all over the place, creating colds, pneumonia, fever, and various other unpleasantries.
The virus is easy to invite. As a matter of fact, it’s there to begin with. Just lower resistance enough and wham! There’s the old virus at work.
And the best way to lower resistance is to wander around in the rain and wind without a hat. Honest. Your head is the number one target of the virus. Nature wants you to protect your head. And the primary function of a hat is protection.
It keeps the snow and wind and rain off your hair, it protects you from cold weather and hot weather, too. And don’t forget. Hats are as important to your appearance as they are to your health. Any way you look at it, it’s smart to wear one. And today, hats are made better—and styled better—than ever before.
"Wear a Hat—Its as Healthy as Its Handsome!^
Dhisions of Hat Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats for Men and Women
UGGETT 4 MYERS TOBACCO CO
CONTAINS TOBACCOS
OF BETTER QUALITY
AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
Elliotts
Se® him
on TV\ "r ond^
OUi column.
years
you
And First to Present this Scientific Evidence on
Effects of Smoking
A MEDICAL SPECIALIST is making regular bi-monthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.
After eight months, the medical specialist reports that he observed_
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.
CHESTERFIELD—FIRST and only premium quality cigarette available in both regular and king-size.	•
is Best
for YOU!
Westerfield i
Cl9arette I
can speak
one ,	only
Westerfield for 22 and I
and howl
Hi



kiKTg-size
UCCETT k MVWS TOBACCO CO
Buy CHESTERFIELD^/’ Wz/er
Lx-gett i Myers Tobacco Co.