§
THE COAT
FOR ALL
SEASONS
^GILBERT'S
wnoon fog"
MAINCOAT
The idea! coat for the changeable Michiana weather . . . this handsome Maincoat by London Fog is tailored in Pure Calibre Cloth (65% Dacron/35% cotton) for total washability. Zip-out Alpaca lining. In ivory white.


London Fog Jacket... in ivory white... $16.95

ONTHE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME

IN JUNE	IN JULY	IN AUGUST
NO CARRYING CHARGE
ITS SIMPLY THE WAY TO BUY...
The Campus Shop Way to buy is not complicated by rules, regulations or red tape, it’s simply this . . . you select the apparel you want now, wear and enjoy it now, and pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August; you pay no service or carrying charge of any kind for this convenience! University men agree . . . it’s simply the way to buy.
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME
3
(Author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and "Barefoot Boy With Cheek”.)
OnCanqn: WJMman

SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Founded 1867
Vol. 105 April 17, 1964 No. 18
WELL-KNOWN FAMOUS PEOPLE: NO. 1
This is the first in a series of 48 million columns examining the careers of men who have significantly altered the world we live in. We begin today with Max Planck.
Max Planck (or The Pearl of the Pacific, as he is often called) gave to modern physics the law known as Planck’s Constant. Many people when they first hear of this law, throw up their hands and exclaim, ‘‘Golly whiskers, this, is too dee]) for little old me!”
(Incidentally, speaking of whiskers, I cannot help but mention Personna Stainless Steel Razor Blades. Personna is the blade for people who can’t shave after every meal. It shaves you closely, cleanly, and more frequently than any other stainless steel blade on the market. The makers of Personna have publicly declared—and do here repeat—that if Personna Blades don’t give you more luxury shaves than any other stainless steel blade, they will buy you whatever blade you think is better. Could anything be more fair? I, for one, think not.)
But I digress. We were speaking of Planck's Constant, which is not. as many think, difficult to understand. It simply states that
matter sometimes behaves like waves, and waves sometimes behave like matter. To give you a homely illustration, pick up your pencil and wave it. Your pencil, you will surely agree, is matter—yet look at the little rascal wave! Or take flags. Or Ann-Margret.
Planck’s Constant, uncomplicated as it is. nevertheless provided science with the key that unlocked the atom, made space travel possible, and conquered denture slippage. Honors were heaped upon Mr. Planck (or The City of Brotherly-Love. as he is familiarly known as). He was awarded the Xobel Prize, the Little Brown Jug. and Disneyland. But the honor that pleased Mr. Planck most was that plankton were named after him.
Plankton, as we know, are the floating colonies of one-celled animals on which fishes feed. Plankton, in their turn, feed
Mr. Shulman is, of course, joshing, but the makers of Personna Blades are not: if, after trying our blades, you think there’s another stainless steel blade that gives you more luxury shaves, return the unused Personnas to Box 500, Staunton, Va., and we’ll buy you a pack of any blade you think is better.
upon one-half celled animals called krill (named, incidentally, after Dr. Morris Krill who invented the house cat). Krill, in their turn, feed upon peanut butter sandwiches mostly—or, when they are in season, cheeseburgers.
But I digress. Back to Max Planck who, it must be said, showed no indication of his scientific genius as a youngster. In fact, for the first six years of his life he did not speak at all except to pound his spoon on his bowl and shout, “More gruel!” Imagine, then, the surprise of his parents when on his seventh birthday little Max suddenly cried, “Papa! Mama! Something is wrong with the Second Law of Thermodynamics!” So astonished were the elder Plancks that they rushed out and dug the Kiel Canal.
Meanwhile Max, constructing a crude Petrie dish out of two small pieces of petrie and his gruel bowl, began to experiment with thermodynamics. By dinner time he had discovered Planck’s Constant. Hungry but happy, he rushed to Heidelberg University to announce his findings. He arrived, unfortunately during the Erich von Stroheim Sesquicen-tennial, and everyone was so busy dancing and duelling that young Planck could find nobody to listen to him. The festival, however, ended after two years and Planck was finally able to report his discovery.
Well sir, the rest is history. Einstein gaily cried, “E equals me squared!” Edison invented Marconi. Eli Whitnej invented Georgia Tech, and Michael-angelo invented the ceiling. This later became know as the Humboldt Current.
© 1964 Max Shulman
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor-in-chief
Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor
Brian Barnes
. . . business manager
Mel Noel
. . . news editor
James Morgan Callero
. . . features editor
Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor
Larry Sicking
. . . layout and art editor
Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy
I Pat Ford
[	... photography
E. Brian Graham
. . . circulation
John Souza
. . . advertising
Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
David Barrett, Al Dudash, Paul Dupuis, Robert Haller, Brian Jorgensen, Jeremy Lane, Frank McConnell, Bill McGuire, Bill Smith, John Twohey, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors
Al Basso, Pat Bauer, Tom Bettag, Jim Billiter, Jeff Blackwell, Jim Boland, Brian Cass, Lee Cass, Bill Cragg, Larry Dietz, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Dave Grophear, Mike Hoy.. Steve Hudson, Jim Komasinski, Barnard Kompare, Rex Lardner, Cari Magel, Rich McQuaid, Bill O’Grady, John Phillips, Jack Rowe, Joe Ryan. Gary Sabatte, Pete Siegwald, Fran:: Smith, Rick Weirich, John Whelan . . . staff
4
The Scholastic
The Waiting Game
Nobody in the administration will talk about it in public. Other vice-presidents refuse to speak for publication, and refer inquiries to Father Chester Soleta, C.S.C., the Vice-president for Academic Affairs. Father Soleta, it transpires, does not care to comment about: the new calendar for the school year, student reaction to the calendar, or the next meeting of the Academic Council. (At press time, the Scholastic learned from another source that the calendar committee of the Council had scheduled a meeting for Thursday, April 16, the day before this issue of the Scholastic is distributed. When the Academic Council itself would meet to discuss the recommendations of the committee, however, was still vague, as it has been since the Student Body President brought objections to the calendar to the attention of Father Soleta and was informed that the Council would meet before Easter to discuss the students’ objections.)
The calendar has by now been sent to the incoming freshmen to assist them in making plans for next year; it has been printed in the University catalogues for next year; and it is being used in setting dates for various events to be held next year. To all intents and purposes, the new calendar seems to be regarded by the administration as final. The only question that now remains for the administration is how to let the whole matter die down without antagonizing the students.
This is one view of the situation as matters stand. There are other opinions. Dave Ellis, Tom O’Brien, and John Gearen, the chief officers of this and next year’s student government, have been working at getting a different calendar adopted ever since the present “new” one was promulgated. They report that they have talked to virtually all of the thirty-one members of the Academic Council, and that most of the members they talked to support a calendar change. In this consensus, they see room for hope.
On the other hand, even Ellis, O’Brien, and Gearen are unwilling to make optimistic predictions about the outcome of the next Academic Council meeting. This apparent inconsistency is due to the fact that many of the most important members of the Academic Council were not available to the student government representatives, and that it will likely be the opinions of these members that will decide the issue. Moreover, it has now been over a month since Father Soleta told the students’ representatives that a meeting would be held before Easter. The consequent delay lends credence to the theory that the administration is trying to “wait out” the students, and the continued unavailability of members of the Council simply raises the question of the reasons for the seeming continuation of the secrecy that was one of the main causes for the violent student opposition to the calendar in the first place.
Father Hesburgh’s stand seems to be particularly enigmatic. Administration member X claims that the President is opposed to the new calendar, while in the
April 17, 1964
same week administration member Y says that Father Hesburgh is the originator of the plan. Now, it is difficult to criticize the opinions of a man whose views are so little known that those closest to him disagree so widely as to just what it is he thinks. However, since Father Hesburgh is the President of the University and also head of the Academic Council, his views ought to be central to the situation.
We can logically conclude from opinions that Father Hesburgh has expressed in the past, in letters and speeches, that he has enough confidence in the students to feel that they should be consulted before a decision so obviously affecting and concerning them is made. He would want the students to have the opportunity to hear about the new calendar and to express their opinions. He would want the matter brought into the open where all the arguments pro and con can be expressed and intelligently considered. He would approve of the efforts made by virtually every student leader to encourage the students to consider the calendar and object — if they saw objections — in a calm manner, secure in the knowledge that our arguments would be seriously considered by the administration. He would not want the Academic Council to ignore the arguments made in good faith by the students, but rather to meet, discuss them, and then to announce the final decision and the reasons behind it.
Many students, however, are beginning to believe that we are being given very little say at all in the matter of the calendar, and that it truly is the intention of the administration to disregard all the objections that have been raised to the new calendar. If the administration does act in such a way, the students as a whole will feel betrayed, feel that the counsel to take only calm and thoughtful action on the calendar was wrong, and that the student body must go back to regarding the administration as its natural enemy. This issue of student-administration relations will have far greater ramifications than any decision on how many days shall elapse between semesters.
In the last issue of the Scholastic, there appeared a letter from C. F. Williams, of the class of 1961, who was a member of the “committee of nineteen” that prepared a report on student freedom that successfully proposed changes in the daily regimen of Notre Dame life. Mr. Williams suggested that it is only by “building a tradition of intelligent and mature student response” that advances in freedom are made. What Mr. Williams neglected to mention is that in the school year 1960-61 occurred the famous “excellence” riots that some cynically felt had more to do with the rules changes than the report of the “committee of nineteen.” We sincerely hope that those members of the Academic Council who agree with Father Hesburgh’s concept of student responsibility prevail, that the students’ objections to the calendar will be given a fair hearing, and that the Council’s action will prove wrong the observer of the Notre Dame scene who said, “The only time the administration is convinced that the students care about something is when several thousand of them care enough to make fools of themselves and the University out on the main quad.”
He summers in seersueKer— .. wears Deansgate’s suit that . stays crisp and composed « in Dacron* polyester' .	’ • and cotton.


Galey >Lord
1407 BROADWAY, NEW YORK 18. N. Y
A Division of Burlington Industries
COVER
Collegiate Jazz Festival, the “hippest college bash of them all,” bashes campus this weekend. See article page 16.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second-class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 18 East 50th Street, New York 22, N.Y. It receives its covers including the four-color back-page advertisement from College Magazines Inc., of New York City. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. The. subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues of the academic year and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). The special subscription rate for St. Mary’s students and faculty is $3.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
CONTENTS
Letters ................... 7
Senate .................... 9
Campus at a Glance ....... 11
On Other Campuses.......... 14
Galileo Conference......... 15
GIF: Conscious Rapport..... 16
A Study in Slander......... 78
What's Right in	Peru.......20
Movies..................... 22
Rugby ..................... 23
Lacrosse .................. 24
Voice in the Crowd......... 25	I
Hogan’s Letter	.......... 26	:
The Last Word............... 34	!
The Scholast;-:
Letters...
COMMUNICATION . . .
Editor:
Our Committee is very grateful for the excellent support you gave us in our efforts to keep WFMT’s channel clear. I hope you will be pleased to know that we have won the fight. The local applicant has been instructed by the FCC, according to my information, to find another channel, and have even suggested a new one to them. Perhaps ways of bureaucracy are not quite so inimical to the cultivated minority as I had supposed.
Thomas Stritch
Department of Communication Arts
. . . AND ART Editor:
In his reply to my article about student criticism, does Mr. Frank McConnell suggest I may be guilty of the genetic heresy by asking student critics to take age and inexperience into account when judging a University Theater production?
If so, he contradicts himself by asking me to take his age and inexperience into account when judging his criticism. Here he seems to me to be on solid ground. I should like to see some means for student critics and student journalists to acquire, by trial and error, better judgment and taste. Some part of my article is devoted to giving a reason why they cannot do so, in student journalism. Still, I should like to see it somehow done; and I have waited nearly eight years before registering my lament, in the hope it might happen. It hasn’t.
Nowhere in his reply does Mr. McConnell deal with my central point: that for these eight years student criticism of University Theater productions has done positive harm to the Theater and a disservice to the University community. This is the point I should like to see met. Only its rightness can excuse, if anything can, my “acrid tone.”
Prof. Thomas Stritch
PLATFORM MOTION Editor:
Like any responsible medium of communication, the Scholastic has an obligation to be accurate in its reporting. When presenting the considered opinion of a representative student group (viz., the platform committee of the Mock Convention) on a controversial political question that concerns our future and the future of the world, this obligation to be accurate becomes even more important.
April 17, 1964
The Scholastic of March 6 was in error when it reported that the section of the foreign policy plank of our adopted platform, which called for the U.S. to join with the members of the Organization of American States in refusing to tolerate in this hemisphere a government dominated by communist rule, “was moderated to opposition to further extension of communism.” On the contrary, the original proposal was approved and retained after short debate by a sizeable majority vote.
It was pointed out at the committee meeting that it is naive to think that we can effectively prevent the spread of communism in this hemisphere, as long as the Castro regime remains in power as a symbol of communist triumph and as a militant base for further communist infiltration into other Latin-American countries. It was also held that we cannot, in good conscience, abandon the Cuban people, now or at any other time, when it appears that their only hope of regaining freedom depends on strong U.S. leadership in opposing the established communist government. The platform committee was in general agreement that a U.S. policy aimed at the re-establishment of a free Cuba would be a furtherance of the declared objectives of our foreign policy plank — to preserve, defend, and extend freedom at home and abroad.
When the Scholastic devotes so much space (three pages in each of two issues) to an article, “Disarmament for Survival,” that gives a minority view expounding a shallow but extremely formidable and clever analysis of and answer to the same basic problem — the threat to freedom and existence in this age of crisis — any treatment it may give to an opinion held by a more representative group of students should be factual and more carefully undertaken.
Jim Keenan 205 Alumni
DENTISTS AND DEMOCRACY Editor:
I notice in the Scholastic more frequent references to faculty opinion with regard to administrative matters being discussed or disputed between administration and the student body. I wonder whether most of our students consider “evidence of support” valid when it comes from unidentified faculty members? Dentists are always suspect (to me) when they look into my mouth and make snide remarks about work left there by other dentists. I sympathize with the physician whose patient begins the recital of symptoms with the tale of incompetence on the part of other physicians,
even though St. Luke did say that a certain woman in other times' had wasted her substance on the medical profession. And I never quite know what to say to the layman who praises me in terms of how much better I am than other priests and teachers, whether named or not, though the former type is more suspect of immaturity.
Someone like Mr. Joe (sic) [sic] Wilson can hardly be asked to look upon us as professional people, he having the common touch of democracy in mind. But I am for the republic; and I wonder whether students look upon “faculty opinion” as described above as unprofessional, and therefore, suspect? Or, would our student body prefer that we made common cause against the king, the sansculotte, as it were, led by the enlightened?
(Rev.) Philip L. Hanley, O.P. Department of Theology
WE’RE THE MOST EXCELLENT Editor:
On the recommendation of the Committee on Public Relations, the Board of Directors of the National Alumni Association, at the winter meeting, January 30-February 2, officially empowered me as President to express the Board’s appreciation for the general excellence of the Scholastic in the past several months, and particularly for the Scholastic “Extra” dedicated to the late President, J. F. Kennedy. LL.D. ’50, of November 26, 1963.
It was mutually agreed that the moment of recovery has arrived!
Keep up the outstanding work.
Oliver H. Hunter HI, ’43 President, 1963-1964
IMAGE vs. IDEAL Editor:
Why the inconsistency in Notre Dame’s scholarship program? Why are off-campus and married students automatically disqualified from the program while married (and, obviously, off-campus) athletes are allowed to retain scholarships? Are the two scholarships (academic and athletic) of such different natures that they aren’t even governed by the same “policy”? Or is Notre Dame still a symbol of mediocrity, unwilling to sacrifice an image for an ideal?
Perhaps you can answer these questions — high directors of the Scholarship Program can’t, or refuse to for fear of revealing the superficiality of “academic excellence.”
Charles Tatum
935 Notre Dame Ave.
(Continued, on page 32)
7
when are 65% and 35% good marks?
THE ENGAGEMENT RING WITH THE PERFECT CENTER DIAMOND

True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond engagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond ... a perfect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut.
The name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the tag is your assurance of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. Your very personal Keepsake diamond ring is awaiting your selection at your Keepsake Jeweler’s store. Find him in the yellow pages. Prices from $100 to $2500. Rings enlarged to show beauty of detail ®Trade-mark registered.
when they're 65% DACRON & 35% cotton in Post-Grad slacks by
his
Phow to pun your engagement ano wedding^ I Please send two new booklets, "How to Plan Your Engage- j | ment and Wedding" and "Choosing Your Diamond Rings," j both for only 25c. Also send special offer of beautiful 44 < I page Bride's Book.	1
| Nome........———— -------------——  -...........      J
, Address—-—  ---------------—~ ..................,	j
| zC<r___:___________________Co_______State_______.____ •
j KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, SYRACUSE. NEW YORKJ
This is the fabric combo that makes music with sleek good looks and washable durability. And PostGrads are the bona fide authentics that trim you up and taper you down. Tried-and-true tailored with belt loops, traditional pockets, neat cuffs. Only $6.95 in the colors you like... at the stores you like.
*Du Pont’s Reg.TM for us Polyester Fiber
WIN ATRIP TO EUROPE
Pick up your "Destination' Europe” contest entry form at any store featuring the h.i.s label. Nothing to buy!
Easy to win! h.i.s offers you your choice of seven different trips this summer to your favorite European city by luxurious jet. Enter now!
s
The Scholastic
Senate • • •
’T'here was no regular Senate j	meeting last Monday, but a meet-
j	ing was held since the last Scholas-
!	tic, and recent campus developments
I involving the Senate merit some dis-* cussion. That last meeting, on Mar. I 16, began with Dave Ellis’ report, discussing progress which he, Tom J O’Brien and John Gearen had made j concerning the Academic Calendar, i They had found Father Soleta “receptive,” and the Calendar was to be reconsidered at a then-upcoming । Council meeting. Ellis, O’Brien and Gearen were contacting individual i Council members at that time.
Following reports, the Senate f moved to specific measures, and approved both the Junior Prom budget and a procedure for the presentation of recommendations by the Senate. The latter suggests return of a motion by the Administration within I fifteen days, with its approval or rea-i sons for its rejection. If accepted, ; this procedure would certainly aid Senate - Administration communication. The Senate then passed a movie policy for student organizations, which represents an extended and worthwhile effort by Dan Kulak and the Policy Committee to provide a definite order to the selection of ! movie titles and dates for campus showings.
Ensuing discussion centered on section 5b of the new Voice Policy, which provides that the faculty moderator shall “be empowered to prevent any article which he considers objectionable from appearing in the Voice.” While the entire Senate admitted that they had to recognize the reality of prior censorship, Bob Stewart led a fight to amend the bill so as to indicate Senate disapproval of the practice. The entire body joined at one point to pass the measure, however, because debate had become quite entangled; the Stewart group agreed, having been led to believe that the bill would then be reconsidered. Since most of those present seemed to back Stewart’s move, however, one Senator called for a quorum immediately after the motion to reconsider, to block the action. Not enough of ND’s finest were still present (it was 10:57), so the meeting ended, with the Voice ! Policy approved as presented.
Following that marvelous example of a firm, clear stand, the Senate did not meet this week, even in the absence of any definite action yet taken by the Administration regarding the Academic Calendar, five weeks after student opposition was first expressed. Of course, the Senate de
April 17, 1964
serves credit for doing its job in initially formulating that expression; it was Senator Frank Smith who organized the student petition, and the aforementioned Senate leaders who consulted with the Academic Council. In fact, almost surprisingly, all student opposition was registered through responsible channels. Then, everyone took the attitude of “wait and see.”
Five weeks after the last definitive Administration statement (the actual announcement of the Calendar), it is apparent that crystallization of student opinion has thus far been ineffective in precipitating any concrete discussion of the matter. Reconsideration of the Calendar by the Council has been promised four different times since its publication, and now will ostensibly take place “sometime next week.” The Calendar is already printed in next year’s Bulletin, however, and soon enough steps will have been taken to make any request to change it impractical. The result of “wait and see” has thus been — no result. As time has passed, so
BRAND NEW AND BRILLIANT
The Limeliters sing and play once more. Great folk standards like “No Man Is an Island,” “The Best Is Yet to Come” and “Willow Tree.” It’s more of the best with the Limeliters.
RCA VICTOR @ The most trusted name in sound
has student interest; time grows shorter, and Administration attitudes are hardening, while the Council continues “promising” to meet. The Administration has stifled student reaction by the simple expedient of “delay and thus avoid” — evidently a very effective tactic.
Some action is obviously warranted, as it seems ridiculous that Notre Dame should have a Calendar which stabilizes spring vacation dates at the expense of de-emphasizing the central Christian Feast; and which decreases “test mania” by concentrating finals on two days with one-third the former study time. Joint investigation should take place now, before it is too late to effect changes; campus leaders should seek a definite date for Administration-student consideration of specific possible alternatives to the Calendar, and the reasons behind them. In short, the Senate leaders should reassume the initiative which they must exercise as the only body through which orderly and responsible expression of student (Continued on page 30)
THERE’S A WIDE RANGE OF OPPORTUNITY IN THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
To outer space and into the deep sea, we take the sum total of our scientific and managerial knowledge. A case in point is Telstar, which represents the first step toward a worldwide communications system. Another example, the new deep-sea amplifier that simultaneously transmits two-way messages. Both communications triumphs stem from Bell System planning, research and development.
Such trailblazing projects command the best of managerial and scientific talent. That’s why you’ll find, throughout the Bell System, men with college training as diverse as the responsibilities they shoulder. Their backgrounds run the gamut from liberal arts and business courses to science or specialized engineering majors.
Admittedly, the work is demanding. It requires that unusual caliber of man who finds a greater satisfaction in challenge than in ready solution... who is eager to see his education yield dividends... who wants an immediate opportunity for leadership.
Men with this kind of impatience will discover the stimulation, welcome and rewards they seek in the telephone business.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
10
The Scholastic
M emoriam
Last October Air Force Capt. Edwin G. Shank, Jr., left for Vietnam to instruct the Vietnamese in flying fighter planes. Late in March, with over 80 missions to his credit, Capt. Shank and a Vietnamese pilot took off on a rather routine mission. They were to support a Vietnamese platoon under attack by two Viet Cong companies near the town of Soc Trang, 100 miles south of Saigon. Suddenly the plane came under the attack of enemy ground fire, was hit and hurtled to the ground, killing its two occupants.
To many Capt. Shank’s death was just a number, the 202nd American serviceman killed in Vietnam since January, 1961. But for Notre Dame his death was an occasion of mourning because that Communist attack had taken the life of one of her sons. Capt. Shank had graduated from Notre Dame in 1959 with a degree in architectural engineering. While a student here, he was in the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps and went on active duty upon graduation. Although he eventually decided to become a career officer, he turned down an opportunity to enter the Air Force Academy during his junior year and chose to remain at Notre Dame instead.
Capt. Shank was a sensitively courageous man. On Dec. 23, he wrote in a letter to his wife, “So far I have 55 kills credited to me and one .50 cal. gun. I am not proud of killing, but I am proud of my skill. It is necessary in this job.” On Dec. 30, he told of an incident that almost cost him his life, “Well, here goes. I got shot down yesterday. We were escorting a C-123 and I picked up three slugs in my airplane. One went into my fuel strainer and I lost all my fuel.
I made it to a field called Can Tho and landed safely.” On March 22, Capt. Shank wrote home expressing the hope that he would be home in June to see his wife and four children, one a seven-week-old daughter he had never seen. He was killed the next day.
The ROTC contingent here at Notre Dame mourned the passing of one of their former members with a military Mass held in Sacred Heart Church last week.
Leukemia Heredity
Recent research under the leadership of Prof. Morris Pollard, director of the Lobund Laboratory, has provided evidence that lymphatic leukemia in mice is inherited. According to Prof. Pollard, there is a “likelihood” that similar conclusions can be drawn in regard to human leukemia. The evidence of radiation-induced leukemia in the mice served to virtually confirm the assumption, held for many years, that the disease can be transferred by heredity.
The confirmation was possible because of the unique conditions possible at the germfree Lobund Laboratory. The progeny of twenty-one successive generations of germfree animals were subjected to weekly radiation doses, which served to “unmask” the latent leukemia virus particles. Due to tests on the mice confirming their germfree status during irradiation, when leukemia was observed it was traceable to the uncovering of latent leukemia virus by the irradiation. This virus was observed in successive generations of otherwise virus-free animals, and it thus became apparent that the transference was made through heredity.
Prof. Pollard pointed out that the
concurrent observation of leukemia and the unmasked virus does not absolutely establish a causal relationship between the virus and leukemia, but he does “anticipate” the discovery of conclusive evidence in this area also. Meanwhile, Prof. Pollard and. T. Matsuzawa, M.D., a postdoctoral research fellow collaborating with, him, are continuing the search for means of excluding the leukemia virus from the mice, which may then have value for treatment of the disease in man.
Radical Right Ripped
Dr. Vincent P. De Santis, head of the History Department, spoke before the first session of the Young Democratic Forum on Monday evening, April 6, in the Law Auditorium. Dr. De Santis’ speech, “The Extreme Right: A Political Phenomenon,” analyzed that very unusual portion of society, its reasons for existence and its determining characteristics. He distinguished between his subject and the “conventional conservatism,” so all the Goldwater diehards had no reason to get their feathers flustered in the question-answer period which followed the lecture.
Dr. De Santis pointed out that we live in an age of frustrated American ambitions: the Cold War deadlock, the racial conflict, and the conflicting reports emerging from some governmental offices. This frustration is best evident in the number of societies which wish to turn back the clock. And just like a baby when frustrated, the rightists are throwing tantrums at everyone and everything, from the NAACP to the New York Times.
One distinguishing factor is their “ability” to see complex problems simply, envisioning an either/or solution; in the field of international affairs this makes the rational path of compromise impossible. This type of negativism just accentuates their basic frustration complex.
A second common denominator is their “devil” theory of history: every mistake or misfortune has been caused by a traitor. Thus China was lost not by the Chinese but by “traitors,” Americans who gave it away because of their Communist loyalties. Domestically, the case of Alger Hiss provided the fuel for the fire. Thus, today we find victims of their vicious, ofttimes ridiculous, smear campaigns among labor unions, newspaper editors, and universities.
A third common trait in the members of the radical right is their deep distrust of democracy. The ignorant common herd, unlike the rightists, is much too gullible for Communism and
April 17, 1964
11
Danforth Winners: Maher, Messmer, and McConnell
thus worthless. Thus, Robert Welch has proclaimed that the organization of the John Birch Society would be completely authoritative: democracy is demagoguery.
Considering the right-wing extremists almost neurotic, Dr. De Santis feels that we are safe from their clutches, because they will be repudiated by genuine conservatives.
The Young Democratic Forum, under the sponsorship of the Young Democrat Club, will present four lectures pertaining to coming election issues. Dr. De Santis’ speech was the first of such lectures; Dr. De Santis will be followed by Dr. Shapiro, whose speech on the "US in Viet Nam” should kindle a few sparks on Monday, April 20, in the Biology Auditorium at 8 p.m. Dr. D’Antonio of the Sociology Department and Professor O’Malley of the English Dept, will conclude the series.
Seniors Awarded Danforths
Three University of Notre Dame seniors have been awarded graduate fellowships by the Danforth Foundation of Saint Louis, Mo. The fellowships provide tuition and living expenses for four years of study for a doctoral degree in preparation for a career in college teaching. The Notre Dame fellowship winners are James V. Maher, Jr., a physics major from the Bronx, N.Y.; Frank McConnell, Louisville, Ky., who has majored in English; and Michael V. Messmer, a history major from Morganton, N. C.
Since 1951, when the Danforth program was inaugurated, twenty Notre Dame men have received the coveted grants. Nearly 1,000 Danforth fellowships have been awarded, and more than 350 of these men and women have finished Ph.D. degrees and
12
are now teaching in colleges and universities. More than one thousand college seniors throughout the United States competed for the 100 Danforth grants awarded this year.
Foundation Drive Ends
The Eleventh Annual Student-Foundation Week netted results similar to those of last year. The total amount collected was S1267 as compared with S1366 in 1963. The larger figure represents contributions from 2493 students out of the 4000 contacted, while this year’s total was solicited from only 1903 students. It is to be noted that last month’s drive came at the end of “the busiest six weeks in the history of the University,” and was therefore somewhat obscured.
The donations will form a special scholarship fund. Partial scholarships, probably three in number, will be awarded to returning Notre Dame students who applied to the University for aid. Chairmen Paul Meagher and Pete Budetti organized the staff of eighty workers, while Tom Hildner directed publicity for the Week.
Give To Take
Dr. Max Lackmann, a German Lutheran theologian, stated in a lecture on April 9 that large religious groups should be incorporated into the Catholic Church. Dr. Lackmann, vitally concerned with the problem of unification, said unification could only occur if the groups were allowed to retain the habits and traditions of their own faiths. He stated that there are two ways to approach unification: single conversions and the acceptance of entire communities. The method that relies on single conversions has not solved the problem and holds little promise for the future. In many countries the number of individuals who
enter the Church barely equals the number who leave it.
For entire communities to enter the Church is often absurdly difficult. Dr. Lackmann explained that they are steeped in their previous ways, their traditions, and life. Only if they could follow their former life within the Catholic Church could they be incorporated.
With this in mind there are three essentials necessary for unification according to the Lutheran theologian. Groups being incorporated into the Church must be allowed to keep their own liturgy and form of devotional practice. The essentials of the Catholic Mass, for instance, are found in Evangelical Divine Services. It differs in that it is held in the native tongue; the celebration is simpler and there is a singing of the entire liturgy of the Mass; communion is served undei' both species. These should be allowed to remain so as to enhance incorporation. The second essential for union requires that communities should keep their own ecclesiastical law when they join with the Church. In the Eastern Church priests are allowed to marry; it would not be an impossible concept to allow newly converted sects to allow voluntary celibacy for their priests. The third point is that new groups should be permitted to keep their own theological schools. The issue of private revelation in interpreting the Bible does not present a problem to the learned theologian, according to Dr. Lackmann. He does not find it necessary to provide biblical interpretations which follow a set form.
Dr. Lackmann believes that if the Catholic Church would adopt such a policy of incorporation, it would not be the poorer for it but more Catholic. He stated that such unification necessitates a change in the ways of thinking on both sides. The Lutheran theologian declared it would be a tremendous advance for unification if the Church would issue an official statement acknowledging such corporate unification.
Light, Airy Projects Win
Students from the various engineering departments competed for cash prizes with projects displayed for the student body and general public a--the Engineering Open House, April 11 Kent Koester, a senior in engineering science, won the first place award o’ fifteen dollars for his “Air Cushione Vehicle.” The second place award c ten dollars was given to Pete Jarvis.
The Scholastic
a junioi' in civil engineering, for “Linear Transverse Measurements of Air-Void Distribution in Concrete.” John Tibbits, a sophomore in science, took third place and five dollars for his “Light Beam Communications.” The Department of Engineering Science was awarded a plaque for the best-represented department for originality and enthusiasm. Mr. Kenneth Kempf and Dr. Francis Kobayashi, of the College of Engineering, judged the Open House.
On display were the equipment, techniques, and talents of engineering students. “The purpose of the Open House,” said General Chairman Lance Drane, “was to introduce the student body to what’s going on in engineer-

Dr. Max Lackmann
Prof. David Donald
April 17, 1964
ing.” This year’s Open House consisted entirely of student projects; in previous years private industry also contributed displays. Other exhibits included an electron microscope, an analog computer programmed to follow the motion of a pendulum, and wind tunnels.
Excessive Democracy
“The Civil War Centennial has come and, fortunately, has nearly gone.” With these humorous yet perceptive words, David Donald began his Thursday night lecture entitled “The American Civil War and the Political Process.” Professor Donald, if he needs an introduction, won the Pulitzer Prize in 1960 for his biography of Civil War Senator Charles Sumner and has been professor of American History at Oxford for a number of years.
Though his lecture dealt mostly with the political bumbling which led up to the Civil War, Professor Donald started with a short review of the attitudes with which historians have looked at America. First its history has been viewed as the result of the Providence of God. The early twentieth century brought a moral interpretation of good versus evil, i.e., conservatives versus liberals; then came the idea that there was not too much of a difference between the conservatives and liberals but that they were all working toward the same thing anyhow. Lately historians have been asking the questions: Is America a happy land? Is America a success? Can it be a success? These are the questions Professor Donald believes should continue to be asked.
Then Professor Donald asked the question: Why did a prosperous democracy like America go to war in the nineteenth century? There were many reasons, he said. The atmosphere of social change was one, the problem of a displaced generation brought about by the Industrial Revolution. But, he felt, it was caused largely, as J. J. Randall had said in A Blundering Generation, by politics, by a failure of statesmanship. Why did political leaders blunder? They blundered because they were chosen by a bungling people who thought they were good politicians and leaders precisely because they bungled. They were too entangled in the problem of re-election, and re-election demanded a strong stand on local issues with a disregard for the national welfare — much like the political situation in Alabama and Mississippi today. And
secondly they were bungling because the issues forced them to be so. Slavery was the only big national issue, and so it was blown so out of proportion — really all the candidates held the same thing — don’t stop slavery where it is and preserve the Union — that it caused a disastrous war. The people did not want positive government, and they did not get it.
In summary, Professor Donald affirmed that the coming of the Civil War was the work of a bungling generation. But, he said, a nation gets the kind of political leaders it deserves, and the people of that time wanted politicians who were inen of parochial outlook and weak moral fiber. The war, he said, should be traced to an excess of democracy.
Frank Policy Talk
M. Jose Paoli, counselor for the French embassy in Washington, delivered a lecture Monday evening entitled, “France and World Problems Today.” M. Paoli prefaced his remarks by saying that all French policy is motivated by a sense of duty towards the free world. Americans are wrong in thinking that France has forgotten the aid given her at the end of World War H. Still, France should not be expected to be the obedient follower at all times. French efforts to acquire its own atomic deterrent should not be interpreted as distrust of U.S. policy, for Europe has a duty to defend itself from dangers to the free world. Soviet division of Europe — most important, of East and West Germany — threatens a dangerous vacuum of power within central Europe. France would indeed be interested in an atomic disarmament. On the other hand, why should a less powerful nation be the first to drop atomic preparations?
The possibility has been suggested of creating a common European military force. Before this can be realized, Europe must be unified with its established executive authority. A federation including the U.S. would never work, since it is inconceivable that a nation so strong would consider relinquishing even a portion of its supremacy. European unification must begin with an economic — notably, agricultural — fusion.
With regard to world politics, M. Paoli noted that France has retained special interest in other countries, even in countries to which it has no special duty. In light of recent criticism, M. Paoli gave four reasons for
f Continued on page 30)
13
on other eampuses
• Tom Morgan., an Indiana University student who has been indicted on two counts of advocating the violent overthrow of the Indiana State Government, spoke recently at San Diego State College. Morgan told San Diego students that the Communist Party is too conservative. He believes that socialism is the only answer to the world’s problems. Morgan is a member of the Young Socialist Alliance, a youth organization under the direction of the Socialist Workers Party (itself labeled a subversive organization by the U.S. Attorney General), which was one of the leading supporters of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee. Morgan said that the Alliance demonstrated in Bloomington, Indiana, against the Cuban blockade. Violence and riots broke out when four thousand students and residents demonstrated in its favor.
• A group of students at Loyola College in Montreal turned a national problem into a practical joke, and it was barely halted before it led to an inter-school incident. When the Prime Minister of Loyola’s Model Parliament was called out of session for a phone call, he was kidnapped by the stu
dents. Then a series of phone calls were made to the university; one in French demanded that the Parliament pass a bill giving the province of Quebec autonomy to insure the return of the Prime Minister. The caller also stated that he represented a Quebec liberation movement. A report began circulating on the campus that the kidnappers were students of the University of Montreal, and only when a counterplot to kidnap a Montreal student was formed did the kidnappers realize the possible consequences of their action.
• The surgeon general's report on the danger of smoking has led the Virginia Tech to conduct a campuswide investigation of the evils of another controversial habit. Preliminary data indicate that this habit is international in scope, may be formed at an early age, wastes billions of manhours each year, has mysterious side effects, and forces those caught in its grip to rely on such drugs as Dexe-drene and No-Doz to overcome it.
• An abortive attempt to kidnap the Fordham mascot, ram Eameses XX, was disclosed recently. The attempt,
apparently made by students of St. John’s University, was thwarted by members of the Burns Detective Agency. Agents patrolling the campus spotted trespassers near Rameses’ quarters, and closed in, trapping the invaders. Concealed weapons found in the possession of the would-be ram-nappers included wire cutters, flashlights, handcuffs(?), and a can of spray paint. St. John’s colors are red and white. The ram is white. The paint was red.
• The Conservative Club of the University of Colorado has passed a resolution declaring that “moral legislation” is a responsibility of the individual, and that society has no right to impose such restrictions. Their resolution goes on to condemn all laws which attempt to control narcotics usage, gambling, prostitution, consumption of alcoholic beverages, or which set standards for individual morality. They cited in particular: 1) the crackdown in Boulder, Colorado (home of the university) on narcotics; 2) the “prosecution and persecution” of Hugh Heffner; 3) the “arbitrary imposition” of a curfew in Louisville;
4) the Denver B-girl control law; 5) Sunday blue laws and enforcement of the Sabbath. The resolution declared that the club considers such laws “opposed to the idea of a code of voluntary society” and that regulations concerning morality are “misused for the purposes of harassment of the populace by the authorities.”
feiffer
MM HEREibJASAT 'HOME-HO'CLOCK HJ THE MI6HT- THWK'lk!' O'POTW 1U60ME SERIOUS SACK TIME whem outsipe there 605$ A CARHORM-
BE5OA<AgEEP-5EO^
BEEP-BEEP. AMP 175 lwom awotn; "HEHSUMl LETS FER A RIPE!"
LHUOOM ALLUS CALLS ME SLIM-BECAUSE TM SO FAT H'SEE.SORT OF PiUPOU'S MAH OF MAKlH'A 70/CE. 401 IHTO TH' gAC^O' TH' GAR-ARM'S M LOK EVERHlMERE' COULPMT COPHT HOD MAM 'CAUSE O' TH' PARK. AMP^^f'CFF bJE 60!
'CAIUL W OPEH THIS CRATE Upri POSH LHHPOH, 'CAUSE HES CDIU' W-'I GOTTA CRAWL FOR THE SAKE o'secret service.
THEH &T IU A EMIT „ WHEW THEM LOStME
WMEDM XEHES RI6HT QACK.ldEALL 6lT A VELLM LAUGH OUTA THAT OHE.
AW PASSES A SPORTS CAROH A HILL.'I&K OUT W DOH I "SOME SCARED CAT CRIES ASA UlESEb
TRUCK COMES ‘SMACK ATUS —
THEM LWN LETS OUT A TEXAS HELL
fWAHOO!"WES LHHPDH AHP LOES A CUSHION SHOT OFF THE SHOULPER, $MAW WU5H EH A UMSKER. RID? 7M CCW-BOYl" MELLS I TMWKW' T6IVE
lmhpoh A &00P laosh-
SUT LnUPOM POUT HEAR.HES OH TWO PFOWS SAHIH' IHTO OHE, "WELL, HOU TELL DE6AULLE FOR ME~"AHP SAHIH' IHTO THE OTHER "I WART THE POOR PEOPLE T'KMW WHO'S THEIR FRIEHP-"U)HEH SUPPEMLH AHOTHER TRUCK COMES ATOS AHP L REALIZE LHHPOH'S PRWU' UP TH* WHITE LlHE- ’ LOOK OUT.LYNDOK SHELLS THE SAME SCAREPH CAT.LHlUPOU HAMOS UP THE PHOMeS AMP SMAKES AQOOMP SLICK AS CAO EE!
WELL THE WHOLE RIRE ROUT LAST MOREV AM HOUR AHP WHEM LW-CDM PROPS ME OFF HE SAMS, "HOld HOU 61T IK) SOME SACKTIME SUM, WE'LL PO IT A61U M5XTWcE<-
60P
14
The Scholastic
Galileo
Dialogue
by Jack Rowe
A. Rupert Hall — Imperial College of Science & Technology, London.
A century ago, the Italian essayist Giacomo Leopardi exemplified his conviction that scientific achievements are continually obscured by further progress with the remark, “Certainly they were quite remarkable in their time, [but] who reads the works of Galileo any more?” Whatever the merits of this insight, the example is most certainly ill-chosen. Galileo was, it is true, a scientist by vocation and it was his discoveries and opinions concerning the nature of the universe which were of the greatest interest “in their time.” Yet today, 400 years after his birth, the implications of his work and writings are reflected not only in experimental science, but in philosophy, politics and theology as well.
It was, then, more than as a simple anniversary honor that a Galileo Quatercentenary Congress was held this past weekend in the auditorium of the Memorial Library. It was more importantly a unique opportunity for dialogue between scholars in the several fields touched by the influence of Galileo. Preparations for the Congress, largely the work of Rev. Ernan McMullin of the Notre Dame Department of Philosophy, were begun almost a year ago. The meeting which resulted, essentially an exchange of contributed papers, attracted participants from throughout this country and Europe, and is receiving national press coverage.
As an adjunct to the Congress, a book exhibit was assembled, including first editions of all of Galileo’s works, together with those of Kep
ler, Brahe, Copernicus and others of the period. This exhibit is now on display in the Rare Book Room of the Library.
The Congress and exhibit represent the most notable remembrance of the Quatercentenary outside of Italy. At the same time, the convention was an unusually ambitious academic undertaking on the part of the University. According to Father McMullin, the Congress was to serve as a response to several needs. First, there is a lack of communication between scholars of various disciplines. By means of an interdisciplinary gathering of this kind, however, mutual understanding is sought through attention to a subject of common interest. In this case, papers were delivered by representatives of philosophy, mathematics, physics, astronomy, literature and history.
A second reason for the Congress was the need for recognition of the history of science as a distinct and important discipline. A number of universities have established history of science departments, while at many others the subject is an essential part of the philosophy or science departments. At Notre Dame, however, only a single course in history of science is taught. The Congress was perhaps less successful here, for while faculty members from elsewhere received the program well, attendance by the Notre Dame community was sparse.
There is, finally, a reason more closely related to the commemoration of Galileo. In the sponsorship of the Congress by a Catholic university,
payment is made, in a sense, on the debt of the Church toward science in general and Galileo in particular. No “reversal” of the Inquisition trial which condemned him to perpetual arrest and suppressed his writings was intended. Allegations of irregularities at the trial itself are virtually impossible to substantiate. Rather, the clearer fault of the Church was in establishing the atmosphere which made the trial possible. The suppression of the Copernican theory and its defenders by the Papal Congregation of the Index was only a particular instance of the interference of churchmen with free inquiry, but not one which went unanswered. Galileo’s eloquent insistence on the right of the scholar to freedom in the pursuit of truth is perhaps the single facet of his legacy which is of the most lasting importance. For, as pointed out by one of the lecturers, that answer is not yet fully accepted and must be reasserted even today.
The staging of such an event as the Galileo Congress at Notre Dame is no doubt bogus, and the danger is present that it will be valued primarily for the attendant prestige, as a sort of academic complement to the Library mural. But if instead it can be useful, both in pointing out to us our own shortcomings and in demonstrating to others our sincere interest in academic advancement, there is a promise that the fine efforts of Father McMullin and his committee will be well rewarded.
April 17, 1964
15
Photographs by Larsen and Wheeler
The Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz
Festival marks its sixth presentation on campus this weekend. In performances Friday and Saturday, many of the nation’s newest and most promising jazz artists will be featured as the “New Stream in College Jazz.” This annual event should prove equal to the success it has known in the past: its production is being handled efficiently by an experienced committee, and the quality of this year’s participants is exceptionally good.
In discussion of the Collegiate Jazz Festival’s past or present situation, its success must be considered relative to certain points of concern. Specifically, the festival in the past has existed mainly to provide a different social outlet during the week-
eft
CONSCIOUS
end. The question now rests in whether such a superficial view can be accepted in the perspective in which the jazz festival now exists. It is presently seen that the event represents something much different to the people performing and participating in the two days of competition.
Professionally, the jazz festival carries a reputation which gamers it the consideration of being the finest collegiate attempt in staging the sounds of modern American jazz. This has been evidenced particularly in the coverage which the event has received from national magazines. The Collegiate Jazz Festival has been given specific praise in publications ranging from Time through Playboy. In fact, Downbeat has called the festival “ a brilliant event, one that will stand as the turning point in college jazz!”
Congruent with this recognition, the Collegiate Jazz Festival has become the focal point for the attention of many leading artists and authori
ties, and this, in turn, has added weight to the artistic meaningfulness of the festival. It has received the active participation in the capacities of advisors and judges from men such as Stan Kenton, Quincy Jones, and Henry Mancini. This year alone, the judges will be Julian “Cannonball” Adderly, Oliver Nelson, Gary McFarland, George Russell, Robert Share, and Charles Suber. Leonard Feather, noted jazz critic, typified the spirit of these people last year in noting that the Collegiate Jazz Festival was one of his “most refreshing and invigorating experiences.”
Perhaps the greater effect of the x jazz festival is carried in the influence which it has on and in behalf of the young musicians which it showcases. Many of the participants
16
The Scholastic
RAPPORT
by Barnard Kompare
in the Collegiate Jazz Festival have found prominent positions in the professional circuits. Paul Winter, who performed in the event several years ago, has gained much recognition and praise, and last year’s winner, the Bob Pozar Trio, has recently recorded a promising album. The festival represents for these people the opportunity to display and exchange under the critical judgment of respected authorities the ideas which they feel pertinent to the American jazz scene.
However, in view of the contrasting attitudes on the Collegiate Jazz Festival, some commitment must be made toward what is the actual nature of the festival. This event could not and does not remain strictly a social function. It outgrew that character during the first event in 1959. Presently, it means much more in terms of the total rapport established between the artist and the audience. Essentially, a picture of the Collegiate Jazz Festival must be derived from what it means to the community of Notre Dame.
The fact that the festival is “Collegiate” points to the idea that it does not exist strictly in the interest of the musician or of those wishing only to be entertained; rather, this comes to imply that the event has a wider purpose in reference to the total sphere of academic life. The Collegiate Jazz Festival stands in a college community, and consequently it must be regarded in that context. It has greater meaning in the idea that it is presenting the product of its program with a sense of availability to being understood and perhaps liked. The festival comes to represent a forum for its particular aspect of artistic expression, the success only of its contents remaining contingent to personal taste. This is in the same
respect that the art gallery exists for the exposition of student art, and that the Juggler exists as a vehicle for literary expression. The Collegiate Jazz Festival stands as a projection of its art into the academic community — an experience congruent with student life.
Further, such an academic perspective for the festival implies an interaction between artist and audience. There is a mutual relation established between these two members. Any passiveness or complacency on the part of one negates the attempt to construct a dialogue, and in this, the whole idea of “Collegiate” is frustrated. To realize any end, the Collegiate Jazz Festival must demand a participative spirit from the community in which it exists. Such a reaction is exemplified in the similar situation of the University of Chicago Folk Festival. Within this event, the student body builds a viable interest which sustains the idea of the community. In this sense, there is a
participation among those surrounding the folk festival in some way.
In the consideration of the Collegiate Jazz Festival’s potential, much hinges on the degree of student enthusiasm in the event. With the prospect of a new convocation center on campus, the present physical conditions will be eliminated as a detriment to the production. Further, the better facilities will act as a stimulus to extend outside participation in the event. However, the fact still remains that significant success is a matter of interest and pride rather than indifference on the part of Notre Dame’s academic community. The Collegiate Jazz Festival, strictly as a professional production, means something only in relation to its being a showcase, and in this vein, the idea of its being on a college campus is negated. The worth of such a festival lies in the fact that it is collegiate, and that it is being presented as part of an academic atmosphere.
April 17, 1964
17
Reacting to a cutting article in the National Review, Scholastic News Editor, Mel Noel, interviewed its victim, Dr. George Shuster, and here presents a rebuttal.
a study in slander
by Mel Noel
If slander consists in publishing defamatory statements without just cause or excuse, then Susan Buck and the National Review are guilty of slandering Dr. George N. Shuster, Assistant to the President at Notre Dame. The April 7 issue of William Buckley’s magazine (“a Journal of Fact and Opinion”), contains an article cryptically entitled “Life Among the Libs: Hunter College Division.” The author, Dr. Susan Buck, is a former professor of geography at New York City’s Hunter College. Her purpose in writing is to expose what befalls a good conservative at Hunter — namely, wild accusations of fascism and eventual dismissal. But after stating the conditions of her ouster, Miss Buck devotes several columns to the recent history of Hunter, and engages in some namecalling of her own. The brunt of this attack falls on the shoulders of Dr. Shuster, who served as president of Hunter College from 1939 to 1960.
Miss Buck’s complaint involves the prevailing attitude at Hunter College which she characterizes as being leftliberal and soft on Communism. “You don’t absolutely have to hate the United States, but if you do everybody will understand.” She says that Hunter’s record of Communist activity is long and revealing — “flat out Communist, none of this namby pamby stuff.” According to Miss Buck, when the LaGuardia administration sought a new president for Hunter in 1939, they looked for two qualities: “1) a Catholic with 2) a strong stomach for Communists.” The man who filled this bill was, of course, George N. Shuster.
The new president’s reaction to Communists at Hunter was typical of a Liberal, says Miss Buck: “So what?” She speculates that Dr. Shuster was afraid of the Reds, but draws another conclusion: “In Liberal parlance, then, letting the Communists stomp you with hob-nailed boots is called tolerance.” Under Shuster, if
we are to believe Susan Buck, students “could not oppose them, because fighting Communists makes waves and is therefore not allowed.”
Generally, the impression is given that the college went to the Communists while Dr. Shuster came up “each time with a masochistic grin.” We are to believe that an un-American atmosphere prevailed at Hunter during World War H, and “by 1948, the Communists had a monopoly on student political activities.” Then, according to the author, came the
inevitable investigation of Hunter College after Dr. Bella Dodd testified about her Communist affiliation. “Four or five Communist professors were dismissed, despite the admitted best efforts of Shuster, whose contortions on their behalf before the Board of Higher Education were so outre, that he found his patriotism questioned by the chairman.” Miss Buck further implies that Shuster recommended a Professor Somerville (one singed by the investigation at Hunter) to represent the United States at UNESCO symposia. She concludes by saying that the United Front of Reds and Libs, as exemplified by the situation at Hunter Col
lege, is the reason for our losing the cold war.
Believing that Susan Buck’s accusations were at best unsubstantiated, we talked with Dr. Shuster about his years as president of Hunter. His first reaction was indignation over the implication of disloyalty among students at the college, especially during World War H. He points out that the supposedly damning instance of a Soviet officer addressing students in 1944, actually took place before a class composed mainly of U.S. Naval
officers. This talk also was part of a program that brought all sorts of Allied personnel to Hunter, including Gen. Charles DeGaulle. Shuster says: “The war record of Hunter students was admirable.” Many joined the armed forces, while those remaining at the school took up daily collections to provide war relief in Europe.
Dr. Shuster was less worried about the attack upon his administration, but did present a picture of Hunter’s problems. He took the job at the college in 1939, well aware that it was the object of much Communist activity. As the editor of Commonweal (which is about as pinko as the Pope), Shuster had already shown
18
The Scholastic
his concern for the Catholic laity. He now felt that he could be of service to Catholic youth at Hunter, as well as to higher education in New York City. Thus, the new president assumed his duties not as a comfortable fit to leftists at the college, but as one aware of the challenge and eager to meet it.
The situation of students at Hunter College prior to World War H must be understood before one sarcastically accuses them of forming “America Stinks” groups. They came mostly from the lower middle class in New York City which had been hard hit by the Depression. Dr. Shuster points out that it was not uncommon to hear of a student fainting from hunger. “And quite as naturally they echoed the angry debates of the period. What was wrong with the system.... Why weren’t there two chickens in every pot?” These questions puzzled young minds and left them open to suggestions from the wrong source.
And waiting to take advantage of dissatisfaction was the American Student Union, a Communist youth organization on the Hunter campus. As Shuster says, the Union was strong because no other organization existed which could rival its activity. He decided that the answer to Communist slogans was greater spiritual awareness at Hunter, and set out to organize clubs for the major faiths. The Newman Club was already strong, and cooperation of Jewish and Protestant leaders soon brought two other
April 17, 1964
groups into being. But the greatest boost to the plan occurred when Dr. Shuster and prominent New Yorkers raised the funds to purchase the old Roosevelt town house a few blocks from Hunter College. With historical mementos provided by President Roosevelt and a quite fashionable new clubhouse, the religious clubs could work effectively. “We now had a solid core of student organizations with which the Student Union could not compete in terms of attractiveness and prestige.”
Miss Buck manages to avoid all mention of these projects, and makes light of Eleanor Roosevelt’s talk with the students in 1944. However, Dr. Shuster assures us that had his critic heard the clear denunciation of Party thought given by Mrs. Roosevelt, there would have been no doubt about its effect. If Miss Buck knew more about her former students, she would have realized how dear the Roosevelt name was to urban, middle class young people. In any event, there were no Communist youth organizations on the campus by 1948.
In regard to Communist faculty members, Dr. Shuster was under no illusions. He was aware of a cell operating at Hunter from the time of his appointment. However, under New York State law, no effective action could be taken to dispose of disloyal teachers until the Feinberg Law was upheld by the Supreme Court in 1957. This legislation provided that anyone committed to the overthrow of the
U.S. Government by force and violence could not be employed by a state agency. Backed by the new statute, the Board of Higher Education tried three Hunter teachers for Communist activity and was able to find two of them guilty. Another was acquitted, while two suspects resigned rather than face inquiry. This meant that on Hunter’s faculty, five professors were substantially involved with the cell (including the apostate, Bella Dodd). But all of these had been hired before Dr. Shuster assumed the presidency, and before a new screening process was devised to prevent Communists from receiving appointments.
Susan Buck, at this point, states that the chairman of the Board of Higher Education questioned Dr. Shuster’s patriotism because of his “contortions” in behalf of the guilty. This is completely untrue, as the problem entailed whether proved Communists should be forced to implicate people who associated with them throughout the years. Shuster was against this method of procedure, as were the presidents of New York City’s other colleges. These men feared wholesale smears of their faculties, and finally prevailed on the chairman to deal with each case individually. The Board’s chairman was a friend of George Shuster and in the disagreement never questioned the Hunter president’s patriotism. Additionally, Miss Buck’s connection of Prof. Somerville (perhaps Hunter’s most investigated teacher) with Shuster is contrary to fact. Somerville never represented the United States at UNESCO, but merely contributed an article to a book sponsored by the U.N. organization. At no time did Shuster involve Prof. Somerville in any U.S. business with UNESCO.
In the last analysis, Miss Buck’s implications that Dr. Shuster is “soft on Communism” are best refuted by (Continued on page 28)
19
What’s Right in Peru
by Fredrick B. Pike
Dr. Pike, of Notre Dame’s history department. is now living in Peru, writing a book about that country. He plans to return to Notre Dame in the spring of 1965.
These days it is fashionable for United States experts on Latin America to harp on what’s wrong with our southern neighbors. Again and again they repeat that unless Latin America undergoes a drastic revolution, the specific nature of which is never quite defined, communism will sweep through the entire southern continent.
In writing on Chile, I too have sometimes urged the need for revolution. Probably this can be justified on the grounds that Chile is ready for economic and social changes that are implemented with revolutionary haste. More than any country south of Mexico, Chile has a sufficient number of well-trained economists and technicians. without whose assistance and supervision no thoroughgoing socioeconomic changes can be carried out. In Chile there is no large Indian group whose culture is frozen in some previous century. The extremely high rate of Chilean literacy is also an indication that the population could play an effective role in a radical renovation program.
However much affairs have subsequently been mismanaged, Cuba was also ready for a revolution in 1959. The irony of the situation is that United States authorities did not realize this at the time. Today, they blithely assume that all Latin America is ready for revolution.
The economists and technicians needed to guide a complex transformation simply do not exist in contemporary Peru. A majority of the population is made up of Indians living culturally in a bygone era and not prepared to contribute meaning
fully to an immediate change process or to participate positively in the national existence. Obviously they have the potential to do these things. Even with luck, though, this potential cannot be realized for another two generations or so. To attempt overnight to give these Indians land, as well as political and social equality, would lead to incredible chaos and disruption. Ideally, Peru should also be allowed to work gradually toward reducing the more than 40 per cent illiteracy rate before plunging boldly into instantaneous revolutionary reform programs.
Not long ago Professor M. A. Fitzsimons commented in a letter upon some impressions of modern Peru that I had shared with him. Apparently unable to write even a one-paragraph letter without including some profound observation, Fitzsimons noted that the situation in Peru seemed terribly human, and therefore in need of reform, and therefore likely to be all fouled up.
If the changes that so many want to see imposed on Peru are introduced at a revolutionary tempo, all will indeed be fouled up. On the other hand, if innovations are introduced at a somewhat cautious pace, I am full of hope for this country where I have spent some of the finest months of my life.
Peru’s great need is to transform the many isolated geographic regions and the many isolated and distinct ethnic and cultural elements of the population into one, integrated whole. In short, Peru needs to become a nation, rather than a conglomeration of
dispersed and distinct land areas and human groups that have no real connection with each other. An extensive system of highways and communications, accompanied by a certain amount of administrative decentralization that provides incentive for local self-development projects, can perhaps someday overcome the obstacles of geographic isolation. The various population segments can never be brought together until a vast majority of Peruvians come to agree upon a set of values and goals that can be widely shared by all ethnic, social, cultural, and functional-interest groups. Until an intellectual consensus of this type is reached, economic reforms will only contribute further to chaos and confusion, for the country will lack direction and purpose in utilizing material gains.
There are many promising indications that Peru is presently proceeding toward an intellectual consensus based upon the moderate and accommodating attitudes of groups that once seemed mutually exclusive. This is the most important thing that’s right with Peru. If this process is encouraged and nourished, and not halted by the introduction of extremist, exclusivist, unilateral ambitions, Peru may be able to effect necessary changes within a reasonably democratic ambient. Should the extremists gain the upper hand, however, they will try to refashion the country not according to the widely shared hopes of a large cross section of the population, but in line with their own pet theories. Alienating groups which do not agree with them one hundred percent, they will find
20
The Scholastic
it necessary to “save their country” through totalitarian methods.
There are five vital issues on which Peruvian moderates have lately been proceeding toward consensus. I will list these issues and indicate the moderate approach to them that is helping to fashion an intellectual consensus. At the same time, the position of revolutionary extremists in regard to each of the issues will be noted. The reader can then decide if he wishes to join with those in the United States who clamor for revolution throughout Latin America, or if he will settle, at least in Peru, for the slow, evolutionary way, leading to the emergence of a set of values and goals that can win the spontaneous support of a broad spectrum of the population.

1.	The Racial-Cultural Issue. In the moderate approach, the goal in relations between the Indian and European races and cultures is mestizaje. The moderates, that is, envision a new Peru that will result from the fusion of the Indian and European cultures. This viewpoint, which has come to be shared by a majority of Peruvian intellectuals, represents a rather remarkable advance over past attitudes. Not long ago Peruvians were divided into bitterly antagonistic camps, one holding that Indian influence had to be totally obliterated, and the other professing the need to extirpate all vestiges of the white, European culture.
The revolutionary approach to the racial-cultural issue, as it has been advanced by the revolutionary left, Communist and non-Communist, ever since the late nineteenth century, consists in the exclusive and unilateral glorification of the Indian civilization. Mestizaje is not good enough; the white, European traditions must be wiped out.
2.	The Catholic Church. In the moderate approach, the previous role of the Catholic Church is not always admired. Still, the vast power of the Church is recognized. After all, 500,000 people, or half the population of Lima proper, will not turn out for a single procession in the capital city, as recently they did, if the religious influence does not still have some power. The moderates wish to work with the Catholic Church and to encourage within it the late-appearing reform ideals.
The radical, revolutionary reform group in today’s Peru professes, as it has been doing since the turn of the century, the need totally to eradicate Catholicism. Only when this is done, they say, can necessary reforms be effected in Peru.
3.	The Military. The moderates are coming to accept the fact that, good or bad, the military is so firmly implanted an institution that it is going to be an important part of the Peruvian scene for many a year to come. They acknowledge the fact that the military is vastly popular in Peru, especially in the provinces where garrisons have often brought the only breath of culture to an isolated people. The moderates hope to encourage the now apparent desire among military men to contribute toward national reform. In line with this course, which has been adopted by the recently inaugurated regime of Fernando Belaunde Terry, the military are being utilized in land re
form and colonization programs, in providing worthwhile summer vacations for poor children at a number of camps and garrisons, and in rendering a host of other services to the country.
The revolutionary reformers profess the need for the total elimination of the Peruvian military before they can proceed toward their utopia. They refer to the officers as preatomic relics subsisting unnaturally in an environment to which they can make no positive contribution. Thus they needlessly antagonize one of the few disciplined and technically trained groups in Peru, a group whose preatomic skills are quite adequate to help in resolving many of the nation’s problems.
4.	Capitalism and Foreign Investment. The moderates believe that capitalism is the economic system through which Peru must work toward material betterment. Most are willing to concede that all sorts of reforms and modifications must be made in Peruvian capitalism. At the same time they are convinced there is much life and potential good in capitalism, and are heartened by the postwar evolution which has made that system much more consistent with the dictates of social justice than it was when described by Marx. Moderates also accept the need for continuing foreign investment, in the light of the limited short-range possibilities of national capital formation.
Capitalism, in the view of the revolutionary reformers, is hopeless and must be replaced by socialism. They remind one of the Latin-American reformers who a century ago thought that merely changing the political system would solve all ills and therefore dedicated themselves to the constant writing of new constitutions. Today, the vogue among revolutionists is to assert that simply by substituting economic systems all problems will be resolved. The revolutionists further regard foreign investment as being synonymous with imperialism, and wish immediately to nationalize all foreign holdings.
5.	The Class Structure. The moderates are willing to concede that the present social stratification may in some ways be exploitative and artificial. While willing to work toward opening the social system, they are still convinced that in the cultural and historical reality of Peru, it is foolish to talk about eliminating-the class structure. They are encour-
( Continued on page 27)
21
April 17, 1964

MOVIES
CLEOPATRA
by Robert Haller
.i I 4
*1
*
■]	THE SILENCE
I
1	'T'he silence is the third part of
1	Ingmar Bergman’s trilogy about
• I man’s relation to his creator. In the ; first film, Through A Glass Darkly, he | described the inevitable degeneration j of a woman into hysteria, the effect ! of it upon her father, husband, and । brother, and her final confrontation with a spider she perceived to be God. :	A note of hope touched the end of the
• picture, though, when the father and son concluded that God'was love and . ’	survived the ordeal as respectable
'■	human beings. This hope was dimin-
ished in Winter Light where a min-‘ ister fails to communicate with his ' congregation and can only maintain a blind faith in divine goodness. In The Silence Bergman’s protagonists lose both hope and self-respect when they become alienated from each other and ignore or lose God.
-	Two sisters, one with her young
son, are traveling through Central Europe when the older woman falls ill and they have to stop in an unknown country. Bergman invented an incomprehensible language for the na-; fives, and the inability of the travel-■ ers to understand it mirrors their own isolation. As these people wait in their hotel Bergman relentlessly tears them ' apart, shredding their dignity, destroying their illusions, reducing them * to animality, and exposing their meaningless existence. Trying to evade reality the older woman has ■ become a lesbian and the younger is a nymphomaniac. The latter can do ■ nothing better than pick up a waiter, ; and the former is totally frustrated i despite her own efforts. As for the young boy, he wanders through the halls of the hotel, finding freaks and j a death-like butler who futilely ministers to the increasingly sick elder sister. In the end the younger woman leaves her dying sister and rides away on the train with her son.
An air of grinding despair permeates almost every frame of the film, and where this is absent, sensuality or mystery fills the void. Bergman’s vision has both grotesque and erotic elements, and while both are competently and equally well rendered, the latter have attracted great attention since the film’s premiere. This eroticism (much of it indirect and acutely powerful) is relatively unrestrained, but it contributes to the film’s atmosphere, and nowhere does he overstep the bounds of taste by gratuitously including scenes that do not contribute to the overall impact of his story. Eventually the sexuality becomes sickening and Bergman, having made his point, moves on to the enigmas that frequent his tale.
The Silence is never boring, its doomsday air accomplishes that, and many details and small touches keep up the tension in the intervals between major sequences. A starving horse strains through the streets pulling a huge wagon of junk. A sickening heat hangs over the city, driving its restless citizens away from their sweat-covered companions into a suspiciously busy existence. The city is almost Kafkaesque, and Bergman’s photographic technique is not unlike that of Orson Welles’ long irritating pan shots in The Trial.
Ingrid Thulin (the elder sister) is a frustrated translator when she faces the unknown language, and her feeble efforts to master it are ultimately meaningless because Johan (Jorgen Lindstrom) is incapable of understanding for more than a moment what she has written. The message, like Johan’s aunt, is lost in the city as he and his mother (Gunnel Lindblom) ride away. Deserted, the sister cries out for God’s help, and finds only silence as her life ebbs away.
Cleopatra is like Mt. Everest. Neither means anything, but both must be seen if not conquered. So go see it, 20th Century Fox needs your money if not your respect.
Richard Burton does his best with a part that could have been written for Elvis Presley, and Roddy McDowell makes an ambitious man look properly ruthless. Beyond this, however, there is little of value in this gorgeous but hollow $40 million production. Lacking sex, adventure, tension, Hercules, and Christ, it rests entirely upon spectacle, and falls very far short of success. With the exception of Burton and McDowell, the principal parts have been both poorly drawn and weakly acted. Rex Harrison plays a stilted Shakespearean Caesar, and Elizabeth Taylor walks through Rome and rides on her barge like a plump overpainted corpse. Her trivial lines don’t help either, and as she, the central character, sinks into a stereotyped oblivion, the film meanders on along its boring, expensive, silly way.
The print at the Colfax has had more than half an hour lopped off the original four hours. Perhaps it has improved. Perhaps. . . .
THEATERS
AVON—I. "The Silence," 6:15, 9:25.
2. "Crooks Anonymous," 7:45. COLFAX—"Cleopatra," 2:00, 7:45. GRANADA—"Kissin' Cousins." STATE—"How the West Was Won," 1:30, 4:55, 8:16.
WASHINGTON HALL — "The Condemned of Altona," 2:30, 6:30, 8:40.
CINEMA '64 (Eng. Aud.) — "Alexander Nevsky," Sat., 1:30, 4:00, 8:00; Sun., 3:00, 8:00.
22
The Scholastic
Rugby on the road
Why would any sane man play rugby? This is a question frequently raised not only by those who watch the game but by those who play it as well. The answer is not readily apparent; to many spectators, ruggers appear a pack of wild men bent on bashing in the heads of the opposition, or destroying it in some even more barbaric way. Many even believe rugby players receive kickbacks from health insurance companies.
But — on the contrary — a spirit of good sportsmanship, fair play, and good clean fun pervades most matches. An ideal rugby match should be rough, clean, and spirited.
This somewhat unusual combination of qualities is the fundamental reason for rugby’s rapid growth at Notre Dame; since its inception three years ago, the Notre Dame Rugby Club has developed into a recognized Midwest power. During the past three weeks, the Irish ruggers have traveled practically from coast to coast and participated in two major tournaments.
Through the contributions of friends, the support of the University, its own hard work, and student purchase of “Rugby . . . because” buttons, the club was able to send 23 players on a California tour at Easter.
On the West Coast, Notre Dame won one game, lost two, and tied three; though the record itself is unimpressive, the trip provided the club with an invaluable spring training period, and also exposed the players to new techniques and offensive patterns.
In the Monterey Peninsula Rugby Tournament, the Irish tied USC, Washington, and the San Francisco Olympic Club, whipped Eagle Rock Athletic Club 6-3, and finished 1-0-3. Scrummers Dick Bell, Mike Murphy, John Mauro, Bill Kelly, and Ken Beall and backs Bob Mier, Gay Pang, Pat Kealy, Nat Davis, and John Reding all helped contribute to the head bashing.
During the entire following week, the Irish were guests at the Phi Delta house, Stanford University. There, between daily practices, Notre Dame’s players toured San Francisco, swam, lounged in the warm California sun, and recovered from a few unpleasant mornings-after. Many are now firmly convinced that Stanford is the school for any conceivable law or graduate work.
The following Saturday, the Olym
pic Club beat the Irish, 8-3, in Balboa Stadium. However, Mike Murphy’s hustle won him the MVP scrum award, and fullback Tom Gerlacher was named most valuable back for his brilliant punting. Both presentations were made after the game at a banquet held in Notre Dame’s honor.
Then the roof fell in. On the following Tuesday the Stanford Indians, a tribe of football players and British rugby stars, whomped Notre Dame, 22-3. Scotch star Gordon Waddell punted, ran, passed, and crawled all over the Irish. This was Stanford’s last game of the season, however; the Indians finished 14-1, and ranked first on the Pacific Coast. Notre Dame, on the other hand, was just beginning its season — really just finishing spring training.
The Irish returned to the glories of South Bend with only three injuries — to scrum players Terry O’Hara, Ken Stinson, and Bob Lesko — and promptly set their sights on the Commonwealth Cup. The Cup tournament is an annual affair held in Charlottesville, Va., and this year Princeton, Duke, and Notre Dame were hosted by Virginia, with the Cup — a 200-year-old pewter mug — at stake.
The Irish won the tournament easily, by trouncing the Tigers, 11-6, and the Cavaliers, 5-0. The victories were particularly satisfying for the veterans on the squad, since the team had been invited to the tournament three years ago — and finished dead last.
The Princeton match was scoreless until Notre Dame’s Dick Bell drew first blood. Two insurance scores, one by Murphy, plus Gerlacher’s powerful punting iced the game for the Irish.
The superiority of the Notre Dame scrum proved decisive in the Virginia contest. With two minutes to play, the Irish led on a try by Al Byrne, but Virginia had the ball on the Notre Dame three-yard line. The ball was thrown into the line-out from where the Irish scrum, led by Murphy, Kelly, Jack Simon, and Tom Tomjack, pushed the Cavaliers back to their own 15 as time ran out. Kelly and hooker Harry Steele dominated the line-outs and scrum-downs, respectively.
Rugby has finally come of age under the Dome. It was once described as “unorganized mayhem at Notre Dame,” but this is no longer true. Rugby is now organized.
—Rex Lardner
April 17, 1964
23
Lacrosse:
First home games—ever
T n May of last year, Jack Tate founded the Notre Dame Lacrosse Club on nothing more substantial than enthusiasm and a dream. Since then it has, under his dedicated and dynamic leadership, grown to include 130 very substantial dues-paying members, and its hard core — the 40-man traveling squad — is having a startlingly (three wins in four games) successful first season.
Notre Dame lacrosse history began March 24, on a snow-covered field at Fort Collins, Colorado. The wind whistled and the temperature rose only to twelve degrees above zero, and the Irish froze out their first opponent — the lacrosse club of Colorado State University — 11-6.
Playing the first regulation game of his life, as were all but four of the 40 men on the squad, Jim Salscheider of Mankato, Minnesota, spearheaded the Irish attack with four goals and two assists. Tom Moran, who was AllNew England Prep in lacrosse, added a single goal and two assists; freshman Dan Carson had two goals and an assist, as did Bob Slattery; Cliff Lennon, with a goal and an assist, and Jack Statz, with a single tally, rounded out the scoring.
Since the Colorado State team was also playing its first game, and was made up mostly of football players, the game was predictably rough and predictably erratic. Neither team was able to play as a unit, and both were hindered by inexperience and poor stick handling.
Two days later, against Colorado University, Notre Dame faced a tougher test. Colorado has played lacrosse for six years, it is a varsity sport there, and this was one of their better teams, expected to finish high in the Western Conference standings. The Irish met the challenge of experience with determination, enthusiasm, aggressiveness, and speed — especially speed. Relying on superior conditioning, Notre Dame ran to a 9-8 upset victory. Though scoring was again mostly on fast breaks, the victory was more of a team effort than the Colorado State win. Salscheider, apparently in a magnificent rut, scored four more goals. Moran had two goals and two assists, Lennon two goals, Bob Quinn one goal, and Pat McDonnell, Pete Ricchiuti and Ron Kirtley each had an assist.
On April 4, playing in ankle-deep mud and without three injured
starters, Notre Dame lost to an experienced Ohio Wesleyan squad, 8-1. Although the injuries definitely hampered the Irish, the team is well-balanced, and this was not nearly as big a factor as the mud. Notre Dame depends on speed to overcome a lack of finesse, and the sloppy field almost eliminated any chance for the fast break. Consequently, Wesleyan’s superior stick handling and edge in experience proved decisive. McDonnell scored the only Notre Dame goal.
A week later and back at full strength, the Irish were able to reverse two of the more prevalent and more disconcerting trends in modernday Notre Dame athletics: losing in overtime and losing to Michigan State. With only 45 seconds left in the game, Lennon tied the score at eight goals apiece. The Irish added two more in the overtime period for their best and most exciting win of the season.
Although the scoring was still principally a result of fast breaks, they were more deliberate and polished maneuvers than the helter-skelter dashes of earlier games. Lennon added two goals to his growing total, Moran and Slattery had three apiece, and Carson scored two.
All of this excitement — and success — however, was merely a warmup for what will surely be the climax of the season: the playing this weekend of the first Notre Dame Invitational Lacrosse Tournament.
The tournament will introduce lacrosse to Notre Dame — and in grand style, with four games in two days among the best teams in the Midwest. The biggest attraction is Denison University, Midwest Lacrosse Association 1963 Champion, and the only team in the nation with a perfect (12-0) record last season. Denison has 16 lettermen returning from last year’s team, the top six scorers among them. Although it has been Midwest champion for three consecutive years, this may be Denison’s best team ever.
Notre Dame plays Denison in the tournament opener today at 3:00 on Cartier Field, and will pit speed and desire against the strength and experience of the champions from Ohio. In the remainder of the tournament, Ohio State meets Michigan State at 8:00 tonight; Notre Dame plays Ohio State Saturday afternoon at 1:30; and Michigan State squares off against Denison at 3:30 Saturday.
If the tournament even approaches the level of the excitement generated thus far by the lacrosse team, it should add an entirely new dimension to Notre Dame spectator sports.
—John Whelan
24
The Scholastic
SCOREBOARD
SCORES Fencing
Notre Dame 21, Case Tech 6
NCAA Championships: Princeton 81, NYU 79, Columbia 76, Navy 75, Notre Dame 73. Notre Dame’s Bill Ferrence, 4th in foil (AllAmerican) ; Sam Crimone, 8th in sabre; Dick Marks, Sth in epee.
Wrestling
Four-I Championships: Dick Arrington, 2nd in heavyweight.
NCAA Championships: Arrington defeated in 2nd round.
Track
Milwaukee Journal Relays: One-mile relay team, 2nd; Pete Whitehouse, 3rd in 60-yard high hurdles.
Knights of Columbus Relays: Whitehouse, 2nd in 60-yard high hurdles; Bill Boyle, 2nd in 600-yard run; two-mile relay team, 4th.
Baseball
Notre Dame 9, Keesler A.F. Base 1
Notre Dame 8, Keesler A. F. Base 0
Notre Dame 4, Loyola (La.) 1
Loyola (La.) 9, Notre Dame 5
Tulane 5, Notre Dame 0
Tulane 3, Notre Dame 3 (called in 7th)
Louisiana State 9, Notre Dame 2
Louisiana State 8, Notre Dame 7 (10 innings)
Notre Dame 6, Hope 5 (12 innings)
Indiana 8, Notre Dame 5
Indiana 12, Notre Dame 10
Indiana 3, Notre Dame 2
Tennis
Notre Dame 6, Yale 3
Rollins 5%, Notre Dame 3%
Florida State 6, Notre Dame 3
Florida 6, Notre Dame 3
Miami 7, Notre Dame 2
Miami 9, Notre Dame 0
Golf
Memphis State 24%, Notre Dame 143/2 Louisiana State Invitational: tied for 9th
Notre Dame 30%,
Western Michigan 5% Western Illinois 20%,
Notre Dame 15% Notre Dame 24%,
Michigan State 11%
Lacrosse
Notre Dame 11, Colorado State 6
Notre Dame 9, Colorado 8
Ohio Wesleyan 8, Notre Dame 1
Notre Dame 10, Michigan State 8
Rugby
Notre Dame 0, USC 0
Notre Dame 0, Washington 0
Notre Dame 6, Eagle Rock AC 3 (Continued on page 21)
April 17, 1964
Voice in the Crowd
Ara Parseghian is a classic example of the modern man on the go.
Last Monday night, for example, he addressed the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in Chicago. He returned home at 2:30 a.m., was up at 6:30, in his office for staff conferences at 8:00. During the lunch hour — his first real leisure time in over a week — he led his staff in a spirited putting tournament on the Burke practice green; he handled some routine business in the early afternoon, directed the practice session from 3:00 until 6:00, ate dinner, and returned to his office for more staff meetings on Tuesday night.
This is nothing, however, to the ordeal he must endure in May. His schedule so far includes: spring practice, through May 8; May 7, Library Dedication; May 9, Old-Timers game; May 11, speaking engagement, New Orleans; May 13 and 15, move family from Chicago; May 14, speaking engagement, Spring Sports Banquet; May 19, speaking engagement, Hammond, Indiana; May 20 and 21, Big Ten meetings and golf outing; May 22, speaking engagement, Chicago; May 23, speaking engagement, South Bend; May 24 and 25, speaking engagement, Los Angeles; May 26, speaking engagement, Houston; May 27, speaking engagement, Wilmington; May 28, speaking engagement, Dallas; May 30, speaking engagement, Indianapolis.
This vigor and enthusiasm — and efficiency — are typical of Parseghian’s approach to football, and that of his staff. They have established very clear-cut objectives, and very definite ways of attaining them.
Parseghian stresses six primary goals to be achieved in the twenty days of spring practice: improvement in all phases of fundamentals — offensive and defensive, for backs and linemen; personnel alignment; improvement in physical condition and endurance; development of spirit and morale; proper execution of techniques; and grasp of field strategy.
The problem of personnel alignment is perhaps the most difficult. As Parseghian describes it, its first purpose is to “determine the type of football our personnel are suited for: straight-ahead or cross-blocking and reverses, speed or power. Secondly, we conduct a constant evaluation of all players for quickness, toughness, and desire. We must determine what position they are best suited for, and where they can help the team most.”
Because they must meet the personnel alignment goal, and the others as well, in only twenty days, Parseghian’s staff must make maximum use of the time available. The program they devised calls for each practice session to be fully planned in advance, to eliminate any time-waste; the posted practice schedule now includes time breakdowns for each segment of the session. Each coach teaches one drill at one station, and the player groups move on signal from station to station. All offensive drills are taught on one field, all defensive drills on another, and on each the players move through a sequence which stresses individual skills, then group skills, and finally team skills.
There are other differences from past springs, too, little differences which add up to a big difference. Despite the fact that they are handling up to 150 players at a practice session, the coaches know the players by name. In scrimmages every mistake, no matter how small, is caught and corrected; and conversely, good work, whether seemingly insignificant or not, is rewarded with praise.
During the Wednesday scrimmage, for example, Tom Longo rolled out to his right from the five-yard line, and headed for the corner of the end zone. A rather large defensive end barred his path. He put his head down and blasted into the end zone right over the tackler. Ara, a quarterback man, jumped up and down and yelled gleefully, “Now that’s the way to go into the end zone, Longo!” At the same time, in the end zone, a certain defensive end’s ears were ringing from Johnny Ray’s vivid lecture on the science of tackling. .
Come fall, both Parseghian and Ray may have reason to be happy.
— Terry Wolkerstorfer
25
March 16, 1964
Notre Dame Football Team:
I always felt that it was a hard job for a sportswriter to write a postmortem on • an athlete who had just retired after a long sports career. But I never knew how hard it would be to write one’s own.
The last thing in my mind when I registered at Notre Dame almost three years ago was that today — March 16, 1964 — I, Don Hogan, would be writing an obituary of my sports career.
It has been a long year and a half since that accident. The pressure at times has been almost unbearable. Last fall I almost made it, but then my progress halted. Over this past semester break my doctors told me I should forget about all active sports for the rest of my life. I found that ultimatum hard to take. I pleaded my case until I was given a set of exercises to try for thirty days; if they didn’t do much good, all hope would be lost.
Well, the thirty days are up, and then some, and my condition has worsened if anything. What is my condition? The doctors tell me I have arthritis — my hip is like that of a sixty-year-old man. The reason I’m writing this letter, though, is not to tell you my condition, but to tell you why I fought so desperately to overcome it. If only each one of you could be deprived of playing ball for one year, knowing you could help the team but powerless to do anything about it.
Why did I keep trying? First of all, I wanted to play for Notre Dame; and I wanted to play with you, my fellow teammates, to be a part of you.
Being a part of Notre Dame has been the greatest and most rewarding experience of my short lifetime. When I was in the hospital I received get-well cards from people I didn’t even know, from all over the country. Little kids look up to me because I’m a Notre Dame football player. I was fortunate enough to be Notre Dame’s leading ground gainer, to win your respect; I’ll never forget that night at the pep rally last fall when you gave me a standing ovation. But my most prized possession is that Southern California game ball you gave me. All of these tilings, plus thousands of people pulling for me, made me postpone my decision until all possibilities of recovery were exhausted.
I owe it to you and to my coaches to admit that my football career has ended. But I learned a great deal during my abbreviated career. I hope that all of you will learn and practice the same lesson — that is, never to give up until the game is over. By “the game” I don’t mean just games on Saturday, but anything you do, whether it be a pre-spring workout or a long practice session, or anything in life for that matter — give your all.
Being a Notre Dame football player automatically puts you in the national spotlight, more so than playing for any other school. The fans will be pulling for you just as hard as they pulled for me — don’t let them down. Be honest with yourself.
Well, I’d better be closing now, but I just had to tell you why I made my decision, what Notre Dame football meant to me, and what I hope it means to you. I hope that you and everyone else who has shown an interest in me will not think the less of me for making this decision.
One last thing: I’ll be out there this spring and fall watching practice and your games; and if ever practice seems too long or you get tired along about that fourth quarter, just stop and think for one second that a guy named Hogan would give anything to trade places with you, and if he could he would never quit — then after you think it over give that second and third effort. Bring Notre Dame football back where it belongs. Someone in the stands will get the message of that extra effort, and that someone will be mighty pleased and proud.
Best of luck, Don Hogan Class of 1965
26
The Scholastic
‘Scoreboard’	‘Peru’
(Continued from page 25)
Notre Dame 5, San Francisco Olympic ]	Club 5
i San Francisco Olympic Club 8, Notre <	Dame 3
Stanford 22, Notre Dame 3
' Notre Dame 11, Princeton 3
Notre Dame 5, Virginia 0
SCHEDULE
Baseball
Apr. 17, 18, Toledo at Toledo, Ohio
Apr. 21, Northwestern at Evanston, III.
Apr. 23, Michigan at Notre Dame
Track
Apr. 18, Ohio State Relays at Columbus, Ohio	.
j	Tennis
| Apr. 18, Michigan State at Notre
| Dame
] Apr. 21, Purdue at Notre Dame
j	Golf
| Apr. 18, Day ton, Toledo. Bowling
I Green at Notre Dame
•	Lacrosse
’ Apr. 17, 18, Notre Dame Invitational i Tournament at Notre Dame
;	Rugby
i Apr. 18, Indiana at Notre Dame
(Continued from page 21) aged by the fact that many of Peru’s aristocratic families have begun to take a leading role in bringing about economic and social improvement. Instead of threatening the directing classes with extermination, they hope to achieve the continuing and increasing cooperation of these classes in reform ventures.
With respect to the class-structure issue, the revolutionists must be divided into two groups. One wishes only to eliminate the upper classes, envisioning a future union of middle and proletariat elements. Another wants the elimination of both middle (petit bourgeoisie) and upper elements. The fact that once an aristocracy has been removed it will be replaced by a new one apt to be more predatory than the original, as the Mexican experience is demonstrating, does not deter the revolutionary reformers in Peru. Rather than working toward class cooperation, they are out to eliminate the groups that in spite of occasional social hardheartedness — frequently exaggerated on United States TV reports — possess practically the only
talent and skill which could be utilized in directing a planned reform movement.
Before the Yankee experts on Latin America urge continent-wide revolution, they should realize just what revolution, at least in Peru, implies. In that country revolutionary reform groups hold extremist and impractical views in regard to five of the most fundamental issues of the national reality. Both Peru and the United States would suffer from a Peruvian revolution, whether or not it was led and controlled by Communists.
Since the end of World War H, the cause of moderate reform has surged with surprising vitality. It has arisen from the foundation, newly under construction, of consensus vis-a-vis the most challenging national issues. From this consensus can result a commonly motivated endeavor by a broad variety of groups to create a genuine Peruvian nation. If the United States by its careless lip service to the cause of revolution obstructs this movement and plays into the hands of revolutionists it will share a heavy responsibility in the ruin that will come to Peru.
Why Do You Read So Slowly?
A noted publisher in Chicago reports there is a simple technique of rapid reading which should enable you to double your reading speed and yet retain much more. Most people do not realize how much they could increase their pleasure, success and income by reading faster and more accurately.
According to this publisher, anyone, regardless of his present reading skill, can use this simple technique to improve his reading ability to a remarkable degree. Whether reading stories, books, technical matter, it becomes possible to read sentences at a glance and entire pages in seconds with this method.
To acquaint the readers of this newspaper with the easy-to-follow rules for developing rapid reading skill, the company has printed full details of its interesting self-training method in a new book, “Adventures in Reading Improvement” mailed free to anyone who requests it. No obligation. Simply send your request to: Reading, 835 Diversey Parkway, Dept. C133, Chicago, DI. 60614. A postcard will do.
April 17, 1964
27
Slander
(Continued from page 19J
the Party itself. Hunter’s president often found himself picketed by the comrades, and on one occasion (as the author mentions) he really stirred up the Red hive. A speech given by Shuster to the Foreign Policy Association on the Saturday after Yalta, called that agreement with Stalin a disaster. The talk also predicted that Europe would be forcibly divided for a long time in the future. People could not, and did not want to believe that harm had been done at Yalta when the war was won. The Commu
nists, who were furious anyway, exploited this sentiment and almost succeeded in branding Shuster a Nazi. When he went to Germany in 1950 as High Commissioner John J. McCloy’s deputy, Dr. Shuster was accused, by the Communist radio at Leipzig, of preparing the American edition of Mein Kampf for Hitler! And this of a man who had condemned Hitler in 1933! Of course, there is always the Alabama legislator who challenged Shuster to a duel over an editorial about labor in the Commonweal. And while Susan Buck’s accusations do not equal these, they are cut of the same cloth.
George Shuster’s ideals may indeed
be liberal, but he is hardly so naive as to be ignorant of political forces at work in the world. "... I must frankly say that those who feel that democratic institutions cannot be successfully maintained unless full freedom is accorded to Communists do not realize what the Communist commitment involves. ... For this has for its goal the subversion of youth in the interests of a foreign power.” Dr. Shuster’s answer to this threat was an attempt to help his students “understand for themselves what the Party really -and truly was.” And who is to say that his assault on Communism was not more effective than twelve legions of “Minutemen.”
Should freshmen use it, ibo?
(Theyd probably let if qo fo theft heads)
But then, wouldn't any man? If he suddenly found all those starry-eyed gals looking at him?
So, if you think you can handle it, go ahead, use SHORT CUT! It’ll tame the wildest crew cut, brush cut, any cut; give it more body, more life. Keep it under control. And make you look great! Try it (if you dare!) ... Old Spice SHORT CUT Hair Groom by Shulton ... tube or jar, only .50 plus tax.
SUMMER JOBS
for STUDENTS
NEW S’64 directory lists 20,000 summer job openings in 50 states. MALE or FEMALE. Unprecedented research for students includes exact pay rates and job details. Names employers and their addresses for hiring in industry, summer camps, national parks, resorts, etc., etc., etc. Hurry!! jobs filled early. Send two dollars. Satisfaction guaranteed. Send to: Summer Jobs Directory—P.O. Box 13593—Phoenix, Arizona.
JOBS ABROAD
STUDENTS & TEACHERS
Largest NEW directory. Lists hundreds of permanent career opportunities in Europe, South America, Africa and the Pacific, for MALE or FEMALE. Totals 50 countries. Gives specific addresses and names prospective U.S. employers with foreign subsidiaries. Exceptionally high pay, free travel, etc. In addition, enclosed vital guide and procedures necessary to foreign employment. Satisfaction guaranteed. Send two dollars to Jobs Abroad Directory—P.O. Box 13593—Phoenix, Arizona.
28
The Scholastic
Exclusive:
PLAYERS
PICK ’64 PENNANT WINNERS
Which teams "will win the *64 pennants, and who are the individual players expected to star this season? Read the inside analysis by the players themselves in SPORT’s Annual Poll.
In the same big issue
A special five feature report on the pitching explosion including:
SANDY KOUFAX AND LEON WAGNER
DEBATE-IS THERE A PLOT AGAINST
BATTERS?
.PLUS
THE THREAT TO OUR OLYMPIC TEAM
These are only a few of the many in-depth profiles, first-hand reports you’ll find in May SPORT, the magazine that keeps you apace of all events on the college and pro sports scene, with action-packed photos and lively informative articles. Get
May
SPORT
Favorite magazine of the sports stars and the sports minded!
NOW ON SALE!
POWER YOUR PLAY
ashaway VANTAGE
For Tournament Play Approx. Stringing Cost
Tennis.............$9
top-rated racket string
ashaway PRO-FECTED
For Club Play
Approx. Stringing Cost
Tennis............$7
Badminton.........$6
LASTS LONGER ■ STAYS LIVELIER MOISTURE IMMUNE
ASHAWAY MULTI PLY
For Regular Play
Approx. Stringing Cost
Tennis.............$5
Badminton..........$4
ASHAWAY PRODUCTS. INC.. Ashaway. Rhode Island
1. I’ve decided on the kind of job I want when I graduate.
Knowing you. I’d guess it to be something modest-like Secretary of State or President of GE.
3. Well, I did run an extremely successful Nickel-a-Pickle sale.
Don’t forget to demand plenty of stock options.
5. I’d be willing to settle for a vice-presidency.
Look—why don’t you see if you can qualify for one of Equitable’s executive training programs. The work is interesting, the pay is good. And if vou prove you have the ability, you may ven' well end up with a title and a couple of assistants.
For information about career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write to William E. Blevins, Employment Manager.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019©1964
2.1 hadn’t thought of those specifically. What I had in mind was a job where they give you a lot of assistants. I think that wotdd be nice.
Ven- nice. Maybe they could start you off at a hundred grand a year.
4. You think maybe 1 should lower my sights a little.
I’m afraid to tell you what I think.
6. You really have a way of seeing through a problem.
Rooming with vou has taught me a lot.
April 17, 1964
29
‘Senate’
(Continued from page 9)
dissent can take place.
At present, however, perhaps the Senate feels that time has taken the sting out of the Calendar — that they in fact are representing student opinion. One wonders what the effect might be of Hall student-Senator discussions to clarify matters; it
from our University Shop COOL WASH-AND-WEAR SUITS mode on our distinctive models
(shown) New Dacron® Polyester and Orlon® Acrylic Suit in Light Grey Glen Plaid, $555 in Solid Shades of Clay, Oxford or Charcoal Grey, $52
Dacron® and Cotton Poplins in Tan, Light Olive or Navy, $45
Dacron® and Cotton Seersuckers, $45
Also our Good-Looking Dacron® and Worsted Tropicals, from $65*
'"Prices slightly higher west of the Rockies.
ESTABUSHD1S1B
Ihmishings, Bats fy^hors
74 E. MADISON, NR. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO, ILL. 60602
NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
would at least serve as an interesting test of our much-vaunted student voice which sits in the Amphitheater some Mondays. No issue ever gave more cause for a test; at present, student - Administration communication has been seriously set back, and a strongly opposed Calendar is in effect. The ultimate irony is that it sometimes seems that nobody really gives a damn about it — and this includes a lot of people who should.

‘Campus at a Glance’
(Continued, from page 13)
France’s recognition of Red China. First, it is no longer possible to ignore Red China and its influence on world politics. Second, China’s historical importance and her influence have led France to believe that no peace in Southeast Asia can exist without her. Third, it is conducive to peace to create an atmosphere lending itself to debate between principal countries. Fourth, taking sides with a split in the Communist bloc is not conducive to settlement of the problem: if the Soviet Union is recognized, Red China should be given acknowledgment also.
In conclusion, France is engaged in a policy of co-operation leading to political unity in Europe. Before other powers condemn De Gaulle, they should be sure he is wrong.
Mural-G o-Round
As the time for the library dedication draws near, more and more facets of the dedication program are coming to light. The latest development is a symposium on “The Person in the Contemporary World” which will be held on Wednesday, May 6. Under its chairman, Dr. Kenneth W. Thompson, vice-president of the Rockefeller Foundation, the symposium will explore “the person, his sorrow and loneliness but also his unique dignity and his enduring sense of identity.”
Principal speakers at the symposium will be the French theologian, Rev. Louis Bouyer, of the Oratory and the Abbey of Lucerne, la Haye-Pesnel; Prof. John E. Smith, chairman of the department of philosophy at Yale; Sir Hugh Stott Taylor, noted chemist and former dean of the Princeton Graduate School; and Dr. ' Dana Farnsworth, a psychiatrist and director of the University Health Services at Harvard.
The symposium will be only the prelude to the ceremonies of the dedication itself, which will follow on Thursday. Following the unveiling of the mural on the library’s facade, the Dean of the Sacred College of Cardinals, His Eminence, Eugene Cardinal Tisserant, will celebrate a Solemn Pontifical Mass on the mall in front of the library. The sermon at this Mass will be delivered by His Eminence, Albert Cardinal Meyer, Archbishop of Chicago. Other highlights of the day’s activities will be an academic convocation, during which about 25 honorary degrees will be given, and a banquet that evening.
30
The Scholastic
1 J
I Principal speakers at these events will | be President Grayson Kirk, of Co-j	lumbia	University,	and Chancellor
I	Herman	B. Wells,	of Indiana Uni-
1	versity.
= In answer to one campus rumor, it J	has been definitely determined that
;	President Johnson will not attend the
*	dedication. However, many other
j	prominent figures, including congress-
|	men and governors, have been invited
■	to attend as nonparticipating observ-
j	ers, and a good number are expected
;	to accept. A list of these people who
j	may be seen but not heard at the
j	dedication will be released in the near
I	future.
j	Poets and Bibliophiles
j	The Department of	English has an-
■	nounced the opening of the Father
|	Hesburgh Private-Library Contest and
|	the Samuel Hazo Poetry Contest.
I The former offers a credit of $100 at the University Bookstore as the ' prize. The entry consists of a list of 1 the books not required for courses * that one has purchased within the i present academic year, along with a 500-word statement setting forth the I reasons for selection of the books ; listed and the purpose in developing j a personal library. The contest, open i to undergraduates only, will be judged ! by a committee of faculty members, i Entries are to be addressed to “Book ; Contest,” 356 O’Shaughnessy and j must be in before May 8.
• The Poetry Contest offers a prize of I $50 donated by the poet Samuel Hazo > (Discovery and The Quiet War), a * graduate of Notre Dame, for the best ■ undergraduate poem or group of I poems. Manuscripts are to be typed j and addressed to “Samuel Hazo Poetry ■ Contest,” 356 O’Shaughnessy before ; May 1. The judges are Mr. John ; Hardy and Mr. Ernest Sandeen of the ] English Department and Mr. Harry i Isbell of the General Program.
8 Wilson Fellowships for ND Eight University of Notre Dame seniors and alumni have been awarded Woodrow Wilson Fellowships for their !	first year of graduate study next fall.
।	The grants provide full tuition and
1 fees at any graduate school plus a ; stipend of $1,800 and dependency allowances.
Notre Dame’s new Wilson Fellows and their undergraduate majors are Charles J. Day, philosophy; Ralph C. Martin, Jr., philosophy; Michael W.
i McClintock, English; Frank D. Mc-j Connell, English; Clark R. McGran-i ery, mathematics; Michael W. Messmer, history; Craig M. Simpson, history; and Edward P. Ward, political
{	science. All are seniors except Day,
•	April 17, 1964
I 1 i
who received undergraduate degrees in philosophy and mechanical engineering in 1958 and 1959.
Two Notre Dame men received “honorable mention” in the nationwide competition which involved 11,000 seniors at 904 colleges and universities. They are Brian Jorgensen, English, and Edward J. Weyhing, who received a mathematics degree in 1959.
Through the years, 104 Notre Dame men have been awarded graduate fellowships by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation. The grants are intended to produce “college teachers for tomorrow,” but recipients are not committed to a teaching career. Since 1957, the program has been underwritten by grants totaling $57 million from the Ford Foundation.
Breathtaking, beautiful and yours
All the surging beauty, the exciting mystery of the sea itself seems captured in this newest engagement ring from Artcarved. See the distinctly new, yet timeless, design of Surf Star at your Artcarved Jeweler. Priced from $180. For more information, plus helpful suggestions on wedding etiquette, send 25C for Wedding Guide to J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., 216 E. 45th Street, New York 17, New York, Department C	TRADEMARK
31
‘Letters’
(Continued from page 7)
NUDGES TOWARD NEIGHBORLINESS
It seems that with the impending construction of some new residence halls on the campus, we ought to examine the merits and shortcomings of the presently existing halls to insure that such unfortunate examples of planning as we now have will not recur. Surely, we can influence the design of the new ones if we do it now before the plans are set.
I have in mind the inadequate facilities for recreational and social activities within the halls. Most halls have study facilities that are adequate (although some fail even in this category). Few halls, however, with the exception of some of the newer ones, have adequate lounges. There ought to be a lounge in every hall, and it ought to be of sufficient size to guarantee that there will not be over-
Summer Study in New York
Select your program from the 1,000 courses conducted for 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12 and 14 week terms, beginning June 2 and ending September 4.
MORNING, AFTERNOON AND EVENING CLASSES
•	In the Arts
•	In the Sciences
•	In Education
• In Engineering • In Law
• In Communication Arts
PROFESSIONAL — UNDERGRADUATE — GRADUATE
College students in good standing at their own schools may enroll. Application should be made in advance. All courses have the same content as in the academic year. Students may take full year courses or a combination of single term courses. Credits are ordinarily transferable to other institutions.
Write to The Director of Summer Sessions for either Graduate or Undergraduate Bulletin and Application Form.
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
NEW YORK 3, NEW YORK
Telephone: SPring 7-2000 Ext. 8097 or 8098
crowding, save on exceptional occasions. These would serve as warm and inviting places to receive one’s guests.
These lounges ought to be open to students at all times, and, if not, there should be separate facilities for the students’ recreation — places to play cards, to hold hall smokers, and, in general, to congregate in.
The situation now is trying. The rooms are overcrowded. Being overcrowded, they try the students’ nerves and are an invitation to all sorts of unruly behavior and disturbances. If there were truly adequate recreational areas within the hall, a large portion of this disorder could be eliminated. Not all recreation and socializing should take place within the hall, of course, but the students should not have to feel that they must leave the hall if they are to do anything save study or sleep.
The students need to feel more a part of their hall. The healthy feeling of communal concern and a robust
•	In Business
•	In Retailing
•	In Public Administration
social awareness need to be given a chance to develop within the halls. The students are concerned about their neighbor, but they need first to discover who their neighbor is.
Dale Althoff 209 Lyons
A SOUND CAUSE Editor:
Lately, the convent received in the mail an anonymous gift of a sizeable stack of the trading stamps given at stores and filling stations. We would like to thank the donor, and to say they will be used. It occurred to some of us that many of the fellows on campus get these in South Bend and have no use for them. Right now, we are saving them to get a tape recorder for the convent, and if anyone would like to apply the ones they get for a good cause, the fellows could send them, or merely hand them to any of the student nuns who live in the convent on campus. We can use any of the varieties given in South Bend.
The Nuns at N. D. Convent
BOTHERED BOWLER Editor:
One abuse affecting a significant portion of the student body that has not yet been brought up in the Scholastic is the exorbitant rates charged by the Notre Dame bowling leagues. As a captain of one of the league teams, I have observed that the problem is not the fault of the leagues but of the management. In a league, the general idea is that the alley saves money because of the large number of games that can be bowled in a short time. In most establishments, this saving is passed on to the bowlers — not so at Notre Dame. The price for public bowling at the ND alleys is $1.20 for three games. For the regular league bowlers, it’s $1.75 for three games! Granted that a small amount of this goes for league expenses, the rate is still ridiculous. And why must the leagues charge so much? The reason is that the management charges the league by the number of people in the league at the beginning. Therefore, if several can’t bowl and some can’t afford to stay in the league, they and the other bowlers must continue to pay the full rate.
This is one problem with an obvious and fair solution. The bowling alleys should charge the league bowlers the standard rate of $.40 a game. That way, the league rates could be reduced to a tolerable amount and the alleys would be losing nothing that belonged to them.
Jan Klapetzky, 351 Farley Hall
The Scholastic
32
BRASS RINGER
Go see Kolonel Keds fly with the Bell rocket belt at the N. Y. World’s Fair Wonderworld Show!
/ Con '/■ Jen 1~ f o t n f ,
Man, the stampede's on for
not, b/nci-
Suj>en htrmcin
dent
Because BIC’s “Dyamite” Ball Pointisthehardest metal made by man, BIC is the world's finest writing instrument—yet it costs only 19C! Only BIC is guaranteed*to write first time every time. Get a BIC, now at your campus store. BIC “Crystal" 19C—other models and point stylesto49C. All BICpens available with blue, red, green, black ink. Made in U.S.A. *For replacement send pen to:
WATERMAN-BIC PEN CORP. MILFORD, CONN.
HANDBALLS & HANDBALL GLOVES On Sale
Reco Sporting Goods
113 N. Main Sf.
Next to Oliver Hotel
Hop to it, meet the new “Brass Ringer,” it really gets around. It’s clean and lean. With man-size brass eyelets and wraparound toe guard. Long on looks, strong on comfort, great on wear. Made of washable cotton duck in a new smoky white chino, also in white. Medium width, sizes 5 to 12, 13, 14.
Stampede on down to your nearest store Look for the blue label and let ’em rustle y’ up a pair. Ask for “Brass Ringer” Keds® today! It’s a .
United States Rubber
Rockefeller Center, New York 20, New York
April 17, 1964
33
Tom Hoobler.. •
The Last Word
'T'his actually happened. Monday * the temperature was in the sixties, and the heaters in the Scholastic office were functioning as well as we had wished them to all winter. When the heaters in the office decide to work, they cannot be turned off; shutting the valves only lowers the temperature to a comfortable level for the copy editors’ African violets. Not actually expecting a response, we called the student center manager’s office. No answer. We then called the power plant, and the following conversation ensued.
“Say, it’s a fairly warm day, and I was wondering if there was any particular reason why the heat is turned on.”
“Where’s this?”
“The Scholastic office.” “Where’s that?”
“In the student center.”
“Well, hang on. I’ll check it.”
A pause.
“Yeah. Say, you’re right. The heat’s turned on.”
“Right. I sort of imagined it was. But do you think there’s any chance it can be turned off? I mean, it is sixty-five out and all ... ”
“You want it turned off?”
“Yes, please, if that could be arranged.”
“Sure, fine, I’ll fix it.”
That was Monday afternoon. It’s now Tuesday evening, and the heat is still on, but it’s worthwhile to mention the incident in case anybody else was thinking of calling.
Now that spring has come to South Bend, some of the residents have returned to their favorite sport — beating up Notre Dame students. Last weekend, five students were attacked; four of them on Saturday night, in two separate incidents, one of which involved razor and knifewielding South Bend thugs. Father Collins has informed us that the South Bend chief of police has subsequently assigned more men to patrol Notre Dame Avenue. However, only one of the five students attacked last weekend was on Notre Dame Avenue, and the attack in that case was halted by three other students who came to the rescue of the first. Still, some protection is better than none; we can only wish that the South Bend police were as efficient at protecting people as they are in conducting underage drinking raids. In the meantime, Notre Dame students would be well-advised to travel in groups.
It’s an academic question by now, of course, but the honor system referendum was somewhat dubiously approved in a referendum that was notable for what some people regarded as a last-minute effort to railroad the referendum to passage, which would have been a very strange action in view of the question involved.
It is true that all of the prereferendum literature circulated to the students gave the impression that the questions voted on would be: 1) whether the students favored the idea of an honor system, and 2) whether the students approved of the specific plan that had been proposed.
For some reason, the second question appeared on the ballot as: “Will you abide by the specific plan that has been proposed?” This wording of the question was interpreted (and semantically correctly, we think) by most students to mean that a negative answer to the question would indicate that the student either intended to cheat or would refuse to report any student whom he knew to be cheating.
This “new” question, however, resulted not in the heavily affirmative vote which might have been expected, but rather in a slightly smaller affirmative vote than the first question (on the idea of an honor system) received. Many people resented what appeared to be a trick question and decided to vote no as a protest.
Nonetheless, both questions of the referendum received nearly a two-thirds majority approval of the people voting, and the administration and student government are now proceeding with plans for the introduction of an honor system here beginning next year. The plan must still reach a final specific formulation, and the faculties of the four colleges must approve the plan. It seems unfortunate that the possible success of the system was tainted at its very beginning by over a thousand students feeling the need to declare they would not abide by the specific plan. We do not think these men are dishonorable, however; the blame for the disappointing opposition should rest with the persons who chose to word the question in so unwise a manner.
WSND-FM has announced that they will broadcast the finals of the 1964 Collegiate Jazz Festival beginning at 7 p.m. on Saturday evening, April 18. The final session will include performances by the best of the big bands and the combos heard at previous sessions.
34
P P P p
P m fn p p
H)
You don’t have to write a thesis to be a master


makes you look like a master in a matter of minutes. Your swing will be better and so will your putting, for this shirt was designed for freedom of movement— especially for golfers. That’s why the pocket is on the right. This is the shirt that you saw on ARROW’S T.V. sponsorship of the MASTERS Tournament... it withstood the test and looked as good at the last hole as it did at the tee off.
$5.00
P P P K P
P A? p p fl)
Select your shirt as carefully as you select your clubs—we’re sure we can fit you in a Mr. Golf by ARROW. $5.00
^GILBERT'S
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING
ART SUPPLIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOK THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS
117 NORTH MAIN ST. South Bend, Imhana 233-2409
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED “fast service” DR. M. MITTERMAYER Optometrist 228 S. MICHIGAN
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan
CE 4-4874
SCH-P
We major in many fields
Today, it takes more than a single venture to build a major corporation such as GT&E ... it takes a family of subsidiaries operating in many diverse fields.
Our roots are in the telephone business, with operating companies providing telephone service to areas in 32 states.
We are also engaged in vital research and development work in
military electronics and space communications.
In manufacturing, our subsidiaries produce a wide variety of products for business, industry and the consumer... from sophisticated electronic components to photoflash bulbs.
And supporting our manufacturing arms are a series of research centers working on new and better
products and services to meet tomorrow’s needs.
Today, GT&E is one of America’s foremost companies in terms of dollar sales, revenues, and diversity of products.	•
As a young, aggressive company with no limit to its growth, GT&E is an enterprise you may wish to think of in terms of your ojvn fu ture.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
730 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017
GEE
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: Telephone Operating Cos. • GT&E Laboratories • GT&E International • General Telephone Directory • Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric • Sylvania Electric Products