WINSTON
tastes good—like a cigarette should!
E
R
f I
F I
THEY TASTE SOGOODJ
ANDDRAW 'SOEASY J
Swita winston t/ie. eaui-d/uMuig 'faQtet eiqa/tette.!
KING SIZE,
WINSTON is fun to smoke!
Easy-drawing, smoothsmoking, good-tasting—that’s Winston! And that’s what it takes to get all the fun of smoking.
FINER
FLAVOR!
FINER
FILTER!

■ College smokers know why Winston changed America’s mind about filter smoking! This filter cigarette gives you real tobacco flavor — the full, rich flavor real smokers want. And Winston’s finer filter works so effectively that the flavor really gets through to you.
Try a pack of easy-drawing Winstons. See for yourself why so many college men and women are getting together on this cigarette. Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Wiotou-Solem, N«C*
V <> R
SOME SUITS YOU JUST CAN’T USE ANY MORE!
Don’t dress like 1955 one day
. . . and 1949 the other . . . the slim look is here! Pads and baggy trouser legs are out . . . today’s suits make you look clean and trim. So, get your wardrobe up to date . . . and use Gilbert’s Junior Executive Charge Account to do it!
IVY LEAGUE by
BOTANY “500” tailored by DAROFF
65.00
Trimmer, slimmer lines . . . for that distinguished Ivy League look so important now. Fine Botany pure wool flannels in Charcoal grey, Charcoal brown and lamp black.
Home of Skipper Sportswear by Wilson Bros.
^GILBERT'S
November 18, 1955
MMMItHniHMaiaiMMaMMaM
All the pleasure comes thru
©A.T.CO.
jAlU the pleasure comes thru in Filter Tip Tareyton. You get the full, rich taste of Tareyton’s quality tobaccos in a filter ciga
rette that smokes milder, smokes smoother, draws easier... and it’s the only filter cigarette with a genuine cork tip.
Tareyton’s filter is pearl-gray because it
contains Activated Charcoal for real (duration. Activated Charcoal is used to purify £ air, water, foods and beverages, so you can
appreciate its importance in a filter cigarette. Yes, Filter Tip Tareyton is the filter cigarette that really filters, that you can really taste... and the taste is great!
H^ipTAREYTON
PRODUCT OF
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
6
The Scholastic
l&f Affifi
£*/*••
—;—-i-t_L.rr.23
by William M. Malloy
assorted
carbon marks
etting out of bed was like ripping a piece of adhesive tape off a hairy leg.
Oui- first thought upon arising was that we had nothing to live for. However, we somehow got the cigarette lit, the face washed, and the clothes on, in that order. Instinct next demanded coffee. Confusion reigned. What day was it? What classes? What books and papers? What’s the use. We felt like ^personified morningmouth; like a damp t>ag with feet. (A friend of ours had once warned us that if we drank at night the little elf would come around and put feathers in our mouth, as opposed to leaving money for teeth put under the pillow.)
We issued from the house where we dwell (see page 15) to get into our car, Sneekie Peat. Have we talked to you people about Mr. Sneekie Peat before? ^You’d like him! He’s a little Nash ^Rambler station-wagon. But we remembered that he hadn’t been feeling well. Had sore foot and back, and a few days prior we noticed a bad cough that sounded like a death rattle, but honestly, try to tell him anything and he puts on that “hurt” attitude. Guess we’ll put him in the garage and give him some wonder drugs and anti-freeze. It’ll be expensive, but we love him so; it’s little enough we can do for him, we mean, he really does try.
A But, of course, we shouldn't worry ^ou about our domestic problems.
We hopped into the car and tried to start it. It wouldn’t start! Jeepers, we were disappointed. And this was the day we had decided to take full view of the Festival of Fine Arts. We got out of the Peat and peered under his hood. It looked like a United Nations meeting.
A passer-by joined our investigation. We explained that we wanted to drive ^>ur car to school to see the Festival of Bkrts. While we were speaking the man >vas joined by another man, and then another, and then another, and . . .
November 18, 1955
When we asked advice on Mr. S. Peat’s condition the answers were of considerable variety.
“Maybe the wheels are out of line,” offered a suspicious looking stranger getting too close to Peat.
“Yes, that’s it,” seconded a weasellike bystander, “them wheels is plumb out of line.”
“Perhaps the line is out of plumb,” suggested a carpenterish looking man.
Our next door neighbor, Mr. Dixon, had come out earlier, but had heretofore maintained silence. We addressed him:
“Sneekie Peat, he, well, he’s rather cold,” we explained.
■ “I see,” he said quietly stroking his chin.
Meanwhile, several more people had gathered about Peat, (poor little fellow).
“Step on the starter,” came a muted voice through the hood in the direction of a thorax bent on a fender. Before we could obey we were obliged by another newcomer who seemed to think Peat’s case of such universal concern that it no longer remained a private matter.
Meanwhile more people arrived and were offering their professional opinion to people who were offering their professional opinion. On our left someone had just completed a political speech and was passing out cards and saying that we were not to forget to vote next Tuesday. A few of the more ambitious had gotten down on their backs to gaze up into the blackness of Peat’s innards. Peat, although showing a few signs of nervousness, i.e., dripping water and oil, braved this gross disrespect with praiseworthy stoicism.
A green Ford passed by stopping several yards down the road. A generous-faced man walked out in the direction of Sneekie Peat which he examined with a keen eye. Judging that we were the ownei* he approached us and asked:
“How much you want for it?”
“Oh, he doesn’t want to sell it,” said the mailman, relinquishing his place near- the hood to a butcher looking over his shoulder, “he only wants to start it so he can get to the Festival of Fine Arts.”
“You sure the key is on, hey?” asked a man who was being more and more swallowed in Peat’s carburetor.
“Jigger choot jigger jigger jigger,” said Peat.
“How much, Mac?”
“He only wants to start it.”
“Easy, Chief, I wasn’t asking you.”
“I think you could get more on a trade-in,” invited a man dressed in a used-car jacket, “you could get something much more reinvigorated,” confusing us with a superior ivy-leaguer.
“Lippity uga see lippity,” complained Peat.
“I know a dirty story,” said one of those old citizens of Leeper Park that spends the dying afternoons on a bench lighting pipes with kitchen matches.
A handful of the mechanics looked incredulously at him before returning to their busy business.
“Who’s gotta wrench?” demanded a self-appointed master of ceremonies and two or three dispersed for their tool kits.
“Oh lord!” we shuddered, purposely avoiding Sneekie Peat’s desperate and pitiful appeal in the glance he turned in our direction.
“Whoppa, whoppa, whoppa,” experimented Peat.
“What’s going on here!” said an official voice from a squad-car window. Several hundred law-respecting people hastened to explain our difficulties in getting to see Mestrovic’s sculpture. “Well don’t block traffic,” returned the voice, obviously used to such attention.
“Bully!” hissed the mailman at the exhaust of the self-righteous car.
“What large cantankerousness,” agreed the man from the used-car lot.
“Gerr gerr gotta lump,” agreed Peat trying to regain all the attention.
7
RefuetoCMAAtoti
The Notre Dame
More Fans
Editor:
First of all, your covers stink. There are 5,500 students in the University. Would it be possible for the editors and their writers to write something which is of interest to the majority since there are over 3,500 students not in A.B.? It has also been brought to my attention that some of the parents don’t want the Scholastic sent home anymore unless it improves.
Why was the “Front Page” changed to “Entree”? Mr. Malloy’s humor is a bit warped.
Walt Kisling
304 Howard
Bob Loeffler 159 Zahm
Frank Tegethoff 304 Howard
Roger Tougas 144 Morrissey
and an additional group of disgruntled sophs
The Junior Senator
Editor:
The editorial entitled “Senate” appearing in the Nov. 11 issue of the Scholastic hit a new low, if that is possible. Evidently, the editor feels that a man holding a minority opinion has no right to express himself. He apparently believes that such a man should remain silent or else “go along with the crowd,” neither of which would indicate independent thought or the courage of one’s convictions.
Evidently the editor prefers the typical “rubber stamp” senate meeting in which there is no opposition to the wishes of the little pedagogues.
We admire a man who has the courage to fight for his beliefs against overwhelming odds. This attitude should (Continued on page 36)
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS!
KttP Aim fOR A BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don't let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz
Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your
doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee.
Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
“Phi-Beta” i pack i 35 tablets 1
io handy tin
NOQOZ
AWAKENERS
1
INVENTORY
Entree ........................   7
Repercussion .................... 8
View .....................        9
Campus Scene..................... 11
Folio .......................    16
At a Glance .................... 22
Showcase ...............    .... 24
Irish Scene _______________      27
Time Out......................   30
Back Page ....................   38
Scholastic
Vol. 97 Nov. 18, 1955 No. 7
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate. of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ....News Editor
SUNDAY SPECIAL—a tasty turkey dinner for only $1.35 yours at . . .
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
ED JOYCE........................Copy Editor
BOB KAUFMAN.............Production Manager DAVE KUBAL .............Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON.................Assistant News^
JAMES McDONALD.................Assistant New^P
JIM O’BRIEN ..............  .Feature	Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN.....................Art	Editor
KEN WOODWARD..............Business Manager NORB RADZ I WON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley. Joe Heimoski, Tom Holberg. Greg Kilduffa Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, JohR McMahon, Joe Mocarski, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, David Schwartz, Jim Steintrager, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.
DAVE DAVIN . JOHN GLAVIN JOE NORTON .
...Sports Editor Assistant Sports .Assistant Sports
SPORTS STAFF: Jack Barthel, Andy Carnazola, Paul D’Amore, Pat DeFoe, Dick Donovan, Bob Early, Joe Foreman, Jim Goethals, John Grady, Russ Hopkins, Jim Langford, Fred Lavin, Ray Lescher, Brian Moran, Vince Naimoli, Bob Parnell, _ Jim Reiher, Ed Rohrbach, Jim Short, Cad Skiff, Dick Sofranko.	8
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon, Loran Sheffei.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, A; sociated. Collegiate Press. Represented for nationJ advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during tie school year, except during vacation and examin -tion periods at the. University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 18 ■, Notre Dame, Indiana.
on the cover Artist Jim Ehrenreic^ portrays the traditional Thanksgiving® cornucopia against a lush background of autumn color.
8
The Scholastic

muckrakers
1

Something of a furore has been raised in the choir lofts of the Student Senate during the past two weeks. Ap-^parently, to some observers, Notre Dame has been hood-^winked by the more “liberal” minded members of our past and present student governments into joining the “insidious left-wing” National Students’ Association. As members of this organization we are “lending the name of Our Lady” to legislation and activity which, if it isn’t actually pink, is at the very least radically liberal—thus the judgment of the muckrakers.
Consequently, when an appropriation for NSA dues appeared in the budget, the “conservatives” put forth a •great hue and cry and in general rabble-roused enough so that Senate President Tom Crehan was forced to appoint a special committee to find out just how insidious the NSA is.
Warming to the task, Committee Chairman John Cusack and consorts carefully forked a few acres of literature hoping to unearth a few oysters to feed the conservative cause. Disaster seemed imminent when they got to forking around in off-limits territory in their zeal, but this was deftly side-stepped. A slate of witnesses, or suspects as perspectives ran, was subpoenaed and volleys of ques-•tions laid out for each. The Senate gavel was commandeered for Chairman Cusack’s lusty right hand.
Flanked by Senate Treasurer Jerry Murphy, pro-NSA in his personal opinions, and Jim Hughes, neutral freshman senator from Farley Hall, Chairman Cusack launched into the hearings with penetrating tone that carried to the very last tier of the Senate amphitheater. Echoes of “are you now, or have you ever been . . .” began to appear in great profusion as Crehan, Circle Chairman Karl Martersteck, and even Committeeman Murphy were called. The onlooker was prompted to wonder if the Fifth Amendment might not crop up as a logical answer to some of the questioning—some of it was abusive to say the least.
Witnesses were produced for the “conservative” side also. The apparent anchorman of the anti-NSA contingent, an erstwhile ex-member of the now defunct Students for America, declared himself “decidedly to the right of the middle of the road” and proceeded to read off a list of charges which in a rather a priori fashion proved NSA to be “insidious.” Withering somewhat under a broadside by Murphy, the anchorman had to admit that the NSA “might not be actually communistic.”
As this article goes to press the furore still rages on the committee level for the vote of Committeeman Hughes Awhose vote is still somewhat in doubt. After two supple-inentary hearings more than half of the witnesses are yet to be heard. President Crehan has asked that the report be submitted to the Senate next Monday night and so it seems that some method of expediting matters will have to be employed.
The most encouraging aspect of the whole situation is the ever-increasing turnout of ordinary students for the hearings. Interest in student government has jumped a hundred-fold in a way that could hardly be predicted by Crehan and the other officers who are constantly trying to arouse even so much as a flicker from the student body— •it isn’t unappreciated. If the student body can do nothing else but get a better appreciation of the problems of the Senate, the Cusack Committee will have been a success.
regret
Paging through “The Religious Survey of the Undergraduates, 1954-55” the other day, two questions and their answers were especially interesting to us. We think they are significant because they present a possible reason why there exists an un-Notre Dame-like element on campus.
“Did you choose Notre Dame?” is the first question. Out of 847 who answered that particular query a total of 67 answered in the negative, or approximately 8 per cent. Assuming that the “Survey” is representative of the student body as a whole and that 8 per cent is not an exaggerated statistic, then the results of projecting this sample to the entire University would lead us to . the conclusion that some 400 fellows did not choose to be here.
This is truly astounding. Imagine—an entire residence hall occupied by students who did not choose to come here of their own free will. Perhaps some of these are now grateful and glad that somebody else made the choice for them. But chances are that the great majority, who have been pushed, bullied or forced into matriculating here, are dissatisfied or even repulsed with the fact that they are attending this particular university. To these we offer our sympathy. To those who sent them to Notre Dame, we can only say that they have done wrong to both the student and the University.
The other question in the “Survey” which is directly related to the first is: “Do you regret that choice?” This time 57 of 880 replied that they do regret that choice. The percentage in this instance is around 6.5. Going through the same computation made before, we find that, statistically, there are in excess of 300 students at Notre Dame who regret that they are here.	■
Maybe a substantial number of those who answered yes to this question did so in the wake of being placed on “dawn patrol” by their rectors or of being subjected to other irritating disciplinary action. These we would have to discount because they probably woke up the next morning with an entirely different attitude. -
But there is real cause for concern over those who truthfully regret that they are here. They'are doing neither themselves nor the University any good. ■	.
This is indeed a sad state of affairs, when we consider that each year Notre Dame has been able to accept for admission only about half of those who apply. Certainly in this other half could be found adequate replacements who would willingly take their college education on this campus.
We will be the first to admit that the Golden Dome loses a lot of its shine, in our eyes, during the rigors of a school year, and that it doesn’t regain its glisten until we’re looking back at it from the rear window of a car headed for home. But we will also vigorously deny that we regret having come here. And for those who do regret Notre Dame we will gladly give them a personal bon voyage if and when they would transfer to another school.—P.L.
November 18, 1955
9
r
n
A Campus-to-Career Case History
“It sounded good to me”
Charles Poole. B.S. in Business Administration, Boston University, ’52, is working for New Jersey Bell Telephone Company as a Traffic Superintendent. For a young man he Jias a lot of responsibility. And responsibility is what he likes. He has three New Jersey exchanges under his supervision—Dover, Madison and Washington—which total nearly 16,000 customers, and he manages a force of some 160 operators, including nine chief operators and fifteen service assistants.
“It’s the type of job,” says Charlie, happily, “where you can never say you’re caught up. There’s always some
thing to do.” Each day brings Charlie new problems, new experiences. And with every passing day his grasp of the telephone business is getting stronger, his value to the company is growing.
That spells the kind of future that Charlie wants: the opportunity to take an ever-increasing part in an ever-expanding business.
“It sounded good to me,” Charlie says, remembering what he thought when the telephone interviewer had finished telling him about the company and its future. And, as you might expect, it still sounds good to him.
Charlie Poole is typical of the many young men who are building careers in telephone work. Similar opportunities exist today with other telephone companies, and also with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. U»ur placement officer has the details.
BELL
TELEPHONE SYSTEM
The Scholastic
MISS BETH LEWIS To rule Irish Land,
Marching ranks will give way to dancing feet tonight when 360 ROTC men and their dates attend the Military Ball, “Present Arms,” in the Student Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Car permissions will extend from noon today until 2 a.m. Saturday. Corsages will not be permitted.
Don Caron, with one of the nation’s newest bands, will take charge of the evening’s maneuvers, and the order of the day is guaranteed to be danceable music.
Highlighting the Ball will be the crowning of a queen representing each of the three military branches by the respective commanding officers: Colonel M. M. Towner, Air Force; Colonel C. J. Letzelter, Anny; and Captain T. L. Greene, Navy.
Miss Mary Geiser, queen of the sea, will be escorted by General Chairman Frank Beytagh. Miss Geiser, from (•Hamilton, 0., is a junior at Ohio State ^University.
Miss Beth Lewis, queen of the land, will be the date of Co-Chairman Bert Lesh. Miss Lewis is a resident of Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, O. She is a junior at Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Miss Joanne Wilhelm, queen of the air, escorted by Co-Chairman Dave Brucker, is a resident of South Bend md a senior at St. Mary’s College.
W Much consideration has gone into the type of favors for the dance and Buss Grey, head .of the favor committee,
। November 18, 1955
ROTC MEN DRILL TO MUSIC AT MILITARY BALL TONIGHT
Cadets 'Present Arms' to Notes of Don Caron's Band As Land, Sea, Air Queens Rule in Student Center
promises they will be a very pleasing and novel addition to the dance.
Don Caron, making his first appear
MISS MARY GEISER Sea and,
ance at Notre Dame, has worked with bands in hotels, ballrooms, and night clubs throughout the country.
Caron climaxed his career as a sideman in 1953 with the Stan Kenton orchestra. In forming his own band, he surrounded himself with alumni from Kenton’s, Billy May’s, and Artie Shaw’s bands.
The commanding officers, executive officers, and their wives will be chaperones and will form a reception line to meet the couples attending the dance.
Before tonight’s dance, the ROTC men and their dates will attend the pep rally at the Field House.
On Saturday they will witness the Notre Dame-Iowa clash. The Navy and Army drill teams will present a pregame show while the Air Force, by
virtue of taking first place in last year’s drill competition, will perform at halftime.
Saturday night the Monogram Ball, “Varsity Drag,” will be held in the Drill Hall from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m.
The military men will close the weekend with a Communion Breakfast Sunday morning in the Morris Inn after the 9 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Bob Duffy, breakfast chairman, an- -nounces that Rev. Robert Woodward, C.S.C., director of Military Information and Guidance, will be the guest speaker.
Committee chairmen besides Beytagh, Grey, Duffy, Brucker, and Lesh, are: Jim Kramer, Navy, business manager; Ralph Kepner, Army, decorations; Don Machenberg, Navy, refreshments and blind dates; Charles Van Degrift, Navy, tickets; Joe Denniston, Air Force, entertainment; John Pitarresi, Army, publicity; Lynn Hankes, Air Force, hotel and reservations.
MISS JOANNE WILHHM
Air tonight.
Frank Sheed, Prominent Catholic Author, Starts Lecture Series on Campus Thursday
Frank Sheed, eminent Catholic lay theologian, author, lecturer, and publisher, will initiate, a series of eight lectures Thursday afternoon, sponsored by the department of religion. The series is to be delivered over a four-week period.
Each of the eight lectures will be given twice, once in the afternoon of the designated day at 4:30 p.m., and again the same evening, at 8 p.m. All lectures will be held in Washington Hall.
Sheed has been an annual guest lecturer at the University for the past ten years. Because of his exceptional popularity with the student body, it has never been possible to meet the ticket demand, although every effort has been made by the Religion Department to accommodate as many as possible.
All students in the religion course, “apologetics”, are obliged to attend each of the eight lectures, either in the afternoon or evening. These lectures will substitute for the regular class lectures. The students and their professors will discuss each of Sheed’s lectures at the next scheduled class period.
In addition to the tickets for religion class students, about 150 to 200 free guest tickets will be available each day at the religion department office, located in Room 327 of O’Shaughnessy Hall. The office is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., head of the department, extended an invitation to the student body and faculty to avail themselves of these guest
WSND Reaches Sales High; October Breaks Old Record
Business Manager Fred Corkill announced last week that during the month of October WSND established an alltime sales mark for one month. The total broke the former mark set in March of 1954 by nearly seven per cent.
Pat McCartan, WSND station manager, complimented Jerry Higgins and his sales staff for their fine work. McCartan stated that this new mark was particularly encouraging because of the presence of WNDU, the new University-owned commercial station. It had been feared that WNDU might take away some of the student station’s drawing power.
McCartan also said, “The new figure is heartening because several contracts, one a national sponsor, had terminated last June.” Most of the new sales gain was made through South Bend sponsors.
12
tickets. Father Simonitsch pointed out that all those planning to attend the lectures must have tickets to be admitted.
Sheed was born in Australia. After his graduation from the University of Sydney, he went to England where he founded the international publishing house, Sheed and Ward.
An author of note, he has written
FRANK SHEED
Apologist to lecture here.
numerous books, among them are Map of Life, Communism, and Man, Sidelights on the Catholic Revival, and Theology and Sanity. The last named book is used in several of the Notre Dame religion courses.
During the past 25 years, Sheed has given more than 3,000 addresses both indoors and on street corners, in England and America. The famous lecturer has attained much renown as a “street preacher”, especially in the southern part of the United States.
His first lecture on Thursday afternoon and evening will have as the subject, “The Mind to Which We are Offering the Faith—What It Has, How It Works, What It Lacks, What We Are Asking It to Do.”
“The Dimensions of the Sacred” is the title of Sheed’s lecture on Monday, Nov. 28. “God” is the topic of the third and fourth lectures, Tuesday and Wednesday, Nov. 29 and 30.
On Tuesday, Dec. 6, Sheed will talk about “The Problem of Suffering as an Argument Against God’s Existence, Love, Omnipotence.” The following day,
Wednesday, Dec. 7, he will lecture onG “The Uniqueness of Christ and His Church.”
The final two lectures of the series, to be held on Tuesday and-Wednesday, Dec. 13 and 14, have “The Contrast Between the Church and Christ” and “The Fundamental Difficulty” for their subjects.
Halftime Performance Pays Tribute to Gatto
Many football shows staged by the University Marching Band have honored famous people, organizations, and special events, but tomorrow in the Stadium the band will honor its own—Drum Major Jerry Gatto, a senior from Chicago.	0
This will be Jerry’s final appearance with the band after four years as drum major. When he came to Notre Dame he had already earned many honors and during his years here distinguished himself as one of the foremost college drum majors in the country.
He was the first freshman drum major in the band’s long history. This week he was one of 31 outstanding seniors selected for Who’s Who recogni-^ tion.
In tribute to him, the band will restage five formations Jerry considers the band’s most outstanding during his four years as field general. Then in a special ceremony, he will hand the baton over to his successor, Richard Kopituk of Linden, N. J., an AB junior. The band’s 19 seniors, doing their last band show for Notre Dame, will also be honored.
Jerry had polio when he was twelve,^ and the disease left a speech defect. After he entered Chicago’s Mount Carmel High School, Jerry soon overcame all obstacles and took charge of the school band.
He was dram major all four years and at the same time led the Chicago CYO band, winner of national championships three straight years.
Several universities from all parts of the country offered Jerry full scholarships when he graduated from Mount A Carmel, but he had picked Notre Dame for his education.
Jerry has led the Band of the Fighting Irish in the stadiums and on the streets of many American cities, all with little personal gain. He, along with Director Robert O’Brien, has been a major factor in developing the band as one of the most spirited and polished groups among the nation’s university bands.
After his graduation from the College of Commerce, Jerry plans to enter a A Chicago advertising firm where he hopes’^ to use the leadership training he is receiving at Notre Dame. .
The Scholastic
'Girls Top ND Conversations,1 Says Survey: Reveals Students Resolve to Marry Catholics
The conversation of Notre Dame students most often revolves around girls, studies and sports in that order, according to a Religious Survey of Undergraduates published here recently.
‘ The comprehensive survey, conducted by Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., prefect of religion at the University, is based on a detailed questionnaire completed by 900 students, approximately onefifth of the undergraduate student body. It reveals the religious and family background of Notre Dame’s students and provides an insight into their moral, intellectual and social life. | Girls and marriage plans are most often discussed in campus bull sessions, the survey reveals. Only 28 percent said they dated South Bend girls while 39 percent expressed a preference for girls at nearby St. Mary’s College. In any event, 80 percent of the students are resolved to marry a Catholic girl.
When asked “What type of girl do you want to marry?” 35 percent said “a good Catholic,” and 23 percent said
^they were looking for a good homemaker. A number of students are looking for wives “like my mother” while some seem greatly concerned that their bride be able to cook. None suggested beauty as his first requirement in a wife, but one said he would settle simply foi' “a beautiful, rich Catholic.”
According to Father Carey, all but about 200 of Notre Dame’s students during the 1954-55 school year were Catho-^lics. His survey shows that more than ^three-fourths of them attended Catholic grade schools and 69 percent were Catholic high school graduates. Seventeen percent of the students indicated at least one of their parents was a convert to Catholicism. Ninety-three per cent felt their mothers and fathers were “good practicing Catholics.”
Three out of every four Notre Dame men receive Holy Communion at least once a week and nearly half the student
•--------------------------------—
K. OF C. INITIATION
The Knights of Columbus will hold first degree initiation ceremonies on Nov. 30. Applications for membership are still being accepted at K. of C. headquarters in the basement of Walsh Hall from 4 to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.
A Communion Breakfast will follow the third degree initiation on -Dec. 4.
On Nov. 7, 44 applicants took part in first degree initiation ceremonies.
body are daily communicants, the survey reveals. While Notre Dame students have the opportunity of receiving Holy Communion as late as noon, 90 per cent of those participating in the survey received Communion much earlier.
According to Father Carey, more than 150,000 student confessions are heard on the campus each year. The survey shows that 70 per cent of the frequent communicants go to confession every two weeks or oftener. The others enter the confessional from every two weeks to a month or “when necessary.”
More than four-fifths of the students reported that their religious fervor had increased since coming to Notre Dame. Of those in the frequent communicants group 36 percent recite the rosary daily, 23 percent “often,” and 11 percent at least weekly. The frequent communicants were much more likely to visit the Grotto and other campus shrines, the survey shows.
Over 100 pre-med and pre-dental students attended the second Advisory Meeting, a product of the pre-med-YCS group in the Nieuwland Science Hall on Nov. 10. Dr. John Mizelle and Phil Bohnert, a senior in pre-med were the speakers.
Dr. Mizelle talked on “Why Study Medicine?” “Your reason for becoming a doctor must be a dedication—you 'will be dealing with human lives,” said Dr-.. Mizelle. “You must be mentally capable, and have the physical ability to with--stand the eight to twelve years of studying that is required.”
Bohnert’s talk concerned “What the Student in Pre-Professional Training^ Faces.” Bohnert pointed out the stringency of the courses, but if the student has: the ability and a genuine interest in his courses, and allots himself time for usefull relaxation, his chances of flunking will not be as great.
Following these talks, a panel, formed by Dean Lawrence Baldinger, Dr. Mizelle, and three students, Bohnert, Jerry Kenny and Manny Rivas, answered questions from the audience.
The plans for these weekly meetings started last year with the pre-med group’s YCS inquiry into the problem of the large number of freshmen entering pre-, professional studies and dropping out after one year.
Ninety-four percent of Notre Dame’s students felt they were prepared to explain or defend their faith when the occasion arises. Less than half, however, have read recent papal encyclicals on labor, marriage and Christian education, according to the survey. About 60 percent claimed they devoted some time to “Catholic reading” ranging from pamphlets to Bishop Sheen’s books. One student confided, however, “I can’t stand these Catholic magazine stories.”
Only 53 percent of the students felt there were “adequate opportunities for a wholesome social life” at Notre Dame. Sixty-four percent conceded that the University’s strict disciplinary regulations contributed to the success of their studies and religious life. According to the survey, only 13 percent of the students professed to be teetotalers. One student stressed that soft drinks are “bad for the complexion.”
Sixty-four percent of the students said that one time or another they had thought about studying for the priesthood and 23 per cent considered entering the religious life as a Brother.
November 18, 1955
13
Pangborn Dedication Slated for Tomorrow; Bishop Lane to Bless Hall After Chapel Mass
Pangborn Hall, the newest of 15 student residence halls on the University campus, will be formally dedicated tomorrow morning. The $800,000 building, which accommodates 200 students, is the gift of Thomas W. Pangborn and John C. Pangborn, Hagerstown, Md., industrialists, through The Pangborn Foundation.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, will be the celebrant of a dedicatory Mass in the Pangborn Hall chapel at 8:30 a.m. Following the Mass the building will be blessed by the Most Rev. Loras Lane, auxiliary bishop of Dubuque, la., and president of Loras College. Bishop Lane is a 1932 Notre Dame graduate. The Moreau Seminary Choir will sing at the dedication rites.
Among those attending the dedication will be Notre Danie’s Advisory Council for Science and Engineering of which Thomas Pangborn is a member. Members of the Pangborn family and the Advisory Council will attend the President’s luncheon and the Notre Dame-Iowa football game tomorrow afternoon.
Pangborn Hall is situated on the campus between Fisher Hall and the Rockne Memorial. The buff brick building was designed by Holabird, Root and Burgee, a Chicago architectural firm, and erected by Peter Schumacher and Sons, Mishawaka, Ind. Licluded in the structure are 100 double rooms, a chapel and lounge.
Thomas Pangborn is president and
“Mind if we squeeze in a few minutes of football?”
his brother, John Pangborn, is vice president and treasurer of the Pangborn Corporation, one of the world’s largest manufacturers of blast cleaning and dust control equipment.
'Varsi+y Drag' Slated For Tomorrow Night
Football atmospheres, originated by the Iowa game in the afternoon and continued throughout the evening by stadium backdrops at the dance, will set the stage for the monogram men and their dates at the “Varsity Drag” in the Drill Hall tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30.
Carl Sands and his orchestra, who recently appeared in Chicago, will furnish the music for the dance. Rosemarie Larson, vocalist, George Cool, and the Sandmen Trio will be featured during the program.
During the intennission activities, all the captains of the various sports at Notre Dame will be introduced on stage, and Ray Lemek, captain of the football team, will be the chief speaker. Paul Reynolds, president of the Monogram club, will crown Dick O’Keefe’s date as queen.
O’Keefe’s date and queen of the Ball is Miss Suzanne Linbeck of St. Mary’s College. Miss Linbeck is a freshman at St. Mary’s and is from Houston, Texas.
A TAMBURITZAN
Slavic music and dances.	'
Tamburitzan Players	>
Perform Here Nov. 25
The Duquesne University “Tambur-	|
itzans” will perform in Washington Halitt at 8:15 p.m. Nov. 25.
Tickets will be distributed at Washington Hall Box Office on Monday and Tuesday from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and 3:30 to 8 p.m. Tickets will also be avail- ' able from 3:30 to 8:15 on the night of the performance. Each student is lim- , ited to two tickets. There will be no ' admission charge.
This is the 19th season for the “Tam-buritzans,” a group composed wholly o^ undergraduate students at DuquesneW
The tamburitzan is one of the oldest instruments known to man and is the forerunner of the mandolin and guitar. Besides music, the group also performs dances in colorful Slavic costumes.
Walter Kolar, managing director of the group, has been a member of the , “Tamburitzans” for 17 years. He assumed his present post -with the group in 1952. Mr. Kolar is also the director of the Tamburitzan School at McKeesport, Pa. He established this school t^ stimulate interest in Slavic culture and ; music in the Pittsburgh area.	i
The “Tamburitzans” began practicing	i
in August at Lake Nebagamon, Wis. j They tour the northern part of the coun- j try before returning to Pittsburgh to begin the school year.
All of the proceeds of the concerts and contributions are put into a scholarship fund for deserving students.	,
At the present time the group is plan- *| ning a “Tamburitzan Hall” at Du A | > quesne, which will house all of their 11 equipment, provide dormitory space and 11 rehearsal space for the group.
14
The Scholastic
*NSA Shows South Bend to Foreign Students; Tour Includes Courthouse, Bendix, City Hall
pation in, the American way of life, particularly as found here at the University of Notre Dame.”
Under the sponsorship and direction of the International Student Committee of the National Student Association, 14 Notre Dame foreign students, along with three committee members, went on an ‘ industrial and civic tour of South Bend, Tuesday afternoon, Nov. 1.
Included in the excursion were tours of the city hall and the county courthouse, and a trip through the Bendix plant. During the afternoon, the group had interviews with Judge F. Kenneth Dempsey of the Superior Court, who explained the workings of the judicial system, and also with the Mayor of । South Bend, John P. Scott, who talked to the students about the set-up and operation of municipal government.
This tour is one of the many projects undertaken by the International Student Committee on behalf of the approximately 125 foreign students at the University. Throughout the year, the committee sponsors coffee hours, social mixers with St. Mary’s College, and other similar events that encourage them to mix socially.
At Thanksgiving, the organization will attempt to have the people of South. Bend invite these students into their homes for the traditional turkey dinner. Also, the committee, sometime during
Senate Reports $1,200 Profit On October Victory Dance
The Social Committee report which was released last Monday revealed a net profit for the first four Victory Dances of $1,227.83. However, the senate also admitted a loss of $33.21 on the large screen telecast of the Pennsylvania game.
Pat Logan, Social Commissioner, defended the blind dating plan by saying: “The purpose is to fill a request for blind dates for major social functions, and not to create a demand for blind dating in place of other methods of meeting girls.”
Those who wish a blind date must fill out a regular form and sign a list for a specific social function. Then the Social Commission, who has on file names of girls who may desire a blind date for the same event, matches the two lists as judiciously as possible.
Logan went on further to say, “This is not a Lonely Hearts Club, but merely an aid to those who request blind dates by trying to match people more systematically than just pulling names out of a hat.”
There will be no Victory Dance Saturday, Nov. 26. In its place will be an Open House in the Student Center.
the year, will send twelve students to the University of Chicago for a week-end in order to give them a broader perspective of American college life at different schools. In turn, Chicago will send twelve of their foreign students to Notre Dame.
The committee makes suggestions to the University administration on how to better the program for the students; a placement bureau, special English classes, etc. At all times, the committee encourages American students to take their foreign classmates home with them on vacations.
A “cosmopolitan night,” to be held sometime in the second semester, is the big project of the year. This program, which will probably be presented in the Student Center, is planned as a stunt night with the students performing according to the theatrical customs of their homelands.
Members of the International Student Committee are actually representatives of various clubs and organizations on campus that are interested in the humanities or foreign affairs. Jack Bure, Joe Joyce, Pete Keyes, Paul Krapp, Jerry Lunden, Luis Matte, Pete Sturtevant, and Paul Zajadatz are the club representatives on the committee.
Under the leadership of Bure, who is the group chairman, these students attempt to follow a program of activities that will accomplish the purposes and objectives of the organization as stated in the preamble of the committee’s constitution. The committee endeavors to “bring foreign students to a better understanding of, and a fuller partici-
'Mind if we squeeze in a few minutes of football?'
S+udent Trips Banned For Indefinite Period
“A moratorium will be applied to all student trips,” stated Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president of Student Affairs at a meeting of the Sophomore Class last Monday night.
Father Norton in a short address to the sophomores explained that the administration has decided to put a temporary stop to all student trips, as a result of the conduct of the Notre Dame students during a recent University-sponsored excursion to the Michigan State-Irish football game.
However, it is apparent from the remarks of Father Norton that the Midrigan State event was only an element helping the administration to make up their minds in this action. References were made to the trips to Marquette-Notre Dame basketball games in the past two years, and the conduct of the students on trains going home for vacations.
Father Norton went on further to explain that, “This moratorium might last all year, and would depend on the conduct of the students during the year. Also the actions of students returning home during Christmas vacation would carry quite a bit of weight.”
Jerry Brady, Sophomore Class president, invited Father Norton to talk to the sophomores in order , that the situation might be made dear. The sophomores had planned their annual basketball trip to either Northwestern, Loyola, DePaul, or Bradley.
November 18, 1955
15
«
ND9s -Who's Who9
JOHN ADAMS, Editor of the Scholastic, is on the Dean’s List, has been a member of the Glee Club for four years, and is in the Blue Circle.
PHIL AGEE, Sorin Hall senator last year and Stay Senator this year, is also Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, a member of the A.B. Advisory Board, Chairman bf 'the Washington Day exercises and Vice-President of the Midwest International Relations Club.
JOE BILL, Vice-President of the Senior Class and a Blue Circle member, played varsity football, was Vice-President of Zahm hall in his freshman year and is a member of the YCS.
JACK CASEY, General Chairman of the ’56 Mardi Gras, was Junior Class Secretary last year, is president of the
C.C.D., Business Manager of the Senior trip and member of the International Relations and the Commerce Club.
DICK CARROLL, Editor of the Technical Review, is a four-year Dean’s List man, Chairman of the Notre Dame Chapter of the A.S.M.E., and a member of the Engineering Advisory Board.
RICHARD CLARK, Co-Chairman of the Y.C.S., and Secretary of the Bookmen, is a member of the Juggler editorial board, of the Wranglers, the A.B. Council, the Senate Academic Committee, and Secretary of the Bookmen.
TOM CREHAN, Student Senate President and member of the Blue Circle, was secretary of the Senate last year, President of Howard Hall the year before and was an N.S.A. delegate.
GEORGE DAKOSKE, Prefect of the Third Order of St. Francis, is the Spir~4B itual Commissioner of the Senate, Chairman of the campus Charity Chest, Decorations Chairman for the Science Ball, a member of the Aesculapians and a Dean’s List student.
JOHN ENGLER, Commerce Senator and Vice-President of the Student Senate, is also a member of the Blue Circle, Concession Commission, Badin Hall senator and Chairman of the Hall Council System.
JERRY GATTO, four-year drum major, member of the Dance Band, is the Vice-President of the Italian club, dance Chairman of the Chicago Club and Entertainment Chairman of the Commerce Ball. .
16
The Scholastic
LA FRENIERE	LEMEK	LEWIS	MARTERSTECK	G. MASSEY
Contributions
PAUL LA FRENIERE, Associate Edi-^tor of the Scholastic and secretary-
treasurer of the Blue Circle, and a member of the Dean’s List, was Chairman of the Ticket Committee, at one time in his career served as a disk jockey for WSND.
RAY LEMEK, Captain of the 1955 Notre Dame Football Team.
ADICK LEWIS, Election Chairman for ^and member of the Blue Circle, Science
Senator, past Secretary of the Class and Campus clubs commissioner. . l
KARL MARTERSTECK, Chairman of the Blue Circle, President of the Cleveland Club, member of the A.B. Advisory Board and the Science Advisory board, was past Chairman of “Who’s Who.”
GERRY MASSEY, Military Council President and Armed Forces Senator, was Chairman of the Senate Rilles Committee and the A.B. Advisory Board. While being Vice-President of the Philosophy Club, he is second in his class and on the Dean’s List.
JIM MASSEY, the Senior Retreat Chairman and first man in his class, was YCS Engineering head as well as Secretary of the AIEE-IRE. He is Drill Master of the Navy drill team.
PAT McCARTAN, Station Manager of WSND, is in the Blue Circle. He is a member of the YCS and the Academy .of Political Science. He is on the Arts arid Letters Advisory Council, and was in the Hall Council System.
JIM MURRAY is the Editor of the-Notre Dame Lawyer and has the highest scholastic average in his class. He is also a member of the Blue Circle.
BOB O’MALLEY is the A.B. Senator and is on the Arts and Letters Advisory Board. He is Chairman of the Campaign and Mock Convention Commission. In the literary field he is Editor of the Monogram News and was Sports Editor of the Dome last year. He is also Assistant to the Director of Sports Publicity of the Notre Dame Athletic Association.
JERRY POTTEBAUM is President of the Glee Club and President of the YCS. He has been on the Dean’s List for three years.
November 18, 1955
STEVE KOGERS is on the Arts and Letters Advisory Council. He is a member of the Wranglers and of the YCS.
DON SCHAEFER has played varsity football for three years. He is a member of the Monogram Club and the Pittsburgh Club. He is also an outstanding air cadet and belongs to the Irish Air Society. .
DON SNIEGOWSKI is the Editor of the Dome. He is a Varsity baseball player and is on the Dean’s List. He is also a member of the Blue Circle.
PETE STURTEVANT is on the Dean’s List and is a member of the Blue Circle. He is the NS A regional Vice-President. He was sub-chairman of the Blue Circle Orientation Committee and is chairman of the International Affairs Committee of Notre Dame. He is a member of the Scholastic staff.
JOHN THORNTON, President of the Law Association, graduated Magna Cum Laude with an A.B. degree from the University of Notre Dame. He was a member of the Blue Circle and on the
Vetville Council. He was Junior Class Treasurer and President of the Senior Class. He was Chairman of the Senior Ball in 1950.
* * *
DAVE COLLINS, Student Senator and member of the Blue Circle, was Student Trip Chairman, Mardi Gras Carnival Co-Chairman, and a member of the Bookmen.
BILL FAGAN, a Law student, is a Breen Medal winner, Head Announcer of WSND, invited to First National Debate Tournament, member of the Tau Kappa Alpha Honor Fraternity, won the outstanding Debate Award in 1953, is the Circuit Vice-President of the National Student Law Association, and Executive Director of the Moot Court.
NED GRIFFIN, a Law student, was a finalist in the Moot court, Business manager of the ’54 Dome and Co-Chairman of the ’54 Mardi Gras, President of the C.C.D. during his undergraduate years, and a member of the Law Ball Committee.
JOHN MEAGHER is Editor of the Juggler and President of the Wranglers. He is on the Arts and Letters Advisory^ Board and last year he was on the Senate President’s Advisory Board. In his Sophomore year he was the Cotillion Decorations Chairman. He has also done some work in the University Theater.
DICK SCHILLER is the President of the Debating Team and is a Freshman debating coach. He was an outstanding debater last year and won the Breen’ Award. He is also President of the Tau Kappa Alpha. He worked for two years on the Scholastic. He is on the Dean’s List.	'
BILL WARREN, President of the Senior Class, is also Secretary of the Administrators Club, Vice-President of the Marketing Club and Vice-President of the Oklahoma Club.	(
Pictures of Messrs. Collins, Fagan, Griffin, Meagher, Schiller and Warren were not available - in time for the Scholastic deadline. They will be printed in the next issue.
‘Who’s Who’ in American Colleges is a National Intercollegiate Honor society established to honor the men who seem to best represent their university in terms of scholarship, activity and qualities of leadership. At the beginning of each year, Deans, department heads, heads of leading campus activities and clubs choose an outstanding Junior representative to work on the Selection committee. Nominations are then opened and lists of names and activities descend upon the committee, who ■ each vote on the whole list making a set number of selections. The Students with the highest totals numbers are then sent into the National judging board who reviews the selections and perhaps rejects some. Those remaining are notified by mail as is the campus chairman.
18
The Scholastic
At a (fiance
AVON
A Guy Named Joe (ends tomorrow); S. Tracy-L Dunne—This is a reissue; an excellent cast.
The Red Shoes (Sunday through Tuesday); B; color; M. Shearer-A. Walbrook— The story is set against a background of ballet, and the ballet is the most outstanding feature of this film. A prize film.
Queen Bee (begins Wednesday); B; J. Crawford-B. Sullivan—Joan Crawford again plays the part of a thoroughly hateful woman, and does it quite well. She is finally killed, but not until she has done much harm.
COLFAX
Tender Trap (tonight through Thursday); B; color; F. Sinatra-D. Reynolds— Frank Sinatra plays a bachelor who has no trouble attracting members of the opposite sex. After consideration of the matter he decides that a wife is a pretty good idea, and then begins to look over the applicants for the position. He finally has to choose between Debbie Reynolds and Holm; some choice. A very amusing picture.
GRANADA
Trial (ends tomorrow); A-2; G. Ford-D. McGuire—A very dramatic work, one which never fails to hold the audience’s interest.
Sincerely Yours (Sunday through Thursday); A-l; color; Liberace-J. Dru— Wake up and live! Men, here comes LIBERACE! As would be expected, this film is a truly great one. Liberace has ample space to display his musical ability, and he also reveals that he belongs in the first rank of actors. The audience, after seeing this movie, will probably wish that it was two, three, or even four times longer.
PALACE
Naked Street (ends tonight); A-2; Universal; F. Granger-A. Quinn—A reiteration of the old theme that crime does not pay.
Top of the World; B; D. Robertson-F. Lovejoy—also showing.
Lady Godiva (tomorrow through Thursday); A-2; Universal; color; M. O’Hara-G. Nader—This provides no reason for alarm or cause for excitement; it’s quite decent. It’s not very good, though, and doesn’t even have the usual amount of action. Apache Woman; American Releasing; color; L. Bridges-J. Taylor—The film’s hero is in love with a half-breed Apache, who has an evil brother. The evil brother is disposed of and the hero marries the girl and they live happily ever after.
i	RIVER PARK
I	.
Ulysses (ends tomorrow); A-2; Paramount; color; K. Douglas-S. Mangano—A rather childish adaptation for screen of a story written by someone named Homer, i Man With a Million; A-l; British; G. Peck-J. Griffiths—This “is much better than its co-feature, being the often hilarious story of a man who suddenly finds himself in possession of a million pound note.
Seven Cities of Gold (Sunday through Wednesday); A-l; Fox; CinemaScope; color; R. Egan-M. Rennie—Michael Rennie here portrays Father Junipero Serra as . he founds one of his missions in California. A very worthwhile venture.
Wichita; A-l; Allied; CinemaScope; color; J. McCrea-V. Miles—Joel McCrea W plays Wyatt Earp, who comes to Wichita to try his hand at 'business. Wichita, how-f ever, is a pretty tough place, and Wyatt is forced to clean it up. He needs his brother’s help, but finally kills all the crooks.
November 18, 1955
Gentlemen Marry Brunettes (Thursday and Friday); A-2; Universal; color; J. Russell-J. Crain—Jane Russell and Jeanne Crain are two sisters who go to Paris, and, being broke, go to work in a night club. They are pursued by a couple of rich men, but settle for a couple of poor ones. Track of the Cat; B. Warner; CinemaScope; color; R. Mitchum-T. Wright—The plot of this film is rather complex, involving a weird family, a marauding mountain lion, and a boy’s struggle to become a man. Often brutal.
STATE
Duel in the Sun (tonight and tomorrow) ; color; J. Jones-G. Peck—This is a reissue. Target Earth; B; V. Grey -R. Denning—A not very good science fiction film.	•
My Sister Eileen (Sunday and Monday) ; B; CinemaScope; color; J. Leigh-J. Lemmon—This is a diverting and often delightful musical comedy. Unfortunately, much of the humor is a little off-color. Both this movie and the stage hit Wonderful Town are from the same source, but the songs in the movie aren’t even close to the standards of those in the play. The Master Plan; Wayne Morris—A very ordinary cloak-and-dagger story.
End of the Affair (Wednesday and Thursday) ; A-2; D. Kerr-V. Johnson— This adaptation of Graham Greene’s novel is hardly comparable to the original, but considered on its own merits, is a pretty good offering. Bengasi; A-l; color; R. Conte-V. McLaglen—Crime in North Africa is the subject of this rather dull presentation.
WSND
Tomorrow: Football Scoreboard, 4:30; Music of Glenn Miller, 6 pan.; Easy Listening, 10:30 p.m. Sunday: Ave Maria Hour, 12:30; Sunday Showcase, 2 p.m.; BBC Presents, 7 pjn.; Letters From Home, 8:30 pan.; Boston Pops Concert, 9:30; Voices of Walter Schumann, 10 p.m. Monday: White Plume, 8:30 p.m.; Musical Guide, 10:45. Tuesday: Mr. Chairman, 7:15 p.m.; Kampus Kwiz, 8:30. Wednesday: Let’s Get Going,’ 7:15; White Plume, 8:30; Musical Guide, 10:45. Thursday: Focus, 8:30 p.m.; College Concert, 10:45. Daily: Career Hour, 10 p.m.; Sports Final, 10:15; Jill Corey Time, 10:30.
WNDU
Sunday: Campus Quiz, 4 pan.; Sacred Heart Program, 8:15 pan.; Sammy Kaye, 8:35 pan. Daily (Mon.-Fri.): Out of the Sack, 6 a.m. to 7:45 aan.; Paul Harvey, noon; Concert Miniatures, 1:30 pan. Monday: Voice of Firestone^ 7:30 pan. Tuesday; Life is Worth living, 7:30 pan. Tues.-Thurs.: Music Box, 9 p.m.; Music You Want, 10:30 pan.
19
Now the way I see it . . .
More smiles . . .
Amid tattered tangles of ticker tape, massed men of Commerce congregated to cast aside the cares of accounting, administration, and the precarious balance of the ledger. Led by queen Margaret Murphy, and her chairman-date Jerry Higgins, the business men-in-potency waltzed et al to the workmanlike music of Jack Skarda, a renegade out of the Third Herman-Herd.
Contrary to rumors to this effect, the large crane in back of the student center was not a last minute publicity stunt to sell tickets to the well-sold Ball. A special mass in Pangborn Chapel and a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn balanced the books for the 350 weary couples.
Messy theme.
A Zaleoftke

New ARROW Gabanaro
styled for campus wear
A campus style survey produced this smart medium-spread collar—just the neat yet casual shirt you’ll want for class or informal dates. It’s made in your exact collar size and sleeve length too—for perfect fit.
Smart new colors, with matching pearl luster buttons, saddle stitching around collar edge, button thru pockets.
In rayon gabardine, “Sanforset”, $5.95.
CASUAL WEAR
—first in fashion
New collar for
ARROW Gabanaro
They couldn’t improve the fit of the Gabanaro sport shirt (it comes in your exact neck size and sleeve length). So, Arrow gave it a new medium-spread collar, with saddle stitching around edge; matching pearl-luster buttons, and button-through pockets. Choose yours now in your favorite color! New low price, $5.95.
j
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
November 18, 1955
Use	IA
Apr. 1. May 1, June 1 No Cafrying Charge
4
The Scholastic
Dave Johnson asks:
What’s involved in production work at Du Pont?
DAVID L. JOHNSON, JR., expects to receive his B.S.Ch.E. from the University of Kansas in 1956. He is very active in campus affairs, president of Alpha Chi Sigma and a member of several honorary engineering fraternities. Dave is interested in learning more about production work in the chemical industry.
JAMES L. HAMILTON is one of the many young engineers who have been employed by Du Pont since the end of the war. After service in the Navy, Jim got his B.S.Ch.E. from the University of West Virginia in June 1948, and immediately joined Du Pont’s Repauno Plant at Gibbstown, N. J. Today, he is Assistant Superintendent of the dimethyl terephthalate area at this plant.
A MORE COMPLETE ANSWER to Dave Johnson’s question about production work is given in “The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” This booklet describes in detail the training, opportunities and responsibilities of engineers who take up this kind of work at Du Pont. Write for your free copy to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
REG. U.S. PAT.Off.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER UVING ... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH “DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER” ON TV
Jim Hamilton answers:
Well, Dave, I’ve been doing production work at Du Pont for about seven years now, and I’m still getting involved in new things. That’s what makes the work so interesting—new and challenging problems arise all the time.
To generalize, though, the duties are largely administrative. That’s why effectiveness in working with others is one of the prime requirements. Teamwork is important in research and development work, for sure. But it’s even more important in production, because you work each day with people having widely different skills and backgrounds.	.
A production supervisor needs a good understanding of engineering and scientific principles, too. He has to have that to get the best results from complicated equipment—but he doesn’t necessarily need the specialized training that goes with research and development work. A real interest in engineering economics and administration is usually more helpful to him here than advanced technical training. The dollar sign’s especially important in production work.
It all adds up to this, Dave. If you enjoy teamwork, and have a flair for large-scale, technical equipment, then you’ll find production work mighty rewarding.
November 18, 1955
37
Rack RatfC
by Curt Matthews
to fight, to die but not to vote*
Every now and then somebody comes up with the proposal that the voting age in our country should be lowered from 21 to 18. Occasionally it’s made by some last-leg politician looking for a life by cornering the 18-year-old votes that his proposal would emancipate.
Up to now we have been fortunate that the proposals have been weak and their support scattered. There’s been little talk and less action to forward this idea that “American youth should be represented at the polls.”
I have nothing against teen-agers as such (bartenders still ask to see my ID), but I fail to see how they and the nation can gain by giving them a voice in running the country. And don’t think that voice would be small and insignificant either—there are 6,000,000 potential voters in the 18, 19, 20 age group.
Those in favor of the teen-age vote always come up with that classic argument which can be stated in one sentence and runs something like this: “If they’re old enough to fight and die for then- country then they’re old enough to say who should be running that country.” Emotionally it’s a pretty good argument. But, in the cold light of reason, I, for one, would have to disagree with it.
What connection is there between fighting and voting? Very little I think. A boy is physically and mentally a better military prospect when he is between the ages of 17 and 21 than at any other time in his life. It’s exactly when he should be fighting and dying for his country if it’s necessary.
At that age level a boy is strong, well co-ordinated, and quick-thinking (not deep, but quick). He’s well equipped to take care of his own hide when somebody starts shooting at it. Also, he has a certain amount of recklessness that, when tempered by discipline and experience from HQ, makes him an ideal component in the risky business of war.
But do these same qualities—quickthinking, good co-ordination, strength, and recklessness—which make an individual a good soldier also make him a qualified voter? Hardly anyone could say yes. What has strength got to do with the question of distributing the
Salk vaccine; or boyish recklessness with how the tax dollar should be spent?
There are some who also contend that by lowering the voting age to coincide with the draft age we would have more representative suffrage. By giving youth a voice we will be taking a stride toward truer self-government.
Again I must disagree. To follow such reasoning to its natural end would mean that as soon as a child reaches the age of reason, which most agree to be seven, he should be allowed to vote. For, what’s to stop someone from saying that children deserve a vote in government just as much as teen-agers if it’s going to be a really representative government? Once you step below the “natural” age of 21, which is recognized universally as the age for suffrage to begin, then what is left to guide you in determining what should be the voting age as far as representative government is concerned. (Russia is the only country that has 18 as the voting age— and the age could just as well be seven there since a voter doesn’t need much political judgment to mark a ballot with only one choice on it.) Should not the seven-year-olds be represented just as much as the 17-year-olds? Where are you going to draw the line?
There’s more to the case against 18-year-old suffrage than merely disproving the arguments based on draft age and representative government. For we must also take into consideration the complexity of modern government and the need for public interest.
We have more government now than ever before in history. There are more offices, departments, bureaus, and committees than ever before and they are all of necessity more complex than ever before. Civil defense, NATO, atomic energy, health and welfare and many others are vital components of government that have come into existence or prominence only within the last 10 years. Also, we deal with billions—not millions —of tax dollars; and millions—not thousands—of citizens. It takes more investigation and interest to be a good and qualified voter today than it did 25 years ago.
But, I think, on the whole the voters
have pretty well kept pace with this growing complexity. Radio, television, and the popular press may not always give unslanted facts but at least they give some facts from which discriminating voters can sift and judge and eventually arrive at solid political conclusions. I think, in the long run, today’s voters are actually better informed than yesterday’s.
But, would such be the case if the voting age were lowered to 18? I’m inclined to doubt it. The 18-year-old hasn’t the patience or the inclination to sit down and read a dry and informative piece of political literature. Youth is the age of activity; a time to be burning excess energy. •->No one should hold it against a teen-ager that he can’t sit still long enough to learn about politics. It’s his nature to be on the go—and I think it’s all well and good and the way it should be.
Even if the teen-ager did take the time and effort to sit down and read and investigate the things of the political world he usually doesn’t have the experience or knowledge to make sound political judgments concerning them. That ability comes after you’ve seen your tax dollars filling the gas tank of some politician’s Cadillac.
Complexity of government has also made it a much more impersonal thing —and thus less interesting to a lot of people. The color and excitement of government survives in few places in our country (New England and the big cities are about the only vestiges left). Too many other things contend for the place politics once had among the sober diversions of society.
Those most affected by the proposal to allow teen-agers to vote, the teenagers themselves, seem less worked-up over the whole question than anyone else involved. They are quite wary of the responsibilities the right to vote incurs. They don’t want those responsibilities before they become mature and settled citizens and can proudly and willingly accept them. Some teen-agers even go so far as to suggest the voting age be raised to 25. They often show a lot more sense about this whole question than some glad-hand politicians.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
1
hall the united states back
France, her ally, against the North African nationalist movements at the expense of losing Asian and African friends?
France is facing a powerful tide of ] nationalism in North Africa. In ten 1 a years this tide has already wiped out . "a large part of the imperialist legacy < of European expansion in Asia and j Africa.
I . But her North African territories i have valuable resources, provide mar-j	kets for French goods and money, and
(	have been settled by large numbers of
French farmers and businessmen.
। In Tunis, France has made such sweeping concessions to the nationalists ; ^that with good will on both sides the j conflict between France and the Tunisian nationalists may be over.
d But Morocco, where we have major 3 air bases, is the scene of bloody dis-• order, and Algeria has recently wit-11, nessed shocking scenes of nationalist ;1 violence and French counter-attacks.
| Nationalism in Algeria is more se-, rious because this territory is consti-; tutionally considered to be an integral ' W Par^ France and because hundreds of ; thousands of Frenchmen have settled ■ there. Algerian independence means a i	kind of secession and, so it is argued,
i	the abandonment of Frenchmen and
’• French investments to the mercy of !	Algerian nationalists.
I How has France tried to deal with these nationalist movements? Evidently
। with no great foresight. Nationalism is ! intense and irresponsible in the entire
A Arab world, and is everywhere a painful problem. But France has done little more than alternate between minor concessions and repression.
For example, she has attempted, quite unsuccessfully, to follow a policy of divide and rule in Morocco, where she obviously favored the Berbers at the expense of the Arabs.
Two years ago, following the same line, she deposed the Sultan of Morocco, Mohammed ben Youseff. As might have A been expected, this made the deposed sultan fairly popular and the new sultan, Mohammed ben Moulay Arafa, so deprived of public authority that last month he was compelled to go into exile.
The choice for France is now a threefold one: complete French evacuation | (unthinkable); forcible suppression of ,1 the nationalist movements (France does not have the resolute will nor the re-11 sources for this); or a search for a so-j lution that will protect some vital French interests while granting the nationalists the substance of their demands.
1 But people and nations often fail to | November 18, 1955
I;
by Matthew A. Fitzsimons
This is the second in a series of authoritative articles on current national and international topics to be presented by Folio during the year.
Matthew A. Fitzsimons, associate professor of history and member of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame, is considered an authority on contemporary France. He has recently returned from London after spending several months viewing European events at close range.
Professor Fitzsimons, added to the Notre Dame faculty in 1937, studied at Oxford and Columbia and took his doctorate at the University of Chicago in 1947.
make the definite decisions required by such a situation. France is likely to be a victim of her own policy.
This is not because of a lack of intelligence. France has an abundance of intelligent and brilliant people, but she has a system of government which is well-calculated to keep the government from becoming a tyranny.
The French system of government prevents eificiency of action by paralyzing initiative and foresight, which are rare enough in politics under the best of circumstances. In the present world the French government sometimes looks like a three-legged man with arthritis. This system has deep roots and cannot easily be changed. Unfortunately, it means that at critical moments the French government may have no voice at all simply because there is no French government, and that the rest of the world is at times deprived of the light of French intelligence.
A month ago, the former French am-
France
vs.
nationalism
bassador to Germany warned that governmental instability might mean that France would be “stricken from the roll of great peoples.”
In their struggles with France the Arab nationalists have an impressive list of allies. These include the entire Middle East, the new nations of Asia, and the Communist world.
In this lineup what choice is open to us? We cannot urge our ally to surrender, nor, if we are true to our traditions, can we support the repression of nationalist independence movements. But distinctions have to be made. National independence is not the highest political good, and Morocco is certainly not ready for self-government.	.
France is our N.A.T.O. ally. She joined N.A.T.O. for self-preservation, not to help get rid of her empire in Asia and Africa. But now it should be clear that the problem before us is not the stark choice of siding with France or with the North Africans. We must. somehow be with both and at the same time avoid the futility of “having your cake and eating it, too.”
On the whole, the Asians and Africans may be more impressed by a firm and consistent pursuit of our objectives and interests than by a vague compromise in an attempt to win popu- . larity. It would be folly for us to support immediate Moroccan independence when the move would weaken our ally and when Morocco is not prepared for independence. But equally we cannot support French colonial domination maintained by force.
Our role must be the truly difficult • one of urging the French to accelerate the movement of Morocco toward selfgovernment. This is the never easy but statesmanlike task of helping both parties achieve the solution most in accord with the interests and aspirations of the French, the Moroccans,' and ourselves.
21
a review
the alchemist
The Alchemist, written by Ben Jonson, is an early 17th century English comedy of manners, and as such, it is a, most demanding vehicle of the dramatic art. Perhaps, a brief explanation of the comedy of manners will serve the reader in good stead. This type of drama is exacting. The satire, which it creates, to be effective must be pointed directly at the individual traits held up to ridicule.
Thus the characters in The Alchemist are really caricatures. Each person is subsumed in a typical trait which is satirized. The plot of the play finds its fulfillment not by the development of individual characters, but by a series of distinct yet related incidents. Its comic effect results from the sudden action of its incongruous combatants.
The story line of the play involves the action of three swindlers against six victims or sets of victims. Interjected in the swindle is an abortive expose and finally, a double-cross by one of the swindlers in league with the master of the house against the other swindlers.
The master of a London household leaves his home for the country from fear of the plague which is sweeping the city. While he is away his ingenious butler with the aid of two accomplices dupes the public by offering for sale their services in magic. In one incident they assume a would-be sport by success in gambling by means of a purse provided by the Queen of the Fairies and purchased at no little expense by him.
Suddenly in the midst of all their schemes the swindlers are brought to a halt. The master returns. But he dare not enter the house, because his butler, quick-witted as always, warns him that it Tias been visited by the plague. The ruse, however, fails and when at last there is no hope of escape, he confesses the plot to his master and suggests a solution satisfactory to both of them. He and the master then proceed to out-swindle the swindlers and put them to flight. They outface the clamoring victims and remain to enjoy the rich spoils of the game.
I would like to single out two performances to be viewed with interest and rewarding in mirth. Mr. Reginald Bain in the triple role of Lungs, the Alchemist’s assistant, Captain Face, a purveyor or the come-on man for the swindle, and as Jeremie, the able butler, handles his art with a nice touch. He has achieved in his characterizations a delicate shading. Each of the char
acters is distinctly individual but they are centered in one person. One feels throughout that it is really Jeremie manifesting himself in different forms, yet one is always sure that Lungs is really Lungs, and so on. Bain’s characterization is expressed in excellent diction and with a color and verse that make one believe that the part is playing itself.
Joseph Kelly, in the title role of Subtle, gives an intriguing if sometimes overwhelming performance. One feels
that he has developed his character so thoroughly that it gets out of hand and he is unable to control it. It lacks a certain cunning restraint that might heighten its humor in this stylized comedy. He does, however, maintain a strong characterization throughout the play and he has brightened it with a great many peculiarities of his own invention. It limps a bit only -when he forces its projection on the audience and covers his words with character.
Dol Common as played by Miss Louise Warnicke is disappointing. I think Miss Warnicke has failed to comprehend the nature of Dol. Her portrayal lacks strength. She comes out Dol proper; not Dol Common. Frankly I wish she was more of a bawd, more lusty and earthy; earthy with that feel of delight in the swindle that earthy people have, if not for the money, then for the joke of it.
James Crimmins as Sir Epicure Mam-mom loses a great deal of his effectiveness by substituting agitation for humor. In his strained eagerness, he mouths his words and is in many places unintelligible. His greed falls flat and his sensuality is masked.
Pertinax Surly, portrayed by Charles
Armbruster, is for me completely un-“ believable. He is more of a frustrated Old Maid than a slick gambler. His reactions are trite, hackneyed and most artificial. One feels that he is miming a child who is displeased with his supper. His vocal characterization is unrealistic and it is only as Don Jon, speaking Spanish, that he is somewhat believable. Sad to say that with theA first word of English he utters, he re-” verts to his former self.
Jerry Dodge, as Dapper, a bravo and gambler to-be gives a pleasing performance. The duping of him in the second act is one of the most delightful episodes in the play.
As D rugger, the tobacconist, John Kent, strikes a mellow chord of humor. He draws his character boldly, yet quietly, as a simple man, so easily built, 0 yet so, so innocent.
Tribulation Wholesome, the Pastor, and Ananias, his deacon, played by James O’Donoghue and Garry Gates respectively, are in the first case unimpressive and in the second case oppressive. Tribulation’s hypocrisy never comes across and Ananias is so straight laced as to be starched. It is to be lamented that this starchiness carries into his voice which is at times most^h unreal and, when in anger, the words seem to spew from his mouth unintelligibly.
George Hahn, as Kastrail, lends a broad, youthful humor to the play and finds a perfect foil in the quiet naivete of his sister, Dame Pliant, played by Frances Cappabianca. She is all that her name implies. Philip Donahue, as Love-wit, is able and sufficient.
Mr. Frederic Syburg, the director, has A a clean, uncluttered stage. He has set a^ rapid pace and the play moves nicely from episode to episode. I believe he is justified in his cutting of the play not only in terms of time, but also in terms of understanding. He has deleted many of the broad jokes from the play, but it has not suffered greatly from this as many of them would be unintelligible to today’s audience.
Reno Masini’s set provides a perfect background, believable yet unobtrusive, and finally detailed, and Mrs. Walsh’s 0 costumes are certainly effective, though one might wish a substitute for the rather anachronistic loafers and keds.
An entertaining evening. Watch particularly Mr. Kelly and Mr. Bain! —Tom Wageman
FaII:?Notre Dame
GERRY TRAFFICANDA
22
The Scholastic
SJiawcate
by CHARLES McDERMOTT
I TINERUM TURTUREMQUE CANO, the first who came, compelled by fate and restlessness, to the Lavinian coast. . . .
Once upon a time there was, in the several hundred millenniums before the birth of Christ, a turtle tribe inhabiting what was then a small continent in the South Pacific. Here the turtles lived, and lived, and lived, and lived, “for they were a race beloved by Juno” and had virtual immortality. They were very happy and lived a carefree life just as they had when they were children of only ten thousand years old. For even the very youngest were many thousands of years old, and the age of the oldest was calculated to be in the millions or the tens of millions, since the race was founded by his father’s brothers, and the ..turtle race was estimated to be several billion years old.
Help me, O Muse, recall the reasons why, why did the fates and restlessness drive a race so known for goodness, for devotion, through so many toils and perils? Is vindictiveness an attribute of the gods?
At that time (and for those who wish to read this classic in the original Latin:
eo tempore) there was an extraordinary brilliant and holy turtle, Sam-biases, who had a son equally as brilliant and also the speediest of the whole turtle race: Pius Aeneos.
Pius Aeneos, who was then only a young child of ten thousand, was becoming very restless, as were all the other turtles in the kingdom. It was in one of his contemplative moments that he realized that not one turtle had left the continent to see the outside world in several hundred generations. This, he perceived, was why so many turtles were so restless.
And so it was that young Aeneos conceived an idea so unique and revolutionary that he had to shift his position while basking in the afternoon sun. But he revealed his thoughts to no one; he would wait until the meeting of the council which would be coming soon.
And the years of the council came. And Aeneos was then two score and eighteen thousand years old," -having just come into manhood and being of voting and drinking age (except in Indiana where he had to be ten thousand
24
turtiliad
years older “and prove it”). Now the years of the council are the happiest and most active of all. The turtles all had made long journeys to the capital, and were engaged in touring the Big City. They enjoyed themselves immensely until the year of the Big Council came, and then they all thronged to the forum in the center of the city where some of the more spirited ones were shouting: “We’re Number One!”
The main topic of the Big Council was the matter of a remedy for the restlessness which had by then overcome the whole empire. Here it was, then, that Pius Aeneos proposed his plan, the idea which he had conceived when he was but a child. And it was such a wonderful plan that immediately it was adopted by the council elders. Truly, this was the solution to the problem. Before the meeting was adjourned steps were taken to set up committees to care for all the arrangements for the project.
So when Aeneos was in his prime at sixty-seven thousand, all preparations for the project had been completed, and all of the turtle race, young and old, were ready to set out.
All of the strong-shelled heroes, those who were most honorable and loyal, were entrusted to carry the supplies and the cans of beer. There were cases and cases of beer for every turtle. And since everyone in the kingdom was to go on the trip there were billions of cans of beer. This, naturally, would slow down their journey. It was estimated that the trip each way would last twenty thousand years.
Thus the turtles, all in a marching column (a sort of agmen, for the Latin scholars), were led by Pius Aeneos over oceans and through great storms to reach the Lavinian coast, and then through forests and swamps and over open plains and great mountains until they had come to the place where they would have their project. Here it was that after 17,654 years the inchoate project was brought into actual existence. Here it was that the turtles would have their picnic.
It was in a beautiful valley abounding in exotic flowers and fruit-bearing trees and bushes, a land of dreams-come-true. Amidst all this the turtles had set their
table cloths and spread out the food. ~ They had almost begun to eat (they were very hungry after their long journey) when they realized that they had forgotten to bring the most important implement used in the elaborate ceremony and rituals they had for the picnic: there was no can-opener! Oh, the cruelty of the gods! How could they open their beer cans?	M
“There is only one thing to do: send someone back for the can-opener!” “But whom shall we send?” they asked. “Why, the fastest, the most brilliant, the most holy, Pius Aeneos,” someone answered. And so Pius Aeneos was chosen to return. But he said he would do so only on condition that no one touch any of the food until he should return. The crowd, although they were^ very hungry, agreed to this stipulation, ” and so he started to go.
Pius Aeneos, therefore, departed, hurrying into the bushes surrounding the place that was cleared for the picnic.
Five thousand years passed and although the turtles were very hungry, they did not eat the food. Seven thousand years passed and although the turtles were becoming hungrier, they did not even think about eating the food. Ten thousand more years passed, and ten thousand more; it was time for Pius Aeneos to return, and everyone was sorely tempted to eat just a little. But they did not touch the food, and another eight thousand years passed. And they were tempted, but recalling their promise to Aeneos, they did not eat the food. Five thousand years passed, and then another, and another, and Pius Aeneos did not return. And then a thousand years passed. The turtles were in anguish. But they did not eat the food. And five thousand years passed. Finally, after another thirteen thousand years, ' some of the less virtuous turtles suggested that they each take one teensy-weensy bit of food. Naturally the suggestion was refused, and they were punished for even considering it. And ten thousand years passed, and five thousand more, and anothei- five thousand. And Aeneos did not return. And a so after nine thousand years more of W awful, diabolical temptation, they unanimously agreed to follow the advice of the weaker ones who had already been punished. They agreed to take one teensy-weensy bite each. And so each turtle took a tiny nibble of food. It was the tiniest that was possible.
Suddenly there was a rustle in the bushes, and out jumped Pius Aeneos. ' He stood there amid his people, and stared with the severest air of horror and disappointment imaginable. “Humph!” he grunted. “Just what I thought; and for that, I’m not going after the can-opener.”
The Scholastic
midwest moguls
Sweeney and Associates.
! by JOHN SENG
*
’	INEMASCOPE ON CAMPUS? Im:	possible!” Impossible? Not quite,
• for the men who head the biggest club |	under the Dome have placed the em)	phasis on initiative this year. Such an
attitude isn’t unusual with the Chicago Club, but the degree of interest which
. the officers display is entirely new.
! The moving force behind this activi-i ^ties-minded organization is its president —Jerry Sweeney. An ex-marine, Jerry : is responsible for the agreement with a i film distributor that brings us The Robe, ; in cinemascope. A special lense enables ! the Engineering Auditorium’s screen to
handle the film. Frank Epstein and
* John Kegaly will be on hand every other Thursday night to check membership cards for the forthcoming movies: Les Miserables; Dec. 10—Where’s Charlie;
^Jmd Jan. 1—Young Man With a Horn.
Perhaps, the Chicago Club is best known for its enjoyable dances. Consistent with the policy begun last year, “big name” bands are being sought for the more important of the Club-sponsored dances. Ralph Marterie and his orchestra is tentatively scheduled for the Christmas semi-formal. Other dances are the mid-semester, Easter, summer, and the biggest—the Thanksgiving Day dance. A Pre-school dance to acquaint freshmen with the Club and its members is a recent innovation.
Some “firsts” that the Chicago Club offers are: a handball tournament next semester under the direction of Frank Epstein, campus champion; a ten-team bowling league with trophies for the winners; and, a representative group of windy city-zens entered in the Kampus Keglers. However, the first “first” came
this summer in the form of a picnicouting replete with food, refreshments, and even a couple of orchestras.
The sports-inclined Chicagoan can join the Club’s softball league or interhall basketball squad. To the more -adventurous element of the student body, the Chicago Club offers a crowded Black Jack stand at the Mardi Gras. To the fathers of its members, the Club offers a Communion breakfast after Mass at St. Peter’s in downtown Chicago. And to the sentimental senior members, it means a free steak dinner at the end of the year.
Engraved on the Club’s special stationery are the names of the officers: Jerry Sweeney, Pres., John Broderick, Vice-Pres., Dick Corrigan, Sec., and Treasurer John McCarthy. Committeemen Bill Kearney, Jim Dowdle, Gene Brennan, Bud Freidheim, Bill Regali, and Ed Gleason round' out the administration. Rev. Daniel F. Curtin, C.S.C., is the club moderator.
The motley crew on hand ’en masse.’

Gamnul
offers career opportunities for the
MEN OF ’56
ENGINEERS
CHEMISTS PHYSICISTS
Ceramic • Chemical • Civil Electrical • Industrial Mechanical • Metallurgical
America’s foremost manufacturer of carbon and graphite electrodes and anodes, impervious graphite, brushes for motors and generators, dry cells and flashlights, arc carbons and a wide variety of other industrial products offers positions to B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields listed above.
Positions are available at National Carbon Company’s 15 factories, located in the following states: Iowa, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, West Virginia and Vermont and throughout the country in our sales organization.
Interesting, rewarding careers in research, process and product development, production and methods engineering, product and process control, machine development, plant engineering and sales. A National Carbon representative will be on campus —
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28
SHEAFFERS SNOHKEL PEN
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY A Division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation
BRAND IMPERVIOUS GRAPHITE
EVEREADY
trade-marks
BATTERIES
PRESTONE
BRAND ANTI-FREEZE
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11 — 1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-12O2 South Bend, Indiana
feookAtote
$]Q00
only
Quality plus economy! All the most wanted Sheaffer features . . . clean filling . . . smooth-writing 14K gold point. Come io today!

26
The Scholastic 1




J^uk Sum
Wayne Edmonds.
STARTING SENIORS IN LAST STADIUM APPEARANCE
Pat Bisceglia, Gene Kapish, Capt. Ray Lemek, Jim Mense, Don Schaefer, and
IOWA VISITS STADIUM FOR HOME FINALE
Hawkeyes Hope to Repeat *53 Performance; Irish Wind Up Season Against Southern Cal
by JOE NORTON
The University of Iowa Hawkeyes, a traditionally bitter Irish rival, will return here tomorrow afternoon for the final home game of the Notre Dame season.
The last time Iowa visited Notre Dame was in 1953, when the Irish had to come from behind in the closing seconds of the game to “grab” a 14-14 tie.
Tomorrow’s game will be the 14th
AND RAY LESCHER
meeting of the two teams. The Irish hold a seven to three edge in the series, with three of the contests ending in ties.
Highly regarded right Guard Calvin Jones will captain the Hawkeye forces. The 210-lb. senior from Steubenville, Ohio, was selected on ten major AllAmerican teams in 1954 and was very much in evidence in the Notre Dame-Iowa battle last season. Notre Dame
won that one 34-18, and the lowans are gunning for revenge this year.
The Hawkeye attack will be directed by Jerry Reichow, senior quarterback. Reichow is a deadly passer and a master of the option play. In 1954, he completed 46 per cent of his aerial attempts and averaged 3.3 yards on the ground.
Reichow will have two able halfbacks at his disposal in the persons of Earl Smith and Eddie Vincent. Last season,-left halfback Smith, led the Big Ten in scoring with 48 points and averaged 7.1 yards per carry over the entire season. Vincent at right half was Big Ten rashing champion as he ground out 566
HjHjwinygjii

.November 18, 1955
27
EARL SMITH
1954 Big Ten Scoring Champ.
yards and averaged 6.9 yards per try in six conference games. Both Smith and Vincent are seniors.
In addition to these two speedsters, the Hawkeye backfield is strengthened by Don Dorino, a converted quarterback, who performed suprisingly well at left half in the Iowa-Ohio State game last week.
Roger Wiegmann, a 220 lb. senior, will operate in the fullback slot for the Hawkeyes.
Frank Bloomquist, another sophomore, and Roger Swedburg, a senior letterwinner, will man the tackle positions. Dick Deasy, a junior letter-winner, -will hold down the left guard spot while Jones goes at right guard. At center the Hawkeyes will start another junior letterman, Don Suchy.
Iowa’s last victory over Notre Dame
JERRY REICHOW
Hawkeye Field General
was a stunning 7-0 shutout in 1940.
At the ends for the lowans will be Jim Gibbons, a sophomore, and senior Jim Freeman. Freeman is the Hawkeye place-kicking specialist. He scored all ten of Iowa’s points against the Buckeyes last Saturday by catching a touchdown pass and kicking an extra point and a field goal.
Irish Finish With Trojans
One week from tomorrow the Irish will conclude their 1955 season against Southern California in the Los Angeles Coliseum before a crowd in excess of 80,000 fans.
The Trojans, under Coach Jess Hill, have played an off and on brand of football this season, winning five out of eight games. Last year’s Pacific Coast champions have rolled up 218 points in posting victories over Washington State, Oregon, Texas, California, and Wisconsin while losing to Washington, Minnesota and Stanford all by one touchdown.
All-American candidate Jon Arnett has paced the potent Trojan “sport car” offense from his left halfback position. The flashy junior leads the team in rushing, total offense, punt returns, kickoff returns, and scoring, having amassed a total of 83 points. To add to his versatility, Arnett has also completed ten out of 20 passes.
At quarter back, the left-handed Jim Contratto is enjoying his finest year, both as a passer and master of the multiple Trojan offense. Contratto has

TALLY AGAINST TAR HEELS
MORSE DIVES FOR FIRST
S
1
LEON CLARKE
Trojan Giant Awaits Irish
hit on 18 of 38 passes for 303 yards and three touchdowns. Contratto also is the
i
team’s regular punter, averaging 35 I yards a kick. Ells Kissinger and Frank I Hall have seen limited action at the | quarter back post, but both lack the | poise and field generalship of Contratto.^
Don Hickman has captured the right g half back position through his blocking | ability, in the single-wing offense. How- | ever, he has shown that he can also s run, by averaging four yards per carry. >
Both C. R. Roberts and Gordon Duvall I (Continued on page 30)	|

28
I
The Scholastic I
Fin Men at Work
by CARL SKIFF
Freshmen members of the newly ori ganized Swimming Club will be' eligible > . to participate in intercollegiate swim «meets. This exception to the general . regulations concerning eligibility for intercollegiate competition was recommended by the administration for this year only.
And this ruling will aid the club greatly. Two outstanding swimmers on a the club, John Kroha and Jim Garrity, are freshmen. Kroha, a breast stroke swimmer, was coach and captain of the University of Detroit High School’s \ ^wimming team in his senior year. He “was also on Detroit’s all-city swimming j team in 1954.
Garrity, a backstroke swimmer, was co-captain of Roosevelt High School’s swimming team, Yonkers, N. Y., in his junior and senior years.
Other swimmers who are expected to form the nucleus of the club are officers Paul Kerwin, president; Ed Healy, vice, president; Bill Scanlon, secretary; and aul Flattery, treasurer.
Kerwin, a junior, was Chicago Cath-
olic League’s 100 yard free-style champion in his senior yeai- at Fenwick. Healy, a champion diver from the state of Kentucky, has not been able to practice because of an operation. However, Coach Gil Burdick expects him to be back in action within a few weeks.
Scanlon, a sophomore, was Chicago Catholic League’s 100 yard backstroke champion in his senior- year at Fenwick Bligh School. Flattery, a junior, was a free-style swimmer for Bishop Laughlin High School in New York.
Other members of the club who have
SWIMMERS WORK HARD IN NIGHTLY PRACTICE
(L. to R.) Tom Londrigan, Jim Swain, Mike Connolly, Steve Barrett.
shown good progress are free-stylers Ed Thompson, Mike Connolly, Roger Halloran, Jim Swaim, Andy Van Coutren, and Phil Schuessler; divers Joe McNel-lis and Ed Linn; and breast stroker Kevin Reilly.
Connolly and Van Coutren have had no previous competitive experience.
The club has scheduled a meet with the University of Chicago on Feb. 22, at Notre Dame. The club is also trying to schedule swim meets with Bradley, Ball State, and Xavier of Cincinnati.
North Central College of Naperville, Ill., has agreed to meet the club in a swim contest at Naperville. Paul Kerwin, the club’s president, said that the Irish will travel to Naperville provided that the club can obtain enough money for traveling expenses.
Although the club is getting started as a club rather than on a team basis, there is hope that a varsity swimming team will eventually grow from this provisional organization.
The last time that Notre Dame attempted to engage in intercollegiate swim meets was in 1941. Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., the present club’s faculty advisor, was a backstroke swimmer on that team. Gil Burdick, the present club’s coach, was also coach of the 1941 team. The team, however, was shortlived because of a lack of student interest.
Anyone interested in joining this year’s Swimming Club is invited to attend the tryouts on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m., in the Rockne Memorial pool.
KERWIN, FLATTERY, Coach BURDICK Big Brass Confer.
IE. Detroit, Titans, Texas Lead Campus Bowlers
The Kampus Keglers are in full stride now, and each of the league’s four divisions is still a wide open affair.
The Industrial Engineers still top the 6:45 Wednesday division with an eleven won and one lost record. The California Club is in second place with a 9-3 record, and the Chicago Club is in third with a 7-5 record. Carl Shipstad of the California Club has the top individual game average at 170. Nick Trino and Crowe, both of the California Club, have both bowled 211 to lead the division in the highest single game department.
In the 8:45 Wednesday division, the Toledo Club and the Cleveland Club are tied for the lead with 7-2 records. The Marketing Club and A.C.S. are tied for third with 6-3 records. Hummer of the Cleveland Club leads the division with a 180 game average. Bergeron, of the Marketing Club, and Roach, of the Pittsburgh Club, have the individual high scores for single games, each with 216.
In the 6:45 Thursday division, the Met Club “B” took the leadership away from ASME with a 2-1 victory over the Rochester Club while ASME dropped three games to the Wisconsin Club. Other results in this division were: Milwaukee Club over the Columbus Club, 3-0; La Raza over the Irish Club, 2-1; and Dayton over Civil Engineers, 2-1. Bill Debot leads this division with a 167 game average.
The Met Club “B” now sports a 10-5 record and ASME a 9-6 record.
In the 8:45 Thursday division, the Detroit Club leads with a 20-0 record. The Knights of Columbus are in second place with a 15-5 record. Taft leads the division with a 175 game average. Jim Breitenwischer of the Detroit Club, holds the individual high game mark with 222. DeLatorra is second with 214. Last Thursday’s results were: the Knights of Columbus 2-1 over the Graduate Chemists; Detroit Club over the Irish Club, 3-0; the Irish Air Society (Continued on page 30)
November 18, 1955
29
Many people, especially sports writers, seem to voice the question year after year, “How does Notre Dame always come up with such exceptional quarterbacks?” To me, they imply that a quarterback can be outstanding
all by himself.
FERRANTE ARNETT
Paul Hornung is a fine director, to be sure. He’s come a long way
RAY LEMEK
since he first crouched under the center last September 24. But it hasn’t been just his doing. He’s had some fine help from people like Don Schaefer, who can turn losses into amazing outcomes; Pat Bisceglia, who burrows holes into any defense, Capt. Ray Lemek who has been an outstanding leader in his own right, and End Dick Prendergast.
Lemek returned to practice in September with, at the most, one and a half good legs. Then, after he fought his way to where he belongs, the right tackle slot, he suffered a chest injury, just shy of being a cracked chest bone. Since then he has been in every game, to the extent of almost 25 minutes per game.
That may not seem much, but when a man is playing on mostly heart and a mended body, that’s a ball-player! About all you can say about him is—he’s the captain and that sums it all up. When you have a real player, he always gives his all. You just don’t find leaders like that any old place.
One thing that makes a quarterback look good is his pass completions,
besides his over all ability. Prendergast is one reason why Hornung has been receiving All-American mention. He broke into the starting eleven last spring and took root. Now he is second on the team in minutes played with 404 out of a possible 480, has caught 5 passes for 63 yards and two touchdowns, and recovered 3 fumbles.
Can you expect to have anything but a standout signal-caller when you have such men as these on your team?
Last week I mentioned that I thought it strange that there was no pep rally before the Penn game. Since the column’s appearance, I have heard many and loud cries from members of the Blue Circle Pep Rally Committee. They informed me that it was not their decision to omit the pep rally.
They said that the rally committee and Ray Lemek decided it was time for a student break after six consecutive rallies. And since it followed the big Navy rally they thought it would be poorly attended as were some of the other away game rallies.
They told me that at the first of the school year Coach Terry Brennan and team Captain Ray Lemek asked for fewer pep rallies. Because, they said, that student spirit seems to lag aftei- several consecutive rallies. The result of this, they said, is that the team is inconvenienced rather than fired up. And last week’s poor attendance backs this to the hilt.
Maybe the troops can do better tonight and show the team we’re behind them all the way.
* * * * *
5^	5^
Last week I received a booklet called Stars In Sports written by a Notre Dame graduate, Dave Warner. Dave is currently on the sports staff of the .Rochester (New York) Democrat and Chronicle. This little job has 14 quick biographies about big names in the sport world. It includes Frank Leahy, Terry Brennan, and Greg Rice, all Notre Dame people, and others like Phil Rizzuto, George Mikan, Pat McCormick, and Lou Groza. It was printed by Our Sunday Visitor in Huntington, Ind. Anyone interested in it can get one by sending $.50 to the Book Department down there.
Tomorrow. Forrest Evashevski might have to quote more poetry or something, as he carries a 28-7 shiner home to Iowa City.—D. D.
ND-So. Cal
(Continued from page 28)
have been sharing the fullback position. ' 1 Roberts, a sophomore, has shown great ; ■ promise in being second in scoring, rush- ’ ing, and total offense. Duvall has aver-^ aged five yards per attempt, and has" scored four touchdowns, one of them on a 77 yard run.
This year’s line has been called one ; ' of the best, fastest, and largest (aver- I aging 216 pounds) in Trojan history, j , The line is spearheaded by All-Amer- i ican candidate Orlando Ferrante and his ( .running mate, Co-capt. George Galli. Both are sharp offensive blockers with Galli closely following Ferrante in tack--^ les and assists on defense.
End Leon Clarke, 6-4, 215 pounds. | gives the Trojans one of the largest | wingmen in the nation. He is a proficient receiver and amazingly agile. ’ The tackle situation has given Coach Hill the most trouble this year. He has been alternating Dick Enright, Fabian Abram, and George Belotti at the position but their combined inexperience has hurt the Trojans offensively and de- J fensively.
Vern Sampson has handled the center and middle linebacker positions in outstanding fashion, filling in for the injured 1954 starter Marv Goux. Sophomore Karl Rubke has shown great promise in the brief reserve action he has seen.
Keglers
(Continued from page 29)	|
over Central New York, 2-1; Texas Clu!« over Villagers, 3-0; and the Met Club -over the Washington-Maryland Club, ' 2-1.
In the newly organized Sunday night League, the Titans lead the 6:45 division with a nine won and no loss , record. The Midwestern Club is tied	.
with the Aces for second place with a	I
6-3 record. Shipstad also leads this di- | vision with a 170 game average.	?
The Texas Club leads the 8:45 Sunday , 1 division, having won five games and-j losing but one. Four teams are tied fo^ J second place. They are the Rinky Dinks, Villagers, ASM, and the Nebraska Club. ?
30
The Scholastic
Irish Harrier Squad Carries Perfect Record Into Central Collegiate Conference Meet
The undefeated Irish cross-country-squad carries its spotless record to Chicago today to scale the first of two .stepping stones to national fame, the ’Central Collegiate Conference meet. After loping through a schedule of seven dual meets with finesse, Coach Alex Wilson expects his crack Notre Dame distance men to out-last all comers, and grab the CCC crown.
The chief stumbling blocks to the Irish title-quest are Western Michigan,
JIM DALY
Captains Unbeaten Harriers.
Marquette, and Drake. Both Western Michigan and Drake run in small leagues. Meeting less competition than Notre Dame, Marquette, previously the unknown quantity, is now the key to Irish optimism, aftei’ Notre Dame’s spanking defeat of the Warriors last Saturday.
However, Irish success may hinge on Sophomore Dick DeCamillo, side-lined ^or the last two weeks with a shin-"splint. Coach Wilson hopes that De
Camillo will be able to turn in his usual top-notch performance.
Irish aces Bill .Squires and Captain Jim Daly, both Seniors, should provide Notre Dame’s famous one-two punch that has frozen the hopes of all past opposition.
A week from Monday, November 28, the squad journeys to East Lansing for rhe big step, the NCAA meet. “We jjhould enter the Nationals with a perfect record,” says Coach Wilson, “which will help a great deal. But it is still too early to judge how we will do. A
lot will depend on the condition of the boys.”
Among the entries, five top teams will run neck "and neck over the rugged four mile course. The Far West will send a solid Southern Cal club to East Lansing, while Villanova represents Eastern strength. Fighting the Irish from the Mid-west, Kansas boasts a spotless record for the year, while Notre Dame has already squeaked past Michigan State this year by a single point. Notre Dame will probably use its same starting seven as in the CCC meet.
The Irish wrapped up their first undefeated dual season in years last Saturday, with an easy romp over Marquette, 21-40. Bill Squires gasped through the tape to smash the record for the 4.3 mile course with a brilliant 21:32.9. Right behind him flew Jim Daly, also bettering the old mark of 22:00.8 minutes. Marquette’s speedster Len Kuhl tied down the third position, while the Warriors also placed fourth. Then a solid stream of Irish churned across the line to clinch the triumph. John Michno, Ed Monnelly, and Neil Wallace snared the point positions with their fifth, sixth, and seventh place efforts, while Dale Vandenburg and Bob Huetz polished the victory by finishing eighth and ninth.
Alumni, Dillon Stay Tied; O-C, St. Ed's Lead East
Alumni swamped Lyons 21-0 and Dillon shutout Badin 13-0 as both teams remained the undefeated leaders in the Western League of Interhall football.
Bob Costello tallied twice, once on a 55-yard jaunt, to lead the scoring parade for Alumni -while Jerry Ryan, driving fullback, banged over from five yards out for the other score.
Dillon kept pace as Bill Maddux, talented quarterback, set-up both Dillon TD’s with long passes to halfback Billy Thees. Ed Sobolewski carried over in the second quartei- and Bill Gunning plowed 35 yards through the middle for the touchdown in the final period. Badin threatened twice but was held on each count by determined defensive play.
A 12-6 victory for Morrissey over Walsh kept Morrissey in contention for league honors as Tom Mooney and George Miller each scored on short plunges. Playing in 60 degree weather, Jim Fitzsimmons tallied Walsh’s first touchdown of the year in the last quarter from three yards out.
In Eastern League warfare, Breen-Phillips capitalized on fumbles to hand
St. Ed’s their first defeat of the season against three wins and pull them down into a first-place tie with Off-Campus. Mike Morando climaxed a drive with a two yard scoring dive in the second period, and in the final stanza Centei* Tom Dooley snatched a lateral and lumbered for another score in a play that covered 35 yards. The -win also moved Breen-Phillips back into contention for the league title.
Off-Campus won their third game of the year by subduing Farley 7-0 on a snow-covered field. Both teams played on even terms except for a 40 yard off-tackle dash by “Tex” Tyson in the second quarter. Chuck Connors, Off-Campus left tackle, led the victors in defensive maneuvers.
Iowa Crushed by Ohio State While Trojans Take Holiday
Iowa’s Hawkeyes, next to last Notre Dame opponent this season, were crushed to defeat Saturday afternoon, 20-10. by the hard-running Howard “Hopalong” Cassady and his Ohio State team mates.
OSU, bound for its second straight Big Ten championship, ripped through the Iowa defenses for its fifth conference win.
Big End Jim Freeman notched all of Iowa’s points on a pass from quarter-back Jerry Reichow, a first-period, 16-yard field goal, and the conversion after touchdown.
Meanwhile, Notre Dame’s final opponent, Southern California, was idle Saturday after absorbing a 28-20 setback from the Stanford Indians the previous week.
DAVIN’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Auburn over Clemson
Colorado over Iowa State Georgia Tech over Georgia Arkansas over LSU .
Miami (Fla.) over Alabama Michigan State over Marquette Ohio State over Michigan Oklahoma over Nebraska Kentucky over Tennessee West Virginia over Syracuse Washington over Washington State So. California over UCLA Maryland over George Washington Princeton over Dartmouth Texas A&M over Texas Duke over Wake Forest
Yale over Harvard
Percentage to date—.640 (including five ties)
November 18, 1955
31
LORD WEST
The f > rst name in quality formats
the authentic University model tuxedo... now in brand new
JET BLACK and MIDNITE BLUE lightweight year-round fabrics
natural shoulders
narrow shawl lapel, flap pockets center vent non-pleated
trousers
for name of nearest retailer and free formal dress chart, write—

LORD WEST
tcilc'ec by West Mill
101 West 21 St . New York 11, N. Y
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS
RADIOS SHAVERS
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 South Michigan Street
Phone AT 7-3630
LMIEKETTE
208 E. Jefferson Down Town Use Our Drop Off Service Leave it and We Do it.
Washing Drying at Reasonable Rates.
Colored Hose Washed Free
Ask For Sof-t in your next wash-nocharge
We DO Shirts.
CLOSED THURSDAY AFTERNOONS
Rulli Provides Music For Law Ball Tonight
“Court Jesters En Banc,” the fall Law Ball, will be held tonight at the South Bend Country Club from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Toni Rulli and his orchestra will provide music for approximately 75 law men and their dates.
The dance will be semi-formal and there will be no corsages.
Miss Marilyn Priester is to be crowned queen of the dance by her escort, Dance Chairman Jack Palmer, law school senior. Miss Priester, for
MISS MARILYN PRIESTER Barrister’s Queen.
merly of Chicago, is now a nurse at St. Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend.
Programs and door prizes will be given to the law students’ dates, whose attendance was requested by invitations in the form of an official legal summons.
Tomorrow the dance-goers will watch the Notre Dame-Iowa game. At 9 p.m. tomorrow there will be a combined dance and jam session at the Indiana Club in downtown South Bend.
Sunday morning there will be a Communion Breakfast at the Morris Inn at 9:30. No speaker has been announced as yet.
Joe Gallagher is the general manager of the dance. Gene Volk is in charge of tickets. Pat Foley and Ed Mraz are handling the publicity. Paul Krause and Jim Coryn are taking care of the football tickets. Jack Roberts and Otto Hilbert have been assigned to the transportation committee. Ed White, Jack Rosshirt and Ed Griffin are in charge of the blind date committee, and Jim Sullivan is handling the baby-sitting for the law students in Vetville.
The Student Law Association, under the management of President Jack Thornton, is sponsoring the dance.
South Bend: for reservations, call 21401 or an authorized travel agent.
UNITED
Spend your vacation at home, not getting there!
FLY
UNITED
AIR LINES
Home is just a few short hours away when you fly United, and service includes deluxe DC-7s — world’s fastest airliners.
SAVE MONEY, TOO!
1st Class Mainliner fares are comparable to traveling by rail with berth, but you get full-course mealtime service at no extra cost. And there’s no tipping aloft!
Tuesday and Thursday
T-Bwe Steak only $1.25
Pork drops $1.10
These are complete dinners
Fkuriigo Resturait
610 N. Michigan OPEN SUNDAY

32
The Scholastic
; ^Ninneman Leads ND ! To Debate Team Win
( Richard Ninneman, Notre Dame debate team member, scored top honors at the Tau Kappa Alpha National Debate ’ Fraternity Regional Conference on Nov. ‘	3 and 4 at Purdue University.
Q The Notre Dame team took first place, ' with Dick Schillei- and Pete Devito plac-Iing third and tenth, respectively.
The debaters took part in mock coni' gressional hearings and legislative sessions where they voted on bills with awards given to the outstanding performers.
Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of the Forensic Society, was elected Secretary-ATreasurer of the Midwest Conference. 'Dick Schiller, who served as Tau Kappa Alpha regional president, was elected regional representative to the National Student Council meeting in New York City.
This weekend Dick Ninneman, Jerry Brady, Pat Curran, and Dick Schiller will travel to Purdue for their annual debate tournament. They will debate the National topic, the “Guaranteed An-Awal Wage.”
Also this weekend the society will send eight freshmen to Bradley University where they will take part in debate, discussion oratory, after dinner speaking, and radio newscasting.
Those selected to make the trip are: Stan Kusper, Barney Morris, Jack Zu-felt, Jack Conroy, Pete Devito, Mike Hughes, Joe Hogan, and Jim O’Brien.
On Dec. 1 and 2 the team will go to ^dorris Harvey College in Charleston, "W. Va., where they will argue before an estimated audience of 1,700 people. The following week on Dec. 9 and 10 they will go to the University of Illinois, Navy Pier, and Pittsburgh University.
POST RALLY PARTY
Tonight after the rally there is a ^post rally party in the Drill Hall. ^Bill Malloy and the Spotlighters will supply the music. Admission is $.25. Sport shirts and slacks are required.
Sunday the last of the freshman round robin mixers features Zahm at St. Mary’s Academy and Cavanaugh and St. Ed's at the Student Center.
Next Saturday night there will be an open house in the Student Center ^with refreshments and records for the students and their dates.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J.TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJNJ. Hda.
Sunny Italy Cafe A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
November 18, 1955
ArOv^Murmfs ^Brushup Course
Here’s your cbance co learn the latest dance steps and have fun, too. Arthur Murray is offering a special "brush-up” course that will sweep the cobwebs from your dancing_____make you one of the most sought-after partners on the dance floor. And if you’re a beginner, he has a special
course for you,too,that will have you dancing like an expert in no time at all. So come in now. Stu-diosare open 10 A.M._to 10 P.M.
Gay Sktcrt Parties Every Thursday
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St CE2-3339
for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE’S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
DRR.W. TURBOW
\0PT0ME TRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS --
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED ----
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Nuclear Physics Dept.^ t Builds Atom Smasher
One of the biggest and most unusual do-it-yourself projects is currently y underway on the Notre Dame campus where a group of scientists is building / the University’s new 4,000,000 volt atom smasher. When completed early next^ year, the new installation will solidify-Notre Dame’s standing as one of the j world’s leading laboratories studying the I interaction of electrons with matter. ,'
The University is no newcomer to I atomic research, however, since this new ’ atom smasher is the third of increasing- 1 ly powerful electrostatic generators to j be installed on the campus since 1935. r Since then Notre Dame scientists have recorded several “firsts” in atomic re«*P search. In 1939, for example, they were the first to show that the atom could be disintegrated by electron bombardment. -
The atom smasher now being constructed in Nieuwland Science Hall, । under the supervision of Dr. Bernard Waldman, director of the nuclear phy- / sics project, and Dr. Walter Miller, will be one of the strongest radiation sources in the world. It will produce X-rays high intensity and penetrating power at" the rate of 500,000 roentgens per min- -ute. Its mechanism will be housed in >’ a fifteen ton tank measuring 32 feet long and eight feet in diameter. Concrete , walls and a roof 37 inches thick will pre-	,
vent radiation leakage.
Since World War II when Notre J Dame’s nuclear physics laboratories i carried on research for the Manhattan | Project, the University’s physicists hav^ concentrated on precision type experr3< ments rather than exploratory experiments, Dr. Waldman explained. While atomic installations at some research centers may be more powerful, few will have the stability and precision of the new Notre Dame atom smasher, Waldman said.
For many years Notre Danie’s atomic research program has been supported , jointly by the Atomic Energy Commis- • sion and the Office of Naval Research, i
Both Waldman and Miller carried o< government research at the AEC Los Alamos laboratories during World War II. Waldman was aboard an official observer plane when the atom bomb was dropped on Hiroshima in 1945.
NO ‘SCHOLASTIC’	i
There will be no issue of the li ‘SCHOLASTIC next week due to i the fact that the ‘Ave Maria Press’ < will not be in operation on Thanks- | giving Day. The next issue will be^ I the 52-page ‘Football Review’ on Dec. 2.	J
The Scholastic
e-----------------------------------
f	STUDENT GRIPES
The Student Welfare Committee is asking students to write in letters of objective criticisms on any phase 1 of student life here at Notre Dame.
The committee needs these letters to find out what student “gripes” . are and ideas to ease the situation whatever it might be.
W Address letters to: Student Welz fare Committee, c/o Student Center, Campus.
Architects Hold Exhibit
To Show Thesis Work
Over the coming weekend the architectural students will hold an exhibit ^from 8 a.m. till midnight in the south ^wing of the Architecture Building.
The exhibit will represent Notre Dame in a national round robin architectural contest. The contributions will consist of examples from all phases of the architectural program at Notre Dame.
Among the special features will be detailed photographs of the prize thesis which illustrates the entire process of designing of the proposed Notre Dame ^lining hall from the initial survey to ™he final blueprints.
Also featured ’will be: the tile con-suel prize winning design using ceramics; water color patterns; free hand sketches; full color design plates; and photographs of real life and abstract studies of sculpture.
After the exhibit leaves Notre Dame it will be displayed at many architectural schools in the country, including Harvard, Oklahoma, California, and ^jllinois.
" The exhibit represents the combined efforts of Mr. Frank J. Montana, head of Department of Architecture and the committee of Dick Galehouse, Bob Erdmann, Gervase Sobsefski, Tom Cooke, Tim Cohan and Tony Pucillo.
Free-lance Artists
Help!
I need an artist for occasional illustrations and publication. You make between $5 - $10 per ^drawing. Send samples of your work to Box 101, Notre Dame.
Prof. O'Malley Handles Local Danforth Grants
Applications for Danforth Graduate Fellowships are now being accepted by the Danforth Foundation, an educational trust fund in St. Louis, Mo. The fellowships are granted to college seniors and recent graduates who are interested in doing graduate work.
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., has appointed Frank O’Malley, professor in the English Department, as the. liaison officer to nominate to the Danforth Foundation two or three candidates for these fellowships.
These appointments are fundamentally “a relationship of encouragement” throughout the years of graduate study. They carry a promise of financial aid within the prescribed conditions as there may be need. The maximum annual grant for single students is $1,800; for married students, $2,400 with an additional stipend for children. Students with or without financial need are invited to apply.
All Danforth fellowship winners will participate in the annual Danforth Foundation Conference on Teaching which will be held at Camp Miniwanca in Michigan next September.
The qualifications needed to apply
advertised In EAqubcc.
Good shoe grooming is simple as ABC!”
It's apparent, even to a man who has to cram for Phizz Ed, that this City Club shoe is the right choice for the Sunday date, faculty teas, and other "clothes make the man" occasions. And the $12.95 price tag means that this Isn't a "clothes break the man” occasion.
FREE pin-up of Kim Novakl Ask your City Club Dealer, or write Dept. CN9, Peters, Division of International Shoe Company, St Louis 3, Mo. oSyCtab
One good look, and you’ll agree with Kim Novak
See Kim Novak in “PICNIC” |
A COLUMBIA CINEMASCOPE < PICTURE IN TECHNICOLOR 3
are that the student must be of outstanding academic ability, have personality congenial to the classroom, and be of high integrity and character.
All applications, including recommendations, must be completed by Feb. 15, 1956. Any student wishing further in-formatiort regarding the Fellowships should get in contact with Prof. O’Malley in 347 O’Shaughnessy Hall, 215-Sorin Hall, or P.O. Box 193, Notre Dame, Ind.
ADVANCED DEGREES
An informal smoker will be held for all Notre Dame graduate students on Monday, Nov. 21 at 7:45 p.m. in the Veterans Recreation Hall.
Purpose of the gathering is the reorganization of the Graduate Student Association, the only bond among those seeking advanced degrees at the University.
According to Phil Gleason, last year's president, the smoker will enable graduate students from different departments of the University to meet one another.
Election of officers for the current year will be held at this time.
November 18, 1955
35
BELL SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
For openings in various positions in all parts of the country for Seniors and graduate students in
Engineering, Physics, Science, and Mathematics Also for Seniors in Liberal Arts and Business Administration
REGISTER NOW at the Placement Office
On the main floor • Administration Building
INTERVIEWS on NOVEMBER 21-22
Joe Nabieht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our Specialty
“Chicken In the Rough”
Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
*1.15
HSI, STEAKS, CHOPS
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Give the SCHOLASTIC for CHRISTMAS $4.00 per year
AQUINAS UIRAKY ui NNKSHP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Repercussions 1 ~ <
(Continued from Page 8)	'
be commended rather than condemned.
Our	hats	off to Senator	John	Cusack! d
{I
Donald G.	Tadrowski	t
143 Alumni	j	,
The Junior	Senator
Editor:	3 '
Concerning John Adams’ editorial in ■ [ last week’s issue of the Scholastic we 1 would like to say that there are those * who do not believe that the planned U Senate legislation is “really construe- I tive.”	1
As to the request for the show of , ’ hands on the vote on the budget, it was -done for the purpose of determining who voted for these proposed expendi,!^ tures.	J
As to the Senator whom you are obviously referring to, we would like to	J
say that his presence in the Senate is	i
good for student government. We be- I lieve that he is presenting the student’s 1 । point of view as he honestly sees it and a is trying to persuade the Senate that j student government at Notre Dame has * great room for improvement and should '■ be government for the students.
James R. Kennedy, Science Senator Francis J. Pedace, President, Junior Class ’
Joseph S. Safko	i
Secretary, Student Senate I ,
Chicago Thanksgiving Dance . To Feature Music of Butler
Fletcher Butler’s 15-piece band ivil^; set the beat for the Chicago Club’s ‘ annual Thanksgiving Dance at the Sherman Hotel, Randolph and Clark Sts., Chicago, next Wednesday evening.
Six hundred and fifty couples will step to Butler’s melodies from 9:30 p.m. until 1 a.m. Butler will be appearing in his fourth successive Thanksgiving engagement before the Windy City group. He has previously played i for many college dances including the i recent ND Science Ball.
■3
Tickets are available through haii representatives of the Chicago Club for $4.50. At the door admission will be $5.
“The Dance is open to the entire student body, whether a member of the Chicago Club or not,” emphasizes Jerry Sweeny, president.
Co-chairmen for the occasion are John Broderick, vice-president, and Paul Noland. Other officers include Pappy Corrigan, secretary, John McCarthy, treasurer, and Committeemen Jim Dow^ die, Ed Gleason, Bill Rigali, Willi? Kearney, Gene Brennan, and Bud Freidheim.
The Scholastic
56
at
NOTRE DAME
the
Holy Cross Fathers
publish
Cover design by Charles Kerins
THE CATHOLIC BOY
the BEST all-round magazine any boy could want!
THE CATHOLIC BOY Notre Dame, Indiana Please send the Catholic Boy
□ 1 year —$2.50 □ 2 years — $4.50 □ 3 years — $6.00
Two or more 1-yr. subscriptions $2.00 each
To:.....................................................................
Name
Street and Number
City	Zone	State
□ Send Gift Card to read from
Your Name
Your Address
Q Pages Chock-full of SPORTS, ADVENTURE, COMICS, STORIES, HOBBIES and CATHOLIC INSPIRATION.
Only *230 a year!
Published monthly except during July and August
YOUR BIG RED LETTER DAY
1. SUPERIOR FILTER Only L&M gives you the superior filtration of the Miracle Tip, the purest tip that ever touched your lips. It’s white... all white... pure white!
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
EFFECTIVE FILTRATION

2. SUPERIOR TASTE L&M’s superior taste comes from superior tobaccos — especially selected for filter smoking. Tobaccos that are richer, tastier ... and licdit and mild.


KING SIZE
LIGGETT £ MYERS TOBACCO CO
America’s Best Filter Cigarette