Disce quasi scraper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Von. XVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 1884,
No. 5.
The Lesson of a Picture.
R. MONCKTON MILNES, in The “Ave Maria."
It was a holy usage to record
Upon each refectory’s side and end The last mysterious Supper of our Lord, That meanest appetites might upward tend.
Within the convent palace of old Spain, Rich with the gifts and monuments of kings, Hung such a picture, said by some to reign The sovereign glory of those wondrous things,
A painter of far fame, in deep delight, Dwelt on each beauty he so well discerned, While in low tones a grey Geronomite This answer to his ecstasy returned.
“ Stranger! I have received my daily meal In this good company now threescore years;
And thou, whoe’er thou art, canst hardly feel How Time these lifeless images endears.
“ Lifeless—ah! no: both Faith and Art have given o That passing hour a life of endless rest, And every, soul who loves the Food of Heaven May to that table come a welcome guest.
“ Lifeless—ah! no: while in mine heart are stored Sad memories of my brethren dead and gone, Familiar places vacant round our board, And still that silent Supper lasting on.
“ When I review my youth—what I was then— What I am now, and ye, beloved ones all!
It seems as 'A these were the living men, And vie the colored shadows on the wall.”
The IVth Eclogue of Virgil.
The dogma of the fall of man and the promise of a Redeemer handed down by tradition passed indirectly through the pagan nations of old, -and, though subject to many changes and corruptions, was preserved in their religious rites and sacrifices,—in their laws, philosophy and mythology. The first dogma, from which depends all the mystery of the redemption of the human race, is the early truth of original sin—of the partial prostration of all the moral faculties, of the stain cast
upon the human race, of the necessity of effacing it and restoring to man the mysterious power of holding converse with the Divinitv. In all the most ancient traditions of the nations, in all the systems of ancient philosophy which men of powerful minds and untiring industry founded, arranged or adorned, not one principle is more clearly and fully developed than the necessity of recovering the primitive innocence and purity of the soul.
That Virgil adopted these opinions and .that the tradition transmitted to us through this eclogue is that of original sin, and of the necessity of repairing the fault, admits not of a doubt. For upon an attentive examination of the train of thought and the peculiar principles of his works we discover in an instant his devotion to the opinions of the Pla-tonists and Stoics. And when we recall to pur recollection the sublime verses in the 6th Eneid, where is presented a magnificent tableau in which the poet traces the origin of the soul to that divine spirit which overshadows the immense assemblage of the universe it animates and directs—that charming elegy where he mourns for the soul as for a captive detained in obscurity and plunged in darkness as long as it is incarcerated in this mortal mould, we again behold the various kinds of torment the soul is destined to undergo, until, pure and unsullied, it may gain admission and rest in the plains of Elysium. What inspiration was there operating upon this delicate spirit, this “soul poetic,” when in another part of this same poem, in sad and plaintive strain, he shows us the souls of tender infants whom the unsparing hand of death has mowed down on the very breast of the mother before they had tasted aught of life and hope, all grief and sadness! Wherefore those tears, those tones of grief and agonizing lamentations? What crime requires such punishment? Whence did the poet derive a fiction so strange and pitiless? What origin assign it other than the ancient belief that we are conceived in wickedness and born in sin!
As if to complete the testimony in favor of this tradition, Virgil leads us up « the long, dark path of time ” and sets before our view the primitive condition of man—his state of innocent felicity— times of justice and virtue—the age of gold and days of happiness. . The recollection and description of an age of gold are transmitted through all the first monuments of antiquity. The ancient Hesiod, anterior to Homer, or, at least, contemporaneous with the genius, that sang in undying notes
66
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the most ancient traditions of Greece; and Plato, the indefatigable traveller, who collected with unexampled industry and depicted with inimitable eloquence the doctrines of all the East—the poets and moralists of the earliest nations; in a word, all authors of remoter times commence their history of the world and of religion, with the description of an age of goodness, during which men conversed familiarly with God, when the essence of life was not affected by disappointment, nor life itself destroyed by want and disease.
And whence this tradition of ancient days? Not from history; for pagan antiquity affords not a single historian—not a single monument or isolated fact which can direct us to the people who lived in these times and enjoyed those delights of this period. On the contrary, all historians, both Greek and Latin, and all the ancient travellers who describe to us the uncultivated nations visited by them; in a word, all authors of early times go not back beyond the days when man was savage, miserable, wandering, deriving sustenance from the acorn or the roots of the forest, with thick, undressed skins for a covering—man full of ferocity and ignorance and blood, and but little above the brute creation in condition or desires. Nor can it be asserted that the age of gold is an invention of philosophy. Its ideas on this head are widely different. The Epicureans and Peripatetics in ancient, and their foolish imitators of modern times, essayed to explain, in a manner entirely their own, the origin and the primitive state of the world and of the human kind. But, far from commencing with an age of goodness and abundance, they introduce our progenitors, rising from the bosom of the eaith of composing a herd of timid beasts without an idea of God— without language, without society and without laws, dismayed and stupified at every step by frightful prodigies and by the imposing force of nature.
It is, therefore, only in the earliest religious traditions preserved during the long lives of the antediluvian patriarchs, and by them handed down to those who, afterwards dispersed over the earth, became the fathers of all nations, that we can with any confidence search for the recollection of this happy age called the age of gold; for the times when Saturn ruled and for the days of Astrea’s reign, which passed away because of the sins of men, and was succeeded by a hard and bitter time —the iron age. But the memory of this golden age and the regret for its departure still remained, nourishing the vows and sustaining the hopes of unfortunate man, who kept enshrined within his heart the remembrance of his former grandeur and the expectation that God again, as once had been His wont, would deign to hold communion with him and restore to earth and its inhabitants its long departed joy and felicity. Of the existence of these traditions Virgil in this eclogue furnishes the most conclusive evidence. This tradition, too, suggested to him to apply to the child, of whom he prophecies not only the most magnificent images with which the poets had adorned their descriptions of the golden age, but
also to confer upon him the title even of God— “ Ilie deilm vitam accipict ....
Cara defim soboles, magnum Jovis incrcmcntum.’’ Wrong would it be to attempt to explain away this language by asserting it to be a poetical exaggeration or the flattery of a courtier. The first hypothesis is contradicted at the very outset by the well-known pure and refined taste of Virgil who, when at another time promising a glorious destiny and career to a prince who had given the most flattering hopes of future greatness, thought it sufficient to say—
.... Si qua fata aspera rumpas
Tu Marcellus eris ....
Not less objectionable is the other supposition; foi when Virgil addressed this piece to Pollio adulation had not advanced so far as to deify the Roman emperors. The warmest partizans of Cajsar scarce dared to elevate him to the dignity of a demi-god and give him a place among the stars. Assuredly, then, none would have had the boldness and temerity to confer on the son of Octavia and Augustus, or on any other Roman, an honor half refused and but half granted to the first and greatest of Rome’s emperors.
That same tradition, however, which recalled to the minds of the people their former felicity, which reproached them with their utter inability to rescue themselves, also announced and transmitted the promise of a Child—God Himself—who, as mediator between man and the Divinity, would efface all stain, disclose all truth, and restore all virtue and justice. His heart, teeming with this sublime hope—intellect enriched and glowing with the stores of history, of poesy, and tradition—seduced by the beautiful and fascinating images, which Platonism contained and had revealed, Virgil forgets Pollio and the civil wars, and the peace of Brundisium—objects too trite and far too cold for the burning entl uisiasm which inflamed him—and, turning his view to more elevated subjects, sings on a higher and more majestic scale, and is converted into the poet, or, rather, into the oracle of this inspiring and universal prediction. And what still more excites our wonder and astonishment is that the brilliant imagery which adorns and illustrates his account of the happy age which the celestial Child was to restore not only accords with that which the poets have introduced into their, descriptions of the golden age but also appears in some sort a reproduction of those masterly and superhuman touches and colorings of the prophet Isaiah when portraying the happy reign of the Messiah. So evident is this resemblance that Pope, when about to translate this “ Eclogue to Pollio,” paraphrased and applied it to our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, and by Isaiah’s own language rendered the expressions and images of the Latin Theocritus.
After having reviewed the origin of the fundamental ideas of this poem, there can be no more appropriate continuation than to examine into and point out the source of the poetical images by which it is so highly adorned. To effect this, the means which facilitated Virgil in his knowl-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	'	67
edge of the books, or, at least, of the prophecies of the Hebrews must be exhibited. Whatever the opinion the critic may feel inclined to form from the intercourse which the Hebrews had with the Greeks and Romans, and from the knowledge which the latter might possess of the books of the former, one fact is indisputable that everything concurred in introducing into Rome and in circulating among its wise men those sublime doctrines and those beauties of the first rank which abound in the works of Moses and the prophets. The influx of the Jews after the times of Alexander, • and with the approbation of the Ptolemies and the
Seleucides, into the most celebrated cities of the East; the synagogues there erected; the translation of their sacred volumes, to which the wise and learned gave zealous attention and which occupied distinguished places in the most famous libraries; their taste, or, rather, their mania, as great in the centre of Judea as beyond its territories, for the philosophy, the poetry, the games and even for the manners of the Greeks; the wars which after the time of Pompey had swept up to the very gates of Jerusalem; the powerful influence which the Roman Senate exercised over the destinies of this nation and the succession to its throne; its treaties and alliances with its conquerors; the extensive commerce carried on between the capital of the world and its provinces; the strong friendship which existed between Agrippa and other Hebrew Princes and many of the Roman Senators and Generals; the avidity with which the learned of that time sought for knowledge, and the particular curiosity which induced them to observe and examine every document, every doctrine, every practice, every tradition, which owed its origin to the East; the intimacy between Herod and Pollio, to whom he stood in the character of host, and with the wise Nicholas of Damas, who acted as his minister at the Court of Augustus by whom he was tenderly beloved; all these facts, so well known and so abundantly authenticated by a crowd of grave and trusty writers, are so conclusive and overwhelming when collated that it is impossible to hold but one opinion on this subject. We are forced to admit that the Hebrew books or, at least, the doctrines and the beauties they contain, were familiar to the wise men of Rome and more particularly to Virgil, the intimate friend and constant companion of Pollio and Augustus, who searched with a spirit so unflagging and an avidity so extraordinary for every jewel and every brilliant which might lie hidden in the mines of a strange nation’s literature. In fact, an argument with much less force and potency would establish beyond controversy the passing of a science from one people and nation to another.
An inquiry into the traditions and philosophical opinions of the era in which Virgil wrote has thus insensibly conducted us to the sources from which the substance of this poem is derived. The perusal of the sacred volumes, or, at least, his familiarity with the doctrines which they contain point out what masters Virgil has followed and from whom he has drawn his most attractive images
and illustrations, and explains the peculiar nature and style of this eclogue, which seems of an entirely oriental character, although as severe and chastened in composition as any specimen of poetry, strictly Latin in thought-and expression.
If the different parts of this eclogue -be viewed in juxtaposition and observed as with a single coup d'ceil it presents the following distinct points and features: that in the earliest times man lived in a state of entire justice and felicity; that he was miserably precipitated from his high estate into every abyss of error and of vice; but that at last the fatal period of his debasement approaches a conclusion; that a Divine Child was about to appear among men, accompanied by the Virgin Goddess of Justice; that Fie would raise up a holy and a heavcnlv generation, and that the reign of Saturn, a reign of peace and abundance, would return; that He would do battle against the enemies of the human race, would conquer and triumph over them, would wipe away everv stain, remove every blemish and would reign the peaceful sovereign of a universe kneeling in security and happiness at His feet. At His coming the universe would cry out for very joy, the mountains quake and bow their tops, the world rejoice on its immense axis, the earth put on a spontaneous verdure, the lion feed with the lamb, the serpent and the tempter dissappear, and trees, and forests, and prairies, and gardens, and flocks of the field, and all else of the beautiful in nature surround and give of their riches and their beauty to adorn and ornament the heavenly cradle and honor the Divine birth.
Incipc, parve puer, risu cognoscere Matrem.
Whatever child Virgil may have had in view, whatever the immediate occasion of the poem, whatever the monuments and the traditions which commentator or critic may offer as the source of the Mantuan’s sentiments and ideas, whatever the epoch or the country, is it possible that, in the face of this combination of facts, all should not agree that the most conspicuous and prominent thought which meets you at the opening and bears you company to the end of this eclogue is the self-same thought of the tradition common to the whole human family, the object of the vows and the aspirations ofyill eyes and of the language and writings of all the Prophets who described and predicted the coming of the Redeemer? Is it not on these elements —on the destruction of our innocence, the necessity of a heavcnlv liberator, the return of-the reign of peace and justice that rests the whole mystery of the redemption? Is it not so announced by the Divinity to the Patriarchs, who transmitted it to all people, and so described by the Prophets in colors and by images as various as they are magnificent and brilliant? And, moreover, if we consider that not a single historical fact of the times of Virgil affords us the.slightest explanation of the mystery relative to this wonderful child ■whom he announces, but that the opinions of his era, the traditions spread among his contemporaries, the philosophical doctrines by which his spirit was nourished and supported explain to our utmost satisfaction
68
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC..
the cause and the origin of every division of this great poem, in a word, that the poet’s expressions and his imagery are not only vastly different and distinct from his usual style and manner, but also are without parallel or resemblance in all antiquity, except among the Prophets, we cannot but concur in acknowledging- that this Eclogue of Virgil is the most beautiful, the most stately, and the most enduring monument ever conceived by pagan mind and erected by pagan hands to extend and perpetuate that great and soothing tradition which announced the coming of the Messiah.
J. E. D.
Good Company.
Die mihi, qureso, quid es, ambarumne?
Talibus floccum gravis allocutus
Est sophus, quem nectareos odores
* Spargere sensit.
Candide turn floccus ad luec: Ego non
Ambarum, pulvis penitus; sed audi:
Accidit fauste mihi cum rosis me
Esse parumper.
A. C.
A Vacation Trip.
The vacation of ’84 had come at last, and with it the realization of numberless and long-anticipated pleasures. To every student it brought rest and recreation in some particular way. To me it marked an event long to be remembered,—a trip through the most interesting, picturesque, and historic part of America: starting from the Missouri River, travellingover the Great Lakes, through the beautiful Lehigh Valley, along the Atlantic coast to New York, and returning by way of the Hudson River and Niagara Falls.
A voyage over the Great Lakes alone would furnish subject enough for volumes of interesting and instructive facts. Its attractions cm-brace the interesting sights of Mackinaw, St. Clair River, the Locks, and the shipping districts. From Buffalo, where wc disembarked from the lake steamer, our route led us to .Ithaca, N. Y., the seat of Cornell University, and, of course, we paid the institution a visit. Situated on a hill above the town, and commanding a magnificent view of Cayuga Lake, which stretches off into the distance for fort}7 miles, the location is both striking and beautiful. Three rectangular stone buildings comprise the college proper, while around it and beautifully located are its dependencies—Sage College, Mechanic Hall, Observatory, Armory, chapel, and a few of the Professors’ residences. Driving through the beautiful grounds, we passed the well-known McGrath-Fiske mansion, and a five-minutes’ trot down the old Cascadilla. road brought us to the village, to which we bade adieu that day. Boarding the fast “Lehigh Valley Express,” we crossed the Pennsylvania line, and our route for 75 miles lay through the great “ coal-sheds of Amer
ica.” Shooting past immense coal heaps, rushing through rockv bluffs, and winding over the mountains, the traveller is brought into a variety of interesting scenes and situations: o
“ Whizzing through the mountain, Buzzing o’er the vale;
Bless me! this is pleasant, Riding on the rail! ”
The country round about Wilkesbarre and Mauch Chunk has well been termed “ The.Switzerland of America,” for it is one long panorama of rugged hills and verdant valleys, through which winds the North Branch of the Susquehannah.
Shortly before sunrise, on Sunday morning, we arrived at Jersey City, whence we were transferred by ferry across the North River to New Yrork. The city lay half enveloped in the mists of morning: and as we looked from the deck of our boat at the distant spires and domes we saw but the realization of the sage Oloffe Van Kortlandt’s drcam. As it would be useless to attempt describing all the things of interest to be seen during a three-weeks’ visit, I will mention but a few of the principal attractions.	'
Our first thought, of course, -was to go to church; so after partaking of a late breakfast, we started for St. Patrick’s Cathedral, which is situated on fifth Av. and 50th st. This is an immense stone and marble edifice (the finest church in New York), whose lofty roof may cover some twenty thousand people, and though not decorated like our lovely church at Notre Dame, still bears some resemblance to it. Upon our return to the hotel, there was found an invitation from an old friend— ■ recently one of Notre Dame’s brightest young students—for the writer to visit him at his sea-side home, Seabright, N. J. What with the sea air, plunging in the surf, sailing, etc., he had become so corpulent as, with difficulty, to be recognized as the popular late “ Col. Watson ” and herd of “Portage PrairieP
As one of the pleasant features of a sojourn about the Metropolis is a ride down the bay, we purchased tickets over one of the many steamers that daily leave the piers for Long Branch and Coney Island. From the shady deck we obtained a splendid view of the Brooklyn Bridge, Governor’s Island, the Jersey Shore, and Bedloe’s Island, on which could be seen the partly-erected pedestal for the Statue of Liberty. Thousands of people from New York city go to these watering places every morning, and, after spending the day in general sight-seeing and enjoyment, return on one of the evening boats; thus taking an inexpensive and enjoyable recreation near home, without the necessity of leaving business and stopping at some distant resort, where hotel-keepers are synonymous with millionaires. At Coney Island there is a real marvel in the science of architecture,—a hotel inside of an elephant. The “Elephant,” as it is called, is an immense wooden structure, about 125 feet high, built in the exact figure of the beast, whose colossal legs are the stairways and elevators, and whose capacious stomach and head constitute an hotel of 50 finely-furnished rooms. •
THE NOTRE DANE SCHOLASTIC.
Another week spent in visiting such places as the High Bridge, Old Trinity Church, Brooklyn Bridge, Navy Yard, and Central Park—all of which would well repay the visitor for his pains— and the time allotted for our trip expired. Were not our homeward trip so beautiful and eventful, we would have felt many regrets at leaving; but, from the hour that the steamer passed the limits of the city our minds were absorbed in studying the magnificent scenes of the Hudson River.
We know of no other river in the world which presents such a variety of views as does this one. Throughout its whole extent—from the “ Wilderness to the Sea,” from the Adirondacks to Staten Island, there is a combination of the most beautiful pictures which seem to illustrate some of the best scenery of the Old World. For fifteen miles the Palisades present their bold front to the river, an unbroken wall of rock, reaching sometimes five and six hundred feet in height. As we drew near Sunnyside—the home of Washington Irving—the Palisades faded behind us, and gave place to sloping fields and level stretches of woodland. Nestling snug between the foliage, the roof and gabled ends of old “ Wolfert’s Roost ” were seen for a few seconds, and then, after an hour’s ride, we emerged into the Tappan Zee and passed Sleepy Hollow.
And now, after passing Peekskill, the scenery changes from the quiet repose of the Tappan Zee to the steep, rocky bluffs and hills of the Highlands,— “ And as you nearer draw, each wooded height
Puts off the azure hues by distance given, And slowly break upon the enamored sight
Ravine, crag, field, and wood, in colors true and bright.” The Hudson now winds for 20 miles through the Highlands, whose frowning hills sometimes seem to present impenetrable barriers to our further progress; and then, sweeping majestically around at almost right angles, it flows many miles between the towering hills—“ a jewel in the rough.”
A few miles below West Point is Anthony’s Nose, boldly outlined against the blue sky; while a little farther above we passed old Cro’ Nest Mountain and Storm King, 1S00 feet high, being the highest peak of the Highlands, which here trend off to the northeast. Many spots of historic interest are pointed out to the traveller from this point to Albany, where the river is guarded by the Catskills, the most classic range of mountains in our country. These mountains are, indeed, the glory of the Hudson; and we can give no better description of them than to relate the words of Washington Irving, in writing of his first voyage up the Hudson, many years ago: “Of all the scenery of the Hudson, the Kaatskill Mountains had the most witching effect on my boyish imagination. Never shall I forget the effect upon me of the first view of them, predominating over a wide extent of country,—part wild, woody, and rugged; part softened away into all the graces of cultivation. I lay on the deck and watched them through a long summer’s day undergoing a -thousand mutations under the magical effects of atmosphere; now almost melting into hazy distance; now burnished by the setting sun, until in
the evening they printed themselves against the glowing sky in the deep purple of an Italian landscape.”
Pages and volumes could be devoted to describing this beautiful scenery, so justly celebrated in Europe and America; but as I have already trespassed upon the patience of the reader, I will now bring my effort to a close, knowing that I could not do it justice unless I were to occupy much valuable space and enter more largely into detail.	F. H. D.
Phonography.
“ Who that is much in the habit of writing has not often wished for some means of expressing by two or three dashes of the pen that which, as things are, it requires such an expenditure of time and labor to commit to paper? Oir present mode of communication must be felt to be cumbersome in the last degree—unworthy of these days of invention. We require some means of bringing the operations of the mind and of the hand into close correspondence.”—English Review.
Phonography—writing by sound—is a system of writing any language by means of an alphabet composed of the simplest geometrical forms, and in which one character represents one and always the same sound. Phonography dates as far back as the time of Cicero. We are told that Tiro— the freedman of Cicero—wrote phonography, although, strictly speaking, he wrote merely an abbreviated system of longhand.
There are three principal epochs in the history of the study and improvement of phonography in modern times, two ending respectively with the publication of the system of Mason (1682), of Taylor (1786), and the third beginning with the first edition of phonography by Isaac Pitman, in lS37-
Previous to the year 1823, the treatises on the art of phonography were sold at high prices, and were thus beyond the reach of many who were desirous of learning the art. To meet this difficulty, William Harding, a bookseller in London, published, in 1823, a neat edition of Taylor’s system, with some few improvements. The book sold extensively at the price of 3s. 6d., and in a few years other booksellers supplied, not only Taylor’s, but also other systems at cheaper prices.
In 1837, Isaac Pitman, in attempting to improve upon Taylor’s system by distinguishing the long and short sounds of the vowels, conceived the principles of our present system. After a labor of a few years he formed a new system of phonography which is, however, so different from Taylor’s system that its origin can scarcely be discovered in the other; and, being founded on the “ Alphabet of Nature,” and practised so very extensively in the United States and England, its publication may, perhaps, be called the “third epoch in the history of the development of shorthand.”
For professional purposes, phonography has been studied since the year 178°; Mr. Perry, the proprietor of the Morning Chronicle., organizing in that year a corps of reporters. Up to that time
7°
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
its usefulness had not been appreciated by the. people at large. Although the art was known to some, it was practised so little, that it is said of Dr. Johnson, •who was one of the first Parliamentary reporters, that instead of reporting the speeches of the Lords, etc., he composed them.
At the present day, phonography, or shorthand, is a necessity. The records of national and State Legislature, the proceedings of the law courts, the reports of public meetings, the reports of sermons, lectures, and even private utterances of distinguished men are all obtained by the aid of phonography. In fact, phonography is unequalled by any system ever invented, not only for verbatim reporting, but for correspondence, book-keeping, memoranda or composition; and for all those purposes' it is used very extensively in the United States and England.
C. C. K.
Scientific Notes.
—Toy dioramas are popular- in Paris. They consist of microscopic views photographed on tiny magnifying lenses. These are set in a handsome decorated card, and are comparatively inexpensive.
—In regard to the discovery of silver ore in New York and other Atlantic States, Prof. Newberry asserts that silver is not uncommon along the Appala chian range, but seldom occurs in paying proportions. Nine-tenths of the mines in these districts fail.
—Uranium photography is becoming popular in France. The salts of the metal are a gold, green, and greenish-brown, and in thin layers produce very delicate tints. For photographing forests and landscapes they are superior, giving pictures that are nearly perfect reproductions of nature.
—Cremation is making great strides in France. The Prefect of the Seine means to establish Siemens furnaces in several of the cemeteries of Paris, and proposes to cremate all persons whose bodies are not claimed by their friends. If this experiment proves successful, the Government will probably introduce a general bill on cremation.
—A young man in prison at Karlaus, Bohemia, has constructed a marvel of ingenuity in the shape of a watch eight centimetres in diameter and two in thickness, made from the only materials available to him—straw, thread, two needles, and a small piece of paper as a dial plate. It goes for six hours, and with a little more, necessary material could be made to go for twelve.
—According to the Lumberman's Gazette, paper bottles are now largely manufactured in Germany and Austria. They are made of rags, wood pulp, and straw, and are coated on both sides with defribrinated blood, lime, and alumina. ■ They are manufactured in two parts and are submitted to high pressure. When completed, they will hold spirits, acid, etc., and are riot easily broken. Their cost is-very low.	•	.
—The sun is photographed every day at several different observatories. Recently Dr. Huggins has succeeded in obtaining very good photographs of a wonderful celestial object which is invisible to the eyes of man, except during total solar eclipses—that is, the corona of the sun. By an ingenious arrangement he so diffused the daylight in the atmosphere as to catch on a sensitive plate the faint impression of those marvellous steamers of light that surround the sun and sometimes extend outward millions of miles from its surface.
— It is said that an electric hand-lamp has been invented, the illuminating principle of which is generated by some simple chemicals that are ridiculously cheap and easily manipulated. A little sliding drawer at the bottom of the lamp holds the electric spark in solution, while, by simply touching a button, a magnificent light is developed or extinguished, as the case may be. This lamp does not specially differ in appearance from the ordinary kerosene affair, and can be used in the same way, but with a complete absence of trouble, odor, or danger.
—An English journal frankly gives credit to the American nation for at least fifteen inventions and discoveries which, it says, have been adopted all over the world. These triumphs of American genius are thus enumerated: First, the cotton-gin: second, the planing-machine; third, the grassmower and grain-reaper; fourth, the rotary printing-press; fifth, navigation by steam; sixth, the hot-air or caloric engine; seventh, the sewing machine; eighth, the India-rubber (vulcanite process) industry; ninth, the machine manufacture of horseshoes; tenth, the sand-blast for carving; eleventh, the gauge-lathe; twelfth, the grain elevator; thirteenth, artificial ice manufacture on a large scale; fourteenth, the electro-magnet and its practical application; fifteenth, the type-composing machine for printers.
—It has been stated again and again that swallows desert a district infected with cholera. The cholera correspondent of the Times (August 2) says that “ it is certain that there are none just now in Marseilles.” Biologists appear to have hitherto regarded the statement as a popular fancy, but I think it worthy of better treatment. The idea that the bird has a mysterious instinct, by which it divines the evil and avoids it, is, of course, absurd; but there .may be other very good and practical reasons, from a swallow’s point of view, for leaving any place where the virus abounds. We know that swallows feed chiefly on gnats, and also that by far the longest period of gnat-life is spent in the water. The gnat is a winged, air-wandering creature only during the last brief breeding state of its existence. During all its growing life it is an aquatic animal; the egg floats on the surface of the water; the pupa is a twisting, jerking, jointed, worm-like creature, living and feeding in the water, though breathing air through a tube, which it thrusts above the surface; the big-headed, wrig-geling, tufted larva lives in like manner, and elaborates within it the winged creature that merely
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
emerges to perform paternal duties in air and die. As cholera is propagated by polluted water, there is nothing unreasonable in supposing that such pollution is inimical to gnat-life, and if so, the disappearance of the swallows is at once explained. They naturally desert the place from which their food supplies are cut off.— Gentlemen? s Magazine.
College Gossip.
—Cornell has received a gift of $50,000 for the endowment of a Chair of Philosophy.
—The Sophomores of Lehigh University have wisely passed resolutions declaring that they will not participate in hazing, and will endeavor to discountenance it.
—$100,000 will shortly be forwarded to Cardinal McCabe, according to the terms of the will of the late James Scanlan. It is intended to establish in Dublin the Scanlan Institute.
—Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, Director of the Gymnasium at Harvard, says that greater attention than ever will be given to athletics at the college the coming year. The report that the Facuity will forbid football, he says, is without foundation.
—Nine American colleges have adopted the Oxford caps. This is well. Heretofore, the only thing that distinguished a college student from other people has been the bad spelling in bis letters home asking for money to “ buy books.”—Burdette.
—Female education is making rapid progress in India, intelligent and wealthy natives doing much to advance it. A Bombay merchant has lately given fifteen thousand rupees toward the founding of a girls’ school; and the Maaraja of Travancore has given a large sum in aid of female medical education.
—The Japanese section of the educational exhibits at the London health exhibition has attracted great attention. Among the features of the Japanese system of education are the setting apart in their schools of a room for teaching the principles of civility. In many schools careful observations are regularly made of the health conditions of children and students, and recorded in systematic tables for future use.
—The Hon. Donald A. Smith, of Canada, has given fifty thousand dollars to the McGill University in Montreal for the endowment of a woman’s college in affiliation with that institution. Not long ago he gave fifty thousand dollars to the medical department of the university for the endowment of a professorship, and it is said he will give still another equal sum for a free library. Mr. Smith is a director of the Canadian Pacific Kail way, and formerly was governor of the Hudson ‘Bay Territories in the Northwest.
—The Home Journal says: “ The workshop in connection with the College of the City of New York, established a year or two ago, is a feature ■which is found to operate satisfactorily to all con-.cefned, and promises to be a valuable addition.
The workshop to teach the working in iron and other metals is a branch just opened. It presents a lively scene during the busy hours, with its two dozen anvils in full operation and as many small forges in full blast. The registry of the college for the past years shows a total of nine hundred and forty students, over six hundred of whom are in the preparatory or sub-freshman class. - The college is accomplishing excellent results in its way and General Alex. S. Webb may be proud of the institution over which he so ably presides.”
—The Laval-Victoria University question, which has been the subject of much discussion in religious and professional circles, and especially among certain French-Canadian newspapers, has been definitively settled by the Holy See. A Papal decree has been issued by which all the former decisions of Rome, establishing Laval as the recognized Catholic University of the Province of Quebec, have been maintained; and by which the Montreal School of Medicine and Surgery (Victoria) is entitled to preserve all its rights and privileges as regards the attendance of hospitals, dispensaries, etc. The Eloly See also urges upon all the bishops to unite in advancing the interests of Laval, and calls upon all the colleges and schools in Canada not yet affiliated to this university to effect an affiliation as soon as possible.
—A valuable addition has been made recently to the department of philology of the Columbia College Library by the presentation of a grammar and dictionary of the language of the Duke of York’s Island, of the New Britain group. The author and donor is the Rev. George Brown, F. R. G. S., etc., for several years a missionary at these islands, and now a resident clergyman at Sydney, N. S. W. He sends also a printed translation of the Gospel of St. Mark into the same language. There are but two copies of the grammar and dictionary in existence, and this is the only one in America. The languages spoken in the New Britain group are dialects of the Papuan, or Melanesian language; and as the means of studying it are as yet very restricted, these works must be of marked interest to advanced students of philology.
—One day last week Mgr. Capel paid a visit to one of the grammar schools of New York City. About 900 children were marshalled in the main room to do honor to the distinguished visitor, and they sang songs, among them the “ Star-Spangled Banner.” At its conclusion, he asked permission to put a few questions to the scholars.
“ What do you understand by ‘land of the free? ’ he asked.
A bright little miss promptly responded: “ America, where all are free to do as we please.”
“And what do you mean by ‘home of the brave?”’ continued Mgr. Capel.
“ I know,” lisped a little tot from the rear of the room, raising her chubby hand to make herself seen; “because we whipped the English.” And the great man’s face assumed a smile, while the teachers stuffed their handkerchiefs in their mouths to smother their merriment,	'
72
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,

Notre Dame, October 4, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University'bf Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 for Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Last Thursday evening, Rev. S. Fitte delivered the first of the series of Lectures on Church History before a class of over fifty students. It was gratifying to note the large number of those who attended and manifested their interest in this new feature in the Course of Christian Doctrine. The Rev. lecturer, in opening, referred to this fact, congratulating his hearers and encour-aging them to persevere. He then proceeded to state the object of the course, and defined Church History to be “ the science which treats of the establishment and successive growth of the kingdom of God upon earth, and the deliverance, restoration and sanctification of man by divine power and grace.” He dwelt at length upon the-importance of the study, not only as the necessary complement of a thorough Christian education, but as an essen-tial element in the pursuit of other studies, whether Theology, Philosophy, Law or Science.
“ The grand, incomparable object of Church History,” said the speaker, “ is to follow the fortunes and trace the progress of the kingdom of Christ among men: (1) by narrating the peculiar circumstances under which the Church, by command of her Divine Author, and like the mustardseed in the Gospel, sprang into life and expanded to the end of the Universe. And how She leavened and renewed the Old World and successively received all nations under the wide-spreading branches of Faith and Charity; (2) by setting forth how a divinely-constituted Hierarchy, consisting of a Supreme Pontiff Bishops, Priests and Deacons, necessarily called into existence an Ecclesiastical Discipline; this Hierarchy, though human as regards its
members, must be divine in its teachings and know how to adapt its regulations to the requirements of every age and country; (3) by showing that the same Church, fully conscious of possessing the deposit of Revelation, built up, step by step, a complete system of theological science; (4) by pointing out how the Church, through outward and public worship gave expression to her inward life, and thus used the means best calculated to excite and foster the piety and devotion of her children.”
These points were developed at length, and after taking a general view of the state of the world under the reign of the Emperor Augustus, the introductory lecture was brought to a close. The Rev. lecturer was listened to with the deepest attention throughout. There is, indeed, every indication that the introduction of this course will be attended with marked success. We regret that circumstances have obliged us to give but this meagre notice, but we hope in future to be able to give our readers at least a complete synopsis of the lectures delivered.
—The Scholastic, it is needless to say, is not a political paper; but being published in the interests of those who one day will, in all likelihood, take an active part in the political workings of our government, both state and national, it may not be out of place for us here in our sylvan retreat to reflect upon the political field as it lies before us, and think of a lesson or two suggested by it. It is a notorious feature of our American politics to vilify and calumniate each of the opposing candidates for the chief office in the gift of the people. This, of course, under the pretence of showing to the public that said candidate is unworthy to hold the office to which he aspires. No one will deny that when this is done within the limits of truth and moderation it is not only justifiable, but a duty. Manifestly, if one is unworthy or incapable of holding an office, let his unworthiness and incapacity be made as public as possible; for if there is one thing more than another that the country should have at all times, it is a good, honest, efficient government. But the fault is that partisanship is carried to such extremes that where a lie will serve a purpose, there is no hesitation in uttering and publishing it. And that, too, without regard to the nature of the charge made or its probable moral effect upon the rest of the people, who, must be more or less influenced thereby. Now, this not only betokens a moral oblicpiity in the one countenancing and propagating that lie, but in thousands of others who, by their support, encourage him in his work, o
*
It is but too painfully evident that moral recti
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

tude is not characteristic of our age—a period when, considering all our improvements and great progress in the march of civilization, it should especially prevail. We hear daily of defalcations, forgeries, frauds, deceit, divorce, and general corruption everywhere. Offences against morality on the part of one who aspires to be the ruler of a nation are lightly spoken of and considered as, after all, of but little importance where statesmanship is to be taken into consideration. And such sentiments are voiced by those whose duty it should be to form a healthy public opinion.
The conductors of our daily papers say that they only cater to public sentiment and give it expression. If this be so, then it indicates the existence of a frightful hot-bed of corruption underlying our social fabric which needs but the swift progress of time to develop into a volcanic eruption which by its upheaval will lay low our country and its institutions. And the confirmation of the truth of this will be found in the history of other nations, modern as well as ancient.
* -
Now, the cause of this wide-spread corruption is directly traceable to a want of proper training of the heart in youth. The godless system of education which to such a great extent obtains throughout the country overlooks an element which, of all others, should be deemed most essential— namely, the instilling principles of sound morality into the minds of the young. The results of this neglect have been so great as to create alarm among leading educators, and cause them to reflect and devise means to stay the progress of the evil. But their efforts will and must be powerless if they seek, as apparently they do, to act upon a theory of “ independent morality ”—a misnomer and an absurdity. For reason declares that a code of morals cannot-be laid down at the arbitrary dictation of of anv one man or anv number of men. All men are by nature free and equal, and no man has the right to tell his fellow-man what he should or should not do, unless he can show the command or prohibition of a superior being.
Morals depend upon the relations between living beings and between those beings and God, their Maker; they are the law of subjection and obedience to Him and the measure of the duties of man to man. In other words, there can be no morality without the knowledge of God and the knowle^e of our duties to Him and to our fellow-man.’ It is to this the hearts of the young must be trained—a work which requires the imparting of a proper perception of the truths of the Christian religion.
Our Minims.
BY HEGESIPPUS.
Our young friends have come back from their vacation trips in good shape, and prepared to grapple manfully with the mysteries that embarrass us on the threshhold of our literary and scientific career, such as why knowledge should begin with a k, and why rite should be wrong unless it is a different kind of right. They have furnished us with some compositions which" we cannot altogether accept, as they chiefly relate to matters on which our readers aie sufficiently posted already; but neither do we wish to reject them without giving the little fellows credit for their powers, of observation and description. Master Charlie Smith, who does not have far to go home, confines himself to the limning of the beauties of Notre Dame and its surroundings. Charlie is too much of an optionist, and he will never be a success as a g. d. 1. until he leains to find fault with everything and everybody. Master Leo Scherrer gives us Colorado in the style of Xenophon, with whom every city is [isyoIti zai svdatiuov. He tells us to “go through some of the mines and see the mineral ”—all piled up in gold bricks, we suppose. Master Irv. L. Bunker is also considerable of a geologist, and can tell of the “petrified things, such as wood, animals, plants; and the work of water, of air and moisture, of winds, of rivers, of oceans, of ice, of heat—and there are a great many other things that I do not know of.” Why, you don’t say so, Irv.? You must be joking. And so: “ Dana is one of the best geologists in the world.” We thought he had enough to do to attend to the Sun. What a comprehensive mind he must have! Master Ivan Grunsfeld gives us a graphic sketch of New Mexico, and knows how to put the trema over the n in words adopted from the Spanish. He says “ there are also many nice canons to which people go for a rest.” Not invariably for a rest. We have been there. Master Elmo Berry is also from the mountain land, and prefers to spell canyon with a y. He describes the Rainbow Falls and some other scenery very prettily. Master F. Weston is from the far—far North, and gives us Minneapolis and Lake Minnetonka. Proceed, Minims, with your efforts at composition, and some day you may become great and good men. Large streams from little fountains flow. Why don’t some of the Ohio Minims give us their political views? The eyes of a Nation are now turned upon Ohio.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exchanges.
—Up to the present time the only college papers that have come to hand are the Niagara Index, Cap and Gotvn, the Badger, the Harvard Daily Crimson, the Cornell Era, and Cornell Daily Suu; the Vanderbilt, the University Press, and the Heidelberg Journal.
—The Catholic Standard, of Philadelphia, is one of the largest and best of our Catholic family papers. It is under the editorial management of Mr. Geo. D. Wolff, a gentleman well known to the reading public by his able contributions to magazine literature.
—The various departments of The Pilot,ed Boston, always contain much that is instructive in the line of general literature or news. Besides choice poetry, stories, correspondence, and editorial matter, there are “ Soundings,” Literary Notes, “ Catholic News,” Local Notes, Irish News, Foreign News, a department for Boys and Girls, etc., etc.
—The Catholic, of Pittsburg (or as the Pitts-burgers write it, “ Pittsburgh is held in great esteem by many here, especially the Pennsylvanians, who greet it as an old friend. The Catholic is, in truth, one of the oldest papers of its class in this country. It has been published continuously for nearly half a century by its present pro-prieter and editor, Mr. Jacob Porter, who like McMaster of the Freeman's Journal is a convert to the Catholic faith. Rather staid and stately, The Catholic is not a bit old-fogyish. One finds in it, besides able editorials, news items of general interest and- a choice collection of miscellaneous articles, notes, etc.
—AVe may well believe the statement under the editorial heading of The Monitor (San Francisco, Cal.,) that it “ has the largest circulation of any religious paper published on the Pacific coast.” No matter where such a paper as The Monitor would be published, whether in the West or in the East or in the Mississippi valley, it would certainly secure a large circulation. If it did not, the fault would lie with the people who should support it and failed to do so, and not with the editor of the paper. Mr. S. J. McCormick, the editor of The Monitor, is a close observer of men and things, and a strong writer, as those who occasionally receive his telling blows know to their cost. The editor and the paper deserve success.
—The Morning Star, of New Orleans, is a sterling Catholic newspaper in every respect. It needs only better treatment at the hands of its printer or pressman to make it a valued weekly visitor at the exchange table as well as at the homestead. The editorials, on current topics or matters of general interest, are ably written; home and foreign news is carefully gleaned: and a variety of literary and scientific bric-a-brac from time to time evinces culture and good taste, while lending interest to the paper. Besides the editorials on religious subjects ii^ the current issue, those on “Labor” and “Party Fealty” are well worthy of consideration, at the present time especially; in an
other article, on “Journalistic Rag-Picking,” the editor strikes a heavy blow at the “special correspondents ” who rake the moral offal heaps of large cities for the dilectation of immoral newspaper readers and the corruption of those whose morals are yet untainted. The Morning Star is doing good work.
—The Catholic Mirror, of Baltimore, always ably and discreetly edited, never before showed to better advantage perhaps than during the present political campaign. Its editorial pilot has steered it clear of the shoals on which some few of its confreres have grounded. The Mirror has good reason for the following editorial comment—brief, but pointed, containing matter enough for a column that is best as it is unwritten but expressed:
“ Most of our Catholic exchanges are full of nothing but partisan politics just at present, and we shall be glad for the sake of their readers when the campaign is over. They must be heartily sick of the pabulum now set before them.”
The Mirror has evidently overestimated the number, of those who have forgotten the dignity of Catholic editors and stooped to throw political mud. Had it said “ many,” instead of “ most,” it would be nearer the truth. There are in reality perhaps not more than three or four, out of forty or more, that have gone beyond the bounds of decency. The great majority of Catholic papers— to their credit be it said—have shown a good example, in the heat of politics, bjr refraining from anything in the least offensive. There is no reason why a Catholic editor cannot give his opinion on political matters as well as on other subjects, but there are very good reasons why he should avoid the defamatory slush of the daily papers, which is disgraceful to the country. It is a matter of pride that our leading Catholic papers—the Freeman's Journal, the Catholic Review, the Catholic Columbian, the Catholic Mirror, the Catholic Herald, the Catholic Standard, the Catholic Mirror, the Catholic Union and Times, the Catholic Universe, the Morning Star, the. Milwaukee Catholic Citizen, the Catholic Advocate, and other papers, have shown and do show admirable firmness, many of them by keeping aloof altogether, others by simply expressing a general opinion and allowing their readers to do as they please. They very properly leave the dirty work to dirty papers like Puck and Harper's Weekly. .
Books and Periodicals.
—The Catholic World for October has the following table of contents: “The Nature and Extent of Inspiration,” by Rev. C. A. Walworth; « Solitary Island”—Chaps. IX-XI, by Rev. John Talbot Smith; “ Antigonish,” by Amy M. Pope; “Ancient Irish Literary Remains,” by T. O’Neill l^issell; “A Country Editor’s Experience,” by Henry C. Walsh; “ The Piety of the French People,” by Eugene L. Didier; “ Shakspere’s Tragic Lovers,” R. M. Johnston; “Catholic Missions,” Rachel Ewing Sherman; “Katharine”—Chaps. XIII—XIV, by E. G. Martin; “ The Liquefaction of the Blood of St. Januarius,” by L. B. Binsse.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—-The last number of the present volume of St. Nicholas maintains the hierh standard of excellence o
that has marked it during the year—a pledge of continued improvement in the future. The numberopens with a paper, historical, critical, and practical on “ Slang,” by Lucia Gilbert Runkle, entertaining and valuable to parents and children alike. With the title of “ Another Indian Invasion,” Mrs. Lizzie W. Champney contributes a pleasant anecdotal account of the Government School for Indians at Carlisle, Pa. It is copiously illustrated by J. Wells Champney, and from photographs and drawings by the scholars. “Lost on the Plains” is the title of a bright story by Joaquin Miller; and “ The Romance of a Menagerie ” is an account by J. R. Coryell of the remarkable friendship existing between little Donald Melville and “ Queen,” mother of the baby elephant “ Bridgeport.” Alfred. Brennan and Frank Bellew illustrate their own contributions, and there are contributions, literally and artistic, by Mary Hallock Foote, Margaret Vandegrit, Geo. F. Barnes, Amanda B. Harris, Culmer Barnes, and many others.
—The October Century, which closes the twenty-eighth volume of this magazine, contains the announcements of some of the features of the coming- mag-azine year, chief among which is a profusely illustrated series on “Battles and Leaders of the Civil War,” most of which will be written by generals, either upon the Federal or the Confederate side actually in command during the various engagements. Prefatory to these articles is the opening paper in this number, on “ Lights and Shadows of Army Life,” by George F. Williams, the well-known war correspondent, whose descriptions and anecdotes of the camp, the march, and the battle-field, and reminiscences of famous generals, are supplemented by engravings after the etchings of Edwin Forbes, the pictorial war correspondent. Henry Bacon, of the art colony in Paris, writes interestingly of Rosa Bonheur, whose portrait is engraved together with several views of her studio and dwelling and one of her well-known paintings. Brander Matthews writes with the knowledge of a friend a literary criticism of Austin Dobson, whose portrait, after a monochrome by Frederick Watts, is the frontispiece of the number. The other illustrated papers are Dr. Eg-g’leston’s article on “Social Conditions in the Colonies,” which is profusely illustrated by pic-, tures of ante-revolutionary houses now standing; Prof. Langley’s second paper in .his untechnical series on “The New Astronomy,” describes in a popular way “ The Surroundings of the Sun,” the text being supplemented with nineteen drawings and diagrams; W. J. Stillman concludes the account of his journey “On the Track of Ulysses,” for which Harry Fenn has made the charming illustrations.
It is carrying things a little too far when a student is so reticent that he won’t even tell the professors what he knows about a lesson.
In Memoriarn.
W. S. CLEARY (Died July 4, 1883)'.
We know that the days are not long since gone When a place with us hadst thou;
And thy buoyant step, and thy gladsome tone Were echoed, where ours are now.
And as bright as ours was thy cherished dream, Of the long years yet to be;
Whilst for thee, as us, were tire lines unseen
On the page of destiny.
No messenger came with tokens of death
To tell thee his step was nigh;
He touched not thy cheek with his mildew breath, He dimmed not thy laughing eye.
But he crossed thy path with a.noiseless tread, And paused in an ambush near,
Where no sight of woe, nor a sound of dread Could warn thee of aught to fear.
Thou could’stnot have dreamed that the shades of life Were speeding so fast from thee;
And dropping the last, in a moment, rife With thy dying agony.
But they bore thee back, ere an hour had passed, And a fearful change is there;
With the dim eyes set, and the lips sealed fast, ’Tis a lifeless corse they bear.
Thou hast lightly turned from each dear home spot, Thou hast left thy mother’s door—
And thy feet on the threshold linger not, They will never cross it more.
Not a saddening thought of a last adieu,
Not a tear at parting fell;
But gaily unconscious, thine eyes withdrew From the glance of a long farewell.
There’s a vacant space in that household now, i\nd their tones are sad to hear;
There is bitter grief on each lip and brow, And the sudden gushing tear.
Ah! the heart m ust bleed from a wound like theirs— /Ynd ’tis meet that tears be shed,
They may ease the burden the spirit bears, But they can’t recall the dead.
W. J. O’Connor.
* W. S. Cleary was at one time a bright student at Notre Dame, where he endeared himself to all his fellow-students, all of whom felt the deepest regret at his sad death by drowning at Newport, Ky. The above was written by a classmate of the deceased.
Personal.
—Ballard Smith’, of ’65, is city editor of the New York Herald.
—Geo. Tracy, of ’82, is now engaged in the practice of law in Burlington, Iowa.
—Joseph E. Farrell (Law), ’84,' is Assistant Prosecuting Attorney of Lorraine, Ohio.
—Rev. P. J. Hurth, C. S. C., started last Thursday morning for his mission at Rapid City, Dakota.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—Rev. Father Cooney, Miss. Ap., was seriously sick during the fore part of the week, but we are glad to say that he is now happily convalescent.
—Thos. Ewing Steele, of ’84, has been summering at the sea-side. He writes from Lancaster, O., that he will be at Notre Dame on Founder’s Day.
— S. Burritt Hinsdale, of ’67, is one of the most accomplished stenographers in New York City, has an office in Murray St., and may be seen in the Tribune Building.
—Frank H. Hoffman (Com’l), ’76, is now engaged with his father in business, at Wheeling, West Va., and proves himself an active, energetic and capable young man.
—Joseph D. Murphy, of ’68, has for many years held the position of proof-reader on the Daily Times, Philadelphia, and is besides a member of the City Council and a School Director.
—Nat. Mooney, of ’69, received his degree of Bachelor of Philosophy at the-College of the Propaganda, Rome, Italy, on the 6th ult.; at the same time, he received the second prize in Canon Law.
—We regret to learn the death of the Rev. Wm. O’Mahoney, well known to many an old student of Notre Dame. The sad event occurred ou the 29th ult., at Kendaltown, Wis., where the Reverend deceased had a parochial charge. May he rest in peace!
—Rufus H. McCarty, M. D., ’70, still holds his position in the Navy. He is at present located at Boston, Mass. Dr. McCarty was one of five lucky candidates out of seventy-nine who applied for examination and passed, and one of the few who were immediately assigned to duty.
—The Dubuque Daily Telegraph contains the following notice of John J. Ney, of ’82, and we may say that his Professors and .numerous friends at Notre Dame fully endorse all that is said of him:
“From what we have learned concerning him, it appears that Mr. John J. Ney, who received the Democratic nomination for Circuit Judge on Thursday last, is an able lawyer and an honorable gentleman. In Buchanan county, where he has long resided, he is highly esteemed by men of all parties, and when a man is popular at his own home the fact supplies a good reason why he should be accorded the respect of outsiders. Mr. Ney is a graduate of Notre Dame University, Indiana, and is not only a fine legal but a good general scholar. He is credited with the possession . of keen analytical powers, a sound judgment and unswerving integrity, and it should seem that in nominating such aiman the Democratic Convention acted wisely for the public and incidentally for its party.” - -	.	■
Local Items.
-—The Band has been reorganized.
—“ When shall we three meet again ? ” .
—Bulletins were made but last Thursday. .
. —Oh that “ one for all excepting recreation.”
—“ Class Honors ” will be published next week.
—The Euglossians are actively rehearsing for the 13th.	< s .
—The Literature Class are holding Shakespeare readings. x	.
—The Philopatrian report was crowded out this week.
—The Minims’ reading-room has been fixed up in first-class style.
—We all look forward to the speedy demolition of old Science Hall.	.
—“When the thousand lines are o’er!”—Lincs composed on last Monday eve.
—The St. Cecilians are actively engaged in preparing a subject for a Moot Court.
—The crews were photographed, while on the lake, by McDonald, of South Bend, last Tuesday.
—A new piratical-looking craft has appeared on the lake. It has been christened the “ Coon Abbie.’’
—William J. Knight, Esq., has the thanks of the Librarian for a generous donation of $25 to the Library.	•
—Readers in the refectories should sit up straight, and read in a loud, clear voice, so as to be heard in all parts of the room.
—The students are to be treated to an instructive and interesting lecture in the near future, from Rev. Father Cooney.
—We have been asked if our astrologer’s prophecies coincide with the present spell of beautiful weather. We shall reply in our next.
—In an examination in the Senior department a number were found possessing some one of the three graces mentioned in a late item.
—Numerous applications have been received for rooms in the New Science Hall. As far as we can learn, there is no portion of this building to let.
—On the 28th ult., the Junior first nine and a picked nine from the apprentices played for a league ball which was won by the-former. Score 16 to 4.
— The Calisthenic Classes are now organized, and, to judge from the quality of the boys composing them, a very agreeable winter will be passed.
—Several views of St. Edward’s Park, and various other beautiful spots around Notre Dame, were taken by McDonald, of South Bend, last Tuesday.
—Arrangements are being perfected for the completion of the electric crown of the statue of Our Lady. It is hoped to have it in readiness for Founder’s Day—the 13th.
—Oiir friend John remarked,'the other day, “We we are haying. ‘ the reign (rain) of prosperity now.’” John is^zow in the infirmary,but expects to be out again in a few days. -
—After looking in vain in the latest- dictionary published for the word “ next,” as heard in the vicinity of the Gymnasium every Thursday, Elias has come to the conclusion: that it is a barbarism.
—In the report of the Boat Club last week there was an error in the arrangement of the crew, u Evangeline.” They are as follows: H. Steis, bow; J. Ryan, 2d; C. Kolars, 3d; J. Harless, 4th; L. Mathers, 5th;<C. Murdock, stroke; F. Dexter, coxswain. -	-	;	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
n
—The second regular game for the championship was played last Thursday afternoon. The following is the score: o	.
123456789
Whites:—1 703031 o—=15
■ Blues:—1 02 10000 5= 7
—The Juniors took advantage of the half-holiday, so generously granted by the President, last Monday, to play the first game of football of the season. Each game was vigorously contested. Masters Dorenberg, Courtney, J. Kelly, Weiler, Mulkern and Myers, especially distinguished themselves by brilliant playing.
—The entertainment by the Euglossians in honor of Founder’s Day will be given on the evening of Saturday next. The programme, together with the order of exercises on the 13th, will be published in our next issue. So much enthusiasm exists that we have reason to believe the celebration of Notre Dame’s great festal day will this year excel that of former years.
—The Orchestra was reorganized last Thursday with the following players: D. Saviers, Flute; J. Congdon, Clarinette; C. Ferguson, and J. Guthrie, Cornet; M. Sykes, J. Rahilly, C. Mason, and W. Myers, 2d Violin; Bro. Anselm, and Prof. Paul, 1st Violin; H. Porter, Basso; Bro. Leopold, ’Cello; Bro. Basil, Viola; Rev. J. M. Toohey, French Horn; Rev. J. A. O’Connell, Trombone.
—Professor Joseph A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, has edited and published a drama entitled “The Prodigal Law Student.” It is in four acts, and written for male characters only. It portrays “the dangers to which even the virtuous are subject, and impresses the beautiful lesson of expiation—the only path whereby the faults of ignorance and thoughtlessness can be worthily effaced.”— Chicago Evening journal.
o	o •/	c
—On Thursday afternoon, representatives of the first and second dormitories of the Junior department, respectively captained by J. Dorenberg and J. Weiler, engaged in a lively game of football for a barrel of apples generously offered by the Rev. President. After a long contest, the first dormitory won the 1st game; and as it was too late to continue, play was postponed till next Thursday, when a very lively time maybe expected.
—During the week, Prof. Edwards received the following contributions to the Cabinet of Curiosities: from Eugene Amoretti, a young fox skin; from F. Hagenbarth, several snake rattles, and free gold and silver ores; from Capt. Cusick, U. S. A., Fort Gibson, Indian Ter., an Indian war bonnet and a pair of embroidered gauntlets; from T. D. Maroney, of Napanee, Ind., a silver. Spanish coin of the reign of Carolus IV, 1805.
—The 2d regular meeting of the Junior Archconfraternity was held Sept. 28th. At this meeting were present Rev. Fathers Walsh and Granger. Masters F. Hagenbarth and J. Monschein read well-written essays—the former on “ St. Aloysius” and the latter on the “Scapular.” Masters M. Clarke, J. Dorenberg, C. Cavaroc and S. O’Brien
■ were appointed to prepare essays for- the next meeting. The ten minutes’ discourse was delivered by Rev. President Walsh.
—We are indebted to the author, Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, A. M., of Notre Dame University, for a copy of a drama in four acts, entitled “The Prodigal Law Student.” The play has been arranged for male characters only, and if properly produced, will afford both amusement and instruction. We recommend it to the consideration of those in charge of our male educational institutions. Full directions are given regarding cast of characters, relative positions, etc. Price per copy, fifty cents.—Morning Star. '
—The 3d regular meeting of the St. 'Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Monday evening, September 24th. Masters F. Hagenbarth, C. Mason and W. Mulkern read essays; Masters J. Monschein, C. J. Stubbs, S. O’Brien and-C. Harris delivered declamations; Masters W. Daly, W. Congdon, S. Holman, R. Oxnard, R. Morrison, C. Cavaroc, S. Greyer, H. Sedberry and J. Meyer were elected members. Public readers are: J. Courtney, M. Mulkern, E. Porter, C. Mason, C. Stubbs, L. Grover, and T. Cleary. The exercises were closed by F. Hagenbarth with a well-written criticism on the previous meeting.
—The first regular meeting of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held in the Sorin society-room on Wednesday, Sept. 24th. Officers for the ensuing session were elected as follows: Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director; Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Assistant Director; Mr.. Thillman, C. S. C., President; B. William, C. S. C., Promoter; W. McPhee, 1st Vice-President; J. McNulty, 2d Vice-President; J. Doss, Secretary; G. Kelly, Librarian; F. Piel, 1st Censor; C. Mooney, 2d Censor; F. Crotty, Standard-Bearer; F. Dunford, Sergeant-at-Arms; S. Scherrer,Treasurer; A. McVeigh, Corresponding-Secretary.
—The Catholic Herald (Boston) has the following notice of “ The Prodigal Law Student,” o	O	J
lately published by Professor Lyons:	'
“ This is a cleverly-produced drama, ‘ designed to impress the beautiful lesson of expiation—the only path whereby the faults of ignorance and thoughtlessness can be worthily effaced.’ This much we learn from the preface to the drama. The leading character of the play is ‘Frederick Martin,’ the son of a well-to-do Bostonian, who has been placed in a law school located in the city of‘New York. The plot of the play is good arid wholesome, and is well sustained throughout. The characters number about thirty in all, and a very short season of study would enable an amateur theatrical club to make a good representation of the drama.”	.
—The accumulation of frictional electricity on printing-presses has long been a source of, annoyance to pressmen, by causing the sheets to stick to the cylinder and to the fly, making it impossible to deliver or pile the paper evenly, and often causing the prints to blur and offset. Last week we mentioned the fact that this difficulty had been overcome, without, however, giving credit to those who; had been mainly instrumental in accomplishing this ■ result. To Messrs. Albert Zahm, M. S., of the Universify of Notre Dame, and Mr. J. Brennan, of the.:
78
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
office of the Catholic Review, New York, the mechanician wishes to acknowledge his indebtedness for suggestions that materially aided him in perfecting the device.
—The first match game of the season ’84—’85 was played between the “ University” and “Star of the East,” last Monday afternoon. Both nines worked hard, and succeeded in scoring a tie at the end of the ninth inning; but the “ Stars” brought in one tally in the xoth inning, thus winning the game by a score of 10 to 9. The following is the score:
Saint fflary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
STAR OF THE EAST.
UNIVERSITY.
Coghlin, s. s... Dolan, 1. f..... V. Burke, 2 b. . Guthrie, p...... Ryan, 3 b....... F. Combe, 1 b.. C. Combe, r. f.. ' C. Kolars, c..;
Rahily, c. f....
5 5
4
5
3
4 5
5
5
o 3 1
1 1 o
1 1
Total......41 10
1 1
1 o
o
II
4 4
i3
3 1
H. Porter, 1 b. Loomis, s.s... McNulty, c... Devoto, 2b... Pohl, 1. f.. McGill, 3 b... Browne, p.... Murphy, c. f.. Breen, r. f....
5
5
5
5
5
5
4
5
Total......42
2 10 o 1
2 5
1 4
1 2
9 11 30
Roll of Honor-
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Arce, Ancheta, Alvarez, Ashton,* A. Browne, A. Barbabosa, J. Barbabosa, Felix Baca, Becerra, F. Baca, J. Baca, F. J. Baca, Burns, F. Burke, Breen, Conlin, Crilly, Wm. Collins, W. Collins, Cartier, Chapin, Crawford, Casavantes, Creel, F. Combe, Dory, De Groot, Donohue, Estrado, Gordon, Guthrie, Garcia, Hamlyn, Halligan, Howard, Rotating, Hausberg, Johnston, Kavanaugh, Kleiber, C. C. Kolars, J. M. Lechuga, Letcher,* McMillian, McKinnery, Miller, Maguire, Meyer, McErlaine, McCartney, Marion, McArdle, Marquez, J. V. O’Donnell, J. P. O’Donnell, O’Kane, O’Connell, Noonan, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Padilla, P. Proudhommc, H. Porter, C. Porter, J. Peifer, Rothert, J. Ryan, Riley, Rivaud, Ramsay, P. Peifer, Tully, Sheridan, Saviers, Stcis, Schaefer, Sanchez, Triplett, W. Williams, Willard.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Amoretti, Bearss, Baur, Berthelet, . Congdon, Cummings, Clarke, G. Cartier, Calina, Cavaroc, Cleary, E. Dillon, O. Dillon, Dempsey, Dougherty, Daly, Eppstein, Finckh, Fisher, Grunsfeld, L. Grever, E. Grever, J. Garrity, F- Garrity, Hoye, Howard, Hieronimus, Hib-beler, Holman, Houlihan, J. Hasson, Johnson, Kelly, Kegel, Knisely, Kenny, Leoni, Luther, H. Long, F; Long, A. Moye, Loya, Martinez, Mulkern, McCourt, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, Monschein, Myers, Macke, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, Oxnard, O’Brien, M. O’Kane, Portillo, Regan, Rose, Rategban, Ruffing, Remish, Real, R. Morrison, Reynolds, Rogers, Ruger, Shields, Sokup, Soden, Stange, M. Sheucrman, Sedberry, Servis, Talbot, Tarrant, Vandercar, Wabraushek, Willard, Williamson, Flood, Stubbs, Trepanier.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	■ >
Masters J. Addington, Ackerman, Boos, Bunker, Berry, Bull, Barger, Blakeslee, Baker, Crotty, Comins, Cobbs, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, E. Doss, L. Doss, Ernest, T. Falvey, E. Falvey, F. Falvey, Grunsfeld, Henry, Haney, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, Kellner, Landenwich, McPhee, :McVeigh, Murphy, Morgan, Me-Gill, C. Mitchell, J. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt, Mahon, McNulty, Mooney, McGuire, Nusbaum, Noonan, F. Peck, J. Peck, Piel, Piero, Paul, Quill, Quinlin, Rugee, Salman, Sweet, Scherrer, Shbneman, Stone, Weston, Zozaya,Mason.
* Omitted last week by-mistake.
—The Theory Classes were reorganized on Saturday in the music department.
—With three exceptions every Junior had the honor of drawing for the Roman mosaic cross. Mabel Allen was the fortunate winner.
—The altar of Our Lady of Sorrows on Sunday was very beautiful. The Children of Mary received Holy Communion in honor of the Feast.
—On the 20th inst., the first lecture of the scholastic year in the music department was given in the study-hall. Subject—Music as a science and an art.	"
—The southwest recreation-hall is to be'converted into a comfortably-furnished reading-room. Subdued voices and quiet games alone will be there permitted.
—Mrs. Johns, of Denver, Col., brought her two little daughters, Lilly and Virginia back to the court of the “Princesses,” where they were hailed with joyful acclamation.
—In the Junior Department, N. Quill, G. Searls, E. Hogan, and M. McEwen, received 100 in lessons. The same reward fell to A. Schmaus, F. Johnson and B. Murray, of the Minims.
—At the regular Academic reunion, Miss Bruhn, in a clear, distinct voice, presented a selection from the last number of The Ave Maria, and Miss Hale gave an excellent reading from “ Lyons’ American Elocutionist.”	.
—Star-gazing, tracing constellation, and obser-o O J	o	1
vation of the waxing and waning of the silvery Queen of Night have occupied the members of the First Senior Astronomy Class during some of the recent pleasant evenings:
—At the regular reunion in the Junior department, presided over by Father Shortis, “The Kaizer and the Little Maid ” was- recited by Hannah Stumer, and “Homeless”—from Adelaide Procter—by Clara Richmond.	.
—The recitations of Miss Gove—from Moore— and of Miss Munger—from Shakespeare—at the meeting of St. Teresa’s Literary Society were highly praised. The society is reading a criticism on the English poet and historian, McCauley.
—The life of Matilda of Scotland is engaging the attention of the members of St. Catharine’s Literary Society. The beautiful biographical composition, Agnes Strickland’s “Lives of the Queens of England,” has afforded much valuable information to the young ladies of this society. Few characters are more admirable than the one now presented.	.
—St. Agnes’ Literary Society at the last meeting nearly resolved itself into a catechetical instruc-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
79
tion on late scientific discoveries. The Secretary, Miss .Stumer, is to be congratulated on her copious notes, as they will be an heir-loom of valuable information to the enterprising Juniors of future years, successors of the present members of St. Agnes’ Literary Society^ The Misses Maggie Ducey, Mary Cox, and Saddie Campeau distinguished themselves by their intelligent accounts of important mechanical discoveries.
—This week, we welcome the return of Signor z	O
Grcgori, Madame and Mlle. Fannie Gregori. Their O'	o
vacation passed in Europe has evidently been delightful, and they come back to their western home at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, cheerful and invigorated by their voyage and visit. Rome, the native city of Madame Grcgori and the daughter, Florence, Milan, and Bologna—the birth-place of Signor Grcgori—Vienna, Dresden, Berlin, and Hamburg were taken in' their route. The seavoyages of departure and return were everything that could be desired. The ladies bring with them many charming pieces of virtu. Among other precious objects were rosaries - and medals which have received the blessing of His Holiness Pope Leo XIII; also “blessed wafer” from the Franciscan Church in Rome, Andrea della Fratte. Upon each is stamped the image of St. Francis of Assissi. The wafer is piously believed to possess a miraculous power of curing disease. The bright little parlor of the family has resumed its accustomed artistic and genial aspect; the birds have taken up their old songs there, and a sunny nook, that through the summer months was greatly missed, blooms out once more in Lourdes’ Hall, just at the Library door.
The Love of Praise.
A modern writer has said: “ There is no passion which needs more careful watching than the love of praise; ” yet, esteem for the approbation of our friends and associates, far from being a fault, is among the most commendable of amiable traits. When subordinate to a high sense of justice, respect for the opinion of others should by all means be encouraged. It is an innate principle which causes us to value our good reputation above all earthly things. Robbed of this prize, life is a burden. Its best treasure, in a human sense, has been taken from us; for, alienated from our kind, our social being is crushed or hampered, and the . spiritual life, as a natural result, is more or less impoverished and debased.
But, like all the gifts of nature, this praiseworthy disposition is liable to abuse. Our desire to be esteemed and flattered may degenerate into an absolute vice, one which in its relentless tyranny should be feared even as much as the opposite and equally dangerous trait of total disregard for the good opinion of others. Recklessness as to one’s reputation is, beyond question, the broad road to ruin. We.find it to be the incentive to every disorder, from the slight infraction of discipline to
the unrestrained and open defiance of governmental law. The opposite vice, however, is, perhaps, more common; it certainly is more insidious, and gives rise to ambition—the sin by which the angels fell. An overweening desire of popularity is a proof of weakness, and is never long at rest in a heart which is solidly grounded in virtue. It is a pitiable truth, a painful assertion—but one that we must acknowledgers not exaggerated—that more time is spent by the young, especially of the fair sex, in efforts to secure praise than in any other occupation. What is not sacrificed to this passion —this love of approbation! -
Truth, duty, justice, kindness, our. .obligations to God and our fellowTcreatures, all must give way before its resistless,.demands. The merit for which we receive honor may be due by right to another; but we are so intoxicated with flattery that we will not disabuse our admirers. The beauty of which we arc so vain may have been retained by neglect of our natural obligations to others; but this is not to be exposed by any admission of ours. A mercenary servant may have been left in charge of a sick father, mother, or friend, or of a dying brother or sister. To sit, up at night and inhale the air of the sick-room pales the cheek and detracts from the lustre of the eye. A young girl must not be expected to sacrifice her beauty. Yet, frivolous as is the excuse, how many are heartless enough to make it when even their presence by the sick-bed would be the greatest consolation to the sufierer! There is to be a famous opera tonight, a grand lecture, a brilliant reception. How can the young beauty forego these pleasures and the admiration which will be there accorded her? She must go. Here we see conscience and the most sacred affections sacrificed to the passion for praise.	-
A desire to attract and absorb attention is not one of the least evils which follow in the path of this inordinate vanity. Wrapped up in the thought of self, the world outside of self is lost to view. The comforts, the necessities, the rights of others are ignored. Hence we see that selfishness is at the root of a passionate love for praise. If one be .forgetful of self, the claims of others to notice are respected. Satisfied to be meritorious rather than to simply appear so results in solid happiness; and the interests of others are as dear.to us as our own.	.	'
The first and most unmistakable proof .that one is a slave to the fault under consideration ■ is .pain when others are praised. It is true, there are occasions when one may feel legitimate sorrow at praise bestowed upon others—as in case of danger to the recipient, or when we are sure the commendation is undeserved and that wrong is done to those to whom the misplaced credit belongs. To such pain we do not allude.
If we are inclined to underrate the talents and qualifications of others, and are uneasy ah the ad- . miration bestowed on them, we should take the warning and watch ourselves. If this disposition, be not checked,-we shall.be,unjust. Again, when our love of compliments and flattering ..opinions
8o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ‘
diverts our minds from study, ambition is working mischief; it is time to be a little stern with ourselves; and to turn to our books with renewed ardor. Our real worth will not thereby be diminished, but we shall be armed asrainst our insinuating foe. In the time allotted to education our future happiness may be wrecked by inattention to the silent inroads of vanity. It is a great satisfaction to deserve the praises of our teachers and to receive rewards for our diligence; but if we cannot heartily7 rejoice when a class-mate or competitor to the same honor is successful, even at our expense, or when we had hoped to win the prize they7 wear, we are to be pitied; not imitated.
A disappointment is not necessarily7 a discouragement. To the really7 ingenuous, it is an incentive for greater efforts in the future. Steadfastness, perseverance gains the victory7. A medal we had labored for is carried off by7 another, but we accord our sympathy, and' in proportion to the cordiality7 of that sympathy will be our happiness. We will strive once more, but if the prize be not ours, the improvement and, better still, the conquest of self, will more than compensate for our loss.
In this spirit should the pupil apply to study. In this spirit should the citizen pass through life. If happiness is on the earth, it is in the unselfish heart;—in the heart that would suffer .wrong a thousand-times than even once to commit a wrong.
We have said that an overweening desire of popularity is a proof of weakness, that it is never long at rest where there is solid virtue. True as this may7 be, we must not make it an excuse for gruffness and churlish disregard for the graceful amenities of life, which are really7 necessary7 to the y7oung in their associations with companions and in their contact with their elders. The desire to please is not a passion for praise, but it is the expression of a pure and affectionate nature. Solid, sterling qualities arc generally combined with this disposition; and the flowers of contentment and pence, of cheerfulness and joy, arc sure to blossom in the pathway7 of its possessor. Adversity7 is robbed of its repulsivencss in the friendship of such a one, and everywhere her exalting and genial influence is felt.	M. M.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly7,1. Alcott, J. Barlow, M. Bruhn, L. Blaine, N. Brady7, M. Blair, L. Carney, C. Congdon, E. Call, F. Carmien, C. Cox, S. Dunne, N. Donnelly7, A. Donnelly7, M. Dillon, A. Dwan, B. English, M. Fuller, D. Fitzpatrick, C. Fehr, J. Foster, G. Faxon, C. Ginz, B. Gove, A. Gordon, A. Gordon, M. Griffith, C. Griffith, M. Hale, M. Helpling, E. Horn, A. Heckard, B. Heckard, M. Hawkins. L. Hutchinson, N. Kearns, B. Kearney7, M. Kearsey7, G. Legnard. C. Lang, M. Munger, A.Murphy, J. McHale, T. McSorley7, A. McSorley. N. My-ler, E. O’Connell, E. Pierson, H. Ramsey7, D. Reynolds, M.
Reinholdt, E. Rose, L. Ryan, L. Shcekey, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, A. Shephard, M. Schmidt, K. Smith, M. Shea, M. Scully, C. Scullv, A. Schidler, E. Strawn, C. Torrent, E. Taylor, L. Williams, L. Walsh, A. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Brown, Bayer, S. Campeau, F. Hcrtzog, T. Haney, A. High, E. Hagan, A. Malbceuf, M. Mulhall, M. McEwen, L. Norris, M. Paul, C. Proudhommc, E. Preston, C- Richmond, G. Regan, Margaret Smith, G. Stadtler, N. Sheekey, B. Snowhook, G. Searls, L. Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Misess M. Allen, M. Cox, M. Ducey, A. Keyes, N. Quill, M. Smith, H. Stumer, L. Trask.
MINIM DEPARTMFNT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, E. Chapin, F. Johnson, L. Johns, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, B. Muri ay7, F. Spencer, A. Schmaus, S. Van Fleet.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
ist Class—Miss B. Gove.
2D Div.—Misses J. Barlow, A. Shephard.
2D Class—Misses M. Bruhn, M. Hale.
2D Div.—Miss C. Ginz.
3D Class—Misses E. Carney, E. Shcekey7.
2D Div.—Misses M. Adderly7, M. Ducey, M. Dillon, E. Horn, C. Morrison, M. Scully7, L. Van Horn.
4TI1 Class -Misses F. Castcnado, C. Ducey, M. Fuller, C. Fehr, B. Kearney, M. Munger, A. Murphy, H. Ramsey, B. Snowhook.
2D Div.—Misses E. Call, C. Congdon, A. Malbceuf, L. St. Clair, G. Wolvin.
5T11 Class—Misses S. Dunne, E. Donnelly, A. Donnelly, A. English, D. Fitzpatrick, J. Foster, M. Griffith, C. Griffith, Alice Gordon, T. McSorley, A. McSorley, G. Regan, L. Williams, E. Walsh.
2D Div.—Misses M. Barry7, E. Brady7, M. Cox, F. Cummins, E. Danforth, M. Fisk, Addie Gordon, L. Hutchinson, A. Keyes, E. Pierson, G. Stadtler, E. Taylor.
6th Class—Misses N. Brown, L. Blaine, C. Cox, B. English, G. Faxon, M. Kearsey, B. Lauer, A. Legnard, M. Murphy7, S- St. Clair, M. Schmidt, K. Smith, E. Strawn, Ella Shcekey7, H. Stumer.
2D Div.—Misses L. Johns, E. Kearns, L. Murdock, M. Morse, E. O’Connell, M. Reinhold, L. Ryan, C. Rose, F. Spencer, Margaret Smith, M. Shea, C. Torrent.
7th Class—Misses I. Alcott, M. Blair, F.’ Carmien, S. Campeau, Margaret Ducey7, R. Eisenstadt, B. Heckard, M. Hawkins, M. Helpling, A. High, C. Lang, J. McHale, S. Mulhall, E. Norris, D. Rey7nolds, A. Schidler, A. Schmaus, G. Searls, M Smith, A. White.
8th Class—Misses F. Hertzog, C. Proudhommc.
9T11 Class—Misses E. Chapin, E. Hagan, M. Lindsey, B. Murray.	*
ioth Class—Misses E. Blaine, V. Johns, D. Lee.
HARP.
3d Class—Miss M. Dillon.
4T11 Class—Miss D. Fitzpatrick.
6th Class—Miss A. Shephard.	'
.	.	GUITAR.
Misses A. English, L. Van Horn.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Misses M. Bruhn, M. Hale. '
2D Class—Miss B. English.
2D Div.—Misses H. Ramsey7, S. St. Clair.
3D Class—Misses A. English, M. Ducey7, L. Sheekey, F. Castcnado. .
4T11 Class—Misses L. Walsh, B. Lauer, I: Alcott, L. Van Horn, M. Fuller, L. St. Clair, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon.
5TI1 Class—Misses G. Stadtler, C. Fehr, C. Lang, M. Hawkins, B. Heckard.	■