Volume 73
October 6, 1939
Number 3
THE THIN man in the Does Busing slouch hat and dark See the Game? glasses crouches over the microphone. “They shift to the right and Saggau’s back.. Over the air to millions of listeners Ted Husing is snapping out the story of the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech football game.
(See Page 6)
OF THE 578 lay stu-Dooley Stays	dents who received deon Job Hunt	grees this year 182 ap-
plied to the Bureau for assistance. According to the last check in mid-August, 116 of these applicants are either now employed or are continuing their education in graduate work. The Bureau placed 22 graduates directly.
(See Page 8)
AS HAS happened Langford Scans periodically throughout Mexican Crisis her republican history, Mexico, in late 1939 finds herself once more confronted by a grave economic crisis—upon the solution of which depends the fate of the nation, for the immediate future at least.
(See Page 9)
IT’S A quaint. Alex-Georgia Techs andrian custom to con-Expect Upset quer the world. Coach Bill Alexander intends to verify that lick-’em-all reputation when he brings his Georgia Tech team into the Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon. They don’t come too big for the Ramblin’ Wrecks. (See Page 12)
The late George Cardinal Mundelein with President Franklin D. Roosevelt, at Philippine Convocation, held on Campus, Dec. 9, 1935. (See Page 5)
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic



“What does that child of W^kno** she can’t
— *baby
■spoil her tennis’ 1”	socicty glam-
That’s what people said	Toby stearns. And
our girl, married hard'W“^”® en wfeen Toby woke up and Wtot’ W^h> W^in to page 5 of this week’s Post, realized the tniw- •
|gLg
A STORY OF MARRIAGE TODAY.IN THREE PARTS
Back With Her Mother by AGNES BURKE H _
^mss! mss! MSS!
•‘And we’ll keep on passing!” says coach “Dutch” Meyer, whose Texas Christian footballers were un-\ defeated last season. He tells you what makes his , X leather-snatchers click. See this week’s Post.
Im no . pacifist,
jOIH
IF WAR COMES TO THE U.S. ... what will our Navy do? Fletcher Pratt, outstanding naval authority, analyzes U. S. sea power and the naval strategy of the next war. Read Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean.
HOW DUMB SHOULD A COP BE? Officer Moogers gives you one answer in This Business Needs a Fool. Here’s another hilarious cop yam by Joel Sayre.
FUNNY MAN BOB BENCHLEY. Plenty of laughs in this one by J. Bryan, III. See page 32.
AND short stories by Ben Lucien Burman, Dorothy Thomas and Richard Howells Watkins; articles, fun and cartoons.
I WONT CO TO WAR
“And here are three good reasons why,” says the author of this article, assistant to the president of the University of Chicago. If you’ve been wondering what you will do if America is pulled into the war—read why this leftward American says,
“I Think I’ll Sit This One Out”



THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
College Parade . by Jack Willman
Another week. Another parade. The same faces, a few new ones, the same make-ups. This time, however, the bands were playing a different tune, or at least swinging the message blared out seven days previously. Frosh are in dinks; professors are telling the score of a European ball game that would like a representative from the American league (The Yanks, of course) to make a World Series. It’s October and series time, but the college boys are NOT singing, “Take me out to the ball game.”
Heads Up, Men. . .
A collegiate statistics bureau reports that Harvard university students are approximately two inches tallei' than the average undergraduate at Mid-Western universities.
It Can’t Happen Here. . .
It did happen that a campus etiquette editor received the question, “Is it permissible to speak to a girl whom I am constantly meeting on the campus and who is a member of one of my classes, although we have never been formally introduced?”
The broad-minded editor answered: “Yes. After noticing each other every day, it is perfectly proper to say, ‘Good morning.’ Eventually, this may turn into a conversation which is equally permissible.”
Along the Peace Front. . .
“Admittedly, we-the-people in colleges and shops and offices are the ‘little people’ comparable to our European contemporaries who are dying on an inglorious battlefield. We are comparable but unlike them because we are the public, and consequently the formulators of public opinion which is the barometer in a democracy.”
“We must-assiduously avoid adopting a fatalistic attitude concerning our eventual envolvement in the struggle. We must fight for peace in the face of propaganda, sympathy for the Allied cause, and the social inertia that may start the drift toward America’s participation in Europe’s war.”
—Daily Kansan, editorial.
It Ain’t What You Do. . .
“A new experiment in American education will get under way when the University opens classes in its General College, a new creditless, degreeless unit that has for its object the development of students who cannot finish the regulation college course.”’	•
“Setting aside the old educational demand for command of knowledge in
favor of personal growth, the two-year curriculum discards present norms of credits, grades, and examinations and seeks to make the students culturally educated people, fit to proceed with their own education and to adapt themselves to a constantly changing economic and social environment.”
—Saint Louis University News
In Every Collegiate Publication. . .
“How good is this year’s — football team?”—(Satevepost adv.)
College Rhythm. . .
Ray Noble will give out with his continental jive for the U. of California Assembly dance .... Martha Tilton, who is currently appearing with Bobby Sherwood’s orchestra in Frisco’s Palace hotel, has a sister Elizabeth, now with the Noble outfit.... Charlie Barnett’s saxophone will lead his band of solid senders for the Frosh Frolic at U. of Kansas.... Students in New York’s metropolitan vicinity are drawn into town to hear Glenn Miller and Artie Shaw, now making stage appearances.
She Went That Way. . .
I’m done with all dames
They cheat and they lie;
They prey on us males
To the day that they die;
They tease and torment us And drive us to sin—
Say! Did you see that blonde That just now came in?
—Epitome.
Wanna Be a G-Man? . . .
Exactly 544 of the 685 Federal Bureau of Investigation staff members have university degrees.
—Associated Collegiate Press. Why Frosh Fail. . .
Students’ emotions are often tom because of inability to keep up with their classes. They fail, frequently, not because of stupidity or laziness, but because they have selected too advanced a course, Dr. H. T. Manuel, supervisor of freshman psychological examinations and professor of educational psychology declared recently.—The Daily Texan.
Slide-rule Stuff. . .
The English instructor and the Engineering professor were dining together. During the meal the former spoke:
“I had a peculiar answer in class today. I asked who wrote “The Merchant of Venice,” and a pretty little Freshman girl said, ‘Please, sir, it wasn’t me.’ ”
“Ha, ha, ha,” laughed the Engineering prof., “and I suppose the little vixen had done it all the time.”—Penn State Froth
OPINION
Again this xveek, the SCHOLASTIC seeks to bring to its readers opinions of the stiidents concerning questions of national importance. With the present war going into its second month, and the possibility of a world conflict no longer a mere prospect, the question of responsibility for the present war is pertinent. Question of the iveek: Who, in your opinion, is responsible for the present ivar?
The opinions are not necessarily those of the University, the SCHOLASTIC, nor the student body' as a whole, but are candid statements of students chosen at random, one from each of the 15 residence halls on the campus. Following are their comments:
Carroll—Floyd Richards: I would lay the responsibility for the present war to two causes, the Treaty of Versailles, and Hitler. England and France at the dose of the World War meted too severe a punishment on Germany. The Treaty of Versailles was an unjust, un-Christian conglomeration of hates which was destined to bring added misery such as is witnessed in the present conflict. Hitler, with his “eye for an eye” policy is committing the same error. Two wrongs never make a right.
Lyons—Alfred McGrane: As a recent cause, we can blame Hitler’s savage methods in his plan for bringing Germany to her former status as a first class power. Hitler is trying to be another Napoleon, only on a smaller scale, for Napoleon made them all look like pikers. However, the German Dictator will never succeed. He’ll be stopped the way of all militarists are ... by a bullet.
Brownson—Robert Le Mense: Population pressure, not political reasons, is responsible for the present war. The peoples of Europe are so crowded together and nations are so needy of additional land, that there is a natural desire on the part of all sides to seize each other’s property. In satisfying this desire all nations reach the same ultimate ends, the annexation of land. England and France had their years of “imperialism.” Now Germany is reaching her maturity and ready for her “fling.” In a war, each country has its own reasons for fighting. Combine them and you have a war.	■
St. Edward’s—Frank Comins: I blame England as the real cause behind the present -war. With Germany rising to the status of a first-class power, .England sees Germany as a potential threat to British supremacy in Europe. There
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week by Ed Huston
Top of the Week-
Sign in a down town barber shop: “Notre Dame men come in here to get clipped.”
Freak of the Week
Oscar Hammerstein desperately wanted to make last year’s student trip. He lugged his tuba out to band practice every day. Finally, just a few days before the Army game Director Casasanta turned to him and said, “Oscar, old boy, play this piece will you?” Oscar stammered, blushed, finally admitted he couldn’t play a note.
Escapist
Notre Dame has always had its share of eccentric characters. There was the great Miller Mallet, just a memory now, but in his day the screwiest of them all. He tried to build a fireplace in frigid Sorin hall. Then there was the fiery Mexican who would sleep only under the Dome. He bought an ND blanket just to pin the monogram on his sweater.
In the nearer present there have been such lads as John Barry. Johnny, as a Freshman, wore red pants. Other Freshmen didn’t like red pants. They threw Johnny in the lake. They threw him in again. They threw him in a third time. John still wore his red pants.
Perhaps the prince of this select circle has just come to light. He suffers from what the psychologists would call reverse psychology. If we were to divulge his name, the Sociology department would use him as a guinea pig. We will only say that he has moved three times in search of a strict rector, an ugly room, and mean neighbours. It seems he’s never in his room, and likes to feel he’s getting away from something.
Short story
The fellow that told this swears it’s true, so we’ll pass it on. One of the incoming Freshmen walked into his room, read the little book of student regulations, departed for a milder climate.
❖
Hairbrain Harry
About 13 guys were in one of those nice quiet bullsessions. The Rector heard the noise, found the room, but couldn’t get past the barred door. Next day he called the room-owner down for a little chat. “Quite a disturbance in your room last night Jones.” “Why, Father, nobody
was there. I was just having a nightmare and taking all the parts.
War Hysteria
Though vaguely aware of the far-reaching effects of war, we have always felt comparatively safe. But last Thursday we saw a man in a gas mask, and he was acting suspiciously. Fears of all kinds jumped into our heads—maybe he was a spy come to poison us in dur sleep, maybe he’d pull out a bayonet and start sticking people. A whiff of deadly chlorine gas reached our nose and we • were off to spread the alarm. Two days later we found that the fellow works for the swimming pool and was emptying waste gas. We never get to be a hero.
Knoivledge is power
A sophomore was seeking admission to the Bookmen. Asked if he read Time or Newsiveek, he answered no. His application was refused—lack of knowledge of World Affairs or something. The fellow felt bad about it, went to his room to read Plato’s Republic. The president of the club picked up a daily newspaper read “Terry and the Pirates,” his favorite and almost exclusive fiction.
True Detective
If a young lass from St. Mary’s wishes to recover a phonograph record lost last Sunday afternoon, she need not apply to Pinkerton’s. She must ferret out a broad - shouldered Senior from Wisconsin who dates her namesake in that state. Until you find the right man, Miss MM, you can hear Dorsey play in Alumni hall any afternoon. The culprit’s defense is temporary insanity. He says he doesn’t remember a thing after seeing his beloved’s name scribbled on the record.... next thing he knew he was back in his room listening to Dorsey.
4
Wash
Lyons sub tenants call themselves the Dead End Kids — Morrissey boys call their basement the Squalus.... the Dome is as tall as a 12 story office building.... new lights down by the Memorial.... the Purdue drum and its special truck.... Breen-Phillips boys have subscribed to the Scholastic and paid to gold-plate the Dome.....
♦
Bottom of the Week
That amateur skywriter.
lies the reason for any “protective” act by England, such as her pseudo-fraternal “Brother-act” toward Poland.
Breen-Philipps—Bob Carver: In placing the blame for the present conflict, one must remember that it is the mere men who head the different nations of Europe, not the people over which they rule, who are responsible for a nation’s conduct. I blame Lloyd George and Clemenceau, of England and France, respectively, for their atrocious parts in the Treaty of Versailles, as responsible for this, the second World War. Their skullduggery in humiliating Germany brought misery, hate, revolution, Hitler, and eventually . . . this war. And in that event, one can well wonder. ... Is Chamberlain another Lloyd George; is Daladier another Clemenceau?
Zahm—Jim Connolly: A very close friend of mine who was in Europe recently was fortunate enough to obtain an interview with the former Kaiser Wilhelm II, the “Hitler” of the last war. Questioned as to the possibilities of another conflict, the Kaiser confided to my friend that it was his conviction that the man who would be responsible for such a disaster would be Prime Minister Chamberlain, whom the Kaiser regarded as behind England’s under-handed methods in invoking British imperialism. This was before the present war broke out. The former German Chancellor also alleged that, untrue to general opinion, the people of England are not behind Chamberlain’s policies. However due to censorship and political intrigue, this matter has been kept a secret. Judging from the Kaiser’s comments, I am inclined to believe that he is not entirely wrong in berating Chamberlain. After all he knew Lloyd George.
Cavanaugh—John Hunt: You can’t place the blame on any one person or country. All of the nations of Europe are responsible. All have had their years of international might, imperialism, and annexation. In such a vicious circle, one cannot judge by ideals or justice.
Badin—Marleigh Cragin: England and France are directly responsible for the present war, through their respective parts in the “peace” of Versailles. Hitler, who is indirectly responsible, is merely one of that harvest of hate sown at Versailles.
Howard—Bob Stricker: The treaty at Versailles, beyond a doubt. England and France took too drastic punishment on Germany and as a result, wreaked vengeance that has brought us another European war.
Morrissey — Lewis Peck: I do not blame Hitler so much as I do England
. . . Turn to Page 21
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Z 188
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 73
October 6, 1939
Number 3
George Cardinal Mundelein Was Friend of University
Welcomed Roosevelt at
Philippine Convocation
In a few days a scarlet cardinal’s hat will be lifted on silken pulleys high into the gilded, groined ceiling of Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. It will be symbolic of the passing of a beloved Prince of the Church, His Eminence, George Cardinal Mundelein. But like all symbols it will not satisfy all the exquisite exactions of the intangible. For what can adequately indicate that a man has passed on to the infinite and that his spirit lives on in such ponderable yet diverse immediacies as in the human heart and in the Gothic masonry of a church?
“In Paradisum deducant te angeli....” The congregation witnessing the solemn ritual of a pontifical absolution may well try to recollect the busy life of the man now so placid in his white mitre, pallium and purple vestments. Through the golden haze of the unbleached candles some may see him as the princely sponsor of the International Eucharistic Congress of 1926; others will see him lifting the silver aspergille as he dedicated the Propaganda College in Rome built at his own expense; some' will recall how strongly he insisted that his theological
On hearing of the Cardinal's sudden death the Reverend President, John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., dispatched the following message:
“I am profoundly moved at the sad news that has just come to us. 1 had a delightful visit with his eminence only two weeks ago and he seemed in excellent health and spirits. We are consoled that he has gone to a great reward and we find deep satisfaction in the thought that his spiritual work enhanced his value as a citizen. Chicago is a much better and a much greater city for the influence of Cardinal Mundelein and the whole nation should be grateful for his wise counsel in the troubled times through which he lived.”
seminary at Mundelein, Ill., be classically American in character; others will see him raising numberless new spires into the sky. All oblique tangents perhaps, but tangents that inevitably converge in the ardent center of the Cardinal’s love for his Church.
Notre Dame remembers with gratitude the interest which the Cardinal showed in its growth. During his 24 years’ incumbency as Archbishop of Chicago, Cardinal Mundelein found time despite demanding schedules to concern himself actively with the University. He shared its joy in the Diamond Jubilee celebration of 1917. In his introduction of President Roosevelt (the Philippine Convocation, Dec. 9, 1935) he reminded the University how he “used to come frequently in its days of struggle and poverty.”
On the occasion of the Cardinal’s death which occurs in days so menacing to the democratic attitude one cannot help recalling his intense love for freedom and his high moral indignation at any force that threatened it. The world still remembers the lashing he gave a certain paperhanger. His virile Americanism was most characteristically expressed here at Notre Dame when he welcomed President Roosevelt not only as an ecclesiastic but as “a native American of four generations and the grandson of one of the first soldiers to shed his blood for the Union.”
A brief synthesis of a great life is always difficult to achieve. Cardinal Mundelein’s significance is perhaps most tersely caught in the advice he gave the students during the Convocation when he said: “Here are several thousand young men on the threshold of their great adventure. They are facing the coming struggle with hope high in their hearts and the future bright and promising to their eyes. They are impatient to reach the goal of success as quickly as they can. They already see themselves rich and famous in but a few years from now. And yet we, who are about to lay down the burden they are preparing to take up, whohave no other light to guide us than the lamp of our experience of the past, we can see more clearly into
His Eminence George Cardinal Mundelein, ordained June 8, 1895; consecrated Titular Bishop of Lory-ma and Auxiliary Bishop of Brooklyn, September 21, 1909; promoted to the See of Chicago, December 9, 1915; created Cardinal Priest, March 24, 1924; died October 2, 1939. R. I. P.
the future than they; we know that the days of the get rich quick are over, that many of them must endure poverty and want unless they are prepared to meet many an obstacle, to overcome hardship with great perseverance to hold their faith high, their courage fast and unshaken.”
The Cardinal’s life has always been a challenge to hardship; his faith a flame that will not die.
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Father Hoff Questions
‘Justice’ of World War
The Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, professor of philosophy, speaking at the Senior Peace Breakfast last Sunday, said that
Rev. Norbert C. Hoff
there were two important conditions for a just and profitable war.
“The first condition,” said Father Hoff, “is that a war must be caused by a very great moral guilt, and on one side only.” But serious con
siderations of the apparent causes of the present war “leave many skeptical whether this is a war between conflicting ideologies and not the tragedy of ‘pioneer politics’,” he said.
“No war is just,” he continued, explaining the second condition of profitable war, “if the harm which it brings to the state exceeds the benefit or the advantage, even if in other respects, titles and reasons for the justice of the war are not lacking.” However, Father Hoff recalled the magnificent idealism of the masses during the World War, and compared that attitude with the results obtained: “On the credit side, the net result was futility; on the debit side —but why recall its ghastliness? There is not anything to warrant the conclusion that entrance of the United States into Europe’s present war would yield anything except sterility and futility, unless there be new and unsounded depths of futility.”
When considering whether the present conflict might evolve into a ‘holy war,’ Father Hoff declared that ‘‘in a really holy war, the order of God and Religion are superior to all values in the secular sphere.” He said that “the use of arms would aggravate, not mitigate persecution. ... and that a common ‘quarantine’ could more effectively achieve results.”
Father Hoff advised students to “sift propaganda.” Many people had been led to believe that Franco’s cause in Spain was against democracy, he said, and only recently have been made aware of some of the facts.
“The issue is not necessarily between our isolation behind the retention of the unrevised neutrality law and an inevitable entry on our part into the war. There is no such dilemma,” concluded Father Hoff. We should, he advised, get our objections before Congress, because if war is declared it will then be too late; although war is never “inevitable.”
Doctor F. H. Hermens, the second
speaker of the department of Politics, confined his talk to a detailed analysis of war propaganda — how we should treat it, its inevitability in democracy, and how the propagandist achieves his end. “Propaganda appeals to the emotions of the lowest individuals. . . . These people become the leaders of a mob that is known as a psychological mass,” said Doctor Hermens. “But even the propagandist realizes that the reasoning person will not become the victim of liis propaganda.” He concluded that we shall not be hoodwinked if we recognize that a propagandist presents a biased set of facts, and is usually inconsistent with himself.
Doctor* Gurian told the history of Hitler’s broken treaties, and how they revised British policy. He also pointed out that Russia, heretofore hardly recognized as a power in diplomacy, is now the diplomatic center of all Europe.
—Harry Penrose
Husing Seldom Sees
The Play He Describes
The thin man in the slouch hat and dark glasses crouches over the microphone. “They shift to the right and Saggau’s back. . . .” Over the air to millions of listeners Ted Husing is snapping out the story of the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech football game. And behind the glib staccato of Husing is the complex story of the high-powered, colorful sport broadcast of today.
At Husing’s side sits the forgotten
Slight pause for Husing Identification.
man of radio—the “spotter.” Once it was Les Quailley—now it is Jimmy Dolan, the man who follows his announcer to games the country over. As Husing announces, less than twenty per cent of his attention can be spent on the play below. It is the spotter’s job to follow the play and get the essentials of the game for Husing’s narration.
Breen-Phillips freshmen stood in solemn wonder as they heard the familiar radio voice in their corridor last Friday. Mr. Husing and Mr. Dolan were here conducting their usual pre-game investigation. They are allowed to attend the final workout of both teams, acquainting themselves with the line-ups to better follow the plays.
Talks with the coaches supplement the fund of information that makes tomorrow’s game interesting for the listener. The night before is spent over the typewriter, preparing the body of the game’s description. Even after 16 years of football broadcasts Husing goes through the same procedure. The next day with his “story” on the paper there is no groping for words, no need for ad-libbing.
Immediately before the game charts of the first and second teams of both squads are made out. In all there are 16, — offensive going North and South, and defensive for both North and South. By use of these charts and Husing’s especially designed electric “annunciator board,” the spotter keeps the announcer informed of the necessary facts. Dolan presses the button of a certain player’s
The Notre Dame Scholastic
number and a light flashes opposite the player’s name on Husing’s board. Mr. Husing swears by every one of the 126 wires in the system claiming, “It reduces football to the least common denominator, numbers and names. In its ten years of seiwice it has failed only once and then Jimmy Dolan’s resourcefulness ‘saved the game.’ ”
Ted Husing, christened Edward Britt Husing, was born 38 years ago. His first venture into football was on the field, playing with a New York semi-pro team. Listed on the same team were: Les Quailley, quarterback, and Jimmy Dolan, end. When radio began to take football broadcasts seriously in 1924 Ted Husing was one of 600 trying out for the job. “Because I could talk louder and longer than the rest, I got the job.” In recent years Husing’s stream-lined speech, pacing itself to the action of the game, has been an identification mark for the “game of the week.”—John Quinn.
Monogram Initiation
The dark secret is out! Now it can be told! The mysteries of initiation into the celebrated Monogram Club have been partially disclosed.
Steve Coughlin, tall president of the club, whispered into the ear of your correspondent that the initiation began last Sunday. Joe Paddle, the new member, awoke to the shrill clatter of his alarm clock. In the chill of early dawning Joe hurriedly dressed, crept silently to the room of his man—a senior snoring contentedly in his drooping cot. With the stealth of a born footpad, Joe slipped to the bedside, where, leaning over cautiously, he whispered, “Beg your pardon, sir. But it’s time to get up!”
Then, when he had awakened his man, Joe quietly departed. Later, after he had heard Mass, was he allowed to go to breakfast? No! With the injustice of it knifing his heart, Joe hastened to the Caf where he purchased—from his own meager pittance, mind you—a paper. Then he rushed to his man who, complaining at the delay, relaxed in an armchair and eagerly perused the comics. Our friend Joe Paddle bowed low and withdrew.
For one week Joe has to be maltreated and abused by the established members of the Monogram Club. Sunday, the final day, will bring the mystic ritual, which Mr. Coughlin says is not for publication, because the club wishes to maintain its pride at any cost. Only when the ritual has been undergone are Joe Paddle and his fellows to be promoted to official rank and dignity as fully accredited members of the Monogram Club.
Lake St. Joseph: Who pulled out the plug?
Minutes of the Meeting of Thursday: The Monogram Club Ball will be held Friday evening, December 1. Dress will be formal, and tickets will be two dollars the couple. Neither the orchestra nor the hall have been chosen. The officers are: Steve Coughlin, president; Steve Sitko, vice-president; and Norve Hunthausen, secretary and treasurer. The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and onetime varsity football center, was selected as the club’s first chaplain.
—Roger Behm.
Sudden Leak Develops -
In St. Joseph’s Lake
Mission dodgers, cross co”ntrv enth”s-iasts and others given to trips around the lakes have probably noticed that the shore line of St. Joseph’s lake has receded about 25 feet. This means that the lake level has dropped about t”-o and one half feet. However, there is no cause for alarm to those who recall that the University gets most of its water supply from this lake—a new well will be in operation shortly.
Until a month ago the lake was fed by a 160 foot well drilled in 1926 and by springs. Recently the well has filled with sand and now only the springs have been replenishing water removed by evaporation during the late dry spell and University use. The latter had been particularly heavy during the hot weather due to use of lawn sprinklers which nearly doubled the usual daily consumption of 700,000 gallons. In the old days, when the University was smaller, the springs in the lake took care of replacing the school’s needs but as th° m station grew, the well was installed as a supplement and today we have visual
evidence of what could happen if everyone stayed under the showers too long.
If anyone is worried about the fish .suffering from present conditions it is reported that the lake has been measured to a depth of 60 feet.—Jack Dinges
Dome Staff Appointed
The mills of the gods grind slowly and with them revolve the wheels which bear the Dome on its way to press. Editor Thomas Carty called his first meeting last week and appointed his staff: Ralph Gerra of Brooklyn, N. Y., managing editor; Raymond Kelly, Detroit, Mich., assistant editor; Bernard Longo, Cleveland, Ohio, is art editor; and John White of Brentwood, Md., will handle the sports department.
The engraving contract has been let and plans are being made for a new annual cover. The year’s activities are now in f”ll spring; the staff has begun collecting and tabulating the facts that make the year book such an interesting ■ and creditable product. They are looking forward to an edition that will at least equal, if not surpass, the efforts of the past.
Georgia Tech Dance
It’s pessimism, that what it is! Placards advertise the usual Saturday night after-the-game dance as the “Georgia Tech Football Dance” instead of the customary “Victory Dance.” Those down-to-earth realists, The Chemists, are sponsoring the shuffle which will be run off to the music of Karl Hunn and his orchestra. Karl and the boys will play from 8:30 till 11:00 o’clock on the University Club bandstand. If you are interested in such base treachery to tradition, the price per couple is one dollar.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Student Trip Trains
To Leave From Campus
The reorganized Student Council is inaugurating its activities this year with what promises to be the best student trip since 1935. (Columbus . . . Andy Pilney . . . Notre Dame 18 . . . Ohio State 13.) From every possible angle the jaunt to Cleveland and the Navy -game assures the transients a maximum in comfort and value.
The trains this year will leave directly from the campus instead of South Bend station — eliminating the trolley crush. Inasmuch as trains will leave both Friday and Saturday, it is expected that many more students than usual will be able to accompany the team.
Train “A” will leave Friday at midnight (C.S.T.) and arrive in Cleveland at 6:00 a.m. (E.S.T.). Train “A” will return Sunday, leaving at 4 p.m. Train “B” leaves South Bend at 7:00 a.m., Saturday, with its return scheduled for midnight the same day. There will be no classes on Saturday, October 21.
The reasonable prices are the outstanding feature of the trip: Train “A” costing $8.15, and Train “B” $7.65.
A $3.30 ticket to the game, and round trip by coach are included in the fare. Sleeping accommodations must be secured by the individual.
A strong Notre Dame town, Cleveland will give the Irish a tremendous welcome, and Saturday night a Victory Dance will be held by Cleveland alumni. Thousands of hometown collegians will also be on hand to assure ample confraternity for visitors. The colorful Midshipmen may attend—pending the decision of Naval officials.
Jerry Donovan, president of the Student Council, predicted a minimum of 800 trippers and hopes to top the 1,000 mark. “I believe that we have a real bargain,” he stated, “and I sincerely hope that the student body will give us a strong Notre Dame contingent.”
—John MacDevitt.
Dooley Explains Work
Of Placement Bureau
Help Wanted! Those two words have almost vanished from the American scene since 1929, but it is the aim of the Placement Bureau of the Alumni Association to restore them, not to the country at large, but to the Notre Dame campus. The Bureau, under the direction of William R. Dooley, is rightfully proud of the work it has already accomplished, but it has even higher hopes for the future. Since its establishment in May, 1938, it has contacted 160 business firms thoughout the country. While some of these firms could offer no immediate
employment, most of them expressed their willingness to cooperate with the Bureau in the future.
In response to the Bureau’s request, at least 37 organizations sent personnel representatives to the campus last spring to interview members of the graduating class. This practice—which will be continued—is decidedly advantageous to the job-hunting senior, Mr. Dooley said, for it gives him an opportunity to be interviewed under favorable circumstances, and to make excellent contacts with industry while he is still able to “look around.”
The Placement Bureau began actual
William R Dooley
work in the second semester of 1938-39, although it helped to place some of the 1938 graduating class. Of the 578 lay students who received degrees this year, 182 applied to the Bureau for assistance. According to the last check in midAugust, 116 of these applicants are either now employed or are continuing their education in graduate work. The Bureau was directly responsible for placing 22 graduates, and it has been estimated that another 22 men are working because of its indirect help. The Bureau, therefore, has been successful in finding work for at least 24 % of the total number of applicants.
According to Mr. Dooley, the Bureau has very definite plans for the future. They include, especially, the opportunity for the seniors to register for placement assistance, probably within the next two months. Definite announcement about this registration will be made shortly. It will also be the aim of the Placement Bureau to discuss all phases of placement with individual seniors who need special help in this field.
Speaking of the development of placement work at Notre Dame, Mr. Dooley said: “The work of placement is endlessly complicated and requires continued correspondence and interviews and telephone calls to industrial executives, administrative offices, deans, department heads, faculty members, alumni, and students. My ‘pioneering’ in this field has been especially difficult. The placing of one man often requires days of effort. The reluctance of some students and alumni to reply to letters or to respond to placement suggestions is, to say the least, discouraging.”
Optimistic about the future, however, Mr. Dooley said: “There is light ahead, though; some of the hardest foundation work has been done and we should have sound results increasingly over the coming years. What we want, I am sure, is a steady development. Placement is a cumulative thing; it grows as contacts and confidence and knowledge of its services grow.”
Faculty Retreat
Last year, at the request of several of its members, a special mission or retreat was conducted for the Lay Faculty of the University. The large attendance and the many expressions of satisfaction prompted the University to again offer this service to her lay teachers. The mission exercises were held in the Dillon Hall chapel during the past week.
The preacher was the Rev. Richard Collentine, C.S.C., for many years a member of the Holy Cross Mission Band, and at present superior of the Community House on the campus. This public manifestation of faith, involving as it did no little sacrifice of time and comfort, can not fail to bear great spiritual fruit for those who participated in it and for those who were so highly edified by the good example.
It is safe to predict that this mission will henceforth take its place along with the annual mission attended by the students as an integral part of the religious program of our University life.
La Raza Meeting
With the induction of ten new members, the La Raza Club began the school season last Monday night. Discussion of their annual banquet, scheduled for October 12, Columbus Day, and the election of Juan Cintron as vice-president, were the outstanding features of the meeting.
President Enrique Arias also announced that the club’s soccer team would he continued.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FACULTY
Mexico Threatened By
Grave Economic Crisis
As has happened periodically throughout her renuhlicnn history, Mexico, in late 1939 finds herself once more con
fronted by a grave economic crisis — upon the solution of which depends the fate of the nation, for the immediate future at least. A successful recovery from the present rather
Walter M. Langford desperate situation could restore to Mexico some of her former prominence in New World affairs. On the other hand, it would not take much to throw the country into complete political and economic collapse, with revolution even a possibility.
(The writer, Prof. Walter M. Langford, received the degree of Master of Modern Languages from the Universidad National de Mexico. From his four years of study and travel in Mexico have come many magazine articles—his latest, “The Tactics of Labor in Mexico,” was reprinted in the September issue of “The Catholic Digest.”)
President Cardenas, a man of some fine points as well as certain weaknesses, completes his six-year term in 1940. Inheriting a government already in an advanced anemic state, he has stubbornly pushed through numerous reforms intended to liquidate the labor and agrarian problems, as well as others. But organized labor got out of hand, grew into a sort of Frankenstein which has with thorough ruthlessness throttled the land. The agrarian program, too, though perhaps justified in principle, has been unfairly applied and has resulted so far in almost nothing but failure from the point of view of production. Last year it became necessary to import large quantities of corn and beans, the two commodities on which the great bulk of the populace almost literally lives.
But the measure which served most to accelerate the economic difficulties and inspire most of the subsequent panic and uncertainty was the much-discussed oil expropriation decree of March, 1938. Among the effects of this decree may be
counted the disheartening nose-dive of the peso from a value of 28 cents to 16 cents in terms of the United States dollar, a flight of capital from the country estimated at 900 million pesos, a weakening of the metal reserves of the Bank of Mexico which has that institution groggy and ready for the knock-out punch, a sharp rise in the price of even the necessities of life, and increased unemployment.
The campaign for the election of the new president is already being fiercely waged. Normally a presidential race in Mexico has but one possible outcome— the arbitrary seating of the nominee of the “official” party. This time, however, the opposition forces are better organized and more aggressive and vocal than usual and, while their man Almazan very likely will be counted out in the “elections” of next July in favor of the officially-backed Avile Camacho, the governmental party is being hard pressed and more strenuously harassed than at any time in the modern political history of Mexico. Some violence has already come to the surface and a good deal more is expected before a new president assumes office.
One sign which augurs well for the future is the fact that persistent public pressure has finally caused a loosening of the tentacles with which Labor has so completely strangled the nation. The new European conflict has had two principal effects, one rather offsetting the other. The shipment of Mexican oil to Germany has necessarily ceased, but the wilted peso has jumped from 16 back to 20 cents.
As Mexico repeats her act of approaching another crossroads, it will be of interest and, of course, of some significance to watch in which direction she will turn. A turn to the right, a settlement of the oil dispute (absolutely essential for any prompt national recovery), and a more sane governmental policy serving, for a change, the interests of all the people, would do much toward improving the general situation in Mexico.—Walter M. Langford.
Winner of Paris Prize
To Teach Architecture
A winner of the coveted Paris Prize of the Beaux Arts Institute of Design has joined the faculty of the department of architecture. He is Mr. Frank Montana of New York City, who has been studying abroad for the past three years.
In addition to being the 29th winner of the Paris Prize Mr. Montana has been the recipient of several high honors. In
1935 he received first honorable mention in the competition for the Rome Prize in Design for the American Academy in Rome. This year his design for a hydroplane base for the Midway Islands, his subject for the Architecture Diploma du Goveurnment Francais, was awarded “mention tres bien” by the Ecole National de Beaux Arts in Paris. In addition, the Society of Architects of France conferred a medal on Mr. Montana for his design.
Born in Nara, Italy, in 1911, the new Notre Dame instructor was graduated from the Stuyvesant High school in New York City and in 1934 received his degree in architecture, cum laude at New York University. He received the Paris Prize in 1936. Since then he has travelled extensively in Egypt, Greece, Syria, Germany; France, England and other European countries.
Mr. Montana will teach architectural design and water color in the department of architecture.
Federal Census Finds
Reason For South Bend
For the student who has been wonder
ing why South Bend exists as a com
munity the Federal government — re-
. veals Prof. Frank
T. Flynn of the department of sociology — h a s a ready answer. South Bend—according to the latest government census—has been judged the most “typically urban American com-
Frank T. Flynn munity.”
As such South Bend takes on added importance to sociology majors and professors who now know their studies are being carried on in the finest sociological testing ground in the nation. In South Bend population is not metropolitan, but neither is it rural; industry is an integral part of the economic sy^t^m. h”t fertile acres make surrounding land ideal for agriculture.
Federal agents conducted their census through Michiana this summer. Thirtyseven questions—with a nine page book of instructions — were included in a questionnaire, and tabulated results brought South Bend its “All American” rating.
Incidentally, the book of instructions had this to say: “College students are included in the same class as housewives, the totally disabled, and the permanently retired.”
10	The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Donald Driscoll, Art Editor
FOUNDED 1867
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Dos Angeles—-San Francisco.
THE SCHODASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff. 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
Interhall Sports
JT WAS with no little gratification that we learned recently of the formation of the new Student Council, since one of its chief responsibilities will he the administration and supervision of interhall athletics.- The assumption of this responsibility by the Council is a most progressive step in student welfare, the significance of which will be realized only as one month of interhall activity succeeds another. For we feel certain that the Student Council, in cooperation with Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden, will direct its best efforts toward remedying an unfortunate situation that has seen the interhall athletic program at Notre Dame deteriorate appreciably as a vital part of student activity.
To deny that interhall athletics have fallen far short of their purpose, at least during the college lifetime of the present Senior class, would be indeed difficult. But this is not to accuse those in charge of inefficiency or negligence. On the contrary, they have accomplished an unbelievable amount of good in the face of handicaps which would have discouraged less able men. One of the greatest handicaps was undoubtedly the fact that the administration of interhall athletics has been in recent years the responsibility of the Department of Physical Education. Such an arrangement could hardly be conducive to the best interests of the interhall program, since the Department of Physical Education is a. regular department in the College of Arts and Letters and, as such, has sufficient business of its own to attend to
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
without assuming the added burden of an extensive interhall sports program. Under the new arrangement, however, the program will be carried out under the supervision of a group which will, we understand, be able to devote its full attention to the task. Another handicap has been the lack of suitable quarters and equipment for interhall activities. But last spring saw the completion of the Rockne Memorial, one of the finest recreational centers in college circles today. It was dedicated to the purpose for which Rockne himself wished a building to be erected—the advancement of interhall and intramural athletics.
There are some who will question the wisdom of presenting the case of what they consider so insignificant a thing as the interhall athletic program. But there are good reasons. In the first place, no educational system can call itself complete which fails to include within its scope physical as well as spiritual and mental development, for even though physical development is less important than spiritual and mental development, it plays a definite, vital part in the human life. To neglect it through indifference or to shun it as inconsequential is ridiculous. In the second place, no educational system can be called complete which fails to reach each and every student who wishes to avail himself of its advantages. Thus the lack of ah effective intramural athletic program at any large university creates a regrettable situation, since the great majority of students have neither the time nor the ability to get what they want out of varsity athletics. For varsity athletics
benefit comparatively few students, since to be in any degree effective, instruction and supervision must be limited to a small number of men. The solution, then, would seem to lie in a well-proportioned and properly coordinated dual program of varsity and interhall athletics, both to be shown due consideration.
For the successful completion of a banner interhall year, the cooperation of all undergraduate organizations concerned is necessary. As the purveyor of student opinion and campus news the Scholastic has a definite part to play in the new scheme of things as it had in the old. In the past only the finest spirit of cooperation has prevailed between Mr. Layden and Mr. Scannell on the one hand, and the Scholastic on the other. There is no reason why the same spirit of mutual helpfulness should not prevail between the Student Council and the Scholastic in the months to come. The Scholastic heartily endorses this new move for a more substantial interhall athletic program on the campus. May it be the beginning of the most successful era in interhall history!
—Donald A. Foskett
Calliopes
IIT’E NEVER come away from a Satur-” day night movie in Washington Hall without profound regret that Dante Ali-gheri drew up his blueprints for Hell late in the thirteenth century. A revised edition of The Divine Comedy is now impossible. But we like to wonder where a ’39 Dante would quarter our campus mysogynists. You’re familiar with the type — when Charles Boyer kisses Irene Dunne their sense of frustration whistles. ■
Dante made the punishment fit the crime. We have hopes, therefore, that he already has reserved aisle seats in Inferno Theatre for our campus calliopes. We trust they will enjoy the continuous double features. In the first epic the redskins will scalp all the poor white settlers. But in the sequel the white settlers’ revengeful relatives from over the ridge, the Texas Rangers, the U. S. Cavalry and the Marines, in the order named, will charge the deceitful aborigines to deal them their just deserts. As an added attraction Tony Galento will waddle down the aisle at two minute intervals to recover the umbrella he left absent mindedly in a center seat.
The question has been asked before, but it may do no harm to ask it again: Why don’t the campus canaries keep either themselves or their whistles out of Washington Hall?—William C. Fay
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ll
Off the Bookshelf
serves the warmest kind of recommendation and should be widely used as a textbook as well as for general reading.
—Daniel C. O’Grady, PhD.
Lessons in Liberty. By Clarence Manion. Notre Dame, Indiana. University of Notre Dame Press, 1939.
(The writer, Professor Daniel C. O’Grady, Ph.D., has been an associate professor of Philosophy at the University since 1926. He is the author of several philosophical texts and many magazine articles. His latest article, “Thomism as a Frame of Reference” appeared in the August issue of “The Thomist.”)
While weak nations in Europe and Asia are losing what liberty they once had and while freedom in the so-called democracies in Europe is being surrendered for the very sake of national survival itself, it is not surprising that a renewed interest in freedom should assert itself in America where liberty is not as yet in any immediate jeopardy. Thus we find scheduled for publication this autumn, volumes on the subject of freedom by John Dewey, Edouard Herriot and Benedetto Croce.
The present work by the popular professor of Constitutional Law at the University here, is a timely book of capital quality. It is a study of American Government and its 297 pages (42 chapters) are organized into three “Books” which deal with the “substance and purpose,” the “forms” and the “methods” of government, respectively. Each of the three “books” is made up of five “lessons.” The author’s approach is realistic and the volume is replete with concrete examples. All those who have enjoyed his eloquence on the hustings—and they are not confined to this bailiwick—will agree that he has neglected his pen for too long a time because his forensic skill is here translated into fluent writing of a high order. His graphic style is the product of an oratorical flair which was developed during 15 years in political campaigns. His experience as a federal administrator gives a practical note to the entire treatment of political topics and profusion of vivid illustrations (e.g. pp. 16; 34; 38; 54; 126; 137; 155) bespeaks his pedagogical skill.
The sub-title of the book is “a Study of God in Government” and the “soil of God’s creative purpose” is a major theme developed in connection with what the author calls the “tree of liberty" whose structure and development constitutes the subject-matter of the treatise. The totalitarian or dictatorial forms of government are clearly described and repudiated as pagan. There is, moreover,
a constant emphasis upon principles in contradistinction to methods (pp. 19; 28; 62; 27; 234). Ends are shown to be more important than means and the distinction between them is employed as a key in the solution of current controversies of a political character.
The author places an “accent upon youth” and upon “faith” in the everyday sense of the latter term and the entire treatment has the zest, the verve, the elan and eclat that belong to such an emphasis and that are so typical of the author himself. We need not dwell here upon his detailed treatment of the relations between federal and state jurisdictions or between the executive, legis-
Contrast
Spring is an Indian maiden, A copper hussy at the river, Dipping the hair of her willoivs In the sunrise of the river.... Hair dyed in the stubble green-wash of the river.
Autumn is like a silent squaw, Inarticulate
Save for the gestures of her colours.
Her speech falls limply from the trees Leaving empty diagrams against the sky To be filled with new chatter At the first fresh green of spring.
—John M. Coppinger.
lative and judicial branches of government whose separation Montesquieu so much admired. Nor need we more than mention the contributions made by Bellarmine and Suarez to democratic doctrine and republican theory. Sadce it to say that the author makes most clear the intimate connection between Christian principles and democratic ideals.
The appendices include the texts of the Declaration of Independence and the Federal Constitution as well as a large number of practical questions pertinent to the text and arranged by chapters. There is an index.
The University Press (and how many students are aware that it was one of the first such presses in the country?) did a fine job as to typography, binding, format, etc. In other words it is a good-looking book, physically speaking, and we hope we have made it sufficiently clear that in style and content it de
God in an Irish Kitchen. By Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Sheed & Ward, 1939.
In lilting, vivid prose, with a bit of blarney in it, the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., has given us a charming sketch of life in contemporary southwestern Ireland, under the arresting title of “God in an Irish Kitchen.” Written in an informal, easy flowing style, (and employing the editorial “we” frequently and with good effect), Father Ward’s saga of a summer’s journey faithfully describes not only the life and environment of the Irish peasantry, but also the simple, fervent religious life of the people.
The author is admittedly prejudiced for the Irish, but doesn’t fail to inform his readers of the ubiquitous dirt and provincialism and terrible poverty of modem Eire. He narrates the effect of tilling semi-arid, rocky soil, providing for large families, and fighting sickness with little if any medical care. Shoeless children treading stone-filled roads are a familiar sight in Ireland. Parental authority is rigorously, severely upheld, and the father of a family is its patriarch. It is the father who decides whether daughter buys shoes at the fair, or whether she remains “in her feet” for another year. He regulates the social life of the family, and is careful to expend money only on those offspring intending to follow a religious vocation. Only in death does he surrender his primacy, when the eldest son becomes head of the house. The mother of the family takes a neutral, reticent place, having little to say in the rearing of her family.
A frugal and exacting manner of life is that of the Galway fisherman,- as revealed by Father Ward. Damp, barren, cavernous stone houses shelter this patient race, which exists solely for fishing. Meager catches are the rule on this rocky coastline which breeds a gentle patient brand of men, whose solace is their deeply rooted religious faith, and whose cross is their daily twelve hour labor. These are men who return home to eat a little, sleep a little and pray. In every home is the picture of the Sacred Heart, and in every Irish “parlor,” nightly recitation of the Rosary.
The Irish failing for whiskey is tersely and apologetically mentioned, and in one of two brief expository stories, the author points out how intemperance proves a major social problem, (though a minor one), on the Emerald Isle.
—See Page 23—
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Layden Expects Close Game With Tech’s Tricky Eleven
Irish Coach Seeking
Reserve Line Power
It’s a quaint Alexandrian custom to conquer the world. Coach Bill Alexander intends to verify that lick-’em-all reputation when he brings his Georgia Tech team into the Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon. They don’t come too big for the Ramblin’ Wrecks, and sometimes the big ones are lucky to get out alive.
But Tech must show capable replacements for such a great center as Jack Chivington, last year’s captain, for two burly guards of 1938, Junior Anderson and Shorty Brooks, in fact, for the entire front line of last season. Outstanding at the guard post are two expert punters, Charlie Sanders and Neil Cav-ette. And do not discount a sparkling array of backs, starters in every one of last season’s contests.
Captain Murphy, Beers, Gibson, and Ector are light men, but they are. also shifty and possessed with blinding speed. And there are others, all especially well-versed in the art of ball hiding and trickery. Remember the names: Ison, Sprayberry, Webb, and “Jarring Joe” Bartlett. Those four will be out there playing a lot of end for the Tech team. They can impose on opposing backs like immovable pillars, but when the Wrecks have the ball those pillars make their metamorphosis into leaping, twisting, pass-receiving deer.
And too, Georgia is known far and wide for its smart little tricks of knocking off the supposed overwhelming favorites. Here’s what Notre Dame Coach Elmer Layden had to say about the surprises in Tech’s repertoire.
“Georgia Tech is always tough to beat when the chips are down. Coach Alexander, with a chance to develop some extra plays in a long pre-season practice session, is bound to come up with a sleeveful of tricks. He is a fine, capable coach with years of experience, and, count on it, his ball club will give us a great deal more trouble than the dope sheet would have you believe.”
About his own team’s showing against Purdue, Layden was not enthusiastic; however, neither was he overly disappointed. Pointed out in the Monday morning analysis were these potent facts:
“There is a great deal of room for improvement in three of our main departments, running, passing, and blocking. The kicking game was oui* only bright spot. Passing was stymied by a strong Purdue line, but offensive blocking on our part could have offset this handicap.
“A mid-season opponent played on opening day is always tough to beat. For, showing well in their first games, both teams can be given praise. The fact that we were up against such a strong club made it impossible for us to watch more of our men in competition. During the next few "weeks we will see how some of our unknown quantities, the ones who have not seen actual competitive action, shape up. It is possible that new faces will dot our future line-ups.”
So be wary of over-confidence, light hearts, and cockiness! Tomorrow, Notre Dame faces the Ramblin’ Wrecks from Georgia Tech, the giant killers of the South. “Now you see it; now you don’t” is Tech’s football slogan, Magicians often fool us.—John Patterson.
Jots between Dots. . . .
Coach Alexander makes sure that politics does not enter into the election of the Georgia Tech captain by holding a quick election at an unexpected time. Buck Murphy, star blocking back from Jesup, Georgia, was chosen captain this year, and Billy Gibson, halfback from Atlanta, was named alternate captain. . . . Tech opened the season with a practice game against the University of Chattanooga. No score was kept and the stadium was closed to spectators. . . . Neil Cavette, 200 lb. guard, will do the kicking for the Engineers tomorrow . . . Coach Alexander is known by everyone on the Atlanta campus as “Coach Alex” . . . the Georgians consider Notre Dame the biggest stumbling block on their schedule, which includes California, Duke, Alabama, Vanderbilt, among others . . . talk about eating— the Tech squad has in its ranks a Pair, a Lamb, a Beers, and a Sprayberry . . . many Tech students and alumni will be here for the game. They have arranged to meet in South Bend tomorrow morning . . . Fullback Howard Ector is known as the “Sixty-minute Man” of the Yellowjacket squad.
THE STARTING
Notre Dame
Kerr .......
Gallagher .... DeFranco .... McIntyre .... Gubanich ... Harvey ..... J. Kelly (C) Sitko ...... Saggau ..... Zontini .... Thesing ....
...Left End.. ...Left Tackl ...Left Guare ...Center... ...Right Guare ..Right Tackl ....Right End —Quarterbacl .Left Halfbae Right Halfb ...Fullback..
Time—2:00 o’clock (CST). Place—N crowd—25,000. Referee—L. S. Ervin (I inger (Springfield). Linesman—William Judge—B. B. Chambers (Denison). Coad Dame), W. A. (Bill) Alexander (Georg WLW Cincinnati; WSBT-WFAM South 1
Lou Zontini Right Halfback
Joe Thesi?
Fztllback
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
I.^lagher	Joe De Franco
/ tackle	Left Guard
NG LINEUPS
Georgia Tech
Splinters From The Pressbox
by Frank Aubrey
End......
Tackle....
Guard..... iter...... Guard..... Tackle ... ; End..... ;erback... [alfback.... Halfback. Iback.....
. Webb . Wood ... Cavette . Beard . Aderhold .Lackey .Ison Murphy (C) . Beers .... Gibson . Ector
ice—Notre Dame Stadium. Probable rin (Drake). Umpire—A. A. Shab-illiam Blake (Columbia, la.). Field Coaches—Elmer F. Layden (Notre Georgia Tech). Radio broadcasts— outh Bend; WSB, WGST Atlanta.
Chesing llback
Bob Saggau . Left Halfback
Six short days ago our coach brought forth upon the Stadium turf a new varsity, composed of a veteran backfield and an uncertain line, and faced with the task of meeting nine top-notch teams in succession. Now we are in the midst of a great campaign testing whether this 1939 team, or any team so composed and so confronted, can long succeed. Today, we, living on the campus of this University, are not solidly behind the team although it is altogether fitting and proper that we should be so.
Since the Purdue game we’ hear on every side that various members of the team are incompetent—“that our quarterbacks’ choice of plays was sour; that our ends bowled over too often; that our tackles were easily sucked in; that our passes were poorly thrown; and that our line was out-charged.” The large majority of us cannot directly aid the team. But if many of us openly criticize and disparage, if we lambast the best efforts of those who are playing and fighting our battles for us, we ■will indirectly contribute to the team’s defeat.
Saturday we ran into a tough opponent in Purdue. Things didn’t work out as easily as we had planned. No long runs for scores were made by our halfbacks. We piled up no staggering totals in the statistics column. We had no glittering passing attacks. Our line was broken through often by Purdue line men. In its most critical aspect, that is one side of the story. But there’s another side—Purdue’s. If we were going to be successful in all our efforts, run up a score, throw passes at will, and block like machines, Purdue would have to be correspondingly inept and inefficient, for what the offense accomplishes, the defense has to yield to. But Purdue was not weak. It had a smart, veteran line—one which diagnosed plays, and had the ability and strength to nip our best plays in the bud. The Purdue backfield, too, was experienced, fast, and well-drilled. Besides they were using approximately the same system of play as our own, with some modifications. Last year this same Purdue team, except for a few men, lost only one game.
Football games are not played on paper. They are not decided by past records. However, some of us have come to believe that Notre Dame teams can do no wrong, that Notre Dame can
never lose. No, we didn’t lose that last , one, that’s true. But what’s to stop us ■ from losing in the future? Other schools have the same basis of football material —the nation at large. Other schools have the same facilities and equipment. Other schools use this much-publicized Notre Dame system. Yet, you say, we win more often or have won more often in the past than other big teams. Could it be possible that we have some other factor on our side which other schools have not? Could not this something be a will to win, a habit of fighting when the going gets toughest, a non-material thing which Rockne left behind?
This mental or physical force which enables Irish teams to stand out so often in glaring headlines, which has created for the University a nationwide ‘‘subway alumni,” and which has established the name of Notre Dame as synonymous with a “fighting to the last ditch” spirit —this force originated in the student body. Of late we cannot claim to be so favored. At least it doesn’t appear soon the surface. Gatherings of the student body seem to impress the outsider that all this pep and cheering, this so-called “spirit of Notre Dame,” is cut-and-dried, that it is mechanical, and that it is not spontaneous, but only for effect or to impress the onlooker. It is an undeniable fact that only a defeat can awaken a genuine team-feeling in the student body as a whole. In the past, the effect of a defeat has been miraculous. Well, we were never closer to defeat than in those seconds in the last quarter when Piepul was reaching for. Byelene’s legs. Had Milt been unable to hang on, chances are those sarcastic appraisals of Notre Dame football would he changed right now. We would now have that old time feeling that nothing was more important than a Notre Dame victory on Saturday.
Off the record, there’s the story of the inexperienced “B” teamer. Elmer was scrimmaging the varsity and one of the sub-teams. A sub-tackle was hit on the nose, which started to bleed, so Elmer called for another tackle. Well, this “B”-man was present on the sidelines, but he had been looking for four-leaf clovers or something. Anyhow he heard the yell for a tackle, so he jumped up and dashed out on the field. Panting with excitement, he danced up to Elmer and demanded, “Which team, coach?”
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing by Pete Sheehan
Upwards of 40,000 football devotees attended the Irish-Boilermaker encounter last Saturday. The Irish fans, who were in the majority, anxiously awaited the kickoff. They were fearful. They had no doubts as to the prowess of the backfield material but the line was a big question mark. The field announcer barked out the lineups and many Blue and Gold fans shook their heads. It seemed funny not to hear such names as Beinor, Kell, and Brown. Would the new linemen come through? - Tomorrow afternoon those fans will be certain that Georgia Tech’s Yellow Jackets will be aware of the presence of one member of that forward wall, Thaddeus H. Harvey, right tackle. Until last Saturday Tad was known as Kell’s alternate. Although he earned a monogram last year, he was never considered an important link in the chain of eight Irish victories.
Tad started against Purdue. He spent the afternoon breaking through the visitors’ forward wall, piling up the inter-ferers and smearing the enemy ball carriers. When the Irish kicked, big Tad was down under the punt with the speed and ferocity that made All-American Joe Beinor the dread of every safety man on the Irish schedule.
He attended New Trier
High, Winnetka, Illinois, where he won fame as a tackle, a catcher and a state swimming champion. Harvey made the all-Suburban football team in 1935 when his team was undefeated in 11 contests. Such men as Voigts and Daly, Northwestern stars, opposed him in scholastic competition.
Swimming is the big tackle’s favorite diversion. As a sophomore, Tad captured the state championship in the 75 yard event and won the 100 yard title just before retiring from high school competition.
Tad is also very good at slugging a baseball over fences and may try his hand at intercollegiate ball before graduation. The positions of catcher and outfielder are not strange to him as he saw plenty of service on the New Trier High nine.
Tad has never scored a touchdown and
he believes it would be a thrill to cross that double marker. This is a warning to all safety men — don’t fumble those punts 1
Harvey does not confine his extracurricular activities to the athletic field. Last spring, he was one of the beef trust Floradora girls in the annual Monogram show. With the Washington Hall stage sagging as^it never sagged before or since, Tad and the rest of the muscular
chorines pranced about with all the grace and agility of Camera on a tightrope. Harvey had to be good to compete with such experienced exponents of the dance as Zontini, DeFranco, Kerr, The-sing, Simonich, and Gallagher. We have it off the record that even Hollywood tried to lure the girls from the gridiron, but it didn’t work.
Jitterbugs, attention! Whenever you would like to hear a little swing drop down to Morrissey Sub and listen to Tad’s hot recordings.
Statistics: Bom in Chicago on Sept. 11, 1918. Now resides in Wilmette, Ill. Weight, 220 pounds, height, 6 ft. 2 in. Has a younger brother who will probably be playing tackle for Jake Kline’s Freshmen in two more years. Tad will be graduated from the College of Commerce in June and has chosen advertising as his career.
Tennis Tournament
Sneaking between the rain drops, and waiting for the courts to dry, Hecky Heckler and Red Bowler managed to play off their tennis matches and now rest at the quarter-final bracket for the other contestants to catch up with them.
Both Bowler and Heckler came into their positions as a result of victories over last year’s spring finalists. In his match with Joe Garvey, Heckler won the first set 8-6, lost the next one 4-6, and then suddenly wilted his opponent with an aggressive game to win the final match, 6-0. Bob Sweeny gave Bowler a real scare, gaining match point five times before Red was able to pass him for the victory. Jack Walsh moved on with little difficulty chopping on to an easy 6-0, 6-2, victory over Platt, the Freshman champ of last year. The play, although forced behind schedule by bad weather, is expected to be finished in time for the start of the proposed doubles tournament, before the wind carries off the ’39 tennis season.
Canale Sees Bright
Future For Van Horn
Welby Van Hom, recently runner-up to Bobby Riggs in the United States Tennis championships at Forest Hills, L. I., is better known in tennisdom by his nickname, “Van Bugle.” Unlike many of the boastful and irresponsible players who dominate the first 20 positions in the country, Van Hom is exceptionally unassuming and quiet; however, do not let these expressions of his character influence you falsely concerning his tennis Play.
The writer, Dan Canale, University tennis champion, lost to Van Horn in the Kentucky State Finals this summer. The scores were 6-3, 2-6, 6-3.
On the court this 19-year-old Californian opposes all the requisites known in displaying a serious and stem game; his style is entirely nonchalant. I have never seen him play a single point in which he did not seem to be completely relaxed and unconcerned. A great deal of the time he does not know the score of his match, and once I saw him when he was only two points away from losing and someone reminded him of the score. A look of surprise spread over his face. Quickly he stepped up and followed his serve to the net four times winning the game, and then ran out the next two games for the match.
From the looseness in his service and ground game to the severity in his volleys, not a single strained action can be noticed. He is somewhat similar to Ellsworth Vines, especially in one respect,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
court coverage. With composite ease and eagerness of foot, Van Horn is never out of reach of even the lowest bouncing ball as a few soft, swift steps and an occasional slide suffice in carrying him close enough for a forcing return. It is this quality, along with his carefree strokes, that contrasts him so greatly with such a player as Frankie Parker, since Parker is stiif and mechanical and has to be set for every shot.
This year in the National Men’s, Van Horn defeated four strong opponents before failing in the final round. Steele was the first to fall, followed by Cooke and Sabin (two of the country’s top ten ranking players) and, in the semi-finals, Jack Bromwich, who is not only the first ranking player in Australia, but the World’s No. 1 amateur. With his usual nonchalance, Van Hom hit streaks against Sabin and Bromwich when he was two sets down and played unbeatable tennis. However, against Riggs he was playing in a stranger atmosphere; he had an added mental hazard to overcome. He was playing himself! That is, he was opposing someone whose game was as nonchalant as his own. Furthermore Riggs held another hazard over Van Hom’s head. He was Wimbledon Champion and noted for his ability to break up the flashing and decisive game such as Van Hom possessed. I think these two weights tied Van Hom down as much as Riggs’ varied strokes.
Welby Van Hom has a champion’s game and a champion’s temperament. He lacks only experience and certainly he will gain this in the next two or three years. When he does, Bromwich will not be alone in the statement he made just after losing to Van Horn: “I certainly hope I don’t have to play that fellow again!”—Dan Canale.
Keogan Holds First Basketball Practice
_Faced with the problem of replacing veterans at forward and two guard spots, Coach George Keogan sent his Irish basketball squad through its initial drills Monday, two months from the opener on Dec. 1, against Kalamazoo College of Michigan.
The Irish mentor pointed out that early drills are planned principally as conditioning exercises in order to get the men in the best possible shape before the more extensive work begins in two weeks.
Heading the list of returning letter-men are: Captain Mark Ertel, lanky center, and Eddie Riska, junior scoring ace. In addition, Rex Ellis, center, Ken Oberbrunner, forward, and Gene Klier,
guard, complete the list of returning monogram men.
In seeking replacements, Coach Keogan will view the work of such performers who have seen some service in the past as: Al Del Zoppo, Charles Gillespie, Larry Ryan, Don and Bob Smith, Lou Wagner and Sam Yezerski.
Augmenting the returning upperclassmen are a group of sophomores who display promise, among the better prospects being: Jim Carnes, George Sobek and Frank Quinn.
Under the direction of Johnny O’Connor, reserve center here during the era of Paul Nowak, the Notre Dame freshmen eagers also opened drills during the past week.—Bill Scanlan.
Coach George Keogan
Cross-Country Team
Last Monday, after two weeks of calisthenics and light road work, track coach John P. Nicholson began to settle down to the serious work of whipping together a cross-country team that will be on a par with those teams that have represented Notre Dame in the past.
The cross-country course at Notre Dame has its origin at Cartier field. Distance men trot past the Biology building, once around St. Joseph’s lake, twice around St. Mary’s lake, and end their daily 3%-mile grind at the fieldhouse. One day a week, Nick annexes the golf course to the usual route, adding one-and-a-half miles to the usual practice run.
New men who have shown up well in practice are Ed O’Kane, Jim O’Donohue, Ed Drake and Mac McNevin, sophomore distance men.
FACTS AND FIGURES
When the “Golden Tornado” from Atlanta, Georgia, blows into the Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon W. A. “Bill” Alexander will be riding the crest of his twentieth season as head coach of the Gold and White . . . the boys around the Georgia School of Technology refer to the head man as “Alex.” He was graduated from Georgia Tech in 1912; he was first assistant to Coach John Heisman, he of the famous “Heis-man-shift,” until 1920 when Alex succeeded Heisman who went to Penn - . . G. T. S. got its charter in 1888 and there are 1660 devilish engineers today . . . the Ramblin’ Wreck went undefeated and untied in ’17 and again in ’28 . . . when Notre Dame inaugurated a series with Georgia Tech in 1922 the Tornado had been blistering the South . . . the ’20 typhoon lost only to Pitt by 10-3 when Red Barron, Joe Guyon, and Pete Calac were famous backs . . . the next season G.S.T. lost only to Penn State ... in ’22 the Tornado was washed out only by the Navy and N.D. . . . the ’23 twister collected victories until NJX blew into Atlanta and larruped the life out of the hurricane; then Georgia Tech finished the season with three tie hall games . . . N.D. was the only club to unravel the twister in ’27. Georgia Tech laced N.D. in 1928 then went on to win the Rose Bowl tussle over California’s Golden Bears.
N.D. has scored 163 points to the Engineers’ 45 in nine engagements . . . 8-1 is the game score in favor of the Fighting Irish '. . . last year’s Irish triumph resulted from some hard running by Motts Tonelli and Milt Piepul, hard running fullbacks . . . Tonelli put a man on base then drove him in . . ’. Sheridan set up the second N.D. tally . . . Howard Ector plunged for Georgia Tech’s touchdown; he is back this year . . . G.S.T. has a very light backfield; Capt. Murphy, Bob Beers, Bill Gibson, and Ector weigh 172, 142, 155, and 182 pounds, respectively.
Lou Zontini, from Sorin Hall’s Maginot Line, gained more yards than any man on the field in the Purdue fracas last Saturday . . . Zon’s total was 51 yards to 48 by Mike Byelene, runner-up . . . Joe Thesing had the best average gain with more than four yards a try in four attempts . . . Notre Dame did not connect for one forward pass success in five tosses . . . Purdue struck pay land twice through the air and both registered first downs . . . first downs, total, were even with both clubs collecting five . . . the forward walls were rushing
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
the passer, and both secondaries were tying up the potential pass receivers . . . Purdue’s kickers edged N.D. punters by one-yard average, 34 yards to 33 . . . hooters on both squads were ordered to kick them where they ain’t . . . Purdue was debited with 25 yards in penalties, and N.D. received the sa»^e sent'm-’e from Referee Jim Masker.—Eddie Huff.
St. Louisans’ Soccer
Team Seeks Contests
Once again the fine art of shin kicking is to be renewed on the Notre Dame campus. And when we speak of shin kicking, we are referring to a game called soccer, in which the ball is sometimes kicked too.
Already the boys of the St. Louis club, under the direction of Norv Hunthausen, have begun their fibula cracking maneuvers on the field behind old Freshman Hall. All the St. Louisans are in tiptop shape and have asked Coach Hunthausen to bring on all comers. In view of the fact that this club is undefeated in three years of campus competition, it is needless to warn any group who may have the nerve to challenge their supremacy. Nevertheless, if any teams on the campus feel inclined to test the ability of the boys from St. Louis, where soccer is played the year round by all physically fit males between the ages of ten and 30, they are requested to contact Norv Hunthausen at Walsh Hall.
Norv has practically his entire team back from last year, including “Shinsplint” Maguire and Ed Buddy, two adept forwards. The defensive standouts, judging from last year’s exhibitions, will be Mize Morris and Jim Bellinger. These men, reinforced by a veteran group from last year’s aggregation, show definite promise of continuing in the path of their predecessors. Other players on the St. Louis team are: Tom Hannigan, Jimmy O’Neil, Jack Scherer, Dan Ryan, Ed Manglesdorf and Frank Pollnow.—Chuck Farrell.
ON THE ENEMY'S TRAIL —
TO DATE:
CARNEGIE TECH defeated Wittenberg 35-0.
NAVY defeated William and Mary 31-6. SO. METHODIST tied Oklahoma University 7-7.
SO. CALIFORNIA tied Oregon 7-7. ARMY defeated Furman 16-7.
IOWA defeated South Dakota 41-0.
THIS WEEK:
GEORGIA TECH plays Notre Dame.
SO. METHODIST plays North Texas Teachers.
NAVY plays Virginia.
CARNEGIE TECH plays Temple.
ARMY plays Centre.
IOWA plays Indiana.
NORTHWESTERN plays Oklahoma.
SO. CALIFORNIA plays Washington
State.
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
Jovial, good natured John Christopher
(My Heart Belongs agan, Kingston, N.
John C. Flanagan
to Daddy) Flan-Y., is the wit of
Lyons Sub. The saucer - eyed, ambitious young politics major, is known i n South Bend “politics” as a “darling little curly - haired fellow.”
Christy has three claims to fame: Treasurer of his Junior
class; current presidency of the MidHudson Valley Club; and his picture in a Kingston paper, under the caption “Cutie.”
He bore the brunt of a good-natured joke in St. Ed’s last year. His own good nature is responsible for his gullibility. The fellows were taking up a collection for a hall-mate who, according to them, was leaving school under doctor’s orders. Christy cheerfully donated a dollar to the cause and offered his aid in helping the unfortunate one in packing. But it happened the “unfortunate one” was leaving only for a week-end.
Christy boasts that he has never eaten a full meal in the dining hall— but he never stops gaining weight. His chief worry is the rapid loss of hair, without which he cannot “give the women a break,” he claims. It is unfortunate that Ann Sheridan doesn’t
know she is Christy’s favorite!
From Kingston, Christy receives a great deal of fan mail. Ann (not Sheridan), Kay and Mary remember his high	f
school track accom-	-,-J I
plishments and con-	|	I
tinue their adulation;	\
and his desk is lit-	f
tered with post cards ( from anonymous Flanagan fans.
Christy tells of of a younger brother who is “quite a boy,” but who will have to hurry if he wants to surpass big brother as a jitterbug. According to rumors, Christy did a barefoot jitterbug specialty, “Pealing the Peach,” with Hal Kemp’s orchestra in New York.
—Joe Perkins.
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
“The Altar is Christ himself — the cloths and corporals of this Altar are the members of Christ, God’s faithful people.” (Rite of ordination of subdeacons) The Roman Pontifical from which we are quoting contains the rubrics and prayers for ceremonies proper to Bishops such as the conferring of Holy Orders, Confirmation, consecrations and the like. Its present form is a revision made under Leo XIII in 1888 from the original compendium issued by order of Benedict XIV in 1752. Its sources are the Sacramentaries, or Books of the Sacred Mysteries and the Roman Ordinals, which date from the seventh century onward, when fixed forms for the sacred rites began to be written down. The Pontifical thus possesses the marks of antiquity, authenticity and authority.
The order of subdeacon is traced to the third century. The functions of the subdeacon are to assist the deacon at the mass, serve the wine and water and read the epistle. All these, together with the qualities required of the candidates, their future responsibility as ministers of the word of God, are set forth in the exhortation which the Bishop pronounces at the beginning of the ceremony. The significant fact here is that the words quoted above from the exhortation express the doctrine of . the Mystical Body of Christ under the symbolism of the altar cloths.
Mass Calendar: October 8-14
Sunday, 8—Nineteenth after Pentecost. Sd. 2d prayer, St. Bridget of Sweden, 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 9—Sts. Denis and Companions. Martyrs. Sd. 2d prayer, of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. V. R.
Tuesday, 10—St. Francis Borgia. Confessor. Sd. Mass: Os justi (in common). Prayer nroper. 2d of the Saints (A c''nc-tis), 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. V. R. -
Wednesday, 11—The Divine Maternity of the Most Blessed Virgin Mary. Db2cl. Credo. Preface of the Blessed Virgin.
Thursday, 12—Ferial. Sm. Mass of the preceding Sunday. 2d pm ver. of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d The Faithful Departed, 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. V. R.
Friday, 13—St. Edward. King. Confessor. Sd. Mass: Os justi (in common) Prayer proner. 2d of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. V. R.
Saturday, 14—St. Callistus. Confessor. Db. 2d Prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
THEATRE
Let’s look at Ezra Stone. Ezra has just reached voting age. He isn’t handsome, but has an interesting face which approximates the calling card of Orson Welles. Some day he may even be Welles the second. George Abbott has taken more than a passing interest in him, and George Abbott’s choices are generally not to that producer’s discredit.
We’ll go back to Stone’s beginning. He trained at the American Academy of Dramatic Art. His favorite inspiration was and is Philip Loeb, the original Hany Binion of “Room Service,” a part thoroughly ‘Hagenized’ in Notre Dame’s production of that play last fall. Philip Loeb is essentially a comedian; Ezra Stone is essentially a comedian. So pupil and teacher took each to the other in a common bond.
Ezra understudied a part in the Theatre Guild’s “Parade” as an introduction to Broadway’s stage. Following this he was taken under the spacious Abbot wing in “Three Men on a Horse.” He slid, a natural, into the pudgy cadet of “Brother Rat.” Next, his third real Broadway part, came as Heniy Aldrich in “What A Life!” This is his career almost in its entirety, since the play ran a long stretch and closed only recently. Audience and critic opinion of Mi-. Henry Aldrich became golden immediately. Henry Aldrich was bought, his
family was developed, and the radio began a smileable, heart-warming tale of the “Aldrich Family.” If you’ve never heard the caprices of Henry, be sure to stick with your radio on some uneventful Sunday night.
The Abbott interest deepened in young Ezra and it wasn’t long before the success-bound actor was reading script and suggesting actors in the Abbott office. He had a true sense of box office; he had initiative and strength of conviction. George Abbott listened carefully, therefore, while Ezra reacted enthusiastically to a new script just happened upon by his Stone intuition. It was called “See My Lawyer.” What surprised the producer, however, was Ezra’s great and sudden urge to direct the production himself.
And he did just that; Mr. Abbott took little time in deciding. Today the farce is on Broadway, the first ’39-’4O offering of the Abbott enterprise; it stars Milton Berle and gives the audience the unquenchable Teddy Hart (“Three Men On A Horse” ’s little gambler in the derby, “Room Service” ’s Faker Englund, and Jimmy Savo’s twin brother in “The Boys From Syracuse”). Brooks Atkinson of the New York Times in reviewing “See My Lawyer,” says: “It is a hilarious scuffle when the crises grow desperate under the relentless direction of Ezra Stone.”
Will it stay? Will it follow in the footsteps of other great Abbott productions? But more interesting to us: Is it a stepping Stone for pudgy, talented, skyrocketing Ezra? . . . Let’s follow with
our eyes the path of a lightly-tripping Stone as it rolls merrily upward.
—Vern Witkowski

RADIO
When the idea for a half-hour dramatic show was brought up at the beginning of the school year, the chief obstacle was a lack of good original scripts. It was immediately recognized and the Script-writers Club, an organization of about ten men interested in writing dramatic material for radio, was formed. It is planned that one or two members will write a half hour show each week, thus assuring a constant flow of material to the Radio Club. .
This plan was outlined at the meeting held last Sunday morning, when Dan Sallows was appointed by the studio staff as head of the Publicity, and Bob Jehring as head of Special Events.
—Ray Kelly.
Dean Jackson Honored
Members of the engineering faculty and associated science departments and their wives will attend a dinner in the faculty dining hall Thursday night, Oct. 12 in honor of Dean Jackson and other new members of the staff.
Guests of honor will be Dean and Mrs. D. C. Jackson, Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wilcox; Mr. and Mrs. C. R. Egry; Mr. and Mrs. J. A. McCarthy; Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Troiano; Mr. Frank Montana and Mr. Linstrom.
{Important G^nnouncement to Centre Dame
Parker - Winter row d
115*6-117*6 NORTH MAIN (UPSTAIRS)
THE ONLY DISTRIBUTORS OF ^HHprModjtSitfr CLOTHES IN SOUTH BEND
WE CORDIALLY INVITE YOU TO CALL AT OUR UPSTAIRS SHOP OR CONSULT OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES
George L. HAITHCOCK—Main Building "TAD" HARVEY—11 Morrissey
Harry Stephenson—109 Sorin Jack De Moss—soo Sorin
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
VINCENTIANS
Out Colorado way, in rural Trinidad, Fred Sisk, ’39, has organized a St. Vincent de Paul Conference—the third under a former member of the N. D. Conference. Fred was a busy undergrad but he took his part in the work of the Society and played it well. Graduated in June, he did a real job in charity at Trinidad; a Politics m a j o r, he struggled for the Society at Notre Dame. Social work training or no, Fred went out as a true brother in Christ. Best of luck at Trinidad!
Appropriately enough, Louisville, Ky., Derby-time home of the poor fellow whose horse “just missed,” is outstanding for its particular council of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul. That Council has done much to coordinate the work of the Society throughout the country. Perhaps its most important job has been that of correspondence with the Conferences in the United States. Such a paragraph as the following is to be found in the mimeographed sheets sent to the N. D. Conference:
“Behold the beauty of Charity! The Vincentian is to see the face of Christ in the poor and even in the social derelict, whom Christ designated as His brother — whom Christ identified with Himself. ‘As long as you did it to one of My least brethren you did it to Me.’ On the other hand, the social derelict is to see the face of Christ in the Vincentian. If the derelict is Christ in His agony, the Vincentian is Christ in His glory.”
On Sunday morning, Sept. 24, at 11:00 o’clock the Notre Dame Conference of
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
the Society of St. Vincent de Paul held its first meeting of the schoolyear. The scene: the lounge of the Knights of Columbus in Walsh Hall—a lounge crowded to capacity. Executive Secretary John Eeddy addressed the meeting after it had been opened by the prayer and by the spiritual reading of Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C. Mr. Reddy presented Mr. John Hiss, president of the particular council of South Bend, who paused, then said: “This meeting is an inspiration to me.” There to announce the new officers of the Notre Dame Conference, he named Joe Mulqueen, president; Dick Fallon, vice-president; Bob Marbach, second vice-president; Ed Corey, treasurer; Tom Kennedy, secretary; keeper of the wardrobe, Jim White; and librarian, Paul Hackman.
—Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
Grid Nicknames
How well do you know your football players? Super-loyal students should be familiar with the names, numbers, positions and — what else? Of course, the nicknames of each and every player. Following this piece comes a Notre Dame line-up, players from the entire squad. Do you know them?
See BENNY SHERIDAN, Our "SPECIALL" Representative 2 Lyons Hall
The line-up: L.E., Lucky; L.T., Truck; L.G., Tex; C., Ostapoop; R.G., Stumpy; R.T., Boody; R.E., Harp; Q.B., Blossom; L.H., Slug; R.H., Jezebel; F.B., Moose.
MAN WANTED
Student to take orders for Nash Custom Tailored Clothes. Fine line of Domestic and Imported fabrics in every wanted weave, pattern and color shade. Large selection of highly attractive goods authentically styled to your customer’s choice. No investment. Complete sample equipment including full measuring instructions. No experience necessary. Company guarantees customer's satisfaction in the fit of his clothes. Excellent commission and bonus arrangement. Local branch offices in big cities. Write fully. The A. Nash Company, 1921 Elm Street, Cicinnati, Ohio.
SONNEBORN’S SPORT SHOP 121 West Colfax Avenue
GYM SUITS PENNANTS GYM SHOES CARRY-ALL BAGS
All Kinds of SPORTS Equipment
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
Alumnus Chosen Head
Of American Legion
Notre Dame men were elected last week to the leadership of two of the most powerful war veteran organizations in the country. It is especially significant that two alumni should be so honored at the present time, when Europe is embroiled in another general conflict, and America is trying desperately to keep clear of it.
Last week in Chicago, Raymond J. Kelly, of Detroit, was elected National Commander of the American Legion, and Lewis J. Murphy, of South Bend, was made National Commander of the Disabled Veterans.
Mr. Kelly has been corporation counsel of Detroit for the past seven years. He is the father of six children, one of whom, Ray Jr., is a junior at Notre Dame, where Mr. Kelly studied as a freshman, before transferring to the University of Detroit. He took his law course at Detroit, and graduated in 1915.
Mr. Murphy received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1923, and the degree of J.U.D. three years later. He had been wounded in France in 1918, previous to his entering college. He organized the South Bend Chapter of the D.A.V., and also the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley.
ers who are authorities on various practical phases of the law. Something new in club activity is the plan to have several members of the senior class and faculty available as speakers before any of the campus clubs interested in legal problems. Acquainting undergraduates who intend to enter law school with the facilities offered by Notre Dame is one of the purposes of this plan.
President Deane, who predicts a new high in club activity, announces his assistants to be Charles Daly, vice-president; Russell Dolce, secretary; William Myers, treasurer; and Bob Derengoski, S. A. C.—William Mahoney.
DISC - CUSSION
Besides being, at times, a good idea, “Let’s Disappear” is a very good song. Tommy Dorsey does his typically fine job and Jack Leonard is, of course, noticeably present for the vocal. “La Rosita,” a favorite tango, is swung rather lightly and completes a record to satisfy both you and your roommate. (Victor)
Paul Whiteman, despite all, “the Dean of Modem Dance Music,” has recorded two albums—twenty sides—of Irving Berlin’s best music. You’ll want them all, but I particularly recommend the sax instrumental “Blue Skies,” the string work on “A Pretty Girl Is Like a
Melody” and the Joan Edwards* vocal on “How Deep Is the Ocean.” The talented Modernaires do their usual distinctive vocals on several sides—which reminds me of their not new, but excellent, recording of “Now and Then.** (Decca)
Kay Kyser is still rolling along in his harmless way as shown by his recording of “Last Two Weeks in July”—to recall the summer—and “For Tonight”—to help you forget it There’s not much to say about this record: the songs are good; Harry Babbit’s vocals are excellent and—well, you’ve all heard Kyser. (Columbia)
If you like Krupa’s “Wire Brush Stomp,” try Cab Calloway’s “Crescendo in Drums.” Paired with “Utt Da Zay,” it’s Calloway at his best, or worst, de-
Hand Ball Gloves.__98c
Sweat Pants______$1.19
Hand Balls_________35c
Gym Pants__________49c
BERMAN’S
SPORT GOODS 108 N. Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Law Ball Planned
Plans for the annual Law Ball were announced at the first meeting of the Law Club called by President Jack Deane, Wednesday. Several other functions to be handled by the club during the coming year were outlined and committees appointed.
The Friday night of the Southern California football week-end is the dance date. Chairman Joe Nigro, of Trinidad, Colo., is making efforts to secure a block of seats for the dance patrons and their guests. Progress has also been made in securing a suitable band for the occasion.
As in past years, the club will hold monthly smokers featuring guest speak-
THE TESTED INK FOR EVERY PEN
THE HUDDLE
Pipe Headquarters" on the Campus
ALWAYS GIVES YOU SATISFACTION THE
DESIGNED 3Y >	:3g I 3;
^.NKMAN ’POOL
Thousands cheer smooth football playing and Dr. Grabow’s smooth smok-
MEI HEIN
DrGRABOW
tMLGMMTS MTBODCUMa
NO BREAKING IN • NO BITE • NO BITTER TASTE
RegU.^^OfF PIPE
SEMMKMBM
ing.
w
l * snusj
—ONLY
_ DR. GRABOW Pipes are presmoked with fine tobacco (EDfiWUHH) to break them in by Linkman’s Exclusive Pipe Smoking Machine MADE DY M.UNKMAN A CO, CHICAGO
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
pending on your point of Anew. (Vocalion)
You can afford and I think will enjoy Brahm’s “Hungarian Dance No. 5” and “Lullaby” as recorded by the VictorSalon group under the direction of Rosario Bourdan.—Bill Geddes.
Library Has Rare
Volumes In Exhibit
The coining of Columbus day on Oct. 12 brings a new significance to students who frequent the library—a display of a book which was once the property of Columbus.
The Opera of Giovanni Pico Della Mirandula, holds a point of vantage in the glass case to the south side of the main aisle of the University library. The book, once owned by Columbus, is bound in human skin. It is believed to have been written in 1503.
In addition, other late 15th century books are on display in the same section of the library. The Works of John Gerson, published in 1488, exhibit an excellent example of hand illumination and wood cut.
Military Club Meets
The first meeting of the Military Club was held in Badin Rec Tuesday evening. Officers were elected for the current school year. George S. Wallace was elected commandant, Jerry K. Donovan, vice - commandant, and Lou Peck, adjutant.
The club is opening a drive for new members. For those not acquainted with the organization the purposes and aims of the Military Club are as follows:
The club is organized to promote an interest in national defense, military affairs, peace with preparedness, and the present conditions in Europe; also to foster an interest in the military his-
SpeciaKzing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
tory and traditions of Notre Dame; and to aid those desiring, in the securing of a commission in the reserve corps of the army, navy, marines, and civilian aviation authority.
Those interested in all or any, of the above apply to the following for information and full details: Lou Peck, 124 Morrissey; George Wallace, 109 Walsh; Kenneth Royans, 35 Carroll; Jerry Donovan, 225 Walsh.
College of Science
The Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, announced two important meetings scheduled for Monday, October 9. Both meetings will be held in Room 101 of the Biology Building.
All seniors in the College of Science are to meet at 12:50 p.m. to discuss the thesis required of all seniors.
At 7:50 that evening, the Notre Dame Academy of Science will hold a meeting to organize for the year.
It's True. You Can Solo in Eight Hours for Only $ A E at the
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Government tested and approved Flying School
$3.00 PER LESSON
Free trial lesson and transportation to and from Bendix Field.'
See your hall or campus representative
Don Marietta, 232 Alumni Hall
As POPULAR as the
VICTORY MARCH
This New CROSBY SQUARE l	Authentic Fashion
Ask for our campus representative FIO V. LOPARDO
V COIWFAQ
120 SOUTH MICHIGAN
A Week at Notre Dante
A week I’ve wandered in Our Lady’s garden
And known the trusting welcome of her halls.	.
Her strong young men have grasped my hand and laughed
Their loud clean laughs and I have shared their fun.
I have walked her miles of wooded trails until
The worldly tumult in my soul grew still And I lay quiet in a darkened room, To rise refreshed and calm and unafraid. But noiv it’s gone! I no more feel the spell
But am a single coin in a treasure chest, A single note-from an angel’s welling breast,
A dumb, unknoiving part of something blessed.
—Charles Dougherty.
in the
Q-N SHOE DEN
for Men
New heavy broque. In black or brown Scotch grain. Crepe or leather $5-50 Some slightly more.
1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
(Continued from Page 4)	i
and France for the present war. Po- j land used to belong to Germany and i rightfully it is German land. However, • I do not favor Hitler’s policies in many | other territorial demands or his ideas ; on religion.
Walsh—George Wallace: The Treaty of Versailles for two reasons. Through | the cruel, un-Christian manner in which ■ the Allies humbled the German state, an undying hatred and vengeance was fostered. Secondly, there was the economic situation in Germany. The allies had a choice of crushing Germany entirely or setting up a weak republic. They chose the latter. But conditions were so bad that this weak government fell and Hitler rose to power. Then we may say that besides bringing hate and vengeance, the Treaty of Versailles brought us Hitler.
Dillon—Pat Flannigan: Although some of the guilt for the present European nightmare lies with the Allies, Hitler, the madman of Europe, in his lustful
FELLA'S
Here Are Some Items You Should Look Over:
GENUINE MOCCASINS - £2.39 CONVERSE GYM SHOES, 95c up HANDBALL GLOVES - - £1.19 HANDBALLS ----- 40c
SPORT JACKETS $3.50
Leather and Wool	and up
THE RECO STORE 113 N. Main South Bend “LOOK FOR THE LOG FRONT”
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
Optometrists and Opticians
314 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Here’s the set-up back of the familiar blue Bell emblem—
1.	American Telephone and Telegraph Company, which coordinates system activities — advises on telephone operation — searches for improved methods.
2.	24 associated operating companies, which provide telephone service in their respective territories.
3.	Long Lines Department of A. T. & T., which interconnects the operating companies and handles Long Distance and overseas service.	.
4.	Bell Telephone Laboratories, which carries on scientific research and development for the system.
5.	Western Electric, which is the manufacturing and distributing unit of the Bell System.
With common policies and ideals, these Bell System companies all work as one to give you the finest and friendliest telephone service—at lowest cost.
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SHEAFFER PENS?
PARKER PENS?
Sure, we have 'em!
But try every store on the main drag first, before you bother us about ’em!
We fix all. makes of fountain pens or fix ’em so nobody can fix ’em.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
•
Owned (?) and operated (?) by LOUIE BRUGGNER, Ph.B. J. (Janitoring) N. D. ’23
We Moke a Good Stab at Selling
PIPES — MAGAZINES PARTY GAGS — GREETING CARDS — ICE CREAM AND STUFF — OURSELVES — OUR BUYING BLUNDERS — AND WHAT NOT!
IN AND OUT
• Just remember that South Shore trains are scheduled frequently enough to fit YOUR plans ... a train almost every hour of the day or night... to get you straight to Chicago’s Loop in a hurry. No traffic congestion to worry about . . . read or rest on die train . . . and make the whole trip for less than it costs to drive! For detailed information about South Shore service call
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111
CHICAGO SOUTH SHOS*. * SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
50Uthnseh°rE
NOTRE DAME
You shall have music wherever you go! Dance anywhere. Fine on long evenings, alone or not. Take it skating, hiking, traveling!
All-wave. No aerial, no ground, no plug-in. Plays outdoors, indoors, anywhere. A Portable Battery Set. Every student can use one.
SPIRAL'GRIP
CNEMOPURE
due, 25c
PMU-LASHK,
“ CDCFI
Carryabout ^P ^P ^P ■
Radio ■	■ W ■■ BM ■
wh it at
YAIIDC ,o student who best completes this sentence ■ vvVIVw jn jo words or less: "Sheaffer's Fineline pencil is best for classroom work became....................”
MINTC en Fineline Fads to help you write the winning “■ ■ kind of entry: . . became Fineline's double length, thin, strong leads are permanently sharp" “... beeausr its balance and firmly-held point enables me to make graphs, sketches, mechanical drawings, faultlessly." "... became Rs long leads seem never to wear out—great stuff in class" "... because so fine a line makes small notations and interlining easy.” “. . . because its same-weight hairline is perfect for accurate shorthand and figuring" "... because it has a 39% smaller writing point." "... because it’s the first real improvement in pencil writing in 24 years.” GO TO ITT WIN, and HAVE FUN!
MAKE 50 ENTRIES IF YOU LIKE!
Contest rules: At your dealer, save the sales slip yoe gel when you Make a Sheaffer purchase of 10c or more (SKRIP, leads, adhesives, pens, pencils, etc.). Write your entry on any piece of paper and send it and the sales slip to Carryabout Radio Contest, W. A. Sheaffer Pen Co., Fort Madison, Iowa. Send as many as you like-each has a chance to winl Judges' decision final.
Judges: An ad expert, a lawyer, a Minister. Renumber —you are competing with students on your own campus only. Winner will receive hisradio on November 1 from dealerindicatedonsalesslip. ^2.
SHEAFFERS
PENCILS FROM $1—PENS^*^ FROM $2.75—ENSEMBLES FROM $335 SKMPWEU.
tensile ileei net curl Urns-MSt SNBtK ISenp.
»10
New ttl* lead dlsaavan! winri
•aaiMR fwtMR MwattMt
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
conquests for territory, is greatly responsible for starting the hostilities. However, there is considerable room for debate as to whether Germany is committing so great a crime in taking land that for centuries was hers.
Alumni—George Preston: The Treaty of Versailles, as invoked by England and France is alone responsible for our European troubles today. Germany is merely seeking the justification of her rights. The Polish Corridor had always been a thorn in the side of the German people, always a reminder of the humiliation imposed upon them by two nations who set themselves up as judges of right and wrong and yet forgot their Christian ideals when passing judgment.
Sorin—William Syring: I do not think that the responsibility for the war in Europe can be narrowed down to a cause. An age-old battle, between capitalism and labor, unjust international banking and fascism in this case, may be said to be responsible for the battle of the two “opposites,” England and Germany. However, a more recent cause would be the treaty of Versailles, which amounted to everything but a treaty.
Drs. (Pose and (Pose 405 SHERLAND BLDG. TELEPHONE 3-4269
(giiiiiiiiniiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuitiiiiuQ
OFFICE 4-5661
RES. 3-4080
Dr. (P. ^ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
|>]...■■■■■■...I......lUUIlO"......................
Off The Bookshelf
(Continued from Page 11)
Fairs, dances and horse races are the chief social diversions of the island. The land of the Joyces, a hub for horse racing and breeding, in southwestern Ireland, is reported as one section that never submitted to- foreign oppressive rule, and is an honor to the name Joyce. Other points in Ireland, Father Ward remarks, have not so well distinguished the Joyces. '
Dancing is as popular in Eire as elsewhere, Father Ward observes, and a great part of it is imported from America, (“the Yank way”). The Irish are much better at their own native dances, the author believes. The ball is terminated by the decree either of the priest or the local police, but while the fiddle is playing, the going is rough.
Definitely a readable and lively study of the Celt of today, with a touch of brogue in the style and a great fund of gentle humor, it has a nostalgic charm at once contagious and delightful. Our recommendation is fired with the white heat of an imperative.
Engineers Club
The Engineers Club of Notre Dame, with Norbert Schickel presiding, held its first meeting of the school year yesterday. Opening in the auditorium of the Engineering Building, the session later included a tour of the building for the benefit of the large number of freshmen present.
The high tension laboratory, where the first atom was blasted by an electron, accomplished by Dr. George Collins last year, was the principal attraction of the evening. The large attendance, and the attitude of the members indicate a successful year for the organization.
Visit the Most Complete Record Department in Michiana at RODIN’S
A New Low Price on 12 inch Victor Black Labels — Now $1.00
(Waltz of the Flowers—Tschuikoicsky 3622jj —“Nut Cracker” Suite
1 Dance of the Hours—Gioeonda t —v.gan	$1.00
(In a Monastery Garden—Ketelby
36209 J Organ, Harp and Chorus — Lew
“ ] White
(Liebestraum—Liszt	$1.00
(Strauss Polkas (introducing Pizzicato Polka, etc.)—Light Symphony
’ " ■’] Offenbach Can-Can—Light Symphony I	$1.00
Victor-Bluebird Records — 35c
Theme Songs
_____(Artie Shav.’s “Nightmare” BiSo {Non-Stop Flight
Glenn Miller’s “Moonlight Serenade” BIO-14 {Sunrise Serenade
B10104
Freddie Martin’s “By-Lo-Bye Lullabye”
Jaywalk
„ (Erskine Hawkins’ “Swing Out” B10224 {Ra!d the Joint
Albums
(Pere Gynt Suite No. 1
■w in i JBarbiralli Arch Morning
i 404 {Death' of Ase Anitra’s Dance (In the Hall of the ML King
.	$3.50
M359
Beethoven’s “Leonore Overture No. 3”—Parts 1 and 2—Walter Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra
• Leonore Overture No. 3, concluded, by Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra
Ruins of Athens — Overture — Rose-( Vienna Orchestra
$3.50
Dr. O. Qrundij
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
434 Associates - South Bend
Office Phone 3-2574

ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
Drs. (Probst and Stagier । DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend
Phone 3-J 254
WHY WORRY?
ies I II Lr
HAMBURGERS - PIES - CHILE
317 N. Michigan
216 W. Colfax 109 E. Wayne
(Nelson Eddy’s
{"Beloved American Songs”
Trees (Kilmer-Rosbach) By the Waters of the Minnetonka (Lieurance!
Smilin’ Through (ePnn) A Dream (Cory-Bartlett) Sylvia (Scolland-Speaks) Thy Beaming Eyes (Gardner-McDowell) A Perfect Day (Jacobs Bond) At Dawning (Eberhardt-Cadman) Oh Promise Me (Scott-DeKonen) The Rosary (Rogers-Nevin)	.
The Hills of Home (Calhoun-Fox) Deep River (Spiritual air by Burleigh)
6 Listening Booths, Electric Machines Complete stock of Accessories Well-informed Clerks
RODIN. Inc.
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184 South Bend, Indiana
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evenings until 9 p. m.
THEY HAVE THE
FRED ASTAIRE has the right combination of great acting and dancing to give you more pleasure
Right CoSM
FOR MORE PLEASURE
on
r your pleasure...
Copyright 1939. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Chesterfield blends the Right Combination of the finest American and Turkish tobaccos to give you a milder, better-tasting smoke with a more pleasing aroma . . .
And when you try them you’ll find that these are the qualities Chesterfield has above all others in giving you More Smoking Pleasure. THEY SATISFY.
©£ die world’s best , cigarette tobaccos

hesterfield