LONGER
SHORTER
HIGHER
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
Within the hour we will, for the last time this semester, feed a linotype machine our copy for this weekly column. Vehemently would we
decry the accusation of
ANTHONY F. O'BOYLE
these closing lines.
“going sentimental” on you i n this our final issue—but, at the same time we are not i n the least reluctant to admit that it is with a sincere twinge of regret that we type
LOWER
ear after year Long Distance telephone service grows longer in reach—shorter in the time needed for making connections—higher, in quality of transmission—lower in cost. Since the first of this year, Long Distance calling has been made cheaper in two ways.
1.	Rates are now reduced after 7 P. M. each night on person-to-person calls to most points. As formerly, station-to-station rates are lower after 7 P. M.
2.	The same low night rates now apply all day Sunday on hoth types of sendee.
Just another proof that the Bell System is constantly striving to fit telephone service more closely to your needs in every possible way.
Why not take advantage of these ^Bargain Hours” to keep in closer touch with home?
Frankly, through the medium of exchanges, we enjoyed our periodic press visits to innumerable campi throughout the nation and so naturally our comments on the activities of other schools was always an interesting assignment. As this is the last opportunity we will have we wish to take advantage of it and thank those collegiate publications that made the writing of this particular column an enjoyable weekly task.
It would be impossible for us to designate any publication from our large exchange list as “tops” but among the more outstanding periodicals that came to our attention we might mention the Syracuse Orange, the Indiana Daily Student, the New Rochelle Tatler, the Ohio State Lantern, the Holy Cross Tomahawk, the California Daily, the Carnegie Tartan, and the Daily Kansan.
Column heads that amused us were the titles given various “gossip columns” in different college journals. For example, Manhattan’s was called “Manhattan Cocktails,” the Carnegie Tartan had its “Hangover,” while Colorado University gossip was gathered under the heading “Molecular Meditations,” and the staff of Duquesne U. expressed such tidbits beneath the caption “The Wotchama-colyum.”
The editorials of the California Daily, the Southern California Trojan, and the Brown Herald, in our opinion, are desirving of hdarty commendation for their sincerity, selection of subjects, and pithy, decisive comments.
If perchance at one time or another we did write something that interested you we sincerely feel that the reams of our copy that found nothing but the waste basket was of some avail. . . . Until next September then . . . Goodbye and Good Luck.
T h_e Scholastic
Two
Monogram Club of '36 Has Active Season
Let Your Baggage
By Graham Starr
Under the leadership of “Mike” Layden, the Monogram Club of ’36, after the close of strenuous football and basketball seasons, turned its attention to social affairs with the coming of the annual Monogram Club formal dance, on April 16, at the Palais Royale, Fred Carideo was chairman of the event.
In honor and memory of Knute Rockne, the club, along with the local alumni, visited his grave in Highland cemetery on April 29.
Next, in connection with the annual Monogram Absurdities, the club sponsored a skit contest. The “Absurdities,” directed by Paul Rubly, was presented in Washington Hall on the evenings of May 3 and 4. According to The Scholastic’s dramatic reviewer, old Washington Hall with no little effort withstood the terrific strain imposed on it by the lumbering chorines, and by the applause of the audience. Henry Pojman was master of ceremonies.
George Wirry, former senior football manager, was given silent tributes both at the show, and at the Old-Timers-Varsity football game in the afternoon.
CHICAGO CLUB DANCE
The annual summer dance of the Chicago Club will be held during the evening of June 9, according to an announcement made this week by John Maloney, president of the club. Jack Russell and his orchestra will furnish the music for the affair which will be held at the Knickerbocker Hotel in Chicago.
The dance is open to anyone who wishes to attend. Dress will be optional. Tickets may be obtained from members of the Chicago Club for $1.75. Reservations must be made at the Knickerbocker Hotel on June 8 or 9.
Go Home
by the
LAUNDRY
ROUTE
Arrange to ship it off this June by your old friend Railway Express and when Commencement Day dawns, be fancy free to board the train for home. Anything — trunks, bags, books, golf clubs, cups, even your diploma—Railway Express will pick them all up on your phone call, forward them at passenger train speed, deliver them safe and sound at your home. And it’s economical. Railway Express rates are low, and you pay nothing at all for pick-
up and delivery service. There are no draymen’s demands, no tips, no standing in line, and sureness is made doubly sure by Railway Express’s double receipts, with $50.00 liability included on every piece you ship. Besides, you have the choice of forwarding your things either prepaid or collect, and they’ll be home as soon as you are. No other way of shipping gives you this kind of service, as you probably know, and to get it you have only to phone the nearest Railway Express office.
'Phone 3-6121	506 W. South St.
South Bend, Ind.
railway Express
agency Inc.
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
END TENNIS SEASON AT LANSING
This afternoon Notre Dame winds up its 1936 tennis season by encountering Michigan State at Lansing, Although the State men are somewhat of an unknown quantity, it is certain that the match will be hard fought as the Irish will be out to avenge a defeat handed them last year by the boys from the Wolverine state.
This contest will ring down the curtain of competition for four of the Notre Dame men. They are: Capt. Joe Waldron, George Cannon, Joe Prendergast, and Bud Verveat.
May 2 9, 1936
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrist* and Mfr. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St.
South Bend, Indiana
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Three
The Flag of The Class of 1936 Which Will Be Used During The Coming Year
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25. 191&J
Volume LXIX
May 29, 1936
No. 26
FINAL COMMENCEMENT PLANS ANNOUNCED
Hon. Francis P. Garvan
Break Ground Monday For $300,000 Biology Building
Continuing a program of expansion in the field of science, construction will be started on Monday, June 1, of a new $300,000 biology building to be erected near the new student infirmary.
On Saturday, June 6, the cornerstone of the new structure will be laid as part of the annual Class Day exercises. The Hon. Francis P. Gar-van, founder of the Chemical Foundation will preside, at the invitation of Rev. John F. O’Hara, president of the University. Other guests prominent in the field of science will include Dr. William Mayo, and his brother, Dr. Charles Mayo, of Rochester, Minn., who will take part in Commencement ceremonies the following day.
Radically new in design, the purpose of the new hall of Biology is to provide facilities for teaching, experimentation, and research in all divisions of Biology. The building will be three stories high, built on a flexible unit plan so that departments and
(Continued on Pane 8)
446 Seniors Get Degrees
By Louis Da Pra
Four hundred and sixty-six candidates in the various Colleges of the University, 174 of whom are graduating with honors, will be awarded Bachelor degrees at the 92nd Commencement exercises of the University of Notre Dame to take place in the Field House on Sunday, June 7.
Twenty-eight of the candidates are to be awarded the degree mugmi emu laude. According to latest averages available, Roman S. Ladewski, C.S.C., a student in the College of Arts and Letters from Holy Cross Seminary, has the highest scholastic ranking of the 1936 graduates.
Honor men in the other Colleges are Henry A. Staunton, class valedictorian, a student in the College of Science from South Bend, Ind. Arthur A. Baum, a student in the College of Engineering from Battle Creek, Mich.; William J. Smith, a student in the College of Commerce from Chicago, Ill.; and Robert B. Devine, a student in the College of Law from Norwalk, Conn.
Three Day Program Set
During the three-day Commencement program which will begin Friday afternoon, June 5, with a private address in Washington Hall to the Class of 1936 by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., various reunions by alumni groups, dinners, the annual alumni banquet and' meeting, concerts, sporting events, and the Commencement play will be presented.
James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association, announced that the alumni will be housed in Dillon and Alumni halls during their stay on the campus. It was also announced that the annual alumni banquet and meeting, to which the graduating students are guests, is to be held on Saturday night, June 6.
“Friday the Thirteenth,” a rollicking comedy by Carl Webster Pierce, will be presented by the University Theater under the direction of Professor Albert Doyle of the Speech de-
(Continued on Pane S)
Dr. William J. Mayo
Mansfield To Play Lead
In Commencement Play
By John Hurley
The cast for this year’s version of the annual Commencement play, “Friday the Thirteenth,” has been chosen by Professor Albert Doyle, director of the University theatre.
Joe Mansfield has been assigned the lead of Harvey Chase, originator-of the jinx club.around which the play revolves. Jack McKendry will enact the part of Mr. Jeffers, manager of the hotel which is the locale of the play. John Scott, veteran campus actor, will portray the role of Ben Richmond, a friend of Chase, while the part of Dick Vail, third member of the jinx club, will be characterized by George McDermott.
The role of Mr. Pond, the advertising manager, will be filled by William McVay, while Francis Donoghue will play the part of Simmons, the house detective. Three characters, a negro bellhop, Mike Vann, a society man, and Robert Tybert, had not been chosen at- press time.
“Friday the Thirteenth,” a light comedy, is the third play to be pro-(Continued on Paste 7)
M a y 2 9, 19 3 6
Five
FOLEY, RADIGAN AND WELSH SELECTED TO HEAD PUBLICATIONS FOR 1936-'37
Announcement At Banquet
Harold A. Williams
The announcement of the appointment, for 1936-1937, of Paul Foley, Thomas Radigan, and Philip Welsh, to the editorships of The Scholastic, the Dome, and Scrip respectively, was made at the annual Publications banquet, Monday evening, May 25. The appointments were announced by the Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications.
Editor Thomas Radigan
Thirty-first picture-taker
Foley succeeds John S. Moran as editor of the University news weekly. The new editor is a junior in the Arts and Letters College and is a resident of Grosse Pointe, Mich. He has served as a member of the news staff for the past three years, and was news editor during the past year.
Radigan, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, succeeds DeLancey Davis as editor of the Dome. He is a resident of Gary, Ind.
Philip Welsh replaces Maurice Tombragel as editor of Scrip. Welsh, a former news man on the Scholastic and this year a contributor to the literary quarterly, makes his home in Anderson, Ind.
Other awards made at the banquet were the Scrip prizes of twenty-five dollars for the best verse contribu-
Eqitor Philip Welsh A News Man Steps Up
tion of the year, and twenty-five dollars for the best prose contribution. The poetry award went to John Fred-(Continued on Page 9)
Six
Scholastic Editor
Editor Paul Foley The New Head Man
KNIGHTS HAVE ACTIVE YEAR
By Robert L. Grogan .
At eight o’clock in the evening of October 7, 1935, Grand Knight John V. Coyne brought his gavel down on the table thus starting off the manifold activities of the Knights of Columbus in one of the most successful years of the organization. Close beside him was Financial Secretary Eli M. Abraham, traditional second partner in directing all the activities of the local council.
The growing council met regularly once every two ■weeks to discuss the more important problems of the organization and to be entertained by the stellar programs presented at each meeting by Lecturer Edward T. McNally. The lecturer’s programs varied from instructive lectures on Catholic Action, the furtherance of which is the primary object of the Order, to singing and dancing programs presented by a talented group of performers from St. Mary’s.
Communion Breakfasts Popular
Frequent Communion Breakfasts were held throughout the winter. At these affairs the Knights received Holy Communion together in Sacred Heart Church and then took breakfast in the faculty dining hall. The breakfasts were followed by short talks delivered by leading speakers of the faculty. Also throughout the winter a bowling tournament was conducted at the Jefferson Plaza at the end of ■which prizes were awarded to the winning bowlers. A baseball league was organized during the season.
Sharing honors for the position as highlight of the council social season are the Formal Ball and the picnic. The formal took place on May 1 at the Palais Royale under the chair-
(Continued on Page 10)
Strolcer, Dunn Appointed To Managing Editorships
Cyril Francis Stroker, three year veteran of the SCHOLASTIC Sport staff from Waterbury, Connecticut, will be Managing Editor of the news weekly for next year, it was announced this week. Louis Hames Dunn of Adrian, Michigan, will serve the same capacity for the 1937 Dome.
Stroker served this year as Cosports Editor along with James Waldron. He has been widely followed by campus readers for his “Introducing” series in which he presented biographical sketches of nearly all the prominent athletes on the campus. Stroker will succeed Joseph Prendergast in the managerial position.
Dunn worked on the Dome staff during this year and last, and was assistant to George Feeley, managing editor of the 1936 annual. Editor Thomas Radigan announced his choice this week, stating that plans are already going forward for next year’s book.
“Splinters from the Press Box,” a
Cyril F. Stroker
He’ll Gather Splinters
column of sports chatter about characters and incidents of campus athletics will be written next year by Stroker. The column has always been an interesting feature of the sports section and is traditionally conducted by the Managing Editor.
Other editorial posts for THE SCHOLASTIC will be announced in the first issue of next year, as will the names of those who are to conduct the various columns and features appearing in the paper regularly.
JERSEY CLUB
Essex County Country Club at West Orange, New Jersey, will be the scene of the annual New Jersey Club summer dance, it was announced this week by President-elect Joseph Quinn. The date for the affair has been set for Friday, June 19. Tickets are to sell at $2.50 a couple, and will be available to all club members and their friends. Campus plans are being conducted under the chairmanship of Lawrence Burnett.
The Scholastic.
St. Ed's Hall Beats Gong To Win Amateur Contest
MEMORIAL DAY PROGRAM ARRANGED TO PAY HOMAGE TO UNIVERSITY'S DEAD
•After three weeks of trials, balloting, and broadcasting, the amateur radio contest prize was awarded to St. Edward’s Hall. Four contestant groups survived the initial cut and competed in the finals, along with St. Edward’s they represented: Lyons, Freshman and Off-Campus.
St. Edward’s was represented by a well - balanced program embracing musical units, vocalists, humorists and amateur announcers.. The decision was based on an extensive audience ballot and the opinion of a board of judges.
Radio officials, both of the campus studios and the downtown station, were enthusiastic about the results of the first competition of this type ever sponsored on the campus.
Wealth of Talent Uncovered
“The quality of the programs was high,” Station Director Joseph Mansfield said. “The wealth of talent revealed during the production of this contest has been catalogued so as to be available for the production of bigger and better variety shows in the future.”
The winning contestants were awarded a silver placque for the victorious hall and individual gold keys for the performers.
It was intimated this week that the Amateur Radio Talent Contest will be made an annual affair, with details of the competition ironed out according to lines suggested by the first effort.
SOCIAL STUDY HELPFUL
SAYS DEAN KONOP
“I believe that every state in the union could benefit from a study of the social legislation enacted by the State of Wisconsin,” said Dean Thomas Konop of the Law School in a lecture to Professor Louis Buckley’s Labor Legislation class, May 20.
Dean Konop is well-versed in the problems of labor and labor legislation having been a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1811 to 1917 and a memmember of the Wisconsin Industrial Commission from 1917 to 1922.
The speaker related many of his experiences as a member , of the Wisconsin Industrial Commission. He presented the points of view of both Labor and Capital as expressed to him while acting in a conciliatory capacity with the Commission.
Dean Konop closed his discussion by saying, “I do not believe that Wisconsin’s stringent legislation pertaining to Industry has driven any appreciable amount of Industry out of the state.”
May 2 9. 1936
Memorial Speaker
Captain Clarence Manion Will salute Wa?~ Dead.
BRUCCOLI HEADS PATRICIANS
Matthew Joseph Bruccoli, from New York City, was elected this week to succeed Clifford Brown as president of the Patricians, classical study society of the University.
Bruccoli has been an active member of the organization for the past two years. He has also been represented in Scrip, with several verse contributions.
Thomas Doody, of Gary, Ind., was elected vice-president; John Deane, of Milwaukee, Wis., will serve as secretary-treasurer.
The elections were held at the last meeting of the year at the Rose Marie Tea Room in South Bend.
UNIVERSITY THEATRE
(Continued from Page 5)
duced by the University theatre this year under the direction of Professor Doyle. The first vehicle presented was “The World Waits” by George F. Hummel on December 14th and 15th. This production, the story of an expedition lost in the Antarctic, was witnessed by a large audience on both evenings.
On March 28th the University theatre gave the campus a look at a new type of student production, the revised version of Shakespeare’s “Comedy of Errors.” Two performances were, given in the same evening. The assigning of students to female roles was innovated in his play-
Will Celebrate Field Mass
Tomorrow morning at 9:00 a. m. (Central Standard Time) the University of Notre Dame will solemnly observe the 15th annual Memorial Day services in homage to its war dead with a Military Field Mass at the memorial entrance of Sacred Heart church. Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., Chaplain 30th Infantry, A.E.F., is the celebrant, and the Moreau Choir, under the direction of Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., will sing at the Mass.
Captain Clarence E. Manion, professor of law at the University, is to deliver the principal address which will precede the parade to the community cemetery led by a military detail under Captain Robert B. Riordan, University registrar, and the 489th Field Artillery Color Guard and Escort detachment from Company “D,” 113th Engineers, I.N.G. (South Bend), Captain E. A. Schleuder, commanding.
Band to Participate
Among the participants in the parade will be the Notre Dame band with Joseph J. Casasanta directing, Notre Dame Council No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, numerous visiting veterans, students, and visitors. Several Community members such as Rev. John McGinn, C.S.C., who served as chaplain during the last war, will also attend.
During the ceremony at the graves of G.A.R. and World War veterans in the community cemetery, the students of Holy Cross seminary will decorate the graves of fourteen members of the Notre Dame G.A.R. post, all priests and brothers, and two World War chaplains buried there.
A prayer for the nation’s dead will be said and this will be followed with a salute by a firing squad and “Taps.” Upon the completion of this ceremony the Colors will be returned to the front of the Administration Building. With the playing of the “Star Spangled Banner” by the University band, the Memorial Day services will come to an end.
The Memorial Day services are a continuance of the prayers for peace which were recited in the liturgy of the Mass for Ascension Thursday.
Harvard has a collection of 3,400 rare playing cards.
An ancient Persian tapestry, valued at §12,000, has been given to St. Olaf’s College, Northfield, Minn.
Seven
Roosevelt Heads Lecturers On Campus During 1935-36
Outstanding figures in every walk of life, from every region of this country and Europe, came to the Notre Dame campus this year as guest lecturers. Subject matter touching on almost every phase of thought and endeavor was presented to Notre Dame students from the campus platforms.	*
Franklin Delano Roosevelt, president of the United States, was the most famous guest of the year. He spoke here on December 9, and was given an honorary degree as part of the observance of Philippine Day, set aside by the University to commemorate the independence of the islands. At the same ceremonies another distinguished speaker was Carlos Pena Romulo whose brilliant oration will be remembered long by those who heard it. Mr. Romulo, a well known island publisher, also received a degree.
Desmond Fitzgerald, Shane Leslie, Christopher Hollis and Arnold Lunn all traveled from England and Ireland to teach and address Notre Dame students. Mr. Fitzgerald’s six weeks course during the first semester was very popular. Mr. Hollis was with us all year, while Arnold Lunn made a brief appearance to deliver two lectures, “The Joy of Controversy” and “Science and the Supernatural.”
From Vienna came Dr. Haas, who lectured on the “Atomic Theory.” His lecture was informative, interesting and received much comment from resident professors and students.
From the field of daily journalism two headline figures appeared on the campus. Paul Mallon, a former Notre Dame student gave an insight to “The News Behind the News” when he spoke at the Press Club banquet on March 13. James L. Kilgal-len, ace reporter for the International News sendee spoke here, also under the auspices of the Press Club. He reviewed the story of “The Hauptmann Case.”
Three outstanding clergymen, each famous in his own field, were guest speakers during the year. Rev. Robert Lord, S.J., lectured on Church history and “The Council of Trent.” Monsignor John A. Ryan, nationally famous economist and writer from Catholic University at Washington. D.C., was here to speak on “Social Justice and Government.” Dr. Heinrich Schumacher, D.D., gave a series of three talks on the Scriptures. He is a well-known scholar of scriptures and was well fitted to bring out “The Romance of Sacred Scriptures.”
Professor Etienne Gilson, outstanding philosopher of the Sorbonne
(Continued on Page 10)
Baccalaureate Speaker
Most Rev. Edward Mooney, D.D. To talk at 92nd Commencement.
NEW BIOLOGY BUILDING
(Continued from Page 5)
laboratories may be enlarged without structural changes.
Unusual features in the building will include a photomicrographic laboratory, constructed so as to “float” within the structure unattached, eliminating all vibrations. Delicate instruments in this room will be housed in concrete benches weighing several tons. Other rooms include, a culture room where dangerous germs will be transferred, a sterilization room, a hot room, cold room, and machine shop.
All comers in the building will be rounded, ceilings waterproof, and all floors washable to aid in drainage. The top floor will contain laboratories of embryology, histology, botany and forestry, in addition to a greenhouse provided with desert, tropical and normal conditions.
The second floor will be devoted to class rooms, a large lecture hall and administrative offices.
The basement floor will be given over to laboratories of bacteriology, immunology and hygiene.
The building was designed under the. direction of Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, by Professor James A. Rey-niers, who recently discovered a method of producing germ-free guinea pigs.
Famous Financial Analyst
Joins Board of Trustees
John Moody, nationally known financial analyst and president_ of Moody’s Investors Service was elected last Saturday to succeed the late James J. Phelan of Boston on the board of lay trustees of the University.
Mr. Moody was born in Jersey City, N. J., on May 2, 1868 and until 1890 was engaged in newspaper work. From 1890 until 1900 he was connected with the banking house of Spencer Trask and Co. In 1900 he founded Moody’s Manual of Railroad and Corporation Securities.
Several books have appeared under Mr. Moody’s name, all dealing with topics of financial and economic interest. The first of his- works was The Truth About the Trusts, in 1904, followed by Art of .Wall Street Investing in 1906, How to Analyze Railroad Reports, 1911,. How to Invest Money Wisely, 1912, The Railroad. Builders, 1919, Masters of Capital, 1919, The Remaking of Europe, 1921, Profitable Investing, 1925 and The Long Road Home, 1933. The latter is the story of his conversion to the Catholic Church.
Mr. Moody was married to Anna Mulford Addison in 1899 and at present lives with his family of two sons at 440 Park Avenue, New York City.
In addition to the election of Mr. Moody the board of trustees also selected Mr. C. Roy McCanna of Burlington, Wis. to the office of treasurer of the board.
COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES
(Continued from Page 5)
partment in Washington hall, Friday evening.
On Commencement Day morning, the Most Rev. Archbishop Edward F. Mooney, D.D., of Rochester, N. Y., former spiritual director of the North American College in Rome and upon whom will be conferred a doctorate of law, will give the Baccalaureate sermon at the solemn pontifical Mass, in the Field House.
Dr. William J. Mayo, internationally known surgeon and co-founder of the Mayo Clinic, upon whom also a doctorate of law will be conferred, is to deliver the Commencement address which will follow the awarding of Bachelor degrees to the 466 members of the 1936 graduating class.
Doctorate of law, honoris causa, are also to be awarded to Dr. Charles H. Mayo, one of the leading surgeons in the United States, and the Hon. Francis P. Garvan, New York attorney and founder of the Chemical Foundation of New York.
The Scholastic
Eight
Campus Radio Station
Shows Rapid Growth
By Gregory Byrnes
Since its inception a little more than a yeai' ago campus radio broadcasting has undergone remarkable growth and development. To the campus radio group, the pioneers in this newest form of extra-curricular activity goes a great deal of credit for the organization and development of what will undoubtedly prove to be one of the most worthwhile of student undertakings.
Variety of Programs
Under the direction of Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., student manager Joseph Mansfield and his cohorts inaugurated a plan that embraced nearly every organization on the campus. The various clubs and societies were given time on the air offer entertainment and instruction on a wide range of subjects. These organizations included such widely divergent groups as the University Glee Club and Band, the Moreau Choir, the musical organizations of St. Mary’s College and Academy, the Bookmen, the Patricians, the Law Club, the MusicArts Club, and The Scholastic. One of the most popular series was the faculty lectures which were released not only over the usual station, WSBT, South Bend, but over the Chicago area through WIND in Gary.
On several different occasions the local studio was the point of origin for programs of national interest. Five of these’ programs were carried by the Columbia Broadcasting system and one by the National Broadcasting Company. These chain programs included concerts by the University Glee Club and Band, the Moreau Choir, the St. Mary’s Choir, and the speeches in connection with Universal Notre Dame Night.
Interhall Talent Contest
During the year the group, some forty-five in number, held weekly meetings at which many prominent men in the world of radio were heard. A great deal of credit is due Jim Britt, of the South Bend Tribune station, for his conduct of these meetings. It was at one of these meetings that the idea for the recently conducted Interhall Radio Talent Contest was evolved. This contest proved to be one of the outstanding presentations of the year. It was undertaken for the purpose of uncovering student talent, and so should be of great utility in building next year’s programs. The winner of this contest, the team from St. Edward’s hall, are to receive a silver plaque for the hall, and gold keys for the individual members.
Honorary Degree
Dr. Charles Mayo Co-founder of Mayo Clinic.
EIGHTEEN STUDENTS FROM N. D. ACCEPTED BY MARINES FOR TRAINING PERIOD
Eighteen accepted student applications for admission to the Platoon Leaders’ training camp of the United States Marine Corps, were announced this week by Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, through notice of Major Curtis T. Beecher, who has charge of the applications.
The accepted applicants are: Otto Scherer, Palmyra, Wis.; Joseph Meh-ring, Huntington, Ind.; Clay Murray, Kansas City, Mo.; Roman Lamberto, Remsen, Iowa; Burnett Bauer, Good Thunder, Minn.; Francis Itzin, Burlington, Wis.; William Donnell, Lindsay, Okla.; John Barolet, Wickford, R. I.; George McDermott, Rochester, N. Y.; Christopher Landry, Littleton, Mass.; Stanley Partyka, Plainfield, N. J.; John Guggisberg, Fort Dodge, Iowa; Joseph O’Brien, Jackson Hts., N. Y.; Fenton Mee, Logansport, Ind.; Charles Beasley, Denver, Col.; James Mann, Chicago, Ill.; John Scott, South Bend, Ind.; and James Lahey, South Bend, Ind.
Students were required to pass a physical examination and if not 21 years old, a notarized permission from their parents was necessary before acceptance to the training camp.
The session at the training camp lasts for six weeks, beginning July 9. Students living west of the Mississippi will be located at San Diego, Calif, and those living east of the Mississippi will have Quantico, Va. as their base.
After completing two years of
Cackley Elected Head Of N. D. Press Club
John Cackley, of Ronceverte, W. Va., was elected president of the Notre Dame Press club for the 193637 school year in a spirited election held Monday noon, May 18th, in the basement of the library. The other successful candidates for office were Jack Gillespie, vice-president; Edward Fisher, secretary; and Robert McClain, treasurer.
The Press club, fraternal organization for journalism majors, was reorganized this year after a lapse of several years. In addition to several round table discussions at which local newspapermen discussed pertinent journalistic problems, the. Press club sponsored the dinner at which the na-tionally-famous Paul Mallon was the principal speaker.
The club, according to President Cackley, will endeavor to maintain and better the standards of this year’s organization. It is planned to bring several famous journalists to Notre Dame during the next school year.
ANNOUNCEMENT OF EDITORS (Continued from Page 6)
erick Nims, of Holy Cross Seminary. The prose award was divided among Thomas Cassidy, of Kings Park, N.Y., for “Hello Mrs. Blocks!” John W. Gallivan, of Salt Lake City, Utah, for “Godchildren, Bubbles, and a Duck,” and Justin C. McCann, of Yonkers, N. Y., for “Eggbeater Number Six.”
Speakers at the banquet, which was held in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall and attended by approximately 100 journalists, were Toastmaster John S. Moran, editor of the Scholastic, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University, the Rev. L. V. Broughal, chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications, the Rev. Eugene Burke, head of the Department of English, the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., DeLancey Davis, retiring editor of the Dome, and Maurice Tombragel, retiring editor of Scrip.
Others at the speakers’ table were Prof. T. Boyer Campbell, acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters, Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of Journalism, Mr. William Dooley, graduate manager of publications, Mr. Thomas Barry, head of the publicity department, Prof. Francis O’Malley, and Mr. Joseph Petritz, director of athletic publicity.
training, the students will be commissioned as second lieutenants in the marine reserve corps. Five percent of this year’s class will be advanced to the rank of captain when vacancies occur.
May 2 9, 1936
Nine
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Presenting “The Week” who also doubled as the staff fashion plate. Sings a good tenor part, reads ESQUIRE, and carried on a feud with Goldman all year. Claims he enjoyed turning out his weekly stint.—The Editor.
Andrew Hufnagel This is the last Week.
Parting is not the sweet sorrow poets would have us believe. Leaving Notre Dame, at least, will be more sorrow than sweet. As graduation approaches, we realize that fact with greater appreciation. On the campus are some men who will affect an ignorance of what we are talking about. Evidently, familiarity with Notre Dame has not bred in them contempt, which is impossible, but indifference. They are too close to her to comprehend what significance she really has for them. Only after leaving her will they fully understand how much they have come to depend upon her.and the things by which she has won their affection — friends, professors, and priests. . . playing fields, class rooms, and campus. . . bull sessions, athletic contests, and social events. . . religious atmosphere, traditions, and cus- . toms.
Oh, come on gang. Let’s move up to the front lines.
9
This being our last chance to publicly split infinitives, dangle participles, and commit other such literary and grammatical crimes, it behooves us to draw up our editorial last will and testament; so here goes:	’
We, "The Week,” of the Notre Dame Scholastic, do hereby make, publish and declare this our last will and testament, in manner and form following:	-
First: We give and bequeath to Irwin “Snoony” Goldman one baby rattle. Two would be more than he ‘ could handle.
Second: We generously give and
Ten
bequeath to our roommate a lock of Father Sigmar’s hair.
Third: We give and bequeath to Father Sigmar a lock of our roommate’s hair.
Fourth: We give and bequeath to our successor the dots that we usually employ to separate one item from another in this column.
Fifth: We give and bequeath to the dear laundry girls one odd and very old sock with the permission to mangle and rip it to their little hearts’ complete satisfaction. •
Sixth: 'We give and bequeath to Miller Mallett a goatee to match the fuzz on his upper lip.	t
Seventh: We give and bequeath to St. Vincent de Paul our ascot ties.
Eighth: We give and bequeath to Mr. Madden all our old English themes.
Ninth: We give and bequeath to the rest of our teachers and professors congratulations for getting us through on schedule.
’ Tenth: We give and bequeath to Father Farley a handbell minus the clapper.
Eleventh: We give and bequeath to each of the engineers an erector set.
Twelfth: We give and bequeath to our pal, Joe Mansfield, Major Bowes’ gong. He might need it for protection.
Thirteenth: We give and bequeath to each of the commerce men a peddler’s push cart.
Fourteenth: We give and bequeath . to the dining hall cooks a dose of their own medicine.
Fifteenth: We give and bequeath to Charlie Hughes and the rest of his Phy. Ed. gang one dunce cap each.
Sixteenth: We give and bequeath to everyone without exception our picture appearing in the ’36 Dome.
Seventeenth: We give and bequeath to the members of the Scholastic. staff and all our other friends on the campus a standing invitation to visit us at our ancestral domain in Brooklyn. That means you too, Goldman.
We can see a not so very far off day when the most important athletic event for the seniors of Notre Dame will be something like rolling the hoop. “Impossible!” you say? Well, you’d quickly change your mind if you ever saw Norm Conley, Moe Quinn, and Johnny Whitaker earnestly playing hopscotch in front of Walsh Hall. Why, with those seniors establishing the precedent, it is not at all unlikely that the graduating class of the future will be most enthusiastic about such things as daisy chains.	.
Drolla Leads Vincentians In Many Activities of Year
During the past year the local student unit of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, with Joe Drolla as president, has worked continuously in relieving the needy people of South Bend and vicinity, by giving aid spiritually and materially. The members of the society, by weekly visits, have effected relief in various ways for over 150 families or individuals.
In February, a special project of surveying the needs of Holy Cross parish was inaugurated. As a result, ovei’ a dozen cases of individuals in need were brought to light.
Beginning the week of May 3, the society has sponsored a series of discourses on the history of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul, togethei- with an explanation of the manner in which various “cases” are handled. The talks, by Richard T. Baker and Robert T. Burke, were given in the sophomore religion classes.
This week, beginning their new work as agents of the National Storage Co. and the Woodworth Co., of South Bend, members of the society canvassed all the f reshmen, sophomore, and junior halls in search of orders for furniture storage during the summer. At the same time students were asked for discarded clothing and literature. The society has also been assigned the campus bus agency for the Greyhound Lines.
All proceeds from these endeavors are to be used to further the charitable work of the organisation.
FAMOUS LECTURERS HERE
(Continued from Page 8)
University, in Paris, who was here to discuss the “Forerunners of the Renaissance in Medieval England.”
The only woman lecturer to address the students was Mrs. Masie Ward Sheed, distinguished writer and lecturer. Mrs. Sheed is a regular visitor to the campus and her interesting talks are always well received.
KNIGHTS HAVE BIG YEAR
■ (Continued from Page 6)
manship of Henry Dendler. Capping the climax was the annual picnic held at Indian Lake on May 16. Robert Cavanaugh was in charge of the latter affair.
Closing the year’s activities the election of officers took place on Monday, May 18. A new system of balloting was inaugurated this year and resulted in the largest vote in council history. Thomas P. Foy was elected Grand Knight carrying his strong organization to an almost complete victory.
The Scholastic
Musical Units Close On Successful Chord
By Lindsay Phoebus
Campus musicians after one of the fullest, most active years in recent campus history, will appear for the last time during the festivities of Commencement week end. Both the
band and the glee club will give concerts for the graduates and the many visitors.
Traditionally the most active musical units, the band and glee club were par
Lindsay Phoebus the first time in
ticularly busy this year. For five years the 90
piece -band made the trip to New York City for the Army game. Before
the huge crowd at Yankee Stadium, the Irish unit went through its paces and received wide-spread praise for its work from the Eastern press.
Part of the color of. the now historic game with Ohio State at Columbus can be traced to the showing made by the band on this trip. New and intricate maneuvers were used in addition to the spirited playing of the Notre Dame music.
Trousdale Heads Band
Robert V. Trousdale, acting president of the band this year, has been • appointed president for next year.
In addition to the Fall trips, the band worked consistently throughout the year entertaining with well rehearsed concerts at each of the home basketball games and at the Central Intercollegiate indoor track meet.
Notre Dame’s Glee Club has achieved fame beyond the campus for its rendition of popular, martial, and classical music. A well-rounded Eastern tour was arranged for the Easter vacation of this year but most of the plans were washed away in the floods that drenched the cities on the itinerary.	■
Concerts were given, however, in South Bend, Fort Wayne, and Niles. The vocalists appeared three times in South Bend under the auspices of various parish organizations.
On two occasions the music of Notre Dame was carried to the radio listeners of the country over national hook-ups. One concert was given by the Glee Club when it appeared on the Climalene hour in Chicago. The Band and Glee Club collaborated on another hook-up broadcast which originated in the campus studios.
Music Week, a period devoted entirely to various programs and (Continued on Page 22)
May 2 9,. I 9 36
William Henry Fieweger of Menasha, Wis., was chosen unanimously as the winner of this year’s Breen Medal for Oratory. The award was made after 22 contestants had started
Henry Armitage Staunton, Valedictorian for the Class of ’36. . . First Pre-Med to receive the honor. . . Will take his bow June 7 minus the bicycle which is associated with him. . . Is the only student to travel to school for four years on such a contraption.
Dabbles in amateur photography and biology. . . Can usually be found in the Science Hall laboratory fooling around with Prof. Reynier’s guinea pigs. ... He spent two years constructing boats in his work-shop at home but refused to enter the regatta last Sunday on the St. Joe. . .
Belongs to the Science and the Servers Club and exchanges ach’s with the German Club. . . While a student at Central High in the village, he won a trip to Detroit for answering questions of a technical nature concerning aircrafts. . . Likes aviation and tinkers with wood and metal at home. . . Science books and
drawing also take up his spare time.
Always elected tough subjects, but managed to stay out of his father’s classes in English... May have something to do with his good average which hovers around the 94 mark. . . Will attend the St. Louis Med. school next year. ... Is thinking of leaving the bike at home.. . .
Spends his summers in the backwoods of Central N. Y., boating and communing with nature. . . . Commencement will be all medical this year when ‘Hank’ stands up with the Doctors Mayo to take a bow. . . .
William Fieweger Wins Breen Oratory Contest
Wm. Fiewecer
in the preliminaries and five survivors competed in the finals.
Fieweger, who was also chosen as speaker for the traditional flag presentation at the Washington Day exercises, spoke on “So-, cial Justice.”
John Locher, a veteran of the contest, was chosen as a runer-up to Fieweger. Locher is a senior in the College of Law. The under-classman to make the best showing was Francis Parks, a freshman.
Judges of the contest were: Professor Daniel O’Grady, Professor Stephen Ronay, and the Rev. Richard Collentine, C.S.C.
BONDI HEADS S.A.C.
Turning over the gavel of the Student Activities Council for next year, Thomas Murphy, this year’s president, was replaced by Philip Bondi, who was elected to the post last week.
Bondi, a junior in the College of Commerce, is from Sterling, Illinois. He was elected to a two-year .S.A.C. term in the elections held last year. While a member of the student governing body Bondi has been active and was in charge of many of the arrangements necessary for the student football trip to Columbus this year.	.
“We hope to revive some of the dormant interest on the part of the students toward the S.A.C.,” Bondi said this week. We will make every effort to merit this interest by activity in the interests of the students.”
MONOGRAM ELECTIONS
At a meting held in the Law Building auditorium last Wednesday night, the Monogram club elected its officers for next year. Johnny Lauter was chosen president of the club, Joe O’Neill vice-president, Charles Jordan secretary - treasurer, and John Levicki sargeant-at-arms.
Lauter is a junior guard on the football squad, and has been playing steadily since the beginning of his sophomore year. Joe O’Neill played a regular end position on last year’s eleven. Both Jordan and Levicki are members of the track team, Jordan representing the Irish in the sprints, and Levicki in the shot put, discus, and javelin events.
Eleven
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
CURTAIN
Presenting the Senior Funny Fellow. His copy was invariably late, while his sense of humor kept the Scholastic office on the verge of tears. Majored in journalism, devours the reader’s digest, and maintained all year that his column was tops.— The Editor.
Buddy Goldman “The Funniest Fellow.”
Just twenty-five issues ago I wrote, “a new year all bedecked with new faces, new walks,” now, twenty-five issues later these new faces are no longer new to us and the new walks will soon be in need of repair. In the interim I hope that no enmities have been incurred. . . But on to the business at hand. . .
BILL “DIMPLES” PRENDERGAST of Sorin, over a recent hall broadcast sang “Love is Everywhere,” in a key that was anywhere . . . Horton Smith has nothing on TOM ADAMSON who shot an eagle on the ninth hole the other day. . . Good luck, Andy of the “Week.” Meet you in the lobby of the Pennsylvania with the ex-Editor Moran of the Scholastic. . .
Happy landing at the controls of the Scholastic next year, Foley. May all your meetings be similar to our last one this year. . . Pity poor BOB LEWIS, the lawyer. His first “case” ended in utter failure. Ever since he was a general or somethin’ in military school Bob has been taking out the same girl. But apparently she hasn’t heeded the commands of General Lewis for she has up and gone off with some other soldier. . .
You done turned out a mighty fine product in your Dome, DELANCEY DAVIS and we all of the Scholastic are mighty proud of ya, mighty proud. . . And to the ‘rumor triplets,’ BURKE, BOYLE and BONET thanks for your cooperation in the form of little “prongs,” about those
fellows you like and dislike (very few of the latter). . . Here’s a bit of architectural advice—that building in the process of construction near An-gella Boulevard is not the new infirmary, it is DEAN CAMPBELL’S new home. . .
My heartiest thanks to those Scholastic members who have contributed bits of gossip to Caf Smoke. . . Without MILLER MALLET and “SHADOW” RICH next year should prove to be a quiet one. Did you see VINCE PROBST, Corby’s one man German band the evening he ventured to stroll along the third floor corridor of that hall in a pair of pajamas that would have made Joseph’s coat of many colors look like a mourning garment. . .
JIM COSTIN of the News-Times has added Senior Manager JIM MCHUGH to his sports staff. We liked Jim’s initial effort telling how tough the job of equipment manager is. The same Mr. McHugh is next year’s
“. . . and as the prof said to us, ‘You can’t pull the wool over my eyes’.”
equipment manager. Incidentally the write-up had a by-line and Jim’s picture to boot. . .
The cruelest cut of all: in reply to the query “Whatcha got’ for Caf Smoke? came back the squelch “Arsenic.” One of the best sights of the week was BOB KELLY, who weighs about 135 pounds in a fur coat, upsetting “BUTCH” BRUNO in a
The end has come The year is o’er, But pity the frosh— Who have three more.
Little Feller—What Now?
For four short years
You’ve been campus king.
You had no worldly fears—
You’ve done most everything.
But now the time has come,
Your throne will soon be bare, But out into the world you’re thrown, And it’s darn cold out there!
What They’ll Be Doing Next Year: Or the Graduate’s Dissillusion
A.B. Man: Working for his father. Lawyer: Working for his father. Engineer: Working for his father. Doctor: Working for his father. Journalist: Working for his father. All graduates: Working for their fathers.
All fathers: Working for their sons.
tackle that would have made Elmer Layden think of Joe Kurth. . .
And so ends the 1935-36 edition of Caf smoke the icing on your college education. . . . The advice you read just 25 issues ago still stands—The Funny Fellows wish the Frosh four years of good luck the Sophs three, the Juniors two and the SENIORS, ah the Seniors, Be Careful!. . . .
Twelve
The Scholastic
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce- Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
•	FOUNDED 1865	'
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1217, Authorized June 25, 1918.
JOHN S. MORAN____________________________Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST__________________Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei__________________________The Week
Irwin L. Goldman______________________In the Juggler Fdin
News Staff
Paul Foley-----------------________________________News Editor
Robert L. Grogan_________________________-Assistant News Editor
John A. Gillespie-------------------------------Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown________________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus______________________________Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams John Hurley
Louis Da Pra;--------------------------------Albert Torribio
Graham Starr-----------------------------Michael Mongoven
Robert McLain
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Strokes___________________________Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett_________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley___________________________James M. McMullen
Allan Bride_____________________________________Arch Gott
Frederick Digby____________________________Mark Mitchell
William A. Donnelly____________________Nicholas Lamberto
Charles Callahan___________________________John Cufford
Michael Crowe ’
William V. Elus_____
Francis Kroeger_____
Art Staff
_______Art Editor .Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, '26_______________________________Business Manager
Volume LXIX
May 29, 1936
No. 26
IN WHICH WE HAVE OUR LAST LAUGH
This is the song of ourselves. In it you may detect a few notes of regret that this is the last issue of the sixtyninth volume of The Scholastic. It won’t be a sentimental song, however, for the college man is always embarrassed in the presence of sentiment. And with our diploma practically pinned to the wall, we have decided it’s time to stop embarrassing people in these columns.
Rather our song will strike a happy note. There is a humorous side to editing The Scholastic. We vowed last September that this job wouldn’t be all seriousness and full of weighty problems. It wasn’t.
There was, for example, the time a very indignant club threatened suit against one of our columnists for alleged slurring remarks concerning the canes used by members of that organization. Another column editor was threatened with physical violence by a wrathful undergraduate if a particular item appeared in these pages.
As for ourselves, we had no. lawsuits to worry about, or received no invitations to “put ’em up and fight.” We did, however, find a good many who disagreed violently with us on several editorial questions,—Hearst, communism, and corsages at campus formals to mention a few.
Mention of corsages recalls the furor preceding the Senior Ball when the question most often heard in Walsh, Sorin, and Howard was “Are you sending one?” An indignant minority against the proposal collared us at every opportunity to argue the question. The debating practice we got was worth a semester on Professor Coyne’s affirmative squad. The majority opinion eventually won out, leaving the Ball goers that much money to squander elsewhere.
Then there was the case of the S.A.C. which puzzled us no end. After refusing to be prodded into attacking
May 2 9, 1936
that organization in these pages, and even taking up the cudgels in its defense, we woke up one morning to. find the S.A.C. sticking out its tongue at The Scholastic. Now others had stuck out their tongues at us before, but the collective tongue of the S.A.C. was something aweinspiring to behold. As it finally turned out, the S.A.C. boys weren’t really mad at us. They were merely the victims of a bad rumor carried by a few local politicians.
In one respect we have been very successful, for not once did we even so much as hint in these columns that the University lawns weren’t the best places for undergraduates to walk. We have saved our nastiest laugh for those who followed us closely all year for that trite but traditional “Keep Off the Grass” editorial. We feel especially proud of our achievement when we think of all the new lawns planted by the authorities this spring. May our successors in the editorial seat follow our lead.
And speaking of successors, we must give our traditional blessing to Paul Foley and Cy Stroker, who will next year have to write all those reams and reams of copy to fill these pages. Paul and Cy will do an excellent job even without our blessing, but we can wish nothing better for them than that their staff gives them as much support and encouragement as ours did. Likewise we wish to thank the Rev. Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C., and the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who served as faculty advisers throughout the year, Joe Prendergast who was a very capable Managing Editor, and all those who had a hand . in the sixty-ninth Scholastic. We had an enjoyable time at the editorial helm, and we leave with a tear in our eye, and the usual raspy sob in our throat. But here we are, after all, getting sentimental in print, and that would embarrass us no end if we continued along this line.
^-J. S. M.
.	Thirteen
ATHLETICS |
KLINEMEN CLOSE SEASON WITH THREE GAMES
WISCONSIN, IOWA, MICHIGAN STATE NINES TO PLAY IRISH DURING COMING WEEK
Irish Defeat Purple
In Diamond Shutout
ELEVEN NOTRE DAME SENIORS TAKE THEIR BOWS AS SEASON ENDS
By John Clifford
The Notre Dame 1936 baseball season will come to a thrilling climax when Jake Kline struts his boys before Wisconsin this afternoon and Iowa tomorrow on Cartier Field. Then, on the following Saturday, June 6, the grand finale with Michigan State will be the final test of the Klinemen’s ability. These being the last games of the most successful sports year in Notre Dame history, great student interest is aroused and it is hoped that the characteristic “fourth-quarter rush” will be repeated.
Wisconsin, concluding a home-and-home series with Notre Dame, will come here with a 5-2 win under their caps, one of the two games lost by the Kline Club all year. The Badgers showed a lack of all around strength
Captain Frank Gaul
See “Splinters” for story about Gaul.
in defeating Lake Forest recently; but Capt. Charlie Heyer and Pearson are exceedingly dangerous men with bats. Jack Gerlach, another strong man at the plate, has been credited with several perfect days at bat. Though the pitching assignment is as yet uncertain, O’Brien will probably start.
Tomorrow Frankie Gaul and his mates will have Iowa, second place holders in the Western Conference, as visitors on the local field. Little is known of the real strength of the
Leads Great Ball Nine
Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline Jake’s scowl has turned to a smile.
Hawkeyes, but a recent two-game win over Minnesota, yielding but one run, serves as a fair criterion. Howard Miller has been making the opposing batsmen swing like the proverbial “rusty gate.” Backed up by Bowlin, Iowa’s strong armed catcher, Miller put his team in the victory column by pitching a three-hit game, and also helping out admirably at the plate. By virtue of their fine showing in Big Ten competition thus far, Iowa may do a great deal to spoil the Notre Dame record. '
Then there is Michigan State on the 6th of June. Coach Jake Kline does not particularly fear the State aggregation, but he is by no means taking the last game of the year lightly. Flushed by an impressive victory over Johnnie Kob’s lads recently, the Irish expect to sweep the series on top. Catcher Steve Sebo of the Spartans pulled a Frank Merriwell against Ohio State when, with two men on, he nonchalantly slammed the ball out of the park, and so decided the game in the Spartan’s favor.
By Mike Crowe
Airtight pitching by Matt Themes and hitting at opportune times enabled Notre Dame’s baseball team to shut out the Northwestern nine 3 to 0 last Tuesday on Cartier Field. It was the second triumph for Jake Kline’s team over the Wildcats this year, the Irish winning the first struggle at Evanston 10 to 3.’
Themes was the master of the Northwestern hitters throughout the entire nine innings. Only twice was he forced to bear down, once with the bases filled and again -with two runners occupying the bags. The big right hander had the Northwestern boys puzzled with his assortment of stuff. Themes sent nine batters back to the bench via the strikeout route.
Roth did a splendid job of relief piitching for the visitors. He allowed the Irish but one hit in the six and two-thirds innings that he worked for the Wildcats. Kaufman, a rangy
Matt Thernes Blanks the Wildcats.
southpaw, made the mistake of grooving the first pitch for the Notre Dame sluggers. Roth, using a slow sidearm delivery in delivering a slow curve ball, was always ahead of the Notre Dame hitters.
Both teams fielded flawlessly with the exception of Wally Fromhart’s error on a difficult chance. Hayshar’s double and single lead the Northwestern team at bat. Scafati, Borowski, and Ponzevic landed the damaging (Continued on Page 19)
F ourteen
The Scholastic
Track Team Wins Two From Navy and Marquette
By Fred Digby, Jr.
Two more opponents were added to the long list of victims conquered by the Irish thinlies in the past two weeks, when the Notre Dame team defeated Marquette 812-3 to 491-3 and ruining the unscarred record of the Navy trackmen with a 72% to 53% victory.
John McKenna Ran Navy into the sea.
Eight first places and seven seconds whipped the Midshipmen, previously undefeated in a dual meet. While the Irish were going about their task of defeating the Sailors, two records were broken. Don Elser, Notre Dame’s candidate for the Olympic decathlon berth, broke the Academy shot put record with a heave of 49 feet, 2% inches. John Le-vicki hurled the javelin 180 feet, 11 inches for the other record.
In the mile McKenna of Notre Dame came through with a win, defeating Francis in a 4:26.6 jaunt. MacFarlane outran Stuesst of Navy in the two mile in a fast 9:43.5. Captain George Meagher was outjumped by Midshipman Patterson and had to be content with a second place in the broad jump. Patterson’s winning leap was 22 feet, 8% inches.
Levicki was the Irish high scorer in the meet, twirling the discus 42 feet, 6% inches in addition to his javelin heave for two firsts and a total of ten points. Elser was close on his heels with 9% points garnered from his first in the shot put, a second in the 220 low hurdles, a third in the discus, and a tie for third in the high jump. Patterson led the Navy boys with 15 points collected from first places in the 120 yard high hurdles, the 220 low hurdles, and the broad jump.
The Irish continued their winning the following week with an easy win over Marquette in which they broke \three of the Marquette records.
Elser, after winning the shot put, stepped over the‘220 low hurdles in 24.5 seconds, leading two teammates, Mahoney and Frawley, to the tape. Bernard breezed around the oval in
May 29, 19 3 6-
IRISH THINLIES WIND UP YEAR IN CENTRAL AND NATIONAL MEETS
Interhall
Official standings in the Interhall baseball league as the teams go into the final week-end of competition show that in Group 1 two teams, Badin and Freshman, are tied for first place, each having three victories and one defeat. Carroll, now in third place with one win and one loss, has a chance to tie the leaders if it wins its unplayed games with Brownson and St. Ed’s the co-holders of last place.
The outstanding individual performance to date was turned in by Johnny Moir, Badin’s star hurler, when he beat the St. Ed’s team 3 to 2, allowing them one hit—that being a home run which came in the last inning with one man on base and two - outs, and which accounted for both runs.
In Group II an apparent lack of interest has kept most of the scheduled games from being played. The two most active teams, Corby and Alumni, are in the midst of a hot fight for the leadership of their di-
vision, with Corby having the upper hand.
The winner of each group should be decided in this week’s play, and the two group leaders will fight it out for the Interhall Championship over the week-end. The late finish of this year’s Interhall baseball season was caused by continued bad weather which made it necessary to call off many of the earlier games.
48.8 seconds in the 440, lowering the old record by seven tenths of a second. Gibbs was the other record breaker, getting over the bar in the pole vault at 13 feet, 1% inches, and easily smashing the old record of 12 feet. The mark of 3:22.3 made by the mile relay team will enter the books as a new record.
Captain Meagher came back in the broad jump and leaped 23 feet, 2% inches to win over Jordan. Levicki also scored again in the discus, but was shoved out of first place in the javelin by Cuff of Marquette who hurled the bamboo 194 feet, 2% in.
Elser’s win in the low hurdles and the shot put, and his third in the dis-(Continued on Page 22)
In State Meet Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s undefeated cindermen must face their three toughest meets before they can quit this season’s battles against stop watches, tape measures, and cross bars. The remaining meets are the State meet held at Bloomington tomorrow, the C.I.C. meet at Milwaukee on June 5th, and the N.C.A.A. meet at Chicago on June 12th and 13th.
Hoosiers, and other people who know Indiana, insist during the winter months that this state develops the best college basketball teams in the country. This year they would not be far wrong in also claiming the two best college track teams east of the Rockies. The state meet this year is going to develop into a terrific battle between these two teams; it will become almost dual competition between Indiana and Notre Dame. Butler hasn’t been doing much this season! Purdue failed to score a single point in the Big Ten meet last Saturday, but Indiana piled up a comfortable lead over Ohio State, Wisconsin, and the rest of the exceptionally keen Big Ten competition to win the meet.
Indiana’s greatest strength is in the distance runs; they placed three men in both the mile and the two mile, in each of which Don Lash broke Big Ten records to win. Although Francis and McKenna in the mile, and McFarlane and Gott in the two mile have very meagre hopes of beating out this Indiana ace, they’re going to try hard to snare a few places in front of his team mates. Coach Nicholson admits that if everything goes along all right, we might pull through the meet, but he adds that there is a very strong possibility that we will be “taken.”
Notre Dame won the C.I.C. Indoor Track Meet by 11 points, yet took (Continued on Pase 22)
Captain George Meagher The- Caps, career is about over.
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
Notre Dame Baseball Team Wins Three More Games
By Gene Vaslett
By Mike Crowe
Eugene Vaslett that club but since
Fourteen or 15 years ago a small, six year old boy in Miami Beach, Florida was given a golf club and told to play with it and keep out of mischief. Many a golf club has caused caused plenty of mischief but this youngster’s father thought that, for the time being, a golf club would keep his boy out of a certain amount of trouble. W e don’t know how much trouble the boy got into with that day he has
been using clubs pretty consistently and with great success in that popular and much maligned game of golf. His success has been so great that when Notre Dame’s golf team is mentioned one automatically thinks of Winfield Day, Jr., and his exploits on the links in the past four years. Win, as he is called by everyone, has been more than a member of the local golf team he’s been its backbone ever since he started playing with it as a regular in the spring of 1934.
Coming to school in 1932 with a well established golfing reputation in his native state, Florida, where he was known as the “Boy Wonder” of golf. Win went right out on the course in September and annexed the University golf championship continuing his “Wonder” ways by being the first Freshman to ever win the University golf championship. Since then no one else has evei' been champion of Notre Dame because Win has gone right on his winning ways and taken the golf championship consistently for the past three years following his Freshman triumph. He’s the Number 1 golfer of Notre Dame and has been the first in the history of this school, and in all probability the last, to win the golf championship four years in a row.
This year he was chosen captain of the golf team and has led it through another successful campaign. Since Win took his place on the team it has lost but two dual matches in the last three years, one to Northwestern in 1935, arid one to Louisiana State this year, and has been one of the top contenders for the National Intercollegiate golf crown every year. In every meet and in the collegiates, Win has been one of the outstanding members of the team.
Back in his high school days, the lanky Floridan started out on the
golfiing road by winning the State Junior Championship, it was here that he won the name of “The Wonder Boy of golf.” Following his state triumph he went ahead and won the Western Junior Open and was favored to repeat the following year and probably would have if sickness had not forced him to withdraw.
Coming to Notre Dame in ’32, he went through the process of winning the golf championship of the University, and gaining a place in the golf team. In the summer of 1934 he qualified for the National Amateur and advanced as far as the quarterfinals where he was finally eliminated by Reynold Smith. Win was the first Notre Dame man to advance this far in any amateur tournament and this summer he is going to try and advance farther. Last summer he entered the Western Open which was held in South Bend and finished 19th in the standings being beaten only by the most prominent professional golfers in the country. He was the only amateur to finish that high in the final standings. At present he is the
Indiana State Intercollegiate golf champion by virtue of his win on the Burke Memorial Course last June when the state meet was held there.
Win held the local course record up until this spring when a sophomore, Bill Taylor came along and shot a 69 to wipe out Day’s 70 that had stood for two years. But the Florida “Boy Wonder” gets down to the 60’s at times too and possibly as a parting shot at Notre Dame golfing annals may break Taylor’s record before commencement time.
The Buckeyes of Ohio State met the Irish of Notre Dame in a baseball
game on Cartier Gield, May 16, and when Ennio Arboit had silenced the
last Scarlet batter, another Notre
Arnold Velcheck
Dame team had defeated Ohio State 2 to 1.
Perfect baseball weather prevailed for the riieeting of the two foes. Jake Kline sent his ace sophomore, Ennio Arboit, to the mound while Notre
Dame had to face the offerings of Edwards. Edwards pitched good ball during his stay on the hill. He was forced to retire from the game in the seventh inning after colliding ■with George Wentworth at second base. ' Hauger replaced Edwards and held the Irish scoreless in the two innings he pitched.
Fromhart lead the Irish at bat, hitting safely twice in four attempts. Reagan and Velcheck connected with doubles, and Arboit walloped a triple. For Ohio State, Zarnas, stocky right fielder, connected safely twice to lead his team at the plate.
Purdue downed the Notre Dame nine at Lafayette, May 20. The Big Ten team' topped the Irish 6 to 4. Previously the Irish had defeated the Boilermakers here 18 to 15.
Fromhart, Pilney, and Velcheck topped the Irish batters. For Purdue, Sines and Waling hit at crucial times. The extra base hits were made by Sines, Pilney, and Fromhart. The former cracked out a double while the Irish pair connected for home rims. The defeat was the second one of the season for the Irish.
The Irish visited the Hoosiers of Indiana U. on Ascension Thursday and returned home with an 8 to 5 victory. Although outhit by the Hoosiers, the Notre Dame team was able to win,because of errors committed by the Indiana men.
The strong Western State Teachers felt the Irish offensive and defensive strength again last Saturday when they succumbed to Notre Dame 4 to 1. The Irish nosed the Teachers out in an earlier game played here 9 to 8.
Ennio Arboit had the Western State batters guessing all afternoon. They could connect with but five safe blows off Arboit’s delivery. Hibbard, their outstanding batsman, failed to hit safely. Abbott was the losing pitcher for Western State. He was also the losing pitcher in the first encounter between the two teams.
(Continued on Page 19)
Sixteen
T K e S c,h o I a s t i c
Netmen Lose Jwo Matches To Visiting Big Ten Teams
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
.By Jim Dunn
Although the Notre Dame tennis squad did not fare so well in recent matches with Chicago and Ohio State universities, both of which they lost, 9-0 and 8-1, respectively, they gave Irish tennis fans an opportunity to
By Pat Malloy, Jr.
Captain Joe Waldron Loses in hard fought match.
watch the game as 'played by a Big Ten singles champion and runner-up.
In the Chicago match, Norm Bickel, Big Ten champion and mainstay of the powerful Maroon aggregation, hooked up with Capt. Joe Waldron in the feature match of the day. Waldron made a fight of it in the first set, running many of the games to deuce, but fell before the deadly placements and clever dropshots of the tall Chicagoan. Bickel then paired with Dick Burgess to down Notre Dame’s best doubles combination, Waldron and McNulty', and in so doing they flashed the form that has made them invincible in Big Ten competition.
The Ohio State match was played in a stiff wind, but despite the handicap, Bob Niehousen, Big Ten runner-up, came through with some of the best tennis that has been seen this year on the Notre Dame courts. His victim was Jot Waldron. The only victory for the Irish . came ' when George Cannon made a great comeback to win his singles encounter in three hard fought sets. Although the rest of the matches were lost by the home boys, many of them proved exciting. In the longest duel of the day, Joe McNulty was defeated by the Scarlet second ranking player. The two played on even terms throughout, until the fiery net play of the Ohio star brought him victory.
The three Notre Dame doubles combination ran into stiff competition from the opposing tandems, and were unable to dent the win column; each team going down in straight sets. .
May 29, I 9 3 6 -
STATE TITLES TO GOLF AND TENNIS TEAMS
Preceding the masbie-wielders’ annual win in the state Inter-collegiates, in which Win Day added another individual championship cup to his Miami shelf and Jones-built Taylor won the place post; the tennis team redeemed an otherwise uneventful season by knocking off the state meet at Richmond, Indiana. Sorrel-topped, somber, steady Joe McNulty racqueted a nice individual championship to carry home to the Oklahoma plains, and did so in fine fashion. He lost one set in the entire week. And that was not all, for, pairing with Bill Fallon, he entered the finals of the doubles, and lost only after five hot sets.
DO YOU REMEMBER WHEN?
Laurie Vejar caught punts over his shoulder and romped back at an average of 15 . yards a romp ... We had a point a minute club . . . Mink’s return of the Northwestern kick-off in '32 . . . the Lukats-Millner and fight victory in the Yankee Stadium 13-12 Army retreat . . . Pilney’s side-line return of a Pitt punt in Notre Dame stadium, 1933 . . . Pilney’s sneak play at Northwestern in 1934 . . . Was Pilney at Ohio State this year? . . . Marty Peters’ toe victory over the Panthers in 1935 '. . . when your heart stood still, and blood, surging in your face, hurt, and you thought that was the greatest thing in the world, and there’d never be anything else like it; and THEN YOU WENT TO COLUMBUS! ,■, , Shakespeare booted 86 yards against Pitt . . . Fromhart clinched the Southern Cal. contest with a scramble down the sidelines to their five yard line . . . Johnny Baldwin whipped passes left or right handed right to his mark. . . . Voegele tried to knock the backboard down with long shots, never missed a short shot, and his windmill style of attacking his opponents . . . Moose sunk a last second shot sitting on the floor, or made tackles all over the place, or sunk twenty points in one game or when Moose did anything . . . Notre Dame won a tennis match . . . John Banks topped an eagle made by Purdue’s Craig on the ninth green by dropping a forty footer after Craig had chipped in from ten yards out.	,
Johnny Banks was medalist in the National Intercollegiates of 1932, and the team finished third . . . The baseball club opened its season against Ohio State in'1935 in a snow storm, and won . . . Frank Gaul’s fine catching, and incidentally there is a little story that goes along with Gaul, and should become a part of Notre Dame football history. In Gaul’s sophomore year he started the Indiana game at quarter. Anderson sent in a guard to tell Gaul to run a certain play, and the guard forgot to carry out his orders. Gaul was removed, never to start another game that year, never to play another minute that year, and all because when Anderson asked him why he didn’t do as he was told, he merely shook his head and replied “I forgot.” Thus in saving a teammate he ruined his own chances, and that my fine friends is great stuff.
But to get back, do you remember when . . . Vince Murphy leaped six feet seven inches in the C.I.C. meet when everyone was so quiet you could have heard a beebe drop in a bowl of jelly . . . Metcalfe started and finished, and was clocked in record time, but all you saw was a black streak . . . You wondered how in the devil Meagher stretched out so far . . . The negro from Ohio State dropped the baton and almost caught Bernard in the relay . . . The splendid victories by that same relay crew . . . Walker’s gym team in action . . . Marek’s masterful massaging ...
Let’s forget: This year’s Northwestern game . . . the calling back of Elser’s touchdown ... that sloppy Army game this fall . . . the whole ’33 season with the exception, of course, of the Army game . . . and all the tough ones, and all the poor referees’ decisions and vice versa, and all the lovely ladies we saw but never met at the stadium, and in the gym.
But let’s not forget each other, or the wonderful hours competing in or just watching contests. It is something not easy, to express, but always to be cherished. The golden hours are passed. They were great.
Seventeen
Notre Dame Teams Have Best Year in History
Football Team Starts Season with 7 Victories; Basketball and Track Teams Follow the Lead By Piling up Victories to Raise Yearly Average
Notre Dame, in the opinion of many loyal followers, has enjoyed the greatest year of competitive athletics in the long annals of Gold and Blue sport realm. A sensational football squad, the best college basketball outfit in the country, the undefeated track and fencing squads, a top ranking golf combine, a better than aver-erage tennis team, and a crack baseball nine tells the story.
The second year of the Layden regime found Notre Dame regaining the major portion of the national spotlight as it shone on the football stage. The Irish, in facing one of the most ambitious schedules ever carded, ran up the impressive record of seven victories, one tie, and a single defeat against the pick of the nation’s elevens.
Football
In the opener against Kansas a combination of three teams rolled up 28 points against 7 for the Jayhawks. Carnegie Tech and Wisconsin followed in falling before the superior ability and man power of the Layden-men. The fourth contest proved to be one of the most gruelling ever witnessed in the Notre Dame stadium. It took the Irish the full 60 minutes to beat a stubborn Pittsburgh eleven and also the famed Panther jinx. Late in the last quarter, with the score tied six all, Peters vacated his end position and calmly made a placement that turned out to be the margin of victory. The team then jour-
Bill Shakespeare He threiv the pass . . .
neyed to Annapolis where the second team broke into the headlines by being largely responsible for the 14-0 victory. Next came that unforgettable spectacle at Columbus when Ohio State, one of the most powerful aggregations in the country, ran
Eighteen
By Al Bride and John Cackley
roughshod over the Notre Dame varsity in the first half. With a sure Buckey victory in sight the Irish, paced by Andy Pitney, put on the greatest last minute rallys in the history of football in winning 18-13. With about a minute to play Millner leaped high in the air to snare a long
Wayne Millner . . . and he caught it.
pass from Shakespeare to place the Irish ahead of the Scarlet Scourge and to win the game. The following week an ever improving Northwestern eleven caught Notre Dame on a soggy field and pulled an upset by downing Shakespeare and company 14-7. Before 82,000 enthusiasts that were packed in the Yankee stadium, the United States Military Academy held the favored Irish to a tie. Before a home coming crowd the Notre Dame warriors closed the season with a 2013 victory over Southern California.
Notre Dame was honored by having two of her players picked as AllAmericans. Wayne Millner and Bill Shakespeare were awarded the highest ranking that can be given to a college player by being selected on the official All-American eleven. Andy Pilney gained national prominence for his brilliant performances in the Navy and Ohio State encounters.
The Southern California contest was the last for many Irish players and their passing leaves a perplexing problem for Elmer Layden. The following members of the team have ended their collegiate football competition: Shakespeare, Millner, Pilney, Pojman, Carideo, Pfefferle, Fromhart, Michuta, Peters, Layden, . Solari, Becker, Church, Stilley, Gaul, Elser, Mazziotti, Themes, Moriarty, and Kopczak.
Basketball
The Irish basketball squad, under the superb tutelage of Coach George Keogan, ranked as one of the country’s finest cage combines during the past winter. Playing an extremely tough schedule, Notre Dame wound up the season with 22 wins, one loss, and two defeats. Albion opened the program in late November for the Gold and Blue, and was smothered under a 62-26 count. Keogan’s men then captured four straight contests, one being a 40-29 battle from Northwestern, before they bowed to a powerful Purdue five, 54 to 40. After the Christmas holidays the Irish again started a victory mach by subduing Minnesota, Pitt, Marquette, Penn, Syracuse, Illinois, and Kentucky.
Co-captains Johnny Ford and Marty Peters, Paul Nowak, John Moir, Ray Meyer, Frank Wade, George Ireland, Johnny Hopkins, and Tommy Wukovits proved to be the strongest scoring outfits in intercollegiate basketball—1,053 points was the season’s record-breaking total established by Notre Dame.
The highlights of the etire card was the 37-27 setback administered to New York U., before 19,000 spectators in Madison Square Garden. Many of Manhattan’s ace sports writers conceded the Irish to be the No. 1 net team from coast to coast. Pitt returned to the local gym, after having been beaten earlier in the year on their own court, and faded before
Johnny Ford
The second speed twin takes a bow. a withering bombardment of field goals, 43 to 27. Johnny Moir fea- ' tured the evening’s performance by tallying 25 markers—a new all-time N. D. record. .
■ Ohio State retaliated somewhat for (Continued on Page 21)
The Scholastic
Irish Win State Title In Tennis and Golf
STRONG IRISH GOLF TEAM CLOSES ITS SEASON WITH THREE MORE WINS
The Notre Dame golf and tennis teams will dominate the reins of Indiana intercollegiate circles for another year. The tennis team last week captured the State crown at Richmond, by amassing 24 points to In-
Win Day
He retains his crown.
diana’s 22 and the golf team led all schools in the meet held in Indianapolis starting last Monday and finishing on Wednesday with a total score of 304 strokes for the four-man
team.
The Irish also managed to capture the individual trophies in both the net and golfing tournaments. Win Day is the state champion in golf for the second straight year, while Joe McNulty, that up-and-coming tennis light from Tulsa, Oklahoma, coasted through seven opponents to easily win the State tennis crown. Day’s score
was 304 over the downstate course.
His teammates shot as follows: 311
for Toylor, 322 for Fehlig, 323 for Castleman, and 333 for Bob Wilke. The total number of strokes for the
golfers was 1289: this does not include the tally of their captain, Day, who participated only as an individual defending the crown he won last year not as a member of the four-
man team.
Joe McNulty
This was the first attempt of McNulty’s in the state tourney, he declined to enter last year because of exams. The boy from Tulsa was never really pressed through the entire three ' days of play. He
lost only a total of 28 games in the seven matches he played to gain the
bunting. He and Fallon went to the finals in the doubles only to lose a ferocious five set match to Tieman
and Oliver of Indiana.
BASEBALL VICTORIES (Continued ffrom Page 16)
The victory over Western State was the thirteenth win of the season for the Klinemen. It also established Ennio Arboit as one of the best Irish
hurlers.
Ohio State	RHE
Faurot, cf	0	10
Raughaugh, ss	0	0 2
Waisylik, 3b	0	0 1
Zarnas, rf	0	2 1
Klomaski, If	0	10
Spery, lb	0	10
Moser, c	110
Dye, 2b	0	10
Edwards, p	0	0 0
Hauger, p	0	0 0
17 4
Purdue	RHE
Malaska, cf	12 0
Bartz, rf	110
Young, lb	0	2 0
Mangas, If	10 0
Sines, ss	2	3 0
Arman, 3b	0	0 0
Krause, c	110
Waling, 2b	0	3 0
Rosser, p	0	0 0
6 12 0
Indiana	RHE
Thompson, 2b 1' 0 0
Grieger, c 0 0 0
Hobson, ef 10 0
Clark, If	111
Hosier, p 0 3 1
Holqust, rf	110
Baise, lb 13 0
Abernathy, ss 0 2 1
Quisser, 3b	011
5 11 4
West. State	RHE
Hibbard. If	0	0	0
Stutt, 2b	0	0	1
Secory, cf	0	0	0
Neuman, ss	0	2	0
Abel, c	Oil
Vandenberg.3b	110
Mershon, lb	0 0 1
Brooks, rf	0 0 0
Abbott, p	0 10
15 3
Notre Dame RHE Reagan, 2b • 0 1 0 Wentworth,ss 0 0 1 Fromhart, 3b 0 2 0 Pilney, If	110
Gaul, c 0 0 0 Velcheck. cf 0 1 0 Borowski, rf 0 0 0 Scafati,’ ib 0 0 1 Arboit, p	110
2 6 2
Notre Dame RHE Reagan, 2b 0 0 1 Ponzevic, 2b 0 1 0 Wentworth.ss 0 10 Fromhart, 3b 2 2 1 Pilney, If 12 0 Gaul, c 0 0 0 Velcheck, cf 0 2 0 Borowski, rf 0 0 0 Scafati, lb 0 10 Goncher, p 1 1 0 Arboit, p 0 0 0
4 10 2
Notre Dame RHE Velcheck, cf 1 1 0 Wentworth,ss 0 10 Fromhart, 3b 1 1 0 Pilney, If 2 10 Scafati. lb 2 2 0 Borowski, rf 2 1 0 Ponzevic, 2b 0 2 0 Kovzelove, c 0 0 1 Gaul, c 0 0 0 Rydell, p 0 0 0 Thernes, p 0 0 0
8 9 1
Notre Dame RHE Velcheck, cf 2 1 0 Wentworth.ss 0 10 Fromhart, 3b 0 1 0 Pilney, If 110 Scafati, lb 0 2 0 Borowski, rf 0 1 0 Ponzevic, 2b 0 2 1 Gaul, c	111
Arboit, p 0 2 0
4 12 2
NORTHWESTERN GAME (Continued from Page 14)
blows for the Irish. The home run hit by Borowski was his first four base blow of the year. The victory was Notre Dame’s fourteenth of the present season.
Northwestern (0)
RHE
Hayshar, lb	0	2 0
Billings, 2b	0	0 0
Panzerall, rf	0	0 0
Mack, ss	0	0 0
May, If	0	10
Merrill, 3b	0	10
Larson, cf	0	10
Walsh, c	0	0 0
Kaufman, p	0	0 0
Roth, p	0	0 0
0 5 0
Nore Dame (3)
RHE
Velcehck, cf 0 0 0
Wentworth.ss 0 10
Fromhart. 3b 0 0 1
Pilney. If 0 0 0
Scafati, lb 110
Borowski, rf 1 10
Ponzevik, 2b 1 1 0
Gaul, c 0 0 0
Thernes, p 0 10
3 5 1
Mich. State Latest Victim
By Mark J. Mitchell
Paced by Captain Winfield S. Day, playing his last dual match under the colors of Notre Dame, the Irish golf team polished off a highly successful season with an 8 to 1 victory over the Pitt club swingers on Thursday, May 21. Day played superb golf, negotiating the difficult Alcoma Country Club course at Pittsburgh in a subpar 69 to take low scoring honors for the day. The meet was scored under the Eastern system, somewhat different from that used in the Middle West in that it awards one point for each eighteen hole match.
A squad of six members composed of Wilke, Green, Malloy, Fehlig, Taylor, and Captain Day made the trip. Of the three doubles and six singles matches played, only one of them saw an Irish man go down in defeat, and that when Pat Malloy was unable to better Wasco who had a 77 in the afternoon singles. The victory ran the Irish string to five straight.
The Notre Dame team has triumphed over Purdue, Wisconsin, Ohio State, Michigan State, and Pittsburgh since they were taken over by Freddy Haas and his Louisiana State boys on May 7. Washington, Chicago, Illinois, and Northwestern had previously fallen before their drives and pitches. With the exception of this one defeat at the hands of the southern lads, their slate this season has been clean. Father Holderith, coach, and the members of the fourteenth golf team of the University of Notre Dame are to be congratulated warmly on their splendid maintenance of the brilliant precedent established by former teams.
The Ohio State match, played the 15th of this month over the William J. Burke Memorial course saw Day again stroking the field with a 73, ‘ one over par. Two Ohio boys, Brindle and St. Johns, were close on his heels with a pair of 75’s. The match itself was a little too tight to allow one to enjoy that comfortable feeling of assurance permissable in some of the Notre Dame encounters. Even the final score belied the fight which has characterized all of the Irish athletic endeavors against the Scarlet and Gray. Notre Dame started out in the morning b.y sweeping the doubles, but in the singles matches in the afternoon some of the Irish men encountered trouble. The result was a close final score, 1016 to 716 in Notre Dame’s favor.
May.2.9. 19 36
Nineteen
ON DOWN THE LINE
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
HANS NUSSLEIN was scheduled to coach the AMERICAN DAVIS CUP TEAM this year, according to rumors, but because of his known
Jim Waldron
afililiation with GERMAN tennis, CHANCELLOR HITLER prevented him from fulfilling his engagement in this country by requiring him for military duty? They say this military duty has settled him in the place of coach for the players on the GERMAN DAVIS CUP force —KARL - SCHRODER, the SWEDISH tennis player, is said to plant a stooge in the gallery so that he can swear at the fellow in SWEDISH at critical moments?—All A. A. U.’ WOMEN’S basketball teams have to take a woman chaperon along on overnight trips?—COACH PETE WATERS, of MANHATTAN, sank to his ankles in mud on the practice field rather than walk under a ladder the day before the I. C. 4A track meet? — Three years ago in the GOLDEN GLOVE tourney JOE LOUIS fought a fellow called JOHNNY MILLER who knocked him down seven times in the first round alone? Great things were promised for MILLER if he turned professional while LOUIS slunk unnoticed out of the Arena. Today, JOHNNY MILLER is just a fair third-rater and JOE LOUIS is the king pin of the AMERICAN boxing world.—People look at WES FERRELL as a veteran and wonder if he has one more good yeai' left? He is a veteran in the number of years he has spent in the BIG LEAGUES; but at the age of twenty-eight, he has quite a few more good seasons of pitching left in his arm.—For amateur score-keepers an easy way to prove box-scores is to take the sum of the times at bat, sacrifice hits, base on balls and hit by pitched balls of TEAM A. and it should equal the sum of the runs of TEAM A left on bases of TEAM A and putouts of TEAM B.—^Seventeen PLEBE football players were eliminated at WEST POINT after examinations took their toll?— The tennis rankings have enkindled
protests from all sections of the country.—FRANK SHIELDS, for example, ranks first among the court players on the CALIFORNIA COAST and first among the EASTERN rankings, and yet is second to BUDGE, a CALIFORNIAN, in the NATIONAL rankings.
LITTLE, SMITH, AND LAWSON GIVE GOLF EXHIBITION ON N. D. COURSE
Followers of golf at Notre Dame were given a rare treat last Wednesday afternoon, May 20, when Lawson Little, Horton Smith, and Jimmy Thomson played an exhibition match on the William J. Burke Memorial golf course. The fourth member of the four-some was Bud Donovan, star Notre Dame freshman golfer.
Horton Smith, winner of this year’s
Sarn ^bur Summer Expenses
The Catholic Book Club extends to students an offer which gives an opportunity to (I) earn your summer expenses, or (2) accumulate your Fall tuition, or (3) occupy yourself with part-time work during the summer. .
The offer invites all students to become representatives for the Catholic Book Club, to procure new yearly memberships in the Club. The commission on each new subscription is $6.00.
Any adult, reading Catholic—lay or clerical—is a prospect and you probably know a sufficient number of those without going far outside your own circle of friends and relatives.
The Catholic Book Club supplies 12 books a year (a book a month) for $25. The monthly selections include novels, biography, humor, travel, etc. AH are books you will be proud to represent and in doing so, you will be kept informed of the latest and best in current literature.
Representatives are appointed from the New York office of the Catholic Book Club by written contract which will be sent you for your examination by request. Circular matter and-all details will also be supplied to you. If you are interested, write directly, to the Catholic Book Club, 140 East 45th Street, New York City. You may use this coupon, with a Faculty signature. Your inquiry does not obligate you in any way.
Catholic Book Club, Inc., 140 East 45th Street, New York, N. Y.	|
I am interesed in representing the Catholic Book Club, to receive S6.00 commission on i each new membership submitted by me, with payment." Please send me details.	I
Name.------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
Address__________________.-._________:_________________________:___________________ I
City._________________________________:________— State.--------.------------------- I
. Faculty signature	’'	'	■	|
....	...........„„  .........	...................._......„ ...	I
;	The Scholastic
Masters’ tournament at Augusta, Ga., paired with Bud Donovan against Lawson Little, British and American Amateur champion of 1934 and 1935, and Jimmy Thomson, reputed to be the longest driver in the game. The match was played on the low score for each hole basis, and the former duet won the match one up.
The feature of the match was the sub-par 67 score shot by Smith, which was climaxed by an eagle 3 on the 506-yard 18th hole. On this hole his first shot carried about 275 yards, leavin ghim about 230 yards from the pin. His second shot hit the green and rolled up to within two inches of the cup, from where he sank it for an easy three on this par five hole.
Thomson and Little both turned in good scores, carding a 74, two over par. Donovan had tough luck with his shots all afternoon and consequently scored an 83, a comparatively high score for a man of his ability.
Twenty
SPORTS REVIEW
(Continued from Page IS)
that memorable 18-13 football upset, by registering an unexpected 28-23 decision over the Irish. Keogan’s outfit climaxed their spectacular season with victories over Marquette and Detroit.
Fencing
The fencing squad helped in a big way to make the Irish athletic year a highly successful one, as they emerged undefeated from a difficult nine match schedule. Coach Pedro de Landero deserves great credit for guiding his proteges through two unmarred cards and 17 consecutive wins.
Purdue was the first victim of the Gold and Blue, as they fell to a 11-6 count, and then repeated the identical score over Michigan State two weeks later. The Irish staged a comeback to vanquish Ohio State 9 to 8, and the following day they bested Chicago in a hard-fought meet. The Boilermakers proved to be more aggressive in the return engagement against Notre Dame, but finally bowed 9% to 7%. Northwestern, Cincinnati, and Washington University, besides a second triumph over Michigan State, completed the Irish program. Co-cap-tains Kevin Kehoe and Carlos de Landero, and Dick Snooks will receive diplomes in June.
Track
The 1936 edition of Coach J. Patrick Nicholson’s track team is the best ever coached by the lanky mentor.
Butler and Armour Relays where the relay teams again came through with fine performances.
Outdoors the Nicholsonmen defeated Pittsburgh, Ohio State, Navy, and Marquette. The triangular contest between Notre Dame, Ohio State, and Michigan State proved to be a thriller with the Irish winning by a point and a fraction. At the Drake Relays the Notre Dame representatives carried off team honors with brilliant showings by the relay teams.
The success of this year’s team lies in its distributive strength. The following men have shown that they can be counted upon for sure points in their events, Frawley, Boyle, Jordan and Clifford in the dashes; and Elser, Mahoney, Frawley, and Meagher in the hurdles. The 440-yard dash was well taken care of with Bernard, Rub-ly, and Parsons. McGrath and Cavanaugh collected valuable points in the half mile and in the mile Francis and McKenna could be counted upon. McFarlane, Gott, and Kenyon formed a dependable two mile combination. The shot put was well fortified with Elser, Michuta, Lill, and Levicki. Elser and Levicki also took care of the other strong arm events, the javalin and discus. In the pole vault McCarthy, Gibbs, and Langton were performers. Krause and English took care of the high jump.
NOTHING ELSE HAS ITS FLAVOR
Also Imperial Yello Bole $1.50
Don Elser
Pose Number Jt~
Neither indoor nor outdoor has a single dual meet been lost, the Central Intercollegiate Championship was regained, and at the Drake relays the Irish squad ran away with team honors.
Chicago was the first to be downed by the spiked shoers from Notre Dame. Next Marquette was defeated in a thrilling meet in the local fieldhouse. Northwestern was the third team' to be defeated by the Irish in indoor dual meets. Time was then taken from dual competition to send the foremost performers on the squad to the St. Louis Relays where they made a creditable showing. The following week a strong Illinois team was conquered. In the annual C.I.C. meet the Irish proved their superiority over- some of the best track aggregations in the mid-west by winning the coveted title. The indoor .season was brought to a close at the
Jin Exceptional . .
SUMMERTIME OPPORTUNITY
FOR—
SALES-MINDED COLLEGE MEN
9 Continental Motors Corporation wants college men with sales ability to sell its new low-priced, portable air-conditioner for homes and offices. This air-conditioner washes the air, removes dust, soot, smoke and pollen, and makes room atmosphere clean, pure and wholesome. It deodorizes. Contributes greatly to the summer comfort of the entire family. Increases the work output of business executives. Wonderful also for rose fever and hay fever sufferers. Its popular price puts it within everyone’s reach. Weighs less than 10 pounds; sells for $13.50 east of the Rockies. Substantial profit for canvassers on every unit sold. Pay for your education this coming year by accepting this pleasant occupation during the summer months. For full information write to	-
CONTINENTAL MOTORS
CORPORATION
DEPT. A. 12801 E. JEFFERSON AVE.
DETROIT - MICHIGAN
NATIONAL STORAGE WAREHOUSE COMPANY
ABSOLUTELY FIREPROOF
We specialize in the storage of student furniture.
PACKING SHIPPING
402 South Carroll Street Phone 4-3741
CAMPUS AGENT Society of St. Vincent de Paul 10 Lyons Hall Society Members WILL CANVASS HALLS for orders during week of May 24th. Commissions to charity.
Established 30 Years
LEMONTREts
______Z JI ~
OPTOMETRISTS 222 Ja South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
▼
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE
PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
M a y 2 9, 1936
Twenty-one
MARQUETTE TRACKMEET (Continued from Pane 15)
cus made him high scorer with 11 points. Meagher, Mahoney and Le-vicki all tied for second place in the scoring, each with one win and a second place.
Calvin Beckett of Marquette sped his way to a new record in the half mile, traveling the distance in 1:54.1. Paul Phillips, also of Marquette, tied his own records in both the 100 and 220 yard daashes. These two firsts made him Marquette’s high scorer.
Congrats/ .. you grads
We are glad that we have been able to serve you. . . and we sincerely hope that as an alumnus you will still consider the South Shore Line as “your” line.
SOUTH SHORE LINE has been happy to serve you!
LI3?.A".Y-
DAS'S, LOCAL
COMING TRACK MEETS (Continued from Pajre 15)
first only in the shot put. The Irish got their points on seconds and thirds, even on fourths and fifths. But in the C.I.C. Outdoor Meet, all the Big Ten schools except Michigan are going to add themselves to last winter’s list of competitors; obviously they will squeeze out quite a few of our place-points. The competition will resolve itself around Notre Dame and Marquette, indoor winner and runner-up, and the three Big Ten leaders, Indiana, Ohio State ,and Wisconsin.
In the N.C.A.A. Meet, in which Southern California and Stanford will probably battle each other for the victory trophy, stars will count more heavily than a well-balanced team. Notre Dame has no expectations of victory, but her chief hopes for points are Elser and Meagher, and possibly Bernard, Francis and McGrath.
THE JOHN MARSHALL
FOUNDED 1899
AN
ACCREDITED
LAW SCHOOL
TEXT and CASE
SYSTEM
•
Note: Beginning September, 1936, the afternoon course continues as a 3-year course, but the evening course changes from a 3-to a 4-year course.
• Students desiring to take the present 3-year evening course must enter on or before July 6,1936.
LAW
SCHOOL
CHICAGO, ILL.
CLASSES
Afternoons . 4:30 Evenings . . 6:30 Lead to LL. B. and J.D. degrees.
Two years' college work required for entrance.
For free cataloa and booklet, "Study of Law and Proper Prep-oration" address: Edward T. Lee, Dean, Box 2o. 315 Plymouth Court, CHICAGO.
WOODWORTH’S
Storage and Transfer
MOVING PACKING SHIPPING
STORING
Fireproof Warehouse
Phone 4-1135 409-11 S. St. Joseph Street
CAMPUS AGENT Society of St. Vincent de Paul ..	10. Lyons Hall . .
. Society -Members WILL CAN, VASS HALLS for orders during week of May 24th. Commissions to charity.
Annual Essay Contest
For Roosevelt Awards
A prize of $2,500, in addition to book royalties, to be known as the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Award, will be given annually for the best manuscript on any political, economic or social phase of contemporary American life.
The Roosevelt Memorial Award has been established to further the ideals of public , knowledge and public service for which the late Theodore Roosevelt was an aggressive champion. It is hoped that the award will serve to create and maintain these ideals, and to foster a greater interest among writers, and their readers in the important phases of American life and government. '
Manuscripts must be accompanied by author’s address and real name, and should be addressed to the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial A ward Committee, Garden City, Long Island, New York.
The judges’ decision will be final and the winner will be announced not later than March 30, 1937. The prizewinning manuscript will be published in book form by Doubleday, Doran and Company as soon as possible thereafter.
The Committee of Judges consists of Dr. Harold Willis Dodds, president of Princeton University; Dr. Harold Glenn Moulton, president of the Brookings Institution of Washington ; Dr. Henry Seidel Canby, editor of the Saturday Review of Literature; Professor Roscoe Pound, dean of Harvard University Law School, and Col. Theodore Roosevelt, jr., ex-governor of the Philippine Islands.
MUSICAL UNITS
(Continued from Pane 11)
concerts was arranged for the first time this year. From March 22 to April 1, three musical groups were brought to the campus. On March 22 the week was opened by the University Glee Club; on March 24, the Moreau Seminary Choir sang a splendid program; on March 26, the Chicago Philharmonic Orchestra, a new type of symphonic organization was brought here. On April 1, shortly after the close of Music Week proper, the Salvi Harp Ensemble, made its first appearance on the campus.
Student musical activity was further proved on April 30, when Hugo Melchione and Arthur Davison played another of their annual two piano recitals to an audience that crowded Washington Hall.
The formation of the Musics Arts Club to foster musical activity on the campus brought still another impetus to musically minded students. Plans are being formulated by this organization for a revival next year of the University. Symphony Orchestra.
T.h'e' Scholastic
T w e n f y-fw o
10 OUT OF TEN
College Students Suffer from
NOCASHOSIS
‘EMACIATED POCKETBOOK
Here’s the cure
UdA
| YOU have that empty feeling in your pockets? Do you lie awake nights, trying to figure how to make a dime do the work of a dollar? Is this condition chronic? Don’t give up! Even if your best friends can’t help you, Greyhound will!
Campus Agent:
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL SOCIETY
Special Ticket Office in former Livingston Store (Next to Barber Shop)
June I to 4 inclusive
Hours: 7:30 a. m. to 7:30 p. m.
You’ll get results the very first trip. There’ll be extra cash in your pockets—you’ll feel better after a pleasant, convenient journey. Repeat the dose every time you travel. Fattening the pocketbook is guaranteed! To have your prescription filled, drop in or phone this office.
GREYHOUND
THS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEKKONIER LIBRARY-
NC'lnij iJzAMijj LOCAL
© 1936. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.