The SCHOLASTIC
Charge it The Campus Shop Way:
Pay 1/3 in March
No Carrying Charge
WELCOME TO
ONE OF
UNIVERSITY
Every Notre Dame man has a charge account at The Campus Shop. Use it to purchase the things you need now — pay The Campus Shop way:
THE CAMPUS SHOP . . .
AMERICA'S FINEST
SHOPS FOR MEN . . .
The Notre Dame Campus Shop is here to serve your clothing needs from the most famous-name menswear obtainable in today’s world Markets. Eagle, Society Brand, ‘Botany’ 500, Alpagora, Burberrys, Palm Beach, McGregor, and other famous suits, topcoats and sportswear . . . Dobbs, Florsheim, Arrow, Jockey, Swank, Interwoven . . . are a few of the other names you’ll recognize when you visit us. Hope you make it soon!
3
On Campus
W Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’“The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, etc.)
ONCE MORE, UNTO THE BREACH
With this installment I begin my eighth year of writing columns for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, as fine a bunch of men as you would meet in a month of Sundays—loyal, true, robust, windswept, forthright, tattooed—in short, precisely the kind of men you would expect them to be if you were familiar with the cigarettes they make—and I hope you are— for Marlboro, like its makers is loyal, true, robust, windswept, forthright, tattooed.
There is, however, one important difference between Marlboro and its makers. Marlboro has a filter and the makers do not—except of course for Windswept T. Sigafoos, Vice President in charge of Media Research. Mr. Sigafoos does have a filter. I don’t mean that Mr. Sigafoos personally has a filter. What I mean is that he has a filter in his swimming pool at his home in Fairbanks, Alaska. You might think that Fairbanks is rather an odd place for Mr. Sigafoos to live, being such a long distance from the Marlboro home office in New York City. But it should be pointed out that Mr. Sigafoos is not required to be at work until 10 A. M.
But I digress. This column, I say, will take up questions of burning interest to the academic worldlike “Should French conversation classes be conducted in English?” and “Should students be allowed to attend first hour classes in pajamas and robes?” and “Can a student of 18 find happiness with an economics professor of 90?”'
Because many of you are new to college, especially freshmen, perhaps it would be well in this opening column to start with campus fundamentals. 'What, for example, does “Alma Mater” mean?
* ♦ ♦
This uncensored, free-wheeling column will be brought to you throughout the school year by the makers of Marlboro and Marlboro’s partner in pleasure, the new, unfiltered king-size Philip Morris Commander. If unfiltered cigarette’s are your choice, try a Commander. You’ll be welcome aboard.
Well, sir, “Alma Mater” is Latin for “send money.”
What does “Dean” mean? Well, sir, “Dean” is Latin for “don’t get caught.”
What does “dormitory” mean? Well, sir, “dormitory” is Latin for “bed of pain.”
Next, let us discuss student-teacher relationships. In college the keynote of the relationship between student and teacher is informality. When you meet a teacher on campus, you need not salute. Simply tug your forelock. If you are bald and have no forelock, a low curtsy will suffice. In no circumstances should you polish a teacher’s car or sponge and press his suit. It is, however, permissible to worm his dog.
With the President of the University, of course, your relationship will be a bit more formal. When you encounter the President, fling yourself prone on the sidewalk and sing loudly:
“Prexy is wise Prexy is true
Prexy has eyes
Of Lake Louise blue.”
As you can see, the President of the University is called “Prexy.” Similarly, Deans are called “Dixie.” Professors are called “Proxie.” Housemothers are called “Hoxie Moxie.” Students are called “Amoebae.”
© 1961 Max Shotrw
GLANCES
Some observations on the implications of the “new system” are offerred in this week’s editorial column . . . From time to time, the Scholastic will reprint some of the best “Escape” columns of the past years. This week’s piece, on page 7, by Charles Bowen of the old comedy team of Bellairs and Bowen, appeared in the May 15, 1959 Scholastic... A new weekly news column, “News and Notes,” debuts this week on page 9 . . . Notre Dame’s new Vice-President of Student Affairs, Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., and his relationship to the rules changes are treated on page 10 . . . Who’s who in the Student Senate this year? This question and others related to it are discussed in a Student Government preview, page 11 . . . That highly explosive mixture, birth control and politics, is viewed by Rev. John O’Brien, C.S.C., in the current issue of Look magazine. Read about his views on page 12 . . . See page 13 for a report on the Notre Dame Debate Team’s prospects for the year... Joe Della Maria, head of the Blue Circle, and Mike Sanderson, also a prominent Circle man, consider the old wine of Notre Dame spirit in a changed student bottle . . . SBP Chris Buckley sets forth in concrete terms, the plans and projects his administration will promote; page 15 ... Scenes from last Saturday’s Activity Day are pictured on pages 18-19 . . . “In and Around Town,”our new entertainment column by John McGuire, a frequent Scholastic contributor, appears on page 20 . . . For a preview of tomorrow’s game with the Sooners see page 23 ... Then there’s “Norb and Nick,” page 24, co-captains of the 1961 Fighting Irish ... A report on the Notre Dame-trained Peace Corps group, page 28... Uncannily accurate forecaster Cary is back calling ’em on page 25 ... Wade Clarke, senior political science major, in the Scholastic’s “Forum” on page 33, suggests that today’s much publicized young conservatives may have more in common with the beard and sandals set than either group cares to admit.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising' by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes ■ the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
•4
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame

Vol. 103 No. 1
Sept. 29, 1961
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE
features editor
THOMAS HOOBLER
sports editor	'
WILLIAM CARY
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN
Patrick Saxe Robert Sajnovsky
layout editor
STEVEN PODLAS
business manager JOHN WARD Robert Buckley
circulation manager JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisor '
DONALD COSTELLO
THE NEW REGDIE: Father Hesburgh’s summer letter on the University’s disciplinary changes may have seemed as gratuitous as manna to some, but those of us who are returning know that these changes are not the result of snap decisions or whimsical flights of fancy on the part of a single man or group of men. Rather do they result from years of discussion, planning and study by many groups of students, professors and administrators, working sometimes together and sometimes in opposition. Representing, as they do, the combined efforts of so many, these changes should not be taken lightly — neither by those who articulate them nor by those who live under them.
It remains to be seen whether or not the new system, as it has been presented to us, will in fact be more than superficially different from the old. Despite the more obvious innovations — abandonment of restricted study time and morning checks, installation of hall chaplains — regulation of student life could conceivably continue in much the same manner as in past years. The crucial question is simply this: do these changes represent a new approach to the problem of order in the student community or are they but an adaptation of the former system’s rationale to a changed student body? There seems to be a certain conflict of purposes in the University’s formulation of the new policy. President Hesburgh stated in his letter: “The student will be penalized only when his actions violate the rights of others or hinder the goals of other students.” However, in the new Student Guide it is maintained that “the discipline imposed by the University is meant to be an aid to . . . self-discipline which is difficult of attainment. If understood in this spirit, the regulations of the University will fulfill their purpose: to encourage Notre Dame students to achieve the full measure of Christian manhood.” On the one hand, penalties are to be determined by the simple expedient of live and let live and keep out of your neighbor’s way; on the other, the “aids to self-discipline” are to be used as a kind of spiritual gym equipment to promote well-developed souls.
This conflict of purposes indicates to us that what has been done is only the beginning. Progress has been made; the absence of the former explicit specifications of “grave” and “more grave” penalties is only one example of the promising tendency away from an externally imposed substitute for community spirit among the students. But the former system of student life must not be and in fact has not been abolished in one stroke. Take away all vestiges of Notre Dame’s disciplinary system and you would not have a situation of “normal life.” A new system, one emanating from the student community itself, must be devised to replace that which is shed. Such things as a new stay-hall or fraternal system, increased importance of self-enforcing custom, a bigger role for an improved and strengthened student government, are in fact necessitated by and must become the final expression of what is now called “self-discipline.” Most importantly, such a new system must seek primarily to foster the pursuit of knowledge, and this by providing opportunity for the development of an adequate intellectual dialogue among the students themselves and between the students and faculty.
VOLUNTEERS: The Hall Presidents Council, under the direction of Mike Hartnett, has come up with what seems to us the best idea for improving hall government within anyone’s memory. Disarmingly direct, the Council simply asks for volunteers who want to do something to improve living conditions in their respective halls and assigns them whatever jobs have to be _ done. The big advantage here is that the whole thing is divorced from the mechanics of student government. There are many students who would be . willing to help out with a particular project but who have no interest in running for office or becoming involved in student government politics. The plan was tried last year in the freshman halls and was highly successful. - According to the Council, signs will be posted within the week in all halls asking for helpers.
—w.&z.
The Scholastic, in pursuing a somewhat different editorial policy, seeks to represent a larger portion of the Notre Dame community. With this object in mind, we will welcome longer articles on subjects pertinent and impertinent, as well as shorter “Repercussions,” from both students and faculty. All letters and manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 425 Walsh Halt
WHO is at work on a satellite system for global telephone and TV transmission?
WHO provides the communications channels for America's missile defenses?
WHO is girdling the globe with communications for America’s first man into space?
WHO tapped the sun for electric power by inventing the Solar Battery?
WHO used the moon for two-way conversations across the country?
WHO guided Tiros and Echo into accurate orbit?
WHO made your pocket radio possible by inventing the Transistor?
WHO maintains the world’s largest, finest industrial research facilities?
WHO supplies the most and the best telephone service in the world?
WHO has the UNIVERSAL communications organization?
THERE’S ONLY ONE ANSWER TO ALL TEN QUESTIONS
bell telepmo^e system $
Pioneering in outer space to improve communications on earth
tow*’
6
The Scholastic
tom swift in the academy
by CHARLES BOWEN
I’m always hearing, or at least it seems that I am, although I would be hard put to quote sources, that American scholarship is accused of having nothing to contribute to the progress (or perhaps it was the decline) of Western Civilization. Well, whichever it is, the charge has been completely confuted and its proponents put to rout by a piece of news that has had local academic circles buzzing for the past couple of weeks. Word has arrived that one of our own professors, on leave of absence in Vienna, where he has been pursuing sophrosyne, Weltanschauung, gemutlichkeit, and other academic virtues, has made a monumental discovery that has set the learned societies of two continents on their collective ears. (Note to investigators: no ideological reference intended.)
This discovery consists of a manuscript in ancient Aramaic which contains many startling accurate predictions of historical events that could not have taken place until centuries after its composition. The age of the manuscript (tentatively designated Codex BS) has been established at no less than sixteen centuries, and it is conjectured to have been written in an Anchorite monastery somewhere in Asia Minor during the 4th century (unless, of course, there weren’t any Anchorite monasteries in Asia Minor at that time).
The discoverer of the manuscript, well-known to students for his course in Antique Philosophical Systems and Creeds Outworn, is Canon Prately S. Phootnote, D.D.T. Many will remember Father Phootnote’s commanding presence as he would lumber across the campus of a morning, puffing on a Corona Coronas and playfully tossing his breviary at the heads of such students as were least expecting it. He did not find Codex BS by rooting in any musty Turkish cavern, but came on it between the pages of a first edition of The Ship of Fools on the reserve book shelf of the University of Vienna library. The manuscript was unaccompanied by any clues as to its age or origin, being alone except for a pressed gardenia and a scrap of parchment bearing the words “Marcus Patriciam Amat.” The latter is considered to be insignificant, as it
dates from a much later epoch, certainly not before the twelfth century.
The manuscript divides into several distinct parts, possibly the work of different authors. The first part seems to be copied from a paperback abridgement of a poem from the Golden Age of Philistine literature. A sample of its rich style follows:
“There arose in those days out of the country of Sor-enn, Alumnai, and Fishur, a mighty son of the hills, who, being thirsty and finding in the land of his Fathers no means of satisfying his thirst, went down unto the land of the city-dwellers, which is called Jerimadeth, that is, Valley of Promise. And finding there a wine-merchant, he spake unto him, saying, ‘Give me to drink of thy wares; whether it be golden Bud, from beside the mighty river, or foaming Hamm-eth, from the land where the waters sparkle, or mellow Schlitz, so that I might know the real joy of good living, I care not, for behold, the weather is hot and my throat is dry. Therefore only give me to drink of thy wares, and verily thy reward shall be great.’
“But the wine-merchant rose up and answered him, saying, ‘Behold, I have that which will satisfy thy thirst, but first thou must give proof of thy maturity, after the custom of the Fathers.’ And lo, he could not give proof, and the wine-merchant demanded that he go out from his house. But he would not go, calling upon the heavens to curse the winemerchant with plagues and pestilences and rusty pipes, until the winemerchant was roused to anger, and called upon his manservant, who smote the young man sorely, until he went out from that place.”
The second section is prophetic in nature. It predicts, among other things, the birth of James Joyce, the Trendex rating of Maverick and the firing of Terry Brennan. This latter item is still obscure, owing to the difficulty of a long passage in which the Aramaic word “schlepp” appears 44 times in as many lines. At this time it is not yet decided whether to translate the word as “excellence” or whether its alternate meaning, “affluence,” is to be used. A well-known local authority has suggested that
this entire section throws the validity of the manuscript in doubt, as it is well known that the word "Brennan” does not exist in the Aramaic vocabulary.
The third section is a pedagogic treatise, setting forth in remarkably accurate detail the conditions for attaining a full professorship. A quick check with the Office of Academic Effulgence verified the document to the last detail.
The fourth section, which should settle once and for all any disputes about the genuineness of Codex BS, is a mystical work, presenting in what at first seems to be random and meaningless succession a series of strange symbols. At first very little could be made of it, but at last young Geoffrey Lochinvar, special assistant to Dr. Schvonk, provided the missing key and suddenly everything fell into place. The document reveals itself, word for word, symbol for symbol, item for item, as a perfectly detailed schedule, complete in every particular, for the 1959 home and away games of the Chicago Cubs.
Section five is the biggest enigma of all. Teams of scholars have been working night and day on it, but so far only a few fragmentary phrases
have been deciphered: “. . . residence hall before 10 p.m. . . .” “failure to
will result in. . . .” “under twenty-one years of age a letter from parents to. . . It is felt that it will be better understood as soon as the meaning of the constantly recurring term “More Grave Penalty” is established.
It is hoped that next summer the work of translation and copying will be completed, so that the manuscript may be brought to the University, where it will be housed in a special room in the library (to be created by , throwing out the sociology and economics departments) and guarded day and night by its discoverer, who will sleep in the same room and have his goulash and kielbasa delivered there three times a day. If translation continues at the present rate, it will probably be possible to plan a presentation ceremony for Homecoming week end, with numerous luminaries of the academic, ecclesiastical and financial worlds in attendance. Let’s hope so.
September 29, 1961
7
from abstract ideas...fundamental knowledge at Esso Research
New insight into the interaction between hydrocarbons and catalytic surfaces has been acquired by Esso Research scientists using advanced techniques for fundamental studies of adsorption on heterogeneous catalysts. The first results were obtained from a detailed infrared study of adsorbed acetylenes.
Acetylene, deuteroacetylene, methyl and dimethyl acetylenes are strongly chemisorbed on alumina even at room temperature. The first three can also exist in a weakly adsorbed state. The strongly held species are held perpendicular to the surface through the
acetylenic hydrogens, except dimethyl acetylene, which is held parallel to the surface. All the weakly held acetylenes are held parallel to the surface. The sites responsible for the strong chemisorption of acetylenes are different from those responsible for the strong adsorption of dimethyl acetylene. Surprisingly, no strong chemisorption of either acetylene or dimethyl acetylene was observed with silica.
These results raise several challenging fundamental concepts. Thus, the head-on adsorption is quite unexpected for a molecule containing a reactive triple bond, and it is perhaps surpris
ing that only substitution by two inductive methyl groups can activate the acetylenic triple bond sufficiently for sideways adsorption. Finally, the great difference between SiO2 and AUOs raises important questions concerning the role of the oxide in the adsorption.
This work is continuing together with other basic studies of adsorption on catalysts including such advanced methods as microcalorimetry and conductivity.
...adaptedfrom a scientist's notes at' EssoResearcb and Engineering Company P. 0. Box 45B, Linden, New Jersey.
8
The Scholastic
NEW FACES ON FACULTY
Named among the changes in the administration and faculty since spring were a new vice-president of student affairs, a new dean of engineering and a new director of the LOBUND Laboratories.
Named to succeed the Rev. George Bernard as vice-president of student affairs was the Rev. Charles Mc-Carragher C.S.C. Currently serving as provincial steward of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana province, Fr. McCarragher was previously an assistant to the student affairs post and, at one time, prefect of discipline.
After studying at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C., and then Notre Dame, Fr. McCarragher received
REV. CHARLES I. McCARRAGHER, C.S.C.
his AB degree here in 1932 and returned after teaching at Holy Cross College, New Orleans, to take his master’s degree in 1940. Formerly a sociology professor specializing in criminology and population problems, he is a member of the American Catholic Sociological Society and a contributor to the American Catholic Sociological Review.
Dr. Norman Gay came to the Engineering department from College Station, Texas, where he headed the Texas Engineering Experiment Station.
A graduate of the University of Rochester and holder of a master’s degree from Cornell University, Dean Gay received his doctorate at Purdue
September 29, 1961
University. For fourteen years he taught in the Cornell thermal engineering department and has been a staff engineer with the Bendix-Westinghouse Company and a consultant for Bendix-Westinghouse, Convector Manufacturers’ Association and Consolidated Edison.
The former engineering dean, Dr. Mario, Goglia, resigned to become associate dean of faculties at Georgia Institute of Technology. Dr. Harry Saxe had been serving as acting dean during the interim.
The LOBUND post went to Dr. Morris Pollard, former director of the Virus Laboratory at the Texas University Medical Branch, Galveston. Receiving the rank of full professor of biology, he also became associate head of the department of biology upon assuming his duties with the LOBUND Laboratories.
A specialist in virology, epidemiology and pathology, Dr. Pollard holds a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree from Ohio State University and a Ph.D. from the University of California, in addition to a master of science degree from Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
A noted author in his fields, the new LOBUND director has been a consultant to the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare and is the editor of Perspectives in Virology.
PLAYERS LIST PLANS
Assistant Director Fred Syburg has announced the plans of the University Theatre for the 1961-62 season. T. S. Eliot’s The Cocktail Party will open the season on Nov. 9 and continue through Nov. 11. The play will also be presented the following week, Nov. 16-18. On Feb. 8-10, and again on Feb. 15-17, George Bernard Shaw’s Arms and the Man will be performed at Washington Hall. The University Theatre’s “Spring Festival” will take place May 10-12 and 17-19 with the production South Pacific.
As of last Monday the tentative cast for the year’s first presentation, The Cocktail Party, finds Joe Harrington, Angela Schreiber, Jeanne Klein, Bill Cook, James Strahs, Dick Kavanaugh, Sally Douglas, Pat Gallagher and Jim McGovern selected for the various major parts.
Season tickets will go on sale in the second week of October.
PRESIDENTIAL TRAVELS
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, is currently on a mission which will have taken him to Hawaii and five foreign countries before he returns early in October.
Currently, Father Hesburgh is in Vienna representing the Vatican at the fifth general conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Before Vienna, Father Hesburgh was in East Pakistan where he conferred with officials of the Notre Dame College in Dacca and visited other religious and educational institutions operated by the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Before journeying to Dacca, Father Hesburgh visited two Rockefeller Foundation operations in the Philippines and Japan as a trustee of the Foundation. During the first week of September, he attended a meeting of the National Science Board in Honolulu. By presidential appointment he has been a member of this Board since 1954.
SOCIAL AFFAIRS RESUME
Victory Dances for 1961 will be held on the Saturday evenings after home football game, from 8:00 to 11:00 P.M., in the La Fortune Student Center. Due to the limited space available, only 550 tickets ^11 be sold for each dance, on a first-come-first-served basis. The bids will be $1.50 per couple; the place of purchase will be posted. Al Sell, chairman of the Victory Dance Committee, has announced that a different type of entertainment will be featured at each dance. The feature of the first dance will be William Schuster’s band, the new Lettermen.
A bonus dance, the Fiesta Otonal, with Skitch Henderson’s band, has been announced for October 13. Two o’clock permissions will be extended to students attending this unprecedented affair — the same privileges as those extended for the October 27 Homecoming Dance. Ticket sale will start on September 28, between 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., in the Student Center Rathskeller.
The Social Commission has arranged for a concert by the Limeliters, on October 20, in the Field House. Tickets (priced at $1.50) will go on sale soon. Coming later in the season are the Brothers Four.
9
New Student Affairs Chief Discusses Rules; Change Emphasizes Flexibility, Self-Discipline
To the incoming freshman, it may seem odd to overhear upperclassmen talking, in a tone of wonder, about “all night lights.” The newcomer has never had the strange feeling of “Big Brother is watching you!” that the old-timer used to get when he was about to end a term paper, finish an assignment, or lay down a full house and then . . . darkness!
All night lights is not the only innovation in student life regulations this year. The section on regulations in the Student Guide has been
slimmed down to eight general rules. “We felt it wasn’t necessary to list page after page of restrictions,” remarked the Rev. Charles I. Mc-Carragher, C.S.C., vice-president for student affairs.
In a recent interview, Father McCarragher expressed the opinion that the most important regulation concerned the withdrawal of enrollment for “any substantial external violation of the moral law.” Father McCar-ragher went on to explain that the “moral law” was to be interpreted broadly by the administration.
The old regulations, according to Father McCarragher, were created for a smaller school than Notre Dame
now is and have become outdated. In recent years, the need for decentralization of discipline and greater student responsibility was felt. In 1958, a study was begun to work out the needed changes. The final recommendations were presented to the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, in April of this year, and they were put into effect over the summer.
The present rules are more flexible and can be more easily altered to fit changing conditions than the old ones.
For instance, the student manual does not set a closing time but merely says the dean of students shall decide it. The present closing is, of course, 12:00, but Father McCarragher gave the impression that a later closing could be possible if circumstances warranted it. “There isn’t much to do in South Bend after midnight anyway,” commented Fr. McCarragher.
With an enrollment now at 6500, the task of disciplinarian was getting too large for the <£Hce of the dean of students, so much of the responsibility of guiding the students toward better disciplinary habits has been delegated to the rectors. The rector now has broad discretionary powers
and may level any penalty except suspension and dismissal which are reserved for the office of the dean of students.
The realization that self-discipline can mold character much better than enforced discipline has, according to Father McCarragher, brought about updating of previous rules. It is now the students’ responsibility to decide the time for retiring and awakening. Lights no longer are shut off. Morning check, once justified as an aid to morning Mass attendance, has been discarded. Instead of morning check, Father McCarragher says that a much more intensive religious program under the direction of the hall chaplains will be instituted.
This year, the f reshmen are granted unlimited midnights and are distinguished from upperclassmen only in that they have a midnight instead of a 12:30 curfew on Saturday nights. According to Father McCarragher, the purpose of this half hour difference is to relieve congestion at the circle as students scramble toward their halls in an attempt to beat the clock.
Although the need for regulations in any society is obvious, Father McCarragher pointed out, the University no longer takes the responsibility of enforcing civil laws. Students guilty of violating city and state ordinances in South Bend will be dealt with by the city police. The campus police force has been more than doubled to relieve the rectors and prefects of the job of policing the campus.
Rule 4 states that no student may “possess or acquire for his use" a car. Students may drive cars, however, if they are accompanied by the owner or a representative of the owner. This is a change from last year when a student was allowed to drive a car only in the presence of his parents.
In closing, Father McCarragher remarked, “Since a university demands good order in a pleasant environment to accomplish its purpose, we believe that the present program of the University is one conducive to the intellectual, moral, cultural and social development of the Notre Dame students.”
Joe Casper
10
The Scholastic
DIRECTION FOR RESPONSIBILITY
The 1961 convention of the National Student Association at the University of Wisconsin is noisy with delegates eagerly exchanging ideas and arguing the merits of various proposals. Individual speakers are largely ignored. But the body offers its attention to one speaker — a delegate from the University of Notre Dame. Elsewhere at the convention, Notre Dame’s influence is seen again as ex-SBP John Keegan offers 33 new ideas to presi-dents-elect in an hour-long workshop. All 33 were tried and proved successful at Notre Dame.
This convention illustrates the paradox of Notre Dame student government: it has long been one of the best in the country, but it has never received the recognition on campus that it would seem to deserve. As a matter of fact, few students not connected with student government realize the scope or effectiveness of its functions.
Some of the functions of student government, such as the dances and lectures, are familiar to most students; but the unpublicized, day-today work of student government has gone without notice from the students who receive the benefits. This work has ranged from advice on the recent revision of rules and the proposed permanent hall residence plan, to sponsorship of minor sports, to supervision of campus concessions and activities. However, most of these achievements have been accomplished by executive committees or individuals while the legislative arm, the Student Senate, was relegated to the role of an innocuous debating society.
The new Student Senate should provide the most startling example of the effect of increased student responsibility. As the custodian of the new responsibility, the Senate must represent and instruct The administration will rely heavily on the opinions expressed in the Senate as an indication of the maturity and responsibility of the student body.
In addition, the student body must look to its elected officials for direction since these are the men to whom University officials will explain new ideas and confide future plans. Some important decisions formerly reserved for administration action will now be
left to student government.
The one man most responsible for assuring the success of this over-all plan of student government is the student body president, Chris Buckley. His most important task this year will be strengthening the structure of student government so that it can accept its heavier burden.
Specific programs include recruiting capable men for Senate and hall offices, improving the international and academic program of lectures and debates and utilizing the entire Senate in committee work. The SBP’s programs are ambitious, but in the new atmosphere of freedom most of them have a good chance for survival.
How well the programs survive may depend on the personnel already in student government. The vicepresident of the student body is Tom Colleton, Buckley’s opponent last spring, but his choice for top assistant. As vice-president, Colleton will have the crucial job of supervising the many committees in which the bulk of student government work is accomplished. The correspondence and finances of the Senate are handled, by Secretary Tim Haidinger and Treasurer Tom Schlereth respectively. Haidinger brings to his job a fine record as freshman co-ordinator and sophomore vice-president. The actual administration of any Senate program is handled by one of the four commissions: Academic, Social, International and Student Affairs. The commissioners, all appointed by Buckley, are Jack Forrest, Greg Weis-mantel, Joe Simoni and Terry Mc-Glinn, each having an outstanding background in his field. Of the stay senators, Jack Clark will play a very important role as chairman of the Policy Committee, while Dennis Flynn will be responsible for guiding the freshmen as frosh co-ordinator. Each of the experienced senators will chair one of the committees.
Permanent committees, executive commissions, student senate, hall governments, campus officers — all are a part of this complex called student government. “Responsibility” is its rallying cry, hard work is its weapon and a more satisfying student life is its primary goal.
—Peter Clark
11
September 29,1961
"WELCOMES ALL NOTRE DAME MEN"
Your Headquarters For
OMEGA WATCHES
Father O'Brien Cites Contraception Dispute; Priest Says Take Birth Control Out of Politics
The controversy in recent history that has caused the most ill will among Americans of different religious faiths is, according to the Rev. John A. O’Brien, research professor of Theology at the University of Notre Dame, that on birth control. In the Oct. 10 issue of Look, he has an article “Let’s Take Birth Control Out of Politics,” in which he tells what he thinks can be done to remove this continuing source of tension.	.
Although Father O’Brien doesn’t see “any prospect of agreement between Catholics and Protestants con-
'‘MygEisagu SaimmnQ
ROLEX
WATCHES
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
cerning the morality of the use of contraceptives, mechanical or chemical, to achieve birth control,” he believes that this issue could become no different from the “many religious doctrines on which Protestants and Catholics differ without causing bitterness, ill will, strife and antagonism. It is a theological problem to be discussed by theologians as they discuss other religious differences.”
The reason for the present bitter controversy is, in Father O’Brien’s words, “traceable to the effort of various persons on both sides to force their particular religious view upon society by enacting into legislation their particular viewpoint.” This procedure must be avoided because we live in a pluralistic society and such attempts destroy “peace, order and civic unity.”
It is Father O’Brien’s theory that for a law to be enforced it “must reflect the moral convictions of the overwhelming majority of the citizens. “This theory is illustrated by the ill-fated prohibition law. Soon after its passage it was discovered
(Continued on page 32)
PATEK PHILIPPE
The World’s Foremott Watch
14 Kt. Gold Charms & Jewelry - Pendants Crosses - Gifts
Charge accounts available
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311
RAH! RAH!
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over l 5'9* specify 23’ frames. Men ft under 5'9* specify 21" frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — vl You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh l| H you will!!
II1 F°r all details see your campus I ■ Raleigh dealer.
ALBRIGHTS
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5-8988
The Scholastic
ND Debate Team Will Launch Season at Pittsburgh; Squad Faces Stiff Schedule with Depleted Manpower
The Notre Dame Debate Team will launch its sixty-third season Oct. 16 when it travels to Pittsburgh for a series of exhibition debates before an expected total audience of 12,000 persons. Regular competition will begin Oct. 19 when the debaters move south to Lexington, Kentucky, and the University of Kentucky’s twentyteam, three-day tournament.
The outlook for the new season is one of cautious optimism. Though losing but two men through graduation, the team will have only about 16 returnees, the smallest number in recent years. Prospects for the future, however, are bright, due to an excellent turn-out of some sixty freshmen.
In the near future the debate team will begin its “Controversy” radio program, a discussion on topics of na
tional and campus interest each week featuring some prominent faculty member and a student leader. WSND will carry the program under the direction of Charles Wasaff and Martin Gordon.
Tournament plans are still tentative but the team expects to have engaged in some three hundred debates covering about twenty tournaments by the time the season ends in mid-April. The Midwest area will be traveled extensively; also planned are trips to Dartmouth, Philadelphia, and New York in the East, Mobile or New Orleans in the deep South, and possibly Albuquerque in the Southwest. The team annually logs between fifteen and twenty thousand miles. Some notable opponents expected to turn up on this heavy schedule include Harvard, last year’s
COVER
This week's cover was done by Patrick Saxe, senior fine arts major from Elmira, New York. The art technique is one keyed to modern simplicity yet retaining the traditional silhouette of the campus. The colors we know will be familar to all.
—Tom Hansen
national champs, Northwestern, winner of the Notre Dame tournament last winter, Kentucky, Miami, Kansas State, Georgetown, Dartmouth, Ohio State and the U. S. Military Academy.
Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, who has guided the debaters to a round-number record of 2600-600 since his advent in 1945, will again direct forensic activities. Debate team officers are Christopher Lane, president, Richard Meece, vice-president, and James Murray, director of novice debate.
SIC FLICS
K7
। GXiaP^ETTES
i.
“I think Professor Armitage will agree with me that our administrative staff is of the highest caliber!”
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES’ AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD—NOT FILTERED MILD—THEY SATISFY








September 29,1961
13
BEYOND MYTH:
A NEW APPROACH TO SPIRIT
by Joe Della Maria and
Mike Sanderson
Has the unique quality of Notre Dame, its spirit, famous from the subways of New York to the plains of Oklahoma, become a great myth? Or is it that, in the growth of Notre Dame, spirit has become passe? Perhaps we have progressed beyond the necessity for spirit in our quest for excellence. Have we become thinking men, treating spirit as something for those who care to be emotional about Notre Dame football? Perhaps it is not the thinking men who are responsible for these questions, but rather those who see no reason for Notre Dame spirit.
In every opinion concerning Notre Dame spirit, those of students, professors, priests and visitors, there are usually two ideas present. One is that Notre Dame is quite unlike any other university because of its spirit. The second is that the spirit is something intangible and indefinable. No one can deny the validity of those two points. But we must find more than uniqueness and intangibility. We can certainly speak of the manifestations of Notre Dame spirit, or of the lack of it. More than that we must seek out the basis for this spirit.
Just as the University is undergoing a period of transition, so also must the spirit of its members keep ahead of that transition, inspired by the never-changing ideals of the University. For Notre Dame has often
14
lacked many things, including money, manpower and prestige. However, there was never a lack of a will to come from behind through the strong union of men dedicated to the same ideals. Thus if the spirit of its members lags behind the progress of the University, we might ask, “What have we left?”
The point is not that there must be a Notre Dame spirit. Rather it is that every student must realize the “why” of his individual participation in the Notre Dame spirit. If this realization is not present, we might soon be considering the former point.
By examining the relationships between the various expressions of spirit at Notre Dame, we can come to some conclusions concerning its basis. Cooperation and discussion between students is one expression of it. Helping other students in a tough course is another. There is the daily participation in the liturgy of the Church by members of an intellectual community seeking guidance in their endeavors. And there is the daily give and take of living in the same hall with several hundred other men. Finally there is the Football Saturday, and the neve^-say-die tradition of Rockne. From these examples we see that the spirit which inspires Notre Dame men stems from a unity of purpose. This unity must exist on every level of student life — intel
lectual, spiritual, athletic and social. In order to become a part of this spirit, every man must make his own contribution to each of these spheres and respect the contributions of others.
Since Notre Dame is a community primarily dedicated to the development of the Christian intellect, its spirit must focus on that idea. The bond that should exist between students is primarily intellectual, resulting from the exchange of ideas important to them.
The humility that comes with education should show every student the importance of a common spiritual life, in our case, of devotion to Our Lady. Participation in athletics is a great tradition of Notre Dame, one which should be neither disrespected nor overemphasized. If kept in its proper perspective, this tradition forms one of the strongest bases for spirit. The unity should also be present on a social level. This is inevitable if the other bonds are present, for men who really know one another cannot help having a good time in the hall or at the local pubs.
The spirit of Notre Dame is a spirit of fraternity, of dedication to the intellectual life under devotion to Our Lady. It is based on a love for Notre Dame, her ideals and objectives on every level of universal life.
So what does all this mean to today’s Notre Dame student? We have many hallowed traditions like the Victory March and the steps under the Dome. But what about some of the not-so-hallowed traditions like the biology and ROTC exams, the constant griping about student life with no subsequent ideas or action to improve it, and the disrespect for those who make sacrifices in the classroom, in organizations and on the athletic field. If we are so dedicated to academic execellence, why can’t we be trusted in the classroom? Why don’t we have an honor system? If we have such a great athletic tradition, why do we refer to those who carry it on as “jocks”? If we are such buddies with our fellow students, why do we walk right by a ringing telephone nine times out of ten?
All of these questions can be answered in one way: that there is a lack of spirit on the part of some students, who fail to act with the self-sacrifice necessary to living in a community. Each Notre Dame student has an obligation to find out what spirit means to him and to act accordingly in a spirit of generosity. Only then can Notre Dame spirit retain the vital force it has shown in the history of the University.
The Scholastic
i
PROGRAM TO COMBAT APATHY
Chris Buckley
Each year at this time the newly elected student body president presents his program for the coming year in the Scholastic. In past years my predecessors have considered student government’s nature and purpose from many different aspects, sometimes from the theoretical point of view and sometimes from the practical. I will attempt to give you the complete picture, my ideas as to what our Notre Dame Student Governement should be, as well as the actual plans we have developed to implement these ideas from now until June.
This past August, I participated in the annual National Student Association Congress, held this year at Madison, Wise. I had the opportunity to discuss campus problems with the presidents of many other schools located in various parts of the country, and I found that we have fewer problems here than there are at other schools. Indeed it seemed to me and to most of the members of our delegation that our student government at Notre Dame is much stronger and better organized than those of almost all the schools that participated in the Congress. Notre Dame played a “giving” role at Madison, in that we offered many ideas and picked up a few new ones ourselves. Our student government seemed to be much more extensive and active than those of other colleges. What does all this mean? It proved to me that there is a much greater emphasis put on student government here, and that student interest in campus, national and international affairs is also very high at Notre Dame. We
September 29, 1961
often hear about apathy during student elections on this campus. It is true that a problem does exist here concerning student apathy on many important issues, and yet when I heard one boy tell me at the NS A Congress that about twelve per cent of his student body participated in his school’s elections each spring, I realized that we are, comparatively speaking, far ahead of many schools concerning student responsibility.
So much for the NSA Congress. What is the meaning and importance of this idea of student interest and responsibility that we hear mentioned so often? As you know, Notre Dame has always existed as a very close community. This is the greatest single cause for the tremendous school spirit that thrives here, that same spirit which explodes every football Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. Ideally this community should include both students, administration and faculty, and helping to develop its unity must be the most important goal of student government. Many of the changes that have taken place at Notre Dame over the summer have reflected the administration’s desire to build such a community, one in which an atmosphere most conducive to the following of the educational process will prevail. The door has been opened to student responsibility on a level never witnessed here before. Now it is up to us to show that we are capable of being mature, responsible and, to some extent, self-governed. Student governement has been given a new and difficult role, that of truly representing the student
IS
body in many different areas. We have been asked, you might say, to “pick up the tab” for the new responsibility granted to all the students. We don’t intend to assume the role of “policemen,” however. The job of discipline is now largely up to you as individuals. The challenge has been placed squarely before you, —whether or not you are capable of acting for the common good of those around you, be it on your floor, in your hall, or for your school. Student government is there to speak for and represent you as a group, but as individuals you must be mature, and as members of a community you must be responsible for the actions of every other person living within that community, whether it be your particular hall or the entire student body.
I think that student government here at Notre Dame has a dual purpose. The first area with which it concerns itself is representation. It is the only voice of the student body that exists on campus, and representes the students both in campus affairs and also on issues of national and international importance. Student government cannot be a truly representative organization, however, unless the most responsible students participate in it. This year the emphasis in representation has shifted greatly towards the hall level and it is especially important that the best men are candidates for office and are elected this fall in the hall elections. I would encourage all those interested in student government to take an active part. Help represent your hall as an officer or even a floor representative, or encourage other good men to run. Our student government can only be as good as the men in it, and since we desire to be the best we are asking that the best men participate. There are a number of areas in which we can improve our “representativeness.” The first is in letting the students know what we are doing and what is going on around the campus. We have arranged a biweekly radio show on WSND, on which many of our policies and programs will be explained. Many more referenda will be taken, beginning with an extremely important one this fall on permanent hall residence. A biweekly student government newspaper will be published, containing a calendar of events and other important information. Invitations will be extended to students by mail to attend Senate meetings and I will also attempt to speak to you in the halls to explain what the Senate is accomplishing. Various organizations of which we are now a member, such as the National Student Association
and the National Federation of Catholic College Students, will be carefully examined as to their worth and importance.
ADMINISTRATIVELY, within student government, changes must be	I
made. The added emphasis that has	i
been placed on the Senate, as well as the class and hall governments, requires that we undergo a great re- * organization. We plan this year to I inspect the entire existing structure of our student government and re- ' build any weak links that become apparent. I plan to rule the Senate with an “iron hand” and to set up stiff house rules to insure good order i and responsible leadership at all times. j Each senator will be required to fill	, i
his hall in on all issues covered by I the Senate, and I will see that any ■ “slackers” in the Senate are quickly removed from office, whether they be , senators, commissioners or the officers themselves.
There is a myriad of Senate committees this year: Student Government Evaluation, Responsibility, Policy, Student Welfare, NFCCS, Civil Liberties, Informal Relations, Finance, Dance Policy, Minor Sports, Charity Chest, Public Relations, Permanent Hall Residence, etc. All of these have been streamlined and their areas refined. A director of campus organizations has been given full power to coordinate all campus clubs, a responsibility that has been disregarded for many years.
A SECOND large area in which student government participates is concerned with projects and programs that will help fill out the total educational process that goes on here. Besides the Collegiate Jazz Festival and Mardi Gras, both of which are under very capable leadership this year, most of our programming is centered in the four student government commissions: Academic, Student Affairs, International and Social.
The Academic Commission will center its activity for the coming year around the “Distinguished Lecture Series.” Men such as Goldwater, Senator Tower of Texas, and Edwin O’Connor will be among the famous personalities to speak here. Controversial topics such as the House UnAmerican Activities Committee will be debated, the ultimate aim being to create student interest in such issues. A pool of good lecturers for hall and club use will be maintained. Student fora, the Writers’ Seminar and poetry recitals are among the other projects planned.
THE STUDENT Affairs Commission will oversee the Mardi Gras, CJF, Student Discount Service, director of student organizations, the
The Scholastic
16
card stunts and various Senate committees dealing with student welfare. It will be in charge of setting up the big-screen TV, running trips to football and basketball games and supervising the Decorations Weekend. A special project will also be undertaken by the commission this fall. Sample packs of toilet articles worth approximately $5.00 will be distributed to the students for 50^. This was arranged with an advertising firm over the summer and should be an invaluable service to the students. A placement bureau for summer jobs and a bulletin board containing information on international travel opportunities are other worthwhile projects that will be considered.
THE INTERNATIONAL Commission has also developed a very strong program for the coming year. A lecture program on international topics has been planned, as well as the showing of film clips on various foreign problems and customs. A symposium has been planned for the spring semester dealing with a topic of international importance. Information on the Peace Corps will be more readily available than ever before.
Much more attention will be paid to the foreign students this year. An orientation to Notre Dame campus life, informal gatherings, and banquets will be held for them, and a special committee has been established to look after their various needs. This commission is the newest and fastest growing of the fou?. we now have, and its scope of activity should expand greatly this year.
THE SOCIAL Commission has already begun its work. The "Activities Day” held this past weekend was new and unprecedented at Notre Dame, and seems to have been very success. ful. "Big Name Entertainment” this year will include famous names such as the Limeliters and the Brothers Four. Two campus-wide fall dances have been planned. Skitch Henderson will play on the Southern Cal weekend, and the Dorsey Orchestra will be here for Homecoming, the Northwestern weekend. Despite the loss of the Drill Hall, Victory Dances will be held this fall as in past years.
It would seem that each of these commissions has, under very capable leadership of the various commissioners, developed a more extensive and worthwhile program than has ever existed before on this campus. Many new ideas will be implemented besides the ones mentioned here, and we hope that your support will make them successful.
THIS, then, is our over-all program for the coming year. Other special
September 29, 1961
projects, such as the possible development of an honor system and publishing of a student handbook containing all the information any student would ever need on campus life, will also be energetically undertaken. Our basic aim is to produce student awareness in two all-encompassing spheres. One deals with issues and problems of national and international importance, and the other with acquainting the student with his new responsibilities on the campus itself.
I THINK that student government at Notre Dame will continue to make an outstanding contribution to the educational process, and I hope that you will continue to support our desire to make this contribution and to speak on your behalf. I hope to see those of you who are interested participating in student government this year, whether on a hall, class or Senate level. I am confident that we can accept the new challenge successfully that has been presented to us, and I look forward to serving you for the coming year as student body president.
Chris Buckley
17
Just a word of introduction: we are presenting a new (revised?) review column this year. It will be a little more subjective; though less risque in translation, perhaps. More important, however, this revamped column is to be comprehensive . . . (like, complete). Not only will the movie reviews be herein published (along with the show times, please note), but shows staged on either of the Twin-Campi (as well as downtown) will be mentioned — if not briefly reviewed. And any GOOD movies being re-aired hither or yon on campus by the Clubs or faculty will be suggested in case you’ve free time and no cash. Mention will even be made of Washington Hall’s Saturday Night Special. And included, when appropriate, will appear an innovation: a “Get Your Tickets Now” department — listing anything presented on stage in these parts — with dates, box office hours, and prices . . . (yet). In other words this column will comprise a fair listing of all (or any) worthwhile entertainment here’bouts. And even if all of this proves less racy than it was last year (who could be as flip as Tony Wong?) let’s keep it on the light side. . . . What else could you ask for?
And now that we’re committed. . . . Let’s begin. . . .
Avon Art. All of that time spent reading Rise and Fall of the Third Reich won’t be wasted. This is a history majors’ special. Roberto Rossellini presents General Della Rovere, an award winning picture (and I mean award winning — Venice Film Festival, International Film Critics and the San Francisco Festival) about the Nazi occupation of Northern Italy in 1943. Vittorio De Sica portrays an Italian turncoat who impersonates an important partisan general. The pseudo general is coerced by the German conquerors (one million lire worth of coercion) to help them find a pesky underground agent, Frabrizio, who is somewhere in the prison camp at San Vittore. But there is a fiber of starch in every man — even the sneaky, old turncoat Italian—and the fake attempts to mend his devious ways. A foreign masterpiece. Really. And with it an award winning short subject: Confessions of a Cat . . . which could prove revealing.
(General D.R. Week: 7:15 & 8:39 Weekend: 3:15, 5:54 & 8:28)
20
The Colfax. And talk about versatility? Author, director, producer . . . oh, and he’s the star too. That’s who else but Peter Ustinov, Hollywood’s factotum. Which means, you might have guessed, Romanoff and Juliet. Not that it is a one man show by a longshot because Mr. Ustinov has employed Sandra Dee, John Gavin, Akim Tamiroff and a carefully chosen supporting cast to fill in, as it were — which all goes to lend fascinating charm to this clever Ustinov travesty. The plot revolves around the blatant attempts made by the U.S.A, and the U.S.S.R. to rally friends from the bloc of smaller nations. The scene: one of those small countries. The revolving force: a love affair (the common denominator) atwixt the son of the Russian ambassador and the daughter of the American ambassador. Besides, it seems that small Concordia has the atomic bomb — and world power besides. Or does it? A very subtle show, all.
(Romanoff and Juliet 1:15 — 3:15 — 5:15 — 7:15 — 9:15)
Granada. Come September has come — to South Bend, that is. And it’s about the college set. The college set that spends summer in Italy, that is. But whether you’ve been to Italy in summer or not there is a variety of shapes and sizes to please every collegiate taste: Sandra Dee (again?) and Gina Lollobrigida. (Rock Hunter and Bobby Darin, too, for those who are interested) It concerns an T American millionaire (of course — see what Carnegie started?) and a sneaky major domo who picks up pennies I (oops, lire) on the side renting the villa to tourists in his boss’s off season. While the cat’s away. ... But the master < returns early one fateful year for his perennial tryst with Gina only to find his mansion populated by winsome college beauties from from stateside — which natch attracts American college males (Bobby Darin) — thus results an Italian-American free-for-all. It’s gay; its entertaining . . . and it even has a moral of a sort: marriage is definitely better than adultery. Be sure to see it.
(Come September 1 — 3 — 5:05 — 7:10 — 9:15) (Continued on page 30)
The Scholastic j
WONT
EVEN IF
YOU DO
Adler SC's are guaranteed not to shrink out of fit or your money back. Lamb's wool, in men's and women's sizes, in white and 12 other colors. Just $1 at fine stores.
ADLER
SC's
ADLER SC’s AVAILABLE IN WHITE AND COLORS AT
WYMAN’S DEPT. STORE ROBERTSON’S DEPT. STORE “Fine Stores Everywhere”
September 29, 1961
21
Other shoes may look like Keds, but only U. S. Keds» can give you “that great feeling." Because Keds have a patented shockproofed arch cushion and cushioned inner sole. And because Keds are built over tested, scientific lasts to fit
all feet perfectly, even narrow ones. Keds are right for class, gym, tennis court or dorm. Machine-washable (and they even look good clean). His: Keds "Court King.” Hers: Keds “Champion.” Get your new U.S. Keds at fine stores everywhere.
•both Keds and the blue label are registered trademarks of
United States Rubber
ROCKEFELLER CENTER. NEW YORK 20, NEW YORK
PHOTOGRAPHERS
Positions are open on the photographic staff of the
1962 Dome
Contact Bill Sullivan, 321 Walsh.
Be prepared to state experience and show samples of work. Underclassmen, including freshmen, are especially invited to apply.
WiltCATALINA
MAN RELAXED...a man selects a handsome sweater as he would a companion to share his most enjoyed moments... relaxing...or actively engaged in his favorite pastime. Created by our fine designer, John Norman, who himself makes a study of the art in ‘moments of relaxation!
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL*
The Scholastic
22
SOONERS, KUHARICHMEN BATTLE TOMORROW
White Leads Visitors In ’61 Opening Game
by BOB CHIAPPINELLI
Headed by their captain and left tackle, Billy White, the Sooners of Bud Wilkinson take to the Stadium tomorrow afternoon with high hopes of wiping clean the memory of last year’s feeble 3-6-1 record.
White, a 202 pounder who might well be described as lean, mean and often seen on the football field, is the first captain the boys from Norman have had in the last 15 years. During that span co-captains have been selected each season, but White was so outstanding last year that his teammates decided to let him alone have the honor and the burden of leading them back to national prominence.
Picked over Romig. An indication of his ability lies in Missouri’s selection of him over Colorado’s All-American guard Joe Romig as the best lineman faced by the Tigers all season long.
In addition to White, Coach Bud Wilkinson had 20 lettermen returning at the conclusion of last year’s spring practice, but injuries and ineligibilities have cut that total a bit. The chief loss seems to be that of last year’s first string right halfback Billy Meacham, later converted to quarterback, who has given up football because of thumb and knee injuries.
BUD WILKINSON Sooner head man September 29, 1961
mike McClellan
Top Oakie running threat
Despite the fairly large number of returning veterans, Coach Wilkinson has commented, “I don’t think we’ll improve greatly. Our returning players are the same people who played so poorly on defense last year.”
In an effort to plug up this far too generous defense, Wilkinson and his staff converted all but four of the returning lettermen to new positions. The four boys remaining in familiar surroundings were White, guard Karl Milstead, center Jim Byerly and end Dale Perini. However, Byerly dropped out of school in order to accept a promising job offer, and Milstead is being pressed by sophomore Jimmy Gilstrap.
If such veteran linemen as center John Tatum, guard Tom Cox, tackle Leon Cross and end Ronnie Payne can successfully adjust to their new defensive positions, the Sooners will be in fine fettle, for their offense can hold its own with some of the country’s best.
Even before Meacham dropped football he had been dropped from the number one quarterback spot by sophomore Bill Van Burkleo, who fits right in with the Oklahoma tradition of speed and more speed. In high school this 184-pound competitor ran the 100 in 9.9 and the 440 in 47.8.
If Van Burkleo does decide to forsake his fleet feet and take to the air, he will have Ronnie Payne and Dale Perini as willing and able targets.
But Van Burkleo will not be the only aerial threat in the visitor’s backfield, because the 1960 quarterback, Jimmy Carpenter, will open the year at halfback, where his accurate passing — 25 completions out of 40 attempts last year — will make him all the more bothersome to the Irish.
Speedy McClellan. At the right halfback spot will be Mike McClellan,
a 185-pound senior who tore to a 9.5 time in the 100-yard dash while still in high school. Chances are that he has lost none of that speed as his 30 points and 5.4 ball toting average of last season attest. Nicknamed the “Roadrunner,” McClellan is also the Sooners’ best safetyman.
Also very much in evidence in the backfield will be Gary Wylie, an understudy of departed fullback Ronnie Hartline. Wylie was not neglected when people began to change their places of residence in the Oklahoma lineup last spring, and he now finds himself struggling with the “Roadrunner” for the number one right halfback berth.
Fullback will be in the capable hands of senior Phil Lohman, the squad’s most versatile performer. During his career he has mastered the end, center, halfback and fullback positions. He, sophomore halfback John Smith and second string fullback Danny Jordan, also a soph, are particularly noted for their fine defensive skills.
This will be the fifth meeting between the two schools, with Notre Dame holding a 3-1 edge. The last encounter between them was in 1957 when the Irish scored a 7-0 win and thereby snapped Oklahoma’s string of 47 consecutive victories, a national mark which may never be equaled.
Oklahoma will be trying for its first opening win in three years tomorrow, while Notre Dame will attempt to increase its streak of opening wins to five.
BILLY WHITE
Prime All-American candidate
23
AS WE SEE IT
by JOHN BECHTOLD
The most refreshing thing that has happened in the world of sport this year has been Roger Maris’s assault on the most revered of all baseball records: the immortal Babe Ruth’s 60 home runs in a single season. It is ironic that, when Maris is giving baseball a desperately needed “shot in the arm,” the commissioner of this otherwise increasingly dull sport is leading the resistance to this serum.
Commissioner Ford Frick, who has earned his reputation as the most inept administrator in the history of organized sports, set an arbitrary limit of 154 games in which hitters could attempt to break the record. Frick felt that it would be giving the modern-day belters an unfair advantage to allow the count of any homers hit in the last eight games. Therefore, Frick seems to think of the final eight games as merely exhibition contests.
If a 162-game season is not a true season, why did the same Mr. Frick call this an “inevitable sign of progress” when he endorsed the new schedule last winter? If Maris had broken a leg in the 150th game of this season, would Frick have let any homers hit in the first four games of next season count?
Maris’s great long-ball hitting is due largely to the weaker pitching which prevails in the American League this season thanks to the “progress-seeking” Frick’s endorsement of an expanded league. Even with this being the case, I doubt that Ruth would want his record preserved on a mere technicality. In a year when the initals M.M. did not mean Marilyn Monroe to the average American, it is a real tragedy that a sick sport was not returned to its previous place of respect because of the illogical actions of an incompetent ruler.
* * *
With interest in the college football season highlighted by the great expectation of tomorrow’s encounter with Oklahoma, it is interesting to compare the mythical predictions of the leading football magazines. A careful check of ten different publications revealed that this year there will be ten national champions. These include Alabama, Ohio State, Rice, Iowa, LSU, Penn State, UCLA, Syracuse, Kansas and Mississippi. . . .
j
norb and nick:	I
I
we’re ready ■
by NORB ROY and NICK BUONICONTI	!
as told to TERRY WOLKERSTORFER	I
Traditions have always played an important role in student life at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, Notre Dame’s tradition of athletic “excellence” has been much neglected in the past few seasons. We feel that this will be the year for the return of this tradition to the campus, beginning with a winning football season.
Our reasons for optimism in anticipating the coming season are many:
First, the physical condition of the squad is the best in many years. Our injuries have been limited to a few minor ones. Going into the Oklahoma game our first two teams are without a disabling injury, something of a new situation for us. Even minor
NICK	NORB
injuries to Denny Murphy and Jim Kelly should be healed by gametime. In addition to our lack of injuries, we feel that we have the best conditioned squad in several years.
We also have much more depth than in recent years, together with some badly-needed experience. The depth can be seen at fullback where Alike Lind is first string, followed by 1959 star Gerry Gray, sophomore Jim Snowden, Dick Naab and Bill Ahem. Ahem, the fifth stringer, started in our victory over Southern California last season. The experience shows in the line where seven seniors are starting: Les Traver, Bob Bill, Tom Hec-comovich, Joe Carollo and John Powers hold down the end, tackle, and center spots. This season we have
an experienced team with a few good j sophomores, rather than an all-sopho- j more team with a few veterans. j
The third reason for our optimism \ is more important than any other ! single factor in the making of a • j winning season. Unlike injuries or j depth, spirit is an intangible thing. j But our team has it this year, to a greater extent than any team we’ve played on, and it is this team spirit which can make the biggest difference between last season and this.
The Oklahoma game has been widely publicized as a make-or-break game for both the Sooners and us. In Norman, Bud Wilkinson is telling 1 his squad that if it fails to beat us,	■
the entire season will be a flop. We	!
feel that we will play each game as ! it comes, not placing any more emphasis on the Oklahoma game than I any other. But needless to say, a j win over Oklahoma in our opening ’ game would give us a big lift in the season to come. In facing the Soon- i ers, we have one great advantage: we have a weight edge of about 25 j pounds to the man — the tackles for the Sooners weigh only 200 pounds, and their center goes only 185. Al- : though the Oklahoma linemen probably have a slight edge on us in lat- j eral speed, the overall team speed for both of us should be very nearly the same.
With our greater depth and weight, we hope to gradually wear their line- j men down, gaining superiority in the | line play, and control of the game. < Oklahoma has relied chiefly on their , speed and spirit in the past. We feel । that we can contain their speed and dampen their spirit with our own; • we feel that we can beat Oklahoma. ;
Looking ahead to the remainder of our games, we will play them one | at a time. But although we play a tough schedule, we feel that we have i the depth, experience, and above all» the spirit and confidence to go all the j way. We feel that it can be our team which will return the tradition of athletic “excellence” to the Notre Dame campus.
24
The Scholastic
FANS in the STANDS
Fred Freshman waves his Notre Dame pennants and envisions a 10-0 record plus a national championship as he watches the Irish take the field against Oklahoma. A somber James Junior takes a dim view of Fred’s behavior and wonders if the Irish can get out of the football doldrums.
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
Tonight
Penn State 20; Miami 13
USC 19; SMU 6
Tomorrow
Alabama 27; Tulane 6
Arkansas 30; Tulsa 6
Army 22; Boston University 10
Tennessee 13; Auburn 10
Northwestern 21; Boston College 6
Iowa 31; California 10
■Maryland 16; Clemson 13
Duke 24; Virginia 7
Florida 17; Florida State 3
Rice 14; Georgia Tech 13
Holy Cross 20; Villanova 12
Illinois 14; Washington 9
Kansas 21; Wyoming 13
Mississippi 27; Kentucky 6
ISU 21; Texas A&M 7
Michigan State 21; Wisconsin 13
UCLA 20; Michigan 14
Ohio State 23; TCU 14
Oregon State 21; Stanford 7
Syracuse 44; West Virginia 6
Texas 35; Texas Tech 6
Game of the Week
Minnesota 20; Missouri 18
Upset of the Week
Pittsburgh 15; Baylor 14
September 29, 1961
CARY CALLS ’EM
Tomorrow afternoon in the Stadium we will get the first answer to the question which all the football world is asking these days: Is Notre Dame ready to return to the football heights it once occupied? Upwards of 55,000 fans will flock to the Stadium tomorrow afternoon to catch a glimpse of the 1961 edition of the Fighting Irish. Each will be seeking an answer to the question. Closer to home, here on the campus we find a mixture of pessimism and optimism. Fred Freshman has no doubts that this is the year for the Irish to shake the shackles of mediocrity which have gripped the team since 1956. He shows his confidence by brandishing a solitary finger skyward at the recent freshman pep rally, at the same time shouting “We’re No. 1.” Sam. Sophomore says the Irish can’t miss with the likes of Costa, Snowden, and Budka on the current team. James Junior shakes his head when reminded of last season’s 2-8 mark and tells himself that it can’t happen again. Or can it? Finally, we come to that wily old fellow, Steve Senior. Steve remembers back to his freshman year when he was shouting “We’re No. 1” just as this year’s freshman is doing. The team that year, a group which had been picked by some as national champion, slumped to a 6-4 record. Things looked better for Steve during his sophomore year when the boys rallied for a 5-5 with closing wins over Iowa and Southern Cal. But then came 1960. Need we say more? At the present, Steve wants to be optimistic but the memory of three disappointing campaigns makes him a reluctant pessimist. Another word for pessimist here may be realist.
NOT AS BAD
Quite probably the Irish will be neither as good as Fred Freshman thinks they will be nor as bad as pessimistic Steve Senior says. The Irish, if the truth be told, were not as bad as the 2-8 1960 mark indicates. Four games were lost by a single touchdown, one by a single point. Only Iowa, Purdue, and Michigan State clearly outclassed the young Irish. Even in the 51-19 humiliation by Purdue, the Irish gained as much total yardage (358 yards) as the victorious Boilermakers. Thus, 1960 was in many ways a strange year if you were a Notre Dame follower. In losing efforts against North Carolina and Navy, the Irish controlled play for most of the game. Defensive lapses and crucial offensive failures at the most inopportune times paved the way for eventual defeat. In the season finale against long-time rival Southern California the Irish put together their first winning effort since the opener against California. In this game the Irish not only controlled play but they displayed a sustained offense which scored two touchdowns and a field goal on a wet, sloppy field. Their defense was good enough to hold the Trojans without a point. Most important, they seemed to find the quarterback who could lead them to victory — Daryle Lamonica.	.
LAMONICA AND BUDKA
Lamonica has been given tough competition for the starting quarterback role by soph Frank Budka this fall. But currently Lamonica is the No. 1 man. He seems to be a much improved passer. His play selection also seems improved. In short, he seemingly has benefitted by the year of experience he gained last season. If the Irish are to make a substantial improvement over the 2-8 standing of 1960, they must receive consistently good guarterbacking each game. Without it, chances for improvement are nil. But in junior Lamonica and sophomore Budka, the Irish have two very fine operators who should be able to lead the Irish out of the woods and back to football glory.
PICK OF THE WEEK
The Irish should wear down the Sooners and win going-away tomorrow to make this a successful beginning of Notre Dame’s 73rd grid campaign. Make the score 24-13, in favor of the Irish, of course.
—Bill Cary
25
Dempsey-Carver Duo Tops Irish Thinclads
Faced with the graduation of three seniors from last year and the injury of a top man on this year’s squad, Notre Dame’s cross-country team enters its final week of preparation for this fall’s eight-meet schedule.
Gone for good are runners Ron Gregory, Dennis Johnston and Dan Rorke, and sidelined for the year is Bill Yaley, junior harrier from California, victim of a knee injury sustained in a summer Marine Corps training program
Consequently, Coach Alex Wilson is quite pessimistic about his chances of building a strong or even substantial squad. Back to captain the Irish is ND’s freshman mile record-holder, Tom Dempsey, senior from Yonkers, N.Y. But so far Dempsey has been slow in rounding into form and has thus been another source of worry for Wilson.
Behind Dempsey is Philadelphia’s Frank Carver, freshman standout of last season. After Dempsey and Carver, good material is thin. Bob Lats-ko from Farrell, Pa., and Freling Smith show some experience but must improve considerably to be of any help. Whether any upcoming sophomores can develop into point-getters remains to be seen. So if Notre Dame is going to have any kind of a successful season, it must come up with at least two more runners who can cover four and a quarter miles as feist as or faster than Tom Dempsey and Frank Carver.
The Irish open the season next Friday at Chicago against the University of Chicago Track Club. The schedule:
Oct. 6—Chicago Track Club
(at Chicago)
Oct. 13—Indiana at Notre Dame Oct. 20—Notre Dame Invitational Oct. 27—Mich. State at Notre Dame Nov. 3—Big State (at Indianapolis) Nov. 10—Central Collegiate Conference (at Chicago)
Nov. 13—IC4A (at New York) Nov. 20—NCAA Championships
(at East Lansing).
ATTENTION ALL SWIMMERS
All students interested in the Varsity Swimming Team are urged to attend a meeting on Wednesday, Oct. 4, in the Rockne Memorial Building, Room 1 at these times:
Freshmen—6:30 p.m.
Upperclassmen—7:15 p.m.
Interhall Football Begins With Early October Tilts
Dominic Napolitano, local and loved director of intramural sports, last Friday held an organizational meeting for hardies wishing to participate in organized, non-varsity football. The response was substantial; probably twelve halls with upwards of 500 head-knockers will take part in the program this fall.
Equipment was issued last Saturday and Sunday, and many of those upperclassmen who have sampled much brew and mashed potatoes since last November found two things distasteful about the whole matter — the same size suit which fit so loosely last year was presently snug and irritating and the two weeks of solid practice required before they could begin play (slated to be October 7) seemed an impossible project.
Nonetheless there will be a juniorsenior league, with the sophomores and freshmen forming two other leagues. For the first time registered high school officials will be present to keep order.
Dillon Hall is the defending champion, and most of the members of that team have moved to Alumni; a handful of others have subjected themselves to the rigors of off-campus life. Thus Dillon, because of their number, Off-Campus and Alumni, plus several freshmen halls (peopled by characteristic, well-conditioned gogetters) are the teams to be reckoned with.
Hornung to Defend League Scoring Title
Paul Hornung, football’s No. 1 golden boy and the proud possessor of the National Football League single season scoring record of 176 points, has no ideas of resting on his 1960 laurels if the first two games of the 1961 league season are any indication. Blond Paul opened the present campaign with a modest seven point output as the Packers bowed to the defense-minded Detroit Lions, 17-13. Then last Sunday Hornung counted 18 points on three field goals, three extra points, and one touchdown. The victim this time was San Francisco.
Hornung is a rare bird in a game which features the man who is a specialist either at catching a football or throwing it or kicking. Hornung does all three of these things reasonably well in addition to being one of the finest running backs in the league.
FUTURE OPPONENTS
Five future opponents of the Fighting Irish opened their seasons last week. Syracuse, Duke and Purdue were victorious. Navy and Southern California were defeated. Pittsburgh, i another Irish opponent, opened its season a week earlier against Miami, defeating the Hurricanes, 10-7.
Syracuse downed a tough Oregon State eleven, 19-8. As usual, the big gun for the Orangemen was Ernie Davis. The 210-pound senior blockbuster counted twice against the Beavers on runs of 16 and one yards.
Duke, the defending Atlantic Coast Conference champion, edged South Carolina, 7-6, in a game at Durham. /■
Navy found Penn State too much to handle and bowed to the Nittany ’ Lions of Rip Engle, 20-10. Navy scored with five minutes of the opening period gone when junior quarterback Ron Klemick passed two yards to Jim Stewart. End Greg Mather added a 45 yard field goal in the second period to give the Middies a surprising 10-7 halftime lead. Navy contained the Nittany Lions fairly well until the fourth quarter when the Penn Staters broke loose for the decisive ten points.
Pitt opened its season on Sept. 16 before a national television audience with a comeback win over Miami. Miami dominated play in the first half and seemed headed for victory on the arm of sophomore quaterback George Mira. A torrential rainstorm in the second half left the field covered with water.
Pitt scored the winning touchdown with six minutes left to play. Starting on their own 20, the Panthers worked a double reverse with Fred Cox end-	;
ing up with the ball. Cox ran about	j
to his own 40 and as he was hit he j lateraled to quarterback Paul Martha, a sophomore, who had been trailing | the play. Martha sloshed the remaining distance to the goal for the deciding points in this thrilling Pitt win. Pitt scored earlier on a field goal by Cox.	L
Purdue overwhelmed Rose Bowl champion Washington, 13-6, at Seattle. The Boilermakers displayed a neat blend of passing and running as they f picked up 251 yards via the ground route while adding 86 thru the airlanes.	;
Purdue scored on a 30-yard run by : Dave Miller and on field goals of 24 and 33 yards by Skip Ohl.	j
Southern California was defeated j by a strong Georgia Tech eleven, 27-7. Tech jumped to a 24-point lead at	j
halftime, but was outplayed by the	j
Trojans in the second half.	j
The Scholastic
26
—	|mm]-	=
Michaels & Mann
= i n c.	=
MICHAELS AND MANN, CLOTHIERS AT 118 S. MICHIGAN. FEATURE THE LATEST IN FALL FASHIONS FOR THE CAMPUS AT PRICES THE NOTRE DAME MAN APPRECIATES.
This handsomely styled three piece, all wool sharkskin suit is sure to take top honors in any man’s wardrobe — a guaranteed winner of compliments for its owner — and the price — a guaranteed winner of compliments for Michaels and Mann. Only $49.50. This and hundreds of other fine quality suits and sport combinations await your inspection. Priced from $32.50 fo $59.50 at Michaels and Mann.
For casual wear you are invited to come in and examine M&M's fine stock of sweaters in a variety of styles, patterns and fabrics. Whatever be your need — a complete outfit or just another tie — go Michaels and Mann for assured satisfaction.
Use our
OPTIONAL CHARGE PLAN
30 DAYS OR UP TO 6 MONTHS TO PAY
Every N.D. student who opens an M&M charge account during the month of October will receive a zippered garment bag with our best wishes.
118 S. Michigan CE 3-4771
MM
Michaels & Mann
......: me. =
Next door to
Office Engineers
September 29, 1961
27
PEACE CORPS by Vince Decoursey
Eight former Notre Dame students and three St. Mary’s students left last Saturday for Valparaiso, Chile. They were among a group of 45 students from Midwestern colleges studying and training at Notre Dame this summer for the Peace Corps’ Chilean project.
The eight Notre Dame students are David Coombs of Delray Beach, Fla.; Michael Curtin of Tulsa, Okla.; James Fitzgerald, Thomas Paulick, Martin Ronin and William Fox all of Chicago; Thomas Scanlon of Dunmore, Pa.; and Joseph Keyerleber of Shaker Heights, Ohio.
The St. Mary’s trainees are Kathy O’Connor of Kansas City, Mo.; Sarah Anne Patterson of Wilmette, Ill.; and Madonna M. Leen of Oak Park, Hl.
Tony Chessick, winner of one of last year’s Dome Awards, has been acting as consultant for the group

Your Philip Morris Student Representative invites you to
IN THE COLLEGE
BRAND ROUND-UP
RULES AND PRIZES TO BE AWARDED WILL BE ANNOUNCED SHORTLY ■
on behalf of the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Chessick is currently working with the Institute of Rural Redevelopment on a project to establish an educational radio station in that country.
Project Director Walter M. Langford, professor of modem languages at Notre Dame, and Assistant Director George Smith, a Purdue University professor, will accompany the group to Chile.
The students spent a rigorous two months, training in a program designed to sharpen them both mentally and physically for the task ahead of them so as to shape them into an effective good-will team.
The group spent about sixty hours a week in preparation, including at least two hours a day studying the Spanish dialects of southern and central Chile, where most of them will
be stationed. To sharpen their Spanish the students were strictly limited to the Chilean dialects in their table chatter.
Besides Spanish the trainees studied the cultures and customs of Chile and looked into the local Spanish heritage. Then they related this to the history of the United States, seeking ways to increase their own understanding of American life and institutions and to interpret them to the people they will be working with for two years.
They also studied first aid to enable them to instruct the backward villagers in fundamental hygiene. Physical training was greatly emphasized because many of the corpsmen will be living under conditions similar to those that confronted , America’s first colonists.
All members of the group agreed that the training was excellent, in spite of the short time in which they had to prepare. One student, Robert Woodruff, voiced a criticism of the program when he said that he felt that the training could have been “more competitive.”
Lawrance Dennis, chief of the Peace Corps training division, read a congratulatory letter from R. Sar- j gent Shriver, Corps head at a brief । ceremony where he administered the oath of allegiance to the trainees. Offering his congratulations to them, Shriver wrote that “by the end of 1961, 1000 young Americans will be engaged in Peace Corps training or overseas projects.”
The trainees will arrive in Valparaiso on Oct. 12. There they will spend an additional six weeks in training, and will work for a time with the Institute of Rural Education j in fields such as family education, j hygiene, home economics, small farming methods and community develop- < ment.	I
After this on-the-spot training, the groups will disperse into the back- j ward villages of central Chile. In j groups ranging in size from„two to j five students, they will live on a level I with the citizens of the various villages, stay with them, help them and । educate them.	i
Central Chile is rich and prosper- ; ous. It is the only region of the country where farmers are able to j subsist independently. But the region is dominated by feudal landlords, and the rural farmers live under conditions like those of thirteenth century Europe.	j
The students will be working in an i area with pampas stretching as far j as the eye can see. Grapes are grown j in the summer; in the fall, just be- <
The Scholastic |
28
Peace Corps
(Continued from page 28) fore the rains begin, villages come alive with festivals marking the end of the growing season and the beginning of the wine production that lasts through the winter months. Due east in the Andes foothills, head hunting Indians live in prehistoric villages, hunting with stone weapons.
When questioned about his mission, Prof. Langford said that his students were adequately trained, capable of living under any conditions, and “will be excellent representatives of our country in the job that lies before them in Chile.”
ATTENTION: FROSH, SOPHS, JUNIORS
LIMITED NUMBER OF POSITIONS NOW OPEN ON SCHOLASTIC BUSINESS STAFF
HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO:
1)	GET STARTED IN EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
2)	GET VALUABLE BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
3)	EARN EXTRA MONEY
TO APPLY OR OBTAIN FURTHER INFORMATION: SEE OR CALL — JAY WARD —304 DILLON
CAPCR.
ENT SOUTH FOR REST. BEACH SO CROWPEPI COULPN'T GET ANY. HEARP SCREAM.THEN ANOTHER. AFTER THIRP SCREAM I GOT SUSPICIOUS. STARTER TO
INVESTIGATE. 
IT WAS LI FEGUARP. HE'P TRIEP TO RESCUE PROWNING WOMAN.BUT SHE STUCK A
HATPIN IN HIS INNER TUBE.
IT WA6 HIS. NO WONPERHE WAS UNPOPULAR. GAVE HIM Pome OF MENNEN SPRAY PEOPORANT... HARPE5T-W0RKING, LONGEST-LASTING SPRAY A MAN CAN USE. GETS THROUGH TO THE SKIN. WORKS ALL PAY. AFTER THAT, I GOT PLENTY OF REST.
L1FEGUARP TOLP ME THIS WAS IO th ATTEMPT TO KILL HIM.FROM THIS EVIPENCE ICONCLUPEP HE WASN'T VERY POPULAR. 6TARTEP LOOKING FOR CLUES. FOUNP A WOMAN'S ROLL-ON PEOCORANT IN HlS BEACH BAG.
BACK IN OFFICE.PHONE RANG. IT WAS LIFEGUARP. SINCE USING MENNEN SPRAY HE P HAP TO RE5CUE407 FROWNING WOMEN. WANTEP TO COME NORTH FOR A REST. '
September 29, 1961
29
The Scribblers, a campus discussion group dedicated to those interested in creative writing, announces reorganization.
Applications for membership, accompanied by a sample of the applicant’s writing, should be sent to The Scribblers, 305 or 319 Badin Hall.
ARCHIE SAYS;
ARCHIE SAYS Pro-Electric improves electric shaving even more than lather improves blade shaving. ARCHIE SAYS Pro-Electric sets up your beard by drying perspiration and whisker oils so you shave blade-close without irritation. ARCHIE SAYS ProElectric gives you the closest, cleanest, fastest shave.
If Archie ever stops talking. I'll tell him I use Old Spice ProElectric myself.
My cousin Archie—he thought the electric razor his gal gave him last Christmas was o.k. Then he tried Old Spice Pro-Electric, the before shave lotion. Now the guy won't stop talking, he thinks electric shaving is so great.
'In Town'
(Continued from page 20)
River Park. Our Mishawaka neighbor has Morgan the Pirate o’er the starboard — in case you haven’t seen it. Or them (the pirates — cause it’s a whole movie full of them). And the co-feature, appropriately, is Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea. Which might prompt Jules Verne to file a plagiarism suit — if he could . . . but which might be of interest to those who don’t get seasick and have cars. Me? I saw them in a Drive-In during the summer. I liked it.
(Morgan 7:30. Voyage 9:05. Weekend times differ.)
The State. This week’s presentation is particularly recommended by the j campus Aesculapians and Dick Clark. . It is a story of the young and new ideas as opposed to the old and tradition. Does it sound at all familiar? It tells of a new pathologist (Ben Gazzara): his eagerness — and his tendency to brush off the old pathologist; and of an old pathologist (Fred March): too certain of his staid old ways — and ready to brush off the impudent new pathologist. But both find that they are capable of making mistakes — perhaps the young can be too eager and the old too certain. Each finds, of course, that the handiest crying shoulder belongs to the other. The title? The Young Doctors. It lacks real plot, but it is technical, absorbing and fairly convincing . . . even with Dick Clark. And with it there’s The Day of the Outlaw which fairly adequately describes itself.
Starting Oct. 5, Edgar Allan will come to light on the big screen with Pit and the Pendulum. And while a movie is never as good as the book. • • I this one is at least more horrifying. • • if that is a compliment. Vincent Price is the star, perhaps that is why--- j Time gave it a nebulous rating. We 11 have to wait and see.	i
(Day of the Outlaw 1:10, 4:30 & 7:45	j
Young Doctors 2:40, 6:00 & 9:20	■
The Pit and P. Not available) (
John McGuire f
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . . . JEWELRY
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
★
For: Hamilton - Elgin	i
Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches	!
★
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.J |
The Scholastic
30

full advantage0of your educational opportunities?
& Do you usually
inibe soft pack orbox?
Yr"
jiqBu nofl fvoj} sfrncniD ftoiix
•|/m HUM HS3HJ AVIS — HS3M3 18V1S iSINnOO 1VH1 3QISNI 3H3MV3I0 3H1 S.ll—X08 MO HOVd
%8£3........xog	z^x
%Z'ZL'" W IPS
%06	on	/2\
%0l......... sox	w
□ SOFT PACK □ BOX ,
Startfresh
Stay fresh with t!M
Any way you look at them—IfM’s taste better. Moisturized tobaccos make the difference! Yes, your taste stays fresh with If M—they always treat you right!
03 oswaoi s>iah > u>9sn
• ilUMHII,
%BT9'
%Z'9£
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
Ulysses of days long gone past Had a mind that was keen and so fast! When the sirens’ attraction Drove his men to distraction, He just stapled them all to Hie mast!
SWINGLINE STAPLER
no bigger than a pack of gum!
©98C
Unconditionally Guaranteed • Made in America!
♦ Tot 50 refills always available!
• Buy it at your stationery, variety or bookstore dealer!
Long Island City 1, N.w York WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURER OF STAPLERS FOR HOME ANO OFFICE
AN UNPAID TESTIMONIAL
Richard the Lion-Hearted says
I would ncuer haue surrendered Ingland ...if I’d had
Jockeu ® RRANO IK
support
C’mon, Rich! You’re rationalizing. Jockey support1 might never have secured you against the Emperor2. But it certainly would have provided snug protection against the physical stresses and strains of your active life. Your armorer never tailored a coat of mail more knowingly than Jockey tailors a brief—from 13 separate, body-conforming pieces.
1.	Other “imitation” briefs (copies of the original Jockey brand) have no more Jockey support than a limp loin cloth.
2.	Richard the Lion-Hearted, 1157-99, surrendered England and a huge ransom to secure his release from Henry VI.
Get the real thing. Look for the name JOCkfHf on the waist band
Jockey briefs
Birth Control
(Continued from page 12) to be not enforceable because the vast majority of Americans didn’t believe the state had the right to prohibit their use of intoxicating beverages. This law, originally advocated by a great number if not the majority of Protestant denominations, soon was reduced to mere mockery, and it ushered in a paralysis of law and order unparalleled in American history. Its ultimate repeal illustrates the folly of trying to impose through “the clenched fist of civil legislation” the religious beliefs of any group in America.
Father O’Brien’s second major point is that laws on birth control are not , only uncalled for but even out of order. He argues that the use of ■ contraceptives is a sin and not a crime; and since it is the duty of law enforcing agents to be concerned with crimes, they have no business legislating about birth control.
A sin is a violation of the moral law and hence the reward or punishment is to be meted out by the Author of the moral law, God Himself. Sin is a matter for the individual conscience. A crime, on the other hand, must not only affect the individual but also the welfare of society; and it must come within “the public scope of the law enforcing agencies of a community.” Only laws against public crimes can be enforced because private affairs cannot be detected. Sins which can be done in secrecy “even when more than one person is involved” still aren’t within the scope of the law enforcing agencies because they cannot be detected.
An example relating to this article is the recent controversy over birth control laws in Connecticut. These ’ laws were enacted some eighty years , ago by Protestants at a time when | nearly the whole Christian world be- ; lieved the use of contraceptives and | hence the dissemination of literature | concerning them to be immoral. Now , practically only Catholics believe this. Some Protestants now even say the [ use of contraceptives is a moral good i under certain circumstances.	I
Catholic theologians don’t believe	•
that the law can be or is being en- : forced. The state of affairs concern- j ing the use of contraceptives and the sale of information concerning them ; is the same in Connecticut as in ] neighboring states. Because of their j beliefs, however, Catholics cannot be j expected to initiate a campaign for j the repeal of this law, but they would | sigh with relief if it were repealed.
—by Fred Uss The Scholastic
FORUM
INGROUP REBELLION ...
THE BUCKBEATS
by Wade Clark
There has been much fascination in the last few years with the two leading prototypes of youthful dissent: William Buckley, Jr., and Jack Kerouac. The neatly attired author of God and Man at Yale and the unbathed author of On the Road were greeted with yelps of delight by those who were looking for a sign of revolt among the young.
But was it revolt? Or were the majority of Buckleyites and beatniks the extreme expression of overconformity during the Eisenhower years? On close examination there is good evidence that this was the case, and that the followers of Mr. Buckley and Mr. Kerouac have more in common than either group would care to acknowledge. Indeed, as Karl 'E. Meyer points out in The New America, the consensus of vital points between the two groups seems to be sufficiently striking to merit the generic term “Buckbeat” to describe both the Dharma Bums and the Youth for Goldwater.
There is a striking resemblance in the way the two groups made their Way into the spotlight. For both the process was swift. In1 November of 1952, John Cellon Holms used the Phrase "beat generation” for the first time in print in the New York Times Magazine, crediting his coinage to the young novelist, Jack Kerouac. The Phrase didn’t catch until five years later when Mr. Kerouac published On the Road. But the rush was on.
Earlier generations of rebels could September 29, 1961
complain of inattention by the press, but the Beatniks were smothered in clippings. Jeers turned into appreciative chuckles as hang-on beats ceased being “artists” and became performers. In San Francisco, the movement’s home office, tourists began demanding to see beards and sandals, and locals soon obliged. Scores of paperbacks by the beats hit the newsstands and drugstores and no college campus was complete without a few hipsters to liven up the scene.
The conservative leader's rise followed much the same pattern. Dan Wakefield notes in a profile of Mr. Buckley that “the process Buckley has undergone is similar to the experience of Jack Kerouac — first attacked by the majority voices of the society he is criticizing; then, after more books offering the same violent criticism come forth, the rebel is treated with tolerance, detachment, even wry amusement and patronizing camaraderie; and increasingly, the rebel becomes a favorite performer before audiences who wholly disagree with what he says, but would defend to the death his right to entertain them by saying it — and the louder he says it, the louder they applaud.” Thus both men became incorporated into the public rituals of the society which they were attacking.
If one takes a careful look at modem society, it is not surprising that the rise of the Buckleyites and beatniks was so swift. We are living in a
society where the change from college to business life is smooth for those youngsters looking for a snug berth •in the business world. As Fortune magazine pointed out, “It is what they don’t want, rather than what they do that the men . . . know best. And what they don’t want is risk. . . . They seem ... curiously old before their time. Above all else, security has become their goal.” “The union between the world of the organization and the college has been so cemented,” writes William H. Whyte, Jr. in The Organization Man, “that today’s seniors can see a continuity between college and the life thereafter that we never did. Come graduation, they do not go outside into a hostile world, they transfer.” Students so situated naturally consider themselves foolish to question the status quo. And such a generation is notable for its lack of foolishness. In view of this feeling on some campuses then, it is understandable that William Buckley, Jr.’s conservatism has aroused sympathetic attention at various colleges in the U.S.
But more than just a tendency to keep the status quo is involved. Beat'?, nik groups and Youth for Goldwater organizations can provide a degree of security for modern non-individualists that is otherwise unattainable in other less “acceptable” organizations. The true beatniks, generally speaking, are not the ones who write the articles, books, and poetry that one finds on the newsstands. They left San Fran-
33
cisco when the sandal manufacturers and photographers came in. Indeed, this was the only logical thing for them to do for, being true beatniks, they felt that they related to nothing outside of themselves. To them the publicity was not just distracting; it was senseless. Those who have taken over the movement are hang-on beats and security minded followers who find in small beatnik groups an “acceptable,” secure position in a large mass society. From being individualists, today’s beats are, as one Britisher called them, “Nihilism’s Organization Men.” They have found a snug berth and plan to stay there.
It would seem that college conservative groups, generally speaking,
“The rebels of the right are, not surprisingly, more ‘prudent’ than their predecessors. They can join a socially acceptable rebel group on campus and yet pass into the business world unscathed. Even the fiercest member of the Young Americans for Freedom, we may be sure, will not be blackballed by General Motors.”
have provided non-individualists with much the same type of snug berth that the beatniks have for their members. No one would dispute the fact that campus rebel groups are “in” and “acceptable.” Moreover, in the last few years these groups have been able to provide, more than ever before, a secure spot for college students. During the 1920’s and 1930’s the academic hierarchy was part of the conservative Establishment, but in the postwar years a liberal consensus came to predominate — while precisely the reverse tendency was at work among the students. Thus, in 1952 and 1956 the faculty of Princeton gave a majority vote to Stevenson, but the students were overwhelmingly for Eisenhower. The switch in position created a new opportunity for campus rebels. As Dwight Macdonald observed, “The line Buckley has taken permits him to enjoy the pleasures of unorthodox rebellion (within Yale) and of conformity (outside Yale).” The rebels of the right are, not surprisingly, more “prudent” than their predecessors. They can join a socially acceptable rebel group on campus and yet pass into the business world unscathed. Even the fiercest member of the Young Americans for Freedom, we may be sure, will not be blackballed by General Motors.
There is another good reason why both Buckley and Kerouac found an indulgent audience. In a sense their ideas are both caricatures of widely held beliefs on individual freedom. Both the Young Americans for Freedom and the beatniks champion an essentially egocentric attitude to life. Both elevate the person over the community and see the purpose of society as the satisfaction of their own individual desires — whether through smoking reefers or accumulating property without taxes. Both movements are devoid of social vision and display a profound distrust for any collective enterprise.
In the case of the beats, this egoism is orgiastic, filled with suggestions of
dope, sexual irregularities, and mystic visions. Norman Podhorez, in an incisive study of the beats, points out that “Mr. Kerouac’s conception of feeling is one that only a solipsist could believe in — and a solipsist, be it noted, is a man who does not relate to anything outside himself.”
If Kerouac’s followers are emotional solipsists, Buckley’s are economic solipsists. The Individualist, organ of the Intercollegiate Society of Individualists, is crowded with eloquent statements on “the right of the individual to an inviolable area of freedom.” Thus, there is verbal unanimity between beatniks and Buckley followers. The difference, however, lies in the fact that Buckley’s “freedom” is invariably discussed in economic terms. “Give me the right to spend my dollars as I see fit,” Buckley demands in Up from Liberalism. The conservative leader seems to forget that freedom means far more than his desire to multiply the fortune which he inherited. Freedom is far more extensive than dollars and cents. He also seems to forget that there are other members of society besides himself and that the rights of the citizen necessarily imply corresponding duties to those fellow members of society. Mr. Buckley’s assumption that with no restriction on the way one's dollar is used — with
no income tax, no minimum wage, no social security, etc. — everyone who deserves it will be living a decent life and will have an adequate income is simply too hard to digest. Conservatives often accuse liberals of trying to create a utopian society. They would do well not to suppose that without restrictions it would already be here. To refuse to recognize the evils within society one has to be either terribly naive or terribly egocentric.
A sonorous liturgy is invoked to justify the conservative individual’s supremacy over the good of society as a while. The founding statement \ of Young Americans for Freedom, which has been endorsed ex cathedra by Mr. Buckley, proclaims, “that foremost among the transcendent values is the individual’s use of his God- ‘ given free will, whence derives his right to be free from restrictions of arbitrary force.” Almost everyone will agree that “arbitrary force,” force used as a result of the whims or caprice of another, should not be used against an individual. But, after a seemingly endless list of “thats” Y.A.F. members get down to business: “That when the government interferes with the work of the market economy, it tends to reduce the moral and physical strength of the nation; that when it takes from one man to bestow on another, it diminishes the incentive of the first, the integrity of the second and the moral autonomy of both.”
Translated, this seems to mean that income taxes, social security, and welfare legislation are downright immoral! Buckley himself confirms that this is his opinion when he states (again in Up From Liberalism) that the “most serious argument” against the income tax and social security is that “Forcible redistribution is, except in extraordinary situations, ethically indefensible." It seems obvious that Buckley has simply forgotten about everyone but himself, ignored the evils within society and disorted the notion of freedom to mean economic survival of the fittest.
In any event, this, it seems, was the form that youthful insurgency took during the Eisenhower years. There are signs of change as the Kennedy era begins, notably in the warm response on the campus of the newly formed Peace Corps. It may well be that Buckbeats were a passing phenomenon, a measure of a time when the repudiation of community had gone so far that even intelligent young men could seriously argue that the highest purpose of society was to make each citizen a little world unto himself.
34
3)
0
0
(D
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan.
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD • THE FARM INDUSTRY* AND THE AGE OF SPACE

o,
Frankly, there is no practical substitute for the wheel today. But at Ford Motor Company, our scientists and engineers refuse to give "no" for an answer. They are tackling, among others, the problem of wheelless vehicles for tomorrow.
Is "tomorrow" really far off? Not according to the men at Ford. Already they've developed the Levacar as one possibility. It replaces the wheel with levapads, perforated discs which emit powerful air jets to support the vehicle. Air suspension—if you will—of an advanced degree. Imagine traveling swiftly, safely at up to 500 mph, riding on a tissue-thin film of air. Guided unerringly by a system of rails. Propelled by powerful turboprops. This is the Levacar.	,
Meanwhile we’ve still got the wheel. And the job of building better cars for today. So we hope you won't mind riding on wheels just a little longer while we concentrate on both tasks.