


Texas Instruments electronic·calculators 
STANDARDS OF EXCELLENCE AT 
A;f'f.ORDABLE PRICES 
• 
All critical components designed and manufactured by Texas Instruments with quality controlled to exacting Texas Instruments standards every step of the way.· 

• 
Fast-charge batteries can be fully restored in only four hours. 

• 
Calculators can be operated while charging. · 

Every calculator is tested by a computer which checks all functions and key operations. 

• 
Every calculator is subjected to jarring impact tests to assure that normal bumps and vibrations do not cause errors. 

• 
High-strength, injection-molded plastic cases are designed and tested to withstand rugged use. 

• 
Gold-plated switch contacts arid stainless steel key activators provide long life, positive action. · 

• 
All important structural assemblies are held by machine . screws-not glue or plastic "welding"-for sturdy construction. 

• 
Double injection molding provides durable key symbols-even under _heavy use. · 

• 
Positive-action tactile feedback keyboard assures entry registration. · · ·. 

• 
Vinyl barrier under keyboard protects components against moisture and dust. ··· · . · . . · 

• 
All components attached firmly to single epoxy circuit 


Tl-2550 

J 
. r 
AVAILABLE .AT 
' '· 
Hammes ·Notre Dame Bookstore 


Editor 

Sally Stanton Art Director Tom Paulius 

Production Manager 
Annemarie Sullivan 

Managing Editor 
John Phelan ,-; 


News Editor 
Bill Gonzenbach Culture Editor 
Robert Baker 
Assistant Art Director 
Kathy McElroy Sports Editor Bill. Delaney 
Business Manager 
Kathleen Salzer 
Circulation Manager 
Kevin Murphy 
Photography Editor 
Ed Brower 
Advisory Board 
Ronald Weber, Carl Magel, E<l Sanna, • 
Madonna Kolbenschlag, Bro. Charles 
McBride, C.S.C., Richard Conklin. 
Staff . ' Mike Karels; Steve Slater; Thomas J. Waldoch, Dave Beno, Peter Fitzgerald, Ron .Rundstedt, Tara Carey, John Kenward, Dave Dreyer, John Harding, Tom Birsic, Leo J. Mulcahey, Don-Reimer, Mike Sarahan, Mary Digan, Chris Meehan, Lonnie Luria, Mike Feord,. Mark Hopkins; Bob GHroy, . · Rich Odioso, Paul Hess, John Vincent, Tom 
Moskow, Mike Towle, Rich Nugent, Dan Adler, Tom Desmond, .Rich Landry, Mike Casey, Paul Starkey, Patrick Cole, Sue Grace, Bob Kissel, Gary Harden, Dan Lombardi. 
The· opinions-expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those· of the authors and editors· of· SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body; 
Second class postage p~id at Notr~ Dame, . Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, , New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Sc110LASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, . Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 · a year and back numbers are available from · ScHLOSTIC. Please address all manu-· scripts to .SCHOLASTIC., Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC. . .. copyright I[;) 1975 Scholastic / alt' rights reserved / none· of the content~ may be re­produced without permission. 
4 
4 
11 
13 
16 
23 
26 
28 
4 6 8 9 
15 
20 29 30 


Volume 117, No. 1 . September 12, 1975 Notre Dame. Indiana 
··FEATURES 


Through the Looking Glass 
by Rhonda Kornfeld 

The Last Hurrah 
by. PaufStarkey 


Creature Features 
by J.-Robert Baker 

CAC, Kultch _& Other Beasties by J. Robert Baker 

The Mysteries Beyond Books 
by Kathy McElroy 


The Great Notre Dame Bench Caper 
by Joe Pollack 
Prognosis '75 by Bill Delaney 


Limiting the Teams 
by Bill Delaney 

REGULARS Perspectives. People Behind ND. Peop.le At ND. Book Review. 
. Week in Distortion. Photo~say. Irish Sports Shorts. -The Last Word. 

· Illustrations: Neal Kemp 23, 25 / Courtesy of CAC 11 thru 14 / Tom Paulius all other photography / Cover by Paulius. Credits: Story on page 23 courtesy of St. Louisan magazine. 
_c........................,...~""'~ -~•-..-......,,.-~,•---~



r---Perspectives 

The search for a· precise encap­sulation of what makes Notre Dame Notre Dame seems an-·endless one. Much of this issue is engaged in that search and, perhaps, is testimony to its endless?!-ess. Scholastic, in an ef­fort to get divergent viewpoints of du Lac, one coming and one going, 

·· asked a senior and a freshman to summarize their feelings. Paul Starkey is a senior English major from Indianapolis, Indiana; Rhonda Korn/ eld is a freshman business in­tent from Houston, Texas. 
Through the Looking Glass 
The sign read, "Pick up key and Detex in Room 112." I took the steps two at a time with a burst of excite­ment. Reaching the top, I suddenly realized that I was here: Notre Dame was a reality: There was an air of newness everywhere, and anx­iously I set off to find Room 112 and the mysterious Detex. 
I also felt that I was off to find a new world, an environment which I had pictured only through summer letters and descriptions, but which I began to suspect would prove to be soinething . altogether different. I approached cautiously. I was appre­

. hensive about an unknown future as I slowly mounted the stairs to my room. Opening the .door, it con­fronted me. The rooni was as empty as I was. 
Suddenly this new experience had become strange and fearful. I was 

· alone, yet somehow not lonely. I could sense the warmth and friendli-· ness around me and knew it would soon be a very real part of my life. . When my roommates finally ar­rived, I welcomed them with great exuberance. It seemed the first step in bringing life together, and helped disperse much of the strangeness. 
Then came· thousands of -introduc­tions. How can anyone be expected to remember that many names in one day? It gave me a feeling of fellow­ship when someone would say, "What was your name again? I'm sorry, I just can't remember." 
The upperclassmen were generally understanding and friendly. On one venture across the vast expanse of campus in search of the north quad, I became hopelessly lost. I asked an innocent bystander for directions, and she informed me that I had al­ready . reached. my destination. I thanked her and walked on feeling very embarrassed and very much a freshman, but· I. had learned a good lesson. The day before classes began, I took. my trusty map and charted the route between each building which was on my schedule. 
The· many . times · I found myself lost, usually as a result of going out the wrong door, helped me to see the various· facets of this beautiful campus; It was quiet and silent and gave me a peaceful feeling of be­longing. It all.s~emed to be adream from which I would soon awaken, and as . soon as the upperclassmen arrived, I did. The quads were sud­denly full of activity. The enrollment figure, which had always been rather removed, became very real. 
The first week as a freshman was a whirlwind of events and experi­ences which gave rne a taste of what I might expect at the University,· yet was Hmited-and only an initial indi­cation. It was .thrilling, .at times de~ pressing; . yet· 'there ·was always something to help set: me straight, even if it were only myself thinking things through more clearly. I have a sneaking suspicion that I will be doing a great deal of thinking things through for. myself from now on. 
I have come here as an individual, hopefully, with an open heart and mind. I feel I will soon · become an individual part of the unity which is Notre Dame. 
_-Rhonda Kornfeld 


The ·Last Hurrah 

Coming back to Notre Di:une as a . senior,-I -have a sense-of; coming home. No longer am I a stranger at . du Lac. All the buiidings and path­ways are as familiar and comfortable as old friends. With so much time spent.here o:ver the last fe~: years; this place has become, in a very real sense,· afriend: someone I know and love. The buildings. here are more than buildings, the trees _Ill:ore than trees. Every time. I walk arollnd the campus,. I am constantly· reminded of all the good timesrve had _here. Every brick and leaf calls out to the past .and to my experiences· here: Notre Dame has become an .impor­tant part of my life. Like home, it 
. has becomea special place. . ..::;_ I'm very proud to he partof Notre Dame. Ai: every turn, ~me feels the tradition of this place..Everywhere there are things toremind me that the tradition ofNotre Dame is one of achievement and excellence. The past is rich with 'the names. of men ancl women, ~ho,.have upheld the chal­lenge an~ tradition of. Notre pame; 


This tradition is exciting because it "Why do you do that?" or "What do demands to endure. It calls each you think?" The challenge of a person who comes here to greater friend is not a threat, but an at­dedication and commitment to ap-tempt to reach out and understand. proach life with the attitude that he More thari a few times over the last will do his very best, even in face of . couple of years, I've felt alone here the most difficult situation. In accept-at Notre Dame, in need of someone ing the challenge of Notre Dame, I've to break into my loneliness. It was found struggle and sacrifice to be a at those times when someone reached large part of my experience here. If out to me as a friend and helped me I weigh such.experiences against the along. In turn, I've reached out to rewards and achievements, it all others. For me, that's what Notre seems•worth it. I'd like to think, too, Dame is all about. that I have· grown in many.' ways, Perhaps more than anything this -that I've learned something here that year, I want to celebrate my friends. I can take with'' me through the rest Whether with a beer at the Senior of my life. Bar or a cup of coffee down at Dar-
The dedication and commitment to by's Place, I want to meet with them, the tradition of Notre Dame are not share some more good times and let easy and oftentimes both individuals them know that I care deeply for and the University fall short of the them. Together we share in a great ideal. For this reason, the notion of . experience. For at least a few years, th~ spirit of Notre Dame is so impor~ . this place, du Lac, .. serves as .our tant. It is the spirit that calls us common home, a place to grow as together as one body, a community, persons, but also as part of a very and demands that we show genuine . real community. . . .. . care arid concern .for one another.· Coming back to Notre Dame this The spirit of Notre Dame stands as year, I feel a lot of enthusiasm arid an ideal for what we want to be, the excitement, but also a little sadness. Christian goals we seek, and serves With .the same thought that this as a source of hope as we continual-. probably will be my best year yet, I ly move closer toward it._As long as· also know thatit wiHbe my last. At people try to make this place and · .orientation, the remarks of a fresh­the world a little better,.· the spirit man's. father really. hit.·.. upon my of Notre Dame will continue. mood. When I mentioned that I was 
When I told a friend about this a senior, he smiled and said, "So, this article,. he said, "I suppose you'll · is your last hurrah." The idea of a write about the glory of NotreDame, "last hurrah" describes so• well this the great tradition,•·· and. how. the year for me because every celebra­people make the place." L couldn't tion will carry a quiet note of finali~ help smiling. "You must've read my . ty. It will be a year for endings. 
notes," I told him. Maybe· it's because -I just· turned 
When I think about what I've 21 and Indiana lets me be legal or learned here and the experiences I because • I'm a senior and feel· some­value most, I have to risk the un--what bewildered by the youthful originality and suggest that, in fact, faces of those _starting here for the· "the people make_ the place." Mo.re first time; _but I feel old -and per­than books, people and experience haps a little tired. I've been in school are the masters of education.. So for 15 years ri<?,w: After Notre Dame, 
many times, my beliefs, values, ·and I expect three or four more. Each will have been challenged and tested year moves faster ,than the last; it to the Hmit by those . arounci me. wasn't .that long ago that l was a Some of the most importimt ques-freshman and before I turn around, tions have come from close friends: it will be May and graduation. This year, I have little sense of security. 
_If it is a time for endings, it is also a time. for beginnings. Decisions made this year will affect my life in ways both subtle and profound. The main question, "Where am I going?" is accompanied by feelings of excite­ment, apprehension and anticipa­tion for a new direction in life. An­other question still remains, "Where have I been?" 
With the idea of graduation comes a lot of happiness, but not without a real sense of sadness.' I have been part · of a great tradition here at Notre · Dame; if · I've· done any­thing to conserve it or help it to en­dure, I can move ori. 
' · -PaulStarkey 






·Joe. Lafortune: Life·and Times 
People come in and out of the building at all hours:. administrators on coffee breaks; faculty members bound for library offices, students looking/or conversation at the Nazz or Darby's . .Few seem to notice the portraits hanging on tiie west ·wall or to. remember that "LaFortune" names a man as well as a vuilding . . 
On the ·evening of· August s; Jo­seph A. LaFortune died in Colorado Springs at the age of 81. 
·Joe LaFortune-was born in South Bend; his family lived in a house. on Eddy St. where the A&P now stands. His was the· third generation ·to be 
·connected with the Universi_ty: his grandfather, . Mike Hastings, .• was -a gardener here for 38 years, taking care of the grounds, tending the flower beds around St. Ed's and help­ing· a large nun keep the kitchen clean. For 28 years his father ran the 
tin shop on south quad near Brother Lawrence's undertaking establish­ment, fixing leaking gutters and soldering the lids on the canned food the University produced.· 

The LaFortunes were not a wealthy family. Bill LaFortune, Joe's brother, still lives a few blocks from the University on Notre Dame Avenue and remembers one summer when Joe went away to Bankson Lake in Michigan. He worked in the dining room as chief dishwasher and helper under a Brother Hugh and got his room and board free. At the end ·· of the summer they paid him with a baseball and bat and a trip home. 
by Sally Stanton 
Yet to have one less person to feed Indiana Gas and Electric Company. in. a family of six boys. and two girls He might have continued where he made up for the lack of income. was if another position which he 
.Joe quit school after eighth grade wanted hadn't opened up. He asked and went to work at the age of 14 for it, but his boss told him he hadn't reading. meters for the_ Northern enough education and._ encouraged . 



him to go to Notre Dame and get a degree. 
LaFortune followed this advice,· working his way through a.two-year advertising-commerce program, pay­ing for his tuition by dusting pic­tures and picking up ·· scrap · on the grounds. Knute Rockne was his chemistry teacher and the story has it that they both moonlighted work­ing for the South Bend park depart­ment. 
Joe _had always been interested in sports; he saw his first Notre Dame football game in 1901 when he was 7 years old -he had to watch from behind the wire encircling the football field. When .he was 12 he got closer to the game, drop­kicking, barefooted, with ·a couple varsity · players in the• gym. His brother Bill remembers that he tried long-distance ' running and boxing but· was not overly successful at either and lifted weights for a while. Part of his tie to the University was through. his interest in athletics, particularly football-even though one of his sons graduated from· Pur­due, he always rooted for the Fight­ing Irish. 
Soon after he graduated. from the University in 1916, the U.S. entered World War I. He joined the Navy and went to the East Coast, but the war ended before he saw action. He worked as a physiotherapist and was planning to go to South America with Bill to work on the construction of a 200-mile railway, but a revolu­tion there killed the project: A friend told him of a job in Tulsa and he moved a·gain. 
He returned to South Bend to marry Gertrude Tremel, a native of Mishawaka, but when he brought her to Tulsa they discovered the r~ilway had lost her trunk and he' had lost his·job, so he entered the oil business as a representative for an oil magazine. 
In 1924 LaFortune approached the owners of Warren Petroleum, W. K. Warren and Charles Brown, offering to put out a small monthly publica­tion for them for $50 a month. Af­ter the second issue Warren asked him to join the company and Joe accepted, turning down an offer of $300 a month for an interest in the owners' stock. By 1956 when the company merged with . Gulf, La Fortune owned 30% of its stock. He had become a wealthy man. 
Joe LaFortune did not hoard his money. His · niece, Mary Lou Granning, remembered how he would get requests for money in the mail. He'd read them all, sending some a contribution immediately, saving the others to consider later. He once said, "I love to give. I get a lot of pleasure from it." 
He helped his family and friends with gifts when they needed them and donated large amounts to var.:. ious institutions around Tulsa: Cascia Hall and Monte Cassino Cath­olic schools, St. John's Hospital and Hillcrest Medical Center, Oral Rob-· erts University and the University of Tulsa. LaFortune Park, equipped with a golf course, tennis courts and stadium was built with such a do­nation. 
Notre Dame was probably his first love. It was a donation of $135,000 in 1953 which enabled the Univer­sity to do much of the renovation needed to transform the Science Hall into the stm,ent center which now bears the LaFortune name. In 1954 and '55 he matched the net receipts of Mardi Gras, aiding further work on the building. 
But LaFortune donated time as well as money to Notre Dame. In . 1941 he was named to the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at this Uni­versity whose truck garden he had once worked in, picking beans and berries where the Morris Inn now 
stands. In 1904 he had been chased ·from the lake by a seemingly pugna­cious one-armed cop named Red .Smith; only a year earlier he had 
"accepted the position as extermina­
tor of the Leptinotarsa decemlineata 
thereby saving the potato crop for 
the University and staving off fam­
ine that year.'' 
During the receptions in LaFor­
tune at the time of his original con­
tribution, he must have remembered 
the time he had teased Red Miller 
and been caught and held under the 
pump which once stood behind the 
building and had had cold water 
pumped on his head and neck. Or 
when the University decided to ac­
cept women in 1972, one wonders if 
he remembered his notation of a 
meeting 70 years earlier: ''Too young 
for women and when introduced by 
my mother to Sister Aloysius, 
threatened to strike her for trying 
to embrace me." 
When the Board of Trustees was 
formed in 1967 he was .· reappointed 
to serve on it, yet in 1971 he asked 
to be placed on emeritus status. Too 
much had happened to the world 
and the University in the late '60's. 
LaFortune had risen· in the old order 
and wanted to· conserve what he 
valued..Seeing the University move 
in a more liberal direction than he 
might want, he did not want to be. 
the one to hold it back. 
In a sense . Joe LaFortune was 
typical of a class of men, men .who 
started out with little and through 
their own initiative, prospered. Itis 
upon these men that the University · rests. 
LaFortune loved Notre Dame and 
returned to the . campus generally 
two times a year, in the spring and 
in the fall. As James Frick, vice 
president for public relations and 
development, said: "He was a very 
warm human be!ng who touched 
a lot of people here." 


Ma111, Iden an_d Mark Grove 
. Every year when the freshmen 
and transfer students arrive_ in the 
last days of August,. they are met 
by a group of student volunteers· 
who run · both individual hall .and 
campus-wide orientation . for the newcomers .. This year's overall ef­fort was directed by an 11-person committee, which was headed bylCco­chairpersonsn (or. "co-persons'! as they are known to some) Mary Iden and Mark Grove; Both Mary and Grover_were members of last year's committee appointed as. this year's co-chairpersons last spring by. then­SBP. Pat McLaughlin. Working last spring and·staying. here to work all · summer, the goal of the orientation staff was to make incoming students jjfeel a little more at home.'/ In addi­tion to the standard orientation fare of past years, such as the Stepan Center dance, the . breakfast for . transfer students, campus .tours for parents, and Activities .Night, this year, brings such new programs as having people at the airport to meet . newcomers, and conducting talks about safety on-campus for women. When he's not working on orienta­tion, Mark is an R.A. at Keenan, a senior English student, and an Up­ward Bound tutor. Mary, a senior majoring in History, was last year's orientation coordinator for B-P and was B-P's Madame Fifi of Mardi 
Dave D®ipsey . 
Gras fame. When asked what, was the most enjoyable part of their job, both co-persons agreed. on. two points: 1) they enjoyed. being on campus when it's nice and quiet, and 
2) they loved using the power. and spending the money at their com­mand. 
There are only a few. occasions in life when one can. actually climb to the top of his own particular heap, so when Dave Dempsey became Head Football Manager, he could enjoy one of those moments in life of looking downfrom the top of the pile. Dave, a senior in Accounting; started as a manager in the second semester of his freshman year, and since then he says that time has passed very quick­ly and that he is sorry to see his stay here almost over.: However, if time seems not to have· changer, cir­cumstance . certain does. Whereas in his sophomore year, Dave had to spend Friday nights before home games spray painting gold football helmets, he is now in a totally su~ pervisory position, acting as a: liaison between Coach· Devine and the other managers. "If something is wrong with the managers'work, he tells me; and I correct the situation." 
Among the many people who left ND last spring and who spent the 
_ Ed Sellner, O..S/J.: 
summer readjusting to new ways of life was ex-wrestling coach Fred Pechek. After the controversial ter­mination of his duties here as physi~ cal education instructor and Head Wrestling Coach, he was offered and accepted a job at Mira Costa Junior: 
· College in southern California. He is now Head Wrestling. Coach and De­fensive Backfield . Coach at , Mira Costa at a salary which is over $9,000 higher than that which he got at ND. Pechek bears no resentment about last spring's affair; instead -of says he would "iike to thank· the University for making . decisions easier." 
·Another • person involved · in · a major transition this summer was Ed Sellner, O.S.C. Last year Ed, a Crosier priest from For(Wayne, In­diana, -was a resident assistant at Holy Cross Hall and a student in the 
· master's program in Pastoral-Theol­ogy.· After a summer which included travelling to eight major cities on pastoral activities, he has come back to. Notre Dame as a doctoral student and assistant rector of St; ·Ed's Hall. · The switch into a higher levelof the Student Affairs staff has been quite noticeable. Says Fr. Sellner, "Now people treat me as a human being, instead·of as just a student." -Bryan P. Murphy 
·' SCHOLASTIC 



My FavOrite Cookbook 
I may not have the culinary abili­ties of a.·Father Burtchaell, but I know a· good cookbook when I see one. I saw one :six. years ago---:-The Supper of the Lamb, .by Robert Farrar Capon-and I keep returning to it every now and then-just for sheer delight, the delight of 'seeing:, 
· Frankly-:-:-! am .about to utter a re~l scorcher-:-! don'.t give two hoots for cooking! Oh, cooking is a 'good in itself,' to be sure, a bonum hone­stum, the Scholastics would say---:­but in, the. hierarchy of values (of bona honesta) it is quite far down on the. totem ·pol~indeed it's even . a few· light mHes away from just 'see­ing,' ,'looking. at,' 'delighting . in,' · 'celebrating,' 'hurrahing about,' 'let~ ting things happen,' 'listening to the e,ssences of .things,' etc. (I am done with my single quotes! Are you glad, or. are you sad? Or are you ­life is ambivalent -glad/sad? Don't you think that they help me get my point across to you a little more sharply?) · 
. The realities pointed to within my single quotes, the "things for man to do -first," is what.Capon's book is fundamentally all about. One re­viewer put it this way: ''To call The Supper of the Lamb a cookbook would be like calling·Moby Dick a whaling manual." Another says of it: "A celebration of all creation... This is a book for the amateur, the lover who is not bored by the world. It contains an uncommon quantity of wisdom and not one ounce of foolishness..." 
by.Joseph W. Evans 

Let me mix you a little salad of father used to ·do.. Nothing is more Capon capers: . likely fo become garbage than .or­
· ". . . . peel an ·orange. Do it lov­ange rind; butfor as long as anyone ingly .:_ in perfect quarters like little lo.oles ai it in deiight, it stands a boats,. or in staggered exfoliations million "triumphant miles ironi the like a flat map of the round world, trash heap." . . . or in one l_ong spiral, as.,IIlY gra?d~ "One r~al. thing is closer to God 
,, ·L·,,;, 

, .: .. '.,'.•~{'/:'", ,,:cooK11ooks1e~"~~::::oRT UN011T11m>0x e: ., .,~ 
:;.}::z3'>:5tlt:~~~?\~'J~-".~~'fft.~~ffel~{f!i~f1ffif;;:•.,.'>.'·.···:..·:.. ll.~.·,i.. ;:.1~

:• . ,l(),?,e,1Jl~w<m,~G.apo1v ~'fij 

than all the diagrams in the world." 

"Man's real work is to look at the things of the world and to love them for what they are. That is, after all, what God does, and man was not· 
. made in God's image for nothing." "[God] creates in a mystery. What he holds intimately and con­temporaneously in being, acts, none­theless, for itself. The secular is not the sacred. Creation exists in its own right, is no parable, no front, no Punch and Judy show in which God plays all the parts, but a vast and raucous meeting where each thing acts out its nature, shouts I am I, as if no· other thing had being. The world exists, not for what it means but for what it is. The purpose of mushrooms is to be · mushrooms; wine is in order to wine: Things are precious before they are contribu­tory. It is a false piety that walks through creation looking only for lessons which can be applied . some­where else. To be sure, God remains the greatest good, but, for all that, the word is still good in itself. In­deed, since He does not need it, its whole reason for being must lie in its own goodness;· He has no use for it; only delight." "Scene I: Hell "There was a day when Satan took counsel with his chief tempters. 'What,' he asked the assembled Prin­cipalities and Powers, 'are we doing to hasten the dehumanization of man?' "One by one, they reported. For­midable Senior Vice-Presidents in charge of Envy, Pride, and Avarice gave glowing accounts; the Chiefs of the Bureaus of Lust and Sloth read lengthy bills of particulars, Satan, however, was not pleased. Even the brilliant report of the Head of. the War Department failed to satisfy him. He listened restively to the long treatise on nuclear prolifer~ . ation; he fiddled with pencils during the section on the philosophy of the brushfire war. 
"Finally, Satan's wrath overcame 
him. He swept his notes from the 
table and leapt to his feet. 'Self­
serving declarations!' he roared. 
'Am I doomed to sit forever listen­
ing to idiots· try to hide incompe­
tence behind verbiage? Has no one 
anything new? Are we to spend the 
rest of eternity minding the store as 
we have for a thousand years?' 
"At that point, the youngest tempt­
er rose. 'With your permission, my 
lord,' he said, 'I have a program.' 
And as Satan sat down again, he 
launched into his proposal for an 
interdepartmental Bureau of Desub­
stantialization. He claimed that the 
dehumanization of man was going so 
slowly because 'the infernal strategy 
had failed to cut man off from one 
of the chief bulwarks of his human­
ity. In concentrating on offenses 
against God and neighbor, it had 
failed to corrupt his relationship -to 
things. Things, the tempter declared, 
by their provision of unique delights 
and individual astonishments, con­
stituted a continuous refreshment of 
the very capacities Hell was at pains 
to . abolish. As long as man dealt 
with real substances, he would him­
self tend to remain substantial. 
What was needed, therefore, was a 
program to deprive man of things. 
"Satan took evident interest. 'But,' 
he objected, 'how shall we proceed? 
In an affiuent society man has more 
things than ever. Are you saying 
that in the midst of such· abundance 
he simply will not notice such a 
bizarre plot?' 
" 'Not quite, ·my lord,'-·said the tempter. 'I do not mean. · to take anything from him physically. In­stead, we shall encourage him men~ .tally to. alienate himself from reality. I propose that we contrive a system­atic substitution of abstractions, diagrams, and spiritualizations for actual• beings. Man must be taught to see things as symbols -must be trained to use them for efject, and never for themselves. Above all, the door of delight· must remain firmly 
. closed.' 

..:. 
" 'It will not,' he continued, 'be as difficult as it see~s. Men are so firmly convinced that they are ma­terialists that they will believe any­thing before they suspect us of con­triving their destruction by spiritu­alization. By way of a little insur­ance, however, I have taken the li­berty of arranging for an army of preachers who will continue, as in the past, to thunder against them for being materialists. They will be so busy feeling delightfully wicked that nobody will notice the day when we finally cut them loose from real­ity altogether.' 
"And at that, Satan smiled, sat back and ·folded -his hands. 'Good,' he said. 'Letthe work go forward.' " 
Now, don't you want to read my favorite cookbook? Wouldn't you be glad if all the philosophers (not to mention the 'ideosophers' ! I am in­debted to Jacques Maritain for this word. -Jacques Maritain -what a source!) and· theologians of this world would read my favorite cook­
. book? There jg a delightful paper­back edition of it -Pocket Books, New York; and a less delightful paperback edition of it._ Doubleday Image Books. Or I will lend you· a copy of it; Or my students will lend you a· copy of it (we_ will not sell you our copi~).· ·Good reading; good 'seeing'! _:_ Eating? McDonald's will do. But the Notre Dame cafeteria will do better!" 


Creature Features 
Suddenly movies are in vogue again..Americans are returning to theaters and rriovie houses . every­where in .droves. Witness the fact that Jaws, which was released only late last spring/has recently become the fourth largest grossing film. Not since the adolescence of the film in­dustry have stars, directors and films in general enjoyed such avid popularity. · 
Thus, more than ever since its in­cep~ion five years ago, the film series of the Cultural Arts Commis­sion, Cinema '76, is faced with a tremendous challenge. The cinema series provides a sampling of the best films the art has produced. Showing 14 films each semester, the series attempts to explore various as­pects of .the film industry. Sean Coleman, co-chairperson of Cinema '76 with Laureen Goers, noted, CIWe attempt to show both entertaining and artistic films of the highest qual­ity to provide a background and an experience for viewing all films." 
·The selection of films is a long·and exhausting process. This is due par­tially to the fact that a great many films have been produced since the indus'try began early in this century. Much time is consumed in.tracking down films through the various dis­tributors. The selection is influenced to some extent by rental fees since a few films each semester appeal to a rather·,limited audience. Laureen Goers explained that this factor was minimal, however, since "the series i_s not a money-making endeavor ­rather it is presented as an exposure to one of the· arts." 
The series itself is divided irito four sections: American cinema, European cinema, recent popular films, and a festival. The festival ex­plores a particular aspect of film making and focuses on an actor, director, genre, or theme. 
Although the entire. series consti­tutes a diverse sampling of films, the three films which exhibit the best of popular cinema have_ a com­mon theme. Chinatown, Conversa­tion, and Parallax View all center on an individual's search for truth and meaning in reality. In each film, the quest is marred by tragedy, whether it be the· protagonist's own or that which he finds during his search. 
Conversation stars Gene Hackman as Harry Caul, a guilt-stricken wire tapper. The film is an intense study of modern man lost, swallowed by a sense of guilt over events he can no longer control. Written, directed and produced by_ Francis Ford Coppola, Conversation is a provocative look at life in a technological age. 

by J. Robert Baker 
Chinatown explores much the same tragedy. Roman Polanski's film is more than an excellent part of the detective genre. It is a harsh look at the ruin anci isolation modern man finds himself in. With Jack Nichol­son and Faye Dunaway,. Chinatown is among the best .of recent Holly­wood releases. . 
. Ironically scheduled for the .12th anniversary of _the assassination of John Kennedy, Parallax View ranks among the best of recent film studies on political assassination. Well­crafted and enhanced by the per­formance of Warren Beatty, the movie intimates the horror of our age. Judith Chirst called it "a har­rowing hint at the sunlight terror of our times." 
. .. 
Cinema '76 manages to capture three important aspects of American film-making. The now cliche-ridden genre of westerns· is ·highlighted by Stagecoach, while. An· Quiet on the Western Front covers the . war movies. The series also views social drama with State of the Union. All 


three films rank as classics not only 
because of their genres but also be­
cause of the acting, directing and 
themes. 
Stagecoach is exemplary of Amer­
ican westerns. Although the story 
line of this film by John Ford seems 
too familiar, Stagecoach actually set 
precedents and standards which are 
still being used today. Many westerns 
have copied aspects of this movie 
which is the western in all its glory.' 
One of the first American anti­
war films ever made was All Quiet 
on the Western Front: Forty-five 
years after its ·release,· this movie 
remains one of the best statements 
in any art on the tragic senselessness 
of war. Depicting what really hap­
pened in World War I while news­
paper.headlines reported the western 
front quiet, the film follows German 
soldiers in their journey from ideal­
ism tOdisillusionment and horror. 
State of the Union· d~tails the con~ 
flict between hard political reality 
and energetic American idealism. 
With Spencer Tracy and Katharin'e 
Hepburn, the film portrays the clas­
sic tension. in . this country's gov­
ernment.· 
Three outstanding European films 

are among those to be shown by the film series this semester. M is a German suspense thriller. Originally titled The Murderer Is Among Us, this film portrays Peter .Lorre as a child murderer being stalked by un­derworld and police. King of Hearts delightfully spoofs both war and so­ciety. The plot follows a soldier who finds himself in a town inhabited by "crazy" people. The Servant tells of · a servant who eventually comes to dominate the master of . his house. Evil and darkness pervade the moods 
of this film. 
The highlight of the film series 
should -be ·the· festival on Ingmar 
Bergman. Bergman, who is critically 
acclaimed as the master of · his art, 
has done much to gain recogniUon 
for the ·art of film. The festival 
will cover Bergman's predominant 
themes: couples and sexual relatio.n-. 
ships (Smiles of a Sum~ Night); man's search for God (The Silence), and meaning in light of doubts and aspirations (Wild Strawberries). Bergman's recent statements on the psyche of woman and the establish­ment of intimate relationships in Cries and Whispers completes the festival. A special feature of the Bergman festival will include two shorts . which explore the meanings and artistic val,ue -of Bergman's films. Ingmar., Bergman and Sven Nykvist will be· shown on the first and last nights of the festival before the feature length film. . ­
September  19-20  
September  23-24  
October·.·  9-10  
October  14-15  
October  19-23  

·-· 

Ingmar Bergman (short) & Smiles of a Summer Night Wild Strawberries _ The Silence Persona Sven Nykvist. (short) .& Cries . King of Hearts·• · The Servant .·. All Quiet on the Western Front 
, .., 

Parallax View State of the _Union 
19  
20  
21  
22  
23 .: .  
October  ·28-29  
November  4-5  
November  11-12  
November  21-22  
December  2-3  

The price for admission to each film is $1.00. However, patron cards which are good for admission to all 14 films can .be purchased at the Student Union Box Office for $5.00. As in the past, only a limited number of patron cards are available. 
Cinema '76 represents a serious attempt to present" both entertain­ing and. artistic films .. As astudy of cinematic art it touches on most of the major aspects of .the industry and enables · one to become at least familiar with the highpoints of film-making. · · • 

Chinatown M Conversation · Stagecoach BERGMAN FESTIVAL 

CAC, Kultch & Other Beasties 
by J. Robert Baker 
"When I hear. the word Culture I reach for my gun." Rudolph Hess 
Though the reaction to culture is not so generally vituperative as that of the Nazi Hess, it is seldom wholly enthusiastic. For,· in spite of the durability and popularity of the arts, culture remains a vague,· ill-defined word. ·complaints are heard that, it is the hardly intelligible entertain­ment ..of sophisticates. Stretching towards the opposite pole, anthro­pologists and others insist that it is anything which a· society produces, makes, .enjoys -literally does. Per­haps it was after hearing these widely divergent definitions that Ezra Pound called culture "kultch." 

Certainly, Notre Dame with its confluence of personalities, · back­grounds and educations is hardly the ideal place to attempt to sift through all the nuances, connota­tions. and vagaries of the word cul­ture. Students.. from large metro-_ politan areas denigrate the Univer­sity and complain that it is virtually lacking in cultural activity. Those from smaller cities and rural areas sometimes hail Notre Dame .as a mecca of civilization .. 

Amid all of this .Joseph Pieper offers some firm ground from which to look. at..culture. Culture, Pieper tells us, .· is, the, bona non utilia sed honesta;1thi3,t is, those good things which ar~r n,_either useful nor practi­cal, but witt.out which man. c~uld not be truly hum,~n1tCulture : ._'.._is the quinte~s~i:i,c~.9f all the natura_l gC>o,d~ of. the world and of th_ose •gifts and qualities which, while belonging to man, lie beyond the immediate sphere o_f his needs and wants:" Thus, all those thi_ngs .wh_ich make life deeply and richly human without 
necessarily being utilitarian. belong to the realm of cuiture.. . 
Pieper would .have us jranscend the everyday world-of mere exis­tence and sheer survival to see and experience the ·essence of our hu­manity. Culture, then,becoines a re­lease from the work and drudgery of life in .order to realize the truly essential in man's nature. 

Chris Mahon, a junior English ma­jor from Detroit and the current cultural Arts Commissioner, echoes Pieper in discussing the motive and goals of the Commission. "The Cul0 tural Arts Commission actually at..: tempts to provide a release from· the studies and tensions. of academia. Too_ often, the great, majority . of people at Notre Dame develop a blinding sense of devotion to . the mechanics of their academic work. The Cultural -Arts Commission at­tempts to m~ve them beyond this_:_,. to open up thei~ interests beyond the routine of books and classes:" The Commission, which was founded in 1970, seeks to provide Notre Dame with a broad scope of cultural events. The CAC is com­posed of six-relatively autonomous branches, each ofwhich-strives .to . promote a particular artistic en~ deavor not found at the University. The Dance and Drama Series spon­.sors professional travelling dance and theater troupes. Bob Griffin, co­~hairperson of the series, views itas "an effort to lift the students out of the ordinary and to put them in 
touch with a few of the better ex­
pressions of the human condition 
seen through dancing and dra­
matics." 
· The film series Cinema '76 typ­ically offers a selection of 14 films each semester. These range from classics of the art to contem­porary efforts. Laureen -Goers, .one of the directors of the· series, noted that every attempt has been made to select films which are provoca­tive. as well as entertaining. "We want Cinema '76 to be an exposure ·for students not only to classic and entertaining films but also those star­tlingly perceptive in their portrayal of the quintessential dilemmas and 
realities of life." 
The Cultural Arts Commission 
also sponsors the Isis Gallery. The 
gallery, which is housed in the norths 
west section of the fieldhouse, is the 
most visual branch of the Commis­
sion. Exhibits cover a broad spec­
trum, ·ranging from photography 
and paintings to sculpture. Using 
mainly student work, the Isis Gal­
lery is often dominated by modern 
art. 
Three internationally recognized 

and respected festivals complete the Cultural Arts Commission:·The Mid­. west Blues Festival, the Collegiate 
Jazz ·Festival and· the Sophomore 
Literary Festival. 
The Blues Festival, traditionally 
held iri the late fall, attracts blues 
musicians from across the country, 
to celebrate their music with the 
audience seated on blankets on the 
floor of Stepan Center. In the spring, 
its counterpart, the Collegiate Jazz 
Festival, . is staged.·· In the eighteen 
years since its inception, the Jazz 
Festival has attracted the best col­
lege jazz bands and judges who are 
among · the finest · musicians, . com-:. 

Ii 
ll 
ii 
11 
,: 
\; 
Ii 
ii 
ii 
11 
l\ 
'1 
ti 
\i
ii 
II 
~ 
' 
' 
\ \ 
! 

14 
posers and critics of jazz. 
The Sophomore Literary Festival 

-a microcosm of the three festivals 
-has grown from a -symposium on 
Faulkner in 1967 to one of the most 

important cultural events of the 
spring semester at Notre Dame. Im­
portant literary figures enable stu­
dents to enjoy· firsthand modern lit­
erature. A myriad of negotiations 

and arrangements must be done be­
fore the· Festival · is launched. 
Through the literary festival_:and 
the two music festivals, as well-art 
is experienced ·as a living part of 
the culture. 
Each branch of the Cultural Arts 
Commission is largely responsible 

for the arrangements of. its events, 
while the Commissioner· acts as a 
co-ordinator, ensuring that sched-· 
ules do not conflict arid· assisting 
with the publicity. The ·Student 
Union which funds the commission 
must approve the Cultural Arts 
Commissioner . The . six branches, 
however, are· self-perpetuating; The• 
directors of each . series ·.usually se­
lect their. own replacements .after 
extensive .interviewing. 
Complaints have been lodged that 
th.e Commission spends far too much 
money catering to the interests of 
minorities. Mahon objected, "Culture 
is so broad that aspects are bound 
to appeal only to a minority of· the 
students. Yet if the Cultural Arts 
Commission can provide · a · wide 
range of artistic events which ex­
pose the student to the fullness of 
life, then we have accomplished our 
purpose.'' He emphasized . the•. fact 
that the CAG is a· nonprofit orga~. 

nization which offers unique oppor­. tunities at little or no cost. 
While the-Commission is .much 
like the Studen_t Union, in that it of­
fers services and activities, the Cul­
tural Arts·. Commission is not en­
tirely an entertainment series. It is 
committiid to '.providing students 
with variant artistic expressions. 
Much of the Co~mission's work is 

a pure form~of education, exposing .. 
students toc the varying reaUties of 
man. While not always practical as 
a skill or enjoyable as entertainment, 
the events_ sponsored by the CAC ·do 
seek to enhance understanding of the 
human condition. · · 


To the average American house­
wife ·Notre Dame is blue-and-gold 
clad football players who frolic on 
television sets on Saturday after­
noons or, worse yet, in Kojak's prime 
time slot on Monday evenings. To a 
well-known yet seldom seen 
University president, Notre Dame._is 
a free place to stop and:sleep on the. 
way to Washingtc;m, Moscow or 
other enchanted,metropolises. To the 
av~rage student -Notre Dame is ... 
well, most difficultly defined. 
Now that we've awakened from. 
our summertime slumber; and find . 
ourselves back in the American .·· 
answer:to Vatican City, it's only •·. 
appropriate that we, the students of 
Notre Dame, get.a firm grasp _of 
what Notre Dame.represents. to us. 
. . Suppose a: CBS reporter con­
fronted you somewhere on the. quad 
an_!l asked for an insider's .view of 
Notre Dame. What would you tell. · 
the world? Following are a few 
possible definitions that might pop . 
into your minds as we present: 
NOTRE DAME IS: 
The Golden Dome .· 
No pllice like home!· 
Security guards, detex cards . 
• and other useless items. 
Waiting in line to eat, 
Waiting in line to. register; 
Waiting in line to go broke at the 
bookstore,· 
Waiting in line ..·. 
Getting blown out of a dorm window by someone's stereo system. Shouting· nasties·out ofyour dorm windows at passersby. · 

.The dining hall presents Biafran night. The food at the dining hall­chicken suprise and Pepto-Bismol. 
Drinking and carousing Off-campus housing. 
Being attacked by a berserk lawn sprinkler. Turning on the shower and being bombarded by ice cubes. 
Receiving a midget's ·wardrobe· identical to yours from the laundry service.· 
The Notre Dame ducks. SMC chicks. 
The bookstore selling N.D. mono­.grammed toile_t paper; Parents buying N.D. monogrammed toilet paper on football wee_kends. 
Cockroaches·playing tag· on your 
dorm walls. Having the lice in your sheets · changed every 14 days. 
Hall maids who start work before ·the sun rises; and quit before the · ·students do! . · 
Basketball tickets· Student pickets · and other peasant revolts. ' 
Fran DeMarco doing the bump with · a lamp post. 




by Daniel Lombardi 
Being attacked by a large fish while swimming in St. Joe lake. Going fishing out on the quad during monsoon season. 
Long lists to know Two feet of snow ..•.in April? 
Taking the."Quickie shuttle" up to : 
Michigan. : Being stranded in Michigan at 2 a.m. Finding out the taxi fare. back is . . 
six bucks. 
Going to the infirmary with a sore -~at; . · · Being admitted overnight;. Being released from the infirmary·. 
. .d d1 ' . . . . 
-~ .• ~· ea •. · 
Rushi~g to catch the St. Mary's· shuttle as the driver.begins ~is, hour break. _. . 
~' . ' . . . . . ;. 
Finals week, putting up with the··.· 
grind.· . -. . 
Losing your mind.. 

j 
A ni_ce place to _visi_t 

l 
A lou~y place to live! 
That's ~u~ list. Now, perhaps :_ . you'd !ike to compose your own. :Jt's easy to do and it'll also give your · . : maid somethi!"lg.to empty out o~ your wastebasket. 
I 
·.•• •.·-· 



The ,ytysteries Beyond Books 
"I don't know why the hell I signed up for an' interview,-at WSND-FM. I had no previous radio experience. ·i knew· nothing about music,'classical or otherwise.: The only album I ever owned was an old Three Dog Night album .(with a big :scratch on. the second cut ·of the first side). My voice was terrible. I talked like a Hoosier, and still do. 
·But I 'signed up for cin· interview. I guess I thought it would be kind of neat to be a DJ~it might even get 
me· a. date· or two. . "The interview ·was a disaster. I only knew one of the 10 composers I was 'asked to identify. I couldn't even· pronounce half of them~ :But I did land a job with the station. I guess I. must have' impressed' them · . with my enthusiasm. -I've worked ·with the radio station·nowior three years .. I've had a great time,-· If I ever: stopped having fun, I would quit in: a minute because I'm not compensated in'·any· wd:jj for_··: my services.• . Monetary·.·. compensation, that is. I've ·been' more than' ade~ quately compensated by tlie ·friend­ships gained and the experiencesl've
had." . . . -Mark X. Sullivan

I I \: 
. 

I
l 
16 
·;.. 


Harry Bainbridge' · 

,ror .· some, 24 hours in the .day is .not enough; they hav~ .found . that extracurricular activities_. are more than alternatives to ·. study­
. ing. Involvement becomes for ·them an asset :to the college experience and offers invaluable opportunities · to · make -friends, satisfy interests 
· and feel a sense of belonging .... · 
This special breed has spent many a reflective summer night planning to change the world, or at least part of it, while resolving somewhere in· the back of their minds to stay for the closing bell at the library. ·Al­.though occasional doubts may · be 
. ,entertained,. these are forgotten as . momentum. grows, plans material­ize and deadlines . approach; So the 
· list · of pros and cons compiled over ... the summer is shuffled under apile of posters, flyers, and . schedules. · 
· ·by Kathy McElroy 

·· It· must be more than an;·over~ zealous commitment to.the "you only go -around once0 :philosophy ·which prompts these ·students to' become involved.· Perhaps it is the freedom' to choose· direction and , priorities . which attracts .them. Maybe the very nature of ;education'· with. its . distant ·and _• elusive goals strikes . them as a selfis~ matter. Choosing to' reach out. and effect. a· change rio matter how small'· offers immediate 
. gratification .. ' · And after :all; ·, it's healthy to ·lfke one's ·self every once in a·:while. · ­It would be wrong to suppose.that involvement · in community -·service does-little more than satisfy ·a ·mar~ tyr complex. Wha~ may start ·out as 

,--Jodie Korth ... ·.-,, ,·.. · · 
'i. SCHOLASTIC 
\ 

J 
a humanitarian attempt to save the 
human race often reverses itself as 
a volunteer discovers that his efforts 
are rewarded. The smile of a child 
is enough to convince one that wak­
ing up early on Saturday mornings 
to go to Logan C~nter's recreation 
period when the world would look 
much more inviting at noon is a 
mutually beneficial experience. 
While those interested in campus 
organizations_ often. spread the news 
of their: enriching experience, .other 
students; both new and old, identify 
with. La Fortune Student Center as 
"the attachment'> to .the Huddle" or 
number .,fa on ".tlieir ca~pus. maps. 
But they'H have . their.. chance to 
learn wh~n . recruiting season . offi­
cially . begins next · Tuesday'..and 
prospective members sign up at Ac-. 
tivities Night. Representatives from 
the numerous clubs will b~ .there 
offering information, incentive, and 
perhaps even a· little. propaganda. 
.Other efforts, particularly for the 
freshmen, are . being. made to dire.ct enthusiasip and .~ncou~age inyolve~ ment. Dr; Emil . T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Stiidi~s. is. working with Harcy: Bainbridge and.· Jodie · K~rth, co-chairpersons of . Activities Night; · to make. use of :the list of· preference.s. obtained from : students . during. Guidance Testing. , . Dr. · Hofman . , has. pre,­sented ..each.· student· organization · with a list of students interested .in its area, so that some. of the hesita­tion to break· into activities can be avoided...I detest the poster method of attracting students," says Hof­man.."I hope · that every club will make an effort to personally contact t_he freshmen who-have expressed in­
terest." : . . · 
.. Some :of: the.most.:.active-upper~ · 
classmen recall their reluctance to 
become involve!! during their fi~st 
year at Notre Dame when so much 
of the college experience seemed 

threatening. Harcy Bainbridge, now: 
also a resident assistant in Keenan, 
describes his feelings of grade con­
sciousness as a freshman. "I looked 
around and saw others becoming in-: 
volved and still doing well with 
their studies. I was envious in a way 
and after returning from sophomore 
year ·abroad with .the· Angers pro­
gram. I decided not to lose out ariy 
longer." 
Jodie Korth, a sophomore, ex~ pressed the same initial fear of in­volvement. "I was sure that if I didn't tie myself to the books I would watch. my grades drop. But I found that if I was· interested enough in another activity I could make time. ·I didn't just want to float through for four years. A lack of confidence often . ·discourages freshmen and. the sense that many of .the clubs are so well established that they would be difficult to enter, but now I know how willing groups are to ,have , you ,work with them. They really make an.effort to make you feel that you are making a con­.tribution to the whole and not just 
running meaningless errands." 
!':lot · all · freshmen · should be 

persuaded to ·. involve themselves 
from the start.. Dr. Hofman says, 
"It is a. highly individuaFsituation. 
Fo~ some it _woiild .be more appro­
priate to wait until they are sure of 
their footing.·· For others it provides 
a necessacy balance and it would be 
more· damaging if they did not be-. 
come involved. The very nature and 
personality of some students require 
that they pursue their nonacademic 
interests." 
The decision a freshman makes is 
often influenced by upperclassmen. 

•~Upperclassmen are an excellent source of advice," says Hofman,: "although generalizations can steer a student wrong. It is hoped that students would not miss. the chance for the personal development and re­-lief from studying which outside ac­. tivities offer." . . · . From a freshman . viewpoint an important discipline can evolve. out of learning to budget time..Jane Lammers, president of Lyons . Hall,' says, "Freshmen can often be ob­sessed with.. how big the University is aiii:I beionging to a group cari help ciear their minds. It's a change of pace from' studying, .and from. the bro.ad list of activities students shouid be able .to find an area. in which they feel they.can contribute." As many students have discovered, knowing that only 60 players.. can so.it up. for home football games does not constitute an excuse for not giv~ irig it the old college try. . 
'Early_ involvement has, its ,beIJe:.: fits.· Maureen Flynn, a. sophomore and staffer for the Observ'er, f~und in her :freshman year that working for 'the newspap'er ·allowed her to associate.•with other students who shared her interests. "I became in~ volved .iri the , Observer," says Maureen,. "because I wrote in high school and I think. that everyone enjoys.-what they feel they are good at: Working with. the Observer has made· me feel that I beiong here. When I went home this summer and was: asked. how !'liked college life;. l'didn't just telrthem how beautiful the Golden Dome is.or ·how·tjiuc~) like the A.C.C.. I could describe how much enjoyment and satisfaction I gained from working with the staff." 

; . . . ·.'. , . . . . . . . . , , . . . ,I-. . ,, : . . l . . . : , . , ..· , . . . . . : : 
1 • '. ,'....... ~ . . . . .. . • j . ' ' ' -•• ' . \ '
1.' 

Often · doors seem closed to the freshman. One learns to accept the disappointment of finding:· a four­
·-page article appear as a two-para­graph brief, yet· one is still shy enough· to have the excitement ·of interviewing ·Hesburgh replaced 'by the hope that he might be out of town·· when called. As applies to many clubs, there is _sometimes little direct contact between the work done by "rookies'' and the supposed brilliant organization of the higher ranks. Jim Eder, Editorial Editor for the Observer, says plans are bz­ing made in their organization to bridge this gap. "When I started working on the Observer as a fresh­man, I was not very outgoing. I would be called to write an article and if I felt I had time I would do it, hand it in and receive a pat on the ha.ck from the copyreader. Later I became a copyreader· and· found myself doing the patting on the back. It was a unique position since I was still aware of the feelings of the reporters, and yef I started to learn how the iriside is run." 
Those who have ventured to de­mand from themselves commitments to outside activities have few re­
. . 

grets. "The value of outside activi­ties," say Jim Eder, "works in two ways. They fill out your life, making it less hollow, and they ·also have a role in the education which prepares you to deal' with what is to be met after leaving he're. Besides learning specific skills ranging from operat~ ing a radio receiver to mastering the proper technique of a karate exer­cise; knowledge of how to deal with' people is ·aiso gained_-. 
"Freshmen can often be obsessed with how big the University is and belonging to a group can help clear ·their minds." 

A fascination evolves as one be­gins to realize.the contributions that can be made. Tom Daly, a senior.on the technical crew of WSND ·re­members hesitating as a freshman because· he assumed that he lacked knowledge and experience. Once in­volved, however, he realized that one should not underrate his skill and potential. Jane Lammers be­came interested in hall government last year because she likes to change things. Now as president of Lyons Hall she still maintains, "I would rather organize a project and ac­complish something than complain about it." Her initial "feeling of awe" for figures in authority has been replaced by an appreciation of how jobs are done. "I once had an image of 'The Administration,' but now that I have met with admin­istrators and rectors I have a better understanding of the inside organ­ization of the U!Jiversity." 
The dedication of certain students to community service marks them as students of Notre Dame, rather than students of business, engi­
.::. 

neering, science, or English. The question then arises: can' a student be extensively involved with activi­ties and still retain a realistic per­spective of his academic priorities? 
The majority is able ·to create a balance which fulfills .the desire to give of one's self and remain a con­scientious student. But for others, a point can be reached of overin­volvement. Its · basis may be any­thing from a misbudgeting of time to the inabilfry to· say "no." What may start as a shortage.of·hours in the day can actually develop into a disinterest for school work be­cause of a preoccupation with duties. These individuals stand· out because of their willingness to. serve, but a danger is apparent when .one's role as a student loses·· precedence. Ac-, . tivities become a more fulfilling chal~ lenge than classes because the com­mitments they involve transcend the realm :· of individual achieve­ments. Caution_. must be taken be­fore a sense of· invulnerability to school work jeopardizes academic goals; 
A snowballing effect begins to work ·as· those .students who stand out find themselves becoming deeper and deeper involved. Unless, one is . gifted with a special sense -and ability to say "no," the toll can be heavy. Perhaps what is especially sad is that the victims are often those 'who love Notre Dame most ardently:· . 
18 

SCHOLASTIC 


Jim Eder supposes that some would disagree with the statement of. primary purpose as being .aca­demic. "While our education is not solely academic," says Eder, "there must always be the thought in the back of our minds that .we are here for an education and we're cheating ,ourselves if we don't make the most of the courses we take." Sending copies .of the Observer home with each report card or bringing home the fingerpainting that a tutee drew 

may help explain the situation to parents, but the burden of academic uncertainty is a strain. 
For most students, however, a harmony is possible and extracur­ricular activities become a comple­ment to their education. There is no pat advice to be handed out-no master plan to organize the life of the undergrad. But most have found that time can be spent away. from the library without the constant 
. pressure of wanting to stretch the day. Occasional sacrifices are made, yet these are well compensated in the sense of purpose which naturally' develops as one takes responsibility for their commitments. 
. Students feeling lo~t in the shuffle. have found their place.through close. association outside activities offer. The occasional losing and refinding of oneself is a part of growing up enriched by having one's direction somehow dictated by the satisfaction of belonging. 
."Look, if a rookie like me can get a job ... well, what have you got to lose? It got me my first date . ..•~' 
19
SEPTEMBER 12, 1975 






----.-----·---·· ----------------------­

Reprinted Courtesy of St. Louisan Magazine 
. The Great Notre . Dame Bench Caper 
We shall call him Mr. S., which is 
The .Notre Dame mystique is a not his complete name, and _identify strange one, and its hold "until death him further by saying that he was do us part" is far stronger than the an outstanding football player at a average marriage vow. After all, the Big Ten university located between love of the pure in heart is a deep St. Louis and South Bend. He re­and sincere love, and the Notre Dame sides in Chicago, where he is a fan loves with that true purity, es~ highly successful insurance execu­
pecially on autumn Saturday after­tive and, based upon his recent mis­noons when the football team is in adventures, a highly· unsuccessful action. entrepreneur.
There are, of course, two classes of Notre Dame alumni.:.....,, those who attended the school and those who never have been closer to South Bend, Indiana, than South Orange, New Jersey. The latter, a vocifer­ous gaggle, was spawned in the purple prose of the sports writers of the 1920's and matured through con­stant exposure to Pat. O'Brien and Knute Rockne. Both groups idolized 
overkill·.· as . exemplified by Frank Leahy, scorned and destroyed a nice man like Terry Brennan, pressured Ara Parseghian to unbelievable lengths and now stand waiting with bated breath to make an instant, and .permanent, decision on Dan Devine, who takes over as head football 
coach this year. 

·This is not, however, a look at Notre .Dame football teams or foot­ball coaches. ·It is a morality tale, based on truth, of how the spirit of Rockne, Gipp and the Golden Dome apparently rose up to smite an ob­vious unbeliever who tried to cash in on. the lore and legend of Notre 
Dame.' The hero -more properly, the villain -of the piece is not a Notre Dame alumnus, which probably was his first mistake. He must remain semi.~shrouded in anonymity, though anyone who knows him,·· even casu­ally, realizes that this is a man who cannot remairi completely anony­mous. To be cut out of the spot­light is anathema to him. 
SEPTEMBER 12, 1975 


· by Joe Pollack 
Mr. S. gets around a lot, knows many people, remains generally close to football and, like most folks, is often on the outlook for an oppor­tunity.to make a good investment in one thing or another. 
"I really thought I had it that 
time," Mr. S. said as we discussed 
the adventure one night. He said it 
with a wry smile while other people 
at the dinner table added their jibes. 
I• 


Mr. 5. was about to become a bench tycoon; p~ople would speak ~of him. as they spoke of Rockefeller, Jay Gould and Jim Fis.k. 
Mr: S. is a large man, with a big and They can sit on it, or show it to their ready smile, and he doesn't really friends, or caress it, or hit a ·snowy mind a needle. :He was in a situation television receiver; or discipline their to mind it even less that night, be-wives and children. · cause · the. dart · throwers included So Mr. S. bought the seats and some investors in .the Great Notre had the boards :shipped from· South Dame Bench Caper. Bend to Chicago, and he cluttered up . It all began when Mr. S. dis-his backyard and irritated his wife; covered that :Notre _Dame officials But when he-found a few investors were going to rip out the old bench-he continued to expand upon .his styl~ seats in the university stadium dream. --'--rows and rows of wooden benches A mere piece of wood, about· 21 that. had ensconced the rears of inches long, greyed by exposure to thousands .and thousands of fans the elements and cured by spilled over the years of glory. potables, wouldn't really be enough ' The thoughts that drifted through to provide the required thrills: ' his fertile mind went something like .. So in his generosity Mr. S. decided this: · to cut .the boards· into shorter seg­. WOW!! ! .. ·.. men ts, thereby providing more seats 
Here's my chance to do a great for. a greater public service. An'd he public service for thousands of . had the biggest splinters removed, people around the country. They've and he mounted each one in its own 
·never been to Notre. Dame to see a shadow box with . a hook on. the football . game. They've never .been . back for hanging on_ the w~ll. seated in those hallowed .stands ·to. A piece of blue_ vinyl, marked to watch those. players of. legend, 'the . look like pigskin, or cowhide, or famous Fighting Irish. . .. . .. whatever it is that they make foot-
I'll buy those benches, from which balls· from these . days, was on the so many splinters have been shed on front, with the piece of seat mounted afternoons of glory. I'll buy those upon it. · benches, on which so many · asses On the front, emblazoned upon a have made people of themselves. football~shape_d emblem, was "Orig­I'll buy those benches, and I'll sell inal block of seats from Notre Dame them to the thousands of people who Stadium, 1930-1970, Rockne to Par­dream of Notre. Dame football, and seghian, the Golden Age of Foot­they. will love me _:__ and I will make ball." . a lot of money. . The reverse side bore a piece of .. Thousands, maybe even millions of yellow paper; inscribed with· italic people will now be able to listen. to: .. · typewriter script. It ·said: "This the radio, or watch the television set, . shadow box contains . ari ·authentic while holding their own piece of . · and registered section of the original Notre Dame history close to them... bleacher seats from the Notre Dame 
University Football Stadium in South Bend, Indiana. ·The.legendary Knute Rockne was instrumental in the concept .and design of the .new 
Stadium completed in 1930. These 
original bleacher seats, from which 
millions of 'Fighting Irish' · fans 
cheered many of the greatest play­
ers, ·teams and coaches in the his­
tory of football, w.ereremoved from 
the Stadium in 1970 ... 

. Below that was·a'Reg. No., and a 
line upon which was written a figure, 
so that. everything would be ·nice 
and neat. 

And Mr. S. sat back and was very 
proud. 

Of course, he didn't do that._with 
all the boards, just enough ._ to get 
started. The rest were really. start­
ing to look good in the backyard.. · 

Then he took a full-page -adver~ 
tisement in Sports Illustrated, and 
he ·advertised. ·in some women's 
magazines, for -the gift trade, and in 
a number of · Catholic periodicals 
that would, he hoped, be seen by the· 
legions of Notre Dame fans; and he 
sat back and waited for the rush of -orders to come pouring through, at 
$79.95 per. hallowed souvenir; · 
. $79.95! 

Expensive for .a piece of aged 
wood mounted in a shadow box? 
Of course not., 

Think-.of the years of tradition, 
the flannel and serge and cotton ,and 
denim.that have sat upon them, the. 
beer and soda and booze spilled upon 
them; · the fact that they · heard 
Rockne exhort and watched Gipp 
run... 

As Mr.. S. : looked at his · public 
service and :read and ·reread the 
hyperbolic' copy of his advertise­
ment, his entrepreneurial brain be-. 
') --, 

gan clicking, faster and faster. 
If Notre Dame fans will buy Notre Dame, seats "'-. and of course they will, by return mail-.,..... just think of what other college fans will buy. So Mr. S; promptly sent out checks: to the universities of Alabama, _Ne­braska and : Illinois, . which were planning to · tear . out . their. own benches. The checks .were accom-_ panied by. bids:· 
Mr.. S .. w11s about to· _corner .the market-on stadium , benches. ,He would,be a bench tycoon, and people w_ould. speak of him as they spokeof Rockefeller, or Leland. Stanford,. or Jay Gould, or Jim Fisk, _or even an: Arab potentate. : .. . . . 
Mr;,• 8' spent .the next several mornings watching for the mailman, everi meeting him at the fro.nt ~ci.or to be able .to relieve_ him ._of that heavy load of checks that :was to be arriving. •: :·> ,. ... . . 
-. There. were_-bills, magazines, S!'.)~~. junk mail, an occasional greeting card . from ; a friendly . insurance salesman, a :note from . one ,of. his children asking for, money, invita­tionsto join two book clubs, a record club and ;a rare sculpture dub. ­even a reminder. from the local po­Hee that a. parking . ticket fine;was 
overdue . 
. No. orders. 
· No orders?.·· 
No orders. 
The expected rush wasn't a heavy 
flow, ,nor a C!'.)nstant stream,. nor 
even -a trickle. . . , .: , . 
. About 10 days after the _announce­ment, ;he sold one; Then anothE?r. Then a· third..Optimism :l'.eturne~. as two orders arrived-on the same day, then _began to fade as a week passed before,the 'next. . . : , ... . . 
. When realization time finally . ar-, rived,,Mr; s:.sat down to count up the sales. He only had to remove. one shoe.and sock as he counted -:-the grand total :.was .12. Just a_: dozen; not even a. b~k~r'.s dozen. · 


. "I still think Oit ~as. a g~od_ ide~," yard, and . they, repose . gently in a Mr. S. said last week, "and I'd do it nearby lumber yard, looked at. with again if I had the chance; · I guess laughing scorn by the owner, who is we were· in the wrong time of the··. not -a Notre Dame alumnus either. economy or something; I know )t · . "It didn't cost me that much," was a great idea.". · • . . _. · said an investor, who can spare the 
.The project. will not be ·renewed investment, "but I'lltell you;-it was for 1975, and: I hesitated and re~ . ·worth every cent· of it in-terms of strained myself from suggesting .he . the fun· arid laughs I've had out of paint them red, white and blue _and .. the project." . 
reoffer them . for the Bicentennial. The benches are gone from the back• . . . . - In the · final analysis, -however, there was ·some good news for Mr. S. -:-he bid too low and didn't get  
the benches from Illinois, Nebraska_  
and Alabama. Just think what his.  
backyard might ha~e ,looked like.  

\ 



prognosis '75 
Another summer has come and 
gone. Registration is completed, and 
classes have begun. The Saturday 
night beer blasts already have begun.. 
Freshmen are blending into the rou­
tine of long lines, cold food and 
rain. Yes, we're back at Notre Daine. 
We're on the eve of the football· 
season too. Monday night marks the 
first occasion of Dan Devine as head 
football coach of the Fighting Irish. 
Hopefully, America will be ready to 
handle the new man running the . 
program. The team certainly is. 

To play Notre Dame football, how­ever, you must have great players,. and in this year's team, there is· no shortage of talent. The captains for Devine's first Irish team are seniors Jim Stock and Ed Bauer. Stock, who made .several All-American teams last season at defensive end, has been recently switched to outside ·linebacker. He has such a nose for a loose ball that whenever there are any turnovers during a game, Jim is always close to the action. 
Ed Bauer has· been an enigma at Notre Dame; whenever it· appeared that he was to make a valuable con­tribution to the program, he would always suffer an injury. A five-year 
man, Ed stepped into Steve Neece's 

guard position last year, and_ did a 
fine job. Devine is hoping that his 
leadership with the younger players 

will bring cohesiveness to the unit 
that faces the toughest rebuilding 
job of the program. 

Speaking of the offensive line, only one starter returns to the trenches, and only three others have had any game experience. Al Wujciak, who started -in all 11 games last season, will return at guard. One of the more'· finesse-type guards, Wujciak uses his body well enough to earn pre­season All-American mention this fall. Along with sophomore Ernie -Hughes he should create some gap­
ing holes throughout the year. 
Mark Brenneman graduated last 

May, leaving behind memories of the 
nicest football player I've ever 
known. A courageous . guy, he 
handled several All-Americans over 
the course of eleven games, and 
always came out on top. Replacing 
Mark will be Steve Quehl, back for 
a fifth year due to an auto accident. 
Despite broken legs and arms, Quehl 
has fought back to a starting berth. 
Two players are needed at the 

tackle position, and who will start is 
.· 
() 

by Bill Delaney 

being determined as I write this article. Senior Pat Pohlen has re­turned this fall a new man, bigger and stronger than ever. Along with Bauer, these two have been with the first team this fall. Harry Woeb­kenberg (out tlie.entire spring with mononucleosis), Cal Balliet and Mike Carney are being tried at different positions along the line, thereby giving the coaching• staff depth at these positions. · Of all the areas con­sidered, coach Devine faced his greatest problems with this group, and only game experience will tell the story. 
The quarterback story is a long and complicated one. Frarik Allocco, the heir apparent to Tom Clements, separated his throwing shoulder dur­ing spring ball. A week later,-Rick Slager cracked a rib in· a scrimmage, leaving sophs Joe Montana and Gary Forystek as the starting quarter­backs in the Blue-Gold game. Since the beginning of · fall practice, Allocco has, had trouble in coordi­nating his throws, and another con­tender, Mike Falas:11, has suffered a· knee injury. Slager and Montana appear to be battling for the top spot, and Slager's experience will probably · carry him through. But beware of Allocco-he'll be back. 
Pete Demmerle was an exciting split end 'for Parseghian; it appeared that he -never would drop the hall. But we must all graduate some day,. and Demmerle's loss is a law school's gain. -This, however, does not do · m_µch .for Devine, since. he needs a replacement. The candidates for the position are Ted Burgmeier (who saw limited duty in the defensive backfield last year), Kevin_ Doherty (Demmerle's backup) and Bob Walls, a walk-on who improves with age. Add Dan Kelleher, the leading receiver for the junior varsity last season, and yo_u have a lot of talent to choose from. 
Notre Dame has also had the tra-
SCHOLASTIC 


dition of having the power fullback; 
the one who could always be counted 
on to pick up that crucial yard. This 
season, Tom Parise (Wayne Bul­
lock's backup last season) and fresh­
men Jim Browner and Jerome 
Heavens .figure to be in the battle 
for the ·top spot. Parise has the 
typical dimensions of a Notre Dame 
fullback, but the freshman's speed 
may tell the story during the season. 
The Irish had problems all season 
long · without , · having any · speedy 
halfbacks; they had the runners able 
to gain the six or seven ,yards, but 
no one to break it all the way. The 
return of Al Hunter 'and Danny· 
Knott should immediately give us a 
fighting edge against many of our 
opponents. Hunter, who,returned a 
kick 94 yards inthe Sugar Bowl, has 
returned bigger ·and quicker than 
ever. Knott has the potential of be..: 
ing· a great one with -game expe­
rience. · Reliables such as Russ Korn­
man, Terry Eurick,. Steve Orsini and 
Steve Schmitz, along with the very 
durable .Mark MacLane · lend ex­
perience to a critical area· for Irish 
success. 
Our defense is as tough as ever. 
Last season, ,Notre Dame was num­
ber .one against the·rush. Defensive 
line coach Joe Yonto (the finest de­
fensive coach in the country) could 
have his best defensive ·une ever in 
the persons of· Steve· Niehaus, Jeff 
Weston, Ross Browner and Willie 
Fry. 
Niehaus, everyone's All-American, 
comes off last season playing for· a · fuli season, his first. He is stronger and quicker than ever, and opposing backs had better watch out for big 
number 70. 
, Weston is only a:·sophomore,'but is 
he some soph-big, quick and strong. 
Yon.to is handling this kid with a 
great deal of patience and hard 
work, something which should pay 
off in the future. 
Browner and :Fry are returning 
after a year of inactivity, something 
which would worry many coaches. 
Not hitting for ·an entire· season 
might dull the quickness and execu­
tion of moves tcta player. But not 
these·two: they're ready to start 3.t 
the_ends tomorrow if needed. · 
N~tre Dame has also had a strong 
tradition in hard-hitting linebackers. 
This year is no different" for, aside ­
from Tom Eastman·. and Marv Rus­
sell returning, · Stock has now as­

sumed the role of outside linebacker. 
Eastman and Russell, who· divided 
the season at middle 'backer, will be 
joined at the side· by Doug Becker, 
one of the more reckless members 
of the sophomore class. Tony Nova.:. 
kov and Pete J ohrison will also be. 
around to help in the:hitting, mak­
ing the · linebackers a tough group · indeed. 
Defensive backfield coach Paul 
Shoults had a serious problem last 
year when he had . only one veteran 
in his group. He made a few 
gambles, and in looking at the over­
all season, you'd have to agree that 
he was some kind of a miracle 
worker. This year finds Shoults 
welcoming back a solid deep back­
field, with more quality players than 
positions to work with. He must 
feel very happy. 
Losing your entire unit may have 
been a blessing to· Randy Harrison 
and John Dubenetsky, for they en­
tered last fall without a position. 
Randy; a freshman, had literally 
"walked" into the job as free safe­
ty, · and John's ·fine play' reaped 
benefits at the corner. Both return 
this season with full experience, arid 
along with Luther Bradley's return 
and • Tom Lopienski's fine ·spring, 
make up the d-backs. Mike Banks, 
Randy Payne and Bob Zanot (who 
sat out the entire season with a knee 
injury) will spell the starters, with 
one .or ·two stepping back into · a 
starter's role before the third game. 
This may be our deepest position. · 
Other players along the defensive 
front that are available for duty are 
Nick Federenko and Jay Achterhoff 
at tackles, Rudy Ruettinger and Gene · 
Smith at end, and Tom Maschmeier 
and Pat Sarb at backs. If anything 
were to happen, the coaches have 
the utmost confidence in these men 
at their positions. We ·shouldn't 
suffer at all. 
The kicking game,·once last.year's 
soft spot, has · become_ very solid. 
Dave Reeve has developed into a fine 
field goal kicker, and senior Pat 
McLaughlin •has impressed many 
with his distance in kicking off. Tony 
Brantley returns as punter; but..is 
being challenged by freshman Joe 
Restic. Restic has impressed every-_ 
one ·with his distance, so the .top 
spot isn't final yet. 
The final area to be , discussed is 
the tight end position. I'm writing 
about it now, because I simply for..: 
got all about the position. But how 
can you forget about Ken MacAfee? 
Six-foot-four. Only a sophomore. 
Physique like a bear. Where did God 
come up with a kid like this? Coach 
Devine loves. hirri, and believe me, 
we _all know why .he does. Doug 
Buth, another bear -of'an end, is the 
other tight end, and will s_ee action 
at dual tight end situations. · .. 
. Devine faces a very tough sched­. ule, with his first home game against Northwestern on September 27. The traditional Southern' Cal game · is scheduled for · October 25, with Miami rounding out ·the schedule down· in the land of sunshine· the 
22nd of November. 
-.. One offensive lineman returning. 
A quarterback dilemma: whom to 
start? A ·fantastic defensive line. 
Great coaching. And to think Play­
boy picked us 6-5. No way. No way 
at all. 
\ 
cause of the new. rul_es, and can only count on 13 for. games in the 


Limiting the Teams 
When the University of Kansas year ·and basketball was reduced to played Notre Dame ·in·,the NCAA . a limit of six initial awards a year.· regionals last year, six Jayhawks Recruiting contacts by the coaching fouled out of the ballgame.· Notre staffs to possible ;recruits have been Dame won the . contest handily, and set at no more than three off-campus advanced• along the NCAA route. . visits; . Seventy-five football and 
Many of you may be. wondering 12 basketball recruits are the · max­why I mention this obsc.ure ·incident, imum that are allowed the cam~ but due to the recent rulings from: pus_ ·visit for. the intention of par­the NCAA; member · schools will ticipating in sports. An extra game have to be on their guard when par­was added to the schedule for ticipating: in intercollegiate athletics ... basketball: (St.. Bonaventure), . in-Some of the. policies :will greatly cr_easing the number to 27. · · better. the image of the NCAA, but Perhaps the most sweeping and 
·others.have the. possibility of. creat.;. controversial change adopted con­ing new athletic philosophies, on cerns .itself. with the size of rosters the· administrative as .well as par­for ·the var_ious · teams. . On August ticipant levels. Hopefully, this at­15, . the · NCAA adopted . a 48-man tempt at reviewing the new policies traveling squad • for . all football and . · ramifications will create an teams._ What this breaks down to 
is having your first _and second teams 
along with four specialists available 
for each away game. It was .· the 
NCAA's view that a fair amount of 
money could be saved over a season 
with a 48-man team. What this 
means to our program• is that· over 
60 football players will be sitting . 
in their.rooms catchingaway games 
on . television rather being there 
on the sidelines ... 

· First year football coach Dan. De­vine has had tremendous pressures . 5ince accepting the head coaching job last December, and .these new· policies do-nothing to help his·situa­.tion.:-"As a.coach, and not.. speaking open atmosphere for all those inter-for the University, I am drastically ested. opposed to what the NCAA has done ·•. In their recent meeting. at Chi-· i_n. their· meetings," said Devine. cago, the delegates from the 783 "Some of the players practice day in member schools of the NCAA made arid day out for the opportunity to the attempt to put controls on the.·· dress during their . senior year. number of · s~holarships, travelling It's our way as coaches to _make a and home squads and expenses for. gesture of . appreciation . for four 
-the.student-athlete at his or her in--years of service. Now, I don't know stitution. what to say to these boys..H any­--Specifically, allocations of $150 thing, ,I'd like·. to suggest a plan to per year for books and no -funds for . "declare·· 60 players. two days· be­course-related · supplies were adopted. fore the contest, and add 20 men The '$15. monthly . allowance; ·has . to .the roster.as· non~players. They'd 
. been . waived, thereby forcing the sit ori • the sidelines, and wouldn't st!]dent athlete to pay for his own play, but would be a ·part of the laundry and dry-cleaning bills. team."::. · In the area of scholarship as-Basketball . Coach Digger . Phelps sistance for each member institution, faces the. bleak outlook of carrying football __ may· award 30 grants a .. only -10 .men to away contests be-

ACC., ."In the Kansas situation ,last 
season, they. (Kansas) would have 
had to play four-on-five against us, 
if the,.new. rule was in effect,"·,ad-. 
mitted Phelps. "Now, I have four­
unhappy kids .who will not be able to 
travel, and .one who can'.t .even suit 
up at home. · In trying to keep· my 
entire program, happy, I.will not be 
able to give everyone their ·chance. 
If the NCAA ·really. had the. idea of 
saving money, then they have a false 
way of going about it." · 
Recruiting, always critical to 
Phelps here at Notre · Dame, faces 
frs toughest test in years. IIThe name 
of ,the game wi}l · be 'pressure · re­
cruiting,' where "the: one who stands 
to lose the most is the athlete,'' con­
cedes · Digger. "The· new. policy al­
lows three quick-sales, where before, 
visiting a _recruit 15 or . 20 times 
wasn't . too u~usual. ·_The kids , will 
have to be_. hustled, and infractions 
will undoubtedly happen.'( · · . 
The . new.,: policies :have perhaps 
affected Lefty Smith's hockey pro­
gram the greatest. He is permitted 
to dress 20 on·.an away trip, and can 
have 23 on. total scholarship. "With 
our. schedule.. normally being · two 
games per weekend; you cannot af­
ford injuries,. academic p~oblems, 
and the. players themselves," con: 
cedes Smith;' "You look at football, 
where Dan has 90 kids to work with, · 
and then· my. situation where I have 

a. maximum: of 30, there is· a great disparity in ·.'the: margin of error.· . The . NCAA .may.·be· ·honest in • its attempt to·: change, but·. the · way it is going about doing it leaves a lot 
to be desired.'' 
_There have. _already been grum­
blings, toward, t!J.e new policies, and . 
undoubte-dly, there,. will -be more. 
:Last .week,. a. judge in Alabama .is­
sued. ._an · . i~junctfo~ . against. ·.the_ 
NCAA regarding the 48-man travel­
ling r[!le; ,citing ,t'1at the "fair play_ ­

doctrines. of .the NC.AA:. were being viblated." The NCAA is planning to · appeal th~ decision, and the situation should be' resolved by. the . Boston College game.. One, thing is. clear though; the coaches, are mad' af the 
'decisions'.·. Hopefully·; .. a.. co~certed 
effort between , the NCAA .and .the 

_coaches will, resolve the problems. btlierwiS(l, it's. going' to be a· tough yeaf fol'.,college. athletics. 
•. .• • . ·----; • ~ 1 ·. ,. ' • -_ • 
·-Bill Delaney 
. SCHOLA<>TIC 

.,.! 


_;;;_·.·. -~~.-,-,,. .. ·.' :11 
<' ,,
·.,, . . •·, 
~~--........-•"-'·"<..._._..~ 

There -were many departmental Kelly, who was an assistant to Kline changes within the athletic program for the past few years, inherits a this summer at ·Notre Dame, with team with great traditions, but lousy four · young, exciting individuals weather conditions for playing the heading key positions in the depart­national pastime. Kelly has planned ment:-,' Since this . premiere issue of several tryouts for the benefits of Scholastic coincides with their re­the campus and is anxiously waiting cent appointments, a profile of these for recruits. The new coach has the individuals· is in order. goal of arranging a fall schedule in 
the 1976-77 campaign to put Irish 
Joe Piane, the quiet, affable as­· baseball back on -its feet. Pitcher sistant coach of the Irish track pro­Bob Stratta, outfielder Stan Bobow­gram for the past year, has been ap­ski and the rest of the ball club are . ~jpointed : Notre· Dame's' ·head track trying 'to make Kelly's inaugural coach. Only · 28; Piane -has had· a year as· mentor a ·good· one, and if great deal of experience in track.at past indications have .any signifi;, 
.. <:~ .:·. i· 

:-·:i{,~:~<

the coaching level.; In his· work with cance,' then watch-:.for Tom Keliy 
the Peace· Corps, Piane coached the and Notre Daine.baseball. .. . With the female enrollment .a; number-one··· junior . cross~country 
Notre Dame approximately ,1500, 
team; with severalof the team mem­
s"ome major steps hay~ been under­bers participating in the 1972 Olym­taken to· promote a women's sportspic Games.:; A gradtia.te ·· of Loras progra~. · . Further . advancements College, Piane has made ·:a genuine were made over the . summEir with effort· to be involved in' every facet the -appointment of Astrid Hotvedt . .. of Notre Daine athletics aside from Miss Hotvedt . will .. organize . the his· coaching duties in track.. With Jorn.en's athletic program ai Notre 
key standouts such as Jim Hurt'·imd Dame and will still retain her role as Jim Reinhart 'returning,· Piane ·has 
inst~ctor ·in the Physical Education 
a solid nucleus with which to build Department. As an overseer 'to the 
his new'ND :track;team:1•::: ·•.. ,. ' piesent. club system, it' is Hotvedt's 
hope. to. "arrange athree~year .pro­gram t~ gain varsity__status i_n golf; tenriis, basketball and fencing. . Her major goals concerning the program are to . develop opportunities for highly skilled women and .to pro­mote a complete and versatile ath~ 
Assistant Athletic Director Col. letic program for equal opportunities 
Jack Stephens has· · found · another for women on campus:' If her. past Army man to keep him company in accomplishments are any indication the ·athletic departmenf this year · of· her potential;' then the men of with the appointment of· Ray Sepeta Notre Dame had better watch them­as wrestling. coach. Sepeta, a. West ·selves, for one of the hardest-work­Point graduate, has been the ' as-ing women around campus is Astrid sistant wrestling coach here at Notre Hotvedt. Dame since 1970, while he has been -­in the process of· earning his· doctor-' Perhaps :Athletic Director Edward ate in Mathematics. In addition to "Moose" Krause's analysis of his 
·. · Forty-two years· at' one_ position . his ·new coaching-duties; he will join. new people says it best, iri that: "We -would appear to be . a lifetime to· . the · faculty of the Department of : are · delighted -to · find four such many, but not to former baseball Mathematics this fall. Veterans John young, dynamic, yet qualified indi­
·coach Jake . Kline. Kline, who -re­Dowd, Dave Boyer and Pat McKillen viduals·· 'to · head up these pro­cently ,celebrated his eig]:ity-first are · hoping that they can · make grams." birthday," .has -turned over the reins Sepeta's new position a good one, as On behalf of Scholastic; I wish of the team to Tom Kelly; former does . everyone else involved·-. with them all the luckin the world. 
-assistant director of intramurals. __ Irish wrestling: -Bill Delaney 
SEPTEMBER 12, 1975 29 

) 
\ 


I know September's coming when I see the back-to-school ads in the paper and the rows of Flintstone lunch boxes in the dimestore. I find 
it hard to pass the shelves of plaid 
and plastic-handled bookbags and I feel an annual. urge for new sad­dle shoes ·or loafers. September smells more of paper than of leaves to me, 
of new books, newspaper-covered 
bulletin boards and brown-paper 
lunch bags. 
I can barely remember a time 
when the coming. of September 
wasn't synonymous with the coming of school. It ·seemed natural .and right, an occurrence ordained by 
some omnipotent being that children 

·under the age of 16 would spend fiye .or six hours a day, five days a 
week, learning in classrooms. Yet, 
especially in the· beginning, after a 
good summer, it was sometimes· dif.:. 
ficult to sit at desks and. to wear 
shoes again. 
.. As I repeated the cycle I began to 
identify myself as student,. as first­
grader or senior, and to gauge my . accomplishments in terII1s ·of tests and .report cards..When. we would 
worry about pagan babies and Com­
munism, the .sisters would tell us 
that everyone had a "station in life" 
and that ours was "student," that 
for a . while. at least someone else 
would change the world. 
: .Now, suddenly, I find myself com~ 
ing closer : to the . time when ·rn 
change that "station," when I'll stop 
measuring time iri semesters and v~­
cations. Each Septembex: I come back 
by Sally Stanton 
now becomes more a conscious . de­cision and less an inevitable or pre­det~rmined event. Being a student is an exciting and enjoyable occupa­tion, · filled with beginnings and dis­coveries, and learning does seem a prerequisite_for growing. Yet there are many pitfalls to the profession:· an overdependency on external eval­uation, a· tendency to measure w_orth by what one does or what one knows rather than by what one is, a desire to succeed to ·· unexamined goals, sometimes at the expense of ·other people. And there are sacrifices; it does seem necessary to leave. the pagan babies in someone else's hands for a while. 
In a very real sense, I think, each of us begins the semester ~ithout a history. We enter rooms filled with nameless_ faces and listen to profes­sors we know only by reputation or not at all. Before, when we attended the parish grade school or neighbor­hood public schc>ol,. the other kids in the rooms _with us shared our his­tories: they grew up with us, shared summers with us, knew our families. It may have been easier. then to see a wider picture of persons. Now we all come from: different parts of the country and of the world, from small. towns and large, East Coast, West Coast and Midwest. Maybe 10 people on this campus have met my par­ents, and even fewer have met my 

.brothers..Ail you know is what I tell you: . The campus. these first weeks has been filled with talking, people try­

-
ing to tell the stories of. their sum~ mers, to fit three months· into five minutes. It has beeri filled with much joy and quiet celebration, if al~ ready some serious . studying and uncertainty. (For uncertainty is not the special te~itory of freshmen and seniors, but is . felt .. also by sopho­mores and juniors, faculty and ad­ministrators, bookstore cashiers and library .checkers.) Yet· it-:is not al­ways completely possible to bridge the gap between sum~er and school; at times it seems we Uve ~wo lives.­
We each have a history .~o one shares and few people know "except through our yision of it, but we are not isolated from each· other. In com­ing to Notre Dame, we enter or as­sume a common history. For close to .. nine months we .share the .same . dorms, the-same town, the:: same weather -be it raining or shining or snowing. We· come to a place that· is rich in tradition,.· that many peo­ple have loved and cared for, that has many.friendly ghosts. Although we wil(leave after four years, we share in this ,tradition now; we are creating and recreating it; it will be different'-because each of our separ­ate histories has mingled with it for a while. • 
For a while we'are all held here, in all our diversity and similarity. And· therJ is much energy in .that tension. 
So I guess I'll be a student yet agai~; September still smells ~f paper to me and new· books are still pretty exciting ·things, if:'a li_ttle ~more ex-: pensive than in years past. · 




BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES: 
. . . 
Address envelopes at home. $800 per month, possible. Offer -details, send 50¢ (refundable) to Triple "S."_ 

71-iple ~-~iJt1-ilmtt1-J 
P.O. Bex 95 699 HIGHWAY 13B PINION HILLS, CA 92372 
OUR  
LIST PRICE PRICE·  
SANSUI 221 AM/FM Stereo Receiver  $169.95  $ 84.98  
24(W) RMS  
2 ACOUSTA-FLEX 2-way air suspensi~n  199.90  99.95  
speakers 8" woofer, cabinet size 22"x13"x  
10" $99.95@  
GARRARD 42M Changer with wood base  94.95  49.88  
and Pickering magnetic cartridge  
Stereo headphone with volume control  34.95.  17.48  
$499.75  $249.88  

FOR INFORMATION CALL FOR ORDERS ONLY CALL (213) 394:3221 TOLL FREE 1-(800) 421-6518 
Call or Write for FREE Catalog. 




¦:«ill El•I 
Freshmen, all students! 


ACTIVITIES 
NIGHT 
Tues., Sept._ 16, 1975 7 till midnight LaFortune Student Center 
Come to Activities Night,__ 
See what ND has to offer. 


JUGGLER 
_Notre Damels.,;. 
Journal o.f · 

th_e.. Arts 
Juggler is Notre Dame's magazine of the:arts. It is . a semi-annual publication containing poems, pieces . of fiction and drama, photography, essays, and re­.. views of. students, faculty and staff members of.the .. 
University. 

Juggler urges all of you to send your creative or critical writings to the. magazine .. The Juggler staff will thoughtfulf y read the manuscripts and contact• ·. the critics and artists soon ·after· receiving their . 
work. . . . 
· . The imagination holds many pleasures and sur­prises for bot~ beginning· and experienced artists.· 
. . 

:AROUSE your imaginations, and sen.d the creative "Come . to pur jolly desert re~idues to the Juggler. 
where eveh dolls go whoring 
Mail submissions along with -a self~addressed,.
where· cigarette~ends 

stamped envelope to: Juggler, LaFortune Center, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. Send manuscripts as often as you'd like. The . 
..·become intima.te friends .. 
staff promises a quick reply to everyone submitting
Andi wherelt's always three;.•. .•to the magazin_e. ·. · · · in_-ihe morning."•· .·· · ·.. · . . • 
For. further information • concemin·g: Juggi~r; :· ca11 ·:
·. . . W. H. Auden •· 
. 283~6263.· 
··.:-:;... 
': ." . 



.......· 





