The Notre Dame
Scholastic
November 8,1957
R J REYNOIDS TOBACCO CO WINSTON-SALEM. N.C
p
Wherever you go, folks go for Winston! You will, too. You’ll like the full, rich flavor of fine tobacco. And you’ll like Winston’s exclusive filter, too — the pure, snow-white filter in the smart, cork-smooth tip. It’s a great cigarette in every way!
Now available in crush proof box, too!
on
WINSTON
TASTES GOOD!

LIKEA CIGARETTE SHOULD!

n ■ sr $



for bright, dear flavor -switch to WINSTON

Smoke WINSTON America's best-sellina. best-tasting filter cigarette!
Ever meet a fanatic?
He’s got just one thing uppermost in his mind. If he’s looking for a job he’s thinking only of pay or only of security. Reasonable men, however, weigh these and many other factors when they’re evaluating career possibilities. Such factors as opportunity, challenging work, training, professional associates—things fanatics never bother to consider.
The Bell Telephone Companies have a booklet for reasonable men. It’s called “Challenge and Opportunity.” It’s not the sort of thing that’ll make a fanatic’s eyes light up, but it ought to interest a thoughtful young man— whatever his college background—who is weighing career possibilities. Get it from your Placement Officer or send the coupon.
College Employment Supervisor
American Telephone and Telegraph Company 195 Broadway, New York 7. N. Y.
Please send me your free booklet, “Challenge and Opportunity”
Name......................................................................
A ildress.................................................................
City................................. Zone........ State..................
College...................................Course..........................
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
November 8j 1957
THE FINEST SUITS, TOPCOATS AND SPORT COATS OBTAINABLE IN TODAY’S
WORLD MARKETS
At the Campus Shop you can choose from several models and versions of today’s popular Ivy League style — by what we believe to be the finest Brand Name makers in the country. We feel this is important to you because, just as every man is not built alike, every man cannot wear the same style with equal smartness. With a wide selection of famous-maker versions of the popular styles, you are more likely to find one flattering to you. Why not come in and look them over soon?
4
The Scholastic
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
Pay 1-3 in January —1-3 in February —1-3 in March
Your charge account is always ready to serve you at the Campus ►	Shop. So, get the things you need now — or whenever you need
them and, if you wish, charge your purchases the Campus Shop Way. This means that you can wait as long as January before you begin to I
pay. Pay one-third in January, one-third in February and one-third in March. No carrying charges, of course. Use this convenient *	Charge Account at any time.
4
i i Norember 8, 1957
‘ $
OaC^gms
Wfihuhan
{By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 99 November 8, 1957 No. 6
HOW TO STUDY
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
The makers of Marlboro Cigarettes have bought this space so I can bring a message of importance to American undergraduates each week. There is no more important message I can bring you than this: College can be beautiful. Don’t louse it up with studying.
That was my mistake. At first, cowed by college, I studied so much that I turned into a dreary, blinking creature, subject to dry mouth and night sweats. This dismal condition prevailed until I learned the real meaning of college. And what is that? I’ll tell you what: to prepare you to face the realities of the world. And what do you need to face the realities of the world? I’ll tell you what: poise. And how do you get poise?
Relax! Live! Enjoy! . . .That’s how you get poise. Of course you have to study, but be poised about it. Don’t be like some drones who spend every single night buried in a book. They are not learning poise; what’s more, they are playing hob with their posture.
The truly poised student knows better than to make the whole semester hideous with studying. He knows that the night before an exam is plenty of time to study.
Yes, I’ve heard people condemn cramming. But who are these people? They are the electric light and power interests, that’s who! They want you to sit up late and study every night so you will use
more electricity and enrich-their bulging coffers.
Don’t be taken in by their insidious propaganda! Cramming is clearly the only sensible way to study. But beware! Even cramming can be overdone. When you cram, be sure you are good and relaxed. Before you start, eat a hearty dinner. Then get a date and go out and eat another hearty dinner. Then go park some place and light up a
It doesn’t take any cramming to learn that the finest filter cigarette on the market today is Marlboro, whose makers take pleasure in bringing you this column regularly.
6
Marlboro. Enjoy the peaceful pleasure it affords. Don’t go home-till you’re properly relaxed.
Once at home, stay relaxed. Do not, however, fall asleep. This is too relaxed. To insure wakefulness, choose a chair that is not too comfortable. For example, take a chair with nails pointingup through theseat.
Place several packs of Marlboros within easy reach. Good, mild tobacco helps you relax, and that’s what Marlboro is—good, mild tobacco. But Marlboro is more than just good, mild tobacco; it is also cigarette paper to keep the good, mild tobacco from spilling all over the place. And a filter. And a flip-top box. And a red tape to lift the cigarettes easily ... It is, in short, a lot to like.
Now you’ve got the uncomfortable chair and the Marlboros. Now you need fight. Use the lit end of your Marlboro. Do not enrich the light and power interests.
Read your textbook in a slow, relaxed manner. Do not underline; it reduces the resale value of the book. Always keep your books in prime resale condition. You never know when you’ll need getaway money.
As you read you will no doubt come
across many things you don’t understand. But don’t panic. Relax. Play some Fats Domino. Remove a callus. Go out and catch some night crawlers.
Relax! Live! Enjoy! Remember —any number of people have bachelors’ degrees, but precious few have poise!	© mbx shuiman, 1957
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame,"’ Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL "
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS ............. News	Editor
HARRY McKEE ................. Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY ............... Features	Editor’’-
MIKE FITZPATRICK .......... Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS ................... Photography
LORAN SHEFFER.......... Business Manager i JOE DEZELAN ........... Circulation	Manager
TOM BANCHOFF ........... Assistant	News
WALT RUDGE ............. Assistant	News
JIM YOCH ................Assistant	News’*
STEVE ROAKE ............ Assistant	Copy
JIM SCHUH .............. Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS ......... Assistant	Features
TOM LAMONT .......... Assistant	Features
BOB SEDLACK ......... Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH ............. Assistant Sports
TED THOMPSON ........... Assistant	Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Art Dechene, Luino Dellosso, Mike Dudgeon, Ron'"* Dvorak, Geremy Kaye, Bob Maruyama, Bob Messinger, Gil Paprocki, Ed Plunkett, Lyn Relph, Charles Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Dave Samudio, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Chris Watters, Dick Zang.	‘
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Dave Cole, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg1* Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Mike Kuras, Bob Pruett.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. ?
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examina. tion periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year,. Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct.	11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct.	25;	No. 6,	,
Nov.	8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov.	22;	No. 9,
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan.	17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13,	Feb.	14;	No. 14,	.
Feb.	21;	No.	15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7;	No. 17,	”1
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; 1 No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No.	24,	May 23.	’
______________________________________________   i -________________________________________________(
The Scholastic
by BOB COLAIZZI and GERRY PASTULA
in jest
Rather than kill half this column introducing ourselves, we’ve decided to print our letter of application to the Editor. « '
Dear Editor:
We are Seniors (moderately old and •' very tired) who would like to write Escape. We consider ourselves the average type of Notre Dame men, having * made our share of trips to the Grotto ’ at exam time, to the Library the day before our term-papers were due, and, as it was known in the old days, to the Prefect of Discipline’s Office. We have managed to make the Dean’s other list, and the one edged in black that hangs on the bulletin boards across the Dixie.
' We share that same dislikes as other students; morning checks, 7:30 classes, and Bar-B-Q Beef on a Bun.
15 ‘ As for our personal habits, we have been known to shave for no reason at all, and refuse to wear the same shirt for more than a week and a half. We have absolutely no ■wilting experience, which , we’re sure is evident by this time, yet we want to prove to our friends that we are literate.
As for submitting manuscripts, we ' find this impossible because there is a law prohibiting the sending of that sort of material through the United States 4 mails. However if one of your staff could meet us in the alley behind Joers, we would be more than happy to deliver them to him in a plain brown envelope. * All of our material will have, to be typed ... we aren’t allowed to have any sharp objects. Nevertheless, we would „like the job, and if you have no regard for yours, let us write the column.
1	Sincerely,
*	Bob and Gerry
AND NOW
We have spared no little time and expense in searching out helpful information which may help our readers better enjoy their curricular, as well as extracurricular activities. We even went through the trouble to send our social correspondents to the boon docks of a midwestern university. We began our activities at a sorority house, and were immediately impressed with its formality, both commenting that it had the same atmosphere as a successful funeral home. Allowing our “St. Mary’s trained” eye to scan the group picture of the girls in the house, one thought entered our mind . . . leave! But alas, we were too late.
We were greeted in the usual sorority gush; a flurry of, “I’m glad you could make it,” and “I want you to meet my roommate.” Her roommate smiled, and immediately decided that she didn’t like us. The only thing she failed to realize was that we didn’t like her either. As a result one of us spent Saturday night . . . alone. Moral: (every story has a moral) “You can’t buck the syndicate!” Although to show our appreciation, we left a dime in the ash tray on the hall table.
On Sunday morning, we attended Mass, and were given a copy of the church bulletin. In it were several items which caused us to raise our eyebrows slightly . . . never again ‘will we complain about the Religious Bulletin.
HELPFUL HINTS FOR FRESHMEN:
Membership in the R.M.A.S.C. (Rockne Memorial Athletic and Social Club) costs $2 per year. Beware of those who charge less; they’re impostors and theirs is nothing but a racket!!
All Students: Even though you wear
a coat and tie to the ’ Student Center, Fred Hozle, the manager, says you still have to wear a shirt.
With everyone running something of the year awards, we’ve decided to run a poll of our own . . . “Buffoon of the Year.” Any living person, or facsimile thereof, is eligible for nomination. The nominee must have done nothing of any value during the past year, been a burden to all his friends, and habitually dates St. Mary’s girls. By the way if you’re thinking of nominating us . . . we’ve been.
Last week our theater critics attended a first night of one of the bright new musicals of this fall season, the presentation of Oedipus Rex.
As the production opens, the chorus is lined up on the stage singing, “Look Down, Look Down, That Lonesome Road.” At this point, Oedipus, and his friends are seen riding into view singing, “I Want A Girl Just Like The Girl That Married Dear Old Dad.” The action continues until we find ourselves in the court of the king, where the soothsayer sings, “That Old Black Magic.”
After Oedipus finds that he has killed his father- and married his mother, the chorus again steps forward and breaks into an up-tempo version of “Oh My Papa.” In the final scene, we find Oedipus on the verge of despair belting out “Jeepers Creepers, Where Did You Get Those Peepers.”
We hope all the students will have the opportunity to see this box office sensation when the road company opens at the Drill Hall.
Well campii, that about wraps it up. We’ll be back two weeks from today, barring unforeseen circumstances, to help you once more . . . escape.
I
November 8, 1957
7
Men in the know
know true from false
UoHEComi^
There are more than seven million college graduates in the United States.
True. The number of degree holders in the U.S. is skyrocketing. It is estimated that by 1977 there will be twice that number or 14,000,000 alums. This does not include people with one to three years of college training.
An average college man has 3 suits, 4 pairs of shoes, 11 pairs of undershirts and shorts.
True. Campus research surveys also show that the average man on campus owns 3 sports and miscellaneous jackets, 2 overcoats and topcoats, 4 pairs of slacks and 14 shirts. This makes Joe College a well furnished man in any league.
Jockey is a Trademark that refers to underwear made only by Coopers.
| | TRUE Fl FALSE
True. Jockey is a registered brand and trademark of Cooper’s, Inc. It applies only to Jockey brand briefs, Midways®, longs, undershirts, T-shirts and boxer shorts. Each the very finest and most comfortable of its kind.
Men on Ihe go
KGU underwear
BRAND "
made only by
THANKS
To the Faculty and Students of the University of Notre Dame:
We would like to express our sincere appreciation to you for your thoughtfulness when Dinny (Mulcahy) died. Our family closeness has made him more than just a son and brother to us. He provided the dry humor and easy living for the family which we will miss always. Din loved Notre Dame and we have often remarked that it was his type of school.
We like to think that the Blessed Mother guided him to Notre Dame and we are happy that God called him under the protection of our Mother.
We would like to especially thank the priests and Din’s roommates who came down to help us during our time of greatest sorrow.
Again, thanks to everyone.
Sincerely,
Johanna, Bernard, . Richard, Patricia, Aileen, and Kathleen Mulcahy.
ONIONS FOR THE STUDENTS
Dear Editor:
I don’t think that the Navy defeat shocked the 58,000 fans in the Stadium as much as seeing members of the Notre Dame student body leaving the game four minutes before it was over.
It is true that at that time the Irish were beaten and beaten badly. But walking out on them is something you just don’t do around here. It is like walking up the steps of the Administration building or wearing a high school monogram on campus. It just isn’t done around here. All of the students are supposed to remain in their seats until the Victory March is played. If our student body is supposed to be a little different, then why don’t we adhere to the traditions that have been around for a long, long time.
The student body fell down in its part more so than the team. A very complacent crowd attended the rally Friday night and went through the motions. And Saturday was a disgrace. Even the Navy captain said that the Midshipmen, whose cheers were piped in, cheered louder than the Notre Dame students. When the other team starts noticing that Notre Dame’s Twelfth Man is letting its team down, then it is time for us to hang our heads in shame.
For all the fair weather fans who will only support a winner, remember that you are at Notre Dame where you support Notre Dame whether they win or lose.
—A Disgusted Senior
The Scholastic
A MESSAGE TO THE SENIOR
—TOMORROW
ON HIS MIND
Melpar’s sure, swift growth during the past eleven years — we have doubled in size every 24 months — is due, in large part, to the outstanding performance of our engineering staff.
As a leading R & D organization, we are constantly called upon to perform tasks which have never been done before. Thanks to the creative talent which forms the backbone of our organization, we have grown rapidly both in stature and size. Members of our staff have enjoyed similarly rewarding growth.
Performance Determines Advancement. Individual recognition is a fundamental policy at Melpar. Each engineer is advanced on the basis of his performance. The average age of our engineering staff (one of the industry’s youngest) and the rapidity of growth of above-average staff members, are clear indications of what Melpar’s individual recognition policy can mean to you.
Project Teams. As a Melpar staff member you will enjoy the opportunity to participate in entire projects, from conception to completion of prototype. Our project team basis of organization gives you the satisfaction of seeing your own efforts materialize, and helps you acquire experience essential to eventual managerial responsibility.
Fine Living Conditions. Melpar laboratories are located in choice suburban areas near Washington, D. C. and Boston, Massachusetts. These areas were selected because of their proximity to outstanding educational, cultural and research facilities. Fine housing in all price ranges is readily available.
Facilities. Melpar offers complete facilities for creative research and design. Our headquarters laboratory near Washington, D. C. encompasses 265,000 air-conditioned sq. ft., is ultra modern in design and equipped with an eye to both future and present needs.
MELPAR
Representative on Campus
Thursday.
November 21
To secure on appointment with the Melpar Representative on these dates, contact your Placement Office today.
BECAUSE OF OUR WIDE DIVERSIFICATION, OPENINGS EXIST IN VIRTUALLY ALL PHASES OF ELECTRONIC RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
• Financial assistance is extended for advanced study at any of the fine universities in the Washington, D. C. and Boston areas • Qualified candidates will be invited to visit Melpar at company expense • For Detailed Information about Openings and Living Conditions, Write to: Technical Personnel Representative
MELPAR Incorporated
A Subsidiary of Westinghouse Air Brake Company
3000 Arlington Boulevard, Falls Church, Virginia
November 8, 1957
9
OPPORTUNITIES AT DU PONT CONTINUE TO GROW FOR ALL KINDS OF ENGINEERS AND SCIENTISTS
I--------------------------------1
WHERE DO YOU
WANT TO WORK?
by
E. H. Cox
Du Pont Representative
I ivouldidt he entirely realistic if I said that you, can choose your job location from Du Ponds 75 plants and 98 laboratories scattered over 26 states. But Du Pont does have jobs open in many of these locations, so there is a good chance that we may be able to match your preferences and qualifications with available openings.
Right now. most of the Du Pont units are east of the Mississippi, but we have plants in Texas and on the Pacific Coast, too. In the past year plants were completed in Michigan, California, Ohio and Georgia. New plants are also under construction in Kansas, Tennessee, Virginia and North Carolina. Perhaps one of these locations has just what you’re looking for in a job.
For a complete list of our plant locations, please write to me at E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2494-B Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Del.
Career opportunities at DuPont are greater today than ever before because of the Company’s continued growth. In 1957, DuPont’s sales were at the $2 billion level. Four new plants were being built. New research programs were being launched, and new products were moving into the production and marketing stages. All of these developments tend to broaden opportunities at Du Pont for the young scientist and engineer.
ALL KINDS OF ENGINEERS
Students with chemical engineering and chemistry degrees are needed, of course. But the opportunities are equally great for students majoring in many other fields. And the type of work for these men varies greatly. Amons; other thinss:
Mechanical engineers work in re-
Du Pont Training Tailored to Individual
Each of Du Pont’s operating departments has its own training program because each has special requirements. But both formal and informal programs are tailored to the interests and needs of the individual.
Generally, you go to work on an assignment at once and start learning right away. This headstart on responsibility is an important factor in your progress. Based on your qualifications, you’re given one segment of a project to tackle almost immediately. You learn quickly and informally in consultation with your supervisor and other engineers on the same project This training is supplemented by frequent meetings, seminars, studies of plant operations and procedures.
And since Du Pont is interested in the progress of the individual, your
search and development as well as in plant engineering and production supervision.
Metallurgical engineers conduct studies in metal fatigue and corrosion and engage in fundamental research into the nature and properties of elements.
Civil engineers have many assignments, including design and supervision of the construction of Du Pont plants and laboratories.
Men studying for degrees in electrical, mining, petroleum, industrial and many other specialized fields of engineering will find equally challenging outlets for their talents at Du Pont.
If you’re interested in finding full scope for your ability, Du Pont offers you plenty of opportunity.
performance is evaluated at regular intervals by your supervisor. These discussions bring out your strong and weak points and together you work out a program for improvement. This training and evaluation continues year after year as you advance in the Company.
SEND FOR INFORMATION BOOKLET
Booklets on jobs at Du Pont are yours for the asking. Subjects include: mechanical, civil, metallurgical, chemical, electrical, instrumentation and industrial engineers at DuPont; atomic energy, technical sales, research and development. Name the subject that interests you in a letter to DuPont, 2494-B Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Del.
The Scholastic
10
♦
WHERE NOTRE DAME SHOPS WITH CONFIDENCE
Fine Quality Diamonds
Nationally Advertised Watches Jewelry and Gift Items
Jewelry and Watch Repairing
126 N. Michigan. Ph. CE 2-1202
Order a full year's subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR Rasmussen Men’s Shop MAIN AND WASHINGTON STS.
ENGINEERS
★ MECHANICAL ★ELECTRONIC ★AERONAUTICAL ★ METALLURGICAL ★CIVIL
DR.N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
PRODUCTS DIVISION SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Wednesday, November 20 will be on campus
on the sound basis of diversified engineering and manufacturing.
November 8, 1957
’( ■
11
'hot house’ for growing crystals!
...from plum-size up to 8-in. diameter, largest ever grown
This, the world’s longest line of crystal “pullers.” is typical of advanced engineering-in-action in which you are invited to share at Texas Instruments... largest producer of silicon transistors and a major source for germanium transistors as well as silicon diodes and rectifiers ... with many engineering “firsts” in semiconductors.
At TI. you will push out beyond existing limitations — in research, development, design, and manufacture — into new concepts and new products ... into vital fields such as electronics, semiconductor behavior, infrared optics, missile control, high speed data reduction. and many others. This pioneering approach has been so successful that Texas Instruments has grown 20-fold in the last 10 years to a current $70 million volume ... a growth accelerated by recognition of individual achievement... a growth you can share.
openings
SEMICONDUCTORS AND OTHER COMPONENTS — Transistors, diodes, rectifiers, resistors, and panel instruments.
ELECTRONIC AND ELECTROMECHANICAL APPARATUS - Radar, sonar, infrared, navigation,
magnetics, telemetering, communications, computers, transformers.
RESEARCH — Semiconductor materials and devices, noise, surface, ferromagnetics, infrared optics, microwaves, magnetics, radiation damage, high speed data reduction, etc.
ADMINISTRATION — Production, planning, purchasing, cost analysis, etc.
come and grow with us
Hitch your wagon to the Texas star... work at a plant within the city but away from downtown traffic ... live within 15 minutes of your work or your play — year-around recreational, amusement and cultural activities. A Texas Instrument representative will be on the campus in a few days to give you more details. You may contact the placement office or write —
Texas Instruments
INCORPORATED
6000 LEMMON AVENUE DALLAS 9. TEXAS
Interviews Thursday, November 21
12
The Scholastic
Stanford Hall
Dedication
photos by ED SHAY
ARCHBISHOP O’HARA DEDICATES
i
j
I
THE CROSS IS BLESSED
Archbishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., of Philadelphia, former president of Notre Dame (1934-39) officiated a week ago Saturday at Stanford Hall’s dedication.
Stanford, the seventeenth residence hall, includes 1-50 student rooms, quarters for four Holy Cross priests, an attractive foyer, study hall, and television lounge. The four-story buff brick structure is the gift of Mrs. Grattan T. Stanford of New York and her late husband, a graduate of 1904, who was general counsel of Sinclair Oil Corporation for thirty years prior to his death in 1946.	*
ARCHBISHOP O’HARA GREETS MRS. GRATTAN T. STANFORD
November 8, 1957
13
You MUST be 21 and PROVE it
14
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Weekend
Photos by Bob Fancher
Sorin Hall
“My, isn't this romantic.”
November 8, 1957
CaHifwA Scene
“TIME LIMIT” CURTAIN RISES WEDNESDAY
Ferrone to Play Lead In Theater Production
The University Theater rings up the curtain on its theatrical season next Wednesday with the production of Time Limit, the exciting drama that examines the problem of collaboration with the enemy by American prisoners of war.
Time Limit was first produced on Broadway in January of 1956 as a Theater Guild production. It was recently made into a motion picture with Richard Widmark in the leading role.
Written by Henry Denker and Ralph Berkey, it is the story of an American major who is about to be officially charged with treason. Action of the play shifts back and forth between the court room scene and the prisoner of war camp.
Although the characters and situations of the drama are entirely fictional, the authors based the play on actual accounts of brainwashing done to American prisoners during the Korean War.
Dan Ferrone, a GP junior from Newton, Mass., and veteran of many University Theater productions, will por
‘TIME LIMIT’ CAST REHEARSAL
University Theater production to open on Wednesday
tray Lt. Col. William Edwards in the lead role.
Ferrone was previously seen in the starring role of last spring’s musical Good Neivs and also as “Happy” in Death of a Salesman.
Other major roles in Time Limit include Reginald Bain as Major Harry Cargill, Michael Kennedy as Major Gen. Joseph Connors, Dave Shanahan as Sgt. Charles Baker, Jerry Dodge as Lt. George Miller and Lee Lagessie as Colonel Kim.
Feminine parts are handled by Meg Nerad and Georgia Ann Weber, both of St. Mary’s.
Members of the supporting cast are Bill Chesson, Jim Cooney, Jerry Broderick, Jerry Sebold, Norman Ornellas, Bill DeSeta, Frank Draine, Felix Fisherwood, Frank Nacozy, Ed Fixari and Rudy Hornish.
The Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., is director of the play. Fred W. Syburg of the drama department has coached the performance and technical direction is handled by Gil Rathbun.
Time Limit was received on Broadway with a storm of critical praise and enjoyed a long run.
Brook Atkinson, the distinguished
critic of The New York Times wrote: “Out of a simple case of prison camp treason, the authors have written a stunning drama. They have taken a < look at a horrifying wartime situation that cannot be resisted, and they have asked some searing • questions about it that cannot be dismissed. Their play is an engrossing melodrama that moves into the realm of ideas.
“Like all plays that have vitality in them, Time Limit revises a playgoer’s mind. It makes a contribution to public thinking. And it’s all alive—blunt, harrowing and provocative.”
The authors of Time Limit first became interested in the subject by reading newspaper reports of court martials following the Korean War in which * some G.I.’s were accused of turncoat activities.
What really started them writing their . play was a television interview between newscaster Edward R. Murrow and a soldier-hero who had not broken under I this pressure, though he had nearly 'i done so.	'
This man was not merely any Ameri-
can P.O.W., but the notable Major Gen- 1 eral William F. Dean.	।
One of the authors, Henry Denker, i was struck with the thought that if a seasoned veteran like General Dean, , whose integrity was beyond doubt, could ] be driven to the point of giving in to ’ his captors, then what limit on heroism might there be for a younger, weaker, less dedicated man?
Denker decided that there was a play in this subject and began researching into the legal and psychological aspects of court martials of soldiers who had * broken in Communist prison camps.
Denker also interested a writer-friend of his, Ralph Berkey, in the play and j the two collaborated in writing it. They had previously worked together on a number of scripts for radio and television programs.	«
Working on the technical aspects of the University Theater production are the following: William Clark, stage < manager; Pat Ferris, assistant stage manager; Felix Isherwood, assistant to the stage manager; Dave Neal, electrician; Pete Ruhlin, Charles Koch, electrician assistants; and John Irwin and Alfred Metzger, properties.	i
Working with set construction are J Bill DeSeta, Bernie Lyons, Charlie Hick-	*
man, Rudy Hornish, John Clark, Mike	(
(Continued on page 26)	;
The Scholastic	।
MOOT COURT LINEUP
Tam, Murray, Justices Grant, Brennan, and Biggs, Very, Ragan
Tam, Ragan Win First in Moot Court Finals; Winners to Receive Clarence Manion Award
Architects Participate In 'Chicago1 Meeting
As representatives of the Architects’ Club, Robert Hoffman, president, and Steven Dragos, secretary, attended the events of “Chicago Dynamics Week?’ held in Chicago from Oct. 27 to Nov. 2.
The student representatives were guests of the U. S. Steel Corporation and the Chicago Chapter of the A.I.A. As part of a group composed of ten mid-western universities, they acted as liason between the professionals attending the events and the students of their respective schools as well as participants in the discussions and forums.
The purpose of “Chicago Dynamics Week” is, quoting the Chicago Chapter of the A.I.A. publication Inland Architect: “ . . . dedicated to the sound building and far range planning of the world’s most dynamic city.”
The events of the week consisted of forums, workshops, and exhibits dealing with business, architecture, technology, and the individual. Carl Sandburg, Chicago’s Poet Laureate, read his new poem entitled Chicago Dynamic, for the first time as a high point in the week.
\ Last Monday night Raymond Tam of ' Wahiawa, Oahu, Hawaii, and William Ragan of Buffalo, N. Y., were chosen f winners in the finals of the eighth annual j Notre Dame Moot Court held before an I audience of 400 in the Engineering | auditorium.
The two winners will represent Notre A Dame at the regional Moot Court com-’ . petition to be held in Chicago next month. In addition, they will receive the Clarence E. Manion award and $100 cash. The runners up, John Murray of Elmira, N. Y., and Donald Very of Pittsburgh, Pa., received $50.
The Court which heard the arguments * was headed by the Hon. William J. {Brennan, Jr., Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. _ Justice Brennan is the sixth Catholic to (l serve on the Supreme Court and was appointed to this office in 1956. Earlier in the afternoon, he addressed the ND ’ Law students on the future of a law career.
He was assisted by the Hon. John Biggs, Jr., Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and the Hon. Robert A. Grant of the United States District Court for ‘P the Northern District of Indiana. Judge j Grant substituted for the Hon. Henry j Graven, Judge of the United States a* District Court for the Northern District I of Iowa, who was unable to appear. • Judge Grant, a Notre Dame graduate , and former professor of law at Notre I
I November 8, 1957
Dame, was an Indiana Congressman.
Originally scheduled for Oct. 28, the arguments had to be postponed to last Monday because of the death of the mother of Associate Justice Harlan of the Supreme Court. Professional courtesy called for the members of the Court to attend the funeral of Justice Harlan’s mother. As a result, Associate Justice Brennan was unable to appear on the date planned.
The hypothetical case which was argued was designated as Hannible Gunn, individually and as Secretary of the Department of Defense, and Edicott Wherry, individually and as Director, Officer of Industrial Personnel Review, Department of Defense, petitioners, versus Newton P. Ohm, respondent.
Counsel for the petitioners was Murray and Tam while the counsel for the respondent was Ragan and Very. The case that was argued is the same as that to be argued in the forthcoming National Moot Court Competition, sponsored annually by the Young Lawyers Committee of the New York City Bar Association, and concerned the Federal Industrial Security Program dealing with security regulations applicable to industries holding defense contracts.
The respondent, Newton P. Ohm, was a guided missile expert working on a government contract for a private firm. Acting on a directive from the Department of Defense, Ohm’s employer informed him that his clearance for classi
fied material was discontinued and as a result released him from his job without pay.
The suspension was due to the fact that his wife, prior to their marriage, had been seen in the company of Soviet diplomats and also with another person suspected of being a Communist spy.
Upon being suspended, Ohm petitioned for and was granted a hearing by the New York Industrial Personnel Hearing Board which decided against him and refused to permit him to cross-examine the witnesses and even denied to reveal the names of his accusers due to national security.
Ohm appealed this decision to the Industrial Security Review Board where his appeal was denied. He then requested Hannible Gunn, Secretary of Defense, to revoke the security clearance suspension but the secretary refused.
Following this Ohm filed a suit in the United States District Court which decided in his favor and ordered the reinstatement of his security clearance. On a writ of Centiorari, the case was sent to the Supreme Court of the United States where the final arguments of the Moot Court were supposedly held.
The officers of this year’s Moot Court were Very and Ragan, who were the director and executive director. John Rigby was chancellor while the secretary and clerk of the court was Tom Oglevie. The director of public relations was Walt Wolf. Prof. Edward F. Barrett served as faculty advisor.
19
Senate Inaugurates 13 New Members Oct. 27; Fr. Hope Gives Principal Speech to Group
Thirteen new members of the Student Senate were inaugurated into their offices on October 27 in the Student Centex- by the Chief Justice of the Student Court, Remy Franzen.
The Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., authox- of Notre Dame One Hundred Years, was the principal speaker. He opened his talk by mentioning several
FATHER HOPE All about Sorin
letters he had just received from Father-Sorin. In one of these messages Father Sorin told of sunning himself in Florida while watching all the girls go by.
He then went on to compare Church government to student government here at Notre Dame. He cited the x-igidity of the rule of the Church, the ruling powex- being in the hands of very few, mainly the pope. It is not surprising then that the studexxt government’s power at Notre Dame is somewhat limited by the same rigidity ox- centralization of powex- in the hands of a few.
In the early days of the school the Student Senate, then a sox-t of student council, had more powex- than it does now. The students, thx-ough this organization, used to handle all the athletic activities. However, a keen x-ivalx-y developed between Sorin Hall and Brownson Hall, which used to be in the Main Building, as to which hall would handle athletics. This, along with an expansion in the athletic program, led to the University taking ovex- athletics.
Father Hope tried to express how Fathex’ Sorin would have felt towards these changes and how he would have tried to adopt the student government’s activities to the changing times.
After Father Hope’s talk Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president of student affairs, was introduced. He told how the administration felt towards student government and how it handled $200,000 a year in sponsoring various activities. He also stated that student government had come of age and now if it could prove itself capable, the administration would certainly be willing to give it greater responsibilities.
Next, Jerry Brady, student body president, explained the theory of student government and representation here at Notre Dame. Brady stated that it is “the duty of the representative not only to represent but to educate his constituents.”	’
Following Brady’s inspiring talk, the new senators were formally inaugurated by Franzen. The evenings activities ended with a prayer by the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vicepresident, who also gave a few words of encouragement to the new senators and reminded them that they had the duty to fulfill their job to the best of their abilty.
Prioi- to the evening’s activities there was an afternoon gathering in the Center of all the newly-elected senators
along with the Senate officers.
The purpose of this meeting was to orientate the new senators with the policies, constitution, and activities of the Student Senate. President Bx-ady also spoke on the various projects of the Student Senate’s executive commissions.
After- this the new senators were separated into small discussion groups of three ox- four.
Then about five o’clock all the sena

-KM WITTE.
tors gathered in Center’s conference room for an impromptu answer period. Each senator was supposed to say what first came into his mind, if anything, when certain questions were asked. The questions were mainly on the various gripes heard around the campus.
A tape recorder was set up to record this session, but unfortunately it was found out—after the session—that the microphone hadn’t been tested and nothing had been recorded. However, not all was lost. Notes were taken by various secretaries. These notes will be mimeographed and posted at a latex- date.
Center Party to Revive 'Gay Twenties1 Nov. 16
The annual “Gay Twenties” party will be held at the Student Center next Saturday, Nov. 16. This party is to be one of the highlights of the fall social season stated Pat Rodgers, social commissioner, and it will take the place of the victory dance following the Oklahoma game at Norman.
Costumes are advisable, but not necessary. Prizes will be awarded fox- the funniest and most original costumes and there will be an award fox* the costume that nxost depicts .“the spirit of the twenties.”
Gene Bertoncini’s Dixieland Combo
will provide a musical atmosphere similar to those of the twenties whexx they play such former hits as “Charleston,” “Blackbottom,” and “Charmaine.” There may be an impromptu pianist in the Rathskellax- to provide entertainment foxcouples desiring a less robust evening.
Students are urged to get theix- dates early in order- to work up costumes. The dance is from 8:30 till 11:30 p.m. and tickets may be purchased at the door.
20
The Scholastic
^Fitzsimons Condemns Middle East Policies
l .. United States policy in the Middle East, geared to the containment of Com-■ .munism as enunciated by the Truman and Eisenhower Doctrines, has had only limited success because it “has not been .consistently maintained,” according to ' Dr. Matthew A Fitzsimons, editor of ‘Notre Dame’s Review of Politics.
Writing in the October issue of the Reviezv on “The Suez Crisis and the
HELP SUPPORT THE Holy Cross Missions Bengal, Texas, South America
Religious Christmas Cards
. Containment Policy,” the history professor suggests that “perhaps, indeed, American foreign policy only operates with fullest energy when directly confronted with a serious Soviet threat.”
. Containment, Fitzsimons says, is the policy of “creating situations of strength which would prevent the extension of Communist power and influence in the
. world.” Such a policy, he insists, “requires continuity if it is to be effective; it cannot simply be used sporadically k and only for the acute manifestations of crisis. The containment policy was drawn up for what was correctly diagnosed as a long-term crisis.”
The Eisenhower Doctrine, promulgated in the midst of the Suez turmoil, “marked the debut of the United
1 States as the Western power with major responsibility for the Midle East,” Fitzsimons points out. It expressed the determination of the United States to use its armed forces in behalf of any Middle Eastern state which—in the President’s
Three Popular Choices:
□ TRADITIONAL RELIGIOUS CARDS
□ MODERN LITURGICAL ASSORTMENT
□ BERTA HUMMEL CHRISTMAS CARDS
$1.00 FOR A BOX
ALL PROCEEDS GO TO THE HOLY CROSS MISSIONS
Send coupon to:
MOREAU SEMINARY MISSION SOCIETY
Dept. M., Notre Dame, Indiana
words—requested “such aid against overt armed aggression from any nation controlled by international Communism.”
Noting that the employment of such forces would have to be consistent with our treaty obligations and committments to the United Nations, Fitzsimons dedeclares that the United States has “gambled heavily on the U N and placed a burden on that organization which may put its very existence at stake.
“In spite of the profession of American policy, and the very grave dangers in the use of force, is it likely that the United States, if faced by a dire threat to its vital interests, will refrain from the use of force, and trust its interests.
Ybu’H dance with confidence after your very first lesson at Arthur Murray’s
mins LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
Are you getting as much fun out of dancing as you should— or are you dancing in the dark? Arthur Murray believes that
dancing should be fun and that everyone has a dormant dancing ability! After only a few lessons at Arthur Murray’s you’ll find this ability coming to life and new poise and confidence will be yours. So come into Arthur Murray’s now and dance out of the darkness into the light of new popularity.
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
ARTHUR MURRAY
School of Dancing
120 E. Wayne ARTHUR MURRAY CE2-3339
November 8, 1957
21
Now is the time to talk about
Representatives of
International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation will be interviewing Engineers and Physicists
at NOTRE DAME
on November 14
for positions with the following IT&T Divisions and Associate Companies
FARNSWORTH ELECTRONICS COMPANY
Fort Wayne, Indiana
FEDERAL TELECOMMUNICATION LABORATORIES
-	Nutley, New Jersey and San Fernando, California
FEDERAL TELEPHONE AND RADIO COMPANY
Clifton, New Jersey
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION
San Fernando, California
KELLOGG SWITCHBOARD AND SUPPLY COMPANY
Chicago, Illinois and Corinth, Mississippi
AMERICAN CABLE & RADIO CORPORATION
New York, New York
COMPONENTS DIVISION
Clifton, New Jersey and Palo Alto, California
FEDERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATION
Lodi and Paramus, New Jersey
INTELEX SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
New York, New York
ROYAL ELECTRIC CORPORATION
Pawtucket and Woonsocket, Rhode Island
IT&T TELEPHONE AND RADIO OPERATING GROUP
New York, New York
For details, consult with your Placement Officer now, and sign up for a scheduled interview with IT&T representatives. You may be certain that we are looking forward to meeting you.
INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH CORPORATION
67 Broad Street, New York 4, New York
22
’Alpine* Hat Sales Net Marketing Club $400
Twenty-two hundred “Alpine” hats were sold, and a §400 profit was made ~ in the Marketing club’s green-hat sale which ended last week, Jack Eaton, green-hat sale chairman announced recently.
The sale, conducted by the members of the Marketing club, had the double । purpose of providing the students with experience in selling products and of raising funds for the club’s operating expenses.
Twenty-five per cent of the total profit made in the campaign will be donated to the “Bengal Bouts,” the benefit boxing tournament staged in the spring. The proceeds from the tournament are | used to aid the Bengal missionaries in India.
The total number of hats sold, accord- ; ing to Eaton, equaled that of last year. The club sold 2200 hats during the week of the Pitt game, while last year it took the club two weeks to match that i number.
Another" project planned by the club is the publishing of a periodic news- . paper for the nearly 1700 students en- ; rolled in the College of Commerce. De- i tails of the paper are now being planned, j according to Jim Law, president of the ‘' Marketing club.
The newspaper, aimed to present the “voice of the commerce departments,”	,.
will feature announcements and activities pertaining to commerce students. The paper will also contain information relative to the advantages and policies of the marketing, accounting, and other departments within the college. Articles 11 by the dean of the college and other members of the commerce faculty will be presented in the paper at various times throughout the school year.
If the approval is granted by the proper University authority, the first issue -will be printed in the latter part *• of this month.
Student Delegates to Attend Conference Here on Dec. 6-7
Over 200 student delegates will attend the regional Association of College Unions conference which will be held here at Notre Dame, Dec. 6 and 7.
Jerry Brady, student body president, will give the main address of the conference. He -will speak on the philosophy of the student-run union here at Notre Dame. Brady will also explain how the ' | system works here and why it could not L work at other universities. This will be the first time a student has addressed ,4* the conference.
Notre Dame is a member of region six of the Association.
The Scholastic j
(
Symposium to Cover Areas of Life in U.S.
• The second part of a Notre Dame 14 symposium on “What America Stands
■For” is being held today when scholars .'will discuss five important areas of ^twentieth century life in the United States. The sessions will be spon-- sored by Notre Dame’s Committee on . ^International Relations, a research group J’.rwhose work is supported in part by the
Rockefeller Foundation.
Symposium speakers and their subjects are: Prof. Charles Hardin, University of Chicago, “American Agriculture”; Chancellor Clark Kerr, Uni-1 . versity of California at Berkeley, “Labor and Management Relations in the United | States”; Prof. Karl de Schweinitz, Jr., Northwestern University, “The American Economic System”; Prof. Thomas - . J. Stritch, University of Notre Dame, “Film and Television in the United States”; and Prof. Guy P. Johnson, University of North Carolina, “Freedom, Equality, Segregation.”
Professors Hardin and Kerr spoke at a session opening at 9:30 a.m., in the Law Auditorium. Prof. Stephen Kertesz, head of the Committee on Inter-' national Relations, also spoke at the I opening session, giving a report on the J first part of the symposium held last
March 29-30. Professors de Schweinitz and Stritch gave talks in the Nieuwland Science Hall this afternoon. Prof. Johnson will speak at the Law Auditorium at 8 p.m.
Established in 1948, the Committee on International Relations has published twelve books and sponsored a number £ of campus symposia. Committee members, in addition to Prof. Kertesz, are M. A. Fitzsimons, editor of Notre Dame’s Review of Politics and professor of history; F. A. Hermens and John J. Kennedy of the political science department; and W. 0. Shanahan, professor k- of history.
Book Exchange Reveals Semester Office Hours
Bill McCullough, manager of the Book Exchange, announced that the office will > be open from 2 to 4 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons throughout the rest of the semester.
Book sales and redemptions can be made at this time. McCullough also noted that because of the tremendous change-over of textbooks this year by 4 the University there are a considerable I number of books left. Students can either pick these up or wait and let , the exchange sell them to used book * dealers.
The Book exchange is located on the bottom floor of the Main Building.
Knights of Columbus to Hold Smoker Thursday Evening
The Knights of Columbus will hold a smoker next Thursday. Transportation will be provided at the Circle at 7:30 p.m.
A second First Degree exemplification has been scheduled for Dec. 2. This initiation will be for members that have been accepted since the one held last Monday. On Dec. 15 a second and third degree initiation will be put on.
New members will be accepted through the month of November by membership Chairman Carl Edmundson.
PROBLEM:
How to get home for Vacation?
SOLUTION:
Fly United Air Lines fast Mainliners®!
Save valuable vacation time by flying fast, dependable United Air Lines Mainliners. Radar-equipped for smoother flights, greater on-time reliability. Convenient schedules, including luxurious Red Carpet* Service. Call United or your travel agent.
♦Red Carpet is a service mark owned and used by United Air Lines, Inc.
BREEN’S JEWELRY . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Silverware Men's and Women’s Costume Jewelry Four Ways to Buy. Cash, Charge, Layaway, Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing 325 South Michigan	AT 7-3630
charter a
Oa/uiuuil &uA
John w. birk, charter agent 158 alumni hall
November 8, 1957
I
23
Detroit Edison Co. Electrical Power
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
Research and Development Plant and System Design Equipment Engineering Planning for Growth Purchasing Sales
Electrical - Mechanical Engineers
RESERVE YOUR APPOINTMENT TIME AT PLACEMENT OFFICE TO SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT
Thursday, Nov. 14
Let Perfection
Keepsake
A M 0 N D RINGS
PINECLIFFE TRIO
Man’s Ring $42.50 Engagement Ring $200.00 Wedding Ring $35.00
CHOOSE A KEEPSAKE
For outstanding quality, beauty and value, you can not choose better than a Keepsake Diamond Ring. Look for the name Keepsake in the ring and on the tag.
Ring! eniargea u> show details. Prices include Federal Tax.
121 West Washington
CREDIT OR LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
Hall Decorations Title Taken by Lyons Hall
Lyons Hall was named the winner of the hall decorations contest by Don J Corbett, homecoming chairman, at the victory dance last Saturday night.
Following Lyons in the judges’ balloting were Dillon and Morrissey Halls, while Cavanaugh Hall won the award for the best freshman hall display.
Each winning hall will receive a per- , manent trophy which will remain on display in the respective halls.
Lyon’s winning display featured an Irish football player sending a Navy player into the stratosphere as another “sputnik.”
Dillon’s second place display closely + resembled the new modernistic greeting ' cards with its downtrodden midshipman.
Morrissey captured third place with a ship built over the entrance to the hall. While the outside of the hall resembled the exterior of a ship, the hall lounge was decorated and lighted like the interior of a Navy vessel.
Cavanaugh’s freshman display featured a large Irish place kicker booting a Middie over the goal posts into a graveyard where past Irish victims had already been buried.
The contest judges were Rev. James C. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in s charge of student affairs; Rev. Anthony Lauck, a member of the fine arts department; Frank Montana, head of the , Department of Architecture; and John Smith, also a member of the arts department.
The football mural room of the huddle , was christened the Time Out during the homecoming week end.	4
The winning entry was submitted by Gene Dolan, 334 Badin; Tom Banchoff, 235 Lyons; and Paul Murphy, 361 Cavanaugh.
'Spartan Spree' Planned < For Center Tomorrow
The “Spartan Spree” will be held tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Gene Bertoncini will provide the music for the affair. Price of admission to the * dance is one dollar per couple.
On Saturday the Social Commission is sponsoring a large screen telecast of the . Notre Dame-Michigan State game in the Drill Hall. Tickets will be sold for fifty cents at the door. However, in the future, tickets will be sold on the Wednesday prior to the game.
Climaxing the week’s social activities will be a freshman mixer to be held on Sunday in the Rathskeller of the Student ’ Center from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m.
1
The Scholastic 1
24
^Executive Holiday1 Planned As Commerce Ball Theme £
§ The 1957 Commerce Ball, which will he held in the LaFortune Student Center on Friday, Nov. 22, from 9 p.m.
; till 1 a.m., will have “Executive Holi-Say” as its theme, Chairman Bob Mass-• man announced. The music will be provided by Dan Belloc.
The dance will be followed up by a j Communion Breakfast to be held in the ‘Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn on /Sunday, Nov. 24.
There are a limited number of bids left which may be purchased from Massman in 125 Alumni.
PHILOSOPHY MEETING
The first meeting of the newly organized Philosophy club will be held Tuesday at 7:30 in the Student Center.
All upperclassmen who are interested are invited to attend.
The speaker will be John F. Anderson. He will give a short talk on “What is Thomism?”
^RWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777

SENIORS, GRADUATES
IN ENGINEERING, PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS
U 5
MEET THE MEN FROM
AMERICA’S MOST-DIVERSIFIED ENGINEERING FIRM
Wednesday, November 20
RESEARCH • ENGINEERING • MANUFACTURING
Electronics........Electro-mechanics........Ultrasonics.........Systems Analysis
Computers..........Automation and Controls........Nucleonics.........Hydraulics
Instrumentation........Solid State Physics........Combustion.........Metallurgy
Communications........Carburetion........Radar........Structures
BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION Diviaton* Located Throaghoat the United State*
Executive Offices: fisher Bldg., Detroit 2, Midi.
November 8, 1957	-
g
Classified Advertising

£
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Monday of the week of insertion.
SERVICES
TYPING—Prompt service. Reasonable rates. Brad-
ley Secretarial Service. 416 JMS Bldg.. 108 X.
Main St. Phone CEntral 3-9466.
THESIS and Dissertation Typing Wanted, by an expel ienccd. accurate typist. Reasonable rates. Call ATIantic 9-2826. June Walters, R. R. No. 6 20101 Miller Road.
E r
I
PERSONALS_______________________
ANNOUNCEMENT: Club meeting, ticket sales, lose something? Save time and expense of posting notices on the bulletin boards. Do it the easy, cheap way with Classified Ads.
OPPORTUNITIES
E
Students with Bachelor Degrees in
|*k|MMRK8
★ CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
★ CHEMISTRY
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS___________________
RAYTHEON MANUFACTURING CO., INC.
Tuesday, November 12.
BENDIX AVIATION Wednesday, November 20.
INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CORP. Thursday, November 14.
DETROIT EDISON COMPANY Thursday, November 14.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS, INC. Thursday. Novem-ber 21,______________
E. I. DUPONT DE NEMOURS & CO., INC.
November 18, 19. 20, 21.
MELPAR Thursday. November 21.
GENERAL CHEMICAL DIVISION Monday, November 18.
INLAND STEEL Wednesday, November 13.

Wranglers Discuss 'Right to Work Laws'
The Wrangler meeting this past Wednesday was graced by the presence of one of its most distinguished honorary members, Paul Coffey. Coffey proved himself more than equal to the occasion by presenting the membership with his insights into the philosophical implications of the current debate topic, “The Right To Work Laws.”
Coffey, one of the mainstays of the outstanding Notre Dame debating society, prefaced his discussion by pointing out the lack of any real conflict between the rhetorical and the intellectual approach to a debate question ... by

4
pointing, rather, to the curious plementary relationship which between them.
“Should a man become simply a
com-exists
pawn
of compulsory unionism,” suggested Coffey, “is not a question of merely economic concern . . . rather, it has the most profoundly philosophical roots, finding their origins in man’s inalienable rights to life and freedom of conscience and in the difficult question of the subordination of personal goods to the common good of a particular economic society in a given instance.”
Coffey doffed his customary rhetorical attack in favor of a more forthright form of exposition. And his informal approach was greeted, at the end of his presentation, by a flurry of stimulating issues centering around the nature of individual and social rights, the problem of absolute and conditional rights, and the nature of the common good.
“The Wranglers have always been intensely concerned with the application of philosophical insights to the concrete, work-a-day world of reality,” concluded Coffey, “but, I feel certain that we are following faithfully in the spirit of that tradition by attempting to explore the
philosophical implications of vital problem in our world today.”—Pat Hefernan
this most of reality
h
★ MECHAHICAL EHGIHEERIHG
This is a chance to get a head start in your professional career with ALLIED CHEMICAL’S General Chemical Division.
Company representatives will be on the campus for interviews:
MONDAY, NOV. 18, 1957
Contact Your Placement Office Today For Appointment and Descriptive Literature.
ALLIED CHEMICAL
GENERAL CHEMICAL DIVISION
40 Rector Street, New York 6, N. Y.
on Interview
I hemical
'Time Limit'
(Continued from page
18)
Koch, Dave McDonald, Dan O’Neill, Tim Collins and Dave Neal.
Reginald Bain is in charge of the wardrobe and Joe McArdle, Al Bosch and John Clark handled the publicity.
The play will continue through Sun-.day on the Washington Hall stage. Curtain time each evening is 8:30 p.m.
Tickets will go on sale at the theater box office Monday from 3:30 until 8:30 p.m. They may also be purchased any day throughout the week at the same time. Prices for students and University personnel are $1 for orchestra seats and $.75 for balcony.

26
The Scholastic
&

Grotto Trips Will Bring New Indulgences in *58
Catholics who visit the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes here on the campus during 1958, the centennial year of the Virgin Mary’s apparitions at Lourdes, France, will receive special indulgences recently granted by the Church.
According to The Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., who recently conferred with Church officials at -the Vatican and at Lourdes, a plenary indulgence may be obtained by members of any group that visit the campus shrine during the centennial year, especially on Feb. 11, the feast of Our Lady of Lourdes.
Persons who visit the Grotto as individuals will receive a partial indulgence, he said. Father Schaerf is director of the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes whose headquarters are on the campus.
Campus Club Council Started To Help Local Organizations
Plans are now being made by the newly formed Campus Club Council to promote campus club activities, study their problems, and make recommendations that might help the various campus organizations.
The Council will place a movie and lecture pool at the club’s disposal and also plans to have joint club meetings with Saint Mary’s clubs of the same interests.
Guest speakers at the first meeting of the Council were: Jerry Brady, student body president; Paul Coffey, chairman of the student development program; and Bill Griffith, student academic commissioner.
The meeting closed with the election of representatives for the commission. Those elected were: Dan Lamont, Mike Gallagher, James Law, Bob Devine, Richard Wilson, Gerald Hayes, and Joseph Knott.
Examination Date Set For Teachers Feb. 15
The National Teacher Examinations will be given at 250 testing centers throughout the United States on Saturday, Feb. 15, 1958.
At the one-day testing session a candidate may take the Common Examinations, which include tests in professional information, general culture, English expression, and non-verbal reasoning; and one or two of eleven optional examinations designed to demonstrate mastery of subject matter to be taught.
A bulletin of information may be obtained directly from the National Teacher Examinations, Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau St., Princeton, N. J.
At the Movies
COLFAX
Time Limit: (A-l). Richard Widmark stars in what is probably the best movie to come to South Bend this year. The story revolves around an Army officer whose turn-coat activities are incomprehensible in the light of his previous superb record. The rapid moving action is pushed to the limit by tremendous acting on the part of all members of the cast.
Actually the show offers an excellent opportunity to compare the various theatric media. The University Theatre’s stage production of Time Limit promises to be well done itself and as a result the critical observer should be able to come to definite conclusions on the comparative advantages and disadvantages of cinema and legitimate theatre. Might make a good paper for Rhet. & Comp.
GRANADA
The Ten Commandments: (A-l). Continues for another week.
AVON
Until They Sail: Adapted from a novel by James Michener, this is the war story of American occupation forces and their rather intimate relations with New Zealand women whose men are off to war themselves. Although it is slightly colored by “Hollywoodisms” the show does serve as a superficial social study in regard to the harm done to the moral fiber of people when their society is violently disrupted.
The Invisible Boy: (Oct. 13). Robbie Robot rides again! Actually this show is a prophetical allegory of the salvation of our scientifically materialistic society. Robbie represents the technological domination under which Modern Man labors. Finally, just when he is about to demolish the entire nation Robbie comes up with a heart of gold, which represents the rational recognition of true values, and relents. Thus the nation is saved from self-destruction.
PALACE
The Palace Theatre has asked that the Scholastic refrain from mentioning the choice productions which it offers for public consumption. The Scholastic is more than happy to honor this request.
RIVER PARK
The Lonely Man: Jack Palance portrays the violent gunman who finally is awakened to his valueless life by seeing the effect it has on his son who acts like a chip off the old block. Many factors combine to prevent Palance from accomplishing a transformation into a decent citizen but in the end he accomplishes such by dying in a fight for righteousness.
Co-hit: The Beast of Hollow Mountain.
The Pride and the Passion: (Oct. 10). Stars Cary Grant, Frank Sinatra and legions of other men. Oh yes, also Sophia Loren. This really is the story of a big gun, not the Big Man on Campus type, but just an ordinary , old cannon. Cary, Frank, and Sophia and their legions of marching men try to get the thing across Spain, which is really a chore on account of the mountains and things.
Co-hit: Men Against the Arctic.
STATE	.
Dragoon Wells Massacre: This one is really a double treat because it has both cowboys and Indians. For a change the Indians are the bad guys.
Co-hit: The Badge of Marshal Brennan: Only in a great while does a show such as this come to the State. Centering around a killer turned marshal it has some good fight scenes and in the end he gets the girl. They ride off into the twilight and supposedly, will lead a normal married life in the future. Thus they live happily evei* after. -
Reform School Girls: (Nov. 10). This movie portrays the development of culture in one of oui- leading institutions.
Co-hit: Rock Around the World.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Delicate Delinquent: Jerry Lewis goes it alone in his first dramatic role.	’
November 8, 1957
27
FALL INTERVIEWS
The Rev. Louis J. Th<... .on, C.S.C., director of the Placement Bureau, announced that interviews of January, June and August 1958 graduates has begun.
Literature and other information regarding these interviews may be obtained in the placement annex, Room 1 18, Main Building, each week Monday through Thursday from 1 p.m. until 5 p.m.
(JEWELS
Surplus Store
“The store ‘with the two dummies in front"
INSIGNIAS—PARKAS NAVY OXFORDS
512 S. MICH. ST. AT 7-6277
GEOLOGY LECTURE
Dr. Warren O. Thompson, chairman of the department of geology and geography of the University of Colorado at Boulder, will lecture on “Ancient Beaches in Oil Finding” in Room 350 of the Administration Building next Tuesday at 1 p.m. He will appear under the auspices of the Notre Dame geology department and the distinguished lecture committee of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists.
FOR MEN	(N UNBREAKABLE
PLASTIC I
Formulated for a man's hair and scalp.
Conditions while it cleans. 1.25 plus to> SHULTON
New York • Toronto
AVAILABLE AT THE
Notre Dame Bookstore
ON THE CAMPUS
28
The Scholastic
i'uik SceM

SPARTANS POSE SEASON’S BIGGEST TEST
Irish Journey to East Lansing Tomorrow For Tilt With Highly Ranked Michigan State
by E. COLLINS THOMPSON
Notre Dame and Michigan State, both beaten once this season, will clash in the expanded Spartan Stadium at East Lansing tomorrow afternoon at 12:30, South Bend time. The Irish, their four game victory streak broken by Navy last Saturday, will seek to make the Spartans their fifth victim of the year.
Three weeks ago today the Spartans were ranked the best team in the country in both the major national polls. The next day an inspired Purdue team upset them, 20-13. Since then Michigan State has whipped Illinois and Wisconsin and enters the game with a 5-1 record, compared to 4-1 for the Irish.
S'*
The Spartans have 27 of 40 lettermen returning from the squad that humbled the Irish, 47-14, last fall. Gone from that team are halfbacks Clarence Peaks and Dennis Mendyk who scored three touchdowns between them in that game.
However, MSU doesn’t lack backfield talent with the “Sprinting Blacksmith” Walt Kowalczyk and speedster Blanche Martin at the halfback positions. Kowalczyk was injured most of last year and played only sporadically. But the ankle injury has not bothered the 205-pound senior this fall as he has been the outstanding gainer in the powerful Spartan ground attack.
PAT BURKE Spartan Captain
At left half the 190-pound Martin is the fastest man in the Michigan State backfield. Martin has stepped in the post vacated by Peaks and has filled in most capably. He is able to break away for long gains at any time and scored the winning touchdown in the Spartans’
WALT KOWALCZYK SMU Powerhouse
19-14 win over Illinois in the homecoming game at East Lansing two Saturdays ago.
At quarterback the Spartans will have senior Jim Ninowski, who was the “Most Outstanding Player” in last spring’s Old Timers game. Ninowski is rated State’s best passer since All-American Earl Morall. So far this season Ninowski is leading the Big Ten in passing, and his tosses were instrumental in the Spartans’ first two touchdowns against Wisconsin last Saturday. When Ninowski was hurt earlier in the season, junior- Mike Panitch took over and directed the team ably.
Fullbacks Don Gilbert and Don Arend round out the Spartan backfield. While not exceptionally big, both are fast and averaged over five yards a carry last year. Gilbert has been operating with the first string unit.
End is probably State’s strongest position. Back from last year’s team
MARTIN BLANCHE State halfback
are left end Tony Kolodziej, who led the 1956 Spartan wingmen with seven catches good for 221 yards, and Dave Kaiser, who was out most of last year but paced the ends as a sophomore with twelve receptions, 343 yards, and two touchdowns. Kaiser also kicks the extra points. Harold Dukes and Larry Harding back up these two.
Captain Pat Burke, a 205-pound senior, is mentioned as a definite AllAmerican candidate this fall. Burke has power, mobility and is praised by Spartan followers for his desire. Les Rutledge and Joe Carruthers have also been working from tackle positions.
Ellison Kelly, a 225-pounder, moved into the starting right guard berth midway during the season and has nailed down this position by his powerful line play. Quick for a big man, the 6-2 junior is slated to be one of State’s outstanding men up front.
John Middleton moved up to the starting left guard spot after Arch Matsos was sidelined for the season by a knee injury suffered in spring practice. The 24-year old service veteran played football at Fort Benning, Georgia, before coming to State.
Center- Dan Currie, a converted guard, made the switch to center during spring drills and progressed so rapidly he was named the most improved performer in spring practice. The 225-pound senior has been a standout guard for the Spartans for the past two years. Behind him is senior Don Berger.
November 8, 1957
29
By Inches
Middies Dump Irish i
That Man Again
Stopped by a shoestring
30
The Scholastic
Irish Cross-Country Team at Indianapolis For Annual Big State Meet This Afternoon
’ After compiling a 2-1 record in dual meets and winning the hexagonal meet here two weeks ago, the Notre Dame cross country team will travel to Indianapolis for the annual Big State Meet this afternoon.
The Irish defeated last year’s winner i ' Indiana, 25-30, in a dual meet this fall an expect their roughest competition from the Hoosiers.
This meet is the combination Big State and Little State Meet. The meet [ is open to any team in the state. All ' the teams run together. Then the Irish and Hoosier finishers are taken separately, and the point totals of these two teams compiled. In the past Purdue was included in this group, but the Boilermakers no longer compete in cross country.
The winner of the Notre Dame-Indi-s ana duel is the Big State champion, and the winner from among the rest of the participating schools is the Little State champion.
Since Purdue does not run in the meet any more, it has developed into little more than a dual meet for the Irish with their downstate rivals. Indiana is led by their outstanding sophomore Dick Pond. Ed Monnelly, leading Irish runner, barely beat Pond in the earlier meeting between the two at Notre Dame. Monnelly and Pond should be the two top men in today’s meet also, according to Coach Alex Wilson.
For this meet the Irish are in their best physical condition of the year. Captain Dale VandenBerg has recovered completely from the flu which kept him out of the earlier Indiana meet. Sophomore Galen Cawley was also out with flu, and, while he might still be a week away, he will compete at Indianapolis.
: ’ Following their dual meet victories over Marquette and Indiana, Notre Dame entertained five other teams on Burke Memorial Course before absorbing their first loss of the season in a dual meet with Michigan State at i East Lansing.
J4 In the hexagonal meet, the Irish tal-t lied 42 points to edge second place West-I ern Michigan by a scant two points.
Michigan was third with 63 points, ’ Bowling Green fourth with 90 points, Central Michigan fifth with 113 points, and Loyola sixth with 165 points.
A Notre Dame’s Monnelly finished first in the meet with a time of 20:12.2. John Wardle of Western Michigan took second, about 15 yards behind Monnelly.
‘ Top placers for the Irish in addition to Monnelly were Dave Cotton, fourth; John Burns, seventh; VandenBerg, 14th; and Vic Dillon, 16th. VandenBerg ran
November 8, 1957
although sick, and Cawley missed the meet altogether.
A week ago yesterday, Michigan State handed the Irish their first loss. The NCAA champions, two years running, grabbed the first three places in the meet before Monnelly crossed the finish line for Notre Dame. The Spartans were led by their talented brother combination, Crawford and Henry Kennedy, who finished first and second. It was the Spartans’ second victory of the season without a defeat.
Coach Wilson commented that Michigan State was definitely tougher than Indiana. But he also felt that the Irish will show up better against the Spartans in the bigger meets later in the year than they did last week.
He stated that the boys could take the Big State Meet if they run well. “We beat Indiana once this year and should be able to do it again. But the Hoosiers are a fine team, and we will have to come up with an excellent performance to win it.”
After this Notre Dame has only three more meets on their schedule — the Central Collegiate Conference Meet in Chicago next Friday, the IC4A Meet in New York on November 18, and the NCAA Meet on the 25th of November at East Lansing, Michigan.
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Army over Utah Auburn over Miss. St. Boston College over Boston U. Oregon St. over California Colorado over Colorado St. Dartmouth over Columbia Miami over Florida St.
Princeton over Harvard Michigan over Illinois Iowa over Minnesota Penn St. over Marquette Michigan St. over Notre Dame Mississippi over LSU Oklahoma over Missouri N. Carolina St. over William & Mary Wisconsin over Northwestern Ohio St. over Purdue Oregon over Washington Yale over Penn Pitt over West Virginia Arkansas over Rice Stanford over So. California Syracuse over Holy Cross Texas over Baylor Idaho over Utah St.
LAST WEEK
17 Right; 6 Wrong; 2 Ties Season: 102 Right; 33 Wrong; 5 Ties. Pct. .765
Novice Boxers Train For December Bouts
The 1957 Novice Boxing championships will take place during the first week of December in the fieldhouse. Positive dates have not been set but the bouts will probably take place on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons of that week.
This year the bouts are being supervised by the Bengal Bouters Club. Those members working with the fighters are Ed Ricciuti, the 142-pound champion in last year’s Bengals, Leighton Young, last year’s runner-up in the 137-pound class, Bill Brelsford, who captured the 160-pound crown last year, Eugene Perry, who fought in the 137-pound class and John Murray, who fought in the 127-pound class two years ago.
Seventy-six fighters have turned out for this year’s novice competition. The workouts started three weeks ago. The first four weeks of training are devoted only to the teaching of the fundamentals and training techniques. No sparring is allowed during this period. During the last two weeks actual contact work will be employed in order to set up the pairings for the bouts. The fighters will then be paired off according to ability. There will be eight weight classes including the 127, 137, 142, 147, 157, 167, 177 and heavyweight.
The novice championships are held every year in the fall semester in order to teach the fundamentals of boxing to those interested in entering the annual Bengal Bouts. In past years, the bouts have enjoyed much popularity and success in the fact that much of the training time has been devoted to instruction in the techniques of boxing.
BOXER AND FRIEND — It’s all work
31
Michigan State:
The Irish Nemesis
by Joe Bride
For the past six years, Michigan State has been the most consistently bothersome of all the Irish football foes. And, the Spartan record over the Irish from 1950 to 1956, is the best showing a team has ever made against Notre Dame.
Since 1950 the Spartans have defeated the Irish five of six times, winning in 1950, 1951, 1952, 1955 and 1956.
The lone Irish win in that period was in head coach Terry Brennan’s first season, 1954. Previously, Notre Dame had scored wins in 1948 and 1949.
But, things weren’t always that way. The Irish first met the Spartans on the gridiron in 1897 and scored a bruising, 34-6, win over the Michigan Agricultural College, as Michigan State was then known.
In the next 14 games of the series, dating to 1921, the Irish won twelve times, shutting out the Aggies in each of those victories.
The lone Michigan wins over that span were in 1910, 17-0, and 1918, 13-7. The 1919 and 1920 Western Championship teams throttled the Spartans, 13-0, in 1919, and wound up their 1920 season with a, 25-0, win.
THE SPRINTING BLACKSMITH
Kowalczyk moves against the Irish in 1956
Star Irish halfback George Gipp was taken sick before the 1920 game and died only a few days later on December 14. The Irish scored once in the first period, twice in the third and once in the fourth to score a convincing, 25-0, victory without their All-American halfback.
The 1921 team met the Michigan Aggies on November 24, 1921, and ended the series with a 48-0 win.
Twenty-seven years later on October 9, 1948, the Spartans, then a Midwest football power, and the Irish, the top football team in the country, met before 58,000 fans in Notre Dame’s Stadium.
It took the Spartans only six minutes and 25 seconds to prove to the Irish that Michigan Agricultural College was no longer.
Although the Irish were riding the crest of their consecutive streak with 19 wins without a loss, the newly-scheduled Spartans had no respect or fear for the Leahy-men.
Michigan State won the toss and elected to kick off. Neither team could move and George Guerre quick-kicked for the Spartans the first time they had
the ball. The ball bounded 69 yards to j the Irish nine where Frank Spaniel ! picked it up and returned it to the | thirteen.	,
John Panelli made three yards at center, but Frank Tripucka’s pass was intercepted by Horace Smith of the ( Spartans who returned it to the Notre Dame 20.
Guerre was thrown for a three-yard loss on a pitchout, but LeRoy Crane picked up four yards over center. Lynn Chadnois then hit over left guard, cut back and sprinted 13 yards to the five , yard line. On the next play, Crane smashed over center for the score. George Smith converted, and the Spartans led.
The Irish fought back determinedly and marched 71 yards after the kick-off for a score. Passes from Tripucka to i Leon Hart and Jim Martin, and a run by Panelli were the big gainers. With third down and goal on the four of MSU, Tripucka threw to Hart for the score. Steve Oracko’s place kick was wide, and the Irish trailed, 7-6.
The teams battled on even terms through the second period, but Chadnois intercepted a Tripucka pass and re- 4 turned it to the ND 23. Guerre and Chadnois carried it to the three, but the Spartans couldn’t score, and Notre Dame took over.
The Irish then battled 97 yards for the touchdown that put them ahead to stay. Mike Swistowicz, hit right guard 4 for ten yards, Billy Gay sprinted around right end for 32 yards, and Emil Sitko broke over left tackle for 22 yards and a first down on the MSU 18.
Swistowicz picked up four, Sitko three, and then Swistowicz took a pitchout and circled right end for the score. i
Terry Brennan scored once in the third period and Sitko once in the fourth period, the Irish line held the Spartans throughout the remainder of the contest, and Notre Dame won, 26-7.
Except for the, 34-21, win in 1949 j and Coach Brennan’s masterfully engi- I neered, 20-19, triumph over Spartan I head coach Duffy Daugherty in 1954,	।
the revival of the series has belonged to the Spartans.
But, this is 1957, and 1957 is the year of the revival of the Irish.
The Scholastic
n
TIME OUT
Now that the bubble has broken, an objective look can be made at the Irish football team. They are vastly improved over last season and are a good team but certainly not a great one. One thing seems certain though; they aio not as bad as they looked last Saturday. The Irish looked sluggish and tired, especially in the second half. They couldn’t do anything right, and Navy, a fine ball club, could do nothing wrong. And they didn’t quit, which is more than can be said of some of the faithful in the stands who left before it was all over.
They won’t quit tomorrow either although some will say that they shouldn’t even show up at State. Notre Dame should be a better ball club because of the loss, but how much better is as yet an unanswered question.
We have to say that on paper the Spartans look unbeatable. However, they have been beaten by a club that Notre Dame handled with comparative ease. This is a different Irish club than last season. They are hungry and will not lose their confidence because of one bad day.
This club will win one of the next three, maybe more. Tomorrow could be the day.
TYLER AGAIN
We received some interesting material from Tyler the other day. It is rumored that a national magazine is going to do a feature expose on his life and methods of picking ball games. Tyler says further that he will give us first shot at this story because we have been so good about printing his silly whims and fancies. So, look for it in this publication some time after the Christmas holidays.
SPORTS EDITORS ALL-AMERICAN
This year, as last, the Scholastic is compiling a College Sports Editors’ All-American team, based on the votes of the sports editors of leading college publications throughout the country.
Last season the Sports Editors Selection was used in the Sporting News consensus All-American and also was picked up by several of the leading papers across the country. We had fine success last year considering that it was the poll’s first year and hope that it will get even bigger in years to come.
BASKETBALL
The center spot on Coach Jordan’s basketball team still seems to be something of a question mark. Tom Reinhart might have the slight edge at present but there are still several weeks until the opener with St. Ambrose the first week in December.
If Jordan can get a consistently adequate performance in the center slot his club will be tough on everybody and could very well live up to their preseason rating of fourth in the country.
WRESTLING
The return of the mammoth Southerner, Bulldog Jack Armstrong, should be a large boost to the Irish wrestling forces. Manager Frank Fox reports that the opening practices have been going smoothly and that we should be much better than last season.
INTERHALL FOOTBALL
Keenan Hall, led by the fine quarterbacking of Indian Tom Edwards, seems the logical choice in the East League. They are unbeaten and untied and play their big one of the season against Stanford, Sunday. If the weather is good, drop by and take a look.
In the West our choice is Alumni, led by pile-driving Roger Kiley. Although twice tied, they are still unbeaten and with their new slot offense seem almost a cinch to grab the championship.—M. F.
Parker-Wiitemwi Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS W5'/2-117V2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Wiitemwi
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115%-117% No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
November 8, 1957
F
Senate Studies Demands of Monogram Club; Proceeds From Iowa Victory Dance Sought
Enthusiastic debate rang throughout the Student Senate chamber on Wednesday night, Oct. 30, as the annual demands of the Monogram club to get the proceeds of a victory dance were made
by Bob Devine, president of the Monogram club.
Devine, introduced by Don McNeil, senior class president, said that the Monogram club needed the money from
Please send us your name and address for more information and application forms.
sity three
of Vienna, study tours.
PRICE INCLUDES: Round trip ocean passage, room and board in Europe, tuition at Univer-
SPRING SEMESTER IN VIENNA
THE
Name
OF E(ROPE W S H DIES
Address
City School *
Zone State
(.hicauo . 1. Hi.
The Tools of a Student
Art Supplies
College Course Outlines
School Supplies
Notre Dame Bookstore

i \ s i i n ri.
the victory dance to be held after the Iowa game. When he was later asked by Harry Wasoff, vice-president of the Student Senate, just why the Monogram club needed the money, Devine replied . that the club’s constitution forbade the | collecting of dues from its members, \ and that they therefore had no other source of income. •
Later investigation by the Senate committee revealed that there was no clause in the constitution prohibiting dues and that the club has in the past sponsored its own dances independently of the Senate victory dances.
Dave Link, public relations commissioner, asked if the Senate had established any policy in regard to the dances. Tom Carroll, last year’s victory dance chairman, said that no policy had been defined but for the last two years the Monogram club has been awarded a dance from which they received 60% of the profits and the Senate received 40%.
What’s the money to be used for? An all-sports banquet, senior parties, a ' trophy for the Bengal Bouts, and pins for all senior* members of the club.
The Senate decided to set up a committee chairmanned by McNeil, to investigate the situation and work out a suitable solution. This committee found that the Monogram club had other ? sources of income such as the profits from the sale of programs at the Old Timer’s game. They also discovered that in the past the club had sponsored independent dances and had not infringed on the victory dances.
The committee first sought to establish the position of the Monogram club in relation to the other campus clubs. It was generally agreed that the club was not different, as a whole, from any other club but only when its members were considered as individuals. This is true of every campus organization.
Still remaining was the question, j should they be allowed to give a dance? Since there was no longer a question of preferential treatment, the committee recommended that they use the proper channels which every club may use to attempt to obtain a dance; that is, to ask the social commissioner. If he agrees, then they may sponsor a dance V but it will be their own, not a victory dance, or any dance held by the Senate.
The victory dances were definitely 1 established by this committee to be under the sole auspices and sponsorship of the Senate and all benefits accrued from them were to go to the Senate A treasury. This money is essential to the Senate because it almost entirely supports the rest of the social functions of the Senate. The Senate budget of about $6000 can be met only with the assistance of the profits from the victory dances.
34
The Scholastic
Debate Trophy Retired By Martzell-Coffey Duo
Jack Martzell, the president of the Notre Dame debate team, and his partner, Paul Coffey, retired the Raether-Housman trophy on Oct. 22 by defeating a team from Marquette University before a full crowd in the LaFortune Student Center amphitheater.
Martzell and Coffey represented the affirmative side of the national collegiate debate question: “Resolved, that the requirement of membership in a labor organization as a condition of employment should be illegal.”
The debate rivalry takes place at A least once a year between the two universities, and the retirement of the trophy marks the third straight win by a Notre Dame debate team in the contest.
Competition will now continue for the Coffey-Martzell trophy, the first trophy of its kind to be donated by two students at the University. Last Monday the debators from Marquette established a leg on the new award in a debate held at Marquette University before 750 people. Like the Raether-Housman trophy, the Coffey-Martzell award must be won three times in succession before it is retired.
Stay Young
dancing helps you to relax, have fun . . . makes life worth living. '
You’ll never be old ... if you dance your way thru life! A good time always helps you forget your troubles, so start dancing and having good times today. Learn to dance the right way . . . and you’ll find yourself enjoying life more than ever.
"South Bend’s largest and most beautiful studios!”
Marie Buczkowski School of Dancing
119/2 W. COLFAX	2nd Floor	CE 3-3396
Last Saturday at the Tau Kappa Alpha regional discussion tournament held at Purdue University, Coffey placed second out of a field of 100. Coffey, the president of the Midwest region of TKA, received a Wachtel Achievement Award.
Four members of the debate team are participating in a tournament held at the University of South Carolina, Columbia, S. C. Over 30 schools are sending debaters to this tourney.
Coffey and Martzell will represent the affirmative side, while Bob Dempsey, vice-president of the debate squad, and Tom Banchoff will take the negative side.
Architecture Department Presents Sixth Lecture
The sixth in a series of ten lectures will be presented in the Engineering Auditorium this evening at 8 p.m. by Norbert H. Gorwic, senior city planner of the City Plan Commission of Detroit.
Gorwic’s talk, entitled “Urban Design,” will discuss the aesthetic aspects of city planning and replanning with emphasis upon balance, proportion, scale, color, and texture. He will also present various examples of past and present day solutions to urban design problems both in the United States and Europe.
HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
Ill SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
Walker’s
Footwear of Fashion 207 N. MICHIGAN (Next to Palace Theater)
GULF OIL
>
Corporation
Representatives will be at the University of Notre Dame
November 20, 1957 to interview candidates for positions in
•	Research
•	Development Positions in such diversified fields as analytical science, physical science, engineering, computational analysis, geochemistry, geophysics, processes, product, oil production and reservoir mechanics.
For additional information and to arrange for a personal interview, please see Reverend Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., Director of Placement.
November 8, 1957
35
Have you arranged to see our representative
on
November 14,1957
check ivith your placement office about
the various types of technical graduates
required by the
OLIN MATHIESON CHEMICAL CORP.
hbicht Bros.
FAMOUS FOR THEIR FOOD-NOW IN CAFETERIA STYLE
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST
1958 College Graduates
Here are the opportunities you have been seeking! Investigate our top salaries and excellent management opportunities that prepare you for technical and administrative responsibilities.
Research and Development
Quality Control
Industrial Engineering
Equipment and Plant Maintenance
Power
Coke and By-products Manufacturing
Steel Production
Plant Engineering Field Construction Accounting
Become a member of our future management team. On November 13th our representatives will be on your campus. Contact Reverend Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., for an appointment.
INLAND STEEL COMPANY
East Chicago, Indiana

ENGINEERS...
FISH FRY FRIDAY
Pizza, Spaghetti, and Ravioli Italian Style
Simeri's Cafe
410 NORTH HILL STREET
NEW FLIGHT-TRACKER RADAR, ordered by C.A.A. for airways surveillance installations at major airports — one of many interesting Raytheon projects. Raytheon also has prime missile contracts for Army Hawk, Navy Sparrow HI.
3-Minute Pizza Pies PIZZA BURGERS
CARRY OUT ORDERS Eve’s Drive In SOUTH BEND AND EDISON RD. OPEN 5:30 A.M.—1 AJA. BREAKFAST—LUNCH—DINNER
36
It's easy to select the field you want at Raytheon. We'd like to meet you and tell you more about it.
RAYTHEON MANUFACTURING CO.
Waltham 54, Massachusetts
Let’s talk about your future with Raytheon
Important new projects .. . excellent opportunities for advancement... suburban living and working in beautiful New England, Tennessee or California. Enjoy these and many other advantages at Raytheon, one of the largest and fastest growing electronics companies. Make arrangements with your placement officer for campus interview on
NOVEMBER 12
Hadar—Guided Missiles—Caun* termeasures — Communications Microwave Tubes—’Semiconductors—Electron Tubes...
The Scholastic
THE NEW EDDIE’S Dining Room &Lounge WHERE DINING IS TREATED AS THE PLEASURE IT WAS INTENDED TO BE MORE ROOM FOR PARTIES TOO
1345 N. IRONWOOD Just a few minutes from campus
REAL ITALIAN AMERICAN FOOD
Enjoy a Private Party in the Seclusion of Our Hideaway Room
713 East LaSalle	CE 3-0951
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
“Variety is the spice of life.” Enjoy GOOD—WHOLESOME DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT
CANTONESE FOODS
Steaks Chops
Fried Chicken
Sea Foods
REASONABLY PRICED
Mark’s Cafe
134 N. MAIN ST.
WSND News
NEW PROGRAMS PLANNED BY LOCAL RADIO STATION
WSND will inaugurate a completely new programming schedule designed to better cater to the student taste. The change will go into effect beginning Monday, Station Manager Jerry Slater-announced.
The change will be complete, effecting programs, their lengths, broadcasting times, announcers, news, and features. A major aim is to present more music at the time it is wanted.
A considerable amount of “block” programming will be used, which means there will be long stretches of music of one type rather than short stretches of varying types. The only interruptions will be five minute newscasts every hour.
Instead of FM music in the early morning there will be a “wake up” show from 7 until 9:30 a.m. FM will continue from 9:30 a.m. till 12 noon.
Responsible for the change are Slater and Tom O’Reagan, WSND program director.
Science Faculty Attends Symposium on Education
Several members of the Science Faculty are attending the Eighth Annual Symposium on Pre-medical and Medical Education held today at the Illinois Union Building in Chicago and sponsored by the University of Illinois College of Medicine.
Heading the list of Notre Dame representatives is Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, dean of the College of Science. Serving as head of the symposium discussion group on the problems of the superiorstudent is Dr. Andrew J. Boyle, administrative head of the Department of Chemistry. Drs. George Bernard, Richard Benoit, and Cyril Finnegan, all of the Department of Biology, Dr. Vincent Traynelis and Dean Baldinger, both of the chemistry department, will participate in the other group discussions being held at the symposium in Chicago.
Notre Dame has been represented at this annual symposium each year that it has been held; one or more members of the premedical advisory group have attended every year.
Dr. Traynelis will attend an American Chemical Society consultation-conference dinner in Chicago at the Prudential Plaza. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss building plans for a permanent ACS headquarters building in Washington. Dr. Traynelis is currently serving as secretary of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society.
The
RESTAURANT
127 N. Main Street
Welcomes Notre Dame Students
TO TRY OUR FINE FRENCH AND AMERICAN FOODS
•
Prepared By Our French Chefs
•
Call For Reservations GE 3-5606
New York Strip $1.25
TUESDAYS — THURSDAYS
ILBOO’S
415 N. MICHIGAN
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with MTA
Unbelievable Low Cos*
Europe
60 Da»» .42.,	$585
Orient
43*65 Days ,4^. from $998
Also $149
Many tours include college credit
low-cost trips to Mexico
___ up. South America $699up, Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
25tt Year
332 So. Michigan Ave. INC. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
November 8, 1957
37

Rack Patfe.
by JOHN KEARNS
segregation
Segregation is thought of as a Southern problem, but it is more widespread than that. Segregation is just one form of race prejudice, which is not confined to any specific area. There is even some segregation in the North, with regard to living areas—Negroes are often prevented from living in white neighborhoods. However, I am concerned here with the Southern problem.
There is no reasoned justification for segregation. Those who uphold it cannot give an adequate defense, and are forced to fall back on such phrases as “a way of life.” But the real basis for segregation is a supposed inequality between races—there can be no denial of this. Segregation is quite truly a tradition in the South, but the tradition is largely based on this notion of inequality.
Evidence to support this idea of inequality does not exist. The evidence merely shows the great importance of environment. The Negro’s surroundings in the South are usually miserable, and their influence prevents him from rising above them. Very few, of whatever race, have it in them to overcome the handicaps imposed on the Southern Negro. The legendary heroes of Horatio Alger were interesting because they were rare. There are many instances of Negroes overcoming their surroundings, but their path is a difficult one.
From a theoretical point of view, there is a difficulty which integration’s supporters often fail to recognize. It is illustrated by this example given me by a bus driver in Gulfport, where a new Negro high school better than its white counterpart had just been built. And it had a good basketball court that was ruined by the football team running over it with cleats. That was why my friend the bus driver was against integration. And this typifies the inability of many Negroes in the Deep South to accept responsibility.
Throughout the Deep South, Negroes have a rather hand-to-mouth existence. Their homes are often only hovels and their chief goal seems to be doing nothing at all, even if this deprives themselves and their families of much that contributes to a full life. That so many of them are extremely unwilling to take upon themselves the social respon
sibility which is theirs as mature individuals is not surprising. They have long been in an inferior position in the civilization in which they reside, and by reason of this have been denied all important responsibility. So it' is to be expected that they would in time simply abandon any responsibility as members of society.
This situation must not be allowed to interfere with integration, for integration seems to me the only means by which a sense of his responsibility can be brought home to the Negro. To continue on a basis of inequality will only cause the present attitude to remain in existence. And separate, regardless of what some maintain, can never be equal, because the very fact of separation implies inequality. There is no reason to have separate facilities if equality exists.
Integration involves in a way the thrusting of responsibility on the Negro. For it recognizes him as a legitimate and first-class member of society, and thus demands that he accept the burdens of that status. It would be better if there were some way to educate the Negro to his responsibility before thrusting it upon him. However, the South has not in the past nor does it seem inclined now to take up this education. If the South were doing this or were willing to do this, then integration could legitimately be postponed. The truth, however, is that the South is simply unwilling to grant the Negro an equal status, and so would be unwilling to prepare him for such a role.
Thus it is that only integration can provide any solution to the Negro problem. This means that the proponents of integration are going to be disappointed by the response of the Negro to integration. Merely from the standpoint of the Negro, integration will not be a crashing success. It will be some time before integration brings the Negroes to a certain level where they can pai-ticipate fully in society, regardless of the length of time it will take the whites to get used to it. The education for responsibility will consume a great deal of time—but integration will, in time, bring about the Negro’s full participation.
A favorite theme of the segregationists is that integration must be worked toward, that its achievements is a long
way off. It is unfortunately true that ' it will take a long time for it to succeed, 1 |' but the ardent segregationists who ad- i vance this theme seem to intend by the । word gradually, the word never. No ( progress will result from doing nothing to alleviate the problem. A consider- E able length of time must pass before ; the racial question will subside. A great deal of patience is required. But maintaining the status quo will solve nothing —it will only prolong the present situa- ; tion. Progress must be made towards the solution of this problem, but it cannot be made when the South maintains a tenacious hold on the past and refuses ' to listen to reason.
The existence and approval of segregation in the South implies that the intellectual landscape there is rather barren. One wonders just what the schools and universities amount to, foi-they have failed entirely to produce objectors to the systematized prejudice. Perhaps the material is poor, but the educators themselves show little trace of intellectual uprightness.
For me, the most telling argument against segregation is the one based on Christian morality. The fact of segregation involves a denial of the worth of the Mystical Body. Contempt for the 1 Negro is thus sacrilegious, for he also belongs to the Body of Christ. One’s own membership in the Mystical Body is compromised by disrespect for other members—his relation with Christ is impaired.
To scorn or despise the Negro re- 4 veals one to have a perverted Charity, . if any is possessed at all. Charity is love for God, but it is also love for men. The love for God and for men is identical—it is the same love. Consequently a failure in one’s love for man is a . failure in one’s love for God. Scorn for r Negroes is irreconcilable with Charity. One cannot despise them for their race and love them for their humanity— ., there must be a choice, to embrace or to reject. And Christianity offers no easy choices.
Christianity, then, demands integration. It is impossible to be a good Christian and a good member of the White Citizens’ Council. Christianity . in the South has largely become a sham, for it has no meaning for those professing to be Christian.	|
3S
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
Set the step in an Arrow pin-tab collar
Leaders of campus fashion go for this new idea in collars: the good looks of the tab shape combined with the ease of the eyelet-and-bar fastening. Yours in white, stripes, solids or checks. In broadcloth or new pique fabric, regular or French cuffs. Shirt from $4.50. Wool challis tie $2.50. Cluett, Peabody S’ Co.} Inc.
ARROW
first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES
Step in for tab-collar shirts at their best
They’re pace-makers, these new Arrow pin-tab models. And we have them ... in your favorite patterns and colors. Team them up with Arrow ties like the one shown.
Make your selection today.
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
ive Modern
Free up! Get more fun out of life... get more fun out of smoking!
1
r
t'GGETT. MVebstomcco
HANDY PACKS / (King and Reg.)
CRUSH-PROOF BOX (Costs no more)







Light into that
Live Modern flavor!
THE MtRACL£

Smoke today’s most exciting cigarette... LSM!
Only L&M gives you "Live Modern" flavor... the full, exciting flavor that means more taste ...more aroma! Every L&M pack ever made has carried this statement: "A blend of premium quality cigarette tobaccos including special aromatic types.”
LSM lets vnu nick the nark that suits vnu best!