I







Discover the difference between “just smoking"...and Camels!
Taste the difference! Camels are rich, full-flavored, and deeply satisfying — pack after pack. You can count on Camels— they never let you down.
Feel the difference! The exclusive Camel blend of quality tobaccos has never been equalled for smooth, agreeable smoking. Camels are easy to get along with.
Enjoy-the difference! Try today’s top cigarette. See why more people smoke Camels, year after year, than any other brand. They’ve really got it!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem, N. C.
■ % ■ &
J
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES
SCIENTIFIC STAFF RELATIONS
Hughes Aircraft Company. Culver City. California
QUIZ FOR ENGINEERS & PHYSICISTS
1.	Do you wish co extend your experience in electronics systems?
2.	Would you like to instruct others in advanced fire control systems and laboratory techniques?
3.	Would you like to handle a responsible position representing a leading electronics organization?
4.	Do you believe that you can accurately relate your findings and studies in technical language?
5.	Are you interested in analog computers, digital computers, power supplies, transmitters, receivers and microwave antennas?
6. Do you enjoy working with people?
If you can answer ’‘yes” to four of the above questions, chances are that you can qualify for the Hughes Field Engineering department.
In addition to giving you well-rounded experience in electronic systems and controls, Hughes offers you training at full salary, moving and travel allowances, per diem expenses, and many other benefits. For appointment contact your college placement officer. Interviews April 9.
2 Q.
April 5, 1957
3

I
Scholastic
The Notre Dome
Vol. 98 April 5, 1957 No. 21
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
---------------------- j
CHARLES McKENDRICK Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON
Associate Editor	~
1
OUR ”346" WORSTED GABARDINE SUIT made on our own exclusive model
Our versatile "346” worsted gabardine suit is an important part of a college man’s wardrobe. Made on our own exclusive model with double stitched seams, patch pockets and center back vent, it is available in a distinctive tan shade that is exclusively Brooks and is just one of a wide selection of goodlooking "346” suits. Coat and trousers, $95
CSTABUSHH>1M*
Mens
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE, CHICAGO 2, ILL.
NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
JIM STEINTRAGER   News Editor JAMES McDONALD ..............Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL.............Feature Co-Editor
JOHN QUAGLIANO ...Feature Co-Editor FRANK SPIERING   Assistant Features GEORGE CLEMENTS............Assistant News
JIM DULAN ..............  Assistant	News
BOB WILLIAMS ..............Assistant News
HARRY McKEE......................Assistant	Copy!
MARSH PIDGEON..............Assistant Copy
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr? HARRY CONLON ................Business Mgr.
JOHN GLAVIN..................Sports	Editor
BOB EARLY..................Assistant Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK ......Assistant Sports
News Staff: Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Kar-^. nath, Jim Lenox, Gerry Leppek, Roger^ Leto, Ed Plumly, David Schwartz, Don Shoulderg, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon.
Business Staff: Loran Sheffer, Mike^ Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad- z dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
The Scholastic

by Bryan Woods
from soup to nuts
.> This column is respectfully dedicated i ^to those poor misguided innocents who decided a few weeks ago that since spring was here they might as well send their parkas to the cleaners. They’ll learn, won’t they?
THE ON-CAMPUS LIST
The lists are out, and the annua] trickle of lookers will rapidly become a flood. The faces are different but the ^question’s the same—“What kind of average did this go for last year?”
I used to be bothered by this parade, until I hit on the idea of telling them that it went for 97 and watching the looks.
Freshmen particularly are puzzled by the set-up. One of them wrote in telling
me he had a 79 average and wondering ft. if there would be any doubles left in the J WjMorris Inn by the time his turn came. I i ‘. ’’ explained to him that those rooms are ' reserved for Senators and Blue Circle
Men, but that he should try LOBUND.
| In case anyone else is in the same spot, I hear there are some nice triples in the boathouse down by the lake. Of course you have to join the Sailing Club to get one, but think how you’ve always wanted ^to answer the call of the sea anyway. * Speaking of the on-campus list, the ' word has it that only juniors who let it be known they wanted to live off were considered when it came to selecting'
• those who would be on. I guess they figured anyone who wanted to room off was better off on.
Like they say though, it’s an ill wind.
* W. . . Several seniors have already financed I their Senior Ball weekends by providing
complete and accurate dossiers on prospective rectors and prefects of the various halls. Naturally, I can’t go into details, but if you’re interested, stop by the pool-hall and ask the guy at the desk “where are all the snooker tables.” That’s the password, but keep it on the sly.
When it comes to choosing a roommate, the best thing is to pick a guy who is as much an opposite as you can get. You say your present roommate is already ugly, stupid, pigheaded, unattractive to girls, and a complete bore? Obviously he is your exact opposite, so why look further.
Besides you will find that he will be willing to admit that you are exactly opposite from him, too. Everything will work out just fine unless you ask in just what ways he is the opposite of yourself. Believe me, that’s a question better left unasked.
MISCELLANEOUS MEANDERINGS
Any girl who is interested in dating a member of the Junior Class with the object, expressed or implied, of getting an invitation to the forthcoming Prom, drop me a line with your name, address, and any othei- infonnation you may consider pertinent. There is an imposing list of juniors with bids, but no dates. They all say they want a charming, beautiful model-type, but I believe that deep down they’re beginning to clutch a little—so may their standards. So here is youi- chance, girls. -
I know you’ve all been holding your collective breath, waiting for the promised article by Roger Kiley, but Roger informs me that a man with his crowded
schedule can’t drop everything just to astound and edify the readers of Escape with his marvelous wit, so we’ll have to wait until he can fit us in. Not too long, please, Roger?
QUOTABLE QUOTES
A certain young gentleman was asked why he was not going to. fight in the Bengals: “It’s against all of my principles to fight. I’m a- devout coward.”
On the service in the new Huddle: Never have so many done so little for so few.
A campaign slogan a la Wimpy, being used by a certain Terry Lamb, candidate for Junior Class Treasurer: They can’t pull the wool over Lamb’s eyes.
On the usefulness of . telling others your problems: Don’t tell people your troubles. Half of them don’t care, and the other half are glad to hear it.
THIS WEEK'S PUZZLER
Why is it that the very same guys who are always playing bumper pool over at the pool hall are the same ones who are so desirous of getting rooms in Alumni that are on the first floor right near the bus stop? What could be the connection?
PREVIEWS	.
Any of you who happened to catch WSND’s fascinating and enlightening feature, “What has happened to the Scholastic? will want to watch for Escape’s forthcoming special, “What Has Happened to George Van Kula?” We’ve had a staff of hundreds doing research for months, so be sure you don’t miss it.
5
April 5, 1957
<T»

3975
*DuPont’s Polyester Fiber
On the Campus—Notre Dame

s

OUR WASH AND WEAR SUIT I FOR THE BUSY MAN ON CAMPUS^
We’re ready for warm weather, men, with the most practical suit you’ve ever owned. Haspels 75% Dacron*—25% cotton suit that resists wrinkles, keeps its trim look and can be washed by hand or machine . . . dries quickly . . . needs little or no pressing. See it at the Campus Shop tomorrow. We’re ready with a complete selection of beach and resort wear now!
J
^GILBERT'S
6
The Scholastic
CHARGE IT,
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY!
PAY
1 3
JULY
IP
Pay 1-3 in July Pay 1-3 in August Pay 1-3 in September (No carrying charge)
Going south during spring vacation? Get the clothing and furnishings you need now at the Campus Shop and pay for them later out of your earnings this summer. If you wish, there’s nothing to pay ’til July. Pay one-third then, one-third in August and the balance in September. It’s the easy way to get a good wardrobe together—on a budget, o	o

DRESS RIGHT
You can't afford not to!
^GILBERTS
On the Campus—Notre Dame
7
April 5, 1957
8
'VICEROY HAS THE SMOOTHEST TASTE OF ALL!"
SMOOTH!
From the finest tobacco grown, Viceroy selectsonly the SmoothFlavor Leaf... Deep-Cured golden brown for extra smoothness!
SUPER SMOOTH!
Only Viceroy smooths each puff through 20,000 filters made from pure cellulose— soft, snow-white, natural!
GONE WITH THE WIND
Editor:
You could hear rumbles from Greece after reading “True Confessions: A Half-Hearted Attempt” in your March 22 issue. The article was correctly titled. If these men are representative of the student governors they could easily label themselves “the auricle group.”
Most of us take an interest in Student Government (if only a complaining one) for more reasons than “personal ambition” or the “big take.” If the authors’ admissions are true, I’m all for homeDome rule.
The importance of what the gentlemen have to say is not a problem of seman-j tics, but phonetics. The only sound heard after reading your article, or auricle, was that of repressed wind—a duck-like sound. These people cannot speculate about Student Government’s chances for the future, the meaning of the phrase is Doterously unknown to them.
Allan Riley
CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF
To Whom It May Concern:	®
I’m writing this as a result of your avid sarcasm and misleading remarks of the fair ladies across the road. Yes, I’m trying to fit in as a “fair lady,” as you so refer to us. But a few dozen obstacles stand in the way. To begin with I’m not a snob, nor am I out to stand up every one of you. I like fun and love to dance, and I dance very well, if I may say so myself. I’m anxious to meet and knov^ffl. some of your fellow students, even though they may not be a “Paul Hornung.” I’m normal in every aspect of the word, even though I am a Saint
(Continued on page 10)
ON THE COVER—Senor Ivan Osorio returns again with his interpretation of what every Noter Doter’s thoughts^ seem to be this time of year. Witfln either snow, rain, or some other foreign ' substance constantly falling from the skies over the “Valley of Promise,” which one of us does not indulge in a bit of day-dreaming about the sunny South?
In trying to soothe the several readers who became highly, if not reasonably, incensed at his previous efforts^ Ivan has this time drawn a most ac- ! ceptable representation of the snow- ' bound college Joe.
The editors solemnly trust that no one will be offended at our glance forward to the post-Lenten season. If anyone does, however, let him remember the words of that local philosopher, J. Carol Doyle, “The man in constan/1 ' fast, may well regret his past.”
The Scholastic


»J HJUL"IF

a proposal
Recently a group of men in student government submitted a proposal which requested car permissions after Easter for all seniors living on campus. We have another suggestion to add. It is all night lights for the seniors. ' This policy could be tested in the junior and the senior halls next year.
The policy will not be a great help to the Class of ’57, 1 ?'e^)ut it will be to next year’s seniors.
3 Some of this year’s seniors have discussed the chances of all night lights during the year. “People expect us to act like men. Yet they turn the lights out on us at midnight/’ commented one Walshite.
The Class of ’57 will not have a night watchman flipping the main switch at the stroke of 12 every night next year. Seniors are supposed to be mature and able to adjust to i new situations more easily when they get out into the J world. But why wait to spring everything on them until ^Upfter graduation?
■ * The floor prefect doesn’t play nursemaid in the senior halls. It might be a different story in the freshman halls, where many of the students are still wet behind the ears from high school. It might even be the case in some of the sophomore halls. However, by the time a man reaches his senior year he should have attained some sense of judgment and fair play. Rules are made to insure order. But if a sense of fail' play and good judgment can be substituted in , place of these rules to get order, so much the better.
By their last year many seniors have taken up other . -activities along with their academic pursuits. Some of them hold jobs during the day and can do their class assignments only at night. Many of the seniors who work during the day take rooms off campus so that they can have all night lights to finish their work.
There are others who would like to do some extra work, either academic or outside reading and writing. They are > not able to do this very well because the lights go off at midnight in the senior halls. It would not disturb their ^leighbors if there were all night lights. Then these men t could do their work in their rooms instead of under a light in the hall or shower room.
A member of the Scholastic staff attended a small college in the Midwest where this all-night-lights policy for seniors was in effect. The Administration had no trouble with this system, he said. The students at this college were no different than the ones at Notre Dame. If it could be ^enforced at that college, there seems to be no barrier to using it at Notre Dame.	—D. T.
I April 5, 1957
senior cars
Usually about this time of year most of us reach a point of constant mental sterility. For the senior this stagnation can often present a major problem, not only for himself, but also for the underclassmen of his University who look to him for leadership.
With this in mind, I would like to compliment the Senior members of the Student Senate for seeking to offer this needed leadership by sponsoring a very imaginative and worthwhile piece of legislation. I am referring to their proposal to grant permission for all graduating seniors to have cars here at school after the Easter vacation.
The key point of the whole argument, I believe, is stated in the preface to the resolution: “By the time students at Notre Dame are seniors, we feel that they have reached a stage of maturity which should allow them the responsibility, if they wish to exercise it, of having and • operating an automobile.”
It follows logically that if the University is willing to let the Class of 1957 go out into the world bearing the tag of Notre Dame, then the University presumes that we will be mature enough to face up to the problems we shall meet there.
The owning and operation of a motor vehicle shall be among the least of these problems. Therefore, it seems reasonable that the Administration should have no great objection to granting an added responsibility now to a person who will soon be making all his decisions on his own.
The car resolution has a threefold, purpose. It would enable those students who plan to purchase cars in the near future to take advantage of the lower prices in the South Bend and Detroit markets, and to discover any defects in them before graduation. Secondly, the transportation of personal property to either the senior’s home or job location would be facilitated. Lastly, transportation problems for the senior both at the Senior Ball and graduation would be greatly reduced.
The car legislation makes provision for the necessary legal and disciplinary safeguards. Permission of parents, insurance, operation by only the owner, registration with the University, and several other conditions are stated in the bill.
Parking would not be a particular problem because any one of the spacious fields surrounding the stadium could be allocated for this purpose.
I cannot help but believe that this car permission pro- • posal would aid a great deal in making the soon-to-be alumni look with even more favor upon Notre Dame. Also it would be a most progressive step on the part of the Administration, for it would be a further extension of the trust they have already placed in the student.
To my knowledge an experiment of this nature has never been tried at Notre Dame. Surely, it would not hurt anyone to place this responsibility in the hands of the seniors.	—G.McK.
9
Repercussion
(Continued from Page 8)
Mary’s girl. You, by your rash judgment, have placed a mark on me.
Now I hear you saying, “Brother, this one’s completely out of it!”
Well, sirs, you’re definitely wrong! I’m above average in everything, including looks, and I don’t play parlor games.
From Us Across the Road.
P.S.: Meow.
WE’RE NOT RUDE
Editor:
In the March 15 issue of the Scholastic there was a letter to the Editor by Stephen D. Penny in reference to the conduct of the Notre Dame students and cheerleaders at last month’s DePaul game . . .
I would like to say in answer to Mr.
Penny that if the Notre Dame fans are “one of the most discourteous assemblages” he has ever witnessed, he must not have attended very many athletic events. . . . Other than being a little more enthusiastic, Notre Dame fans are no different than those found anywhere. . . . I’m sure that no DePaul fans went home smarting from the wounds they received at the hands of the Irish Student Body. I suggest that if Mr. Penny wishes to reform our cheering sections he should start on a more national level by reforming the habits of sport fans everywhere.
Ronald Blubaugh
131 B-P
THE LAST OF LOUIE
Editor:
In view of Mr. Charles W. Allen’s letter of last week I believe that an explanation is needed for the abrupt con-
1 I
elusion of the Louie Armstrong Concert! According to the provisions of the contract Louie was scheduled to play from 7:30 to 9:30 with a 20-minute intermission.
Upon his arrival Mr. Armstrong informed me that he would be willing to play as long as we wished, but since part of the audience had to leave at 9:30 he would prefer to stop at that point. A^ it turned out Louie played an additional \ 15 minutes and when St. Mary’s officials were informed that the girls might be late in their return, the officials were more than gracious in their desire .to let the girls stay until Louie wished to end the concert. This information was learned after the intermission, however, and at’ the time it was impossible for Louie to change his repertoire. If anyone was to blame it was myself for noi^ having contacted St. Mary’s sooner. . . . i
Tom Carroll
Social Commission
COMING APRIL 9
Hughes announces campus interviews for Electrical Engineers and Physicists receiving B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degrees.
Consult your placement office now for an appointment.
r
i HUGHES I
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES
ELECTRONICS MANUFACTURING
Hughes Aircraft Company. Culver City, California and Tucson. Arizona
10
I

I
’CLARE BOOTHE LUCE NAMED
WINNER OF LAETARE MEDAL
Notre Dame Honors Former Ambassador to Italy
For Career in Diplomatic, Political, Artistic Fields
Clare Boothe Luce, former U. S. ambassador to Italy, last Sunday was named recipient of the Notre Dame Laetare Medal for 1957. She is the sixteenth woman to receive the award, which has ^been presented annually since 1883 to an oustanding member of the American Catholic laity.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, in announcing the selection of the former Congresswoman, playwright and authoress, said: “In her brilliant and singularly versatile career, Clare Boothe Luce has demonstrated talents and effectiveness alto-^gethei- uncommon in the worlds of di-'-‘plomacy, politics, the theater, and letters. Since her conversion to Catholicism a decade ago, her life and activities have been informed by a faith which she attributes to ‘the inexhaustible generosity of Almighty God.’ Because few American women, indeed few women anywhere, can approach her genius, the University is proud to award Mrs. Luce 4 the Laetare Medal, the highest honor ^within its power to bestow.”
The Laetare Medal winner is named each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent and an occasion of joy in the liturgy of the Church. Formal presentation of the medal is arranged for a time and place convenient to the recipient. General Alfred M. Gruenther, former NATO commander, received the ^award last year and AFL-CIO president ~ George Meany was the 1955 Laetare Medalist.
Mrs. Luce is the third woman to be honored with the Laetare Medal in the past 15 years. Actress Irene Dunne was the recipient in 1949 and journalist Anne O’Hare McCormick was similarly honored five years earlier. Other recent ^Laetare Medalists who have held high
April 5, 1957
diplomatic posts include Jefferson Caf-fery (1954), Carlton J. H. Hayes (1946) and G. Howland Shaw (1945).
President Eisenhower appointed Mrs. Luce as U. S. ambassador to Italy on Feb. 8, 1953. She held that key diplomatic post for more than three-and-a-half years, submitting her resignation to the president on Nov. 22, 1956. Mr. Eisenhower congratulated her “on a job superbly done” and expressed the hope “that your retirement to private life is only temporary and that your government may soon again have the benefit of your services.” Before leaving Italy, Mrs. Luce received the country’s highest decoration, the Grand Star of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic, which had never before been conferred upon a woman.
CONVERTED IN 1946
Mrs. Luce was elected by Connecticut’s fourth district to serve in the U. S. House of Representatives from 1943 to 1947. While a member of Congress, she became a convert to Catholicism in 1946. She was received into the Church on Feb. 16 of that year by Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, now Auxiliary Bishop of New York. Mrs. Luce gave a detailed account of her conversion in a series entitled “The Real Reason” which appeared in McCall’s beginning in February, 1947. In 1952 she edited a book of biographies of saints, called Saints for Now, which received a Christopher Award.
Two earlier books written by Mrs. Luce were Stuffed Shirts, a satirical novel, and Europe in the Spring. Her credits as a playwright include Kiss the Boys Goodbye, Margin for Error, The Women, and Abide With Me.
OMR BOOTHE LUCE
For outstanding achievements
University Announces Donation of New Hall
The University of Notre Dame announced yesterday that Mrs. Grattan T-Stanford of New York City is the donor of a student residence hall currently under construction on the campus.
The building, which will accommodate 300 students, will be named the Grattan and Effa Stanford Residence Hall in honor of Mrs. Stanford and her late husband who was general counsel for the Sinclair Oil Corp, when he died in 1946. Mr. Stanford was a 1904 Notre Dame graduate and served on the University's Associate Board of Lay Trustees from 1937 until his death.
Stanford Hall is part of a §4,000,000 construction program which includes a second University Dining Hall and another residence hall provided by Mr. and Mrs. James F. Keenan of Fort Wayne, Ind. The three buildings, which are located in the northeast sector of the campus, are scheduled for Fall completion.
In notifying University officials of her benefaction, Mrs. Stanford expressed the mutual interest she and her husband shared “in the welfare of Notre Dame in advancing the spiritual, intellectual and moral interests of its students.”
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, expressed the University’s gratitude “for this magnifi-cent gift which will be the campus home of generations of Notre Dame men.”
31
PAT LOGAN Winners
PAUL KRAPP of ’57
‘Dome’ Awards
Annual 'Dome* Award Winners Announced: Kiley, Krapp, Logan Named as Top Seniors
The names of the three outstanding members of the Senior Class who are to receive the annual Dome awards were recently announced by Roger Bennett, Dome editor. This year’s award winners are Bob Kiley, Paul Krapp and Pat Logan.
Bob Kiley is a Commerce major from Minneapolis, Minn. He is regional president of the NSA and also a member of its National Executive Committee. Kiley is commerce senator in the Student Senate, YCS group leader, and a dean’s list student.
Paul Krapp from Springfield, 0. is president of YCS, a member of the Blue Circle and Student Senate, chairman of the American Chemical Society chapter and a member of the Science Advisory Board. He will graduate magna cum laude in chemistry.
Pat Logan is student body president, a Blue Circle member and former social commissioner of the Student Senate. The Dayton, 0. senior received honorable mention for the Outstanding Catholic Youth of the Year award. He is on an NROTC scholarship and will graduate magna cum laude in Science.
AWARDS BEGUN IN 1927
The Dome awards, begun in 1927, are presented annually to two to four of the outstanding seniors in the graduating class. They are chosen for their contributions to the University in spiritual, academic and extracurricular activities, and to students who most nearly measure up to the ideal of the true Christian gentleman. The award winners were
12
chosen by senior members of the Dome staff. Each of the three will receive a plaque at the publications banquet in May.
ND( St. Mary's to Begin 'Help Week' Tomorrow
Starting tomorrow and working every afternoon except Sunday for the next week, about 130 ND men and St. Mary’s girls will join hands in helping charitable organizations in South Bend. “Help Week,” a take-off on “Hell” week, has utterly different purposes than its parent, and acquaints the students with the work of community groups, aids these groups in their work, and thereby improves public relations.
CHARITY GROUPS BENEFIT
Tomorrow, 60 students will go to Healthwin Hospital, Children’s Aid Society, YWCA, Goodwill Industries, Camp Millhouse, and Camp Darden to clean up camp sites, rake leaves, paint playground equipment, and wash out a swimming pool. There is also a possibility that an old frame chapel will be torn down. During the week, 70 more students will help at the Circle of Mercy Day Nursery, Mutual Health Association, and the Children’s Dispensary.
This program, in augurated by the Blue Circle, is appearing at ND for the first time. Anyone may sign up with their hall president for any weekday afternoon.
Senior Car Permits Requested by Senate
The Student Senate last Wednesday, night voted to request the Universit^P I administration to grant car permissions I to seniors living on campus after the Easter vacation.
In the previous meeting of the Senate, Senator John Cusack presented a motion formulating a committee composed of the seniors in the Senate to meet and examine the feasibility of car permissions.
The seniors agreed on a policy whiclX stated: “By the time students at Notre Dame are seniors, we feel that they have reached a stage of maturity which should allow them the responsibility, if they wish to exercise it, of having and operating an automobile. By giving them this permission the University is recognizing that they should be entitled to an extra singular permission.”
Included in the motion to have cart^ the Senate seniors suggested to the Administration that only those graduating in June would be eligible. Also they ■stated that letters from parents containing permission and assuming all liability, together with proper insurance, be required.
They also stipulated that the cars
could only be operated by the senior^ -to whom the permission was granted,• that each car would be stickered by the W University, that the car must be kept I in a parking area stipulated by the I University, (violators of which would I be fined), and that a $5 fee be collected | to pay for the use of the University | parking lot, the guard and sticker. I
(Continued on page 33) (j ।
The Scholastic ■

> £ ^Winners of St. Thomas More Award Named;
YCS to Make Presentations at May 8 Dinner
Paul Krapp, president of the YCS, today named four seniors as recipients , of this year’s Saint Thomas More ,i Awards. The YCS will present the X awards to Raymond DeSutter, Ronald 3 (^Francis, Thomas Kristopeit, and An-I3! " thony Yurchak.
The Saint Thomas More Awards are presented by the YCS each year to several seniors in an attempt to give special recognition to those seniors who have devoted themselves to the work of the student apostolate here on campus.
The awards are based on achievement in the field of the student apostolate, a qualities of Christian leadership, the ...........................................
Leaders1 Conference To Open Tomorrow
Delegates from several midwestern Catholic colleges and universities are arriving at Notre Dame today for the if Student Government Leaders’ conference I ^which will be held tomorrow and Sunday. Some 21 schools and approximately 160 delegates are expected to participate.
The conference is open to student body officers of Catholic schools within a 350-mile radius. Schools from as far east as Erie, Pa., and as far west as Kansas will be represented. The schools vary in size, and constitute a good cross-I section of large and small Catholic L schools.
The meeting will consist of welcoming and keynote addresses and three conferences on Saturday, and an evaluation conference Sunday afternoon. The main topic of discussion throughout the weekend will be social and personal responsibilities in education.
, The conference will open tomorrow J morning at 10 a.m. with a welcoming n address by Pat Logan, Notre Dame stu. ~ dent body president. Rev. Jerome Wilson, ‘	C.S.C., will deliver the invocation. The
: keynote address, given by Rev. John ; Walsh, C.S.C., rector of Fisher Hall, ‘ will follow.
. The conference tomorrow will be at 1 : and 3:30 p.m., and tomorrow evening
from 7 to 9 p.m. The specific topic for
the evening discussion will be the advantages and disadvantages of national affiliations for Catholic colleges and universities. The evaluation conference on Sunday will be from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at which time the meeting will officially close. All conferences will be held in the LaFortune Student Center. Harry Wasoff is discussion chairman; Mary Kelly is the general chairman.
April 5, 1957
spirit of generosity and self-sacrifice, and academic ability.
Ray DeSutter, Attica, Ind., was chosen for his work in the Third Order of St. Francis in which he was acting prefect for this semester. DeSutter also acted as spiritual commissioner of the Hall President’s Council this year, and was an active member of the Notre Dame Concert Band. He will graduate Magna Cum Laude in the College of Science.
The second award winner, Ron Francis of Toledo, 0., worked in the K. of C. and the Third Order. In the K. of C., Francis served as Catholic activities chairman, trophy chairman of the Bengal Bouts and Knights Ball committeeman. He was also president of the Glee Club. Francis was named to “Who’s Who” this year.
Tom Kristopeit, Davenport, la., was active in the Student Senate as spiritual commissioner, and was vice-president of the YCS this year. He was also chairman of the Charity Chest and publicity chairman of the Marriage Institute.
Tony Yurchak, the fourth award winner, is from Wheeling, W. Va. He was campus coordinator of NFCCS and NSA this past year. Yurchak was also chairman of the Marriage Institute this year, and received a “Who’s Who” Award. In addition, he is a member of the Blue Circle, YCS, and the Aesculapian Club.
Candidates for the award were nominated by a selection committee composed of six juniors. These juniors represented apostolic organizations on campus: YCS, Third Order of St. Francis, Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, K. of C., NFCCS, and the Student Government Spiritual Commission.
From the list of candidates named by the selection committee, the four winners were chosen by a Selection Board of faculty moderators.
The award itself consists of a miniature silver medal bearing the image of St. Thomas More, and a scroll of merit. The presentation will be made at a dinner May 8.
CHEERLEADERS
Cheerleader tryouts for all freshmen and sophomores will be held in the light apparatus room of the Rockne Memorial Building on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of next week at 7:45 p.m. No previous experience is necessary, and all interested are urged to try out.
Thursday Talk Slated By Detroit Law Dean
Rev. David C. Bayne, S.J., acting dean of the University of Detroit Law School, will deliver a lecture on “Law and Modern Morals” on Wednesday evening at 7:30 p.m. in Room 101 of O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Father Bayne will discuss the importance of the law in our culture, race relations, Church and state, and the economy as a whole. The law will be specifically related to modem morals, with reference to: artificial insemination, the state of English law on adultery, compulsory sterilization of the insane, divorce and child custody, and abortion. The speaker will relate all these subjects to the importance of a Catholic law school.
HOLDS SEVERAL DEGREES
Father Bayne received his bachelor’s degree at the University - of Detroit in 1939. After two years in law school there, he entered the Society of Jesus. He received an MA. at Loyola University, Chicago, and LL.B at Georgetown University, Washington, and LL.M. at Georgetown, a doctorate at Yale and a Licentiate in Sacred Theology at West Badin (Ind.) College. He was ordained in 1952.
Other honors which have been bestowed on Father Bayne include being-admitted to the Washington, D. C. and federal bars and an appointment to the Judicial Council of Michigan by Gov. G. Mennen Williams. Father Bayne is also a member of the Detroit Bar Association’s Committee on Legal Aids.
The Jesuit made legal history in 1953 (Continued on page 33)
FATHER BAYNE ‘Law and Morals’
13
“SH-BOOM”
The Crew Cuts
Crew Cuts to Appear in Fieldhouse Tonight; 'Campus Spectacular' Sponsored by Senate
“Campus Spectacular”, a concert given by the popular Crew Cuts vocal group, will be held tonight from 8 until 10 pan. in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. Admission to the Student Senate sponsored concert will be SI.25, and tickets
Authoress to Deliver Fifth Lenten Lecture
The last of five Lenten talks in the Leo XIII Lecture Series will be given next Thursday, by Mrs. Mary Perkins Ryan. The talk, sponsored by the YCS and Student Senate, will be held in the Amphitheatre of the LaFortune Student Center, beginning at 8 pan. A well known authoress, Mrs. Ryan will describe the “Layman—1957.”
A graduate of Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart in 1932, Mrs. Ryan wrote her first book, At Your Ease in the Catholic Church, in 1937. This was followed by Your Catholic Language, Speaking of How to Pray, and Beginning at Home. In addition, she edited The Sacramental Way, a book containing papers from the proceedings of the first six National Liturgical Weeks.
Mrs. Ryan is also a member of the Notre Dame Liturgical Committee, headed by Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C. She is currently an editorial assistant to Fr. Mathis on the Notre Dame Liturgical Series, and was sent as his representative to the International Congress of Pastoral Liturgy held in Assisi in 1956.
14
may be purchased at the Fieldhouse boxoffice prior to the performance.
Besides singing old favorites and selections from their three new record albums, the Crew Cuts will present a floor show with the assistance of Ed Pistey and his Lettermen.
The four Crew Cuts are: Pat Barret, the tenor and choreographer in the foursome; Johnnie Perkins, the second tenor and treasurer; Ray Perkins, the bass of the group and manager of its wardrobe, quartering, and transportation; and Rudi Maugeri, baritone and vocal arranger of the group.
After completing their musical training at the Cathedral Choir school in Toronto, Canada, the Crew Cuts became a professional vocal group in 1952. In 1954 the foresome became nationally famous overnight as a result of their two song hits, “Crazy ’Bout You, Baby” and “Sh-Boom”.
Air Force Drill Team Enters ROA Competition in Chicago
The Air Force ROTC Drill Team, under the command of First Lt. Lynn Hankes, will travel to Chicago tomorrow to compete in the Reserve Officer’s Association Regional Drill competition held at the Navy Pier.
This will be the team’s third appearance in Chicago this year. Previous performances were at a Chicago Cardinals-Green Bay Packers professional football game in December and at the South Side’s fifth annual St. Patrick’s Day parade.
- I
AB Merger to Form
A new academic department merging the department of journalism and thd I department of speech will begin opera-: tion at the University next September, it was announced today by Rev. Philip . j S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president for aca-^ '5 demic affairs.	Wi
The new department, to be called the 5 department of communication arts, will offer students planning to enter various' phases of communications a choice in, “more courses suited to the particular, specialty in which they are interested,”' Father Moore said. The areas to be included are journalism, drama, speech and radio-television.
The head of the department of com-^^ munication arts will be announced soon. Teachers from the discontinued depart- j ments of journalism and speech will compose the staff of the new program.
“Establishment of this department is in line with a trend followed in colleges and universities throughout the country,” Father Moore said. “Journalism schools and departments have found it necessary to broaden their courses which had pre-^ < viously been limited to press journalism® to take in the growing field of broadcast t' journalism.”
RADIO, TV EMPHASIZED
The Notre Dame department of journalism has been teaching courses in radio and television for the past four or five years, emphasizing documentary script writing methods, while the department , of speech has been emphasizing produc-^B tion techniques involved in telecommuni- ™ cations.
The sequence of courses in drama, Father Moore pointed out, provides underpinning for the courses in telecommunications as well as training for the stage.
Students who wish to enter the program will be assigned to the new depart- 1 ment for their junior and senior years, The department will offer them courseswB in writing and production for newspaper, ] magazine, radio, television, and documentary motion picture. It -will also offer , courses in speech, public relations, the- . ater practice, drama theory and public affairs reporting.
WRITERS	:
Manuscripts are now being ac- ’ cepted by the SCHOLASTIC from	V
anyone interested in writing “Es-	'
cape” or “Back Page” for next year. Applications, which should include at least two sample columns, are to be sent to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind.
--------------------------------------|
The Scholastic
= ® Thirty Debate Teams to Compete Next Week In Fifth Notre Dame Invitational Tournament
' The fifth annual Notre Dame Invitational Debate tournament will be held on campus next weekend, April 12 and 13, ' with 30 of the top debate teams in the > nation competing for the Rev. William ' A. Bolger rotating trophy.
, Topic for this year’s debate is: “The U. S. should discontinue direct economic aid to foreign countries.” This is the intercollegiate debate topic for the year. All teams competing in the tourney will debate both the affirmative and negative sides of the question.
Notre Dame will be represented in the I tournament by Paul Coffey and Jack ! Martzell, president and vice-president, respectively, of the Debate Team. They . will be attempting to retain the Bolger 1 Trophy, which was won by the Notre Dame representatives a year ago.
All students and faculty are invited to attend the debate sessions of the tourney. They open on Friday morning,
, Justice Reed to Speak $ At Law School Dinner
Former United States Supreme Court Justice Stanley F. Reed will be the principal speaker at the Notre Dame Law School’s fourth annual Honor Banquet to be held at the Oliver Hotel next Thursday evening.
Justice Reed, who retired from the > Supreme court on Feb. 25 this year, has been engaged in the practice of law since ” 1910. During his legal career, highlighted by his appointment to the Supreme Court in 1938, Justice Reed has been a member of the Kentucky State legislature, general counsel of the Federal Farm Bureau, general counsel for the Reconstruction Finance Committee, I special assistant to the attorney general, ■ solicitor general of the United States, and chairman of the president’s com- mittee on civil service improvement.
The speaker at last year’s banquet ■ was Robert F. Kennedy, brother of Sen. John Kennedy of Massachusetts, and ' chief counsel of the Senate Select Com-■ mittee on Improper Practices in the ' Labor or Management Field, which is ' < ‘ presently looking into Teamsters’ Union ; activities.
At the banquet, appointments for next ~ year’s Notre Dame Latvyer and Moot Court staffs will be announced, and 28 i graduating seniors will receive awards for achievements in the Moot Court competition.
Banquet co-chairmen are Hugh Grige-reit and Gene Kubicki. The master of ceremonies will be Lawrence Kane.
April 5, 1957
in the LaFortune Student Center. Eliminations continue in the Center Friday afternoon and Saturday morning. Semifinals and finals will be held on Saturday afternoon, in Rooms 124 and 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall.
Awards will be presented in the Center immediately following the final debate on Saturday afternoon. Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., vice president of student affairs at Notre Dame, will make the awards. '
Teams competing in the tourney will come from all over the nation. Among others, Alabama and Florida will rep-
CHAIRMAN HIRSCHFELD Debaters in action Friday
resent the South; Southern California and Southern Methodist University, the Southwest; Montana State from the Northwest; Kansas State University and Augustana College from the Midwest; and Dartmouth and Vermont from the Northeast.
The Bolger trophy was won the first year of the tournament, 1953, by Dartmouth College. In 1954 the United States Military Academy took the award, and in 1955 it went to Wilkes College.
John Hirschfeld is chairman of the tournament, assisted by Dennis Schaul. Welcoming- and registrations are being handled by Jerry Goodreau, Pat Curran, Jerry Brady, and Bob Dempsey. Tabulations will be made by Stanley Kusper and Bill Barrett, and Tom Banchoff will handle timekeeping. Brendan Fagan is in charge of awards, and Jim McMahon and Mike Phenner will arrange reservations and the banquet. Tom Clusserath is the publicity chairman.
Bradley Named to Fill Grad School Position
The appointment of Francis X. Bradley, Jr., to the newly created post of assistant dean for research in the Graduate School at Notre Dame was announced this past week by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
Bradley, who is both a lawyer and an engineer, will assist Notre Dame faculty members and departments in securing financial support for their research projects from business, industry, foundations, and government agencies, Father Hesburgh said. He will also handle contractual arrangements for these projects and serve as a liaison between University researchers and the. sponsoring organization.
A nn+:’"» of Detroit, Mich., Bradley served during the past four-and-a-half years as a military requirements engineer at the Pratt and Whitney Aircraft Corp., East Hartford, Conn. During World War II he was a lieutenant colonel in the U. S. Army Air Corps.
Bradley was awarded a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering at Notre Dame in 1939. Returning to the campus after the war, he received a master’s degree in mathematics in 1946. He then enrolled in the Notre Dame Law School, receiving the degree of juris doctor in 1949.
A year later he was awarded a master of laws degree by the Yale Law School. From 1950-52 Bradley was a faculty member at Creighton University Law School. He is a member of the Indiana and Nebraska Bar Associations and the Air Force Association.	.
The newly appointed Notre Dame dean is married to the former Helen Elizabeth Baxter of Detroit. They have four sons and a daughter.
Marketing Club Selects Law As President for Next Year
Jim Law, of Shelbyville, Ind., was elected president of the Notre Dame Marketing Club for the coming year at its March 26 meeting. Other officers selected were Frank Bischof, vice-president, membership; Gene Kervin, vice-president, programming; Joe Fischer, treasurer; and Roger Pfeifer, secretary.
On Wednesday and Thursday of this week 43 members of the club traveled to Chicago for the annual field trip. They visited the Chicago Board of Trade and toured the J. Walter Thompson Advertising Agency on Wednesday. On Thursday the Club went to the International Harvester general office and the tractor works.
15
Sob Moran as Bottom in Shakespeare's Comedy i
I
t
i
This week the SCHOLASTIC features in pictures the theatre in and around Notre Dame. Last weekend Washington Players Inc. visited both the University and St. Mary’s College to give their interpretations of Charley’s Aunt and Shakespeare’s Henry IV.
William Callahan as Falstaff gave one of the most pleasing performances ever witnessed of the exciting, subtle clown. Edmund Torrance portrayed the role of King Henry with a professional grace, showing the reason why Players Inc. are so well accepted where ever-they travel. Leo Brady, a well-known playwright and novelist, directed a fine production.
Theatre
Charley’s Aunt, the perennial funny college farce, delighted the Washington Hall audience. The president of the players, Mr. Robert Moore, directed the play which featured good performances by Ken Lynch, Jr., as Lord Fancourt and Mary van Valkenburgh as Amy Spettigue.
Tonight St. Mary’s will present the
third performance of Shakespeare’s Midsummer Night’s Dream.
Robert Speaight, noted director and formerly of the Old Vic players will guide the actors through their performances. The cast is composed of professionals, Notre Dame, and St. Mary’s actors. The comedy will run through Saturday evening.
The University Theatre has scheduled Good News for their third production of the year. The musical comedy, a success on Broadway some years ago and again as a movie, opens May 8th, and will continue until the 12th. The plot revolves around college life, and its ingredients: football, love, and quasiclasses.
Fr. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., the director, has announced the leads as: Dan Ferrone, Barbara Ann Adamson, Maril-lee Young, Dave Shanahan, Sue Clark, George O’Donnell, Jerry Dodge, Joe Moier, and Rudy Hoinish. The other principles include Bruce Junius, Don Zeif-ang, Peggy Barnish, Sue Brown and Bill DeSeta.—D.K.
16
The Scholastic
1
Do it Yourself Date Kit
18
The Scholastic
Jazz Perspective
by DAVE BRUBECK
Dave Brubeck, who brought Jazz to the campus in his early tours, needs no introduction. However, we would like to mention that this article originally appeared in PERSPECTIVES USA 15, published by Intercultural Publications Inc., copyright 1956.
Jazz began as the musical expression of a protesting minority. Its tradition is rooted in the work songs, blues, and spirituals of the American Negro. In an attempt to retain a cultural identity, the enslaved Negro transplanted Euro-|i pean music (as he did mores and re! ^ligion) into an expressive language of *■ his own. He altered the Occidental scale by adding “blue notes,” of varying tonality, approximented by the flat third and flat seventh. Most of his songs were imitative of the European 1, 4, and 5 harmonic progression. However, clinging to the African tradition of complex rhythms and group participation, his I folk music carried within it the sound and often the form of African tribal ^chants.

Il
New Orleans, with its mixtures of French, Spanish, Italian, English, and Negro ethnic groups, was an island of racial and moral tolerance in the postAbolition South. Here the freed Negroes were exposed to and often performed the popular music of the day. It was natural the Negroid rhythmic and melodic elements should be incorporated l^'nto the ballads and dance tunes of that ' era. The brassband instruments, which flooded the pawnshops after the Civil War, helped to determine the instrumentation of the first ragtime bands. They played syncopated versions of traditional marches at New Orleans picnics and parades. Ragtime, a descendant of minstrel show tunes and street marches, ‘ appeared as a popular instrumental ^’orm about 1900.
But jazz was still an unnamed foundling of the streets and fields until its adoption by the brothels and music halls of the notorious Storyville sector of New Orleans. Here, where a large segment of the white population lived in open rejection of Puritan mores, this defiant, Syncopated music hurdled psychological
April 5, 1957
and racial barriers to unite the outcast whites and blacks.
Ragtime, blues, and the new jazz moved out of New Orleans, up the Mississippi, and around the world. Jazz assimilated with ease the folk music of the nation, transforming waltzes, tangos, quadrilles, ballads, marches, and hymns with its melodic variations, counterpoint, and polyrhythms.
While gaining adherents throughout the world, it ran into increasing resist-
THE AUTHOR
ance from the Puritan American conscience. The general public saw in jazz, and the audience for which it played, a threat to accepted social standards. During the First World War, jazz became the cultural safety valve for the sexual aggressive emotions which had become intensified by wartime hysteria. During the reactionary “return to normalcy” postwar period, Prohibition created within the American population an even larger rebellious minority. The “speakeasies” in Chicago and New York nurtured the Jazz Age. The sphere of influence of jazz was widening.
However, this music, indigenous to America’s strange national and racial mixtures, and embodying in its very form the democratic idea of unity through diversity, found more serious consideration in France, in particular,
and Europe, in general, than it did at home. Despite the -increasingly large audience for jazz, and the impressive number of white as well as Negro musicians within its ranks, jazz had become so intimately associated with society’s outcasts that it remained outside the artistic experience of most American people. There are several reasons for this. Evidently, the American psychological factors of race supremacy and Puritan conscience could not tolerate the return to primitivism which Europe embraced in all its art forms at this period. The general cultural level of American art was so conservative that even the new within the traditional forms of composition was rejected, as for example was Charles Ives, in favor of slavish copies of European nineteenth-century music. However, European composers like Milhaud, Stravinsky, and Hindemith looked at jazz with perspective and saw in it great possibilities for the revitalization of traditional forms of music.
The dangerous tendency has been, especially in France, to restrict jazz to the primitive New Orleans music and to consider any development after that an unwelcome deviation from the African core. Hypercritical jazz fans in Europe, and the small, rabid group in the United States who refuse to hear modern jazz as a natural evolution of the music they so enthusiastically embraced, usually cling to the stereotyped myths of jazz: that only an uneducated creative mind can play jaz?, that it is solely a Negro expression.
The addition of European elements does not arbitrarily mean bad jazz. Duke Ellington proved this by handling the classical elements in jazz with such originality that his compositions remain the most authentic jazz expression in traditional forms of composition.
Jazz has always been a hybrid music. What most people do not realize is that the ^history of the harmonic conception of jazz has paralleled that of composed music, except that jazz has lagged about twenty years in its exploration of harmonic ideas discovered by European composers. Even today contemporaryjazz is years behind the new hannonic concepts of contemporary composers, but the gap is fast narrowing. It is important to add in this parallel growth
19
there have been occasions when jazz contributed heavily to traditional forms of music by the originality of concept and emotional expressiveness.
The non-Negroid elements which appeared in swing were not a complete compromise of the jazz tradition, but indicative of the gradual integration and expansion of the Negro in the American culture. When the jazz musician became aware of the symphonic form and classical musical devices, it was as natural for him to absorb the music and reflect it in jazz, as it had been for his earlier
popular commercialism and creative jazz.
By 1941, the ambivalent character of swing became increasingly evident. The importance of the star vocalist and the arranger was exploited for mass consumption. The improviser, who had sparked the swing band with his creative solos, carried on the old tradition by organizing small “combos.”
Among the jazz experiments in the forties was a group in New York which extended the choruses of the swing era into a specialized form of improvisation.
been violently disrupted by World War II. Musicians who had served their apprenticeship by playing all kinds of jobs in all styles of jazz and were approaching the age for serious contributions to jazz were in the service. There was a demand for entertainment and a dearth of competent musicians. Crusading bop was the center of creative activity. Consequently, the newcomers to jazz patterned their music so directly after Parker, Gillespie, Davis and the other leaders that much of the music of this and of the postwar era degenerated into
exposure to traditional marches, popular tunes, and hvmns to be reflected in the rag form and the blues.
Adapting the harmonic concepts of the romantic and especially the impressionistic composers, and utilizing classical musical devices in arrangements, the jazz musician combined folk, popular, and classical elements to produce swing. The “head arrangement” gradually gave way to written big-band arrangements, free counterpoint to the repeated riff, and the heavy two-beat accent to the smoother syncopation of swing, which specialized in easy dance tempos. The change in style answered two needs. It gave the public acceptable dance music, vocalists, and well-arranged “pop” tunes from Tin Pan Alley. It offered the searching jazz musician the whole heritage of European harmony and orchestration, while it still retained enough of the hot core of jazz through its soloists to attract many of this country’s most talented musicians. The result was a delicate balance between
Ignoring the original melody (which the initiated knew without reiteration), these musicians improvised their own themes based on their own alteration of the chords of standard tunes. They demanded that audiences listen. Tempos were set for instrumental performance, not for dancing. This music, called “bop,” was a radical protest, not only against a world in war, but against the growing commercialism that threatened the extinction of an American art form.
For its audience bop attracted a comparatively small, but fanatically loyal, group of intellectualists, artists, and malcontents, who felt in the tense new music some of their own revolt from a society that had betrayed them. While the general public sought escape in popular vocalists, hill-billy tunes, novelty bands, and vulgarized interpretations of rhythm and blues, the restless protest fringe was seeking expression of its discontent. Part of that expression was fulfilled in the controlled, masterful, emotional realism of bop.
The continuity of jazz history had
an endless repetition of bop cliches. Thus, the complex, highly individual styles perfected by Parker and a handful of great bop musicians unwittingly determined the course of jazz history. Their return to “raw emotions” is a saving landmark in the tradition of jazz.
Much of the music of the war and postwar years seemed permeated with^j fear. Its sound and form of presenta-'; tion reflected a defiance and a distrust, not only of established society, but of the audience, or anyone outside the group. The traditional freedom of the instrumentalist was maintained — but with subtlety of group restrictions. The emphasis was placed on musical elements, melodic inventiveness, phrasing beyond the 4 and 8 bar divisions, technical^1 facility, and controlled tone. For those 1 who could master it, its emotional context was powerful, but for too many imitators it became an empty sound.
It is difficult to describe the narrow line between the strong group feeling created in jazz which is a healthy cocreativeness and the mass hysteria which\ j
20
The Scholastic i
II
'I
can be produced by the deliberate lower-“^ing of artistic taste. But it is on the recognition of this subtle division—the advancement of jazz as an art form ex-
, pressive of our American culture, or the degradation of music as the titillater of the public’s basest drives—that the future of jazz depends.
, Bop and, later, “cool jazz” were ex-•y treme reactions against the vulgar escape music that thrived on the hysteria of / the times. While the cool-jazz men can be condemned for alienating the public, it has been their uncompromising attitude toward their music that has kept jazz alive and creative during the postwar eclipse.
Though jazz has just struggled through a period of rejection and disfavor, many of us who were overseas during the war returned to the United States with confidence in its future as an important contribution to world music. We had
' witnessed for ourselves the powerful symbol of freedom jazz had become in Nazi Germany—and the role it had played toward liberation in the French ' Underground, Sweden, and England, i, There was a vitality in jazz—a basic ’ universal dream implicit in its free expression of the individual—that made it • an important music not only to Americans, but to the world. Many of us talked of a renaissance of jazz of a worldwide nature. We see this dream materializing in the work of new jazz artists in Canada, England, Australia, I Germany, France, the Scandinavian I ^ountries, even Japan—in fact in every I April 5, 1957
country in the world which allows free expression.
There is need now foi’ historical perspective and a conscious acceptance of the jazz tradition. The returning veterans who crowded the music conservatories to study under the G.I. Bill offered us a new hope. Many of them were jazz instrumentalists who would soon apply their knowledge of polytonality, atonality, counterpoint, and composition techniques to jazz. I do not mean to imply that the music scholar outweighs the natural musician in his contribution. Many of the jazz greats have been completely unaware of their roles, and in their freedom from classical restraint have succeeded so well in expressing their own individuality that they have touched upon the universal. At the grassroots level today are folk musicians who remind us that all of oui’ preoccupation with form, technique, and
analysis is but an attempt to speak within the art rules of music the same message they sing in poetic simplicity.
In contemporary American music there is a gradual synthesis of the analytical innovations and the folk appeal of jazz. To stimulate the imagination of the listener, recognizable variations * of the original melody are developed and countermelodies are added much in the manner of the New Orleans pioneers, only with far more challenge musically and awareness of the technique and its history. Counter-rhythms are superimposed over the basic four beat. Harmonic development of the or
iginal chords has extended into polytonality and occasional atonal experiments. The limitations of form are being pushed outward by extending the development idea beyond the 32 bars or into several choruses developed from one fundamental idea. The horizons of' jazz are extending into the field of art music, which means a vast freedom of choice of material, but carries with it the tremendous responsibility of meeting the long-established aesthetic standards of European classical music.
As a musician I feel free to explore the whole area of my musical heritage— from African drum batteries to Couperin, Bach, Jelly-Roll, Stravinsky, or Charlie Parker. As a human being I feel free to explore the whole area of human emotions. If I am successful as a musician, this mixed musical heritage is projected into the future in a manner worthy of the name “art form.”
Jazz offers the medium for expressing the conflicts and dreams of the people in an emotional language they comprehend.
Today the jazz artist is faced with an artistic dilemma. How far shall we deviate from the folk characteristics of jazz? Shall we change the steady 4/4 or 2/4 beat, which for so long has been the pulse of jazz? Do we break with tonality? Shall we expand the restrictive 32-bar form? How much of the techniques of composition can we utilize without losing the spontaneity of the group improvisation? Is the structural, (Continued on Page 31)
21
The Search of
Dexter Ryan
It did not take Dexter Ryan long to discover that he no longer existed. On awakening in the morning of the day, he sat up in bed and blinked his eyes from the glare of the sunlight streaking through the open window.
He looked around the room, but somehow there was a great difference. His rug was gone, and his bookcase no longer stood in the corner opposite the door. His desk was bare. There was no coffeepot on the windowsill. The only sign of himself was a pair of khaki pants hanging on the chair and a pair of brown shoes underneath the bed. He scratched his head puzzled, and began to get out of bed.
The door opened and a sandy-haired individual entered the room, carrying two suitcases. He set them down on the floor, looked at Dexter, and spoke.
“What’re you doing in here?”
Dexter blinked his eyes and scratched his head again, still not fully awake.
“What do you mean?”
“I said what are you doing here? Who are you, anyway?”
Dexter smiled. “I’m Dexter Ryan. I live here.”
“Since when?”
"Since all year.”
The other looked puzzled, reached into his pocket and drew out a slip of paper. He handed it to Dexter. It was a notice informing William Schmidt to report to, and take up lodgings in room 113. Dexter lived in 113.
“I got that note last night!”
"I don’t get it.”
“Neither do I.”
Dexter sat on the bed, undecided. He stood up and looked at himself in the mirror. He was still Dexter Ryan, and he felt that something should be done quickly.
“I’m going down to see the rector,” he said. “You wait here. Have a seat.” The other stared curiously at him as he walked out the door. He went swiftly down the hall, turned the corner, and knocked on the rector’s door.
“Come in.”
He opened the door and walked in. ■“Morning Father. There’s some kind of mess down in my room. Guy just
22
by JAMES McDONALD
walked in and says he’s been assigned to live there.”
“Did he give his name?”
“He said it was William Schmidt.”
The priest opened the drawer of his desk, took out a list, and glanced throught it.
“That’s correct: Schmidt, 113.”
“But I live there, Father.”
“What did you say your name was?”
“My name? You called me ‘Dex’ yesterday. Dexter Ryan.”
The priest looked at him quizzically and stood up.
“Dexter Ryan? I don’t know. I don’t remember you. You say you’ve been living in the room all year?” Dexter nodded, swallowing the lump in his throat. “Just a moment: I’ll look in the hall list.” He examined another list very carefully. “No Dexter Ryan here.”
Dexter blinked in disbelief. He scratched his head again and began to wonder if he were still asleep.
“If something is wrong you’d better go over to the Main Building and straighten things out.”
“Oh, yes. Main Building. Yes. Yes, I’ll go right over and find out what gives. Thanks Father.” He left the room hurriedly and returned to 113. He opened the door and walked in, then remembered that nothing was in his room but the new occupant. He would have to recover his belongings once things were straightened out.
As he crossed the quadrangle and walked down the sidewalk toward the Main Building, he shook his head at the strange things that could happen to a student in a University. He climbed the stairs to the second floor of the building and opened the door to the Academic office.
“I’d like to see someone,” he muttered.
An elderly woman looked at him strangely. Dexter wondered if he had forgotten to shave, and then remembered that he had no razor. “Whom would you like to see?” she asked.
“Well, there’s a mess going on in my hall. Some guy has just taken over my room and the rector tells me he’s never heard of me and just yesterday he was
calling me by my first name and all my _] things are gone and I wonder if you can help me.”
The woman stepped back. “What is your name?”
“Dexter Ryan.”
“One moment. I’ll check your record.” Fifteen minutes later she returned with two sheets of paper in her hand. “John Ryan? Or was. it Stephen Ryan?”
“My name is Dexter Ryan,” he almost. shouted.	' ■
“I’m sorry, but we have no Dexter Ryan listed on record anywhere.”
Dexter leaned against the plateglass window and closed his eyes. He began to wonder if he were losing his mind. “What do I do now?” he asked.
“I’m sorry, but I really don’t know. No Dexter Ryan exists here, according to our records. Are you certain that,, you aren’t registered under your middlek^ name?”	1
“My name is Dexter Ryan. I am a student here,” he shrieked, and ran from the office, down the stairs, and out the front door.
He paused and clenched his fists at his sides. The sun was sifting behind tufts of clouds. The magnolia trees were beginning to bloom. Students were going to-and-from their classes. Dexter^ remembered that he no longer was reg-" istered for any classes. The students were walking slowly and talking as they walked. He saw his two friends, Frank and Mark.
“Hey, Frank. Frank! You wanna hear something weird? Frank!” Neither of the two seemed to hear him. He ran over and tapped Mark on the shoulder, 1 but Mark did not turn.	J
“Hey, wait up. Dammit! Wait upI’L^I he screamed, but they continued to walk. They did not stop. “HOLD IT! WAIT!” They walked into the Main Building.
Dexter stood there for a moment, feeling bodies brush him, and then suddenly he was on his hands and knees, on his stomach, his face pressing the sidewalk. He tried to shout but a foot ground his face into the pavement. He tried to rise but a knee jolted his chesiQ and he fell again, on his back, and feet were trampling his stomach and arms and legs.
Then the feet were gone, and he was lying on his hack, aching and staring up at the darkening sky. He rolled over onto his hands and knees and got to his feet. His entire body ached and his face felt cut and bruised. He put hands up and felt over his head and^ chest. There were not wet with blood. He had thought that they would be. He began to realize that something was happening to him. Suddenly he did not feel any pain, only a faint lightness, airy-faint.

(Continued on Page 24)

The Scholastic
'Frolic' Ticket Sales
To Open Wednesday
• Ticket sales for this year’s Freshman Frolic will be held in the Fieldhouse next | Wednesday and Thursday, April 10 and 11, from 6 to 9 p.m. Tickets for the j dance will be $5, while tickets for the \, Communion Breakfast to be held Sunday, May 19, will be priced at $3 per ' couple.
The orchestra of Jimmy McShane will provide music for the formal dance, Friday evening, May 17. Jimmy McShane’s orchestra is an aggregation of young and unusually talented musicians. Featuring a danceable variety of melodies, the group is equally capable of produc-; ing Dixieland, Modern, and Latin-Amer-A ican music. The Frolic will mark the initial appearance of the Jimmy McShane orchestra at Notre Dame.
Arrangements for ticket sales in the Fieldhouse are being planned to make the time spent in obtaining bids, breakfast tickets and hotel reservations as short as possible. The procedure will be | outlined further in a newsletter to be ; distributed Monday, April 8, to each Freshman room. Special discount cards for formal wear rental at Logan’s in \ ■'outh Bend will be distributed at the time of ticket sales.
The Communion Breakfast will be held in the East Dining Hall following 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will be speaker at the breakfast. Rev. Daniel IJ. O’Neill, C.S.C., will say the Mass and preach the sermon.
“Teahouse of the August Moon” is the theme of this year’s Frolic, with the ! decorations transforming the Student Center into an Oriental garden. Added features will be refreshments of punch and coke and a surprise favor for the girls.
RESEARCH:
DEVELOPMENT:
OPERATIONS:
i Tri-Military Smoker Slated For Wednesday in Drill Hall
The third annual Tri-Military Smoker will be held Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Navy Drill Hall. The smoker is sponsored by the Tri-Military Council, of which John Thomas is president.
First item on the program for the evening is Inter-Unit Drill Team competition, to determine the campus drill team 1 championship. This will be followed by interunit basketball competition, also determining the campus champion units. After the two competitions plaques and awards will be presented to winners of the two contests.
Refreshments of sandwiches, cokes, and donuts will be served, followed by the feature movie, Bataan.
April 5, 1957
CHEMISTS
ENGINEERS
The Sherwin-Williams Co.
EXCELLENT POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN
Chemists in organic, inorganic and physical. Long and short range research in synthesis; problems in insecticides, dye stuffs, pigments, rubber and petroleum chemicals and inorganic materials.
Chemists in organic, inorganic, analytical and chemical engineers. Product development and
formulation. Emulsions, protective coatings.
Chemists and chemical chemical equipment and
lacquers
and other
engineers o
processes.
operations for chemicals, pigments products.
to develop Pilot plant and similar
SIGN UP FOR INTERVIEWS NOW
THE earth
A representative will be on your campus
MONDAY. APRIL 8. 1957
Study in Europe
ECONOMICAL ACADEMIC YEAR
For information and application farms, fill out this coupon and mail to:
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
*'A non-profit corporation'*
35 East Wacker Dr.,	Chicago 1, III.
Enroll in a full program of English taught courses at the University of Vienna. Live in a Viennese home. Learn to speak German fluently. Participate in three separate study tours through eight countries. Integrate study and travel for a grass roots grasp of content-porary European problems. This two-semester program lasts 10 months. Round trip ocean transportation is covered in the all inclusive fee of ----------------------------- $1780.
name address city
state
in nos umiYui NIK SUP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J.TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJWJ. Bldg.
COURTESY BARBER SHOP 112 E. Washington Street South Bend, Indiana Under Max Adler Company B. FRED CRAVEN N. D. Boys Welcome
23


Fellowships Awarded To Seven ND Students
Seven Notre Dame students have been awarded fellowships for graduate study in their major fields.
Five Notre Dame seniors and two nuns enrolled in the University’s Graduate School have received National Science Foundation pre-doctoral grants. They are Donald Calahan, Cincinnati, Ohio; Gregory Conron, New Canaan, Conn.; Thomas Schriber, Muskegon, Mich.; Thomas Stewart, Memphis, Tenn.; Sister Mary Alice Marie Fox, B.V.M., Chicago; and Sister Esperance Wittry, C.S.J., Marshall, Minn.
The National Science Foundation fellowships provide an annual stipend of $1600 for college seniors, payment of tuition and fees, dependency allowances for married students, and a limited travel allowance. Students are free to designate where they will pursue their advanced studies.
Search of Dexter Ryan
(Continued from page 22)
He walked into the Main Building and up the stairs to the office. He did not open the door but merely passed through it. It seemed silly to bother to open the door. He stopped in the middle of the room, undecided. No one seemed to look at him or notice him in any way. He raised his arms above his head and screamed at the top of his lungs. No one turned. A student walked into the room and passed him. Dexter screamed louder and felt his voice crack. There was no response.
A secretary got up from behind a desk and moved toward the door. He turned swiftly and stood directly in front of her, but she passed through him and out the door. He did not feel her pass through him.
Dexter walked out the door and into the hall, then rushed down the stairs and out into the fresh thickening air.
“I suppose I am still intact,” he thought. “As intact as I will ever be.”
There were few sounds in the air as he walked down toward the lake. The water was gray, like an oily steel bridge and the clouds were very heavy now. The sun had lost its brightness, the water hazed, the air thick.
He lay down on the ground, faintly feeling the grass at the back of his neck. Rain began to fall: slowly in - 4 spattered drops. He opened his eyes and J looked up at the sky.
The rain became a crisp cadence, falling heavily, falling on his body as he lay in the grass, wetting his skin, soaking his hair, filling his eyes, soothing behind his eyes. Then he felt that there was no feeling: no grass at his back, only faint water on his face. The water was less wet; falling hard but he did not feel. He tried to rise. He could not move. The rain beat down. He felt it less, and less, and less. He ceased to feel and he could barely see. The sky was dimly rumbling in the heavens; rumbling and rolling; rolling and crumbling, the sky; rolling; rumbling; crumbling.
PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
to get a better shave!
Quicker . . . closer . . . smoother . . . no matter what machine you use. 1.00 plus tax
SHULTON New York • Toronto
24
The Scholastic
RELAY TEAM COMPETES AT AUSTINTODAY
<\ Coach Wilson Sends Four to Texas Relays After Completing Successful Indoor Season
The Notre Dame track team will launch their outdoor season this weekend by journeying to Austin, Texas for the Texas Relays. Coach Wilson is sending the same four boys to represent the Irish in both the sprint medley and the mile relay.
Friday night in the sprint medley, which has four legs of 440, 220, 220, and 880 yards, Joe Foreman will probably open with the quarter. If he does, Bill Keegan and Aubrey Lewis will take the middle legs, and Dale VandenBerg will anchor with the half mile. However, Lewis may start off, in which case Foreman would take his place running third.
Keegan, VandenBerg, Foreman, and Lewis will run in that order in the mile relay Saturday afternoon. This is the same quartet that placed second to the Pioneer Club two weeks ago in the Canadian Indoor Championships.
These colorful Relays annually help inaugurate the outdoor track season and feature track and field’s best from the Southwest and the Far West. Headlining this year’s field is, of course, Abilene Christian’s Bobby Morrow, generally recognized as the world’s greatest sprinter. Morrow sped to Olympic victories in both the 100 and the 200 meter dashes and anchored the United States’
KEEGAN, VANDENBERG, FOREMAN, LEWIS Mile relay team competes in Texas Relays.
April 5, 1957
400 meter relay team to another first. The only sprint he lost last year was the 100 yard dash at the Drake Relays. Duke’s Dave Sime edged him in the rain. Sime didn’t beat him after that.
Representing Texas University will be Eddie Southern, the school boy sensation two years ago, who lived up to all expectations last year as a college freshman. As a Dallas high school senior, Southern broke the national interscholastic 440 record two successive days, :47.4 the first day and a brilliant :47.2 the following night. He also ran a :20.7 220 while in high school. Last summer he was right on Glen Davis’ heels in the Olympic 400 meter hurdles try-outs and went on to place second to Davis in the Olympics.
Oklahoma A & M’s J. W. Mashbum will be back again. The big blonde has run on two different Olympic 1600 meter relay teams, in 1952 and 1956.
INDOOR SEASON OVER
The Wilsomnen closed out a successful indoor track season by competing in the Cleveland Relays and Canadian Indoor Championships at Hamilton, Ontario two weeks ago. Friday night at Cleveland the mile relay team of Keegan, Ewart, Foreman, and Lewis turned in their second best performance of the year.
Villanova nipped the Irish by a few yards with a 3:19.5 time. But Aubrey Lewis picked up' about ten yards on Villanova’s last man to finish in 3:19.8. Only in the CCC Meet did the quartet turn in a better mark, 3:19.3.
The two mile relay squad came in third behind Georgetown and Pittsburgh. Georgetown finished in 7:43.7 and the Irish in about 7:48. Georgetown held command all the way after the first half mile although Pitt pressed them throughout the race. Monelly, Porter, DiCamillo, and VandenBerg comprised the Irish squad.
Freshman miler Ron Gregory immediately took the lead in the open mile and held it at the quarter, which he covered in :60. He dropped back during the second 440 but passed Ron Delany and North Carolina’s Jim Beatty at the start of the second half and stayed in front until the start of the final quarter when he slackened after setting his fast pace. He finished fourth behind Delany, Beatty, and Ted Wheeler of Iowa. Delaney won his fifteenth consecutive mile run in 4:10.4.
At Hamilton, the mile relay team of Keegan, VandenBerg, Foreman, and Lewis came in second to the pace-setting New York Pioneer* Club, anchored by Reggie Pearman. The easterners won the event in 3:21, and the Irish trailed with 3:22.5. Also, Steve Dornbach placed second to Milt Campbell in the 60 yard high hurdles. Campbell’s time was :07.3, and Dornbach was only a couple of yards back.
Campus Golf Tourney Invites Amateur Duffers
All duffers, potential golfers and amateurs are invited to play in the Garrity Golf Escapade. The tourney, which is being held Sunday, April 13, has only one qualification for entry, that you be able to pay the $ .25 entry fee.
There will be a tournament official at the first tee between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. who will take all entries.
A trophy will be awarded to the players with the low gross and the low net scores. Merchandise prizes will be given to the others who place and a booby prize will be given to the man with the highest score. Net scores will be based on the Peoria Handicapping system.
For further information concerning the tourney contact Joseph Pivnicka, 106 Walsh Hall.
25
~■” Ten Champions Receive Trophies in Bengals; Welterweight Ricciuti Chosen as Best Boxer
Last Friday night culminated eight weeks of rigorous training for 20 well-conditioned boxers and all the participants in the 26th annual Bengal Bouts showed that they had learned more than enough about boxing to pound out plenty of action in ten exciting bouts. The evening’s activity in the Fieldhouse boasted championship fights in weight divisions starting with the 127-lb. class to the heavyweight finale.
Carmen Basilio, world welterweight champion and recipient of this year’s Bengal Award, refereed the heavyweight bout. Basilio, who has beaten all of the top contenders in the welterweight division, was awarded the honor for having contributed the most to the youth of America and competitive spirit during 1956.
Before the final fight, the winners of the previous bouts, the champions of the 1957 Bengals, received their trophies. Trophies were also awarded to Don Law-
rence for the most improved boxer, and to Bob Mondron, another heavyweight "who received the Sportsmanship Trophy.
RICCIUTI RECEIVES TOP HONOR
Highlight among the presentations was the awarding of Ed Ricciuti with the Larry Ash Memorial Trophy, emblematic of the Bouts’ outstanding boxer. Ricciuti, a fine boxer with a very effective left jab, earlier in the evening had won the rugged 142-pound class championship. He is an AB sophomore from Morrissey Hall and lives in Waterbury, Conn.
As a special feature of the Bengals, Dominic Napolitano, instructor of the participants, beginning in 1932 and interrupted only by military service be-
AWARD FOR THE CHAMP
■ Basilio accepts plaque from Conway.
April 5, 1957
tween 1943-1945, received a citation and plaque from the United States Air Force for his work last summer in training airman boxers in Europe. The honor was presented by Col. Milton Towner.
In the opening fight of the night, Denny Landry of Howard knocked down John Donovan of Morrissey in the first round and then punched his way to a unanimous decision. Landry used a left jab effectively to set up his opponent and was never in any serious trouble in capturing the 127-lb. title.
In the fight for the 137-lb. championship, Ross Franco of Cavanaugh gained a unanimous decision over Leighton
HOWARD HALL WINS
Howard Hall, by compiling the most points in the recent Bengal Bouts, was awarded the SCHOLASTIC Plaque. Howard gained 23 points to lead all other clubs. The points were awarded on the basis of ticket sales and winning boxers in the fights. Others gaining points were:
Off-Campus ..20	Zahm .........10
Badin ........20	Sorin ........ 9
Pangborn .....19	Fisher ....... 9
St. Ed’s .....17	Cavanaugh	.. 9
Morrissey ____12	Breen-Phillips	5
Lyons ..........11	Walsh .......  4
Young of Lyons. Franco was the aggressor throughout the fight. His boring style of infighting completely puzzled Young.
Dave Cowdrill of Off-Campus was beaten by Ed Ricciuti of Morrissey in the final bout of the 142-lb. division, possibly the most exciting fight of the night. Both boys stood toe to toe throughout the fight. However, it was Ricciuti who scored more consistently with jab-hook combinations.
In the 147-lb. division, John Finn of Badin outpointed John Steinberg of Off-Campus to gain a unanimous decision and the championship.
MOORE-BALL FIGHT A CLASSIC
Bill Moore of Badin and Hugh Ball of Off-Campus provided the crowd with a real thrill in their battle for the 157-lb. championship. Both boys came out at the start of each round and stood throwing leather for the entire two minutes with each being staggered several times by the other’s punches. Moore finally walked away with the decision and the title but it was not before the
THE OUTSTANDING BOXER
Mayor Voorde congratulates Ricciuti.
crowd had been brought to their feet at the end of the fight.
Fighting for the 160-lb. championship, Bill Brelsford of St. Ed’s scored a TKO over Gerry Waters of Off-Campus after 53 seconds of the third round. Brelsford knocked Waters down in the third round, and then referee George VanderHayden stopped the bout after Brelsford had hurt Waters with a stiff right cross.
In the 167-lb. division, Dick Murphy of Pangborn captured his third consecutive title in outpointing Frank Nacozy of Lyons. Murphy was the more aggressive of the two fighters and hammered at Nacozy’s midsection with right uppercuts that hui-t Nacozy’s jabbing style.
LYNCH WINS
Dick Lynch of Fisher won the 177-lb. title with a unanimous decision over former champion Pete Noznesky of Walsh. Lynch flattened his opponent in each of the three rounds, Noznesky being saved by the bell in the last stanza. Lynch proved himself to be one of the hardest punchers of the bouts with the victory coupled with his Monday night knockout.
Dick Prendergast of Sorin Hall banged out a convincing unanimous win over Chuck Connoi- of Off-Campus to win the 190-lb. division. Prendergast knocked Connor down three times in the first round, and although Connor was able to stay up the remaindei' of the fight he was never in contention.
In the heavyweight finale, Pat Healey of St. Ed’s defeated Dick Shulsen of Pangborn by a split decision in the slowest fight of the evening’s card. Both boys were content to move to the inside and bang away. The result was a gruelling fight. Healey never had Shulsen in any trouble but was a bit quicker and more consistent in the in-fighting.
Tl A ■ K A D ■!* Fencers Take Ninth
I he Amazing Mr. Dasilio |n Season's Finale
"The award which Carmen received tonight means more to him than any other that he has ever won.” The speaker was manager Joe Netro, and he was talking about his fighter Carmen Basilio, weltei’weight boxing champion of the world and recipient of the 1957 Bengal Bout award.
Carmen Basilio is a man who started fighting as a young boy and worked his way up slowly to the title which he holds. He is the first to admit that he was a lousy fighter when he started, but he had one desire throughout his career —a world’s championship. But only through hard work and determination was this desire achieved.
What kind of a man is Carmen Basilio? No pat answer could be given to that question. But by viewing, talking, and being with him you gain some insight into what sets him apart from other men.
Whether Carmen was eating at the Morris Inn, or watching football practice at Cartier Field, or being interviewed at a radio station, he gave the impression that he was thoroughly enjoying himself. When he arrived Thursday afternoon, he apparently wasn’t feeling well after the plane ride, but he did all that was asked. When he was asked if there was anything that he wished to do Friday in particular, he replied that there was nothing, but that he would like to be awakened early for Mass.
He is a man of deep and fervent faith. Through his manager, it was learned that Basilio receives Communion
“THIS ISN’T MY GAME, FATHER” The champ with Father Brennan
every day while he is training and whenever possible while he is traveling.
After his fight with Johnny Saxton last February, in which he knocked Saxton out in the second round, Basilio dropped to a knee and paused there for half a minute before accepting the handshakes of well-wishers. Some members of the press, thinking it was a publicity stunt asked him to explain why he did it? To this Basilio replied: “I prayed day and night before the fight so what was wrong with thanking Him afterwards?”
Basilio also told the story which broke after his last DeMarco fight. It was written that several nuns were listening to the fight over a radio and Basilio was absorbing quite a beating. Then, one of the good sisters placed a holy statue on the radio and the tide turned and he knocked De Marco out.
FAVORITE OF THE CLERGY
The religious play a big part in Basilio’s life. Whenever he fights in Syracuse, half of the ringside seats are filled with priests.
Carmen doesn’t talk much, but when he does, it is usually centered on his wife or nephews. His nephews are his pride and joy, and he takes the oldest one who is four- years old on all his trips in the East.
His favorite hobbies are hunting and fishing, and his wife shares these interests with him. After he quits fighting, Carmen plans to move to the West where he can enjoy the outdoor life.
Carmen is a strong believer in the fact that there is no easy way or short way to success, but that it is a long, tough road which leads to the top. He lives as he told the high school seminarians, whom he spoke to Friday, that they should try “to set their goals in life high and then dedicate their life to attaining these goals.”
Though Basilio is a humble man in viewing his accomplishments, he still maintains a great amount of self-confidence. When asked about his future plans he said that he was going to fight the winner of Fullmer-Robinson fight. He feels that Fullmer will win, but he thinks that he can beat either of them for the middleweight crown.
Win, lose, or draw, Basilio is a man deserving of the Bengal award.
Carmen Basilio stands at the top as champion of the world; not only as boxing champion but as a little different kind of champion, a champion of men.
—Tom Judge
The Notre Dame fencing team completed its competition for this season at Detroit University on March 23 in the NCAA championships. The Irish gained a total of 52 points to finish in ninth place in the nationwide competition. New • York University took first place with 65 points with Columbia in second with 64.
Dennis Hemmerle paced the Irish by taking second place in the epee behind Jim Mangolis of Columbia. Hemmerle won 25 out of 29 matches. Mangolis triumphed in 26 of 29 matches. The competition was highlighted by the match between these two top finishers. Hemmerle was leading 4-3 with two seconds remaining in the match when Mangolis v made the final touch, knotting the count. In the overtime, it seemed as though Hemmerle had won when a touch was registered on the machine attached to the weapon. But the judges threw out the decision when they couldn’t decide whether Hemmerle’s weapon had hit the floor or Mangolis’ leg. In the second overtime, Mangolis won the decision.
In the sabre competition, Joe Klein copped tenth place, winning 16 of 27 matches. Bernie Babaion of NYU took the individual title with a record of 25 victories in 28 starts. In the foil, misfortune again struck the Irish. In the Friday matches, Pierre duVair, the Notre Dame entry, was injured and was hospitalized for X-rays. The X-rays were negative and duVair was allowed to continue competition but was forced r to forfeit seven matches. He finished -with a record of 11-18 for the two-day competition, but was far behind winner Bruce Davis of Wayne State.
NINTH PLACE FINISH IN NCAA Klein, Hemmerle and duVair
28
The Scholastic
AMERICAN LEAGUE
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
t
TYLER PICKS THE PENNANT RACES
NEW YORK—Handicap them ten games and they’ll still run away. CLEVELAND—The Indians will surprise everyone and go on the warpath. DETROIT—A pennant in the not too distant future for the young Tigers. BOSTON—It’s positively Teddy’s last year.
CHICAGO—It couldn’t happen to a nicer bunch of fans. WASHINGTON—They’ll stay with the pack till the last week in April. BALTIMORE—It’s about time for Paul Richards to call it quits.
KANSAS CITY—It shouldn’t happen to a nice guy like Lou Boudreau.
MILWAUKEE—Fred Haney, the players and the fans deserve it.
ST. LOUIS—We’ll probably die with this one.
CINCINNATI—What pitching wouldn’t do for this club.
BROOKLYN—The Old Men are fading.
PITTSBURGH—The Pirates are like the Tigers—watch out in the future.
NEW YORK—The Giants are rebuilding.
PHILADELPHIA—One man can’t win a pennant by himself.
CHICAGO—Maybe they should move to Fairbanks, Alaska.
Cleveland, Holy Rollers Pace Kegler Standings
a The five leaders of their respective ' ' Kampus Kegler leagues have pulled away to comfortable advantages with but a few weks to go in the season. The Cleveland Club and the Holy Rol-I lers have each amassed at least ten game leads.
The Cleveland Club has piled up a twelve game spread between them and the Press Club in the 6:30 Wednesday | league. The Italians trail the 38-26 Press by one game. The high average in this league and in all the leagues belongs to Tom Jablonski of the Toledo Club with a 180 average.
j In the 8:45 Wednesday league, Wisconsin and the Students’ Law Association trail the pace-setting St. Louisians. Don Calganini and Bill DeBot are fight-i ing for the individual leadership with \ Calganini in front, 165-164.
The 6:30 Thursday chapter shows the Chicago Club on top by four games over the California Club and five over the Irish. The Chicagoans have won 32 of 45 contests. Nick Ranieri from Chicago and Fr. Shea of the Padres own 177 averages. Bill Bradt of the Irish is one behind at 176.
The Architects pace the 8:45 Thurs-I day league with a 39%-16% mark. The I ^Gutter Dusters, Villagers, Koper Club, and Washington-Virginia-Maryland Club are all bunched with three games of each other. Of those who have bowled more than ten games, Frank Neubek of the Architects lead the group in individual averages with a 168 mark.
With a 38-10 record, the Holy Rollers $ hold a ten game lead over the De-Effers I ' in the 6:30 Friday league and a twelve
fame margin over the Easterners. Virgil Minnick of the second place club has the high average, 170, and Dick Silliman of the Holy Rollers is second with a 162.
For all leagues at the campus alleys, Nick Ranieri has the high singles for the year with a 256. Jim Trino holds the top three game series so far, 641.
Netmen Open Season; Face Chicago Saturday
The Notre Dame tennis team will open the 1957 campaign tomorrow afternoon in a dual meet with Chicago University at Chicago.
The team will pin its hopes on their number one man, sophomore Maxwell Brown. There is a battle for the number two spot between Harry Smith and sophomore Ron Schoenberg. Chuck Vanoncini has a hold on the number four slot. The fifth and sixth positions are wide open, but Sergio Garza, Hector Cabello, Captain Jim Rich and Charlie Stephans are the four strongest contenders.
The team will open a three game home stand against the University of Detroit on April 13. Then they take on Western Michigan on the seventeenth and Wisconsin on the twenty-second. Then a three game road trip will take them to Huntington, West Virginia to play Marshall College on April 24. On the twenty-fifth they swing over to Lexington, Kentucky to take on Kentucky U. They wind up their road trip at Louisville U. on the twenty-sixth, which will end the action for April. In May they continue their rugged schedule by taking on Kalamazoo, Marquette, Michigan, Michigan State and Northwestern.
President's Cup Trophy Boosts Interhall Sports
Last year a need was sighted in interhall athletics both to stimulate interest in interhall sports and to unify the halls endeavors by presenting a goal which could be reached only by a common effort. Out of this came the idea of the President’s Cup, which Mr. and Mrs. Leo E. Linbeck of Houston, Texas, parents of Leo Linbeck, Senate Physical Facilities Commissioner last year, were very generous in donating. The cup is now on display in the Student Center.
The administration of the Cup, which is named in honor of the President of the University, has been placed under the jurisdiction of the newly formed Student Interhall Athletic Advisory Board — a board composed of five students, one from each of the four classes and one at large. This board is the first step in giving the students an active voice in the policies that govern interhall athletics. Their field of jurisdiction covers: the President’s Cup (scoring system, with the approval of the Hall President’s Council), originating new events, eligibility, voicing student opinion to those in the administration in charge of interhall athletics, dealing with protested games, and in general giving the students a voice in the operation of interhall sports.
The primary purpose of the Cup is to act as an incentive for the hall to unify with a team spii-it and to lend to interhall athletics the true competitive spirit they were intended to have.	’
THE PRESIDENTS TROPHY
Awarded for Interhall Supremacy.

April 5, 1957
TIME OUT
Powerful Badin Wins Inferhall Track Meet
A PLEA FOR THE SWIMMING CLUB
When the Notre Dame Swimming Club completed a very fine season a few weeks ago with an impressive second place in the Midwest Invitational, it brought many to believe that the Club should be given more recognition on campus and around the Midwest by being elevated to varsity status.
Since it was first organized back in 1941, the Club has had its troubles which at times even included disbanding. In ’54 there was no organized Swim Club of any kind and the reason given then was that students were not interested in training just for the fun of participating. It was simple. They weren’t going to neglect their studies and not get anything out of it.
Along came a group the following spring who had the right idea. They figured that the only way to get varsity status was to show the Administration that they were interested and could perform ■with a representative team. The group was headed by Dan and Ed Healy, Paul Kerwin and Mike Connelly. The latter three participated this past season. Also helping a great deal in the forming of the “new” club was Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C., who has acted as moderator since.
The Club has come a long way in two years, completing this past season with a 7-5 record. A few of the opponents such as Bowling Green, Miami of Ohio and Ohio University are well known for their swimming teams.
THE BIG OBJECTION
The biggest objection to a varsity swimming team is that it would prevent use of the pool by the students in the afternoon. The building was built with the stipulation that it was to be for student use only. This ruled out a varsity team practicing in the pool. The Swimming Club did not take up the afternoon free period but practiced at night instead.
It is this point that indicates that those on the Club are deeply interested in the sport. They were willing to go down there on a full stomach to practice. To go back and study after a two-hour night workout is not easy but they made the sacrifices with nothing as a reward but personal satisfaction.
A check of the Rock Pool in the afternoon proved to be interesting. There were usually 13 to 15 people in the pool in a two-and-a-half-hour period and each day these were usually the same ones who just dropped in for a dip after playing basketball or handball. The question is: Should a team be sacrificed at the expense of a dozen or so students? I don’t think so.
Most other universities have only one pool and still have a varsity swimming team. Miami of Ohio, Western Michigan, Ohio U. and Northwestern are some that fall into this category.
If the Club got varsity recognition good swimmers who wanted to swim in college would come here. For example, take Fenwick High in Chicago. For the past 19 years, they have Avon the Catholic League title. It would only be natural that these swimmers would want to come to Notre Dame. But this isn’t the case. They want to go where they can swim and there isn’t a Catholic college in the country with a good swimming team. Should a high school senior have to choose between a Catholic education and a school with a good varsity swimming team?
Another good case is that of Frank McKinney, a senior at Cathedral High in Indianapolis. He won a bronze medal in the backstroke event in the past Olympics. He has expressed a definite interest in coming to ND if they have a varsity team. He certainly isn’t going to waste his talents here if there is only a Club.
In a couple of weeks, this whole issue goes before the Athletic Board. The student body is interested in the decision as is exemplified by the attendance at the meets. Many of the crowds average from 400-500. Let’s hope the Board sees its way clear to expand its athletic program a little bit more.—J.G.
Badin Hall, paced by Mike Graney and Jim Just, captured the team championship in the interhall track championships held in the Fieldhouse March 20. Badin scored three first places, three seconds, a third and a fourth to amass 34 points. Dillon took second place with a total of 15 points with Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, and Pangborn finishing in third, fourth, and fifth places with 13, 11, and 10 1-3 markers, respectively.
Jim Just garnered first place in the 60-yard dash with a timing of 6.7 seconds. Reiser of Sorin took second place with George Langer of Pangborn, Dow . Zabolio and Paul Sopko of St. Edward’s । taking third, fourth, and fifth places, respectively. Sopko also scored five more points for St. Ed’s in winning the 440-yard run in 58 seconds flat. Bill Whaley and Paul Doherty added seven more points to Badin’s score in tying for second place with identical times of 58.1.
Joe Opperman of Farley easily Avon the 60-yard hurdle event over Dick Orsi of Zahm. Paul Boyd of Dillon and Pat (Q Kane of Sorin finished in third and fourth places. Pangborn gained its only first place finish in Dave Link Avho took first in the 880-yard run. Paul Quinn of Cavanaugh Avas second Avith Gareman of Fisher third.
GRANEY PACES BADIN
In the shot-put, Mike Graney scored ji five points for Badin Avith a heave of “ 43 feet three-quarter inch, Avith Lulkes, also of Badin, taking second at 39 feet 10 inches. Malone of Breen-Phil lips took third Avith a heave of 37 feet 8% inches. Chuck Van Der Ahe of Lyons took fourth at 35 feet nine inches Avhile Boyd of Dillon scored one point at 35 feet five inches. In the high jump, Daley of Dil- i Ion and Deiter of Breen-Phillips tied at J five feet four inches. Third, fourth, and fifth places Avere also tied between Dil-Ion’s Boyd, Pangborn’s Langea, and Farley’s Opperman at five feet two inches. The broad jump Avas taken by Don Cur-lovic of Breen-Phillips Avith a leap of 18 feet 11% inches. Graney added four-more markers to Badin’s score Avith a second place leap of 18 feet 8% inches Avith Doherty and Whaley, also of Badin, taking third and fourth places Avith-^ jumps of 18 feet 4% and 18 feet 3% inches, respectively.
In the bitterest duel of the evening, Badin and Dillon tied for top honors in the 880-yard relay. Run in three heats, on a best time basis, Badin and Dillon ran a dead heat a 1:44.4 and split the first and second place points. Cavanaugh tW ran third with a timing of 1:46.
30
The Scholastic
Glee Club Announces Easter Tour Itinerary
The Notre Dame Glee Club will leave the campus on Monday, April 15, for its annual Easter tour, this year the L most extensive tour the Club has ever I taken. Thirty-six members of the Club, along with the director, Daniel A. 1 Pedtke, and a chaplain, Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., will make the tour which extends as far west as Los Angeles and Las Vegas.
The Glee Club will appear first in Denver, Colo., on April 17, as guests of Archbishop Vehr and the Notre Dame Alumni Club. Their second engagement ®^is in Las Vegas, Nev., on Saturday and l^p'Sunday, April 20 and 21. On Saturday I they will give benefit performances in ■ a hospital and for the nuns. Easter Sunday morning the club will divide into quartets and sing in various parish masses. On Sunday night, under the sponsorship of the Bishop Gorman High School, the club will make a public X appearance.
i Monday the Glee Club will appear in V^Los Angeles in the Philharmonic Audi-7 ’ torium under the sponsorship of the Knights of Columbus. On Tuesday the group will sing in the Shrine Exposition Hall, also in Los Angeles, under sponsorship of Mount St. Mary’s Col-( lege. These two auditoriums are the 1 largest in the Los Angeles area.
I On Wednesday, April 24, the Club journeys to San Diego and the Naval , Training Center, where they will per-Aft’orm in the afternoon for the service • men. That evening the Club will give a full evening concert in the Hotel Cortez, sponsored by St. Charles BoI romeo Parish.
I From San Diego the group will drive I to Phoenix, Ariz., where they will sing | on April 25 in a benefit performance for the Notre Dame Club scholarship fund.
£ Gallup, N. M., is the next stop on the tour, where the Club will sing on L April 26 under the sponsorship of Cathedral High School.
, The Club then travels to Tulsa, Okla., where it will give a full concert on Sunday night, April 28 sponsored by the Notre Dame Club. Again on Mon-P day night they will sing in Tulsa as j>art of a Universal Notre Dame Night program.
I The last appearance on the tour is । in St. Louis, Mo., on Tuesday night, April 30, in the Kiel Opera House, sponsored by the Seven Holy Founders Parish. The Club returns to the campus on Wednesday, May 1.
The annual pre-Easter campus concert by the Glee’ Club will be given E April 10 in Washington Hall.
I April 5, 1957
Jazz Perspective
(Continued from page 21)
harmonic, melodic, and rhythmic framework of the standard tune too limited for the advancement of contemporary jazz?
I hope that in answering these questions the audiences and the musicians of the future will remember the dual role of jazz as a folk as well as an art music, as a fusion of African group consciousness with the Renaissance concept of individualism.
In jazz the audience is an essential participant. How it participates is a variable determined at the moment by
a
'O
with his new
: now	r
SONIC
Ever since Jack bought his new Sonic CAPRI phonograph at the local college store — he’s become the biggest B M O C ever. You can join him and be the biggest ever, too, for you can buy a CAPRI phonograph for as little as $19.95.
This month’s special is the CAPRI 550 — a twin speaker high fidelity portable with 4-speed Webcor automatic changer, hi-fi amplifier in attractive two-tone Forest Green, only $5
at your local dealer.
SONIC INDUSTRIES, INC. 19 Wilbur Street, Lynbrook, N. Y.
o o
EUROPE BOUND on a BUDGET?
Then the new, pocket-sized manual “Europe for the PennyWise” is for you! Included are . . . Inexpensive accommodations and restaurants . . . Free social and cultural activities . . . Low cost planeflights . . . Why, you could even earn your way, for “Europe for the PennyWise” tells you HOW. Now is the time to plan your summer trip! Send $1 to: Box 14 Madison Square Station, New York 10, New York.
the empathy established between listener and improviser. The emotional impact of the music depends as much on the sympathetic, responsive ear of the listener as the free imaginations of the musicians. Commercialism exists when the artist and the audience impose upon themselves restrictions, determining the emotional and intellectual level of their communication. The first challenge of . a jazz performer is to unify the diverse responses of an audience so that it becomes an entity. Co-creation exists in this timeless area of subconscious communication when the improviser becomes the articulate voice of the group. The compassion of this inspired moment of unity is the reason for jazz and for its continued existence.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
31
Enjoy One at
1003 No. Notre Dame
Vua&MH CAMERA
Economy Model
See the picture before you shoot
No guesswork with this picturefinder, picture-getter. You see your picture in advance in the extra-big, clear viewfinder. Ko-det Lens, double-exposure preventer, flash shutter. Takes black-and-white or color film, 12 big pictures on a roll. Handsomely styled in brown.
Comero 15.95 Flosholder4.25
Photo Dept
Notre Dame Bookstore
Pick up a free chance on the Anscoflex camera set with every purchase from the Photo Dept.
Automatic Pinspotters Sparkle in Debut Here
The “New Look” in the Notre Dame Alleys was unveiled on Monday, March 18, after an installation shut-down lasting a week. Running against a tight schedule, a team of carpenters paved the way for the new automatic pinspotters on Monday and Tuesday, March 11 and 12. The American Machine and Foundry had the machines installed and operating by Friday of that week. The following weekend was spent testing the machines and breaking them in for maximum efficiency.
“The $6,000 cost is well worth it,” says “Speed” Sheehan, manager of the alleys, “for the boys seem much more content to bowl without the usual pinboy headaches.” In the past Mr. Sheehan had to turn many bowling enthusiasts away because of the lack of pinboys. Now only one man is needed behind the machines. The increased speed is another much-appreciated factor.
KEGLERS INITIATE MACHINES
Two weeks ago the Kampus Keglers enjoyed their outing on the Notre Dame alleys more than ever, amidst the sparkle and speed of the newly-installed automatic pinspotters. Tom Jablonski initiated the new machines for the 6:30 Wednesday League with a high series of 608, building his league-leading average up to 181. The high game of the afternoon, 255, was rolled by Dick Torda. The Cleveland Club holds first place in the league, while the Press Club and the Italian Club trail in the second and third spots.
Later that evening, in the 8:30 league, Dan Clancy rolled a 234 high game. The high series crown for- the night went to Bob Perbenda’s 601 effort. Both Bill DeBot and Don Calcagnini share the high average title with 165. The league standings thus far this year are: first— St. Louis; second—Wisconsin; third— Student Law Association.
Nick Ranieri paced the Chicago Club, in first place of the 6:30 Thursday League, with the high game score of the week, 265. High series for the day was Lew Solomon’s 622 total. Ranieri also holds the highest league average of 177. The standings rank the California Club behind Chicago, and the Irish Club in third place.
The Architects’ Club currently leads the 8:30 Thursday League, with the Koper Klub and the Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club in second and third positions. Last week Erv Perucker slammed out a 575 high series score, while Bob Jones rolled a high game of 240. Frank Neubek’s 168 average is tops in the league to date.
In the 6:30 Friday League, final Keg-ler action for the week, Joe Pivnicka rolled a 225 high game, while Ed Silliman’s three-game mark of 596 won high series. The top league average also belongs to Silliman. At present the Holy Rollers head the league standings with the Met Club and the De-Effers in sec-and and third place.
Nick Ranieri’s brilliant 256 game in.^ the 6:30 Thursday League won high game honors thus far in the ABC Approved Leagues, while Jim Trino still owns the h;gh series title of 641.
Appropriation Passed For Senate's Awards
Debate over appropriation of $89 foi plaques for Student Senate officers, the three outstanding senators, and scrolls for all senate members highlighted the weekly Senate meeting held in the La-Fortune Student Center, Thursday, March 28.
Alumni Senator John Cusack led opposition to the appropriation, basing his arguments on the idea that service
should be the ample reward of a Senate^-' member. The appropriation passed by a a 11-7 vote, with two abstentions.	A
Senator Jim Short gave the Senate 1 information concerning “Help Week”
from April 6 to 12 in South Bend, project will need approximately 150 for the week on the basis of 15 working each day from 1 to 5
The men men p.m.
Anyone interested can sign up through their hall presidents. Transportation will J be furnished by car to and from work,
Jerry Murphy, Senate vice-president, 1 gave a special report on the coming Student Body President’s conference to be held on campus and the NFCCS conference in Washington, D. C., which was attended by Tony Yurchak.
A notice was read that any campus organization, permanent or temporary, holding a social affair, must register fl through the Senate secretary and thejijjl vice president of student affairs, Rev. James Norton, C.S.C.
The concessions committee appointed Pat Rogers as summer concessions gen- i eral manager. The appointment was con- ( firmed by the Senate. A Student Athletic I advisory board has been created to deal with appropriations from minor sports. Clubs will now have to present sufficient reasons for eligibility for the minoi sports fund to the board, which will make recommendations to the University
board on interhall athletics.
A motion by the Physical Faculties committee to add to the house constitution a provision that would give the Student Center manager authority to deny use of the Center to any non^. student organization was passed. *
32
The Scholastic
r
1/'

SUMMER SCHOOL IN SALZBURG
Discussing the CATHOLIC point of view on Man and the Universe.
Under the chairmanship of Prof. P. Thomas Michels, O.S.B., of the University of Salzburg, leading scientists, philosophers, and theologians from 14 European Universities will give lectures dealing with current research and concepts.
All courses will be translated into English. Some 600 students from various European countries will participate. Entire program lasts 4 weeks, including a two week travel program through Holland, Belgium, France, Germany and Austria.
Room, Board, Travel, Tuition, Ocean transportation included for (EQA Group sails July 15, 1957.
For information and application write to:
The Institute of European Studies A non-profit corporation
35 East Wacker Drive, Chicago 1, Ill.
Law School Lecture
(Continued from page 13)
when he testified before the Securities and Exchange Commission in full public hearing on the matter of amendments to the proxy rules.
He has written numerous articles on law which have appeared in such publications as the law reviews of Fordham and DePaul, and such periodicals as America, Social Order, Commonweal, the Michigan State Bar Journal, and the Detroit Lawyer.
The public is cordially invited to the lecture on Wednesday evening.
i

V
Senior Car Permits
(Continued from page 12)
Further they suggested that all rales in the Student Manual concerning cars for men living off-campus should apply. Lastly, it was stipulated that the seniors would be required to sign a pledge agreeing to observe all the regulations set forth by the Student Senate and all other regulations set by the University.
The Senate policy on car pel-missions closed with: “Since the disciplinary situation at Notre Dame is such that it trains men, we are confident that there are no difficulties that cannot be worked out to secure these car permissions.”
&WTURB0W
yOPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring in the Pieces’3
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Flying Somewhere?
Now You Can Make AIR LINE RESERVATIONS Right on Campus at No Extra Cost First Bank& Trust Co.
Travel Department Second Floor, Book Store Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Also Steamship Reservations; Domestic and Foreign Tours
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
17-JEWEL MEN'S SENATOR, $42.50 Free chances obtained with every Purchase of a Sheaffer Pen item
SHEAFFER PEN GIVE-AWAY
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
See the Bulovas on display at the Notre Dame Bookstore
Drawing May 13
17-JEWEL LADIES' JILL "A," $42.50
April 5, 1957
33
Back PatfC

by JOE TAFT
the blase generation
It is omnisciently superficial to label any generation. But it is worthwhile, to me anyway, to point out a few of its characteristics. It is beneficial to understand the past, for it has helped • shape the ideas that have influenced the world of the present. Historical knowledge goes backward and forward.
i
NEW DEALERS
I	We of the New Deal years seem to
i	have a natural curiosity for the roman-
*	ticized years whose shenanigans were
i	unpretentiously recorded by F. Scott
Fitzgerald. Many historians and dil-letantes have labeled the 1920’s, the “Lost Generation.” It seems interesting to pry open the crushed flowers of the jewel-box world that many of our parents faced — a world that seemed to !	shrug its shoulders at the thought of
|	bread lines.
i	Unlike oui- parents, we of the New
i	Deal years grew with the shadow of a
i	world-wide, full-scale war. Most of us
recall the sneak attack. Most of us recall the battle line maps in the newspapers. Most of us recall the united effort of freeing Europe. Too many of us recall War Department letters.
War has played such a familiar part in our lives that we seem to take universal terror for granted. We have read so many editorials, heard so many news analysts discuss Russia’s possession of the atom bomb threat that it is commonplace knowledge. We have seen so many war movies that we consider their plots hackneyed. The Korean “police action” reopened our teenage eyes to our omnipresent companion. As a result, the Hungarian revolt did not particularly move us . . . not until we saw those too familiar pictures in Life magazine. Our parents learned our lesson with a rude jolt. We learned it ’ with the age of reason. We are not immune yet. We are simply blase.
TODAY, TODAY AND TODAY
We college .students accept ROTO as an accredited course. None have disregarded the natural right of the services’ claim. Yet there are many of us who
34
do not really want to accept this claim of universal experience.
The world of the 1920’s is recorded as a booming bubble—a bubble that loosely bound the world in a gala ticker-tape. The world of the 1920’s saw the opportunity for our parents to sail in the uncaptained ship of industrial expansion. Unlike today success was not a pressure but an option. People were less financially definable. They did not enjoy the type of option that mass goods present to us. A teenager of the 1920’s was not a consumer in the sense that we know. The advertisements our parents read were geared to their parents’ billfolds—not their own. Today’s time payments and job opportunities enable the high school sophomore to be an automobile consumer—a freshman, a record and movie consumer. The teenagers of today are subjecting the nation’s motion pictures, radio and television to the fad of an unusual “dance music” called rock and roll. The songwriters of the 1920’s did not subject their music to the whims of the exuberant teenagers.
The world of the 1920’s has been recorded as an age of romantic disillusionment. Many college graduates who could not afford foreign travel joined the service to “see the world”. Many disgusted artists fled the fording stream of industrialism to see the tranquil rebuilding of Europe’s “provincialism.”
The scientific aptitude tests of today tend to label the college freshman to the degree that he “knows” that he will be a doctor, lawyer, engineer or a merchant chief. Our generation directly contradicts, I believe, the romantic notions of the past. The death of the romanticized, speculative, get rich, see the world 1920’s is contradicted by our generation’s drive to seek a label—a label of June 3 marriages, placement bureauism and myriads of white picket fences aside an expressway. No longer is the gathering of wealth a demand— it is a natural presupposition. Today our society is a consumption society. The multiplicity of jobs and advertisements testify to our economy of plenty. This is the only type of economy that we
can remember in our short lifetimes.
This label-seeking seems to have grown ; from the experience of the “Great De- । pression.” The government is making every effort to preserve their “peace : and prosperity” platform. Technology ; and teamwork have set the pace for our | consumption economy. The merchant . chiefs of today prefer to join a big experienced team like General Motors j rather than follow the growing foot- ‘ steps of his father or grandfather’s | smaller concerns. Today’s corporations ! have a dearth of last tycoons, for busi- j ness is more technically organic and^B technicians are plentiful. Today a person is labeled by his neighborhood, automobile and job contemporaries. Our gen- 1 eration enjoys the social mobility of corporative position. If a sales manager is promoted to the top of sales, he is im- ! mediately accepted as a hob-nober with Cash—not Mr. McCall.
Many of our parents learned the bitter lesson of the Great Depression. They^w are more inclined to look into the back-*-ground of a political candidate whereas many of us are inclined to “X” him on , his campaign slogans. The last election i had few real issues. Many of our par- I ents are more inclined to express disgust with political corruption whereas many J of us are inclined to assume its neces- s sity “to make the wheels go round”. j
These few facts point, I think, to L our great desire for security—the secur-(^B ity of freedom to express ourselves. We j are deathly sick of war, terror and destruction. We have seen the futility of a peace without victory and a peace through occupation. We are the heirs of those who preserved the peace and prosperity we know so well. We are blase because we have this legacy. The overwhelming question of the 20th century-» has been intuitively infused to our lipsVr We don’t pretend to be able to answer this question but we all are willing to $ die for its affirmation. Will the leaders ■ of today and tomorrow be able to formulate the atomic energy threat into the security of building a better world through the tools of atomic-powered industrialism?
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
“What’s it like to be
A RESEARCH ENGINEER
AT IBM?
Two years ago, college senior Robert Thorpe asked himself this question as he worked toward his E.E. at the University of Toledo. Today, an Associate Engineer in the Applied Logic Group of IBM Research, Bob reviews his experiences and gives some pointers that may be helpful to you in taking the first, most important step in your career.
“I joined IBM for two clear-cut reasons,” recalls Bob. “First, the tremendous company growth obviously offered every chance for advancement. Second, the work area was exactly what I was looking for— transistors and their application to computer systems.”
Bob entered IBM’s voluntary training program in June, 1955, where he studied the entire organization, its divisions and diversified products. He received technical training in computer logic, programming, and components such as transistors, cores and tapes. By September, half his day was being devoted to an actual project; by the following March, he was on this project full time. “Our job was
The “small-group” approach to research
to transistorize six servo-amplifiers for the MA-2 bombing-navigational system,” he recalls, “and we completed the project in April.”
In IBM Research (as in all IBM) Bob works in a small group. “Our team consists of three E.E.’s and a technician. We start with analysis and synthesis work involving math and systems logic. Then we use the ‘black box’ approach.” His group splits up occasionally to research special phases of a project but reunites in frequent sessions to coordinate activities.
Promoted to Associate Engineer
In August, 1956, Bob was made an Associate Engineer. From April of the same year, he had been working on a new Government project. This was “to design and develop a transistorized radar data presentation system for the MA-2 system.” Basically, this was a research program in sample data theory and the develop
ment of a system ’ containing both analog and digital components. Bob still works on this project—toward a completion date of April, 1957.
Shortly after this program started, Bob joined the Applied Logic Group.
Plotting transistor characteristics
Here, he was concerned with research in new areas of computer technology —for example, cryogenics and highspeed memories. Bob studies systems which operate on “real time,” and his immediate problem is to analyze and synthesize closed-loop sample data systems for the control of complex data processing.
Asked what his most interesting assignment was, Bob replied, “My
New areas of computer technology
work on a digital-to-analog converter with a high degree of sensitivity and accuracy. This strictly electronic converter, with transistors, combines both digital and analog circuitry. It was a tough problem, and a fascinating one.”
What does the future hold?
At the present time, after two years in IBM Research, Bob is more than enthusiastic about his future. He plans to continue in systems study and to develop “a more sophisticated approach.” Two lines of advancement are open to him: to Project Engineer,
the administrative side, or to Staff Engineer, the technical side of Research. “Either way, I’m sure I’ll get ahead,” Bob feels. “Electronics research is really on the move at IBM. We have about 600 people at Poughkeepsie now, as against 56 in 1950. We’ll need some 1,700 before 1960 to help staff a new research laboratory at Yorktown Heights, Westchester County, N. Y.”
What does he like best about IBM? Probably the fact that he’s so much “on his own.” “There’s no ‘over-the-shoulder’ supervision,” he says. “You schedule your own program and create your own ‘pressure.’ And, if you
Promoted in fourteen months
feel the need for more education, IBM provides every facility for continued study. Besides the voluntary training programs, there are excellent afterhours courses offered by the IBM Department of Education. And you have a chance to work toward advanced degrees—at IBM expense.”
* * *
IBM hopes this message will give you some idea of what it’s like to be an E.E. in Research at IBM. -There are equal opportunities for E.E.’s, LE.’s, M^E.’s, physicists, mathematicians, Liberal Arts majors, and Business Administration graduates in IBM’s many divisions— Product Development, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales and Sales Assistance. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, our Manager of Engineering Recruitment, R. A. Whitehome, will be happy to answer your questions. Just write him at IBM Corp., Room 11804 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.
IBM
1NTMNATIONAL BUSINESS MACNINES COBPOBATION
DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS ■ TIME EQUIPMENT
MILITARY PRODUCTS
PLUS 50 LAND CAMERA PRIZES
in 79 c*ays‘J
the rVHftA CLE TIP
EASY CONTEST
RULES
PICK THE PACK THAT SUITS YOU BEST
Yes, try L&M in the new Crush-proof Box. Try the handy L&M Pack... then finish the limerick about the pack that suits you best!
Fly around the world this summer!
The adventure of a Lifetime... is waiting for You!
Travel the route of Jules Verne’s fabulous hero to the most romantic places in the world. London 1 Paris... Rome... Istanbul . . . Calcutta . . . Hong Kong . . . Tokyo! This could be your summer vacation . . . 79 days of enchantment with all expenses paid. And all you have to do is write one simple line of English!
Just finish the limerick about the pack that suits you best . . . the Crush-proof L&M Box or the Handy L&M Pack. See simple rules in box below . . . and send in your entry TODAY!
NEW CRUSH-PROOF LiM BOX <
______ Costs no mott
“The New Crush-proof Box is for me!
It closes so tight, Keeps my L&M’s right,

™E
ligg£
HANDY LiM PACKS
Xmj and Regular
Said a Phi Beta Kappa named Jack:
“I go for the L&M Pack! It’s so handy to tote, In my shirt or my coat,
95
FIRST PRIZE
Trip around the world in 79 days
NEXT 50 PRIZES Polaroid “Highlander' Land cameras
3.
(Contest void wherever illegal)
Finish the limerick about whichever L&M pack suits you best.
Send your last line with the wrapper or box from the L&M pack you prefer (a facsimile will do) ... along with your name and address, to L&M, P. O. Box 1635, New York 46, N. Y.
Contest restricted to college students. Entries must be postmarked no later than midnight, April 30, 1957.
Entries will be judged on literary expression, originality, sincerity and aptness of thought. Decision of our judges is final. Winners will be notified by mail.
Get Full, Exciting Flavor
Plus the Pure White Miracle Tip
r ©1957, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.'
America's fastest-growing cigarette