2
-------	-	— By John A. O'Connor
Little do they surmise, hut a number of faculty members await the wall. We mean the conscientious prof who entertains the lofty idea that his class is the only one, and assigns work accordingly. Into this category falls the one who assigns written homework for every class, the one who piles on the outside reading (which you have to read word for word because the departmental quizzes ask such rich ones as: what were the religious orders in New Orleans back in 1704, or who wrote the jingle used against Van Buren, Van-Van-is-a-used-up-man?). In the meantime the library is stacked with really good reading that no one will get time to crack. And you’re supposed to keep up a timid effort socially and, if in any decent kind of health, you should try out in some sort of athletics. We recommend that the school provide a 6 months rest cure at Acapulco for all graduating seniors who maintain an above-85 average.
Ex-GIs, and decent men everywhere, were shocked last week to read of the proposed promotion lined up for the little guy’s friend, that merciful officer and gentleman, Lt. Col. Kilian, the Litchfield Larrupper. In his recent brutality trial Kilian escaped with a reprimand (a wrist slap) and a 500-buck fine (easily picked up overseas in the black market oi- at the crap table). The effort to pin a full-blown eagle on Kilian’s shoulders brings out once more what every ex-GI knows: the Army takes care of its own dear brass. Vets Clubs all over the nation should bombard Mr. Truman with denunciatory telegrams.
* ❖
Moviegoers who remember The Informer, Long Voyage Home, and his current western, Darling Clementine, are looking forward to Director John Ford’s soon-to-be-released work, The Fugitive, the story of Judas Iscariot. Ford’s direction is about tops in Hollywood, and the
photography accompanying his releases is terrific art. Tackling the Judas story is a rough job; he has a wonderful Irish character actor named J. Carroll Naish to portray the Prince of Despair. Let’s hope Ford keeps hitting home-runs.
❖
The grapevine has it that St. Mary’s girls will not be allowed to attend the Bengal Bouts (for the Indian Missions) because the contestants (hold your hats, gents!) wear no tops. My goodness! We hereby offer a suggestion. Why not make the contestants wear a complete sweatensemble into the ring, or maybe even a bunny-suit. Then the judges would not be fooled by a boxer’s build. We mustn’t be offensive to anyone, and sometimes the exposed male chest and arms are. So dress ’em in parkas and Indian blankets and let them go at each other. It would be something new in a very manly sport.
♦
Both Lotte Lehman and Lauritz Melchior are scheduled to appear in South Bend during the month of March, so that’s a break for the culture-vultures. Even Louis Budenz returns to Pneumo- • nia Valley to wise us up on some of his old buddies. Add St. Patty’s Day, the Bengal Bouts, and the first flowers of Spring and you will see it’s going to be a very full month.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyers Avenue
3
Open the Door Richard
Sonata
Address Unknown Too Many Times That's the Beginning of the End
IATEST ITUNES
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St.
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus — E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND
MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street
Evenings by Appointment
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC
SUPPLIES
Plenty of
ROLL FILM in the five popular sizes
Ault’s photo service in the Cafeteria
AULT’S
I
Camera Shop
Opposite the Courthouse 122 South Main St.
Phone 3-5041
STORE HOURS
Toes.-Sat. — 8 a. m. to 5:30 p. m.
Monday — open till 8:30 pl m.
LETTERS
Dear Sir:
The Scholastic is the best college magazine I have ever read. It discusses everything a magazine should discuss. Look what it offers:
1.	Foreign and Domestic Affairs — covers Communism, Hearstism, Closed Shops (or, “Open the Door, Richard, I’ve got your Union Suit”), etc.
2.	Local News — Uproarious satire about South Bend and St. Mary’s.
3.	Society—The everyday life of an athlete.
4.	Biography—Revealing biographical sketches of accomplished clergy.
5.	Humor—Joe Miller’s influence hilariously evident.
Obviously, derogatory remarks against the Scholastic are wholly unfounded; and anyone voicing such remarks is a Communist, a Hearstic, an intellectual dolt—in fact, he is an undesirable character who should be campused for weeks on end.
Chas F. O’Brien, Jr.
And 6: Subtle letters.—Editor
Sir:
It was not enough that Humanists Fronrath and Burns loaded the question in the Feb. 14 issue but on Feb. 21 Fronrath writes:
“. . . the thinking student . . . deplores the proneness of the majority of the students to fav?
or force . . .”
So those who do not agee with Philosophy Major Fronrath are non-thinkers —now where have I heard that line before—the methods of PM are quite as odious as Bertie McCormick’s.
Suggest Rationalist Fronrath include some of his readers’ comment in THE HUMANIST. But by all means keep the column in—shows signs of an intellectual stirring long absent among ND students.
Jim Cunningham
Sir:
The discussion of the closed shop, which appeared under the column head of “The Humanist” in the February 14 issue of the Scholastic was most gratifying as an indication that the students of Notre Dame are taking an increasing interest in the affairs of the United States as a whole. The varieties (and sometimes lack) of opinion were striking; but even more significant than the
statistics quoted in the writer’s unofficial poll was the presentation of the topic for next week’s consideration.
The question of our attitude toward Russia is clouded over by tons of propaganda, rumor, unsubstantiated allegation and muddled thinking on both sides; and it is good to see that our students wish to examine the case on its merits. But attention should be called to the fact that after presenting the alternatives of a policy toward Russia characterized by “severity and firmness supported by military force” or a “sincere attempt to bridge the gap between the two states by attempting to understand the basic tenets of the Russian political philosophy,” the authors state categorically that “this latter alternative by its nature implies that we use reason rather than force.”
The implication is, of course, that firmness could not be reasonable; such devious argument is not unknown to American journalism—being found chiefly in PM and The New Republic. It seems that the Humanists are not unacquainted with the gentle art of loading a question.
Martin M. McLaughlin
Sh-
in’a previous “letter to the editor,” (Scholastic, Jan. 17, 1947), it was noted that our baby boy was born on Sept. 20, 1946. I should like to correct this seemingly minor error, and advise you that he was born on Nov. 30, 1946—the day Notre Dame won the National Collegiate Football Championship.
John F. Murphy, Apt. 1-B, Vetville
Mister editer, frein,
diss is furst letter ever i rite, working all day for ZiGGy en havink lettle time fer litteriture. Much better than work by bEndIX on bandzaw. Meels cheeper heer. dat IS not vat i start to say. I sumtime get soo mad at studint who eat by my steem table, most of all day long i working over hot copper. makE Stu $ den ven cums chow Line nobobby like him. yet my feet sor from mash soo meny potatoes and mix vej-ztablel to make him taste soo good. Verse still not even stray dog sometimes eat. What is matter with modern peeple. where iss appytite of old when HEEman eat with smile on face.	.
i amd sadly now. pleeze make cheerfill myself and have all studentz (even prists too) eat my stew.
onna count uf i feel not so good i writ it.
Name Withheld
4
At Mcm Sa.
Wear Your School Buckle
Genuine. Bronze Buckle . . 1.50
Wide Leather Belt .... 1.95
Individually designed for Notre Dame. Highly polished bronze buckle and wide top grain genuine leather belt. Buckle is curved to fit the body.
ZkcIhUm d Mcm Adle^i
' ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
5
mi Hyman/St
James boms y ‘	vims iroaraih
THE HOTRE DfifflE SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper yicturus Five Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS H. Smith Keel Frank Keenan
REWRITE
Bob Stock Ed Snyder Joe Doyle
NEWS STAFF
Jim Clemens, Editor
Shaun McDermott, Associate Editor
. Bill Bradley Pete Reiner Vern Kelley
George McCarthy John Noonan Steve Valetich
Joe Herrington Lou Horning John Sullivan
Tom Murray
Phil Shea
John Waters
SPORTS STAFF
Joe Cheney, Editor
Pete Brown, Associate Editor
Dave Warner Jim Howard
Buzz Wright
Bob Leander John Krueger Bill Slavik
FEATURE STAFF
Joe Wilcox, Editor
Charles Carrol Carter Gerald Heberlein Bill Leavey John A. O’Connor
Jerry Olweil Bob Vierhile Nicodemus
COVER:
Drawn by Harry Brown.
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C. _________________________Faculty	Advisor
Bob Kopf ______________Business	Manager
Tom Gargan Circulation	Manager
M. E. Varga_________Advertising
mMiimum
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published i weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame- Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame. Indiana.
We sallied forth again this week, cheerfully, of course, to dig through a proverbial morass of puzzled silences in search of a few serious replies to determine a cross-section of student opinion on peace-time conscription. But as we write this, we’re a bit discouraged about the whole thing. The most disheartening factor comes from the limp, negative reaction of the students when confronted with a serious question. A typical impulse of the average student is to bolt away to find his favorite “Fodder” to see just what stand he should take. Or possibly, he reaches for a copy of the Tribune to find out what Bertie advises under the circumstances. Worse still, he sometimes acts as if the poll is all a cute game that the Student Council has provided to help him while away the time in the caf or in his room. He expects us to produce rabbits or swing into a soft-shoe routine as we go from group to group. We have also received complaints to the effect that we don’t use quotes from letters we receive. Aside from one persistent gadfly we’ve acquired, who informs us faithfully every week that we are fellow-travelers or pinks or Democrats or what have you, any space set aside for written opinions would turn out to be a blank. There just haven’t been any significant ones worth mentioning. Yes, this business of vieing with basketball and other “important” activities for the student’s attention can be trying. But we don’t bruise easily (how’s that again McBitters?—relax, J. D.) so if you will bear with us, you of the thinking gentry, we shall set forth your concern regarding peacetime conscription.
We didn’t wait for the lad who flew off to see his favorite “Fodder” to return but went on to learn that a majority of the veterans polled seemed to favor some form of peacetime military training. At first impulse during our Gallup activities, we suspected the vet of giving service to the adage “do unto others as they have done unto you.” A more profound interrogation, however, disclosed that their concern was not personal but, for the better part, unselfish. They believe that peacetime coscription will help preserve our national security and this is held to be of greater importance than the loss of a year in one’s young life. With reservations, they also believed that a period of training would be beneficial to the individual insofar as it would hasten maturity. The general opi
nion of the vets is that the present critical situation demands that the United States keep pace with othei’ nations by maintaining a large standing army and a well-trained reserve.
Opponents of peacetime conscription, both vets and non-vets, were vehement in proclaiming the fallacies and disadvantages of such a policy. To their minds, needless conscription in peacetime produces a moral deterioration in the young draftee, as the experience of the past war has shown. He is projected into an unnatural environment in which his lack of maturity prevents him from making a successful adjustment to new conditions. This concern for the individual, together with the inevitability of large scale atomic warfare in their estimation militates against the need of a large, well-trained reserve. Further, they believe that an army of any type is designed for one specific purpose, that of conducting war, and that such a purpose is diametrically opposed to efforts to achieve a satisfactory, lasting peace.
Poll of opinion on peacetime conscriptions :
In favor Opposed No
.	of	to	Opinion
Vet.........	58%	40%	2%
Non-vet_____	41%	56%	3%
The question for next week is: Do you think that the government of Franco in Spain is a legitimate one and as such should it be supported by other nations and institutions? This question is not confined to this particular government inasmuch as it also concerns the governments of Peron in Argentina and Salazar in Portugal.
Please address your replies to The Humanist, Box 174, Notre Dame, Ind., by Monday evening, March 3, 1947.
REGISTRATION OF CLUBS
AU campus clubs and other campus organizations are directed to register immediately, whether they have previously done so or not. with the Student Council in order that that body may more properly fulfill its function of administering student activities. Failure to comply with this directive will result in automatic suspension of that club. Registration forms may be procured in the office ■ of the Prefect of Discipline and must be fiUed out and mailed to the Student Council not later than March 7.
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88. NO. 17
FEBRUARY 28, 1947
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
"Meet the Missus" Opens Sunday
Veterans Elect Keel to Club Presidency
All-Student Musical to Play Five Nights
NSO Debate Spirited; ND Opinion Divided
By ED SNYDER
H. Smith Keel and his Liberal Party were swept into the nine offices of the Veterans Club Monday in one of the most hotly-contested, and heavily-voted elections held on the campus.
Outstanding in the election results, however, was the fact that two star athletes on the Progressive slate went down to defeat before non-athletic Liberal opponents.
A total of 423 votes was cast in the election. Of this total the Liberal Party pulled down 183 straight tickets, against 135 for the Progressive slate. The remainder were split tickets.
In the individual contests Keel scored 226 votes against 197 for his opponent Dave Slattery. Bill Duggan defeated Tom McCaffery 226-196 for the post of first vice-president. Bill Hennessey and Bob Uhl ranked as top vote getters for the Liberals as Hennessey won the position of second vice-president 242 to 175 from his foe, Bill Hoene. Uhl piled up a 243 to 179 victory over Ray Kenney in the third vice-president contest. Gunnar Hald posted a 223-194 win over Joe Con-nerty for recording secretary. Bob Traver defeated Fai Evans for financial secretary by a vote of 233 to 180.
The other three contests involved athletes. Ziggy Czarobski outran star runner, Bill Tully, 232 to 186 for sergeant-at-arms. Frank Keenan scored a 224-198 upset over Frannie Curran to become corresponding secretary. Curran, incidentally, was top vote getter for the Progressives. In the contest for treasurer, John A. O’Connor sent track captain, John Smith, down to defeat by a vote of 226 to 193.
Concert of Classic Recordings Cavanaugh Hall Beading Boom Tuesday, Wednesday. Thursday 4:15—5:15 Weekly
By ]IM KELLY
Sunday evening at 8:15 the curtain goes up for the opening night of “Meet the Missus,” the new all-student musical comedy now in the final stages of rehearsal. This show, produced by many of the same men who brought the sensational “Let’s Get Going” to the campus in 1943, promises to be the entertainment highlight of the year, and the air of secrecy that has surrounded the rehear-
Mary Kay Amberg and Boy O'Neil featured players in "Meet the Missus."
sals in Washington Hall has led to much interest and speculation in the new production.
“Meet the Missus” will play for five nights in Washington Hall, opening Sunday evening, March 2, and continuing on March 3, 4, 6, and 7. There will be no performance on March 5. Admission will be by ticket only until 8:10 n. m. each evening, at which time non-ticket • holders will be admitted if any seats
(Continued on Page 19)
By SHAUN McDEBMOTT
Although in only a pre-natal stage as yet, the National Student Organization was alternately praised, condemned and scorned last Thursday afternoon in Washington Hall at a meeting sponsored by the Student Council and attended by representatives of the various campus clubs both of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Purpose of the meeting: NSO indoctrination for club leaders, who are to present the organization’s plan to their members.
Bob Uhl, Student Council member from Cavanaugh Hall and delegate to the Chicago Student Conference last December (Scholastic, February 7), pres-. ented the tentative schedule for the gradual formation of the NSO, which is to be primarily concerned with essential student affairs rather than any political questions. At the Chicago conference, an outgrowth of the International Union of Students formed last summer in Prague, Czechoslovakia, an executive committee was established to draft a possible constitution; sometime next summer a con-
(Continued on Page 18)
SMALLER ISSUE
The "Scholastic" heartily regrets its dime-like appearance this week. A drastic paper shortage has forced the reduction in size from 36 to 20 pages, and only by utilizing "emergency" paper has any issue at all been possible.
The "Scholastic's" silver-lined doud * arrived late this week, however, in the guise of paper stock replenishments. Thus, the regular 36-page issue wiB appear next week.
Advertisements have been eliminated or substantiany reduced wherever possible, allowing for a maximum amount of news.
7
Sullivan, McCormick Named Prom Chiefs
Somewhat stymied by the absence of class officers, members of the Junioi' class this week started Prom preparations with the election of co-chairmen George Sullivan of East Walpole, Mass., and John McCormick of Lima, Ohio.
With both the Palais Royale and the Indiana Club unavailable for May 2, the date definitely assigned for the Junior dance by the Prefect of Discipline, it is believed that the Rockne Memorial will again be put into service as the site for a class formal, with the Erskine Country Club as a possible alternative.
Since both of these have a limited capacity (approximately 300 and 2-50 couples respectively), Juniors will have first preference in buying bids, the price of which has not yet been decided. However, a poll is being taken this week which will determine, to a great extent, the bid price as well as the possibility of others being admitted to the dance.
Committes set up by Sullivan and McCormick at the meeting Monday night were: Entertainment, Decorations, Tickets, Refreshments, Program, and Saturday afternoon activities. Arrangements will also be made to secure hotel reservations for out of town guests.
At attention during the Star Spangled Banner.
SENIORS PRESENT FLAG TO UNIVERSITY
Ey JOE HERRINGTON
100 Famous Paintings on Display In Gallery
A collection of 100 paintings owned by art collector Dr. Hanns R. Teichert, placed on display in the Wightman Art Gallery in the Library last week, will be exhibited from 2 to 5 p. m. daily until June 15.
The collection, described by Dr. Maurice H. Goldblatt, director of the Wightman gallery, as one of the finest of religious paintings in the country, includes “Ecce Homo” by Titian, “Portrait of His Brother” by Rembrandt, “Madonna and Child” by Betticini and other famed works of .the great masters, as well as 50 Russian icons.
The Wightman Gallery, established in 1928, has a permanent collection of its own with the works of Van Dyck, Ma-ratti, Ribera, Sargent, Reynolds and numerous others. This is one of the finest Christian art collections in the world.
Easter Tour Scheduled For 55 Piece ND Band
Starting Easter Sunday and continuing until the following Thursday, the Notre Dame Concert Band under the direction of Mr. Howard Lee Hope will stage a series of concerts in Illinois and
8
The senioi- class revived the tradition of presenting an American flag to the University at the Washington Day exercises last Saturday. This observance, suspended during the war because of the accelerated academic program, is a manifestation of “God, Country, Notre Dame.” On Commencement Day the flag will be blessed and raised over the campus.
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University, who accepted the flag, was the principal speaker. He reminded the graduating class of their responsibilities in everyday life— “ ‘To whom much is given, much is expected in return,’ and you have received much. ... If Notre Dame has done anything for you at all—beyond teaching you how to make a living, which you could have learned at any school worthy of the name—it has sharpened your realization of how important your attitude
Indiana. One engagement each is to be held in the Chicago area; Hillsboro, Ill., Mr. Hope’s home town; Olney, Ill.; Linton, Ind; and Indianapolis, Ind. The group for this tour will, in all probability, consist of 55 musicians with symphonic instrumentation. At present, plans are being made for an Eastern trip sometime next year.
toward life is. It has given you a perspective. Because of what you have learned here, you can, if you will, make the world a bettei’ place because of your having lived in it.”
He went on to say: “There is still a determined attempt being made to put God out of His own universe, still a desperate struggle between paganism and Christianity. This issue will not be settled, and peace on earth will remain a wistful dream, until as a people we again realize, as the Founding Fathers of the Republic did, that there can be no true loyalty to country without loyalty to God. You who once offered your lives for your country must now live for your country. You must lead the way in determining the future, a Christian future predicated upon the immutable truths that ‘all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights. That among these are Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness’.”
John B. Mastrangelo of Vandergrift, Pa., President of the Senior Class, presented the flag to Father Cavanaugh for the 611 members of the class. The Class Oration was given by Charles J. Patterson of Gretna, Neb., while the Senior Chairman of the exercises was John P. Hickey of South Bend.
From Notre Dame to Dacca, India
K. of C. Promotes Campus Bouts for Benefit of Bengal Missions
The signs had been up around the campus for a week. To most of the students they were just another unsightly addition to the already messy, overcrowded bulletin boards. But to a few men, there was an important message typed on the familiar athletic department stationery. The two-line announcement read, “Contestants report to the old gym over Mac’s equipment room in the field house anytime from 3 to 5.”
At 4:45 p. m. Paul Schlafly put away his books, hiked over to the huge, coldlooking field house and reported to short, square-jawed Dominic Napolitano. Outside, it was cold and sloppy from the melting snow. Inside, it was sticky-hot from the free-flowing perspiration coming from the exercising athletes, filling the air with a pungent odor- so common to training quarters and locker rooms. Paul got his instructions from trainer Napolitano, slipped into a pair of slit track shorts, pulled a sweat-shirt over his head and jogged back out into the shivery 30° air.
Thirty minutes later, Paul was back from his wind-building run around ice-covered St. Joe’s lake. If Paul had been training for the track team, he would have been through for the day. But he was not a trackman, and his day had only started. Still breathing like a dog on a hot day, he did thirty push-ups, bounced back and forth through a hundred side-straddle-hops, then hopped into an endless number of deep-knee-bends. He was now ready—ready to mix it up for ten two-minute rounds with a living
By BOB VIERHILE
target who was probably twice as tired as himself. At 5 p. m. Paul hung up his balloon-like gloves, took a cold shower and headed for the dining hall, rubbing his bruises as he went. After 30 days of this, he would be as solid as a heavyduty freight engine. He only hoped that he wouldn’t be de-railed in his first fight.
There are over a hundred Paul Schlafly’s on the campus. They range in weight from a feathery 120 pounds to a beefy 250. Some are Commerce students; others come from the Engineering, Science, Law, and Arts and Letters schools. Most of them have never exerted themselves anymore than was absolutely necessary, which wasn’t much. But now they are all fired up, ready to explode their blazing energy on any opponent who should step before them in this year’s Bengal Bouts. Here at Notre Dame the Bengals are a sort of testing ground of Irish masculinity, just as the atom smasher is the proving ground for molecular action. The only difference being that the boxing decisions are a lot more decisive than the results obtained from the complicated atom breaker.
As long as fighters go to Stillman’s gym, and even when it will live only in memory, the words Bengal Bouts will bring to mind one of the most satisfying pictures of Notre Dame athletic competition in the history of campus sports. There are no “fixes” in the Bengals. All of the glovers go into the fight with their eyes fixed on the championship
crown and not on the size of the gate receipts. Those that have seen the fights know that a Bengal bouter never throws his towel into the ring until he has used every last ounce of his energy. And, in every fight, to the underdog always goes the support of the crowd.
Another underdog is the real winner in all of the Bengals. The receipts from the Bengals go to a small group of malaria - haunted missionaries carrying on the works of the Holy Cross Order in hot, inaccessible India. This small band of 120 priests, brothers and nuns will long remember the help given them by the fighters, promoters, and spectators of these bouts. S33.00 will keep a priest, his cook, and his catechist for one month. Last year $2,500 was given them to carry on their jungle fight.
The Mike Jacobs of the Bengal Bouts is James Joseph Sullivan, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus. When Jim sounds off, his commands echo through the basement of Walsh Hall like the bed-shaking alarm which sends the cold chills up the students spines each morning at 6 a. m. It was Jim’s job to make the square pegs fit in the round holes of this year’s Bengal set-up. He demanded, and got action. Christy Walsh of Los Angeles, Calif., was fitted into the promoter slot. John Noonan of Brooklyn, N. Y., was made ticket chief; Mike Kiely of Michigan City, Ind., publicity; Bill Miller of Stinesville, Ind., programs; John Panelli of Morristown, N. J., ushers; Fred Ear-
Left, members in “social meeting"
in KC lounge before
start of meeting; and right, refreshments afterwards.
9
ley of Parkersburg, West Va., tickets.
In sponsoring the 10th Annual Bengal Bouts, the Knights of Columbus have set a precedent for other campus organizations to follow. With a membership of over 600 members, and with nearly 200 initiates going through the pipe-line, this organization is equal to any job that should fall into its hands. When the Ben-gals passed from the hands of the Scholastic two years ago, the K. of C. picked up the gloves and have been punching ever since.
The real dynamo behind the K. of C. machine is Reverend Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., chairman and trustee for three years. A priest, logician, fisherman, athlete, diplomat, theologian and a great Knight all rolled into a black cassock, Father Brennan has made action his byword, success his oath. Whether it be cold logic or heated argument, he never takes a back seat, always prefers the reins, and a good job he does of driving.
The members of the Notre Dame Council 1477 partake of a program that is common to all Catholic Action groups as it embraces religious, charitable and patriotic activities. Contributions from the council funds have gone out to the needy and to the support of the Gibault Boys’ Home, an institution under the direction of the Brothers of Holy Cross. Sponsorship of the annual K. of C. vaudeville contest to encourage amateur talent and to provide for student entertainment has long been the work of the council. Football smokers, bridge tournaments, and basketball games play a regular role in the yearly entertainment program. Socially, the council is well-heeled. There are two informal parties, one at Christmas and one in the Spring. But the big hullabaloo comes in the spring in the form of the annual Knights of Columbus Formal Ball, one of the principal campus social activities which students are able to attend.
Meeting twice monthly during the school year, the Notre Dame Council, apart from its other features, serves as an introduction to men of college age to a really Catholic organization. It offers them an opportunity to become leaders in various programs which add up to a complete religious life.
Another mirror of K. of C. life is the bi-weekly news sheet which the Knights have tabbed Casey News. This mimeographed paper underscores the week’s news, oddities and short yarns about each member. At the end of the year Casey's grand-dad hits the press. This annual yearbook, called the Santa Maria, is somewhat of a historical review of the year’s toil stuffed within the brief space of a dozen slick pages. It couldn’t tell the full story. That would take at least a couple of volumes.
BENGAL BOUTS COMMITTEE—Seated, left to right. Jack Noonan, Mike Kiely, Christy Walsh, Bill Miller and George Kennard. Standing, Frank Baker, Bob Luther, Father Tom Brennan, Pep Panelli. Joe Haas, and Jim Sullivan.
Campus Bridge Tourney Deadline Set for March 2
The first campus-wide bridge tournament ever attempted at Notre Dame is being sponsored by the Student Council, and the deadline has been set for March 2.
There are few, if any, experts expected to enter, so if you play the game well enough not to trump your partner’s aces, try your luck. The more entrants, the better, as it will be an elimination tour
THE WEEK WITH THE STUDENT COUNCIL
Last Monday night at its regular weekly meeting conducted in Badin Hall the Student Council disposed of the following items of business:
1.	Appointed the following Committees: Election, Joe Haas, Leonard Bodkin, Arthur Clark; Athletic, Larry Turner, Joe Cheney, Fred Tansey; Religious, Charles Patterson, Charles Powers, Gerard Fitzpatrick; Education, Bob Uhl, Joe Doyle, John R. O’Connor; and Social, William Pelling, Robert Shaw, Arthur Swain.
2.	Approved motion to conduct one Spirit of Notre Dame Dance per semester, one Mardi Gras per academic year, and two open student forums per month under the supervision of the Education Committee of the Student Council, the Prefect of Religion and the head of the Political Science Department.
3.	Heard motion to have the Executive Committee of the Student Council meet with the Executive Committee of the University once per semester, or at any other such time as an emergency may arise, in order to discuss pertinent problems.
4.	Heard report of investigation by Mr. Haas on the possibility of having telephones installed in “Vetsville.” Haas stated that he had contacted the telephone company and that they have agreed to install 40 phones. The resident veterans must state where they want the phones installed and propose a uniform system. Mr. Bodkin was appointed to report the results of his inquiry to Mr. Haggerty, “Mayor of Vetsville.”
ney. Prizes will be awarded to the winners.
There are few rules to follow. Both members of the team must be attending Notre Dame at the present time, and the entrance fee is twenty-five cents per team of two men. Pairings will he announced by March 6, and matches will be limited to three rubbers of contract bridge .
Players are asked to contact Bob Shaw at 124 Alumni any convienent time before March 2. Other information will be supplied at this address.
10
Scholastic Sports Section
BOXERS ABSORBING SKILL, BRUISES AS BENGAL PREUMS DRAW NEAR
By PETE BROWN
With the background of wind whistling through the same ancient windows where once the founders of Indiana had fought off hostile Indians, the Bengal Bout aspirants are slowly absorbing the finer points of the manly art from Coach Dominic Napolitano in the boxing room of the old Gym. The results of his and their efforts will be displayed March 1011-12, when the boys go at it with everything they have got except horseshoes. The above dates are the preliminaries, with the semi-finals on March 13, and the finals on St. Patrick’s Day.
Two more of last year’s champions have included themselves in with Coach Napolitano’s bag punchers. They are Tom Balenti, who battled his way to the 135-lb. title, and Jack Fallon, the man who dethroned John Trave as heavyweight king. Balenti is from Altus, Oklahoma, and lives in Zahm. Fallon, who is better known for his accomplishments as one of Mr. Leahy’s tackles, is from Alton, Ill., and resides in Alumni.
So far the competition for Fallon is made up of two men with a possible added starter. The two confirmed chal-
Irish Bat+erymen Open Spring Drills
On Monday afternoon in the fieldhouse Notre Dame began contributing its bit toward the 1947 edition of the national pastime and soon “Take Me Out to the Ball Game” will be supplanting “Open the Door, Richard.” In inaugurating practice drills in preparation for the fifty-seventh baseball season here at Notre Dame, Coach Jake Kline, now entering his fourteenth season as the Irish diamond mentor, is devoting his early attention to working only with the battery candidates so that he will be in a better position to take inventory. Like any other college coach Kline has three sources from which to choose his talent: returning veterans, members of last season’s squad, and any bright prospects who may have enrolled following a re-
lengers are Jim Leary and Russ Skall. Leary is from Pottsville, Pa., and Skall from Appleton, Wis. They live in St. Ed’s and Zahm respectively.
Terry Brennan is out to uphold the old proverb, anonymously authored, “What tackle can do, halfback can do.” He is defending the honor and glory of the varsity halfbacks in the 165-lb. class.
Another veteran of last year’s bouts is Jesse Poston of San Antonio, Texas, and St. Ed’s. He reached the finals of last year in the 155-lb. division, but so did Joe Delia and Poston got no further.
If you desire to purchase tickets for any session of the Bouts, watch your hall bulletin board for the room number of your hall agent. He will be more than happy to relieve you of your money, which will go to the missions in Bengal.
The committee in charge of preparations other than pugilistic are sorry that they are unable to guarantee bouts at a penny apiece such as The World’s Greatest Newspaper has for their Tournament of Champions. But they do believe that every cent you spend will be an investment in enjoyment.
cent high school graduation. Infield and outfield candidates will report for the preliminary indoor drills in about a week according to Chuck Becchetti, baseball manager from Hibbing, Minn., who for the past three years has done an excellent job as one of the subordinates of the manager’s association.
Leading candidates for the pitching staff are: John Creevey, Clawson, Mich., who picked up valuable experience pitching to organized ball players while doing ' a three year service hitch; Dick Smullen, by way of Bronxville, N. Y. and Cincinnati, 0.; Walt Mahannah, Memphis, Tenn.; John Hilbrich, Griffith, Ind.; and Bill (Tank) Sherman, St. Paul, Minn. Dick Kluck, Chicago, Ill., who won two and lost none last season, will work out with the squad as soon as his basketball affiliations permit. Kline also has in store a well-seasoned, talented quartet of receivers in Tom (Wicks) Sheehan, New Haven, Conn., and- a substantial
Four Games In Eight Days End Net Season
By PETE BROWN
The curtain is falling fast on the 1947 edition of the Notre Dame basketball team. The grand finale takes place a week from tomorrow with Marquette in Milwaukee. Prior to this the Krausemen play three games in six days. Tonight and tomorrow night they invade the Chicago Stadium for return engagements with both DePaul and Northwestern, and Wednesday they play host to St. Louis in the Gym.
Slowed up considerably after their wrestling match with the Irish, the Demons took it on the chin from Kansas in the Stadium last Saturday, 58-41. DePaul’s lineup has undergone only one change since the first Notre Dame game. That change is in the person of Gordon Gillespie. He has taken Whitey Kachan’s place at forward. Gillespie had one year of experience at Illinois before he went in service. After his discharge he enrolled at DePaul and has now blossomed forth as a starter.	'
Northwestern, Saturday night’s opponent, has been down on its luck lately. They have lost their last four starts. Included in these is their 51-50 loss to Illinois last Saturday night. Trailing 35-31 at half time, the Wildcats fought their way back to take the lead through most of the second half. But the bubble burst in the last three minutes when the Illini went ahead by one point. Hlinois then froze the ball for the remainder of the game.
The game provided the stage for the unveiling of a new Wildcat star, Einsten Neufer. Freshman Neufer, brought up from the B team, had a spectacular opening night scoring seven baskets.
The tallest team the Irish face on their home floor, will display their talents here Wednesday night. The Billikens of St. Louis University have a starting lineup that averages 6'-4". Center Ed Macauley is a rangy 6'-8"; Guard Bob Schmit and Forward D. C. Wilcutt both 6'-2"; Forward Marv Schatzman, 6'-6"; and the midget of the group Dan Miller at 5'-10".
.371 sticker last year; Jim Presley, Spokane, Wash.; Tom Coccitti, Hulberton, N. Y.; and Bill DioGuardi, Kearney, NJ.
—Dave Warner
11
Powerful Spartans Invade Fieldhouse
By JIM HOWARD
Michigan State’s power laden trackmen meet the Irish tracksters tomorrow afternoon in the crucial test of the indoor season. Beginning at 1:15, the contest promises to be the most exciting of the Notre Dame home meets.
The strong Spartan squad has already conquered Ohio State, which last Saturday won a quadrangular meet from Minnesota, Northwestern, and Wisconsin. No indirtdual stars highlight the Michigan State aggregation, but the team has great depth in all events. It is probably one of the best all-around track teams in the mid-west, excluding of course the Illinois outfit, which is the outstanding collegiate team in the country. Notre Dame has reached its peak, and should be prepared for this climax to their successful indoor season.
The Irish are relying on the usual fine performances of Bill Tully, Dave Murphy, Ray Sobota, George Sullivan, Jack Hunter, Ernie McCullough, Jim Murphy, Neil Styers, Bill Leonard, and John Smith, captain of the team, to provide sufficient points for a victory. Track fans can count on a full schedule of thrills and excitement at tomorrow’s duel.
Iowa was the third victim of the pulverizing. N.D. point collectors last Saturday as they took the short end of a 67 2-3 to 43 1-3 score in the local fieldhouse. Leading the Irish in their victory, and adding more records to his name was John Smith, star hurdler and captain. Smith nosed out Tom Hall of Iowa in the final of the high barriers and established three records in the process. A new Iowa meet mark, N.D. indoor, and gym record was set as he cut the tape in 7.3 seconds. Smith now holds all Notre Dame indoor hurdle records.
In the absence of Bill Leonard, who was running in the National A. A. U. indoor contest in New York, Bill Tully established a new mark in the mile run, of 4:22.3. Tully’s time was the best of the current indoor season. Lou Tracy took third in the mile, giving his most outstanding performance of the year. Jim Murphy continued the distance record breaking as he set a meet mark of 9:43.4 in the punishing two mile. This time is the best ever turned in by the diminutive endurance man. Neil Styers gave his usual fine performance as he captured third in the same contest. Notre Dame swept the half-mile with Ray Sobota, Gerry Johnson, and Larry Keenan taking first, second, and third. The time of 1:57.1 by Sobota was also a meet mark.
buMn. Hue. PteAA P&x.
 By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
Congratulations to George Connor, the newly elected captain of the 1947 football team. “Moose” was a newcomer to the Notre Dame football ranks last fall but was considered a good prospect by the coaching staff. He did “all right” and won the “Lineman of the Year” award. George attended Holy Cross for two years prior to his 35 months of service in the navy and won letters in both football and basketball.
Although George Connor has been at Notre Dame only one full semester, he made many friends on and off the football field. I wonder if George realizes what the honor of being named captain of a Notre Dame eleven means. Maybe he does, but if he doesn’t now, he will in a few years.
I spoke to Paul Lillis, the 1941 football captain, not too long ago and he told me that it wasn’t his engineering degree which got him his present goodpaying job, but the fact that he was captain of one of Notre Dame’s football teams. To the majority of the students now attending Notre Dame and those who have graduated since the days of Rockne, the greatest honor- which could be heaped upon anyone was being named captain of the football team.
We mention this only because George Connor did not choose Notre Dame when he began his higher learning. He had a good reason for going to Holy Cross: his uncle taught there and he thought it was a good idea at that time to go to Holy Cross. What we would like to impress on Captain Connor is this: In hurdling the high barriers which in themselves put the odds against you being elected captain, you proved to the rest of the campus that you deserved the honor. Good luck next season.
Slivers from the Splinters .. .
Across the United States, but in the warmer climates, we find major league baseball clubs getting ready for the coming season. Four new managers make their appearances come April 15th. Muddy Ruel, late assistant to Commissioner Happy Chandler, is boss-man of the S't. Louis Browns. Another old-time American Leaguer, Bucky Harris, ex-manager of the Washington Senators, is at the helm of the New York Yankees. Over in the National League we find two more new managers, Billy Herman of the Pittsburgh Pirates and Johnny Neun of
the Cincinnati Reds. Old-timers like Ducky Medwick of the Yankees and rookie Clint Hartung of the New York Giants help keep the baseball writers happy with something to report from the training bases. Medwick at present is leading the Yankees in the home-run department and Hartung doesn’t know whether he will pitch or play in the outfield because of his hitting ability. . . . What boxing needs now more than ever before is a boxing czar. The Graziano case proves this point. The New York Boxing Association has ruled Graziano out of the ring for life while the National Boxing Association, to which New York doesn’t belong, has given him the green light in the states which they rule, provided the states themselves don’t object. City and state officials are now busy warning promoters not to bring Graziano into their states or cities, whatever the case may be. A boxing czar with the powers of the late Judge Landis would lift boxing out of the deep rut it has been rolling along in for the past twenty years.
Fencing Team Wins 14-13 Victory From Wisconsin
In what Coach Herb Melton acclaimed the greatest display of teamwork shown so far this season, the Notre Dame fencing team, behind 12-13 in the twentyfifth bout, took close decisions in the twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh bouts to vanquish the previously unbeaten University of Wisconsin, 14-13 up in Madison, Wis., last Saturday. The match, which gave the Irish a won three, lost two record for the season, was under the direction of Dr. Morris, erstwhile fencing coach at Case College, Cleveland.
Notre Dame trailed the Badgers 4-5 in the foil, won the epee 5-4, and the sabre 5-4. Individual scorers were: Mike DiCicco with five wins and who now owns a season’s total of twenty-eight wins. It was DiCicco who broke the deadlock, giving the Irish victory at Madison. Behind DiCicco came Ventura Gonzalez and Al Ortiz, each with three wins; Ralph Witucki, one; Pete Gross, one; and Lou Burns, one.
On Tuesday, March 4, Melton and his lads journey to Evanston, Ill., where they will try to stab the Northwestern Wildcats into submission. The Irish lost to Northwestern, 14-13, on Feb. 14.
12

rmi»usNCB
kv/iica BETTER-BETTER ALL WAYS
^OS feeing
when you smoke
PHILIP MORRIS
CLEAN, FRESH, PURE
America’s FINEST Cigarette!

Kis » ..flprew^. .„Avcaiau,

There’s an important difference in Philip Morris manufacture that lets the FULL FLAVOR of the world’s finest tobaccos come through for your complete enjoyment—c/eaw, fresh, pure!
That’s why the flavor’s ALL yours when you smoke Philip Morris! That’s why Philip Morris taste better —smoke better—all day long!
No wonder that with millions of smokers everywhere, Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
13
Ifs Adler s for
VAN HEUSEN
OK TWt COHNEK .. MICHIGAN ( MSMN6TQN
wure the man most likely to
Succeed
The road to success is paved with Successful Appearances... in Van Heusen Sport Shirts! You get good taste in patterns, colors—smart, neat, comfortable collar fit, with or without a tie! Van Heusen tailoring flatters your torso! Magic sewmanship, laboratory-tested fabrics give you long-wearing satisfaction. Graduate to Van Heusen today! Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y. Makers of Van Heusen Shirts, Ties, Pajamas, Collars, Sport Shirts.
...in Van Heusen
sport shirts
New Order Headed By Holy Cross Priest
Via Coeli, a monastery dedicated to prayer and the contemplative life and a home for aged and infirm priests, has been opened at Jemez Springs, New Mexico. His Excellency, Archbishop Edwin V. Byrne, has announced the establishment in the former Jemez Springs Mountain Inn, of the mother-house of the Servants of the Paraclete, a group of priests and religious brothers who will dedicate themselves to the contemplative life and the care of sick and infirm priests. The new monastery, Via Coeli, was opened without formal ceremonies Jan. 5, the Feast of the Holy Name, -with a low Mass.
The group of priests and brothers will be officially known as the Order of the Servants of the Paraclete. They will be under the immediate supervision of the Rev. Gerald M. C. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., formerly of the Mission Band of the Holy Cross Fathers of North Easton, Mass.
Headquarters
nos nous
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
14
This week Bob Casurella is filling the shoes of “Campus Clubs” columnist Bob Vierhile.
SUBSTITUTE:
As ace “col-yum-nist” Bob Vierhile would say, “We are in the pinch-batter’s slot.” The old master is “weekending in Milwaukee,” trying to find what made that city famous. He left strict orders for us to write nothing but deathless prose. We are not in a position to guarantee deathlessness of prose, but we will try to make up for this with dearthless-ness.
SKY KNIGHTS:
The notices appearing on the bulletin boards last week, announcing the reorganization of OUR LADY’S KNIGHTS OF THE SKY, brought back memories of times well-spent to many ex-AAF men. Memories of Father Bill Clasby, who, in GI language, is a good Joe, a right guy. Father Clasby organized Our Lady’s Knights of the Sky at Santa Ana Air Base. It was a society for Catholic
pilots and ground crew men. He carried the organization with him to the Pacific area, where many new members were enrolled. It is Father Clasby’s hope to re-organize this same unit out of the remnants of the old outfit that are now on the campus.
❖
SURROUNDED BY ASSASSINS:
There is a character on the campus, who must look sad every time Ohio State loses a football game. This is heresy. A fifth column you say. But, in reality, it is not as bad as it sounds. Let us explain. This character, who appears on all Columbus Club posters, is none other than Christopher Columbus, a carbon copy of the gent who landed in America in 1492. Chris got his first job modeling for his creator, Leland Mc-Celland, in the Columbus Citizen. He takes up a full page of every Sunday edition, called the Cartoon Section. Chris is a very active civic leader. He supports clean-up drives, anti-smoke campaigns,
election days, and so on. When a new governor is elected, Chris is the first to welcome him and shake his hand. During cold spells in Columbus he dons his parka for Sunday morning appearances. But, above all, Chris must look very sad when Ohio State loses a football game. How Chris got to Notre Dame is another story.
It happened this way. The Columbus Club organized in the spring of ’46. Its officers immediately invited Chris to enter Notre Dame, and become an honorary member of the club. Chris was willing but his creator, Leland McClelland, was hesitant. McClelland finally ageed with Chris, only on his promise that he would still look very sad when Ohio State lost. So now through the courtesy of his creator he calls out all the boys from central Ohio to the bi-weekly meetings of the Columbus Club. Chris firmly believes that he is the best looking poster pin-up on the campus, and that nobody can look sadder than he when Ohio State loses.
Chris’s club held an election last week. Tom Kramer was handed the president’s job. Don Corcoran was elected vice-president; Pat Hughes, secretary; and Bob Echenrude, treasurer. The club will hold its annual Easter party in Columbus on April 6th. Plans are being made for a club banquet, later in the semester.
15
EVERY NIGHT IS NOTRE DAME NIGHT
at
CLEMENTS GRILL
514 East LaSalle
STEAKS — CHOPS
SPECIAL LENTEN DISHES ON WEDNESDAYS AND FRIDAYS
“My Lenten Missal”
— - This—newj -peeket-size booklet can help you make this Lent the most spiritually productive you have ever experienced. Its Mass Calendar enables you to locate quickly the “Proper” for each day. Also contains daily spiritual reading and Holy Week devotions,
including the “Three Hours” sendee for Good Friday.	OlzC
KEEP A copy IN YOUR POCKET DURING LENT
AQUINAS LIBRARY
& BOOK SHOP, Inc.
110 E. LaSalle — just 4 doors down from Elbel's
For 25 per cent Discount on all Garments Cleaned and Pressed
Bring this Coupon in exchange for your Student Identification Card to
BERT CLEANERS AND DYERS
222 W. WASHINGTON 3-HOUR SERVICE PHONE 3-5488
— PRESSING WHILE YOU WAIT —
RAMBLERS:
The Detroit Club held the first of its monthly banquets at the Ramble Inn, out on Dixie Highway. Fifty members had a bang-up time. Bill Stockman, Tom Tucker, Bob Lutz, Lou Janssen, and Ray King were the boys in charge of the affair. Price of admission included all you could eat. Free buses carried the men to and from the Inn. Said Detroiter Pete Ahrens, “I haven’t eaten so well or so much, for less, since I left home.” After dinner the boys played cards to round out the evening. The club plans to make these banquets monthly affairs. Admission is not restricted to members. This is a deal well worth looking into.
❖
BRAND NEW:
The newest club on the campus held its first meeting last week. Twenty-seven men showed up for this initial meeting of the ROCKFORD CLUB. This club is open to all residents of Rockford, Ill., and its neighboring towns. Russel Van Keuren was placed at the helm as president. Assistant helmsman-elect is vicepresident William Grady of Belvidere, Illinois. Jerry Phillip of Rockford was elected keeper of the log. Joseph Mc-Gonigle was elected treasurer. A special committee, of Men- Meyer and Bill Grady, was appointed to contact the Rockford Alumni in order to plan an Easter get-together in Rockford. The club will draw up its constitution at the next meeting, March 3.
❖
JERSEY WAY:
The New Jersey Club held its first meeting of the semester last week in the Engineering auditorium. Graduation had riddled the ranks of its officers. The presidential chair was left open by the graduation of Tom Potter. A new election was held, and Elmer Matthews was elected to fill the vacancy. George Keenan is the new vice-president, and John Pan-neli the new treasurer. The secretary post will be filled at the next meeting. As far as subsequent activities are concerned, the following plans have been made: (1) Club picnic immediately after Easter; (2) Communion breakfast in May; and (3) a summer dance in conjunction with the New Jersey alumni.
♦
A SWING SOUTH:
Last week the Memphis Club revamped its high command. Bob Kuehner handed over the reins to the new president-elect, Bill Slavick. Bob Buzan replaced Joe Signiago as vice-president; new secretary John Ryan took over the pen from Pat Burke; while Gene Podesta handed the purse to new treasurer Lou Sampson.
Meanwhile, the Rebels, flush from the success of the Mardi Gras Ball, are broadening their horizon. The club is
16
99 .
most wanted pen
^X^TTH men of music, science, letters—with business and social leaders—Parker “51”
is the preferred writing instrument. American pen dealers have namid Parker the most-wanted pen —rating it ahead of all other well-known makes combined • The demand runs high for Parker 51’s. Yet more than ever are being shipped ... so seek yours soon • Here is a pen fashioned to the
highest standards of precision. Hooded against air, dirt, and damage, the unique point starts instantly—writes smoothly. There are no moving parts to wear or clog or fail • Only the “51” is designed for satisfactory use with Parker “51” Ink that dries as it writes! • 51’s are available in three colors. $12.50; $15.00. Pencils, $5.00; $7.50. Parker “V S”Pens, $8.75. Pencils, $4.00.
17
now open to all Southerners living on the sunny side of the Mason-Dixon Line. With this “open door” policy, came a change in the brass. When the smoke cleared from the hotly contested election the line-up read: Jerry White, of New Orleans, president; Joe Signiago, Memphis, Tenn., vice-president; Paul Scalise of Birmingham, Ala., treasurer; Dick Ahearn, New Orleans, secretary, and Bill Slavick from Memphis, publicity. The first objective on the new horizon: a post-Lenten party.
IN THE AIR:
With Spring just around the corner, and fail- weather ahead, the Flying Irish are getting their club in flying condition. Immediate plans include a membership drive and flying out at Bendix Airport. Long range plans: perhaps a Notre Dame airport. The future will tell.
NSO DEBATE SPIRITED
(Continued from Page 7) stitutional convention will be held to decide whether or not the NSO is to be actualized according to those or any other principles.
In the next few weeks all Notre Dame clubs are to discuss the organization, submitting a report to the local committee by March 15, which will include a definite club policy on the various issues involved. In addition each club is to select from five to ten of its members to attend the forthcoming student forums. Finally, through a campus election, a definite Notre Dame program for the NSO is to be decided. It is also planned that the delegates to the constitutional convention will be elected by the student body.
Jerry Feeney was the chairman of the meeting, at which Martin McLaughlin outlined the work at the Prague Congress, where the NSO was originally proposed. Adelaide Kelly also spoke, presenting the work that St. Mary’s has been doing in this program.
Russian Legal Profession Discussed at Law Smoker
Lawyers in Russia are under the iron hand, Professor Lewis Roberts of the Notre Dame Law School said in an address on the legal profession in the Soviet Union given at a Law Club smoker- last Thursday.
The smoker, held at the American Legion, was preceded by a short business meeting. Professor Robert’s speech was followed by movies of the Navy game ■with Fred Earley giving the commentary. Donald Hummer, a senior in the college from Defiance, Ohio, was general chairman of the affair.—Joe Dillon
ARROW
Headquarters !
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251

Sh**®5
3»°"w
18
NO HANDS!
(tvith Arrow shorts)
Question: through a
Shorts from $1.00
Tops from $.75
How can a man go full day without using
his hands to yank down creeping shorts?
Answer: Wear Arrow shorts. They CAN’T crawl up because they are made with Arrow’s patented seamless crotch which eliminates chafing.
Also they are Sanforized-labeled (fabric shrinkage less than 1%), come with either buttons or Gripper fasteners. You’ll like the price, too!
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR > HANDKERCHIEFS • sports shirts
If s Adler s for ARROWS
COUKK . .. WOMAN ( MSNMM
"MEET THE MISSUS".
(Continued from Page 7) remain untaken. Due to fire regulations, no standees can be allowed, so students are reminded that they should be in Washington Hall by 8:10 in order to be assured of seats. Tickets are now being distributed in the basement of the Dining Hall, with final distribution this evening between the hours of 5:30 and 7:00 p. m.
There is no charge for tickets but athletic books must be presented when they are obtained.
A twenty-one piece orchestra, under the baton of Ed Cashman, will be in the pit to provide music for “Meet the Missus.” The entire score has been orchestrated in order to help make this show the best and most complete musical comedy ever to hit the Notre Dame campus. Nothing, in fact, has been overlooked in the efforts of the large production staff to make “Meet the Missus” an unforgettable show, and those who have seen portions of the show say that it promises to be a campus sensation.
Five striking sets have been created for* the show by Wib Marshall, Tom Schreiber, Joe Plante, Gerard Hekker, and Al Gavan, who have reproduced campus scenes familiar to N.D. men.
The plot of “Meet the5 Missus” is entirely original, as is the music, which has been composed by Ed Cashman. Because of an exceptionally large turn-out for parts, it has been possible to select many of the best singers on campus for leading roles, which means that the twelve musical numbers will be high- ' lights in the show. While little can be said of the plot at this time, it does center around the problems faced by a group of post-war Notre Dame students, with numerous complications setting in when women enter the scene. Romance has its fling, as does comedy, with everything working out nicely in the end (with the exception that there are still twice as many men as there are girls in the cast).
The cast of the show is composed of Notre Dame students and girls from South Bend and Vetsville. Students taking part arc: Roy O’Neil, Tom Devine, John Klocke, Ralph Thorson, George Bariscillo, Bill Halligan, John Commer-ford, Nolan Sheehan, Ray Chamberland, John McKeon, Peter Ahrens, Gene Jones, Bill Murtagh, Jim Paris, Bill Donze, Emmet O’Neill, Norb Geier, Pat Hughes, Jack Eskilson, Al Motzel, Guy Perenich, John ’ Hart, Charles Pendarvis, Dick Stack, Jim Owen, Harry Reich, Ray Sullivan, Tom Schreiber, Lou Almasi, Travis Marshall, and Lan-y Metcalfe. Sixteen girls complete the large cast, with feminine leads being taken by Mary Kay Amberg, Agnes Haney, Marianne Wack, and Joanne Jankowski.
19