
i . 
[ 
! . 

Bruno's 
Pizza 
ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $12.00 EVERY DAY 
119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in 11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch 
4:00 
to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday 

4:00 
to 11 :00 Friday and Saturday 


273-3890 

"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 

So, you want to know who the Gipper is? Come work for Scholastic. Learn all our secrets. 


~ ,_ N lE 

is now hiring: 

Business/ Advertising Manager . Distribution Manager 
Call 1-5029 or stop by the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall for more information. 
A G A z I N E 

Sarcastic 1999 


We can't take ourselves seriously every day of the year, and April Fool's Day is the perfect day to let our hair down. In our annual campus humor magazine, we take stabs at that strange lump on Bob Davie's head, The Observerand countless more campus people and happenings. 
e

A Different Perspective 
Scholastic recognizes National Disability Week by examining how Notre Dame students cope with their disabilities and celebrating their unwavering courage. by Shannon O'Keefe 
Strike Up The Band e, 
The Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival, the nation's oldest, begins next Wednesday with a concert by jazz saxophonist Branford Marsalis. A jazz band competition concludes the festival over the weekend. by Jim Bilek 
A Thief's Workout? by Jared Marx 5 Licensing 101: Permission Required by Tina Zurcher 6 A Major Decision by Jeremy Sony · 11 Springing to Action by Katie Rak 22 What Godmilow Taught by Kara Zuaro 28 
Departments 
From the Editor 2 
ND Notebook 3 
Campus Watch 21 
Splinters from the Pressbox 24 
Out of Bounds 25 
Week in Distortion 29 
Comic Strip 29 
On Other Campuses 30 
Calendar 31 
Final Word 32 
UN IV NOTRE DAME•APRIL 1 1999 

°' 
0 
-1­Cl 
i LU 
i 
LU 
I 
I­
~ 
0 
LL 
°' 




Sincere Flattery 
have always been a fan of the Muppets.
I
If I am ever forced to choose between a 

current hit television show and the antics ofthe Muppets, I will choose Kermit, Gonzo and Fozzie in a second. I certainly don'tcare if Ross and Rachel stay together, but I am frequently upnights worrying about whether Miss Piggy will ever become Mrs. the Frog. 
The Muppets are masters of parody. For the last 20 years, they have mocked nearly every great television show, movie, celeb­rity and historical event. 
InMuppetTreasure I sland,director Brian Henson created a new pig character named Spam. Hormel Corporation, which makes Spam, sued Jim Henson Productions for trademark infringement. After a short court battle, Hormel lost the suit. The judge said in his summary that parody is one of the greatest forms of comedy and that Hormel should take it lightly. To this day, all Muppet products still carry a seal which says, "Muppet Parody: The Greatest Fann of Flattery." 
Our annual April Fool's Day tradition is to create Sarcastic. Magazine, a parody of the people and events around campus. We take shots at well-known campus personali­ties, events around campus, administrators and even The Observer. 
We had a lot of fun doing this parody issue, and we hope you have just as much fun reading it. Just like the Muppets, we intended every joke to be takeri as a form of sincere flattery. 
Janice, the guitarist in the Muppet's Elec­tric Mayhem Band, once said, "I'm not taking my clothes off, even if it is artistic." Though most ofus probably wanted a good look at what was under her tie-dyed shirt, she didn't want the humor to become taste­less. We feel the same way at Scholastic. We don't want to take our clothes off, even if it is artistic. 

Welcome, Freshmen
Ahearty thank you goes to Pat Downes, Allison Fashek and their staff for all the time and effort they 
putinto making Scholastic Magazine a suc­

· cess during the 1998-1999 school year. Af­ter spring break, they were replaced with a young, new staff. Hopefully, this staff can continue the tradition of excellence that surrounds Scholastic. After working with them to produce this issue, we are confident that they can. We look forward to working with them this year. 

Also Inside
Not all ofthe magazine is humorous this week. With Disabilities Week havingjustdrawn to a close, Scho­
lastic wanted to recognize many of the stu­dents oncampus who are disabled. Shannon O'Keefe talks with some students who deal with disabilities every day on page 8. The winning essay in the Disabilities A ware­ness Week Essay Contest is reprinted on page 32. 
You'11 also want to check out the preview for next week's Collegiate Jazz Festival on page 26. 
~ 
Editor in Chief 
1 06 Years Ago: 
Mr. Popularity 
In the April 1, 1893, issue ofScholas­tic, one writer considers the components of a good personality. 
"One finds among the crowd at col­lege, persons who are popular, not be­cause·they_ have an uncommon amount ofgood-sense, but because theirfoolish jestamuses others. While these persons never lack friends, because, generally, they are so good-natured as to offend no one, still they are always considered by manyasfitfornothing more than amuse­mentfor others.... Furthermore, there is nothing that is more detested by the people at large than a man with a sar­castic countenance." 
For mqre infonnation, check out ~he Gipper's column on page 21. · 
-JP 


2 

SCHOLASTIC APRIL 1, 1999 
MAGAZINE 

THOSE LITTLE AAONKEYS 
Anthropology Prof Gets Glamourous 
Magazine features ND expert 
Thumbing through magazines at the bookstore, you pick up a copy ofGlam­our and open it to find ... an article quoting your anthropology professor? You check the cover again. Is this really the Glamour you know and love? When you're an expert, it seems, even Glamour seeks you out. And James McKenna, an anthropol­ogy professor and director of Notre Dame's new Mother-Baby Behavioral Sleep Lab, is an expert on the sleeping patterns ofmoth­ers and their children. "There's a consortium ofabout five or six people on sleep is­sues," McKenna explains, "You get known by journalists and the media in general." In the April issue ofGlamour, McKenna's expert advice is called upon to address a question with which he is quite familiar: should mothers sleep in bed with their ba_­bies? He is quoted as saying, "The absolute safest and most biologically appropriate way for a baby to sleep is next to its mother." This idea comes as a jolt to a nation raised to believe that children should sleep .by themselves, in separate rooms as well as separate beds from.their parents. But on a universal level, this isolation is a minority practice. "Ninety1five percent of the world sleeps next to its babies," McKenna says. 
Aside from comparing American sleep­ing habits to those of other. cultures, McKenna has also studied other mammals, especially primates, in hopes of learning more about the relationship between mother and child. He discovered that primates are inost dependent on their mothers ilI for the longest period of time and ~-require constant touching and clean­~\ ing by their mothers. Humans have S";:"o:,... an even longer childhood, leading McKenna to the conclusion that_ children require even more contact with their parents. For a baby, @ sleeping between its parents helps accommodate this essential bio­
logical need. 

At the new sleep lab, McKenna hopes to discover even more about the sleeping pat­terns of mothers and babies. Located in the Reyniers Labora~ory near the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, the lab has only re­cently been finished. McKenna and his team of 20 undergraduate students will begin working there soon, trying out the lab equip­ment and running experimental tests to see, for example, if people can follow instruc­tions given to them in their sleep. "We might have moms, dads and babies coming in during April," he says, adding that fathers should sleep with babies, too. 
And it looks like Glamour might be more scientific than you thought. 
-Kathleen Corte 



zf l 
o· z 
0 
-I 
m 
0::, 
0 0 
i\ 


0 ~ 0 
cc 
LU 
r­0 
z 
0 
z 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 
wouldn't, just because we know more about what the problems are. But I guess a line we found pretty funny at the time was a girl who came in with a printer and asked us to get out the hoop earring that had stuck in it. Since then, we've had to pull all sorts ofthings out of printers! 
How did you first become interested in working with computers? In the Marine Corps they sent me to A via­tionElectronics School. It was just a natural progression from there. 
If you could redecorate the CCMB, what would you do? 
I've thought about that one a lot! The first thingl'ddois putinanewexterior, and then add more windows. 
What's your favorite website? 
At work, it's the Weather Channel, because it's a large website so we· can use it to test how a new network installation works. I do like www.hamsterdance.com, though. Sometimes we put it on four or five different screens at once in the office here. It drives people crazy. 
Are you going to see the new Star Wars movie? 
Yes! My 13-year-old and 14-year-old sons are practically chomping at the bit. We'll probably be there the first day it opens. 
-Kimberly Blackwell 
lN. AND ()UT 


\c'sqfeto·..
•·· 
cemed.2 arid it should:,be: The-doqrs 'to . •finals ,week:: . -. 



111anfof thecl~SSfOOlll~ 011, t~e fiJ:fefloorof .. .... ~?f0111§,ar~·t~esf #~w c109.r~is#:ef,JSeyJ::/·••.pot11itle~;s, tWs'is,:11otW~fits'ttiiT16 sb111f; 
.. ()'Shaughnessy> Hall.are :b~ipg'.replaced,. arra,Jso\;lJ,etterJsioic~rig, says •Catheffiif ;\Olli haj; w,~llc.e,d'dofri ~ha,n~.ayat0 'Shag jn~·for.#1.1s•yery_'re,as6n:'sif~rr:... >i·.:•·...,•.·•;}.,'·•··•··/Gi-lln<l.Y~)J1l}K(.Pfffs~.·.orAcid~111Jfi§.Bi9{,;.~.~Ili~#Y,tii.~.t·i~ei:fit,fJ!1'.tli~:pe:r,spp;Pfa,· .•.·.• ·., ·The : ultiiriate· .•..• cause\for~tb,f·clia.Ilg(f,iri, ·•. Manag¢.Wfflt.••She ~ays:that,:~lmcmgli tlie)'.')/.flyi11g·.•door.· -T-hesei ddors·are:iiot.• only•. a.. '.,ctoor~•. ·»'~i····a·coll1plairit.fil~ct<by)a'.i~cult)'·.·... ·.·arean:upixl)e'e,t~dexpeiis.e;•it\s.i1Dp6ft~UW/~pro~len{~h~h6,.firsi,fl96r6fO'S~ag,·'thby.·· Infmb~rwho,while•walkfog4ciwnthefii:si·..•.. th.atNotre;I)ame1pokinwproblems(ifthis\•area,problerii,~n°th~••setond·~~d.\lilid·.·
!f%~}w;~tbi!~t~~~~rit;, ~;;ftii.J;;;:; as.• Gn,p'a~ Dotes:,:•5f}"ti<fwtt;1tt~;!ti:t~J!f~l¾tt 
opened·by·.·a st.udent }eavllli(.~lass:_gortu; .··•.·.. ·.•: FotJhein§s.t part;jnstaUiIIg~h~ ile\'iaq'ors•\<liay~ i~e~am~.Prgblem:.Whenriskeci.iboµt·· 
.t~,ft~~;;i;;ii~if;;Y.~t!Iilii~if~t!!1Ji~it~i~~,ri\~ii~,tfI 
$22.4 MILLION AT WORK 
The New South Park 
The brand new Eck Center fills a multitude ofcampus voids 
For months, students at Notre Dame watched the two new buildings rise past West Quad. Together, the two buildings form the Eck Center. One struc­ture is the new bookstore, complete with a coffeeshop and even more Notre Dame paraphernalia than the old bookstore. The building adjacent to the new book­store houses the Notre Dame Visitor's Center and the Alumni Association Head­quarters, separated from each other by shiny glass doors. The visitor's center 
.contains several displays, including one that will be changed weekly to feature Eck Center events. An information desk and a kiosk with a touch-screen display provide information to guests while a cozy gather­ing of sofas offers a place where visitors can talk and relax. 
Dennis Brown, who is in charge of pub­lic relations for the new center, explains the need for the visitor's center in light of the overwhelming numbers oftourists who visit Notre Dame every year. "Notre Dame 
is the second most popular tourist destina­
tion in Indiana, after the Indiana Motor 
Speedway," Brown says. The visitor's 
center offers these tourists a central spot 
near the much-visited bookstore where 
they can get information and begin his­
torical walking tours of the campus. 
The construction of the Eck Center also houses members of the Alumni Associa­tion, previously scattered around campus, under one roof. Their new headquarters includes a lounge area, complete with a . fireplace, where returning alumni can con­
gregate and visit. 
In all, the three parts of the new Eck 

Center: the bookstore, visitor's center and 
Alumni Association headquarters, pro­
vide a central area where visitors to the · 
Notre Dame campus can find all the infor­
mation and souvenirs they need. These 
two buildings · provide the setting for a 
central spot where students, alumni and 
visitors are all welcome. 
-Kathleen Corte 

·:aii isstie;ofhealth:' { 
SCHOLASTIC APRIL 1, 1999 
MAGAZINE 



BY JARED MARX here is little argument that the new 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center is an 

excellent facility. New basketball courts, an indoor track and a state-of-the-art weight room make it attractive to even the most athletically disinclined students. But the same characteristics that make Rolfs a favorite place to work out for Notre Dame students and faculty have also attracted people from outside the Notre Dame com­munity, and this influx of visitors has be­come a concern. 
According to Sally Derengoski, director ofRecSports and RecServices, the center's staff was pleased when Rolfs' first year of operation passed by with very few security problems and instances of theft. But the honeymoon didn't last forever. Earlier this year, the facility experienced a rash ofthefts during a period of only a few days. The thefts generally do not involve university­owned equipment. Instead, private property seems to be the main target. 
At issue is what Derengoski calls a suspi­cion that there "could be a correlation" between the presence of non-university­affiliated • people in the building and the theft that has occurred. 
Both Rolfs and the Rockne Memorial are, 

T
APRIL 1, 1999 ' 
for the most part, restricted to the use of students and faculty, and their spouses. Derengoski states that it should be the privi­lege of these students and faculty to invite guests to use the facilities with them. At the Rock, advance notice must be given before bringing a guest, but at Rolfs no such ad­vance notice is required. In both cases, the guest must enter with a university-affiliated sponsor. 
The implication is that the thefts could have been linked to misuse of this guest policy. Before the rash of thefts, the staff at Rolfs had been fairly lax in its enforcement of the official rules. For instance, people formation for guests rather than letting the guests fill it out themselves. Furthermore, new signs warn students and faculty not to sponsor a "guest" whom they do not know. Derengoski seems to think that these changes have helped. 
Still, the problem of theft has not disap­peared. At the Rock, it has posed a problem for years. Brother Louis Hurcik, director of the Rockne Memorial, says that there have always been cases of people's property be­ing stolen, particularly before breaks and other peak times when people carry a lot of money. Although Hurcikrefrains from draw­ing a connection between users not affili­ated with the university and theft, he does encourage people to lock up their valuables. 
Both the Rock and Rolfs offer lockers in which people with their own locks can keep wallets and other valuables. In addition, the Rock offers five-dollar rental lockers that can be used for the year. At Rolfs, there are also coin-return lockers, which require a quarter to use but return the money whenthe user is finished. 
"The coin-return lockers would be a great place for all of the basketball players to put their stuff," Derengoski · notes, since the lockers are located next to the basketball courts. However, she says that "they [the basketball players] always seem tojustleave it on the floor." 
The point is well taken. Storage facilities are available, so it is ultimately the students' responsibility to make sure that their items are safely stowed during their workout time. No rules about guests can protect users from theft by people who enter the facility legiti­mately. 
Although security improvements have been made, the issue ofguest use has not yet been put to rest, and the Rolfs guest-use policy is still subject to change in the future .. 
Safe storage facilities are available, so it 
is ultimately the students' responsibility 
to make sure that their items are safely . stowed during their workout time. 
had been allowed to enter the building to look for their sponsors, rather than entering with them. 
Now, the policies have changed. Guests are no longer allowed to enter the facility without having their sponsors present. Rolfs staff members now fill out registration in-Derengoski notes that while Rolfs has tried to avoid charging a fee for guests, the pos­sibility has been considered. Undoubtedly, this would be an unpopular decision. But if it has a significant impact on the security of the facility, it may be worth the sacrifice for 
the people intended to use the facility.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  5  
MAGAZINE  

(/) 
~ 
lJ.J 
z 

Notre Dame defends its trademarks from illegitimate use through a combination ofdiplomacy and toughness 
other classics that float around dorms and permission. The Licensing Department con­
BY TINA ZURCHER tailgaters, is illegal. By using the Notre ducts the day-to-day operations of licensing, 
fter a student has lived for four years Dame logos without permission, they vio­while the Office ofthe General Counsel handles 
at Notre Dame, he or she probably has late federal trademark and copyright laws. all the legal aspects of licensing. 
a collection of must-haves obtained "Any use ofthe IN otre Dame] logos with­Federal trademark and copyright laws during college life: a diploma, of course, out express permission is illegal," says Carol exist in order to limit the use of trademarks leads the list, but only a little less important Kaesebier, vice president and general _counsel to the organizations that originated them. A might be the Absolut Notre Dame T-shirt. of the Office of General Counsel. A specific violation of these laws can result in a court 
What many students do not realize is that licensing agreement with the university or, injunction, the payment of fines and dam­the Absolut Notre Dame T-shirt, like the in some cases,_ a letter constitutes express ages and the destruction of all the question-
A 

WE ARE ND. Many students show their blue and gold with Notre Dame clothing, but much of it is illegal. 
SCHOLASTIC APRIL 1, 1999 
MAGAZINE 

able products. According to Kaesebier, when calls the university to see if the material is 
the university takes action against viola­licensed. If it is not, customs takes action 
tions it is not looking to receive damages. against the producer, and the university 
Rather, it wants to ensure that its name and does not have to prosecute for itself. 
associated logos appear in places appropri­Another way in which violations are dis­
ate to No.tre Dame and its mission. · covered is by routine policing at places such 
"The reason is far more important than as flea markets. When the policefind stands 
money -we need this sort of attitude to selling material with ND logos, they check 
protect the mark," Kaesebier says. But she with the university to see if the vendors and 
adds that any revenues that the university products are licensed. Ifthe items are being • 
"The reason is far more important than money ­we need this sort ofattitude to protect the mark." -Carol ff.acscbicr 
· does receive from violations are used for sold illegally, the police take action in ac­
general scholarship funds with an eye to cordance with state criminal statutes. Inthis 
increasing academic scholarships. · case as well, the university does not have to 
Although the university deals with many take legal action on its own. 
infringements onits copyright and trade-A third way in which Notre Dame be­
mark rights, it rarely has to resort to civil comes aware of trademark violations is 
action. Typically, just one or two cases of through tips from private investigators. In 
illegal logo use per year result in court the course of their work, private investiga­
cases. Kaesebier says that the vast majority tors hired by other organizations sometimes 
ofthe producers who violate the university's come across the improperuseofNotreDame 
rights are willing to stop once they realize logos. They may bring the instance to the 
that Notre Dame is serious about protecting attention of the university, which must then 
its exclusive use ofits logos. Incases where · discover who is responsible for the illegal 
the producers agree to stop-illegally using material by hiring its own investigator. If 
the logo, their products are usually confis-the university unearths a violation in this 
cated, and a fine is collected. manner, it must ac)dress the problem by 
It is not surprising that most of the viola~ · settling with the producer or, as a last resort, 
tions occur during football season, when by taking civil action. _ 
vendors take advantage of the crowds on Some of the university's trademarks in­
campus to sell cheap items separately from elude: the words "Notre Dame," the lepre­
the bookstore. To police these illegal sales, chaun, the interlocking ND, the dome and 
Kaesebier says security people wander boththeformalandinformalacademicseals. 
among the crowds and look for unlicensed Oftenstudenisusetheselogosonthingslike 
vendors selling items with Notre Dame T-shirts and webpages, with or witJ}out 
logos. knowledge of the legality issues surround­
__ Bill Kirk, assistant vice president ofResi-ing logo use. Kirk says that the university is 
dence Life, notes that certain factors affect "pretty free on websites," allowing use of 
the amount ofviolations during the football the interlocking ND and other logos as long 
season and automatically put security on . as they are not used distastefully and in­
guard. "The amount ofmisuse depends upon elude visible registration marks. However, 
a big game or a big rival school coming in," screen printing T-shirt designs without ap-
Kirk says. proval by the university is illegal. _ 
The way in which Notre.Dame deals with This doesn't mean students ,can't design 
a violation depends on how and where it is or distribute products with school logos. 
discovered. Kaesebier notes that there is a · Kaesebier says, "You can produce, but only 
worldwide market for Notre Dame apparel, ifyou get a sheet ofpaper with Notre Dame 
and thus many ofthe illegal producers oper-approval." · 
ate overseas. If material with any sort of In order to use Notre Dame logos legally, 
logo on it comes through U.S. customs, students have to contact Student Activities 
permission for use of the logo must be forspecificpermission. Theyarethenshown 
verified before the item is _admitted into the anofficiallistofvendorsthathavecontracts 
country. In these situations, U.S. customs withtheuniversitytolegallyprodticeitems 
APRIL 1, 1999 , 
with Notre Dame logos. The list is neces­sary to keep better track of those who are licensed to use the Notre Dame logos. 
For students who are caught bypassing these licensing requirements, the penalties depend upon the circumstances. Kirk says that student violators typically have to stop the illegal action, forfeit their profits and perform some sort of community service. The type ofmisuse and the amount ofmoney made from the items greatly influence the degree of the penalty. 
Although unlicensed use of the logo by students may seem relatively unimportant when compared to overseas companies mass-producing illegal merchandise, Kirk says that it must be addressed. 
"If we don't enforce our rights to use the logos, if illegal uses go unchallenged, then we forfeit our ability to exclusive use ofthe logos," Kirk says. 
In regard to unlicensed logo use, how~ ever, Student Affairs has had to deal with fewer student offenders lately. As the Li­censing Department has grown, there have been fewer incidents of students illegally using the Notre Dame logos. The depart­ment was begun in 1984, and Kaesebier thinks that its activities have increased the awareness oftrademark and copyright laws on campus. Both Kaesebier and Kirk re­mark that far fewer violations take place now than in previous years. Kirk says there were "only a handful'' ofviolation this fall. 
One thing that studen~s and others ille­gally using the logo might not have realized is that the use of commercial entities' logos along with those of Notre Dame can result in far heftier prosecution than the use of Notre Dame logos alone. Kaesebier notes that, whereas Notre Dame might stop at leveling fines, businesses who have invested a lot ofmoney in their trademarks would be more inclined to bring suits against those involved. Some good examples of busi­nesses who would probably take action in court would be the Absolut and the Anheuser~Busch companies of college T-· shirt fame across the country. 
Kirk has-seen many creative, though ille­gal; items with Notre Dame logos on them in his time here. 
"I get a kick out ofthem," he says, noting that he often grabs some of themore inter­esting ones that have been confiscated for his own collection. · 
"There have been soip.e pretty tasteless · ones, though -security arranges for them to be used as rags," Kirk says. D 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


For roughly 90 "disabled" on campus, life at Notre Dame presents unique _, but not insurmountable -challenges 
$pective 
! 

BY SHANNON O'KEEFE 
''In the past five years, my body 
has been essentially out ofcon­
trol with tumors and various 
medications basically wreaking havoc. 
But somewhere along the line, I dis­
covered that none of that mattered ­
that the only thing that mattered was 
how I thought about my situation and 
myself," says senior Jamie Przybysz, 
one of approximately 90 students on 
this campus who have identified them­
selves as disabled to the Office for 
Students with Disabilities. 

From March 24 through March 26, 
we celebrated students like Przybysz 
on campus and throughout the commu­
nity with Disability Awareness Week. 
A series of activities were co-spon­
sored by the Center for Social Con­
cerns, Office for Students with Dis­
abilities and the Logan Center. But 
what did this week mean? What did it 
do for this campus, for these students, 
for all students? 

Exactly what it said: raise aware­
ness. And the only way to truly do that 
is to take the word "disability" and 
break it down. Deconstruct it until we 
see what we are meant to see: our peers. Jamie, a hearing-impaired student, offers a unique perspective to any dis­cussion of the ways in which disability affects student life. Jamie did not de­velop her hearing loss until high school, when tumors were discovered on her · hearing nerves and spinal cord, indicat­
ing that she had developed Neurofibro-. 
matosis 2. 

"I still interpret everything happen­
ing to me, in a sense, as ifI am still 
'non-disabled,"' she says. "Iknow what 
it was like to lead a healthy, active life, 
how I felt a bit uncomfortable around 
people who had obvious disabilities, 
how I felt sorry for them and the way 
their life must be." Now that she has 
become one of 'those' people, Jamie is 
optimistic about life with disabilities. 
"I think on some level I actually enjoy 
the challenge of it all." 
With this challenge comes problems, both for Jamie and the academic com­munity that surrounds her. Yet she isn't asking for special favors, simply equal­ity. "I think it is too easy to expect everyone around me to adjust to me and accommodate my needs. I hate the idea of people having to go out of their way to ensure that I have access to things which should be p~rceived as rights. It . is both realistic and logical for every­one to work together and meet some­where on middle-ground to ensure that we create avenues of opportunity for any individual to fulfill their poten­
tial." 
~he Office for Students with Dis­
abilities, established in July of 1995, 
seeks to make these transitions easier 
for students. Under the direction of 
Scott Howland, the office attempts to 
serve each student's individual needs. 
Among other things, this may include 
arranging for note-takers, giving ex­
tended time on an exam to students 
with learning disabilities or attention 
deficit disorder, or providing real-time 
captioning to students with hearing. 
impairments. Dorm rooms may also be 
modified in order to accommodate in­
dividual needs. Nine residence halls 
have rooms designed for students with 
disabilities, featuring power doors, low-· 
ered sinks, special tables and modifica­
tions to the bathroom. 
For Jamie's first two years, she had 
APRll 1, 1999 

note-takers and an occasional tutor. 
When almost all ofJamie's hearing was 
gone, Howland arranged for a transcrip­"Sometimes I 
tion service known as real-time 
captioning. This system was used in Professor Grant Jenkins' English/ Ameri­have to stick can Studies class last semester to accom­modate Jamie. In this course, Jenkins 
and Jamie's classmates spoke into a to more 
microphone that transcribed the lectures almost instantaneously. 
Some professors are unwilling-to use realistic the microphone device, as it slows class and causes interruptions. Jenkins notes, 

possibilities,
"Ihad no problem using the microphone in class. I got something out ofit as well. I now have transcripts of niy lectures, 
but there are 

which I have found useful." However, he recognizes certain drawbacks to the system. "I think that some of the stu­
waystodo

dents were bothered by it, that it intimi­
dated them. There has to be a better way. 
There was a three or four second gap in 
the things 

between the words being said and tran­
scribed, just enough to keep Jamie be­
that you 

hind in discussion." 
A student in the course, senior Jolene Cihak, agrees. "I did find it intimidating at first. We had to pass [ the microphone] want to do. If 
through the room anytime that we had a 
thought so we lost some ofthe spontane­
you really

ity of discussions. But as time went on 
we all became less self-conscious. We became used to the process and realized 
want it, you

how important it was to keep Jamie within the discussion. Sometimes she would comment on a given topic and I can find a was very impressed by her oral presen­tation, she was so confident." 
Jamie concedes, "Things are far from 
way to d<? 

perfect, but it• s ainazing that I am able to even participate in some classes when I 
cannot actually hear more than one per­anything. I 
cent of the. words that are said." One problem Jamie did identify with 
could miss so

the Office for Students with Disabilities is the lack of networking between stu­
dents. Howland explains, "At this point 
the office works individually with students to pro­
vide the accommodations they need. So we haven't 
sponsored activities that bring students together." Nevertheless, this is something _that the office has also acknowledged as a weakness; and they are 
working on ways to improve relations in the future. 
Howland is already making progress toward that 
goal. "Recently I invited students to a meeting to discuss how Notre Dame is meeting their needs. The meeting went well .and gave students with disabili­ties the opportunity to talk and share their experi­ences. I think that such activities are valu_able." 
APRIL 1, 1999 
A,nother student who has_ had some experience with the Office for Students with Disabilities is sophomore Meaghan McCarthy. She is afflicted with O,steogenesis Imperfecta, a brittle bone disease. Born with broken bones, she was often in a body cast as a child because she fractures very easily. Now she is able to walk with a crutch; 
The Office for Students with Disabilities has of­fered Meaghan a cart, but she refuses any such assistance even in the winter months ofice and snow, only calling for a ride when absolutely necessary. Weather was_ one factor Meaghan knew she woulq 
much by being afraid all the time." --Meaghan McCarthy 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 




"I think it is too easy to expect everyone around me to adjust to me and accomrncx:1ate 
1-­
:r:
my needs. I a:en 
0 
z 
a: 
ro
hate the ..: idea of people 
having to go out of their way to ensure that I have access to things which should be perceived as rights." -Jamie 
Przybysz 
10 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

': :,.'11 STUDYAHOLIC. Through a number of services such as note-taking and lecture transcription, Jamie Przybysz is able to lead a life similar to the one she led until she lost.almost all of her hearing in high school. 
have to overcome to attend Notre Dame. Originally from Massachusetts, she had planned on going to a southern school to avoid any impairment to walking. But on a trip to Notre Dame in her junior year of high school, she knew that this would be home regardless of the weather. 
"I didn't want the disability to decide where I would go," she says. "There are risks in everything. I have to set my own limitations-decide ifit's worth it." And it has definitely been worth it so far, she says. An active member of the Notre Dame community, Meaghan is off to London next semester. She admits to giving little thought to any limitations that may exist there, in a country without the regulations for disabled people that the U.S. has instituted. 
"Sometimes I have to stick to more realistic possi" bilities, but there are ways to do the things that you want to do," Meaghan insists. "If you really want it, you can find a way to do anything. I could miss so much by being afraid all the time." 
Sr. Carrine Etheridge, rectress ofFarley Hall, finds Meaghan to be an asset to community living. "People see Meaghan's courage and suddenly all of the little petty things we endure are nothing. It's amazing to me. Disability is a joke, it's not in her vocabulary." 
Moreover, Etheridge feels that Meaghan's strength of character and determination have secured her an important place in the dorm community and that the women of Farley have responded in tum. "She has been so well accepted by .her peers. There are some times when it's hard to know how to act around 
, people with disabilities. That has not happened here. 
She was a commissioner for Pop Farley, which is a 
huge responsibility, and she is currently running for co-president of the dorm. Meaghan is remarkable." 
The question of social acceptance is one issue that each student must address. Jamie notes, "What's most difficult for me is the communication barrier that exist~. Having to have people repeat things a lot or write them down means that I miss a lot of the off­hand and funny, casual remarks we tend to make through the day." Complications arising from her health have also presented a barrier to forming casual relationships. "Having all of the health concerns, I was not able to get involved in many campus activi­ties. This is something I'm still working on. A work in progress." 
Meaghan discusses this problem from a different angle. "It's hard. I realize that. It's an uncomfortable situation to be in, when the first thing people see is the crutch or the disability and not me, But this is only an initial reaction, and we get through that very quickly. I've been very happy with the social scene at Notre Dame." 
Lending further insight, Jamie notes, "Who is to say that my life would be any better ifI had never had any disabling experiences? Actually I consider my­self quite blessed to have the insights I do from the experiences I have had -Jo appreciate the simple, daily activities that a lot of people never think twice about." 
In the end, what difference does a disability really make? "I think the most important thing for anyone to realize is that 'disability' is a social construction," Jamie says. "Everyone is unique in some respect and we need to make an effort to understand anyone before ruling out their capacity to contribute to soci­ety and our own lives!' D 
APRIL 1, 1999 


A• 
r 

ec1s1on 
Withfourcollegesand59degreeprograms,choosingamajorcanbeintimidating 
BY JEREMY SONYWhat do you want to be when you grow up? We are all asked this ques­tion at some point in our childhood. Everyone from the teacher to mom and dad to Big Bird has asked that question. Most kids have creative answers, such as an astro­naut or a marine biologist. Then that little grade school kid grows up and goes to college and the question changes to, "What are you majoring in?" Right after "What's your name," that one question is probably one of the most popular phrases heard on campus when two students first meet. It is mostly a first-year conversation, but at that point, how many students have answers that will still hold true at graduation, or next semester, or even next week? Changing rriajors is a choice that some see as abominable, having known their career choice since kindergarten. Others see changing majors as a hobby, a way of tasting a little of everything on the academic smorgasbord. But eventually, something has to "taste" right and every stu­dent h.as to pick a major and go with it. But how does a student do that? This is where the administration steps in, offering assistance· to con­fused students who might otherwise fail to obtain the credits necessary to gradu­ate with any major. Notre Dame promotes its First Year of Studies pro­gram to its prospective stu­dents and their families as an approach to college educa-
APRIL 1, 1999 
' ,, -..
-~--~-~--~ ~ --~--­
tion that is necessary for the student. FYS, according to its mission statement, "is an academic unit which, utilizing a variety of support services, facilitates the transition of first-year students from high school to uni­versity life. It advises them in the selection of courses in the First Year curriculum and an appropriate undergraduate college or major while seeking to prepare them for the academic and personal challenges of Notre Dame." 
With the assistance of an advisor, each student has the chance to work out a sched­ule which will provide a better understand­ing ofa chosen field, helping that student to decide whether the major is right for him or her. It is this noncommittal transition pro­gram that the university believes helps all of its students make the right choices. 
FYS sends out a newsletter each month 


-~­

~---------~---~--­
called the Dean's Newsletter, something all students are familiar with, or remember from years past. It contains information and dates of important meetings about major selection. 
But FYS is not the only resource on cam­pus that helps students choose a major. The colleges themselves invest time and effort to gain student interest in their respective fields. The five schools -Arts and Letters, Business Administration, Engineering, Sci­ence and Architecture -all want new stu­dents to join their ranks. 
This year, the colleges began holding informational evenings in February in order to get the students' attention. The colleges of Arts and Letters and Business Adminis­tration cooperated for a joint program in late February that was geared toward helping students choose between a business or a 
SCHOLASTIC 
11 
MAGAZINE 

m 
Changing majoIS is achoice that some see as abominable, having known their career cho~ce since kindergarten. OtheIS see changing majoIS as ahobby, away of tasting alittle ofeverything on the academic smorgasbord. 
liberal arts degree. Specific programs also 
attempted to attract the attention of stu­
dents. The pre-professional programs and 
the Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) each 
held information nights as well. The Col­
lege of Engineering held open houses for 
each ofits concentrations, as did the School 
of Architecture. 
In the crucial month of March, shortly 
before DART would take the campus by . storm, each college readied itself for a final informational attack, promoting itself as. much as possible in order to gain the most 
students for next year. 
Folowing spring break, the College of 
Arts and Letters held its annual program fair 
where information on many of the majors 
was offered in the forms of packets and 
advisors, ready and waiting for the curious 
student. 
The following week, however, was the 
real test. As the hours counted dowri, all of 
the colleges opened their doors and put on their best faces, prepared to sell their school to whomever walked in. 
The College of Business Administration opened its doors from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. starting on the March 22, letting students talk to advisors from the office of the dean for the undergraduate program. The Col­lege of Arts and Letters did the same thing, eitherby appointment or on a walk-in basis. Certain concentrations within the college held more informational nights that week, including the English Department, Film, Television and Theater, Computer Applica­tions (CAPP) and Medieval Studies. 
The university feels that these open houses are important to the students. Samuel Gaglio, assistant dean of the College of Business Administration, says that "these are speci­fied times when we make ourselves avail­able to the students in order for them to compare a number of different disciplines and choose the one that would be best for them." Gaglio· says that some students choose majors because ofoutside pressures. He feels this campus-wide college compari­son gives them a helping hand in choosing the major that they will thrive in. 
So how does a student know what he will enjoy? One can only take so many different classes in different areas before the univer­sity wants a declaration. This is why the colleges got together and decided to show­case and summarize the vast opportunities that await the students who come to their offices and show some interest. 
As the time to DART approaches, the students shquld rest assured that the admin­istration has given them everything they can in preparation for this most stressful of weeks. From packets to flyers, the colleges spoke out. 
Hopefully the students were listening when the colleges were talking, because in just another week everyone's going to be asking just one question: what's your ma­jor? D 



' 
1J 
Wadsworth pregnant with alien baby ,,-~ 
fl 

MAGAZINE 
Second . nose ! discovered· on Davie's 
.forehead 
Beauchamp: "I knew he had a nose for football." 
Malloy: "I can't 
believe we never 
noticed."­
Coach may become spokesman for Kleenex 
O

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE -DAME APRIL l, 1999 
I 


u 
I­
C/) 
<( 
u 
Ct:::'. 
<( 
CJ) 
It's Po 


Timel 
Absurdly wealthy alumnus Crank Ecch proves that it's his potty, and he'll do what he wants 
by Joke Alligher 


favorite slightly conservative PLS major 
Dear Yawn, 
I am a 16-year-old girl with a problem. My boyfriend and I have been dating for a month, and he is pressuring me to have sex. I am not sure ifI am ready to take that step. What should I do? 
-Confused 

Dear Confused, 
St. Thomas Aquinas writes: "Since some are found to be depraved, and prone to vice, and not easily amenable to words, it was necessary for such to be restrained from evil by force and fear, in order that, at least, they might desist from evildoing, and leave oth­ers in peace, and that they themselves, by being habituated in this way, might be brought to do willingly what hitherto they did from fear, and thus become virtuous." 
.The evil force that dwells · within your boyfriend is one thafcan be controlled only by instilling in him afear of the wrath of God, which will surely condemn your souls to eternal torture in the fiery depths of the underworld. 
Dear Yawn, 
I am at the end of my rope with my m.other-in-law. She always comes by our house without calling first. I love my wife, but how can I get hermother to give us some space? 
· -Trapped 

Dear Trapped, Both your mother-in-law arid your wife 
are women, correct? Simply inform them 
that, as women, they must submit to your ·wm as head ofthe family. I draw this advice but from the ancients. Witness the destruc­tion caused by uncontrolled women in the plays of Aeschylus and Sophocles. Even Plato counsels that the loftiest thoughts are possible only in the minds ofmen, and Plato is the noblest ofthe philosophers, except for the sodomy. 
Dear Yawn, 
I really admire your practical, helpful advice. How have you, as a sophomore in college, been able to amass the wisdom necessary to confidently tell others how to live their lives? 
-Awed 

Dear Awed, 
You are right to be impressed by my level ofinsight. Mineis a rare intellect, and it has given me the ability to know what is best for everyone else, even though I am still too young to legally purchase alcohol or rent a car. I have honed my formidable skills by perusing the work of everyone from Pat Buchanan to Rush Limbaugh. I added to my vast body of knowledge by studying both Aquinas and Augustine, as well as the work of several pagan philosophers who, despite their ignorance of· Christ's teaching, for which they face an eternity in the pits of hell, are nonetheless admirable for their dogmatism. 
Dear Yawn, 
I am a senior PLS major, and I'm having trouble meeting women. I've tried every­thing from wearing black to growing facial ing Nietzsche incessantly. Even my conde­scending attitude has not paid off. How can I win the favors of a lady of the exalted caliber of the Dark Lady of the Bard or of Dante's Beatrice? 
-Pretentious Dear Pretentious, I grant you points for your condescending attitude. I suggest that you work at exuding 
· an aura of superiority, which will alert po­tential love interests to the high quality of your moral fiber. Although as a sophomore I am unfamiliar with the work ofNietzsche, I am aware that the sheer mention of such a name should give all those around you a sense of wonderment at the power of mind. I achieve the same effect by referring to the Old Testament's teaching on homosexual­ity. 
¦¦¦ 

Dear Yawn, Do you have any advice for someone who wants to follow in your footsteps? 
-A Big Fan 

Dear Fan, 
I advise you to avoid the temptations of liberalism, which will lead you into the foresf of confusion where the wolves and tigers of sin will prey upon your soul. 
Though I have never met an actual liberal, my philosophy professor assures me that they are a dangerous force indeed, and I trust him blindly because he is very old and an expert in Aquinas. 
Yawn Finck is not a licensed therapist, but he is a sophomore PLS major, And not one of those long-haired, dope-smoking types, 
notjust from my vast experience ofwomen, hair to hanging out in Waddick's and quot-either. He is badly in need ofa girlfriend. 
yawn~ l@rightwing.org: your link to the Finck_ 
~ 

Ask Yawn! Please note: Everything you write will be thoroughly monitored by a group of card-carrying ultra-right-wingers, and any references to questionable activities of any kind will be passed on to the properfascists ... -er, authorities. 
APRIL r, 1999 . ' SCHOLASTIC 15 
MAGAZINE 

(/) 
)> 
AJ 
() 
)> 
(/) 
--f 
() 
Sports Wisdom from Dan 
u 
I­
(/) 
<( 
u 
<( ~ 
(/) 
When 
it comes to 

sports, 
I've 

got the 
balls. 

16 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

I will babble until you want to poke your eyes out 
BY DAN COPPOLLA es, faithful readers, one knows what time it is. 
It is time for one to prepare themselves for yet 
anotherrambling, incomprehensible commen­tary from the great one concerning the "way-out" world ofsports. This one's dedicated to my loyal fans in the mental institutions, seemingly the only ones able to navigate through the tangled web ofinconsis­tencies, contradictions and sheer id_iocy that have become my weekly trademark. Geared toward the uninitiated, this piece shall cover some of the most memorable Coppollan insights from this past sports year and future predictions on upcoming events. 
Let's start with my favorite topic: the NBA. I've written volumes of economic masterpieces telling why the league will not not only survive the lockout. But also, remember that no one will watch anymore that Michael Jordan is out of the game and that one will tum to other sports to fill the void. This is because there are no superstars in the NBA and players are unusually tall and have multiple children out ofwedlock. Last night Jay Leno told a joke about this that was funny. People will instead gravitate towards the intensity of exhibition baseball, enjoy the thrill of regular season hockey and pore over the minutiae ofJimmy Dillon's off-season workout pro­gram (seriously,justhow does one become that dam good at the game)? 
The NBA will also benefit from Jordan's retire­ment because everyone was sick ofthe Bulls winning every year. Who in one's right mind would want to watch the arguably-greatest and most exciting athlete in history add to his legend? This uncanny ability to bore fans and play in nightly snoozers is why they sold out every game they played last year, including one in a football stadium. Plus there are superstars in the NBA like Alan Iverson, Steven Mayberry, Dr. Erving "Magic" Johnson and everyone else on my favorite team, the Los Angeles Lakers. (Let me try out some brand-new material here). If Shaq would stop rapping and acting the Lakers will win the title over the Indiana Pacers, who are coached by the player I hated growing up but now love and hate because of his contract and wedlock child and the lockout and Celtics. 
Speaking qf Larry Bird, the baseball season is almost upon us and as always, I have some forecasts to publish. Like I said in the offseason, Mike Piazza willhit over 100 homers now that he plays his home games in the altitude with the Colorado Avalanche. I also predict that Randy Johnson will lead the Houston Astros to the World Series, where they will 
Y

lose to the greatest team of all-time in any sport; the New York Yankees. I know that this is the greatest team ever because I saw them on Fox once and they have lots ofmoney and also because DerekJeter goes out with Heidi Klum and Mariah Carey is rumored to have been involved with Puffy Combs but she denies that. They must be better than the Big Red Machine because Pete Rose isn't in the Hall ofFame and Denny McLane gambled alot and Johnny Bench is old now and Joe Morgan doesn'teven play baseball anymore. Also I wasn't even born when Babe Ruth was playing, so Mark McGwire is obviously better than the Bambino ever was. But I don't think Mark will never break Roger Maris's 58-game hitting streak. Unless he does it, and then he can probably do it then. 
I have a deadlin·e to meet in an hour and I'm running out ofideas and I still need to fill more space so I think now I'll make a smooth transition and thank all of the under-appreciated student managers who work so hard throughout the year. Let me list all 249 ofthem in my sports column and then maybe some of· them will vote for me and I can be a football manager last year. I like writing down whatever I think about because it takes up lots of lines and I can put this on my resume on my homepage. 
That reminds me, since the brackets for the 2000 NCAA Tournament don't come out for another year, I'd better start think about making myself look ri­diculous again and choose a Final Four before the teams are even assigned to one of the six regionals. That way, I can be positive that none even have a chance playing each other before the Final Four. Let's revisit last season's award-winning rationale: 1.) The Duke Blue Demons are the bestteam ever besides the Yankees. 2.) Connecticut won at Stanford by over 20 points without their best player, First Team All-American Christ,opher "Rip" Hamilton. 3.) Stanford has been overr~ted all season and consis­tently struggled against quality competition. 5.) I'm from California. 6.) California is bigger than Con­necticut and Duke combined. 7 .) Stanford will win the national championship. 
See, ifyou just look at things logically, everything always works out. So what if Stanford lost in the second round to Gonzaga and Duke and Connecticut played for the title? It doesn't matter. I refuse to stop enlightening the ignorant masses. Knowledgeable, sane fans like me always know better than tq bother with the annoying aspects ofreality.Reality spoils one' sfun thoughts for everyone. Six words left now. Two. One. D 
Editor's Note: The opinions expressed in this Coppollan column are deranged, impossible to jus­tify and may cause insanity ifever taken seriously. 
APRIL 1, 1999 

Doofie's Downfall: "Right thing to do" 
Former football coach insists he wasn'tfired but refuses to take lie-detector test; athletic director cackles at press conjerence 
BY SKIP BRAINLESSSources in the administration say that Head Football Coach Bob Doofie's will be forced to resign this week in an awkward, bitter press conference. "It doesn't matter how he leaves," said Athletic Director Michael Wadsworthless, "so long as it's a PR nightmare and provides weeks'. worth of material for vitriolic Chicago Tri­bune columnists who hate Notre Dame." This news follows last week's discovery ofsome skeletons in the head coach's closet. As a child, Doofie apparently stole several cookies from his mother's cookie jar. Doofie was defensive when presented with the revelation. "Come on, guys, give me a break. I was only 10," he said. "I was punished enough back then -mommy sent me to bed without my supper!" University President Fr. Ed"Funky" Boy was unmoved by the coach's plea. "We can't have criminal degenerates of this sort running rampant on our Catholic campus," said "Funky" Boy, during a brief break from his afternoon regimen of self-flagellation. "Now ifyou'll excuse me, I have to get back to my ritual purification." "Funky" Boy and his ·deputy, Executive Veep/Money Launderer Billy Bo[champ, we presume] have a history of impatience with sinful coaches. When Wadsworthless recommended Utah Coach Wreck Minorus for the vacant basketball coaching position, Bo[champ] scoffed. "I wouldn't hire that glutton in a million years," he said. "Funky" Boy was equally sanctimonious. "Not only did he cheat in college, just imagine how many cookies he's stolen from the cookie jar," "Funky" Boy said. "Plus, he lives in a hotel -we all know what goes on in those dens ofdepravity. Now ifyou'11 excuse me, I have to go take a cold shower." Ex-Offensive Line Coach Job Mooron was reportedly ecstatic upon hearing the news ofDoofie' s pending resignation. Put­ting his dentures in, he exclaimed, "YES!" He then collapsed from the exertion and had to be wheeled away. Mooron himself was a 
APRIL 1, 1999 ' 
coach in good standing until he showed up for work in the nude one day, too senile to remember even to dress himself. 
Famed ex-coach Loo Spoltz, who was also forced to resign in an awkward, bitter press conference after W adsworthless dis­covered his picture on Spoltz's office dartboard, expressed similar pleasure with Doofie's resignation. "Heh! I heard Doofie said he was leaving because he felt it was 'the right thing to do,"' said Spoltz. "Yeah, right -just like going to a proctologist is the fun thing to do. I don't believe I've ever heard such a ridiculous line." 
"Funlcy" Boy has recently learned that others besides Doofie and Minorus might be inherently sinful. When informed that several professors at his university might be homosexual, "Funky" Boy responded that none ofthose professors would beforced to resign. "That could leave us vulnerable to civillitigation or, worse, bad press,"he said. "A firing squad, on the other hand .... Oh, wait. I just remembered. We don't include sexual orientation in our non-discrimination clause! We can do whatever the hell we like! Now if you'll excuse me, I have to atone for my recent profanity with a IO-day fast." 
There has also been speculation that most remaining students, faculty and staff will be separated from the university for the vari­ous sins that they have committed. If this comes to pass, the only people who will remain at Notre Dame will be "Funky" Boy, several like-minded Holy Cross priests and the entire staff of Right Reason. "This uni­versity was not created for heathens, liber­tines, Protestants and other foul scum," said "Funky" Boy. "Now if you'll excuse me, I have to cast the first stone." 0 
(/) 
)> 
A] 
() 
)> 
(/) 
() 


The Co~dependent Newspaper Slurring Ne VOLUME: 12 LITER, NO: 1/81 · ·· , 
¦ MONDAY FEATURE 
Tony Driver leaves cami 
By LAURA "BIG RED" PETAL  His roommate was obviously cov­ italic// investigati  
Ass. Managing Editor  ering for him. The only possible rea­ what movies wen  
Sophomore football standout Tony  son he could have left would have  movie theater at  
Driver left campus today in a red  been to go home. After all, why else  Driver was attenc  
Nissan Sentra. Coming out ofthe D6  would he leave campus on a Sunday  afternoon, he was  
parking lot, he took a left turn onto  afternoon??!???  italian language '  
US 31. Because he lives south of  To figure out exactly what drove  ter or the re-rele  
campus (in Loueyville, Kansas), he  him over the edge, we talked to of­ Driver was watcl  
was obviously going home because  fensive coach Jim Smalleto. "Iknow  films, we expect t  
of his frustration with the Notre  he's played defense, but he and I be­ him be at home  
Dame football program.  came close because I don't really pay  sive line.  
When his roommate, who wished  all that much attention to the of­ Football game:  
to remain anonymous, was contacted  fense," Smalletto said. "I am not re~  same. Neither ·w  
about his departure, he merely re­ ally sure, though; why he would have  Saturday nights.  
plied, "He was going to Meijer to  ben heading south on 31. Maybe he  and fellow Tony I  
pick up some soda.for a party we are  was going to that new movie theater ·  pus to return horn  
having. He said something about  south of campus."  cause of his dis  
maybe stopping at the mall for soine .  Smalletto's incompetence is obvi­ Notre Dame foe  
CDs too. I think he should be back  ous from the performance of his of-.  have to Louey-L  
in half an hour."  fence. \\italic\\ The Obsessor's II  Remember boys,  

Ob en 
To keep uD with the latP,st,inente,-tp._jnrnent news. w~ off_e1: vou: The adininistration puzzle. Guess-whi 
we cui mto shapes. ;::,tay tunea Jor tomorrow wnen we keep up wztli reviews oFflielatest cm Tomorrow, Scene Editor Mike Gasy-van reveiws Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. 


Tee-Hee. This administrator is in He looks like Mag a shape that may remind you of you try to take twc her name. SDH, he thinks he 
Clause added, sale at BK 
The last lim By JOSHUA PROL& 'We'll have TARIAT Now, _honei Ass. Managing Editor Bedrock can In a shocking, 11nexpected heck can't pf announcement today, the Dame. Whe university announced that words, I lool it will change its non-dis­and he lookec crimination clause to in­that same fee clude anon-discrimination we realized ti policy for gays. Bill Kirk, · · student Vice President for Studen~ basement t< Affairs, made the an­offices bigg, nouncement on behalf of univeristy Vice-President for Student Affairs, is just a rubl Patricia O'Hare, who was we just went: too busy knitting a new Notre Dame square for the Malloywi AIDS quilt in honor of the the podium. celebration, and Vice-would have I President Father William insight coulc 
Beauchamp, who was seen have more comfortable chairs in the conference room there. the Flinstom trying to find ,Patty O' to tell her that up our game of 1\vister (Patty won been a Smt you don't knit a quilt but sow a quilt. again -she sure is limber), and know: little, blue (You knit a sweater) Monk was just about to make us interrupted him tc In his prepared statement, Bill warm milk before when the was thinking of N Kirk said, "The change in policy television started to play the only replied, "Yes really came about when Monk, Patty Flintstones" but they don't hav O', Billy Beau [champ, we assume], "Now, I love the Flintstones as Campus Ac and I were having one ofour weekly much as the next guy, but I never Aren'taman and Al pajama parties. We had just finished really listened to the lyrics before. continued on page 

f? -­
Thursday 

110 meet in the dining hall on 
April 1,

1e Obsessor sent a team of 
1999

out why. MARKET WATCH O 11 

pus 
ve unit investigated ~ playing at the new this time. IfTony ling the cinema that watching either the version of Ever Af­:ase of Beaches. If 1ing either of these hat we would rather than on the defen­
s will never be the ,m the 'backer on For campus friend )river has left'cam­.e to Loueyville be­appointment with >tball. Now, we'll ouey without him. win one for Tony. 

'ch administrators 
ei11atic-releases~ .. 

num P.I., and if > apples out of 
is Magnum P.I. 
.. 
lli,,,, 
! of the lyrics are a gay old time.' ;tly, if people in 1be gay, why they :ople here at Notre n we heard those ced at Joe Cassidy j at me, and we got !ling we got when iat we could move offices to the ) make our own er. We knew that :ome immediately. 
¦ Insider's Column 

I'm Bigger Than You 
I'm sick and tired of all I mean business? Good. 
the whiny liberals and pen-Now pipe down. 
cil-necked geeks running IfI hear one more fairy 
around this campus. intellectual with a bunch of 
Don't they realize how letters after his name try to 
big I am? tell me about what's "politi-
Seriously. Right now. I'll cally correct" or "legal" or 
take an~ of you. ::ou By SPANKER STIFFKO "morally right," I'm 
want a piece of me. M' H . . going to lose it. This 
1982 

I didn't think so. I'm iss awan, ain't the University 
that big. ofMoscow, you little pinkos, no mat-
Just yesterday some flabby, turtle-ter what your elitist philosophy 
neck-wearing wuss from the Pander-books tell you. So step off, ormy fist 
ing Sissy Alliance (see how I did and your face are going to have a 
that? I'm smart, too) started getting Socratic dialogue of their own. 
inmy face about equality or expand-It's like I said to that psychiatrist 
ing my mind or some homo crap like after he told me I only act so tough 
that. to overcompensate for some defi-
He 's lucky I didn't kick his butt and ciency: what could be deficient about 
send him and his beard back to someone as big as me? 
Waddick's where they belong. Don't • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
think for a second that I came to 
Spanker Stijfko was a member of 

Notre Dame to expand my mind, pal. 
student government, but that doesn't 

I'm here for the weight training and 
make him a wimp. In his free time he 
the hazing rituals. Period. 
enjoys humiliating Zahm freshmen 

I will seriously beat the crap out 
and looking at his muscles in the mir­

ofyou if you say otherwise. Just look 
r01: You got a problem with that? 

at my picture. Are you convinced that 
¦ Letter to the Editor 

University favors 
homosexuals 
Dear Editor, 

I came to this university because, frankly, I wanted to avoid homosexuals. They all need to be shot anyway. So I thought this would be the best place for me because, obviously, Notre Dame would never allow that type of thing. So you can imagine my surprise when I realized how pr~judiced this administration is toward homosexuals. Take parietals, for i11stance. From midnight-or 2:00 a.m. on weekends -we straight peopleihave to leave our significant others and sit alone and depressed in our rooms, gathering carpet fuzz for fun. But gay people, ofcourse, don't have this problem. Their dates never have to leave. Ever. Clearly a stab at the straight-sex students. 
What I'm asking is that straight students on this campus take;a stand. Ifthe administration won't listen to reason (and they obviously won't, given their history of favoring homosexuals over heterosexuals), and :the Board of Trustees won't listen to reason (and they obviously won't, since they have the same liberal agenda as the administration), we have to take matters into our own hands. I vote for an end to parietals altogether. And to prevent students from living in sin, I suggest that every room be turned into a single, and RAs should perform mandatory bedchecks at 9:30 every night. Oi:ie person to a room, and this blatant discrimination could finally end. 
Progressive Student Alliance 

Board of Trustees  
,er stamp anyway, ahead and changed  Obsessor. We've got issues. And  
is the next to take  we're getting therapy for them.  
. He said, "Who  
mown that all that I have come from  CLASSIFIEDS  

~s. I have always LV,
Firebomb the Wahoo! We went
Irfs fan -you Let's make the 
news depart-to L.A. and got Baritones: 
, different." Kirk rumors true ... 
ment. Catch the really really re-It's officially a
> tell him that he -MV
fever. ally drunk and Sarcastic
uprin, but Malloy Millenia! ! ! ! 
we're not going tradition. Three 
, they're cute too, 
You can't handle to tell you about cheers (and a big Between signals 
e Smurfette." 
the truth ... that's it (except for helmet with and nothing, I'll
tivists Chris 
why we don't here) horns) to the best take nothing. 
ispa Heckrung re­
print it section in band! EE--'00
L6 It's late. 

.u 
I­
(./) 
<( 
·u 
' <( ~ 
(./) 
''The Sexiest Administrator · of the Decade" 
THE 0BSESSOR 
E 



Another 
([rusbtng
Movie 

$2 FOR STUDENTS, FREE FOR SNUB STAFF AND THEIR FRIENDS 
·20 SCHOLASTIC APRIL 1, 1999 
MAGAZINE 


TIP THE G I P P . GIPPER. l@ND.EDU 

Hello everyone, and happy April · Fool's Day. Don't worry -the Gipp won't be playing any tricks 
on you. Actually, he's been too busy scan­ning MTV for naked Notre Dame girls to do much of anything lately. And now that the halcyon days ofspring are approaching, 
the Gipp would rather sit back in his lawn chair with his good friend Jim Beam and hear about the dumb things everyone else is doing. So keep them corning. 
Second Banana No Longer 

Not to belabor this naked thing, but the Gipp heard that the girl from the Springer show wasn't the only one to embarrass Notre Dame over spring break. Word is that Tony "Lucki" Driver, the proud winner of a "best body" con­test at a bar in Panama City, celebrated by dancing naked on the bar with the female winner, another Notre Dame stu-· dent who was wearing only slightly more than he was. 
The Gipp is glad Tony is finally get­ting some recognition these days, al­though he feels obligated to point out 
that, in typical fashion, Driver was only able to succeed when Autry Denson wasn't around. 
Wash Those Sheets Twice, Please 

The Strippin' Irish weren't the only ones getting themselves into trouble in spring break land. A group of Darners learned that the hard way in the Bahamas, when they 
APRIL 1, 1999 
arrived attheir hotel only to be told thattheir room wasn't ready because someone was using it "for a couple ofhours" and it had to be cleaned. 
Disgusted but in dire need of a place to sleep, the group agreed to wait, but found 

that the "cleaning" was taking an unusually long time. They went to the room to inves­tigate, and found a hotel employee sitting on one of the beds, fully engrossed in a porno flick. 
Now, a hotel clerk's gotto do what a hotel clerk's got to do, but the Gipp has been getting so many tips about topless, bottom­less and otherwise debauched Notre Dame people lately that he can't help but wonder if the guy would have gotten a better show by just keeping an eye on our tippers for a while. 
Either way, this ranks right up there with fish-tossing as a trend that the Gipp would be happy to see continue. 
"He Took $100,000, Officer. Over Four Years." 

Notre Dame students should be accus­tomed to priests going after their money, and it seems to the Gipp that, given the status of one of their neighbors, Sorin resi­dents especially should have become used to that sort of thing. 
Even so, one South Bend resident stepped over the line when he went door-to-door in Sorin, telling people that he was a priest and that he wanted to pray with them. When he got them started reciting their Hail Marys, he would return to their rooms, take their stuff and carry it out to his car in D2. 
Someone eventually caught on to the guy's act after noticing that he was dressed in rags and emitted a foul odor. The impostor was removed from campus, and everyone here can rest assured once again that only genu­ine, well-dressed holy men will be ripping them off. 
Naked, Part IV 

What's that? You still haven 'theard about enough nudity? 
Well, OK, if you insist. 

In a shocking tale of an innocent trip downstairs gone awry, an O'Neill Hall resi­dent reports seeing a male and a female in the dorm's stairwell late one Friday night. 
No, they were not having sex. Get your minds out of the gutter. 
She was in her underwear, though. Well, sort of. The tipper reports, "Her scarlet panties were around her knees and she was squatting because she was busy urinating on the carpet in our stairwell." 
The tipper walked past them on his way down the stairs, and both of the culprits giggled, but the girl didn't feel the need to cover up. 
"She certainly liked to show her 'stuff,"' our tipper notes. 
Asked the only truly important question -whether the girl was attractive -he muses, "I find this hard to answer, because the first time I saw her she was in the process of urinating. I think that negates any posi­
tive traits she might have." · Well said, young man. Well said.  · 0  
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE  21  

() 
)> 
s 
-0 C 
(/) 
() 
0 
s 
s 
m 
z 
~ 
-< ~ 

(/) 
~ 
0 ~ 
a.. 
(/) 
BY KATIE RAKWith the Fighting Irish fresh off a 9­3 season, highlighted by an unde­feated homestand, they look for continued success in 1999 as they begin spring practice. The road to victory, how­ever, will not be smooth. The key to over­coming the obstacles is to see them as stepping stones rather than as stumbling . blocks.And Irish players and coaches seem prepared to do just that. The first hurdle that the Irish need to clear this spring is adjusting to a new offensive coordinator, Kevin Rogers, who directed a productive offense at Syracuse before com­ing to South Bend. The similarities between the Irish offense and that of the Orangemen will eliminate the need for drastic changes. Head Coach Bob Davie feels that Rogers is a perfect fit for Notre Dame football. "I think Kevin's reputation really speaks for itself in college football," he says. "There are a lot ofgood coaches out there that have had a lot ofgood publicity, but I think he fits our system so much. So you combine those two things-,. the opportunity to keep some continuity in our offense because of his scheme and also his reputat~on -and I don't think that the transition is going to be that difficult." Because Davie wants the change to be as smooth as possible for the players, he made 
22 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 





sure that Rogers would keep the same termi­nology and call plays the same way. 
Defensive Coordinator Greg Mattison also sees the glass as half full when it comes to recent coaching changes. "The positive is you always get new ideas and new excite­ment," notes Mattison. · 
Oneofthemostcritical players that Rogers will evaluate on the offense is current sopho­more Tony Driver. Driver, who played safety last year, will return to the tailback position for the 1999 campaign. Davie, who moved Priver out of Autry Denson's shadow and over to safety, is very excited about . his return to offense. "I think that with the burning desire he has to play offense, you want to give him an opportunity to play with his hands on the ball," says Davie. "He's an exciting guy and that's why we did it." 
Though there is a lotofhype surrounding the move, don't be surprised to see Driver on the defensive side ofthe ball as well. "He might fit in our nickel packages, our passing downs and substitution defenses," comments Davie. "He could go in at safety and not skip a beat. We're not going to decide that until the fall. I'm just going to let him go full­speed attailback, but I think that's a realistic possibility." 
Driver wants to put ~itfle bit of excite­ment back into IrtshfootbalL "I want to get familiarized with being a back again," says Driver. "Hopefully learn some new moves. 
I really want to work on my speed-get my speed back. I've been back-pedaling for too long. I think right now we're so mellow. I want to open things up." 

· Driver is not the only one who wants to see a change in the style of play; Davie agrees that the Irish need to speed things up. "I think last year we made strides in playing faster as a football team," says the third­year head coach. "It's not just the speed as to whether a guy runs 4.5 or 4.6 forties; it's just playing faster -a style of play. We want a more up-tempo, fast-break kind of a football team." Davie continues, "We changed our huddle on offense closer to the football where we can get up to the line of scrimmage faster. We want to be more ag­gressive and more on the attack. We want to be more on the offensive on both sides ofthe ball." 
Changes will be implemented on the de­fense during spring practice· to foster this faster style of play, according to Mattison. "On defense, the biggest thing we have to do is, one, develop abetter pass rush and, two, we have to be a lot more aggressive," says Mattison. "We'll be in a four-down front­we'll have four down linemen rather than three. And we 're going to have a big empha­sis on pass rush and playing at a faster speed." 
The player most likely to be that fourth "down" lineman is Grant Irons, who uses 
APRIL 1, 1999 
"We have one ofthe toughest schedules next year. It's going to be a new season and a new team. This is going to be a totally different team than 
our team last year." 
next season's schedule as incentive during the spring. "We have one of the toughest schedules next year. But top teams-Michi­gan, Tennessee-great teams like that, just knowing thatthey're ouropponents, that's a big motivation in itself. It's going to be a new season and a new team. This is going to be a totally different team than our team last year, with new players coming in and other players leaving." 
No one can deny that the departure of a talented senior class loaded with leaders provides another potential stumbling block. Davie, however, is confident that there are players prepared to step in and fill those shoes. "There's going to be talentthat people may not recognize, but there is talent," he notes. 
Because of the young players, there is tremendous competition for starting duties 
-Grant Irons 

were a pretty average special teams football team. So we need to make an impact on special teams." 
Another goal Davie has set won't be seen in highlight reels or stat lines. "I think we made a lot of improvement last year in operating more as a family -being ex­tremely close as a football team, and that's a credit to the seniors and the leadership, but I think that's a goal," Davie says. 
Every family needs a leader, and it will be interesting to see who steps up to fill that role. Whereas last year the team was satu­rated with a talented senior class with obvi­ous leaders including Kory Minor and Bobby Howard, this year's leaders have yet to surface. "That's going to be the big question mark as we enter this season because last year we did have great leadership and a really strong senior class and that's a big challenge for this senior class," Davie says. He is, however, quick to point out that the Irish are not completely lacking in the lead­ership department. "We certainly look at Jarious Jackson. You have to think Jarious Jackson is a natural leader. A'Jani Sanders is a gtiy that really came on late last year. Bobby Brown's a leader. The best leaders are the ones that people naturally follow and it's usually your best players, because on the field they're the examples," Davie says. 
Irish fans will get a chance to see who will step up to fill the huge shoes of the exiting senior class a little earlier than expected. The Irish will host Kansas in the Eddie Robinson Classic on August 28, a game that Davie sees as a benefit to his team. "Be­cause Michigan and Purdue are both on the road the first two games, the opportunity to play at home with some young players is an advantage," he says. 
Despite the uncertainty surrounding this Irish football team, the outlook is positive. It may be too early to tell, but the Irish seem well on their way to a successful spring practice. Already, Davie and his coaching staff have turned many ofthe potential stum­bling blocks into stepping stones toward a winning season. . 


at many positions, from tailback and full­back on the offensive side to the virtually wide-open linebacker position on defense. This is where spring practice becomes in­dispensable. It gives coaches a chance to see young talent that may have been hiding behind the likes of a Mike Rosenthal or an Autry Denson. Davie stresses that the pur­pose of spring football is to find the cream of the crop, regardless ofexperience or age. "You're trying to find the best players," comments Davie. "Not necessarily the play­ers that know the most football or those that are most comfortable in the system, but just the best athletes. Everybody starts out, as much as possible, at the same level, so you want a lot of competition." 
One place for a young player to make a difference is on special teams, an aspect of the game that Davie has made it a goal to· work on during spring practice. "It's some­thing you don't normally do in the spring. More of the emphasis is on offense and defense. But this year we're going in every day and our first meeting is actually a spe­
CD 
:n

cial teams meeting." Davie adds, "You look m 
z

at the schedule we play and in order to go to -l 
~ 
0

the next level, every opportunity we have en 
m

we need to take advantage of. Last year we z 
APRIL 1, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 23 
MAGAZINE 


. ' . --~ -~-~_,,___ --·--=---­
~~~------~ -------~~­
(/) 
I­
0 ~ 
0.... (/) 
SPLINTERS 
FROM THE PRESSBOX 
Edited by Christopher Hamilton 
Baseball • 1999 Record 15-7 
Streaking: The Irish have claimed victory in 12 of their past 13 contests. · Prime Time Performer: Junior Scott Cavey threw a complete game, two-hitter in the 10-1 win over Rutgers last Monday. Did You Know? All-American shortstop Brant Ust connected for his 12th home run of the season against the Scarlet Knights. On the Horizon: Notre Dame battles Providence today at noon in a doubleheader at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Women's Lacrosse • 1999 Record 4-2 
Streaking: Senior captain Kerry Callahan extended her scoring streak to 20 games in the win over Connecticut last Sunday. Prime Time Performer: Sophomore Lael O'Shaughnessy led all scorers with six goals and three assists against Connecticut. Did You Know? Head coach Tracy Coyne has won seven conference titles in her 11-plus years as head coach. On the Horizon: The Irish travel to Villanova Saturday for a 12 pm game against the Wildcats. 
Men's Lacrosse• 1999 Record 5-2 
Streaking: Thirteenth-ranked Notre Dame has won five of its last six contests. Prime Time Performer: With 53 seconds remaining in the game, sophomore attack David Ulrich scored a goal to propel the Irish to a come-from-behind 8-7 win. Did You Know? Head coach Kevin Corrigan earned his 100th career win against Hobart College last Saturday. On the Horizon: Hofstra hosts the Irish Saturday for a 1:30 start time. 

"U 
::c 
~ 
0 0 
C :JJ --i 
m 
~ 
0 
"Tl 
en 
"U 0 
:JJ 
cil 
z 
cl 
:JJ 
s: 
~ 
0 
z 
Softball • 1999 Record 17-11 
Streaking: Notre Dame has notched seven consecutive victories. Prime Time Performer: Senior captain Amy Laboe was recently named Big East Co-Player of the Week, hitting .421 over that six-game span. .. Did YoiI Know? Freshman third baseman Jarrah Myers leads the team in batting, with a .357 average. On the Horizon: The Irish travel to Chicago to take on Illinois-Chicago today at 3 p.m. 

24 SCHOLASTIC APRIL l , 1999 
MAGAZINE 

. DATING OUIZ 
Are You Ready for aSpring Hing?
Sweater weather is melting away and. c. hitting the bars or a couple of parties pheromones are in the air. Are you and dropping your digits in the pockets of a prepared to inhale the sweet aroma of few selected hotties infatuation? Take this quiz and find out: d. movies, parties, bowling or whatever yom friends happen to be doing You're listening to U-93 and suddenly As you stroll down the Blockbuster aisle, you realize that your current romantic · which flick best represents your idea of situation is best. described by a top-40 romance? artist. The song that's playing is: a. Say Anything (such sweet sappiness) a. "StaytheSame,"thatromanticnum-b. WhenHanyMetSally(there'sabeauty ber by former NKOTB crooner Joey-Joe in the bickering) McIntyre · · c. Swingers (nothing says romance like b. "(HitMe)BabyOneMoreTime;"by · Vegas; baby). a deserted and desirous Britney Spears d. Thelma· and Louise (what could be c. Eagle Eye Cherry's reflection on the . more romantic than getting in a convertible short-term love affair, "Save Tonight" with your best bud and leaving all this d. "Believe," Cher's anthem of post~ .relationship goopiriess behind?) 
. love el1lpowerment Some stranger calls to inform you that It's Friday night. What's your idea of you;re his or her best match, according to ~.good time? anlrishLoveCoimectionprii1t-out. Then 
· a. a walk around the lakes at sunset with this person asks you to an SYR. What do that special someone you do? · 
b. a good fight followed by a great a. Decline the offer aD.d politely explain 
makesout s·ession with the one you (might) tliatyou'vealreadyfound your"bestmatch;"_ . love (after all) without the help of Irish Love Connection 
b. Readily accept and be sure to men­tion it to your semi-significant other in order to flaunt your overpowering popu­larity 
· c. Take a day to think aboutthe offer, so as not to look desperate, and then decide to go -evenifyour date isn't a fox, there are bound to be some other drunken dreamboats around 
d. 
Agree to go on the grounds that one of your friends can get set up with your date's roommate -that way you don't have to brave the dance alone Where do you sit in the dining hall? 

a. 
with your object of affection, or at least in a place where you can easily gaze·. at him or her 

b. 
strategically in view of your some­times-sweetheart, but with another com­panion to promote jealousy 


· c. in a central location to maximize scope-ability, where you can eat fast be­fore doing the rounds throughout the DH 
d. the same table at which you and your friends always sit 
m 
z 
m 
;;;o 
z. 
~ 
m 
z 


Mostly a's: · . . .. • . tiple-choice format. But ifyou really ~re .in. . lVlostly d's:_ Honey, you know you are not looking such a destructive relationship and you en~.. . I'm no sociologist, but judging by the 
·fora f1in{ What you wantis the love joyit,don'tbesurprisedifyolifindyo_urself .. amountoftimeslhearphraseslike,"Bro's thing 2 inoorilit nights, candlelight din~ . in an S & M bar in afow years. before [garden tool-that rhymes ·with ners,· cheesey p0ems and most of all; Mostly e's: . . . .. . ·. "bro," plural]" or "Chicks before [nick­. stability; You're the person fbl:whom the Yoriare a'.\\T()rld-dass flinger, a-~mo~th namefo,·Ri~hard, pliti•a[j," !'in guessing phrase "loveycclovey" was invented·. En-_· operator, an internlitional· playboy1gid; . •that this is going to.he a pretty popular joy your state ofbliss, and don't 1etit · You're sufficiently equipped to ~ivi into a category. You could have a little fling if botheryouifth_osewhodidn't1~ridinthis fling and.climb out when.spriilg is o:ver1 youwanted;'bufeven fli.ngs take work 
. c·ategc>i"y decide to 'j>lllCe· on your shoes. without}ool<lng back This'is a special qua}:/ ·and are probably not worth. the. effort (They're just jealous\ ·.. . . . . ityhere atNotreDame, where rrio•stkids are.· when you could just be rolling with your · .~ Mostlfl>~s: . .. . . . . . .. ·.·. . . . .·.· too religiously gui}Hidcien to engag~ in hom.ies; right? Still, go easy on those who 
, '·Notto pass judgment, butthe~emight sµch flirtatious behavior;_ Have ahappy. · .choose to be lovesick fools or full-time he ·soinething really -wrong with .youif . spring and don't iet it b6therjoµ ifthose ' players because theyob~iously wouldn't you ended.'up iri tµi~. column: :The '.'b'L .\\rho didn't land in this category call you . be the way they are if they had as good .· ·fill.Swets wetefoearit mostl)' as coniicre~ · ''lo6se in the caboose:" (They'.rejust 3eal-.• friends as you ·do. (Obviously, they're lief from tli~ inherenisfress of the inui~ ous.) . . .. . . .. . . jtist jealous.) . 
25

APRIL 1, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZI N-E 


1­
z 
LLI 
~ 
z 
~ 
a:::: LLI 
1­
z 
llJ 

Branford Marsalis kicks off the Collegiate Jazz Festival 



BY JIM BILEK

When you hear the swingin' sounds of saxes and trumpets emanating from LaFortune Ballroom and Stepan Center, don't mis­
take it for just another swing dance. The Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival, the nation's old-. est and premiere jazz festival, will take place froni Wednesday, April 7, to Saturday, April 10. 
This event, sponsored by the Student Union Board, has showcased some ofthe greatest collegiate jazz ensembles as well as talented and respected judges for the past 41'years. According to festival committee member Paul Krivickas, "The Collegiate Jazz Festival has a national repu­tation that far surpasses its reputation within the Notre Dame commu­nity." 
Festival Cliair Lisa Zimmer adds that CJF "is a symbol of quality and music education. On the college jazz scene, it is a famous event known for its excellence in judg-­ing panels and laid­back atmosphere."· 
This year's festi­val receives a new look and a longer run-time with the addition of "An Evening with Branford Marsalis," a concert that will kick off the festival on April 7. Marsalis, 
THE FIRST NIGHT SHOW. Branford Marsalis, the first act of the jazz festival, earned his fame as bandleader on 
The Tonight Show. 
26 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

the highly touted saxophonist and brother to three other jazz musicians, is best known for his stint as former band leader on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. Since Marsalis left his late-night duties, he has con­centrated on composing and recording music. · He and his quartet recently released a new album entitled "Requiem." The majority of the tracks were written by Marsalis, and the album has received numerous posi­tive reviews from critics. Marsalis is also a creative consultant and producer in the jazz division at Columbia Records, helping to sign new artists in an industry that is hard-pressed to compete with other genres of music. He currently holds a position on the faculty of the Michigan State Univer­sity music department, where he teaches jazz studies. In addition to these two occu­pations, Marsalis still finds time to tour and compose some of the most highly regarded music in ·,_ contemporary jazz, making him ~ one of the most sought-after
:i: . 
<?i jazz performers today. The ~-process of scheduling this 0'5i concert was not an easy one, 
~ according to Zimmer. "It was ~ .. a lot of work, but putting on ~ this additional opening con­
OJ , 
cert is something I have wanted to do for three years." Special permission and funding from the Fi­nancial Management Board as well as detailed budget­ing were necessary in order 
to secure the Marsalis con­cert for Notre Dame stu­dents. 
· Concerts commissioner Dan Puccini assisted Zimmer in coordinating the technical resources for the concert. A special request for a seven-foot Steinway grand 
APRIL l, 1999 

piano, which will be rented and delivered to Notre Dame from Illinois, is just one ex­ample of the planning that is necessary for the Marsalis concert to succeed. 
Following this concert, CJF continues on Thursday with, a preview night performance of the Notre Dame Big Band in L~ortune Ballroom. This night is free to all, as are the clinics on Saturday morning in the Band Building. 
The actual competition begins with the first third ofthe collegiate bands, including Notre Dame's, on Friday at Stepan Center. Also performing· that day is the returning group and crowd favorite Central Michigan Jazz Percussion & Steel Drum Ensemble. For regular attendant senior Adam Rieck, "The highlight ofthe Collegiate Jazz Festi­val is always the steel drum band from Central Michigan." 
After the four bands scheduled for Friday night perform, the five judges will give a concert together. Each judge is a specialist in his instrument and h~s played with some of the jazz greats. Gregory Tardy is this year's saxophone judge. Originally a classi­cal clarinetist, Tardy developed into a praised jazz musician who signed with the same record label that released the John Coltrane's albums. The bass judge, Chuck Israels, is a composer as well as a musician who has performed with such legends as Benny Goodman. He is now the director of jazz studies at Western Washington in Bellingham. The horns judge, Michael Phillip Mossman, has performed with the likes ofDizzy Gillespie and the Count Basie 
Orchestra, for whom he also composed scores. The list continues with pianist B en n y Green, who played with the Ray Brown Trio and now 
with Duke Ellington. These guys have been 
around." 
The festival finishes up Saturday after the 

clinics with performances by the rest of the bands at Stepan. The ensembles include Knox College from Illinois, as well as Drake University from Iowa and the University of Michigan. Smaller groups will include the · Notre Dame Combo, the Louisiana State 
"It was a lot of work, but putting on this additional opening concert is something I have wanted to do for three years." 

leads his own group. Percussion judge, Jeff Hamilton, has drummed for Natalie Cole and the Count Basie Orchestra, among many 
others. 
Zimmer refers to a conversation with the judges at a previous CJF: "A few of our judges were talking about having played 
-Lisa Zimmer 

University Combo, Western Michigan Combo and the University ofNorth Florida Combo. 
An all day pass for the festival, including the Marsalis concert, costs $14 for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents. . 
Subscribe to: 


MA-GA z I N E 
Only $35 a year __:_ regular bi­weekly issues plus the annual Football Review 
Inside, you '11 find: ~ the latest campus news: and sports 
• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
what's happening on weekends • off-the-wall humor 



APRIL 1, 1999. SCHOLASTIC 
27 
MAGAZ-INE 



What GodmiloW Taught 
An English-language remake ofa classic Italian documentary_by professor Jill Godmilow vividly retells the horrors ofwar 
BY KARA ZUARO ere is a footnote to the war in Viet­
nam, snatched from the archive," 
narrates a hushed voice in the open­ing sequence of What Farocki Taught. It is the voice of Jill Godmilow, an award-win­ning filmmaker and professor in the depart­ment of Film, Television and Theatre, who teaches classes in film production and docu­mentary cinema. Godmilow' s voiceoverex­plains that this film is a remake, "a perfect replica in color and in English, of Haiun Farocki's black-and-white, 1969 German language film, Inextinguishable Fire." 
· Thursday, April 8, will mark the first formal screening ofWhat Farocki Taught to an audience on campus. The Notre Dame audience, however, will not be the first to view the film. What Farocki Taught pre­miered more than a year ago at the Rottendam Film Festival in January of 1998, and has since appeared in more than 20 national and international film festivals from Hong Kong to Chicago. It has re­ceived severai awards along the way, in­cluding Best Documentary at the Athens International Film Video Festival, Juried Prize at the University Film & Video As­sociation Conference and the Certificate. ofMerit at the Chicago International Film Festival. 
The film addresses its subject, the de­velopmentofNapalm B by Dow Chemical during the Vietnam War, in a way that may seem unfamiliar to many viewers. United States forces used Napalm, a sprayable gaso­line designed to adhere to human skin and bumat extremely high temperatures, against the civilian population of Vietnam. What p;arocki Taught, however, refuses to exploit the terror of this substance. Godmilow re­places what she calls "the documentary's por­nography of the real, as in the way we get off on war footage where there's blood and dead bodies flung all over the place.... We're seduced by the realness of the horror." 
What Farocki Taught reconstructs ob­scene and explicit scenes of terror with small-scale, yet shocking, illustrations. In 
H
28 SCHOLASTIC · 
MAGAZINE 
the opening scene, first-time actor Mario De Anda, explains, "If we show you pic­tures of Napalm damage, you will close your eyes." He then puts out a cigarette on the underside ofhis forearm. Without creat­ing a spectacle, without special effects, the pain of Napalm is demonstrated. 
When remaking the film, she cast from the community with a particular look in mind. Since Farocki himself played the role in his film, Godmilow wanted a non-Euro­pean male who resembled Farocki for the part. De Anda, a Notre Dame graduate and worker in the Office ofStudent Aid, fit this description. After viewing Inextinguishable 
Fire, he agreed to take on the role, to make a four-minute speech in one take without mistakes and to bum himself with a ciga­rette on camera. "It was risky," Godmilow recalls. "Iknew I could only ask him to bum himself once." 
When the shot was completed, the crew was ready with ointment. In the finished film, Farocki appears along with De Anda in this shot through double exposure, like the ghost of a film refusing to be forgotten. Godmilow says the planning that went into other shots, such as "figuring out how to kill flies on camera," was far more fun. 
"The university was a wonderful place to make the film. It really is the university's film in some way," Godmilow says. "Right here I could find everything I needed." 

Besides providing supplies, such as cam­era equipment, plants for the "scientific" !lhots and vans for transportation, the uni­versity granted many human resources. Professors and members of the university staff were employed inboth on-camera roles and voiceovers when the film was shot in the summer of 1996. The IO-person film crew was comprised entirely of students from the department of Film, Television and Theatre. Some students were paid out of a $6,000 grant for research assistants, some 
volunteered to help and others received credit for their assistance. Of course, the all-stu­dent crew was not merely put to use as a source of cheap labor. Godmilow explains that students learn by copying. "Just as an art student might.go to a museum to copy a Rubens or a Delacroix, the student crew of What Farocki Taughtleamed about film­makingthroughthisremakeofInextinguish­able Fire." . 
Tickets for the screening, which takes place on Thursday, April 8, at 7:30 PM in the Snite Museum's Annenberg Auditorium, are available at LaFortune Box Office and the FTT office, 320 O' Shaughnessy. 
APRIL 1, 1999 

You are not a Hamburger 
A practical manual for discourse with the young and the old 
BY MICHAEL ENGLISH nfortunately, I lack the ability and 
motivation to have meaningful con­

versations with many adults and most children. I came to this realization over the winter holidays. Torturous Christ­mas parties were only torturous because I have nothing to say to people who are older than I am. I am either immature or adults think that they are too mature, because when­ever we are in the uncomfortable position where it seems like we should talk to each other, I am inept. 
Perhaps I should qualify my categorical denunciation of adults by pointing out that I have no problem with many old people (by old people I mean people older than my­self). To be fair, I shall group adults into two categories: regular, harmless adults and gross adults. Regular adults are fine. They talk about sports, make fun of people and stay outofthe way. Gross adults ar~ those people that act self-important and arrogant. These adults tend to occupy the financially suc­cessful class. At parties, they ask polite questions and do not listen to your responses because your responses are irrelevant. Only what they have to say is important. 
Come to think of it, there is a quick and easy way to separate the regular adults and the gross adults. Ifyou are standing next to an adult, bait him or her into making a simple personal statement such as, "I really like these oatmeal cookies." To this state­ment respond, "You're a sicko, please go away!" If the person laughs, he or she is a good adult. Only a grody adult would be 
U
offended. This simple test allows you to proceed with the appropriate and/or inap­propriate behavior. The only weapon against predictable holiday gatherings is unpredict­able behavior. Obey the following advice and you will be happy. 
First of all, when talking to adults, lie. Adults are. too prudent to accuse you of lying. Moreover, what would be your mo­tive for lying? Here are some typical ques­tions posed by gross adults and my recom­mended replies: 
Q: How is school? 
A: Awful, I would take my own life but I don't have the courage. 
Q: What is your major? 
A: That's none ofyour business, old man. 
Q: What are you going to do when you graduate? 
A: I'm going to take a coupleof years to concentrate on smoking weed. 
Talking to adults is awkward, but trying to communicate with children is downright frustrating. I have too much respect for myself to talk baby talk. People who talk baby talk look foolish. It is the children who should look foolish. So do not allow chil­dren to manipulate you into looking dumb by accepting their outrageous claims. I will explain this with two recent run-ins I have had with children. 
Five friends and I took a road trip to Punxatawney, Pa., for Groundhog Day. On the bus there I got stuck sitting next to a five­year-old boy. It seemed that I would have to talk to him. !openedas I always do with kids by asking, "What's up, kid?" 
He responded, "You're 66 years old." 
I tried to explain that I am in fact only 22 years old. I pointed out that old people usually have gray hair and wrinkles. 
He wasn'tbuying it. He simply kept shak­ing his head and saying, "You're 66." I decided to play along. 
"Yes, I am 66," I conceded, "and you are 45." 
"No, I'm only five," he corrected. 
I insisted that he was 45, thinking thatthis was how you played the game. He wasn't backing down and eventually appealed to "Daddy." Daddy confirmed that the boy was only five. I walked away from this mind game defeated. I vowed never again to re­lent to the outrageous claims made by chil­dren. 
I next ran across a little kid here on cam­pus in Lafortune. He was sitting next to me eating his lunch. "What's up, kid?" I asked. 
"I'm a hamburger," he said. 
''I'm pretty sure you 're not a hamburger," I replied. Our argument continued until I pulled a trump card. I actually bought a hamburger from Burger King and showed the kid the differences between a little boy and a hamburger. Either out of enlighten­ment or exhaustion, the boy relented. I won that argument by proving that the boy was not a hamburger. This is how children must be treated: in a patient, reasonable manner. Do not let them trick you into making a fool of yourself like I did on the bus to Punxatawney. 
So there you have it, a revolutionary guide to public discourse with the old and the young. God bless you, and good luck with all those who aren't your own age. D 
~ 
m 
m 
7\ 
z 
0 
(./'J 
-I 
0 
;;o -I 
0 
z 


29

APRIL 1, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE • -~• •--L~•~----•-----­
----·-·-------·--~--------· ­
j:  
!_:  
11 I, '  V) LJ.J V) :) a..  
~  
<( u  
~  
LJ.J I f­0  
z 0  

Q11ce againthei·ecord shows thatsayi11g no to the ~igTen was the right chok1. According to the ,St: Paulfione~r Pres~;: four Univ_ersity of. Minnesota pasketbaH players; including starters 
.. Keori Clarkaricf!vliles Taiver;were.. implicated in an academic sca.Ii<ial. Appa:reritly anemployee i11 academic adyising ,wr.te ' papers aridtook take-home examinaticms fqrsever~l Minnesota .. 
•·. ':.players overthefastJiveyears: The scam w,a~w9rkirigquitewell . ufitilK:ecm and MHes had to giye presentati~11s;on thepapers they 'wrote, withcmtanynotes to help them, Keon's position 011 Wodd . Vvar'nwas unique, as he,cliscussedPohmcl's bombing ofPearl· . ·. 'Harbor anclHitler?s role h1 the. Commuriist Party. Meamvhile, 
Mhes critiqued Robert Frnst's po;m;'Th~Road Not l'aken,'.' . compm-ing tl1e. work to his gecisionJo ili,iveto the hoop m: to take . apull~up jumper. Upon graduation; Miies'a11dKeo.n.will be. workingas managers· fo£Notre Dalllef"oo_d Services,in hopes 
•llliiilllllllliam-.,_...iill::~. that.their fieativecapacity in improvising wilJ carcy.ovefin.to 

Maierus Ponders Future 
With the Utah Utes' basketball season coming to a premature end with a loss in the second round, coach Rick Majerus had become a rumored candidate for several other coaching positions. Majerus, a native of the Midwest, had shown some interest in the Notre Dame job and he had sent a list of demands before agreeing to take the job. Among them were a $1,000,000 Adidas contract, a refillable lunch buffet for his office and a replacement for the "Inside Column" in The Observer. No word on ifhis demands were going to be met, but the "Inside Column" has not improved. When asked about leaving Utah, Majerus's publicist stated that Rick never wanted to leave Utah anyway and that if it comes down to playing in front of Mormons or Catholics, Rick would prefer to avoid Catholics, especially on Sundays. 

·. their kitchen creations:·· ' . . . 

Election Fraud 
Breaking election rules happens at even the smallest levels of government. After concluding a day-long investigation into alle­gations of campaign fraud at the University of South Florida, the election rules commissioner decided to kick candidates Tyvi Small and Tara Klimek out ofthe race for student body president and vice president. Apparently, Small and Klimek passed out campaign fliers during class, which is a direct violation of'campaign regula­tions. The announcement is particularly ironic as Small and Klimek easily won the election, even though they were write-in candi­dates. Notre Dame is no stranger to election controversies itself. Topping off the number of inexperienced presidential tickets, Luke White, editor ofRight Reason, took on the task ofbrainwash­ing the student body with his usual array of closed~minded and sarcastic humor. Alas, with only a week to prepare, White could attain a mere nine percent of the vote, the exact percentage of people who read Right Reason. 
We Are Not Alone 
The Undergraduate Student Government ofPenn State is facing a budget crisis because inexperienced senators "overcommitted to funding student projects,'' according to cine senator. Despite the budget problems, the senate voted to spend $700 on year-end gifts for themselves and $2,500 on a year-end dinner.At the same time, they rejected a $400 proposal that would have sent student repre­sentatives to the Big Ten conference to lobby for student financial aid. It appears that the Notre Dame Student Senate is not the only body of student politicians inept at managing their budget. 

by Eric Yuva 

30 SCHOLASTIC APRIL l, 1999 
MAGAZINE 



n 
)> 
r 
m 
z 
)> 
;iC 
APRIL l , 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGA-ZIN E 



....J 
<( 
z 
u... 
Abnormally Wonderful 
What exactly constitutes "normal"? This is a very personal topic to me. 
My sister is developmentally disabled; she suffered brain damage at birth which left her with poor motor skills, learning disabilities and very slight mental retardation. People notice that she is different and that she-is not "normal" by some standards. Unfortunate! y, she is just "normal" enough to also notice that she is different, and that others do see her as being "abnormal." 
Through her life, Amy has been treated many different ways. At my father's house, she is babied. They do not think she can do anything on her own. At my mother's house, she has the same responsi­bilities as I do; she also holds a job. These two different types of treatment have completely oppo­site effects on my sister. 
She went to the same elementary and high schools as I at my mother's (and her own) insistence. My father thought she should be put in a special school. But Amy did not want that, and my mother felt she should be given the Amy has a lot to offer society. chance to receive an edu­cation at the school of
She loves the elderly and has vol­
her choice. It wasn't easy unteered in a nursing home for for Amy, but she gradu~ 
several years. She has also had a ated from high school with a 2.6 GPA. My
profound effect on my life. 
mom never believed in 
Angie Rausch is a sophomore from Milwaukee, Wis. This piece won the Edna K. Miller Essay contest sponsored by the Logan Center and the Office for Students with Disabilities for Dis­abilities Week. 
32 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

babying Amy, and she encouraged her to get a job. 
Amy has chores and takes care of herself. At my 
mom's house, she is happy and proud. She can't 
dean or cook as well as someone who is not dis­
abled, but she still is able to be independent. She 
cannot drive, but she takes the bus to her job and 
often turns down rides from my parents because she 
likes the freedom of doing things on her own. 
My father was somewhat traumatized when my 
sister was born. According to my mother, he never felt completely comfortable around Amy. He was scared of hurting her physically when she was a baby, and emotionally when she grew older. He never wants to push her, and he expects absolutely nothing from her. He wanted her to go to a special school and assumes she will live with my mother · forever. When Amy is with him, she is treated like a small child (she is 23 years old). People talk over her, will often bring her snacks as she watches TV 
by Angie Rausch 

and would never dream of asking her to do a thing. And she eats this up. She acts younger around them, rarely talks and generally plays the role they have given her. I hate watching this; it is her own sort of metamorphosis. 
At two different houses, Amy is two different people. With my mom, who treats her with respect as a fellow human being, she handles responsibility well and is proud of her independence. She has even talked with me about moving out some day. But atmy father's house, when she is treated like she is not "normal," she acts as such. 
I know that Amy has a lot to offer society. She loves the elderly and has volunteered in a nursing home for several years. She excels at her job, is never late and has received wonderful reviews the two years she has worked. 
Amy has also had a profound effect on my life. Through her, I have seen living from a different perspective. I would never have given a thought to the amazing ability of my hands and fingers to work together to button a shirt. But seeing her struggle with it-and with so many other things -gives me a new appreciation for the things I can do. She also has been my biggest cheerleader. She· is never jealous; she brags about me and is proud of me and my successes. I am not sure that I would have been the same way in her place, and that is humbling to realize. Amy has truly taught me so much about life. 
But Amy only succeeds when people allow and encourage her to. She and other handicapped people are not what society deems "normal." But inside, they all have feelings, beliefs, emotions, intellect -they are still valuable members of society. 
To allow and encourage individuals to contribute to society, society needs to recognize that "normal" is nearly an impossible idea. We are all different. And everyone can contribute in their own way if they are allowed to. Handicapped' people have a lot to offer society. They see things from a completely different perspective; their trials and successes are attimes very different from those people without handicaps. 
Through condescending words and actions, we may limit fellow members of society, and in tum, we may limit the effects that they may have on us. I am not sure that there is a complete remedy for this phenomenon, but recognizing there may be a problem is a great first step in allowing all members ofsociety to contribute. . 
APRIL 1, 1999 

•
r 
• I • • "-, • • ' ' , : • _. • • • ' .I • ': 




BRAN FORD MARSALIS 
Wednesday, April 7, 1999 
7:30 pm Stepan Center 
Tickets on sale now at the Lafortune Information Desk $14 Students (ND/SMC/HCC) $32 General Public 
$38 General Public (Includes CJF Pass) 
NEWT GINGRICH 
Tuesday, April 13, 1999 
7:30 pm Stepan Center 
$6 Students (ND/SMC/HCC) $10 General Public 
' ' ­.. ' ' '.~• "' "·

----...:..,.:· ,;_ .. .
_ 

--....... , ,.f
.··-:~a•---... ,· -. . . -. . .,,,'._-..~;-.~~.:i.;,.____ :_ ,,,_ :. 
. . 

. ---thi.n.kki.ds ...be£o ~~:---~~~~ ha~,..rn.o:r,e 
,;~, ;: " ,.:a~t-.,: . --_ .s")(J, .. •, ·e~1Y~ga~. ~ 
h ·... ' .. . . •~c;,~ 






