2
The Scholastic
Letters
Photogs Go Wild
Editor (and Mr. Vierhile):	■
After having our interpreters carefully scan your article of last week concerning the advice of our legal advisory council that nothing libelous or actionable per se is contained therein, we of “Hypo Alley” decided to go all out in rendering this week’s cover as our meager facilities permitted.
Gathering the staff around the hypo tray under a pale yellow safelight, we planned to dispense with the simpler frontispiece that was in the process of construction and open the dusty files of long forgotten negatives in order to furnish a more elaborate selection. The creatures adorning’ this cover are the result of long hours of consultation and elimination. (Note to Indiana Wildlife Commission: our animals are fully licensed and bonded.). . . . The water is merely a mirage
In order to prevent our being followed by shadowy figures with malice aforethought, we wish to assure everyone that any resemblance to persons living, dead or with mid-term deficiencies is purely coincidental and unintentional.
(signed) Jim Ferstel & Friend Photography Staff
Answer to Despot
Editor:
Mr. Despot’s attack on Greg Halpin’s review of the juggler [scholastic, March 18] was singularly confused and inept. Mr. Despot not only failed to exercise his “better” judgment but at times seemed to be talking of an entirely different matter.
He accuses Mr. Halpin of obvious con-\ieit and intellectual pride, but then proceeds to show off his own accomplishments by naming two uncommonly known French writers and snidely doubting if Mr. Halpin had ever heard of them.
Mr. Despot accuses Mr. Halpin of adopting an “anti-Christian” norm in much the same manner that demagogues such as Herman Talmadge use the term “un-American.” Mr. Despot claims that Mr. Halpin has become an “absolute norm of criticism” and doubts that Mr. Halpin can validly judge the merit of the writing. If Mr. Despot is denying the possibility of knowledge he had better take a course in epistemology. Or if he is denying that there can be a norm of criticism he should read Maritain over again.
Besides inadvertently showing ignorance of the critic’s function, Mr. Despot says that he is ignorant of what is “heavy writing” and “writing for writing’s sake.” If this is true he should compare the clear and lucid style of Time (for example) with the vague pomposity of the JUGGLER. One .writes for the purpose of communicating his ideas to the reader. Herein the JUGGLER fails miserably with its intricate and inflated style. It is written in the fashion of those who are still very proud of themselves for having had an idea.
The rest of Mr. Despot’s letter is the unintelligible rantings of a man who feels the urge to say something but does not quite know how to go about it. . . .
Bill Leeds 117 Cavanaugh
Why No Geographic Clubs in the 'Dome'?
Editor:
In reply to Mr. Vincent F. DeCrane’s letter" (re: Campus Club Activity, March 25 issue), it might be advisable to explain the absence of geographic club photos in the coming edition of the DOME.
Upon returning to the campus last September, I was informed that it would be necessary to cut the size of the book considerably in order to facilitate the meeting of rising engraving, paper, and printing costs. That these costs have risen, I am certain; consequently, the request was a reasonable one for all parties concerned.
With this objective in mind, the editorial staff pondered over last year’s book looking for pages that were most superfluous, and settled upon (1) cutting the geographic clubs, and (2) abbreviating the college and faculty sections-by incorporating the latter into the former. We believe that the hall section is compensatory for the geographic clubs, although it comes under a different epitaph, and that the athletic and social sections are, to the common student, of more current interest.
We have left the campus organizations undisturbed, as many of them are of such a nature as to require much of the extra-curricular time of the members, and serve as an intellectual stimulant to them, such as the Wranglers, Debate Club, Economic Roundtable, Commerce Forum, etc., or because they are performing an integral service to the student and/or the university, as the Student Council, Blue Circle, Radio Club, etc. These organizations seem to be particularly commendable.
I do.not believe it is necessary to emphasize the fact that the dome staff does
1 Here is no ] . name more famous | / foi’T^/Swp/'than Beech-Nut
here is no
dependable for fine flavor and uniform high quality than ..
GUM
Beech Nur BEECHIES
C.jnci', Coatea in three vjnetie>
PEPPERMINT PF
and SPE \R Ml N

April 1, 1949
not think the geographic clubs unworthy of space in the book, for many of its staff are members of these same groups, but we were forced to make a decision, we made it, and I do not believe that we were either imprudent or unjust.
Richard D. Cullen, Editor, the dome
Bunnies in the Bookstore
Editor:
Easter is more than bunnies and fluffy chicks, and Christmas is more than holly and Santa Claus. But you would never know it from the card counter at the Notre Dame Book Store.
Church leaders all over the world have decried the secularism of religious holidays, have urged that Catholics avoid the cute and scenic holiday cards that ignore the real significance of Easter and Christmas.
Yet in the Notre Dame Book Store only a small fraction of the cards offered for sale are religious and the overwhelming majority are secularized versions.
It is hard to understand how a store operated by religious could so completely prostitute the real meaning of the most glorious days of the year. To say that it is inexcusable is to put it mildly.
Perhaps the explanation that would be
offered would be that the other cards are preferred. That would be a poor explanation at best but there would be some pertinent questions to be asked if it were offered. The first would be, how does the Book Store know? Of the three religious cards offered at Easter the art on one was so atrocious that it would be bought only as a last resort and of the other two, only one was acceptable in every way. Another question to be asked would be whether or not Notre Dame exists to train men or please men?
It may be that some men would want to send pictures of bunnies and chickens to their friends. But certainly a Catholic school should not cooperate in this infantile and un-Christian observance of a Holy Day.
Name Withheld
Rockne Was a Flutist
Editor:
I wish to draw attenion to a recent (March 20) statement by Jim Costin in his column concerning Knute Rockne. It seems that Mr. Rockne played a flute. An incident was given to show his fondness for the instrument.
Obviously, Knute Rockne not only was a connoisseur of football but also had an excellent choice of an instrument. He
distinguished the most beautiful maker of musical tones, second to none. Rockne had the sense of sensible and smart judgment, not only in football but also in music.
John K. Reynolds 331 Breen-Phillips
He played marbles, too.—Editor.
Browser on the Carpet
Mr. Max A. Browser:
For a long while, it seems, you’ve been beating your brains out about the lethargy of the clubs on campus. You reached a climax in the March 11 issue in which you lauded a club for its fine and progressive action in sponsoring a dinner; the club kicking in a half dollar for each dinner. This is very commendable but if you would investigate first and then “scream,” you might see something beyond those “Dizzy Gillespie” glasses that you’re pictured wearing.
The Detroit Club has been doing the very same thing for over a year now. A financially successful dance makes this sort of thing possible. (How do you think a dance becomes successful unless through capable leadership?) There are a lot of other club activities which take leadership to put across also. Other (Continued on Page 6)
Come to Adlers ... for the best in Rainwear
KOROSEAL . . . ALLIGATOR . . . RAINFAIR
priced from • • •
7.95 to 26.75
Be ready for “weather” ... in a sweet new raincoat. You’ll find a big selection here . . . from the compact new Koroseal “Stormer" that folds up into an easy-to-carry envelope when the sun comes out ... to our rain, wind and storm resisting Alligators and Rainfairs ... that are tailored and styled like fine topcoats.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER:
D. KLUSKA, 201 CAVANAUGH HALL
4
The Scholastic
Radio
Entertainment
BY BO CONNOR
Badio announcers appear to work longer hours than even the busiest country doctor. Listening to these South Bend stations, you'd swear the same announcer worked from morning to midnight without a break. I finally checked on it, and it tain’t so!
Tommy Dee, one of the oldtimers at WSBT (he’s been there, off and on, since 1938), says he doesn’t even work a full eight-hour day. Because he works a split shift, though, the listener gets the impression he lives at the station.
Actually, he’s on the air very little. Here’s the way his day runs: he gets up at 5:45 (incidentally, he uses four different alarm clocks to make sure he doesn’t oversleep), and gets to the station about 6:30 so he can check the wire services for human interest material to use on his first program, Rise and Shine, 7:15 to 7:55.
He spends most of the morning answering some of the fifty-odd requests he gets a day, filing records and pulling out the ones he’s going to use for future programs. Every once in awhile he catches a station break, and that helps to heighten the impression that he’s hanging on the mike.
At 10:30 he works a fifteen-minute show with Harlan Hogan, and anyone else who happens to drift in to do some ad libbing. This program goes out on FM only and acts as an outlet for the members of the staff who feel like horsing around on the air. Immediately after this one, he and Harlan play it straight for fifteen more minutes on the regular frequency.
He’s through at noon, and doesn’t come back until 4:00, when he prepares for his Dinner Winner broadcast at 5:00. After four or five people win sides of beef, Tommy is finished for the day.
Not a long day, not a bad day!
During a time out period of a close basketball game, one of WHOT’s announcers was asked to comment on what he thought of the game. The reply, “Well, it looks like a pretty close game; each team has five players out there, and . . . ”
Were you listening to Fred Allen the night he parodied the give-aways with his Cease the Melody"! One of the contestants identified the Grand Canyon Suite, so Allen gave him the Grand Canyon.
April 1, 1949
APRIL 1
COLFAX (through April 6)—So Dear to My Heart. Walt Disney put away his playful palettes (save for a fewincidental cartoons) in transferring Sterling North’s nostalgic reminiscences to the screen. The result is a harmless romp but only intensifies the wish that wizard Disney would return to his unbeatable animated cartoons.
PALACE (through April 2) —Fighting O'Flynn and Thunder in the Pines. Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., and Hdena Carter head the featured attraction’s cast. It’s an historical romance laid in Ireland and concerns Napoleon’s thwarted attempt to invade the emerald isle. In its swashbuckling class it comes out with a better than average grade.
GRANADA (through April 2)—Jungle Jim and Rusty Saves a Life. Tarzan makes a comeback with a shirt on while that lovable mongrel of the canine Hardy series barks through a gamut of emotions.
STATE (through April 2)—Walk a Crooked Mile and Untamed Breed. Following the popular trend of documentaries, the feature is a hard-hitting melodrama of the underworld, starring Dennis O’Keefe. Its co-feature is about horses but should have been put out to pasture.
APRIL 2
WASHINGTON HALL—The Babe Ruth Story. William Bendix and Academy Award winner Claire Trevor strive desperately to make this an honest and sincere biography, but the scriptwriters had lowered the boom before the credit lines were shot. It’s trite, maudlin and a sad reproduction of the Babe’s real life.
PALACE (through April 6) —Return of October and Dark Past. Glenn Ford and pretty newcomer, Terry Moore, star in the featured film. It’s in technicolor and has a talking horse as a part of its nonsensical whimsy. James Gleason, as always, distinguishes himself in a supporting role. The second pic is a remake of the play Blind Alley. William Holden, Lee J. Cobb and Nina Fosh contribute forceful performances to this taut thriller. Good dialogue is another of its assets.
GRANADA (through April 6)—Belle StarPs Daughter and The Old Fashioned Girl. The only thing entertaining about this bill is the juxtaposition of its titles.
STATE (through April 6)—Stage Coach and Long Voyage Home. Two of John Ford’s all-time classics make a return visit to the local screens. They are motion pictures at their very best. The western stands in a class by itself and has never been equalled while the marine story is the best picturization of any of O’Neill’s works. John Wayne stars in both.
APRIL 7
COLFAX (through April 13)—John Loves Mary. Norman Krasna’s gay comedy comes to the screen minus some of the spontaneity that was inherent to the Broadway original. Nonetheless, it is still a highly amusing comedy, starring Ronald Reagan, debuter Patricia Neal and mugger Jack Carson.	.
PALACE (through April 9)—Kissing Bandit and Gun Smugglers. The feature is an MGM technicolor musical with Frank Sinatra and Kathryn Grayson. The music is mediocre. Miss Grayson is beautiful to see and listen to, the dance specialties are terrific, and Frankie is immutable.
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) Club’s activities which apparently have “slipped” under your nose are the Chicago Club’s bus service for one, and the Mardi Gras Carnival for another.
I’m sure the clubs on campus would appreciate some constructive ideas, not mere ranting, but some concrete facts. What about this “union of clubs under a central committee?” It sounds like biff time. Why don’t you point out some advantages a club could attain by it. It’s your ball, first and ten. What are you going to do, pass, lateral or run?
The Detroit Club, Bill Anhut, President
Mr. Max A. Browser:
The officers of the Aesculapian Club were astounded upon reading your column on Campus Clubs and their lack of activity (March 11 issue of the scholastic). Frankly, we feel that you did
not investigate sufficiently — that you cannot back up your statements.
We would like to give a brief resume of the Pre-Med Club’s activities for the present year, not only for your enlightenment, but also for that of the student body!
To begin with, the club, in conjunction with the Chemistry Club, attempted to put on a “College of Science” week end last fall. Preparation began in the spring of 1948 and everything was set (Continued on Page 8)
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
Fine Repairing
•
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
"Rosie’s." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
501 NORTH NILES
WEIGHT ONLY : i OUNCES
•
aluminum SC R E V, f l T T I N G S
qso
NS HEMINS IN NS BITE N HTTEI TASTE
NK HM SEMME ■NIIEI NMI
Fashioned by Linkman
<CUstoortij’si
Men’s Nylon Shorts . . . The answer . . .
To your Laundry Problem!
*	Never have to be ironed!
*	dries in a Jiffy!
*	extra strong Nylon seams!
3.98
Sizes 30 to 44
Men’s Shop . . . Main Floor
6
The Scholastic

Sbaate SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 April 1. 1949 No. 22
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR News JOSEPH DUKERT  Assistant News W. GREGORY HALPIN Features HARRY MONAHAN ___________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT.________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER ____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN ______________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER Advertising ROBERT J. VIERHILE __________Advertising JOHN T. CLARK________________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL __________Circulation JOHN S. BRENNAN.______Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Scholastic Opinion
Outside Reading Problem
With the increasing tendency toward- departmentalization at .Notre Dame, outside reading assignments have assumed an important position in many classes. Arguments in favor of supplementing regular lectures with extra-class study of specialized and specific treatment of certain topics are strong. But present conditions make doing these assignments extremely difficult, diminish their effectiveness and, in general, discourage the student from giving them proper consideration.
There is a serious shortage of many of the “required books” at the University Library. More and more students are being forced to purchase the necessary volumes (at no special student discounts, incidentally), despite the fact that the narrow scope of the subject matter in many renders them practically worthless to the average person after a first reading. Since they are not used as regular texts, they can’t even be purchased under GI Bill privileges.
There is an obvious answer to the professor’s admonition to “read the books early and avoid the last minute rush.” During the very first week of this semester, many sincere students were turned away because the entire stock of certain books was already in use.
Some selfish students have attempted a personal solution to their individual problems. Eight copies of the 16 books required for history courses were reported missing by the library, thus diminishing their meager supplies still more. But these unfortunate incidents, in themselves, don’t explain the entire situation. Even -with the recovery of the missing books, the library’s store would still be insufficient.
Placing the books on three-day and even two-hour reserve was a partial answer to the problem. But two dozen copies of The Making of Europe will never satisfy the requirements of ten times that number of students; and 500 American History students can’t do much with 32 copies of The Age of Hate, when they are forced to cram their reading into two-hour spurts over a period of eight or nine weeks.
Orders for additional books must come from the same departments which assign the readings. If they persist in doing nothing about this situation, they will only be helping to defeat their own efforts.
COVER: This is what you might call “the photographers’ revenge.” Since we ran that story exposing their nefarious deeds to the public, they have been wandering about muttering strange things. We happened to drop into the dark room last Friday and the scene which greeted us was absolutely horrifying. Across the lawns of the Main Building four ducks were serenely sailing. Arms were reaching out, lions lurking in the bushes — the boys had gone mad. We thought you’d like to see what they did before they came and took them away. Yes, Jim Ferstel, Dick Gorman and Lee Rumely were nice guys.
April 1, 1949
Brawls for Bengal
Once each spring the mobs pour into the Fieldhouse to see what the Bengal Bouts have to offer. Once each spring the same crowds pour out of the old gym, contented and satisfied. If there is anything that doesn’t let its followers down, it’s the Bengals, and this year’s fights have been no exception.
The fights have been (and undoubtedly will be in the finals tomorrow night) out of the top drawer. The boxers went through weeks of grueling training. The Knights of Columbus, sponsors of the tournament, spent an even longer time planning and executing the big event. The results can’t be figured up on an adding machine. The results — satisfaction, entertainment, pleasure, and enjoyment — simply can’t be tabulated in hard cash. It was great, and all who had any part in the undertaking deserve a hearty slap on their collective backs. Notre Dame and the missionaries in Bengal have profited from their work.
7
new flair!
old favorite
De Luxe Oxfordian
No man was ever graduated in smart living who didn’t have a few precious oxford shirts in his collection! Van Heusen takes this rich, long-wearing lustrous fabric—tailors it to a college man’s taste! Action-tailored, figure-tapered, with tug-proof pearl buttons and the new, low-setting Van Heusen Comfort Contour collar styling! Two of many popular collar models— Button Down and Van Britt—both college favorites. $3.65.
widespread Van Britt with stays
Other Van Heusen shirts S2.95 and up.
A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size
Van Hensen
the world’s smartest
shirts
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1 , N. Y.
Look to
^GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.

0

Letters
(Continued from Page 6) to go (contracts ready to be signed and all committees ready to enter the final phases of preparation) when, due to conflicts, it was deemed by the office of Student Welfare, that it would be better not to hold the affair. It could have proven to be a gala week end with minimum expense for the student.
At present, six teams, composed of club members and faculty, bowl every Friday night at the Indiana Club.
To date, we have had one smoker, and this was by no means “some half-organized beer brawl.”
Also we have enjoyed two banquets, which were attended by 54 and 56 members respectively. . . . All of these affairs were big successes. An Intra-club golf tournament is completely planned, and is ready to go as soon as the weather permits.
The Club joined the Chemistry Club to sponsor the recent successful “Open House” in the Chemistry Building.
Along the pre-professional line, motion pictures concerning medicine have been shown, and several M. D.’s, outstanding in theii* fields, have appeared before the club at its bi-weekly meeting. An alumni association of doctors and medical students is being organized at the present time, and permanent contact is being established with every medical and dental school in the United States and Canada for the convenience of the club members in applying to these schools.
We, the officers, are open to suggestions from the members of the club at all times, and also open to any constructive criticism from other sources.
Donald E. Howland, President, Aesculapian Club
This makes four or five letters the Broivser has received since his March 11 column. Evidently his words cut deep into many chib bosoms. Max will ansiver his critics next week.—Editor
Managers' Basketball
Dear Editor:
Last week’s edition [March 18] of the scholastic' mentioned a 33-18 victory for the senior managers. You stated that the high scorer was Ray Zaleski ■with 13 points. Will you please tell me who was the leading point producer for the frosh in the game with the seniors and also with the sophomores?
Sincerely,
Bob O’Connell Jack McGlinn
No frosh manager was able to score more than four points.—Editor.
8
The Scholastic
Motte
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 22
APRIL 1, 1949
Navy Transfers Danis From Notre Dame
Senate Constitution Goes to Student Body For Final Ratification Next Monday Night
In a special letter from the Navy Department last week, University President Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., received word that Capt. Anthony L. Danis, commandant of the Naval Re-
CAPT. DANIS Switched to Norfolk
serve Officers Training Corps at Notre Dame, would be transferred to a new post on June 1.
Replacing him as commanding officer* of the naval unit here will be Capt. Thomas F. Conley, a hero of World War II and present commander* of the Fleet Training Group at Pearl Harbor.
Capt. Danis, a 1922 graduate of the United States Naval Academy, is being transferred to a new post after three successful years at Notre Dame. (He came here in the summer of 1946). In his next position he will be commanding officer of the Receiving Station at Norfolk, Va., headquarters of the Fifth Naval District. His successor, Capt. Conley, will arrive at Notre Dame on July 11 to assume his new command and his position as professor of naval science and tactics.
After his graduation from the United States Naval Academy in 1926, Capt.
(Continued on Page 24)
After several weeks of preliminary discussion, debate and revision, the new Student Senate constitution goes forth to meet its final big test Monday night when the student body of Notre Dame votes for its approval or rejection.
Last week at a special meeting called by the constitutional committee to iron out final kinks, the brand new constitution bogged down and konked out. It met such an overwhelming mass of red tape and revising that the campus-wide ratification previously scheduled for March 29 had to be postponed.
As it stands now, with the election and membership hindrances clear-cut and polished off, the document is ready for final approval. However, the constitution must be ratified by the students before it can become the written law for student government at Notre Dame.
If it does pass the ratification test Monday night, the new constitution will automatically go into effect beginning next semester. The new Student Senate will then take over the reins in September, but for now the Student Council will continue in its present capacity.
Bob Campbell, chairman of the constitution committee, says that next Monday’s all-student ratification will be conducted in the same manner as the familiar elections for hall representatives in the fall. Prepared ballots will be passed out in every residence hall on Monday. Students will note their approval or rejection on the ballots, and
PIUS XII NAMES DAY OF PRAYER
Pope Pius XH has designated this Sunday as a day of prayer for the end of Communist inhumanity- In an appeal to Catholics the world over, the Holy Father requested that all the faithful attend Mass and receive Holy Communion this Sunday to atone for and to stop Soviet crimes and savagery in all the Communist controlled areas of the world.
the slips will be collected by the respective floor prefects of each hall when Monday night’s check is made. Off-campus students can obtain ballots from their representatives.
Prior to the voting, mimeographed copies of the finished constitution will be posted on all hall bulletin boards. Through this plan the Student Council hopes every student will be familiar with the new constitution before he votes.
Rubinstein To Appear In Drill Hall Monday
One of the year’s outstanding concert presentations will be given on Monday, April 4, at 8:15 pjn., in the Drill Hall, when the renowned pianist Artur Rubin-
ARTUR RUBINSTEIN With South Bend Symphony
stein appears as soloist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. The Polish-bom artist, considered one of the world’s greatest living masters of the piano, will be making his first appear-
(Continued on Page 24)
April 1, 1949
9
Big Southern Circuit Planned For Band Trip
The wide-traveling Notre Dame Concert Band will open its third post-war tour with a concert in the fieldhouse at Muncie, Ind., on Palm Sunday, April 10. Planning a circuit of many hundreds of miles, Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of the band, described this year’s trip as “the most extended tour ever taken by the band.” The Irish will give 22 concerts in 13 towns.
Leaving this state, the wandering musicians will head straight for the blue grass country. On Monday, April 11, they will appear in the afternoon and again in the evening at the Memorial Auditorium in Louisville, Ky.; on Tuesday, April 12, they will be at Frankfort High School in Lexington, Ky.
Next their chartered busses will carry them into the deep South for two concerts in Atlanta on Saturday, April 16, one in Birmingham, Ala., at the Temple Theater on Easter Sunday, and two at the Sangler Theater in Pensacola, Fla., the following day.
Turning westward, the band will give two performances at the Municipal Auditorium in Shreveport, La., on Tuesday, April 19, and two performances in the Municipal Auditorium at Little Rock, Ark., on April 20.
The last stop in the cotton belt will be for two appearances at the Goodwyn Institute in Memphis, Tenn., on April 21; then the caravan will turn northward for two concerts on April 22 at Olney, Ill., to repeat their appearance there of two years ago. The tour will close at Jasonville, Ind., where the band “will take part in the Greene County Spring Music Festival.
Concerning the concerts, Mr. Hope said: “While programs played will follow an essential pattern, there will be some difference in the individual concerts. Actually we are taking along enough music to play three or four concerts without repetition.”
One new feature this year is the promotion book developed as an aid to local concert sponsors. This handy volume contains many suggestions such as those for committees on staging, publicity, tickets, radio, advertising, complete press releases, programs, personnel, and pictures.
Mr. Hope stated that this book had already secured several concerts for the band. He also explained that Notre Dame furnishes posters and advanced mail-order letter enclosures complete with pictures of the band on them as well as announcement scripts and recordings of the Victory March for the local radio stations.—Dave Driscoll
ND Awards Laetare Medal to Irene Dunne For 'Inspiring Catholicity in Public Life'
By IOE DUKERT	•
Irene Dunne, talented Hollywood star whose convincing performance in I Remember Mama recently brought her fifth nomination for the Academy Award, was announced last Sunday as the winner of the 1949 Laetare Medal, awarded annually by Notre Dame to the outstanding American Catholic layman. As dictated by tradition, the name of the recipient had been carefully kept
IRENE DUNNE
For outstanding Christian womanhood___
“top secret,” and Miss Dunne herself was not notified until Sunday morning.
Upon receiving word of the honor, Miss Dunne was, in her own words, “completely overwhelmed.” In a telegram of thanks received here Monday she said she was “bowed down with deep humility ... to be a recipient of so great an award.”
In announcing the choice of the Award Committee, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of Notre Dame, lauded Miss Dunne as an outstanding contributor to social welfare and an inspiring example of Catholicity in public life. Aside from her widespread fame as one of America’s finest film actresses, she is chairman of the Field Army American Cancel’ Society, co-chairman of the American Red Cross and co-chairman of the American Heart Association.
"Conscience Before Art"
But the real significance of her selection was brought out by Father Cavanaugh’s accompanying citation: “Miss
Dunne is an example of talented Christian womanhood in a profession and community unfortunately publicized for the briefness of marriages and careers. She has never subordinated her conscience to her art, but from the outset of her career has insisted on wholesome pictures. Throughout fifteen years as a top-ranking star she has remained an exemplary wife and mother while win-
LAETARE MEDAL — America's Golden Rose
ning the admiration and respect of high and low in the film industry and in the world at large.”
The news of Miss Dunne’s selection set national news syndicate wires and Hollywood party lines buzzing. On three consecutive programs, Sunday night network audiences heard details of Father Cavanaugh’s announcement, as Walter Winchell, Louella Parsons and Jimmy Fidler paid tribute to the popular actress.
Sixty-Seventh Medalist
Miss Dunne is the sixty-seventh distinguished American and the fourteenth woman to receive the award since it was founded in 1883 by the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C. Through this honor she joins ex-Postmaster General Frank C. Walker, Chief Justice Edward D. White, Alfred E. Smith, diplomat Carlton J. H. Hayes, and a host of other* prominent figures who have received this country’s equivalent of the famous Papal Golden Rose.
Miss Dunne has often been praised for
10
The Scholastic
the simple and devout manner in which she carries on her private life. In “real life” she is the wife of Dr. Francis D. Griffin, and mother of an adopted daughter, Mary Frances. Despite the fact that the gruelling work under the klieg lights on Hollywood sets starts at 7 a.m. she attends Mass daily.
Without fanfare or flood-lights, she has donated generously to numerous charitable causes, including the establishment of a scholarship at St. John’s Seminary. At present she is planning a scholarship to be raised for special research at several Catholic girls’ colleges.
A Louisville Coleen
Born of Irish parents in Louisville, Ky., December 20, 1904, Miss Dunne attended Loretta Academy in that city and studied music with her mother. After a year’s study at an Indianapolis music conservatory, she took a position as music and art teacher in an East Chicago, Ind., high school.
After completing her studies at the Chicago Musical College on a competitive scholarship, she was graduated with honors, receiving the College’s Gold Medal of Honor. From the time she moved to New York City, her life story reads like a fairy tale.
Movieland’s highly-prized “Oscar” has succeeded thus far in eluding her, but Miss Dunne has still established herself as one of the best actresses of our times.
For the Rock
Gus Dorais and Frank Leahy here pay their respects to the late Knute Rockne in the traditional service conducted by the St. Joe Valley Alumni Association. Dorais, famous teammate of Rockne, was principal speaker at the Communion Breakfast held in the Faculty Dining Room.	Photo by Kunkle
WND TO GIVE AWAY GOOD CHUNK OF NATIONAL INCOME —To the lucky one who wins WND's give-away jackpot will go two tickets to the Colfax, flowers and candy for his date, dinner at Papandrea's,
dancing at the Palais, dry cleaning at Rubin's, a new tie, ten bucks on a new suit at Parker-Winterrowd, and a "Scholastic" photo of him and his date.
—Photo by Harlan
WND's Give-Away Show Offers Prize Jackpot
The new radio give-away project, “A Date on WND” has created quite a stir around the campus. A bushel of prizes will all go to some lucky student to be used on an evening out with his best girl. They have been donated by WND’s sponsors, and the first weekly winner will be announced on Tuesday, April 5, during the “Requestfully Yours” show (8 to 9 p.m.).
Students are reminded that the contest is open to all Notre Dame men, and that tickets can be picked up any time, at any of the sponsoring stores, without obligation.
Program Director Bob Nourie announced today a change in the Monday night broadcasting schedule. Beginning Monday at 7:30, WND will broadcast 15-minute selections from the Columbia record album, “I Can Hear It Now.”
These documentary discs are voice-edited by Edward R. Murrow, CBS news commentator, and feature outstanding speeches of the past 15 years. Along with the rantings of Hitler, will be the words of Roosevelt, Churchill, Lou Gehrig and an amazing on-the-spot recording of the Hindenburg disaster of 1936. This program will be heard once a week, at the time mentioned above.
Within a month, this Monday night 7:30 spot will be taken over by a new wire recorded “candid-mike” type show. Recordings made on the campus, on Car
tier Field, and possibly even in some classrooms will be re-broadcast.
Air ROTC Viewed By General Johnson
Brigadier General Harry A. Johnson, vice-commander of the 10th Air Force, was at Notre Dame last Friday observing the state of training and facilities of the Air ROTC on the campus. He was escorted by Colonel Leonard W. Palmer, Professor of Military Science and Tactics, the Commanding Officer of Air ROTC at Notre Dame.
The Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University, and Charles J. Perrin, Notre Dame Law student and wartime aide to the general for eighteen months in Trinidad and England, also accompanied the general while he was on campus.
General Johnson inspected the members of the Air ROTC unit, commanded by Cadet Colonel George L. Benning of Fort Wayne, Indiana. Over 270 students at Notre Dame are members of the unit. Upon satisfactory completion of two years of advanced training, they will receive commissions in the United States Air Force reserve.
During World War II, General Johnson was in charge of Air Force training, in England, for the Invasion of Europe. After D-Day, he was Chief of Staff of the 11th Air Force in Alaska; following V-J-Day he assumed his present position.	-	.	.
April 1, 1949
II
Mosely Discounts Immediate Danger of War; Praises Marshall Plan and North Atlantic Pact
By CHARLEY DULLEA
Would the gentleman mind filling in a little background on the guest speaker? The gentleman, smiling and affable, would not. Mr. Mosely was Director of the Russian Institute at Columbia. He had lived in Russia from 1930 to 1932 doing research on Russian history; was one of Mr. Hull’s advisors at the Moscow conference from ’43 to ’46; has participated in about 800 meetngs negotiating with the Russians.
Was there anything else? No that was more than enough and a scholastic reporter who had wandered into the Rockne Lounge a little early for Mr. Philip Mosely’s lecture and needed some background for a story on this important ND visitor was grateful for the assistance of the smiling man in the blue pinstripe suit who had been the only person around at the time. The scholastic reporter retired to a seat in the back of the room and prepared to listen.
A Blushing Reporter
What he heard was a calm, confident consideration of Russia — its statesmen, tactics, philosophy and some thoughts on the future—all delivered by the same affable, smiling man in the blue stripe suit. It was a world much too small for the red-faced writer in the back of the room.
“There is no point in beginning negotiations by compromising with the Russians,” Mosely said. “The idea that one creates good will by giving something for nothing is rejected by Russian diplomats. If you’ve given in quickly, you’ve merely given him the idea that you were not serious to begin with or else you are afraid of him. The word compromise . . . to us a good term ... in the Soviet vocabulary is almost never pronounced •except with the word ‘putrid’ in front of it.”
When Mr. Mosely was finished, it was time for the scholastic reporter to renew acquaintances and get some answers to some questions. Frank O’Malley, an associate editor of the Review of Politics, did the honors. They weren*t necessary. The reporter remarked he had put a big foot in the wrong place. Mr. Mosely grinned again.
A Matter of Convenience
What was the significance of the recent changes in the Moscow high command? The professor felt that it was purely a matter of convenience, which
would relieve Molotov of the red-tape of actual administrative duties. “It is clear,” he continued, “that Vishinsky is primarily an agent, not an originator of foreign policy. Molotov does not like to deal with foreigners but with people subject to his authority. Undoubtedly, Vishinsky will have to be on the telephone every half hour to get instructions'from Molotov.”
PROFESSOR MOSELY No compromise for Reds
And the Atlantic Pact? “I believe that the pact will be a deterrent to war. Western Europe is at present weaker than Russia but our power is greater— too much for them. After all, a country doesn’t go to war unless it can win.”
The Berlin Blockade? “I think the Russians may try to reunify the German economy. In so doing, they will, of course, be trying to obtain concessions.”
Marshall Plan Is Good
In reply to an inquiry on the effectiveness of the Marshall Plan, the professor said: “The plan has strengthened Europe. The people are working pretty hard on the whole. They are contributing about 85% toward the rehabilitation while we contribute the other 15%. However this 15% is made up of overseas goods which they could not produce themselves and are certainly helping them.”
The faculty was closing in. It was time to retreat. The reporter thanked the gentleman in the blue pin stripe.
Austrian Dean Visits ND On College Study Tour
Dr. Herbert W. Duda, dean of the University of Vienna, paid a visit to the ND campus last Tuesday as the guest of the Rev. Howard C. Kenna, C.S.C., director of studies. Dr. Duda, who is presently a professor of Turcol-ogy and Islamics at the University of Vienna, is on a tour of America’s colleges and universities to study their organization and operation.
The Austrian visitor is travelling under the joint auspices of the Education Division, USACA, and the Federal Ministry of Education, and is also interested among other things, in the American prescriptions for baccalaureate, masters, and doctors, degrees, and the exchange of credits between Austrian and American universities.
825 Students Find Campus Employment
The ND pursuers of culture and the dollar sign who complain of too many credit hours, term papers, and exams ought to take example from an energetic group of fellow students. These are the 825 students who, in addition to their regular classwork, hold down part-time jobs. Their work is varied and ranges from clerical positions to shoveling meals in the dining hall.
Probably the most familiar and popular working group is the floor assistants and the long-awaited mail carriers. Nevertheless, they are outnumbered by those employed in clerical work, on student publications, public information, and general office work.
Then there are messengers, guides and the treacherous correctors. A number of students are also employed as lab assistants, librarians, radiomen, and as assistants to the Infirmary sawbones.
Another prominent group is the dining hall boys. Their duties are known by all, especially those who have sore knuckles after reaching for a second glass of milk.
All these jobs are handled through the Office of Student Employment ably directed by Mrs. Van Scoik. Jobs are prearranged at the start of each semester and are filled immediately. The pay ranges from approximately $130 to $162 per semester, and is deducted from tuition. The only cash transactions are in the dining hall, where Mr. Ford pays his own wages. Mrs. Van Scoik reports that any new jobs are filled the next day, for there are always more applicants than jobs.
12
The Scholastic
The Bulletin Board
Next Week
Talks on Brazil
“Life and Culture in Brazil” will be the topic of a Modern Language Seminar Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. Dr. Albert Pes-cetto and Professor Walter Langford ■will be the speakers.
Dramatic Readings
Robert Speaight, a former member of the famous “Old Vic” Shakespearean company in London, will present “Dramatic Readings” next Thursday night at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The actor, who directed an outdoor production of Twelfth Night and taught a course in Jacobean Drama at Notre Dame in the summer of 1940, is scheduled to appear under the sponsorship of the University Concert and Lecture Series.
Two Debates Here
Mundelein College for Women, of Chicago, will bring a debate squad to the ND campus Wednesday for two verbal battles against the Irish arguers on Federal World Government. The first will be at 3:15 p.m. in Room 330 of the Main Building; the other is slated for the Law Auditorium at 7:30 p.m.
Ssssss . . . Sitko!
Emil Sitko plays “the villain” in next Thursday afternoon’s sport film in the Engineering Auditorium, as Great Lakes sends the wartime Irish sprawling in that last-minute 19-14 upset.
Vic Vet $ay$
VETERANS. WHEN MDU WRITE THE VA.OONT" WRITE TO WASHINGTON. WRITE TO THE NEAREST VA OFFICE. THATS THE QUICKEST WAY TO GET FAST SERVICE
Hisses and boos commence at 2:30 and 3:30.
O'Grady to Speak
Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, of the ND Department of Philosophy, will give the fourth talk in the 1949 Aquinas Lecture Series at Central High School next Friday at 8:15 p.m. His topic will be “Isms, Facts and Truth.” Associate editor of The New Scholasticism, official organ of the American Catholic Philosophical Association, Dr. O’Grady is a prolific magazine contributor and has had experience as a clinical psychologist in the armed forces.
Tests. Tests, Tests . . .
Second semester juniors will tussle with their religion outside reading test Wednesday night at 7:45 in the East Dining Hall. A Companion to the Summa and Theology and Sanity will provide the testing material for the objective-type, hour-long exam.
. . . And More Tests
The Comprehensive Economics Examination for graduating seniors will be held Thursday at 1:15 p.m. in Room 127 of the Social Science Building.
Sociology Session Slated
Harvey Hier, director of the division of correction in the Indiana Department of Public Welfare, will address a sociology seminar Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. Professor Hugh P. O’Brien, who is in charge of the ND curriculum in correctional administration, will preside as chairman.
Concert Programs
Cavanaugh Reading Room’s lunchtime record concerts will continue as usual at 12:30 p.m. each day. Next week’s program includes: Monday — Beethoven’s Fourth Symphony, plus operatic and semi-classical selections by Lily Pons; Tuesday — Tschaikovsky’s Nutcracker Suite and DeBussy’s La Damoiselle Elue' Wednesday—Beethoven’s Piano Concerto No. 4, and Gaite Parisienne, by Offenbach; Thursday — Swan Lake Ballet, by Tschaikovsky, and Gayne Ballet Suite, by Khachaturian.
This Week
Chemist Speaks Here
Dr. John Hogg, from the organic division of the Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, Mich., spoke in the Biology Building Wednesday evening on recent
developments in the production of synthetic estrogens. The occasion was the March meeting of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society.
Social Sciences Discussed
“Methods and Limitations of Social Sciences” were discussed Wednesday night by Professor Thomas Cook, of the University of Chicago. Graduate students and members of the faculty attended the lecture in Room 101 of. the Law Building.
Opportunity
Summer Travel Booklet
Complete information about opportunities for summer work and study abroad has been compiled in a booklet called Study Travel, Work Abroad. The pamphlet, which outlines transportation methods, passports, G.I. Bill privileges and scholarship funds, can be obtained by sending 15 cents to the National Student Association, 304 North Park Street,?. Madison 5, Wisconsin.	7
Jobs ...	. .
New Civil Service positions as teachers and teacher-advisors in Indian communities have been announced by the government. More detailed information about the jobs, which pay from $2,498 to $3,351, can be obtained • by writing directly to the U.S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C.
Camera Contest
Grand prize in the Fourth Annual Collegiate Photography Exhibition will be a picture assignment on Science Illustrated, with expense account, professional rates and expert advice from other staff photographers. Entries should consist of from six to ten prints, spread over at least three of the five classes: news, pictorial, feature, sports and industrial. The deadline is April 30. Entry blanks and further details of the contest can be secured by writing: Kappa Alpha Mu, 18 Walter Williams Hall, School of Journalism, Columbia, ‘ Missouri.
April 1, 1949
13
Mayor of Munich Addresses German Class; Tells of Post-War German Social Conditions
By JOE DUKERT
Local defenders of the “beer that made Milwaukee famous” can relax on their laurels for a while. Mayor Karl Scharnagl, of Munich, Germany, who visited the campus this week in conjunction with a tour of the country sponsored by the International Conference of Christians and Jews, pronounced a sample of the highly-publicized brew “just about as good as anything we ever had in the old country.”
But the mayor added hastily, “That’s because they have a Bavarian brewmaster, of course.”
MUNICH'S MAYOR SCHARNAGL Harmony Among Nations
The question was aimed at Mayor Scharnagl by one of the members of an ND conversational German class, used conveniently by a Scholastic reporter assigned to review the German leader, who speaks very little English.
After rescuing the beaming mayor from a pair of South Bend Tribune representatives who seemed to be struggling along on nothing more than a small German-English dictionary, we informed him that we were at least haltingly bi-lingual. “Gott sei dank!” the Mayor exclaimed in obvious joy.
Here to Study Racial Problems
Once in the third-floor Main Building classroom, Mayor Scharnagl was introduced to the class by Professor William Bennett, of the modern language depart
ment. The visitor began by explaining his visit to the U. S.
“I am here under the auspices of the Conference of Christians and Jews,” the mayor declared. “On behalf of that organization in Germany I have come to this country to study the problems and successes of the movement here in America. Here, I am a guest of Professor Radelet, the local chairman of the conference.”
When asked for his own personal suggestions about removing racial prejudice, he first outlined the widespread bigotry which Germany faces today. Explaining that the Jews in Europe had suffered terrible persecution under the Nazi regime, he pointed out that the survivors have transferred their distrust and hatred from Hitler’s forces alone to the entire Christian population of Germany.
Some understanding must be reached between the factions, the mayor insisted. “We must learn to work together, eat together, and live together in peace.”
This is possible, he believes, only if a new educational program is adopted, directed toward the cultivation of harmony among all nations and peoples. Furthermore, it must start with’ the smallest children; kindergarten is not too soon to begin.
"Oberburgermeister" Till Hitler
Switching to a few biographical details, Mayor Scharnagl said that he had been oberburgermeister—“chief mayor” — of Munich from 1925 to 1933, when Hitlei* came to power. In the first postwar elections in 1946, he was returned to the same post. Last summer, however, the Socialists gained new power; and he surrendered his office to become burgermeister, or “mayor.”
During the war, Mayor Scharnagl estimates that no more than 20 or 25 per cent of the German people were actual Nazi sympathizers. “The others were divided into two classes,” he continued. “Those who were deluded by Hitler’s promises of prosperity, plentiful work and good times into grudging support, and those like me and most of the South Germans who were violently against the new leaders and policies.
“Now that they see the errors of National Socialism, though, fully 90 per
cent of my countrymen are ready and willing to accept democracy.”
Mayor Scharnagl spent some time in the infamous concentration camp at Dachau, which he described as a “place of horror.” Of the 16,000 persons in the camp, over one-fourth were Germans who had resisted the Nazis.
One student asked about the Mayor’s opinion of the new Atlantic Pact. “Some bond is needed in Western Europe,” the man from Munich agreed, hailing the unity between North and South America as the model that should be followed. “But any plan for peace in Europe must include the complete rehabilitation of Germany. My country is the natural heart of the continent, and an economically sound Europe is impossible without a revivified Germany.”
Ferstel's 'Wildcat' and Lent Cover Photos Win Honors
That wildcat of ours is in the news
again. The wildcat, which was in reality a beat-up old lion residing down in the local zoo, appeared on our* cover the
of the Northwestern game.
Later in the High cago,
week-end
he appeared Holy Trinity School, Chinewspaper.
Now he’s in a photo contest.
Jim Ferstel, the brave photographer who aimed his camera into the lion’s toothy mouth, entered the photo in
the Graflex Photo Contest for 1948, and won a certificate of merit. The shot will be exhibited by Graflex.
That was only the beginning. The Religious News Service of New York asked for Jim’s
“Memento Homo . . .” Lenten shot which appeared on . the cover of the ’ March 4th issue. And the Scholastic Reporter requested permission to reprint the cover of May 21, 1948, which depicted a student
catching the NYC local to Elkhart on
the fly— also by Ferstel.
Another photographer, Bruce Harlan, is getting his examination cover, Jan. 14th issue, reprinted in the Tricolor, the yearbook of Queen’s College in Canada.
Scholastic covers seem to be enjoying international fame this year. .
14
The Scholastic
Dale Francis
Former Minister Now Rising Catholic Writer
By JIM KINGSLEY
Dale Francis is a graduate student in political science. And although he inhabits a cubicle in the Main Building’s Department of Public Information, punching out copy like a highly literate beaver for such well-read periodicals as The Sign, Commonweal, Information and Catholic Messenger, Dale is the first to insist, in his quiet way, that he is primarily “just another student here."
A little flashback will quickly dispel that theory.
During the throes of the depression, an incipient young journalist of 14 copped a sports-writing job with his local newspaper in Troy, Ohio.
The army beckoned this same young man to service shortly after Pearl Harbor. He was, at that time, pastor of a small Methodist church in Fort Recovery, Ohio.
Two very important things happened to Dale while he was in the army. First, by bringing his newspaper background to the fore to become editor of EM, the enlisted man’s weekly, he waxed so enthusiastic over his co-editor that he later married her. Ex-WAC Barbara Francis now keeps home in South Bend and studies at St. Mary’s.
Second, it was during his army days that the young minister, after 2J/j years of study, joined the Catholic Church.
Founds Catholic Paper
Back in civvies a year later, Dale was again summoned, but this time by a Catholic prelate—Rev. Vincent S. Waters, Bishop of Raleigh, North Carolina. At his request, Dale trundled south and quickly proceeded to found the North Carolina Catholic and to organize the state Catholic Laymen’s Association.
Still a young man of 29, Dale came to Notre Dame in 1947. Foi- the past two years he has turned out features—mainly with a Catholic or Notre Dame flavor —as fast as most magazines can print them. If you have ever- listened to WHOT on Sundays at 12:15, you’ve heard a program called “Catholic News and Views,” carried by more than 20 stations. That, too, is a product of Mr. Francis’ prolific pen.
As a political science student, Dale attributes his interest in politics to an episode in 1940, when Wendell Willkie was nominated for the presidency at Philadelphia.
Through personal correspondence, Dale had come to know and like the Republican Mr. Willkie, though he himself was —and is— an ardent Democrat.
The Saturday Evening Post told part of the story: “One youngster from Ohio, short of cash at the time, hitchhiked to Philadelphia. Through the proceedings which kept him sleepless for four nights, he spent exactly $1.10.” (Issue of Nov. 2, 1940.)
Almost accurate, anyway. “I slept in all-night movies for 15c a night,” Dale amends. “Saw one movie 24 times.”
Handles Public Relations
When INS sent to Ohio the story of a pre-nomination breakfast at which
DALE FRANCIS "Catholic News and Views"
Willkie and some 50 others (including Dale) were present, the dispatch gratified local feelings by politely omitting the names of everyone but Willkie, Dale, and another Ohio Willkie man. Dale owed to this publicity his subsequent appointment as a leading public relations man for Willkie in Ohio.
So here, journalists and embryonic writers, is a young man, “just a student here,” who has cashed in on the written word—who began writing for pay at 14, ran a daily column at 18, was an editor at 24, and who has penetrated a goodly number of all possible literary markets, besides dabbling in politics.
How prolific can you get?
Seniors Lose Sorin To Coming Juniors
Rev. Joseph D. Barry, cfs.c., assistant: director of student welfare, announced hall assignments for next fall early this week. Breaking a long standing tradition, Sorin Hall has been assigned to the Junior Class along with Badin and Alumni, leaving Dillon, Walsh and Howard for the seniors.
Again this year the sophomores have their choice of Morrissey or Lyons, with Cavanaugh thrown in for those who-hesitate to leave the East. The freshman halls will remain the same: St. Ed’s, Zahm, Breen-Phillips and Farley.
Room preference is again to be based on averages within each class, starting with the highest and working down. Father Barry suggested that students: have at least some idea of what hall they want before they report to the office to sign for a room, thus avoiding needless confusion and loss of time.
Civil Engineers to Attend Course on Quality Concrete
During the three-week period from March 29 to April 14, a training course in the production and handling of concrete will be conducted by the Department of Civil Engineering, with the cooperation of the Portland Cement Association, in the Civil Engineering Laboratories.
This course will be conducted by engineers of the Portland Cement Association, using the laboratory facilities: and equipment of the Department, supplemented by special equipment used in. the industry.
The first two weeks of the Quality Concrete School will be primarily for the students of Civil Engineering and Architecture at the University, and will supplement their laboratory and class work in cement. The third week will be for engineers, architects, and contractors of St. Joseph Valley.
Forrestal Presents Award -To President of Notre Dame
A “Certificate of Appreciation” from the National Military Establishment was presented this week to the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., by Secretary of Defense James Forrestal. The ceremonies,, honoring the Notre Dame president for-his service on the Advisory Commission, on Service Pay, took place in Washington, D. C.
Father Cavanaugh testified Tuesday; before the House"’ Armed" Service Committee on his findings as a member of" the all-civilian group appointed to study the nation’s military pay and pension system. .
April 1, 1949.
IS
The College Parade
By BILL WEIR
Morton Kanter, feature editor of the Western Reserve Tribune, finally decided that the local co-eds were the most beautiful in the country and climbed out of the dog house. He had been suspended as feature editor for voting for University of Michigan co-eds in a movie company publicity poll.
—Western Reserve Tribune
Last fall before the Notre Dame-Indiana football game, a man posing as a Notre Dame football scout was entertained by IU students for several days. The man disappeared after borrowing money and cashing worthless checks. Last month one of his victims saw him in a Chicago hotel and turned him in.
Indiana Daily Student
USC is trying to raise money for the 1949 March of Dimes by a male and female beauty contest.—Daily Trojan
The cafeteria of the University of Mississippi has placed a suggestion box inside the door. The administration promises that no gripes will go unheeded.
The Mississippian
According to New York fashion designers, the well dressed college man should have at least one of the following: Cloth-of-Gold sport shirt with three-quarter length sleeves; brocaded
LONG-RANGE LETTER-WRITERS ORGANIZE AT SMC—A committee of St. Mary's students is helping Notre Darner George Wittereid organize an overseas letter exchange. The committee includes (left to right) Misses Nancy Branton, Jean Murphy, Mary Louise Leiber, Marilyn Hennebry, and Mary Ann Fellinger.
silk pajamas; Picasso pink sweater with plunging neckline, and polka dot suspenders. He should also smoke a new collegiate-style cigar.—The Depaulia
Fresh paint was smeared on the sidewalks of Columbus by Ohio State co-eds supporting a candidate for king of the annual Gold Diggers’ Ball. The city police stated that this violation of city law is punishable by fine or imprisonment.
Ohio State Lantern ■ ■	"
Pat Goodwin, President of the St. Benedict’s College (Kansas) Off Campus Club, was found living on campus. When confronted with the charges, Goodwin was forced to resign.
St. Benedict’s Rambler
In a poll of 300 Ohio State students, two-thirds of those asked said they believed cheating to be dishonest but would cheat anyhow since it was necessary. Only 60 students said they had not cheated in exams.
Ohio State Lantern
Workmen tearing down the Old College at USC found money, checks, money orders and a loaded automatic under the basement steps. Police think they were stolen by a man they captured on the top floor of the building last spring.
Daily Trojan
Foreign Trade Conference Scheduled for May 5 at ND
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., has announced that the second annual Foreign Trade Conference will be held on May 5 in the University’s College of Commerce. Professor Wesley Bender, Bender, head of the Department of Marketing, has been named this year’s chairman.
The primary purpose of the conference, which is sponsored by the College of Commerce, is to stimulate interest in foreign marketing, to discuss current problems of world traders, and to perform the educational function of an’exchange of ideas between business men and educators.
Round table discussions concerning important phases of foreign marketing will open the conference on the morning of the 5th. These discussions will be led by * nationally known authorities. After a luncheon meeting, the afternoon session will consist of a panel discussion and question period. A dinner meeting will close the conference.
Flag Pole Sitters at ND
Long before the Wright brothers’ brainchild ever fluttered briefly through the skies over Kitty Hawk, ingenious ND journalists used “aerial” views of the campus. The intrepid shutter-bugs snapped their pictures from a precarious perch on the flag pole in the quadrangle.
NFCCS Group Announces Foreign Pen Pal Program
The initiation of a letter exchange between American Catholic college students and foreign college students was announced recently by George C. Wittereid, Jr., representing the Student Relief Campaign sponsored by the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
Wittereid, a senior here, said that “this exchange is intended to assist in reconstructing the morale of student victims of war by presenting to them personalized correspondence as direct indication that American students are concerned for their- welfare.” American and foreign students will thus be provided with first-hand information on the conditions in’ their respective countries.
The details for the exchange are being handled by a committee of students at St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Ind. Chairman is Miss Mary Louise Leiber, of Chicago, a St. Mary’s senior.
The mailing address of the exchange, known as the International Correspondence Exchange, is 118 Howard Hall, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind.
16
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Bengal Bout Finalists Clash Tomorrow
BUGAS INSIDE MAHONEY'S GUARD—Mahoney's right took the decision
Cifelli Meets Roemer In Heavy Title Match
Rib-rocking boxing will be on the fieldhouse schedule tomorrow at 8 pan. when 16 survivors battle for the eight University fistic crowns. The Bengal Bout finalists have fought through four nights of preliminary bouts and have eliminated 50 other contestants who sought the various weight class titles.
The first three nights drew 8,100 spectators into the Notre Dame fieldhouse. Featured in the opening night’s card
Bengal Bout coverage by Ray Fitzgerald, Harry Monahan, Bill Riley and Ralph Wright
was the presentation of the Bengal Bout Recognition Award to Tony Zale, this year’s honorary referee, by Jungle Jim Martin, 1948 heavyweight champion.
Fight fans had to wait until the second evening before the victories started to come by the KO route. Russ Van Keu-ren, perennial Bengal contender, scored the first TKO of 1949 with his win over Lincoln Yamamoto.
Irish Spring Offensive Begins To Roll—Despite Rain and Muddy Ground On Cartier Field
By RALPH WRIGHT
Despite the cold rain and muddy underfooting of Cartier field, Notre Dame’s top offensive unit was red hot in the first big scrimmage session of spring practice last Saturday. Starting from 40 yards out, the Irish varsity pushed the ball over 10 times in 15 drives toward the defensive “green” team’s goal.
Two light but lightning-fast fullbacks Frank Spaniel and Jack Landry, each scored three times and picked up large chunks of yardage all afternoon. Spaniel, the stocky lad from Vandergrift, Pa., went 21, 28 and 40 yards for his TD’s and had another of 25 called back. Landry, a halfback last fall, found fullback quite suitable; Jack made it over from the four, two and 14. Both specialized on that pitch-out that sent “Pep” Panelli off on so many long runs last year.
The first counter of the scrimmage came when Bill Gay pulled a nice cutback to go 33 yards. Scooter Coutre added a pair by zigzagging 31 yards and bucking over from the one. The other touchdown came when Bob Williams hit Leon Hart on a long one that covered all 40 yards.
Williams had difficulty with the wet ball early in the scrimmage, but still connected on six of 15 throws. Four touchdown attempts were halted by two fumbles.
Since Coach Leahy is experimenting with Jim Martin at left tackle, the varsity line had a new look — Bill Flynn and Hart, ends; Martin and Bob Toneff, tackles; Rod Johnson and Bob Lally, guards; Walt Grothaus, center. Williams was the quarterback, Coutre and Gay were the halfbacks and Spaniel alter-
(Continued on Page 20)
The lightweight scrappers gave the fans the most for their money with George Chopp and Leo Hickey putting on a 137-pound brawl which would have di-iven the heavies to the showers in the first round. Don Ewing’s 127-pound win over Andy Dooley took second honors for fast aggressive crowd - pleasing leather-throwing.
Wednesday Night
The third night of fighting opened with a humdinger as George Chopp out-slugged Leo Hickey to take a split decision.. The 137-pounders threw the leather with Chopp’s vicious body blows telling the story. .Hickey was the aggressor, but Chopp got in the more punches.
Another 137-pound affair saw defending champion Jack Griffin win a TKO over Mike Sutton in 46 seconds of the second round. Sutton went to one knee in the first frame and took plenty of punishment by the time referee Nate stopped it.
Alumni’s Dick Hyland and Dan Finn were the first to reach the 157-pound
(Continued on Page 21)
April 1, 1949
17
Fleming Sparks Team In Final Indoor Meet
Bill Fleming covered himself with gloi-y again last Saturday as the track team closed their indoor season at the Purdue Relays. Competing in one of the nation’s top intercollegiate hurdle fields, the bespectacled timbertopper came home first in the highs, second in the lows, and anchored the Irish shuttle hurdle relay team to a second place finish.
The rest of the team didn’t fare quite so well, but none of them failed to place. Shot-putter John Helwig and the mile relay squad brought home second place medals while the two mile combo and
pole-vaulter Jim Miller did the same with the third place hardware. The distance medley team finished fifth.
During the past indoor season Coach “Doc” Handy turned out a team that ran in nobody’s dust. Against some tough competition the boys won on 12 different occasions and often in record-breaking time. In the season’s only open team competitions the team raked in second place at the Illinois Tech Relays and third at the Central Collegiates. Purdue and Bradley were bady mangled in the team’s dual meets.
CAPTAIN BILL LEONARD
Polishes Cleveland trophy
For individual stars, this year’s squad tops any Notre Dame indoor team in history. No less than five all time school marks were made. Leading the parade was Fleming who made a habit of tying the high and low hurdle standards, while Helwig in the shot, Miller in the pole vault, and Bob Smith in the 300 yard dash were the other record breakers.
—Ted Prahinski
MR. AND MRS. KEVIN O'SHEA —The “Scholastic" lured its fotogs away from poetry long enough to take this picture which should have appeared in the basketball review.
Irish Keglers Top DePaul For Third Straight Win
The intercollegiate squad of the Kampus Keglers, Notre Dame’s representative in the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Conference, made it three wins in a row by downing a strong DePaul University quintet last Saturday afternoon at the Monte Carlo alleys in Chicago.
It was Bob Bairley who this week found the alleys to his liking and pounded out a powerful 945 series with the high game of 225 topping his efforts. This victory avenges an earlier setback suffered at the hands of the Chicagoans.
Down at the Bowl Mor last Sunday afternoon, the lions share of the team and individual honors went to the Bunsen burner and beaker boys from the Science school. In the Blue League, the Chemical Engineers, in sweeping their three-game series, dusted off the pins to the tune of 2856 to set a new Kegler record over the past two years. This pin-toppling was highlighted by a cool single game score of 1004, which in itself is good enough to move into third high single game for the season.
Over in the Gold League, Jack Vit-kuske of the Chemists’ Club set a blistering pace for his fellow pin splitters by posting a three-game total pinfall of 610, falling one shy of the League record set last week by Tom Simon. Jack’s fellow keglers helped him out and the team went into a first-place tie with the Italian Club, who split their match with the A.S.M.E. pinsters.
Irish Shortstop Berth Still Kline's Headache
By RAY FITZGERALD
The question of the Irish baseball year so far is — Who will play shortstop? The convalescing Pete Koblosh will definitely not be ready for the opener April 8. Coach Jake Kline experimented with co-captain Ray Petrzelka during indoor workouts, but now that the club has moved outdoors, he’s switched things around some more. Third-sacker Gene Lavery has moved over to short, and Peti'zelka is taking care of the hot corner.
In the intra-squad games this week the change has worked out quite well. Lavery is quite at home at short, having played there off and on for the past two years, and “Seeds” has handled third like a veteran.
Featuring the intra-squad games has been the work of three sophs, first baseman Dick Giedlin, and outfielders Jim Gillis and Jean Ferryman. Giedlin has been especially destructive, cracking a double and a 400-foot triple in one of the games.
Of course, the pitchers haven’t been throwing with any great speed as yet, but the entire club seems to be hitting the ball more squarely than it did at this time last year.
With co-captain Benny Kozlik blanketing second base, the two big fights for starting spots are in left field and behind the bat. Tom McHale, Don Grieve, Bob Machado, Charlie Kries, and Ralph Sjoberg are all in the running for the left field spot, with the punch-hitting McHale having a slight edge so far.
The catching job is still wide open; Dick Maher, Tom Boland, Jim Presley and Charlie Wolfe are the four top contenders. Maher and Boland have been sharing first-string duties, but Presley’s hitting and hustling may yet win him the job.
The schedule released last week is an improvement over last year’s and is certainly a challenge to the Irish squad. They play every member of the Big Nine twice, and also go against such perennially strong clubs as Michigan State and Cincinnati.
New on the list this year are Minnesota, Chicago, and the Terre Haute Phillies of the Three-Eye league. Coach Kline admits that it’s an ambitious schedule, but he also feels that this year’s squad is capable of taking most of the games.
18
The Scholastic
Coach Fears Poor Season As Tennis Practice Opens
Coach Walter Langford remained pessimistic last week as his Notre Dame tennis squad opened practice for the 1949 tennis season. The Irish netters take to the courts for the first time on April 25 when they meet Purdue’s Boilermakers at Lafayette.
The coach’s pessimism seemed well founded though since ND must oppose such midwestern powerhouses as Northwestern, Michigan, Michigan State and Wisconsin. And he has only four returning lettermen.
Southpaw Bob David, No. 3 on last year’s strong team, should be the top man this season with Gene Biittner in the No. 2 position. The third-ranking spot will be battled for by Jim Rodgers, letterman from Youngstown, 0., Bob Hensler of Philadelphia, Herb Hoene of
BOB DAVID
Langford steals Leahy's tears
Duluth, Pat Tonti of Columbus, 0., and Jim Hennessy of Louisville. The other three regulars should be Long Island’s Bart O’Brien, the other letterman, Ralph Witucki, a South Bender, and Ray Keys, another Ohioan from Chillicothe.
The final rating of the players will be decided by intrasquad matches up to the Purdue engagement. Since any man will be able to challenge another for his spot, the top man should emerge from these matches.
The eight-match schedule may be increased if a date can be arranged with Miami University for an encounter at Oxford, O.—Jack Varley
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Barry Monahan
Complaint Department
Max, we may get that fieldhouse yet. If many more people throw bricks through the press box windows we can handle the job and probably have enough left over to build one wing of the student union. The latest carload of missiles comes from our northern neighbors in Wisconsin.
Ray Beaumont, sports editor of the Marquette Tribune, has leveled three charges at us on the strength of the recent Central Collegiate controversy:
1.	Notre Dame men are conceited: If by conceited he means justly proud of our record in scholastic and athletic achievements; if he means being proud of the work done by alumni, faculty and undergraduates, whether it be winning atomic research fellowships and adding to American literature or receiving allAmerican honors and being a successful coach, then, yes, we are conceited.
If he means being overly proud of things not warranting pride, then he is wrong. We have several things of which we are not proud—the fieldhouse is one of them. Notre Dame’s strongest critics are Notre Dame men who know too well its failings — but we can also see its strength.
2.	Jim Howard was unfair to Marquette and the other 3-C schools: To say that Michigan State has given Notre Dame the only substantial competition in the indoor meet is not unfair, unless the other 3-C members do not like to be reminded that between them the Irish and the Spartans have won 18 of the 23 indoor meets (ND 14, MSC 4). Marquette won the indoor event once. Notre Dame won in ’46 after only limited participation in ’44 and ’45. But we were dethroned in ’47 and ’48 by the Spartans. After that naturally only a win at the expense of the team who had taken the championship from us would be considered “valid” here.
Certainly Howard’s comments were no more discourteous than Beaumont’s remark that Notre Dame’s poor showing in the ’49 meet (third behind MSC and Michigan Normal) was “heartwarming” to him and, we presume, the Marquette student body — we will not accredit him to speak for the whole conference.
3.	Our proposal for the conference to disband is “all wet”: Surely he possesses a more adequate vocabulary than that! We can think of a dozen adjectives more forceful than that to express disapproval. But we will wear this soggy crown of thorns with the satisfaction that the controversy has shocked the conference into taking positive action to secure a new home for its indoor meet instead of taking it for granted that Notre Dame would play host — which is what they intended to do.
The conference was lethargic about seeking a new site when we made our proposal. By the time Beaumont wrote they had realized the true situation and were already acting on the very proposals he suggested. It is easy to sound authoritative after any event.
Beaumont also tossed in a couple of minor charges which indicate a poor perception of what we actually wrote. We did not say that the conference could not exist without Notre Dame and Michigan State. We said it should not exist without adequate facilities— quite a bit of difference. We fail to see how we are guilty of ignoring the work of Marquette’s Conrad Jennings when absolutely no mention was made of the founding of the conference. Consequently there was no need to mention either Jennings, Ralph Young of Michigan State or Knute Rockne, all equally important in that respect.
The accusation smacks of that collegiate provincialism which must drag irrelevant tradition into discussions where it can only play the role of red herring, adding nothing substantial or profitable.
But we should thank the man, Max. He has given our Fieldhouse crusade more publicity. Contributions should start pouring in any day now.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
April 2—FENCING at Cincinnati.
BOXING. Bengal Bout finale 8—BASEBALL at Indiana 9—BASEBALL at Indiana
TRACK. Southern Relays at Birmingham. Ala.
11—BASEBALL. Iowa hero 12—BASEBALL. Iowa here 13—BASEBALL. Cincinnati hero
April 1, 1949
19
Southern Relays First Outdoor Challenge For Vengeful Notre Dame Track Squad
By UM HOWARD
Three outstanding intersectional dual meets, and five of the nation’s best invitational and relay carnivals will comprise the Notre Dame outdoor track schedule this spring. Coach “Doc” Handy, who forged a winning indoor team despite numerous injuries, has constructed one of the most challenging cinder programs in the country for the Irish tracksters.
On April 8 and 9, the Notre Dame speedsters will inaugurate the nine meet grind by competing in the second annual Southern Relays in Birmingham, Alabama. When the deep south began its intersectional contest last year, they extended an invitation to the Irish, but the bid arrived too late to permit Notre Dame to aecept. This season they took no chances on another ND refusal, and got their bid in early. Fourteen of Notre Dame’s ace runners will make the preEaster jaunt.
Those Spartans Again!
Switching from past systems, the thin clads will be idle over Easter for the first time in several years. The vacation will be well earned, for immediately after the spring respite, Michigan State, Notre Dame’s nemesis, will be met in East Lansing. The Spartans are expected to remain the nation’s best dual meet team through the outdoor' season also, so the local dual clashes will open on an ominous note.
Swinging from the rugged Spartan encounter, the Irish will wheel into even steeper competition when they travel to Des Moines for the annual Drake Relays to meet the best teams the midwest and west can produce. On May 7, Notre Dame will run in its only home display of talent, meeting the Panthers of Pittsburgh on Cartier Field.
Two other intersectional dual battles follow with Missouri and Penn State, probably the best in their respective areas. Missouri was Big Seven champ last year, and the Nittany Lions offer some of the East’s top performers. Both squads whipped Notre Dame in close indoor meets here last year.
f
Irish to Defend State Title
The Indiana State meet looms as a tight fight between Purdue and Notre Dame, with Indiana snipping valuable points along the way. The Irish runners are defending champs, having won last
year with the highest point total in history.
Last meet in which the entire team will run, is the Central Collegiate contest in Milwaukee on June 4, where the mighty Michigan State team will take its last crack at the cinder kickers from ND. Notre Dame was second last year behind a strong Illinois team.
Coach Handy will enter his top men in the NCAA meet on June 17 and 18 at Los Angeles, and will also try to run the
LOU TRACY AND RAY SOBOTA Prime for Tough Outdoor Sked
better performers in the National A AU meet in Fresno, California, on June 24 and 25.
Larger Field Event Competition Planned
Outdoor dual strength of the Irish will be augmented by addition of the discus, javelin field events and the 100 and 220 dashes to the program. Notre Dame has John and Joe Helwig in the discus. Ray Espenan will also take part in this event. The javelin will feature John Murphy, Jim Miller and Bob Charters. Miller and Charters are veterans, while this is Murphy’s first year of competition. The longer outdoor dashes will be run by the South Bend sprint stalwart, Bob Smith, aided by Bill Kupfer in the 100 and Steve Provost and Ray Sobota in the 220.
No comment on the season prospects could be obtained from “Doc” Handy, but with the exception of the Michigan State encounter, the track men should be able to revenge last year’s defeats, and engineer one of the most successful records in several years.
Football
(Continued From Page 17) nated with Landry at full. Many possible starters (including Mike Swisto-wicz, Emil Sitko and Bill Wightkin) are sidelined, at least temporarily.
Frosh Speedsters Show Promise
Another offensive unit worked out on the other half of the grid inside the running track. This one was directed by Freshman Tom O’Connell and had the much-publicized frosh speedsters playing in the same backfield. None of them looked exactly slow, but Del Gander was especially impressive.
One other outfit, headed by John Mazur, also got in for a little offensive practice. Mazur, a lanky pass-pitcher up from the frosh, is currently battling O’Connell for the No. 2 quarterback spot.
A new twist in the Leahy T now has the three running backs crouched in a three-point stance before the ball is snapped. This enables the backs to start even faster and helps conceal them from the defensive team.
Injuries Stop ND Blades; Army, Rutgers Share Title
Injuries cancelled Notre Dame’s chance to win the fencing national championship last week-end at West Point and the handicapped Irish finished 22nd in a field of 28. Army and Rutgers tied for the title, but not until a disputed Army win over Notre Dame in the sabre event had been cancelled.
Lou Burns suffered the recurrence of an ankle injury and turned in a below pai' performance of seven wins in 27 bouts. Sabreman Bob Schlosser was forced to withdraw from competition, with a torn cartilage after capturing five wins in 10 bouts. His loss to the Army gave the Cadets a slight edge in points over Rutgers as Schlosser did not meet the Rutgers sabreman. After much discussion Army finally dropped its win over Schlosser and agreed to the tie.
Ralph Dixon, the Irish epee expert from California, turned in a creditable 13-13 record for the tourney and has given Coach Melton some cause for optimism.
Brennan Replaces McBride
Terry Brennan has signed to coach football at Mt. Cannel High school in Chicago it was announced this week. Brennan replaces Bob McBride, who resigned the Chicago job to become tackle coach under Frank Leahy.
20
The Scholastic
Bengals
(Continued from Page 17) semi-finals. The lanky Hyland caught scrappy Cliff Collins with two hard lefts to the head and Collins was too groggy to finish; the end came at 1:37 of round two. Finn went to town in the first, but Dick Windishar rallied to make it a real fight. Although Windishar looked stronger at the finish, Finn’s earlier edge gave him a unanimous decision.
A no-decision exhibition presented two finalists, the veteran Mike Conley and Joe Brown. Mike’s left was as fast and effective as ever, but Brown showed plenty of know-how and a potent right. Conley goes in the 142-pound bracket whereas Brown battles in the 147-pound division.
Two more 157-pound matches followed the intermission. Bob Wagner’s four years of Bengal fighting had an unhappy ending as Jim Engel kept his long left in Bob’s face for three rounds. Engel’s best round was the last when he landed one really solid right along with his tantalizing lefts. Wagner’s aggressiveness got him a vote from one of the officials.
Ed Smith won a flock of friends with a slam-bang TKO over Irish Jack Mahoney. He won the first two rounds easily and the ref called a halt at 1:17 of the last one when a terrific right had Mahoney on the ropes. Mahoney was down for a seven count in the first round.
The much-awaited tussle between George Dickson and Wes Dyson went to the side of experience. The crafty Dickson slowly solved Dyson’s counter-punching and ended up strong. A couple of mighty righthands had game Wes reeling near the finish. Dyson might have had an edge in the first round, but Dick-
ZALE ACCEPTS AWARD FROM MARTIN
son’s boxing skill assured him of the unanimous decision.
Monstrous Gus Cifelli outwrestled Jack McGroder in the evening’s finale, the only preliminary heavyweight match of the Bengals. The 228-pound Philadelphian proved more ring-wise and did the harder hitting in a bout that had no big punches. After a cautious opening McGroder did plenty of mixing in the next two rounds.
Cifelli’s victory puts him in the Saturday finals against Bill Roemer, who has KO’d all of his opponents in three years of Bengal fighting.
Tuesday Night
In a hard-fought 127-pound opener, Don Ewing won a unanimous decision over Andy Dooley. Ewing, the aggressor all the way, used an overhand right very effectively, and never gave Dooley a chance to move in.
Bob Keilty won a very close battle with courageous Dan Brennan in the second 127-pound bout. Brennan, a South Bend lefty, looked better as the fight went on, but the early advantage built up by Keilty was too much to overcome.
Rugged Dan Finn used a booming left to win a split decision over equally-rugged Ed Callahan in the 157-pound opener. Both boys tired in the third round, but a first round margin won for Finn. The Mon-issey Hall lad bloodied Callahan’s nose with a flurry of left jabs. In another 15-round match, and the best fought bout up to that time, Dick Hyland took a unanimous decision from Joe Stewart. Hyland, a clever boxer, combined left jabs and effective counter-punching to get the nod. Hyland seemed to be all arms and never did let Stewart get inside his guard.
George Chopp took a unanimous decision from Bill Skelly in a 137-pound fight. Neither boy was very aggressive but Chopp, a Chicagoan, landed the harder blows.
Russ Van Keuren scored the first TKO of the ’49 Bengal Bouts by taking care of Lincoln Yamamoto in 1:57 of the second round. Van Keuren, a fourtime Bengal veteran, overpowered his game Hawaiian opponent with left jabs and overhand rights. The 137-pounder never let up his bobbing and weaving attack. Every bit as effective as Van Keuren in the next fight, Joe Sterrett won by a TKO in 1:04 of the second round over Jack Young. Sterrett out-punched and outboxed the wild-swinging Young, and Referee George Van der Heyden stopped the fight after a series of short rights had sent Young reeling. This was another 137-pound bout.
Bob Wagner, hard-luck 157-pound Chicagoan, won his first Bengal fight in
SUTTON'S LEFT FINDS O'TOOLE'S JAW
four years by copping a unanimous decision from Tom Kennedy. Kennedy made it close for two rounds, but a lastround barrage won the bout for the likeable Wagner.
Southpaw Jim Smith won a split decision in the last bout of the evening over Bill O’Hara. The fight, in the 142-pound class, was the wildest of the night, with both boys constantly on the offense.
Monday Night
Agile ’Joe Archibald edged past Jack Tracy in the opening bout of the MS Bengal edition. It was close all the way with Archibald taking an early advantage and carrying the fight most of the way. Tracy fought well but Archibald’s flurry-punching tactics took the split decision in the 127-pound affair.
In the first match of the 157-pound class, Dick Windishar outpointed Frank Fahey to take a split decision. Win-dishar’s long, looping left told the story of the fight; he used it offensively and defensively, warding off Fahey when the going got rough and using it for his number one punch when an opening appeared.
After walking into Gerry Howell’s straight left for the first round, Cliff Collins, Morrissey hall’s candidate for the 157-pound title, decided to mix it a bit; that he made a wise decision was evidenced by the split decision in his favor. The second round was the hardest-fought of the first three bouts. And, by the time the bell signaled the lads for the third round, they could barely make their way out of their corners; Collins .had just enough left to take the fight.
Leo Hickey and Randy McNally led off the 137-pound eliminations with a (Continued on Page 25)
21
April 1, 1949
Seminary Life Shown In Holy Cross Booklet
Last week several hundred plain envelopes came sliding under dormitory doors from Farley to Lyons. Inside each envelope was a small booklet with the title “Boys Today, Priests Tomorrow,” A letter enclosed to the Notre Dame student stated, “You’ve heard of the University’s great need for buildings and endowment. We’d like to call your attention to another of our prime needs: more priests.” The message continued with an encouragement to Notre Dame men to work as talent scouts in the field of vocations and was signed by Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., Holy Cross Seminary.
This work, prepared under Father Wilson’s direction, has a simple enough purpose—to acquaint young men, nuns, priests, and, in general, all Catholics with the work and lives of the Holy Cross Fathers. As Father Wilson puts it, “Many people—for instance, the ‘subway alumni’ in New York—know about Notre Dame, its athletics, and the great figures who have come from there, but not about the religious community running it.” Therefore, “Boys, Today, Priests Tomorrow” is trying to give tne
Flying Home?
As a special service +o Notre Dame students( an American Airlines agent will be In the Cafeteria basement April 5th, from 10 a. m. to 4 p. m., to make Easter reservations on ALL airlines to all destinations.
average person a better understanding of just what the Holy Cross order means. Copies of the booklet are to be distributed in grade schools, high schools, and colleges throughout the country. Already, requests for hundreds of copies have begun pouring in, for instance, from the Brothers of the Christian Schools at St. Mary’s College, Calif.
Printed by The Ave Maria Press, some 30,000 copies were run off. The cover, showing a brisk scrimmage between some of the congregation’s younger members, was the third four-color job done by The Ave Maria. The first two were for the Christmas, 1946, issue and Football, 1948, issue of the Scholastic.
The pamphlet’s first half deals mainly with the work and history of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The latter, half is devoted to the life and training of the congregation’s members. It follows the religious through the Novitiate and Moreau Seminary, to Holy Cross College in Washington, and finally to his ordination.
Also shown is the invaluable behind-the-scenes work of the Lay Brothers of Holy Cross. Here we have the Brother firefighters, the Brother engineer, and the community enjoying an evening’s recreation.—Charley Dullea
Maritain Here
Dr. Jacques Maritain, internationally known Catholic philosopher, delivered a lecture in Washington Hall on "Contemporary Atheism" last Wednesday. Dr. Maritain was here in conjunction with the festivities incident to the "Review of Politics" attaining the age of ten. He also spoke for the Mediaeval Institute.
Rural Life Reorganizes
The Rural Life Club of Notre Dame held a preliminary reorganization meeting last week, in an attempt to get club activities under way again. Robert Brzezinski acting president, conducted a discussion of the future plans for the club. Present plans call for a tour of the Notre Dame stock farm in the near future.
The next meeting of the Rural Life club will be held in April.
An Amazing Offer by HOLIDAY
Pipe Mixture
The pipe that every smoker wants—DANA, the
modem pipe, with brightly polished alumi-j
$m 12 I0UUT wumnk Get your DANA PIPE Send to
aiUUY, Kit Cl, lidani, Viriiiii Offer Limited to USA—Expires Jone 30.1949
An Adventure । n Good S m o k । n q
22
The Scholastic
SPORTS PAGE, by Stanley Woodward, Simon and Schuster, New York. $2.95.
Stanley Woodward apparently has a three-fold purpose in writing this book: to give a word of advice to young men trying to break into the sports writing circle; to supply a background story for those interested in how a newspaper operates; to justify the existence of such a fabulous and misrepresented creature as the sports writer and consequently to justify himself. In the process the three occasionally cause each other mutual embarrassment. But on the whole the integration is well-handled and the technical and background material is balanced.
After wasting the first six chapters in personal recriminations against editors, publishers and “zombies” (personal friends of the high echelon who get soft, unproductive jobs), Woodward finally settles down to telling his story. His analysis of the sportswriting profession is thorough and the presentation is fresh enough to interest anyone who has ever been lured into reading the sports page of a daily newspaper. As long as he confines himself to telling a newspaperman’s story in newspaper language Woodward handles himself with poise and punch. His few attempts at literature are weak and disturbing.
Debunking the sacrosanct is a Woodward trademark and he applies the cudgel heavily and widely in this book. His vitriolic sarcasm is at its hilarious best as he tramples on the traditions of the Kentucky Derby held at that “miserable rococo racing plant on the outskirts of Louisville,” where the “well-organized banditti” fleece the “assembled cynics” who “choke back tears at the opening notes of ‘My Old Kentucky Home’.” Nor is he any easier on the boxing writers: “Many among them differ from Jesse James only in that they do not ride horses. The beat has been loused up by a large number of the most gifted burglars who ever entered the newspaper business.”
Notre Dame grad Red Smith gets the Woodward laurel wreath as the most competent writer in the profession today. But Woodward adds aside that Red does have one failing: He can find nothing wrong with the University of Notre Dame. Another Notre Dame man gets the Woodward touch in the review of his fight with the head of the Arch Ward A.A. on the All-Star football game promotions.
The impact of television and radio on the newspaper receives a careful study and Woodward concludes that the com
petition will be good for all three. Television will eliminate the “synthetic thrills” now injected by certain notorious sportscasters and by writers hard-pressed to convert a dull contest into a two-column spectacle. Even with the large cost of providing drinks to visitors who come to watch television, he thinks video is here to stay. Newspapers will still be needed to keep scrapbooks going.
The individual chapters on the baseball, football, boxing and racing writers and the columnist do penetrate the problems behind the publishing of a daily sports page. It will make the reader wonder if it really is “pretty soft to get paid for going to the ball game.”
—Harry Monahan
Dr. Ralph A. Berman
DENTIST
Mon. 9-12; Thurs. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
$8.00 and ap.
B.Y.. MNNESOTA MKU
CAMHNG Niff WIDERNESS
In Superior Wilderness Quetico Lake Region Complete outfitting aerviee $3.50 a day with Gram-man aluminum Food, roar e Basswood Lake Lodge on Minn. - Canadian Border. Main Lodge and 20 log cabins. Modern bath room facilities. Ameri-
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
WANT TO EARN $9000 A TEAR?
Then here’s your chance to enter a business offering an opportunity for unlimited earnings . .. plus the satisfaction of rendering a worthwhile community service. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
To find out more about the opportunities offered to you in a life insurance selling career, send for our free booklet. If you appear to have the qualifications for success, our manager in or near your community will explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65.
THE MUTUAL UR
INSURANCE COMPANY ef NEW YORK
34 Nassiu Stieet Sif NawYotk5.H.Y.
FIRST IN JR AMERICA
FOR FREE BOOKLET ADDRESS DEFT. 7 NAME—_____________________—AGE_____
inna.na ctrr —
RARE OPPORTUNITY!
Study... Travel
in SPAIN
BARCELONA GROUP
65 Days
June 29, 1949
MALAGA GROUP 65 Days July 2,1949
Sponsored by: UNIVERSITY OF MADRID
For Information Write
Spanish Student Tours
500 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 18, N. Y.
April 1, 1949
23
Rubinstein
(Continued from Page 9)
ance at Notre Dame.
The program will include the Overture: In Springtime by Goldmark; Brahm’s Symphony No. 2 in D Major; and Mr. Rubinstein playing the beautiful Concerto No. 7 in B flat Minor by Tschaikovsky.
Over a period of years, the South Bend Orchestra has succeeded in bringing outstanding music to the city, together with appearances by some of the nation’s most notable concert and operatic stars. Now in its sixteenth season, the orchestra was organized by its present conductor, Mr. Edwyn H. Hames. It at first included a group of forty people, who paid dues to meet the expenses of maintaining the orchestra.
By now a firmly organized group of eighty to eighty-five pieces the orchestra has a semi-professional status of full symphony string. The organization includes some professional musicians, music teachers, and many amateurs. In short, the orchestra represents a crosssection of the people of South Bend. Mr. Charles A. Biondo of the University Department of Music is a member, together with Notre Dame students Bill Cullen and Wayne Chandler. The regular season usually includes five subscription concerts and two children’s concerts.
Conductor Hames is a native of Australia, educated at Melbourne University. He came to this country in 1924 and toured the country for two years as a concert violinist. At present, he is head of the Music Department of Hillsdale College, Hillsdale, Mich. Mr. Hames said the purpose of organizing the orchestra was to “bring finer music to the people of South Bend.”
Notre Dame students will be admitted free to the concert next Monday at the Drill Hall, but they must present their Student Identifiaction Cards.
—Jack Poivers
Captain Danis
(Continued from Page 9)
Conley was assigned to duty on the battleship Nevada as junior watch and division officer where he served for several years. Later he graduated from the Torpedo School of the Naval Training Station at Newport, R. I. In 1937 he took a post-graduate course in engineering at the University of California.
During the past war, Capt. Conley first saw action as commanding officer of the USS Ringgold, a destroyer assigned to the Pacific Theater. In August, 1944,
Names Make News
Rev. FRANCIS GARTLAND, C.S.C., editor of The Catholic Boy, published at Notre Dame, will give the fourth annual retreat for working girls in St. Hedwige’s church Sunday. Father Gartland was formerly the editor of the youth section of the Sunday Visitor and has had considerable experience working with youth throughout the country.
A former Notre Dame football star has found his way back to his home state. GEORGE MELINKOVICH, member of the 1935 Irish squad, has been named as head coach at Utah State Agricultural college in Logan, Utah, after eight years as coach at a high school in Rutherford, N. J. His Jersey prep teams took five state titles during his eight-year tenure as head coach.
RUSSELL L. HARRIS, of Little Rock, Ark., a 1941 Notre Dame grad, has been named public affairs officer for the United States State Department in Genoa, Italy. Harris resigned his commission as lieutenant commander after eight years in the navy in order to ac-
he was promoted to his present rank, removed from the Ringgold, and appointed commander of Destroyer Division 112 in the Pacific.
After the war, Capt. Conley was named chief of operations of the Pacific Fleet Training Command, which post he held until August, 1948, when he was assigned to command the Fleet Training Group at Pearl Harbor. Among his awards, Capt. Conley has won the Navy Cross and the Silver Star for outstanding courage and heroism on the Ringgold in Pacific action; the Bronze Star; and a special commendation from Admiral Chester Nimitz, then commander of the amphibious forces of the Pacific Fleet.
Capt. Danis, who succeeded Capt. J. Richard Barry as commandant of the Notre Dame naval unit in August, 1946, also has an outstanding war record. As commander of the destroyer Kearney, which was toipedoed by an enemy submarine in October, 1941, he was awarded the Navy Cross. Later he was awarded the Legion of Merit as fleet aerologist and coordinator on Navy weather centrals. Before he came to Notre Dame, Capt. Danis was technical observer on the staff of the commanderin-chief of the Pacific fleet.
cept the new post. He -will organize the United States information service in Genoa with a view to giving people in Northern Italy information on life in the United States.
Over twenty-five hundred presidents, deans and professors of leading engi
neering colleges, scientists and industrial leaders will attend the 1949 convention of the American Society for Engineering Education to be held June 20-24 at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
The theme of the conference will be
partnership with industry, C. J. Freund, dean of engineering at the University of Detroit, announced recently. The Notre Dame representative at the ASEE meeting will be RAYMOND J. SCHUB-MEHL, Professor of Mechanics at this University. Professor Schubmehl is chairman of the Illinois-Indiana Section
of the Society.
In a talk on “The Communist Challenge” at the annual Communion Breakfast of the Knights of Columbus at Indianapolis last Sunday, Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, Professor of Religion at Notre Dame, observed that the conviction of Cardinal Mindszenty, Archbishop Stepinac and the fifteen Protestant ministers on trumped up charges shows clearly what is happening to millions of people who have fallen under the heel of Communist domination in the nations behind the Iron Curtain.
Father O’Brien went on to point out that organized Religion is one of the things which Communism fears most and that the answer to the Communist challenge lies in an educational campaign which will carry behind the Iron Curtain the “essential ideals of the dignity of the human conscience.”
Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, c.s.c., president of Notre Dame, has received an invitation to the Ordination and First Mass of Rev. ANTHONY M. BROWN, class of ’43, to be held tomorrow. Father Brown has been taking further studies at St. Edward’s Seminary, Kenmore, Wash.
24
The Scholastic
Does Russia Want War... or Peace?
Verdict on Possible War Considered Toss-Up
Last week, the Scholastic printed a forum expressing the views of professors from four departments of the University on the possibility of another war. This week, we step to the other side of the classroom desk to take a look at what ND students are thinking abotit the same pressing question.
After listening to Drew Pearson for a couple of years, the Scholastic this week decided to take a campus count of opinions on the question “Do you believe our disputes with Russia can be settled peacefully?” It came up with approximately an even split of pros and cons, with the balance tipping, if anything, slightly in favor of the negative. Characteristic of the pessimistic side of the picture was a statement by Marvin Ain, of Brooklyn, N. Y., who ventured that our Russian disputes “Can’t be settled by peaceful means. I think Russia is looking toward world domination and nothing short of a military catastrophe will stop her.”
to war.” More determined in his approach was David Steidl, Paris, Ill., who said flatly: “No, because Russia’s leaders feel that there is a fundamental conflict between Communism and what we call Capitalism and that they cannot coexist.” Bill Herber of Fort Wayne, Ind., added his indictment of the Russian bigshots to that of Steidl, but added a note of hope: “Only if we convince the Russian leaders that the state is not an end in itself and that human authority when based on force and not the natural law will eventually fall, can we have peace.”
Bob Heneault’s optimism arose from a different source: “Russia is too involved with internal problems to take on the economic and psychological problems which arise from a war.” And Ray Vorce of Belmont, Mass., came up with a suggestion: “First and foremost, prayer is necessary; then there must be an internal revolt against atheism in Russia and a turn towards God. Christian propaganda directed towards Russia should help considerably.”
Bengols
(Continued from Page 21) match that saw lots of action but little of the bone-jarring body blows that marked the Collins-Howell bout. Hickey took this one mainly because he was the aggressor; he carried the fight to McNally consistently in the last two rounds, and, though both were still going strong to the final blow, it was Hickey who was landing the ones that hurt.
The fancy-Dan type boxer was nowhere in sight as Ted Bugas and Jack Mahoney stood toe-to-toe in the fifth bout of the evening. The two 157-pounders were sluggers, but Mahoney was more accurate, and when the toe-to-toe battle was ended it was Bugas who gave ground. By the third round, Mahoney was standing back, waiting for an opening as Bugas flailed away with hard but wild rights. ’ Mahoney took the fight on a split decision.
Mike Sutton proved to be as colorful as his bright purple and gold trunks as he bounced back from three short trips to the floor to take another split decision in the second 137-pound match of the evening. O’Toole was the aggressor in the first and second rounds, but Sutton took all he handed out and came back with a little more.
In the same vein, Alton Adams of St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, stated “I do not believe that it is possible to have peace with Russia. In order for Communism to be at its greatest extent it must be free from all opposition. Capitalism and Socialism are the two economic forms of government which serve as a check to Communism. Since the ultimate cause of Russia is to spread Communism, it is easy to see where this conflict over a period of time can only develop into war between the different systems.” He was backed up in this opinion by John Lonk, of Chicago, who said “No. Temporary reconciliation is possible, but conflict of ideologies make permanent peace impossible.”
On the brighter side of the picture was the prediction of William Guiltinan, Pittsfield, Massachusetts: “Yes, Russia at the present time is in the throes of a little-known inflation. Russia will have to make the first peace proposals.” Perhaps more a hope than an opinion was that of Bill Fleming of Providence, R. I., who said “Sure they can; I don’t want to go back in the army.”
Ernest Haindl, of Morrissey Hall, and Vienna, Austria, seemed reluctant to go all out behind either view. Said Haindl: “About a fifty-fifty chance. Russia is making progress and the more progress she makes, the more willing she will be
Unique Dog
Photographer Don Spinney's whacky dog, Mike the moron, has given up lapping hypo for the more spectacular habit of blowing bubble gum. At. least that's what Spinney says. Actually Mike isn't blowing bubbles at all—he's too dumb. The feat is really being performed by an exceptionally intelligent cat behind Mike. . . . Take 'im away. He's a fraud.
Highly-touted Paul Boulus had a little trouble with Tom Carroll in the 167-pound curtain-raiser, but superior speed and ring craftsmanship paid off with a unanimous decision for Boulus. Paul crowded Carroll into a corner early in the first round and worked him over, repeating late in the second stanza. These two short close-ups made the difference, and earned Boulus a spot in the semi-finals.
Don Mahrt, a Custer, S. D., boy, taking his first crack at Bengal glory, marked himself as one to be watched with his win over Charles King in the light-heavy section. He showed lightning jabs and, but for his failure to move in, could have provided the first KO of the evening.
In a battle-royal that had Bengal fans remembering the Roemer-Bush clash last year, Bill Sheehan took a split decision that could have gone either way from Frank Tripodi in the closing fight of the first night. Tripodi showed an ability to take a lacing one round and come back strong the next, but he did not have the speed and sock that the roarin’ red-headed Sheehan did. The boys mixed it up from early in the first round till the final bell; the split decision was so close that even the judges looked doubtful. Sheehan, however, carried the fight to Tripodi, and that’s the way championships are won.
April 1, 1949
25
hi b s
Detroit Club Plans Dance
The Detroit Club (see Letters) held a banquet last week in honor of Cal Mur-Tay who was responsible for the designing and construction of the Detroit Club’s Douser booth at the Mardi Gras •Carnival. Murray was presented with a gift by the Detroiters.
The club has also completed plans for an Easter dance. It is to be held at Glen Oaks Country Club in Detroit with Ted Essen’s orchestra. Jim Groves is chair
CAL MURRAY (left) Detroit Douser
man of the dance. Another forthcoming club event is a Communion breakfast which is scheduled for April 10. Mass will be said by Rev. John Burke, C.S.C., in Alumni Chapel. Bob Wink is in charge of arrangements.
Chesterfield to Give 15 Cartons This Month
Thinking about that first post-Lenten cigarette? So are the backers of the Chesterfield Contest in the "Scholastic/' and they're upping the ante for the April Contest to 15 cartons of Chesterfields. All cigarettes will be awarded to the winners in time for Easter Vacation.
Start your post-Lenten smoking pleasure the Chesterfild way—15 winners—15 cartons—they're yours for the answering!
Geologists Get Preview
A preview of the new quarters of Notre Dame’s expanding Geology Department was given the members of the Geology Club at a meeting held Friday, March 25, in the Department’s new location on the third floor of the Main Building. Program Director Robert Carville emphasized a club contest for choosing a name for the new organizaton and Secretary Ray Throckmorton revealed plans for participation in the coming Northern Indiana Field Conference. Dr. Erhard Winkler spoke on the structure and origin of the Austrian Alps, and movies on this subject were shown by the Audio-Visual Department.
Reorganization to Bring Course Changes in AROTC
Recent national changes in air force organization will affect the Notre Dame Air ROTC unit according to Maj. Arthur Small, associate professor in the unit.
Curriculum changes will shift several courses now taught in the fourth year to second year schedules. Air Opera
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. AU clues are in ad.
2. Subnut answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers win one carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each.
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimile must accompany each entry.
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after tins issue's publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners wiU appear in the next issue.
7. AU answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges wiU be final.
QUESTIONS
Just find the key, throw out the E, And add Blue Grass to fleur-de-lis.
A cheerful mien encircled as seen:
A doubter of fame, that’s most of my name. The leading three in this basic series, Contain advice that’s better than theories.
ANSWERS WILL APPEAR IN THE NEXT ISSUE OF YOUR MAGAZINE
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS
A BAILEY. (Bailey’s Island: home of fish); (Bailey’s Beach: home of socialites); (Bailey, N. C.: home of fanner).
P Four eyes (Darnell’s and Griffin’s) are the same in color and shape, but not in fame, since Linda DarneU’s are much more famous.
Q The pearl earrings worn by Linda DamelL
tions and Logistics are two of the transferred classes. Some third year courses will be taught in the first year.
The department name, Department of Military Science and Tactics, will be changed to Department of Air Science and Tactics. The Notre Dame unit was formerly under the jurisdiction of the Army Ground Forces.
For the One and Only
Flowers by Williams
ORCHIDS and GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
Williams, The Florist 219 West Washington "Just West of the Oliver”
26
The Scholastic
Flag Pole May Be Moved To More Prominent Spot
The flag pole next to the commerce building may soon join the ranks of those replicas of a past age to fall before the axe of Progress. Plans have been put before the University Council to replace the present pole with a new one, to be situated closer to the main gate.
However, no action has yet been taken, pending further investigation by the Council and the Building committee, and the old pole still maintains its precarious existence.
The present pole was put up in 1908. At that time, the University grounds
ARROW
___for many an Easter, college men have favored the fine fit and good looks of
a favorite
Easter Habit!
Arrow White Shirts
Both oxfords and broadcloths in your preferred collar styles are now available at your Arrow dealer's. See him today for an Arrow white shirt and Arrow tie. Shirts $3.65 up, Ties $1.00 up.
SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
extended only as far south as Father Sorin’s statue and the pole was in a prominent spot. Now that the grounds have been pushed farther South, the pole has receded into relative obscurity. The Council thinks that perhaps it is time the pole be moved to a more favorable spot.
The new pole would probably be located in the square plot immediately in front of Father Sorin’s statue, somewhat to the south and west of its present location. It would be only 100 feet tall, however, some 38 feet shorter than the present pole. Opposition to the new pole stems mainly from the large cost involved and the uncertainty of future building plans.
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
ARROW
^GILBET^
813-817 S. Michiga* street
Rose & Katz for ARROW
?
Rm s Kara
MAIN AT COLFAX SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
April 1, 1949
27
Capjagat 1949. Liggett & Mnu Tobacco Co.
See Chesterfield Contest on Page 26