Vol, XIX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 12, 1886.
No. 39.
The End. of a Quarrel.
BY MARION MUIR.
“ Good-bye! there was a time when but one hour Without your words seemed wearisome to me.
But we are parted, we are parted now;
Between our ways there lies a sullen sea. More than a sea, for vessels cross the wave,
The ash-cold silence of an ended love;
More than a death, for graves have, opening, Let out their bondsmen to the life above.
“ Good-bye again. God knows my heart was hollow
For the bright dream that once I called my own.
But I controlled it; sentimental wailings
Fit not the'heights where I must climb alone.
Your deed, not mine, it was that broke our bond.
All that is doubt must ever rest untold
Deep in the Past, whence I have turned with tears For shattered idols that I prized of old.”
The Microscope in Modern Scientific Researches.
True science is based on facts known by means of observation and experiment. The power of an observing eye is great, but how much greater must • it be when assisted by such instruments as the telescope, microscope and spectroscope? Let us consider the advancement made in science during the last half century by means of the microscope alone, and those wonders of life and beauties of organization which that instrument reveals to us; and still, day after day, new and interesting discoveries are made and truths already discerned are more and more amplified. The microscope, both as an instrument of research and as a “ means for gratifying a laudable curiosity,” has many applications and advantages, some of which may be briefly enumerated.
Almost every branch of natural and physical science is extensively aided by microscopy, and the question now is, not to what particular science
the microscope can be applied with the greatest	•
advantage, but rather which one of them can get along without it? Those sciences in which it is of the greatest use, and for which it has done the most, .	.
are: anatomy,biology,physiology,medicine,chem-istry, mineralogy and geology. Histology depends	.
entirely on this manner of examination, since it	.
treats of primary tissues and cells which can be • seen only under a highly magnifying power.
The microscope enables the mineralogist to de- . termine the nature and structure of minute speci-	.
mens, and to measure with precision the angles of *	.
crystals that cannot be seen by the naked eye, and even to watch the actual process of crystallization. . The geologist can study not only the animal and vegetable remains entombed in the strata of the	.
earth’s crust as fossils, but also, by its means, the very nature and composition of those strata. . Thus it is found that the composition of chalk and lime- .	.
stone is chiefly made up of innumerable shells of ■ minute animals.	/
The chemist is enabled to investigate re-actions in small quantities and to.detect the slightest traces of the presence of particular substance. Dr. Worm-	' .
ley states that by micro-chemical analysis, the reaction of the 100,000th part of a grain of hydro- ' cyanic acid, mercury, or arsenic can be “recognized , with unerring certainty.”
In histology, as mentioned above, the assistance derived from the microscope is absolutely necessary;. ;	;
and in biology, which treats of the forms and func- -	~
tions of life, it is very nearly so. No matter what . ’ the biologist might learn by general observation, . he should examine the minute structure of- the	,...
living being and note its unity and simplicity.
Thus he finds the elementary unit in living bodies .	- ?
to be the cell, which contains living matter called * protoplasm (or better, bioplasm, accordingto Beale); but farther than this he cannot go, for life itself is	■. ..
incomprehensible. Closely allied to this is the de-	.
partment of vegetable and animal physiology,. a	, . -
most extensive as well as interesting study, and of / \ - j -great importance to students of medicine. As this .. .	' J
science consists in investigating the functions of	. \ "
the different tissues and organs of plants and.ani- /	. .. . v
mals (especially the higher forms), and examining; _	.. '
their structure, it is obvious that an instrument .	I
618	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

rendering. visible the smallest differences in form and composition is indispensable. The botanist or the zoologist, unless he wishes to miss the greater . and more interesting part of his favorite branch of natural history, should not fail to take advantage of the means of observation afforded him by the use of the microscope; new tribes and species are brought under his consideration, which would otherwise remain unknown. But in the classification of the lowei* organic beings, the one must take care lest he trespass on the grounds of the other, or on neutral ground, for there is no real dividing line between the animal and vegetable kingdoms.
•O
But it is in the medical world that the microscope is of the greatest real benefit and necessity to mankind, and its value is here fully appreciated even . by those who were loth to perceive its utility. Now the physician who would keep pace with the progress of his profession must necessarily make use of it in his special investigations. In enumerating the applications of this instrument, Hogg says that “ the smallest portion of a diseased structure placed under a microscope will tell more in one minute to the experienced eye than could be ascertained by long examination of the mass of disease in the ordinary method. Microscopic agency, in thus assisting the medical man, contributes much to the alleviation of those multiplied ‘ills which flesh is heir to.’” The old method of judging a disease solely by symptoms is being superseded by that of investigating the diseased structure itself and the changes produced in the different stages of transition from the healthy to the morbid state. The microscope is also an important aid in studying the causes of disease, and in this department of practical medicine much assistance is expected from casual observers by examining the air and water for impurities, and articles of food for adulterations. Dr. Hassall who has made extensive researches in this line states that “ in nearly all ar-tides, whether food, drink, or drugs, my opinion is that adulteration prevails. And many of the substances employed in the adulterating process are not only injurious to health, but even poisonous.” Pasteur’s great discovery of the cause of hydrophobia is an example of the substantial benefit afforded by the use of the microscope. Truly microscopy is the “ guiding genius of medical science.”	*
I have mentioned nothing of the valuable assistance it gives to agriculture and horticulture; besides, the simple microscope is an essential help to the jeweller and the engraver. In courts of justice sometimes the decision depends entirely upon the revelations of the microscope. “Even theology,” writes Dr. Whyte, “has its contributions from microscopy. The teleological view of nature, which traces design, receives from it a multitude of illustrations. In this department the - war between skeptical philosophy and theology has waged most fiercely; and if the difference between living and non-living matter may be demon-. . strated by the microscope, as argued by Dr. Beale . and others, theology, sends forth a paean of victory
from the battlements of this science.” But, after all, what we know is so little in comparison to what we do not know that there yet remains an unbounded area for our inquiries and discoveries. Yet the farther we advance into that illimitable space, the more we are impressed with the wonderful power and goodness of an all-wise"Creator.
H. C. R.
Cyrus.
“ Thrice is he armed who hath his quarrel just.”
There is no more striking example of the truth of this proverb than the expedition of Cyrus against his brother. Every point in this quarrel was in Cyrus’ favor except its justice. Let us glance at his life, and see the advantages which he possessed over Artaxerxes, and we will perceive the force of the saying.
Cyrus was the younger son of Darius, the great king of Persia. He was educated with Artaxerxes, his brother, and the sons of the principal nobles, at the school of the palace, founded by Darius in order that the noble youths of his empire might, by seeing whom he honored and whom disgraced, be better able to form characters befitting their high stations. Among all this magnificent assembly Cyrus stood pre-eminent. He was noted for his modesty and docility in the presence of his superiors, his industry in his studies, his handsome person and graceful, easy bearing. His generosity and kindness to everyone won him all hearts. Athletic sports were with him a passion, and he excelled in them, especially in those which related to war—archery, lancing and horsemanship. He was full of adventurous spirit and feared no danger, but rather sought it. Once while hunting alone, a she-bear rushed out upon him; Cyrus did not decline the encounter, though he could easily have escaped, but boldly faced his enemy. He was torn from his horse and badly wounded, but finally vanquished his antagonist. This was considered an honorable victory, because he was still quite a youth.
When he was old enough to hold office his father appointed him satrap of Lydia, Greater Phrygia and Cappadocia, and declared him general over the soldiers of the Costolus Plain. As soon as Cyrus became a public man, his greatest care was to show that if he entered into a league, engaged in a contract, or made a promise, his word should never be broken. It was his constant prayer that he might live long enough to conquer his friends by greater kindnesses than they could bestow, and his enemies by greater injuries than they could inflict.. This was the moral code of the day in which he lived, and Cyrus was according to it a man of the greatest virtue. But in attempting to out-do his friends in kindness he was most unostentatious. No one, except those for whom they were intended, knew of the favors bestowed— unless.it would become an additional kindness to his friends to have the distinction made public.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
He was most considerate of time and place. Indeed the delicacy with which he handled the feelings of his friends is one of the best traits of his character. Hence it was that private citizens, cities and governments gave themselves up to him with so much confidence, and that no man in all the vast empires of Greece and Persia had so many devoted adherents as he. He received more presents than even the great king himself. These were generally ornaments for his person or weapons of war. When receiving them, he would say: “ I cannot, my friend, wear all these adornments myself. But if you will allow me to bestow them on my comrades it will give me the greatest pleasure to accept them; because I think the noblest ornament a prince can have is handsome courtiers beautifully dressed.”
But let me come to the principal event in the life of this great man, the one which was also the occasion of his unfortunate death. Darius, feeling his death approaching, and wishing to have his last hours blest by the presence of both his sons, sent to the satrapy of.Cyrus, who immediately set out for the capitol, surrounded by a splendid mercenary guard, and attended, as usual, by an imposing number of his native soldiers. Cyrus arriving at the royal palace with this numerous army, Artaxerxes, whose ears had already been poisoned by insidious calumnies against his brother, began to suspect some treasonable design, and caused him to be thrown into prison, with the intention of putting him to death. But the entreaties of his mother saved him and obtained his freedom.
In the meantimeDarius had died, and Artaxerxes succeeded to the throne. Now for the first time we note a weakness in the character of Cyrus—his vindictiveness and ambition. Returning to his government, chafing under the disgrace he had suf. fered, he immediately began to raise an army with the pretence of making war upon the Pisidians, a neighboring tribe, who, he assumed, were encroaching upon his territories; but in reality this was a secret design upon the throne. That part of his force on which he principally relied was the famous ten thousand Greeks, whose retreat is the theme of Xenophon’s great work.
It was, as I- have said, originally the intention of Cyrus to surprise his brother. But Tissapher-ness, the neighboring satrap, seeing the extensive preparations being made, and considering them too extensive to be directed against the Pisidians, hastily set out for the capitol to warn the king, and at the same time taking, with him all the men he could collect.
Cyrus set out from Sardes with his mercenaries, who, not knowing whither they were being lead, were inclined to mutiny at every little hardship. He marched through Phrygia, Cilicia, Syria, Arabia and Babylonia to Cunaxa. Here he was met by the kino-, who had assembled his hordes of warriors from all sides. It was afternoon when the two armies came in sight of each other. At first appeared a cloud of dust rolling heavily along the plain; then the armor flashed, the spears and columns became visible, and the ground trembled with
the tramp of the multitude. The army of Cyrus was not half so great as that of Artaxerxes. The right wings being equal, Cyrus’ left wing did not reach the King’s centre; but his hope was in the Greeks; on these rested the salvation of himself and men. These, however, in the extreme moment . were found wanting. Cyrus commanded Clearchus, their general, to lead his troops aganist the king’s centre. “ There,” said he, “ is the king. Break this and our work is done! ” Clearchus refused to obey, and charged the wing which was opposite him. This broke and fled. Clearchus, thinking the whole Persian force vanquished, pursued, leaving Cyrus without the aid which he so sorely needed. Cyrus, however, did not yet despair, but charged the king’s guard of 6000 cavalry with his own, but 600 strong, and put them to flight. His guard scattered in pursuit, leaving Cyrus, comparatively alone, surrounded by the enemy. Standing thus, almost unguarded, he caught sight of his brother, rushed for- -ward, dashing aside the attendants who surrounded him and wounded the kins- through the corslet with his sword, before any one could interfere. The king and Cyrus, with those about them, now engaged hand to hand; but the odds were too great. After a desperate struggle, Cyrus fell. His retinue, not wishing to outlive their magnanimous prince, died fighting over his body. Not less than ten of the principal nobles of the empire at the end of the conflict lay dead upon his body.
So perished one who seemed to have been pos- , sessed of every quality requisite to the making of a great ruler. All who came in contact with him were attracted by his strong personal magnetism. His forces, it is true, were numerically smaller than those of his brother, but they were opposed to a horde of cowards who fled in confusion at the first attack; while the Greeks alone, after defeat and the death of their leader, held the whole Persian army at bay, having at the same time not only to contend against open forces, but to combat secret treachery in their own camp.
His friends thought it an honor to die-with him, and were faithful unto death; but Artaxerxes was thrice armed even_in the midst of his timorous crew, and Cyrus paid the penalty of a self-sought quarrel, which was certainly far from being a just one.
■ , # * *
The Discoverer of the Pacific Ocean.
- Scarcely less fascinating than the fabulous ex- j ploits of gods and of men, which the most famous of . the ancient poets celebrated in ever-enduring song, are the discoveries and almost incredible adventures . and hardships of the pioneer Spaniards in the New j World. With an insignificant force, in point of < numbers, these indefatigable warriors subdued-tribe	.	,
after tribe of the aborigines, extended the bounda-; ries of their own empire, and made Spain the richest as well’as the most powerful nation of Europe. . Each discovery, each conquest gave birth to new ; heroes, new enterprises; and among all these ’ v achievements few created a more profound sensa- .
620	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tion throughout Europe at the time than the discovery of the Pacific Ocean—an event which greatly enlarged prevalent ideas respecting the size of the earth and which paved the way for the circumnavigation of the globe. Before narrating this event, however, a brief sketch is necessary of the individual by whose genius and patient endurance the existence of this vast ocean was first revealed to Europeans.
Vasco Nunes de Balboa was born in Spain of a noble but impoverished family, in the year 1476. His ardent nature being fired by the glowing accounts of the New World which Columbus had just discovered, before yet attaining the age of manhood, he enlisted under Bastides, about to embark on a voyage of discovery. After many adventures, Balboa at length settled on the island of Hispanola, where he soon became involved in debt; so that when Enciso was setting out from that island with reinforcements for the colony of San Sabastian, Balboa determined to accompany him. To elude the vigilance of his creditors, the young adventurer concealed himself in a cask, . which, by bribing one of the crew, he caused to be conveyed on board as though containing provisions for the voyage. When fairly out at sea, he came forth and showed himself to the astonished Enciso, who, in his wrath at the deceit practised upon him, threatened to leave the fugitive on the first uninhabited island they should encounter. Vasco Nunes, however, soon gained the favor of the crew, and indeed of the captain himself, who was not slow to perceive that Balboa was a man most suited for an expedition of the kind. Reaching San Sabastian, they found the colony entirely destroyed by the Indians. By the advice of Balboa, who had explored this region before under Bastides,they sailed for Darien. Here they landed, and formed a settlement.
Now Balboa was as ambitious as he was daring. With the qualities of leadership he united a peculiar faculty for winning the affections of men— even of his enemies. After a few months, and partly through his instigation, the colonists, who were already discontented with the severe rule of their governor, openly revolted. Enciso was tried, his property confiscated, and himself cast into prison, but upon his request was permitted to return to Spain. Balboa immediately took the reins of government into his own hands, and so successful was he that some months later he was confirmed as governor of the colony by the admiral at Hispanola.
Constantly occupied in obtaining provisions for the colony, subduing the neighboring tribes, and healing dissentions among the Spaniards, the new governor had ample opportunities for displaying his powers. Once, when on an expedition into the interior in search of gold, he was told by an Indian chief of a mighty sea lying behind the ridge of mountains which far away to the west lifted their heads above the clouds—information which roused the adventurous spirit of Balboa to the highest pitch. But he had also been told by the chief that in order to reach the shores of this sea, at least tooo warriors would be required, on ac
count of the numerous and powerful tribes of Indians lying between, whom it would be necessary either to overawe or to conquer. Returning, therefore, to the colony, Balboa at once wrote to the admiral at Hispanola, informing him of the intelligence received of the unknown sea, and earnestly solicited men and provisions which would enable him to seek and explore at least its shores. After a few months two ships arrived from Hispanola, bringing with them abundant supplies and a reinforcement of 150 men. Upon the arrival of these Balboa made immediate preparations for his expedition. Selecting 190 of his most resolute and devoted men he set out on the 1st of Sept. 1513.
After enduring untold hardships, after contesting almost every mile of the way with the Indians, and surmounting the many obstacles which barred their path, they at length, on the 25th of September, arrived at the foot of the mountain from whose summit Balboa had been told the unknown body of water could be seen. Of the band of Spaniards who had set out from Darien 67 alone remained; many had perished on the way, others had been sent back on account of sickness.
At daybreak on the morning of the 26th, the little party began the ascent. When within twenty feet of the summit Balboa ordered a halt; then, with beating heart, he ascended alone the bare mountain-top. He turns his eyes westward, and behold! the long-desired prospect burst upon his view. The emotions of Columbus when, for the first time, he gazed upon the verdant shores of his fancied Indies were not more sublime than those of Balboa when, from the summit of the Andes, he first beheld that immensity of water stretching out before him with unbroken surface until sea and sky were as one. Sinking upon his knees, he returned thanks to God for being the first European to whom it was given to behold this great, unknown body of water. His companions being summoned, they too were enchanted with the grandeur of the scene. Before this glorious vision these hardy veterans, bearing the scars of innumerable conflicts, melted into tears. Their sufferings were forgotten, and from swelling hearts a joyful Te Detern ascended to the mighty Creator of the universe.
After solemnly taking possession of the sea, its islands and surrounding lands, in the name of his sovereigns, the discoverer caused a tall tree to be cut.down and a cross to be fashioned therefrom, which was elevated on the spot whence he had first beheld the ocean. Then, descending, the little band of warriors made their way to the seashore, and arrived at the borders of a mighty bay, to which was given the name of St. Michael, on whose feast-day it had been discovered. Taking the banner of Castile and Leon in one hand and in the other his naked sword, Balboa marched into the sea until the water reached above his knees, and again formally took possession of the ocean and all lands which it might touch.	'
From this time a complete change took place in Balboa’s character. From an extravagant, daring, and not over-scrupulous adventurer he became the prudent, cautious and noble discoverer. Conscious
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
621
of the grandeur of his discovery, he no longer felt himself to be the head of a band of adventurers, but a great commander, conducting an enterprise whose fame would be immortal. Scarcely a year had elapsed when, in consequence of Enciso’s complaints to the king, Balboa was superseded in the command by Davilla, a man who had greatly distinguished himself as a soldier in the Moorish wars, but who was not at all suited for the task of governing rude colonies in the wilderness.- When, however, King Ferdinand learned of the discovery of the Pacific, Balboa was again appointed Governor; but the jealous Davilla, who now sought to ruin the brave Vasco Nunes, artfully concealed from him and from the colonists the king’s mes-sage. Two years afterwards just as Balboa, after having transported, with immense labor, ships across the isthmus, was setting out to explore the great ocean which he had discovered, he was accused of treason, treated to a mock trial, condemned, and sentenced to death on the scaffold. He submitted to his fate calmly and fearlessly, but with his last breath declared himself innocent of the crime with which he had been charged. Thus, in the flower of his age, perished the hero who had rendered such signal services to his country, and who gave every promise of accomplishing even greater things.	T. A. B.
00	*7
The Poetess in the Observatory.
“ Aha! my dear astronomer, I’ve caught you at your task, And there’s a lot of questions that I really want to ask: In astronomic science I’m with interest imbued.
There! that’s a parallax, I know; and that’s an altitude.”
“ Madam, at any other time a favor I should deem This unexpected visit, but the crisis is extreme; I’ve put the telescope in place, expecting very soon To witness Eta Virginis occulted by the moon.”
“ An occultation! Put it off, some other time to see; It’s not so very often that you get a call from me.
So answer me my questions: In the first place, I’d inquire From what star did Prometheus purloin celestial fire?”
“ I really must reiterate you’ve caught me at a pinch;
I hope to get our longitude corrected to an inch: The occasion is important, and I cannot let it pass, Some other evening, cheerfully, I’ll let you use the glass.”
“Your longitude! Why, bless me, I should think you ought to know
How to find it in the atlas: it will please me much to show. Now tell me truly, how far off with this glass can y9a see? I long to see the Southern Cross: do, pray, now, show it me.”
“The Southern Cross? Your wishes can’t be gratified, I fear,
For the very simple reason that it-never rises here: And thro’ the earth’s convexity no ray of light can break— No telescope has yet been made to look thro’ things opaque.”
“Then why so loud in praise of it? I’m sure I’d never vaunt
A telescope that couldn’t show me anything I’d want.
One would think to hear you talking you’d the universe secure,
And could see the fabled Peris in the ‘ Paradise ’ of Moore.”
“ I find my glass sufficient for the usual work required;
And by folks endowed with common-sense ’tis very much admired.
We plodding men of science do not aim at things sublime:
The only Peri I’ve observed is Periodic Time.”
“ A horrid pun! And now don’t think to shirk the conversation ;
But, say, is Mars inhabited? and what’s his population?
Do you think electric telegrams would often pass between us
If you should dwell in Jupiter while I’d reside in Venus? ”
“There now you’ve jogged the telescope. It really is too bad!
I’ve heard it said, ‘ The undevout astronomer is mad ’;
But you’d make anybody mad, devout or undevout:
I wish you’d go, and let me do the work that I’m about.”
“ I think you’re real unmannerly! It’s wicked, too, to swear.
I ne’er again will visit you, you nasty thing! so there!
And you’ll repent your rudeness soon, as safely, you may wager;.
For I’ll write a satire on you, and I’ll call you Ursa Major.”
“Thank Heaven! she is gone at last; and now for calculation.
Why------the--------------! I’ve missed the occultation!
_____________________________________f ”*
Stasis, in Chicago Tribune.
* Persons accustomed to do the figuring on occultations will find no difficulty in filling these blanks.
Farming- in Colorado.
Between Long’s Peak, standing sentinel upon the north, and the Spanish Peaks marking the southern borders of Colorado, there have been wondrous changes wrought during the last six or seven years. “ Billow bays of grass ” are still to be seen, but the buffalo and the elk have disappeared. The valleys then silent are now alive with humanity, and each succeeding spring sees the plains, then waste, now rich with grain.
Agriculture in Colorado is an entirely different pursuit from that to which the-eastern farmer is accustomed. The latter will find that failure is more likely to result from his labors than success. Fie has much to unlearn and to learn. Dependent upon irrigation for the growth of his crops, he must understand the methods of that system and meet the requirements of the climate.
Though Colorado as a farming state cannot compare with the states of the east, still farming can be successfully carried on and be made profit-j able; that is, it can be, if pursued in the proper way; and, if so carried on, bountiful harvest will crown the farmer’s efforts and excellent prices will, cheer his heart and fill his pocket. .Those who go
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to Colorado expecting to find fenced and plowed lands, with fruit-bearing trees, and small irrigating canals intersecting every rod of such land, and who think that they have only to file a “ Pre-emption ” or “ Homestead ” claim, and then immediate^ settle down and enjoy all the comforts of life, will have only themselves to blame for theii- disappointment.
It is thought by many that irrigation is a very expensive method. This belief, no doubt, keeps many from settling and establishing farms in Colorado. But it is not true; on the contrary, irrigation is rather an advantage to the farmer. It may add a little to the labor required upon an acre of land, but the increased yield more than repays for the extra labor. The preparation required to construct small ditches to the land will not, on an average, exceed the expenses of drainage necessary in rainy countries; besides the roads are nearly always dry, which enables the farmer to draw much larger quantities of grain. And thus the expense of harvesting is greatly reduced. There are many corporate canals and numerous private canals, or ditches—as the smaller channells are termed—located in different sections of the state. The most important irrigation worksand the largest canal in the state is the High Line Canal of the Platte Land Company. This large irrigating channel takes its water from the South Platte River at Platte Canon and runs over the prairies for a distance of eighty-two miles. It is constructed to carry a volume of water five feet deep and forty feet wide for the first twenty miles and gradually decreasing to the end. The construction of this great enterprise has brought many thousand acres of valuable land under cultivation within ten miles of Denver, the largest city in the state. At present there can be seen a number of beautiful and well-paying farms along this water course.
The principal produce grown upon the irrigated lands of Colorado are: wheat, oats, barley, potatoes, alfalfa, small fruits, and garden products. The farmer of Colorado need not be afraid of drought falling upon him and destroying his large fields of waving grain, for he is his own rain-maker.
P. Chapin.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Lady Wilde (“ Speranza ”) is preparing a collection of Irish legends.
—Mr. Daniel Connolly, of New York, has completed his Cyclopaedia of Irish Poetry. The work is now in the hands of the printers and will soon be published.
—Mr. Alois F.Juettner, the well-known editor of the Cincinnati Sonntao-sblatt. intends issuing shortly a Catholic daily. It will be called the Cincinnati Tageblatt.
—It is the opinion of the American Bookseller that “ The magazines are killing the books and the newspapers.are killing the magazines. A Sunday paper, to-day is a magazine and a review.”
—Dr. Hauler, an Austrian scholar, has just dis
covered in the Bibliotheque Nationale at Paris five fragments of a historical work of the Latin author Sallust—a work hitherto unknown. One of the fragments is part of a letter from Pompey the Great to the Roman Senate. Another fragment o __ gives an account of the debate on this letter. The remaining three fragments consist of reports of hostilities in Spain and other countries. The five fragments are palimpsests over which had been written the texts of the works of St. Jerome.
—There are 3000 journals published in Asia, of which no fewer than 2000 appear in Japan. In China the only newspapers not published by residents at the treaty ports are four—the Ning-Pao^ an official journal published at Pekin; the Chen-Pao and Hu-Pao^ published at Shanghai, and the government journal at Corea, brought out last year. There are three newspapers printed in French Cochin China, and one appears in Tonkin —VAvenir du Tonkin’ the rest of the newspapers credited to Asia appear in India, with the exception of six published in Persia.
—From the harp hundreds of years ago sprang the psaltery. Thisjnstrument being enlarged and placed on a stand, and made to be struck with stationary keys, was called clavichord, the first keyed instrument, and the forerunner of the piano. The strings were supported on bridges covered with pieces of cloth, which made the.sound sweeter, but at the same time deadened it. This was sometimes called dumb spinet. Until less than a century ago the piano was also called a spinet. This name is from the Latin spina^ a thorn, because the strings, instead of being struck as at present, were picked with a crow quill fastened to the end of a key. Out of the harp, in the same way, and as an improvement on the clavichord, sprang the harpsichord.—Ex.
—The death is announced, at Versailles, of the Abbe Jules Corblet, editor of the Revue de I'Art Chretien. He was born at Roye, on the 16th of June, 1819, and after his ordination labored for many years in the diocese of Amiens. He was one of the most learned archaeologists of the day. Among his numerous works are “L’Art Chretien au Moyen Age,” “ Manuel *d’Archeologie Nationale,” “ Hagiographie du Diocese d’Amiens,” “ Glossaire du Patois Picard, Ancien et Moderne.” Just before his death he had finished an important work on the Sacraments. The deceased priest was an honorary Canon, a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor, a member of the French Society of Antiquarians, a correspondent of the Institute, and an assodkite of several other learned associations.
—Ferdinand Gregorovius, the famous German traveller, has written from Munich to the President of the Roman Academy^ of San Luce, protesting against the transformation now going on in Rome, and which he describes as “ the most considerable of all the metamorphoses undergone by the Eternal City since the time of Augustus.” He complains that “ much has been destroyed in order to build feverishly anew,” and says that “ those who love Rome cannot bear to think that the historical
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	623
character of the Eternal City is to be effaced,” so that the capital may be modernized, and “ places like the Colosseum, the Celian Hill, the Aventine, the gardens of Nero, and the surroundings of the Vatican ” are to be destroyed to make room in the future for “ monotonous lines of houses built for speculative purposes.” He also sees no excuse or necessity for “ transforming the most beautiful villas of Rome into building sites. Already Villa Ludovici has been unmercifully destroyed—that villa which seemed a park such as kings and ancient sages could desire. And now,” he adds, “ we fear for one of the most beautiful monuments of earth, with the exception of the Acropolis of Athens —for the Capitol,—to which the monument to Victor Emanuel will give a modern appearance.”
Scientific Notes.
—An accident in a Melbourne foundry led to the discovery that plunging iron castings into a mixture of treacle and water softens the metal to such a degree that it can be worked as readilv as wrought
O	V	o
iron.
—The London Electrician is the authority for a new and easy method of relieving the toothache. It says that if a thin plate of zinc be placed on one side of the gum and a silver coin on the other-side, with the aching tooth between them, and then the edges of the metals brought together, a weak galvanic current will be established that will cure the pain.
—Father Able, of Colesburg, Ky., has a clock that is run by electricity. It is so arranged that the pendulum is moved by an electric current, and any number of time-pieces can be run by the same motive power. A clock in Chicago, one in New York, and another in New Orleans, if connected by Father Abie’s contrivance, would keep exactly the same time to a second.
—Steno-telegraphy is one of the most interesting among the many methods devised for increasing the capacity of telegraph lines. It may be said to be another form of code signaling in which an abbreviated sign may indicate a word or even a sentence. The manipulation on this system naturally requires long practice, which is one of its drawbacks, but the results obtained compare quite favorably with those of other fast systems.
—One of the most wonderful discoveries in science that has been made within the last year or two is the fact that a beam of light produces sound. A beam of sunlight is thrown through a lens on a glass vessel that contains lampblack, colored silk, or worsted, or other substances. A disc having slits or openings cut in it is made to revolve swiftly in this beam of light, so as to cut it up, thus making alternate flashes of light and shadow. On putting the ear to the glass vessel, strange sounds are heard so long as the flashing beam is falling on the vessel.
—Pipes made of paper have been exhibited in Vienna. The. process of manufacture is as fol- ।
lows: Strips of paper, the width of which corresponds with the length of one pipe section, are drawn through melted asphalt, and wound upon a mandrel. When the pipe thus made has cooled, the mandrel is withdrawn, and the inside is covered with a kind of enamel, the nature of which comprises the main secret of the invention, and is therefore not made known. The outside is painted with asphalt varnish and dusted over with sand. It is stated that such a pipe will resist some 2000 pounds internal pressure, though the thickness of the stuff is only about one-half inch.
—M. Larochelle’s portable electric lamp has found much favor in Paris. The battery is enclosed in the lower- part, and consists of an ebonite vessel divided into eight compartments by partitions, furnishing eight cells, or elements, in a very compact form. The vessel will hold about three litters of liquid, capable of acting for about eight hours without exhaustion. Each element is made up of a rod of zinc and two rods of carbon fixed to a disk, which can be lowered into the liquid or lifted out of it by turning a key like that used in a Careel oil lamp, and the power of the light is regulated by the depth to which the zincs and carbons are immersed. The solution employed is said to be the result of many experiments with a view to securing steadiness in the light, and the zincs are screwed into the disk, so as to be easily removed for renewal.
—There has been introduced at the Paris observatory an apparatus specially designed for photographing the heavenly bodies, and M. Mouchez, director of the observatory, has presented to the French Academy of Sciences a chart obtained by this wonderful method. This map contains a small section of the Milky Way, and presents to view five thousand stars, ranging from the sixth to the fifteenth magnitude. In,view of the fact that there are forty-one thousand superficial degrees in the firmament, it is estimated that a representation of the whole surface, completed in the same way, would require six thousand similar sections, forming one thousand five hundred ecliptical charts. It is further estimated—gigantic as such a work appears—that, if it were undertaken by six or eight observatories, favorably situated in the two hemispheres, the work might be concluded in five or six years, and would contain photographs of 20,000,000 stars, down to the fifteenth magnitude.
The New-St. Patrick’s Day.
The harp that for ages in silence hath slumbered Again to the anthem of Freedom shall wake;
The hours of oppression in Erin are numbered, Her sons have uprisen her fetters to break, And soon shall be seen Proudly waving the green,
And patriots long exiled home taking their way; And Liberty’s strains ,	.
Will be heard on the plains
And hilltops of Erin next St. Patrick’s Day.
—Boston Courier,
624
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, June 12, 18§6.
The attention of the Alumni of«the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Lit erary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
Our Staff.
Frank H. Dexter,	P. J. Goulding,
F. J. Hagenbarth,	T. J. Cleary.
M. B. Mulkern.
—A. number of prominent lawyers will from time to time next year deliver lectures before the Law Class. Among them are Gen. John Gibbons, Hon. L. L. Mills, and Geo. W. Cass, Esq., of the Chicago Bar. The Law Department appears to be destined to take a first place among the law schools of the country.	1
pleased to state that he will be here again in a few days to assist in the examination of the Law Class.
—The scholastic year is fast drawing to a close. A few days more of study and then the examinations begin, and with them the work of the year will be at an end. Industry and application will then meet with their due reward, not alone in the testimonials of merit which the college will bestow upon the deserving student, but also, and especially, in the incalculable benefits which heart and mind will have received from attention to instruction and zealous application, as well as in that satisfaction and repose of mind which is ever attendant upon the strict performance of duty. The rewards this year will be of the usual high order of excellence, perhaps greater in number than ever before, and constitute prizes well worth the striving for, both on account of their intrinsic value and as being the expression of Alma Mater's appreciation of worth. Besides the gold and silver medals, which form the awards of conduct, and the prizes for special branches, there will be a large number of books given as premiums. These have been selected with a particular end in view, namely, to present to the student only such works as are likely to prove of permanent value and interest. So that it will be seen that these awards will be in themselves particularly valuable apart from any consideration of honor or distinction, though the latter would be a motive sufficient of itself to excite the emulation of any well-disposed student.
In regard to determining the recipients of honors, prizes, premiums and the like, the system of Class Honors and of competitions which ha.s been followed at Notre Dame for a number of years has proved to be one of the best means to subserve the interests of fairness and justice. It has been productive of great emulation among the students and has brought forth good and abundant fruits. By this system the student is followed from month to month, his ability and progress are calculated with almost mathematical accuracy, while at the same time his mind is left in reoose, and he is encouraged by the moral certainty that no chance or accident may deprive him of any distinction to which in justice he is entitled.
The Lsetare Medal.
—Gen. John Gibbons, ’68, a leading lawyer of Chicago, visited Notre Dame Saturday and remained till Sunday evening. At 8 o’clock p. m., Saturday, he delivered before the advanced students a very interesting and instructive lecture on “Personal Liberty under the Bill of Rights.” It commanded undivided attention and unqualified praise. The General also sat as judge in the trial of a Moot-court case. Though the young men of the Law Class had but very, little time to prepare the case, yet he complimented them very highly upon the manner in which, they presented it. We are
Though some time has now elapsed since the conferring of the Lzetare Medal—Notre Dame’s annual testimonial of appreciation of distinguished merit and service in the field of literature, science and art—yet the publication of the following correspondence, lately received, will not be deemed inappropriate, in view of the eminence of the writer. The preoccupation almost constant and unavoidable	j
to one in the position which Gen. Newton occu-	1
pies, prevented the reception of the medal at the	|
proper time, However, his appreciation of the	|
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
testimonial is well expresseil in the following letters, which we are pleased to be permitted to present to our readers:
Maurice F. Egan, Esq.
My Dear Sir:—I send .herewith my reply and acknowledgment to the Professors and Alumni of the University of Notre Dame of the reception of the medal and accompanying words of congratulation.
In addition to the formal acknowledgment sent herewith, which I confess inadequately expresses my thanks and appreciation of the honor, allow me to thank you personally for the interest you have taken and the kind expressions of your esteem which I reciprocate.
In conclusion, I beg leave to apologize to you and to the Professors, etc., of the University for the long delay, which I may here say arose from circumstances beyond my control, and principally from my frequent journeys as also from the desire to acknowledge in a more formal and elaborate manner than through an ordinary letter. I have been delayed also by the hope of having my reply put in a more ornamental shape as an additional mark of my appreciation. The length of time which I found it would require at the last compelled me to adopt the simple copy sent herewith. Will you add to your kindness and transmit the enclosed to its destination ?
Yours sincerely,
John Newton.
Joannes Newton
Professoribus et Alumnis Universitatis Domin.e Nostr.e. S. P. D.
Non sine aliquo pudore, ut intima animi mei'sensa pro-feram, honorificentissimas quas ad me misistis literas per-legi; pneclarumque numisma accepi. Ncque tamen vel laudes ipsas omnino reficiendas vel honoris insignia de-trectanda putavi. Cum enitn et ilke a doctissimis iisque piissimis viris proferrentur et h:ec ab integerrimis judi-cibus decernerentur, cohibere me sane non potui quin aliquid in me merit!, Deo largiente, inesse sentirem. Quo factum est, ut hoc vestro judicio, non inanis cujusdam gloriokc cupidus, sed Catholic! nominis amore ex animo percitus, mihi quam maxime gratularer. Nihil enim mihi carius nihil antiquius Religione unquam fuit aut esse potest. Vestro autem lapillo noverit Christiana juventus Religion! et Patrire in pace et in bello prodesse. Valete.
The St. Gecilian’s Entertainment.
The event of the week—events, by the way, are getting to be very common now, as theyear draws to a close—was the Twenty-Eighth Annual Entertainment of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association on Thursday night. The weather was all that could be wished for, and quite a large audience assembled in Music Hall to greet the youthful performers. The Faculty, in whose honor the entertainment was given, were present in full force and never seemed in a happier mood. (May it continue, at least till the examinations are over.) It was expected that the St. Cecilians would do credit to themselves and Prof. Lyons, and so they did, for a fact.
At the appointed moment (we don’t know just what moment that was, but the stage-manager did) the welcome strains of the N. D. U. Orchestra broke the stillness, and burst forth into the “ Caliph of Bagdad.” Everyone must have fancied himself the Caliph, or at least in Bagdad, so feel-insrlv rendered was this well-chosen overture. « The Morning Invitation,” a pretty trio, sung by Messrs. A. Miller, E. Berry and C. Senn, imme
diately following, was quite as praiseworthy. While the melody of these two’selections still lingered in the ears of the delighted listeners, Mr. G. Myers stepped forward and delivered the following appropriate and well-written address:
To-night the St. Cecilians. give their Twenty-Eighth Annual Entertainment, and to it they bid you all a very hearty welcome. They sincerely hope that it may prove diverting and enjoyable, and deserve to be thought "creditable to the participants. However, they venture to trust that due allowance will be made for any shortcomings or indications of hasty preparation that may appear or tend to mar the exercises; for, it need hardly be stated, this is for them and all their fellow-students the busiest season of the scholastic year. What with the grim prospect of a speedy and unsparing examination, the striking animation of boat club conferences, the disasters and perils of baseball championship, the patient and persevering matutinal practice of the oratorical contestants, the alternate hopes and fears of the aspirants for honors and medals, the fluctuating anxiety of certain members of the graduating classes, the general and active effort to be on the list of successful applicants for diplomas and degrees, not to mention the numerous exercises yet to be written, books to be reviewed, etc., no wonder it is difficult for them to find the time necessary to bring this less imperative work to the standard of perfection which it is invariably the aim of the St. Cecilians to reach. Hence, they beg indulgence. And yet thev feel that if they can attain to the standard established by their brother St. Cecilians of former years, they may rest assured that their work and the entire entertainment will be a source of pleasure and satisfactory to all. Some of the pleasantest traditions of Notre Dame cluster around the St. Cecilians of years gone by, and it is sincerely to be hoped that those of 1886 will not deserve a lower place in the favor and estimation of the Faculty and public.
The present entertainment they dedicate to the Faculty of the University. They do this with a sense of sincere pleasure; for they hope thus to testify to their appreciation of and regard for, the salutary lessons, devoted services and invariable kindness of their teachers and professors. It is with feelings of profound and lasting respect, and with the esteem cherished for near and dear friends, that they dedicate these exercises to the devoted reverend Fathers, and good Brothers and gentlemanly Professors who comprise the Faculty. So faithful to duty, so kind to one another, so obliging to us, so vigilant to promote our interests, so accessible at all times, they are among themselves as one great family, while to us St. Cecilians they are friends to whom we feel bound by ties strong as affection and enduring as memory. Sincerely we hope for them all the blessings Heaven bestows upon its most faithful and favored servants. And, in conclusion, we trust that the St. Cecilians of a century hence may have the privilege of referring to them as men who in their lives illustrated the noblest virtues and rendered most effective service to God, religion, education, and the then most noted institution of learning in the country—the University of Notre Dame.
Mr. Myers is possessed of a pleasant voice, and his delivery was both graceful and earnest.
A few moments’ pause, and the curtain arose on the first scene of the familiar tragedy of Henry IV. Such a drama would be an undertaking for any college association, and a commonplace rendition of it by Preps, would not be unfavorably criticised by the mostexacting spectator. “Falstaff”and “ Hotspur ” have been the climax of many an actor’s ambition, and “ King Henry IV ” is everywhere considered the most remarkable of all Shakspeare’s plays. There is a tradition that the author himself once took the latter part; that of “ Falstaff,” though often attempted, is rarely enacted with complete success. Considering the short time devoted to the preparation of this drama by the St. Cecilians, the small number of rehearsals (indeed the enter
626
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tainment might almost be termed an impromptu), we think the young' chaps did admirabty well. The principal performers gave abundant evidence that they had studied their parts, and the manner in which they entered into them shows what application and training can do, especially, as in the present instance, when backed by superior talent.
E. J. Darragh, as “ King Henry,” was very successful. His enactment of the part all through was characterized by naturalness and depth of feeling. It would not have been easy, we think, to find a better king in the Junior department. “ Hotspur,” personated by P. C. Cavaroc, was the fiery, ambitious nobleman we are familiar with. The keen wit and satire of “Falstaff” convulsed the audience with laughter. Mr. Wabraushek was a good selection for this difficult role. R. C. Newton, who enacted the part of “Harry Monmouth,” was a perfect prince, graceful, courtly, self-possessed. He would probably have sustained any other character quite as brilliantly. Prince John of Lancaster, Sir Walter Blount, the Earls of Westmoreland, of Worcester, of Douglas, of Northumberland, and’ Sir Richard Vernon, sustained respectively by R. Oxnard, J. Garrity, M. O’Kane, M. Mulkern, F. Long, W. Arts and D. Regan, were beyond criticism as representatives of these characters. The other members of the dramatis fcrsontz^ remarkable for number and gorgeousness and bewildering variety of costumes were all simpl v immense, some more so than others. The attendant bearing the euphonious name of “ Schmalz-grubcr” was not embarrassed in the least, and it was o	*
easy to see that his services could not well have been dispensed with. Thus far the drama.
When the grand tableau had disappeared, as all earthly glories must, the closing remarks were made by Rev. President Walsh in his happiest manner, and were listened to with wrapt attention. He praised the St. Cecilians for their histrionic abilities, their genial director for his efficient training and undiminished appreciation of the immortal works of the Bard of Avon, declaring that the evening’s entertainment had been of a high order-of merit and expressing the conviction that it had proved eniovableio all present.
'	, D’Udale.
.	[Wew Fork Freeman's Journali\
•	Why They “Don’t Get Along.”
Parents who attend the Commencement exercises of Catholic colleges are generally very much impressed byrthe pains taken with their sons. They have something pleasant to say to the teachers, and particularly. if there is a luncheon, the milk of human kindness actually eddies around the Alma Mater which young, students have so lately belauded. But the milk of human.kindness-often proves to be skim milk. And the institution which received the parental blessing in June does, not receive the son of his father in September. The . boy has.been sent somewhere else—to another in-.
stitution, from which he will also be withdrawn, never to return in the following year.
This restlessness of parents in the matter of schools is a very bad thing for children. If there be good reasons for. taking a boy from one school and putting him into another, there is nothing to be said. The parent then acts as a responsible and sane parent should; but when the parent looks with serene and approving eyes on a school in June, which he deserts without cause in September, the word capricious may justly be applied to him.
It is not uncommon to hear parents repeat the complaint: “I have had my boy at three or four colleges, and his progress is unsatisfactory.” Of course it is unsatisfactory. The boy has been made to begin over again every year, and has lost a good deal of time and some mental energy by the change of processes.
The course of studies in any college worthy of the name is the result of careful thought and planning. Experience may modify it, and not always in accordance with the opinions of the parent. The parent, however, is seldom in a position to judge correctly the teacher, whose profession it is to make a good school by profiting by his special means of obtaining experience. There are very few parents sufficiently capable of criticising the methods in use at a college. They may be experts in banking or in some other branch of business; they would ridicule suggestions of a commercial nature from their children’s teacher; they would not pretend to direct their legal advisers; but they are always ready to tinker at the teacher’s work, and to show him how it could be done much better. A new prospectus brought to their attention, by a friend who knows as little about the essentials of education as they do, will often move them to pull up their boys by the roots, as it were, and to transplant them to new educational soil. Bv the time he has begun to get some nutriment out of the strange earth, the boy is pulled up again. And yet these parents are surprised that their boys do not “ get along—there must be something wrong in Catholic colleges!”
If Catholic colleges could insist on parents indenturing their sons to them for the term of years necessary to complete the college course, they would have an opportunity to show what they could do. This is out of the question. As it is, parents do not think enough on the subject of the education of their children. They would consider that gardener a fool who transplanted trees from mere caprice or -fancy whenever he felt like it. But they consider a similar habit of rudely transplanting human minds a proof of their consummate wisdom. }
If a father .expects his son to go into a countingroom at a comparatively early, age, it is folly to keep him grinding at Casar and Nepos, to the neglect of the multiplication table'. If he wants him to be a lawyer or a doctor, he cannot better prepare him for professions which'ought to be “ learned ” than'by putting1 him into a good. Catholic college and obliging him to follow- the course to its end. But a father whohas paid attention to the unfold-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	627
ing of his son’s tastes and aptitudes ought to have some idea of what line of work he will take. Boys are too often thrown at the world, instead of entering it equipped for usefulness.
If a boy is started in a good school, make him stick to it. A great many little things may bring out passing comment of a critical sort, which later will seem not worth notice. A pupil’s business at school is to obey and to learn, not to criticise; and the father who sympathizes with his son’s criticisms on his school course, or his teacher’s methods, and lets them influence him, is creating future trouble for the boy. Continual change from one college to another injures a student. It injures the schools, too, for good results cannot be produced from a course of studies which is. always stopping short, and always beginning in a new place.
If parents could be made to think seriously and act firmly, the proportion of satisfactory students from Catholic colleges might be increased.
o o
In After-Life.
the business of him who is employed to attend to it. 4444?4;4 If you are in the service of anyone he will value your 4 . 44.4'4 services only inasmuch as you attend to the busi-4 /.a-A-A ness entrusted to you. Besides, by taking care of.	444
the business of others you learn in time to take,. . 4?4 care of your own business when you shall have AaJa started out for yourself.	, :	•' • '444444
The great fault with the young men of our day: AfAA-A.. is their fondness for getting rid of work. ; They44?44A.4;J seek for easy and lazy employments, and not un- 4-4?a ? frequently do they turn out, after a few years,poor, .	. 4 /
miserable vagabonds. A young man ought not to JA-Aa enter the world with such sentiments. He should, . • -: y . and must, in order to succeed, avoid all wishes to	—
live without labor. Labor is a blessing instead of 4 4-	'44
a curse; it furnishes us with food, clothing and ' 4 4 4 - ; everything necessary, and frees us from temptations	.444 4
to dishonesty.	B. ??4?4
Books and Periodicals.
■ It is a mistake for young men when leaving college to suppose that their days of study have come to an end, and that for the future nothing of the kind is required of them. Study during a whole lifetime is necessary; and if when entering the world a young man follows some calling which demands hard work, he should, in order to lead a life of usefulness, devote himself to study during his leisure hours. If he enters some of the professions, he should make study the business of his life. In science, in law, in medicine and in theology there is always something to learn, something to master, and this can only be accomplished by hard and persistent study. In business if is of vital importance that every one be industrious, making use of every moment of business-hours. A little time lost here and a little time lost there tells to one’s disadvantage at the end of the year. No matter what may be the genius or capabilities of a young man, in the.race of life he will be distanced by inferior competitors if he does not make the proper use of his time. It will be the old race of the hare and the tortoise over again. A young man must be industrious.
Most young men do not enter life with a great amount of money; and even if they do, it is absolutely necessary that they be frugal, temperate, and economical. These habits when formed in youth are never lost. They keep a man out of temptation, or they give him strength to resist its assaults.
. They cause him to be respected and honored, and do more towards commanding success than the greatest intellectual acquirements. An honest, frugal and industrious man is sure to command success where others fail. Work in one’s trade or profession is necessary, and as a consequence it should never be shirked, but accepted with cheerfulness and alacrity; taken in this manner, it will cause the young man to be respected and loved by those whose interests he serves.	:
The business of the employer should be made
—Geo. Molineux, 819 Broadway, New -York, is .J < - 4 ?, the publisher of a beautiful “Memorial Hymn,” composed for Decoration Day exercises, but suit-?	-	4.'
able for other similar occasions. The words and	.	- 4 '”
music are by Mrs. D. A. Munro, and are both-spirited and pleasing.	'	4 44 4
—The Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern- 4y '4 Railway publish a pamphlet descriptive of Spirit 4	. .
Lake—a pleasant summer resort in the northern:	1	4
part of Iowa. The many attractions of this spot z are set forth in glowing language and profusely" il- - . f. lustrated. The tourist, or one desirous of know- .	■
ing a delightful place in which to pass the “ dog 4-	44 4
days,” should procure copies of this pamphlet .4-4; which may be had on application toj. E. Hanne- , 4 ? gan, Gen. Ticket and Pass. Agent, Cedar Rapids,’ .
Iowa.	4 4 4/ 4 .
—Among the musical publications forthe month 4 -44 4. of June which have come to hand we call particu- 1 44. . 4 lar attention to the The Musical Record, published . , ; : . z-by Oliver Ditson & Co., Boston, Mass.; Brainard’s -	44
Musical World, published by S. Brainard’s Sons,. -'J; A;, .4 Cleveland, Ohio, and Kunkels Musical Review, of. 4i 4 St. Louis. Each of these contains a rich collection of . 4 ; 4 .4 / / music, vocal and instrumental, together with inter-- . . ,4 4 * esting items and papers on musical topics, making - 444 4' it a periodical of entertainment and instruction, and -, 4 A.??	4
one well deserving the patronage of a. large circle : 4 44. 4 4 of readers.	. 4 4 ; 4 .4 4 : ’4
—The Montreal and Dublin Freeman's TJour- 44.4444 4,4^ nal is the title of a new venture in the field.of. , journalism. - The great feature of the publication, .44'44. 44; which commends it to the attention of. a large class 4 4 444 44 of readers in the new world, is in the reprinted se-44 lections which, appear each week from the Dublin- 444a 4 4 Freeman's Journal. .These selections contain44'^ the editorials, speeches, stories, news, miscellaneous;.;; AASA 4 ?4A matter, and, i n a word, every thing published inJ the? 4 AjA. 4 A;?? Freeman, which may be of interest to readefs;on4?'??44?4M14 this side of the ocean, omitting only that, which . 4/.^ would be ofr mere local importance in Ireland. ?W a/A-’aWI hope that the enterprise wiR meet with the success44?^^^ it well deserves. ...4	< *-■ - 4	4‘ - 4
628
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—A finely-engraved drawing from Hondou’s bust of Benjamin Franklin is the frontispiece of the June Century, and several pages of “ Unpublished Letters of Benjamin Franklin,” edited by the Hon. John Bigelow, add to the literary interest of the number. These letters are a part of the “ Stevens Collection” of Franklin’s manuscripts, now owned by the United States Government. In their order the illustrated papers are a “ Literary Ramble,” by Austin Dobson, along the Thames from Fulham to Chiswick, in which we have allusions to many famous people known in literature and in history, and glimpses of the scenery along “the universitycourse”; Mrs. SchujHer Van Rensselaer’s second paper on “American Country Dwellings,” with drawings of some of the handsomest country-houses in the Eastern States; a timely paper on “ Harvard’s Botanic Garden and Its Botanists,” by Ernest Ingersoll; and a paper by John Burroughs on “ Birds’ Eggs,” with engravings of twenty-two varieties of eggs. The Antietam campaign is the subject of the war papers in this number, the illustrations referring mostly to the battle of Antietam, and forming perhaps the richest pictorial contribution yet made to the series. General James Longstreet’s reminiscences are covered by the title, “The Invasion of Maryland”; General John G. Walker writes of the battles of “Harper’s Ferry and Sharpsburg”—the latter being the Confederate name for Antietam; Colonel Henry Kyd Douglas, of Jackson’s staff, relates anecdotes of “Stonewall Jackson' in Maryland”; and Charles Carleton Coffin, the war correspondent, describes “ Scenes at Antietam.”
Obituary.
The heartfelt sympathy of numerous friends at Noire Dame is extended to Rev. D. A. Clarke, ’70, and W. J. Clarke, ’74, in the sad affliction which has befallen them in the death of their father, Mr. John Clarke, of Columbus, O., who departed this fife on the 10th inst., after a long and painful illness borne with truly Christian patience and fortitude. May he rest in peace!
Examining Committees.
(Under the General Supervision of Rev. T. E. Walsh.)
Classical Board—Rev. N.J. Stoffel, presiding; Rev. S. Fitte; Prof. Edwards, Prof. Stoddard, Prof. Hoynes, Prof. John G. Ewing, Secretary.
Scientific Board—Rev. J. A. Zahm, presiding; Rev. A. M. Kirsch; Prof. Stace, Prof. A. F. Zahm, Secretary; Prof. W. H. Johnston.
Commercial Board—Rev. J. O’Hanlon, presiding; Bro. Marcellinus, Secretary; Bro. Philip; Prof. Lyons, Prof. McCue.
Senior Preparatory Board—Rev. M. Robinson, presiding; Rev. W. Scheier; Bro. Emmanuel, Bro. Stanislaus; Mr. F. X. Claffey, Mf. N. H. Ewing, Secretary.	.	.	,
Junior Preparatory Board—Rev. M. J. Regan, presiding; Bro. Leander, Secretary; Bro. Alexander, Bro. Paul, Bro. Maurus, Bro. Marcellus.
Local Items. .
—Ten days more!
—“Plague on all cowards!”
—The Cecilians hold their own.
—Next week we shall hear who takes the cake.
—Commencement exercises—June 21,22 and 23.
—The motto on the programme—Finis coronat of ns—was very appropriate.
—The costumes in the Cecilians’ play were modelled after Hackett’s Falstaff.
—The Junior baseballists claim to be still in the field ready to wrestle for the championship.
—The final decision in regard to the “Honors” was reached in the Faculty meeting last Wednesday.
—“The Poetess in the Observatory” may be sung to the aria of “Encore un fen de cidre" ; chorus, ad libitum.	.
<—The Grads.’ boat is still on the lake, and they say that if they do not come in first—why they will be a good second.
—How to get an arquebusier. Give the arque some more budge. If he belongs to the higher o	00
arque this may not work.
—Great activity is manifested in the department of vocal music. A fine cantata is in course of’preparation for Commencement. .
—The deportment of the Military Company at the Decoration Day exercises in South Bend has received praise from all quarters.
-—Rev. Vice-President Zahm spent Thursday in Chicago, where he made arrangements for chartering special cars for the Denver Delegation to the Commencement exercises.
—The following names should have appeared on the “ List of Excellence ” last week: Geogra-phy—Messrs. P. Jacobs, O’Kane and Cain; History—Messrs. Hayes, Hake, O’Kane and Jacobs.
—The thanks of the St. Cecilians are tendered to Rev. President Walsh, Rev. M. Regan, Profs. Edwards, Paul, Hoynes and Bro. Charles for favors received in connection with their late entertainment.
—The championship games between the Juniors and Seniors will be the great attractions of the coming week. Will it be a contest of “ Giants,” “Big Fours,” or “Little Fives”? We want to hear in detail about these games.
—A visitor lately remarked that Very Rev. Father Sorin is apparently growing younger and more active every year. No doubt the flourishing condition of the University and of Notre Dame in general has its own good effect on his health.
—Signor Gregori is engaged in restoring a large oil painting—The Head of Christ”—which had
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
been injured at- the recent Elkhart Exposition. The painting, which is a valuable one, is the property of Mr. Clem. Studebaker, of South Bend, who entrusted its reparation to the skilful hands of our distinguished artist.
—The silence observed by the audience at the St. Cecilians’ Entertainment made it possible to note and appreciate the many fine points in the playing of the Orchestra. This organization, under the direction of Prof. Paul, is now in excellent condition, and we hope that many numbers will be alloted them on the Commencement programmes.
—Those wishing any of the pictures taken by Mr. Doumet may secure them at any time by sending number and price direct to the photographer. The numbers of the different pictures may be learned from those having the proofs in charge. The address of photographer is: Doumet & Del-igardo, Boulevard, W. noth St., New York.
—In the Senior department perfect bulletins for the month of May were received by Messrs. T* Sheridan, C. Rheinberger, C. Rothert, P. Goulding, S. Murdock, W. Koudclka, C. Finlay, F. Dexter, G. Craig, P. Burke, J. A. Ancheta, J. Conlon and F. Baca. The following Juniors have merited the same distinction: Masters A. Finckh, E. Darragh and T. Goeble.
—The N. Y. Tablet, in noticing “ The Miser,” the new play published by Prof. Lyons, says: The accomplished and versatile Professor Lyons has brought out in this admirable translation of Moliere’s comedy all the fine points of the original. We notice on the title page that only a special limited edition of this little book has been printed. It is, however, well worthy of running through several editions.
—The Academy of St. Thomas will give the closing public disputation this (Saturday) evening in St. Cecilia Hall. A thesis on “ Democracy, the Best Form of Government,” has been prepared and will be defended by Mr. B. T. Becker. The opposition will be led by Messrs. Conlon and M. Burns. All the law students and those of the Junior and Sophomore years are invited to attend
—Adler Bros., of South Bend, who presented the gold medal for the too yards dash on St. Edward’s Day last year, have also generously presented a grand gold medal this year for the captain of the champion baseball nine in the Senior department. This firm deserves the patronage of the Baseball Association and of the Senior students in general for their uniform kindness and courtesy.
—Our excellent vocalists of Thursday night will not take it amiss if we say that a much better effect might have been produced in the rendition of their selection had they stood as closely as possible to the footlights. • On the rising of the curtain, they should have advanced a few feet and then th'eir fine voices would have resounded full, strong, rich, clear and harmonious throughout the auditorium.
—The pressman in the Ave Maria office has completed his new folding-machine and has it now in full operation. Though it is not perfected—be
ing put together roughly and made up of “ odds and ends ”—vet it does its work in a neat and satisfactory manner. The design being found complete, the parts will now be made of suitable material, and one of the best folding-machines of the present day will see the light.	.
—The examinations in the Course of Modern Languages are now going on. The examination of the Graduates will begin on Monday morning and continue until Tuesday evening. On Wednesday morning the general examinations will begin and continue until the afternoon of Monday, June 21. On the evening of this latter date will occur the grand Oratorical contest, which will thus form the opening of the Commencement Exercises.
—The Hoynes’ Light Guards are a splendid appearing lot of boys and in their gray cadet uniforms looked every inch soldiers and were a credit to the grand educational institution they represent. The boys went through many movements, and on North Michigan street, after the parade, their maneuvering was particularly fine. There is no reason why the University of Notre Dame should not have the crack military organization of the State. Success to you, boys.—South Bend Times. -
—The Director of the Senior Baseball Association has on exhibition the’ beautiful prize gold medal presented by A. G. Spalding & Bros., of • Chicago, for the winning nine of the baseball game on Commencement Day. The medal is large and heavy, of beautiful and appropriate design, and is certainly a prize worth contending for. The members of the Baseball Association are thankful to the Spalding Brothers not only for this elegant medal, but also for their very courteous and obliging treatment in business transactions during the past year.
—An impromptu trial was held in the University Moot-court on the 6th inst. before Gen. John Gibbons, of Chicago, who presided as judge. The case on trial was that of the State of Indiana vs. Jas. Black indicted for murder. The State was represented by Messrs. Wilson and Goulding, while the defense was conducted by Messrs. Ancheta and Burns. The witnesses for the prosecution were Messrs. Conlon and Jess, for the defense, Messrs. Byrnes and Finlay. The jury—consistingof Messrs. Jeffs, Kendall and Talbot—after listening to the evidence and the charge of the court, in which he clearly set forth the law and the principles in their deliberations, returned a verdict of manslaughter, fixing the penalty at two years in the penitentiary. On the conclusion of’ the case, the General gave the class some valuable advice in reference to legal proceedings in criminal cases, * and expressed himself as pleasantly surprised at their manner of conducting business, stating that their modus ofterandi was superior to that often met with in real courts. But the boys are of the opinion that the larger part of the credit received is due to their genial Professor, William Hoynes, for the thorough drill to which he has subjected them in such matters.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Minims played the'third of their series of championship games on Thursday afternoon. The following is the score:
Blues.	a.b
Piero, ist b.......1......... 6
E. Doss,* p...................4
McCourt, c................... 5
Ramsey, c. f..................6
McNulty, 3d b.................6
Inderreiden, s. s............ 4
Rowsey, r. f................. 5
Mooney, f. f................. 5
Jewett, 2d b................. 4
R.	T.B.	P.O.	A.	E.
2	I	9	2	I
3	2	4	O	4
I	O	5	6	4
2	O	0	3	1
2	I	0	0	2
2	O	0	0	3
2	O	0	0	O
3	I	0	0	O
0	O	6	1	0
Total............................45	17 5 24 12 17
* Put out bv batted ball.
Reds.	a.b.
Moncada, p................... 4
Kellner, c....................4
Crotty, s. s................. 6
Sweet, 1 st b................ 5
Connors, 3d b................ 5
Graham, f. f................. 6
Chute, c. f.................. 6
Morgan, r. f................. 6
Bailey, 2d b................. 5
R. T.B. P.O. A. E. 3 3 4 5 1 10253 5	1	2	1	3
2	4	j3	1	2
1	o	1	o	2
o	o	o	o	1
20000 I	O	O	I	o
30421
Total........................47 iS 8 26 15 13
Struck out: by Doss, 3; by Moncada, 3. •
—The Twenty-Eighth Annual Summer Entertainment of the St. Cecilia Pbilomathean Association was given in Washington Hall on last Thursday evening. The exercises, which were of a varied and interesting character, were conducted according to the following
programme:
Overture-^*' Caliph of Bagdad ”.....N. D. U. Orchestra “ Morning Invitation” (ind), A. Miller, E. Berry, C. Senn Address of the evening..............G.	Myers
Prologue......................................E.	Porter
KING HENRY IV.
A Tragedy in Five Acts.- By William Shakspere.
Dramatis Persona:.
Henry IV, King of England .............E. J. Darragh
Harry Percy (Hotspur)............... P-	C. Cavaroc
Sir John Falstaff....................W.	Wabraushek
Harry Monmouth, Prince )	f R. Newton
of Wales	[ Sons of the King. ]
Prince John of Lancaster )	( R. Oxnard
Earl of Westmoreland j Friends of the King J O’Ka"e Sir Waiter Blount	0 ( J. Garrity
Thomas Percy, Earl of Worcester.........M.	Mulkern
Archibald, Earl of Douglas................F.	Long
Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland.........W.	Arts
Sir Richard Vernon........................D. Regan
Poins...................................J. Courtney
Bardolph.................................P. Jacobs
Gadshill.................................C,	Shields
Peto..............................   E.	Prudhomme
Francis (a Drawer).........................
Robj', Courier to Hotspur..................
Geoffrey, Sheriff..........................
Jack Quickly (Host of a Tavern at Eastcheap)
•Ethelbert, Royal Usher.......................
Anselm ) Gregory i . Stanley [
Alexis J
Eustace Schmalzgruber Rollo
Edward
.... J. Fisher . .C. Ruffing J. Fitzgerald .. ..E. Dillon .P. Wagoner ' C. Spencer S. Smith L. Chute T. Goebel
Courtiers.
Attendants.
E. Adelsperger H. Robinson F. Fehr E. Ewing
Guards of Honor—F. Nester, W. Houlihan, E Benner, W.
. Borgschulze.
Lords, Attendants, Officers, Soldiers, etc.
Music during the Drama: Act I—String Quartette; Act II —Lockpit Polka; Act III—Piano Solo, R. Oxnard; Act IV—“ La Fontaine,” J. Remish.
GRAND TABLEAU.	.
Epilogue...................................J. Courtney
Closing Remarks.......................................
March for Retiring.......................N.	D. U. Band
Roll of Honor. ’
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]	’
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ancheta, Ashton, Ashford, Aubrey, Archam-beault, V. Burke, M. Burns, D. Byrnes, Becerra, Bowles, Baca, A. Browne, F. Browne, Breen, P. Burke, Becker, Bryar, Conlon, Jno. Crowe, Coady, Congdon, Craig, Chapin, Cusack, Walter Collins, Fred Combe, Cassidy, Carbajal, Crilly, Dexter, Dolan, Dempsey, Egan, Emmons, Finlay, Goulding, A. Gordon, Gallardo, Glenn, Hagerty, Houck, Hampton, Hagenbarth, Harrison, Holden, Judie, Jackson, Jeffs, Johns, Koudelka, Keys, H. Kenny, J. Kenny, Karst, Kleiber, Kendall, Kwilinski, Larkin, Ley, Murphy, McNulty, Mathers, Murdock, Mier, McErlain, P. McGuire, Miller, Moon, O’Rourke, Ott, O’Connell, Prudhomme, C. Paschel, P. Paschel, Padilla, T. Ryan, E. Ryan, Remish, Rothert, Rochford, Regan, Rheinberger, Rahilly, Rodriguez, Shaide, Stubbs, Saviers, Sheridan, Sack, Snapp, Voorhees, Werst, A. Williams, W. Williams, White, Wagoner.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Austin,* Ackerman, Akin, Bodley, Boos, Bowles, F. Benner, Bunker, Bacigalupo, Borgschulze, Curtis, Cleveland, Colina, Courtney, Cleary, Cooper. Chute, Cavaroc, Cain, E. Campbell, S. Campbell, Coles, Chaves, Dougherty, Doss, Dickinson, Duffield, Dillon, Darragh, Dungan, Ewing, Edgeworth, Epple, Frain, Finckh, Flood, Fehr, Fisher, Fitzgerald, Fitzharris, Grot-haus, Goebel, Galarneau, Gordon, Hoffman, Houlihan, J. Hayes, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hiner, Inderreiden, Jewett, P. Jacobs, N. Jacobs, Joyce, Kern, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Levin, Luther, Long, McCart, Meehan, McConn, Mueller, McPhee, Mohun, McIntosh, Myers, McNamara, Mulkern, Mitchell, Mulberger, Macatee, Nealis, Newton, Nations, O’Connor, Oxnard, O’Kane, Portillo, Press, Preston, Porter, Ramirez, A. Ruffing, C. Ruffing, Regan, Robinson, F. Smith, L. Smith, S. Smith, Shields, Spencer, Stattman, Steele, Talbot, Tewksbury, Tarrant, Tiedrich, Valasco, Warner, Welch, Wabraushek, Wagoner, C. West.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bull, Barger, H. Boland, J. Boland, Chute, Ciarcoschi, J. Connors, E. Connors, Cobbs, Crotty, Dewald, Jamie Dungan, E. Doss, L. Doss, E. Falvey, Farmer, Fontanel, F. Garber, E. Garber, Graham, Grant, Griffin, Healy, Hillas, Jewett, Jones, Keeffe, Kellner, Landen-wich, Moncada, Mason, Martin, Maloney, McCourt, McGill, McNulty, Mitchell, H. Mooney, C. Mooney, M. Moran, P. Moran, Morgan, Albert Morgenweck, Munro, Murphy, B. Nealis, C. Nealis, Nester, Nussbaum, Paul, F. Peck, J. Peck, Piero, Quinlin, Rowsey, Riordan, Steele, Stone, Sullivan, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, P. Sweet, G. Sweet, Taft, Williamson, G. Dunford.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
“ If an s arid an i and an o and a it, with an x at the end, spell “ Sue.”
And an e and ay and an e spell “ i,” pray what is a speller to do?
Then if also an 5 and an i and a g and an lied, spell “ side,” There’s nothing left for a speller to do, but to go and commit Siouxeyesighed.”	.
.	—Chicago A7ezvs.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	631
Saint. JHary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The examinations in Music began June 7th.
—The acoustics, of the new church will be perfect.
—The cheerful voice and pleasant face of Mrs. Shephard, of Arlington, Neb., are warmly welcomed at the Academy.	.
—The Museum has been made the richer by . some very remarkable specimens presented by friends from Austin, Texas, for which grateful acknowledgments are tendered.
—Very Rev. Father General declares that the new church will be the grand feature of St. Mary’s, and a structure of which every voung ladv educated at St. Mary’s will be justly proud.	\ .
—Miss T. Balch wears the Roman mosaic cross this week. Those who drew with her were the Misses E. Balch, Clifford, Griffith, Hertzog, Keyes, Nester, Prudhomme and Regan.
—Among the notable visitors of the week are: Mr. Frank Murphy and his sister, Mrs. T. B. Cumming, of Omaha, Neb.; Mrs. K. C. Buck, St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. N. H. Dennis, Chicago; Mr. L. Runner, Frankfort, Ind.; Mr. Ira B. Dutton, Sandwich Islands; Mrs. P. L. Bates, Jackson, Tenn.; Mr. I. C. O’Wine, Ligonier, Ind.; Mrs. S. L. Ramsey, Crawfordsville, Ind.
—The examinations, on Sunday, of the Graduating Class in Philosophy and Christian Doctrine were conducted by the Rev. President Walsh and the Rev. Father O’Hanlon of the University. The Rev. Father Walsh also examined the First Senior Class in Christian Doctrine. The Second and Third Senior and the Preparatory Classes were examined by the Rev. Father Saulnier, assisted by their respective teachers. Complete satisfaction was given by all,’as might well be expected from the studious and earnest application of every one to the important work of preparation.
—On Tuesday morning, in accordance with a custom established some years ago, the pupils of the French and German classes repaired to the charming picnic grounds belonging to Mr. Alexis Coquillard where they amused themselves until after dinner. At half past 2 o’clock p. m., all were invited to the delightful residence of the proprietor, who spared no pains to render the visit a memorable one. Miss M. F. Murphy entertained the company by singing a very sweet song; Miss Horn of the Senior department and Lily Van Horn of the Juniors furnished some excellent instrumental music; Miss Rose in a very pleasing style recited “ The Retort”; Miss Carmien, with superior action, recited “My Lady President’s Ball,” and Hannah Stumer, in her admirable manner, rendered the touching poem “ Booriaboolu Gha.” After the' delicate and bountiful refreshments provided, Miss Stumer again appeared before the generous host, and, in a graceful, poetical address, thanked Mr. Coquillard for the great pleasure his kindness
had imparted to the pupils, who always looked forward with warm anticipation to the annual picnic in his beautiful grove. In the evening all returned with light hearts, and with energy renewed for the contest of examination, noW already begun.
—The usual instruction of Monday morningfrom Very Rev. Father General to the Children of Mary—which Society numbers 44 members—was appropriate, to the closing of the scholastic year so near at hand. Though especially applicable to the Society, it is to be regretted that the sterling advice could not have been heard by all the pupils, -since much would be equally important to every member of the school. The way of passing the -vacations was made a prominent feature. Economy, industry, modesty should be marked characteristics of young ladies in vacation. The home circle should feel that the returned young ladv is not a mere member of the family, but that she is the life, the support, the comfort of the hozisehold. The father and mother should experience the renewed devotedness and gratitude of the daughter upon whom they have lavished so many superior advantages. Home should be the place above all others where her happiness is found. Far from adding to the weight of anxiety and care upoai the beloved mother, she should, from the moment of her return, make that dear mother feel that no sacrifice is too great on her part to add to the sense of happiness; the confidence inspired by a daughter ready to assist—yes, to take the entire burden of care off her hands. Home, and nothing but home, should interest her. Amusements, diversions outside, should be of little importance—not thought of, in comparison to the satisfaction she is to impart to parents, and younger brothers and sisters. The disgust the Very Rev. speaker expressed for the indolent, heartless young girl who would look for her mother to 'ivait zefon her he wished to be remembered.
Impartiality.
Is this a trait “too good for human nature’s daily food ”? It is a pleasure to believe a negative answer can be safely accorded. Disinterestedness is the soul of magnanimity. Self-seeking and the ambition for personal preferment stand at the very antipodes in the world of morality. It is the former which gives nobility to the true statesman, the latter which degrades statecraft to the low tricks of the demagogue. The first strengthens and nourishes, builds up and exalts a nation, while the last plants the seeds of inevitable ruin. •
The two most notable examples of- impartiality in the government of great empires or kingdoms are without question St. Edward the Confessor, of England, and St. Louis IX of France. What is the paltry splendor of world-wide conquest and insatiable aggressiveness compared with the daily ' . charities of these two great rulers, who kept peace in their kingdoms and regarded the happiness of the poorest peasant as of more importance than the renown of an 2\Iexander the Great. The holy
i
632	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Edward of England banished the damgelt, an exorbitant tax upon the people; and St. Louis passed stringent laws against hlasphemj7 and usury. He was chosen as umpire between contending monarch: and the claims of the beggar were as dear to the hearts of both these royal saints as the demands of the first nobles of the kingdom.
As a fair representation of the virtue of disinterestedness and its contrast, picture the Macedonian invader weeping—like a child over a broken toy —because there were no more worlds to conquer! Place this picture of weak egotism and intolerable arrogance side bv side with St. Louis calling to a strict , account the ignoble De Coucey, who murdered not a rich lord like himself, but some poor little children found trespassing upon his premises. By order of the King, a large portion of the Count’s property was appropriated to the building of chapels where Masses were to be offered in perpetuity, as an expiation of the cowardly crime. The man who thought his position an excuse for his cruel oppression of the poor and defenseless found he had a saint to deal with, and justice was done.	•
Would the young clear their future path of thorns, and plant therein the holy growth of real contentment, they would stifle the inherent partiality which blinds them to the better qualities of their associates who are not naturally agreeable to them, and which also exaggerates their defects. It is partiality likewise which invests with a charm the imperfections and even dangerous faults of those to whom by nature ws are attracted.
The durability of friendship depends on magnanimity or readiness to overlook the failings of others, when those failings are not so grave as to prove sinful. The selfish heart knows nothing of real friendship, for jealousy and envy are the warp and woof of such a heart. Distrust cankers every avenue to kindness, and the temporary attachment which may have existed withers in a day, expires with the benefit which aroused the passing regard.
Charity, that virtue which, born of Heaven, can never die, is not allied to a partisan spirit. It looks with equal eye on all: respects the least as a creature dear to God and as formed in His own image and likeness; respects the greatest, as, under the royal purple, there may exist profound humility. But while ready to do good to all, charity is zealous to spread a benign influence everywhere, and everywhere it takes a decided stand against evil. The enthusiasm of the Christian heart, of the saint, is as far from a partisan spirit as the martyr is from the suicide. The naturally partial-minded man mentally challenges everyone he meets, everyone who is well spoken of. If another be favorably mentioned he is sure to suggest something to tarnish the good reputation. It is, however, a happy circumstance that his morose habit of underrating is sure to be recognized as his misfortune, and he is accordingly commiserated, for charity covers even his ungraciousness with its impartial mantle.	.
To “live and let live” is a quaint expression which embodies the true idea of impartiality. If
we accustom ourselves to make due allowance for others we will arouse in them a reciprocal kindness. If we remember to make due allowance for our own natural prejudices, for and against persons and things—and for this a very wide margin is sometimes necessary—we will be surprised to see how much brighter the world will become. The gifted author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars ” beautifully delineates the effect to acme.
“ Moralists would fain persuade us Kindly hearts are few and rare;
I can never learn the lesson, -For I find them everywhere.	•
Up and down our pathway scattered, Like the daisies, do they lie;
We need only glance around us Would we meet their friendly eye.
“ Pride indeed may overlook them, Cold contempt may turn aside, But, believe me, daisies ever
In the grass their blossoms hide;
Childlike hands will seek and find them, Childlike hearts the treasure prize.”
Experience will impart to the expansive mind the great lesson of impartiality, and the claims of all will be equally respected. While those to whom we are drawn by mutual tastes and sympathy will lose nothing of our friendship, a clear conscience will make us rejoice that we have overcome our aversions, and imparted happiness to those who are perhaps in greater need of our sympathy and encouragement than those to whom we are selfishly drawn.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Alwein, M. Andreus, Barlow, Bruhn, Butler, Brady, Blacklock, Beschemang, Carney, Clendenen, Chute, Chaves, Coll, Cox, Carroll, Dillon A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, Dart, Desenberg, Ewing, Egan, Foin, Fuller, Faxon, Farnsworth, Fitzpatrick, Fenton, Flannery, Gordon, Guise, Green, A. Heckard, B. Heck-ard, Horn, Hummer, Henry, Haas, Harlem, Kearney, Kearns, Kingsbury, Lang, Lyons, Levy, Munger, J. McHale, M. F. Murphy, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, ]\|. McNamara, C. McNamara, M. Murphy, Monahan, Neff, North, Nester, Patrick, Riedinger, Robb, C. Scully, S. St. Clair, M. Scully, Shields, Stafford, Stocksdale, Thornton, Trask, White, I. Wynn, Walsh, F. Wynn. 2dTablet—Misses Blair, Bubb, Kearsey, Moon, Rend, L. St. Clair, Stadtler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	-
Par Excellence—Misses T. Balch, M. Clifford, M. Coll, F. Hertzog, F. Haney, A. Keys, E. Martin, M. McEwen. L. Nester, C. Prudhomme, G. Regan, L. Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Misses B. Pierce, H. Stumer.
'	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, T. Caddagan, E. Kendall, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, E. Qualey, F. Spencer, J. Wallace, H. Rhodes,
He lives long that lives well; and time misspent is not .lived, but lost. . Besides God is better than His promise if He takes from him a long lease, and gives him a freehold of a better value.