


Good Thru Feb 84 
IDqe Qiolonial Jancakt Jrloune ~ ~ 

$1.00OFF T~:!hAd~ 
OUR SPECIALTY Limit 1 OVEN-BAKED per person 
APPLE PANCAKES 

256-0062 
(for111crh' 
Halloon Howkay) 
2812 Lenson Drive Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 




BIG@ 
LUMBER CENTER 
• ARMSTRONG CEILING TllE • POWER TOOLS 
• CABINETS • lUMBcR 
• 
PLYWOOD • HARDWARE 

• 
Ot.YMPIC STAIN • Pt.UMBfNG & 

• 
PANELING ELECTRICAL SUPPLIES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE ... 


..........
~;.:.-.::::=:-­


BIG@ 
LUMBER 
CENTER 
¦ --11.•.1~•~·~ 
·I 
ll,',l:::lll.',l'J:11\11:1.',t::J: 
EASY 



272-6500 
125 DIXIE WAY NORTH ROSELAND 


ACE 

ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 

272-7535 
--HOURS-­
7,30 AM To 5,30 P.M. 
Closed Sun·day 
• 
PAINTS. 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PLUMBING & ELECTR!CAL ~UPPI.IES 


, 

• 
GARDEN SUPPLIES 

• 
HOUSEWARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPORTING GOODS 


FREE PARKING 
FRONT & REAR 
219 DIXIE WAY 
NO, IN ROSELAND 


Vol. 125, No. 5, February, 1984 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL REVIEW 

2 The First Word Keuin Donius 3 Purdue Daue Wilson 5 Michigan State Michael Keane 7 Miami Phil Wolf 9 Colorado Brad Couri 10 South Carolina John Gates . /2 Army Larry Burke 14 Profile: Notre Dame Is 'Tickled Pink-ett' Louie Somogyi /8 Southern California Steue Labate 20 Nauy Terry Bland 22 Pittsburgh Ed Domansky 25 Penn State Ed Colbert 27 Air Force TimDoyle 28 The Liberty Bowl Beth Debauche 30 "We are ND!" Mike Leary 3/ /98 3 Irish Statistics Sports Information 32 The Last Word Gerry Faust 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are ~hose of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. · 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vaca­tion and examination periods. Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscrip.tion rate is $9.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the prop•. erty of Scholastic. · · Copyright © 1984 Scholastic I all rights reserved I none of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 

) 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL REVIEW 



The First Word 
by Kevin Donius 
Sports Editor 
EDITOR Kevin Donius 

~ 
I
DESIGN AND GRAPHICS 

I
Tom Sapp 

I 
i
CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER Mike Leary 
FRONT COVER PHOTO Brian Davis 
Despite many exciting moments and an impor­tant win over Boston College in the Liberty Bowl, it would be inaccurate to categorize Notre Dame's 1983 football season as anything but a disappoint­ment. The expectations were perhaps too high, as they often are, but they were not without founda­tion. Only the most pessimistic could have forecast the troubles which would beset the Irish. 
In a letter to the Scholastic (see "The Last Word," pg. 32), Coach Faust wisely and confident­ly states, "There will be no looking back." One could perhaps lament the fact that Notre Dame, long accustomed to reveling in its great tradition, must now forget its past, but it is better to com­mend Faust's positive approach. The future, we have learned, is not shaped by past victories or defeats and planning the future, therefore, must take precedence over reliving the past. 
History, however, demands a record of the season, and the fans are free to look back, even if the team is not. Here, then, is a review of the season-a review which may change your evalua­tion of the year, not because we have changed the facts, but because time has allowed for a broader perspective. 
BACK COVER PHOTO Mark Klocke 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
1983-1984 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF James S. Ganther 
GENERAL MANAGER Thomas M. Sapp 
ST. MARY'S EDITOR Kathy Curran 
Photo Editor Michael P. Leary 
News/Sports Editor 
Kevin Donius 
Culture/Fiction Editor 


ATTENTION: 
---9,,-:------,=---a--··------------------·-·-. ·----·-----­
~ fl l .




==~ie~­
is accepting applications for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief for the 1984-1985 school year. All ND/SMC undergraduates are eligi­
bSe. 
Deadline is February 20, 1984 at 5 
Contact Jim Ganther at Scholastic for information. 
Laurel Ann Dooley 
Copy Editors Kathleen Doyle Janet Drobinske 
Art Editor Kathleen O'Toole 
Advertising Manager Jeannie Euch 
Business Manager Jim Dever 
Distribution Manager Stephen Busk 
Advertising Staff 
Reginald V. Daniel 
Advisory Board Dr. James McDonnell Prof. Elizabeth Christman Mr. Michael Garvey Prof. Marjorie Kinsey Prof. Robert Schmuhl 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 


.._· . .. . ·.· -Irish 521 Boilermakers 6 
by Dave Wilson photos by Pete Laches 
Notre Daine had a lot of good reasons to be impressed by its football team. Faced with supposedly unfavorable game conditions, the Irish calmly produced a 52-6 thrashing of· Purdue in the season opener, poised in victory as if their efforts were just another day's work. The win is only highlighted when one considers the 


' --w·. 
factors against Notre Dame in this con­test. Playing at Ross-Ade Stadium in West Lafayette, the Irish had not come out on top since 1977, and their last visit in 1981 resulted in .a 15-14 come-from­behind win for the Boilermakers. Fur­thermore, Purdue was out to avenge last season's 28-14 Irish victory in South Bend, and with what better quarterback than Scott Campbell? Campbell had not only been rated tops among big ten quarterbacks this season, but currently holds the record for m_ost yards passing 

(791) by any quarterback against Notre Dame. The Irish were also forced to deal with yet another lofty preseason ranking, something with which they've had a bit of trouble in seasons past. Oh, and in honor of Notre Dame's 95th football season, the weather was an uncomfort­able 95 °. Nevertheless, the Irish took on Campbell and the Boilermakers with the greatest of ease, rolling up 522 yards of offense, holding the Purdue quarterback to a modest 89 yards through the air, and forcing the opponent into seven turn­overs. Their 57 points, on seven touchdowns and a field goal, provided Notre Dame not only its largest point total at Ross-Ade, but also the most ever in the stadium's history by an opponent. Incidentally, if it is any indication of the season to come, the last time the Irish scored more than forty points in a foot­ball contest was in 1977, a year the team would go undefeated and become the eventual national champion. If such a team effort should become the season norm, opponents such as upcoming Michigan State have good reason to worry. 
Returning to the victory at hand however, it took the Irish less than two minutes to show the Boilermakers who would emerge the eventual victor, as the team travelled 57 yards in seven plays on the opening possession. Tailback Allen Pinkett stole the spotlight in this series, finding a large hole in the offense on one play and suddenly appearing 35 yards down the field to set up a five-yard touchdown run by Greg Bell on the very next play. Bell would go on to score Notre Dame's second touchdown in the first quarter (he had four for the game), cap­ping a 41-yard drive that featured the first of many impressive passes by Irish quarterback Blair Kiel. Mike Johnston provided the next score for the team, a 31-yard field goal that put the Irish at a 17-0 advantage. Johnston is out to im­prove on his year-old single-season record of 19 field goals. It was not until after a quarter of play and five possessions that the Boilermakers were able to produce so much as a first down (without the aid of a penalty) and this is a large credit to the Irish defense. Of Purdue's eight posses­sions in the first half, in fact, just two were started beyond their own 20-yard line. Meanwhile, Notre Dame began four 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 


of its seven first half possessions at or beyond its own 4a-yard line. The second quarter seemed more hopeful for the Boilermakers, as they suddenly came alive to' move 65 yards in 11 plays. Campbell moved his team all the way down to the Notre Dame 15-yard line and appeared ready to jump right back into the game. But on a fourth and inches situation, the defensive line stuffed Campbell's quarterback-sneak attempt and, along with it, Purdue's one chance to provide some of their own momentum. In the final two minutes of the second quarter meanwhile, the Irish extended their lead to 31-0 with another pair of touchdowns inc~uding an impressive 17-yard Kiel pass to tight end Mark Bavaro. It was Bavaro's first-ever Notre Dame reception. To begin second-half action, the Irish seemed determined to outdo their previous thirty minutes of play, as on just the fourth play of the half, Kiel sent off a 61-yard floater to flanker Milt Jackson that set up yet another Pinkett run for the touchdown. Kiel, incidentally, completed a respect­able 9-of-14 passes for 166 yards, proving he will be the driving force the 'Irish are looking for this year. Notre Dame added. a sixth touchdown late in the third quarter, a six-play 39-yard drive that resulted in an incredible fourth touchdown for Bell. At this point Purdue may_ have been willing to concede the fourth quarter; However, the Irish were not about to let up and minutes into the fourth quarter, the team ran in its final touchdown of the game, a three-yard run by Byron Abraham which concluded a seven-play, 80-yard drive. The series -featured some impressive running from freshman Hiawatha Francisco, in­dicating that Pinkett need not supply all the forward motion this season. Unfor­tunately the serieswas a costly scoring ef­fort, ·as backup quarterback Scott Gmoms fractured his collarbone, and will be injured for the remainder of the season. At this point the Irish were sitting on a phenomenal 52-0 lead, and it hardly seems creditable to note that Purdue averted the shutout in the final minutes ·of" the . blowout. The Boilermakers showed feeble signs of life, marching 70 yards in 11 plays and finally breaking the stubborn Irish defense. So, as the book is closed on an incredible season-opening victory for the Irish, the team returns . home with . confidence and, based on 
. their first performance, _excellent team b_alanceo The Irish appear well-prepared for the home-;opener against Michigan State at Notre Dame stadium. 
Dave Wilson is a senior from Los· Angeles, California. This is his first con-. tribution to Scholastic: 




by Michael Keane photos by Robert McMonagle 

Maybe Gerry Faust wished every game were opening day. That way he would never have trouble with a flat team which creates many of its own problems. Better yet; he would be undefeated, or close to it, by now. 
He certainly would not want each game to be the second one of the season, at least if he looked at his experiences of the last three years, including a thrashing from Michigan in 1981, a lackadaisical, yet winning, ·performance against Pur­due in 1982, and finally 1983's upset loss to Michigan Sta_te, 28-23. 
In many ways this latest defeat brought out many of the key problems of all of Faust's teams, highlighting them all at once. The Irish exhibited an early of­fensive prowess which made their second­half · insufficiencies difficult to com­prehend, a susceptibility to the big play in key defensive situations, an inconsis­tent performance from their quarter­back, and an inability to come back late in the game. AH these factors, coupled with a high-pitched effort from . an upstart Spartan club once again burst the early-season optimism· of Irish followers. Faust summed up after the game, "No one thing lost the game for us. We played well at times, and sometimes we didn't. A couple of key mistakes at the wrong time hurt us. You could say Michigan State forced us not to play well." 
Coming off the previous week's an­nihilation of Purdue and flying as high as their· number-four national ranking would permit, the Irish faced the Spar­tans. When the offense took the opening kick-off and roared 80 yards for the first touchdown, it seemed to most of the 59,075 partisans that the party had only moved from West Lafayette. Quarter­back Blair Kiel's two-yard scoring toss to tight end Mark Bavaro capped the six­minute drive. 
What the revelers did not count on was the Spartan head coach, or maybe they underestimated him, a simple enough task considering this was only his second game at the helm of Michigan State. After spending ten seasons as an assistant with the NFL's Pittsburgh Steelers, George Perles knew that an opening drive did not a game make, and his team quickly drove the point home to the Irish. 
The Spartans were stuffed for a yard loss on their first two plays after Notre Dame's kickoff. The first series jitters seemed to be ruling over sophomore quarterback Dave Yarema as he stepped up to a third down and 11 on his own 19. 
Less than ten seconds later the game's complexion changed, however, when Yarema hit a streaking Darryl Turner across the middle for 30 yards and then watched the senior split end break one tackle and go the other 51 yards for the game's tying touchdown. After only 24 seconds, the young Spartans had avoided a quick burial and tied the score at seven. 
Following an exchange of punts, the Irish displayed a little of their own blitz­krieg offense, as Greg Bell finished off an 88-yard drive by covering the final 50 on a sprint draw for his fifth touchdown of the young season. Heading out of the first quarter with a 14-7 lead and a stiffening defense, the Irish had reason to be more confident again. 
Michigan State's first possession of the second quarter changed all that. Follow­ing free safety Phil Parker's first intercep­tion of the game, the Spartans took over at the Notre Dame 34. From there they needed but two plays and 14 seconds to bring everyone back _to reality, as fullback Carl Butler, who would have a big day, went 34 yards off left tackle for the tying touchdown. 
Thus, with 14:21 left in the first half, the Irish had scored two touchdowns, us­ing over nine of the game's fifteen°and-a­half minutes in the process. Under most circumstances, this type of ball-control, balanced attack would have produced a comfortable lead. Instead, the visiting Spartans were tied with them at 14, their drives taking a combined total of 38 seconds. 


If the Irish were not already stunned by this course of events, the Spartans' next possession, after a Notre Dame quick kick, floored them. Putting together their only sustained drive of the game, Yarema and Butler led the visitors 70 yards in eight plays, with Yarema connecting with Turner for the 14-yard scoring strike. Of the drive's eight plays, only three accounted for 59 of the 70 total yards. With the Spartans finally leading, 21-14, upset was becoming more of a reality. 
Getting the ball with 3:21 left in the half but at the Michigan State 43, the Irish took nine plays to even the score, thanks to the Kiel to Joe Howard connec­tion. On a fourth and four, Kiel hit the junior split end for 15 yards and then found him barely inside the end zone for the tying touchdown with 22 seconds left. 
The half-time statistics revealed that, although the score was tied and many would say that the Spartans were for­tunate to be in such a position, the visitors had somehow grabbed some con­trol over the game's flow. Prior to its final score of the half, Notre Dame had punted twice and thrown an interception, which led to Butler's touchdown run. Kiel, after hitting six of seven passes in the first quarter, had only two completions in eight attempts the rest of the half, in­cluding the interception. 
The downward slide of the Irish of­fense worsened in the second half, as eight possessions resulted in five punts, a fumble, another interception which led to the winning touchdown, and a loss on downs. Not that the Spartans were doing much either, but then again they were winning the punting battle behind the leg of Ralf Mojsiejenko, who boomed kicks of 47, 57, 58 and 71 yards. So effective was he that Faust later cited his kicking as "the difference in the game." 
In such a situation, with neither of­fense moving in a tight game, the special teams and defenses become the pivotal factors, which translates into field posi­tion and turnovers. Mojsiejenko was giv­ing the Spartans the special teams edge, and Phil Parker returned to give their defense that edge. Parker's second in­terception of Kiel and subsequent return of 42 yards set the Spartans up at the Irish 
3. Two plays later, Yarema had his third scoring pass of the day, this one for three yards to tight end Butch Rolle. Nine minutes still remained, but the score would stand as the winning marker. 
Taking over with just under six minutes left, the Irish took a last shot at victory or at least a tie. Aided by great catches by Milt Jackson and Bavaro, the Irish moved from their own 10 to the Michigan State 20 before Kiel made his last, and maybe most costly, mistake of the game. On a second and nine with 
1:18 remaining, the senior signal caller was caught intentionally grounding the ball to avoid defensive pressure. The in­fraction cost the Irish time, 22 yards, and their second down. Facing 31 yards with two downs to make it up, Kiel first hit Bell for 11 then hit Howard for 15 on a comeback pattern, five yards short of the first down, however. 
All that was left for the Spartans to do was run the clock down, which they did, before Yarema gave the Irish their only points of the secon_q. half when he ran out of the end zone·· for a safety. Kiel's desperation pass on the game's final play was intercepted, sealing the Spartans' first victory over the Irish since 1975. 
What did the game mean to the Spar­tans? Listening to the joyous talk of the Spartan players, it obviously meant a great deal. More importantly, the big upset quickly put a favorable stamp on new head coach Perles' program, while Irish coach Faust could only lament over those second-game blues. 
Michael Keane is a ;unior Arts and Let-. ters ma;or from New Providence, NJ. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 

, . , Hurricanes -20, Irish 0 
by Phil Wolf photos by Caryn Levy, 
Sports Information 

For most of the week following the Notre Dame football team's surprising 28-23 loss to Michigan State on September 17, the entire campus seemed to be in a state of shock. Many people thought the loss was a fluke, however, or the result of overconfidence after the Irish destroyed Purdue, 52-6. 
The mood was optimistic ·on the eve­ning of September 24, though, as students passed , ,up The Love Boat to watch Notre Dame's nationally televised contest with Miami. They knew that if the Irish were to win this important game, they could be on the way to a ma­jor bowl game and maybe even a na­tional championship. After· all, only two weeks earlier, nearly everyone had been saying, "this is the year." 
A few hours later, the students were beginning to wonder why they hadn't watched -The Love Boat. At least they 
· would have seen a happy ending instead of the 20-0 trouncing the Irish received from the Hurricanes. What the national television audience and 52;480 people at the Orange Bowl did see was an Irish team that almost gave Miami the victory. Several mistakes and the inability to sustain any momen­tum led Notre Dame to its first shutout since a 3-0 upset by Missouri in 1978; "I thought we were ready for the game, and I thought we played hard," Irish coach Gerry Faust said afterward. "We just made errors, and you can't do that," he added dejectedly. Indeed, two first-half turnovers led directly to Miami touchdowns, which put the Hurricanes ahead, 14-0, at halftime. At the same time, the Irish were unable to capitalize on two Miami turnovers in the first quarter. · The Hurricanes took Blair Kiel's punt from their own 43-yard line to the Notre Dame, 36 on their first possession of the game. The drive was stifled, however, when linebacker Rick Naylor picked off a pass from freshman quarterback Bernie Kosar. Unfortunately, the Irish could move only eight yards before Kiel was forced to punt again. Later, with just over three minutes re­maining in the first quarter, Pat Ballage forced a fumble by Miami tight end Glenn Dennison, which freshman Mike 
Kovaleski grabbed af: the Notre Dame 
29-yard line. 
Two plays later, though, it was 
Miami's ball again. Jay Brophy picked off 
Kiel's pass on first-and-twenty and gave 
it to Kosar and the Hurricane offense at 
the Irish 30-yardline. Eight plays later, 
fullback Speedy Neal carried the ball in 
from the two for the touchdown. 
In the second quarter, the Irish again 
gave the ball away deep in their own ter­
ritory. This time the turnover was the 
result of a bad snap, which was eventual­
ly fumbled when Kiel tried to hand off to 
fullback Chris Smith. 
After Winston Moss recovered the fum­ble at the Notre Dame 26, it took the Hurricanes only five plays to score. On third-and-seven from the Irish 12, Kosar read the blitz, and called an audible. He · then found Ed Brciwn in the comer of the end zone, and lobbed the ball over Pat Ballage for the six points. Jeff Davis added the point-after for the 14-point 
lead. 
"The interceptions-the turn­
overs-really hurt," Faust said. 'It gave 
them good field position each time. But I 
thought we were still in it at halftime." 
That claim is not entirely unfounded. 
In an attempt to spark some life into the 
Irish offense, Faust sent freshman 
quarterback Steve Beuerlein in to relieve 
Kiel in the second quarter. Beuerlein was able to move the Irish into Miami ter­ritory for the first time in the game, but with 5:30 left in the half, Mike Johnston's 27-yard field goal attempt was batted down by Reggie Sutton, who broke through Notre Dame's line untouched. 
The Irish defense held the Hurricanes, and Beuerlein then marched the ball from his own 33 to the Miami 23. After an attempted fake kick was called back for a penalty, Johnston's 46-yard attempt fell short of the goal posts. 
On Miami's first possession of the sec­ond half, Davis showed Johnston how it's done when he booted a 27-yard field goal to put Notre Dame down by 17. 
Kiel then came back in the game and directed his team to a first down on the Miami 11. Three plays later, Johnston tried his leg from 24 yards out, but, again, Sutton eluded the Irish line and blocked the kick. 
"Reggie's been blocking them against us all week in practice," Miami coach Howard Schnellenberger. noted. "He's a quick kid. If you don't get the ball off quick, you're in trouble." . 
The Irish offense may have been out of the game at that point, but the defense kept working. The Irish stopped Miami at the one-yard line after the Hurricanes had a first down at the seven. Then, after Kiel threw his second interception of the night, the ~efense held Miami to only a 


SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 
7 

field goal, which accounted for the final twenty-point margin. 
Kiel accepted a lot of responsibility for the loss. 
"I had two interceptions," he ad­mitted. "Every time I had a turnover, they scored." 
Kiel also had praise for his replace­ment. 
"I think it (playing Beuerlein) was the logical thing to do," he said, "Steve did a great job and deserved to be in there." 
On Notre Dame's final possession of the game, Beuerlein orchestrated a 76-yard drive from the Irish 20. It was the Hurricane defense that made an ex­cellent goal-line stand this time, turning Notre Dame away from the four-yard line. 
After thrashing the Irish, freshman quarterback Bernie Kosar led the Hurricanes to a 
national championship. 



Ironically, the game statistics were . slightly in Notre Dame's favor. The Irish · had 102 yards rushing to Miami's 81, and 233 yards passing to the Hurricanes' 215. 
One obvious difference in the statistics is the number of turnovers: four for the Irish, and only two for the Hurricanes. It is also important to note that Miami held Allen Pinkett, who went on to set a Notre Dame record by tallying nine 100-yard games in the season, to just 58 yards. 
The other most obvious statistical dif­ference is the final score. Why were the Irish unable to get into the end zone? 
"I don't know," co-captain Kiel said. "We didn't have the drive we needed to get in there." 
Wllatever the reasons, the game ended _happily for Hurricane fans, while the Irish were left to speculate why they had lost five of theirlast six games. It was lit­tle consolation for Notre Dame fans when they discovered that they had lost to the eventual national champions. 
Maybe they should have watched The Love Boat. 
Philip Wolf is a freshman hailing from . Bloomfield Hills, Minnesota. This is his ·· first contribution to Scholastic. · 
8 

SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 

--------,, ' 

by Brad Couri photos by Kevin Maloney, 



Sports Infonnation 
At the start of the season, the match-up between the Fighting Irish and the Col­orado Buffaloes scheduled for October 1 seemed relatively insignificant. However, by the time the Irish, with a dismal 1-2 record, were preparing to travel to Boulder, the game had become much more important for the Notre Dame players and their disgruntled fans. Having lost their last two games to Michigan State and Miami, and, in the 

-process, the confidence of their fans as well, the team attempted to regroup for the Buffaloes. The Monday before the game, the players -gathered for a team meeting without the coaches and dis­cussed their problems. Inspired by this meeting, the Irish approached the game with a relaxed but enthusiastic attitude which had been absent in the previous two games. This renewed spirit com­bined with the solid performance by freshman quarterback Steve Beuerlein, 
. who started in place of senior Blair Kiel, and the · magnificent running of sophomore tailback Allen Pinkett, helped lift Notre Dame to a valuable victory over the Colorado Buffaloes. 
-The Irish started quickly by taking the opening kick-off and proceeding 80 yards for the game's first touchdown. During 
· the drive the offense kept the ball on the ground, as it did all day on its way to amassing an impressive 494 total yards against the Colorado defense. Pinkett, who finished the game with 136 yards on 18 .carries, glided past Colorado defenders gaining 66 yards on his first 4 attempts including a 36-yard romp down to the Colorado 21-yard line. The drive culminated in a IO-yard stroll into the end zone by Pinkett and the successful conversion by kicker Mike Johnston. 
However, Colorado responded by moving the ball just as easily against the suspect, _Irish . defense. In their initial drive, tli.e Buffaloes featured an effective mix of running and passing climaxed by a fourth down conversion at the Irish 34-yard line. The drive stalled at the Notre Dame 27-yard line and the Buf­faloes settled for a 43-yard Held goal. After the sluggish start on Colorado's opening drive, however, the Irish defense tightened and held Colorado scoreless for the rest of the game. The Irish played consistent team defense with four players -Furj anic, Golie, Ballage, and 
-Griffin -contributing 7 tackles apiece. Notre Dame's next possession was highlighted by a bit of trickery. On a first 
·down from the Irish 35~yard line, Coach Faust called for the flea-flicker. Up to this point, Beuerlein had thrown only quick, short passes designed to instill con­fidence in the young freshman. On this play, however, Beuerlein, having re­ceived the pitch back from Pinkett, calm­ly lofted a 58-yard spiral to Joe Howard. This reception set up a 21-yard field goal by Johnston. Beuerlein remained poised throughout the game, completing 8-of-12 passes for 133 yards. 
Early in the second period, Notre Dame missed an excellent scoring oppor­tunity. The Irish received good field posi­tion at the Colorado 40-yard line follow­ing a punt. Nevertheless, the Irish failed to score when -freshman running back Byron Abraham was nailed for a one­yard loss on a questionable fourth down call from the Colorado 5-yard line. 
After a booming punt by Colorado 
_ which, coupled with a clipping penalty on the return, had cornered Notre Dame at their own 8-yard line, the Irish marched 92 yards for a touchdown. The drive featured the running of freshman Hiawatha Francisco, who had given Pinkett a much-deserved rest, and Mark Brooks, who rambled 31 yards for the score which gave the Irish a 17-3 at the half-time intermission. 
In the second half, Notre Dame picked up where they had left off. After a missed field goal by Colorado, Pinkett and fullback Chris Smith pounded their way to the Colorado 29-yard line, where, on a third down and long situation, Smith rolled past the right side of the line for a touchdown. Later, in the fourth period, Johnston finished the scoring with a 39-yard field goal making the score 27-3. A final scoring attempt by Colorad~ late in the fourth quarter was thwarted when freshman Steve Lawrence intercepted a pass with 47 seconds left in the game. The Irish simply ran out the remaining seconds to gain the victory. 
After the game, Faust and the players seemed happy with the victory. Faust praised Beuerlein and Kiel, who saw limited action, "I was very impressed with Beuerlein. He called about seven or eight audibles, and that's impressive for a freshman. But, I was equally impressed with Kiel. He is a true Notre Dame player." The victory over Colorado was crucial for the Fighting Irish who needed to rediscover a winning attitude. It gave them a chance to start again. Allen Pinkett, after his outstanding perfor­mance, said, "A lot of our fans had given up on us already. They said our season was over, but it's like a new season to us now . . . who can say where we will finish?" 
Brad Couri, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, is from Wilmette, Il­linois. This is his first contribution to 
Scholastic. · 






by John Gates photos by Manny Gaetan, 

Sports Information 

Notre Dame silenced a Williams-Brice Stadium record crowd of 74,500 and more than a few critics with an im­pressive 30-6 victory over South Carolina. 
The Irish raised their record to 3-2 
with surprising ease, handing the 
Gamecocks their third defeat against 
three victories. Going into the game, 
Notre Dame partisans were still reeling 
from a humiliating 20-0 loss to Miami on 
national television two weeks earlier. 
The Cocks were on an emotional high, 
having mauled Southern Cal 38-14 the 
previous weekend with the help of an op­
portunistic offense and a boisterous, in­
timidating home crowd. 

But the Irish scored early and often, putting points on the board in each of their first five possessions to take the Carolina faithful right out of the game. Sophomore tailback Allen Pinkett once again proved to be the sparkplug for Notre Dame, setting the tone of the game with a 53-yard scamper through the left side of the Gamecock defense on Notre Dame's final offensive play from the scrimmage. 
An offensive interference penalty on Milt Jackson halted the Irish in their in­itial drive, but Mike Johnston kicked a field goal from 32 yards out to give Notre Dame a 3-0 lead with 12:18 left in the first quarter. 
The Irish defense then forced South Carolina into a punting situation for the second time in as many possessions. Start­ing on his own 32-yard line, freshman quarterback Steve Beuerlein proceeded to drive Notre Dame to its first touchdown. Beuerlein, starting only his second game, teamed up with tight end Mark Bavaro for a 21-yard strike on third down which moved the Irish into Gamecock territory. Six plays later, Beuerlein hit fullback Chris Smith for a 26-yard completion and Notre Dame's first six-pointer. Johnston's extra point made it 10-0 in favor of the Irish. 
Chris Brown thwarted South Carolina's third drive, intercepting an Allen Mitchell pass and returning the ball to the Gamecocks' 28. Johnston notched his second field goal from 27 yards out to give Notre Dame a 13-0 advantage with 
2:32 left in the first quarter. _ Joe Johnson's fumble recovery on the Carolina 25 gave the Irish another scor­ing opportunity. And Mike Johnston 



. 
. . 
made the most of it, opening the second quarter with a boot from 41 yards out to give Notre Dame a 16-0 lead. 
A Gamecock punt again gave the Irish good field position on their own 45. Three plays later, Beuerlein found Pinkett isolated against a Carolina linebacker and the two connected on a 59-yard scoring pass which seemingly broke the spirit of the Cocks. Johnston's point-after gave Notre Dame a 23-0 halftime lead. 
South Carolina's James Sumpter pumped new life into his teammates by recovering a Pinkett fumble on Notre Dame's second possession of the third quarter. Starting on their own 29, the Gamecocks capped a 10-play drive with Kent Hagood's 1-yard plunge into the end zone. But an attempt at a two-point conversion fell incomplete and the Irish led by a 23-6 margin going into the fourth quarter. 
Notre Dame's final scoring drive came after Mike Gann sacked Carolina quarterback Jim·· Desmond on a key fourth down play at the Irish 18-yard line. Notre Dame coach Gerry Faust then turned to his ru_nning game and Pinkett and Smith traded carries as the clock wound down. Smith's 37-yard jaunt up the middle led to Pinkett's two-yard touchdown run at the 4:27 mark. Johnston provided the extra point to end the scoring with Notre Dame in front 30-6; . 
Pinkett finished the day with llO yards on 23 carries and 6lyards on 2 receptions to lead the Irish in both departments. Smith added 75 yards on ll carries, while Beuerlein completed 9 of 13 passes for 163 yards and 2 touchdowns. The Irish offense tallied 362 yards as a whole and the defense, led by Mike Golie with ll tackles, held South Carolina to just 239 total yards. 
The victory, coupled with the previous week's 27-3 win at Colorado, gave the Irish two consecutive triumphs on the road. "The one thing we've done each of the past two weeks is dominate and take control of . the game from the opening kickoff," claimed Faust. "We played with very good intensity two weeks in a row, and I think our kids understand the kind of effort it takes to win games like that, especially on the road. 
"We've just got to keep working hard and improving every week. That's our goal. We've seen what a big difference it makes when we take the momentum away from the other team early. i'd just like to continue the consistency we've shown the last two weeks." 
John Gates is a iunior Arts & Letters ma­ior from South Bend. This is his first con­tribution to Scholastic. 
. . 
---. ---~ --~ -----­




·•·Bui·:firedrish scored •. e.a.rly••·•andoft'eij,\ 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 11 

. . -­

· dominance on Army's next possession, not allowing a first down as Kovaleski and safety Joe Johnson stopped Army halfback Travis Jackson on a third and one carry. The Cadets were forced to punt, and the Irish offense went to work again from their own 32. Quarterback Steve Beuerlein failed to hit flanker Milt Jackson down the right sideline on a first down pass, but on the next two plays, Pinkett dashed over the middle for long gains, to give the Irish a first down at the Army 23. Two more handoffs netted only one yard, however, and put Notre Dame in a difficult third and nine situation. But Beuerlein found tight end Mark Bavaro over the middle and threw for the touchdown. Johnston's kick made it 14-0. The Irish defense picked up where it left off on the next series, forcing the Cadets into a dancer's offense-one, two, three, kick. 
Notre Dame got good field position once again, starting from their own 47, and Beuerlein was moving in for the kill. He hit Bavaro in the left flat for 21 yards to the Army 32. Following a Pinkett first down run, the Irish were saddled with a penalty for offensive pass interference, giving them a first and 15 on the Army 
25. Beuerlein calmly hit Pinkett with a pass over the left side for 13 yards, but second down carry, bringing up a third and one situation. Beuerlein handed off to Pinkett, who found a big hole over right tackle and burst into the end zone. Johnston's PAT made the score 21-0 in the final seconds of the first quarter. The Cadets were in for a long afternoon. 
The Cadets, who have had quarter­back problems all season, switched to Rob Healy, the early season starter, to open the second quarter. The change didn't help the Army offense, however, as they managed only one first down in the quarter. Fortunately for the Cadets, the Notre Dame offense ran into some prob­lems of its own, so the half ended with Army down by three touchdowns, 
Irish coach Gerry Faust apparently felt that the lead was not enough however, because the Irish came out for the second half fired up and looking for more. The defense picked up where it had left off in the first half, forcing the Cadets to punt on their opening possession. Joe Howard's 27-yard punt return set the Irish offense up in good position once again, with a first down at the Army 44-yard line. 
It took Notre Dame only five plays to get their fourth touchdown, as Pinkett went 11 yards over right tackle for the score. The sensational tailback had 33 

Mark Brooks, an Irish fullback who averaged 5 yards per carry this season, will be back again next year for Notre Dame. 

by Larry Burke photos by Paul Cifarelli 

On the bright side for the Cadets of Army, they will not have to face the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame again until the 1985 season. 
It might just take that long for the Cadets to get over the pain of the 42-0 drubbing they received at the hands of the Irish in front of a near-capacity crowd of 75,131 in New Jersey's Giants' Stadium, most of whom were the self­prodaimed "subway alumni" of Notre Dame. 
The Cadets were quite simply outplayed in virtually every phase of the game. They were held to a mere 159 yards of total offense by an inspired Notre Dame defensive unit. Army had the ball in Notre Dame territory exactly twice, once on a third-quarter fumble recovery, 
. and finally on a late fourth-quarter drive to the Notre Dame 49-yard line that ended in an interception. 
The bright spots for the Irish, on the other hand, were obviously more abun­dant. The offense, which exploded for six touchdowns and rolled up 438 total yards, was virtually unstoppable. Of that yardage total, 272 came on the ground, where the Irish were dominant enough to make passing almost unnecessary. Tailback Allen Pinkett led the way with 132 yards rushing on 22 carries, scoring three touchdowns. 
The afternoon started out ominously for the Cadets. After receiving the open­ing kickoff, a penalty on their first play from scrimmage gave them a first and 15 on the Notre Dame 15. Tailback Elton Akins then burst over the middle for a 27-yard gain, but fumbled on his way down. The recovery by Irish cornerback Troy Wilson gave Notre Dame a golden opportunity with the ball on their own 42-yard line, but they failed to move the ball and were forced to punt. 
Tony Furjanic downed Blair Kiel's punt at the Army 2-yard line, to put the Cadets in a deep hole. After gaining a first down out to the 14, t.ne Cadets faced a difficult third and nme. Quarterback Rich Laughlin's pass was picked off by Irish linebacker Mike Kovaleski, and Notre Dame was in scoring position once again with a first and goal on the five. Two plays later Pinkett went over the top for all the points the Irish would need. Mike Johnston's point after made it 7-0. 
The Irish defense continued their 
12 

SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 
Above, Mark Bavaro gathers in a pass. To the right, tailback Byron Abraham domers his way through the Army line. 
Johnston's conversion made it 28-0. 

The Irish offense, this time led by Blair Kiel, took over on the 21, Jooking to redeem themselves for the turnover on their previous possession. Byron Abraham took. a shuffle pass from Kiel and went around the left side for 17 yards to get the drive going. Kiel's 15~yard completion to Mike Favorite,_ along with the power running of Abraham and reserve fullback Dave Machtolf, got the Irish down to the Army 3-yard line. Kiel took it in from there on a quarterback keeper, and Johnston made it six for six and a 42~0 lead. 
Even though _both teams had inserted mostly reserve players by this point, Notre Dame's defensive dominance con­tinued; The Irish trapped the Cadets in their own end one more time to get the ball back to the offense again. 
Following the punt, the Irish had the ball on their, own 38-yard line. From there, reserve quarterbacks Kevin Smith and Tom Cushing shared the signal­calling duties on a long drive that stalled at the Army 5-yard line. Army took over at that point, but after gaining two first downs, · Troy Wilson picked off a pass from Cadet reserve quarterback Dave Grasch. Wilson snared the pass at the Irish 28 and took it back all the way for an apparent touchdown, but a clipping penalty near midfield nullified the return. The Irish took over at their own 34, and ran out the clock to end the game. 
It was an all-around great day for Notre Dame players and fans, as the Irish raised their record to 4-2 with their first shutout win of the season. Heading into a tough matchup with USC in one week, Notre Dame had· built up a lot of con­fidence. 
Larry Burke is a freshman from Nutley, NJ. This is his first contribution to 
Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 13 


Notre Dame is 'tickled Pink-ett' 

by Louie Somogyi 

Ever since sophomore tailback Allen Pinkett began his Notre Dame football career in August 1982, his goals have been about as modest as his 5' -9 ", 184-pound frame is amongst his many
i 
JI I 6' -4 ", 260-pound teammates. As a I I freshman, his main ambitions were to be i a force on the specialty teams and to possibly see some mop-up duty behind the team's two outstanding tailbacks, senior Phil Carter and junior Greg Bell. Injuries, however, sidelined Bell and restricted Carter at times from action. Pinkett promptly stepped in and finished second on the team in rushing yardage (532), and touchdowns (6). His perfor­mances included scoring the final two Notre Dame touchdowns -on runs of 76 and seven yards -against then-first­ranked Pittsburgh in the 31-16 Irish triumph, and a 93-yard touchdown return the next week against eventual na­tional champion, Penn State, to give the Irish the halftime lead. If the final 6-4-1 Notre Dame record that year left Irish fans blue, then Pinkett's emergence into the spotlight certainly left Notre Dame fans, well, "tickled Pink." As a sophomore this past season, all he wanted was a chance at the starting tailback position for the team with Bell. When Bell once again sustained an in­jury, Pinkett had the position all to himself. The Irish offense immediately began to "Think Pink," and when it was time to select the All-American squads at the end of the season, so did the people who tabulate those teams. Just a 19-year­old sophomore, he found himself alongside Reisman Trophy winner Mike Rozier on The Sporting News and Foot­ball News first-team All-America backfield lists. Only a disappointing 6-5 regular season team record may have overshadowed what could be regarded as one of the greatest single season achievements by an individual in Notre Dame football history. 
14 SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 
Besides setting an Irish record for 100-yard games in a season with nine, Pinkett's 18 touchdowns this year represented the most by anyone in a single season at Notre Dame. Not only did he break Red Salmon's 80-year record of 104 points in a season by scoring 110 this year, but he also set another season mark among running backs for all­purpose yardage with 1,682 (1,394 by land, and 288 more through the air). 
As frustratibn would have it, Pinkett was most dazzling in the final two losses this year to Penn State and Air Force. Penn State Head Coach Joe Paterno doesn't usually go into mourning when the Irish lose, but he did admit that "I hated to see Pinkett lose," after he gained 217 yards rushing and scored four touchdowns in the 34-30 loss to the Nit­tany Lions. A week later, after garnering 290 yards total offense in a 23-22 loss to Air Force, Falcon linebacker Shawn Smith simply summed up Pinkett's greatness by stating, "He's a Reisman candidate." 
Finishing 16th in the Reisman balloting this year, second only to Auburn's Bo Jackson among sophomores Pinkett has quickly become one of the most celebrated collegiate football players in America. 
Pinkett is an example of how All­Americans are made and not necessarily just born. Of course, he does have tremendous natural abilities, but a good deal of what he is today can be attributed to the teachings and discipline he re­ceived from his parents and three coaches during his years at Park View High School in Sterling, Virginia. 
Ever since he started for Park View's varsity football team as a 5' -7 ", 
_145-pound, 14-year-old freshman fullback, there has been occasional doubt whether Pinkett's height and weight pro­portions are appropriate for football. Physically, Pinkett always was in his words "a fearless type" who was willing to sacrifice and throw around his body in a blocking role from his fullback position against people much larger and ex­perienced than he. Mentally, however, he was not always prepared to challenge the skeptics' notions that he was, literal­ly, in over his head. 
"All through that summer (before his freshman year in high school), people told me it was too big a joke for me to play fullback on the varsity," recalls Pinkett. "My parents stood behind me, though. At that time I was affected by what other people said, but my parents provided me with the confidence to con­front any adversity and come through with shining colors." 
By the end of his sophomore year, he was a second-team selection on the all­district team. Any other feelings of in­feriority because of size were dispelled by his football coach, Ed Scott. 
"He molded my mind," said Pinkett of Scott. "He made me a team-oriented player and exemplified what a coach as a motivator is. In high school we didn't have a big team at all, but he made us feel big." 
That philosophy enabled Park View to play for the Virginia state championship iri Pinkett's junior year. Park View lost that game, 33-32, despite Pinkett's 230 yards rushing and five touchdowns. He finished his career with over 4,700 yards gained and 57 touchdowns en route to becoming a prep All-American. 
Weight training also helped compen­sate for his lack of size. Starting in his eighth-grade year, Pinkett began to lift between two to three hours a day, three days a week. As his muscles began to rip­ple, so did his self-confidence. Today he can bench-press as much as 385 pounds, hold 550 pounds in the squat position, and lift 300 pounds clean over his head. 
Those many weight-lifting sessions were a piece of cake, though, when com­pared to the boot-camp atmosphere that his track coach, Jim Hartung, provided at Park View. 
"He worked my butt off," said Pinkett with a slight grimace as he recalls those days. "We used to practice sometimes from three in the afternoon till eight at night. We'd stretch, lift weights, do triple jumps (in which he competed) and sprints-and then start running. He's responsible for my coordination." 

To say that Pinkett is just a naturally gifted athlete would be a discredit to him. Overcoming his size disadvantage, Pinkett, in the words of John Houseman, attained his fame the old-fashioned way-he earned it. His great strength has enabled him to resist the physical pound­ing that opposing defenses give his com­pact body. Combine that with his speed-a 4A5 time in the 40-yard dash-and_ he becomes an awfully tough back to stop. 
"I've never seen anybody really hit him hard," said Pitt Head Coach "Foge" Fazio. "No one can lay wood on him. I don't think anyone ever put a good hit on Tony Dorsett, either." 
Even his size has been a benefit. 

"We've got the big tall linemen, an_d they stand people up so that it's hard for the defensive linemen and linebackers to see me," explained Pinkett. "By the time I get through the line, my quickness is sup­posed to take over." 
"His size is a bonus to him," agreed Pitt linebacker, Chris Doleman. "He takes those short, choppy strides so he can cut on a dime." · 
As far as Notre Dame backfield coach Mal Moore is concerned, interior size is the thing that makes Pinkett a giant. 
"Allen has got a lot of pride and a big heart," said Moore. "Football is impor­tant to him and this team is important to him." 
. Football isn't the only thing that is im­portant to Pinkett. To him, being an "All-American" doesn't imply that that role has to be just limited to 100 yards of gridiron for 11 Saturdays in the fall. 
When Pinkett was budding into a star athlete at Park View, his junior varsity basketball coach, Larry Sims, noted a brashness in the spirited youth that he felt needed to be squelched. 
"I was a footloose and fancy-free type of guy at that time," said Pinkett with a tone of regret. "Coach Sims gave me a sense of self-awareness. He made me realize that no matter who you are and what you are, you should always carry yourself-well among others as a person." 
Pinkett sincerely prefers to just blend in with the rest of the student body at Notre Dame and not be regarded as any type of prima donna. His roommate dur­ing the school year is Greg Arbour, who majors in chemical engineering and is a nonmember of the football team. Pinkett, in fact, is only one of five foot­ball players that reside on the fourth floor of Keenan Hall. 


"The term 'student-athlete' had a meaning in my high school .... And it has a meaning here at Notre Dame. There is no 'dumb-jock' syn­drome. There have been many times that I have felt dumb here, but I think a lot of people here-whether or not they play sports-can relate to that feeling because of the tough academic standards!" 

SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 15 

"Around here he's no superstar," said Arbour of Pinkett. "He's just one of the guys," 
Pinkett wouldn't want it any other way, One of the reasons he chose to at­tend Notre Dame was because of the lack of special cliques on campus. 
"Notre Dame feels that athletic dorms take away from the true college ex­perience and I agree," said Pinkett. "We won't deal with football players all the time. We have to be prepared to deal with people from other walks of life. To me, Notre Dame is like one big melting pot. Everyone has their own special qualities. · 
"I ·like to get along with others and not separate myself. My dad was a Sunday school teacher and one of the main things that he taught me was to never separate myself from other people, but to get along," 
One group that he gets along with especially well is the nation's media -no small feat for an experienced professional much less a college sophomore. He's won the press corps over, though, with a polite demea_11pr, articulate speech habits, and yes;--at times, a sharp wit. 
In a visit to Hershey, Pennsylvania, last June for a Multiple Sclerosis Dinner of Champions, Pinkett, who had re­turned a kickoff 93 yards for a touchdown the previous fall against na­tional champion Penn State, was asked a question regarding his speed, 
"You're listed at :04. 7 for the 40," 
asked the questioner. "How fast are you 
really?"· "Faster than Penn State," quipped 
Pinkett. Even Penn State coachJoe Pater­
no, who headlined the dinner, broke up in laughter. 
"I've always been kind of· outspoken and assertive," said Pinkett. "I guess I in­herited that from my mom who does an awful lot of talking. She's never been afraid to speak her mind and it rubbed off on her son." 


His good speech habits also come from 

a lot of home training from mom and pop. 
It's a common sight to see writers crowd around Pinkett's locker after a game the way bees crowd around a honeycomb. No problem. 
"I said 'ain't' in front of Coach Faust and Coach Blache (former Notre Dame defensive line coach for the Irish) when they were here recruiting me, and she even corrected me then," recalled Pinkett. 
"I've always been able to deal with people," said Pinkett, "that's why a pro­fession in business is for me." 
After majoring in engineering as a freshman, Pinkett switched to a manage­ment information systems major in the College of Business Administration. Working regularly with computers and reading The Wall Street Journal almost daily to keep up with current news and events in the business world, Pinkett takes his academics as seriously as foot­ball. It makes him proud to be getting the education he expected from a University that has graduated 98 % of its football players that are presently competing in professional football. 
"The term 'student-athlete' had a meaning in my high-school," said Pinkett who graduated with a 3.5 grade~point average on a 4.0 scale and was a member of the National Honor Society, "And it has a meaning here at Notre Dame. There is no 'dumb-jock' syndrome. There have been many times that I have felt dumb here, .but I think a lot of people here-whether or not they play sports-can relate to that feeling because of the tough academic standards." 
A gentleman, a scholar, a football All­American. 
"I know I sound like a goody-goody kid," said Pinkett, "but believe me, I'm just one of the guys." 
* * * * * 
Pinkett has come a long way in his one and a half years at Notre Dame. He's matured beyond his own expectations and he knows that he just can't set modest goals for himself anymore after his ac­complishments the past two seasons. 
"I do have a dream," he said softly, "and that is one day getting the Reisman Trophy. As far as I'm concerned, the work for that is just beginning. Heck, col­lege was just a dream for me too. I have not stopped dreaming, though, and my work is not complete." 
Stay tuned. With Allen Pinkett as the main attraction, the quest to put Notre Dame football back "in the Pink" con­tinues next September. 
Louie Somogyi is an Arts & Letters senior from South Bend. A sportswriter for The Observer, this is his first contribution to Scholastic. 


"To me, Notre Dame is like one big melting pot. Everyone has his own qualities." 


"I do have a dream ... and that is one day getting the Heisman Trophy. As far as I'm concerned, the work for that is just beginning.'' 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 17 


by Steve Labate photos by Mike Leary 
Saturday October 22, 1983, in Notre Dame Stadium was reminiscent of past Oct. Saturdays in several respects. For starters, Notre Dame's opponent was their archrival from the West Coast, the University of Southern California. 
The dark and misty climate rekindled memories of October 27, 1973, a day when the Irish put an end to USC's 23-game unbeaten streak on a sloppy field. The clinching play in the 23-14 vic­tory was Eric Penick's gallant 85-yard TD burst early in the third period. Five games later Ara Parseghian's undefeated Irish team would be named national champions. 
The date was also a positive omen in that the only other time the two teams squared off on October 22 in 1977, Notre Dame shocked the fifth-ranked Trojans 49-19. That game is more often remembered as "the Day of the Green Jerseys" than as the key game in another national championship season. 



On this particular Saturday, however, the stakes were much lower. Un­characteristically, both the Irish (4-2) and the Trojans (2-3-1) entered the con­test with unimpressive records. 
However disappointing the season had been for them until now, the Irish wanted the Trojans badly. The memories of USC's Michael Harper diving over the goal line without the football for the win­ning score in the 1982 contest was still fresh in the minds of the Irish. Just in case someone had forgotten, however, the Notre Dame coaches gave each player a 12 11 x 18 11 photo of the controversial play to hang in his locker. 

Moments before the opening kickoff, another element of the coaches' strategy was revealed as the Irish appeared in the tunnel wearing green jerseys -a gran­diose spectacle reminiscent of 1977. The resulting roar of the sellout crowd was without question the most vibrant acknowledgment given to their Irish dur­ing Gerry Faust's tenure as coach. 
Now, with the players fully reminded of the confrontations of the past, the only uncertainty was whether the reminders would propel the Irish to victory. Shortly after the opening kickoff, however, Notre Dame erased any doubts and replaced them with 60 minutes of hard-hitting and opportunistic football. As a result, their visitors from the West never stood a chance. 
The Trojan game plan was to establish the running game, thereby making it easier for quarterback Sean Salisbury to throw. As a result, Salisbury opened up the game by handing off to sophomore tailback Fred Crutcher seven of the Tro­jan's first eight plays. On Crutcher's seventh carry, however, Irish freshman Mike Griffin forced a fumble which teammate Mike Golie recovered at the Notre Dame 27-yard line. 
Freshman Steve Beuerlein, starting his fourth consecutive contest, drove the Irish down to the USC 33 before the drive stalled. When Mike Johnston's field goal attempt from 49 yards out was short, the game remained deadlocked at 0-0. 
On its next possession, Notre Dame made the big play that changed the con­dition of the game. On first down and 10 from the Irish 20, Allen Pinkett took a delayed handoff from Beuerlein and lofted a pass over the frozen linebackers to tight end Mark Bavaro. The 6-4 Bavaro lumbered to the Trojan 21-yard line before being dragged down by Jerome Tyler. Two plays later, Pinkett dashed through a huge hole up the mid­dle, shook off two tackles in true Pinkett fashion, and scampered into the end zone for six points. 
Two series later, the Irish put points on the board again as Beuerlein, playing with all the poise of a professional, engineered a crisp 12-play, 55-yard touchdown drive. Aided by both Trojan penalties and the elusive ball-carrying of Pinkett, the Irish methodically marched down the field. Three Pinkett carries netted 77 yards; the last one, a· 9-yard blast up the middle was good for the touchdown. 
On Notre Dame's next series the 59,075 spectators witnessed bold coaching when, leading 14-0, the Irish went for the early kill before the half instead of running out the clock. This drive was set up by Rick Naylor's interception of a Salisbury pass and 20-yard return to the USC 32. 
After bogging down on the 13-yard line with 29 seconds left in the first half, Johnston's kick from 30 yards out was true. As the Irish headed for their dress­ing room leading 17-0, it was obvious that the game, for all intents and pur­poses, was over, even though 30 minutes remained to be played. 

The two teams exchanged second-half touchdowns to make the score 24-6 short­ly before the end of the third quarter. The Irish scored by again converting a Naylor interception into points. After five running plays from the USC 42, this drive was culminated by Pinkett's third touchdown run of the game, this one an 11-yarder. 
Tim Green, in relief of Salisbury, led the Trojans on a 6-play, 79-yard drive. The big play was a 36-yard pass in­terference call against Pat Ballage that put the ball on the Notre Dame 3-yard line. A play later, Michael Harper plowed over right tackle (this time with the ball) for the Trojan's lone score of the afternoon. 
Johnston closed out the game's scoring on the next series with a 39-yard field goal. This scoring drive was 41 yards with Pinkett rushing for 33 of those yards on four carries. 

The Notre Dame victory boosted its record to 5-2 and Irish fans dared to dream of their first major bowl invitation for their team since Dan Devine's depar­ture. Based on the play of the Irish on this particular afternoon, their dreams seemed attainable. 
Steve Labate, from Norristown, Penn­sylvania, is an Arts & Letters senior. A sportswriter for The Observer, this is his first contribution to Scholastic. 



...:·-. _:_ · '·/·..·_ · ·.;. -lri•h 2.fJ,· lilli,,;Jshiprri~~ -·.12· 
. . ----. . , .-~ . ' . . -.. 
by Terry Bland The Irish defense held Navy to just 168 
photos by Karen Klocke yards on the ground, 92 of which came from the strength of McCallum's run­ning, who was still held well below his 
Coming off an impressive win over season average. Notre Dame's offense USC, the Irish needed to sustain their also performed admirably behind the momentum and come up with a strong consistent running of Allen Pinkett. Even performance against the Navy Mid­though the Irish connected for only 132 shipmen. Navy boasted the NCAA's yards in the air, Pinkett and the rest of leading rusher in Napoleon McCallum. the Notre Dame backfield gained over McCallum, who averages 159. 7 yards per 265 on the ground against the strained game, is the backbone of the Navy of­Navy defense. · fense. McCallum had to be controlled if Starting from their own 33-yard line, the Irish were to be successful in the Irish wasted no time when on the first defeating Navy. play from scrimmage Joe Howard took 
Asked about the abilities of the Navy an end around and sprinted 30 yards tailback, Notre Dame's head coach Gerry behind the blocking of junior center Mike Faust said, "McCallum obviously has Kelley. Navy must have still been feeling great skills, and with his return abilities the effects of the surprising first play, he can beat you in so many ways. Playing when three plays later, Steve Beuerlein against a runner the caliber of McCallum connected with Milt Jackson, putting the will be a great challenge for us." Irish on the Navy 20-yard line. Allen Originally, Notre Dame was interested in Pinkett eluded the Navy linebackers on the talents of McCallum. McCallum, the following play with his first reception however, wished to become an astronaut of the day, for an 8-yard gain over the and so chose to attend the Naval middle and an Irish first down. It proved Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. to be a fine day for Irish flanker Milt Despite the great abilities of the Navy Jackson as he caught his first of two 
:1I tailback, the Irish sank the Navy 28-12, touchdown passes when Beuerlein rolled behind a strong rushing attack and an right and found him uncontested in the outstanding defensive performance. Navy end zone. The ensuing kick by Mike



:I 
:,--I-----1-r-is_h_o_v_e_r__p_o_w_e_r_s_N_a_v_y------. 
t 
I 
,. 
f] 
,,,, 
;·,,r,, 

Johnston, who remained perfect on all of his PAT attempts this year, ·put Notre Dame up quickly by 7-0, 
On Navy's first possession, quarterback Rick Williamson found out how in­timidating the Irish defense could be at times. From his own 23, Williamson dropped back to pass, but found no one open as the Notre Dame secondary kept the Navy receivers well covered. Williamson was unable to scramble out of the pocket and was soon dumped for an 8-yard loss by 6-5, 250-lb. defensive end Mike Golie. This marked the begin­ning of what would turn out to be a very long afternoon for the quarterback from Jacksonville, Florida. ' 
On their next offensive possession, Notre Dame kept the ball safely on the ground and relied on the consistent run­ning of Allen Pinkett. Pinkett, a possible Reisman Trophy candidate next season, took the ball over left tackle and scampered 17 yards into the Navy secon­dary. Navy coach Gary Tranquill had nothing but praise for the capacities of Allen Pinkett. "He's a great back," said Tranquill, "he's got great feet. He's powerful and powerful-looking." In­deed, the 5-9, 184-lb. sophomore tailback must have seemed a lot bigger to Navy's 



'1J~'.;jltB;;~~l-~
--~..>{~: -, ' .·~·-: ?.~:.•.~~-.:? --; :>·,~~. ' 
20 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 

------·-­.  -------------•r-----~-----­, . . -. . -. .  -­ ~  - .  - ·­- 
,  .  . .  ,  .  .  .  .  .  - . .  .  ~  .  . .  

defensive line as he ran for over 100 yards 
for his fifth consecutive game. 
. The Notre Dame coaching staff relied on the element of surprise in selecting a number of their plays. Later in the game, quarterback Steve Beuerlein pitched the ball to Joe Howard who demonstrated his ability to throw the ball when he con­nected with Milt Jackson for his second touchdown of the day. "We worked on it all week," said Jackson, "arid we never completed_ the pass in practice. Today, I waited a little· longer for the defensive backs to come up before I made my break." On the day, Jackson had 3 recep­tions for the Irish for 46 yards. His second touchdown reception put the Irish ahead 14-0 at the end of the first quarter. 
However, Navy was not going to be denied a scoring opportunity. Behind the aggressive running of fullback Bryan Caraveo, the Middies were able to upset the balance of,the Irish defense. "I didn't carry the_ ball that much this year until the Princeton game and then I started to carry it a lot," said the 205-lb. fullback from Atwater, California. "As far as our line blocking, I got through the line a lot. It was the linebackers I had trouble with." Contrary to Caraveo's problem with the, Irish · linebackers, Williamson was, at times, able to successfully penetrate the trio. After avoiding the blitz of strong side linebacker Rick Naylor, Williamson completed a 14-yard pass to Napoleon McCallum, which put Navy on the Notre Dame 25. It turned out to be ·1:ne "Luck of the Irish" when three plays later, Williamson missed a wide-open Greg Brand in the Irish end zone. Navy had to settle for 3.points and called on Steve Young to convert for a 34-yard field goal to decrease Notre Dame's lead to 14-3. 
By the beginning of the second half, Navy was prepared to do battle with the Irish once again. An impressive drive had put Navy deep into Irish territory but was terminated when Napoleon Mc­Callum dropped a pass at the Irish 30-yard line. Navy once again had to set­tle for a field goal. 
The field goal by Young brought the score to 14-6, which was as close as the Irish would let Navy get. The Notre Dame offensive unit came on and quickly overpowered the Middies defense. First, Allen Pinkett scampered for a IO-yard gain over right tackle. This play loosened up the Navy defensive line enabling Joe Howard to run a quick curl pattern which resulted in an 18-yard gain. Steve· Beuerlein also displayed his running ability when, behind the. blocking of Mark Bavaro, rushed for 9 yards around the end. The Navy defense eventually succumbed to the bigger and stronger of­fensive line of Notre Dame. From the Navy 6, Allen Pinkett took the ball and broke up the middle for ND's third touchdown. 
The Irish defense then held the Middies deep in their own territory, but a 71-yard punt by Navy's Mark Colby put the Irish back on their own 20. On Notre Dame's first play Beuerlein and Pinkett failed to connect on a pitch and an alert Andy Ponseigo recovered the loose ball on the Notre Dame 15. Navy seemed to be play­ing with renewed vigor, still hoping to upset the stronger Irish team. Moving the ball to the three-yard line, the call went to McCallum who barrelled up the mid­dle for Navy's first touchdown of the day. Navy tried for the two-point conversion but was unsuccessful when the pass from Williamson sailed over the head of Ken Heine, who was open in the Irish end zone. As the ball soared over the out­stretched hands of the junior flanker, so did the hopes of a Navy upset. 
Notre Dame insured its already safe lead when Beuerlein found Joe Howard over the middle for aJ7-yard gain. On the play following, Pinkett broke loose, and behind the strong blocking of guard Neil Maune, galloped for an impressive 22-yard gain. Against the Middies, Pinkett carried the ball 29 times for 127 yards and two touchdowns. "I was not reading the holes properly in the first half," said Pinkett, "The offensive line did a great job as usual. In the second half, I ran like Allen Pinkett-I had pa­tience and waited for things to develop." Indeed, Pinkett himself has developed in­to one of the top running backs in col­legiate football today. To conclude Notre Dame's final drive, Pinkett took the ball on the three-yard line and, slipping back inside a sweeping Navy defender, crossed the goal line making the score 28-12. 
Although Navy was not the strongest team the Irish faced all season, Notre Dame did come up with an impressive defensive showing and a strong offensive showing, especially by Allen Pinkett in the second half. The Irish defense did manage to keep the -NCAA's leading rusher well under his year's average. Asked about the defensive unit of Notre Dame, Napoleon McCallum replied, "Their defensive secondary and linebackers really pursue the ball well, I couldn't go ·anywhere with them around." 
Though the Irish still have a · con­siderable amount to improve on, the game against Navy proved to be one in which the Irish defense did rise to the oc­casion. "Our ability to make the big play on offense has hurt us all year," remarked Navy coach Gary Tranquil!. Even though the Irish. did score two quick touchdowns on big offensive plays, they will need more than just a few "big'' plays to become a successful team in the future. 
Terry Bland, a native of South Bend, is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 

SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 21 


by Ed Domansky photos by Mike Leary 

j 
Saturday afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium, Musco Mobile Lighting was on hand for the third time in two seasons. And aside from the traditional sellout crowd, CBS Sports was beaming the con­test to a regional audience around the na­
t 
6-2 records. After starting the season with a 2-2 record, Pitt, unranked in the AP poll and 19th in the UPI poll, extended its winning streak to five games. But more importantly, the win enabled it to avenge last year's 31-16 upset the Irish inflicted on the then number-one ranked Panthers at Pitt Stadium. 
Following the game a happy Pitt head coach Foge Fazio addressed the media. "I told Gerry last year I was happy for him Pinkett on a nine-yard pass play. 
Notre Dame quickly dug its own grave with two costly errors in the early going that set up the two first-period Pitt touchdowns. 
When Pitt's Tom Flynn was interfered with while waiting to return an Irish punt, Notre Dame was tagged. with a 15-yard penalty. It enabled the Panthers to start from their own 39-yard line. 
It then took just four plays for Pitt to 


tion. Representatives from seven bowls were also in attendance. But unfor­tunately for the Notre Dame football team, so were the Pittsburgh Panthers, who struck for two touchdowns early in the first quarter and hung on for a 21-16 victory. 
As officials from the Cotton, Orange, Sugar, Fiesta, 'Gator, Bluebonnet and Hall of Fame Bowls looked on, the 18th­ranked Irish had their hopes for a major bowl bid dashed and saw their winning string snapped at five games. 
Both teams came into the game with 
22 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 when he beat us, but why me?" he said. "I guess he feels the same way today. Our team was well prepared." 

Pitt clung to its 14-0 lead until just past the midway point of the third quarter when Notre Dame placekicker Mike Johnston hit two field goal attempts to pull the Irish within eight. But the third 
-Panther touchdown, at the 1:06 mark of the fourth quarter, gave them a commanding 15-point lead. The lone Notre Dame touchdown came with less than a minute to play in the game as quarterback Blair Kiel hit tailback Allen capitalize as quarterback John Cangemi hit split end Bill Wallace with a 44-yard scoring strike. Congemi's pass, although slightly underthrown, was pulled in by Wallace at the eight-yard line and car­ried to paydirt as Notre Dame defensive back Pat Ballage slipped and fell. On the day Cangemi was 8 of 13 for 87 yards. 
Pat Viancourt's PAT attempt was wide to the right, but Pitt was on the board with anearly 6-0 lead. 
The Irish were then hit with another 15-yard penalty. This time it was for unsportsmanlike · conduct when head coach Gerry Faust wandered onto the playing field to plead with officials for of­fensive pass interference on the touchdown play. Faust felt that Ballage had been pushed and didn't realize that he had stepped onto the field while trying to make his point. 




The Congemi to Wallace touchdown connection signified the first such aerial feat allowed by the Irish in 22 quarters. 
After the kickoff, it took the Pitt defense just one play to get the ball back. Defensive end Al Wenglikowski forced Pinkett to cough up the ball behind the line of scrimmage, and cornerback Troy Hill recovered for the Panthers on the Notre Dame 14-yard line. 
Senior tailback Joe McCall got the call twice and on his second carry, he scampered ten yards with a pitch around the left side for the second Pitt touchdown and his first of two on the day. McCall finished as the game's leading rusher with 116 yards on 23 car­ries. 
Having missed on their first PAT at­tempt, the Panthers went for two; and when Congemi hit fullback Marc Bailey with a short toss off the right side, Pitt gained a 14-0 lead. 
After the score, neither team made 

much progress until the second quarter 
when the Notre Dame defense peaked 
and brought' a halt to· a Pitt drive that 
began on its own 30-yard line. 
Following a first down at the Irish 

17-yard line, an incomplete pass and a 
10-yard holding penalty left the Panthers 
with a second and twenty from the 27. 
Mike Gann, who finished as Notre 
Dame's leading tackler with 14, and Rick 
Naylor then teamed up to sack Congemi 
for an eight-yard loss. Faced with third 
down and 28, Congemi overthrew Wallace and the Panther's drive was stopped. 
With the defense looking sharper, the offensive woes continued for Notre Dame. Two Pinkett runs and a 15-yard Pitt personal foul put the Irish on the Panther side of the midfield stripe'for the first time in the game. But when Beuerlein's pass on third and five from the 35, landed in the arms of Pitt free safety Flynn at the 29-yard line, the Irish drive was squelched. 
The Pitt defense held again late in the second quarter, stopping a Notre Dame drive that had moved from the Irish 20 to the Pitt 39-yard line. · 
The first half ended with Pitt main­

taining its 14-0 lead and the Irish still try­
ing to get things on track. 
"The two quick touchdowns put us in a 

hole," said Faust. "The mistakes really 
hurt us." 
Hoping to get back in the game, the 

Irish took their second possession of the 
second half, and behind sixPinkett rushes 
and a 27-yard pass to flanker Milt 
Jackson, marched 49 yards from their 
own 31-yard line to the Pitt 20. Two 
Beuerlein passes then fell incomplete, 
leaving the Irish with a fourth and 13. 
The call was made for Johnston who con­
nected on a 37-yard field goal. 
After holding the Panthers to six yards 

in three plays, the Notre Dame offense 
took the field, and moved 47 yards in 
seven plays to the Pitt six. Aided by two 
Pitt penalties covering 26 yards and three 
Beuerlein completions that added 22 
more, the Irish were threatening. Then 
on third and five, Beuerlein, pressured by 
a heavy rush, had his pass to tight end 
Mark Bavaro in the end zone broken up 
by linebacker Caesar Aldisert. 
Johnston came on again and this time scored from 22 yards, and Notre Dame was within eight at 14-6. 

Just as the situation seemed to be im­proving for Notre Dame, Pitt stormed 80 yards in eleven plays early in the last quarter to seal the fate of the Irish. Backup quarterback Chris Jelic, who started the second half at the Pitt helm after Congemi was rattled by a fierce hit late in the second stanza, connected on two passes of 15 and 19 yards to Clint Wilson and Wallace, respectively. Later in the drive, with the Panthers deep in Notre Dame territory, Jelic dove over right guard and picked up a key first down on a fourth and one play to keep the Panthers on the prowl. 
Two plays later, 6-5, 270-pound All­America tackle Bill Fralic led McCall on a 31-yard romp around right end that gave the Panthers a first and goal at the Notre Dame one-yard line. On the next play McCall broke from the grasp of Irish 
linebacker Tony Furjanic and bolted into the end zone for the score. Snuffy Everett made it 21-6 with the PAT conversion. 
With the help of Greg Bell's 36-yard kickoff return, Notre Dame started from its own 41 in quest of a big finish. On the first play, Beuerlein's pass to Howard covered 15 yards. A 15~yard personal foul penalty on Pitt, moved the Irish to the Pitt 29-yard line. On second and ten from the 29, Beuerlein faked a draw to Pinkett then escaped heavy pressure and gained 19 yards on a run around left end. After a hard-fought three yard gain by Pinkett on first and goal from the ten, Notre Dame's fortunes took a turn for the worst as Beuerlein's pass to Bavaro was picked off by Pitt linebacker Troy Benson at the one-yard line. 
As if things weren't bad enough, the 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 23 

I 
I 
. ' ' . ­
-------~ ------------­
II'[•'
ii 
I 
next time Notre Dame started with the ball, it was from its own five-yard line. A long toss downfield for Howard was overthrown, Troy Hill pulled it in and Beuerlein had thrown his third intercep­tion of the game. 
"Our defense really put pressure on Beuerlein," said Fazio. "The penetration of Pitt's defensive line forced me to rush my throws," added a disappointed Beuerlein. "I threw some passes . and shouldn't have. Hopefully I'll learn from my mistakes." 
Only eight of Beuerlein's 23 passes (for 103 yards) were snared by Irish receivers. 
Senior--co:captain Kief then got his chance at bringing the Irish back. His first series at the controls ended in failure, however, as his pass on a second and five play from the Pitt 39 found the numbers on Benson's uniform at the 27. The drive had started back on the Notre Dame eleven-yard line. 
The next time Kiel went in, he moved the Irish 77 yards in 10 plays and teamed up with Pinkett for the lone Notre Dame touchdown of thegame. He finished the game with nine completions in 16 at­tempts for 134 yards. 

Three of Kiel's longest efforts on the 
scoring march covered 13 and 43 yards to 
Bavaro and 18 to Alvin Miller. On the 
touchdown play Kiel hit Pinkett, who 
then broke one tackle to cross the goal 
line on the fourth and goal effort from 
the nine-yard line. Pinkett then gathered 
in Kiel's toss · for the two-point conver­
sion. 

Now trailing 21-14, Notre Dame's at­
tempt at an onside kick failed · as Pitt 
fullback Bailey gathered in John Carney's 
roller and the Panthers took over near 
midfield with just 20 seconds remaining 
in the contest. 

Jelic then proceeded to lose 47 yards on 
the final four plays of the game. His last 
feat added the final . two points to the 
Notre Dame total as he slid into his own ·end zone for a safety. 
McCall's 116-yard rushing perfor­
mance made him· the first player this 
season to rush for inore than 100 yards 
against the Notre Dame defense. 

Meanwhile Pinkett's record-setting 
string of five straight 100-yard games 
came to an end as he earned just 82 yards 
from his 22 carries. 

"Mistakes simply killed us," said the standout tailback. "We just made too 
many mistakes today." 
Despite ,not reaching the 100-yard 
plateau, Pinkett did receive Notre Dame 
player-of-the-game honor from CBS 
Sports. Fralic and Benson shared the 
honor for Pitt. 
Network television has not brought 
much success to the Irish, who have now 

lost on eight of their last nine ap­
pearances. 
One bright spot for Notre Dame was that its offensive total of.352 yards sur­passed the Panther output by 65 yards; · 242 of Notre Dame's yards came via the airwaves, but four interceptions didn't 
help the cause. 
The Irish, who have yet to beat a team 

with a winning record, travel to State 
College, Pa., next week to take on Joe 
Paterno's 1983 National Champion Penn 
State Nittany Lions. 
Ed Domansky is a junior.from Toledo, Ohio. His work has been Jealured in previous ~es of Scholastic. 



"Mistakes killed us-we just made too _many ,r,istakes today," · said Pinkett. 

24 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 



-: -Nitta,:,vtL.i~ns a4,_·1rish-30 
• ~ -• r' • ~ --~ 
by Ed Colbert photos by Brian Davis 
Penn State: · 
Despite being one of the most exciting games Notre Dame played all year, the most memorable thing about the Penn State game was the unbearable cold. The windchill was consistently· below ten degrees, but the score and the fan's emo­tions were constantly changing. A semi­prestigious bowl bid for Notre Dame rested on the outcome of this game. If Notre Dame won the game, it was rumored, they would go to the Fiesta Bowl. The Nittany Lions were out to "make their season," thus the reason for the second largest crowd in Beaver Stadium history. It was a critical game for both teams, unfortunately for Notre Dame only one team could win. · 
Penn State won the toss and elected to defend the north goal. Notre Dame's first possession resulted in 12 yards and a punt. Penn State took over on their own 37-yard line. After charging 43 yards to the Notre Dame 20, the Lions successful­ly kicked a 37-yard field goal. After the_ kickoff, both teams sputtered, punted, and the first quarter ended with Notre Dame and Allen Pinkett surging into Penn State territory. With 1:23 gone in the second quarter, Johnston kicked a 39-yard field goal. 
Penn State showed its versatility by us­ing short passes and variations of D.J. Dozier's running to capture its first touchdown of the game. The score came on an 11-yard pass to Kenny Jackson. Notre Dame answered with an 18-yard run by Allen Pinkett to cap a 77-yard, 9-play drive, which featured the running of Pinkett, and the short passes of Steve Beuerlein. 

I 
i 
I 
i' 
i :; t 

After Penn State kicked a 40-yard field 

·''No one could compla,in much about 
goal to make the score 13 to 10, Notre the play of the Irish. The 30 points, Dame marched to the Penn State 1-yard 
line, behind four Beuerlein passes. Call­

the running of Pinkett, and the ing a time-out, Notre Dame had 1 play before the half ended. The call was a quarterback sneak, but Beuerlein was stopped by the surging defense as time ran out. 
The warmth of the locker room re­vived the Irish as they came out fighting. A 52-yard pass play from Beuerlein to Bavaro set up a 16-yard touchdown run by Allen Pinkett. Suddenly the Irish were on top. The clouds started to open, and the sun shone bright. But just as quickly as it appeared, it submerged into the clouds once again. Penn State took over on its own 18-yard line, and drove to the Notre Dame 46 when Jon Williams caught a 46-yard screen pass from Doug Strang. Penn State had taken the lead 
ag~~; ~~~~~ exchanged punts and the quarter ended after Notre Dame had completed a 93-yard drive to the 1-yard line. The teams switched ends, and Pinkett leaped the 1 yard to make the score Notre Dame 24, Penn State 20. The Notre Dame defense, however, again fell victim to the long pass. Strang completed a 29-yard pass to end a drive with a touchdown. The score: 27-24. Pinkett was then ordered to score another touchdown, and he did. The drive cover­ing 77 yards, featured Pinkett's running and a 46-yard pass play from Beuerlein to Milt Jackson. With the score 30-27, Notre Dame tried and failed on a two-point conversion. With 2:55 left in the game, it appeared Penn State, sitting on the Notre Dame 12-yard line, was going to score one more time. D.J. Dozier, however, fumbled the ball over to the N .D. defense. So, now all Pinkett (227 yards), Beuerlein (257 yards), and the Notre Dame offense had to do was move the ball ten yards, 1 first down, and the game was theirs. They could only move 9 yards, however, so it was up to Kiel's punt, and the Notre Dame defense to preserve a victory. With 53 seconds left, Kiel punted 33 yards to the 50-yard line. In keeping with the style of the game, Penn State scored a touchdown on an 8-yard keeper by Strang, after he had completed a 36-yard pass to Dean Dimidio. The score, Penn State 34, Notre Dame 30. The Irish got the ball back but had only 11 seconds and could not score. It was an exhilarating game for the fans. No one could complain much about the play of the Irish. The 30 points, the running of Pinkett, and the passing of Beuerlein made them look respectable. 
Ed Colbert is a senior Arts and Letters major from Ionia, Michigan. His work has been featured in previous issues of 
Scholastic. 


26 

SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 



-· ---,.. ·:_-. · _·: -Falcon~. 231 Irish-22· 

by Tim Doyle photo by Greg Abbott 
It seemed ironic that Blair Kiel's last regular season game as a senior ended much the same way as his first regular season game as a freshman had. However, this time Notre Dame missed a last-second field goal and lost to Air Force 23-22. 
As many of you may recall, a little more than three years ago a young inex­perienced freshman came off the bench with :51 seconds remaining in the game and led the Irish down the field to set up a field goal attempt. The field goal was good and Notre Dame had a stunning 29-27 victory over the University of Michigan. 
On Saturday, November 19, 1983, Blair Kiel came off the bench to rescue his team again. This time, though, he entered the game in the second quarter with nine minutes left in the half. 
The key drive began with 1:30 left in the game on Notre Dame's own 29-yard line. On first down Kiel flipped the ball over the middle to Allen Pinkett for 16 yards and a first down. On the next play Kiel hit Pinkett again for another 13 yards. With first and ten from the Air Force 42-yard line Kiel handed off on a delay to fullback Chris Smith who broke a tackle up the middle for a gain of 12 yards. From the Air Force 30-yard line, Kiel threw to Pinkett in the left flat for 10 yards. 
With :28 seconds and one time-out re­maining and the ball on the Falcons' 14-yard line, Faust chose to let the clock tick down to :04 seconds left for a field goal attempt. Mike Johnston's 31-yard field goal attempt, however, was blocked by Chris Funk. 
Referring to the attempted field goal Mike Johnston noted, "I felt like I hit it solid. I still had my head down when I heard it hit. I didn't see the line break down but coach said somebody just blew an assignment!' 
Coach Faust commented on the final few seconds. "We planned to run the clock down. We worked to get the ball in the center of the field. We didn't want to give them another play after the attempt. In all fairness to Mike Johnston, it looked like it was right down the middle." 
Charlie Heath, defensive end for the Falcons, noted, "It seemed that the Notre Dame kicker had been kicking them low. We usually come in from the outside but we decided to submarine from the mid­dle. And (Chris) Funk jumped up and got a hand on it." 
The Irish defense was susceptible to the big play several times on the day. On the Falcons' game-winning drive Air Force started on their own 26-yard line with 
6:52 left. After 11 plays and 5:17 off the clock the Falcons had the lead for good. 
The key play was a 42-yard run by junior Mike Brown, which was aided by poor tackling. 
Earlier in the fourth quarter, the Irish were also hurt by the big play. With the Falcons trailing 22-10 and 13:30 on the clock and the ball on their own 25-yard line, they scored a touchdown in just 3: 17 and on six plays. This time the key play was a 48-yard' pass from Marty Louthan to Mike Kirby. Kirby had Irish defensive back Chris Brown beat by 6 yards on the play. 
The Irish offense was also able to pull off the big play. At the start of the fourth quarter Notre Dame had the ball on its own 25-yard line. After a short pass to the 39-yard line and an illegal motion penalty on the Irish, Kiel hit Joe Howard for a 67-yard touchdown pass. The drive consumed just four plays and 58 seconds. The Irish led 22-10. 
Just a few minutes prior to this drive the big pass play aided the Irish again. 
This time the Irish started at their own 
39-yard line. 
After a 6-yard run Pinkett took a screen pass from Kiel 46 yards. The score came on a 9-yard pass to Milt Jackson in the corner of the end zone. Johnston then had his extra point blocked, the first of his career. 
While the final result was not favorable the individual performances by Kiel and Pinkett were outstanding. 
Kiel had his best day in his career. He completed 16 of 22 attempts for 285 yards and 2 touchdowns. 
Pinkett ran for 197 yards giving him a season total of 1,437 yards, just 43 yards shy of Vagas Ferguson's record. Pinkett's touchdown broke Ferguson's single season record for touchdowns, giving Pinkett 18 for the season. His six points broke Red Salmon's single record for points scored with 110. Salmon had 105 in 1903. In all-purpose yards, Pinkett's 290 yards against the Falcons gave him a total of 1,682 on the ~eason, breaking Bob Gladieux's mark of 1,512. 
The loss left the Irish a 6-5 on the season. Their record at home was now 2~3, the first losing home record since 1963. 
Tim Doyle is a senior in the College of Business Administration. He is from Sturgis, Michigan. 
Kiel came off the bench to lead the Irish with 16 com­pletions in 22 efforts for 285 yards and 2 touchdowns, the best game of his career. 


-1The-.Liberty-Bow
-" , -. •' ' .· . 


Blair l\iel's leadership, Mike Golic's punt block, and Chris . Smith's 104 yards rushing pro­pelled the Irish to a Liberty Bowl victory. 
Mike Golie 
28 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 

by Beth Debauche photos by Brian Davis 
Hands may have felt chilled and feet a little frozen but there was a warm place in the heart of Notre Dame fans present as the Fighting Irish sizzled to 19-18 vic­tory over the Boston College Eagles in the Silver Anniversary of the Liberty Bowl. 
The Irish travelled down to Memphis amid controversy, due to the University's decision to accept a bowl bid with a 6-5 record. There was talk that the 13th­ranked Boston College Eagles might be more than the Irish could handle. Once in Memphis the controversy became an issue of the past and the unseasonably cold temperature and the game were the issues at hand. 
47,071 tickets were sold for the much­publicized "Vatican Bowl" but the weather deterred about 8000 fans. Of the 38,229 bundled fans who braved the temperature, many left for the warmth of their homes before the game's conclu­sion. Yer few of these fair-weather fans missed much of the action for most of the scoring was confined to the first half. 
Boston College, led by Reisman Trophy finalist Doug Flutie, came out "hot," and to the chagrin of Irish fans it looked as if the Irish were not up to the challenge of a 9-2 Eagle team. In the first series, Flutie, the Eagles' all-time passing leader, completed on passes of 17 and 29 yards to lead Boston College to the Irish 13-yard line in the game's first four plays. Then, just "three plays later, Boston Col­lege split end, Brian Brennan, scored on a 4-yard reception, to give the Eagles a 6-0 lead. Plagued by inconsistency and troubled by a frozen field, Boston kicker Brian Waldron slipped and missed the ex­tra point with 12:07 left in the first quarter. 
The fears of the Irish fans were calmed 8 minutes later, when the Irish scored on an impressive 87-yard scoring drive. Notre Dame halfback Allen Pickett car­ried the ball five times including a one­foot plunge for the score to cap this 16-play series. Kicker Mike Johnston hit the extra point and the Irish took a 7-6 lead with 4:24 remaining in the first quarter. 
When Boston College received the ball they learned the hard way just how tough the Notre Dame defense could be. Defen­sive play was the key to Notre Dame's momentum and helped set up the Irish's next score. The defense forced Boston College to punt on its own five-yard line with 12:49 remaining in the half, Mike Golie then blocked a John Minalik punt which Notre Dame's Stacey Toran recovered at the Eagle five. Four plays later, after a holding penalty pushed Notre Dame back to the Eagle 13, Irish quarterback Blair Kiel hit flanker Alvin Miller cutting across the right flank for the touchdown. It was then Notre Dame's turn to experience kicking dif­ficulty. Mike Johnston's PAT attempt was blocked by Boston Colleg~'s Rob Swanke, leaving the score at 13-6 with 

11:49 remaining before the half. 
Momentum was with the Irish; on their next possession the Irish drove 53 yards to score again. Kiel connected with tight end Mark Bavaro for 20 yards to start the drive which was capped off five plays later when Allen Pickett scored his 20th touchdown of the season on a pitch­out to the right. Mike Johnston's troubles continued when. once again his PAT at­tempt was blocked, this time by Boston College linebacker Ted Gaffney; leaving the score 19-6. 
Notre Dame's 13-point lead was short­lived. It took Flutie only 68 seconds to lead Boston College to a score. He hit fullback Bob Biestek with a 42-yard pass down to the Irish 27. Then two plays later Flutie connected down the middle to flanker Gerard Phelan for the score with 7:02 left until halftime. Boston Col­lege opted to go for 2, but thanks to a frozen field, Flutie slipped and Notre Dame went into the locker room at half­time up 19-12. In the first half, Allen Pinkett gained 57 yards in 18 attempts and fullback Chris Smith gained 61 yards in just 9 attempts. For Boston College, Doug Flutie completed only 6 of 21 passes but Irish fans were not resting easy. His six completions accounted for 142 yards which computes to a 24-yard average gain per catch. It was obvious to football fans that the diminutive Flutie had the receivers with which to strike quickly.· 
The unseasonably cold weather not on­ly played havoc with the field conditions, but also the Liberty Bowl's famed half­time extravaganza. The show, a tribute to the United States' participation in the upcoming winter and summer Olympics, called on the services of marching bands of both of the universities. 1972 Olympic gold medal winner for the 800 meters, Dave Wattle, carried an Olympic torch, which due to frozen propane would not light. Miss America, Vanessa Williams, read a half-time salute to the Olympics in which she referred to the lit torch. Despite the troubles, the crowd re­sponded enthusiast_ically. The highlight of the show was Memphis' own renowned opera singer, Marquerte Prazza's rendi­tion of "Climb Every Mountain." The show was concluded with an impressive fireworks display. 
The halftime fireworks were about the only fireworks the dwindling crowd saw after the second quarter. In the third quarter Boston College scored on a three­yard TD pass from Flutie to tight end Scott Gieselman. The Eagles again went for two and failed, cutting the Irish lead to 19-18. Neither team was able to generate a scoring drive in the remainder of the game, yet the lack of points did not lead to lack of excitement. 
The loyal Irish fans were well aware of Boston College's capability to score quickly. There was a fear that the Irish would let this victory slip away, which had happened all too frequently this season. The Irish fans' fears appeared to be becoming a reality with the Eagles' final possession. The Eagles fielded a Notre Dame punt on their own 12-yard line with 4:03 remaining in the game. On the ensuing drive's first play, Flutie hit Kelvin Martin on a 36-yard pass. Then Boston College managed to move to the Irish 35 with a series of small yardage plays. With a minute left in the game, Flutie's fourth down pass fell incomplete, securing the Irish victory. 
With victory in hand, the Irish faithful stormed the field to greet the team, which finished the season with a 7-5 record. There was sheer pandemonium on the field, nothing reminiscent of the controversy surrounding the coaching staff and team prior to the bowl trip. The Irish had done something many people didn't think possible-defeat 9~2 Boston College team. The Irish may not have won a national championship but that could not be determined by the en­thusiasm on the field. Optimism reigned supreme and although the victory does not guarantee success for the rest of 1984, it does start the year out on the right note and that is more than could be said if the team did not make the trip at all. 
For senior Blair Kiel, it was an im­pressive finale to his career with the Irish. Kiel led Notre Dame for the entire game and completed 11 of 19 passes for 151 yards with one · interception. Allen Pinkett gained 111 yards on 28 carries and Chris Smith gained 104 yards on 18 carries. Both backs will be back with the Irish next season. 
The pint-sized Flutie was 15 of 38 for 287 yards with three touchdowns and one interception. Flutie won the game's most outstanding player award but in the end he came up short. 
Keys to victory for the Irish were solid performances from the offensive line and a superb defensive effort which held Boston College's running game to 93 yards. In the battle of little men, Allen Pinkett stood taller than Doug Flutie by one point. 
Beth Debauche is a graduate student from Green Bay, Wisconsin. This is her first contribution to Scholastic. 

·  ·  ·_.  ·.·  ·.·.:  .,  ·  11WeareND!11  
.  -•'  '  . '  
Photos by Mike Leary  


. ·. _-. . 1983 Eootba·11 Statistics 
, -' ' ,, ~ ---' ­
TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP RUSHING G TC Yds. Avg. TD Lg. INTERCEPTION RETURNS 
Total Offense Yards ......... 4713 3154 Pinkett ..... II 252 1394 5.5 16 53 No. Yds. Avg. TD LG Total Plays ............... 799 736 Smith ...... II 77 421 5.5 I 37 Naylor ....... 3 24 8.0 0 22 Yards per Play ............ 5.9 4.3 Francisco ... II 38 194 5.1 0 33 Wilson ....... 2 43 21.5 0 22 Yards per Game ........... 428.5 286.7 Brooks ..... II 35 180 5.1 2 31 Brown ....... 2 24 12.0 0 24 
Rushing Yards .............. 2627 1473 Bell ........ 5 37 169 4.6 4 50 Furjanic ...... 2 7 3.5 0 7 Attempts ................. 532 454 Machtolf.... 3 14 78 5.6 0 13 Lawrence ..... I 43 43.0 0 43 Yards per Rush ........... 4.9 3.2 Howard .... II 4 61 15.2 0 30 Johnson ...... I 6 6.0 0 6 Yards per Game ........... 238.8 133.9 Flemons .... 2 13 52 4.0 0 34 Kovaleski ..... I 5 5.0 0 5 
Passing Yards .............. 2086 16'11 Grooms ..... I 2 33 16.5 0 25 Dingens ...... I 0 0.0 0 0 Attempts ................. 267 282 · Abraham ... 10 13 32 2.5 I 11 Ballage ....... I 0 0.0 0 0 Completions .............. 143 149 Miller ...... 11 I 19 19.0 0 19 

Notre Dame .. 14 152 10.9 0 43
Had Intercepted ........... 13 14 Carter ...... I 2 9 4.5 0 9 
Opponent .... 13 119 9.2 0 42
Completion Percentage .... .536 .528 Jackson ..... 11 I I 1.0 0 I Touchdown Passes ........ 12 10 Kiel ........ II 19 -8 -0.4 I 7 Yards per Attempt. ........ 7.8 6.0 Beuerlein ... 10 23 -9 -0.4 0 19 
TACKLES s FHAST TOT. FC FR
Yards per Completion ...... 14.6 11.3 
Furjanic ...... 45 48 49 142 4 I
Yards per Game ........... 189.6 152.8 Notre Dame 11 532 2627 4.9 25 53 
Naylor ....... 26 21 24 71 0 0
Punting Yards .............. 1965 2842 Opponent II 454 1473 3.2 10 42 
Kovaleski ..... 19 27 16 62 2 0
Number of Punts .......... 50 66 
Golie ........ 26 12 21 59 0 2
Average Punt ............. 39.3 43.1 
PASSING G No. Cmp. Pct. Int. Yds.TD Ballage ....... 37 6 II 55 I I
Had Blocked ............. 0 0 
Beuerlein ... 10 145 75 .517 6 1061 4 Gann ........ 20 15 17 52 I 0
Punt Return Yards .......... 255 123 
Kiel ....... II 115 64 .557 7 910 7 Johnson ...... 31 8 II 50 3 2
Number of Returns ........ 39 19 
Pinkett .... II I I 1.000 0 59 0 Brown ....... 30 8 8 46 2 0
Average Return ........... 6.5 6.5 
Howard .... II I I 1.000 0 29 I Autry ........ 14 9 10 33 I I
Kickoff Return Yards ........ 454 505 
Smith ...... 10 2 I .500 0 15 0 Dingens ...... 16 3 8 27 I 0
Number of Returns ........ 26 25 
Cushing .... I I I 1.000 0 12 0 Griffin ....... 5 14 4 23 0 0
Average Return ........... 17.5 20.2 
Grooms .... I 2 0 0.000 0 0 0 Toran ........ 16 3 4 23 0 0
Interception Return Yards .... 152 119 
Bars ......... 4 9 7 20 0 0
Number of Interceptions ... 14 13 
Notre Dame 11 267 143 .536 13 2086 12 Dorsey ....... 9 6 4 19 0 0
Average Return ........... 10.9 9.2 
Opponent 11 282 149 .528 14 1681 10 Wilson ....... 9 I 8 18 0 I
Number of Penalties ......... 75 64 
Banks ........ 4 8 3 15 0 0
Penalty Yards ............ 756 551 
RECEIVING G PC Yds. Avg. TD LG DiBernardo ... 5 4 5 14 0 0
Fumbles (Lost) ............ 20(8) 24(10) 
Pinkett ....... II 28 288 10.3 2 59 Marshall ..... 3 2 5 10 0 I
.Yards Returned ........... 0 0 
Howard ...... II 27 464 17.2 2 67 Murphy ...... I 4 3 8 0 0
Total First Downs ........... 241 186 
Jackson ...... II 23 438 19.0 3 61 Lawrence ..... 3 0 4 7 ,0 I
By Rushing ............... 133 84 
Bavaro ....... II 23 376 16.3 3 59 Kleine ........ 4 I 0 5 I 0
By Passing ............... 95 87 
Smith ........ 11 13 142 10.9 I 26 Spielmaker ... I I 2 4 I 0
By Penalty ............... 13 15 
Favorite ...... 10 8 123 15.4 0 18 Butler ........ I 0 3 4 0 0
Third Down Conversions ..... 80/165 59/162 
Bell .......... 5 6 65 10.8 I 23 McCabe ...... 0 3 0 3 0 0
Percentage ............... .485 .364 
Francisco ..... 10 5 51 10.2 0 15 Mosley ....... 0 I I 2 0 0
·Possession Time ............ 337:53 322:07 
Jefferson ..... II 3 47 15.7 0 16 Corsaro ...... I 0 0 I 0 0
Minutes per Game ......... 30:43 29:17 
Miller ........ II 2 43 21.5 0 25 White ........ I 0 0 I 0 0 Brooks ....... II 2 14 7.0 0 11
SCORE BY QUARTERS 
Abraham ..... 10 I 17 17.0 0 17
Notre Dame 96 65 74 62 -297 
Machtolf ..... 3 I 12 12.0 0 12 Passes Broken Up: Ballage 6, Brown 6, Furjanic
Opponent ........... 34 44 31 50 -159 
Williams ..... 5 I 6 6.0 0 6 4, Kovaleski 4, Dingens 4, Johnson 3, DiBernar­do 2, Gann 2, Naylor 2, Lawrence 2, Toran I,
TEAM SCORING ND OPP 
Golie 1, Marshall 1, Dorsey 1, Wilson I,
Total Points ................ 297 159 Notre Dame .. II 143 2086 14.6 12 67 
Spielmaker I

Average ................. 27.0 14.5 Opponent .... II 149 1681 11.3 10 81 
Quarterback Sacks: Gann 6-54, Johnson 4-47,
Touchdowns ............... 37 20 
Golie 4-35, Autry 4-22, Dorsey 3-17, Furjanic
By Rushing ............... 25 10 PUNTING G No. Yds. Avg. LP 
2-11, Kleine 1-10, Spielmaker 1-9, Kovaleski 1-8,
By Passing ............... 12 10 Kiel .......... 11 43 1704 39.6 60 
Naylor 1-8, Dingens 1-6

By Returns ............... 0 0 Viracola ...... 2 4 136 34.0 47 
Tackles for Loss: Golie 10-28, Dingens 5-14,
By Recovery .............. 0 0 Meadows ..... 4 3 125 41.7 43 
Johnson 4-23, Autry 3-11, Gann 3-11, FurjanicField Goals (Made-Att.) ...... 12/21 8/ 9 
Notre Dame .. II 50 1965 39.3 60 3-5, Ballage 2-4, Kovaleski 2-4, DiBernardo 2-3,
Safeties .................... 2 0 
Opponent .... 11 66 2842 43.1 71 Dorsey 2-3, Wilson 1-24, Banks 1-8, Kleine 1-3,
PAT-Kick ......... : .... 33/34 13/16 
White 1-2, Naylor 1-2, Griffin 1-1

PAT-Run ............... 0/ I 1/ 2 
PUNT RETURNS

PAT-Pass .............. 1/ 2 0/ 2 
No. Yds. Avg. TD LG S-solo tackles; FH-first hit, Ast.-assisted tackles, Howard ...... 28 202 7.2 0 27 Tot.-total tackles, FC-fumbles caused, FR-Bell .......... 10 55 5.5 0 13' fumbles recovered 
SCORING GTD PAT R-PA S FG TP Jefferson ..... I -2 -2.0 0 0 
Pinkett .... II, 18 0/ 0 Ill 0 0/ 0 110 
Notre Dame .. 39 255 6.5 0 27
Johnston .. !'!' 0 33/34 0/0 0 12/21 69 
Opponent t" ••• 19 123 6.5 0 30
Bell ....... 5 5 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 30 
Bavaro .... 11 3 0/ 0· 0/0 0 0/ 0 18 
KICKOFF RETURNS

Jackson ... 11 3 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 18 
No. Yds. Avg. TD LG
Brooks .... 11 2 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 12 not including the Liberty Bowl 
Jefferson ..... 10 174 17.4 0 31
Smith ..... 11 2 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 12 
Miller ........ 7 138 19.7 0 30
Howard ... 11 2 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 12 
Bell .......... 5 108 21.6 0 36
Kiel. ...... 11 I 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 6 
Jackson ...... 2 30 15.0 0 16
Abraham .. 10 I 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 6 
Howard ...... I 7 7.0 0 7
Team ..... 11 0 0/ 0 0/0 2 0/ 0 4 
Mosley ....... I -3 -3.0 0 0 
Notre Dame II 37 33/34 1/3 2 12/21 297 Notre Dame .. 26 454 17.5 0 36 
Opponent 11 20 13/16 .1/4 0 8/ 9 159 Opponent .... 25 505 20.2 0 58 
SCHOLASTIC/February 1984 31 


The Last Word
I 
I 
'I 
I 

,Jll11i&ersit11 of :M. 

~ t c-voire Jilcrme 
c'-'0 re lflum1• 'JI ~ ­

' C"'llur1111u '16555 
J.M.J. 
January 5, 1984 





32 SCHOLASTIC/Febr.uary 1984 



We're just a phone call away! 
Sometimes people forget that 
Scholastic Magazine is located 
on campus. Every day we get 
calls and letters from people 
who off er stories, ideas, or com­
plaints. Here are some of the 
most common requests we 
receive, and here's how we han­
dle them. 

Letters to the Editor: If you'd like to express 
your opinion, write a letter to the editor. Letters 
are meant to present a broad range of opinions 
and do not necessarily represent the editorial 
position of Scholastic. Letters must be hand­
signed with the writer's name, address, and 
telephone number. 
Subscriptions: To subscribe to Scholastic, write 
or call the office. Subscriptions are $9.00 per 
year. 

Helping Out at Scholastic: Many people have 
asked if they could help out at Scholastic in any 
way such as by writing, doing layout, or taking 
pictures. If you have a particular "niche" that 
you would like to offer Scholastic, please con­
tact the appropriate department chairman at the 
office: 

Layout and Design-Tom Sapp 
Writing Articles-Jim Ganther 
St. Mary's Stories-Kathy Curran 
Photography-Mike Leary 
Art-Kathy O'Too/e 
News and Sports-Kevin Donius 
Fiction and Poetry-Laurel Ann Dooley 
Advertising-Jeannie Euch 

LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Call us at (219) 239-7569 








