

,· 
jlll~ 
.. ''j
'. ' 

-_· ·. . . -_. 
CATALOG ofCOLLEGIATE .RESEARCH 
. . 
, ·:··-'­
Over.10;000 listings! All subjects. · Send NOW for this.FREE catalog. (offer expires_ Dec.:31; 1978) 
Send fo:·coLLEGIATE RESEARCH 
P.O. Box 84396, Los Angeles',-G~. 90073 · 


-en ·-,o·

_..., 
.,,'1 
... 
0 
'-A. 
C 
~.
..., 
en 
..J ·­

-··... 
10 '1.· 
·-o . ..C 


'° ~ 
·~ 
< . 
0
Z_· >­
0
..., 
..., 
C 
ru 
. ~··
. 
:, 
0 
(/) 
~· 
C 0 
>­
-
C 
0 
u
·-en 
:, 
E. 
..c ~ 
..... 
tn 


·-·C >­
ru
-· 
a.. 
i 
I 
I 
Notre Dame, Indiana  
FEATURES.  
·4 _1978: A Social Space Odyssey  Elizabeth Donovan  
6  Lafortune:  Fiction Becomes Fact  Paul Peralta  
.  .  .  . .  
7  Rich Dorm,. Poor Dorm  Bob Southard and  
.Lisa Hartenberger  
· 9  Affirmative Action: Women's Housing  Elizabeth Weber  
10  Home of the Brave.  ·Dave Gill  
. 12 · Sardine Semester  Patrick Joyce  
13  Lu Ann Who?  Marcy Weigle  
18  Paradise Revisited  Greg Solman and  
Tim Gulstone  
20. New.York Jew  Kathy Ryan and  
Jerry Perez  
23  Fiction  Tom Balcerek  
26  A Diamond in the Rough  Bill Scholl  
Illustrations: Jeff Young, 10, 11, Dave Mayernick, 18, 24, Cyndy Dykhoff, 31.  28  Editorial  Theresa Rebeck  
Photography: Phil Johnson, 3, 4, 8, 12, 13, 14, 20, 22, 26, 27, Jeff Huhta, 6, Theresa  30  If Rome Were Home  JohnMaddog Muldoon  
Rebeck, 14, Scholastic Archives, 3. Cover: Jeff Huhta. · ·  REGULARS  
15  Gallery  Theresa Rebeck and  
Jeff Huhta  





scholastic 
Vol. 120, .No. 2, September 22, 1978 

Editor John Morrissey Managing Editor Theresa Rebeck Art Director Mike ca·ntwell ··· Production Manager  Staff . . -.-. . · Cynthia Dykhoff, Keith Caughlin, Ken Scarbrough, Eileen Durkin, Eddie Holden, Betsey Sheridan, Sonia Chapko, Clay Malaker, Bob B,ames, MikeBrennan, Mike Greene, Tom Lucid,­John Cassidy; Jeff Young, Greg· Vansueh, Paul Theil, Kevin· McCarthy, Sue Micinski, Mary Clare Tciffanetti, Bill Scholl, Jim -Trausch, Mike Walsh, Craig Smith, Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayemik.  
Bernie Valenti  
News Editor Liz Donovan Culture Editor Dave Satterfield Sports Editor Mike Kenahan  Hall Representatives: Eddie Holden, Mark Sniegowski, Sean· Berry, Brad Engelland, Keith Caugh_lin, Ami Gleason, Sonia Chapko, Bill Swift, Craig Smith, Kevin Courtois, Glenn Killoren, Dave Bartish, Lisa Jaquez, Mike. Szkrybalo, .John Ryan, Mary Fran Welch, John. Cuckovich, Greg Vans_ueh, John Smith,. Liz Donovan..  
Fiction Editor  
Tom Balcerek Copy Editor Bob Southard Layout Editor Lisa Hartenberger  The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do·not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and ·editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre. Dame, .its administration, faculty, or-the student body. .  
Photography Editor  
Phil Johnson · Business . Manager Kimberlie Gumz · Advertisement Manager Marcy Weigle  The magazine is represented for nation'al advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly. during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at_Ave ":'aria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. A6556 ..The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.  
Advisory Board . Elizabeth Christman, John Reid, Werge, Thomas Jemielity,. John  Thomas Miriam  46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property ofScholastk. . _ . _ copyright© 1978.Scholastic / all rights reserved 1·noiie of the'conten~ may be repro• duced without.permission. · ·· ·  
Jones, ~-C.  .  .  


1978: A Social Space Odyssey. 
Never miss lunch. If you do, the chances are good that you'll be ignorant of the issues of the day. Students bury their faces in .the Observer and surface minutes later to pontificate on the "goings-on" at Notre Dame. Issues such as alcohol policies, unionization, and football scores have_ a way of cropping up at lunch. They fuel heated debates on the sanity of the student body and Administration. They inspire ban­ners, railies, ad hoc committees, emergency meetings. And issues are , often forgotten by dinnertime. 
Socialspace is one issue which has 
defied this short life span. Its peren­
nial appearance makes it a favorite 
for lunchtime politickers, but not for .· 
Student Body presidents.· Or Housing 
officials. Or the Administration. Or -rectors. 
The social space issue debuted 
early this year. The reason why this 
topic predictably reappears is be­
cause it is a problem which, in the opinion of many, has not been solved, nor even been seriously considered .. For several years there has been lots of talk about social space improve­ments, but until only recently, little progress .was evident. · Seniors, re­member four years ago when Brother Just Paczesny proposed a restaurant in. LaFortune? Delight­ful! But it has taken four years for proposal to become fact. "The res­taurant will be open by January," says the confident student body vice­president, · Mike Roohan. Time, money, planning, and patience are key ingredients to improved social space. Renovation proceeds slowly; complications are inevitable, moti­vation fizzles, funds dwindle. But the initial work this year is a start to­wards creating a better social en­
vironment f'or students.· · 
In ·order to understand the issue, if · is necessary ·to define· "social space," for the term itself.is elusive. Everyone has his own conception of 
by Elizabeth Donovan 

"space in which to be social." Some students envision a dazzling play­ground equipped with everything from bowling alleys to pubs. Indiana University in Bloomington has an elaborate Student Union. While the Union may pose certain health risks to forty-year-old male guests, it is , a nice stomping ground for students. Other students are more realistic 
· with their humble plea for just a TV room, a 24-hour lounge, .or a kitchen minus roaches. John Reid, director of Student Activities, views social space as a place where stu­dents can get together and relax. Comfortably. Whether in a dorm or in LaFortune, students, being the social creatures that they_ are, need a place where academics are sub­ordinate to socializing. 
What does one do in social space? Relax, blow off steam, make spa­ghetti dinners, hold hands, drink cof­fee, argue, study for a government final after the Library has closed, ad 
infinitum. Who cares anyway? The reasons vary, but the need univer­sally exists. 
Social space has not always been an issue. Andy McKenna, Student Body president, feels that the prob­lem is a by-product of co~education. According to McKenna, the dormi­tories (which were all built before co-education) were designed to ful­fill only two requirements: sleeping and studying. Before women were admitted to Notre. Dame,. the need for social space did not really exist . 

. But the times and the needs ·have changed, and the dorms have as­sumed a new dimension-that of be­ing a place to socialize with mem­bers of the opposite sex. The demand for more social space goes hand in hand, so to speak, with the advent of women at the University. 
· Social space has been a problem for many a.Student Body adminis­tration and Trustee meeting. For example, in.1976 a proposal was sub­mitted to the Student Life Council calling not only for more social space but· also for an increase in the num­ber of services offered to attract stu-· dents to these centers. "People fre­quent buildings because of the va­riety ·of activities offered within. Renovations themselves do not· at­tract people to a building." . Among the more interesting were the pro­posals which called for student lounges in major classroom build­ings, a night cafe in the South Din­ing Hall, and more activities, such as wine-tasting parties, in the ball­room of LaFortune. We waited; noth­ing really happened. . 
The social space issue has con­tinually frustrated students, ·for amidst all the talk and plans, there seemed to be only superficial prog­ress. Most students are here· for only four years. They are impatient when changes stroll instead ofstride. They are, justifiably, self-centered enough to want the· best· for their . tenure at Notre Dame, not fo~ next year's class. But when school began this fall, . additional social space was becoming an apparent reality. 
Last spring the Student Govern­ment proposed. construction of more social space in five halls. . These dormitories, Howard, · . Morrissey, Sorin, Fisher, and Pangborn, had an appalling lack of common· rooms in which to · hold ·meetings, entertain, etc. The initial cost· estimates were 


We, too, share the responsibility for a good social ambiance. 
optimisUcally low; renovation. proved to be much more expensive than planned. Nonetheless, the work in dormitories, as well as LaFortune, has begun. 
Let us, then, be up and doing. Dr. James Brogle of the Psychological Services Center feels that the initial progress is a step in the right direc­tion. He views the social space issue as a call to create an informal en­vironment which is conducive to the emotional health of students. In. the constellation of meanings which sur­round the phrase "well-rounded edu­cation," Dr. Brogle feels the social growth of an individual bal­ances tqe scale with the academic development, and both are neces-· sary to nurture the well~adjusted student. A TV room in Sorin or a pizza joint in LaFortune does not alone constitute 'ari ideal environ­ment in which to clone happy; healthy students. But more social space will give rise to a: more re­laxed, comfortable student life. · 
·A university truly committed to offering a "well-rounded'' education mustencourage a: good social, as well as academic and· spiritual, · atnio~ sphere. Much. of the lunchtime ban­ter concerns this responsibility. In­terestingly, the blame for ·bad_ con­ditions in existing social space usu­ally is fixed upon "the·Administra­tion," "the Trustees," fuzzy. figures in unknown places. They do not, however, ·. leave paper bags and orange peels on the floor of La:For­tune, .nor are they responsible for cleaning up spilled spaghetti sauce in Lyons' kitchen. "We. enjoy the comfort of opinion without the dis­comfort of thought." This ·seems ap­propriate to describe some students who leisurely criticize the University without thinking of their stake in maintaining clean and enjoyable so­cial space. An "attitudinal change," a phrase coined by Mike Roohan for this· occasion, is necessary if we really want more time and money put into more social space construe~ tion. We, too, share the responsi­bility for a good social ambiance. . 

Space is a hot topic at_ lunch these days. Andy McKenna feels that the number-one priority for his adminis­tration is "residentiality." Social space is part of this issue, but there are also many tangents; for example, overcrowding .. The following articles concern the many aspects of "space," or in some cases, lack of space. Some of the articles relate directly to the social space problem, some indirect­ly.. They all pertain to what Dr. Brogle calls "the creation of a good and enjoyable living environment." 
IA r=Ol2TU~~: r=ICTIO~ 13~COM~§ r=ACT 
by Pa~I Peralta 
For as long as , this writer has attended Notre Dame;,-· promises of LaFortune Student Center renova­tion and expansion have emitted from the august confines of the Golden Dome..Our student govern-. ment has perennially canvassed for 
opinions and submitted resulting suggestions to th:e administration in an effort to initiate -action. Appar-­ently, this bureaucratic· ballet has finally resulted in the· present reno­vation of the student center. 
According to Brother Kieran Ryan, . 
C.S.C., Assistant ·vice-President of·_: 
Business Affairs, present plans can· for the installation of a fast-food-. type restaurant· at the north end of the Huddle. The south end, the pres­ent dining _area, is to be converted 
into a convenience shopping area 
where students may purchase neces­sary go'ods heretofore unavailable at ·· 
the bookstore. The first floor of La­
Fortune wlll be furnished with wood~ 
eri tables and chairs and will serve as the dining area. -Lounge furniture from the first floor area· will be moved to the ballroom. Brother.Ryan 


h·opes this type of remodeling' will 
make LaFortune a true student 
center. 
Previous to these plans, LaFor­tune's most recent renovation came in 1975 · when several·: fifth; ·year architecture students ·_· drew _up -re­modeling plans Jor the lounge area and .the . Huddle. . Completed reno­vations include~ refurbishing· of the first floor lounge~ the installation of new-staircases, the relocation of stu~ dent ' government . and . publlcation offices,_and the painting· of the build~ ing's interior. _-. -_ . . 
-Despite these changes,-· however, the _now-defunct. ·committee ''on Undergraduate Life . recommendedthe need for a ''neutral_ space" on_ ,campus, "areas where _students.-can go and be free from the academic pressure _of the. -classl"O()m ._ and tile . social pressure of the conventional date.''. The Committee werit on to state' that.it.was "a. delusion to. con-: -sider the present building' (LaFor­tune) as one that'serves thesttidentis 
. . -. -' 

' 
I1eeds." ­
_In February, ·19'.76, the Student 
Life· Council (SLC) --concurred by 
recomrnendingLaFortune'expansiori. 
Among proposals su,bmitted_was the 
idea of a sound sysfom-·in'the main 
lobby, a television . room, . and a res­
taurant-pub establishment: Efforts 
by the SLC resulted in the establish­
ment of a Deli in the Nazz which; by 
coincidence or not; opened· the .first 
of April. . • . . . ' . ­

SLC proposals_ were not met _by deaf administration . ears -as theri Vice-President. of Student Affairs, Brother Just Paczesny, c;s.c. re­vealed_ plaris In· early ·March' for Huddle renovation..· Estimated to cost-close to_$300,000, pians included a Baskln-Robbins-llkeice-creani par,; lor and :a j'Barnaby's-type restau­-rant'' which was to be located as an extension . over -·the . pool . . room. Brother Paczesny-hoped for a fall, 1976 completi9n. time. As. he stated, "I have a :positive feeling we will be 
able to get done on the schedule that-we anticipate." •­

. ,.This .· flurry . of · administration/ student, -government activity. · was climaxed by. a statement from Uni­versity_. President -Father Theodore -, Hesburgh. In. an Ob8erver , article dated February 13, 1976, he stated that he ~ould welcome a "great bier­stube'; in the. R:athskeller if the In­diana drinking age were low:ered and if such -a locale were conducive to 
-casual s·ocial drinking °as opposed to the typical s~udent bar where _exces:­-sive drinking isnot uncommon. :.· : Father -.. Hesburgh's . statement raised tlie · hopes ·of students for an on~campus pub, : . and -instantiy.-be­stowed LaFortune status as a poten­tial center -for_ student ·socialization. Unfortunately, however, neither the , lowering of the drinking age nor.the -studentpuo concept materialize<L In~ deed, for orie reason or another, .talk of "renovating LaFortune ceased and Brother Pac-Lesny;s projected ·:com:. . pletion date was 'not reached. ·. · r(was..~ot unti~ e,arly· 1977thaf 
i ! 
I 6 ":SCHOLASTIC 
I 
\.. 
action was. initiated_· by_ the student 
government. Sensing the need for 
readdressing the issue, the . Mike 
Gassman administration sought out 
student . input on the matter in the 
form of a survey. The student survey 
gave form to an eight-point renova­
tion plan submitted by SBP Gassman 
to ·Brother Paczesny. Paczesny promised to circulate the plan among administraUon officials. The Gass­man plan . included ·everything. from · bowling lanes .. to a banking facility. For the sake.of pragmatism, no tar­get date was set for renovation 
completion. -· 
After apparently overcoming fi­

nancial obstacles, LaFortune reno­
vation is close to becoming a reality. 
The combined efforts of administra­
tion and student government have 
served to produce results. 
A question remains, however. Is 

the physical change alone enough to 
transform LaFortune into a· campus 
center for students? Director of Stu~ 
dent Activities John Reid offers an 
interesting answer to this. 
Reid feels that LaFortune has 

social space but that it is inade­quately used. Defining· social space as "a place for people to gather com­fortably . iri · small groups," Reid acknowledges the merits of the pres­ent renovation but adds that the most important ingredient, activities, is and will be needed to draw students to LaFortune. Citing the success of . Darby's arid the Nazz, Reid suggests that weekly activities coordinated by Student Union would add much to· LaFortune's social meeting potential. 
For all ·intents and purposes, the 

solution to LaFortune's inadequate 
usage has-been presented: first, .in 
the form of physicalrenovatiori and 
second, in the form of a "concept 
renovation." It would seem that stu­
dent responsibility falls on the latter, 
for if there •is conti_nual apathy to 
efforts· by students and administra~ 
tion alike, it.-is doubtful th.at any 
degree of success can be achieved. 
Reid's proposal is an open invitation 
to making LaFortune a genuine stu~ 
dent ~enter. Wh~ther we accept.or 
reject may well indicate our concern 
with the problem of • c~pus social 
-..-­

space. 
Paul Peralta is a senior govern­ment major. This is his. second year on the Scholastic'staff... 
SEPTEMBER 22, 1978 



Rich Dorm 
'

. . 

Poor Dorm 
..·by Bob·. Southard and ·Lisa Hartenberger 

Father Riehle snorted. "I see this also commented on the lack ~f con­proposal as being a hastily thrown sultation. He cites as an example the together, ill-conceived attempt at fact that he was given only forty­solving the problem." The rector of eight hours to draw up a plan for his Pangborn is speaking of the pro­hall._ ·He submitted a ''crude pencil posal, prepared by Student Govern­sketch" and also ·requested profes­ment last spring, which· deals with sional construction assistance. That the "social space" problems· of five was the last he heard of the ·project South Quad dorms. The proposed until he returned this fall to· ·con­renovations are as yet unfinished, fusion in his basement, he noted. and this incompleteness has. gener­Not all of the halls, though, felt ated confusion, surprise, and resig­left · out of · the planning. -··Father nation among the halls affected. Gorski, rector of Howard, described 
Last March, in their report, the his participation in the process as Student Government addressed the complete. · · Howard's . glass-walled need for social space renovation in lounge would in_deed satisfy anyone; 
,. Fisher, Howard, Morrissey, Pang­certainly the other rectors would born, and Sorin. Joe Gill, Executive have been pleased to receive com-Coordinator in ·the Bender admin­parable 'treatment. Howard,· how­istration and author of the proposal, ever,-was the only dormitory to sub­·said that the report ".was meant to . mit a -detailed -set of blueprints. be a beginning, not a solution. We Gorski had. a graduate architecture just wanted to get the space in the · · student draw· up a· plan· which was halls." Given this goal, the._ report · ·easily translated into action. The stated· that "in each of these halls, other halls' planning lacked this the rector and hall . staff conducted sense of direction. .-· · an extensive study to determine the The language of the proposal ad­best possible locations in which to dressed to the Board of Trustees im­construct the proposed social · areas. parted a sense of responsible research . ·.." A document was then drawn . which apparently· did not take place. up, consisting of brief recommenda­· Student -· Government is, however, tions for each hall, and was then · limited in its· scope and 'expertise, submitted to the May meeting of the and a 'complete technical report Board of _Trustees for approval. :The would not be· within its capabilities. Trustees accepted the. proposal_· _and The Office of Student Affairs . was . handed it back to the Office of Stu­:aware .' of -this . undertaking _·. and dent Affairs for implementation. --should have insisted on truly exten-There is some question of whether sive consultation. · any "extensive" study, as implied by · Another weak point•in the report the report, -was indeed· conducted. · is its cost estimation. In such a pro­Some ·· of the rectors feel • very posal, great care should be taken in · strongly the planning was not at all arriving_ at the costs submitted to extensive, and in fact, •"slipshod." .. the Trustees. , Student Government Father Riehle states -emphatically, put a . price ·tag of• $6;100 on the .· ~•I ·was not consulted; If my hall improvements-:-eurrently, the proj­president was,it was done casually." ect is budgeted at $38,000. The Stu­Father Brenner, rector of Fisher, dent Government's . figures were 
"extrapolated from a contractor's­estimate of work to be done in Sorin· Hall," Rick Pinkowski, assistant to Joe Gill on the project, explained. "It's possible our numbers were low, but not that far off for what we had proposed." Gill agrees~ "For what we had in mind, our estimates were. close." He emphasized the '.'bare bones" ~ature of the proposal, and felt some of the construction which took place was extravagant. The proposal was not meant to include furniture, fixtures, or decorations. Apparently, the proposal was radi­cally. altered after it left Student Government's hands, which accounts for the major part of the cost dis­crepancy. Some responsibility for the disparity between estimated costs and · the actual construction fees should be placed somewhere in the Administration. If the Office of Student Affairs envisioned such a grandiose improvement project, the $6,100 proposal should not have been submitted to the Trustees. 
Finally, after the planning was completed and the cost estimates determined, additional difficulties oc­curred in the actual implementation of the project. The main problem seems to lie in the fact that no technical information supported the Student Government's basically con­ceptual proposal. With the excep­tion of Howard, no blueprints or supporting documents ever reached the Maintenance Department. Main­

. tenance received a copy of the stu­dent proposal which is vague, at best, regarding construction details. Combined with the deplorable lack of detailed plans, the summer recess left Maintenance with insufficient 
· guidance. Maintenance seems to have made the best of a bad situa­tion. Brother Joe McTaggart, Fisher's Assistant Rector, who was here over the summer said, "In my dealings with Maintenance, they were very willing to help.'~ 
It would have been possible for all the halls to have been completed if there had been some sort of cohesive plan. As it was, Howard was the only hall that furnished Maintenance with a strategy that could be readily converted into action. The ·other rectors ·were not aware such tech­nical information was required from 

·-them,· Father Brenner, as previously stated, wrote a letter to Student Af­fairs specifically-requesting prof es­
sional assistance for )fisher. His 
plea apparently fell on deaf ears. 
The sensitive and difficult problem 

of the creation of social space has _· been mishandled. in this project. The · incompleteness of the improvements is only a superficial complaint. The renovations will be finished. But there should be no need for McTag­gart to 'characterize his encounter with the system as "damn frustrat­ing," a sentiment shared by many of 
those involved. 
There has been a serious lack of 

communication -and concrete plan­
ning throughout the project. Rectors 
did not describe their plans to quali­fied personnel, only inexperienced .students. Student Government· ad­vanced a somewhat misleading pro­posal. After approving the proposal, the Board of Trustees took the mat­
ter from Student Government's con­trol and returned it to the Office of Student Affairs. Student Affairs handed the proposal, as it stood, to · Maintenance. Maintenance could not car:cy out th~ proposal without the necessary blueprints and technical 
-· information. ·· 

The Office of Student Affairs could have avoided ·much of the confusion in Maintenance by following through with the Business Office and obtain­ing professional estimates and blue­prints for all the halls involved. Brother Ed Luther, rector of Mor­rissey, questioned the effectiveness of the original proposal in meeting the needs of Morrissey residents. Just "getting the space in," without furni­ture, light fixtures, ceiling tile, and ventilation does seem somewhat im­practical. Due to the end-of-the-year shuffle or internal administrative transitions, the project did not re­
cate nature of the problem demands truly thorough planning and care­ful coordination. Not the super­ficial treatment received. 
Bob Southard and Lisa Harten­

· berger, both Scholastic editorial board members, are O<Ypy Editor and Layout Editor, respectively. 
SCHOLASTIC 

Affirmative Action: Women's Housing 
Notre Dame will begin breaking ground aga.in soon with the an­nouncement of" plans for a· new undergraduate · ·women's dorm, ac­cording toSister John.Miriam Jones S.C., Assistant Provost. The pros­pects for a new dorm beca.me a reality this summer when a donor for ·the project was located. 
The new dormitory will allow the University to increase the current student enrollment from about 6,800 to about 7,200. According to Sister John the increased student popu­lation will consist of women, and the present number of males will remairi the same. This decision was author­ized by the Board of Trustees last year, and at that time the trustees also gave their approvalfor the uni­versity to·seek a··donor. for the new dormitory. 
Sister John indicated that the donor's name will remain anonymous at this· time since negotiations are still under way on the amount of the donation. "We a.re going to do it in the near future; ·We have had some contact with the architects about plans and cost, but-nothing has _been definitely decided yet," she said. 
There is no location· set :for the facility yet, but there is a possibility that the new building will :resemble Grace and Flanner halls. If this style is chosen, the area between those two dorms and the Memorial Library would be a likely spot for construction. "A lot of people are against a tower, but it-is an advan­tage since we already ha~e the archi­tectural plans for that type of build­ing," Sister John commented: 
Plans for the new dorm were an­nounced by ·Sister John in a letter this summer to members of the Women's Advisory Board. She stressed in the letter that ·although plans were vague, suggestions for the use • of social space would be appreciated. Sister John said she had -received· many suggestions over the summer·and would be going over and discussing· them with the archi­tects in the next few weeks. 
by Elizabeth Weber 

The new dormitory was one of the goals set by the Campaign for Notre Dame, the· $130 million development drive by the University. In materials distributed at the beginning of the campaign,'. the amount ··designated for the the dorm was $4·million, and it is assumed that the benefaction will be at least that amount and very likely higher. 
No construction timetable will be established until all details are 

"We have had some -contact with the architects about plans and costs, but ,nothing has 'been definitely decided·yet." 
Stressing that dorms will definite­ly be the answer to ,the growing con­cern over lack of social space at ND, Sister John said that she would like to see the new dorm designed in ·a way that would facilitate better so­cial interaction: "We definitely are not going to build a new student center in the immediate future, so we must work with our available 
· ·dorm:space," she said. 
settled and confirmation on the amount of the gift has been received, but the new women's dorm will def­initely be a reality in the near future. 
Elizabeth -Weber is a senior American Studies major. This is her first contribution to Scholastic. 
l 
I 
! 
What is off-campus living? Off­campus living consists of doing dinner dishes for six; living in a rented house or apartment means
Home of.the Brave 
cleaning bedrooms, bathrooms, and living rooms; off-campus signifies all the work Mom used to do. Of course, off-campus also means the luxury of coming to the breakfast table in a by Dave Gill bathrobe; it's walking out the back door and falling into a car; it's leav­"All on campus regulations, except ing campus and all of the accom­for parietal.s, will a-pply to off cam­panying pressures behind every day. pus living as well." When a student chooses to move -du Lac 1978-79 out from under the protective, and Well, maybe.. Luckily for Notre many times stifling, wing of the Uni­Dame students living off-campus this versity, he comes to .grips with the semester, no university administra­real world, more so than he ever. did tion official has chosen to enforce the while living. in a dorm room.· While. aforementioned clause. Onthe other on campus, the .major responsibility hand, maybe the administrati9n has a student. faces .is remembering to been lucky. No matter, though, be­change his bedsheets twice a month: 
cause both parties adopt the policy After a student makes the decision of live and let live, and everyone in­to leave campus housing, a thousand volved leads a much happier and new, and sometimes frightening, re­
more peaceful life. . . 
sponsibilities appear. Paying rent, 
The student's life is easier and fixing a leaky faucet, taking out the more tranquil, specifically because trash, going shopping, and paying the great weight of in loco parentis the paper boy (or girl) all combine has been lifted from his chest. The to . complicate. his life, that much 
only people an off-campus student .more.. has to answer to are God, the police, A learning process takes place 
· his neighbors, his · landlord, and his that no professor or book can ever housemates, not necessarily in that teach. A student realizes .that life · order. He enjoys a freedom, a re­consists of more than going to class, 
. sponsibility, that, for the first time, going to the dining hall, and going 
makes him feel like he lives away to football games. Priorities change . fr9m· home .but still enjoys the in­and classes no longer hold the top timacy ?f a home; · notch · on the list. _Surviving .. ~kes 
precedence.over_ book learning. 
Of course, most students, whether they live on campus or off, in . a single or a quad, ·in a dorm or the 
. CCE, realize.. that , life entails mor~ than . Emil's . chemistry • class. Living off-campus. simply drives home the point. tllat life. can, and often is,. a pain in the posterior. • 




Off-campus living has its hassles, 

e.g., trying to think of something for 
dinner that everyone likes, at least 
a little. But the good part about it 
is going . to bed in one's own bed­
room, eating in the kitchen, and 
drinking the after-meal coffee in the 
living room. A house or apartment 
lacks the claustrophobic feeling that ·comes; with squeezing,: two.: people into a 15-by 15-foot room and. tell­ing those two people to sleep there, study there, listen to. music there, entertain· there--'-to live there. 
Everyone .doesn't want to live off­

campus; everyone . can't live · off, 
which . is good, '"or class· attendance 
rolls may take a· drastic. drop. This 
article merely attempts to point out 
what living · off-campus can_ mean, 
speaking with the total · experience 
of three very confusing, but also 
very satisfying: weeks on St. Louis 
Blvd. with five other males.·· 
Maybe · some advice .should be 

rendered tothose who have pondered 
the ,idea of· moving off-campus at 
some point in the future. Know the 
people who • will be living together 
and know them well, or hostilities concerning labor division or ·study _hours may.'occur. Again, from per­sonal experience, --pure communism really does work, at least on a scale of six. Everything is shared, from
0 

who · cooks to who shops, from 
clothes · to albums, from . food to 
booze .. Even the ·.dog believes in · communism; she · leaves presents in · every · room, without .regard to location~, 
.The off-campus life-style does not 

resemble heaven in any way, shape; 
or. form. After__ two or three years 
of dorm residence, however, it could 
be the ·only: thing that aids, in keep­
ing m;e's sanity intact~ ' 0 In order to 
eat, one doesn't have· to ,stand in'.a 

I 

/ I 
jj ~ ,1 
line for 15 minutes; in order to sleep or study, one does _not have to yell at a hyperactive freshman to turn his stereo down; in order to live, one does not have to walk around campus to keep from climbing the walls. The house on Sf. Louis does· not have cockroaches, although crickets, a few mice, and one .bat have made recent appearances. 
As in all things, one can find good and bad in off-campus living~ Moving off may mean one likes to have keg parties or. may mean that one has grown tired of hav,ing the University watch over him to keep him on_ the straight and narrow. Whatever off-· campus means, it comes_ highly rec~ ommended by thos_e who have expe­rienced it. 
Dave Gill is a senior from, Hunt­ington, IN.' He was last seen on·all fours scrubbing a kitchen floor o St. Louis Blvd. 





Sardine Semester 
South Bend, Ind. (API) A revolu­tionary new idea in interior decorat­ing has just been developed by offi­cials at a prestigious Midwestern university. Conceived in joint co­operation by the University of Notre Dame's Housing and Admissions Of­fices, this new look is now being sported by all of the more fashion­able dorms on campus. Indeed, the overcrowding fad has begun at ND, ·and the crowded look is "in" for this fall. The ingenuity of the innovation 
is self-evident, if only because of the 
novelty of its prime ingredient: peo­
ple. Yes, this year more and more 
students are decorating their rooms 
with their roommates-in the purely 
literal sense. 
The consequences of the over­
crowding situation on campus are 
many, and they extend well out of 
the dormitory and into classrooms, 
dining halls, and athletic events. 
Taking a showe~? First take a num­
ber..Waiting for an elevator? Better 
bring a bodyguard. Going to dinner? 
Better pack a lunch. The new look 
has truly arrived and with it the 
"grim and white-faced" visages of 
disappointed freshmen and disbeliev­
ing parents. . . 
·Freshmen are, of course, both the 
cause of this year's big squeeze as 
well as those most affected by its 
consequences. In Flanner and Grace, .· 
study rooms have been converted to 
impromptu quads complete with 
bunk beds, carpeted floors, and see­
through doors. In Farley, 16 girls 
have been relegated to the basement 
amidst sundry pipes, insects, and 
underlying feelings of resentment. In 
Lewis, it has been, decided that a 
woman's place is in .the kitchenette, 
at least temporarily. In other dorms 
across campus, quads have been con­
verted to six-man suites, doubles to 
triples, ·and R.A. singles to doubles. 
And so on top of all the usual fresh­
man difficulties and adjustments, one 
other has been .added: the distinct 
lack of "personal spac.e." •· 
:f, ..' ' 
:.,~­
• ~,?' 

Although almost all ND students realize the seriousness of the dormi­tory overcrowding, only those di­rectly affected can speak on the sub­ject with firsthand authority. In talking with freshmen now living in makeshift rooms or with. inadequate facilities, the attitudes · prevalent were as various as the individuals interviewed and the rooms assigned to them. Some students were notice­ably perturbed at the lack of ade­quate facilities. Comments such as . "We paid to live dowff here" and "They should give us discounts" con­trasted ·strongly with sentiments such as "Well, rm· stuck here so I'll try to make the best of it." In short, the attitudes reflect not so much the gravity of the situation as the differ­ing abilities of students to adjust to circumstances .beyond their control. As no two students are exactly alike, all may react in -different ways to the same problems; Some may find 
by Patrick Joyce 

their rooms cozy while others find 
them stuffy. Some are abhorred by 
the lack of privacy while others may 
thrive on a close communion with 
others. In short, although students 
may adapt' to their problems in dif­
fering ways; all will eventually learn 
to cope with an unpleasant situation 
to the best of their abilities-hope­
fully without feelings of regret or 
remorse. 
No matter what the· causes of 

overcrowding, the consequences re­
main. In admitting a larger number 
of freshmen to the University this· 
fall, two basic benefits have been 
incurred. First of all, more students 
have been. included in the educa­
tional community and this will ob~ 
viously benefit both the students and 
the University as each contributes 
valuable input. ·. This leads to the 
even more obvious advantage · of an 
augmented pool of revenue from the 
tuition that flows from these stu­
dents. However, in light of· the con­
sequences that affect all students­
and especially the overcrowded 
freshmen-perhaps the University 
should examine its actions to avoid 
any future mistakes. The ·unpleasant 
effects may. outweigh the benefits 
and some students may feel cheated 
as they pay a· great sum of money 
to receive an increasingly smaller 
slice of the "pie.". Whatever the 
cause and whoever is at fault, 
whether it be upperclassmen who remain on campus or freshmen who .are accepted at too great a rate, the malady must be cured . before it grows out of hand. If not, then we can possibly look forward .to the absurdity of the day when students will be forced to live with professors residing on campus. Then perhaps · would a lucky student be heard to exclaim "Well, he may 'not .. be tenured, but he does have a stereo!" 
Patrick Jeyce is a senior from New York1 This is his first contri­bution. to Scholastic. 
The night begins with several peo­ple pretending that they are sleepy cats awakening from a deep slumber, stretching noiselessly in exaggerated motion. It continues as they grab chairs and run ar~und . barefoot, grumbling in heavy Texan drawls. Then they start playing checkers that aren't there and drinking beer that is wherever the checkers are. 
This is not a typical night, hope-to portray the mostly funny but often sad life stories of "the neatest girl" and "·the neatest boy" from Bradleyville High in Bradleyville, Texas. 

If anyone harbors any illusions of a director who must organize all this chaos as a stuffy character sitting languidly in a canvas chair periodi­cally yelling "stage .right" while sticking a pencil in the back of his 
At practices she paces the lobby where the actors rehearse, . periodi­cally breaking in to shoot questions as to what the students feel about their characters. She walks from one side of .the room to the other, sug­gesting poses, inflections of lines, and subtle movements that bring the play to life. "Good .. That line's per­fect. Yeah, keep going," she prac­tically screams every once in a while 
Lu Ann ~ho? 
fully anyway, for any typical stu­dent; yet it's a "familiar scene as a rehearsal night for the members of the ND-SMC Theatre Group as they prepare for the first major produc­tion of the four to be presented this year: Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander by Preston Jones. Re­. hearsals like· these encompass activ­ities from the "loosening-up" exer­cises headed by assistant director Lisa Turco, a Saint Mary's senior, to the drilling, redrilling, and im­provisation of lines on the part of the cast members and director. Each rehearsal strengthens the coopera­tive effort that· exists between the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents and faculty as they strive to bring a touch of class to the cam­puses through theatre productions. 
If the title of the play, Lu Ann Hampton. Laverty Oberlander, 
doesn't pique your interest, the short production blurb released by the Speech and Drama Department should: "The neatest girl was a · cheerleader (apparently with more sweaters in her closet than Jimmy Carter has blue jeans). The neatest boy was a basketball player, kind of shy, and not very bright.. But cute, so cute." And if that doesn't· bring to heart everything that was . ever Bobby Deerfield in you, nothing will. · And with that, eleven cast mem­bers, approximately forty backstage crew members, a director and assis­tant director, and a five-member bluegrass country-style band cooper­atively strive to tell the story of Lu Ann Hampton. Together they work 
SEPTEMBER 22, 1978 
ear, they will be happily shattered by the director of Lu Ann Hampton: Julie Jensen. 
Jensen is Assistant Professor of Speech and Drama, beginning her second year at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's. If the word intense is too artistic for anyone to handle, per­haps a more fitting description is 
dynamic. 
by Marcy Weigle 

and rehearsal continues. 
Jensen's enthusiasm as director carries over to the students cast in the play. Of eleven cast members, five are freshmen and six upperclass­men, of whom four are Speech and Drama majors. 
The lead part of Lu Ann is played by Chrissy Foy, a Saint Mary's freshman from Indianapolis. Chrissy, 


. Julie Jensen 
when describing ·her character, Lu 
Ann, delves right into an animated 
dissertation of· <'the neatest cheer­
leader," breaking into a Southern 
drawl that makes so~e Texans 
sound absolutely Bostonian. 
Mark Amenta, a senior Speech and Drama major who has directed two student plays and who will_ be the first student in the history of the ND-SMC' Theatre to direct a major .productbn this fall, epitomizes the student's enthusiasm for hard work and a'.good time. At the same time, he dispels the· common image of the actor's delusions of grandeur.. "If I told my moin about the part I have (Milo, the tow:µ nerd, in Mark's own description)· as a graduating Speech and Drama major,· sh~'d tell me to .switch to Engineering . ; . quickly." But, no matter whLt part they play, the students in L'k Ann Hamp­ton all share a great· en :husiasm and 
desire for nothing less than perfec­tion on stage. This determination will ultimately_ work to make the play successful for· them and in­teresting to the audience. 

All in all, from the time that the announcement posters for tryouts are hung on the walls of O'Shaugh­nessy until the time of the perfected production, Lu Ann Hampton in­volves a lot of hard work. It en­compasses strenuous rehearsals every night and late night hours of scene practices. It means working in the barrer. lobby of O'Laughlin · bec:mse of limited stage facilities aml the constant drilling, redrilling anri · rehearsing of lines. · Not least · of all, it means practicing being 
· sleepy, stretching, awakening· cats which cari be a very emotional, if not downright heartrending expe­rience. 
Yet with all this, the. attitude of the ND-SMC Theatre Group is best summed up by the adept commen­tary of Shawn Maguire, a sophomore who plays Lu Ann's -brother: "It's fun. It's worth every minute." ·-:­
And if the play · is anything like the rehearsals, anybody iri his right mind, . and even anyb_ody not in his right mind, would · benefit greatly from seeing Lu, Ann Hampton Laverty Oberl.ander when it opens on October 7 and runs until October 14 in the theatre in .the round . at O'Laughlin Auditorium. After all, it'll be fun and worth every minute. 
Marcy Weigle is a junior govern­ment major from Sea Isle City, N.J. 


Shawn Maguire, Michael Gibbons, Chris Foy · · ·. 
. SCHOLASTIC 

. 
Gallery 



·Gallery
--:-_ _____;___:, ..· 
{/~ ",.j 
l 
1 
'.1 
! 
1 
_j 
1 
l 
1 
1 
l 

},•~;!Yll1i%.¥Bil 


~~----•,;;'Ii_,.,,~ 


d\~tL 
··•.. ·..
-.~ 
··--: 
J_eff Huhta 



Father Sorin implored the Creator once more. "Please," he asked the Almighty, "Let me return to Earth for but a few hours, to see again the University which I have founded so very long ago." 
The Creator heaved a timeworn 

·sigh, and Sorin was transfixed. In­stantly, he stood back on Earth on the outskirts of the University. It was the Friday night before the Michigan-Notre Dame game. This is his diary: . 
Friday Night, September 22, 1978: 
When I arrived back on Earth, I saw great and wondrous things; for all over, excepting deep black slashes of smooth rock, the trees that I had planted were now large and lush, and only beginning to tinge with the colors of fall. 
It is good that I have returned during the fall, I thought, for the students will just have returned from their homes-it is the most serene of the seasons. 
On the way to. Sorin College, I bespied large, brightly colored horse­less carriages, within which were people, staring out from behind panes of glass. 
All seemed headed in the same direction, so I proceeded by foot to­ward that direction, stopping along the way only to pick up small, cylin­drical, metallic objects that had evi­dently been discarded along the road. 
I can venture no explanation of these, but upon closer examination, I could discern some German writing -a language, _unfortunately, to which I was unaccustomed. -· 

By the time I had proceeded sev­eral hundred feet, I had collected 'too many of these objects to carry along, so I, too, discarded them along, the road.­
Then, lo and behold, came a won-, drous sight before me ... for there 

. . . . 
. was a small, dark building with . many youth trying to enter through



Paradis·e· 
the door. A huge placard was above thaf read "Corby's.'' Eureka! How pleasant,· I thought, it will be good


Revisited· 
-. to see old Father Corby once again! 
I squeezed through the door, ap­.by Greg Solman .· parently · invisible . to all gathered and Tim Gulstone · there. I ·was pleased that Father 
Corby still had such wonderful Mass attendance. ' : .. 

· A~ ·r became· immersed in that crowd, I. did discern that there was no Mass going on,. but instead, some 
SCHOLASTIC 

social gathering. A foamy ale was 
being distributed to all. 
I approached one·of the youths and asked him of it. He stared blankly ahead and said nothing. And theri, he retched, and I, not being of strong stomach, sought the door. It was evident that Father Corby was not here. · 
Presently, I came upon the school grounds and was amazed at the ex­pansion my campus· had. undergone. I entered the largest of the buildings, that which had a stone mural of Christ on the outside. It was ob­viously a sacred place, for no one was there, save for many books and keepers. 
Finally, I chanced upon a youth on an upper floor, reading a book of chemistry. I asked him a question,· but he simply muttered a strange pagan rite; "Tri-nitro-toluene; gotta getta fouroh." I left quickly, he be­ing an uninteresting subject to study. 
I then went inside that golden domed building.· I heard the banging of heating pipes and smelled the musty smell. The floors were worn and the stairs dangerous. How nice that nothing has changed since last I was-here. 
~resently, I followed the flow of the crowd to a strange, shiny build­ing. It must have been struck by lightning many times, I thought, seeing as how the roof · was dented in various and sundry places. 
Inside, ·what a ruckus was occur­ring! A barid was playing a fast melody, and the thousands of people gathered there listened, entranced. 
; At length, ·this song grew tire­some, and I ·wished to hear it no longer. Finally, someone tried to speak, yet .the crowd· most rudely interrupted with shouts of joy and handclapping .. No sooner would one speaker tire of'this rudeness, and another · attempt to speak, then would the band· and impertinent crowd'do the same. 
I did not blame the crowd for its restlessness, ·for ·it was of extreme heat, and the subject of the speakers quite repetitious. I kept· hearing of "beating"· ··and "killing" and of "fields," and what would transpire on them, and so I assumed that some hunting expedition was being organ­ized. I 'didn't realize that "Wolver­ines" had become such prized game! 
I left, at length, when that same 

song became too tiresome, and I did 
get struck squarely on the forehead 
by a flying roll of soft white cloth. 
apparently having followed us here. 
Saturday, September 23, '1918 After gaining entrance, they marched 
I was most pleased to see so many in a most . lightheaded fashion 
parents and alumni of Notre Dame toward the middle of the field. They 
come to the school this morning to then proceeded to play that same 
visit with the youth. Such large-song. · Strangely enough, all seemed 
scale visiting shows tremendous con-cheered by its playing. 
cern on their part. Upon looking about me, I saw that 
As I wandered about the grounds, perhaps I should have saved. those 
I chanced upon a general store on small metallic cylinders that I had 
campus, and .indeed, upon entering I encountered in such profusion on 
could see that it had become a lu-the way to Father Corby's; for a 
crative venture to please the adults large nu~ber of those around me 
who visited. Everywhere there stood seemed to covet these objects greatly. 
older people buying many items all Soon, all attention was turned 
engraved with "Notre Dame" and, toward the field. There, to a tumult 
strangely enough, all of similar color quite indescribable, ran large-
patterns. I ventured on. shouldered, golden-helmeted men. 
On· the road to the school, many What transpired then is beyond brightly colored· chariots were at-my capability to explain. It appears tempting. to move. At orie place, a that the men clad in green and gold long-armed ·machine blocked the coveted a brown leather object. With road periodically, letting some char-· it, the green-clad youth would run iots pass, and turning others back to and play for many minutes until whence they came. I watched for a they had run out of room at the end very long time and discovered a pat-of the field. Then, growing weary tern to this activity. Evidently, those of the game, they would kick the chariots whose glass panes were ball to other men, dressed in maize marked with small· green squares and blue, who would hold the object were denied entrance. All others ·for a brief time and then kick it were allowed through. back, probably angered at the green-
I followed the flow of the crowd clad for not allowing them even half 
to a huge brick coliseum, where it of the field in which to play. 
seemed that all had gathered. En-At the end,·· everyone assembled 
trance to this vast coliseum seemed, there was smiling and greatly 
at best, difficult. cheered.· · 
There, outside the walls, there was My time had expired, and as I rose 
much bartering of money for small to return to Heaven, the echoes of 
pictures of large, evidently holy . that same song trailed behind me, 
grails, with different numbers on . filling the air. 
each. Once acquiring these portraits, Despite the incessancy with-which 
however,· each person watched seem-this tune had been played that day; 
ingly unperturbed as strangely uni-I found myself becoming, somehow, 
formed men demanded each to sur--much endeared to it. 
render them, only to tear them in I resolved then to further study 
halves. this activity in the future. . . 
Once inside, I became immediately 

angered at having to sit in such Greg Solman is a junior American close proximity with others, while Studies major from Caribou, Maine, before me lay a seemingly empty while Tim Gulstone is a junior Eng­field. I became further perturbed lish major from DeKalb, Illinois. . when the band with such limited This celestial insight is their first 
repertoire appeared upon the field, joint contribution to Scholastic. 

--.. ~ ---. ~· 
. , ... '.~ If 
..,-,, 
~ 
-~--· 
"A 'Pf'OfiJ.e, by common understand­ing, is due someone cu_rrently im­portant. The interview is our way of understanding his fame_. It is not U,'l8dom that ·we try to understand,· it is exceptionality-in the· case of a writer, his reputation as a writer, his hold on aur imagination, means. that for us he is Zike no one e"lse. The interview becomes a way of getting the· writer to document this ex­ceptionality himself:~, 
· -Alfred Kazin 
Alfred Kazin talks easily, not quite eagerly, this scorching Friday, fol­lowing a few·of our leads, abandon­ing most of them and inventing some of his own. 
"Mr. Kazin, what questions do you hate to be asked_?" 
. l'Why don't you -try me and find out?" he countered, .looking inscru­table, ·even in blue cotton shirt sleeves~ -
Kazin is the sole ordering principle in his fifth-floor Memorial Library office. He sits behind a cluttered desk amidst a confusion of paper, but the office assembles itself splen­didly around him. Now and then; he gazes out the ·window•· as he talks, 

New York Jew 
taking in what are to us familiar sights: the Administration Building, Washington Hall. (Of campus archi­tecture, he comments,-"I have ·such a fascination with anything nine­teenth century.") We can tell that he is . still trying to orient• himself as a Jew teaching American litera­ture at a Catholic university. As a visiting lecturer in the English de­partment, Kazin is just getting settled, already acquiring a feeling for the surroundings. "The statue of Mary on the dome faces south, in case you get lost,";we tell him, try­ing to be helpful. 
"I take it you've read the book," he judges from our questions. "The book"· here is his third and most re­cent autobiographical novel, New York Jew. We respond affirmatively, nodding and· smirking like well-pre­pared students who; having read The_ Brothers .Kararnaz<YV, know who Father Paissy is. 
"Then there really is no need for an interview," he smiles pleasantly, the eyes narrowing to carrot-sticks. 
Let us make one thing clea,r: _it is not that -Alfred Kazin coddles a writer's temperament like some of his explosive contemporaries. It· is simply that he prefers asking ques­tions to answering them. We forget that he is no longer "on · native· grounds" and that he, too, ,wants to know some things. 
"Can't· we just talk?" he asks us. So the three of us talk. 
The situation leaned in the direc­
tion of true irony: we were .inter­
viewing_ the most accomplished of 
by Kathy ·Ryan and Jerry Perez 

interviewers. Throughout his auto­biographical trilogy_ (Starting Out in the Thirties, A Walker in the City, New York Jew) Kazin emerges as the literary inquisitor of our times. The anecdote, the _observa­tion, the opinion expressed through­out these and other works result from asking the· right questions, both of himself and of the "literary ids and egos" in his world;_-This -man who had been on both sides of the dialogue, an expert in both, was now our challenge. Cavett and cliche were out of the question; we resolved to · fight off convention in -documenting 
one writer's exceptionality. .. During his decades of critical en­deavor, surely he had heard every question, constructed every_-appro­priate answer. The "Great Man," we had decided, was no: easy mark, but the wealth of information launched the chaUenge: imagine the image­maker. There had to be one new question to ask. 
It was a question of particulars. Why Notre Dame?-Why now? 
-While . he has taught at _such schools as Smith, Stanford, Univer­sity of California,_ and-City College of New _York, Alfred Kazin confides that Notre Dame is his first teaching 

· experience at a Catholic. university. He admits to being here partly out . of curiosity and partly because, in his words, '!they made me an at­tractive offer." Apart from teaching an undergraduate "Major -American 
:. Writers" seminar and the graduate­level "James ·Family," Kazin spends much of his time (specifically, his mornings) writing. and researching a project tentatively titled _The American Procession, a. work which he refers to as "probably the most ambitious book of my life.'' 
For Kazin, the daily transition be­tw_een writing __ and teaching is a smooth one.-· He approves of .the present university system, and sees it as appropriate for. the writer as well -as the student. In his essay 
SCHOLASTIC 

"The Writer and the University," he claims: 
The presence of so many ·writers in the university is really a chap­ter in the still undescribed revo­lution of America since the war. But what needs finally to be said, on the .writer's part, is that he is in the university because he wants to be there. It. enables him to play a role-as moralist, as phi­losopher, as literary . guide and teacher to his tribe ... 
~ ' , -• C • 

Kazin understands the premise: for himself, as·well as for any writer, in the decision to teach at a university, "his choice is .made in the deepest freedom." 
Kazin identifies the current proj­ect as ·the fruition of his interests and efforts throughout his career. The American P~ocession character­izes post-Civil War, pre-World •War I America in the period of its great­est economic, .social and literary ad­vance. The Protestant ethic grows into the economic motivation· of the nation at this time, while the implicit religious mission ofgrowingAmedca implants and nurtures the American myth. The imaginative obsession which emerges from this rapid social and economic advance draws the artist into confrontation with the notion of power. ,.·.·. 
For Kazin, the writers in this pro­cession both respond to the intense new power which is "America" and become aware of their..role as an 
' . 

organ of power within the develop­ing complex..The writers who iden~ tify the · centers of increasing. in­fluence in nineteenth-century Amer­ica also come to understand the scope of their ·own power as leaders of opinion and public voices. ' · · 
The voices of this period are fa­miliar to Kazin; in a much earlier work, A Walker in the City, he tried to .make clear his fascination with the time, and his imaginative . com­mitment to the period: · · ·· 
. . . . anythi~g old, glazed, touched with dusk' at the end of the nin~ teenth century ....immediately set my mind dancing. The present was mean, the eighteenth· century final shore, was the world of dusk, of rust, of iron, of gaslight, where, I thought, I would find my way to that fork in the_ road where all American lives cross. 

This-is Kazin's world as much as it is the world of Dreiser, of James, of Melville, of Dickinson, of Whitman. His work on these and other figures ranges from essays, to critical pieces 'to entire editions of their works. But they .are more than old friends to Kazin, and they are far greater than their · individual accomplishments, greater because they define for Kazin what America -"wanted to be" then, and may still seek to be now._ 
The figures in K:azin's procession clarified the American _religious mission, initiated by a literary so­ciety of _Purita11 writers in early America and, in a sense, carried on today in, the· intensely "Protestant" atmosphere. of this nation's ~itera­ture. Kazin comments on thesingular American commitment. to civil. liber~ ties, freedoms of expression and pur­suit, which find their greatest chal­lenge worldwide in the contempo­rary schema of growing centers of authority. 
Power is still the issue, the writer responds. The organization of years of work and a realm of interests into the new volume is Kazin's attempt to locate the crossroads, the point at which America defined for itself a commitment. · 
Despite _the recognition of-a his­torical American challenge, there is
•· 

a further, more personal concern in Kazin's work. The strengthof Kazin's commitment to religion doesn't limit itself to the Jewish question, and it goes beyond .purely intellectual in­quiry. His · questions about our Catholicism are·those of a fascinated observer. They -reveal an intense, ­personal interest. "What percentage of the students would you say still attend Sunday Mass?" -h~ asks, sup­porting himself armrest to arm to 
-finger to cheek. "Do you go to church?" The tables are turned and Alfred Kazin begins to interview us. 

Kazin's fascination with aspects of personality, his undiscriminating curiosity about individuals, and his awareness of .background and influ­ence are the tokens· of a far subtler and .more . personal ·perception and pursuit. Kazin is not an animated social recorder; New York Jew is more than a view to "the literary world· of contending egos," more than a sophisticated gossip sheet. In the same way, the volumes in the autobiography reach beyond the out­lines of self-awareness and. confes­sion. Character fascination is too ob­tuse to describe Kazin's interest or talent. It is an altogether . different impulse which evades the -world of fiction, where figures are elaborately composed. The "difference" in talent transforms information and incident into a parade of verb_al caricatures. 
Kazin finished New York Jew in 
May, 1977 and Alfred Knopf pub­
lished it earlier this year. The book 
received much critical acclaim and 
has been touted by at least one critic 
as "a book that will assume a con­
spicuous place in the documentation 
of the literary life of our times." 
Kazin is quick to point out, though,. 
that "some people hated it." "I guess 
it jtist depends on whether or not 
you like the author," he comments 
matter-of.:factly. 
New York Jew is a highly charged 

chronicle of Manhattan literati (of 
which Kazin is one) as they struggle 
to establish and maintain literary 
identities against t:he backdrop of the 
Second World War,· the unreality of 
the Holocaust, the brutality of the 
McCarthy era, and the pop-pastiche 
of the sixties. 
In the New York Review of Books, 

-Robert. Towers says, "Kazin displays a rigorously pruned style and _a complex awareness of the extent to which .literary and personal striv­ings were conditioned by the eco~ 
was too Anglo-Saxon, too far -­

. away. Between them, in the light of the steerage ships waiting to discharge my parents · onto the 
SEPTEMBER·22, 1978 
nomic and political turbulence of the period he is writing about." 
The book is a succession of care­fully penned portraits of Kazin's contemporaries: Lionel Trilling and his hostile wife Diana, the blithe Paul Goodman, the up~and-coming writer Saul Bellow and the singular Edmund Wilson. While his char­acterization of Bellow is the most persistent, his sketch of Wilson (a critic whom Kazin "very much admired") is the most exquisite. He writes of his contemporaries novelis­tically rather than journalistically. New York Jew ends up being poeti­cally disguised reality. · 
,Kazin does, however, exhibit a tendency,• as one critic put it, "to imbue everything with significance." Sex with a · Greenwich village mis­tress becomes a deliciously pagan rite. Prefacing the book with a Fitzgerald quote, he presents ·the Brooklyn Bridge as the fine line be~ tween' sanity and · madness: Such pas_sages, however, cannot detract from either the book's panoramic magnitude or its consistent ahen­tion· to subtlety, nuance and detail. 
· '.!'he critical impulse of the auto­biographical writer involves·. more than the construction of a literary circus. It concerns the historical por­trait, and · Kazin is an impressive artist. Further, as the autobiography moves to the literary vertex, a distinction emerges between · the writer of autobiography and the autobiographical artist.· Kazin is a classic of the second case an«i says he wouldn't think of writing fiction. His imagination is never constrained by the environment of reality. 
The romantic imagination idealizes the present; the . historical view rarely has time for the contempo­rary. This man of historical pres­ence, who can glance back 50 years into his own yesterday, and speak with assurance and conviction about the realities of that time, aggressive­·· ly evaded any comment on the truly present.. Though we asked his views 


on certain 'very present figures, on his colleagues and critics, on the new crop of writers in from various fields, he refused to pass into the present. His greatest influence was John Keats; among autobiographers, he admires Augustine· and Rousseau. He came no closer in time· than his praise of Edmund . Wilson; beyond him; . there were "too many" and Kaziri's views were too sketchy. 
We wondered if there was some­thing about the historical · view, or about the accomplished man, which subordinated the present. Surely Kazin knew "his time," but was his age the ,30's and '40's'in this country, some Jewish past, or turn of cen­tury of America; land of Dreiser and Dickinson? In either case, America in 1978 had no identity for Kazin; his vague concern . with the present made us wonder if the future was of any interest to the historian, to this historian. 
But perhaps this is unfair; after all, we weren't conducting the inter­view at all. Though we asked the· questions and. made the .attempt, he went· precisely where he· wanted to, with slightly less than intimidating professionalism. All that he said, he wanted to say; .When we asked the "wrong". question, we got no answer. We were subtly led, by artist and teacher, through .the fears-in our own curiosity. We followed through the a}!swerable questions, construct­ing an interview in Kazin's terms, better than any we·· might conduct . 

. He looked out the window of his office, and· we still wondere_d what he was thinking'. He asked the fresh~ man question about the _figure on the dome, and wondered aloud about our Catholicism. The interview was over; we had asked all the right questions. He had found two new "characters') in us, and we had met'a center of power; an artistic power-which is simply. the unique personality. But every per!lonality _is· un.ique, _while not all follow the a·rtistic impulse. He· had the final word 'dri that view, too; when he wrote that, for the"artist, '.'his gift and his life are_ really ver­. sions of each other.'' .His. gift is t_he perception; M'persona~ity; a: literary talent. whose imagination gra.sps the 
charactefwhich is'reaC·. ,, . . . 
,·:.-:·: 
i.Both seniors, Kathy '.·Ryan -and Jerry:Perez are in the Oollege of Arts arid Letters •.,· 

Fiction 

How I Spent My Summer with Pete· Rose 
by Tom Balcerek 

All the bush league· batters · are left to die on the diamond. In the stands the home crowd scatters for the turnstiles. 
Neil Young 

I never really liked the guy and I detested Aqua Velva. Pete Rose wanted to smell like a man because a man wants to smell like a man. But what does a man smell like basically? Had Aqua Velva somehow stum­bled upon the olfactory essence of masculinity? "No," I thought, and my suspicions turned out to be well grounded. Aqua Velva did not smell like a man and consequently neither did Pete Rose. Ah, sweet mystery of life. . . . . · . 
Anyway, that was all I knew of him aside from the facts that he was the pride of the Cincinnati ·Reds and had established himself as "Charlie Hustle." And I think that's why I didn't like him, for I too had been an 'incessant .hustler at one time ·and exist now as his diametric opposite. The transition was a kind of slow fade which, at this time, I am not sure was for the better or worse. I believe it was Pete's lackof confusion .that led to the eventual demise of our relationship. 
Of course, I could shut ol' Hustlin' Pete right out of my life just like that. I stopped' collecting base­ball cards years ago and if he ever came on. television I could simply turn him off. Or better yet, I could turn the volume all the way down and employ my cacoph­onous sportscaster's voice to make deliciously crass comments about his batting stance and/or haircut. I soon realized my lack of prudence in this affair ·and dis­continued the practice as the subsequent ·remorse be­came unbearable. And if Pete Rose would send me a letter, I wouldn't even open it. I would tear it up. 
This. summer, however, Pete Rose . had· unexpectedly re-emerged in my life. ·r was working my summer job· at the glass factory. as an apprentice under the head blower (yes, they still blow glass) when a worker from the conveyor line cruised by with a full smile and a bit of news _that would almost change my life. 
"23, ·Chicken.Leg," bubbled the canvas-clad worker. "Rose is hot." 
Chicken Leg looked· up from a half-blown cookie jar ·with . a countenance· of aloof interest. "Is that right?" he said. After handing me the apparatus he plugged himself into a conversation that I don't think he. was quite ready. for.. Sure, he. was a .baseball fan, but he did not indulge in .the fanaticism of. his friend who was presently bobbing up and down on his tiptoes and digging frantically into his pockets. I .noticed silicon· specks on Chicken Leg's.lips and watched them sparkle in the factory light as hetalked. It was Pete 
Rose I avoided. -.· , . ; . . . . "He's goin' all the way,'' beamed.the.worker. /'He's gonnapass Stan Musial soori and then it's Ty Cobb.'' "Are you sure of that now, Billy?;' replied Chicken Leg in mock challenge. , . . . . . "Pete Rose is the greatest ballplayer of all time, and he's a hell of a man.'' I cringe.. "Yeah, he ain't young no more,"-.continued Billy, "but that's all the more reason he's gonna do it. You watch, he's gonna break that hit streak record.''. ; "Who's got it now?." inquired Chicken Leg. · "DiMaggio-56. games--:-1941.'' .• "DiMaggio," I thought, "Marilyn Monroe-Mr. Cof­fee-DiMaggio." . Immediately. I threw my, mind.into neutral and got back. to work .. Glass~blowing requires complete concentration but I could. still hear them .on the periphery of my consciousness. Chicken Leg was concerned now. ·. "He's got a ways ,to go before 56, Billy. I wouldn'.t get my hopes on up there too high." · , ; · CIYou watch 'n see," reminded Billyias he departed. "You watch 'n see.,, : Chicken. Leg resumed ,respon­sibility. for .the cookie jar as. Billy's voice shouted·from a distance, "Hey, what.was the lottery number?''. "2-8-9,'' chopped Chicken.s Leg, as .he :wiped-the sparkles from his lips. 
"Ah, shit!" cried Billy, waving an acknowledgement of the fact. Chicken Leg looked over at me and smiled. 
I worked a double shift that night; the overtime pay was good. But as the night wore on, I couldn't get Pete. Rose out of my mind-hi; was tenacious there too. Between the hot. glass and the mental turmoil I fell into an uncanny delirium and by the end of the night was.plagued by absurd mental images. Although sleep came easily when I ,returned home, it too .pre­sented me with bizarre ramblings..I had a strange dream in which I found myself before a man in a Cin­cinnati Reds uniform, however it wasn't Pete Rose. · To me he appeared to be some kind of sage, full of wisdom, and I was there for guidance. He was drinking milk and eating an American flag. 
"Be ·a fan, son," he advised, as he plucked a star from the blue and popped it into his mouth. "Be. a goddam .fan." 
I remember nodding in a trance-like state. "That's all there is," he said, "any way you look atit." Hetore off a red stripe, sprinkled a little salt down its length, ripped it -into halves_, and offered one to. me. I was abhorred at the idea of eating the flag. 
"No!" I shouted. 

"Suit yourself," he replied. At once:! found myself clad in flag material; red and white trousers and a blue star-ridden shirt with striped cuffs. I screamed in fear as the sage laughed hideously. "Oh come now," he chuckled. "Just take it off and I'll eat it for you." That's when I awoke. 
The July afternoons were enveloped in a distinct haze that hid the sun and turned the sky a cruel white. I was working the midnight shift and doing just a bit too much sleeping during the day. All the days of summer seemed to swirl into one long montage of varying degrees of light and darkness and I found myself bored in a somewhat strange manner. It· was an infinite boredom that embraced both the ridiculous and· the sublime. "Happy resignation," I thought, "the factory life!" I tried to do some reading from ·time to time but found my brain exquisitely numb to any such endeavor. I was just "there'' and it felt fine. 
Meanwhile, Pete was slicing his way through the record books and·had just-passed Tommy Holmes' mark of 37 consecutive games set.in 1945. By this time Pete Rose was omnipresent. His ·name was splashed across the front pages of sports sections in every newspaper. There were specials on TV and interviews before every game. Pete Rose was on his way to immortality. 
I felt something welling up inside of me, but I couldn't explain it. An affinity for·Pete Rose was grow­ing-yet it wasn't for the man himself, it was for the event. In all of modernity, nothing was _happening but Pete Rose; nothing that was both measurable and im­mediately significant anyway. And I thought, "Hey, why not be a fan? Why not support fellow man·in his strug­gle against gravity? Why not indulge in the glory of Our Time?" Then I remembered the dream and the em­barassment I had felt at even having it. This spurred a curious disgust in me, one that would not allow me to be complacent. The central question rose to the fore­front: "Why always 'why'?• Why not..'why· not'?" 
Why not? 



I was unloading pink flamingos from the conveyor when I saw Chicken Leg approaching from the corner of my eye, and as he came within speaking distance I felt myself trembling while words began to spew forth from my mouth. "What did Pete Rose do tonight?" I asked. The words slid out like nude babies on oily plastic. 
"Two for three, sport," he reported walking briskly past. 
For a moment I phased out. I put my hand over the mouth that uttered the frightful question and felt a sad passion over the loss of control. Something was happening here, something beyond me. In confusion I blurted, "What was the number?" He didn't hear me. Now desperate, I hollered again, "What was the lottery number?" But just as I yelled, the grinder shut dowri and my strained voice laid naked in the ears of at least ten fellow workers. Herbie Sangula, who was sweep­ing the floor in my station, looked up in disgust; 
"One, one, eight," he answered. "Take it·easy," .he advised. 
The following day I went out and bought a Cin­cinnati Reds ball cap. I had to settle for a cheap im­itation from the five-and-dime store, but in the long run it was worth it. I wore it to work every day and even got into afight over it. I remember it well because it was the same day that Pete tied Wee Willie Keeler for second on the all-time list at 44 consecutive games. I was numb with excitement, for after Rose passed Keeler, there was no one to pass but DiMaggio. Any­way, this guy from maintenance walked up to me and said simply, "You're an idiot." He then proceeded to knock my hat onto the floor. "You know the Dodgers are going to win it all," he continued. I made a com­ment about his mother and all hell broke loose. 
. Chicken Leg had to break it up, but• not before I . sustained three bumps on the head and a bloody lip. They sent.me. home that night with blood on my hat, but I wouldn't let it spoil my day because it was Pete's day too. I had a couple beers and went to bed thinking of Pete Rose, Willie Keeler, and the triumph that was to come the following day. I said a prayer for. both of 
them. · · That night I felt a cold touch on the back of my neck, and my first waking sense was that of smell; the _ room was filled with a musty odor. When I looked up I saw a man at my bedside. I opened my mouth to scream, but no sound was emitted. With a wave of his hand I became calm once more. Slowly my eyes surveyed him, and as he raised a baseball bat into swinging position I suddenly recognized him as . . . "That's right," he said, "Wee Willie Keeler here. I was just over to see Pete, did.you know he sleeps in the fetal position?" I didn't know what to say, he looked real enough and his uniform was right out of the 1890's. "Don't be afraid," he suggested. "A young spunk like you should have lots of courage." "Yes, sir," I managed. "Why are you here?" "I'm going to the Reds game tomorrow, I haven't been to a game since 1938." A flash of apprehension must have crossed my eyes..'.'He's not going to do it," he informed me, head down taking a full cut with his bat. I jumped back in fear. "I tried to talk with him< tonight, but he wouldn't listen, he wouldn't even 
SEPTEMBER 22, 1978 
acknowledge me." Willie sat down on the edge of my 
bed, removed one of his cleated shoes, and started mas­
saging his left foot slowly. "Damned bullheaded-" 
"Mr. Keeler-" 

"Call me Boontra, that's my nickname in the other 
world." 

· "Boontra," I said, "I don't think it's quite fair 
somehow that you would come back now at the advent 
of another man's defeat." My own words surprised me. 
"There is one thing you must know, son: I've been 
with him always." He stood up, leaned forward on his 
bat, looked me straight in the eyes, and said, "You know, 
it's not whether you win or lose, or even how you play 
the game, it's simply that you must play the game." 
"What?" I asked incredulously. 
"Oh, and don't forget the rules," he added as his 
form began to fade. 

"But ..." I protested. 
"You will understand soon, and so will Pete ... 
one day." All that was left now was his voice. "Hey, 
the lottery number is two fifteen, play it big, it's my 
wife's birthday." 

I sat staring at a cold bowl of chili in the kitchen while voices from the living room reverberated wildly throughout the house. Everyone was watching the Reds game in the living room. Pete Rose was O for 3, and Howard Cosell had been calling him "Petey" all day. I didn't know what to think. My father came into the kitchen with an empty bowl of popcorn and placed it .in the sink. "Rose is up this inning, aren't you going to watch?" 
"I'll be in," I said. 
, I put the chili out on the back porch for the dog .and watched him gulp it down with fervor. I was about· 
to leave when he threw up all over a novel I was read­
ing. Now I had to decide between dog vomit and Pete 
Rose. The choice was obvious; I trashed the novel and 
headed for the television. When I got there, Rose was 
at bat, and the count was 1 and 2. It was the ninth 
inning, and it didn't look good. I watched the final swing 
·and 'the look on Pete's face. The streak was over. ·. 
"What a way to go," I thought. Staring blankly at 
the tube I experienced two beer commercials, another 
for muscular dystrophy, and one for mascara. Suddenly 
before my eyes was Pete Rose. Howard Cosell had 
nabbed him after the game. ­
"How do you feel, Pete?" he asked. 
"I'm pissed," answered Pete. , 
Just then I noticed a message floating silently by on 
a fortune cookie slip at the bottom of the television 
screen. "Today's.winning lottery number is 2-1-5," it 
said. My family and I danced gleefully around the 
living room. I had just won $30,000. 
-Torn Balcerek is this year's Fiction Editor. He hails 
Irorn Mt. Pleasant, Pennsylvania. 

.There is. a sporfplayed and en--a turning point. "Last season we make excuses for Notre Dame's poor joyed by literally millions of .Ameri-· 'lost_ i4' ball games by three runs or record last season: "I'm tired of cans.. It.captivates both young and_. les~ ,_If_ we can put those games in hearing people say:that Notre Dame old, both male arid female. Many be-· the wi~ column this season, we could' will · never be good because' they gin . playing this sport. early anti" . really turn things ·around," says don't get enough money · or they continue -__ to participate in it as ..a. -· Kelly. -. . . . don't have enough.· good . weather. player or a fan for many years..This Assistant coach Ray Lentych feels Notre Dain~ has been· in· -the· NCAA sport is played at_Notre Dame, not that orie of_ the keys to turning tournament in the past and getting in front of 55,0oo· spectators,. but -.around last season's 12-25-1 record there agairi is not an -impossibility." rather in. front of ._about 55 spec:. is _to J>lay a m1:1ch more sound game "Turning the corner" is one of tators. -Uis played by about 40 dedi-. fundamentally: "We just kept find-the goals both Kelly and Leritych cated athletes. The players are not_. ing ways to lose the close games," . •would like to accomplish during the named Montana, Heavens; Tripucka, -says Lentych. ·"For example, in one 14~game fall schedule and -the 40-50 or Branning. Instead,. they are game tlte.tying run got on base be-game spring season. Hitting is one named Pullano, Caruso, Bobinski, cause .of interference being called of the keys to improving upon last and Ladd. This sport is called base-·. on one.of our guys. In another game, season's dismal showing. Last •sea.­ball -. -. •. the tying run got on ·because of a ·son the_ Irish batted only .232 as a . Baseball is n~t a common topic of walk. It was· little things like those-team while their opponents hit a
0 

conversation in the Notre Dame din-thafkept costing us ball games." . solid .271. Only shortstop Rick Pul­ing halls, particularly _during a week,' . Turning Notre Dame's baseball lar10 and catcher Jim Montagano following a football defeat. However,· ·fortunes around would seem to be a boasted averages over .300,<hitting according to-Irish. coach Tom Kelly, difficult task when orie considers the .356 and ~314, respectively. Second there is a high amount of_interest fact that 'baseball is limited to one · baseman ·Tom Caruso was next at on campus, at least as far as playing scholarship per year that is usually ·_ :237~· "If -we're ·going· to win· more, the game is concerned. ·"Obviously, divided among three or four players;, • we're going to ,have to hit more," 
. a lot of kids want to play baseball "Sure, it would be nice to be able says Kelly; Lentych agrees. /'I def­because we have between 100 and to · give more scholarships/' says . initely . think our hitting will' im­150 students try ·out every year," Kelly,-"but we just don't have them -prove this season·which will in turn says Kelly. · · to · give.•• · greatly improve our record;". ' 
_ Beginning his · fourth season at But Kelly, who piloted Penn St..; One of the main strengths of. this the helm of Notre Dame's baseban-· Altoona to a_ winning,percentage of 'year's Irish nine will _be the solid team, Kelly feels the program is at .805 over two seasons,-'is not one-to>infield play of Pullano,,Caruso, and 
26 . : SCHOLASTIC 
third baseman Mark Simendinger. field: Pullano begins his second year as Pitching is a main concern with captain and returns to his shortstop· every team and this year's Fighting position where he has started every -Irish· are no . exception. Kelly· must ­game since his freshman year when find replacements for Don Wolfe, Joe he hit .329. As a sophomore he post­Karpowicz, and Pete Zabroski, all ed a .340 batting average and im­lost to graduation. Senior Mike proved that last season to a team Bobinski, fifth-year student Mark leading .356. "Rick gets better every Ladd, and sophomores Mike Deasey year," says Kelly, "and we'll be and Bob Bartlett will be counted on counting on his· bat heavily this heavily for most of the hurling season." chores. "We lost some starters," says 
The Irish are.also solid behind the Ladd, "but I think with Deasey, plate with sophomore Jim Monta­Bartlett, and Bobinski returning we gano returning.to_ split the catching have the basis for a solid pitching chores with junior Dan Voellinger. staff._ We.will be doing some experi­Montagano hit j14 last year and tied menting in tlie bull peri, because we Simendinger for. team leadership-in don't -have much experience a.mong home runs with two._ '.'W.e're very_ our relievers. But we do have_ some pleased with otir catching," says good~looking freshmen -who should Kelly. _"In'fact, we· didn't even look se~'. some action.this year." for a ·, .-: . we were _ _ The action' is--_already.-beginning
catcher.-_. . when . re­cruiting." _,., for~Kelly's squad with a 14~game fall 
In the . outfield ·Kelly's Irish -are sc:h~d~le which Kelly . says "will·be short on experience .. -The only re­very· crucial -to us. It gives us a turning • starter is __ junior. Greg chance to see the newer players ·in Rodems _whCl ~it only ·.178 last sea-:­actual gimie•conditions." _ -.. -­son. The only other outfielder with . Although. ·win~ng . games is -al­any varsity experience is sophomore ways a'top priority, the coaches view Mike Jamieson.-Jamieson .played well the fall schedule as a" chance to look during last. year's spring trip but at their team rather tha11 an oppor~ broke his hand in tlie third game and tunity to' win ball games: "We have was sidelined for the remainder·. of to look at''the new guys during the the season: He .bounced back to hit fall schedule," -says Lentych; · "be­.420 in the Detroit Summer League cause we d~n•t _get outside in the and Kelly. hopes he will continue his spring until our trip south and by hot hitti!1g when th_~ Irish· take the then we have to be piaying to_ win." 

_Coach Kelly 
SEPTEMBER_22; 1978 
Winning games has been ihe major 
problem with the baseball program 
in the last few years but if Pullano ­
has anything to say about it, -things 
are going to change. "Right now, I 
am very optimistic," says Pullano. 
"Last season our hitting was ridic­
ulously poor but I think it will im­
prove. We're young but I think we 
have experience at some key posi­
tions and this will help us." 
Intangibles are something that can 
never be predicted or foreseen but 
Pullano thinks the intangibles will 
be the real key to Notre Dame's 
success. Pullano feels that the Irish 
must make up in hustle and desire 
what they lack in raw talent. 
"Let's be realistic," says Pullano. ­
"We are not an extremely talented 
team, we don't have a lot of power,· 
and we don't have great speed. So 
we have to build character. We have 
to play as a team, we have to hustle; 
we have to be dedicated to the game, 
and we have to develop a _winning 
attitude." 
Developing ·a winning attitude is 
the most important of ·all the in­
tangibles,-according to Pullano. "It's 
easy to become accustomed to losing 
and I think that's what we've done 
the past few years.· We haven't felt 
·like winners so we didn't play like 
winners. This year we have to de­
velop a winning attitude. We can't 
get down on ·ourselves and we can't 
give up." · 
After all is said and done winning 
is what counts in collegiate athletics 
and that is the goal of this year's 
Fighting Irish baseball team. "Ob­-viously, the goal of any team is to get an NCAA tournament bid," says Kelly, "but we would really have to put it au· together in order to do that." 
-A more realistic goal may be that 
of. Captain Pullano. He feels that playing .500 baseball would be an accomplishment. "Sure I'd like· to __ get an NCAA bid and if everything comes together. we might do it. But -more_ realistically, I would like to finish one of my four seasons at Notre Dame over .500. This may sound derogatory but we play a very tough schedule and .500 · would be a 
realistic goal to shoot· for." 
Bill Scholl, Scholastic's sandlot sage, is a senior American Studies ·major from South Bend. This is his 
first contribution. 

Okay, so Dean Roemer. came out with ·a· controversial and ·dictatorial "alcohol directive" the · week before the first football game. Student re­sponse was predictable: general out­rage, emergency meetings of the dif­ferent branches of student govern­ment, letters to the editor, a few suicides; earthquakes, and tidal waves. All of this·. was effective to 

.. an extent; the student ·body once again .has let the administration know that we definitely do not like being pushed around. ·By this point, however, .the furor is dying down. Everyone's learning to adapt (the· evil . weed. will • get .you.· there faster, 
and it's. not even fattening) and old Peggy Lee tunes are running through our heads, "Is that all there is? ..." 
Is that an there is·? Probably not. Anyone who's . read the directive carefully can tell you that in spite of all the brouhaha over the stadium prohibitions, the majority-of the di­rective deals with drinking on cam­
.PUS. And if Roemer intends to carry out the threats made in the directive, more adjustments will have to evolve. 
In the directive, Roemer ''insists" that Rectors, Assistant Rectors .and Resident Assistants enforce alcohol regulations in. and· around their re­spective dorms. What does this 
.mean? In the past, these administra­tors have taken a tolerant stance l!t best toward in-hall drinking and partying. Does Roemer mean for them to crack down upon section 
. by Theresa Rebeck 
parties and the like even more? Or 
is he . simply warning us that Big 
Brother is watching and ··we had 
better at least start toning · the 
drinking down? 
·It is still too early to know exactly 
how strictly the directive is going to 
be enforced.· If Roemer meant his 
statement to be nothing more than 
a ·warning against excessive alco­
holism, then his wording was bad 
but his purpose was admirable. Notre 
Dame does have the reputation of a 
"drinking" school, and by now every­
one is. pretty much aware that alco­
hol abuse is a problem here. It's time 
we learned how to keep the drinking 
relatively "responsible." 
Let's be. realistic, however. Dean 
Roemer was probably not just mak~ 
ing idle threats. In the past, he has 
always ruled with an iron fist If he 
says that he wants something, he 
means he'll get it. His new goal is a 
relatively alcohol.-free cam:rms, and 
the directiveis only a first step. 
I, for one, am getting tired of all . this. I am tired of the administra­
tive attitude which holds that the 
only way to deal with us is to beat 
us into· submission and then lock 
us in our,rooms. I am tired of being 
told that I am an adult and treated 
as a child. I am tired of having my 
morals and ideals dictated to me. 
Why couldn't Roemer simply have 
brought the problem to our atten­
tion through an open letter to the 
community? Why didn't he call to-

gether the hall presidents and other 
student body representatives to ask 
for their help in combating alcohol­
ism on campus? Each hall has a 
judicial board and student govern­
ment has a judicial branch; we have 
the judicial mechanism necessary to 
handle the problem if the problem 
were ours to handle. Unfortunately, 
the administration decided long ago 
that we are not responsible enough 
to take control of our lives during 
our stay at Notre Dame. 
The general attitude held by the 

administration seems to be that this collection of 18 to 22-year-old men and women, mostly from . upper­middle-class, strictly Catholic back­grounds is not mature enough to tell the difference between right and wrong, so they have to decide for us. This attitude is reflected in policies . such as strictly enforced· parietals, the sex code, _and now, the alcohol directive. This attitude is defended with the statement, "Notre Dame is 
a Catholic University, and its regu-· 
lations must reflect Catholic ideals." 
To those who use this defense, I 

would like to ask, who do you think 
you're kidding? There is more to 
Catholicism than virginity and so­
briety. If the administration is con­
cerned about Notre Dame's reputa­
tion as a Catholic institution, I sug­
gest they. work on instilling within 
us a sense of respect for ourselves 
and our fellow man, brotherly love, 
Christian selflessness, and faith in ourselves, each other, and God. These. values are strangely absent from the campus of "America's foremost Catholic University." Instead of these relatively basic Christian ideals I find ruthless ambition, narrow-minded.:. ness, hypocrisy, materialism, a lack of self-respect, and fear-fear of our­selves, each other, fear of failure, fear of the opposite sex. But we're· all virgins and sober, by God. 
Another common defense for the administration's rather dictatorial stance is, "You act like children, so we treat you like children." The answer to this kind of logic is simple: no, you treat. us like children, so we act like children. Any psychology major can tell you that when you treat an animal with kindness it re­sponds favorably. Why shouldn't that apply to human beings? Maybe if we were treated as responsible young adults, we'd act like respon­sible young adults. It's worth a try­treating us as children who need baby-sitters has only turned us into frustrated half-people. 
I suggest that the administration turn the responsibility for our lives over to us. If we can't do away with things like parietals and the sex code completely, .. (this is, after all, a Catholic institution....) we can at least loosen up the rules a little and · let the hall J-boards and student government decide upon the penal­ties for those who break them. · I suggest that the administration just try letting the students govern themselves a little bit. 
For the students, I have an even more · radical suggestion (don't laugh, this is really more sensible than it sounds): let's behave our­selves so well they won't know what hit them. Let's . never start food fights, let's never start riots on the quads, let's never throw up all over the halls. Let's all be little angels (relatively speaking, of course). We proved that we could do it at the Missouri game-most of the "irre­sponsible" drinking was contained within the alumni sections-and it wasn't all that difficult. I'm not say­ing don'.t drink or get high or party at all, just keep it reasonable. If you have to get totally ripped some night, don't do it in the room across the hall from the rector. And if your girlfriend or boyfriend ends up staying in your room until three or four in the morning (for whatever reason) take her/him/it out the back hall, and don't giggle all the way down the stairs. 
What I'm suggesting is radical, but we need something radical. Let's kill them with kindness. If we start act­ing as if we had minds, maybe they'll start treating us as if we had minds. It's time to break this vicious "We treat you like children because you act like children/But we .• act like children because you treat us like children/Yes, but you're acting like· ..." circle wide open. 
' When Pope. Paul VI. died this summer, a lot of the old Irish ladies who rode in my cab and whom I had gotten to know, kidded me, saying, _"I wonder if they'll elect that Father Hesburgh as the new pope." I just sort · of laughed it off, but as I returned this semesterand had a new edition of du. Lac pushed under my door, I started to think what might have happened if Father Hesburgh was elected pope and had the kind of control over the entire Catholic Church as he does over the University of Notre Dame du Lac. Here are a few of those reflections. 
-Father Hesburgh, in his papal address, stated that since the society of a religious community is voluntary, one does not have to be a Catholic, and since the Cath­olic community is to be a place where Christian ideals will be realized, the Church hierarchy must represent the paradox of faith and impose stringent demands on ·. one's behavior and social constructiveness. And, as Pope, · Father Hesburgh has set up the office of Papal Inquisi­tion, and has appointed Cardinal Wormer as its com:. mander. All Church rules and regulations come under the jurisdiction of. Cardinal Wormer. · 
-In Washington, .after hearing his close friend, Pope ·Ted· I, give his papal· address, President Jimmy community. The proper context for ·these visitation rights is that visiting hours for the opposite sex are not to begin ·before 11 a.m. on any day and not to extend beyond two a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights 
· and midnight on other nights. However, visitation may begin at 10 a.m. on bingo days or on any other days when the Church will make money. 
-The office of the Papal Inquisition presented these regulations to the Catholic Church: 1) Any directive of this office has the force of a Divine Commandment. 
2) All Catholics must carry an official I.D. and present it when requested by a Church official. 3) The Church has the right to transfer a Catholic's residence. 4) The throwing .of food is a serious offense to the Catholic Church. 5) A false alarm is a ·serious offense. to the Catholic Church. 6) This office can deal with;a serious offense to the Church ·oniy by excommunication and final damnation. 
-In response to . mass criticism · of Cardinal Wormer's sixth regulation, the Papal Inquisition today 
· , released a long list of disciplinary procedures. These regulations are·much too long and complicated toeven try to deal with here. However, Pope .Ted I cleared 
If Home -Were Honie. 
Carter, in an attempt to raise· sagging trust in his administration, has .set '. up . the .American Inquisition· with a Major Hochsteder at the helm. '_The major will have complete control over·the laws and regulations of the country in accordance with the President: Carter justified this move by stating that the United States is avoluntary society arid no one is forced to live here if they do not wish to comply with the rules. · · · 
· -Pope Ted announced today that since God is the Father of us all, and that the Pope is the rock of God's Church, he is implementing the policy of in loco parentis. This new policy justifies any of his decisions · or those of Cardinal Wormer, as the Pope is the guard­ian of the Catholic Community. However, Pope Ted I also exonerated himself from any responsibility (liability) that this new policy places on him. 
-Pope Ted I announced today that interaction be­tween men and women contributes to their education and helps form genuine friendships. Therefore, he is allowing Catholic men and women (no age was specified) limited visitation rights. In the proper context, visitation can facilitate personal and social development and enhance the quality of life in our 
30 

by John Maddog·Muldoon 

matters up quite quickly for confused members of the ·Church by explaining that. the Pope has final say on 
an· disciplinary· problems, that his decisions are· final and the Cardinal Wormer is "his man." . · · -In another directive from the Papal Inquisition, 
. Cardinal. Wormer explained that there was a serious 
. · alcohol _abuse problem in the Catholic Church.· There­fore,' he has banned Catholics from possessing· kegs of beer for private or party use and especiall:r at social events where the name of the· Catholic Ctjurch could be besmirched. Cases of beer in quarts, . however, 'are acceptable if used privately and discreetly. Hard liquor was not discussed, but the Cardinal did urge priests to limit wine consumption to 6 oz. per day. -When asked why he had not been to the Vatican for the past three months, Pope Ted I explained that he "had more important world problems to solve than to worry about his Catholic sheep." -LONG LIVE POPE JOHN PAUL I. 
John Mad.dog Muldoon is a part-time cabbie in' the jungles of Chicago. He resides in Grace Hall. 


Unbelievable Savings 
CALCULATORS&STEREOS ,.· Calculators 
Texos Instruments 

WAS  SALE  
Tl-59 Tl-58 Tl-57  ••••••••••• $300 ••••••••••• $125 ··········· S 60  $219.95 $ 92.95 S 45.95  

PC-100A ••••••• $200. S149.95 MBA-Fl NANCE S 70 S 52.95 Tl-55 ...., ...... S 50 S 38.95 SR-40 S 19.95
·········· S 25 

BA-BUSINESS S 30 $ 23.95 Tl-5040 ••••• •••• $110 
$ 78.95 11-25 $ 23.95
••••••••••• $ 33 

Tl~1750 ••••••••• $ 25 $ 17.95 PROGRAMMER $ 60 $ 44.95 SPEAK & SPELL $ 55 $ 44.95 MOOULE LIB. FOR 58, 59 $ 29.95 
HEWLE:TT,PACKA!fD. 
WAS  SALE  
HP-10  •••••••••• $175  $144.95  
HP-19C  •••• , ••• $275  $222.95  
HP-21  ........;. S 80  $ 49.95  
HP-25C  •••••••• $160  $130.95  
HP-29C  ....... $175  $144.95  
HP-31E  •••••••• $ 60  $ 49.95  
HP-32E  •••••••• $ 80  S 69.95  
HP-33E  •••••• :. $100  $ 81.95  
HP-37E  •••••••• $ 75  $ 65-!15  
HP-38E  •••••.•• $120  S 97.95  
HP-67  •••·•··•·• $450  $359.95  
HP-92  ••••••••••. $495  $395.95  
HP-97  •••••••••• $750  $599.95  

There's something you have that we want. 



Your Opinion. 
If you tell us-:-we'II tell the world. 
Write: Letters to the Editor Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student· Center Notre _Dame, In. 46556 
1. 
Above prices include AIC Adaptor-Charger & carrying case. $12.95 extra for 110I220V Adaptor. . · · 

2. 
All above calculators have full one year factory warranty. 

3. 
Enclose payment in full with order, or remit $20 with order, balance 


~~ . . 
4. 
Shipping charges: Add $3.00 for calculators. and 4% of price for 1'8C8ivers and 5% for speakers. 

5. 
FAST DEUVERY GUARANTEED only with M.O. orcertified checks. Per­sonal checks will delay the order until it clears banks. · 


Receivers Speakers 
LIST OURS LIST OURS PIONEER SX-580 • : ••••••• $225 $166 JBL L-19 ••••••••••••• $175 $121 ea. PIONEER SX-680 ••••••••• $275 $195 . JBL L-36 (3-way) • • • • • $240 $169 ea. PIONEER SX-780 ••••••••• $350 $248 JBL L-40 • , • • • • • • • • • • • $250 $173 ea. PIONEER SX-880 ......... $450 $313 JBL L-50 • • • • • • • • • • • • • $325 $225 ea. PIONEER SX-980 ..•.•.... $600 $418 JBL L-100 • , •••••••••• $400 $239 ea. JVC JR-S61W , .........._.; $200 $155 JBLL-110 : ••••••••••• $410 $283ea. JVC JR-S81W ••• : •••••••• $300 $232 ADVENT LARGE ••• ; •• $140 $116 ea. JVC JR-5201 ••••••••••••• $360 $270 EPI 100V •• : •••••••••• $109 $ 79 ea. JVC JR-5301 ••••••••••••• $480 $360 ESS LS-8 •••••••••••• $179 $143 ea. 
PHONE ORDERS ACCEPTED 


. SEND 
ONLY WITH CREDIT CARDS 

FOR FREE
814-237-5990 
(Add 3% for Credit Card Orders) 

CATALOGUE 

STEREO WAREHOUSE 
110 NEW ALLEY, STATE COLLEGE, PA. 16801 









