
®Service® Community® Culture 0 Open Mindedness• Prejudice Reducti -inating

0
Stereotype 
~ Service 0 Prejudic • ~ unity 0 

S e r v ic e •i,,,.,,,, ® C u I t. u re • 
Open Mino ~___,,,,,_ Prejudice Reduction • •Eli~inating· Stereotypes® Awareness• Service 

That's what we're all about. Interested? ­
Multicultural Executive Co-uncll is now accepting applications for the 1994-95 school year 
Applications can be picked up i~ the Student Activities Office. Deadline: February 18 ~ 
CONTENTS 

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 


3 Notre Dame Saturday until the Year 2000 6 Take the Money and Run 

8 The Great Decline 10 Students who Teach Students 

12 Building a Winning Tradition 
14 Proud To Be Notre Dame 

19 Out of Bounds 20 King Country 22 Sophomore Literary 
Festival 23 ISIS? 
Editor's Notes Campus Watch On Other Campuses Week in Distortion . SPY Dispatch 
-cover by Charlie Kranz 


FROM THE EDITOR 

NBC Sports has becoine an integral part ofthe Notre Dame lifestyle, whether the students realize it or not. Even Dick Ebersol, president of NBC Sports, recognizes it, telling Scolastic reporters that NBC is proud to be a part of "Notre Dame's extended family." Students, who are given the opportunity to attend all Notre Dame home games, often fail to realize the connection between the university and NBC since they do not need to be in front ofa television set to cheer on their team. But itis an important partnership for all ofthe members of the ''Notre Dame family" that are not guaranteed football tickets. Many fans faithfully root for the Fighting Irish every week during football season; NBC Sports helps to make it happen. 
Recently, the university renewed its contract with NBC, an agreement that will provide millions ofviewers with the opportunity to watch Irish football until the year 2000. Assistant news editor, T. Ryan Kennedy, examines the terms of this agreement and how it differs from the previous contract Turn to page 3 and read aboutNotreDame's special relationship with NBC Sports, how others perceive this partnership and what to expect for the future of collegiate athletics in relation to television broadcasts. 
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE .•. 
News editor Mark Mitchell enlightens us on the university's $950 million endowment, and managing editor Kate Wiltrout studies the rising problem of the decreasing number of clergy members. In Sports, writer Jake Schaller takes a look at the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ski team, while writer Kathleen Lynch takes a look at country music, one of the nation's newest fads. 
Also look for our regular features: Campus Watch, Out of Bounds, On Other Campuses and Week in Distortion. Have a great week, and enjoy the issue. 
-Margaret Kenny 

sdu,/Jutu: lapubllsludvmTcJy lhrougllout t1u ,dwo/11""aupt tbmlcg aaMi1U1tioll IUUI voclltlm< ptritHu at tht lbclwrrity of Notn D~,Notn DlltU, IN, 46556 IUUI prbit.d at Tiu Paper,, hie.MUfo,rl, IN4$42, Tiu a,b,criptlox rat. u$2SJJ-Olytar a,ul bad: iuw•""@'1llabu at $1.25 /copy. 'I1u op/JlloH "'7"tutd /JI Sclrowtu: ,.,. IJuiu of t1u ""thon ,uul tditon IUUl do 111Dt iuctUIU'ily ,..,,,....,.tt1u opuclotu oftlu111tirttdltoria/boanlof ScJu,/Jutu: or oft1u lbcitJtmty ofNotn D-,, iu IIIUfl/Jllstra­timt, ftU:Jl/ty or •bultlcu. E:4Uoriau .tg,udScholatk rqmu,ct fM opi,tio,c of t1u M11.jority of tlu ,ua,tiw tdltorial bOIITd, M~11ttwtlto,,u, A.UuHOlldlitdfflakrlau btCOfflt t1u 
proptrfy ofScholsutk. 
Copyright1993 Scho/Jutu: MagtuilU. AUrlglw rturvtd. Rq,ro­dalaio,c bc whouor/JcpartwltllOutwrittt,op.,,,,1mo,, u1""hll,0 
iutl. 
uttento Scho/Jutu: mu.tbt typtd,uul/Jccbult t1u wrlln's """"' a44ttu ""4 p1roiu ,.,.,,.1,.,, lbcir11rslty 1tudttcu •lwu/Jl bcclude thtiryt11r be ldrool axdco/hgt. F,ia,lty ,,,nn1,,,..•lwul4 bcclwlt 
thtu IUJIAffllllnf, AU utttn fflUlt bt ligxtd. NIUftL• wiU bt withfu/Jl "JIOII rtlfUllf itc ctrlaitc iMtaxct•. 
, Schowtu: ,,..,,,.. tht right to rtjtct lttttn that,.,. llbtlar# or ob11:t1U byt1u law• oft1u lbcittdStatt•. Scholatu:auowUItdit for c:opyfittu<g, gnu,<11U1tical or .,,.1/h<g mon ""4 Scho/sutu: 
•tylt. Btt!IIJIUofsp11t:t,Schowtu:C1U1111Dfpriltt11U uttenrtctiotd, 
A.ddrtu aU COfftlJIDfftUtcct to : TluE4itor 
Sdu,l,ati,: u,f'orfutct Cttcttr NotrtD""",IN4£,656 
SCHOLASTIC 



NEWS 
NotreDame Sa---~~-ay until 




theYear2 

Signing for anotherfive years, Notre Dame remains the.only university to broadcast solely with one network 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 

Of all the Division I-A football institutions in the NCAA, Notre Dame is the only-truly 'national' team, and the only school which can be telecast on a national basis, week in and week out," stated Dick Ebersol, president of NBC Sports. NBC televises only '§ Notre Dame home football games. Add the university's recently ~ renewed contract with the National Broadcasting Company to the ~ mammoth list of qualities that distinguishes Notre Dame from the :.: other schools. '.'Having college football's premiere tradition on Head c9ach Lou Holtz answers NBC commentator John NBC gives us aunique position in the fall marlcetplace. I don't Dougherty's questions at halftime of the Michigan State game. believe.that any other university, acting individually, would be able Holtz said of working with NBC, "lt,~oesn't affect my coach-to construct its own television package." Ing, but I do a lot more Interviews. 
When the College Football Association was with CBS, ABC regional following. Toe Penn State game was blacked out in televised the Pac-10 and the Big Ten conferences: However, in Chicagoandoutwestin thelastyearoftheCFAcontract. Asaresult, 1990 the CFAsold its television rights to ABC. "I was on the board recruitment became a difficulty, and alumni across the nation were ofthe CFA at the time," recalled Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal. upset. I dido't think it was a good idea to re-sign." "Notre Danie had problems with a program to put all of college Rosenthal was in New York for a Notre Dame basketball game, football onto one net\Vork due to blackouts of some games and a where he paid courtesy calls to CBS and NBC .to discuss the 


possibility of Irish basketball on television. alternative by having all our home games on To executives from both networks, he men­television." tioned that Notre Dame had not come to an Although the university's image has natu­agreement with the CFA. "At the time the rally improved as a result of the contract, the deal was made (1991)," no_ted Ebersol, media and outsiders have often labeled "NBC had openings in its Saturday after­Notre Dame as greedy. "The feeling existed noon programming schedule because it had that this was a monetarily driven deal," said 
lost major league baseball to CBS." NBC executives said they might be interested in broadcast­ing Notre Dame home football games. 
But Notre Dame's unique re­lationship with television net­works began long before it signed with NBC in 1991. "People forget that Notre Dame was the first ever school to have football games on all the time on the Dupont television network in the 1950s," noted Father Will­iam Beauchamp, C.S.C., execu­tive vice-president. ''Even back then everyone was looking out for Notre Dame." 
A few weeks after NBC ex pressed interest in broad­casting the games, Ebersol vis­
ited Notre Dame, where both parties quickly reached an agreement for football on televi­sion. "This contract became attractive for several reasons," noted Father Beauchamp. "First, it meant we would have a national audience, coast to coast. The alumni could see all the home games." Furthermore, Notre Dame essentially controlled the times of the games, all of which would be played in the afternoon. There are no night games in the contract "Night games are too disrup­tive to the campus. It's partially a matter of alcohol because you have people who have to drive back to places like Chicago late at night. Besides it's simply too cold," stated Father Beauchamp. "I believe college foot­ball should be played in the afternoon. That's where the tradition lies, and I think the players like it. We appreciated NBC's understanding of afternoon games." 
Other benefits, according to Rosenthal, include the enhancement ofthe university's public image. "This definitely gave us a major recruiting advantage. Also, all our home games have sold out since 1965. We perceived that we might deal with our ticket problem or at least offer a very attractive home of Notre Dame football," stated Ebersol. Beauchamp remarked, "Besides profiting from the prestige of telecasting Notre Dame football games, NBC has a good lead in for other events." 
As Notre Dame does, NBC retains a "fierce independence." NBC has·been very 

complimentary of the coopera­tion it has received from the uni­versity, and the network has ac­commodated Notre Dame's needs as well. Notre Dame wanted all home football games to start at 1 :30 in the afternoon, and they got it. Notre Dame did not want beer commercials on during games, and NBC agreed with the idea. However, NBC makes its own production and talent decisions. It also has the final voice in who announces the games. ''The Florida State game last year generated so Brent Tadsen much interest that NBC asked us During a stop In the action at the UCLA game, an NBC at the last minute if Bob Costas broadcaster reviews a replay for the viewers at home, could do a six-minute presenta­while the cheerleaders Ignite the crowd at the A.C.C. tion. The game started six min­


NBC Broadcast Ratings for Irish Football, 1993 
N.D. vs. Florida State -15.,()72,000 
N.D. vs. Boston College -7,253,400 Avg. for all other games -6,311,400 
number of households watching the game (in millions) 
Dennis Moore, director of public relations. But, according to Father Beauchamp, "Money was the least motivation. Sports Illustrated takes a special delight in deni­grating us. They accused us of having our own television network, which is asinine. It's just good sports business." 
t a time of many turbulent business 
A. deals, the Notre Dame-NBC pact has worked out well for both sides. "The rela­
. tionship between Notre Dame and NBC is a true partnership, and NBC and its affiliates have benefitted tremendously by being the utes later than it' was supposed 
to, but that was okay with us," Rosenthal remarked. "That really exempli­fies the great relationship and cooperation going on here." 

"Notre Dame is very unique and NBC knows that," said Beauchamp. "No other school could do this. Ev~ryoneknows about Nebraska football, but you put it on in New York City, and who's going to watch it? Other networks may take on conferences, but I don't think another single school could do it" 
In fact, the S.E.C. is currently seeking a football contract with CBS after 1995 when the CFA's $175 million contract with ABC expires. Both CBS and ABC declined to comment on the issue because they are both presently trying to negotiate their own col­lege football deals. "As we speak, it is likely that one, and perhaps a second conference, will opt to spin out of the ABC/CFA ar~ rangement for another network when the CFA contract expires after 1995," stated Ebersol. ''Televised college football ap­pears to be moving closer to the same situa­tion which college basketball has operated under the past 12 years: that is individual conference affiliations with various net­

works." 
"I don't believe there's any school that 

has a chance along this line," explained Lou 
Holtz head football coach. "There is a 
unique national appeal for Notre Dame 
games. Some people tune in to see good 
things. Some people tune in hoping to see a 
lotofbad things happen to us. ButI'venever 
met people who don't respect Notre Dame." 
Holtz and his team try to treat the games on 
NBC like any other. "It doesn't affect my 
coaching except that it makes it a bit more 
difficult Everything you do is under scru­
tiny." 
Although the original contract was to expire after the 1995 season, a clause inthecontractcalledfor"goodfaithnegotia­tions" prior to the expiration of the first contract in order to avoid a void. "Normally the negotiation of a potential new contract would not have begun until late summer to fall of 1994," said Father Beauchamp. "Notre Dame and NBC just got together sooner. It really worked out well, and was just a matter of convenience for us both. It was a very natural thing to· do." "Whenever you have the chance to extend · an agreement that is as successful in every way as the Notre Dame contract is, you obviously do it," said Ebersol. "Also, the uncertainty of what the rest ofcollege foot­ball will do as the CFNABC deal expires, prompted both parties to lock into an exten­sion which insures stability for both through the year 2000." Although the exact figures ofthe renewed contract are undisclosed, itis estimated to be a bit more than the original $36-$40 million 
~ ~ ~ 

m ........~=--­
An NBC cameraman sets up a shot of the players warming up prior to the start of the USC game as the fans begin to fill up the stadium. The eight cameras In the stadium are controlled from the press box, while the ninth Is situated outside the fourteenth floor of the library. 
reaped from the first contract. Sources esti­mate the new sum to be around $50-$60 million. In addition, Notre Dame receives $600,000 per home game as does its oppo­nent. 
As a result of the original contract, 30 undergraduates are presently receiving scholarships averaging $5,000, and the number will eventually grow to 120. The university plans to double the figure ofan­nual scholarship aid by the year iooo. Rev­enues from the NBC contract will be one of the primary resources. "One of the greatest benefits ofthe contract was the money avail­able for academic scholarships," said Father Beauchamp. "Prospective students should 
Fans and an­nouncers alike watch the Irish rout of the UCLA 
Bruins from court­side. NBC has contracted to broadcast four basketball games In the coming years In addition to all home football games. 

not have to turn down Notre Dame because we cannot meet their financial needs." 
Shortly after the renewal of the pac~ Rosenthal asked NBC about the possi­bility ofIrish basketball on television. NBC accepted the proposal and they worked out a four game arrangement for each year. This should be a boost to a basketball program that has been struggling to make itback toits 1978 Final Four form and has had little national coverage in recent years. "We play on NBC four times, ESPN and Sportschannel as well, so we're on almost always on television somewhere," stated head basketball coach, John McCleod. "It's important because it's away for us to show youngsters across the nation how competi­tive we are." The recent upset ofUCLA, 79-63, a team that averaged 90 points per game, was the first Notre Dame basketball game televised on NBC this year. But McCleod cited the Duke game as a disappointment for them because it. was not nationally televised. "Had it been on TV, youngsters at home would have had a different view. They mightgetjacked up a bit. But this deal with NBC will certainly be a help to us in recruit­ing." "We're on TV because of the interest of Notre Dame," commented Holtz. ''That it itself is a great motivation._" D 


NEWS 
Take.the Money 
Notre Dame is hitting the big bucks as the endowment approaches $1 billion 

by Mark J. Mitchell IV 
. e could break $1 bil­
W
lion any day now," announced an excited Scott Malpass, university invest­mentofficer. "Allitwilltake is a spike in the market and we'll clear that last $50 mil­lion." . 
.P
,,
,. 
I'I 



·:;)::( 
,;, 
~I•. • 
.If the billion dollar milestone looms just $50 million away, it does not take a calculator to figure out that the University of Notre Dame has $950 million in the bank. Well, it is nc;>t exactly in the bank: "The endowment is spread out over 58 portfolios with over 30differentfirms across the country and around theworld, and it's been earning money for the university at an incredible rate," said Malpass. 
In fact, Notre Dame's endowment, the sixteenth largest in the country and the third fastest growing, has jumped from $306.5 million in 1985, and has increased by $121 million in the Iastsix months alone. "Ourgoal has always been to build the university's resources, but nobody ever expected this kind ofsuccess in such a short period of time," said Malpass. 
However, investment and spending are curious things. Even though the university has $950 million put away, it still owes creditors over $20 million in debts. ''That is really a modest.figure comparatively; for instance, Harvard has over $1 billion in debts and Stanford is $500 million in debt," explained Malpass. · 
Notre Dame's small debts are the result of its conservative spending policy for which the uni­versity is often criticized. Many believe that if the university has close to $1 billion in financial resources, then there shouid be markedly higher spending on faculty salaries, financial aid and other programs. 
"Over the past 20 years, the university has spent on average five percent of the investment retumseachyear. Butnobodypredictedthekind of success we have had in recent years; The 
6 

and RU.n 
investments have been•generating such great returns that spending 
has not quite kept pace with earnings," according to Malpass who 
notes thatthe yearly spendingofthe universityhas fallen toapproxi­
·mately four percent of the investment returns. In short, the money has been coming in faster than the university can spend it. "Currently there is a major effort un­derway among the officers of the university to address a revised spending policy, aild theboard of trustees has called for . an increase in spendingandpayouttouni­versity programs," said Malpass. The net result of the endowment's growth and the revised spending policy will be million dollar increases for university programs.. "Notre Dame is very carefulwith its money. For instance, when I look for new firms to invest our re­. sources, I look for ethically viable finns. We only work with frrms which under­stand what Notre Dame is aboutand who share similar professional and · ethical values. Wehaverejectedmanyverysuccessful finns because of some of their non-ethical practices," said Malpass, who scours the coun­try every year, racking up 50 to 70 thousand . miles annually. "I like to say that when I travel . I take the endowment with me." . 
"1992 Nacubo Endowment Study. Figures represent market value of endowment assets as of June 30, 1992. 
·, 
NEWS COMMENTARY 
GOSSIP, ALLEGATIONS &INNUENDO 
Dorgive yourtincle Gipp this week, loyal he pulls out all the popular books and .I-, readers, if his writing seems dreamy. conveniently reshelves them next to Valentine's Day is that time ofyear when the books discovered in some dead French Gipp gets that funny, ulcerous feeling when priest's steamer trunk. he sees loving couples on the quad. Until the If the Gipp still has that urge for destruc­antacid takes effect, the Gipper's typing is tion, he ventures over to the South Dining always a little shaky. Hall, avoiding the queue for Philly steak and 
gets about a dozen pudding and fruit cups. LESSONS FROM THE HAMMES Dumping the contents on his tray, the Gipp The Gipp · was wandering around proceeds to hold each upside down, then 
LaFortune Student Center trying to decide with the quick tap of a knife on the base of what he would buy his pseudo-girlfriend for each one, splits it in two. Valentine's Day. The Gipp looked up and Ofcourse, the Gipp has his handy tube of saw the perfect gift: tasty Notre Dame Krazy Glue to form all the halves into a candies, available at single tower on the the LaFortune Info tray so it is impos­
.Desk. Mmm! They sible to fit through even had clever thedoorattheendof names like Darners the conveyor. ("Hey! They look At first the Gipp justliketheDome!"), was nervous about 
Rocknes ("Well, -sharing this tip, but 
they'rekindofrocky, he figures'as soon as but they don't really those yucky glass remind me of a bald bowls are used up, Norwegian or _any-some indestructible thing.") andLaSalles and certainly leak­("Huh?"). The Gipp proof plastic pud-rushed over to buy all ding bowls will be on three -until he the way. found out the price. For you folks at At $4.95 for four ....____-------------' NDH, leave your pieces and $9.95 for an eight-piece box, the trays halfway out when you place them on Gipp would sooner .take up smoking if he that rotating rack. When cursing dining hall wanted to waste money this quickly. workers come out to clear the jam, you'll 
know in your heart that you've protested BETTER THAN CANDY Valentine's Day. 
In honor of Valentine's Day, the Gipp (Friday afternoon, Scholastic office:) ventures to the library's rare book room to "Hello, Scholastic Magazine." firid some works by his favorite author, "My name is Yarbrough. I will speak to Edward Gorey, whose main themes involve the Gipper NOW." happy people suffering and mangled chil­"This is the Gipp [not his real name]." dren. This always puts a smile 09.the Gipp' s "Look, Mr. Funny Jokes Man, I'm sitting face on Feb. 14. · here with 400 halves ofpudding cups, and I 
If the Gipp is still feeling mean-spirited, will make you bleed! <Click>" 
FEBRUARY 10, 1994 
SIGNS YOUR LOVE HAS SOURED 
10. She asks your roommate to her SYR. 

9. He buys you Rocknes for Valentine's Day. 
8. She calls DART more often than she calls you. 
7. He starts hanging around St Joseph's High School dances. 
6. She begins to make frequent trips to the bathroom in the Nieuwland annex (the one that locks from the inside). 
5. He doesn't hold hands like he used to. 
4. She stops answering your e-mail. 3; He starts classes at Moreau. 

2. She shuts down intimate moments with phrases like "Does this look infected?" 
1. Heturnsupthevolumeon the NBA Jam game when you are together. 
INTERNET APOLOGIES 

The Gipp would like to apologize to any­one who was unable to contact him over the Internet. This initiate Gipper has hada lot of trouble convincing the staff at the Office of University Computing that he is the new Gipper. 
"Look: the old Gipper has graduated. All I need is for you to redirect the mail that comes to that address." 
"Uh ... So do you have this Mr. Gipper's password?" 
"No, the Gipper is just a pseudonym." [Argument over whether e-mail existed when George Gipp was alive.] 
"Are you sure you don't have any ID proving that you are this Mr. Gipper?" [Gipp garotes OUC worker with mouse cable.] 
Well, Junior Campus Watchers, that's all for this week. Next week the Gipp explores vending machine food. While you wait, be _ nice, don't slip on the ice, feed your mice rice, then tip the Gipp twice. 0 
7 


CAMPUS 



THE GREAT DECLINE 
As membership in religious vocations declines in the U.S., Catholics search for the root of the problem 
by Kate Wiltrout 

In between the two sets of heavy wooden doors at the side entrance to the Basilica of the Sacred Heart is a rack of pamphlets. One describes the history· of the Basilica, another is about dining on the Notre Dame campus. Three stacks of pamphlets in the center look untouched. They are brochures for joining the Congregation of the Holy Cross as a priest, a brother or a sister. On the campus of this university, seeing priests and nuns on the quad, in the class­room and at Mass is common. Yet for many Catholics across the country, direct contact with the clergy is increasingly rare. It is generally accepted that membership in religious vocations is declining .in the United States. What is not as widely ac­cepted are the reasons behind this phenom­enon, and even more so, what is to be done about it. As the church approaches the end ofthe 20th century, it faces a complex set of interconnected problems -a crisis of cred­ibility in leadership, questions about .the place of women in the church and a shrink­ing number of priests to administer the sac­raments to the people. 
ran a sen 

An empty altar, a sign of the decreasing number of Catholic priests. 
The causes for the shortage of priests, nuns and brothers vary. Father Robert Moss, C.S.C., is thedirectorofOld College,. a program for undergraduates who are con­sidering entering thepriesthood. In his opin­ion, the increasing scarcity of priests is a symptom of the common problems of the Western World, such as the secularism of our culture and the financial structures in Western society. ''We have become old, tired and spiritually bankrupt," he said. 
He added, however, that !'wonderful people are coming and don't seem touched by the problem." Although he admitted that there is a general decline in religious voca­tions, he said he is still optimistic. For one thing, there are 11 undergraduates living at . Old College this year; in some years there have been as few as four or five. He ac­knowledged, ''This particular province of Holy Cross priests has been blessed." 
In the Congregation of the Holy Cross, as with many orders, third world countries are becoming a large source of vocations. Moss noted that 50 percent of new Holy Cross recruits come from Haiti. Similar statistics exist for women's orders. It may be that in the future, Western countries will import priests to serve their needs, instead of the opposite. Moss, although.concerned, is not terribly troubled by the present decline. "The church won't fold up, and the priest­hood won't disappear," said Moss. He sees the shortage as cyclical in nature. 
Others are not so sure. Father Richard McBrien, a chair ofthe theology department at Notre Dame, said that there has been a cultural shift, but not away from religious values. "There are a lot of spiritual people," he said. ''The problem is the present regula­tions of the church." McBrien noted the work of two prominent social scientists, Richard A. Schoenherr and Dean Hoge, who -have studied the crisis of leadership in the Catholic Church. Tlieir work shows that if the law of obligatory celibacy wereabol­ished and women were admitted. to the priesthood, the shortage would end. · 
It is McBrien' s view that the scarcity of young men is one of the biggest problems facing the church. An even bigger problem, and related, is the church's alienation of women. Priests have "to have the capacity to see God in other people, to reach out They must be outgoing, comfortable with people and··women, as human as anybody else. Priests must learn as well as teach, which requires humility." Today's recruits, he 
thinks, are less intellectually oriented, and 
focus more on their ownrelationship to God. 
McBrien does not accept that the shortage 

of priests is something that will correct itself 
with time. "The shortage will end if the 
Catholic Church will change the rules for 
eligibility," he e!flphasized. 
Women's orders are in more dire straits than men's. In the last four years alone, there has been a 23 percent drop in the total numbers ofnuns, according to the Center for Applied Research in the Apostulate. In 1965, there were 168,000 nuns. In 1994, there are less than 100,000, according to Sister Marilyn Cugish, C.S.C. She also pointed out that the Congregation of the Sisters ofthe Holy Cross in the United States has had no one enter for three years. There are currently 770 in the order, less than half . the number there were at the order's peak in 
the middle 1960's. . · 
Sister Frances O'Connor, C.S.C., said 

ihat the Church's treatment of women is a 
big factor in the decline of religious voca­
tions among women. Many women today 
"see the Church as irrelevant," she said. 
"Until the church sees them as equal, women 
don't want to take second-class citizenship." 
Referring to what she ciµled "the graying 


of religious life," she explained that the image of the religious lifestyle has changed over the years. "Itdoesn't appear as attrac­tive anymore." She pointed out that women today are finding many ways to serve the 
Regardless of the present.problems, she "would never want to turn the clock back to the way it was. I believe in the value of religious life, but religious life needs a new face to face the 21st century. It is our 
church that-----------------responsibility to weren't available do that so people to laywomen years 
"I don't think we have will see it and_be 
ago. The church · attracted to 1t." 
itself, since a lot of time -if [the Butchangesmust Vatican II, has fo­· • • be made soon. "I cused on the im­orders] don't rev1tahze don't think we portance of the la­have a lot of time
f 

ity. The emphasis and put on a new ace -if[the orders] on the laity goes 
before the end of the don't revitalize,
against the idea of and put on a new vocations. 
century they're dead." face before the 
. In attempting to ' endofthecentury, combat the short­-Sister Frances they're dead," age, O'Connor said O'Connor. noted that some O'Connor, C.S.C. She believes communities are that the church turning to part------------------should allow mar­
time, associate members. They are also counting ori lay and religious women work­ing together. Although some believe that thisshortagewillpass,O'Connorthinksthat theyarenotlookingatreality. The situation will not improve unless "religious commu­nities today make an outstanding effort to relate to the age which we are in." She is realistic that "only a few of the present communities will be able to do that It's up to the members themselves. It has to come from the inside. Those with the will, will do it"Butshedoesnotexpectamiracle. "Ifwe die out, we die out," she said. 
0'Connor is trying to change the church. A guest scholar at the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, she is traveling across the country and the world, raising the aware­ness of women. Sisters are lucky, she said "We can speak out Wedon'thaveanything to lose. The Vatican can't take away our clerical privileges because we don't have clerical privileges." 
Althoughsomemayviewthepresentstate ofwomen's ·communities with ·sadness, Sis­ter Frances O'Connor sees a positive side to it Because of the decline of both male and female cleragy, the laity has to pick up the slack. "That's the way it should be," she said, referring to the partnership with the laity. "We have something to give one another, something to learn from one an­other." 
riedpriestsandtheordinationofwomen,but not just as a response to the current shortage. "It's a matter ofjustice," she said. 
Others with knowledge of the problem agree that the present deficiency of priests and nuns has both positive and negative aspects to it. Father Pat Hannon C.S.C., the assistant vocation director for Holy Cross, looks at the "crisis" in an interesting way. He pointed out that the root word for crisis means "crossroads," which is not necessar­ily negative. "This a decision-making time," he said. "How are we going to truly respond to the pastoral needs of the faith­ful?" 
He explained that there has been an up­surge in permanent deacons, those who are married and still act as pastors. In addition, there is greater use ofparish administrators, often nuns, who help run churches. Lastly, there is some transfer of Episcopalian priests, who are married, to the Roman Catholic Church. As for the ordination of women, he .said, "Realism tells me that it's probably fartheroff than most people would probably like," partly because there is sparse evidence of women in scripture and church tradition and history. 
"This issue, one way or another, will be resolved. The people ofGod have the right to Eucharist, and the church has an obliga­
Continue~ o.n page 11 

FEBRUARY 10, 1994 


r--­
i 
\ 
i 
CAMPUS LIFE 


THE STUDENTS 
WHO TEACH 


THE STUDENTS 
Education majors get some real life experience through teaching elementary school in South Bend 
by Mary Kate Morton 
T hey teach everything from the abc's to biochemistry. They give their stu­dents confidence andsecurity,and they have the ability to shape the minds of the future generations. These are our teachers. Many SaintMary's and Notre Dame students look at these teachers and see a career that they would like to pursue. Saint Mary's senior Erin Cannon ex­plained that she had a positive experience as a child with her teachers. "They had such an influence on my life. I want to do the same for other children." Another Saint Mary's senior, Janelle that nothing can really prepare a person to teach. You can't be taught to be in a class­room," said St. Mary's senior Tracy Santulli, who taught. a third grade class. 

After two weeks of observing, each stu­dent teacher takes over classes from a full time teacher, so the student is responsible for teaching each lesson to all of that teacher's classes. These lessons range from math and computers to reading and spelling. In addi­tion, the student teachers accept the other responsibilities of the teacher, which in­clude meetings, recess duty, even Open HouseNight for the parents. 
"Open House made me understand how important we are," said Cannon. "The par­ents tell you how much they have heard about you, and you realize that [student teaching] isn'tjustpractice. You are dealing with the kids' futures. It's not an experi­ment," she said. 
Notre Dame sophomore Irene Villa, who taught at Clay High School, said that the experience forces the student teachers to learn to beadults. "Whether the kids learned was up to me. I felt like I had their lives in my hands," she said. 
Cannon agreed, "Sometimes, it's scary to realize that I'm helping shape their minds. For this semester, we are the center of their lives, and they lookup t6 us for everything. We are supposed to have all the answers." 

Weiner, chose education because of 
teachers have learned that teaching a different kind of positive experi­isn't just 2+2 and _the abc's, espe­ence, the Special Olympics. "I cially education in the 90's. In worked with one boy for the Olym­today's trouble-filled world, the pics, anditwassorewarding. !knew teacher must, cope with more than that I wanted to work with children," academics in order to get through to she said. the children academically. "These 
Through their experiences, the student 

The education department atSaint kids aren't the same kids we were Mary'sallows students such as these when we were their age," said Can­to begin their work as teachers non, · a stude'nt teacher of second through a series of classes that cul­graders at Warren Elementary minate with a semester of student School. ''They have to grow up too teaching. The majority of the par­quickly. I mean, some of these kids ticipants in this program are senior come into school with welts and education majors, but some under­bruises. Others go home to empty classmen are involved as well. Most houses every day. They carry so have taken the preparation classes at much emotional baggage that you Saint Mary's; however, many ofthe have to get through before they can student teachers feel that nothing can learn anything." ready a student for the actual experi-Weiner, who taught first grade at 
ence of teaching. Saint Mary's senior Janelle Welner teaches a Jefferson Elementary School, agrees ''Whenithitsmethatl'm respon-lesson on penguins. with Cannon and feels that it makes sible for teaching 20 kids, I realize-teaching today much more difficult. 


SCHOLASTIC 


"You're in a constant battle with their home environment," she said. "We're not there just to teach them reading and writing. We have to help them vent their emotions. When a child has four brothers in jail, there's anger and hostility because that's all this child knows." 
"It's hard because you bring their problems home with you. It's definitely nota9-5 job," she added. 
Even with the added respon­sibilities, most of the student teachers treasure their experi­ences. "These kids become your life, and you love all of 
·them," said Erin Fitzpatrick, another Saint Mary's senior. "Even on my worst days, the kids cheer me up in 10 minutes. I love getting 15 hugs a day!" 
Although the participants are at the schools to teach, most 
said they have learned as much Student teacher Janelle Welner as the children have from the work. 
experience. "I've learned so much about individualism, even in young children," said Fitzpatrick. ''Each child learns differently. The students constantly challenge me to come up with ways for them to learn, so it has · iven me a lot ofconfidence in m self." 
Cannon reflected that she has started to appreciate the little things her students do. 
"I taught a girl with delayed speech, and when she'd say a word, it was a small mile­stone. Things like that make me believe that I'm makin a difference," said Cannon. 
"The whole experience has re­inforced why I want to be a teacher." 
The student teachers have the chance to make a differ­ence in the lives of children, helping them to choose the right path for the rest of their lives. Their responsibility is enormous, but so is the feeling of accomplishment when they complete the program. The teachers know that they have helped the children not only to finish a grade, but also how to be prepared for the future. And they understand the impor­tance of teachers in the lives of children. 0 

Continued from page 9 
tion to be sure that happens," he said. ·"Religious communities will continue to exist. They began for a particular reason ... they come and they go. They answer par­ticular needs. People get scared the sky is falling. It really isn't" 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., a former university·president, shares some of Hannon's sentiments. Instead ofpanicking about the declining numbers of priests and nuns, Hesburgh said, "Maybe the Holy Spirit is telling us something, that we need a different arrangement to get more [clergy]." "The aging clergy and the smaller number of people entering do indicate a crisis, espe­cially in the administration of the sacra-· ments," he said. "Whatever you have to do, whatever changes you have to make to en­sure that, is th_e most important thing ofall." 
Hesburgh, too, sees the emphasis on lay as good, noting that many things don't have to be done by priests. However, "I have to think that we do have a problem right now, and you can't just put in under the table and forget about it" 
"The church doesn't react quickly when the bell rings. Someone's got to take a serious look at it-the bishops and the pope -andI think they will. I just wish they'd do it quicker." 
While Catholics in the United States wait for decisions to be made and changes to be implemented, other issues-grow in impor­tance. One concern is who will take care of the aging nuns, priests and brothers if there are so few younger members of orders. Sis­ter O'Connor explained that the Congrega­tion of the Sisters of the Holy Cross has prepared for that possibility, working hard in the last 20 years to build an endowment fund to care for the aging members. Father Hesburgh agreed ~t most orders can take care of their own very well. For those that have not made those provisions, he said he hopes that "if the order can't do it, the Christian people will." 
Yet another concern is ministries, such as Catholic education and hospitals that used to be staffed primarily by members of religious orders. Father Moss said, "Catholic educa­tion is in dire straits." Because of the squeeze on priests and nuns, lay staffs have to take over. Switching over to lay staffs has significant financial ramifications, not to mention religious ones. Moss pointed out that there are only seven priests who work in the administration building at Notre Dame. "That's got to make a difference," he said. 
All over the country there is a similar reorga­nization going on, as parishes and orders must decide what areas are most important for the placement of clergy. Because of that, he said, 'The work of the church is going to suffer." 
However, Father Hesburgh is proud ofthe fact that there are as many priests on campus today as there were 40 years ago. Although there are less ofthem in the classroom, there are more in the residence halls. "They are really there, and they are interested in the kids," he said. It is also his opinion that "today, priests are better prepared for what they're doing." 
Although the pamphlets in the doorway of Sacred Heart may remain untouched, the problem ofdeclining clergy is not being left unexamined. Catholic people and clergy alike recognize that a problem exists. Indi­viduals have differing ideas about the root of the problem and how it should be faced, but the challenge may make the Church stronger in the long run. Said Father Pat Hannon, 
C.S.C., the issue "has done wonderful things for our community. It's forced us to articu­late who we are and what we're trying to accomplish. This is a challenge. But I like challenges." 
FEBRUARY 10, 1994 

SPORTS 
Building a Winning Tradition 
Despite the harsh conditions this season, the·Notre Dame/Saint Mary's ski team has fun while qualifying for nationals 

Barry, a three year member of the team. 
0 0 c, 

0 A great deal ofthe'optimism about this
o -0 o .-. et -~~l ~~"-' 
0 ~ ~,;;:\ 0 . '-',,___ ··<·,. i:~/' year's squad is due to the arrival and imme­
0 ~ ~~ . . Q _--... -..• -'~ 
diate contribution of three freshman. Matt 

· 0~ ~ (J O . ~ 
Wolsfeld, Ryan Mcinerney, and Brien Fox
Ci c~Co ~ G 
who hold the third, fourth and eighth places 

, 
on the team are a pleasant surprise for the Irish. "There's a great team concept," said Mcinerney. "Once you're on the team, no­

· i~j~~ zl /j 
~~~~~~,,,. 
body cares what grade you're in." 

S,~~~~O fffJ .
o c.~~Oi:, c~.oc::)-c~G~~,a . . Th~ rest ofthe team is equally strong, with 
~ <=>. '--' G /C5J'(I'\ . 
junior Mike Zilvitis in the top spot, and -_Barry skiing second. The :pair adds experi-
SCHOLASTIC 
by Jake Schaller 

Aquick glance around the Notre Dame campus reveals few changes in topog­raphy to the surveyor. Had Columbus lived in South Bend, he might not have tried to prove his skeptics wrong by sailing across the Atlantic. Let's be honest. South Bend is flat. With the highest natural elevation point perhapsbeingthehumpattheentrancetothe university where a ND ensignia is written in flowers a ski team seems unlikely. Despite the lay of the land, Notre Dame/St Mary's does have a ski club and ski team. 
The distance can be a hassle. Most ski spots are in the upper Michigan area near Traver City where the team skis at Schuss, Crystal Mountain and Caber Fae. The car trips to the ski sights take about four and a half hours. But according to the team, they are usually fun and have brought the group together. 
"They are so much fun," said freshman Notre Dame women's skier Jeanne LaFleur. "You ride with a new group ofpeople every week, so everyone gets to know each other." 
The team makes their voyages after Christmas break. From the first weekend back until mid to late February, the ski team leaves on Friday afternoons, skis and com­petes Saturday and Sunday and then returns Sunday night. This year's team has even dedicated itself to making a trip on Tuesdays and Thursdays to practice but harsh weather 
· has meant cancellations. The team is not a member of the NCAA 
but it does belong to the National Col­legiate Ski Association· Michigan confer­ence. This league includes such foes as 
· Michigan, Michigan State, Eastern Michi­gan University, Western Michigan Univer­sity and Ferris State. The powerhouses have traditionally been Michigan and Michigan State but the Irish plan to upset the balance this year with a team that rivals any from past years. 
"This is the most talent I've seen," said 


.·~ ·.: • • ' • • -• • • I' ~ • • • ( ...... • ' • / • • 
ence and skiing knowledge, in addition to a Daniel has been shining in the numberone flexible skies are used, while giant slalom heavy dose of talent spot with aspirations of making Nationals. skis are longer and heavier. 
"I would hope we could place first or But qualifying is based on performance in Team scores are tabulated by taking the second in the region, and maybe get a bid to regionals. best three race times from each team and Nationals," said Mcinerney. "Ifyou ski well on that day you make it," adding them together. -A race is the combi­If Zilvitis and l3arry make nation of two timed trips 
nationals they will be the down the slope. Each team 

second Irish skiers to make nationals after Bob Reich who qualified two years ago. Senior Greg Millar and junior Chip Toun~ ski sixth and seventh, in front ofFox, while senior DaveZidar and junior John Starr round out the top 10, with .junior Kevin Malone as an alter­nate. This sec;ond group adds much needed depth to the team. Zidar does much more than ski. As president, he organizes the team func­tions, handles the money and does much ofthe impor­tant work that is left to stu­dents on a club team. 
"He doesn't get enough credit," saidLeFleur. "He's done a great job this year." 
The Notre Dame 


women's team has young skiers. The Irish women's team is led by sophomores Julie Byrd and Sarah Stock who ski one and two, and a trio of freshman, Anne Jackoboice, Jeanne LaFleur and Molly Lang, who round out the top five. While Stock acknowledges that it is a re-building year for the team, she is excited about the season. After training in Colorado with Byrd for a week, Stock said they are ready to begin moving to the top of the conference. 
The Saint Mary's team plans to make a move toward th·e top, but they too have to overcome then: lack of experience. Other than outstanding senior Katie Daniel who races in the number one slot, of the top five are new to the team. Junior Sarah Craft and freshman Becky Kellog ski two and three while sophomores Tiffany Reczynski and Sheila Doran round out the top five. 
"Our main goal this year is to have an overall improvement and make progress," said Daniel. 
said Daniel. "If you don't ski well, you don't." 
The team rac_es slalom and giant slalom categories. In giant slalom, the racer must ski down the slope as fast as possible but must navigate through pairs of double­pronged gates. The pairs of gates in giant slalom are more spread out-and the race concentrates on speed as the skier takes an "S" path through the gates.
-ust as in giant slalom, one tries to reach
J

the finish line as quickly as possible in slalom, while steering through the gates. However, in slalom the gates are one­pronged poles or breakaway gates and the skiers attempt to knock them over.· As op­posed to the speed stressed in the giant slalom, the slalom is a technically challeng­ing and quicker race because the gates are placed much closer together. An aggressive skier usually is better suited for slalom. The skis used are also different For slalom more member races both slalom and giant slalom. The con­ditions get worse for every successive skier so teams put their best racers at the top. 
Tryouts for the team are held at the beginning ofeach season. All those trying out take one run on a course designed by the captains. Those with the lowest times and best form make the team. Some who have been on the team or who have skied in the area have a dis­tinct advantage. Surpris­ingly, those on the West Coast are at a disadvantage. Students from there have to get used to the icy condi­tions of the Midwest. A dilemma for every 
club team on campus 

is whether it should become a varsity sport. According to Zidar, the team talked about it before the season and decided against it. While it would give the team more money and a coach, making the switch means more work and more pressure to win. Staying a club team but moving to the NCAA was also a viable option. However, while the benefits are nice, the team likes to ski competitively and have fun. 
The team is already off to an impressive start. The men's team placed third in the competition from January 14-16 despite harsh weather conditions. The trip from January 21-23 was also successful with the Irish men's team placing third overall and Saint Mary's Katie Daniel placing second in the giant slalom. But the teams stress that these accomplishments are in the past and they need to keep looking forward to im­proving and skiing well at Regionals in order to continue building another winning Notre Dame tradition. D 
FEBRUARY 10, 1994  13  
- 
-'  , , ~_.__c:~----· ~  .  .  -----_:_-~--­ - 

SPORTS 

ProudTo·Be Notre Dame 
After an improved season the Irish hockey team looks to the future and the hope ofgreaterfan support 

by Jeremy Dixon 

When students arrive at Notre Dame,many do not know much about Irish varsity sports other than football. But other varsity athletic team have done well in recent years. But anyone who has watched the Notre Dame hockey.· team this year knows that it is on the verge of coming into the spotlight And this is one secret that head coach Ric Schafer and his team want every­
one under the Dome to know. Notre Dame re-instituted its 
Sophomore defense man David Dal Grande
hockey program for the 1968-69 
and the rest of the underclassmen have scored
season after a 60 year hiatus. 
62 of Notre Dame's 81 goals so far this season.
Only the second coach during the 
modern era, Schafer himself was a four time Irish monogram winner in the early seventies under legendary coach Charles "Lefty" Smith. 
Last season, Notre Dame rejoined the Central Collegiate Hockey Association, one pf the premier hockey conferences at the 
university level. 
Four CCHA teams are ranked in the top twenty five, in­cluding number one ranked Michi­gan. When the team made the transition last year, it did not know what to expect from a conference schedule. And it ended up being the worst year record­wise in the modern era of Notre Dame hockey. "Last year, to a degree, we were all_ rookies," said ­

Schafer. "Now, our returning players know what to expect." 
His players have responded well, already surpassing last year's win total with seven more games to play. 
The main reason for this renewed success is the influx of young talent There are nine freshmen and 11 sophomores on this year's roster. And these underclassmen are not just bystanders. They have scored 62 of Notre Dame's 81 goals, 139 of their 181 points (a combination ofgoals and assists) and all of the game winning goals. This group is.led by sophomore center Jamie Ling, a CCHA all-rookie last year, who leads the teamwith 11 goals and 17 assists. 
"We're a young team, and we'll have the same team for a couple more years," said Ling. "We'll be a force in this league." 
Also receiving high marks are freshmen centers Tim Harberts and Brian McCarthy, defense man Ben Nelson and left wing Terry Lor€?nz, all ofwhom are among the top eight Irish· scorers. 
"All of our freshmen have done fine. Every day in practice is a learning experi­

ence for them; [The older players] need to 
show them the ropes, and even pick them up 
when they're struggling," said Schafer. 
The sophomore class has improved from 

last year. Besides Ling, right wing Brett Bruininks and left wing Jamie Morshead have increased their offensive productivity. Defense man Davide Dal Grande is one of four Irish players in positive figures on the . plus-minus chart. He is tied with sopho­more Garry Gruber and junior Cary N~meth with +2. Last year, Morshead led 
the team with a -8 rating. 
Nearly every statistic is better for the 

team this season. Last year's squad was 4­
11-2 in games decided by two goals or less, 
while this year's club is 8-9. 
"We've had a lot ofclose games where if we had a little more scoring power and a little more luck, we would have won," said Schafer. 
One example is the recent loss to Michi­gan 3-1. "There is some consolation in playing well despite the loss, but one of these days soon, we will beat them. Next year, we will beat them," Schafer said. Michigan coach Red Berenson agreed. 

The team has Improved Its record from last year, 4-11-2 to 8-9 this season. 
"They're definitely improving as a team. If the trend continues, the next game will be a hell of a game.» 
Schafer arid Berenson aren't the only ones predicting good times to come in the future. "We should be one of the top contenders in the CCHA and the country," said senior captain Matt Osiecki. "Hopefully, this year we will get home ice advantage in the play­offs. Then we want to win the frrstround to get into Joe Louis [Arena, the location of the conference quarterfinals]." 
But one statistic that has not improved is attendance at the home hockey games. 
"Our band is at the game. Our rink is better looking and the banners are flying . But do we still have enough students com­ing to our games? I would say no. Com­pared to other schools we're behind," said Schafer. 
Home game attendance averages 1,472 fans per game, while road games draw 5,055 fans. "Whenever the fans are out there and the arena's full, ithelps out a lot," said senior goal tender Greg Louder. "Success and fan support go together. When we do get sup­port, we start playing better and winning games." 
"I think those who are missing a hockey game are really missing out," Schafer said. "After all, we represent [the students] and the University. We wear Notre Dame proudly on our chests." 0 
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEKMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 


Randy Kinder: Kinder, a freshman from East Lansing, Michigan, set 
Wendy Crabtree: Crabtree, a sophomore from Concord, Massachu­a Meyo Indoor Track and Notre Dame indoor record in the 200 meter 
setts, advanced to the quarterfinals ofthe Rolex National Intercollegiate race at the Meyo Invitational this past Saturday. Kinder ran the 200 in Tennis Chmaionship this past weekend. Crabtree, the number 13 player 2159. With this time he qualified for the IC4A championship meet in in the country, upset the number five player in the country in the second March. round before falling to the number one player in the quarterfinals. 

' 

n 10 
Send information/or your event to: Jenny Tate, Coming Distractions,.· Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or··call 631~7569. 



Thursday 1 O 
Movie: "The Philadelphia Story," 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, LaFortunc, $1. Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., LaFortunc. Lecture: "Health Care Reform: Morals or Management," David Solomon and Rkhard McCormick, 7:30 p.m., CSC. French Film Festival: "La Femme Nikita," 9:00 p.m., Cushing. 
Friday 11 
Tennis: Notre Dame men vs. Ohio State, 3:15 p.m., F.ck. Tennis: Notre Dame women vs. Kansas, 7:30 p.m., Eck. Film: "The Age of Innocence," 6:45 & 
9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Cool Runnings," 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Movie: "Mister Wonderful," 7:00 and 
9:30 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, SMC, $. Basketball: Notre Dame men vs. Hofstra, 7:30 p.m., JACC. Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.m., Clubhouse, . SMC. 
Saturday 12 
Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Western Michigan, 7:00 p.m., JACC. Movie: "Mista Wonderful,,.7:00 and 
9:30 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, SMC, $. Fllm: "The Age of Innocence," 6:45 & 
9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: ''Cool Runnings," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. 


-. ' \ -. -,, ~ ' . , . , . . 



3unday. 13 
:iultar Recital: 2:00 p.m., Guillermo 1~m, Snitc museum, $. !tiphomore Literary FesUval 
Monday 14 
Film: "Mildred Pierce," 7:00 p.m., "Medium Cool," 9:00 p.m., Snitc, $2. 
Sophomore Literary FesUval 
Tuesday 15 
Campus Bible Study: 700 p.m., Badin Conference Room. Film: "The Big Sleep," 7:00 p.m., Snitc, $. 
Sophomore Literary FesUval 
TOUCH 
FOUR 

Wednesday 16 
Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford­KCfflail Chapel. 
Sophomore Literary FesUval 
~-----------­
Movie Theatres: 
100 Center Cinema I&II: 259-0414 

Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583 

Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090 
University Parle Cinema East: 277-7336 
University Park Cinema West 277-0441 
Forum I & II Cinema: 277-1522 . 


• · Mary Green's 
~-------w~ 
FLORAL CO. INC 
Serving Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger over 60 years 
·'9,Chacge by phoee 
'"""" ., e<:dt 232-3354 

Come in and browse Open Daily 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM . (Sundays 8:00 AM to.12:00 Noon) 
327 Lincoln Way West 
:£ We Deliver II] 
g«•l~Lt4il~'I 
. SATISFACTION! 

Fresh Flowers & Plants for All Occasions 
• 
Ballons • Wire Service • SUk & Dried 

•Funerals 
• Weddings Flowers 


WE DELIVER 
OPEN EVENINGS & WEEKENDS FTD WIRE SERVICE ' 
Full Service Florist 
I

Stop by or order by phone. -4,ll ~ajor Credit Cards Accepted 
1404 N. IRONWOOD DR.
•

(2 BLKS. E. OF NOTRE DAME) :.. SOUTH BEND, IN 46635 
(219) 
288-3995 


. 
-. ~ . . --. ·/ . . , . ' . , -. . 
REVIEW & PREVIEW 

by Miranda C. Sanford 
Chanting Chart Toppers 

You know, as entertainment editor I re­ceive many new music releases. A few of them are good, but most of them are either take-offs from other bands or just terrible new starts. Something came across my desk the other day, very different from any prior mailings, and demanded my attention. The only way to describe it is topresent the press 

release verbatim. It went something like this: "Benedictine Monks climb to the top of the pop charts with 'The Best of Gregorian Chants.' Angel record set to release chants nationwide." At this point I had to pause for a moment. Had the music industry turned so sour that it now followed the trend set by Enigma and exploited monks? I continued to read: 
."A Spanish order of Benedictine Monks have hit number one on the pop charts in Spain selling close to a quarter million of Gregorian chants. The CD has been at the top of the· pop chart for four weeks with Gloria Estefan, Sinatra and the Beatles trail­ing behind." Now we know what audience we are dealing with. Anyway, the press release described the album as "monopho­nic and rhythmically free."· Being a daring listener, I put the tape on the player in the Scholastic office. The most common com­ment from people entering the office was, "Hey! . What is this church music crap?" 
The host of''Popular Classics," Spanish radio's top-ranking afternoon show, stated, "There's a new movement growing in how music is appreciated, a worldwide evolution of tastes, and I sense that this record is only the tip of the iceberg." Oh good, I knew I kept my Smurf' s soundtrack for something. 
Marijuana Mom 
Everyone knows someone whose parents are "cool." Well, how coolis this mom! 79­year-old Mildred Kaitz of Monticello, NY, grew marijuana for her son to smoke. Ap­parently, she cultivated a 10 foot marijuana plant next to her front porch. Whenever questioned what the large, leafy fem-like thing was she responded casually, "mari­juana" After a few years, some teenagers identified the plant and reported the retiree to the local police, and Mildred was busted. 
She explained to the police that her 49­year-old son suffered from multiple sclero­sis and smoking marijuana eased the pain of th~ disease. The police did not care, ripped out her plant and served her with a court summons. Fortunately, court was adjourned and she was placed on six months probation. 
She appeared onDonahue, ''What parents will do for their children" and has received hundreds ofletters of support. Hey, Mildred receives the official thumbs-up from me.. Whatamom! 
. 

Naomi, Singer ... Author? Yes, that's right In atime where former Bradys and Disco Divas are braking onto the country sceneNaomiJ uddhas tried her hand at writing. Her new book, entitledLove Can Build A Bridge, is full of the "dogged opti­mism" that marks her long career. She accounts of the challenges from her back­woods beginnings to one of the queens of Country. Also included, what a surprise, her chall'enges and eventual remission of the liver disease that ended her singing career. This book-which borders on Nutrasweet -included Naomi's deep belief that she's, "living proof that it pays to believe in miracles." 
Up & Coming All this week the campus is featuring the French Film Festival. This phenomenon was introduced by an American marketing corporation a few years ago and college campuses were especially receptive. These films have already toured many universities and will continue to do so throughout the year. The best film of the week will be shown on February 10. Entitled La Femme Nikita, the recent American movie Point of No Return is an adaptation of it. However, I have been told by people who have seen both that the French version is killer. An­other movie of interest is Blink with Madeline Stowe (Last of the Mohicans & Unlawful Entry). Under the pretense of another mystery-thriller, this one packs a unique punch. Also, any theater buffs should keep their 
eyes open for campus productions. Often some of the most interesting ones are the smaller productions! 
19


ENTERTAINMENT 

byKathleen Lynch 

Two summers ago, I patiently waited for George Strait to take the stage at Dal~ las' Starplex Amphitheater. When he fi­nally erupted from behind the curtains, a woman in her forties, sporting skin tight rodeo jeans and flaming red cowboy boots, looked at me with her straggly blond hair and electric blue eyeliner and yelped, "Girl, that man is finer than frog's hair!" Okay. I didn't know that frogs had hair. But there were many things above and beyond this biological phenomenon that I would dis­cover as a fledgling country music fan .. Notre Dame students have conflicting views and impressions of country music. Ryan Brown, a sophomore in Cavanaugh Hall,believes that where you live plays a big role in your like or dislike of the music. He dislikesthemusicbecausehe"can'trelateto it because of [his] upbringing." Brown de­scribed his reaction as "hatred" and said that "country music has an aura that repulses" him. 
Joellen Shannon; a sophomore in Seigfried Hall, shares a similar view. She said thatcountrymusicis "whiny." Further­more, she does nqt think that any of the musicians have talent because "they just sing about the women that have left them and how their dog died." 
Itseems many people hope country music is simply a fad or a bad nightmare, but nothing could be further from the truth. This, like rock and roll, is something that is "here to stay." The country music industry began to explode between 1990 and 1991 and hardly indicates waning popularity. According to Young Country 105.3, the hottest ·new radio station in Dallas, more country music is being sold today than at any other time in the music's history 
Popularity increased primarily frpm country music's drastic image changes over the last. few years. ·.· For example, Kenny Rogers status changed from the pinnacle of manhood to a niuppet on late night reruns of 
D.C. Follies. Hehas been replaced by young heart throbs sucl1as Billy RayCyrus and John Michael Montgomery ... Furthermore, the followers of country music have changed. Thefans are no longer the stereo­typical bull ridin,' truck-ownin,' God­fearin,' backwoods hicks. Now, uptown society members and mainstream America are the major supporters .. 
The music has changed, and abroad spec­trum ofpeople classify themselves as coun­try music listeners. Musicians shed the weathered cowboy and cowgirl hot-off~the­plains-of-Texas image in a gamble to keep up with a fast-paced industry. Traditionally, country music's strong 
hold has been in the South. However, as the music appeals to a greater variety of people, its following slowly .spreads throughout the country. Dan Pearman, the 
SCHOLASTIC 

Program Director for Young Country 105.3, said country music radio stations claim the number one spot in Washington, D.C., Cleveland, Ohio, and Kansas City, Mis­souri. In Detroit, Michigan, the country radio station's rating soared from last place to rest comfortably in the top five after one year. In last year, country music stations started up in Boston, Massachusetts. In the past, country music was always geared for an audience between the ages of25 and 54, with the bulkoflisteners age 35 and up. Musicians like Kenny Rogers and Crystal Gale put out records targeted as "safe" for this audience. When singers such as Garth Brooks entered the market, the composition of country fans radically changed to where country is presently the numberonemusicchoiceforthe 18 to25 age group. Pearman attributes a good chunk of this change to Garth Brooks. For many people, Garth stands as the "port of entry" into country music. "People begin to listen to him and gradually the other stuff doesn't 
· sound half bad. Garth is the first country people are exposed to and they begin listen­ing from there," Pearman said. 
Pearman conti1:med to explain that during the beginning of his career in the early 1990's, Garth Brooks sold approximately 10 .to 11 million albums per year. His present average hovers around five to six million a year -still a large portion of the market, but definitely a decline. Pearman believes that "the buying power that was once concentrated on Garth is now being spread all around the industry." 
Pearman also stated most of country's success is due to its lyrics, which have pro­gressed from prison songs about dead dogs to poignant love stories. Today's lyrics attempt to r~late to the audience's feelings and create a commonality among people, according to Pearman. Country stars focus on relationships and emotions that touch the heart Th_is is accomplished by telling sto­ries about the lives they lead. Country music provides clear music with lyrics people can hear and appreciable emotions. The words may be blunt and honest but never crude. 
The lyrics find the words people want to say. For example, women can borrow a line. 
from Patty Loveless when breaking up and 
tell him to "Blame it on your lying, cheating, 
cold, dead-beating, two-timing, double­
dealing, mean, mistreating, loving heart." 
Or from Travis Tritt, saying, "call someone 
who'lllistenandmightgiveadamn... here's 
a quarter call someone who cares." 
Thephenomenon ofcountry music is not 
solely from the lyrics. Pearman af­firmed that the entire industry must begiven credit for this change. The whole country music industry is geared up and prepared for its new-found popularity. Nashville rounds up the best musicians, song writers and art­ists and brings them all to the same town. The city is overflowing with talent! 
When an artist comes to town, he may have only one or two great songs. Ifrecord companies want this artist to produce an album, they provide him with a crew of professional song writers instead of cutting him lose and forcing him to wri~badmusic. In other words, the country industry ac­knowledges that being a good singer does not always translate into quality lyrical pro­duction. Therefore, they integrate top tal­ents for an optimum final product This approach is the exact opposite ofother music industries, especially the Top 40/ 
Rock'n'Roll.
Another distinguishing feature of coun try music is the singers themselves. Country stars recognize that the fans are the most important aspect of their career. They make a concerted effort to bewith their fans, to sign autographs for eight hours a day and to do special things for their fan clubs. Their followers feel that they are close friends with this mega-superstar and will go to great lengths to support their favorite artist For example, a North Dakota woman was leaving foraGarth Brooks concert when she realized that she had left her tickets in her purse. But her purse was locked in her husband's car somewhere off in the woods· where he was hunting. Like any reasonable person in a time ofcrisis, she called 911. The operator confirmed that. this was indeed an emergency and sent state troopers to track her husband down and break into the car. In a couple of hours the tickets had been re­trieved, and she was safely at the concert. Country stars also know where the action is. While the talent is centered in Nashville, the market is in the Dallas/Ft. Worth metroplex. More country music is sold there than inany other partofthe world, according to Dallas radio industry statistics. With five concert venues available to the country sing­ers, this region is a "must win" popularity contest for any new acts. Somecountry acts may ignore any negative vibes from Dallas/ Ft. Worth and continue to seek popularity elsewhere. However, they find often are not greeted with success ~d realize that "you can put your boots in the oven, but thatdon't make them biscuits." · 
With the upsurge in country music, some 
would expect a lull or a slow down. But this is not happening in the industry. All of the singers want to produce their best work instead of riding a name that they have created for themselves. The market sup­ports this continual improvelllent position, also and Nashville talent keeps producing its magic by putting albums that just keep get­ting better and better: Consequently, the industry remains competitive and contem­porary.For those of you who will convert to country music, you cannot go wrong with Wynona Judd, George Strait, Clint Black or Hal Ketchum. For any new fans, I would suggest starting with Garth Brooks or Brooks and Dunn. Both have been success­ful at merging rock' n'roll and country mu­sic together, providing a mixed sound that isn't too country. In 1994, keep your eyes peeled for Toby Keith, John Michael Mont­gomery and Little Texas. Pearman promises that these are the hottest new items coming outofNashville these days. Also,rumor has 
it that John Michael Montgomery will be coming to South Bend sometime in the near future. Finally, in case you haven't heard, 
· and itwouldbe strange ifyou haven't, Garth Brooks will be performing on February 12 and 13 at the J.A.C.C. 
FEBRUARY 10, 1994 

'i 
I/ 
; i 


ENTERTAINMENT 
J 

SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
A twenty-seven year tradition returns to campus 
by Kevin Klan 

People like Arthur Miller, Tennessee Williams, Kurt Vonnegut, Margaret Atwood and, more recently, Edward Albee have all made their way to this campus to participate in one of the greatest ongoing cultural traditions here at Notre Dame: the Sophomore Literary Festival. This annual event is in its 27th year, and it has gained national recognition for being the only festi­val of its kind in the United States. This year Notre Dame is prcmd towel-come· the following authors: Michael Harper, June Jordan, Alison Lurie, Charles Johnson and Joy Harjo. All have extremely diverse backgrounds and represent a variety ofwriting styles. The primary characteristic that each author has in.common, according to Katie Lawler, the chairperson of the festival's executive committee, is their en­thusiasm for their work. The festival has consistently evolved since its second year when it had a budget of $2.72, and this year could boast the greatest variety of authors ever assembled. Joy Harjo grew up in the Southwest and is a member of the Creek Tribe. Her poetry emphasizes the struggles and challenges she encount_ered growing up in her native New Mexico~ Winner of an American Book Award, Ms. Harjo is currently working onan original screenplay for the American Film Foundation called When We Used to Be -Humans, and has a forthcoming anthology of Native women's writing titled Reinvent­
ing the Enemy's Language. 

Michael Harper's background is as unique as Ms. Harjo's. Born in New York, 
from February 13 -18 
he graduated from California State Univer­sity in 1963, only to return Brown Univer­sity in 1972. Named the Poet Laureate of Rhode Island in 1988, Mr. Harper has pub-, lishedpoetrysince 1970,andhismostrecent 
_ anthology, entitled Every Shut Eye Ain't Asleep, was published this year. One ofthe most noted American poets of the last few decades, Mr. Hazper has been asked to read at the Library of Congress. Recently he presented his work at the Munich Jazz and Poetry Conference. In addition to these noted poets, the festj­val willalsoincorporatethereadingofJune Jordan, whose resume includes poetry, fic­tion, essays and even worlc as a political columnist Born in Harlem, Ms. Jordan 

published His Own Where about her experi­ences in 1971. Chosen by the New York Times as one of the Outstanding Books of 
the Year, and a finalist for theNational Book Award in 1972, this overwhelming response to herfrrstworkledMs.Jordan to expandher 
pursuits. beyond poetry. She has written· theater scripts and appears as a regular po_:­
litical columnist for the London City Limits magazine and The Progressive in Berlceley, 
CA.
Each year the festival has been organized entirely by members of the sophomore class, including the responsibilities of the details ofarranging travel plans to seiecting the authors. Working in conjunction with the English department, there has always .. been a strong connection between the au­thors in the festival and the curriculum. This year, many of the Arts and Letters core classes will be reading· the novel Middle Passage written by Charles Johnson. Mr. Johnson is currently a professor of English at the University of Washington, and was a recipient of the 1991 National Book Award for Middle Passage. He was • the fll'St African-American recipient of that . award since Ralph ElliSQn won itin 1953 for · Invisible Man, and Mr. Johnson has gained national literary recognition for his work. His next project is' an epic historical novel about Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Mr. Johnson is also awaiting the Tri-Star Pic­tures release ofthe motion picture version of his award-winning novel. Novelist. and sports columnist Frank Deford has had to postpone his· visit until April 13,and consequently Alison Lurie has been invited instead. Winner of the 1984 PulitzerPrize for hernoveIForeignAffairs, Ms. Lurie is a Radcliffe graduate who pub­lished her first novel in 1962. She has consistently received acclaim for her pointed criticism on modem An;terica.Th_e week ~rom_ises to~ a true_ celebra-• _ lion of hterature, with readings and ·· snfal~ workshops planned for each author. This is a cultura,l experience not to be missed., and one that has become another tradition truly unique to Notre Dame. . 


ENTERTAINMENT 
ISIS? 
-. RILEYHALL MUSEUM HOSTS VARIOUS ARTISTS 
by .Patrick Skidmore& Kathleen Timons 
Do any of you know what the ISIS Gal­lery is, or where for that matter? Nestled on the third floor of Riley Hall is a little gallery dedicated to rotating and show­ing exhibits by a variety of artists. The present exhibit, entitled "New Faces," is a compilation offirst year Notre Dame gradu­·ate students' works, new faces to the art world. Each has submitted a number of different works. The styles and media of each artist vary widely, adding a pleasant variety to the show as a whole. Two of the six represented artists are Thames Wedgewood and Steve Pierce. Both have openly distinct styles with different views, or themes, they wish to portray. 
Wedgewood primarily uses wood, stone, glass, ceramics and precious objects like bone, gold and silver. His works are part of a series that deals with delineating space through the manipulation ofsize rather than perspective. The works are functional with working parts to represent personal spaces for precious objects. 
Pierce works with amuch different collec­tion of materials. One work includes cloth, bullet-proof glass and blood. He strives to represent the trial of trauma through the portrayal of random violen~, in society. Pierce's sculptures call upon the audience to reflect, and perhaps act, upon this modern day problem. Through this "Trial of Trauma" he hopes to better himself and others through the communication of his message. 
These are just two short examples ofwhat lies in the ISIS gallery exhibit "New Faces." There are such a variety of refreshing and thought-provoking works at this showing that there is definitely something for every­one. The exhibit is open from 8:00-5:00 until February I I. As Randi Chapman, one ofthe "New Faces" said it best, "Artis truth. It is a visual language of human emotion. When approached with an open mind and heart, it can produce change." 0 

SUBWAY Has A Sandwich ~ For ANY Size Appetite!!! 




ON OTHER CAMPUSES 

News of the Bizarre from the ation's Universities 
Manure Sculpting 
1k 
Two entrepeneurs are currently talcing the adage\~ \\ "waste not, want not" to its extreme. The men have ~¥ founded a company, Tewksbury Gardens, which "" makes biodegradable animal sculptures from cow manure. As the University of Kansas Daily Kansan reports, the sculptures are all the rage for students to give as environmentally sound gifts. The animals, call "Poo Pets," combine aesthetics with praticality to create the perfect indoor house plant or garden adorn­ment Being made from manure, the sculptures serve as wonderful natural fertilizers. Tewksbury Gardens has also gone so far as to invent a special air-drying procedure which removes all residual moisture from the pets, killing the bacteria and thereby removing the offensive manure odor. The Poo Pets, which can last from two to four years depending on the moisture level in the area, release nutrients into the soil as they Kissing with their Eyes on ·the Prize get wet thereby keeping plants healthy and strong. As 
After 18 consequetive hours of kissing, two University of Nebraska-Lincoln an extra marketing ploy, the various pets sport such students unlocked lips, thereby forfeiting a free trip to C~cun, Mexico. Theinteresting names as Pepe LaPoo™, Soil Swine™, Creightonian reports that the students, who were involved in a smooching contest,Dung Bunnies™, Turdles™ and Cow Pie Cow™. 
ceded to another couple in the name of academia upon realizing that the weekendWith names like these, it comes as no surprise that of the trip coincided with a busy homework weekend, for ho.th of them. As a consumers are buying these manure sculptures like consolation prize for their second place status, the couple received concert tickets. 
crazy. I guess this proves that you actually can wrap It seems a paltry trifle after twirling tongues for over halfa day, but it is reported--in a pretty package and convince people to buy that the couplealso received a life-time advertising contract with BigRed chewingit Only in America. 
( gum. 
The Cow to End All Cows 
Continuing with the kooky animal stories motif, researchers at Penn State University are seeking to ameliorate yet another facet of the American lifestyle. According to The Weekly Collegian, after more than ten years of research, the hormone bovine somatotropin (bS'I) which boosts milk production in cows, was approved for use. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration .has placed a morato­rium on its use, however, until further testing can be done. The hormone promises to enable cows to produce 10 to 20 perc_ynt more milk while eating 10 percent less feed per pound of milk. The milk produced in conjunction with the hormone remains chemically identical tos>rdinary milk. Of course there are always those, reluctant to change, who are protesting the approval of the hormone. Come on, 
edited by Jenny Tate we're talking about a supercow here. Some people just don't know a good thing when they see it. · 

WEEK IN DISTORTION 
Fighting Back: Karate as an Effective Means of Self -Defense 
· by Jessica K. Szczepaniak-Gillece 
Theman moved closer an .. d closer, glaring at me, and struck out 
1.with his fist. All at once I was on the alert, a rush of adrenalin and anger overcoming fear. I thought, "He's notgoing to get away withhurtingme;he'sgotnoright." Myarmshotout,smackinghard againsthis. lkickedhardatthebackofhisknee 
finally being able to master a new technique. However, I was also learning much more about myself and my capabilities. It changed many of my perceptions, especially the aspect of feeling helpless and vulnerable to attack. 
This is one of the most important aspects of learning karate, especially when hearing ofreports of attacks even on this insulated campus. For me, learning karate has meant not only learning a 
physical means of self-defense but has also 
and my elbow slammed into his chest as he fell --------------,meant a totally new personal image. I no 
to the ground. 
He picked himself up offthe matand came at me. "Good,"hesaidinalowvoicewhilei~side I felt a surge of pride and confidence. I had 
successfullydefended{llyselfagainstanattack 
from a much larger man, a situation that could occur outside ofmy karate class and a situation thatlfeelmuchmorepreparedtoface. 
Studying Shorin-ryu karate has meant facing potentially dangerous situations and learning how to handle them along with learning tech­niques and drilling with katas, or sequences of 
movements against an invisible opponent. This all began last year when I began to study this martial art. 
From the first time I stepped into the room, I knew that this class was going to be different 
I • 
n enCOUrag1ngth f 1 • d 
ese ee IDgS an 
giving th em an outlet, karate Creates a D-eW
f · • • 
SeDSe O What It IS tO be a WOman. 
longer think ofmyself as someone who can be singled out as a victim butinstead have confi­dence in my ability to defend myself. 
Karate also makes it acceptable to be 

assertive and even aggressive in defending oneself -values that are generally not en­couraged in women. It is not "ladylike" to poundawayatapunchingbag-andsomuch the better. In encouraging these feelings and giving them an outlet, karate creates a new sense of what it is to be a woman and a new meaning ofwhat itis to be strong. 1 think that 
other women can and do benefit from this in leaning to fight back against attack. 
In my own experience, learning karate has enabled me to feel stronger · and more confident, an attitude which extends through-
from any other one I had ever taken. All around me people were stretching in utter silence and over in the corner a few students in white outfits were practicing kicks and punches, exhaling as they made contact with an unseen assailant. I gazed in admiration as I stretched, already aware that this was going to be a most unusual experience. Later, I half-stumbled and half-bowed out of the class after an hour ofthrowing punches and blocks, aching and wonder­ing what a wimp like myself was doing in a class this intense. 
That was only ·the beginning. As the year went on I would find myself up against a punching bag, pummeling and kicking at it in 20 second attacks that seemed like an eternity. working incessantly at katas and knowing absolute frustration as well as the thrill of out my entire life. I feel safer even walking oncampus knowing that I know what to do in a difficult situation. However, there is still much to learn, which is another important facet of karate; the leamingdoesnotendatpromotionorevenablackbeltbutcontinues throughout one's entire life. 
All these aspects keep me coming back to practice. Karate has become a force that enables me to have more confidence andpower even with my limited time ofstudy. I know that I still have years of study ahead ofme, but the rewards ofthe practice and discipline are already there. This has brought an entirely new dimension into my life and a new respect for myself. It has been worth every minute. 
D 


25 


SPY DISPATCH 
Meet the Nobelist 
Ifyou were trapped on Gilligan's Island, how would you escape? 
David H. Hubel, 1981 Nobel Prize in Medicine: 
"You could send up smoke signals, or if you had any electronic equipment, you couldtry toassemble something that would transmit ... I suppose [you could] try to get off on some sortofraft. It would depend on how far the land is ... Are you in the middle ofthe ocean, with hundreds of miles between you and any shore? I'd certainly think it over before I started swimming." 
Val Fitch, 1980 Nobel Prize in Physics: "[My escape] depends on the circumstances on which I was trapped. You mean,just isolated on an island somewhere ... so the option are to build a boat and to go where you want to go? Of course, on can always use the stars to navigate, so that's not a problem ... [Building a boat] depends on the materials available ... What are you giving me? Ifyou're giving me just sand, then there's a problem because I wouldn't have anything concrete to make a concrete canoe. Ifone has trees, then you make dugout canoes, just like the Polynesians. [Butnxow you have to make a fire. One might be able to start afire, and then you can bum out a log. One time in my'life I started a fire by twirling some twigs ... I'm a survival type." 
Donald J. Cram, 1987 Nobel Prize in Chemistry: "I'd look around to see what materials would be available to start fires ... One would be with flint, if you had anything that would generate a spart ..• and the other is simply to use friction, as you do by taking a piece of wood and hollowing it out and then taking another piece ofwood that is slender ... arid coiling it around some string and then pulling on it and rotating one wi~ the other. This is the way I did i.t when I was a Boy Scout. Thai was part of a merit badge I got. I'm 72, and I ride a surlboard. By virtue of surfing, I've been around the ocean a lot. I feel comfortable with the interface between land and ocean ..• I have some feeling for currents. You can tell a little bit, now and then, about how distant a landmass is from backwash waves ... Someofthe ancient people that navigated were able to use that sometimes in navigation. 
-Gregg Stebben 

The Going Rate 
For sale: 357-year-old university 
In July of 1992, a modest educational institution in New Jersey, Glassboro State College,receiveda$100million donation from Mr. and Mrs. Henry Rowan. Almost immediately, Glassboro, thereto­foreknownalmostonly as the site ofasummitmeeting between LBJ and Soviet Premier Aleksey Kosgin in 1967, renamed itself Rowan College. Well, if it can happen at Glassboro, why not someplace else? IfRoss Perot wanted tobuy the most famous university in the country and rename it Aminal Crackers U., what would it cost hini? We asked some people at Harvard who might know. 
"It isn't for sale, obviously." -Ro~ald Daniel, University Trea­surer 
"I don't think you would se~ the name ofthe university ... That is, I would not" -Neil Rudenstine, University President 
America?" -Jeremy Knowles, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences 
"I'd say that it's priceless, but then somebody might come up with an offer that would make me stop and think ... It's a big number ... I think you'll know it when you hear it." -Fred Jewett, Dean of Harvard College 
"Well, the endowment is $5 billion ... and then there's the[value of the] brand name. That'sabouta trillion dollars." -ArchieC.Epps, Dean of Students 
"For $100 billion, i guarentee you they would name it anything that the person wanted." -Douglas Elmendorf, Assistant Professor ofEconomics 
"How much woulditcosttochange the name of Boston? Would the -Gady Epstein and Joshua Shenk combined worth of Japan and Germany make us change the word 
SCHOLASTIC 


Bruno's North  Bruno's South  
Open for carry out and delivery only.  Accepting reservations on weekends.  
2 small pizzas for $10.00.  Available for private parties and banquets.  
Prices do not include tax.  One 16 inch pizza for $8 (dine in only).  
115 N. 31 (just North of campus)  2610 Prairie Avenue  
273-3890  288-3320  

"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer free delivery of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 

11Our Flowers Say it Better" 
Powell the Florist 
Greenhouse • Flowers * Gifts 
10% Student Discount FREE DELIVERY 
We're here for your Valentine's Day needs 
Phone 255-2588 255-6012 
1 ~800-862-0772 
1215 Liberty Drive Mishawaka, IN 46545 
FINAL WORD 
Building on Its Past, Recyclin' Irish Looks 
by Ethan Shoaps 

toward the Future·· 
I. 
Ethan Shoaps is the co-president ofRecyclin' Irish. Recyclin' Irish is _ always looking for volunteers. Questions or com­ments? Call their office at 631-9013. 
28 

Notre Dame. It conjures up awealth ofimages­the Golden Dome, football Saturdays, du Lac and the recycling boxes tucked away in the comer of your residence hall. Huh??? All right, so maybe that last one is stretching it a bit. However, Notre Dame is quietly developing a recycling program that is quickly becoming a new tradition. Spearheading the recycling movement are · the students ofN otre Dame, in particular, the student organization known as Recyclin' Irish. Priorto 1989,no formal recyclingprogram existed at Notre Dame. Compelled to act in this age of increasing environmental awareness, a group ofcon­cerned students banded together and founded Recyclin' Irish. Its mission: to implement a compre­hensive recycling program at theUniversity of Notre Dame. In the fall of 1989, the initial stages of the program were introduced, and somewhere a tree gave thanks. Now in its fifth year, Recyclin' Irish has struggled through early growing pains and matured into an extremely effective student qrganization. Originally founded to implement a recycling program within the residence halls, Recyclin' Irish's efforts have combined with increasing student body and admin­istrative support to expand the program into nearly every campus building. From Carroll Hall to the Hesburgh Library, Notre Dame now recycles alumi­num, newspaper, glass and plastic. This year, white and corrugated (cardboard) paper are successfully being added to the program. As the Notre Dame community continues to adopt a recycling lifestyle, campus recycling has reached an all time high. TheNotreDamerecyclingprogram has succeeded because a commitment has been made by the stu­dents. Recyclin' Irish is entirely student run, and for the past five years has laid a solid foundation for a successful program. Student volunteers have sups plied all the labor, from the environmental commis­sioners gathering recyclables within the residence halls to the crew volunteers who drive the vans and pick up the recyclable materials. The program's success is a testament to the concerned action and awareness of the Notre Dame student body. 
The student commitment to recycling has been recognized by the university, which in tum has re­sponded with a commitment of its own. Over the past two years, the universty has become increasingly involved with Recyclin' Irish in an effort to expand campus recycling and reduce landfill waste. The university has taken an increased responsibility in the recycling program, as· evidenced by several recent changes in the program. These changes include incorporating the housekeeping staff in to the recy-. cling process, purchasing a truck designated solely for recycling pick up and hiring a full-time university employee responsible for driving the truck and han­dling materials. 
With the university's increased commitment to a campus recycling program, !fie program is enjoying unparalleled success. In terms of raw tonnage, Notre Dame recycled 140 tons of material during the 1991­92 school year. Last year, the university recycled 835 tons of material, nearly a 500 percent increase. This year, recycling is on another record pac:e, as the university recycles nearly 20 percent of its waste produced.· 
While these are encouraging figures, there is still a definite need for improvement The recycling pro­gram atNotreDamehas comealongway infive years, but it also has a long way to go. Recycling is no longer a trend, no longer a choice. It is an absolute. Recy­cling must happen if we are to pass any kind of habitable world onto future generations. Do yourpart to Reduce-Reuse-Recycle. Make it a habit Make it a lifestyle. :And somewhere out there a tree gives you 
~-.. . 
Grist For The Mill Rick Grey 
... ~~~ HO>-JE.Y, Vou' (/)Ai.J/-Jir bO OU'r Tl; MY C.Ai!. Rl R. A-R-Sr 6M1E 'A HOf<.tZ:0Nr,',L.. HOl'...f.Y-POKEY ?' 
iJ01S, ~WE.4-T i-r, / 
/(£VIN. 11£Y, I
I 
A60<E .SrtE Jt,l.S1 
DoESNY L-11:.E 6Ul:'.5 
1f= yOO l'.JJOW l<JHA-T T. MEAI-J/ 

5A-Y, "&i'tC\ CMJ6H• vo~e ])Vt-:'LJ\l,J, '?A 601TA rt£Ll' 
A-<:, -r/ON Wln-i 17-\E. 
ME., M.410/ MY B£8.. 1.s 
1\tl)N[.TTt: .•• Dc.Tl'.'EL 


1f1Lrc.[b&2r !'.fl20G:n 111/m@ Cf?@(P 0rt 1?Gil& 00w~ 
/11\A-R/<:. /,lllt/?ZOI.A 



·mrnwc m1m!} " Snow Sculpting 
Contest
All Night Movies 
Grown-up Fairy Tales 
8:00 Robin Hood Prince of Thieves 
10:15 Pretty Woman 


12:15 Aladdin 

1:45 The Princess Bride L Fort ne Bal room 

Free Skating at JACC Skate Rental Included 
2:30-4:30 
Mardi Gras Party LaFortune Ballroom 9pm-laril 
-

XYZ AFFAIR & ROADAPPLES FREE FOOD ENTERTAINMENT 

Brought To You By Student Union Board and Student Activities· · Any Questions?? Call the S.U.B. Hotline at 1-6171 ­

Crazy StuffAnd More! 

STIJDENT UNIONBOAJlD 








