-Vol. XXI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 22, 1887.
No. 7.
[Selected.]
Beautiful Things. -
Beautiful faces are those that wear— It matters little if dark or fair— Whole-souled honesty printed there.
• Beautiful eyes are those that show,
, .Like crystal panes where hearth-fires glow, Beautiful thoughts that burn below. ..
Beautiful lips are those whose words Leap from the heart like songs of birds, -Yet whose utterance prudence girds.
Beautiful hands are those that do ' Work that is earnest and brave and true, ' Moment by moment the long day through.
Beautiful feet are those that go On kindly ministries to and fro— Down lowliest ways, if God wills it so.
Beautiful shoulders are those that bear Ceaseless burdens of homely care With patient grace and daily prayer.
Beautiful lives are those that bless— Silent rivers of happiness, ;	.
Whose hidden fountains but few may guess.
Beautiful twilight, at set of sun, ■	■
Beautiful goal, with race well won. Beautiful rest, with work well done. . .
Beautiful graves, where grasses creep, Where brown leaves fall, where drifts lie deep Over worn-out hands—oh, beautiful sleep!
Prose Poems.
The question has been; asked: “ Can there be a poem in prose?” Aristotle, whose opinion is certainly of. greaf.weight, says positively that the epic may be written in -prose or in verse. And what is worthy, of note is, that he gives to the Homeric or simple^.verse a, name that likens it. to prose, /zcrpt'7, and speaks of poetic prose,	.
Dio lysius of . Halicarnassus, whose authority is of equal weight, says: “ It is possible for a dis
course in prose to bear a strong likeness to melodious verse; and often a poem resembles oratorical prose.” Again, the age of Louis XIV, nourished, as has justly been said, upon antiquity, appears to have adopted the same opinion in respect to the epic in prose. When the “ Tele-maque ” appeared there was no difficulty raised about giving it the name of poem. It was known at first by the title of the “Aventures de Tele-maque,” or “Sequel to the Fourth Book of the Odyssey.” Now. the sequel , of a poem must be a poem itself; moreover, Boileau, who, it is said, judges “Telemaque” with a rigor that has not been sanctioned-by posterity, compares it to the “Odyssey,” and calls Fenelon a poet. “There is a charm in this book,” says he, “and an imitation of the ‘ Odyssey ’ which I strongly approve. The avidity with which it is read shows plainly that if Homer were translated in elegant languageit would produce the effect it ought to have, and that it has always produced in the original. The Mentor of ‘ Telemachus ’ says very good things^ although they are somewhat bold; and, in fine, Monsignore de Cambrai appears to me a much better poet than theologian.” About eighteen months after the death of Fenelon, Louis de Sacy, in giving his approval of the “ Telemaque,” calls it an epic poem, although in prose. Let me add the Abbe de Chau-terne, that intimate friend of Fenelon, in writing to Cardinal Gabrieli, expressed himself thus: “Our prelate had composed this book (the ‘Telemaque’), following the same plan with Homer in his ‘Iliad ’ and ‘ Odyssey,’ or Virgilin his ‘yEneid.’ ” Hencewe may safely say the “ Telemaque” may be regarded as a poem. Nothing is lacking but the system, which is not essential to the epic; besides, we learn from the testimonies just adduced that the author sought to give it all the charm and harmony of the poetic style.	L	• - -
Lastly,let us hear Fenelon himself.. He says: “As to the * Telemaque,’ it is a fabulous narration in the form of ,an heroic poem, like those of Homer and Virgil.”, To these authorities,! shall here join that of Dr. Blair, whose sqnti.ments-are.of great weight in whatever concerns ancient and modern literature. He says: “In reviewing the epic poets it were
98	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
unjust to make no mention of the amiable author of the ‘Telemaque.’ His work, though in prose, is a poem. The measured poetical prose in which it is written is remarkably harmonious, and gives the-style nearly as much elevation as the French language is capable of supporting in regular .verses;”
Suppose the “Telemaque” is not a poem, what is it? a romance? Certainly the “ Telemaque” differs still more from a romance than from a poem, as we at present understand the sense of these two words. Perhaps because the “.Telemaque? instructs, or at least was written to instruct, you would call it a didactic poem; but Milton’s “ Paradise Lost” instructs, for no one can read it without being struck with, the deformity of _sin. a nd .the-punishment its commission entails; but will you therefore call .“ Paradise Lost” a didactic 'poem ? Surely no, unless you desire to expose yourself to ridicule.
Stated in a few words, the nature of an epic poem is the recital of some great enterprise in a practical form. This may be considered an exact definition of this subject. It comprehends several other poems besides the “Iliad” of Homer, the “yEneid” of Virgil, and the “Jerusalem” of Tasso, which are perhaps the three most regular and complete epic works that were ever composed. But to exclude all poems from the epic class which are not formed exactly upon the same models as these, would be the pedantry of criticism. We can give exact definitions of plants and animals, and even minerals, and can arrange them with a certain precision under’ the several classes to which they belong, because nature affords a visible, an unvarying standard to which we can refer them. But with reference to works of taste and imagination, where nature has fixed no standard, it were absurd to attempt defining and limiting them with' the same precision. Criticism, when employed in such attempts, degenerates into trifling questions about mere words and names. The mostcompetent judges, therefore, do not hesitate to place in the same category as Homer’s and Virgil’s immortal-epics—the “ Iliad” and the “./Eneid”—Milton’s “ Paradise Lost,” Lucan’s “Pharsalia,” Ossian’s “Fingal ” and “ Tenora,” Voltaire’s “ Henriade,” Fenelbn’s “ Te-lemachus,” Statius’ “’Thebaid,” Camoen’s“ Lusiad,” Glover’s “Leonidas,” although some of them may, perhaps, have approached nearer than others to the perfection of these celebrated works. They are undoubtedly all epic; that is, poetical recitals of great adventures, which is all that is meant by this denomination of. poetry.	C.
'	Genevieve Lesueur.	’
-	{From the French by H.- H. Squire )
I.	. .
. One bright morning of September, in the year 1648,-in a large attic of a house on the Place de 1’Estrapade, in the city of Paris, a young woman was giving a writing lesson totwolittle girls, Marthe and Marie,—both fairhaired like their mother,— were taking^great pains with their task; they were seated upon several large books piled one .upon the
other to raise them to a level with the top of the massive oaken table on which their writing books were placed. The young mother was spinning, - but she watched each movement of their tiny fingers. She was dressed very simply in a gown of pale blue; and the furniture of the attic, without being distinctly poor, convincingly showed that the inmates did not live luxuriously. Straw-bottomed chairs, a large trunk, a box of paints, and several easels on which were paintings or portfolios of drawings adorned the room. The only objet de luxe it contained was a Venetian mirror, placed , opposite the one large window, in which was reflected the campanile of Saint Etienne du Mont, .and the tower , of the Abbey of St. Genevieve framed by the leaves of the climbing plants which were growing on the ledge outside; but for those who could appreciate works of art this attic was filled with treasures. It was the studio of Eustache Lesueur, and this beautiful young woman was the same who had been his model for the exquisite kneeling figure in his picture of Saint Martin’s Mass: she was his wife, Genevieve Gousse. As to Marthe and Marie, their charmng features were subsequently immortalized by their father in his paintings of the Hotel Lambert.
The children were still very young in the year 1648, and the lesson seemed longj especially as the hour for supper was approaching, and they heard the servant preparing the table in the next room.
“Mamma,” said Marthe, “my hand is tired. Will you not let me go and help Gothon. I ^vill finish my page after supper.”	-
“After supper you will go to bed, my daughter,” said Genevieve, “ come, a little courage. You must work. You know that your papa works all day.”
“ He does not do pages of writing,” replied Marthe; “ he paints, and that is much more amusing-”	. .	.	■	.
“What are you doing, Marie ? ” asked her mother.
“ I am making a beautiful Blessed Virgin,” said the child; arid she showed her mother some scribbling which, interrupted the line of A’s.
“ That is very naughty, said Genevieve; “ You must never draw on your copy-books. You will have to begin all over again.”
Marie heaved a deep sigh as she watched her mother tear out the page of the book -and rule the next. “ If only Aunt Bonbon would come,” she whispered to Marthe, “ then we would have campon
Ns> if some fairy had heard the little girl’s wish, there was a knock at the door, and Aunt Bonbon entered. She was Genevieve’s eldest sister, Denise Lefebvre. Upon perceiving her, the children uttered cries of joy, and sprang quicky from their chairs. She embraced her sister and nieces, and said, as she seated herself: “ Look in my pockets. The one on the right.is for Marthe, the one on the left for Marie; but I do not reinemher what uncle put in theni.”	. . ■
- There were a great many things in the pockets: ginger snaps, liquorice, burnt almonds, and dolls. As each object appeared, the. children uttered cries of delight,' embraced their aunt, and rejoiced that their gifts were; alike, and all pretty and good.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
When at last the two great pockets had been duly emptied and turned inside out; Aunt Bonbon suggested that her nieces should go and show their playthings to Gothon.
‘‘But,” said Genevieve, “the writing lesson is not finished.”
‘‘They can finish it to-morrow,” interrupted the aunt; “give them a holiday, poor little girls!”
“ Go then, and play,” said the mother, and the children obeyed with alacrity;
Aunt Denise was a tall, handsome woman, about thirty years old, affectionate and good. She had no children of her own, to her great sorrow, and so she overwhelmed all those she encountered with caresses and sugar plums. As to grown people, she excelled in giving them advice, and, when it was necessary, assistance also, provided she could scold them often.	■
“Well, Mademoiselle Lesueur,”* she said to Genevieve, “how is your husband?”
“Very well,” replied Genevieve, “but I only see him in the evenings. As soon as the sun rises he goes to work at the monastery of the Chartreux^ he dines there so as not to lose a moment, and does not come home until night.”
“What an existence!” exclaimed Denise; “It is not worth while being married. If I could only see M. Lefebvre in the evenings and had to dine without him I should be terribly ennuyee. Why does not your husband do his work at home?”
“He is obliged to paint on the walls of the cloister.”
“ And will he be well paid for it? ” asked Denise.
“I hope so,” said Genevieve; “but he made no arrangements for the price in advance.”
“What folly!” cried her practical sister; “And he delivers his merchandise thus without security?”
“Oh!” replied Genevieve, “the Fathers will not wrong him. He was so glad to have the Life of St. Bruno to paint that had he been a bachelor he would have done it for nothing; but he told the Father Prior that he had a wife and children; and the good Father told him to do his best and not to worry about anything.”
.. “That is easy to say,” remarked Denise, “but with this pretty way of managing one’s affairs your gown is very shabby, my poor Genevieve, and I do not know how you will give dowries to your daughters.”
“ We have plenty of time to think of that,” said Genevieve; “and as to my gown, I have another for Sundays, and I have such a good husband, Denise, I am so happy in every other way, that it would be wicked to complain.”
“Assuredly!” replied Denise; “still, if it is true that riches do not make happiness, poverty does not make it either, and I should like to see Lesueur make more money. ' M. Lebrun, his comrade, when he worked with M. Vouet, came into my store the other day to pay his own bill. There is a man of talent! The whole court are-his customers. He was dressed like a prince; a hat with a-plume, a velvet coat, a cravat of Mechlin, lace
* Madame -was then given only to women of rank.
and an embroidered mantle. All the neighbors stared at him a< he passed. Why does not your husband go to the court?”	.	. '
“He will go if the queen sends for him,” said Genevieve; “that will come perhaps,” she added with a sigh. .
“And Thomas,” asked Denise; “has he decided not to return to us? Does he prefer painting to groceries? And yet it was father’s business, and our eldest brother and my husband are doing well for themselves in it.”
“Thomas is helping my husband;” said Genevieve; “he is fond of drawing, but he does not disdain business. When Lesueur has finished his work at the monastery of the Chartreuse, perhaps Thomas will return to you.”
“Good!” said Denise; “ But there is seven o’clock already ringing from.the Abbey of St. Genevieve, and I must return to the rue des Lombards to sup with M. Lefebvre.”	.
“You ought to stay to supper with us,” said Genevieve. “ It is hardly worth while to come so far for such a short time.”
“ One does what one can,” replied Denise. “ I do not like to leave M. Lefebvre to take his supper with his clerks, and then I must arrange the accounts of the day. Remember me to Lesueur and to Thomas.” And the good aunt embraced Genevieve and the little ones, and started towards the rue des Lombards. ■	;
II.	-
Genevieve gave her little girls their supper, for in those times the children did not take the evenings meal with their parents until after they had made their First Communion. Then she heard them say their prayers and put them to bed, a little surprised that her husband- and brother had not yet returned. At last Thomas Gousse came alone.
“Your husband will take his supper at the monastery, little sister,” he said to Genevieve; “ he'wishes to finish something to-night, or else his work will not be completed for the feast of St. Bruno. I have come to take supper with you so as to make you patient, and immediately afterwards I return to the monastery. I shall mix colors until the curfevy rings, sleep there, and to-morrow.at the dawn of day I shall be at work again.”
“ You are a good brother, dear Thomas, and you help my poor Lesueur a great deal. But, tell me, is what he is doing very beautiful ? ”
“It is wonderful!” replied Thomas; “He has surpassed himself! You cannot imagine anything to equal it. The good Fathers remain for hours at his side in ecstasy. His brush gives life to all it touches.”	’	'	■
“How happy you are to see it all!” exclaimed Genevieve. If you only knew how I suffer from ennui. Not- to see. my, husband• any. more during the day is bad enough, and to think that I shall never enter that cloister! Ah! truly, the rule of St. Bruno is too severe!” .	-
The brother and sister seated themselves at the table. Thomas seemed very much'preoccupied.
-TOO
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Suddenly he said: “Are you really anxious to see your husband’s paintings?”
“A thousand times more than I can tell you!” she exclaimed.
« Well, I have an idea. If only you can get rid of your little girls to-morrow afternoon for a few hours, I will take you to the Chartreuse. But you must say nothing to Lesueur nor anyone else.”
“Why, that will be just the thing!” said she; to-morrow my little daughters take lunch with their Aunt Rosalie, in the rue Saint-Jacques.”
“Very well,” replied Thomas, “I will make my preparations.”
“Will you ask the permission of the Reverend Father General or of Monseigneur the Archbishop?” asked his sister.
“We shall see: Adieu! I am going to join your husband and to send him to you. But do not say a word of this to him; we will take him by surprise.”
“It will be charming!” exclaimed Genevieve. And the brother and sister separated.
HI-	.
Lesueur soon came home. The first thing he did was to go and look at his sleeping daughters, and imprint a kiss upon their foreheads.
“How lovely they are!” he said; “ Have they been good ? ”	'
“ Oh, yes!” replied the young mother, “ I took them to walk in the green road * all along the wall of the Chartreuse. Marie said: ‘If I were a little bird, I would fly to the other side of this great wall to see papa;’ and Marthe kept gathering flowers and throwing them over, crying out: ‘ Papa, they are for you!’ But I had almost forgotten to tell you, one of M. de Chanteloup’s lackeys ,brought a package and a letter for you. It is from Rome.”
“ Ah!” said Lesueur, “it is no doubt from Nicolas Poussin. How glad I am! Where is it? Give me a lamp, my dear wife.”
He seated himself, and opened the letter carefully without breaking Poussin’s seal. It ran thus:
“Rome, August 15, 1648.
“My. Dear Young Friend:	/
“I hope the drawing which 1 send you, and which I made for you in one of the most beautiful and most celebrated places in the world will assist you in composing the background of the picture which you are projecting. You ■will see in it the Vatican, Saint Peter’s, the Chateau Saint Ange, and that most charming portion,of the banks.of the Tiber which is my favorite promenade. It seems as if both art and nature had arranged everything there for the delight of the eyes.- I hope, too, that my-drawing wi.l inspire you with the desire to rejoin me in this Italy, the artist’s own country, where the types of antique beauty are ., found, not only in the dief-d'teuvres of art, but living, and in all classes’ of society.	•	•	•
-■ “ Near theTrinite-des-Monts I have often given alms to ■ beggars who seemed more like gods or kings so handsome ■ and majestic were, they beneath their rags. When, then, will you come to enjoy with me these things, this light, these resplendent skies, compared with which the sun of •France"is pale? I-have been awaiting you for six years!
I know that you are not rich, that you are married, and already a father; but, remember, the expenses of the journey once paid, you can live in Rome for much less than in
* Now the Rut d'Assas.	•	- '
Paris. My good w’ife will counsel yours, and will receive her at first in our own apartment. Come, my dear Lesueur. Your talent, already so great, will be perfected, and T, happy to be near you, will at last find in Rome what I have always sought for.'in vain—a friend. Let me know if you will not soon have finished your paintings at the Chartreuse, and if Monsieur le President Lambert has, according to my advice, given you the galei ie of his hotel in the He Notre Dame to decorate, and
“ Believe me always your friend,
.	“Nicolas Poussin.”
Lesueur promptly undid the package which accompanied this letter, and found a drawing placed between two pieces of pasteboard. Standing it upright against a book and drawing the lamp towards him, he leaned his elbows on the table, and, shading his eyes with his outspread' hands, gazed long at the chef-d'auvre of Poussin. He felt as if he could never cease admiring the vast horizon, the majestic lines of the mountains, and the lights and shades shown by touches of bistre and white. Between the steep banks-, washed by the current, he seemed to hear the noise made by the waters of the Tiber.	'
Genevieve,’too, looked at this sheet of thick reddish paper, covered with bold stroke*, and seemed surprised at the admiration which it excited: she was much more astonished upon perceiving two great tears fall slowly from the artist’s eyes.
“Alas!” said she, “I thought this drawing gave you pleasure!” .	•	-
“And you were not mistaken, my dear wife,” was Lesueur’s reply. “One weqps for joy sometimes. M. Poussin has made me a kingly' gift. But my eyes are tired; let us go to the window; the night air will refresh me.” '	’
They seated themselves near the open window. The moon had hot yet risen, but many shooting stars were traversing the skies.
“ Do you know,” Genevieve said to her husband, “ that when one names what one most desires while a star is shooting, one obtains it?” • ' ’
“That would be very convenient,” replied the artist; “but one cannot ask for many things, for the stars shoot very quickly.” ’
“Indeed, yes,” said Genevieve; “but it has succeeded with me several times. You must try when the.next star passes.” -	-
The artist gazed’ at the heavens. He waited long for the stars, and his thoughts travelled far away. At last he saw one; he remembered one word—Rome.' And Genevieve understood then why Lesueur had wept.’ '	•
.	. (to be continued.),.
. Suretyship and Guaranty. .
-	- (Concluded.)
. Sureties, in the bond-of an annual officer are liable only for the first,year,- and,-, in some cases, such time thereafter as may be necessary for the: qualification of a successor; nor will the re-election of their principal extend their liability; but where, bj' acts of their own, they clearly evince an intention to.remain.bound as sureties, they maybe so
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ioi
held. And an exception has been made where a guaranty was indorsed on a lease by a third person, undertaking for the payment of rent in case the lessee should hold over after the termination of his leasehold.
It depends solely on the nature of the undertaking whether a surety or guarantor may be compelled to discharge the obligation before satisfaction has been sought from the principal. But it is generally held that notice of the default of the principal is necessary before recourse can be had to the sureties or guarantors. Still, where the time of payment is definitely fixed by the contract, the liability may be enforced against them immediately upon the termination of that time, and notice is not necessary. But where, from the nature of the contract, the obligee is bound to resort to the principal first, he must use due diligence in the prosecution of his remedies against such principal. “Due diligence” depends on the circumstances of each case. But the rule was laid down in Voorhees vs. Atlee, 29 Iowa, 49, that “ Due diligence generally, and in the absence of any special facts, would require suit to be instituted at the first regular term of the court after maturity, and the obtaining of judgment and execution thereon as soon as practicable by the ordinary rules and practice of the court.”
Sureties and guarantors may likewise escape liability by notice to the obligee. Such notice when given must be bona fide, and ordinarily there should be a stipulation to that effect. It should not prejudice the rights of any person who has already acted by virtue of such guaranty. In some cases it is held that this right is a part of the contract, and governed by the lex loci contractus. In Meriden Silver Plate Co. vs. Flory, 7 N. E. Rep. 753, the notice given by the sureties to the creditor, a foreign corporation, was:
“Yours of the 12th came to hand. If you hold any note signed C. M. Rider and ourselves, C. M. Rider is the principal and we are only sureties; and we notify you to commence an action on the note forthwith and proceed to collect it. Rider is able to pay his own notes.
*	“Yoii’-s,
■ •	.	. “Flory & Havens.”
It was held to be sufficient. The creditor delayed from the time of receiving it, October 17, 1878, till January 25,'1879. The delay was unexplained, ex-ceptby the fact that the plaintiff was a resident of-another state, which was held insufficient. His remedy as against the sureties was gone. The duty to proceed within a reasonable time is imperative. Sureties arenot liable where they sign a bond oma con-■ dition, and such^condition is known to the obligee and- not complied'with at the time of its delivery. Nor is1 a' surety who undertakes for-a single 'principal liable for acts of apartnership of which his principal subsequently becomes' a ’ member. Nor is a surety or guarantor of a firm liable, as a rule, after a change in the membership of the-firm has been made.Nor are-they liable where they provide in their agreement that it shall be accepted by the creditors of a firm for whose benefit.it is given; and a rriajority of such creditors do not so accept it. Nor can the liability of a surety be
greater than the amount recovered against the principal, since a surety cannot be bound or held for greater liability than the principal. Nor are they liable where they enter into the bond of a probate judge who is made, ex officio^ county treasurer by statute, for acts performed by him as county treasurer, although the statute provides that he shall give bond with securities in his double capacity. Nor is a guarantor liable to any person other than the one to whom he makes the guaranty, except in the case of negotiable paper in the hands, of a bona fide holder. And it has been held that a surety on a promissory note, even though his signature was obtained by fraud and misrepresenT tation, is liable for payment to an innocent payee.
In the appropriation of payments, where both the obligor and obligee have failed to specify the manner in which payments are to be applied, the law will, in the case of long and continued accounts, apply payments which are made from time to time to debts first contracted; but if such prior debts or items are secured in any manner, and there are debts or items in the same account subsequent in time which are not secured, payments will be ap--plied in favor of such unsecured items. When, however, the rights of sureties would be affected by such an application of payments they have a right to demand the payments made to be applied to the earlier items which they secure; but they cannot alter this general rule in favor of themselves when they are sureties as to the later items.
Discharge.—The rule in regard to the discharge of sureties is, that any material change of their undertaking or that of the principal, without their knowledge or consent, substantially affecting their rights, will operate as a discharge. If the obligee and principal, after breach of the original contract, without the consent of the sureties, enter into a new contract, not germane to their original undertaking, the sureties will also be discharged. Under this general rule, extension of time by the - -creditor to the principal operates most frequently as a discharge. Where the creditor and principal debtor act on an implied contract as to the extension of time, it is sufficient evidence to warrant the discharge of the surety. In like manner, a binding agreement by the principal to pay an increased rate of lawful interest is a sufficient consideration for an extension of time; and in the absence of re- . butting testimony it will operate as a discharge of the sureties. An agreement by one of-several joint -creditors for the extension of time, is the act of all, and discharges the sureties; but not.so where their-interest is not joint. Nevertheless, even in such : case, it will operate as a discharge from liability as ? to him who permits or consents.to an extension of- • time. Where the date of a note is altered-without the consent or knowledge of the surety or guarantor, it will discharge him. - So also will the addition " ' of a new surety after the note is signed and de-. ’ livered;-but not so in the case of a bond. It is entirely immaterial when the alteration is. made after the instrument is signed and delivered, even : if made after judgment is rendered. -Nor does it change the rule, that the alteration of the.instru
102
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ment is for the benefit of the surety or guarantor. He may relinquish it if he chooses.
Where payment of interest is made in advance, it is frimajacie evidence of an agreement to delay payment of the principal secured, and suit cannot be brought within such time unless this right has been specially reserved. Consequently, such acts will operate as a discharge of the sureties, unless evidence is brought forth rebutting such presumption. Where, by the knowledge and consent of the creditor, a surety is induced to sign an obligation through misrepresentation as to the extent of the liability of the principal, which, in fact, lessens his responsibility, he will be discharged. Any condition on which the surety signed, or any other fraud perpetrated to secure his signature, will operate in the same manner. And so, too, where risks known to the principal and creditor, and incident to the undertaking, which could not ordinarily be expected in the course of business, are wrongfully concealed. Where securities are deposited with the obligee, applicable to a debt on which" sureties are liable, are subsequently and without the consent of the sureties applied to other debts-of the principal by the obligee, it will amount to a discharge of the sureties -pro tanto. So, too, a tender of the amount due by the principal to the creditor will discharge the sureties if the amount is refused: and the rule extends to a tender by a surety. Where the extension of time is to work the discharge of a surety or guarantor it must not be a mere forbearance to sue, but an extension for a definite period. And where forbearance is alleged there must be an agreement by one to pay and by the other to forbear; and each agreement must be in consideration of the other. Finally, there must be actual forbearance by the creditor, or it will have the effect of an extension of time.
- But where, after an extension of time has been given by the creditor, the sureties or guarantors consent to it, they may be held. Nor will the rule incident to the extension of time operate where the parties have been fully indemnified by the principal. Nor will an agreement by the creditor not to sue the surety or guarantor for a definite time discharge him. Nor is the taking of collateral security by the creditor, falling due after the debt, an extension of time. > Nor will a surety be discharged where time is given the principal, and at the same time the remedies against the surety are reserved. Nor where by acts of the creditor a surety is deprived of the benefit of a fund for the payment of the debt confided to the creditor, unless the contract of the surety has thereby been changed; but in such case, as already seen, he may be exonerated from liability to the extent of the injury so incurred. Nor will the sureties in ah official bond be discharged by mere suspension . from office of their principal: to have this effect there must be a removal. Nor will a surety be discharged by act of law, without the participation of the creditor. But where the creditor releases the body of the principal, the surety may, on showing injury, be discharged; so, also, where the creditor relinquishes a levy on property of the principal,
A release of one co-surety, without materially affecting the contract, releases the remaining sureties only to the extent that such released surety was bound. Neglect of the creditor to present his claim against the estate of the principal, deceased, although it be solvent, until all remedies a'gainst such estate are lost, will not discharge the sureties. This, of course, is the rule where the debt was not yet due at the time of the principal’s death. It is founded on the principle, that the creditor, not being obliged to sue the principal while living, was under no greater obligation to proceed against his estate after his death.
In the case of a continuing guaranty for the honesty and integrity of an employe or servant, the master is bound on discovering his dishonesty to notify the guarantor. Where he neglects to do this and retains the servant in his employment, he is held to have waived the benefit of the guaranty, and the guarantor will in consequence be discharged from further liability.	•
Before concluding this division, relative to the discharge of sureties and guarantors, it might be proper to state that it is wholly immaterial how the relation of principal and surety or guarantor is established in order to secure his discharge through acts of the creditor. It is merely necessary that the creditor should be cognizant of the fact that the relation exists. He is then bound to keep in sight their equities in every action he may subsequently take. With the extinguishment of the principal’s obligation ends the collateral liability of the guarantor and the joint liability of the surety.
C. F. Rheinberger.
A Statue of Longfellow-
Mr. Franklin Simmons has practically finished his great statue of Longfellow. It is still at his studio in Rome, where in a few days it. will be cast in bronze. Mr. Simmons, as is well known, is an American; and, not only that, but he comes from Portland, Maine, which was the birthplace of the great poet whose statue he has designed. He -has spent so much time in Rome, however, that he is more at home there than anywhere else. Indeed, he is as well known in art circles throughout Europe as he is in Portland—perhaps better. What honor he is held in in his own country I know not; but here in Paris, and at Rome and Florence, he is regarded as one of the half-dozen best sculptors of the world. I heard a professor at the Fine-Arts School, say not long ago, that America, having produced Joel Hart, Hiram Powers, and Franklin Simmons, deserved a foremost place among artistic nations. Mr. Simmons has been working almost incessantly for more than a year on the clay model of this statue. Now, that it is finished, he says he is satisfied with it,-and considers it the best piece of work he has ever done. It will not look just as he intends it to until it has been reproduced in bronze—its appearance in that metal having been in his eye throughout the work, But even in th$
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
clay it is a most impressive work. It seems to me to be in a happy medium between the real and the ideal. There is enough of the former about it to make it an excellent likeness, while the latter element is sufficiently prominent to give it a spiritualized and classical air.
. The statue represents Longfellow seated. in a rich and heavy chair. The right arm and hand rest easily upon the arm of the chair. The left arm is thrown forward, and the hand rests upon the knee. The left hand grasps a mass of manuscript, and beneath the chair are seen several books, carelessly laid upon the floor. The clothes are those of the period, but a large cloak is thrown about the poet’s shoulders and drapes his entire form. The head is thrown slightly forward in a thoughtful attitude, which was, I am told, characteristic of the poet. In size the figure is colossal. Were it standing erect it would be more than ten feet high. Such a size was decided upon because it is to stand in the open air at Portland on a pedestal about twelve feet high. This pedestal will be of polished red granite, and will be, I believe, designed by Mr. Simmons this winter in Boston or Portland, where he will spend much time. The casting of ; the statue will be begun at once, but nearly six ; .months will be required for the task. It will be ready to unveil at Portland, however, early next : Spring. Several eminent critics at Rome, who knew Mr. Longfellow well, declare that this statue . is not only an admirable likeness of him, but that : it is the best piece of portrait-sculpture ever produced in Rome by any artist since the classical : days of the masters.— Cor. Chicago Tribune. j
Scientific Notes.
—Chevreul, the centenarian scientist, recently spoke for three hours at the Academy of Sciences in Paris. His voice was clear, and could be distinctly heard in all parts of the room.
—Among the relics taken from the High Mound, near the Ohio River, recently, were two silver crosses and thirty silver shoe-buckles. The buckles bear the French crown and date of 1730, and, ■ it is thought, belonged to some Jesuit missionaries. This indicates the use of the mounds as burialplaces down to quite recent times.
—Laborers digging a cut for a railroad near Canterbury uncovered an almost perfect circular: well built of flints. Local antiquaries say that it is the opening to some subterranean passage used j by the Romans when they camped there. The, workmen had previously found near the same spot; the remains of two Roman soldiers.
—At a recent meeting of the biological and mi- : croscopical section of the Philadelphia Academy ..of Natural Sciences there was only one bald-headed : .man in the gathering of savants. This was ac- J counted for upon the theory that “ the persistent use • of the optic nerve and retina by means of the micro- • scope has a beneficial and stimulating effect upon the
capillary tubes.” Good news for oitr microscopists.
—-Aug. 19, a waterspout was formed in Lake Geneva, Switzerland. This waterspout was formed by the collision of the west and south winds, crossed the lake, and finally disappeared on reaching the Swiss shore. Its height has been estimated by various observers, and is calculated to have been about 325 feet. No damage is reported, though the spout churned its way across the lake with an appearance very like the water from a steamer-paddle.
—A most recent application of paper is to the manufacture of bottles for the transportation of acids and alcoholic liquids. The glued paper is rolled by machinery in the size of tube required and is then cut off at appropriate lengths. The tops and bottoms are then cemented in, the neck added if necessary, and the Whole covered with a glazing which will withstand the action of acids or spirits. The bottles as thus finished are practically unbreakable, are of light weight, and need no packing for transportation.	.
—The Nautical Society of Hamburg has offered a prize of 500 marks for the best essay on the subject of calming the sea by the use of oil. An exhaustive description of experiments of the effect of oil made up to the present time is required; also a criticism of the arrangements-used so far.- and-es-pecially complete direction for its use by. large steamers and sailing vessels, as well as small vessels—pilot, fishing, and life-saving boats—besides directions for the use of oil at sea and near the coast. The essays are to be written in English or German, and sent before Nov. 1, 1887, to the President of the Nautical Society, Director of the Navigation School, Cap.TYE. Matthiesen, Hamburg.' Competition is not limited by nationality. ...
—The attention of chemists has been directed during later years to the construction of new compounds, and the reproduction artificially of those occurring in nature. Up to this time articles .of food have not been produced. Quite recently, however, a synthesis of a startling nature, has been de? scribed by E. Fischer in papers by himself and stur dents. This appears to be the production, artificially, of one of the sugars—glucose or grape sugar. In the course of some experiments with glycerine a product was obtained which vvas shown to be either glycerine aldehyde, or its isomeric compound. In order to settle this question, an endeavor was made to prepare the aldehyde from acrolein. On treating bi-brom-acrolein with caustic baryta a sub? stance was found which refused to crystallize and reduced Fehling’s solution. . On treating this with phenyl-hydrazine a peculiar compound—an osazone—was obtained. Now some time before the same author had described, a compound—glucosazone—formed from the action of phenyl-hydra^ zine on glucose. This is absolutely identical with that described above from acrolein so far as can be observed. If further experiment should .confirm the above it will prove one of the most brilliant pieces of chemical work ever established, as by so doing all of the sugars, starches, etc., will be built up from their elements; •	>	•
io4	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W3M®Wsn£.
Notre Dame, October 22, 1887.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twenty-F irst year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, « above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who majr have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
Cyclopedia of American Biography.” The design of these well-known and enterprising publishers in issuing this work is one that commends itself to the student and historian of our country, with whom, no doubt, it will find a ready and’wide circulation. But a work of this kind, intended, as it is, as standard and valuable books of reference, should, above all, be strictly accurate in its statements. We have seen the first two volumes of the “Cyclopedia,” and a cursory, examination has revealed several errors which should be corrected. The sketch of the esteemed ordinary of this diocese, the Rt. Rev. Dri Dwenger, Bishop of Ft. Wayne, is meagre, indeed; far from what is befitting the life of one who, since his elevation to the episcopal dignity, has accomplished so much for the public good. His work in the cause of education alone— especially in the establishment of the Diocesan School Board, for which he is well known throughout the country—should have been reason sufficient for a more extended notice. But, short as the sketch is, it contains a glaring misstatement, inasmuch as Bishop Dwenger is accredited with the “ establishment of the University of Notre Dame.” This is certainly an error in regard to an event of no slight importance and, we think that in a standard work, such as the “Cyclopedia” will be, a correction should be made, and the honor of the foun-. dation and the upbuilding of this University be given to the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C.
Wonders of Colorado.
'—A consignment of precious souvenirs arrived Thursday from Rome for the Bishops’ Memorial Hall. Among the treasures we noticed a magnificent casket in gold bronze, containing articles owned by our late Holy Father, Pope Pius IX. The casket is a beautiful piece of workmanship surmounted by the keys of Peter, the papal tiara, an archiepiscopal cross and a bishop’s crozier exquisitely wrought. On the sides are embossed the implements of the Passion of our Lord, and the sacred vessels used in the Divine Sacrifice, with a shield bearing the name “Pie IX.” The whole is enclosed in a handsome case of red mor-rocco lined with white satin. Another precious souvenir resting on a cushion of crimson satin is a snow-white soli Deo worn by Pope Leo XIII on . the anniversary celebration of his coronation. Near it are placed a red silk zuchetto, owned by his Eminence Cardinal Simeoni, and two purple ones . worn by Mgr. Jacobirii, Archbishop of Tyre, and : Mgr.Kirby, Bishop of Lita. Another case contains a red zuchetto worn bythe late Cardinal Barnabo , the last time he had an audience with Pio .Nono, and a scarlet.calotte worn by his Eminence when in the agonies of death.	' ’	.
—Messrs. D. Appleton and Co.; of New York, are novv engaged in the’ publication of a “ New
The entertainment kindly given by the Rev. Father Zahm in the Exhibition Hall Wednesday evening was in all respects pleasant and instructive. The students of the different departments of the University, together with members of the Faculty and several visitors, were in attendance; and for each and all of them the entertainment proved to be a series of enjoyable surprises. It consisted in the exhibition of stereoscopic views representing, the most striking mountains, canons, plains, parks, rivers, lakes, towns and cities in Colorado. Father Zahm’s descriptions of scenery and explanations of the views made them so realistic that the spectators needed no particular exuberance of imagination to fancy themselves in the actual presence of the objects represented. Followed by his pleased and interested audience, he passed along the chief lines of travel in the State, exhibiting here and there the most striking objects among its sublime mountains, its awful canons, its gorgeous peaks and pinnacles, its varied and wondrous beauties. Beginning at Salt Lake City, views of which and the celebrated Mormon Temple, were presented, he. led the audience last to Denver, showing.en rottte ’ the “Bad Lands of Utah,” with their forbidding bluffs and hills of clay and sand; “ Animas Canon,” with, its soaring cliffs and singular- formations:• “The Great Canon of the Colorado,” where, the tortuous river flows toward the Pacific some 6,000. feet below the summits, of' the 'mountains and cas
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	105
tellated peaks that hem it in on either side; “Ruins of Rio Moncos,” with their suggestiveness of a people.and civilization long departed and lost in the obscurity of the past; “The Ute Reservation,” with a glance at our noble red men as they appear “at home”; Leadville,' with its mines, smelters and thriving industries; “The Royal Gorge of the Arkansas,’’ where for miles the river runs between and among the mountains that rise precipitously 3,000 feet above its seething waters, and where the foot of man but rarely trod before a way for the railroad was excavated in the beetling rocks, along its north banks'; and further south, “La Veta Pass,” where the railroad crosses the'Sangre di Cristo range, at an altitude of more than 9,000 feet above sea level, and where the celebrated “Mule-shoe Bend’’ascends and curves around the apex of the mountain; again, miles to the west, “ Wagon-wheel Gap,” in the San Juan country, noted for the wild and romantic beauties of its scenery; “Toltec Tunnel and Gorge,” in the southern part of the State, where the train creeps along an excavated road-bed and passes through tunnels thousands, of feet high on the rocky face of the mountain; “Silverton” and “ Gunnison,” with their numerous evidences of thrift and prosperity; “The Cattle Ranges,” representing a greatindustry; “The Irrigating Canals,” so essential to the development of the agricultural resources of the State; “ Colorado Springs,” with cozy residences and home-like air, at the foot of the mountains; “Manitou Springs,” a few miles westward, with its marvellous rock formations, its beautiful water-falls, its famous soda and iron springs, its world-renowned “Garden of the Gods,” and its majestic sentinel, snow-crowned “Pike’s Peak,” overlooking the charming scene. And not the least interesting features of the mountain scenery exhibited were the beautiful “Twin” and “Evergreen ” lakes, many thousand feet above the level of the sea. Denver, too, received due attention, its more prominentstreets, business blocks and public buildings being exhibited. Father Zahm’s great faith in the future of Denver was exemplified in numerous references to its growth and promise.	'
The entertainment lasted over-an hour and a half, and the spontaneity and heartiness of the applause that marked its termination bore most convincing testimony to the pleasure it had afforded, and to the appreciation and thanks of the entire audience. •	•	•
Leo XIII and the New Catholic University.
The Catholic World for November opens with the first instalment of the series of articles on “The New Catholic University” contributed by the Rt. Rev. John J. Keane,-Bishop of Richmond. The present article is introductory to the series, but none the less it possesses an importance and a character of timeliness which demand that more than usual attention should be paid to’it, especially by the intelligent Catholic public, of the country. Bishop Keane begins-by referring to-the. Apostolic Brief
of approval issued-by the Holy Father on the 10th day of April, 18S7. “ By that act,” says the writer, “ the hand of the Vicar of Christ laid in our Western World the foundations of an institution destined, he felt assured, to give to the life of the Church in our country a’new tone and a higher influence.”
The Bishop speaks of the affectionate interest which marks the words of the papal brief and distinguishes it from “ briefs of approbation given to the other Catholic universities founded in recent times.” In the present brief, Leo XIII “is writing of a project that is the outgrowth of his own spirit, the inspiration of his own great mind. There is a warmth in his welcome to it, a persuasiveness in his praise of it, a craving in his prayer for its success, an appeal in his exhortation to its accomplishment, which tells that the great enterprise is as much his own as ours, and that his heart is set on its realization.”
B shop Keane then speaks eloquently of the interest manifested by the Pope in America and its contemplated University, not only in private audiences, but even on occasions of public gatherings and great ceremonial. The following extracts from the Bishop’s article are worthy of serious attention:
“In this estimate of America’s future, Leo XIII agrees with many of the most distinguished modern thinkers in his own Italy and in other lands. He has known intimately and loved well two of Italy’s foremost literary glories—Cesare Balbo and Cesare Cantu. Both were historians and philosophers, and both saw to what the hand of Providence is guiding the world. Whoever has roamed through the beautiful public gardens on the Pincian Hill, and passed lingeringly along those marvellous rows of marble busts which place before our wondering, admiring, almost envying gaze -the great men of Italy’s past, cannot but have been struck by the face of Cesare Balbo. It is so massive, so majestic, so tender and meditative and sad, that its look touches you to the heart. You see that great, calm, deep, earnest eyes are gazing through the vista of human history, and through what has been and what is, foreseeing what is to be; and there is sadness in his look, because he sees that the glories of the future are not to belong to his beloved Italy. In his admirable work,- ‘Meditazioni Storiche,’ he shows the hand of God guiding the destinies of the nations of all ages, and shows how the supremacy in culture and in influence has passed from the nations of antiquity to Italy, and from her to Spain, to France, to England. Then in the conversion of the American colonies -into a new nation, he sees the opening up of ‘the law of history for the future.’ He laughs at the fears of old-time conservatism concerning the advance of democratic institutions. He hails every force at work to accomplish ‘that great and holy Christian work of lessening the differences between the conditions of men.’ And he foretells that ‘the difference between the aristocracy and the democracy of intellectual and moral worth’is the only one destined not to pass away.
“ Thejbust of Cesare-Cantu is not on the Pincian Hill, because Italy rejoices in having him still alive;
io6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
but one day it will surely be there, amid that matchless galaxy of her illustrious sons. His ‘Universal History,’ his ‘History of the Italian People,’ and his ‘History of a Hundred Years’ are works that will live always; and he has lately crowned - them all with what will be the last great production of his genius ‘History of the Last Thirty Years.’ In this work, after a sketch of the great crisis through which our country passed so safely in its civil war, he concludes thus: ‘May political science grow wise in the study of America’s dangers and prosperity; and may the world, hitherto choked and checked by doubt, thence learn that man is really capable of self-government; that governments must be administered solely in view of the welfare of the governed; and that the best of all governments is that which not only does not hinder, but encourages and aids the development of individual activity.’
“Thus do these two great Italian historians and philosophers picture America’s position and influence in the world’s future; and there is.no mind more fitted to appreciate the truth of the picture than that of Leo XIII.
“In France, likewise, nearly every calm, clearsighted mind, not buried in the tomb of the past, nor wild with utopias of the future, looks to America for the solution of their social and political problems. They regard with admiration and envy a country where, as Cardinal Gibbons said in his inaugural discourse at Santa Maria in Trastevere, liberty reigns without license, and authority rules without despotism; where Church and State move on together in friendly joint endeavors for the spiritual and temporal welfare of the people; where the working-classes are considered not as children but as men, and look upon law and government not as their tyrants but as their protectors; where humanity is a word to be spoken not with fear but with affection, and where the rights of man do not mean a gory-locked spectre of revolution and anarchy, but the simple truth and the simple justice which are the natural basis of popular welfare. These things, which are so plain and familiar to us, are to them an intangible dream, and they gaze with yearning interest towards the blessed land where they are a reality, and recognize that there must lie the hopes of the future....
“Leo XIII has the clearest mind in Europe. He scans the world not only with the watchful and loving look of its spiritual father, but also, with the keen eye of a profound philosopher and an enlightened statesman. What Balbo and Cantu and so many others have seen is evident to him. •He longs for the highest welfare of America, because he sees the influence she is to have on the welfare of mankind, and the world’s welfare is the one desire of his heart. Not only the spiritual but also the temporal well-being of mankind is the constant subject of his thoughts and his prayers.
“ The luminous mind of Leo XIII clearly appreciates that no intellectual power can lead the age that is ‘behind the age.’ Hence his desire that our university should be up to the forefront of modern knowledge. Its foundations are to be firmly laid
on the mountains of the learning of the past, on those eternal and unchanging principles of philosophic truth of which St. Thomas Aquinas is the chief exponent; but its pinnacles must touch the farthest reaches of modern investigation and discovery, and its walls enclose all the boundaries of modern thought. Its motto must be: Nihil hu~ manum a me alienum puto. This desire the Pope has clearly expressed in the words of his brief. He also manifested it very plainly in a practical way. It happened that while the two bishops were in Rome whom the Board of Directors had commissioned to lay the business of the university before the Holy See, there was also in the Eternal City a distinguished professor of the University of Louvain, whom the Holy Father had invited to come and discuss with him the best methods of meeting the intellectual needs of our age. He had chosen out this professor to be his counsellor on so important a matter because of what might be termed his advanced views in regard to the education needed in our day, because of his longing that St. Thomas should reign in the schools, not as the St. Thomas of the twelfth century, but, as the great doctor would assuredly himself desire it, as the St. Thomas of the nineteenth century. To this professor the Holy Father himself directed our two bishops, assuring them that they would find in him the ideas that should mould and guide our university. And certainly he was right. Our conferences with Professor, now Monsignor Mercier, will be an invaluable assistance in determining the course of studies of the university, so as to have them, as Leo XIII so ardently wishes, fully adequate to the intellectual wants of the age we live in......
“Hence the earnestness’with which he dwells, in .the university brief, on the dangers to human society threatened by the incendiary torch of error; hence his ‘most glad welcome and hearty approval of a project prompted by a desire to promote the welfare of all and the interest of our illustrious Republic;’ hence his hope that the contemplated university will not only bestow on the Church her ablest ministers, but also ‘give to the Republic her best citizens.’ Leo XIII manifests a more than ordinary interest in our Catholic University, and encourages the undertaking with an altogether exceptional earnestness because of his deep conviction that the Church in America is to exercise a dominant influence in the world’s future, and that this influence must rest on intellectual superiority. The young giant Church of the Western world must now gird herself with the majesty befitting her providential vocation; and the establishment of the Catholic University is a giant stride towards its realization.....
“Such is the Catholic University of America in the mind of Leo XIII. He is intimately persuaded that such an institution, in which all the learning of the present will be firmly rooted in all the wisdom of the past, and illumined by the radiance of divine truth, and fostered and safeguarded and pointed to noblest ends by the spirit of religion, cannot fail to be, as he recently wrote to Cardinal Gibbons, ‘ a great glory to the Church, of God and a great
Q
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
107
blessing to our country.’ Surely no one who reflects upon it can differ from him in this conviction. And surely no one to whom Providence has given, in any degree, power or means to aid it forward, will fail to lend a generous helping hand towards its realization. From a full heart the Holy Father bestows his benediction on all who co-operate in the great work; and assuredly no one who loves divine truth, who loves the Church and the country, and loves the Pope, will stand back or hesitate. . . .
“ In the establishment of universities the brief of apostolic approbation and encouragement is the first of several papal documents, issued as the work develops, culminating in the bull of canonical institution. They who have watched with friendly and prayerful interest the advance of the undertaking thus far will, we trust, follow with no less friendliness and helpfulness its further progress. No one will watch it with more solicitude and hopeful eagerness than Leo XIII.”
Personal.
—-Mrs. H. Tompkins, of Leadville, Colo., accompanied by her sister, pleasantly surprised Master Tommy, of the Minims, with a delightful visit this week.
—Mr. Dennis Sheedy, of Denver, Colo., passed a few days at the College on a visit to his ward, Master Daniels. Mr. Sheedy’s visit was welcome and enjoyed by numerous friends.
—A welcome visitor to the College during the week was Mr. Jacob Scherrer, a prominent and influential citizen of Denver, Colo., and a genial gentleman, who paid a visit to his sons Leo and Charlie.
—Francis A. Quinn, ’83, occupies a responsible and lucrative government office at Danville, Ill. He contemplates entering upon the study of medicine, in which he will find more congenial employment of his talents. He has the best wishes of many friends.
—Rev. William F. O’Rourke, who for many years was connected with the University as a Professor, is pastor of the Holy Angels’ Church, Cincinnati, Ohio. The Rev. Father sends best regards and wishes to his many friends at “dear old Notre Dame.”
—Mr. and Mrs. A. Hughes, of Denver, Colo., were welcome visitors to the College during the week. They called to see their sons and nephews at Notre Dame, and their daughter at St. Mary’s. Their visit was a source of pleasure to a number of friends who hope it will soon be renewed.
—John J. Kleiber,’87, is at his home in Brownsville, Texas, preparing for the practice of law in the office of Wells & Hicks. He writes to renew his subscription to his old College paper,and therein sets a good example for many another old student of Notre Dame. His many friends here wish him continued success in the profession which he has adopted,	’	.	.
—We learn from the Faribault (Minn.) Democrat that Mr. M. H. Keeley,’72, has been re-elected a member of the Board of Education for the Faribault School District. This is one of many evidences of the well-merited confidence in Mr. Keeley’s energy and ability entertained by his fel- * low-citizens. His friends at Notre Dame are gratified to hear of the success attending one who has always been an honor to his Alma Mater.
—A cablegram from Very Rev. Father General Sorin was received by President Walsh on Monday last, and gave great joy to all at Notre Dame. The dispatch stated that Father General had just returned to Paris from the Mineral Springs of Mon-dorf, in the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg. He had spent some days at the Springs, taking the waters, and found himself so much benefited by them that he felt he was perfectly restored to health. He expressed his thanks for the numerous congratulations and good wishes that had been “ wired ” to him from our far-off Western land. He was about to start for Rome, where he would present Notre Dame’s offering to the Holy Father, and then start for “ happy home.” All here rejoice at the cheering intelligence conveyed in the message of Father General, and will pray for his speedy and safe return.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Rev. W. L. Davidson, Cleveland, O.; Misses N. and C. Hart, Mrs. Pawling, Miss A. Barnes and Miss M. Huston, Elkhart, Ind.; Miss A. Guyer, Polo, Ill.; Messrs. J. J., A. M. and H. Roe, Buchanan, Mich.; Mr. C. Bonerfind, Adrian, Mich.; Miss C. Deal, Vandalia, Mich.; Mr. F. H.and Miss C.Woodruff, Penn, Mich.; Miss B. Nixon, Mr. C. Cooper, Cassopolis, Mich.; Miss K. Campbell, St. Paul, Minn.; Miss A. Ewing, Miss L. St.Clair, Miss A. Warner, Miss J. Curran, Miss McDonald, Mr. G. Koester, Mr. J. C. Cook, Mr. A. J. Toolen, Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Flannery, Miss F. Flannery, Mrs. C. Girsch and daughter, B. Halley, P. Schillo, P. J. Healy, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Geo. C. Miller, Jas. F. Miller, Tilsonburg, Ontario; Miss M. A.Gants,Carrollton, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. H. Franklin, Deadwood, Dakota; T. A. Crumley, Cincinnati, Ohio; J. M. Harrigan,Oshkosh,Wis.; Mr.and Mrs. A.Hughes, Jacob Scherrer, Esq., D. Sheedy, Denver, Col.; Miss L. Heckman, Chesterton, Ind.; P.J. Clifford, Miss K. C. Cleary, Boston, Mass.; Mr. and Mrs. S. Oppenheimer, M. A. Mott, Elgin, Ill.; Peter Reilly, Marshall, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. G. Smith, Colorado Springs, Col.; Mrs. Dr. Freeman, Wellington, Kansas; A. D. Toner, Kewanna, Ind.; E. Donnelly, Brazil, Ind.; C. A. Lindar, D. Bronson, Terre Haute,Ind.; Mr. T.and Miss M.Thornburg, Barboursville, West Virginia; Miss M. Dalberry, Richmond, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Hugo, M. Hug, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. J. Martin, Rosedale, Ind.; Mrs. J. H. Black, Mr. and Mrs. F. Black, Decatur, Ill.; Mr. D. Delaney and daughter, Steward, Ill.; Mr. H. Marcotte, Florence, Wis.; Mr. E. Ziegen-felder, Piqua, Ohio; Miss L. F. Myers, Wooster, Ohio; R. Gunn, St.Louis, Mo.; Dr. E. T, Gaudet, Memramcook, New Brunswick,	.
io8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—A little cool.
—Whistling is vulgar.
—Jeems caught the apple.
—“Mac” took a prize on the 13th.
—What is the latest from the strike?
—Any news from the Band and Orchestra?
—The boat crews were photographed last Thursday.
—The Grads, are gradually acquiring “ the polish.”
—First snow of the season yesterday (Friday) morning.
—Mr. Nirdlinger is the latest member elect of the Aeryodites.
—And now the genial shades of Plato again wander near us.
—Mr. C. P. Neill, has been chosen Commodore of the Lemonnier Boat Club.
—A new pulpit, with the best acoustic properties, is contemplated for the church. -
—Messrs. Brewer, Hughes and F. Jewett have been elected members of the Boat Club.
—A new wing is being added to the north side of the Professed blouse on Mt. St. Vincent.
—Have you seen the beautiful new side altars lately erected in the extension of the church?
—Thirty rifles have been ordered for the Sorin Cadets, and more will be sent for when needed.
—The Museum in Science Hall is being fitted up, and will soon be open to the inspection of visitors.
—In the cigar raffle, last Tuesday, Messrs. Paschel, Goebel, and H. Jewett each drew a box of . choice Havanas.	. . ■ ■	.
—The awards for winners in the St. Edward’s Day sports of the Junior department were.distributed an Thursday afternoon.	_.
—Company “ B,” Hoynes’ Light Guards, has been reorganized with a membership of 44.. The ' members will begin to drill at once.
—There will be another boat race next Thursday morning, if the weather is favorable. P. Brownson and H. Luhn will captain the crews.
— A new military company will probably be organized in the Junior department, and will be -known as Company “C,” Hoynes’ Light Guards. .
—There was a young man from Marquette, Who would become a soldierly caduette,' ’
- - He was ‘ up to snuft,” .	.	.
. . But not tall enuff,	*
So with rejection he muette.'	•	'	:
—A letter received from Mr. B. T.- Becker, (Law and Classical, ’Sy), well known to the students by the appellations of “Hygiene ” and “’Bec.,” locates him in the land of Bismark across the sea. Mr. Becker will return to America in a few weeks.
—-The St.-Joseph Temperance.Cadets of South Bend intend to be reviewed in the near future by • Col. Wm. Hoynes of the University.- The Cadets, ,
though small in size, display considerable skill and great precision in their various military evolutions.
—The secretaries of our various societies, religious literary, dramatic, etc., need a little “stirring up.” The organizations are now in full working order, but we have as yet received few reports of what they have done. These columns are open to record their proceedings.	.
—The “ Maroons,” of South Bend, were beat by the “Reds,” Tuesday: score 21 to 6. The “ Maroons” were strong in the field, hut their batting was weak, the “ Reds” hitting Buckley hard whenever he put the ball over the plate, gauging his delivery for eighteen hits.	,
—The Crescent Club Orchestra enjoyed the luscious grapes sent to the Director by Gus. Cooper from his vineyard in Dubuque. While enjoying the fruit, the old members of the organization regaled the new ones with many a good story about Gus. and his base violin.
—The “Special Nine”defeated the “WestEnds,” of South Bend, Sunday, the score being 20 to 4. The “ West Ends” played a ragged game, and were unable to cope with “Burns’ Aggregation.” The “Specials” played a stiong game; Cartier’s all round playing and O’Regau’s one hand stops at short being the features.
—On his return from Norway, Rev. Father Fallize brought for the Historical Department a Laplander’s complete outfit made of reindeer skin, ornamented with curiously stitched colored goods. He also brought a bowie knife encased in quaintly constructed horn sheath, a tobacco pouch, and several other articles to illustrate the manners and customs of that far-distant people.
—At the fourth regular meeting of the St. Ceci-, lia Philomathean Society, held Saturday evening, October 8, C. Burger was , unanimously elected a member of the association; C. Senn read a brief selection; a well-written criticism on the previous meeting was .given by M. O’Kane. After the regular business a short instruction on Parliamentary. Law was given by the President.
' —Moot Court.—The case of Timothy O’Sullivan vs. M. C. RR. Co. was put on trial in the University Moot Court, last Saturday evening; Messrs. Griffin and Nelson appearing- for the plaintiff, .'while Messrs. Heinemann and Britt conducted the defence.,. The.entire evening was devoted to . . taking the evidence of the prosecution. The court then adjourned until Thursday evening, when the ' case was resumed. - The testimony for the defence was introduced.. The council for the prosecution addressed the Jury .at length, as did also the able council.for the defence. The. plea of the latter was not forcible, enough to prevent a verdict of. damages.for the plaintiff,, which the able jury found after some deliberation and assessed at $3,000. .
—The first regular meeting of the St. Thomas.
-Aquinas’ Circle "was. called to order. Thursday, ' Oct. 20—the purpose being the election of officers for the ensuing term,'which resulted'as follows: Very Rev, E. Sorin, C. S. CJ, Rev." T. E.-.Walsh,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	id^
C.S.C.; Honorary Directors; Rev. J. A. O’Connell, C.S.C., Promoter; Rev. N. Stoffel, C.S.C., Assistant Promoter; Rev. S.Fitte, C.S.C., Director; Jas. Burns, President; P. VD. Brownson, ist .VicePresident; G. H. Craig, 2d Vice-President; C.P. Neill, Treasurer; C. J. Stubbs, Corresponding Secretary; G. A. Houck, Recording Secretary; J. V. O’Donnell, D. Griffin, T. O’Regan, Committee on Invitation. Mr. Brownson was appointed ■to defend the thesis at the first public meeting of the “ Circle.”
—The 2d game for the Fall championship between the “Reds” and “Blues” of the.Juniors was won by the former, on Thursday, the 20th inst., by their heavy batting, aided by the loose fielding of the “ Blues.” The features of the game were the pitching of J. Vhan, and the fielding of C. V. Inderrieden. Those who distinguished themselves at the bat were:. Tewksbury, Cooney, Flemming, Stevens and O’Kane for the “ Reds;” and McGurk Hall and Benner for the “ Blues.” The following is the ■	.	■	-
■ Score by Innings:—x 23456789
- Reds:—3 2 5. 3 1 4 o 2 *=20
’ Bluhs:—2 0 0 10 0 4 0.3 10
. Ba^e Hits: “Reds,” 20; “Blues,” 9 Errors: “Reds,” 6; “B ties,” u. Struck out: by Phaw, 9; by McGurk, 2. Passed balls: Flemming, 3; Benner,4; Umpire: J. clarke.
—That part of the programme of the -Senior field sports which was postponed from Sti Edward’s Day. was carried put last Tuesday afternoon.. The “tug-of-war” between the base ball teams, the Uni; versity “Reds” and the University “Blues,” was
--won by the latter who pulled the “ Reds” one inch over the line in two minutes. The prize was a box.of choice cigars. In the “ throwing ball ” contest, the first prize, silver medal, was awarded to F. Springer; the-second prize, gold pen, to H. Jewett; and the third prize, album, to A; Rudd. • The-best thrower was 320 feet, 6 inches. .The distance would have been greater, but the contestants were obliged to throw against the wind. , H. Wood took the first prize, silver medal, in the “consolation race ”; C. Stubbs, second prize, gold pen; J. Cusack, third prize, album. The second one hundred yards dash was finished and resulted in a dead heat. Messrs. Preston, P. Prudhomme, and Paschel then drew for first, second and third places, and the drawing gave the first prize, silver medal, to L. Preston; second prize, gold pen, to P. Prudhomme, third prize, album, to P. Paschel. Time of race, 12^ seconds.
—Accessions to Bishops’ Memorial Flail,'Notre Dame,Ind.:—Red satin mitre,with beautiful needlework embroidery in pure gold; used by the, early Bishops of Vincennes; oil painting of Rev. S.' Lalumiere, the first priest ordained for the State of Indiana, presented by Rev.- Mother Euphrasia. Ivory crucifix blessed by Bishop de Cheverus and given by him to Miss C. Carten, one of his converts, presented by Miss E. Florence. Catholic Standard, for i 871, presented by F. Reuss. Three-page document relating to the Missions of North Carolina, South Caiolina and Georgia, written and signed by Rt. Rev. John England, first Bishop of
Charleston, to which is- attached in red wax an impression from the Bishop’s seal, presented by Miss Minnie England. Life-size portrait of Rt. Rev. Bishop McIntyre, of Prince Edward Island, handsomely framed in gold, presented by his Lordship to the Bishops’ Gallery as a souvenir of his pleasant visit to Notre Dame in the Autumn of 1885. Autograph letter of Cardinal Newman, presented by Mr. Maurice F. Egan. Manuscript volume containing the life of Cardinal Charles, of the Prince Odescalchi, S. J., in the handwriting of Dr. John Gilmary Shea, who translated it from the French in 1S47, presented by Dr. Shea. Steel engraving of Pope Leo XIII, when Archbishop of Perugia; autograph letter of Archbishop Kenrick, of Baltimore; interesting letter written by the late poet-priest, Rev. Adrian Roquette; graphic description of Father Roquette, presented by Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey. Photographic group containing pictures of Rt. Rev. Mgr. Chatard and the students of the American College, Rome, taken in 1S70; fulllength portrait of the late Cardinal Antonelli, presented by Rev. Father Sennert. Address in the Teligoo language written by the first native nuns of Hindostan; interesting souvenirs from India and Egypt, presented by Rev. R. T. Burke.
—The second and, as it happened, decisive game of the fall championship se ies was played on Thursday last; and was won by the “ Blues.” - The game was wretchedly contested; the “Reds” after having the game well in hand, went to pieces and lost. A neat triple play was the only redeeming feature. .	■
■ Blues. . Burns, 2d b.. .1... Pender, c..................
Inks, p.and r.’f.......... White, s. s.and p...:.
Cusack, ist b........-......
J ewett, s s..... Kelly, 3d b.... ..........’..
Paschel, c.f................
Springer, 1. f..............
Total
T.A.B. R. I.B. S.B. P.O. A3	31	7	3
J	1	O	5	5
2	1	I	O	■	I
1	2	i	i	5
3.	4.	2	7	.	J
1	10	1.4
.0	2	0	3	6
I	O	0	2	0
I	I	O	I-	I
13	.15 5	27	19
T.A.B, R. I.B. S.B. P.O. A. 5	1	2	O	I 3
5 2	.1 5	5	4
5	o	3	o	6-1
5	2	12	i’5
5	I	I	O	2 I
41	1061
4.	2	3	1	3 o
4	I	I	o	o o
4	1	4	2	o o
5
5
5
5
5
4
5
4
4
42
. Reds
O’Regan, s. s.............
Cartier, c................
Dempsey, istb.............
Smith, p..................
Mackey, 3d b..............
Cooke, 2d b...............
Mathews 1. f............-
Kelly, r.f.....'...’......
Preston, c.f..............
E. I 2 O I
I 2 I I
II
E. 2 2
I I .1
I
O
Total........................41	11 17 8 24 15 12
First Base on Balls: off Inks (5); off White (5); off Smith (5). Two Base Hits: Cusack. Double Plays: O’Regan and Dempsey; Pender and Cusack.- Triple Play: Cusack and Burns.
Score	by	Innings:—1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
-Blues :—o -	1	1	.1	5	5	o	o	*=13
.	-	Reds:—6	2	2	o	o	o	o.	1	.0=11	-
Umpire:	Boland. Scorers:	M.	B.	Mulkern	and John
B. Meagher.	.
O	.	. . V - •	-
. —Boat Race.—Last Tuesday morning,; at eleven o’clock, a most exciting and interesting boatrace was rowed over the course on St. Joseph’s Lake. A more p'erfect day for rowing could not
iio	THE ETOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
have been found to delight the heart of an oars-o
man, and thus, in accordance with the desire of those whose muscle had not grown soft since the strue-gle of St. Edward’s Day, two new crews were chosen, as follows:
Evangeline (Reds).
i.	P. VD. Brownson;
2.	W. Gordon;
3.	F. Albright;
4.	G. Cartier;
5.	G. Ball;
6.	D. Fehr;
J. V. O’Donnell, Capt and Coxswain.
Minnehaha (Blues).
1.	S. Campbell;
2.	C. J. Stubbs;
3.	H. Luhn;
4.	D. Henderson;
5.	L. Meagher;
6.	G. Houck;
C. P. Neill, Capt. and Coxswain.
At 10.30, the wearers of the crimson jerseys emerged from the boat-house, carrying aloft the graceful Evangeline^ and launched her from the western platform. They were lustily cheered by a small but appreciative band of admirers assembled upon the banks of the lake. Close in their wake followed the men clad in the prophetic blue, and soon the trim built Minnehaha was darting swiftly across the lake.
After a few preliminary spurts and turns, both crews took their places near the upper buoys and anxiously awaited the starter’s signal. At precisely eleven o’clock the starter, Mr. P. P. Maloney, ’79, gave the conventional “ are you ready?” and a moment later the glittering weapon that did duty on the 13th sent forth a sharp report. Almost simultaneously both crews caught water; but the “ Reds’ ” .stroke was more effective, and they gained a lead of a few feet. The rapid stroke of the “Blues” soon brought them even, when the “Reds” spurled and regained their lead. They went into the turn a half boat length ahead. A moment later the “Blues” followed suit, and it seemed that the turn would give them the advantage. But the “Reds” left the turn followed by the “Blues”in the same order in which they entered, and the excitement of the first length was renewed. Both, crews made spurt after spurt after leaving- the turning buoys, and at the middle of the length the final result was more in doubt than ever. In the last half of this length, the “Reds” began to forge ahead again, and soon regained their original lead which they only managed to hold by their utmost exertions. The “Reds” finished about half ■ a boat length ahead, and the wearers of the blue sadly rowed back over the course, wondering what might be the price of soothing syrup. .
This closed the most exciting-race of the present year. The winning crew made their course in 3.18^, which is sufficient evidence that they had no time to loiter.	.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose “conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]	■ ”
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Beckman, P. Burke, Barrett, J. Burke; Barnes, Beckwith, Bombeck * Bronson, Blessington, J. Burns, Bush, Brownson, Brewer, Britt, Baca, E Burns. Boland, E. Clark, J. Cassidy, Chacon,-Cusack, Cooke, Craig, Crill, Cartier, Chute, T. Coady, E.Coady, J. Clark, Donaghue, Dempsey,
Dore, Dulaney, Ewing, Francka, Fitzharris, Finckh, Fenton, Fisher, Fehr, Fink, Goebel, Gallardo, Giesler, Gibbs, Henderson, Heinemann, M. Howard, Hummer, Hughes, Hull, Houck, Hart, Jennings, Jacobs, J. Kelly, Keating, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lappin, Leonard, Luhn, A. Longmire, L. Longmire, Langan, J. McDermott, Metzer, Mul-kern, L. Meagher, McWilliams, ,W. McDermott, Mackey, Major, W. Morrison, Maloney, McAllister, McCart, Mack; McAuliffe, McGrath, Melady, Nations, Andrew Nicholl, Alfred Nicholl, Norton, Neill, R. Newton, Nelson, O’Hara, ORegan, O’Shea, Pollock, Pears, Plato, P. Prudhomme, Prichard, Preston, Roper, Rochford, Reynolds, Rodriguez, Rothert, Russell, Ruebsatnen, Scholfield, Sullivan, Schaug, Short, Stephenson, Suing, Sawkins, Spencer, H. Smith, M. Smith, Tiernan, Tudor, Thatcher, Tivnen, Velasco, Webb, Wall, Woods, Welch, White, Wilkin, Whalen, Ziegenfelder.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Allen, Anfender, Bombeck, Bronson, Boyd, Backrack, Beaudry, Boldrick, Blake, Burger, Benner, Brannick, Brown, Brady, Cunningham, Cauthorn, Campbell, Carelton, Cooney, J. Connors, Carroll, Case. Chacon, F. Connors, Connelly, Cavanagh. Ciar-coschi, Carney, D. Cartier, W. Cartier, Chute, J. Doherty, J. S. Doherty, Delaney, Duffield, Daniels, Davis, Darragh, Devine, Ebner, Elder, Fitzgerald, Falvey, Fleming, French, F. Flynn, Freeman, Frei, Grossn an, Galbreth, Graham, J. Greene, T. Greene, Gale, Gonzales, Girsch, Girten, Houlihan, Henry, Henderson, Hoffman, Heller, Hall, Hillas, Hackett, Hartman, Hake, Jewett, Johns, Jackson, Josselyn, Kellner, Kahn, Kehoe, Lane, Lahey, Leonard, Moncada, E. Merkle, W. Merkle, McCartney, J. Martin, Munroe, McGuire, McMahon, John McIntosh, James McIntosh, W. Mallay, H. Mallay, McCormick, McIvers, McPhee, Miner, Hoerr, Howard, Mulqueen, McKenzie, Mooney, McNulty, Neef, Nichols, Noud, O’Neill, O’Hearn, O’Hara, W. O’Brien, G. O’Brien, O’Donnell, Priestly, Paquette, Powers, Pritchard, Pecheux, F. Peck J. Peck, Pfau, Patterson, Quinlan, Roth, Rierdon, Reinhard, Ryan, I. Rose, S. Rose, Ramsey, Rowsey, Reidinger, C. Schillo, F. Schillo, Stephens, Shenk, Senn, Sullivan, L. Scherrer, Schloss, Simpson, C. Spalding, Smith, Talbot, Thome, Wile, Wageman, Wade, Walsh, Weldon, Wright, Wilbanks, Wood.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, Ackerman, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, A. Backrack, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour, L. Black, Blake, Beennan, G. Black, Boettcher, Bates, Burns, Bradley, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Connelly, Cummings, Carlile, Cudahy, Crane, Cohn, W. Durand, J. Dunn, F. Dunn, Jessie Dungan, Jas. Dungan, Doss, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, C. Franche, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Grant, Griffin, Hagus, Harlan, Healy, Halthusen, Jennings, Johns, Jaramillo, Kerwin, Kehoe; Klaner, Koester, Keefe, Kane, A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan; Mooney, Marx, Morgenweck, Maternes, A. Mayer, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Neef, Neenan, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, O’Mara, Perry, L. Paul, C. Paul, Plautz, Parker, Quill, Ricks .-cker, Sweet, Savage, Seerey, F Smith, E. Smith, Stone, Stephens, Tomkins, F. Toolen, Fred. Toolen, Taft, Trujillo, W. Williamson, Wm. Williamson, Welch, W. Walsh, Witkowskey, Wilson, Young, Zieman. '
♦ Omitted last week by mistake.
Class Honors.
[In the following list will be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
P. Brownson, G. Craig, J. Burns, C. Stubbs, T. Goebel, P. Burke, R. Newton, V. Morrison, W. McPhee, J. Langan, R. Nations, W- Larkin, J. Mackey, W. Rochford, J. McDermott, P. Paschel, H. Jewett, E. Chacon, H. Hull, G. Cooke, H. Luhn, J. Keating, M. Dore, P. Wagoner, D. Barrett, C. Shields, J. Meagher, W. Akin, L. Meagher, T. O’Regan, A. Gibbs, Pl Nelson, J. O’Donnell, T. Griffin, E-Adelsperger, W. Blake, H. Pecheux, C. Burger, J. McGurk, L. Scherrer, C. Cavanagh. .	.	■
FEE Notre dame scHdi-Astic.	tit
Saint JFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Miss Irene Stapleton received too in a competition in mental arithmetic.
—Lizzie Fritz and Kathleen Earley were victors in a competition in spelling lately held.
—The young ladies at the table of the Prefect of discipline are becoming experts in the art of carving.
—The young ladies show by their excellent singing of the Gregorian music in the chapel, not only able training, but earnest practice.
—The fancy dress ball of Thursday evening was a grand success, even if its name did lead people to think it would not amount to much.
—Mrs. W. Purdy, Class ’86, is now visiting St. Mary’s. Needless to say how warm is the welcome to' Mattie from all the Sisters and pupils.
—The Misses Churchill and Rinehart, of the Junior department, and the Misses M. F. Murphy, Ducey and Latta, of the Seniors, received 100 in lessons for the past week.
—The sermon on “The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass,” by Rev. Father Corby, C. S. C., was listened to with great attention, and was well worthy of the appreciation it received.
—Miss Lucretia St. Clair, of Class ’87, is a welcome visitor at the Academy. According to her own words, she “would have to be made over” to feel like any but a St. Mary’s girl.
. —The Third Seniors held a competition, in Ancient History lately, at which the Misses Balch, Campeau, Leonard, Bloom, Wehr, M. Horner, I. Horner, O’Brien and R.Van Mourick were the best.
—The Senior study-hall is too small to accommodate all who have come. Several have their desks in the Junior study-hall until the changes, now. contemplated, are made, which will be soon.
—St. Teresa’s Literary Society is now engaged with the life and works of Scott. Mrs. Purdy, though a visitor, favored the young ladies at their last meeting by reading with her old-time clearness of enunciation.
—The beautiful bouquet of rich red roses that surrounded the ostensorium at Benediction last Saturday, was the gift of Miss M. Rend. Our Blessed Lord is .always pleased with those who remember Him.
—Quite a sensation was caused in the Senior study-hall when a “ Prince ” entered to be present at the reading of the notes. Master J. Flannery, of Notre Dame, was the privileged character; he remained to hear his cousin, Miss Etta, read. ~
—The young ladies of the Art Department celebrated St. Luke’s day—the festival of the Patron of the Studio. A ramble in the woods and a eolation were the distinctive features of the day; of course the devotions to the great Saint came first.
—Mrs. A. S. Hughes, Denver, Col., is a visitor at the Academy. Her daughter, who is in the Graduating Class; is not the only one who has a claim on her; for all the Colorado girls seem to feel that because she comes from their State, she has come to visit them.
—St. Edward’s day did not have its usual charm, owing to the absence of Very Rev. Father General. Many were the prayers offered for him on that day—prayers for his success in all undertakings, and for his speedy return. The petitions must have proved efficacious, for Sunday brought the word that we might expect our Very Rev. and dear Father in a few weeks. Right royal will be his reception. •
—The Chimes^ edited by the Second Seniors, was read at the last Academic meeting, Oct. 16, by the Misses E. Flannery and L. McNamara. Very Rev. Father Corby complimented the young ladies on their excellent reading, and Rev. Father Zahm said that, were it not that he promised a Graduate not to say the Chimes was better than Rosa Mystica, he would surely say it was the best he had heard this year. But, owing to his promise, he said nothing regarding the merits of the Chimes^ and instead taught a novel way of making “ Uncle Sam” mend stockings.
Alexander Pope.
As we glance back upon the history of past ages we see that every period is marked by great men in science, literature and art; men whose names have given glory to their country, and who have carved out for themselves a niche in' the temple of fame. ’ Such a man was Alexander Pope. Well may England be proud to claim him as her own. He was one of the chief ornaments of the world of letters, and one of the greatest men of the age in which he lived.
Pope was born in London, May, 1688, of Catholic patents. His father was a linen draper; but, having accumulated a small fortune, he retired from business, and removed with his family to Binfield in Windsor Forest. As Alexander was an only child, and of a very delicate constitution, his education was principally domestic. When he reached the age of eight years, he was placed under the care of a Catholic priest, from whom he learned the rudiments of Latin and Greek. He was passionately fond of reading, and poetry had for him an especial charm. When but a child he amused himself by reading many of the noted English, French, Italian, Latin and Greek poets. He says himself: “I read—rather than read the books—to get the languages. I followed where my fancy led me, and was like a boy gathering flowers in the woods and fields just as they fall in his way?’ Dryden, whose works he studied with great care, and whose style he copied, seems to have been one of his.favorite authors.	- - ■
At an early age he displayed great talent for verse making, and being encouraged in this pro1-
112
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pensity by his father, he wrote many short poems, all of which he afterwards destroyed, with the exception of his “Ode on Solitude,”, a pretty little poem of five stanzas, which alone remains a lasting testimony of our author’s early proficiency. When but sixteen, he wrote his “ Pastorals,” remarkable for the “Discourse on Pastoral Poetry” by which thej’- are introduced. A few years after appeared his “Essay on Criticism,” in-which we find the sound principles of taste, and that poetical harmony characteristic of Pope’s works. In this poem, too, we have some of the finest examples of satire in the English language. Addison has called it “ a masterpiece of its kind.” This was followed by “ The Rape of the Lock,” the most famous production of mock-heroic poetry extant. It was written at the request of a friend with the hope of putting an end to a quarrel which had arisen between two noble families on the occasion of the theft of a lady’s lock. It is in this poem that Pope best displays his powerful imagination; and the enthusiasm with which it was received, placed him at once at the head of all his poetical competitors. He next undertook the translation of the “ Iliad;” completed in the course of five years, and received with great applause by the literary world. But the work by which our author is best known—the “Essay on Man”—was not published until some years later. The object of this poem was to assert the ways of Providence in the government of this world. It is of an entirely different nature from any of his other works, the theme being of a more lofty character; it contains many striking passages which cannot fail to make an impression upon the mind of the reader. Among his later works we have his “Letters and Epistles” in imitation of Horace; the “Dunciad,” the “Moral Essays” and many shorter poems. Among his minor pieces may be mentioned “The Dying Christian to his Soul,” and “The Universal Prayer,” both of which display a depth of feeling not found in his other works.
It has been said that Pope had talent enough for anything, and that he might well deserve to be ranked among the most distinguished prose-writers of the age, if he were not its greatest poet. He is especially noted for his wondeiful imaginative .powers; his keen and polished satire; his smooth and beautiful style. No English poet has ever risen from so humble a position to so high a degree of personal distinction. His private life is not unblamable, yet it would be difficult to find a more perfect example of filial- love and respect. His parents lived to see him at the height of his poetical career; unrivalled in his fame, courted by the powerful and wealthy, the pride of his age and country, and yet his tender thoughtfulness of them never diminished. ....	. .	.
. At no time during his life was Pope entirely free from some species of bodily malady, and yet his active mind was never idle.- During the last few years of his life he was afflicted with asthma which no medical power could cure; and in the beautiful month of May, 1744, he passed away so calmly and peacefully .that those who watched beside his bed could scarcely tell when he expired.	.
“ Oh death all eloquent! You only prove What dust we dote on when ’tis man we love.”
Carrie Griffith ( Class ^0-
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF
•	RULES. -
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses -Allen, Andree, Arpin, Brady, Balch, Bub, Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Boyer, Beschameng, Bourn , Bray, Butler, Bates, Blacklock, Beck, Carinien, Clifford, Claggett, Carey, Conners, Clore, E. Coll, M. Coll, Campeau, H. Dempsey, C. Dempsey. Ducey, N'l. Desmond, K. Desmond,- Davis, Duncan, Daube, English, Early, Flannery, Fravel. Fitzpatrick, Gavan, Geer, Guise, Gordon, Hummer, Hughes, Hertzog Hellmann.-Hyland, M. Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlen, Heffron. C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann, Hutchinson. Hepburn. Johnson, Kearns. Kennedy. Kohler. Kron, Keyes, Latta, Leonard, La Berge, M. F. Murphy, L. Meehan* N. Meehan, McCarthy, Morse, M. McCormick, McEwen, McNamara, Moore, K. McCarthy,' Marsh, Moran, L. Nicholas, C. Nicholas, Mitchell, McFadden. G.‘ Murphy,. Neff, O'Brien, Orr, Piper, Prudhomme, Papih/'Quill. Quealey, G. Regan, Riedinger, E. Regan, Rend, Richardson, Robinson, Rowsey, Rannells, Re.en, Snowhook. Sullivan, Stadt-ler, Sheehan. S.iviers, Schmauss, M. S nith, Sloman Sear, B. Smith. Trask, Thompson, Van Horn, Van Mourick, Wright, Waterbury, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Wehr, Young, Zahm.	.... -	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
'Par Excellence—Misses ,T. Balch. E. Blaine, Burdick, Butler,'E. Burns, M. Burns, Emma Burns, M. Campbell, Crane, Churchill, Dolan, N.' Davis. E. Dempsey,' Dryer, Farwi 11, Foster, Fritz. H ike. Hull, H igus; Hughes, Knauer, Kloth, Lewis, Longmire, Loomie. Mercer, Miller, McCune, McCormick, M. Morse, N. Morse, Newman, O’Mara, Pugsley, G- Papin, A. Papin, Quealey, Reed, Reeves, Rhinehart, Rose,- Rogers,. Simons, S. Smith, Stapleton, Wyatt.	.	. , ; '
Class Honors. .	• .
LANGUAGE COURSE.
FRENCH. . ’
ist Class—Miss M. F. Murphy, 100 -par excellence.
2D Div.—Misses Snowhook, Van Horn.
2D Class, tst Div.—Miss Beschameng	’ ’
2D Div.—^Misses Gavan, McCarthy, Campeau, McEwen.
3D Class—Misses Regan,T. Balch, Prudhomme, Barry, Kron, Hellman.. .	-	.	.	.
4TH Class—Misses Barth, McCormick, M. Desmond, K. Desmond. Sheehan,Waterbury,Van Mourick, N. Dempsey,Wagner,'Flannery, La Berge, Brewer, Arpin, Hepburn, Sloman, Burton, Horner, Latta, Newman, Davis, Wyatt, Doian, Butler G. Papin.	.
5TH Class—Miss A. Papin.	'	'
german.
Advanod Course—Miss E. Horn.
ist Class—Misses-I. Bub, O. Huffman,-A-. Beschameng, L. Trask, L. Henke. -	--
2D Class—Misses M. Hummer, F. Morse, TYHinz, O. Knauer.	...
3D Class—Misses-L. Wiesenbach, E. Quealey.
4TH Class—Misses M. Burton; L’ Ducev,- L'.'Hylarid, J? Latta, M. Piper.E. Balch, P. Sloman; N.^Quill, G. Wehr, N. Neff, M., Horner, M. Davis, M. Andree, L. Leonard, M. Thompson, M. Smith. .
' £th Class—Misses J. Bloom, C. Hurley, K. Hurley. B. Morse, C. Heffron, A. Bourne, O. O’Brien, I. Horner, E. Lewis, M. Kennedy, O. Boyer, S Crane, D.‘ Rogers,