THE NICTKE I AMI
SCHOLASTIC
Adil soft lights . . . long gowns . . . and music.	|
I
May 6. 1938	|
2
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
TRAVEL BARGAINS ... Every day!
9 There's no fooling about South Shore Line economy — its bargain fares are in effect every day of the year. You get a big package of speed, dependability and SAFETY with every South Shore Line ticket — and duck all traffic and highway worries.
The Safest, Most Dependable Way to Chicago
Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad

The new Palm Beach Slacks
For classroom, campus, dances, dates and other active sports, the new Palm Beach slacks are de rigueur. There’s nothing like them to smarten up an odd jacket or sport coat. They sail through a stiff tennis or golf match without losing their handsome drape. They wash and clean like new. Your favorite clothier can show you a complete slack wardrobe that meets every requirement of good taste and good value. See the Fairway model, for general informal wear, and the Golfer, whose reversible bottoms keep the divots out of your cuffs. Ask to see the new Airtones, whites, stripes and plaids.
Palm Beach Suits...................$17.75
Palm Beach Evening Formal . . . $20.00
IF IT BEARS THIS LABEL— IT’S GENUINE PALM BEACH
GOODALL COMPANY • CINCINNATI
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Vol. 71	May 6, 1938	. No. 24
SENIORS CLIMAX SOCIAL SEASON
TURN PALAIS ROYALE INTO GARDEN SETTING FOR JACK DENNY'S POPULAR MUSIC TONIGHT; MANY EVENTS ADD TO HIGH-LIGHT WEEK-END
BY JOHN KOHN
TONIGHT AT TEN
The 1938 Senior Ball! Lovely girls from all over the country dance with happy seniors. .With collegiate careers almost over,, more glamour and romance is attached to this dance than to any other that has gone before.
Tonight at ten Jack Denny and his superb band bring realization and culmination to plans and dreams.
May this Senior Ball bring happiness to everyone — and remain in senior’s memories for years to come. Let the dance go on—the music be sweet—and the memories sweeter.
John O’Connor
From O’Connor to. . .
In the make-believe garden ballroom of the Palais Royale, almost three hundred seniors and guests will dance this evening to the melodious tunes of Jack Denny and his orchestra. The Ball will be the beginning of a busy week-end of festivities for the seniors and their guests.
Robert Derengoski, chairman of the music committee, has insured the seniors that their last social event will be a success as Denny’s orchestra recently played for the Prom at Northwestern after having concluded a lengthy engagement at the Drake Hotel in Chicago.
The Senior Ball song, "My Heart’s Desire,” was composed by George Sauter and will be featured by the orchestra during the evening.
Miss Helen Jean Mahoney of South Bend, Queen of the Ball, will be es
corted by General Chairman John Wilson. The Guest of Honor, to be escorted by Class President, John O’Connor, is Miss Dorothy Hohes of Detroit.
The chairman of the favors committee, Frank Kesicke, has made arrangements with a South Bend photographer to take the pictures of each couple as they make their appearance at the Ball. The pictures will later be sent, in a monogram folder, to both the senior and his guest.
Jack Denny’s brilliant music wall be broadcast during the Ball over the local radio station, WSBT-WFAM at 10:30 p.m., C.S.T.
The patrons and patronesses for the Senior Ball include: Mr. and Mrs. George E. Keogan, Mr. and Mrs. Clarence E. Manion, Mr. and Mrs. William D. Rollison, Mr. and Mrs. Elton E. Richter, Mr. and Mrs. Cletus F. Chizek, Mr. and Mrs. Paul C. Bartholomew, and Mr. and Mrs. Le Clair H. Eells.
John Wilson
. . . Wilson for a perfect Ball
Mr. and Mrs. W. McCarty Langford, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Young, Mr. Paul I. Fenlon, and Mr. Stephen Ronay.
Before the Ball, the dance goers will attend the concert to be sung by Richard Crooks of the Metropolitan Opera Association. A special section in the gymnasium will be reserved for them.
Tomorrow afternoon the traditional tea dance will be held at the South Bend Country Club. The Mod-ernaires, popular school orchestra, have been chosen to play for the dance. At 7:30 tomorrow evening the 1938 edition of the Monogram Absurdities will be offered and the week-end guests will, as in the past, enjoy this galaxy of brawn.
The concluding event of the weekend will be a spring football game between the Varsity and Old Timers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MONOGRAM MEN SET FOR FOUR DAY SIEGE OF MIMES. MUSIC, MUSCLE, MONKEYSHINES
By Harry Penrose
Swift tapping toes, lilting lyrics swung by Notre Dame’s mad musicians, and hilarious comedy are all due to parade in swift succession, past the first-nighters tomorrow evening as the 1938 Monogram Absurdities begins a four-day run. “Something to please everyone” is this year’s slogan. The graceful pirouettes of Puplis, McCarty, and
Zontini for the aesthetic-minded; a----------------------------------------------
lithe 200 - pound lassies prancing across the footlights for those who prefer the precision of the chorus; and for those romantic souls who have a nostalgia for the past, Maestro Jimmy Quinn proudly presents “Egyptian Ella” Zontini in a dance that dates back to the time of the Pharaohs and their slave girls.
Enough of the dance! Think of the music. Instrumental and vocal solos, the original tunes of Art Davidson and Karl Hunn, the symphonizing swing of the Modernaires, the stimulating vocalisms of Art Davidson and his Octet, and the raging rhythm of “Manslaughter Mike” Mandjiak and his Swing Quartet are due to make the audience “stamp their feet and clap their hands.”
And surprise of surprises! The famous’ Joe “One Horse” Race of Bengaleese fame is making a comeback, only in a slightly different role. That master of the grunt-and-groan has spurned his former head-locking playmates and has donned grease paint in order to become one of Notre Dame’s leading thespians.
Since early March those beefy brows that have been streamed with the sweat of intercollegiate competition have shed still more perspiration in their effort to make this year’s show the best ever presented on the campus. The dancers have been carefully instructed by Marie Buczkow-ski; while Prof. Thomas Mills of the Speech department, assisted by Bill Arnold, has been directing the skits and handling the stage action mechanics.
A full house is expected every night, the Senior Ball couples having most of the seats on Saturday night and a large delegation of Chicago’s men-in-blue packing the hall on Sunday evening.
Tomorrow night station WSBT of South Bend plans to broadcast a portion of the show. Going backstage first to pick up the grease paint atmosphere by interviewing some of the principals, the station will then tune in on a few musical numbers from the stage.
“One Horse” Race Still a star attraction.
Select Prof. Kervick's Work for Exhibit
•
Photographs of several building designs by Professor Francis W. Kervick, head of the department of architecture, are being displayed in the Indiana section of the fifty-second exhibition of the American Architectural League in New York City. The photographs will be displayed until May 12.
The photographs exhibit the interior and exterior of the Church of the Immaculate Conception in East Chicago, Indiana, which Professor Kervick designed in 1934.
These photographs were selected from the many submitted to the Indianapolis, Ind., jury of the Architectural League by its members throughout the state.
Du Bois Receives Honor
Prof. Benjamin DuBois, member of the department of modern language at Notre Dame, was recently elected to an honorary membership in the French Academy. This famous honorary society of letters was founded in 1635 by Cardinal Richelieu and consists of 40 men who have done most to develop and purify the French language. Mr. DuBois is the first member of the University faculty to attain this honor.
To be a full fledged member of the Academy one must be a resident of France, hence Prof. DuBois is an honorary member. The honor was given because of his efforts in spreading French culture in the United States.
HOLD TWO PRIMARIES FOR CLASS OFFICES
By Graham Starr
During the past two weeks, approximately 29 percent of the students have been persuading 21 percent “to be a good boy and vote for us.” This astounding fact was brought out this week by an engineering student who prefers to remain anonymous.
There were nine parties, each with an average ticket of seven members. This makes 63. Add to this 15 class and dance committees (of six members each) times the number of parties. The total, he says, is 873, or 29 percent of the enrollment. Assuming that half the students vote, which is never the case, there would be only 21 percent left to be influenced by the greater number of 29 percent.
Although there are only two parties in the senior election field, they are making up for it with their vociferous campaign cries. The Jim Rocap publications office over in Dillon even sent out a press release early this week. It declares,.in part:
“Jim has been connected previously with functions which will be in accordance with his responsibilities, if he be elected. After all, would your parents be willing to vote for President of the United States if they thought he was not familiar with political functions and matters which be for the good of his comrades?”
“Jim has a platform (Senior Week), he is conscientious in seeking this for his class. He is not attempting to tear down his opponent with political bull, but is relying on his own initiative.”
For the senior class of ’39, the O’Melia faction declares that it will “uphold the class in obtaining an orchestra for the ball.” All senior activities are to outstrip the best of the past, and a determined effort is to be made to obtain senior week.
Heavy balloting for all offices marked the Junior Class Primary Elections last Wednesday in which Bob Sullivan, Morrissey, and Joe Cummings, Lyons, were returned ahead of Charley Rodgers, Badin entry, in a photo-finish for the presidential nominations. Cummings with 122 votes was the winner, followed by Sullivan with 114 and Rodgers with 98. Rex Ellis, Carroll, placed fourth with 80 votes.
Bill Colemn, the letter-writing 1-year S.A.C. independent, just missed an outright two-thirds majority triumph as his 236 votes left all opponent far in his wake. Roy Anton, Lyons, qualified as Coleman’s opponent for the finals with 69 votes.
Benny Sheridan, Badin, led the (Continued on Page 20)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
APRIL 'CATALYZER' IN MAY APPEARANCE
•
Although a little behind schedule, the April number of the Catalyzer, monthly publication of the University of Notre Dame Chemistry department, was issued on Tuesday, May 3 of this week under the editorship of J. W. Mehring, Jr., senior chemical engineer.
As the feature article of this periodical, W. L. Foohey, Ph.D., ’29, graduate student submits a treatise on “The Modern Dyestuffs Industry.” Mr. Foohey clearly pointed out that the use of dyes, is nearly as old as the caveman himself; but that the organic dyestuffs industry had its beginning when man learned to extract and use the colors of plant and animal origin. He further states that coal-tar is the principal raw-material for dyestuffs, and from it, various by-products such as benzene and cresol are obtained.
Article on Petroleum
Mr. George G. Fitzgerald, B.S., ’25, contributes an article titled “Changing Processes of Petroleum Refining.” Among the important highlights in his discussion is the fact that present day refining methods are failing to produce the results required by today’s markets. This is especially true in gasoline processing. The necessity for fuels of naturally high knockrating has become more and more urgent as engine design has advanced. Also appearing in this article is the statement that the yield of high quality motor fuels is being still further improved by advances made in the polymerization of refinery gases. The first has many possible modifications depending on the type of feed and the end product desired. The second employs a solid phosphoric acid catalyst.
On the editorial page Mr. Mehring expresses his point of view concerning the relationship of the college graduate and the less-educated man with whom he will later work. It is the opinion of many business executives and laborers whom he has contacted, that it takes a man about five years to get over graduating from college before he is ready to readjust himself to the plane of his associates. Asserted as being the most important factor in the success or failure equation of a man going into plant work is his ability to get along with people.
The tentative date for the last issue of the May Catalyzer has been set for May 16, but this is as yet indefinite.
DR. H. SHAPLEY REVEALS NEW FACTS ABOUT GALAXIES IN SYMPOSIUM LECTURE
By George Haithcock
Before a large audience of some of the world’s greatest scientists Dr. Harlow Shapley of Harvard University revealed here this week for the first time a new super galactic world with already a definite census of 300,000 new galaxies. Dr. Shapley, recognized as the world’s greatest living astronomer,
Lawyer Proctor
Practice will tell.
Breen ' Medal Won By Tom Proctor
Thomas G. Proctor, Elkhart, Ind., senior in the College of Law was judged winner of the annual Notre Dame Breen medal contest for excellence in speech. A total of eight Notre Dame students, the field having been reduced from 22, competed in the finals, held Sunday night in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Isolation for the United States is affairs politic and economic was urged by Proctor, speaking on “The United Front of America.” Other finalists were Edward Boyle, John Schemmer, John White, George Morris, Charles Osborn, Robert LeMire, and Louis Radelet.
Judging the finals were Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Rev. Maurice Rigley, C.S.C., and Prof. Willis D. Nutting. Judges for earlier eliminations were Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Rev. Stanislaus F. Lisewski, C.S.C., Profs. Frank M. Kelly, Ronald C. Cox, Thomas E. Mills, Francis S. Moran, Stephen H. Ronay, Arthur J. Gartland.
LOST
Folder containing thesis material left on Bendix Drive street car. Finder please return to Jim McCarthy, 125 Sorin, immediately.
*
made known his recent discoveries at a public lecture Monday night in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering auditorium, during the Symposium on the Physics of the Universe and the Nature of Primordial Particles held at Notre Dame Monday and Tuesday of this week.
To give a visual idea of the vastness of the heavens Dr. Shapley showed on a screen recent photographs made of the new galaxies at the Harvard observatories in South Africa and at Cambridge. Explaining his recent findings Dr. Shapley said:
“The earth’s galaxy is but a small sub-division of the system of stars as a galaxy. Hitherto only about 50,000 galaxies have been catalogued. But at Harvard we have been taking a census of the meta-galaxy—meaning, all the galaxies in the universe—and this census has already revealed 300,000 new ones and calculations show that before our survey is completed an additional 300,000 galaxies will be disclosed.”
This census reveals that there is no uniformity between the star population of the galaxies in the southern and northern skies but that the southern skies have five times as many galaxies as the northern skies. This finding destroys the basis of the chief arguments of those scientists who have opposed Canon Georges Le-maitre’s theory of the exploding universe.
In a technical lecture delivered Tuesday afternoon in the Cushing Hall of Engineering Prof. William D. Harkins, of the University of Chicago spoke on: “The Heat of the Stars and the Building of Atoms in the Universe.”
The temperature of the sun,” Prof. Shapley pointed out,” may be assumed as being about 40,000,000 degrees. If we kept the sun hot by the burning of coal it would be necessary to supply seven million billion tons of coals every second. With nuclear combustion only 200 million tons of hydrogen per second are used in the heating.”
In a public lecture on Monday afternoon, Dr. Arthur H. Compton, of the University of Chicago and recipient of the Nobel prize in physics in 1927, discussed the possible origin of the mysterious cosmic rays whose ’
(Continued on Page 21)
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RICHARD CROOKS PROGRAM TO BRING DOWN CURTAIN ON GREATEST MUSIC WEEK
LAWYERS RAISE FUSS IN PRIMARIES
By F. G. Barred a
By Robert Sheppard
Richard Crooks, heralded as “the most popular tenor of classic repertory on the air,” will sing in the gymnasium at 8:00 o’clock tonight in a concert of classical music that will ring down the final curtain to the third annual Notre Damp Music Week. Assisted by Fred Schauwecker at the piano, Mr. Crooks,
lead tenor of the Metropolitan Opera Association, will perform before an audience of 3,000 persons. Proceeds from the concert are to be delegated to the music funds of the program sponsors, the University of Notre Dame and the South Bend Symphony orchestra.
Mr. Crooks will open the concert with Bach’s “If Thou be Near,” Handel's “Alma Mia” from “Flori-dante,” and Stradella’s “Per Pieta,” for the first series of songs of the musical program. The second series will include “Der Neugierige,” “Wo-hin,” “Halt,” and “Eifersucht und Stolz” from Schubert’s “Die Schone Mullerin.” Arensky’s “Nocturne,” Rachmaninoff’s “Prelude,” Chopin’s “Nocturne,” and Sibelius’ “La Fileuse” will be played on the piano by Mr. Frederick Schauwecker for the third series of musical selections.
Presents Varied Program
Following a brief intermission, the Metropolitan artist will sing operatic selections, among these the arias “Vainement, ma bien aimee,” from Lalo’s “Le Roi d’Ys,” and “Le Reve,” from Massenet’s “Manon.” Mr. Crooks will conclude the program with a group of four numbers: Rachmaninoff’s “To The Children,” Ireland’s •“Sea Fever,” “Have You Seen But a Whyte Lilie' Grow” (Anonymous), and Tours’ “Mother of Mine.”
The tenor’s operatic debut was made in Hamburg, Germany, in “Tosca” and was a genuine sensation, followed by appearances at the Stadt-ische Opera in Berlin where the audience again clamored for encores. His first appearance at the Metropolitan Opera House, New. York, was made in 1933 in Massenet’s “Manon,” the tenor receiving a tremendous ovation for his outstanding performance. Since then he has given magnificent portrayals of the leading tenor parts in “Manon,” “La Traviata,” “Faust,” “Linda di Chamounix,” “Madame Butterfly,” and “Mignon.” In the fields of opera, concert:, phonographic recording and radio, where Crooks continues as star of the coast-to-coast Firestone Hour besides appearing as guest star on other outstanding radio programs, the Metropolitan artist continues to rank as perhaps the most genuinely beloved tenor of the day.
A special section in the gymnasium
Chairman Mahoney
Student speakers' nemesis.
Wranglers Hear New Members Speak
Wrangler candidates spoke their piece last Thursday evening before a critical audience composed of Wrangler members seeking replacements. Membership application chairman, William T. Mahoney and his assistants, Albert Funk and Vincent De Coursey, made a preliminary survey of a field of 15 membership applicants. Chairman Mahoney will announce the names of the successful candidates at a later date.
At the regular weekly meeting, John O’Dea will discuss the Federal government expenditures for slum clearance and adequate housing. After group discussion, plans for the final banquet of the year will be completed.
Last Wednesday morning the Wranglers met in Dillon Hall chapel to attend a Mass celebrated-by their chaplain, the Rev. Norbert Hoff, for the father of Charles Brosius, member of the club.
will be reserved for the Senior Ballgoers and their guests tonight. A limited number of reserved seat tickets at $2.00, $1.50, and $1.00 and student tickets at 25 cents remain to be sold, but it is expected that the house will be sold out before curtain time.
Three parties were nominated Wednesday to make a tri-comered battle for control of the Law Club. In an uproarious session in the Law Building, standard bearers “Stew” Roche, Pat Malloy, and Marty Hus-ung had their parties officially named for the primaries on Monday.
Early in the week the tooth-and-claw scrap for the ballot box was thrown into an uproar by the appearance of a new “dark horse” party headed by Pat Malloy. In fact on Tuesday the campaign was being waged so hotly that none of the lawyers, including the candidates, knew when the election was over. Or was it the state primaries?
All candidates agreed that the tricornered scrap was one of the hottest in the history of the Law Club. All three parties also stated that they had the election “in the bag.” To an outsider it appeared that the majority of the Senior lawyers leaned to the Roche party, and the Freshman lawyers were backing Malloy. Husung seemed to be getting his support from all three classes but especially from the Junior law class which was split wide open.
On the ticket with Malloy were Nick Meagher for vice-president; John Donnelly for secretary; Sam Devine for treasurer; and John Cain for the S.A.C. post.
The party led by Husung had as candidates Tom Shea for vice-president; Bill Mahoney for secretary; Charles O’Brien for treasurer; and Harry Foster as the S.A.C. candidate.
On the Roche ticket were Frank Donlan for vice-president; Jack Deane for secretary; Ed Grogan for treasurer; and Ernest Lanois as the S.A.C. candidate.
The platform of the “dark horse” party of Malloy promised a revitalized Law Club with expanded intellectual and social activities. They answered their opponents’ slogan campaign by saying: “We stand for deeds, not slogans.” The Roche party lined up for the battle under the motto “Your Service, Our Pledge.” Their promises included an active share in the activities of the club for all members and new and interesting speakers. The Husung faction pledged itself for greater social contact between law students. “Direct your verdict for progressiveness” was their campaign slogan.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1
SCHOLASTIC EDITOR RECEIVES REPLY
•
Notre Dame, Ind., 418 Walsh Hall, May 3, 1938.
Mr. Eugene Vaslett, Editor, The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana,
Dear Sir:
The April twenty-ninth edition of the Scholastic contained a rather vitriolic condemnation of campus politics under the heading “Look out Joe.” It is my opinion that this editorial was not only uncalled for but an unfair attack on the men who volunteer their time and services to the advantage of their fellow students.
Are we “deluded brethren” as you editorially state? I think not. Most of us are aware of the humorous aspect of embryonic politicians dashing around the campus to secure our “precious votes.” Few students today do not realize this — yet they see nothing inherently dangerous in it as you would have us believe.
Although campus election days may seem silly to the casual observer, Mr. Editor, there are some distinct advantages to the politician. By engaging in these campaigns which precede the annual spring elections, he receives a training available in few, if any, other ways on the campus. He learns how to meet his fellow men — how to express himself — how to turn minds to his point of view. In fact he learns human nature and how to deal with it. In addition he has an experience in planning—in recognizing and solving problems which arise. All these things are a benefit to “Joe Blow” the campus politician.
If I recall correctly, Mr. Editor, you were a candidate for a class office yourself at one time and have had active experience in campus political life since then. Therefore I am confident that you will concur with me that these lessons are taught by political engagement here at Notre Dame. In looking over your masthead I see at least three members of your staff, politicians, who will also share my view.
As long as these office-seekers use tactics which are honest and above reproach I can see no valid objection to the continuance of this Notre Dame tradition.
The problem resolves itself to this, as I see it. The political life at Notre Dame may be of the “soft soap” variety, yet it does no student harm and is helping those who engage in it.
William Costello.
REVIEW OF HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL MUSIC WEEK PRAISES PROGRAMS, PARTICIPANTS
The muses Euterpe, Polyhymnia, and Terpsichore, must be holding a festival of wine and song in Mt. Olympus today, for Notre Dame has paid them signal honors with the best “Music Week” ever to be celebrated on the campus. This season’s presentation, under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke
Anti-Religious Material On Display Monday
•
An anti - God, Communistic, and Nazi exhibit of more than 2,500 handbills, magazines, books, pamphlets, and other propaganda material used to attack religion and democratic government will be displayed in the North reference room of the library, beginning at noon, Monday, May 9, and ending Wednesday, May 11 at 9 p.m.
The purpose of the exhibit, sponsored by the S.A.C. in conjunction with the Religious Bulletin, and with the aid of James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association, is to show citizens of all creeds the magnitude of the anti-religious and anti-democratic campaign being conducted by “totalitarian murder regimes.” It took the Pro Deo Society of New York three years to collect the materials.
John E. McMahon, of Indianapolis, Ind., is chairman of the display committee which includes Robert F. Say-ia, Daniel 0. Donovan, Paul McArdle, John E. McAuliffe, and Thomas B. Donahue.
One section bristles with caricatures of God, the Pope, and ministers of Protestant and Jewish religions as well as of the Catholic. One card depicts a priest as a repulsive spider, and another portrays the Pope with a hissing serpent in place of a tongue.
Their Eminences, Patrick Cardinal Hayes, of New York, and William Cardinal O’Connell, of Boston, have expressed the desire that the exhibit be seen by every educated Catholic in the country.
head of the Music department, brought together excellent concerts and recitals aimed at stimulating student interest and appreciation for the immortal classical pieces in observance of National Music Week.
Program activities opened Sunday morning at the 8:30 high Mass in the Sacred Heart Church with the student body chanting the Gregorian Credo number one. Professor Pedtke, who accompanied the group at the organ, had previously tutored the students of the 14 residence halls for their initial attempt at Gregorian chant. At 4 o’clock, Sunday afternoon Mr. Pedtke presented an organ recital in the Sacred Heart Chapel.
Particularly outstanding was the student recital given in Washington Hall Sunday evening by Professor Pedtke’s piano pupils and Professor Elton Crepeau’s voice students. Karl Hunn, pianist, opened the program and John Gordon, baritone, followed with Herbert’s “Ah Sweet Mystery of Life,” and Friml’s “Sympathy.” A violin solo, Saint-Saens’ “The Swan,” was played by Andrew Felker, accompanied by George Sauter at the piano.
Frank Ciolino, tenor, rendered Metcalf’s “Absent” and Speaks’ “Sylvia.” Two piano solos, Debussy’s “Claire de Lune” and Rachmaninoff’s “Prelude in C Minor,” were played by Charles Butler. Professor Frederick H. Ingersoll and Andrew Felker, violinists, climaxed the program with Pleyel’s Duet. John Denton, baritone, sang the two selections: Sans Souci’s “When Song is Sweet’ and Bond’s “I Love You Truly.”
A violin quartet played Dvorak’s Largo “From the New World” and Severn’s “Blacksmith.” Dave O’Brien, tenor, sang Friml’s “Giannina Mia” and di Capua’s “O Sole Mio.” Wilson Crandel, pianist, concluded the program with Raff’s “Polka de la Rein.” Vocal accompaniments during the program were played by Professor Elton Crepeau.
James Robert Gillette, brought his 10-unit chamber orchestra to Washington Hall Monday evening and gave a notable performance before a packed house. Mr. Gillete, at the electric organ, directed the chamber group in a variety of musical selections. Highlights of the program included Bach’s “Sinfonia in B flat tions. Higghlights of the program in-
( Continued on Page 21)
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RELEASE DATES FOR 'DOME' ANNOUNCED
By William C. Fay
The 1938 edition of Dome, the campus yearbook, will be released locally Tuesday and Wednesday, May 24 and 25 Dome Editor Frank Reppenhagen announced early this week, following a four day trip to Milwaukee during which he completed final plans for printing the book.
Just one more task — photographing the Senior Ball tonight—remains for the Dome men. The pictures will be rushed to Milwaukee by plane tomorrow morning and inserted in the book Sunday; then Monday, May 9, the complete 1938 Dome will go to press.
The entire work of printing, drying, binding and shipping the yearbook will require more than two weeks. Editor Reppenhagen scarcely expects the first copy of Dome to come through to the campus before May 22.
As in former years the yearbook will be distributed to the students at the Railway Express Office in the rear of the Main Building. Requisition slips will be mailed to the students on or about May 20. Students can obtain their copy of the Dome by calling at the Railway Express office at the time specified.
Editor Reppenhagen emphasizes the fact that no Domes will be issued to students prior to the time appointed. Seniors will receive their books first beginning at 9:00 the morning of May 24. Then, when all the seniors have received their books the Dome will be distributed to the Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen in turn.
Hoosiers Leave-taking
The Indianapolis Club held its penultimate meeting last night in Badin Rec. George Sauter, president, announced the final meeting would be held the last week in May.
The group first listened to a detailed report of the recent Easter Vacation dance, a social function annually given and sponsored by the Indianapolis Club. Later in the meeting the members discussed plans . for their yearly midsummer dance, which will be held during the latter part of July. Also under discussion were plans for a summer picnic, which will take place a few days before the dance.
Nominees for the presidency of next year’s Indianapolis Club are James Rocap and William Barton.
Mon About the Campus
Man of the hour, the big hour, hails from Lakewood, Ohio, which recently attained the distinction of
being added to the list of Cleveland suburbs. Like all Clevelandites is rabid baseball fan—until, as usual, the Indians start to fade, forgets about them.
Is commonly referred to as “Bee-zie, the Boss’s Boy” by reason of a certain South Bend-er “interest.” Is considered a proven leader of men— but when it comes to the “interest” it’s second place for our boy.
His success as a politician in controlling his junior and senior elections is due not to the usual “barker” methods, but to being John Hicks Wilson, possessor of a refinement and genuineness of manner and sincerity of tone that one seldom encounters. Even though rosy cheeked, soft spoken, and blushing this Buckeye, surprisingly enough, is not subjected to any “ribbing” on the part of his neighbors on the fourth floor of Walsh. Which means that he’s an O.K. guy.
A combination Law - Accounting course has not prevented him from remaining in magna cum class, which is, decidedly, something.
Between case briefing and auditing he manages to faithfully fulfill his S.A.C. duties and take “occasional” walks along Riverside Drive. Put more work on his shoulders during first semester by filling in on an executive position at South Bend Utility.
Boasts of having shaved—once!
A fitting climax to a pre-law career filled with breezy trips to town, scholastic, political and lovely success will come when he cracks the whip at the head of the grand march at the Senior Ball tonight.
Open the doors, Johnny, we’re all set to come trucking through.
LITTLE JAMBOREE TO RE-LIVE AIR YEAR
This week’s story on Phil McHugh’s Big “Little Jamboree” broadcast, due to fill the hour from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m., on Friday, May 13, and emanate from the stage of Washington Hall, is even more startling than last week’s.
At. last Wednesday’s radio meeting it was decided to present as a special feature of the broadcast a brief review of the entire year in radio at Notre Dame. This review divided into four sections, Music, Commentators, Dramatics, and Special Events, will bring before the microphone for a brief comment nearly every member of the radio staff. With introductions by Announcer Norbert Aleksis, Walt Hagen, Ed O’Connor, Bob Blake, Bill Mooney, Carl Hunn, Ray Sadalier, Art Mulhern, Jack Solon, and many others will get a chance to give samples of the particular style of their individual programs during this fast-moving radio review.
The character of the talent for the othei- part of the show becomes more superlative at every turn, and it looks like there will be present enough variation of mood and tempo to turn out a real battle between swing and sweet music. The Modernaires, campus swing orchestra, have been working overtime between dance engagements on special arrangements for the program, while in contrast the classical musicians have been laboring hours over the blacks and whites on the piano working out a surprise that will provide a real treat.
In connection with the Modernaires’ part of the program there is a little personal note that speaks well for their popularity, for it has been necessary to make arrangements to have a truck backed up to the stage door of Washington Hall in order that all the instruments and musicians may be rushed over to ’ St. Mary’s immediately after the broadcast in order to fill a dance engagement there.
Students are warned that it will be necessary for them to be in Washington Hall by 6:45 the night of the broadcast as the doors will have to be closed then in order that all directions for the students’ part in the program may be given before time to take the air.
Despite frantic last-minute attempts before deadline, Scholastic reporters were unable to get from Producer and Master of Ceremonies McHugh any information about a special guest, well known in local radio circles who is talking seriously of appearing in person to add his bit to the program.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
OFFER NEW COURSES NEXT YEAR
New courses in various departments of the University besides courses previously offered which have been combined or revamped were pointed out this week by Robert B. Riordan, registrar.
In the Department of English “The Philosophy of English Literature, II” will be offered for the first time,
Professor O’Malley For him, more duties.
taught by Assistant Professor Francis J. O’Malley. Other courses with the faculty members in charge in the same department include “Keats: the man and his work,” Mr. Charles Du-Bos; “The Philosophy of Expression,” Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C., “The Spiritual Element in Literature,” Mr. DuBos; and “Paul Claudel: the man and his work,” Mr. DuBos. The last three are offered only for graduate students.
In the Department of Modem Languages a new course, “Spanish Culture” will be offered under Professors Pedro A. de Landero and Jose C. Corona. Besides this a new survey course in Italian literature will make its appearance.
“Historiography” under Mr. Willis Nutting, “The History of the British Empire” under Mr. Fitzsimmons, and “The Cultural and Social History of the United States, I and II’ and “Research in American History,” all under Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., comprise the new courses in the Department of History.
In Economics two new courses, “Economic Foreign Relations” and “Personnel Management” under Mr. Buckley, will be offered.
Eight courses based on history and government appear in the Department of Politics next semester. They will be conducted by Mr. Hermes, Dr. Gurian, and Mr. Bartholomew.
A course for graduate students in the Department of Journalism will be taught by Prof. John M. Cooney con-
( Continued on Page 21)
THE WEEK
By Harold A. Williams
Information
In the International Banking class the other day the professor posed this question, “What is meant by the expression ‘Old lady of Threadneedle Street’?” The bright boys in the class were stumped, and could only shake their heads and shrug their shoulders. A fellow who has the reputation of getting around a lot downtown but who never before answered a question in class popped up with the correct answer. “The Bank of England,” he said. The professor was quite pleased with the prompt and correct answer. He asked the fellow where he happened to pick up such a rather odd piece of information. Laconically came the reply, “I read it on one of those Drewry beer bottle quizz-o-grams.”
•
Candidate
Those of you who read the Scholastic’s editorial page probably saw last week’s editorial, “Look Out Joe,” a rather caustic thing lambasting campus politicians, class officers, and their intentions. Evidently the writer of the editorial, who, incidentally, ran for president of the freshman class four years ago, never heard of the candidate who is running for the Sophomore one year S.A.C. post on an independent ticket. “The Week,” in its usual spirit of service, takes great pleasure in presenting this gem of a letter the candidate has circulated in the Sophomore halls.
“Men of the sophomore class:
“You probably have had the fellows dropping in on you all week to help decide the question of the coming elections. The parties have been after you to vote for this or that ticket and to support their man for president. It certainly livens up campus life!
“In the midst of all chaos comes my letter, but this is different and not at all confusing. The writer of this letter is an independent (not backed by a powerful organization), and after such a seemingly insignificant job as the ‘one year' S.A.C. Men, we all, at one time or another, have wanted an active Student Council. You will agree that such an organization could have a lot to say when it comes to expressing student sentiment; and I am in earnest when I say that I want a ‘crack’ at student expression. . . .
“Yours for action”
Since the election will be over by the time this appears it will do no
' harm either way to say that “The I Week” hopes the candidate gets in just so he gets a ‘crack’ at student expression.
Did we hear somebody laugh?
Letter in a bottle
Two fellows, walking around St. Joe lake, picked up a bottle which was bobbing close to the shore. The bottle contained a letter — a tragic letter of unrequited love. It is, we suppose, another strange case of what happens to those who fall in love with a Notre Dame man. To the girls who will be exposed to the bewitching charm of the gay Notre Dame Seniors this week-end, we present a portion of the letter as a grim warning.
“Fellow sufferers: When you find this it will no longer matter for I . will have become a part of the loving earth. I was one who loved all nature—all humanity. But it was my misfortune to fix all my love on one alone, and he was deceiving me. How I loved that man. But he was a Notre Dame man, so he took no notice of this. Do not mistake me, I have forgiven him long ago. Again do not misjudge me, for I was not always addicted to this vice. I took to the bottle when the presence of him, for whom I lived night and day, was no longer granted me. I would have lost my mind had I done nothing. ... I hope my body will never be washed upon the shores of this beautiful lake. Goodbye, beautiful world which was nothing but cruel to me. Farewell! Me for the water.”
Senior Ball
Once again the Senior Ball is here and once again the orchestra is not a “name” band. This year, we understand every possible effort was made by all concerned to get a “name” band, but circumstances pertaining to the date of the Ball and the placements of the big orchestras made the thing metaphysically impossible. This is, of course, too bad, but it isn’t satisfying the boys who have been hollering all year for a “name” band. Something should — oh, let’s not get excited about the darn thing now. Sweep the corn from the Bingo games off the dance floor, throw open the Coca Cola bar of the Palais, wheel Jack Denny out on the stage, and let’s get the Ball rolling—we only have until three o’clock to make a night of it!
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
-------------------x
College Parade I
ANNUAL ELECTIONS LURE CHICAGOANS
Music Notes
By John A. Callaghan
In days of old, When nights were cold, We sat around the fire; In family throngs, We sang the songs That met with our desire.
But, notv-a-days,
Through modern ways, We merely turn a dial, And get a song From “Brush-Along”— “The Toothpaste With a Smile.”
—Trojan.
Newspaper of Tomorrow
Such is the title given to the tabloid Daily Northwestern in a special issue commemorating the Medill press conference held annually and edited by a special staff of the regular daily members. In this paper, the editors attempt to give their impression of the newspaper of a few years from today.
Besides the regular tabloid format (which they have been using for the past five years), the most unusual feature is the endeavor to “rocket” headlines. The article begins with the headline and continues into the actual reading matter, with the bylines and date-lines appearing above the headline.
Capital letters are absent in the headline. They appear only at the beginning of a paragraph. The paper, though it looks queer, has embodied in it some of the best features of the modern newspaper. Pictures are spread over the front page and liberally sprinkled throughout the paper. Conciseness is the guiding principle of the publication.
In the words of the editors, the “newspaper of tomorrow will be a far fairer, more complete, more adequate, and better produced commodity.”
—o—
Collegiate Roundup
Seven hundred and fifty-three publications throughout the country are cooperating with the Brown Daily Herald in its Survey of Student Opinion on Peace. The Brown paper has sent a questionnaire to these colleges and universities to cover the opinion of 1,200,000 students throughout the country. The poll has received the support of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and the American Institute of Public Opinion. . . First it was “Veterans of Future Wars,” now it is the Institute for International Ill - Will,” founded by two students of Emory University to burlesque modern war and international diplomacy. In a telegram to Adolf Hitler, they said,
The Chicago politicians are at it again. The entire membership is embroiled in as bitter a battle as the club, has ever seen. The prospects of the party headed by that veteran politician Dan Ryan had looked especially good until the past few days. In fact his party was the only one in the field.
Early last week a new “dark horse” party headed by Jim Gorman entered the field. The number of members that immediately flocked to
Chicago’s Buckley
About to turn over reins.
his standard gave evidence of a carefully planned, though secret, organization that had been at work for some time.
On the ticket with Ryan were “Chick” Engelhart, vice - president; Bob Carmody, treasurer; and Tom Hosty, secretary.
On the ticket of the party headed by Gorman were Bill Faymonville for vice-president, Jack Benedict for treasurer; and Tom Brennan as the candidate for secretary.
In keeping with the unwritten law of the club the positions of president, vice-president, and treasurer are open only to members of the Senior class. The post of secretary by this system must necessarily be filled by a member of the Junior class.
Rivalry between the two parties reached its height last night when elections were held. An S.A.C. representative was on hand to guarantee against the possible introduction of any Chicago electioneering tactics.
The large attendance at the election meeting was made the occasion of the announcement of a club golf tournament on May 21 and 22. Prizes totalling approximately $150 were announced by John Buckley, retiring president of the club.
“quit stalling and fight Austria.” The telegram was refused by two companies. Another message was drafted and reported accepted by one of the companies. It read: “We are all behind you and the eight ball. We recommend Austria for your growing pains.”
By Paul R. Locher
National Music Week, observed annually beginning with the first Sunday in May, was ushered in at Notre Dame with the student congregational singing of the Credo at the high Mass.
On Sunday evening, the music department presented a group of vocalists, pianists and instrumentalists. The highlight of the evening was the initial appearance of David O’Brien as tenor soloist. O’Brien revealed a rich and powerful voice with fine possibilities, admirably suited for his selection of “O Sole Mio” in the Italian. Although he strove valiantly to give a convincing rendition of “Giannini Mia,” it was impossible to overcome the handicap of unsympathetic accompaniment. John Gordon, who exhibited a smooth and pleasing voice, was also unable to out-wit his accompanist. Wilson Crandell would seem to be the most promising of the pianists, remembering the originality and cleverness he had displayed on the St. Patrick’s day program.
James Robert Gillette and his chamber orchestra entertained the audience on Monday night with a varied program. The most popular selection proved to be “Heigh-Ho” from “Snow-White and the Seven Dwarfs.” (You should remember Dopey was in the original Disney characterization). Mr. Gillette devised different arrangements of this melody to indicate how Bach, Debussy, Beethoven, Rachmaninoff and the Scottish people might have interpreted it. He demonstrated very effectively that the fundamental antagonism between followers of classical and popular music rests not with the melodies chosen, but in the manner in which they are treated. Many simple melodies become enchanting and immortal under wizardry of conception, whereas the same melody, such as “Liebestraume” by Liszt becomes trite and hackneyed in the hands of cabaret sensationalists.
Especial credit for his direction of the activities of Music Week is due to Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, and for his persevering efforts in attempting to recreate a symphony orchestra worthy of the University. Their concert Tuesday evening revealed a fine improvement in the orchestra, which can be further enhanced by greater spontaneity and decisiveness of conception.
Climaxing the activities, Richard Crooks, tenor with the Metropolitan Opera, will present a' concert on Friday evening in the gymnasium, which will be a real treat for Notre Dame.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC II
3 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
Seniors Swing
Tonight at ten off go the lights for the freshmen, and on goes the glitter for seniors. Cultural cravings will be forgotten in the heat of digging up matched studs and a paii‘ of socks that the laundry girls haven’t used as an exhibit of what’s new in the darner’s art. The annual melee for cabs will take place, and when the smoke clears the boys will be off to the Ball with their shirts crumpled a bit and ties awry but perspiringly happy. Roommates, who aren’t going, will get frantic telephone calls at deadline time asking them to scour the room for a ticket that has gone astray. The yelp of joyous relief at the other end of the wire on hearing of its discovery will compensate for being awakened at 3 a.m. to be told what a great affair it was. Speaking of 3 a.m., some of the lads are a bit dubious about staying out until dawn peeps up. After almost foui* years (in most cases) of scraping under the wire at twelve, the prospects of perhaps seeing a South Bend milkman is a little overwhelming. One Alumnite in particular has been staying awake, with the aid of cold showers every half hour, every night this week as he was afraid his stocks with the date would go down plenty if she found a head nodding on her shoulder about 12:15. . . . The question, “What goes on in South Bend after midnight?” will at last be answered. Not a few of the boys will be uneasy, however, about approaching the watchman in the waning hours of the morning. The shock of the “night clerk’s” (per the new Bulletin) accepting this event casually will be too much. There’s no fun getting in late if no drums beat from the Main Building afterwards.
Transportation was a big problem as always for Ballites and the prospect of cab fares going into a couple of figures was evidently too much for a pair of seniors who, last week, approached a clerk in Grosse’s Bike Shoppe and asked him if he rented out tandem bikes, and what would be the price for a week-end. This is a flicker of individualism that we approve of heartily. Our grandmothers are constantly dunning into our ears
the fact that youngsters nowadays haven’t half the fun they enjoyed in youth. If so, then why not bring back those days? Think of the saving by toting your girl to the Ball on a tandem. It’s something for you Juniors to consider seriously for next year. A fine, individual custom could be built up. If Oxford and Cambridge men can scoot around on bikes, wearing caps and gowns, there’s no reason why an N.D. blood can’t do the same adorned with topper and tails. The young ladies might object but the explanation of “Tradition, my dear,” will inject them into the spirit of the thing. It’s something worth thinking about, and a picture of 500 couples dressed in evening clothes mounted on tandem bikes in formation on Notre Dame Avenue should get us publicity from coast to coast.
A novel idea in favors will be introduced at the Ball. Instead of the usual bracelet or pendant for the
young lady, each couple will be photographed and each will receive a framed picture some time afterward. Something tells us that some of these pictures will be carefully buried from public eye. It’s quite all right for the young lady at home, who couldn’t come out for the Ball, to tell you to go ahead and find yourself a date and have a good time, but flaunting a picture of you with said date is another matter. Keep the picture for a private peek now and then, boys, but keep it exclusive.
Monday morning the glorious week-end will be over and professors will be faced with the task of dragging calf-eyed seniors off pink-tinted clouds. They’re used to it by now, however, and the delicacy with which they treat these temporary vacuums is the acme of humaneness. Ah well, outside of the prospects of finals in a couple of weeks, life sure has a lot of meaning to it.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_______________Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT________________________Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA............................ Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams_______________________________The Weefe
John Callaghan College Parade
John F. Clifford Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy_____________________________In the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey_____________________________News Editor
George Haithcock----------------------Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk-----------------------------Graham Starr
Robert Sheppard--------------------------Vernon Sneider
Joseph Miller------------------.---------Thomas- Marker
Harry Penrose_________________________________John Kohn
William C. Fay------------------------Fructuoso Barreda
Joseph Perkins---------------------------Richard Anton
Martin Donovan---------------------------Edward Huston
George Neumann_____________________________Richard Leahy
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitchell------------------------------Sports Editor
Frederick Digby-----------------------Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto-------------------------Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe-----------------------William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson-------------------------Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan-------------------------Donald Foskett
Eddie Huff
Art Staff
George Elmore---------------------------------4 rt Editor
Tom Powers------------------------------------Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
Vol. 71
May 6, 1938
No. 24
Storm and Fury
THE editorial that appeared on this page last week entitled “Look Out Joe” has provoked a great deal of criticism on this campus, favorable and unfavorable. The unfavorable, naturally, being the more vehement, especially from present aspiring politicians.
The tearing down has been done. A little building up, we feel, would not be out of order. We mentioned that the only thing a class president had to do upon his election was to run or assist in running the class dance. He is never called upon to do anything else. His is never the chance unless an extraordinary opportunity presents itself.
A case of taking advantage of the opportunity has been presented by Senior Class President John O’Connor and the advantage was admirably taken care of. However, we ask, why are the class presidents rarely presented with such opportunities, and if so, are put entirely up to their own ingenuity as we saw in the case of O’Connor? The question can be answered easily. Because in the eyes of school authorities these class presidents upon their election have no evidence to present that they are capable of handling such opportunities. The fault is not their own. They fulfill the lenient requirements to run for office and beyond that they .have nothing to worry about.
However, if the requirements were raised we feel that the officer would have presented, before his election,
proof, ample proof, that he was capable of handling responsible jobs.
If the scholastic requirements were raised—a form ’ of qualitative average, so to speak, and a rigid one—if every candidate for office were required to take part in a certain number of class or extra-curricular activity, wherein they are able to display their aptitude; if candidates were required to appear before a board of approval composed of senior members of the S.A.C. before they were placed on the ballot, then would students and school officials be assured of excellent, competent men running for class president, and then would class officers be offered the opportunity to do something for their class and school.
We offer this suggestion for the consideration of administrative officials and the S.A.C. If anything is made of it we feel that class elections and the officers will be above criticism and competent men will hold responsible positions.
The Scholastic realizes that present and past officers of the various classes have felt a personal affront to themselves in the editorial appearing here last week. That editorial was not leveled against any group or individual. It was leveled against a system that could easily be improved, a system that compares unfavorably with other non-fraternity universities of this country.
On Music Week
WITH the concert by the celebrated American singer, Richard Crooks, this evening in the University fieldhouse, an auspiciously successful week of fine, rich music draws to a close in an appropriate and highly entertaining manner. When the last chords serry into the deepest recesses of the fieldhouse from Mr. Crooks’ voice, there will be nothing more to do than to remember and to praise.
It is in this spirit that The Scholastic extends to all those students and musical organizations, who participated wholeheartedly and with skill to entertain their fellow students through the medium of one of the finest of all arts, sincere thanks and congratulations for a most pleasant task well accomplished.
Too, one would be much amiss if not one word of praise would not be bestowed upon him who was the guiding hand behind this annual week of honor to music, genuine and honest music. Then, to Professor Pedtke, head of the department of music, must go everyone’s applause for ably directing and arranging each presentation throughout the week.
It must be highly gratifying to Mr. Pedtke and his pupils that the student body as a whole took an increasingly greater interest in the affairs of the Week as the program unrolled its way through the days. Such keen interest in music has not always been so apparent at Notre Dame of late. Therefore, it is doubly pleasing that there are indications that the once great tradition of Music on the campus has been revived. For this, and for their efforts during the past week, much sincere praise must go to the music department.
And so as we listen to the fine voice of Mr. Crooks and his repertoire of memorable songs this evening let us give praise to those who deserve praise. More so, let us remember this fine week of song and music and hope that other days will bring us all the more of the same.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
“Ssb! The Marabout”
Gault MacGowan
in the New York Sun
Note: Mr. MacGowan’s dispatches from Spain have been an outstanding example of objective, impartial reporting. This story of an excursion into Morocco is evidence of his seeing eye and understanding heart. Mr. MacGoivan is not a Catholic.
Just across the Mediterranean from Spanish soil, where butchered clergy made a Spanish fiesta, democratic France has elevated a simple priest to the rank of Public Hero No. 1. He is known as Pere Laurent— Father Laurent—of the brown habit.
Midway between the Atlas mountains, where wild Berbers roam, and the Moorish city of Meknes, I met him; a short bearded man with a friendly smile beneath a battered white sun-helmet that fits him like a halo. When he looks at you he seems to see through you, but he sees only the white within you. The fire in his eyes scorches out the stains of the past and the dross of the present. Those who see him every day believe they live with a saint.
To and fro he travels to serve his Roman Catholic flock, in the plains by flivver, on mule back in the mountains.
Hard-boiled legionnaires tell tales about him over their wine; officers and their wives discuss him in their abutments on the edge of the desert; mountain tribesmen talk about him in their kasbahs.
The legionnaires tell how, when they arrive at the loneliest outposts, Pere Laurent will be along to say Mass on Sundays. They relate how, when there is no other place for him, he will put up his little portable altar in the canteen and hold the sacred service where a little while before soldier oaths and soldier stories filled the air. An atmosphere of holy calm stills the mundane meeting place. Men of many medals, the dauntiest in the. legion, kneel before him and hang on his words.
Pere Laurent has medals, too; not only the miraculous ones that men say have saved their lives when he blessed them, but those that have been given him. The Legion of Honor, the Medaille Militaire and the Croix de Guerre. Rewards for tending the wounded under fire; for succor to the dying when hell blazed in the Riff and the Atlas. He was wounded several times himself before revolting tribesmen learned who he was. Then they would not shoot at him any more.
In the Officers Club in the oasis of Kasba Tadla, there was a ladies’ night when I was there, an evening arranged by the garrison to celebrate a tennis tournament between the women in the cities and outposts of Morocco. It was strange to see white frocks and Lenglen headbands flashing over the dry courts of the club in the sweltering heat of South Morocco. And it was strange to see them gathered in the evening in the club in a land where the tourist seldom goes and which is still officially labeled a “zone of insecurity.” But they were there and they were discussing Pere Laurent.
Mme. Cuny, wife of the commandant of the second battalion of the Second Regiment of the Foreign Legion, and Mme. Cailleux, wife of the Adjutant-Major, were discussing his housekeeping arrangements. Somehow it did not seem inquisitive. Every one discusses every one else’s housekeeping when you live on the edge of a desert, in an oasis, or on a mountain top. And you do it with greater efficiency than in New York for every one knows exactly how much every one else earns. It is all down in the army or civil estimates. There are no secrets when frontier folk congregate.
If your pay does not come from the government then you don’t live in these places if you can help it. But those who are paid to go, find lots to like in the life. Pere Laurent is one of them. His joy seems to be in the fact that you can get closer to souls in the wilderness than you can in the city.
“He lives like a hermit,” said Mme. Cuny.
“He makes his own bed,” said Mme. Cailleux.
“He does his own cooking,” said some one else.
“And I often see him returning from market with a black bag full of groceries in one hand and the other on the head of some poor Arab child that has asked him for his blessing,” volunteered some one else. “Even the Moslems think his touch will bring them luck.”
Native administrators sometimes
complain that missionaries make bad Christians out of good Mohammedans. Sometimes they object to having them in their territory. But no one has yet objected to Father Laurent.
“He is welcomed everywhere” said Mme. Bertrand who wears the decoration of “Officer du Nicham Iftikhar” on State occasions and is regarded as an authority on Moroccan affairs. Her husband is a captain in the political service and a local magistrate.
The native mountaineers would not think of harming Father Laurent today. In the Riff war, when he moved about among the wounded under fire, the word went round among the fierce warriors of Abul Krim.
“Don’t shoot him” they whispered one to another. “He is a French holy man, El Murabit, the marabout.”
Thus he earned a Moslem title, Father Laurent, the French marabout.
How old he is nobody knows. Probably his beard makes him look older than he is. For twenty-five years— ever since the French undertook the protection and pacification of Morocco —he has served the Legionnaires. And a Legionnaire only does fifteen years service before he retires on pension. Most of them only do five years. Pere Laurent was there when they first came as raw recruits; he was still there when they left as veterans.
My guess is that he is 60 years old. But I had not the courage to ask him the ordinary reportorial question. He just gripped my hand and looked • at me. In twenty years of meeting celebrities, no man before has made tears well to my eyes. Maybe that is because I have never spoken to a saint before. Can I remember what he said? I cannot. But I know all that matters about him; and he knows all that matters about me.
I have met other frontiersmen priests. Father John of the Cross, the Carmelite, who built a church in the Mesopotamia desert out of debris left over from the World War and made choristers of homeless Armenian waifs; the famous White Fathers (Continued on Page 23)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
. ■■ —
IRISH THINLIES ARE FAVORED OVER POWERFUL OHIO STATE SQUAD HERE TOMORROW
By Frederick J. Digby
The thinlies of Notre Dame have met the Ohio State team three times m outdoor dual meets and each time they have bowed before the Buckeyes. Tomorrow afternoon the two teams will meet for the fourth time, and the Irish are favored to win their first victory over the Staters. The Irish have bested
the Buckeyes in triangular and quad- t rangular meets, their most recent triumph being at the Bloomington meet when they took second place behind Indiana while Ohio State trailed along in fourth place. But
Sprinter Clifford
Approaching 9.6
up to the present the outdoor dual meet results have found the Buckeyes on top of the Irish every time. Last year they defeated the local thinlies by about 20 points.
Tomorrow’s meet promises to be another close one, but the records of this year’s performances indicate that the Irish have the edge.
The meet record in the mile run, 4:21, will probably be wiped off the records after tomorrow’s race. Diminutive Greg Rice will be out to avenge the defeat he suffered last year. Sexton nosed him out by almost a foot in the last meet and will be back to try to do the same tomorrow.
Notre Dame should capture top positions in all the field events but the high jump and the broad jump. In the latter event the Buckeyes have Dave Albritton and Charlie Walker, two of the best jumpers in the country. Walker will also perform for the Buckeyes in the broad jump and should win that event too. The shot put and the discus, however, will be cornered by the stellar Irish weight man, Bill Faymonville. Harold Langton should win the javelin (Continued on Page 21)
PURPLE TAKES IRISH IN 14 INNINGS
A grossly underrated Northwestern baseball team invaded Cartier Field last Tuesday afternoon, and, after swapping hit for hit with Jake Kilne’s Irish diamond squad, came through in the first of the 14th inning with a three-run rally that won the ball game, 5-3. It was only the third win for Burt Ingwerson’s boys in 13 starts, and the first against a major opponent, but the Wildcats showed enough fight in the pinches to indicate that they will be a different team from now on.
Sophomore Norv. Hunthausen went to the hill to open for the Irish, seeking his third win in as many starts, and was opposed by Harry Skidmore, veteran Purple southpaw. These two boys fought on even terms for nine innings, after which Hunthausen retired in favor of pinch-hitter Ober-brunner. Notre Dame drew first blood in the first inning, as Nardone reached first, went to second and scored when a throw got by the Northwestern catcher. The Irish counted again in the fourth as Ennio Arboit tripled, and scored on Larry Doyle’s infield out. Northwestern scored in the fifth and again in the sixth on two Irish errors. There was no more scoring until the fatal fourteenth; in this inning Werd walked, and Wildcats Woy, Diehl, and Shin-kevich got to relief hurler Rex Ellis for three successive hits and three runs. In the last of the fourteenth it looked for a moment as though the Klinemen might yet capture the game, for Nardone opened the inning with a tremendous home run drive to the left field fence. Hurler Skidmore, however, still pitching for the Evanston club, settled down and retired Corcoran, Borowski, and Arboit, to end the inning and the ball game. Totals of the game showed tha, although the Irish were outscored, they out hit Northwestern 12-11.
HOOSIERS. SPARTANS MEET NET TEAM
By Donald Foskett
The annual invasion of the campus by Big Ten athletic teams will continue on tomorrow afternoon over at the Stadium courts, as Indiana sends its varsity tennis team here to tackle the Notre Dame racquet-wielders. The contest looks like a tosgup, since, judging from present and past records, the two squads, seem to be on a par.
Of course the Hoosiers lost their star of last season when Tieman took his diploma last June, but 1937 reserves plus some capable newcomers have combined to form a potent club. Ball State was a victim of the Red and White early this season, but the boys from Bloomington bogged down last Saturday in the annual Big Ten Quadrangular meet, to drop successive decisions to Ohio State and Illinois, 6-3 and 5-4; the Illini went on to win the meet. Indiana’s four outstanding players appearing here tomorrow are Tuthill, Kingdon, Davis, and Haney—all four are veterans. The Irish won over their downstate rivals last spring in a close one, 5-4 with the lead shifting constantly throughout the match.
On next Thursday Coach Pedro de Landero’s lads travel up to Lansing to take on Michigan State. Last year the two schools met only once, and the State netmen, one of the strongest teams in the history of Spartan tennis, took the game from the Irish. Since 1930 Coach Ball’s teams have been consistent winners, having an .840 average in all their matches played since that date; over a ten-year period they have met ten rivals regularly and have won the majority of these tilts also. The Spartans have two veterans on their squad this season in Charlie Gibbs and Leonard Kositechek; two fine sophomore performers are Herman Struck and Seymour Rawitz. The Michigan State club met the University of Michigan last Saturday and lost to the Wolverines, 5-4.
CHALLENGE
Regardless of rumors to the contrary the Memphis Club, Marty McGinnis managing, is still willing to meet all challenges at softball.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IS
Brushing Up
VARSITY GRIDMEN BATTLE OLD TIMERS SUNDAY IN LAST APPEARANCE OF 1937 STARS
By Nick Lamberto
Through the crystal ball: Reviewing a play, “The Great American Pastime,” a National League tragedy in three acts, labelled for release in the principal cities throughout the country in late spring, summer, and early fall:
Act I—“Spring Cleaning.” The scene opens with the Pirates making theii' annual spring pennant drive. The Cubs and Giants have trouble adjusting themselves to new scenery, uniforms, players, etc. Music in the background by the Card hill-billy band.
Act II—“Summeritis.” The Cubs and Giants make their alternate pennant drives with superb acting that defies imitation. The Pirates run out of gas and try liquor. The Card music grows louder with the addition of Medwick’s bazooka to the band.
Act III—“Dog Days.” The Cubs and Giants find themselves in the doghouse with old Lady Luck. The Cub machine is hitting on only three managers and missing terribly. The Giants lose the “Hub” of their drive wheel. The Card band in the background come to the center of the stage disguised in beards, dirty uniforms, and adhesive tape. They sneak off with the National league bunting, and Pepper Martin leads them in the march of triumph. The Cubs, Giants, and Pirates all get rave notices for their “grand make-believe,” but the Cards win over the critics with their true-to-life performance.
Odds and Ends: Jim Milmoe, senior journalist at Northwestern, works eight hours a day at the Chicago Herald and Examiner, edits the Daily Northwestern, school paper# attends classes at Northwestern, and still finds time to date the coed news editor . . . wotta man! Messrs. Donnelly, Condon, and Mulhern seemed bored with inactivity: last fall they managed the football team through a successful season, then the past winter they handled the indoor sports program, and now they’re promoting the Monogram Absurdities, which should insure its success before the first curtain. Incidentally Condon is bemoaning the fact that the Lawyer’s banquet cost him $701.25. ... He paid $1.25 for his ticket to the banquet, and while he was attending the banquet his name was called for a $700 bank at a theater across the street. Art Manush, Iowa U’s slugging left fielder, is a nephew of Heinie Manush, the major leaguer. . . . Art is batting well over 400.
By Andrew F. Wilson
Last weekend, with Head Coach Elmer Layden visiting alumni at the Drake Relays, and Line Coach Joe Boland chaperoning Bill Faymonville, Hal Langton, and Bill Mahoney at the Penn Relays, football was called off, the usual Friday-Saturday scrimmages being advanced to Thursday and Friday.
Elmer Layden Shows his 1938 squad.
IRISH GOLFERS MEET NORTHWESTERN
Northwestern’s undefeated golf team forms the opposition for Father George Holderith’s up - and - coming Notre Dame linksmen at the Coquil-lard Country Club course today. The Purple Wildcats have defeated Marquette, Loyola, Detroit, and Wisconsin.
Both Notre Dame and Northwestern have shaded Wisconsin’s Badgers, by way of comparison. Notre Dame lost to Detroit, but the Wildcats clawed the Titans to defeat.
Notre Dame has defeated Northwestern four times in previous seasons while losing only once. Last year’s match rewarded Notre Dame with victory.
Captain Sid Richardson, medalist of the Big Ten meet last year, will lead his mates today against Captain Tom Sheehan and his Notre Dame squad.
AT LAST
Climaxing years of extreme effort, Tom Mulligan’s Clevelanders were at last able to down John Buckley’s Chicagoans in a game of softball. In an intense pitchers’ battle, the easterners squeezed out a 19-18 win in a game played this week.
There is still no “first” team. Freshmen and “B” squad men and last season’s monogram winners are playing side-by-side; lines and back-fields vary in personnel from one afternoon to the next. Even by the Old Timers’ Game, the high point of spring practice every year, which is scheduled to be played in the Stadium this Sunday, May 8, the first string lineup may be no more definitely ascertainable.
Coach Layden has had nothing to say about his starters as yet, and probably will have difficulty making up his mind much before game-time. It is probable, however, that he will begin with as many monogram men and “A” squad veterans as possible, so we may expect to see at the kickoff either Earl Brown or Bill Kerr at left end, Frank Hollendoner or “Butch” Brew at left tackle, Captain Jim McGoldrick at left guard, Ed Longhi at center, Augie Bossu or “Chuck” Riffle at right guard, Paul Kell at right tackle, any one of five or six men at right end, Bill Hofer at quarterback, Harry Stevenson at left halfback, any one of five men at right halfback, and Thesing, Tonelli or Simonich at fullback.
Judging by recent performances this lineup may be somewhat altered, or more positively determined, as follows: Brown definitely at left end, Hollendoner at left tackle, possibly John McIntyre at center, “Chuck” Riffle at right guard, Johnny Kelly at right end, Steve Sitko at quarterback, possibly Bob Saggau at left halfback, Paul Morrison at right halfback, and Mario Tonelli at fullback, with Hal Gottsacker as second choice.
The Old Timers’ lineup, such as it is, is pretty well set, outside of one or two positions. Len Skoglund will be at left end, Gene Ely at left tackle, with Bill McCarthy from the 1936 team as a possible reserve, Harvey Foster at left guard, Pat McCarty alternating at center with John Fogel, Joe Race at right guard, Right Guard Joe Kuharich at right tackle, “Chuck” O’Reilly at quarterback, Joe Gleason at left half, “Bunny” McCormick at right half, and Left Guard Joe Ruetz alternating with Center Pat McCarty at fullback. In their last appearance on Cartier Field —a week ago yesterday—the Old Timers had Paul Nowak at right end, catching passes all over the field. Since then, however, fearing to give (Continued on Page 16)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
MANDJIAK RETIRES CHICAGO HITLESS
By Mark J. Mitchell
With a strong forehand and a fighting heart, Edwin Thomas Kilrain, captain of the 1938 Notre Dame varsity tennis team, is leading his mates to what promises to be the best season any Irish net squad has ever had. Although at the time of this writing the Notre Dame tennists stand ’way down in the won-lost column, the worst opponents are out of the way, and from now on in the scores should be getting bigger and bigger — in favor of Notre Dame.
Kilrain’s f u n c tion, besides playing the No. 1 position in most of the meets, is an extremely integral one. He is so thoroughly liked and admired by the other members of the team that his influence serves to wield a somewhat erratic squad of individuals into a well-balanced, smoothplaying unit.
Varsity tennis facilities have never been exceptional at Notre Dame, but the outlook for the future is a distinctly happier one. Plans are being made to provide opportunities for winter practice in the new Rockne Memorial. There is also a possibility that
canvas windbreaks may be provided for the courts south of the Engineering Building. And behind all this is the untiring efforts of Eddie Kilrain to give the fellows who play tennis at Notre Dame a real chance to show what they can do. It is seldom that the captain of an Irish athletic team takes such an active interest in the welfare of his teammates—but that is just one of the qualities which have placed Kilrain where he is.
Like most of the other Notre Dame tennists, Eddie did not come here specifically for the court games. After spending five years in St. Meinrad’s Benedictine Seminary in southern Indiana, he entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1934. He won both the freshman and school tournaments that fall, and the next spring came out to practice with the varsity.
By the time the tennis season opened lais sophomore year, he was playing the No. 5 position. He missed his monogram that year by one point—yes, literally one point, in one game. For, having won two matches, he needed but one more to earn a letter. In the last meet of the season, he was leading his opponent all the way up to set and match point. He blew up and lost the match.
Last year, however, he came back to earn the No. 3 place and stroke his way to a letter and this year’s captaincy. In three years of competition he has won nine intercollegiate matches—not a remarkable record to be sure, but one quite worthy of the opponents he has faced. Of these, the greatest tennis player probably was Wachman of Northwestern, who holds the Big Ten championship.
Kilrain’s best stroke is, of course, his forehand. He uses the Western grip in which the racquet is held so that the face is parallel to the ground. This imparts to the ball a terrific topspin, causing it to bound low, almost skidding along the ground. The result is a hard, fast game, quite typical of the Kilrain temperament. For every Kilrain shot is fashioned of his very heart and soul.
The type of opponent which bothers him most is one who chops a great deal. This is a natural consequence, because it, of course, slows up considerably the essentially fast Kilrain game.
It was the same story inning after inning out on Cartier Field last Saturday afternoon; Chicago batsmen stepped up to the platter, took three swings, and walked back to the visitor’s bench, scratching their respective heads and wondering just how a baseball bat could possibly have so many holes in it without falling apart. For Lefty Mike Mandjiak, apparently recovered from that disastrous wild streak he exhibited at Columbus a few weeks ago, had so much on the horsehide that the Maroon nine failed to get a hit, and succeeded in getting only one man on first base when Klass drew a walk. Mandjiak’s feat has not been accomplished here, since that memorable day 20 years ago, which saw Paul Castner, Irish football and baseball star, shut out the visiting club with nary a hit nor a run. Mandjiak further showed his mastery over the Chicago boys by fanning 16 of them, eight of these strikeouts coming in succession.
But the Notre Dame twirler didn’t lack support at the plate by any means for it was just one of those days when the Klinemen felt like shaking a few hits out of their bats —ten to be exact. Right from the start the Irish laid down a barrage of hits and runs for Mandjiak to go to work on, so that after nine innings the Irish had collected five runs. One of the longest hits of the day was a triple by Ennio Arboit, who seems to have at least a couple bingles in his bat for ever game these days. Heavy sticker for the day, however, was Captain Chuck Borowski, whom Pitcher Reynolds just couldn’t retire. Chuck fattened his batting average considerably by collecting four hits out of four trips to the plate. One of these was a terrific home run smash over the center fielder’s head.
OLD TIMERS' GAME (Continued from Page 15)
away too many secrets, the Old Timers have ceased to practice publicly. They are expected to depend chiefly on passes, for the first five minutes of each half, featuring Minnesota’s scoring play of last year — laterals from fullback to quarterback to left halfback, then a diagonal forward pass to the cross-cutting right end.
For the other 50 minutes of the game, the varsity opposition will consist of picked freshmen and “B” squad teams, dressed in the colors of the Old Timers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GOLFERS WIN OVER WISCONSIN. PURDUE
•
Last week the Notre Dame golf team came up against two Big Ten teams and both times emerged with one-point victories.
Last Saturday on the Coquillard course the Blue and Gold swingers won their third straight match at the expense of a strong Purdue outfit.
Rev. Holderith
His boys are doing 0. K.
The final score was 9%-8%. The morning rounds brought N.D. a 3-point lead with Captain Sheehan and Walt Hagen ringing up a best ball score of 69 for victory over the team of David and Anderson. Bennett and Donahue of Notre Dame tied with Freese and Blaske at 1%-1%. In the afternoon singles David turned the trick on Sheehan to the tune of 2-1, while Hagen and Anderson trekked the fairways together for a tie of 1%. Baske lost his match 3-0 to Schaller but Donahue came through with a 2%-l% win over Freese to conclude the day’s activities.
Tuesday up on Wisconsin’s greenways the Badgers furnished unexpected opposition for the N.D. boys. However, after a busy day, Captain Tom Sheehan led the golfers from the 18th green with a 12%-11% victory. The two doubles teams of Donahue and Sheehan and Hagen and Bennett tied the two Badger teams with 1% points each. In the singles rounds Sheehan, Donahue and Nolan won with 2%-% scores. Bennett and Nolan, in their second go of the afternoon, lost 2%-%, while Hagen was beaten 2-1. Tom Sheehan set the pace for the Irish with a card of 75, tying with March of Wisconsin for low medal honors.
KLINEMEN GO TO MICH. STATE TOMORROW. RETURN TO MEET ILLINI HERE TUESDAY
By Eddie Huff
A jump to Lansing for the Michigan State contest tomorrow breaks up an extended home stand of five games for Coach Jake Kline’s Notre Dame diamond tossers. The Irish will be back on Cartier Field next Tuesday, however, to engage Illinois for the only time during the season. Regardless of
IRISH TENNISTS LOSE TO KENTUCKY. WIND
Playing under the most adverse conditions, the Notre Dame tennis teams lost its third match in five days here Wednesday afternoon. Kentucky was the victor by a score of 6 matches to 3. Four singles matches and two doubles contributed to the Kentucky total of six points.
A steady wind blowing, at times so hard that the nets were almost horizontal to the ground, was a much greater disadvantage to the Irish ten-nists than to the men from Kentucky. For the great majority of the Notre Dame netmen play a well-balanced game of what is considered the best and most efficient type of tennis. Depending on such forms of court strategy as accurate placements, this varied game is more easily upset than the slow, plodding game of which the Kentucky tennists were exponents.
The style employed by Kentucky consisting of high lobs, with emphasis merely on returning the ball, does not suffer a great deal when the net is blown as much as three inches higher than that specified by regulations. On the other hand, many Notre Dame shots that might have been good under ordinary conditions, dropped futilely into the net.
Center tapes to held the nets down are a part of the standard equipment of any good tennis court. But even holding down the nets would not prevent the other devastating effects of the strong Indiana wind. Provision for some sort of windbreak, be it only a thick vine on the backstops, might mean the difference between victory and defeat for the Notre Dame tennis team.
In the No. 1 singles match, Bill Fay lost to Englebardt, but forced his opponent to the limit to win. The match went to three sets, Englebardt taking the first 6-2, Fay rallying to take the second by the same score, and the third going to Englebardt, also 6-2. This match was much closer than the scores indicate, one game going to deuce eight times before Fay finally won it.
Captain Kilrain at No. 2 lost in (Continued on Page 20)
what happens in tomorrow’s Michigan State encounter, the losing club will get the opportunity of evening the balance in a return game here on Tuesday, May 24.
The Spartans of Coach John Kobs outscored Notre Dame in a brace of games last season, neither game being close. Michigan State has won seven of the last ten diamond conflicts between the clubs, although Notre Dame has an edge of 30 victories in 45 engagements since the competition was begun in 1910.
The State squad toured the South during the early spring and returned to Lansing with seven successive triumphs. Michigan and Michigan Normal have both fell before the heavy and timely clubbing of Capt. Harper Scott, Gene Ciolek, John Kuk, and Sam Nuznov since then.
Iowa, which split a two-game series here, downed Michigan State, and Wisconsin shaded Coach Kobs’ squad twice, by 2-1 and 1-0.
Art Libbers, veteran; and Ray Dahlstrom, Glenn Rankin, and George Munroe, a sophomore trio, have been working on the pitchers’ mound for Kobs.
Illinois will send the 1937 Western Conference champions to Cartier Field next Tuesday. That is to say, what is left of the Big Ten champions will be here in the person of Capt. John Callahan, first sacker and alumnus of Chicago’s Mt. Carmel High. Ray Poat, most valuable player in the Conference as a sophomore last season, was lost to the squad after the third game this spring when he bobbed up with an injury to his pitching arm. Poat amassed nine straight hurling victories in his first year.
Two Illinois entities of sports will not play; Lou Boudreau, baseball and basketball star of the Hlini, is ineligible until the fall because one of the big league clubs tampered with his amateur nature. Wally Roettger, who performed on the diamond and hardwood for the Orange and Blue during the campaigns of 1922-24, has been coaching Illinois since 1935 after spending a decade in the National League with four clubs.
Illinois has been playing two-game stands this spring, and the Illini have been registering alternate winning and losing streaks. Capt. Callahan (Continued on Page 20)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By John F. Clifford
ATTENTION: PEPPER MARTIN
There’s a man on this year’s Notre Dame baseball nine that your erstwhile Gas House Gang can’t afford to let slip through their fingers. This kid would be an indispensable asset to any up-and-coming ball club, but we are giving you advance notice of Ins talents before any other club grabs him up. As manager and front office of “Pepper Martin’s Mudcats,” the only musical organization that put Swing into baseball, you should take it upon yourself to contact tins man. Mike Mandjiak’s his name, the hottest, swingiest trumpet player that has hit the Irish campus since Joe Casasanta’s day, which was some time ago. He is a southpaw pitcher of some repute, heaving the Irish nine to a no-hit, no run game against Chicago last week, but that is of little interest to you Gas House Gang. It should be of vital interest to you, however, that Manslaughter Mike toots a mean horn. We understand your “Mudcats” are on the lookout for a man who can look good in a baseball suit and still triple-tongue-it- with the best of them. If so, Manslaughter is your man. There are pitchers and then again there are pitchers. This kid is a pitcher plus. Any one of your scouts can pick up fairly promising hurlers around the collegiate circuits; but we’ll bet a bottle of Dizzy Dean’s arm liniment that none of the Red-Birds scouts can ever come across such a prospect as this fellow Mundjiak and his trumpet appear to be right now. He had them trucking in the aisles last year at the Monogram Absurdities, which is a show that the athletes here at Notre Dame put on once a year for the benefit of themselves and those who wish to attend as members of the audience. When Mike picked up his horn and “giffed” for the boys the house went wild. (Incidentally, he is one of the main attractions on this year’s program—by popular request.) “Sugar Blues” is his forte, but give him any tune that has the slightest chance of being swung and he’ll sa-wing it! In that no-hit, no-run game that we mentioned above Mike and Mover (just another one of his famous monikers) fanned 16 men—eight of them in a streak. There is nothing extraordinary in that, of course, but we thought it might be of some use in influencing Frankie Frisch to look the lad over. But aside from his pitching arm (guaranteed to hold up under pressure) we think Mike is the biggest thing you “Mudcats” have chances of slapping down an option on in modern baseball. He’s only a Sophomore, so maybe he’ll be able to master a couple more instruments before he graduates. It’s the chance of a lifetime. Think it over, Pepper. . . .
V
OLD TIMERS . . . ALREADY?
The Notre Dame Managers Association, that hustling organization of ultra-efficiency that has been the dutiful servant to Notre Dame athletic teams on the road and on the field since its institution several years ago, has done it again. Nothink drastic, mind you, but nevertheless worthy of note. A manager’s life is not a very exciting one, what with all the bucket-toting, setting up the hurdles, and holding a handkerchief in readiness for a possible sneeze, together with the hundreds of other chores that go to make up a rather hum-drum managerial existence. So there comes a time when friend manager feels an inexplicable urge, a mighty driving force to do something big—something that would break the monotony of being just a manager and cause resounding reverberations in Notre Dame’s hallowed halls. Such a compelling force must have been behind the outhor of one of the latest notices to emanate from the office of the managers concerning the coming Varsity-Old Timers football melee. It was a masterpiece of subtlety and innuendo, comparable to other recent “advance notices.” “AH those Old Timers,”, it read, “football men who are graduating in June) are to report to Mac’s office to receive equipment, etc. ...” To appreciate the full significance of this notice one must know the feelings of a manager and those of a graduating man. The typical manager of today is a dutiful, Eric Blore sort of person whose life is totally obsessed with a principle of steadfast efficiency, and the acme of this efficiency must always be manifest on the gridiron sidelines. A football man who has played bis last game for his Alma Mater is, on the other hand, a rather sensitive creature, conscious of his falling hair, over-large paunch, and the difficulty he meets when bending over the pigskin in the hot, sweltering days that are now with us.
TENNISTS DROP TWO OF THREE MEETS
•
Disaster continues to ride with Notre Dame tennis team, despite their 7 to 0 victory over Detroit U. After dropping their initial match of the year to Northwestern’s Wildcats, Coach de Landero’s men lost a close affair Saturday to Western State at Kalamazoo, 5 to 4. Returning to the wars on Sunday the Irish displayed speed, skill and plenty of what it takes to easily defeat Detroit’s net-men.
On Monday Notre Dame played hosts to Chicago University’s great team, their third in a trio of days. The Maroons, on that day at any rate, could easily be termed invincible, because they were just that. They easily defeated N.D., 9 to 0.
In the Western State battle, Notre Dame lost most of its points in the singles matches. The Michigan boys won four out of six matches to take an early lead. But Notre Dame came back in the doubles to take two out of three, coming within one of a clean sweep. Yet it wasn’t enough and defeat was inevitable. In the singles Ruell of Western State opened things by defeating Captain Eddie Kilrain, 6-2, 6-3. Fay of N.D. came back and evened things by defeating Chandler, 0-6, 8-6, 7-5. Then State captured the next three matches. Olson defeated Gregory, 1-6, 6-4, 6-4; Judd downed Rodgers, 6-3, 6-1; Sims defeated Simon, 6-3, 6-4. In the last singles match Wolfe won for Notre Dame, defeating Van-derberg, 6-2, 6-0.
In the doubles Fay and Rodgers won the opening match for N.D., defeating Ruell and Judd, 6-4, 7-5. Chandler and Olson then defeated Kilrain and Bowler, 6-1, 6-1. The meet ended with Simon and Gregory defeating Sims and Vanderberg, 6-1.
After losing this match and the Northwestern fray Coach de Landero and his men got together and decided that this losing streak must come to a stop. With this in mind they went out and took Detroit’s “Racketeers” for a 7 to 0 ride, with very little difficulty. In the number one match Sophomore Bill Fay easily defeated Kelley, 6-0, 6-0. Captain Kilrain defeated O’Grady, 6-1, 6-1; Gregory defeated Grow, 6-2, 6-2; Rodgers won from Motschall, 6-0, 6-0, and Wolf ended the singles with a 6-2, 6-0 victory over Janusko. In the doubles matches Arnold and Kilrain defeated Janusko and O’Grady, 6-1, 6-1; Simon and Gregory defeated Kelley and Motschall, 2-6, 6-1, 6-1.
As on previous occasions Chicago dropped in on the Irish loaded down with veterans, although newcomers helped make up the Maroon squad.
(Continued 'on Page 20)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
FIFTH N. C. I. MEET
HERE JUNE 10. 11
Nickmen Shatter Relay Records at Drake;
Faymonville Sets Discus Mark at Penn Relays
v
Embryonic Cunninghams, Wykoffs, and Torrances will flock to Cartier Field on Friday and Saturday, June 10 and 11, to compete for prizes in the fifth annual National Catholic Interscholastic Track and Field Championships, sponsored by the University of Notre Dame. About 275 of these youngsters are expected to take part, representing Catholic high schools from Iowa to Philadelphia,
N. C. I. victor's medal.
including Leo, Mt. Carmel, and De La Salle, of Chicago; West Catholic (defending champion) and Northeast Catholic, o’ Philadelphia; St. Ambrose, of Davenport, Iowa; and many others.
Last year West Catholic, nosed out Northeast Catholic, its rival from Philadelphia, 36%-31%, to take the meet for the fourth consecutive year. Early reports indicate that while West Catholic is as strong as ever this year, competition from other teams will be stronger than ever.
Among the marks set at last spring’s carnival were: a 9.7 100-yd. dash by Johnny Maher of West Catholic; a 163 ft. 8% in. heave in the javelin by Ed Prokp of Cathedral Latin (Cleveland); and a time of 23.1 in the 200 yd. low hurdles, by Bill May, also of Cathedral Latin.
Notre Dame Has Bright Prospects in Football
“South Bend, Ind.—Nine returning lettermen out of 13 give Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline a strong nucleus for his 1938 Notre Dame basketball team, which will open its schedule against Western State Teachers at Kalamazoo, April 14. The pitching department is Coach Kline’s only major worry.”—Canton, Ohio, Repository.
Irish relay teams turned in excellent periormances at the Drake Belays, but paradoxically, they returned with little to show for it. Both the four mile team and the distance medley team broke the existing records by substantial margins, but they finished second and third respectively. The two mile team won, but missed the exceptionally fast record of 7:42.8 by less than a second. The quarter mile team of Steve Coughlin, Frank Sheets, Bill Tucker, and Bill Clifford ran a fast :41.9 that beat the time of the Marquette team which finished third; however, they were eliminated in a record-breaking race of :41.5 on Friday, the fastest heat of the meet.
The two mile team, the four mile team, and the distance medley team all set Notre Dame records in their events. Curt Hestor led off the two mile with a good 1:57.4 half. Then Ed Bernard with 1:56.6, Greg Rice with 1:55.8, and John Francis with 1:53.5, each ran the fastest half of his life to give the team the excellent time of 7:43.3, an average of less than 1:56 a man. Francis passed the Iowa anchor man on the home stretch and won by two yards.
On Friday in the distance medley relay of Curt Hestor, Pete Sheehan, Francis, and Rice, Francis brought the Irish from fourth to first with a fine 3:05 three quarter mile. Fenske of Wisconsin, who started ten yards behind Rice in the anchor mile wasted no time but snatched the lead from him before they had reached the back stretch. Munski of Missouri soon was up with them and the three great milers circled the track together until Rice began giving ground a little shortly after the half-way mark.
Albritton here to try and repeat.
Fenske ran away from the Missouri sophomore on his terrific home stretch sprint. He was clocked in 4:10.4 while Munski, who started behind him, was given approximately the same time by most timers. Rice’s 4:16 gave Notre Dame a time of 10:11.4 against the old record of 10:15.
Although the anchor leg of the four mile relay began with Frey of ■ Michigan State in the lead, a Kansas State man in second place, Rice in third place 20 yards behind the leader, and Munski in fourth place a few yards behind Rice, the first two men were forgotten as all eyes turned to the two Montana boys who had battled it out in such an excellent mile the day before. Munski soon passed Rice, but the Missoula flash stayed as though chained to him for three and a half laps. On the last turn Rice tried to take the lead but, not quite in shape so early in the season, his usual powerful sprint refused to come. On the home stretch he lost ground to his former high school rival who had lengthened his lead to seven yards as he broke the tape. Munski ran 4:15 while Rice ran 4:16 for the second time in two days. The Notre Dame team of John Francis, Bill Donnelly, Steve Szumachowski, and Greg Rice with 17:35.7, an average of less than’ 4:24 a man, was well under the Drake Relay record of 17:40.2.
In individual events Gibbs tied for second in the pole vault, won by Padway of Wisconsin at 13 feet 8 inches, and Bill Clifford ran :9.7 to finish third in the 100 yard dash behind behind Ellerbe of Tuskegee and Greer (Continued, on Page 20)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
POLITICIANS ELECT
(Continued from Page 4)
vice-presidents home with 140 votes. Bud Gentner placed with 127.
Johnnie Flannigan, Badin, and Bernie Masterson, Lyons, secured the secretarial nomination -with 143 and 116 votes respectively.
Phil Sandmaier hanked 145 votes to lead the treasurer candidates. Brady qualified for the finals with 106 votes.
The S.A.C. 2-year ballots were well divided. Four men qualified f oi’ final balloting: Tom Donahue, Jerry Donovan, Neil Geary, and Tom Duffy.
A dark-horse party filing just before ballot press time, made sophomore primaries necessary after all. The group, consisting of John O’Dea for president, Joseph Olbrys for vice-president, Jack White for secretary, John McCauley for treasurer, and John W. Patterson for S.A.C. post, was eliminated.
The Joe Mulligan ticket led the race throughout. The vote for president was: Mulligan, 130; Quinn, 107; and O’Dea, 83.
Final elections are scheduled for Thursday, May 12, in the lower lobby of the dining hall, John R. Kelley, chairman of the elections, has announced.
WIND AIDS KENTUCKY
(Continued from Page 17)
straight sets, 3-6, 1-6. The No. 3 match between Whit Gregory and Ragland was another three-set battle, with Gregory finally triumphing, 3-6, 6-2, 7-5. No. 4 man Charley Rodgers bowed to his opponent, Botts, in straight sets, 2-6, 4-6; Wolf, No. 5, beat Boone, 6-4, 6-3; and Simon lost to Cooley, 6-1, 3-6, 4-6.
Thus Notre Dame entered the doubles, needing victories in all three matches to win the meet. This they did not achieve. For several of the Irish, having played from 15 to 20 sets of competitive tennis in five days, felt the strain, and were just too tired to do anything about it.
In the doubles, Rodgers and Fay beat Evans and Botts, 6-2, 6-1. Kil-rain and Gregory lost to Englebardt and Ragland, 4-6, 7-5, 3-6. Reppen-hagen and Wolf lost to May and Boone, 3-6, 5-7.
BASEBALLERS ACTIVE
(Continued from Page 17) and his mates won three, lost two, split a pair, won two, and dropped two. Ohio State tumbled them in a duet, both scores being 2-0; but Michigan bowed recently on consecutive days. They play Wisconsin today and tomorrow before meeting Notre Dame on Tuesday. Notre Dame won last season at Champagne by 7-6.
VILLAGERS NOMINATE AT MEETING
•
The start of one of the biggest political campaigns in the history of the Villager’s Club of South Bend was under way last Monday night at the monthly meeting of the organization. That evening was the scene of the nomination meeting for the club’s officers to be elected at a later date. At that time was terminated long nights of secret meetings, dickering between the more important members of the geographical divisions of South Bend, and extensive coalitions which covered all the sectors of the city. In fact, the members of this club are quite proud of their unpolitical politics, which puts to scorn the many methods used by campus electioneers.
The rivalry behind the situation ultimately reverts to the desire of those who are in power to remain there, and the hope of those outside to share in the patronage which is evident in the many functions of the club. President Paul Howard, after gathering together the remnants of his party of previous years and reinforced by a coalition with several of influential members of the North Side, hopes to be able to put the men whom he is backing into the offices. However, equally determined to prevent this move is the Southern group composed of John Rodibaugh, James Leahy, Richard Albert, and other important backers. Whatever may be the outcome, each party feels that they are practically victorious.
The nominees for the various offices as chosen by the members are: for president, Jack Hynes and Bob Rodibaugh; vice-president, Richard Alberts and John Monihan; secretary, Emil Luckey and Joseph Hart-zer; treasurer, William Prekowitz and Robert Wilson; sergeant at arms, Robert Fankboner and Ben Murdock.
DRAKE-PENN RELAYS (Continued from Page 19)
of Michigan State. Ted Leonas tied for fourth with five other in the high jump.
At the Penn Relays Bill Faymon-ville broke the Relay record and his own Notre Dame record in the discus with a gargantuan heave of 157 feet 1% inches. He placed third in the shot put behind Ryan of Columbia and Watson of Michigan with a shove of 48 feet 11 inches, his best thus far. Captain Bill Mahoney was rather disturbed by the fact that the 440 yard hurdle race was run every man for himself rather than in the lanes he had anticipated, and his style was too cramped by the change to permit him to make the showing of which he is capable.
HAU THE CHAMP!
SCOTSMAN SHOES
Kayo High Cost of Living!
3"
Budget troubles? SCOTSMAN SHOES rock 'em and sock 'em! Made of solid, long-wearing leather by skilled craftsmen. Worn by smart undergraduates (and faculty members) who know how to SAVE without skimping on COMFORT and STYLE!
Come in today—see these SCOTSMAN economy-champs for yourself. You'll like the styles—and the price!
Douglas Craftsmen Shoes_-.$4.40
Douglas Custom Shoes____$5.95
Douglas Normal-Treds____$7.40
Dcuq&iiShM W. L. DOUGLAS STORE in South Bend
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
OPEN SATURDAY EVENINGS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IRISH TRACK (Continued from Page 14)
throw; his practice throws have been better than average lately. It is difficult to select a winner from amongst the inconsistent Irish vaulters, but the event should at any rate fall to the Irish.
On the track the Irish will be su-’ perior in a majority of events. In addition to the mile, Greg Rice, national champion in the event, should step out on top in the two mile. He will be pressed by Whitaker of the Buckeye squad and his own teammate, Steve Schumakowski. The field record of 1:54 held by Indiana’s Trutt may be lowered tomorrow when Francis and Squire get together in that race. Pete Sheehan will have a difficult time beating the Buckeye’s bevy of performers in the quarter mile. The man to beat in this event will be Howells. The record of 3:18.7 for the mile relay will most likely be wiped out by the State team tomorrow; they have already done better than this time this year.
Meet and field records in at least eight events are in danger of being erased and probably will be replaced after tomorrow’s meet.
The meet begins at 2 p.m., central standard time.
MUSIC WEEK
(Continued from Page 7)
Major,” Frederick Locke Lawrence’s “Poem Elegiac,” and different interpretations of Churchill’s “High-ho” as the great classical masters would have played it.
Tuesday evening Professor Pedtke presented the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra in a beautiful concert that drew loud applause from the large audience in Washington Hall. Concert numbers included a suite of four pieces for orchestra written by J. S. Bach, Schubert’s first movement of the “Unfinished Symphony,” Brahms’ “Hungarian Dance No. 6,” Tschai-kowsky’s “Sleeping Beauty Waltz,” Beethoven’s “Cariolan Overture,” J. Strauss’ “Pizzicato Polka,” Rimsky: Korsakow’s “Flight of the Bumble Bee,” and Sibelius’ “Finlandia,” a symphonic poem.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta took
BLEND YOUR TOBACCO WITH THE HONEY
HONEY IN‘ THE BOWL (Yellow)^
the stand Wednesday evening in Washington Hall to present the 100-unit Notre Dame band in a stirring rhythmical program, composed mostly of concert marches. Outstanding numbers on the program were: Sousa’s “H. S. Cadets” (March), Pickett’s “The Huskin’ Bee,” Goldman’s “Bugles and Drums.”
The operetta, “Romeo and Juliet,” scheduled to be presented Thursday evening in Washington Hall by the Freshman Choral Club under the direction of Professor Pedtke, has been postponed to a later date. The Richard Crooks concert in the gymnasium tonight will add the final curtain to the third Notre Dame Music Week.
PHYSICS SYMPOSIUM
(Continued from Page 5)
power of penetration is such that they could pass through a steel or platinum wall a hundred yards in thickness. He spoke on, “Whence Cosmic Rays?”
Dr. Carl D. Anderson, of the California Institute of Technology and a Nobel prize winner in 1936 delivered the final public lecture of the symposium on “The Basic Constituents of Matter.”
Other eminent scientists who presented papers during the symposium were: Dr. Gregory Breit, of the University of Wisconsin, noteworthy for his recent discovery of new primordial forces, Prof. Manuel S. Vallarta, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, authority on the cosmic ray particles, Canon George Le-maitre, distinguished visiting professor at Notre Dame and famed as the founder of the theory of the expanding universe, and Prof. J. F. Carlson of Purdue University, brilliant young theoretical physicist.
Dr. Arthur E. Haas, professor of physics at Notre Dame, who arranged the symposium, and Dr. Eugen Guth, also of Notre Dame, both presented technical papers on different phases of the primordial particles.
In addition to the scientists presenting papers scholars from colleges and universities throughout the country attended the sessions and participated in the discussions which followed the lectures.
Honey in Yello-Bote improves all tobaccos. You spend at least $20 for tobacco in a year — $1 spent on Yello-Bole makes that $20 worth of tobacco taste twice as good! Get yours. ELLO-BOLE
NEW COURSES (Continued from Page 9)
cerning “Advanced Feature-writing.” Under Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., the Department of Biology will offer a whole new schedule of courses previously not included in the University Bulletin.
“The History of Physics” under Dr. Anthony, “Introductory Seminar in Physics” under Dr. Haas, “Recent Progress in Physics” under Dr. Haas, and “A Physics Colloquium” under Dr. Guth, will be offered for the first time by the Department of Physics.
New mathematics courses are: “An Introduction to Metric Geometry” taught by Dr. Menger, “The Direct Methods of the Calculus of Variations” by Dr. Menger, and “An Introduction to Topology” by Dr. Milgram.
All new courses are listed in the Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame for 1938-9, now available in the office of the registrar.
The John Marshall
LAW SCHOOL FOUNDED 1899
AN ACCREDITED LAW SCHOOL TEXT and CASE
METHOD •
For Catalog, recommended list of pre-legal subjects, and booklet. "Study of Lawand Proper Preparation address: Edward T. Lee Deon
COURSES (40 weeks per year) AFTERNOON 33$ years. 5 days... 4:30-6:30
EVENING-4 years Men., Wed., Fri., 6:30-9:20
POST-GRADUATE 1 year..twice a week Practice courses exclusively.(Evenings)
Two years' college work required for entrance. Courses lead to degrees.
New classes form in Sept, and Feb.
315 Plymouth Ct., Chicago^ III.
TOBIN says:
IRISH MIXTURE
CORKTOWN
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Commerce Forum
Formal announcement. was made this week by Charles Brosius, president of the Commerce Forum, that election of officers for next year will take place Tuesday evening, May 10, from 6:30 until 8:30, in the Commerce Building. The names of all candidates must be submitted to Phil Baer, or Brosius on or before Sunday, May 8.
The golf tournament, to be held under the auspices of the Forum, has been scheduled for May 7. Due to the dance Saturday, seniors may play their matches May 5, by notifying Dick Scannell, who is in charge of the tournament. The prizes will consist of:
1st  $9.00 worth of golf balls. 2nd  $5.00 worth of golf balls. Bogey ..$6.00 worth of golf balls.
The date of the Annual Forum Banquet has been set for Tuesday evening, May 17, at the Oliver hotel. The guest speakers will be announced later.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
...and how it grew and grew!
In 1891 this writing desk type telephone was installed in a Long Island general store. It was a good telephone, but it could be connected with only a part of the Bell System's 250,000 telephones in the country at that time. Service was slow and expensive.
Year by year this strange looking telephone, with a more modern transmitter and receiver
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Sueeaaaor Ite
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 44211
substituted from time to time, grew in usefulness as the Bell System grew longer in reach— shorter in time needed for making connections —higher in quality of service—lower in cost.
In 1937 ”old faithful” was retired to be-
NEW YORK LAW SCHOOL
Established 1891
Registration Now Open for 1938-39
Morning Course Afternoon and Evening Courses Three Years	Four Years
All courses lead to degree of LL.B.
THE DWIGHT METHOD OF INSTRUCTION
Committed to the policy of small classes so that each student may receive adequate personal attention and instruction.
For further information address:
Registrar, NEW YORK LAW School 63 Park Row, New York, N. Y., - or telephone, BEekman 3-2552
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
"SSH! THE MARABOUT" (Continued from Page 13)
of West Africa, whose example has been known to make even the sturdiest Protestant waver, and Father De Ruyter who used to say Mass up in the Himalayas. Such men have a special vocation. They are not missionaries, as we think of them when the plate goes round at collection time back in the cities at home. They are not trying to convert the heathen by preaching at them; they are doing it by setting an example to them. These men have their followings. But none of them, I have yet met, has been voted by unanimous consent, a saint. Natives did not whisper: “Ssh! There’s the marabout.”
What does fate hold in store for him? He has risked death in every campaign that the French have fought for the pacification of Morocco. The first battle was the Taza campaign in 1913-1914. The last was on the Ifni frontier in 1934, some 300 miles south of Marakesh. The year before, in 1933, eleven officers were killed in operations against the Berbers. But now fighting is done, the country pacified, and the tourists may go everywhere in safety. Mohammedans, Christians and Jews mutually respect each other.
But there is one creed that respects no faith, recognizes no boundaries of mutual toleration and co-operation, despises and dishonors the men of mercy and religion. In this creed today, death lurks for monks and priests and ruination for their missions. It is preached sub rosa m Africa.
But not even the red hand of Communism can destroy the simple faith of Father Laurent in the ultimate destiny of mankind.
Serenely he stands silhouetted against the African scene with arms outstretched in blessing. In Hoc Signo Vinces, said Constantine. Father Laurent does not doubt it.
Seniors and Jobs
The administration of the University and the Alumni Association will begin a series of placement conferences with the members of the Senior Class next Tuesday, May 10, at 12:30, when Seniors in Arts and Letters meet in the north basement of the University Library.
The Alumni Association conducted a survey this year of alumni in positions to help in securing jobs for graduates. The results seem favorable considering economic conditions. It is to bring the Seniors who need such help together with the men in a position to render it that this series of conferences is planned.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
—*—
Sing, brother, sing !
la every fraternity the Gordon Oxford shirt takes house honors for year 'round endurance, authentic style and superb tailoring. A campus celebrity—no less.	$2 eac®1
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists Est. 1903
ARROW SHIRTS
A new shirt free If one ever shrinks
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
Paul Whiteman Deems Taylor Paul Douglas
Grace Moore ANDRE KOSTELANETZ
Chesterfield and Andre Kostelanetz... they bring more pleasure to millions
... real pleasure... carefree pleasure! You enjoy it in Chesterfield’s refreshing mildness and better taste . . . that “extra something” that makes you stick to Chesterfields.
Chesterfields are made of the world’s best cigarette ingredients. .. mild ripe tobaccos... home-grown and aromatic Turkish... and pure cigarette paper. When you light a Chesterfield you’re smoking the cigarette that Satisfies.
(Che

Weekly Radio Ratures
{he PLEASURE cigarette
Chesterfields
- Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myeis Tobacco Co.
will give you MORE PLEASURE than any cigarette you oversmoked