

Americans are bombarded daily via the media with tales of suffering and injustice from around this troubled world. The issues are varied and complex and the common man is often left feeling confused and apathetic. We, in our somewhat isolated collegiate environment, are even more susceptible to this syndrome. 
Now, however, Notre Dame and its students are faced with a great injustice in a faraway land about which they can do something. The cries of oppression and tyranny from South Africa are reaching Notre Dame. It is up to us to hear them. 
The University of Notre Dame has made no threat whatsoever to divest itself of holdings in com­panies operating in South Africa. By v-irtue of its holdings in these companies, like it or not, Notre Dame has qecome an actor in the ongoing South African tragedy. Notre Dame has leverage, both economic and sym­bolic, to contribute to the marshalling of forces against Pretoria. 
. There is no painless solution to apartheid. The choice is between short-term bloodshed or a long-term bloodbath. History shows us that the wicked and foolish continue along what Barbara Tuchman calls the "march of folly" until they are forced from it. It is also apparent that appeasement only whets the appetites of tyrants. Economic sanctions, such as disinvestment, are the only means of persuading South Africa to end apartheid. Institutions like Notre Dame must use this precious lev.erage at a time-:_,,when our official foreign policy is deemphasizing human rights. 
Three compelling facts reveal the necessity of immediately beginning the process of disinvestment. 
1) Many blacks, their bitter patience expiring, are giving up on non-violent moderates like Bishop Tutu and turning to radical militants. Their dissatisfac­tion with constructive engagement and the failure of the United States to apply forceful pressure have contributed to this trend. 
2) President Botha's last major speech rejected all pretense of fundamental reform. 
3) The white regime. is becoming increasingly violent, using police and paramil­itary forces more frequently than ever before. 
Notre Dame's present policy is to invest only in corporations that abide by the Sullivan Principles, a voluntary code which only half of the U.S. companies have signed. The effects of the principles have been largely cosmetic and the essential features of apartheid have remained untouched. Investment. has tripled since the sixties but apartheid has become more repressive. 
The economy, though capitalistic, is inextricably linked to the state. American companies contribute 
substantially to the vital sectors, such as the computer, oil and car industries. If U.S. companies left these 
industries the South African regime would be severely crippled. Black leaders have requested that such . action be taken and a recent Gallup Poll shows seventy percent of all blacks in favor of sanctions. 
Notre Dame should make a clear and prompt committment to divestment. We must demand that those companies we invest in leave South Africa or face the loss of Notre Dame monies. We cannot any longer be entrenched in moral ambiguity. Appeasement of the unjust must end. 
This is not musical chairs or an alcohol controversy--people are suffering and dying under the weight of a cruel oppression. This University has leverage to do something about the situation in South Africa. Notre. Dame must act now. 
-SCHOLASTIC 
------------contents------------­
Volume 127, Number 2 

SCHOLASTIC· 
October 2, 1985 
Editor-in:.Chief Jim Basile 
General Manager Maher Mouasher 
Dl,!sign Editor Peter Wowkowych 
Managing Editor Matt Bradley 
Marketing 
Pete Cespedes/ Advertising Michael Setzer /Circulation 
Editorial 
Barb Blanchette/Saint Mary's John Dettling/Sports Mary· Dolan/Departments Mary Hartney /Student Life Mike Hoffman/Nat. Affairs Jean O'Bryan/Notre Dame Jennifer Nied erst/Art 
Design 
Kathleen Lau/Layout 
Alfredo Marr /Layout 
Susan Serrato/Layout 
Paul Kramer /Photography 
Nick Batistich/Photography 
Emil McCauley /Cartoonist 
Phoebe Zolbrad/Art 
Tim Carl/Cartoonist 
Mark Lechner/Cartoonist 
Maria Murphy/Art 
Mark Weimholt/ Cartoonist 
Jennifer Freeman/Layout Tim Arnold/Layout 
The · opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not neCeS{!arily ripre~ent the opinions of the entire editorial ·board of SCHOLASTIC or the university. of Notr~· Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. editorials, unless other­wise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertising,· Inc. Published bi-weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscriptio_n: rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manusc~ipts to SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, IN 46666. All unsolicited material becomes the property of :SC_HOLAS.TIC. Copy­right© 1986 SCHOLAS'J.JC, 'Ali rights reserved, None of the contents may b~ reproduced without permission. 

FEATURES 2/Business, Bars, and Bargains 
by Rick Whalen and Mark Bradshaw 
4/Sky's The Limit by Joseph M Kapitan 
8/The Other Side Of Rush Street 
by Eric Wold 
10/Mayors, Machines, And Mayhem 
by Ted Kelleher 
14/See Jane Run 
by Ann Lechleiter 16/What's Going On In Chicago 18/But If You Can't Get To Chicago 
by Michael J. Songer 22/What Is It Like To Be An "Other'' At ND · by Kendra Ervin 
23/A Crucifix In Every Classroom 
by Rebbeca Goodell 
28/We Are The Victims Of Our Own Success 
by Kristin Anders 
32/Why? Why Not! 
by Walt Hart 
36/Myself Alone 
by Gene Boes 
42/Making The Grade 
by Thomas Fehlner 
DEPARTMENTS 13/On Other Campuses 
by Paul Aiello 
24/Gallery: Study Modes 27/The Aisle Seat 
by Theodore E Mandell 
31/Music 
by Rachel Nigro 
41/Computer Corner 
by Louis Fuka 
44/Calender 
Compiled.by Katen Dettling 

46/Fiction 
by Chuck Ehram 
47/The Final Word 
by Mark Lechner 
Aside from Goshen, Chicago is the closest major city to South Bend. ·As such it provides a much-needed social and cultural outlet for Notre Dame students. In this issue we provide some helpful hints and necessary information to make your trip to Chicago, be it a weekend expedition or only a day-long road trip, the best it can be. Included is corer­age of everything from the best bars and museums to guides to Chicago's best and worst exports ( architecture and poli­tics, respectively.) Enjoy the issue and send us your comments and opii1io11s 011 the new direction of the magazine. 

winter casts its 

· bleak •-shadow on the ND campus, many a student has focused :a yearning soul toward that -alluring glitter to the 


BUSINESS 
northwest: Chicago. And· with good reason. The Windy City offers a myriad of alternatives to hanging around LaFortune -watching· the lint collect. But the discerning student, one 

BARS &
.wh_o wishes to maximize fun and minimize hassles, needs_ to know -where to go. First, let's get there. 
Last year, seven tired and . hungry men . and one ·. ·woman rode from South Bend I I I

BARGAINS 
-to Chicago in the back of a cab ­
2 after failing to catch the train. It cost . them . $96 and the bumpy ride took too long. If you feel that you don't want _the challenge of taking a cab to 
A DOMER'S GUIDE TO THE WINDY CITY 
Chicago, there are better ways 
to go. 
by Rick Whalen and Mark Bradshaw 
If you are driving take 80 West to · 90/94 North. -That's the Dan Ryan Express­
the Loop. Again a $1 transfer way. Get off at "Washington" can get you anywhere in the If you're interested in · for the Loop and "Ohio" for . the financial district, Chicago
city.
Water Tower. If you _ are -For those interested in has the Board -of Options without auto, take the South_ a little cultural experience, the · Exchange, the Mercantile Shore train (for $7) to Ran­southeast loop along Michigan Exchange, the commodities dolph & Michigan --that's two A venue · offers museums, the floor and various brokerage 
blocks east of the State Street · Art Institute, the Shedd houses and · banks. -Chicago Mall and just a few blocks . _Aquarium and the Adler does more trading volume than north of the museum district Planetarium. All these -any other city in the world. on Michigan. Once downtown, attractions charge admissions The Chicago Board ofOptions busds cost 90 cents and $1 for (from.-._-$2-$6) . and all are Exchange alone trades more a transfer, good for one hour located east. of Michig~n Ave. ciptions . on shares than the (although· that's riever _ along -the lake. south of ·the New York Stock Exchange. If enforced). A phone call to .the_ Loop. Those of yqu interested you are interested in seeing the Chicago Tr_ansit Authority at . in theatre -should go to the volatility of the biggest trading 83677000 -will get _you direc­Shubert in the middle of the floors in the world, the Board 
tions·· and · routes.. The "el"· --. ... Loop.-The·_-. Auditorium and · of .Trade ·is in ·action from 9 train -.·_ it.ms · almost everywhere Goodman Theatres are located a.m. to 3 p.m. with tours every , and :is' :above ground joining · in th_e south Loop. · · ·-day. 
SCHOLASTIC 
The Loop has the big­gest variety of shops around. From Marshall Field's on the corner of Randolph and Wash­ington and State Streets to P.K. Fashions at 237 South State St., the mall offers fashions for every taste. You'll find the purchases a little easier on the budget here. 

Want to go to Water Tower place? Start any visit to this area with the show "Here's Chicago" at the old water pumping building just east of the tower (After that you'll be able to throw out this article). The Water Tower area is located on North Michigan Ave., just 4 blocks north of the river. If you want to spend big bucks this is the place -to be. From Marshall Field's and Lord & Taylor to Neiman• Marcus, the Polo Shop, and I. Magnin, one can find anything from a $3 box of Frango mints to·. $700 angora sweaters or a $1200 Colettazinni linen T-
shirt. Even if you a,ren't in this price range, there are reason­able deals to be found. 
Silly question, but are you interested in bars? For night life, · Rush Street 1s unparalleled. North of the 
In a wild mood? Try the Limelight at Dearborn and Loop and northwest of Water Tower is Rush Street which for our purposes runs from Chicago Ave. to Division St. If you're in Chicago for the first time at night, that's · where you'll want to be. If you're 21 years old or a reasonable fac­simile thereof, go to Division street which has the Snuggery and Muldoon's, among others. 

·South of Division on Rush are more night clubs. Underage people can always find a place to go near Harry's Cafe on Elm St. For an inti­mate evening, take her ( or him) to the Back Room which is a little farther south on Rush. Look for the awning -­it's easy to miss. The Back Room has live jazz, dark cozy booths and expensive drinks. This two-floor haven is perfect for mellowing out after that exciting night dancing on Divi­sion. 
For dinner, go to Don Roth's Blackhawk (the one on Wabash St. is much better than the one at Pearson by Water Tower place). Try their spin­ning Caeser's salad or go to Ireland's on N. Lasa:lle for seafood. 
Ontario. Need a device? Try the Pleasure Chest at 3021 N. Broadway. Need a cheap place to stay, but still in the thick of things? Try the Hotel Continental on Michigan _Ave. Need a romantic walk after Rush St.? DON'T GO W~ST! That's the Cabrini-Green pro­jects. For that -romantic. walk, go east to the Oak · Street Beach. Need a viewl The Sears Tower in the southeast loop is the tallest building in 
· the world. On the best of days, you can even see · 80 miles across the lake to the Golden Dome of ND. All other excite­ment is unprintable ·and must be found individually. 
To cap off the evening, go to the Hancock building and take a horse;.drawn car­riage ride around the city. It's great when · it's 11ot too cold. Need to practice· survival tac­tics? Go . the South Side at night or the West Side; any­time. If this guide to · Chicago has totally confused you -­good. Adversity builds charac­ter. It's much more fun to spend a lost evening or two in the city, figuring plac~s out as you go. You can always ask Officer Friendly. • . 


2 OCTOBER 1986 

SKY'S lhas been sfild iliat 
THE 



LIMIT 

A HISTORIC LOOK AT CHICAGO'S FAMOUS SKYLINE 
by Joseph Michael Kapitan 

. . . ....................................... 
.. . ......................• . . . . . . . ... ...... .
-• • • •••••••• 0 •••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••.• 

Chicago is an international city, and nowhere is this more evident than in its architecture. Chicago's buildings have influ­enced, and been influenced by, architecture throughout the world. 
A glance at the Chi­cago skyline will showcase the most prominent example of its international architecture -the skyscraper. From its humble beginnings in Chicago, this dominant twentieth century 
· building form has grown to the mammoth height of the Sears Tower, currently the tallest structure in the world. 
After the Great Chi­

. cago Fire of 1871 left much of the city in ruins, massive reconstruction followed, replacing the burnt-out wooden structures with masonry buildings: As urban · space became scarce and costly, it seemed logical to build upward. The weight oC masonry walls, however, prevented tall construction because the fear .of collapse was all too real. It was not until the advent of the elevator and steel franie construction that skyscrapers could be feasibly and safely built. The fathers of the skyscraper, famous architects such as Sul­livan, Adler, Root and Burn­ham, constructed rnany fine examples of early skyscrapers in the "Chicago" style. during the late I 800's, and for the next several decades the form of the Chicago• skyscraper remained relatively unchanged. Sullivan, for example, followed his famous maxim of ''Form 
SCHOLASTIC 

.. .. . .. . ... .. . . ... . . . . . ... . ... . .. . . . . . . . . ....... . modern skyscrapers in the 
. . . . ........................................... 
Loop and Magnificent Mile
.
~~==~ 

districts. 
More recently, how­ever, Chicago has witnessed radical' new developments in architecture. The construction of Helmut Jahn's State of Illi­nois Bldg. on LaSalle and Lake lias sparked a great deal of controversy. Jahn's structures question the skyscraper's tradi­
. tional form of .functional follows function" in construct­more, Owings, and minimalism as established by ing the Chicago Auditorium in Merrill(SOM). SOM, Chicago's Sullivan: and Meis. Through 1889. Located at the corner of first large architectural cor­innovative use of form, color, 
S. Michigan and Congress, this poration, is responsible for the and material Jahn's buildings building was the first of two dominant buildings of present · a more aggressive, Sullivan's . to bear his today's city skyline. These are non-functional style. Only time functionalistic philosophy. the Sears Tower located on S. will tell if this will develop into Another excellent example of Wacker Dr. and the John Han­a new era for Chicago archi­his work, the Carson-Pirie­cock Center found on N. tecture, or remain an isolated Scott Bldg., can be found at W. Michigan Ave. Mies' influence experiment. Washington and LaSalle. is evident in these buildings as 
each provides adaptations of 
his black box theme. Chicago's architectural During the post-World Together, Mies and ·SOM are heritage does not end at the War II era, American archi­responsible for many of the city limits, however, but 
tects such as Ludwig Mies van . . . .. . . ... .. .. ...·................. . 
.. .. . . . ... .. . . .. . . . . ... . . ... •. . . .... .
der Rohe were influenced by 

. . . ................................. 
the German "Bauhaus" school of architecture. Mies mani­fested this influence in his "less .is more," steel-and-glass ,lboxes" which sprouted throughout Chicago and became the modern. prototype for the skyscraper. As head of the architecture department at the Illinois Institute of Tech­nology for a number of years, he designed many of the university's buildings. Today, his influence is still felt as evi­denced by a recent contro­versy in which a multi-colored awning was removed from the facade of one of his buildings. The reason given was that it conflicted with the all black building's minimalistic style: 
The Miesian influence is also evident in the.· work of other architects such as Skid­
2 OCTOBER 1985 



.· 5 
extends into the suburbs sur­rounding Chicago. Here a rich variety of domestic architec­ture representing ·many con­trasting· architectural · styles . can be found. Chicago can be. proud of the fact that it was · the birthplace of the "Prairie" school of architecture, made famous through the work of its creator, Frank Lloyd Wright. From 1900 to 1915, this great architectural genius built a large number of homes in the suburbs of Chicago, primarily concentrating in the Oak Park district due west of the city. Som.e of Wright's more famous projects are located here; 
One of. his most well 
known buildings is the Unity Temple, famous for its molded . concrete walls which were an 

artistic as well as structural · innovation. Other buildings such as the Robie House or his own house and studio provide excellent · examples of · the attention Wright paid to detail. 
............................................ 
. . . ..-.....-... -.................................. 
. . . 
. . . . ..... ....... •-...........................
~ 
SKYSCRAPERS: 
Chicago Auditorium Bldg.,1889 Monadnock Bldg.,1891. Chicago Stock Exchange,1894 Carson-Pirie-Scott Bldg.,1904 . Chicago Tribune Tower, 1925 Board ofTrade Bldg.,1930. Richard Daley Center,1965 Federal Center,1965-69 First National Bank,1969. John Hancock Center,1969 Sears Tower,1974. Watertower Place,1976. One South Wacker,1981 333 Wacker Dr. Bldg.,1983 State of Illinois Bldg.,1985. 

CIVIC AND CULTURAL BUILDINGS:. 
Art Institute of Chicago,1892 Chicago Public Library,1897 City Hall,Cook Cty. Bldg.,1911 Field Museum of Natural History,1912' Navy Pier,1916. Soldier Field,1924 Shedd Aquarium,1929. Adler Planetarium,1930. Museum of Science and Industry,1933. McCormick Place,1970. 
.......................................... . 
-

. . . . . . . .. . . . . ... . . .• ................ • . ........ . 
.......................................... 

S. Michigan and Congress 
53. West Jackson Blvd. 
W. Washington and. ~asalle State and Madison · 
N. Michigan at the river W.Jackson Blvd.. Dearborn and Washington Dearborn· and Jackson Dearborn and Madison 
N. Michigan Ave. 
S. Wacker Dr.. 
N. Michigan and Chestnut 
S. Wacker Dr. Wacker Dr .. LaSalle arid Lake 
N. Michigan and Adams 
E. Washington Washington and LaSalle 
S. Lakeshore and Roosevelt Grand Ave. and Streeter E. 14th St. 
S. Lakeshore and E. Roosevelt Achsah Bond, east end Lakeshore and E. 57th 
S. Lakeshore and E. 23rd 

.He not only designed a building's structure, .but took a holistic approach designing patterns to be · placed in the . windows, the type of wallpa­per to be used, and even the furniture in the house. Near by is the architecturally diverse campus of tlie University of Chicago and • s~veral . other "Prairie'~ styJe homes designed by followers of Wright. 
The city of Chicago, being a large political, economic, and cultural center, presents many opportunities for learning. through the expedence of a typical Ameri.: can urban . environ~ent. In addition, its proximity to South Bend makes the city a viable laboratory . for Notre Dame/SaintMary's students to study the many facets of the large international city, of which architecture is but one. Next time you find yourself in Chicago for a Cubs game or a visit to Rush St., take some time to enjoy the rich histori­cal and architectural heritage that Chicago has to off er. The following is a list of some of Chicago's more famous and interesting buildings.• 
SCHOLASTIC 



5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
0 

The Other Side Of Rush Street 

THE PEOPLE ARE THE BIG ATTRACTION by Eric Wold 
........................... •. .. . . ............... 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . 
.·-··· 
Any trip to Chicago is worthless without a · visit to infamous Rush Street. Rush 
· remains the number one social spot in Chicago and . must be included in any road trip. Known mostly for its rowdy bars and jazzy nightclubs, the University's alcohol · policy-
s abiding student can still have a wild time like we underage freshmen did. The first place to hit on any trip to Rush St. is Gino's Pizza. Walking into Gino's your average Domer might think they walked into some street gang's party room. There 
"Known mostly for its rowdy bars and jazzy nightclubs, the University's alcohol policy-abiding student can -still have a wild time ... " 

is the typical Rush St. stair­case leading below street level at which point you encounter "E.X.," "Steve R. loves P." · etc. scribbled on the wall. Yes, boys and girls, let your creative juices flow. I know you've always wanted · to do heavy vandalism, but being the law-abiding student that you 
·are, you wouldn't dream of writing, painting, or carving your name on the walls, seats and tables of a public restau­rant. Or would you? These smokey walls with the soft red light falling on them can be so inspiring. There are the mun­dane carvings, but there are also the works reflecting the joy of · the human experience. For instance, I was sitting on a_ "DJ & PW were happy here! 9-11-82" and on the menu was "Lisa R. + Steve· R. Married 10/30/84.'-' Ah yes! romance at Gino's. Now if this doesn't warm your heart, finish eating and take a walk as we did. 
As you emerge from Gino's, many sanctuaries of liquid refreshment are within a · beer bottle's throw; all behind closed doors or muscled 
. .... . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .....................• ....... . 
.' ................................................. 
. . .
. . . . . . .. . . . . . ... . . ... . . .. . . ........ . ..... . ......
· 


SCHOLASTIC 

bouncers. However, these guys aren't too up on current alcohol policy. Bruno the Bouncer asked for I.D. but, as I explained to him, since I was drinking behind closed doors --I didn't need one. Bruno didn't like that answer. 
So we moved along taking in the various sights. Neon lights threw fluorescent streaks across slick white limousines and pimp mobiles while a ragged hispanic man sipped a cup of beer taken out 
-of a garbage can. As we passed by Faces, a very high class club with an intimidating fifty year old bouncer in a tux, a police officer was telling some street kids "Read my lips. Get out of here or I'm gonna twist your __ offl" Walking past The Snuggery, Rush St.'s famous singles bar, we met eighty year old Frank asking for something to eat. For­tunately we had ·_ leftovers. Everybody loves Gino's. So did Frank. As Frank and I talked, bombarded by the 
-cruel -comments -of druriken Yuppies, my friends met two guys 'from the south suburbs, Marlon and Jim. 
_I 

After Frank left, 1 met Marlon and Jim. Once I told Marlon that I was writing a magazine article, he insisted on showing me Rush · St.'s finer aspects. l met everyone from a prostitute to an Australian business man (He even gave ­rile his card; Rush St is a great place to make-business references). After_ about an. 
hour of this, I realized a cou­ple of things: I was having an incredibly great time, totally sober, just talking with two guys I had just met. I also found it interesting to know that if I ever wanted to get to know ·someone who normally wouldn't give me the time of 
· day, I just had to -tell them I was writing a magazine article. Getting to know people -of various· situations in life was the most exciting part of the evening. According to people we talked to, the different types of people who come to Rush St. are its major attrac­tions. 
People's other reasons for coming were also very interesting. One self­proclaimed Dallas native (if this guy is a Texan, J.R. is from New Jersey) comes to Rush -St. "for the girls, yeeeehaah!" -Another more philosophic lush, Dianne, comes to Rush -to relive -her college days. To her Rush St. is "fantasy which is make-­believe made real." Boy, if I remember that quote I should be able to get out of Philoso­phy 111. 
-Amidst all the rowdi­ness and good times of Rush St. the people stood out as the big attraction for me --people partying like Dianne and peo­ple like Frank who come to Rush St. to beg for something to eat. They -are the two extremes of the social spec­trum, _but both are accessible to all on Chicago's Rush St.• 
. . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . 
., .................. . 
.. ' ................. 

2 OCTOBER 1985 




A BEGINNER'S GUIDE TO CHICAGO POLITICS 

by Ted Kelleher 

I used . to be one of those East Coast snobs.. You 
· know the type, the · kind of person who thinks that the United States ends at the Mis­sissippi and considers Cleve­land part of the Old West. Many Eastern · elitists like myself come to Notre Dame only to discover that there is a lot of . land between South Bend and the Pacific Ocean 
. and there are major American cities besides New York, Washington and Philadelphia. In particular, you discover Chicago. · 
In.addition . to being an eastern elitist, I have one other vice--I am a political junkie. Thus, it is only natural that my attention was focused on Washington, Philly and New York. Sure an occasional out­sider, like a Carter or a Nixon, made it big on the Coast, but it 
·was the Kennedys, the Rizzos and the Lindsays who called the shots.· · 
Then, in 1983, I saw the light. Even as a stoical young Wharton school gradu­ate named Wilson Goode was destroying the last vestiges of the .Frank Rizzo dynasty in Philadelphia, my gaze was held fixed . on events taking place in the Windy City. I'm referring, of course, to the landmark 1983 mayoral election in Chi­cago, which produced the city's first black mayor, Harold Washington. 
The election was stun­ningly exciting, albeit hard to follow. Chicago politics has a vocabulary all its own and only 
SCHOLASTIC 

the · most strung out political· junkies are fluent in its Politi­calese. . Thus, a lot of '. what went on was over my head;· So for those of you tired of only being able to underst_and the Tribune's Sports page, I've put together a list of sonie of the key actors :in Chicago ·politics. The list· · is by no means comprehensive and some true 
· aficionados of Chicago politics may scoff at the· simplicity of my definitions. But for the benefit of ·au you Deep South, West Coast and East Coast snobs (as well as for you Tex:­ans), here We go: 
RICHARD _J. DALEY: To many Chicagoans, Daley (a.k.a. ''Da Mare'')-is the only mayor · Chicago had or will ever hav~. It is hard to overstate his importance . to the politics -of Chicago because_ he has shaped,· in almost every impor­tant way, the structure of the city's government. Even though he has been dead for nine years;-liis presen<::e is still felt and· much of current ·poli­tics revolves atouil(i coming to terms with him and his legacy. 
> • Daley · became mayor in 1955 after ousting incum~ bent-Martin J. Kennelly in the primary and then defeating ·Republican Robert E. Mer­riam in the general election that April. From the start, Daiei was highly committed to the physical deveiopmeri.t of Chicago. His accomplishments 'in this .area are impressive, including -· the -expansion . of Chicago's . expressway · and mass '. transit . •. systems, the enlargement of O'Hare Air­port, urban renewal and ·public housing programs and the mas­sive .buildup .of the downtown Loop area, which led to the 
. construction ·ofthe seveiai new skys~raperi;; · including · · · the Sears _T9wer. · · 
_2 OCTOBER 1985 
Daley's accomplish-· ments in the -political realm are 
·no less . impressive. He is . the man who . presided over t:tie golden age of Chicago machine politics. As both mayor and party chairman, he · wielded immense control over the Democratic Party, which was and is Chicago's party. The machine . existed before Daley but no one ran itas masterfully as did "Da Mare." "The machine" refers to the complex hierarchical system of patronage, payoffs, and . politi­cal leverage which envelops ·an ... parts and levels_· of: municipal government in Chicago. 

-., 
. . 

Between 1955 and 1976, when Daley._ died, the only government the · city of Chicago _. knew was· . the mac4ine. The machine con­trolled the budget, tlie jobs and the bureaucracy and D!lley controlled the machine. Daley's true talent, what made him a political genius, was his judicious use of the · machine's immense resources _to advance the interests · thereof. . After Daley's· death, the structure of . the machine remained unchanged, but none of . his successors have · been able to harness the great ·beast as effectively as -Daley· himself did. Clearly, thei:e's a sense· of · 
. nostalgic fondness for Dal~y and his era among Chicagoans. Daley's shadow looms over everyone, and . his ghost still inhabits city hall. 

MICHAEL A. BILANDIC: 
Bilandic became mayor after Daley's death in 1978 only to return to private life after his stunning upset in the primaries by Jane Byrne. Everything, including the weather, seemed to be working against Bilandic. Since . he could never come <::lose to filling Daley's shoes, he was largely viewed as an interim figure, serving · until 
· someone more suitable could be found. Bilandic's demise began on New Years Eve 1978, when it began snowing; in the ensuing months Chicago suffered . through two · major blizzards• and a series of politi­cal blunders by Bilandic. Snow clearance and mass transit were handled ·so poorly by Bilandic that _ when primary day dawned (ironically; bright 11 and warm) droves of discon-· tented and snow crazed Chi­cagoans . sent . Bilandic a mes­sage of utter frustration. Thus we have Jane·Byrne. 
JANE BYRNE: Byrne ran a campaign _ that criticized machine .politics and pledged reform. After_ her upset victory in the primary, victory in the general election seemed assured. After. . all, . Chicago with a Republican Mayor is like the Church·· with a Jewish­Pope. Byrne had -long been considered a protege of Daley; it was Daley . in fact that brought young Byrne into Chi­cago politics in the early six­ties. Many machine ~politicians resented Byrne's ascent through the party and in 1977, shortly after Daley's death, she was ousted as · co-chainruu:t .of the Cook County Democratic Party, a po_sition to which Daley himself had · elevated her. 

Bitter about being robbed of ,what she considered her rightful power, she ran a vitriolic reformist campa1gn in 1979. Ironically, once in office Byrne did little to break up the machine she had sci vehe­mently attacked. The new mayor · retained and used Daley's system of patronage and also kept in place many of the machine's top lieutenants-­people she had earlier referred to as a "cabal of evil men." Byrne's reign was to be cut short by the surprising events of 1983. 
. RICHARD M. DALEY: Mayor Daley's son is sometimes thought of as having a special birthright to the mayor's office. Not nearly as charismatic as his .father, Daley was a rather average Illinois State Senator when Jane Byrne came to power. He was soon faced with the choice of either sub­
12 mitting to or challenging Byrne's attempts to consolidat~ her power within the machine. In 19.79 he chose to challenge Byrne by running against a Byrne backed candidate for Cook County States Attorney; He won the . race, and in so doing, became a major threat · to the newly · elected Mayor Byrne. Little effort was made to. hide his intention to oust Byrne ·. in 1983. Ultimately, it was . the Byrne-Daley struggle that opened the door for the election of Chicago's first black mayor, Harold Washing­ton.. 
HAROLD WASHINGTON: 
Not only is Washington the city's first black mayor, he is also the only mayor from out­side the machine since the machine · began. Washington brought to the 1983 campaign a strong record as a congress­man~ remarkable oratorical skills and the special.· 'Yisdom of a veteran politician. He also brought a conviction for iii.come tax evasion, several substantial and long overdue water and. telephone bills and 

·an embarrassing incident.· in which his law license was tem­porarily suspended for "failure to render adequate services." It's no surprise that Washing­ton spent most of 1983 cloaked in controversy, some of which still lingers today. 
Washington's political career is long, but his rise· as a major figure began .in 1980, with his election to the U.S. Congress. · Around · this time efforts to organize a campaign to a put a black in the mayor's office were beginning; · Wash­ington was soon seen as a viable . standard bearer. His candidacy · was formally announced in 1982. 
Racial tensions run fairly deep in Chicago and race was clearly an issue in the 1983 mayoral primary. Washington piayed on these tensions mas­terfully. · His political program $as based on an "80-80" stra­tegy: get 80% of all blacks to vote and get 80% of these voters to back . Washington. Given such · a turnout, Wash­ington· could foreseeably cap­ture 40% of the total vote. With Daley and Byrne bludgeoning each other for control of the Democratic . machine and thus splitting the white vote, 40% would .· be all Washington needed. Washington didn't get an 80% turnout among blacks, but he did capture 80% of the votes frbm those blacks who voted. This gave Washington 36% of the total vote--and a 2 ~oint victory over second place finisher Jane Byrne. Race was the issue in April's general election. . Chicagoans demonstrated that perhaps 
they were ready for a Jewish Pope. Enter Bernard Epton. 

BERNARD EPTON: 

Republicans are rarely taken seriously in Chicago. Bernie Epton is an exception. With Washington's nomination, Epton, a wealthy attorney and a Jew, saw the chance to become the city's first Repub­lican mayor since 1927. Such graceful losers as Jane Byrne and alderman Edward Vrdo­lyak tried to convince Epton to relinquish his nomination in favor of a more electable can­didate (Byrne suggested her­self) . 
Epton dove wholeheart­

. edly into the campaign, armed with slogans such as "Vote right--vote white" and "Epton. Before it's too late." The cam­paign was marked by constant racial barbs and vicious muds­linging. Jane Byrne even launched •a quickly aborted write-in campaign. Washington saw his initial lead dwindle as white Democrats . turned to Epton. However, not enough whites .voted purely on the racial issue to give Epton a vfotory. And so Washington has served a divided city and struggled with a divided party. He has had little success in reuniting either. 

EDWARD VRDOLYAK: 
No list of Chicago politicians would be complete without the the man they cali "Fast Eddie". Fast talking, street smart, aggressive and allegedly a little corrupt (or a lot cor­rupt, depending on who you listen to), Vrdolyak is the liv­ing embodiment of an era that may be ending in Chicago: The election of Harold Washington marks the first real challenge to the supremacy of the machine. Chicago politics is in a state --of flux. Watch and enjoy. 
SCHOLASTIC 



-----------on other campuses--------­
Compiled by Paul Aiello 



ROTC 
tested for 

Oklahoma State coed has sued her school for $4.5 million, claiming that her civil rights were violated when she was removed from a nurs­ing program for wearing low­cut sweaters. • 
A University of Utah study which analyzed 150 stress reports claims that col­lege students experience less stress because they have greater control over their lives than their _non-student p·eers in the real world, According to Neil Whitman, co-author of the study, "Stress is directly related to how much control you have in your life... and let's face it, a college student has fi lot of control. Going to college itself is a• matter of choice. You control your use of time, decide what classes to take and how to study. Nonetheless, within the stu­dent body different levels ·or stress exist. For example, law and medical students, with more intense schedules and greater focus on jobs ._ tend to feel more pressure than liberal arts majors." • 
In a related story, a group of· Yale students last year formed their own "Stress Busters" massage service, which for $20 provided "non­sexual, legitimate" body mas­sages ·to help stu_dents relax and unwind during finals.• 
On. military matters, the Defense Department has announced that all sophomore ROTC students will be required . to be tested for 
AIDS.-• 
In the latest ·skirmish between companies that ·. coach students to take standardized tests and the companies that sell the tests themselves, a federal judge has barred test coaches from using Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) ques­tions. Judge Clarkson · Fisher issued the ban because of practices by many coaching firms that threaten the validity of the exam. For example, many firms would send people to take the SAT only for the sake of memorizing · certain questions so that they could report them back to the firm to be used to coach students. 

AI-DS 

A Washington Univer­sity professor has a unique-. approach to his course on the novel. Students are · required to read children's fiction, for­mula romances, detective nov­els and pornography to learn what "real noveis" are. • · 
Clemson officials,· alumni and student· boqy became outraged after tlie first tickets· for the big football game 13 between Clemson and rival South Carolina were distri­buted. last week.· The design for the ticket featured the names of the two schools side by side and underneath them the words "Academics and Athletics." Many Clemson fans believed that the centering .of the word. "Academics" under South Carolina and "Athletics" under· Clemson was a cheap shot at Clemson in light of the University just getting off a three year probation by the NCAA for . recruiting viola­tions. There is no telling how far the battle between these two intellectual giants w.iU go. • · 
SEE JANE RUN 
. I 
A LOOK AT "FIGHTING JANE" 

Jane Byrne is best known as Chicago's first woman mayor. But who is the woman behind the politics? 
The second of six chil­dren, Byrne (born Margaret · Jane Burke) grew up in an affiuent Irish · Catholic family from Chicago's Northeast side. Her . father was a steel execu­tive, while her mother ran the household with emphasis . on personal a~hiev~ment and self-confidence.. In 1952 she began her education at Barat Col.lege. J3arat was a Catholic Liberal Arts college for women, . headed by the reli-.· giou~ wome.n of the Society of 
the Sacred. Heart and. possess­
ing· ... ari '. exciusive reputation 
although its · admission stan­

dards were not as stringent as presiqent, was also· a close other women's colleges. friend and confidante to Jane. Many · of Byrne's. She once stated, "Being a women's . college, Barat could
· friends and · former classmates 
give . stud en ts their heads, plus .
attribute much of her ambition 
range and room to create...
and fortitude to her years at 
while the faculty encouraged
Barat. An academically 
individualisxn.... . The role of
demanding environment, Barat 
women then was to be intelli­
instilled in its graduates both 
gent -and well-educated...and
high ideals and the confidence 
Barat tended to produce strong 
that women can achieve and become whoever . they desire. articulate women." Jane has often attributed to Sister Burke 
Several of Jane's classmates,. 
a major role in her develop~
recall Barat as a place where, 
ment at Barat.
above all they gained a love of learning. It was at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame that Jane
Enrolling as a biology 

met ·her future husband. Bill
. major, and planning. to. attend 
Byrne, "an outgoing, garrulous .
medical school, Jane looked to 
fun-loving guy." Choosing to
her aunt;. Dr. Janet Towne, as· 
postpone medical school inde­
:.role model and. mentor. Sister. 
finitely~· · she . married late in
;Margaret Burk~,: ~drmer Barat 
SCHOLASTIC 

1956 and bore her daughter Kathy a year later. In May 1959, Bill Byrne, a Marine Corps pilot, died in a plane crash, leaving his wife and daughter at a tragic personal turning point. 
In 1960, Byrne redirected her energy into pol­itics. Volunteering her ser­vices to John Kennedy's presidential campaign, she became secretary-treasurer of his Chicago Citizens Commit­tee. It was during this cam­paign that she met her future political consort and mentor, Chicago's Democratic Mayor, Richard J. Daley, who offered her a minor city hall post, and then in 1968, . appointed her commissioner of consumer sales. 
She immediately gained the reputation of being Daley's first woman commis­sioner, but soon became known as "the tough commis­sioner." Among her accom­plishments were the banning of phosphate detergents, updating meat grading requirements,. and establishing standards for packaging perishable items. She _. w~s later appointed national Democratic Commit­teewoman, and in 1976 became commissioner of public vehicle licenses. 
In· December, 1976 Mayor Daley died, succeeded · by Michael A. Bilandic, who went on to win the next elec­tion. Although Byrne sup­ported his candidacy, she began voicing her disapproval of the mechanical workings of City Hall, referring to to it as "the Machine." She further accused Bilandic of misap­propriating funds and tran­sportation fare increases. An insurmountable rift developed .. between Byrne and · Bilaridic which cost her her job in 
2 OCTOBER 1986' 

November 1977. 
In March 1978 she married Jay McMullen, a reporter who supported her policies and accepted his new identity as Jane Byrne's hus­band. A year later she chal­lenged incumbent Bilandic in the mayoral primary. Despite the fact that Bilandic had ten times Byrne's financial sup­port, she won the primary by approximately 17,000 of some 800,000 votes. With a landslide victory she surpassed · Republi­can stockholder Wallace John­son, and became the first woman mayor of America's second largest city. 
While in office, Byrne faced opposition to her policies of union loyalty, but was labelled "union buster.;' Although her greatest support came from the black neighbor­ho.ods and after the election she appointed a number of minority members to the school board, she was severely criticized for opposing the presidential board election of Reverend Kenneth Smith, a black . minister: Throughout her mayoral tenure, Byrne faced opposition from various parties and acquired the nick­name "fighting Jane." Defeated in the 1983 mayoral 1s election she has recently resur­faced on the political scene, 
· · announcing her candidacy for the next mayoral _election. 
Jane Byrne has firmly relied on the values and strength she gained attending a women's college, and enjoyed watching her own daughter graduate from Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame in 1979. Speaking at . Saint Mary's in September, 1985 Jane· described today's women · as "prepared,'· educated and powerful", but because of societal pressure, "are in danger of losing sight of their womanliness." Throughout the years she has 'expressed much support for• women's issues, and believes the nation is ready for more women -in leadership roles, a· statement indicative of the• fighting spirit which may soon lead her back into office. • 


SPORTS: 
Baseball: Cubs at Wrigley Field 
Tues, Oct 1, 1 :20pm Pittsburgh Wed, Oct 2, 1 :20pm Pittsburgh Thurs,Oct 3, 1:20pm Pittsburgh 
:White Sox at Comiskey Park Thurs, Oct 3, 7:30pm, Seattle Fri, Oct 4, 7:30pm, Seattle Sat, Oct 5, 7:30pm, Seattle Sun, Oct 6, 1:30pm, Seattle 
Horseracing: 
Balmoral Race Track-Dixie Highway, Crete, Illinois Harness Racing: October 16 -December 12. 
re. Hawthorne Race Track­3501 S. Laramie Avenue, Stickney, Illinois Thoroughbred Racing until December· 30th. 
Maywood Park Race Track-North & Fifth Avenue, Maywood, Illinois Harness Racing: Sept 30 -Dec 31 ... 

FoR YOUR INFORMATION 
Water Tower Visitor Information 
N. Michigan A venue at Chicago Avenue• Open daily 9-5 
Chicago Council on Fine Arts 346-3278 Hotline 
Chicago Visitor Eventline 225-2323 24 hour recorded message on events · 

October 6: Virginia Slims Tennis Tournament Pavilion, at University of Illinois, ·chicago. 
October 11-27: Ringling Brothers Circus Rosemont Horizon Call 635-6600 
October 14: Columbus Day Parade· 
12:45pm 

Dearborn Street; from Wacker to Congress 
October 20: America's Marathon Chicago 8:45am 
November 1: Chicagc>International Film Festival Call644-3400 for information. 
2 OOTOBER 1986 
THEATRE: 
Apollo Theatre: "Pump Boys and Dinettes", Friday, 8pm; Saturday, 6:30 & 9:30, Sunday, 3pm & 7pm. 
Cabaret Continental: "Forbidden Broadway", Friday, 8:30pm, Sat.,6:30 & 9:30, Sun.,3pm & 7:30. 
Candlelight Dinner Playhouse: "A Chorus Line" 
Drury Lane, Oakbrook Terrace: Oct 1 -Oct 6: "Four Girls Four" Oct 9 -Dec 29: "How to Succeed in Business" 
Goodman Theatre: Oct 4 -Nov 10: "Government Inspector" 
Mayfair Theatre: "Sheer Madness" 
Shubert Theatre: "Cats" 
Wisdom Bridge: "Rat in the Skull". Friday, 8pm; Sat.,5pm & 8:30, Sun.,3pm & 7:30. 

MusEUMS: 
Adler Planetarium 1300 S. Lake Shore Drive Daily 9:30 -4:30, Friday open until 9pm. Admission Free 
Art Institute Michigan at Adams Street . Friday, 10:30-4:30, Sat., 10-5, Sun, 12-5 Suggested Admission price: $4.50 
Chicago Academy of Sciences Clark and North A venue Mon-Sun, I 0-5 $1.00 
Chicago Historical Society Clark and North Avenue Mon-Sat 9:30-4:30, Sun, 12-5 $1.50 
Field Museum of Natural History· Roosevelt Road at South Lake Shore Daily 9-5 Students with I.D. $1.00 
Museum of Contemporary Art 237 E. Ontario Street Tues-Sat, 10-5 $3.00 
Museum of Science and Industry 57th Street and South Lake Shore Drive Daily 9:30 -4:30 Free Admission 
John G. Shedd Aquarium 1200 Lake Shore Drive Daily 10-5 $2.00 

,:;BUT IF YOU CAN'T GET 
PLACES TO VISIT: 
the Potawatom.i Zoo 
One of the more pleasant surprises of South Bend is the Potawatomi Zoo, located off Lincolnway East,

18. • 
right across from IUSB. This is not the petting zoo you'v~ been. seeing in malls for the past ten years of your life. It offers a menagerie of animals from vultures to iguanas, to lions and tigers and bears (Oh my!). The star of the zoo is a two-year· old chimpanzee named Abby who entertains visitors with numerous antics and routines designed to grab your attention · and food. It takes about an· hour or two to ·stroll through the park and enjoy the animal kingdom and is a perfect place to take your neighborhood little brother or sister. The zoo is open every day from 10:00· a.m. to 6:00 
p.m. and it only costs $1, admission. 

:5tudebaker Museum 
·.. . . ·. Whether you're an old car ,buff or, jt1st interested in the history of the automobile, the Studebaker Museum is for you. Located on the corner of 

TO CHICAGO ... 
THINGS TO DO IN THE RIVER CITY 
Lafayette and South Streets. the museum features over 50 vehicles from the early wagons to the 1950's crumng machines. The history of this former · automotive giant is traced from its successes at the turn of the century and after World War II, to its 9emise in the mid-1960's. The museum itself was once part of the Stu­debaker factory. The collec­tion is open from 11:00 to 4:00 Tuesday through Fri~ay, 10:00 to 4:00 on Saturday, and 1:00 to 4:00 on Sunday. Once again, admission is $1 with nq fee charged on Tuesdays. 

century Center 
One of South Bend's better known attractions is the Century Center,· featuring a unique architectural design and inspiring view over the Saint Joseph white water rapids. Situated in.side the complex are· five individual culturalcenters: an Art Center, a Convention Center, the Discovery Hall Museum, the Great ..Hall and a Performing Arts Center. If you are in the 
by Michael J. Songer 

museum mood, the Discovery Hall Museum is much like the Smithsonian but on a smaller scale. It offers an interesting panorama of the industrial development of the South Bend area. Engineers take note: famous Bendix· automo­tive and aircraft components that changed the shape of their histories are featured in this refreshing change from ordi­nary museµms. If you're re_ally in need of culture and are attracted to collections like those . featured in the Snite, stop by the Art Center. Two galleries . display work from area artists as well as several national and international exhi­bitions throughout the · year. Operating hours vary for each center, so can 284-9711 for further information. 
the Saint Joseph River 
The most popular and heavily featured attraction in South Bend · remains one created by nature herself--the Saint Joseph River, a water­way· that one, major· magazine 
SCHOLASTIC 


i
of ft~ w~ricl f
~~·~~nc=-~i:[;~~!~~~~ 1, 
fa-.th~ ro~. of ~~fu &~d\~ ., 
\,"t;~ar eui5lm;µ. FooJ!tr'~d H~, Ii ~~ l9w~ ti-~ ~~ f~vQij:t•!.> I ffffl~i!ii[fl:ifl:r. 1~ tiu::ml d~r re~~-tn .~~~ f~t=ft."L~ Tu~ r~•-~t b ~ ple:~nt 
··is:~-:!lhEr~ ~enl~ 
f1~=i.§µ ~~ ~~-d gj,tt 
0~ 
C..ttptain C.:arhur< ~=0 
.ih~illi 'i~-~ ~¥~ 'ti::. di~t,.;:.,, 
Dus:;=::i ~~~~" ,ev~y-th~ 
t 
t~s,.,--n; to do--~ m· ~~~ T~e -M~~d~~ of. ~y tri¥~ l::.owi;;;yii;):r, the :hDirn::....,ad~ t,;:;i;; 
~~'.iih :fltrvr~:r:~ r1~ D.IJ:.iJl~ frgJti[ th.~ 
,r:cnnmnfi, Che,t<'.1!~-te, 'Vi:i;nitla a.nt! Str;~i,,.,rhiJifT)" t11, L~.:~~.;:;n t,i:td rs.rid Cht!rry 
e::n-nv1,:,nr,,3nt 


has described as having so many "winds and turns . that even the moon doesn't know which side it is rising on." The river · is easy to reach from campus, as many rowers · well -know. Just head to:wards town for about a mile and you'll trip over the water. Highway 31 North · crosses the river right before you reach the business section_ of South Bend..The most famous and exciting part of the South Bend Riverfront remains the New East Race Waterway, created in 1984. First the good news: tubing, kayaking, and rafting are all 
offered at the race, the only artificial waterway in the United States (there are only three such waterways in the world). Now the bad news: the course· is closed for the season, and won't reopen until Spring. However, you can walk or jog the length of the course, I.4 miles; along the river up to 
20 Howard Park. If you're tired ·. of.feeding the same old ducks down at the lakes, stroll along the mighty St. Joe to the View­ing Park at the end of Notre Dame A venue, and to Memorial Park, near Twycken­ham Street to discover that the hunger of local ducks remains : -.similar to their Notre Dame cousins. 
PLACES TO EAT: 

(at Shirley's 
One fabulous South Bend eatery is Shirley's 24­hour coffee shop, located on Twyckenham and Mishawaka, where the food improves as 
the night progresses on into single digits and in direct pro­portion to the amount of alcohol ingested beforehand. These two theories hold since the more unaware your body is of this experience the better. The mind-body dilemma is in full swing at this "must do" South Bend landmark because, as I was told as a freshman, "Yeh the food stinks, but it's a tradition." I personally recom­mend the truckers' special 
(eggs over easy), a bowl of chile and a glass of water, not that it tast~s good or anything, but that's what you're sup~ posed to order. Affectionately known as Fat Shirley's after its colorful, somewhat legendary owner, this all night hideout · offers a wide variety of patrons, as well as a memor­able cup of coffee. 
cornucopia 
One place for those with a more organic tendency is the Cornucopia restaurant, located at 303 S. Michigan 
Street in downtown South Bend. Specializing in· natural cuisine, the restaurant offers a wide variety of vegetarian, fish, tofu and salad plates, as well as natural juices, nectars, or wine and beer if you desire. · Prices here are reasonable and the atmosphere is somewhat more peaceful and relaxing. One recommendation is the Malfatti -a spinach and egg dish baked with a special sauce and topped with grated cheese. And · try one 9f the 
tofu specials if you're feeling 
adventurous.
the Rib Shack 
For those of us with 

less delicate palates, the Rib 
Shack, on Michigan Route 18, 
offers an alternative for the 
more lively tastebuds. True to 
its name, the Rib Shack lists a 
selection of barbequed any­
thing as well as a deli­
sandwich menu. The Rib Tips 
dinner can't be beat, especially 
when you take advantage of 
the all-you-can eat option 
which runs at about $5. The 
Rib Shack is also · ready to 
accommodate large parties in 
one of their banquet rooms, 
serving · their tantalizing ribs 
and tips along with an endless 
supply of w~ter and napkins. 


bar' ,vhfr::h in'i:,I~d!;;~ 
:tiil1i1H'.m:~ tfrr.E! 
~~li:ld b;a:r f~r;e,i re~~·~rie:::~;!;;!-d ;j_~_t~ti.1':, 
m,.,,,in} h 
tr:1 fh,~ 

~,f.r,<iitt A;i,;:~(~Gi~tkm\11 g;u;oiel~"'-'='~, w·;,,:;,t:;,,;;;:r ::r-,u;ti 
'~i.;;.tfoi,:id fi:;~t:~t, :tt'.l:V,(:;~tig:nt~ th"' j]:iffi.if irtlfid :~-;:~.;;;-~_:~lit :~-~ii.d.i' ;~~:n w~ry :i1i.m1m~,, ,, :,,;;,,, r :;,;:;lb f:r,"'~'~h'' 
·p;q,'.r' [l .nci:.:.":r="."~-~,~ 
!';;Vi;;ning b;;: ~11n, ~n ;\;l;:S~ 

~~ ~?-~::-~,rt fg_r.;~r th,r.:; 
CIH1 ,~~!t~~d,t;;:~ ,;if :r:rnd 



When a foreigner enters Saudi Arabia, he is required to declare his reli­gious preference as either 
· Muslim or heathen. When I entered Notre Dame as a new student in 1981, I was allowed to chose between Catholic or "other". 
Then last spring a letter arrived from the Notre Dame. administration which deserved more than the usual cursory glance. This letter informed me that my time had finally come--the University would . now allow me to state 

22 specifically my religious preference rather than be listed among the · ranks of "other". · After a · bit of thought; I discarded the letter. Why abandon the label which most accurately described my situation? 
. As a child I never cheered the Irish on to victory; I never heard my father remin­isce about the good old days at ND; I didn't even rejoice when · ND _went coed. Notre Dame and it's traditions didn't becpme reality for me until I filled out my application five 
__ years ago. 
· · I came to school with virtually no conception·of what it means to be a Catholic. I'd heard rumors· of meatless Fri­days; celibate clergy, and infal­lible Church leaders, but little else. My Lutheran family back­ground didn't properly groom me to become a Domer and neither have my last four years. I remain an other. 
The "Notre Dame Family" is a concept integral to the ND experience. It sug­gests the security of belonging and · being accepted. As I 
"My peers failed to approach my religion with the same open­ness and respect · as I did theirs." end 
struggled to follow the liturgy at the Freshman Orientation Mass I realized that I wasn't fully a part of that experience because I wasn't Catholic. Four years and many masses later, I no longer stumble over the responses. I value worship­ping with my friends and. shar­ing their community. And I want to participate in this com­munity as fully as ·I am able, but it continues to be their family and I continue to feel my difference. 
My· experiences as an other began even before I enrolled at Notre Dame. As many seniors in high school do, I visited the campus to get -a sense of the University. Along with the typical ques­tions · about dorm life, dining hall · food, and · freshman 
by Kendra Ervin 

classes, I was anxious to get a sense of what the non.:catholic experience would be like. That weekend · a priest and two Catholic students assured me that I would encounter abso­lutely no problems for this was a university open to diversity in thought and belief. Unfor­tunately, those three _(and many others with the same opinion) are mistaken. . The non-Catholic at Notre Dame has a very different experi­ence; he is confronted with a unique set of challenges, and graduates. with a good under­standing of the problems minorities must face. 
As an English major, I was required to· take · the Arts & Letters Core Course, a class designed to "explore th_e _dif­ferent ways of knowing." Dur­ing the early sections of the course the conservative atti­tudes and narrowmindedness of my classmates became pain­fully apparent to me. Once we began the unit called "God" this irritation became outright offense. While discussing the possibility of worshipping the same God in more than one "right" way, one of my 
classmates offered the observa-. tion that his several visits to a Lutheran service had led him to the conclusion that all my religion consisted of was "showing up to shake hands, sing 'God Bless America', drink coffee, and go home." No one, student or professor, 
continued on page 26 
SCHOLASTIC 

On the Outside. Looking In 
A CRUCIFIX IN EVERY CLASSR0011 
My status here is deceptive since no one can tell from my appearance that I am a minority--a Protestant • at Notre Dame. Usually, my minority status passes unno­ticed since the majority simply assumes · that I'm "one of them." 
Actually, I don't mind being in the minority on a campus of Catholics. I like the challenge of introducing a dif­

•. ferent perspective to a discus­sion or taking a non-Catholic view on an issue; Confronting and 'being confronted with opposition is essential for both intellectual and personal growth. What I do mind, · though, is being perceived as somehow wrong or inferior because of my differences. Rarelv do I encounter people 
·"at thi~ university that have a genuine willingness to accept my \ religious preference. · 
From the very first contact I had with Notre Dame, I felt deceived. The Admissions · Office informed me that. being a Protestant at Notre Dame was no problem at aU. In fact they said ND was actively seeking qualified non­Catholics to add to the diver­sity of the homogeneous student-body. The admissions counselor also informed me · that the campus provides tran­sportation each Sunday to and from any non-Catholic places of worship. 
As a senior in high 
school I felt confident about 
attending ND'."-after all it was a 
2 OCTOBER 1985 . 

reputable institution and they 
· would aid me in my desire to worship · independently. Shortly after arnvmg on campus, I learned that the only service the university would provide for· non-Catholics was a list of area churches which could have just as easily been found in the phone book. Thus, I had to be content with attending campus masses while worshipping in a highly per­sonal way. 
By the time my first class started a few days later, I 
. had forgiven the Admissions Office for misleading me. I figured that theirs . was a par­donable offense as long as they didn't try too force Catholi­cism on me. Wrong. My very first course, Physical Oeogra­
"The Admissions Office informed me 
that  being  a · Protes­ 
tant  at  Notre  Dame  
was  no  problem  at  
all."  

by Rebecca Goodell 

phy, began with the whole 
class . standing to recite the 
'Hail Mary', a singularly 
Catholic prayer. I was appalled 
that a professor would include 
a non-ecumenical prayer in an 
academic environ~ent. A 
moment of silence would have · 
been more appropriate.. What 
right does a science teacher--or 
any teacher--have tO impose 
his religious convictions upon 
his students? A university 
classroom 
is no place for religious biases. Since that professor never left · open the option to ab.stain from participation in the 
prayer, he denied me my free-23. 
dom of religion. · 
Certainly this single 

experience, no matter how eth­
ically wrong, was not earth · 
shattering; however, this is not 
an isolated incident. Stop for a 
moment to consider the biased 
nature of the Graduation Mass, 
the Opening Mass, or . the fact 
that meat is not served in the 
dining halls on Lenten Fridays. 
The presence of a crucifix in 
every. classroom is even more 
imposing. ·With a crucifix in 
every classroom and a prayer 
before class, how can a· student 
· be expected to give any serious 
consideration to the validity of 
other beliefs? The crucifix says 
in effect, "Although you may 
be · studying Buddhism or 
deism or existentialism or athe­
ism or feminism or libertarian­
ism, don't take them seriously . 
because they · are wrong. 
continz,ed on page 26 




SPORTS: NOTRE DAME VARSITY Soccer -At Illinois State Tournament, Vanderbilt And Illinois State, l:O0pm_ Women's Vo_ll~yball.:. Illinois State,..7:00pm Women's Tennis -At Conference Tournament 
St. Louis, Missouri, 9am ­Women's Field Hockey -At Eastern Michigan 
11:00am _ · Baseball -Southwest Michigan College, Doubleheader 1:00pm-· GOLF -At Spartan Fall Invitational CLUB SPORTS: Rowing -Blue/Gold lntersquad Regatta Women'~ Soccer -Marquette-Stepan 3pm Rugby -University Of Chicago -Stepan Before Football Game SAINT MARY'S VARSITY 
Tennis -Taylor University -ioam Soccer -At Calvin College -1pm FILM; "Tootsie" Engineering Auditorium, 7,9:15, 11:30 THEATER: "The End of th'! :World" -Washington Hall . 
ART: Annual Faculty Exhib1t1on 8:lOpm' George Rickey in South Bend --I'7_ hers J..;, 
SPORTS: NOTRE DAME VARSITY Golf-at Midwestern Collegiate Conference Golf Championships SAINT MARY'S VARSITY · Volleyball -Goshen College and St. Francis College 6 pm FILM: '.'Big Deal on Madonna Street" Snite 7:30 pm 
0 0 

· 00~~ 
c~/~~~o~ffi. y 
-
Women's Field ·Cross Country 2/3/4pm · 
NOTRE DAME-CLUB . Women's Socce FILM: "Under the Volcar 
7:30, 9:30 pm 
"Beverly:· Hills Coi: 
7, 9, 11 pm ART: George Rickey in S 
Women Photographers Annual Faculty Exhibitio~ 
South Bend Beauty SuppP 
Annual Quilt Show and sl Seniors: Senior Informal ~ Sophomores: Reggae Dan, Watch for details 
FILM: "Coogan's Bhur• "The Graduate" ­7, 9, 11 pm 

OCTOBER 12: ~\j\J\/'---------a-OCTOBER 13: ---""" \/\.-----------OCTOBER 14: ---­
SPORTS:.NOTRE. DAME VARSTIY Soccer -At Illinois State Tournament (Vanderbilt 
And Illinois State) 1:00pm Baseball: At Valparaiso, Doubleheader, 1:00pm Golf -At Spartan Fali Invitational Men's Tennis -Quadrangular 
SAINT MARY'S VARSITY Soccer -Marquette University -1:00pm MUSIC: Guest Recital: Audubon String Quartet Annenberg Auditorium 4:00pm Lifestyle and Leisure Show_ 
ART: George Rickey in South Bend Women Photographers Annual Faculty Exhibition -Last Day 
\3 
~­
FILM: "Psycho" Snite -~ 
ART: George Rickey ~: -WomenPltc 
t 









r:oo, 9:oo 
South Bend. ,togri;phers 
0 
0 
0 
'. . 
NOTRE DAME-CLUB Women's Cross Country -at Loyola Rowing -at the head of the Trent Regatta Women's Golf -at Purdue University Rugby -Northwest Indiana 
Behind Stepan Center Before football game 
SAINT MARY'S-VARSITY Soccer -Wheaton College 1 pmTennis -at Irish Invitational FILM: "Beverly Hills Cop" Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9, 11 pm ART: George Rickey in South Bend Women Photographers Annual Faculty Exhibition 
Law School Admissions Test Engineering Auditori South Bend Beauty School Congress Annual Quilt Show and Sale Scottsdale Mall. Sportsmen l0K Convention Hall -Century Center 
18TH Annual Feast of the Hunter's Mpon Fort Ouiatenon Park, Lafayette, IN 
10 am-5 pm Seniors: Senior Informal in Chicago Freshmen: Freshman Night at the Alumni-Senior Club 
5

OCTOBER 10: -----'V'\/\/V-··-------.. 
FILM: "High and Low" -Loft -7:00pm "The Graduate" -Engineering Auditorium -7,9,11 
THEATRE: THE END OF THE WORLD -Washington Hall -8:10pm 
ART: George Rickey in South Bend 
Women Photographers Annual Faculty Exhibition 
ta I 

OCTOBER 15: ------"'1\/\Jv'·~----:-.-t,.__ OCTOBER 16=---.J\/V
1 

SPORTS: NOTRE DAME CLUB · Women's Soccer -At Wheaton -4:00pm SAINT MARY'S VARSITY . Tennis -At Manchester College -2:461)m Volleyball -Bethel College And Huntington College 
6:00pm FILM: "Henry V" -Snite -7:30pm LECTURE: William Simon, 
Memorial Library Auditoriwn, 8:00pm MUSIC: Vernon Wicker, Singer and Peter Stadtmuller Sacred Heart Chur~h 8:00pmART: George Rickey in South Bend Women Photographers 10th Anniversary Celebration Week -North Village Mall 
15. 

SPORTS: NOTRE DAME VARSITY Soccer·-At Akron ~ 4:00 FILM: "The Bandwagon" -Loft -7:00pm "Godfather" -Engineering Auditorium -7, lOp ·Alumni Board Fall Meeting WhiteWaterSeries: Century Center 12 Noon 10th Anniversary _Celebration Week-North Village Mall 
ART: George Rickey in South Bend Women Photographers 
ompiled·by Karen Dettling 
I/ 
Ib. 

SPORTS: NOTRE DAME -VARSITY Women's Volleyball -Butler, 7:30 pm Women's Tennis -at North Star Women's Field Hockey.-at Central Michigan Baseball: Glen Community College, 3:30PM Golf: at Spartan Fall Invitational, East Lansing, 
MI, 8AM 
'II: "Diva" -Snite -7:30, 9:45 "Tootsie" -Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:15, 11:30 .-1.TER: THE END OF THE WORLD 
-Washington Hall -8:10pm Lifestyle and Leisure Show -ACC Freshman Date Night Sophomore Nerd Night Senior Octoberfest MUSIC: "La Boheme", Whitewater Opera 
Richmond, Indiana October 11 and 12 Tickets: 317 WOC-7106 
..·· . 
l\ 

(Other at N.D. cont.) 
objected to this generalization. curiosity is bred by the com-The Protestant denominations ' placency of belonging to the stood condemned. · majority and closely reflects the Administration's attitude
At that tjme I objected toward the small population ofto that particular student's others on campus.

theological views with defen­siveness and anger. I was both­When I told my grand­ered by the fact that my peers father I was coming to ND, liis failed to approach my religion ·response was, "Well, try to with the same openness and convert a few of them before respect as I did theirs. Looking you leave, OK?" This becomes 
. back, I now object on much an impossibility when natural broader · grounds; fodiscrim-curiosity is lacking and when . inate generalizations and the awareness of other faiths is · inability to consider alternate . discouraged by administrative 
systems -of thought are policies such as that which counter-productive to the requires two Catholic theology entire learning process, and courses for graduation. . Why therefore undermine the ulti­shouldn't the students of of . mate objective of any univer­ND be. encouraged to explore sity. alternative systems of thought? 
Such Catholic fanatics After · four years of are greatly outnumbered at being an other at Notre Dame, ND by another group, those I have become accustomed, who are willing to accept. the even attached. to the label. My existence of the. "others" and difference has forced me to their right to a different system become . a person· whose of thought but have no desire . ideology /philosophy/ theology to understand what . creates is based on conscious choices those differences. This lack of rather than unchallenged habit.• 
This space contributed as a public service. 
THANKrnJODNESs FOR THE HEALTH YOU ENJOY. BUT IF YOU SMOKE, YOU_CAN THANK •,. CIGARETTES FOR NOTLEITINGYOU 
FEEL_YOURBEST. soQrnTSMOKING 
-. : ON NOV. 21THE GREAT
I · . .. AMERICAN 
tAMERICANC'ANCERSOC~® . '' .· _· . SMOKEOUT 
(Crucifix cont.) 
Roman Catholic belief is the o:Oly correct belief so be on your guard against . any contradictory views:·• 
My intention here is not to attack the religious com­munity here at Notre Dame. The spiritual nature of this campus adds much to the com­munity. ·what I find disagree­able· is the imposition of any one · . particular · · religion-­namely, Catholicism-.:into the academic sphere. If Catholi­
-cism is to have its place on this campus while the administra­tion is · seeking a religiously diverse student body, the Catholicism should be volun­tary and never imposed. 
"A university class­room -is definitely no place for religious biases." 
Being a . Protestant on this very Catholic campus has challenged me in innumerable ways. I , am open-minded to what Catholicism espouses, and have even, after careful consideration, incorporated· parts of' it into my own belief system. As it stands, though, this university makes it diffi­-cult·. for its students to approach. academics without 
· biases. Students. are riot forced to break out of the comfort­able, ·narrow range of beliefs. My hope is that my fell ow stu-· dents will be open-µlinded and willing to have their . beliefs challenged.• 
·SCHOLASTIC 

----------the aisle seat-------------­
At the Snite: "Under the Volcano'' 
IS:.

s.e. puede vivrr. sin amar. One cannot· live without love. A phrase repeated in dialogue and dramatically expressed by Geoffrey Firmin, the· intoxicated British Consul in "Under The Volcano". This· expression becomes a measur­ing stick in evaluating the enormously complicated yet intriguing Mr; .Firmin. Albert Finney's stunning portrayal of Geoffrey iri ·this 1984 John Huston film brings to life Mal­colm Lawry's 194 7 novel in a way many screenwriter s felt was impossible. With Huston's haunting cinematic direction of Guy Gallo's adaptation, "Vol­cano" achieves the turmoil, . 
tension, and tragedy intended for its protagonist. 
Set in a small Mexican town in 1938, the film's plot line doesn't appear too stimu­lating on paper. Geoffrey's estranged . wife Yvonne (Jacqueline BissetY comes back to him on the Day of the Dead, a Mexican celebration where the spirits of · the deceased live for a clay, look­ing for a reconciliation of. differences. She had left him and had an affair with Geoffrey's half-brother Hugh (Anthony Andrews), the care­taker of the inebriated Finney. This covers much of the narrative's action. But one must realize this is not a typi­cal cause-and-effect Holly­wood story. Instead, it follows the compelling, tragic decline of Finney's character. 
No superlatives would accurately. describe Finney's brilliance in transferring Geoffrey's character . to the screen. His wobbly knees slosh across the ground while his upper torso stiff ens proudly. Childish facial gestures turn into stern gazes as he taunts with sarcasm, "Stop walking in your sleep, stop sleeping with my wife." His chin cocked and lips stiff, Finney portrays the volcano: rumbling inside · with torment, outer shell protecting and disguising. While Yvonne symbolizes the Day of the De~d incarnated in Geoffrey's life, she cannot penetrate a · man whose inability to forgive is as obsessive as his remark­able consumption of alcohol. It's not that Geoffrey does not want to rejoin his wife. He cannot. Dependent on the bot..:· tie, he is unable to truly love anyone. No se puede vivir sin amar. 
by Theodore E. ManrJell 

John Huston's direc" tion enhances Geoffrey's image with . low-angled shots of Finney's upper body added to below the waist shots of his jelly-kneed waddle. With many long takes and reverse tracking. sequences, Huston realizes this is Finney's pic­ture, much like his dominating role in Peter Yates' "The Dresser." Finney is allowed as much screen time as needed for him to accentuate a scene with dramatic punch.. Bisset and Andrews support his per­formance. Then again, this type of quality has become an assumption in any film which credits John Huston as direc-27 tor.• 
"Under The Volcano" 

shows Friday, Oct. 3rd at 7:30 
and 9:30 in the Annenberg 
Auditorium of the. . Snite 
Museum. . Admission: $3.00. 
Running Time: 112 Minutes. · MPAA rating: R. 

2 OCTOBER 1985 
/ 

''We Are the Victims of Our Own Success'' 
Governor Bruce Babbitt Assesses the Democratic Party's Ills. 
Interview by Kristin Anders 
Arizona to practice law with a prominent Phoenix law firm. 
B.abbitt's next step was the office of state's attorney general in 1974. In 1978, incumbent Governor Wesley Bolin died· unexpectedly, and Babbitt succeeded him. He fin~ ished the year, and was re:­elected as governor for two terms. Presently serving his second full term, he will not · seek re:.election, nor will he run for Senate, a move which he had considered as early as 
28 1978. These announcements have led to speculation that Babbitt may emerge as a Democratic candidate·· in the 1988 presidential election. 
Babbitt's growing national prominence can be attributed to his work in the Democratic party. He is cal-. ling . for . a major change in Democratic thinking, and a re:.evaluation of Democratic goals. As he stated in a speech to the Coalition for a Demo­

Bruce Babbitt, gover­nor of Arizona, is a . figure to watch on the national political scene. Farmer chairman of the Democratic Governor's Asso­ciation, and a member of the Coalition for a · Democratic Majority, Babbitt is deeply committed. to the re-evaluation and renewal of the Democratic party. 
Babbitt, a native of Flagstaff, Arizona, graduated from Notre Dame in 1960 with a degree in geology. He then went on. to study. geophysics at the University of Newcastle in England, and to receive· a law degree from Harvard: 
Babbitt then went on to work for the· U.S. Office of Economic Opportunity. In March of 1967, he was appointed special assistant to the director of VISTA, · a domesti<; anti-poverty program. He remained with VISTA two years, · then returned to cratic Majority, "We must step away from· the lazy orthodoxy that represents what we did 30 and 40 years ago;" 
Scholastic . spoke with Gover­nor Babbitt by phone cm Sep-. tember 17. 
. SCHOLASTIC 
The Democratic party has had a poor showing in · recent national elections. What· can the party do . to improve its competitiveness? · 
Babbitt: There are fundamen­tal changes taking place in this country that are not generally appreciated. Americans have grown wary of the progressive centralization of government. They're going home. There's a search for community, a trend away from central government. You see it in the entrepreneu­rial community; you see the same thing happening in the political community. There's a disillusionment, not with politi­cal goals, but with t~e means to. reach them. 
People have come to identify the Democratic party as the party of national govern­ment, the party of more federal power on a larger national level. The party will have to wrestle with· how to reassert progressive liberal ends in the context of this movement back to community. 
it has . been said that "There are Republicans ·in New York who are more liberal in the trad~tional sense than Bruce Babbitt is." How would you respond to such a comment? 
Babbitt: I am a liberal. I 
believe deeply in using the. 

community in government, in the aid of civil rights, social justice, egalitarian. values. I have no sympathy for the current . trend which exalts individualism and disregards our mutual responsibilities to each other and to the commun­ity. The Democratic party has . been the victim of its own suc­cess. We have come to assume that the only path for social justice is a federal grant pro­gram. The government has 
become an enemy to the com­
munity in some ways, has exa­
2 OCTOBER 1985 

cerbated the problems in this country. 
The reform going on in 

. public education is a wonder­ful example. The reason that we have a sense of energy in these. reforms is that control has finally moved away from Washington into the hands of states, governors, mayors and schpol districts. These are the people willing to grapple with the issues of curriculum stan­dards and quality and merit pay. 
What do you see as the most urgent priority for national domestk policy? 
Babbitt: The first order of business for Americans is always the economy. Social issues become marginal when 
. people don't have jobs. These economic issues relate to basics --and the basics are questions of fiscal policy, monetary policy and competi­tiveness. Trade issues are wrapped up in the deficits. The overvalued dollar is a direct function of high interest rates which in turn is a result of too much government demand on the credit market to finance the budget deficit. We must deal with the deficit issue. We must then become more competitive. 
I reject protectionism. Protectionism is a good way of becoming less competitive;· Every tariff or quota for an industry makes that industry less competitive. Historical facts on that issue are crystal clear. 
The President is a Cal­vinist in trade policy. He says 
-he believes, has faith in, free · trade, and faith alone is suffi­cient for salvation, no · works are needed. What we ought to do, in. fact, is not .erect walls of protectionism, but rather, head out into the world and bargain with foreign markets. This all relates to the competitiveness issue. We ought to be investing a lot more -in science and development. We ought to be passing tax reform laws to give incentive to invest capital in productive industries. 
You promote New Federalism, a plan which advocates increased federal responsibility for welfare programs in exchange for lower grants-in­aid to the states. What are. the strong points of this exchange? 
Babbitt: We ought to have a national standard; we ought to decide what the federal government owes by way of a basic level of assistance for every American. There are two theories of how a.govern­ment provides these basics. One is to create a giant pot­latch; take from one g(:neration to give it randomly to the 29 · preceding generation. I think a . more logical theory is to estab­lish a basic level of support, which is necessary, but not to send out checks to the Rockefellers and the DuPonts and the Mellons. It's a regres­sive and demeaning system. 
Would the use of means-:testing alienate those who hav'e paid into the social security pro-" gram for years, expecting to get their money back eventu­ally? 
Babbitt: The average Social Security recipient gets more than three times his contribu.,, tion. People who need Social Security benefits ought to get them, and everyone ought to get his money back. But if'we use some restraint, and focus the benefits where they're needed, then we'll have the resources for dealing with impoverished children and the like. 

It is important to deal with entitlement programs separately, because that is one thing the federal government does very well. What they don't /do well is administer grants-in-aid programs. I learned, when I.was a federal employee, that when a federal official comes to town handing out checks to local organiza­tions, he creates a dependency that lowers the ability of the community to help itself. 
You endorse merit-pay pro­grams for teachers, yet criticize federal spending for education. Where should the state find the increased funds? 
Babbitt: With the return of public education to state con­trol, there has been a tremen­dous increase in the level of support People are voting tax cuts on the federal level at the same time they're voting increases for teacher pay and public education. They under­stand it in the context of their community. There's a mutual­ity; it relates to them. 
When these things are done in Washington, that nexus dissolves, and people become disinterested in the. fate of their community. Education is not just a matter of bucks, it's a matter of involvement, creativeness in the community. Those are tremendously important distinctions. 
For . some reason, liberals aren't comfortable with these distinctions. Liberals have come to assume that any­thing with the word national in it is automatically good, and anything that is associated with local government deserves suspicion. 
Terms .. like "New Democrat" and "Neo-Liberal" have been used in reference to you because of some of your ideas. What do these terms mean to you? 

Babbitt: "Liberal" means I believe passionately in the core values· of the Democratic party: the strong, unequivocal asser­tion of civil rights, social jus­tice, and egalitarian values, I believe, however, that there are limits to what the federal government can usefully do, and that in many cases federal action makes matters worse because it destroys the sense of community that lies at the heart of solving a lot of social issues. Bobby Kennedy used to quote Louis Mumford in saying that democracy begins and ends in communities within which people can see and touch and interact with each other. These are most powerful ideas. 
"There's a disillusion­ment, not with politi­cal goals,. but with the 
. h h " 

means to reac t. em. 
Would means-testing as a method of curbing expenditure involve so much paperwork and red tape so as to make it a less than viable program? 
Babbitt: . The simplest means test is called your tax return. You don't eliminate benefits, you simply scale them down as a function of income. If your adjusted income is over $ I 00,000, for example, then you aren't entitled to benefits in that year. It's an automatic system. It's not a matter of soup-lines or standing outside the county courthouse. If you have more, you pay more taxes, and you claim propor­tionately fewer benefits. It's a mirror image of the tax system. 
But it's hard to get new concepts into the public debate. Democrats have been very successful, and we tend to feel that we should never change our ideas. We have to. 
One noticeable change in national politics has been the shift of young voters, tradition­ally a Democratic bloc, to the Republican party. What can the Democratic party do to attract and retain young voters? 
Babbitt: That's an ominous sign, because when I was in college,80% of the students, including all of the activists, were Democrats. The changes taking place on college cam­puses portend real problems for the Democratic party. · Young people are entrepreneu­rial in their views; they are skeptical of-more government; they're contemptuous of the way the Democratic party has created a massive welfare state to crank out benefits to every interest group. It's a giant 
money machine. 
Young people are 

much more independent, much 
more community-minded and 
contemptuous of that sort of 
overweening bureaucratic state 
which pacifies people with all 
kinds of benefits. It's· not a 
loss of idealism; it is a pro­
found skepticism about the 
Democratic party's tendency to 
equate progress with larger 
central bureaucracies. That is a 
linkage we must break. • 
SCHOLASTIC 

----------------ll1l..U§TI.<C ---------------­
A-OK on OIVID 
Orchestral Maneuvers in the Dark is a band best characterized as the unex­pected coupled with the upbeat, the pop with the bizarre, the danceable with the sµbdued. 
The barid's most recent album, "Crush," . contains boppy, pop-synthesizer music, typical of many of the progres­
. sive dance bands that emerge from Britain. At the same time, however, the album lapses into enough weird moments to save it from being glaringly typical. This paradox creates a diverse mix of both popular and inno­vative styles that make for unusual as well as fun listen­ing. 
The vocalizations of lead singers,· Paul Humphreys 2 OCTOBER 1985 

and Andy McCluskey, are a unique. aspect of the songs on "Crush". The smooth, bari­tone voice of Andy McCluskey is a sound rarely heard in pro­gressive groups and· distin-· guishes OMD apart from other British progressive bands, such as B-Movie, Depeche Mode and Modern English. 
"Crush" begins and ends with several dance tunes . Songs such as "Secret" and "Electricity" move in a funky, "pop-synth" mode that makes them easy to dance to. Sandwiched between these upbeat tunes are some slower paced songs which contain strange twists in melodic line that are not very conducive to dancing. However, one can still drum fingers and tap feet to songs like "88 · Seconds m 
by Rachel Nigro 

Greensboro,"  despite  the  
unusual  lyrics  and  eerie  
melody.  ·  

The songs on "Crush" are not intricate. Rather, the album's simplicity · is welcome in a music world inundated by synthesizers and gimmicky modern noise. The . unusual melody and lyrics of the songs makes up for the lack of intricate harmonies, both instrumentally and vocally. · 
OMD has been very popular for years in Great Bri­tain, and has quite a faithful following in the United States. OMD's "Crush," the band's fifth album, is bizarre but fun, and a must for anyone who enjoys something a little dif­ferent in a good progressive pop-synth dance band. • 

WHY-? WHY.NOT! 
DR. HOWLAND HAS THE ANSWERS 
"Coordinate · systems a much broader base. He arc a device of man--not of attended Yaie · University · God! Automobiles don't roll where he graduated with a off the assembly lirie with an degree in physics and philoso­
abscissa · and an ordinate phy in 1965. He also received . 
stamped on their doors." --Dr. an M.S. in astronomy from 
Robert A. Howland • Yale in 1967. Howland next 
attended North Carolina State
Since 198 I, when he 

University where he obtained
joined· the staff of the 
his Ph.D. in engineering sci­
Acrospac(: Mechanical . 
ence and mechanics with a
Engineering Department at · 
concentration in mathematics.
Notre Dame, Dr.. Robert A. 
Howland has, lectured to stu-. dents. ofall engineering discip­lines on the utility of the study 
"Professor Howland
of mechanical statics and 
has a reputation of
dynamics._. Until . the core engineering curriculum was · 
staying in his office changed for the class of 1987, · 
until .·students stop
all •· aspiring engineers were 
. coming to ask him
requJred to take . Professor Rowland's Mechanics I course. 
questions." The suspicion of most students . entering the course (especially 
those in discipJ.ines that would seem to require little He stayed on as an instructor mechanics--such as electrical · at North Carblina State until or ·' chemical engineering stu­.. 1978 when he accepted the dents) was that the course WllS ' · posit.ion of assistant professor designed specifically ·to "weed at ·Rose-Hulman Institute of 
. out,, anyone lacking a Spartai;i Technol9gy in Terre Haute, desire to become an engineer. Indiana. Howland came to Tliµs~ since his arrival at.Notre. Notre· Dame in the summer of Dame~. Dr.. • Howland ·has ·been· 198-1 and· now holds the posi­faced with the twofold task of tion of assistant professor. teach°ing · aspiring · engineers· 
Dr. Rowland's successhow . to : systematically think 

at Notre Dame is reflected
through ·engineering problems both by his awards and by his .whil_e simultaneously trying to relationship with his students.·
· convince them that they are One honor that exemplifies hisnot.the target of a directive to professional success is the Col­reduce · ·the population of the lege of Engineering Outstand­College, of Engineering. 
, , ing Teacher Award which ~as 
How land's academic presented to him in 1984.. This specfalty, not· surprisingly, . is award was established in J977 listed as analytical mechanics; to ·honor excellence in teaching however, hi!3 education': reflects among the faculty of the _Col­
2 OCTOBER 1985 
by Walt Hart 

lege of Engineering. Other 
recent teaching awards include 
the Paul Fenlon Teaching 
Award presented by the men of Sorin Hall, the Dep!,lrtment of · Aerospace-Mechanical 
Engineering Faculty Award, and the AT&T Foundation 
Award. 
Several factors · contri­

bute to Howland's great popu­
larity among his-students. 
Among these factors are his 
availability and demonstrated 
concern. Professor Howland 
has a reputation of staying in 
his office until students stop 
coming to ask him questions. 33 
One senior mechanical 
engineer commented, "I 
stopped in. one time at mid­
night and he was there, ready 
to help me with a problem.'' In 
addition, he lives near campus 
in an apartment complex 
heavily populated by students, 
arid he can often be seen walk­
ing fo or from campus. 
Another reason stu­! dents appreciate Howland is r 
his· fairness and integrity /:
J towards grading and study. Although course material· is difficult and .exam scores are 
low relative to what students 
receive in other courses. final 
grades· are . represe.ntative of . understanding. The shock of · · receiving a 55%. (usually close · to the mean) on an exam ·can 
be distressing at first, but low 
scores are comrrion in ··engineering· courses · and . Jetter grades are determined from a 
·curve. At worst, the prospec­
.. tive engineer . is forewar.ned . 
about the type of grading sys­



tern he will encounter for the 
rest of his college career. 
Even students who don't do especially well in Dr. Rowland's class seem to appreciate his sense of humor. As one senior electrical engineer related, "I couldn't stand his class, but he made me laugh." Howland, who does not seem to view himself as a particularly amusing man is quick to point out that his pur­pose is to generate interest in the subject rather than just be · funny. And it surprises him to find that students laugh at the same stories year after year. Howland draws on past experiences for classroom examples. These examples range from common objects like chairs and boxes ("This is a low budget operation.") to more curious things like Scot­tish games and British sportscars. The latter subject 
34 apparently provides a wealth of good stories due to those cars' frequent need for repairs. As Dr. Howland tells his classes, "If a car part, say a fan rotor, needs four bolts to hold it to the car, American engineers will use four, Ger­man engineers .will use six, and British engineers will use two." 
Although Dr. How­land presents mechanics in a light, relaxed atmosphere, he certainly does not take his teaching lightly. He realized 
,. that even after the curriculum change, which no longer requires Mechanics I of all engineers, the course is still the introduction to a specific dis­cipline which most of his students have chosen. Mechan­ics problems, in contrast to problems in many non­engineering courses, require multi-step solutions. It . takes time, toil, and patience· to develop the intuition necessary to solve these problems. How-

land teaches . a rigorous mathematical approach and · stresses theory rather than 
cookbook examples. 
Theory can be dull 

without motivation to under.;. 
stand· it Many students think _. 
they will never use mechanics. 
in their majors--often -: a mis­
taken impression -since even 
the chemical engineers see the · 
course material again in fluid· 
mechanics. Howland seems to· · 
anticipate this situation. Often 
after presenting a concept, he 
will interject, "...to which· you 
say..." The class then picks up 
on the cue and responds with 
a resounding, "So what?" The 
stage is then set for an expla­
nation. Of course at this point, 
many teachers would proceed 
to put students to sleep with 
their tedious explanations. 
Howland seems to possess the 
rare talent not only to antici­
pate students questions, but to 
be able to communicate both 
the questions and the answers 
to them in the context of their 
initial confusion. Many stu­
dents are able to recognize 
their inability to understand a 
concept, but are unable to pin­-point their specific difficulty: Howland presents examples that' lead students to the root of their confusion, if not to outright understanding. 
Contrary to widespread. opinion, engineering problems often demand a great ·deal of creativity. When explaining the use of a given problem solving approach, Howland often adds, "Why...Why not?" While this favorite phrase of Rowland's does not suggest any particular method or "best time" to try a new approach, it at least suggests to engineers that it is acceptable, even desirable to be innovative. · 
A modest man, How­land is quick to admit· that not 
SCHOLASTIC 


everyone likes his teaching style. Every semester, he receives a few TCE forms that would deflate any ego. Teach­ing· a large class demands a performing skill comparable to that of acting or playing music. The teacher must take some­one else's materialand make it new every time. Perhaps it is in• the realization of this aspect of teaching that Dr. Howland is..able each year. to rediscover w.ith . his students that Great Fixed Coordinate System. in the Sky. • 
1· 

"Even .students · who 
don't do especially 
well 1n Dr. 
Rowland's class seem 
to . appreciate his 
sense of humor." 
2 OCTOBER 1985 
' 
. 

MYSELF ALONE 
A NOTRE DAME ATHLETE FIGHTS HIS WAY TO THE TOP ON HIS OWN 
The Date: April 13, 1985. 
The Place: Westchester -High School Gymnasium. 
The Event National Collegiate Boxing Association · Championship Finals, 139-lb. 
weight class. 
-Edmond Joseph Kelly steps into the ring, about to face off against Rodney Smith, a cadet from West Point He is ready to transform a dream into reality: the dream · of becoming a National Cham:. pion. fittingly enough, he is prepared to complete his quest just as he had begun: alone. 
Eddie stands facing his 

36 corner, awaiting the bell sig­nalling the start of round one. After the bell sounds he knows he will be completely on his own. All those who have helped him must remain behind. He will be alone in the ring, armed only with his strength, skill, and the burning desire to win; Nearby, a _great aura of support looms in · his corner. Sean McCormick; his · mentor and close friend, is there._ Brothers Brian, Steve, Dan and Sean stand close by. Parents and cousins sit at ring­side. The spiritual presence of seven other siblings, room­mates, classmates, practice partners, and ·a multitude of other supporters _join those physically present. Yet some­thing is missing. There is a void in the aura.-A space that should . have been filled with_ the support offered by Notre . Dame lies empty and cold. The Athletic Department -_had ·not even acknowledged his paitici-· 
by Gene Boes 

pation -in the· tournament 
Eddie doesn't dwell on· the 
void. Instead; he harnesses the 
positive power of the aura as · 
he answers . the bell. Three 
rounds later the Dream becomes Reality. 
Four months have passed by, and Eddie Kelly' ­has yet to receive . the proper recognition he deserves here at _ Notre Dame. In order' that . · everyone may realize the mag".' ­nitude of his accomplishment, one must start with.-the con­ception ofthe Dream.. __ _ __ 
--The · Dream:· t~ok ·root ­at the end of the suinmer of 
1984. After winning the Ben­gal Bouts as a freshman in 
1983, Eddie decided to take the next year off to concen­trate on his studies. The mechanical engineering major spent his sophomore year in seclusion as he fought a new kind of fight, carrying 21 credit hou_rs _the fall semester and 20 credit hours the spring semester. Towards the end of the summer _after his sopho­more year, Eddie turned his attention back to boxing and decide_d to dedicate himseif to the Dream: a National Cham­pionship. 
· SCHOLASTIC 

The first day back at Notre Dame he began his training. He met with Sean McCormick, one of the Notre Dame Boxing Club coaches. From the start Sean made it clear that they would be on their own. A good deal of con­troversy surrounded the Box­ing Club and its role at Notre Dame. The long-term existence of the Bengal Bouts was even in question. Their chances of getting any form of assistance whatsoever from the University were slim at best. Despite all the obstacles that they knew would lie ahead, Sean and Eddie formulated a schedule that would ultimately. lead to the NCBA tournament. 
The first goal they set was a collegiate tournament called Salute to Boxing Greats, held in late November at the Downtown Athletic Club in New York City. The competi­tion would be fierce, and it would serve as an indicator of· what Eddie's potential actually was. For the first half of the semester Eddie trained in the Boxing Room at the ACC. He started off each practice by leading the novice boxers in calisthenics, then went off on his bwn _to do drills. At the end of novice practice he led another round of calisthenics, then continued with the rest of his own workout. 
After the Novice Tour­nament was held in mid­October, the Boxing Room was closed. Although he was under contract as the Boxing Club coach, Sean was not issued a key to the room. As they. no longer had access to . the university .facilities, Ed and Sean found themselves looking for an alternate training loca­tion. In addition to a new location . they needed new equipment, as the university equipment was locked in the 
2 OCTOBER 1985 
Boxing Room. Sean found a new training spot in downtown South Bend, -· the Michiana Boxing School. 
Eddie remembers his early visits to the gym. "After doing my running, which at . that time was 5-6 miles a day, Sean and I drove down to the gym. There was no heat in the place, and no running water. If I ever · was tired going in to a workout, the smell of urine in the locker room woke me up." 
The. gym was predom­

inantly black and hispanic, and 
most of the ·fighters there were 
professionals. Many times 
Eddie · was the only white boxer in the gym. He took pre­cautions to insure that he didn't come across as "the rich · white boy from Notre Dame." He often found himself down­playing his affiliation with Notre Dame by wearing his jersey inside out. He merely wished to be regarded as an individual striving to improve 
and willing to pay the neces­. sary dues. After. his first wor­kout Eddie explained to . gym manager Pete Thomson that he 

Ed and father 
would . spar with any of his fighters as long as it helped him to develop as a boxer.. For the first few weeks Eddie collected his share of cuts and bruises. All the local boxers welcomed the opportunity to spar with the "white boy from Notre Dame." However, they quickly realized that he wasn't just a hot shot punk from the 
. "Big School." They sensed his sincerity and dedication to boxing, and devoted a good deal of their time helping him to improve. In turn, Eddie realized that these men were truly class individuals. 
At the start of Eddie's last practice before· leaving for New York City, Pete Thomson stepped up into th~ . ring and made an announcement about the tournament. The other fighters applauded to show 
. they were behind him and to wish him good luck. "Gaining their_ respect meant as much to me as any of my victories." 
In addition to the phy­sical and mental preparation, · Coach McCormick and his understudy struggled to finance their endeavors. The two spent a great deal of their personal savings, which fell far short. They relied on private donations from area boxing enthusiasts to help meet their expenses. 
"Funding the trips was always a big problem. For­tunately, . though, things always seemed to fall into place." 
Sean took time from his teaching job at St. Joe High School to accompany· Eddie to the Big Apple. Eddie quickly stood out from the other fighters. The other partiqipants had been sponsored by their schools, and · had received spending money in addition to their travel expenses. When he stepped into the ring to face 
his opponent from Virginia Military Institute Eddie wore the jersey he had designed and paid for himself. Sean's sweat top was draped over his shoulders in place of a robe. He won by unanimous deci­sion, and impressed the judges enough to be voted the tournament's Most Outstanding Boxer. At a banquet later that evening he received a trophy and had his picture taken with Muhammad Ali, the boxing great being saluted by the t_ournament. 
After spending Thanksgiving break at his home in M~sachusetts, Eddie returned· to school and began 

·preparing for his final exams. He decided to take the month of December off to rest his body and concentrate on his studies. The move paid off as he made the College of Engineering Dean's List. When 
38 he resumed. his training on · New Year's Day, the intensity which had carried him through the . previous semester was alive again. 
The first day back at school Sean walked into the north dome of the ACC. A runner circled the track and headed toward him: A broad grin ·Ht up his face as Eddie stopped in front of him. Sean shook his head, saying· "I •fig-. ured it was you." 
~ow the workouts were much harder than hefore. Eddie · spbnt at least five or six hours ea~h day· practicing. At · the advice of Pete Thomson,
J . 
he cut ,his running_ down to three miles, but the pace was greatly increased. By mid­February his daily morning routine consisted of a sub 17­:minute three . mile run, six 220-yd. sprints, and five to ten 60-yd. sprints. After running he did · calisthenics and fin­ished up with finesse drills. · 


After breaking for lunch and his afternoon class, he would jog the 2-mile loop around campus. When the weather permitted, he finished his jog at "the· House that Rockne built'~ and ran the sta­dium stairs. · His third daily workout consisted of either Bengal Bouts practice at the ACC or a trip to the down­town ~ym. 
Even though the Dream was to capture a . National Championship, in Eddie's mind a second Bengal's title was a necessary prerequisite to his participation in the NCBA's. 
"To me, the Nationals would have. been . meaningless if I knew I wasn't the best at my own school." 
Despite weighing in-for the Bengal Bouts at 134-lbs. he chose to coinpete in the 145-lb. weight class for, as he saw it, a greater sense of accomplish­ment could be found in win­ning the heavier division. His unanimous decisions in the first two rounds sent him to the final~ where he· squared off against defending champion Tom Lezynski. After three fast · · and furious rounds, the 
fighters stood in the ring 
awaiting the judges' · decision. 
On Eddie's shoulders rested a· 
robe his aunt had presented 
him the · previous summer at 
her son's funeral. The robe 
had belonged to Frarik Mac­
Donald, Eddie's ·deceased 
cousin, and was· the · last 
awarded him as a• three,;time: 
New England Golden Gloves 
Champion. As Eddie's arms 
were raised in victory, his 
promise to his aunt was kept: 
that he would dedicate his 
Bengal Title in Frank;s 
memory. 
There was , no time to celebrate, however, as the NCBA Midwest Regional Tournament in South. Carolina was just one · week away. Again, the lack of funds stood between Eddie and the Citadel in Charleston. He ·had spent the previous three_ . weeks organ1zmg a raffle which 
would help hini · to finance the trip. Through the solicitation of area merchants he was able ·· to · put together this · 10-prize fundraiser which netted 'him .. over $200. Other monetary aid was_ provided by Grace Hall, former Bengal Champion · Angelo Perino (Notre · Dame's most successful past entrant in the NCBA's, a •-Midwest. Regional finalist), Domino's Pizza, . and other private . sources. Ron Kalmin, a South· Bend school teacher,· also lent Eddie a robe and trunks · to · wear in the tournament. 
With most of his time. being spent settling the finan-; cial and travel itinerary, as well as · his regular physical · conditioning, Eddie found lit" tie time to sleep, averaging only five hours a night. He and Sean left Thursday morning; catching a shuttle to Chicago. From there · ·they · flew to 
Newark,  ·N.l  A  connecting  ·  
flight  took  them  ·  . to  
SCHOLASTIC  

Greensboro, N.C. They drove a rental car to a friend of Sean's who lived an hour from Greensboro, arriving at mid­night. They spent the . night, then started the six hour drive to Charleston at 7:00 a.m. By the time they got to the arena, Eddie , was exhausted. Despite feeling drained, he confidently stepped . into the ring · and 
· earned a unanimous decision over his · Xavier University counterpart. A second round bye gave him · ample time to rest and prepare for the cham­pionship bout, where he squared off against an Air Force cadet who had earned his spot in the finals with two second'-round knockout vic­tories. Eddie went into the fight as the underdog, but his superior conditioning enabled him to capture a split. 
The NCBA National Championships were scheduled to take place in Atlantic City on April 12 & 13, giving Eddie and Sean plenty of time to prepare. Even the smallest of details was worked out. They would leave Thursday morning and arrive in Atlantic City in the after­noon, so .Eddie would have a full day to rest before the first fight. But on Wednesday morn­ing Eddie got a call from Sean. The promoters in Atlantic City who were handling the NCBA'S had backed out of their contract, leaving the NCBA to find an alternate location. The best they could come up with was a high school gymnasium in.Westches­ter, Pa. 
They were able to scramble together a new itinerary that would enable them to arrive in Westchester late Thursday afternoon. On Wednesday nig}it a check was wired from North High School in Worcester, Massachusetts (Eddie's alma mater). The 
2 OCTOBER 1985 
check for over $200 got the two a flight to Newark, N.J. where they met the coach and a participant from Miami University of Ohio. The group then made the two hour drive to Westchester. · 
After arriving at the hotel, Sean left Eddie to men~ tally prepare himself for what lay ahead. Hour after hour he sat alone in the room, visualiz­ing the fight in his head, while Sean restlessly paged through magazines in the lobby. On Friday night at the designated time, Eddie appeared in the lobby. They silently shook hands and departed for the gym. 
The first semi-final bout at 139-lbs. pitted Eddie against a boxer from Univer­sity of Nevada-Reno, and the other matched a West Pointer against a Naval Academy mid­shipman. Eddie's family sat anxiously watching him fight his way to a unanimous deci­sion. Next to the family sat an old man quietly taking notes. 
Following his victory, Eddie stepped down from the ring where his jubilant family congratulated him. The old man glanced over, but remaineq in his seat, intently studying the fight that fol­lowed. 
Eddie stood at ringside and watched the midshipman hit the canvas late in the first round, unable to rise without help from his corner. Seeing this, Eddie looked over at his next opponent, turned, and headed back toward the locker room. As he told himself over and over that he would beat Rodney Smith, an elbow in his side broke his train of thought. He looked up into the face of the old man, as a bony finger waved in front of him. 
"Listen to me....You· can beat this kid." 
"I know I can." 

The old man thrust a 39 program into Eddie's hand. "Take this. I've written down exactly how you're gonna do it." 


Eddie looked down at the program as the old man walked away. Most of the words at the top were indeci­pherable, but four words scrib­bled over and over at .the bot­tom made the message clear: "JAB, JAB...MOVE OUT." 
When Eddie approached his family, he saw the look on their faces. In say­ing goodnight he assured them that they would see a victory the following evening. 
That night Eddie lay in his hotel room, mentally going over the fight time and time again. He vividly envisioned every detail, as if he· were watching a film of his future. 
The day of the fight was upon him, and though the night had passed with little sleep, he felt rested and more relaxed than he had before any of his previous contests. This 

40 feeling followed him into· the ring that night. 
From the opening bell Eddie knew that this fight would be different. For the first .time his opponent was stronger than he, so he knew he would have to rely not only on finesse and superior condi­tioning. He would need every tactic from his bag of tricks to pull out a win. In winning the first round Eddie learned not only of his opponent's power but his predictability as well. He returned to his corner, looked at Sean and excitedly said "I'm gonna be National Champ!" . 
However, the West Pointer canie out strong in the second round, solidly connect­ing twice with head blows. Each sent Eddie to the canvas. After the first knockdown, Eddie used · the mandatory eight-count · to rest, then immediately attacked after the break. After the second knock­down Eddie once again ini­tiated the action, although this time the eight-count wasn't enough to clear the cobwebs in his head. 

The . third round was very similar to the first as Eddie controlled the pace and outpointed his opponent. With a minute remaining, someone from the crowd yelled out "one minute!" The two exhausted fighters seemed to stop in their tracks as they looked each other straight in the eye. Without words, it was understood that it was now a battle of wills, and Eddie knew his will was stronger. Throughout · the countless hours he had spent preparing himself for this exact moment, his motivation had been "hard work pays off." Pain had been his daily companion, . always 
with him, in every sprint and every drill, day in and day out. All the work he had taken 
upon himself had been in anti­cipation of the single minute that he now faced: Eddie had no doubt that no one could beat him in this situation. As the bell signalled the end of the fight, Eddie raised his arms high in the air, and tears began to stream down his face. After congratulating his opponent he returned to his corner. Coach McCormick and Eddie's brother Sean silently returned his hugs. The family stood quietly at the edge of the ropes as-Eddie reached down to them. Although Eddie had already begun celebrating, the others were still uncertain .as they waited for the winner to be announced. Seconds later a gold medal hung from Eddie's neck. • 

-----------conn..pu.lter corner----------­
'GETTING TO KNOW YOUR COMPUTER 
Computers can be very intimidating. A peek inside one reveals a very complex and . frightening jumble of wires, screws, electronic parts and lit­tle numbered boxes. It is enough to weaken the resolve of the most determined lay­man. If ·you have had this experience, take heart. Com­puters are essentially very sim­ple. They are composed of easy to understand com­ponents which themselves are made of easily understandable components, and so on. In this column we will attempt to examine the largest com­ponents of the system and con­sider the basic units in another column. This is the easiest approach.· 
Computers consist of the following functional blocks: Input devices, Output devices, Memory and a Processing Unit. These are connected as shown below (see diagram) 
by Louis Fuka 

The lines show the path of information flow. As an example, information flows from the input to the process­ing unit. From there it can go to an output unit or to the memory, or both. In some computers information can go directly from the input to the memory or from the memory to the output without having to go through the Processing Unit. · This is called Direct Memory Access or DMA. 
We are most familiar with input and output devices because they are what we use to interact with the computer. A keyboard is· an example of an input device. The screen, or Cathode Ray Tube (CRT), is an example of an output dev­ice. The processing unit is the brain and workhorse of the computer. It executes instruc­tions, · processes and moves data and controls the memorv. 
input and output. The memory, finally, holds the data and instructions for the processing unit to work on. 
These four functional blocks of the computer fonn the physical make._up of the computer. Since they ate tan­gible things, they are called the hardware. This hardware, however sophisticated, is . use­less without a list of instruc­tions telling it how and what to do. This intangible ·• list of instructions is called the software. When not in use, it· is stored in the memory or a medium, like a floppy disk. Some very important lists of instructions may be kept per­manently in a special part of memory that cannot be erased. These instructions are known as firmware. 
During our next issue, we will see how the processing unit follows the instructions to accomplish a task, and find out how these instructions are stored in memory. 

.2 OCTOBER 1985 

The . Japanese people are often pictured as hardworking drones, but Japan is an advanced nation with all of the variety that the term implies. Contrary to the modern stereo­type, Japan has its problem as 

42 does any other advanced nation. Since the oil shock of the early 1970's slowed the progress of the Japanese econ­omy, the social detriments of growth-oriented policies have become more. and more apparent. 
More · than ever before the Japanese are finding it necessary to call into question those institutions that seem to have formed the basis of their country's success. Of these, perhaps none is more in the public eye right now than edu­cation. Everyone seems to agree that there is something wrong with the way things are being done, but no one seems to be able to point to what exactly it is that is wrong. 
. Learning has always been valued highly in Japanese society. Some attribute this to Confucian· values imported from China; while others say that the trait is natively Japanese. It was not until the aristocracy began. to ·. decline during the Meiji Restoration of the l 860's, however, that edu­cation became available to everyone..This education was very limited though, and it was not until the early l 900's that universal education through . the sixth year was established. Higher education was techni-. cally open to any .man· who could pass the entrance exam, but for the most part remained the privilege of the elite. 

Japan has become, in the words of some, a meritocracy 
After World War II, the educational system was viewed as having been a vehi­cle of propaganda for the former militant right-wing government and was . conse­quently revamped as part .of the reforms instigated by the Occupation Forces. · Compul­sory education was extended· from six to nine years, and the system was changed from the pre-war 6-5-3-3 (six years of grammar school, five of junior high school, three of high school and three of college) to the · American 6-3-3-4. Emphasis, too, was shifted from <what was though{ of as a rote memory education to a more creative atmosphere.· The creativity emphasized early in the Occupation, how­ever, has gradually submerged back into memorization. The complexity of the Japanese writing system is sometimes . blamed for this tendency · toward memorization in educa-. tion. 
The life of a Japanese child whose parents are bent on sue: cess is not an easy one by our standards. They attend normal school five and a half days a week, and, in addition, many go to special "cram schools" after school hours, Saturdays, and sometimes even on Sun­days. · Most children are assigned daily homework· from the first or ·second grade, and their short vacations are usu­ally spent doing some kind of school work. This 'includes summer vacation when chil­dren may be assigned to keep diaries or to read certain books in preparation for next term. What is more, many attend summer school. 
Japan has become, in the words of some, an educa­tional meritocracy. Education has replaced almost all other forms of social mobility; Nei­ther status nor personal
connections can move an indi­
vidual up the ladder as quickly 
as the ability to take tests. 
Indeed, test taking has become 
the central factor in obtaining· 
an education in . Japanese 
society. In order to enter a 
university a student must first 
pass rigorous entrance exams. 
A good high school can be 
SCHOLASTIC 

viewed as preparation for these exams, but one must first be admitted to the proper high school by passing · their entrance exams. 
Each school has their own entrance exams, and "examination hell" can extend as far back as grammar school. These entrance exams take on ·added importance when one realizes that the Japanese do not have honors programs or programs for the slow in their schools. Rather, the entire school ·is on a fast, normal, or slow track. Students are some­times sent to special kindergar­ten and nursery schools to get as much of an edge as possible. High school graduates who fail college entrance examinations often enter preparatory schools in an effortto pass next year's examinations. 
.While the style of edu­cation that has evolved . in Japan can claim such successes as one of the world's highest literacy rates and possibly the world's most technically equipped graduates, it has many shortcomings. First among these is the enormous amount of pressure it gen­erates. With the constant demand 1:o succeed present frqm such an early age, many Japanese who pass through the system never have the chance to:·be children. 
Yet the mere depdvation of childhood is not the worst effect. Those students who cannot succeed by the system's standards have become more and · more disillusioned as of late. Some just lapse into apathy, · but others turn to violence, drugs, and crime. Violence in Japanese s·chools and among Japanese youth is on the upswing. One must keep in mind, though, that in. real numbers violence in Japan falls far below most other 
2 OCTOBER 1985 
Each school has its own entrance exams, and examination hell can extend as far back as grammar school 
Is it fair to put so much blame on a system for the symptoms of social ills so readily apparent in other industrial countries as well? It may not be. The breakdown of clearly defined roles in a rapidly changing society has probably also had much to do with the problems. Instead of being the source of the trouble the system seems . to have become both a mirror and a magnifying glass for most of the social dilemmas facing Japan today. 
The real problem seems to lie in how the system is put to use within the society. As long as Japan remains a solely educational meritocracy, as long as the same mothers and fathers who complain of 
. undue emphasis on educational achievement continue· to push their children, no adjustment in the educational system itself would · be much of a step toward effecting a cure for the social ills in question as critics suggest it would. 
countries; However, the increases were sharp enough to draw the attention of many Japanese; they have taken to blaming the system, claiming that it is at least in part responsible for the problems that have recently come to light. 
Behind the horror stories, however, lies a success story that must also be men­tioned. Despite all of the frightening pressures built into their educational system,· many of the Japanese have faced them and came outof the sys­tem happy, healthy and intelli­gent and were the builders of modern-day Japanese society. The educational meritocra.cy has also been one of the .decid­ing factors in eliminating class differences (in one poll 95% of Japanese when asked called themselves middle-class) .. · A university education is inex-. pensive and open to anyone willing to put in the hard work required. Finally, whatever the 43 future holds for Japan, it is certain that· the educational system and Japanese approaches to it will play a vital role in the . way Japan deals with the challenges of an ever-changing world. 
by Thomas Fehlner 



. II 
I. . 


MODES. 



------------fiction 
by Chuck Ehrman 


LOJ/E LETTER. 
so I come walkin' down the hall in the boarding house to my room wonderin' why for God' sake it 
always has to rain in this damn town and I am carrying the day's mail in my hand and the 
envelopes all gettin' wet from the water drippin' from my hair and I notice that one of the letters is · 
from my sweet little daughter Missy how I miss her and want to see her again so maybe I should 
call home tonight but then maybe I shouldn't now God when l unlock my door and go in I am cold 
nearly ready to snow outside so I turn up the heat and turn on the television not a damn good show 
on anyways I decide to open the mail just an electric bill then I open the letter from Missy hard not 
to cry and I sit thinking how pretty and cute she must be now some seven years old and in second 
grade so I want to see her and the letter is sweet and simple sayin' "dear daddie xoox how are you 
xoox doing xoox I love you xoox so does care bear xooox we love you xoox daddie xoox love xoox 
Missy xooox xoox" cute as that written in crayon now I wonder if I'll ever be able to visit her God 
I want to God knows I do and so does Mary I should call Mary maybe she would let me come over 
but I know she won't but I pick up the phone anyways and dial all of a sudden I hear it ring once 
then twice then three times so I quickly hang up and look around the room for some cigarettes God 
knows I need one now but just where the hell they are I don't know so I pick up the phone again 
and dial listenin' to the damn thing ring in my ear once then twice and oh God it stops ringin' and 
me I hear Mary answer and say "hello" sort of funny like so I say "hi Mary it's me I just called to 
talk" and then I don't say nothin' for a second thinkin' maybe she'll hang up on me and then it'll
46 
be over but she doesn't so I say to her "Mary I got Missy's letter today" and she sighs and says " I know I mailed it yesterday" so I sort of laugh f eelin' stupid and· ask her if maybe I could come over and see the little doll tonight and then my Mary says "Missy is asleep right now she has school in the morning" so I say "Mary you kn~w I'm sorry for what l did God knows I didn't me.an to drop you in the dirt but things just happened so fast" and all she says is "I know" sweet and sym­pathetic like so I say with my fingers crossed "could I stop by tonight I need you can it be tonight" then neither of us say anything more until I hear her say "no you can't someone is already coming by later" so I say to her ."no problem I guess he's better than me" and then I ask her how she's been and all that sort of stuff and all she says to me is "just fine" so I sit there on the couch for some time thinkin' hearin' the rain not sayin' anything but I _can tell she's still there listenin' and finally she up and tells_ me that she has to be going but I say "Mary I'd like to see you really soon I hope" and she gets quiet again till she says "I don't think we should" and God how that makes me feel so damn bad I miss her so I say "why" and then she says to me "because I'm pregI1.ant again" and she don't say no more so I speak up angry askin' if she knows by who this time kind of sarcas­tic and this makes her holler "go to hell" but she tells me that she has a· good idea and then she says something about an operation and then .she says "bye" so I say "say hello to my little girl would you" and then I hear her hang up click goes the phone and God I want her God I want to see my baby again so finally .I let the damn phone drop to the floor and then I wonder what if she had had an operation when she was with my favorite girl what if and then I find the blessed cigarettes on top of the television so I light one and sit smokin' for a bit smokin' and thinkin' about things like how :inuch I want to go home to see Mary and Missy thinkin' about how screwed up my life is so I walk to the window and stand smokin' in the draft lookin' out at the rain and the drip­ping streetlights and all the dirty buildings and how alone I feel so I can only think of one thing to say "Goddamn you" I say • 
SCHOLASTIC 


final wo:irJ 

INTRODUCING CARTOONIST MARK S. LECHNER 

47 

B14~p"I. BAlloollS W'-5 Ol'LY I\ SHORT-UVED f'I\I) 

2 OCTOBER: 1985 


~~. 

I 

· AFr~~ · seveAAL YEA~ ""ll rNt.Nv i4l\"-"'=S5p,u.. ATrE~PT$, P11.oi:ess= L11t~~ (;i~v.Qe.i:I\. f1NAW( lleveLOPS. A STRA:I"' 0 F" boc.:r.LE PI"-AN~ftS 
SCHOLASTIC 

·SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S OLDEST STUDENT ·PUBLICATION NEEDS YOU 







