
, 0 _,,,. 
fil 
0 ' C 

~w@a~ uu1nID ao~@ ~ G ~ @irvmm.,,rmui~@B1~~~ 
~©J tr@&~ lY3 tm@ I@o~mm®@~ 
brought to you by the student Union Board 
0  
[7  
;r,  
;r­v 0 ~~ Cl r,, 0 . ~  
ll i;-s-;  0 ~,~n,/!) c-· c, .i CZ rf' r:'~ ~¢! :~ -,  



11 IOCT 


news 05 
06 Policy Solutions 
Michael O'Connor 
The 2003 split in the economics department is modernizing graduate research. 
16 Cover: The NBC Deal 
Claire Sobczak 
Sixteen years after Notre Dame signed its first contract with NBC, the deal is still lucrative for both parties. 

13 culture 
13 Bridal Battles for the Basilica 
Caitlih Dube 
Thinking about planning your ring-by-spring wedding? It may be more complicated than you would think. 
23 Culture Reviews 
Mike Laskey and Mike Tresnowski 
Scholastic reviews the movie musical "Once" and Bruce Springsteen's new album, "Magic." 

; sports 25 
~ 
26 Making Waves 
Andy Gray
I 
I 
' Three sightless swirnrners train for the Paralyrnpics. 
~ 
. 

tl 32 humor
',I 
:'.l 36 The Truth Behind the Victory J Elisa Suarez 
Scholastic discovers the secret behind Notre Dame football's 
-
surprising victory. 
11 OCTOBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 

THE SPORTS MAVERICK 
While waiting for a delayed flight from Washington, D.C., to Boston, I met a young man who loved Notre Dame football. "I'm from Boston, and everyone in my family is a big BC fan," he said in the crowded airport. "They hate me for it." 
Surprised, I asked him how he became the sports maverick in his family. "Well, Notre Dame was always on TVbecause ofthe NBC contract," he said, "and I just liked what I saw." 
In this week's cover story, our Associate Editor Claire Sobczak looks into the groundbreaking NBC deal that brought every home game into America's living rooms. She spoke to some ofthe original negotiators, like then-Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal and then-NBC Sports Executive Vice President Ken Schanzer, about their hopes during the making of the first independent media partnership for a collegiate team. 
Sobczak also addresses the many criticisms Notre Dame and NBC both received after the announcement of the deal (mostly that money was at the heart of the new relationship) and the influence it has had for college football in general. 

SIXTEEN YEARS AND COUNTING ... 
Regardless of the driving force, NBC remains committed to Notre Dame at a time when the Irish have the worst record in the program's long history and the student section seems smaller and quieter each game. This year, the broadcasting mega-house is even offering a more interactive way for students and fans to get involved. They challenged Notre Dame students to create a commercial that shows the gameday experience from a student perspective. Three finalists have been announced, and students and fans can vote for the winner on NBCSports. com starting November 1. The commercial with the most votes will be given 30 seconds ofNBC's coveted airtime during the Duke game. Like all of Notre Dame's home games, the commercial will air nationally for all sports fans to see, whether they cheer or jeer for old Notre Dame. 
Scholastic wishes all students and fans a safe football Saturday. Go Irish, Beat Eagles! 

Amy Meyers Doug Schlarman Co-Editor in Chief Co-Editor in Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 OCTOBER 2007 



INSPIRE ME! 
A Mesmerizing Boutique 

· 520 & 528 E. Colfax South Bend I574.232.1798 
312 Cleveland Rd. Granger I574.277.6693 


www.inspiremeonline.com 
A women's boutique specializing in contemporary designer clothing, shoes and accessories featuring Diane von Furstenberg, Nanette Lepore, True Religion, Juicy Couture, Lacoste, Vince and much more! 


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN


STUDENTS 



It's in ----enes· 
Notre Dame students assist in local research on prostate and colon cancer 
Hanna Mori 
What is the large building on the corner of Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard? Technically, it's Indiana University Medical School at South Bend, but it is also where the research for Notre Dame's Walther Institute for Cancer Research (WICR) takes place. The WICR conducts pioneering research on the genetic causes for various forms of cancer. Dr. Rudolph Navari, director of the WICR and the medical school, says that the most recent initiatives at the institute focus on drug development, specifically targeting prostate and colon cancer. "We design drugs, test them in stock culture against cancer cell lines, and then test them in animals to see if they are effective in treating cancers," Navari says. "Say, for example, a person develops colon cancer; they have elective surgery to remove it. We're getting a portion of that tumor and analyzing the genetic make-up. Then, we will compare it with the genetic profile of our animal models· and see if there is a cross-over. So, if we find some common genes, then we can take our animal models and knock out those genes and see ifthe animal doesn't develop colon cancer," he says. 
Although research trials are still restricted to small animals, such as mice and rats, the goal is to eventually test the effects of these drugs in humans. "This will take some time," Navari says, "because first we will have to go through testing on larger animals, like cats and dogs." 
Students play a role in this research. "Students are very much involved," Navari says. "We have undergraduate students doing research at all levels and working with individuals in all departments. We have a large interest of undergraduates to work on projects. The problem is finding enough spots for them to work in." Typically, students commit to these projects for a long period oftime, making the feat of securing a position as a student-researcher a worthwhile venture, despite its competitiveness. 
Navari believes that the research at the WICR will stand apart from previous trials. "I think that we have unique animal models in prostate cancer and colon cancer," he says. "Models that are being used here are actually being· used in other places, but these are models that we've really developed and our results, I'm sure, should be unique." 
Navari and his colleagues remain optimistic about the success of the research. "We already have some major successes in the sense that we have some very good drug candidates to be for clinical trials for patients," Navari says. While there is no date for the conclusion of this research, there is an "ongoing effort" to periodically publish new findings, which will hopefully prove crucial in the battle against cancer. + 
11 OCTOBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 


NEWS 

Policy Solutions 

A controversial decision in 2003 to create two departments of economics impacts Notre Dame students. 
Michael O'Connor 
In 2003, the Notre Dame Department department consisted of five neoclassical Catholic social thought." of Economics was split in two. The professors and 16 professors who Richard] ensen, chair of the Department Department of Economics and supported the teaching of heterodox of Economics and Econometrics, was in Econometricsisbased on themainstream, approaches. According to the current favor ofthe split. "There was no dialogue neoclassical approach to before the split because economics, an approach there were few neoclassical that is widely accepted in ''At places like Harvard and MIT, you only get the people here. We needed a top academic journals and new department to do that. taught at most universities. neoc ass1ca , mams ream economics eory. The dialogue was entirely
I . I . t . th '' 
It focuses on statistical and one-sided." quantitative analysis. The Mark Roche, dean of Department of Economics -David Ruccio the College of Arts and and Policy is based on socio­Professor in the Department ofEconomics and Policy Letters, was aware that a 
economic justice and ethics in economics. The latter's foundations are commonly associated with heterodox economics, or non­mainstream views that use alternative methodological approaches, such as analyzing political history and economic theory in light of social or political activity. Faculty from both departments teach all undergraduate students who major in the one economics major. 
Immediately before the split, the Department of Economics and Policy Web site, the department was known for its "policy-related topics such as poverty, income distribution and social justice, which stress the human dimension of economics." These goals have been carried forward in the mission of the Department for Economics and Policy. The department underwent great scr-utiny prior to the split, however, 

due to a lack of publication in major journals; a lack of dialogue between mainstream, neoclassical ideas and the heterodox alternatives that had been primarily represented in Notre Dame's economics department; low graduate school rankings; and a declining number of undergraduate majors. 
In the notes of the March 20, 2003 meeting of the Academic Council, one reason for a split was that "the shift will give all students a core in the mainstream so they can participate at a high level in the important debates on economics. Notre Dame's students should be enriched by courses thatare more ofa dialogue between modern economics and change was needed for the 
economics department. "The core of the doctoral program was modified so that it has the same level of analytical and quantitative rigor as those at every institution in the top quartile of the National Research Council rankings," Roche says. Although there would be a new increased focus on research and mainstream methods, he says, · "the program also provides fields of specialization -such as labor economics, public economics, monetary policy, international economics and environmental economics -that fit well with the mission of the university." 
In addition, according to the notes from the February 18, 2003 Academic Council meeting, primary majors in the graduating class dropped from 117 in 1989 to 4/5 in 2002 and combined primary and supplemen(ary majors dropped from 136 to 76. This drop was staggering and uncharacteristic of national trends. 
With the creation of the Department ofEconomics and Econometrics, faculty researching and teaching the neoclassical theory would .be able to grow and establish themselves at the university. By forming a presence on campus, they would then be able to enter into dialogue more effectively with those members of the department ofEconomics and Policy, 



NEWS 

as well as offer a balanced approach to economic studies to undergraduate students. 
Although this split may be deemed 
atypical, it has been done by other~• 
major universities. Two economics­
departments, similarly divided between 
methods of analysis, exist at the 
University of Cambridge, for instance. 
At Notre Dame, the solution seems 
to be effective and economics students 
appear to be receiving a unique 
education. "At places like Harvard and 
MIT, you only get the neoclassical, 
mainstream economics theory," David 
Ruccio, professor of the Department of 
Economics and Policy, says. "At Notre 
Dame, you get both the mainstream 
and the heterodox." 
In addition, both departments con­tribute to the progress of Notre Dame economics. "A new interdisciplinary minor in poverty studies, co-sponsored by the Department of Economics and Policy Studies and the Center for Social Concerns, was approved by the Undergraduate Studies Committee and the College Council this past year," Roche says. He cites the Department of Economics and Policy Studies faculty contributions to the college seminar requirement for Arts and Letters majors, willingness to teach introductory courses in economics, and collaboration with other academic institutes on campus as other hallmarks of the department's input. The Department of Economics and Econometrics has been a great asset to the university contributing to major journals while also addressing social justice issues in their research. Also, "the Department of Economics and Econometrics and the department of Economics and Policy Studies collaborated to create an honors track in economics, effective fall 2006," Roche says. 
"We are about social justice, but with 
the best available techniques," Jensen 
says. "We have professors publishing 
on poverty, immigration and health 
economics [ ... ] and no course in 
environmental economics existed until 
I came along." 
Jensen also references the current number of 343 economics majors as a . tribute to the progress ofthe split. "Look at the huge i_ncrease in majors," Jensen 

says. "The students must like what's being offered now." 
Senior economics ma1or Amanda Deckelman is one of the students benefiting from the dialogue between departments. "With research in econometrics you can challenge ideas that are held to be true. You can challenge the conventional thoughts with data. When analyzing policy or proving theories, you can't be blind to numbers," Deckelman says. 
Ruccio still has some concerns about the new mainstream emphasis, particularly within the graduate program, which is administered entirely by the Department of Economics and Econometrics. "In 
A DIFFERENT APPROACH Heterodox economics professor
economics undergraduate 
David Ruccio has taught at Notre Dame since 1982. 

classes, you interact with graduate students. Now graduate students are rece1vmg a primarily mainstream neoclassical education from econometrics. This prevents undergraduates from being· exposed to graduate students with a broader training." 
Snehashish Bhattacharya is a sixth­year economics graduate student who was at Notre Dame during the years of the transition to two departments. He works more directly with professors from the Department ofEconomics and Policy. In regard to the graduate school now being administered by Economics and Econometrics, Bhattacharya believes that the alternative perspectives offered in courses like political economics and history of thought were unique and helpful for his development in the graduate program. "I don't see anything wrong with _Economics and Econometrics, but I think for my training it's essential to know both sides of the story," he says. "This place had a distinctive character which it doesn't have now. Now it's the same as other high-ranked schools for economics." 
Senior energy studies and economics major Felipe Witchger also expresses concern for the undergraduate studies. "So many students go into economics and don't hear anything but neoclassical doctrine," he says. "Students are missing out on economic history. It's important to contextualize neoclassical theories amidst the others. Professors need to show the evolution ofthe subject because economics is not a natural science." 
Although Ruccio, Bhattacharya, Witchger and others know the new system is far from perfect, they believe that the two economics departments have made great strides since the split. "Students are being served better now than they were 10 years ago," ·Roche says. The economics departments seem to share enough commonalities that most students do not even know that two different departments exist. "The two departments are working together, despite differences, in offering an array of perspectives and providing greater academic rigor," Roche says. + 
11 OCTOBER 2007 ISCHOLASTIC I7 


KEOUGH CHARIOT RACE Keough Hall held its annual SENIOR COOKING NIGHT Senior Class Council sponsored a cooking night in the North Dining signature event last Saturday on West Quad. Mud wrestling Hall test kitchen with chef Don Miller. Seniors learned to prepare a variety of meals under Miller's ensued after raucous homemade chariot racing. guidance. 
======-~ Sbarro's Breadsticks 
~~ The only healthy thing they have, and it still tastes like a heart attack. 

-------Notre Dame Victory
----.. -­
We feel like we just watched a baby take his first step. 

Return ofTV Shows 
Thank God, we almost 
0 did our homework out ofboredom. 

Excise Police 
We're totally sober, we swear. We barf like this 
all the time. 
I 
8 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 OCTOBER 2007 
WET AND WILD 
As the warmer days in South Bend come to an end, students can reminisce about being sprayed by the timed sprinklers that dot the campus. Scholastic brings the information on the water that blocks sidewalk traffic. 

. ~ . I • • •• ' -,/· w ­

NEWS 


RESPECT LIFE WEEK White crosses covered South ROTC TRIATHALON ROTC members participated 
MR. ND PAGEANT An enthusiastic contestant for 

Quad in front of O'Shaugnessy Hall, symbolizing all those in a triathalon to raise money for Wounded 
the title of Mr. ND competesd in Walsh Hall's annual 

affected by abortion. Respect Life Week also included a Warrior Project Outdoors, which brings outdoor 
pageant, held in Lafortune Ballroom. 

Log Chapel Mass, lectures and rosaries at the Grotto. opportunities to soldiers injured in combat. 

Smarter Saturdays 
Saturday Scholar Series adds an intellectual edge to home football games 
Maria Sellers 
Contrary to popular belief, tailgating is not the only thing to do before a Notre Dame home game. True to the spirit of the university, intellectual stimulation is available even right before kickoff. Every football weekend, crowds gather at the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum of Art for the Saturday Scholar Series. These lectures, which take place three and a half hours before kickoff, cover the issues at play on campus and larger topics occurring outside of the university. They are distributed across a range of disciplines among the arts, humanities and social sciences within the College ofArts and Letters. Greg Sterling, the director of the series and associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, strongly recommends this event. "It offers students a chance to hear some of the best faculty in the college speak on a wide array of topics in a format different from that used in the classroom," he says. This weekend's series will feature the internationally-renowned Irish Studies professor Luke Gibbons, who will speak on immigration under the topic name, "Global Ireland: From Celtic 

Ways to Irritate Someone 

Call them during class to see if their cell phone is on. 

Steal the cap to their water bottle. 

Lock your bike to theirs for three days straight. 

Cut in front of them in the salad bar and then take forever. 

Twilight to Celtic Tiger." This lecture provides a good follow up to the Academic Forum on Immigration and a new way to spark public 
Answer all their intellectual exchange. 
. questions in the third

More information on the Saturday Scholar Series can be found 
.
5

at saturdayscholar.nd.edu and in the Alumni Association's Gridiron 
person.

Graffiti fan guide. + 
11 OCTOBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 


STAFF EDITORIAL 


A United Front 
The forum must be a joint effort between administration, faculty and students 
Are Notre Dame students here to learn, or are they here just to get good grades? 
While these concepts are not mutually exclusive, varying student and faculty reactions to the Notre Dame Forum demonstrate that the Irish may not be as ready for free-flowing academic discussion as the administration wants to believe. 
On October 8, Notre Dame held its third annual academic forum on the topic ofimmigration, aimed to stimulate intellectual discussion on campus and educate students on contemporary issues that may not be covered in class. Leading experts on immigration were invited to Notre Dame to present information specifically tailored to the needs of the Irish student body. President Rev.John 
I. Jenkins, C.S.C., as founder of the Notre Dame Forum, canceled classes that interfered with the forum and sent out various e-mails encouraging students to take advantage of the opportunity to engage intellectually. 
Although some professors have a vested interest in the forum and make an effort to encourage their students to attend, the faculty seems to have received the event with mixed reaction. Certain professors view the canceled class as an inconvenience to regular curriculum; some actively ignore the academic issues addressed within the forum; and others make active student participation in the forum difficult by assigning midterms and papers shortly after the event. Students who have little motivation to go to the event must choose between their homework and the academic stimulation the forum provides. 
Student incentive to attend the event could be positively impacted by increased student involvement in the planning process. Discussion in residence halls before and after the forum, in addition to surveys on the forum Web site, provide ample resources for students already engaged by the forum to give feedback to the administration. But, without greater student participation in topic choice, widespread student discussion will be an uphill battle for Jenkins and company. 
The administration and faculty need to present a united front in order to fully realize the intellectual development ofNotre Dame students. Professors must be enticed to participate in the same way students are. All parties are crucial. 
The forum is an academically worthwhile endeavor. Now, ifthe forum could manage to pull Domers away from their homework, Notre Dame students inight actually learn something. + 



10 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 OCTOBER 2007
'i 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Bautista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
"'", '" • ' • ' ;;_, >,._• lS:,,," '•-.•~, ~ ' • ':..-.;'1.-' •' r, _, 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 

CORE COUNCIL 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling)
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at








STUDENTS 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 


JOIN THE TRADITION ~ 
140 years of Scholastic journalism 
:c 
Now Hiring 
writers copy editors designers photographers 
0 
r-

Contact \_ 
scholast@nd.edu 
> 
"' 




, · · ' Arambe Productions, Dublin, Ireland Presents • · 


The Kings of Kilburn High Road 
By Jimmy Murphy 
Tuesday, October 16 and Wednesday, October 17 
8:00 p.m. Decio Theater 
To celebrate the conference, "Race and Immigration in the New 
lreland:'the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies will host 
two performances ofJimmy Murphy's The Kings ofthe 
Kilburn High Road in the Decio Theater ofthe DeBartolo Center for 
the Performing Arts on Tuesday, Qctober 16th and Wednesday, 
October 17th at 8:00. In this highly acclaimed play, a group of 
friends take a hilarious and tragic ·Iook back on their lives as they 
gather in a pub twenty-five years after they left their homes in 
Ireland to make their fortunes in England. The play is the work of 
Arambe Productions, a professional Irish theater company led by 
director and performance artist, Bisi Adigun, who currently has a 
version of The Playboy ofthe Western World running in the Abbey 
Theatre, Dublin. 
For more information call the Box Office at 631-2800. 



·dal Battles for the Basilica 
Caitlin Dube 
or young Notre Dame couples, 
walking around the lakes and 
going to SYRs together are just a few of the rituals rumored to ensure a long-lasting relationship. The ultimate tradition, however, has always been the Basilica wedding. 
Well, you'd better start that walk around the lakes now. 
Couples wanting to wed in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart are certainly not alone, and securing a specific wedding date often tops the list of the most stressful aspects of planning the event. Colleen Pollock-Flynn -a 2004 alumna who got married in the Basilica in September -says, "because there is so much competition for wedding dates, it is highly unlikely that you'll get your first choice." 
The need for flexibility in wedding dates also stems from the complicated call-in proces. Contrary to popular belief, there is no two-year waiting list for Basilica weddings. Instead, there is one specific day each year that couples have to call-in to request their desired 
F
The truth about Notre Dame weddings 
date. And on that day, there is only one woman taking the calls. 
"People often have to wait for a long time to get through," says Amy Huber, the famous receptionist. "It's like a radio station because you'll keep getting the busy signal." 
The call-in process is strictly on a first-come-first-serve basis. And Huber cannot be bribed. 
For those persistent callers that are finally able to get through to Huber and select a wedding date, the planning process can begin. But future brides beware, planning a wedding in Notre Dame's Basilica can be especially difficult due to certain restrictions placed on the ceremonies. These restrictions -like the prohibition of hard alcohol on the campus, the 90-minute time limit for the nuptials and the ban of personalized decorations like candles and flowers in the church -can often divert from what the bride and groom had originally envisioned. "If you want something really out of the ordinary, the Basilica may not be the place for you," 
Pollock-Flynn says. 
IfNotre Dame couples can look past these inconveniences, a marriage in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart can be the meaningful and memorable event that they intend for it to be. 
Julia Kelly, a 2003 graduate and staff member in the Development Program, is currently in the process of planning her wedding with her fiance Andrew Sama. "The most exciting part ofplanning our wedding at the Basilica is the thought of sharing with our closest friends and family our love for and happiness with each other at the place where we met and a place that means so much to us," Kelly says. 
Huber points out that couples married there will often return to the Basilica to baptize their first child. 
But before brides can begin this process of planning their Basilica wedding, they must first secure the wedding date. So strap on your helmets and suit up: It's not an easy task, and you better be ready to brawl. + 
11 OCTOBER 2007 ISCHOLASTIC I 13 

CULTURE 
Between 


East 
l 
' 

est 


I. 
l 
' 
~ 
:i 
:! H 
'. ·1 

, , Courtney Ball 
Notre Dame's goal to deepen diversity on campus has a new aesthetic element. The Snite Museum of Art is launching a major initiative to showcase Eastern artwork to complement the pre-existing European and American exhibits. The current exhibit, "Between Figurative and 
I: ! ; Abstract," features the work of Chinese­French artist Gao Xingjian. 
Robert E. O'Grady, a Notre Dame benefactor, visited the Snite and was disappointed with the minimal cultural variety represented in the museum exhibits. He approached Charles Loving, the director and curator of the Snite, with his concern. "We had the Asian exhibits assessed by a specialist who confirmed they weren't very good collections," Loving says. "I told [O'Grady] essentially that it was too late; 

14 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 OCTOBER 2007 
that ship had already sailed. He took that as a challenge." With the generous help of O'Grady and other benefactors, the Snite secured the work of Xingjian, a Nobel Prize Laureate in literature. His resume includes achievements as a poet, novelist, playwright, screenwriter, librettist, filmmaker and painter. Xingjian's broad spectrum of talent enhances his art. "Modern painting has purged itself of the literary, but I do the opposite. I restore the literary to painting, although the literary is never the subject of my painting," Xingjian says in the exhibition catalogue. 
Xingjian is situated at a unique intersection of Eastern and Western culture and between traditional and contemporary Chinese painting styles, Loving says. Though Xingjian was born in China, he fled to Paris at a young age and brings both cultures to his artwork, as demonstrated by his titles in both French and Chinese. This cultural fu~ion inspired the title for the literary conference held in September featuring Xingjian and Dominican-American writer Julia Alvarez, entitled "Between Homeland and Heartland." The week of lectures featured a literary conversation, excerpts· from _Xingjian's plays and a showing ofhis films. 
Xingjian paints in Chinese ink on paper, a style similar to watercolor paintings using a dry brush. "He is truly a master of this media, which is so hard to ~ontrol. It is an unforgiving style," Loving says. There is a long tradition of Chinese ink paintings, but Xingjian brings unique perspective to an established art style with his subject matter. "He -. believes a realm exists 

INK ON PAPER The Snite Museum is currently exhibiting works by Chinese-French artist Gao Xingjian. Xingjian uses Chinese ink on paper in his work, including 
the above painting, "Elegance." 
between figurative art and abstract and 
he explores that intersection to depict 
reality," Loving says. 
Xingjian's art provides a great deal 
of space in which the viewer is free to interpret his work. He says in the catalogue, "There is no near or far perspective, no distinction between up and down, no balance in composition, no references for comparison, yet here and there are images that are clear and distinct, and they are all as one will have them." While painting, Xingjian enters into a meditative trance in which he paints what he describes as the "images from his inner mind." These . pieces depict his personal reflections on life, death, separation and isolation. He invites viewers to meditate on the work 
from their own personal experiences. 
Xingjian believes the exhibit is an 
art1st1c success. "He told us it was the most handsome installation of any exhibition of his artwork," Loving says. Despite this, the gallery has not been flooded with students fighting for a view of the art. Sophomore Juliana Hoffelder, however, has seen the exhibit. "I know that he is a well-known artist, but I do not think most Notre Dame students will recognize the value of his work or his perspective," she says. 
Even students interested in the cultural dimension of the exhibit might be intimidated by a lack of familiarity with art. Loving recommends that students just come, look at, and meditate on the works of art. He believes that everyone, including those without prior knowledge of art, can appreciate the exhibit. "For me, a painting achieves excellence only if repeated viewings can still make people think," Xingjian says. 
Loving believes that Xingjian's work has been very successful in achieving the museum's goal for broader cultural representation. "In short, Mr. Gao is an extraordinary 21st-century intellectual, artist and writer, and we are privileged to have him and his art grace our campus," Loving says. 
Throughout the year, the Snite will continue to have temporary exhibits featuring contemporary Eastern artists. In fact, the museum is in the process of planning a trip to Asia to procure artists for future shows. Loving hopes that the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures will coordinate their efforts to make this a campus-wide initiative. + 
SCHOLASTIC I 11 OCTOBER 2007 I 15 


I*.• )ight(of' _this year's part~~tila;ly :.. · worthyfor national t~levision.>. . Web site for the,winning commercial is ·. . ,, .· ys1nalfoot~aJl'performanc:es:thatha'1'e.-';:t, 13utNBC is_·getting ni9re oµt ·of this a gr~at':way to promote their Web.site to:· · ·;f> ay~wiger demographic." •·. · .,:;(\. 
• ·, :·. ~ .. /:~•_;,t: 
._. ----t·-~-\ .·. :_
0151 1 \oe..:t..aa1·.: 1•. •. 0~_w.:n:_,,~.•.~SU_: .~•_ic:.•.·-:.·.··.s :ts·.1.Lh· ..::.•.:.·_ .• .,e{n·.ft·0 ..·.,m·.·· ..:.'r:.;···:cI1:a{l·.'.;... f:s:.cH.f·c·r·.al·_'.p1_~t·.•·n·l.·.1·ser.1.._-u:.p.lb'_·~.tm:.tl:S•.·. .. · 
_··.1_·.•······:••:'..
.:..b.-., .. ~.:1·.~.L:'s!e;_·.un.:a·_:·:·;stm.·•. ..•··,::~N~.·.·.~.·.·.~.rB:_.. .i.tpi.•o;.•·r•. ....t.na·~.·s~.•.:.-.:.;.:u·~.~P~,t.:het.il';.·: _._:_;···••.·~s:.mtu:.·.:.,-.:d s:.;::,.•.-.c•.=.mo·.;.·..i.ilimcK.:e .. .· .• sp.•fi1··0·.rnm.:s 
0 .. 0 , fh~ R~ots:_ofthe-°[<elaJi~nship-·:. (ti
_ . u 
. unique J?a.r~er,slj.ip \Vith ~fotr~ pa_~~ i:/arid organizing t}>:e .an~nyirio,us selection· . . . . . .. . . . . . .\ ;. 
•.... d_espit~ ~e._foo!~aU team's. uriiJJ.?.i?f~~~iy~ ,; -~qmrnittee,. :says .that ·NBC: will< also · Notre• ·Dame.·· and NBC·. have .both .. 
. , ··•·.·•.·. : qo~r g,a~~-)~pp.e_i1rances ·and .flliltfl'.e~, ~c:i '.: -b~riefi.t from this. pr:oj~~t;;'rf~eidea was -ben~fit:ed greatly_ from their relationship, ~ ·.•. '"? C?; -~\yin:.~ na~i~~~J/,dpuµpionship; 13µfaft,:et;a:f N'13<:::'~;Th~yapJ>r9ached o,U:~,d~par-,t:ment. · whlch cr~tics have often accu13ed of being. . \_'. , j ': >, :s~~~on·tq~f'Ill~ghtgo d6\Vn· in tli~:r~~,C>r_cl' ;: la.st spring about'(tlle)d~~)5e~a~se they too _mon,et~rily ~riven' and even contrary, : ' ·:')1 ­

,,COVER STORY 
At the heart of the deal were then-Rosenthal says. "This new~ came in of J'.\TBC: Sports, says. "But not once in· · Athletic: Director -. Dick Rosenthal, early.January of 19.90 ·when fhappened· •t:1;1,adneeting did money come up." ..... -. ~xecutiye Vice President Emerit:11s,Rev. .to be inNewYorkqtyrn:~~~~ng;withthe· ;:/ T~e µniversity 'was heavily_'cdtidzed?-, ',i.._: William, .13e11umamp, C:S.C.; and then-CBS arid NBC·net,Wo.rlcs~:\vh.o. bi-oadcast , in the early . stages of the NBC deal(\(i\: 
.NBC: jfo!ts· Executive _Vice _Preside~~ : . Ntjtre Danie baske~baffganies/' pa6t:~1:t~h~:~::~et!k9~:~:i~~;1~;~}i.;{:]/~f
=r~l~e2;:O;!ai ' 'niver~ities have to ~apiialize on ~·:mt;.'!:-~::;!:;t:~:.;:0:rs,''.':·
all ofthe teams;would be broadcast. . · : .·. -·· ·-·. ·.. .. . · -:-coµiitiy was. what drove;J:he:"'NBC,:;;;/< :_, 
on the •.A.~G :network. One _of the • . :their niches ;i.Notre Dame has a .. 'arlr,,1:e.··•d·R __Yh.:_sl_·s; -_••·m;;'''.oy¼. __:dt_'_,_:'.t::,:.~_;,;_,_:_:.i.:_;.:_
__ wdeo __ aob:soeuntth_}hla.·t·_s_._at ·v·e~_'._._:_·_:;_'.w'_:_._·,··.•.w_o:_·,,::u.e_)_.l:_:· 1._:.:,;.'._-._,_,:;•:_/.·_:_:_:,,_:
p·r9v1~10pfof'th¢/oritract was that .. · ·.· · . ·. · -. , ,.., _ _ .. :niph~;-i11 intercollegiat~t~·pofts, and: 
._,• •. •,·_,_:_' :·•• ·c• --.·_ --· • • -• .•.,;; ~;•,'.-.: ·. . . .'. • • • ., :· • 

these independent contracts." 
Among the conferences who have gotten on the independent network bandwagon are the SEC, who has been with CBS since 1994, and the ACC, Big Ten, Big 12, Big East and Pac 10, which have all teamed up with ESPN onABC. 
Where Does the Money Go? 
All parties involved in the contract assert · that profits were never the driving force of the partnership, but the money has indeed been icing on the cake. All ofthe profits that Notre Dame accumulates from its deal with NBC are put toward student scholarships. 
"What people did not realize at the time when this deal began was that the money was not all going toward the athletic program," John Heisler, the senior associate athletic director for media and broadcast relations, says. "The athletic department has a budget like any other department at the university, and if revenue exceeds our allotted budget, it goes back to the university." 
Since the inception of the 1991 contract, 1,920 students have received nearly 20 million dollars in financial aid. Another 5.5 million dollars has . been committed to endow doctoral fellowships in the graduate school, and 4 million dollars has funded MBA scholarships in the Mendoza College of Business. 
"The NBC contract hasn't benefited 
the athletes per se, because the profits 
that go to the scholarship endowment 
fund are intended for non-athletic 
scholarships," Heisler says. "Before the 
contract, Notre Dame was not in the 
position to meet the full applicant need, 
and a lot of people who should have 
come to this university were not able to. 
But this fund can now assist those who 
otherwise could not come here." 
Despite the fact that this money has beeri directed toward student scholarships, at the time of the 1991 contract critics still accused Notre Dame of acting unethically. They. argued that Notre Dame was more concerned with furthering its own needs rather than showing concern for the common good of the CFA. But Edward Hums, associate professional specialist of accountancy at · Notre Dame, argues that from a business standpoint Notre Dame's actions were in no way unethical. "Universities have to capitalize on their niches. Schools like Stanford, Cal-Berkeley and the University of Chicago are great research institutions that profit from their research institutes. Notre Dame has a niche in intercollegiate sports, and they have used that leverage to create a good business relationship," Hums says. "Notre Dame's relationship between academics and athletics is much more ethically sound than other schools that use tuition dollars to fund their athletic programs. That kind of situation is much more ethically debatable." 
What's in it for NBC? 
From a satisfied fan base to a massive scholarship endowment/ fund, Notre Dame has thoroughly enjoyed its contract with NBC. NBC has also been more than happy to meet Notre Dame's preferences for afternoon kickoffs over night-time telecasts for the convenience of fans traveling to South Bend from all over the country. But with Notre Dame no longer standing as. tile football powerhouse it was twenty years ago, what has NBC to gain from a relationship with· a less-than-stellar football program? 
Schanzer maintains that money is not at the heart of the relationship, but NBC still makes a hefty sum from every broadcast. Six years ago, the university _formed Notre Dame Sports Properties, which· created an increased amount of interaction between Notre Dame and NBC. This entity exists because Notre Dame does not allow advertisers to place signage in either the stadium or the Joyce Center, and sponsors need a way to _market their products. Sports Properties requires that Notre Dame's top.. eight sponsors, which include Adidas, Xerox and Gatorade, provide NBC with one million dollars for the season for the network to advertise their products. "Through [Sports Properties] the university is working hand in hand with NBC from· a sales standpoint," Heisler says. "We'd like to think that through arrangements like this we are holding up our end of the deal with NBC." 
Schanzer agrees that both sides have upheld their ends ofthe bargain and have created a symbiotic relationship. "We would like to be associated with Notre 
Dame forever," 
he says. "It is a ' 
relationship we 
treasure because 
it goes both 
ways. Both sides 
understand each 
other's needs 
and try to meet 
them within the 
context of their 
own needs." 
But more than 
the corporate 
arrangements Notre Dame . providesforNBC, 
the marketability 
and power of 
the Notre Dame 
name, which 
' 
We would like to be associated with Notre Dame forever. It is a relationship we treasure because it goes both ways. Both sides understand each other's needs and try to meet them within the context 
of their own needs' ' 
Ken Schanzer President of NBC Sports 
transcends its football record, is what keeps NBC so devoted to the university. "Notre Dame is a leading name in college athletics because it is an elegant and clean brand," Schanzer says. "NBC Sports only associates itself with premier programs, such as the Olympics and the U.S. Open, and for us Notre Dame football stands alone among all the other brands. And this seminal quality that never changes is the grace with which Notre Dame deals with its success and lack of success. They always reflect well on themselves and on their partners, and that is what makes them so appealing to us." 
The Future of the Deal 
NBC has renewed its contract with Notre Dame three times since 1991. Rosenthal first renewed the contract in 1995 before he retired from his position as athletic director. The contract was continued in 1997 and again in 2003 ·-,. the year when NBC suffered record­
low Notre Dame broadcast ratings ­
through 201°0. Concern was raised that because the Irish strung together such a lackluster season in 2003 under former Head Coach Tyrone Willingham, and ratings fell to 2.5 million households, that NBC would lose interest in its client. 
But NBC was far from bored with Notre Dame, and two years later NBC raked in an average of 3.6 million households 
per game during Charlie Weis' first 
season  as  head  
coach.  This  year  
NBC  has  seen  

its lowest ratings 
yet; only 1.3 million households tuned into the Michigan State game. But despite 
this up-and-down 
string of recent seasons, NBC has continued to stick 
around and has no plans to change its ways. 
Ironically enough, some of the . schools 
that initially bashed Notre Dame for its seemingly deceptive business move . have recently been involved in their own similar transactions. The Big Ten 
Conference, of which Penn State (and 
Joe Paterno) is a member, started its 
own television network this year called 
the Big Ten Network (BTN), which will broadcast lower-interest football and basketball games and a variety of other sports. The conference has insisted that Midwest cable television companies carry it as a part of their package for an extra 
1.10 dollars per month fee. Comcast, the largest cable provider, has so far refused and instead offered to place the BTN in a package of sports channels to which customers can subscribe. A resolution between the two organizations has yet to be reached. 
What began as a controversial business move for Notre Dame has resulted 
in a highly lucrative market for all the schools affiliated with the CFA. Fans may criticize the extended length of the games due to mandatory TV timeouts because of the NBC deal, but that is a small price to pay in light of the benefits the deal has provided for college football and the collegiate world as a whole. + 

CULTURE 
Campus Chatter 
DEPT. OF VERBOSITY A SCRABBLE COMPETITION 
Jingling tiles disrupt the silence of LaFortune Ballroom. The final round is about to begin. It is the culmination of hours of grueling competition that will make or break the rankings of dozens of language enthusiasts. It is the second annual Scrabble Club of Notre Dame (SCOND) Scrabble Tournament, a gathering of walking dictionaries -a nine-hour event consisting of four divisions and seven rounds. 
The players move around the room, discussing their successes, failures and heightened nerves; their eyes devour the previous round's rankings taped to the wall. Many of them sit alone at their seats, shuffling through the Scrabble dictionary, a last-minute attempt to secure themselves a life raft, taking the form of the dictionary's 96 two-letter words like "AA," "AB," "BO," "DE," "HM," "OP," "UT" and "XI." 
SCOND President Adam Boocher takes the stage and the room falls silent. Forty-four contestants take their seats, close their dictionaries, and draw their first tiles. "You may begin," Boocher says. 

In the corner of the room is a man seated noticeably apart from the crowd. Marty Gabriel, an expert player from Charleston, Ill.perches above the others, cheers on his wife and studies his Palm Pilot. He is preparing for the November 8-12, 2 007 World Championship in Mumbai, India. In addition to the 100,000 words he has already mastered, he will need to learn an additional 30,000 British edition words to be successful against his competition. 
Gabriel will be competing against players from countries all over the world. "It's like Scrabble Olympics," he says. A nine-time touch football All­American and basketball enthusiast, Gabriel boasts both physical and intellectual prowess. "I've scored two 700-plus point games [in Scrabble] and made 128 consecutive free throws," he says. 
Despite the absence of physical rigor, ESPN also believes in the competitive spirit of this word game. During the network's coverage ofthe 2006 National Open in Phoenix, Ariz., ESPN asked Boocher to compare Notre Dame football and SCOND. "I told them that I don't know how Weis is going to do, but that I hoped we would have a pretty good Scrabble team," he says. 
The winners are announced. Expectations have been thrown out the window. "Everything was moving along smoothly. I was undefeated and then this little old lady comes -can't see, can't hear -and whoops my butt," says a middle-aged woman in a lime-green jumpsuit, Chicago native Bernette Glover, a ret.ired teacher, grandmother of two and one of 2,000 National Scrabble Association members who compete in club tournaments across the United States. 
SCOND reps finished last in their divisions. 
Before leaving, Marty approaches me with an anagram of my name he had been working on: "A brasher tart." I had expected more from such a genius. + 
-Sarah Barrett 
22 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 OCTOBER 2007 
CULTURE REVIEWS 
Falling for "Once" 
Mike Laskey 
he Irish movie musical "Once" is 
nothing like its popular Americati 
T
contemporaries. Goneisthesugary 
kitsch and fantasy world of the "High 
School Musical" movies. Also missing is 
the meek attempt at social commentary 
found in a musical like "Hairspray" 
-seriousness that is hard to swallow 
amidst the splashy, spontaneous song­
and-dance numbers. Instead, "Once" 
is small and unassuming, genuine and 
poignant. It is a movie musical for people 
who usually hate movie musicals. 
"Once" really isn't a musical, exactly, but a love story about two struggling musicians. The film's male protagonist is the unnamed "Guy," a thirtysomething vacuum repairman who spends his spare time standing on Dublin sidewalks, playing his songs on a banged up acoustic guitar. The much younger . "Girl," a recent emigrant from the Czech Republic, hears Guy sing while selling flowers to pedestrians. She has a broken vacuum· cleaner, a gentle touch on the piano and some songs of her own. Their natural friendship unfolds delicately as 

Springsteen Without a Spark 
Mike Tresnowski 
ontradictions make Bruce 
Springsteen a fascinating artist. 
He criticizes American society while remaining an undeniable part of 20th century Americana. He appeals to pick-up truck drivers in the deep South for his powerful rock anthems as much as he appeals to the tight-jeaned vegan hipsters of New York City for his progressive politics. Unfortunately, the contradiction that 'arises on his latest release, "Magic," works against him. It is the contradiction of an older man struggling with the youthful rock spirit he perfected almost 30 years ago. 
Springsteen best channels his former self on the hook-laden "Livin' in the Future." Alternating sax, keyboard and guitar riffs over driving chords lead perfectly into a classic sing-a-long Springsteen chorus. But this track's energy rarely reappears on the record. 
Springsteen's voice is strikingly 
C
they make music together. 
The authentic feel of "Once" is rooted in the dynamics of the pair. Guy and Girl are played by professional musicians and first-time actors Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova. Their inexperience works well, though, as the relationship is unforced. Director John Carney 
takes advantage of their chemistry, LOVE Music unites lovers on the streets of Dublin. 
maintaining a careful distance while shooting the film in a documentary style. 
Their casting pays off in another way, too: Hansard and Irglova are great musicians who have crafted some beautiful pop songs. "Once" showcases their talent, and the film's best moments are when the two play and sing. The most memorable of these scenes comes soon after the pair meets for the first time. In the piano display room of a music store, Guy and Girl rehearse one of his songs. He sings, "I don't know you/ But I want you/ All the more for that." Hansard manages to transcend sentimentality with the strength of his voice, which 
different on the rest the album. Maybe he has mellowed with age, or perhaps the album was simply over-produced. Either way, he consistently lacks the edge that makes "Livin' in the Future" so good. Springsteen's vocals on "Your Own Worst Enemy" are best described as a three-minute groan. On the first single, "Radio Nowhere," Springsteen sounds a little too much like Dave Matthews, not enough like a tough kid from Jersey. On "Last to Die," a song with anti-war lyrics that naturally lend themselves to anger and passion, Springsteen's voice is more like that of a smooth balladeer instead of the ticked-off rebel that America came to love decades ago. The album's closer, "Devil Arcade," lacks the saxophone solos and catchy choruses prevalent on the rest of the album, a welcome and powerful change. His yearning for the past is complemented by the slow guitars and string section. Springsteen can still swells with sound and then soars high on the scale at the perfect time. What might seem like cloying, premature infatuation makes perfect sense in the music. 

That is the real victory of"Once." The film captures the powerful, unspeakable language of music like no other movie has in recent memory. The music transforms a simple romantic storyline into something that will stick in your gut and break your heart. Which is something that other recent movie musicals just can't do. + 
"Once" is playing at the Debartolo Pe1forming Arts center on Friday at 7 and JO pm and Sunday at 7pm. 

THE BOSS Springsteen's new album falls flat. 
be a relevant critic of America, but he is stronger when the band matches his reflective tone. 
In itself, there's nothing _ wrong with a wistful album like "Magic," but Springsteen captures this mood more accurately on "Devils and Dust," his 2005 solo album. Trotting out the E­Street Band with its lively, bombastic sound behind a lead man more focused on reminiscing than rabble-rousing is the album's ultimate contradiction, and it just doesn't work. + 
11 OCTOBER I SCHOLASTIC I 


All For One 
Camaraderie and chemistry are a winning combination for men's soccer 
Malisha Samarasekera
It's hard to tell from the lack of fan enthusiasm, but the men's soccer team may be the most successful Irish team this season. Without spiritin the stands, each contest is about playing for teammates rather than the crowd. Ranked· third in the nation by Soccer America, the Irish have defeated highly touted opponents such as then-No. 1 UCLA, then-No. 13 West Virginia and then-No. 16 Michigan, compiling a 8­1-2 record. Head Coach Bobby Clark says rankings have very little effect on the team. "They know if they are playing well, and they know if they're not playing well. We're not where we want to be, but we are getting closer," he says. Led by senior captains Ryan Miller, Alex Yoshinaga, M.A.C. Hermann winner Joseph Lapira and junior captain Matt Besler, the Irish have built off of a successful 2006 season. The team made Notre Dame soccer history in the 2006 NCAA tournament, going the furthest the men's squad ever had in postseason play before eventually succumbing in the quarterfinals to Virginia. 
Despite an extremely talented fresh­men class, Clark noted that it is the veteran senior leadership thathas brought the team success so far this season. 
"There's no question that the freshmen have stepped up and done very well, but I think the real credit goes to the seniors. We've had tremendous leadership from the senior class," Clark says. 
With much of the team's talent graduating last year, it was necessary for the current players to assume more responsibility on the field. "I think we've taken what we had and we've become more of a team," Yoshinaga says. "We're a lot closer than we were last year and we're working that much harder." 
Miller agrees that the team's undeniable chemistry has helped propel them throughout the season. "We all have common goals in mind. Because we are such good friends off the field it makes it easier to bring positive attitudes on the field, which allows us to play more freely," Miller says. 
This increased solidarity has had beneficial results for the team, as evidenced in the team's ascent from preseason No. 9 to their current spot at No. 3. 
"It's just getting up for every game, taking every game as if it's a champion­ship game," Yoshinaga says. 
Despite the resurgence of this year's squad, the team's season goal has not changed: succeeding in the NCAA tournament in November. 
"It's the same hopes every season I've been here, and that's that we qualify for the NCAA tournament," Clark says. "If we can win the Big East en route to that, that will be an added bonus." 
Yoshinaga agrees. "We did really well [last year], as far as we made it in history, but obviously we want to do better," he says. "We know we can, it's just proving it." + 
11 OCTOBER 2007 ) SCHOLASTIC ( 25 
SPORTS 







Finding Their Way 
Blind swimmers find supportive training environment at Notre Dame 
Andy Gray
Ja~nes Fetter is a_funny ~uy. Taking tune out of lus hectic schedule as a graduate student to speak to Scholastic on a Friday afternoon, Fetter explains, is no problem. "I don't usually start drinking on Friday until about 5 :30 anyway," he says. James Fetter is also an elite swimmer. Having participated recreationally since he was very young, Fetter competed on a national level in high school and has traveled to Spain to take part in international swim meets. Why is this so remarkable? Because James Fetter is completely blind. Fetter, sightless since birth, was in­troduced to the water at a young age to ensure his safety should he ever need to swim. "I took to the water pretty well," he says. "I got involved in summer league swimming, and then moved on to more competition as I found out more about opportunities for blind swimmers." In high school, he narrowly missed the cut at national Paralympic trials and gradu­ally left swimming very persistent," Fetter says. "It got me thinking, ifit's not going to happen now, it's probably not going to happen." 
Fetter's swimming for Notre Dame is not an isolated phenomenon. The Masters team has three blind members, including Fetter, junior Ashley Nasheanas and alumnus Lori Miller ('97). Both Nasheanas and Miller are former Paralympians, and Miller even participated in cycling at the Sydney Games in 2000. 
"It's just really odd to have three totally blind, pretty elite swimmers who are also fantastic students," Sawicki says. The three assist each other in many ways, whether they are sharing Paralympic experience or knowledge about college life, transitions and obstacles. "Being able to handle adversity with poise is what sets the swimmers here apart," Fetter says. 
There are plenty of trials in store for blind athletes, especially blind swimmers. Fetter describes one such situation: "When you have two blind making a turn. 

Sighted swimmers must work their entire lives to perfect the turn; a well­executed turn can shave precious time off the clock. Blind swimmers, however, must depend not only on their own abilities, but also the timing and balance of an assistant "tapper." This person stands at the end of a swimming lane with what is essentially a pole with a 
tennis ball affixed to 
behind. "It's just really odd to have three totally blind, one end, ready to tap 
Fetter arrived at a blind swimmer on Notre Dame for aca­pretty elite swimmers who are also fantastic the head or shoulder demic reasons, enter­to warn him or her ing the much-lauded students. [. ..]Being able to handle adversitywith that a wall is ahead. political philosophy "I would argue that graduate program. poise is what sets the swimmers here apart." tapping is almost a But once here, he met sport in itself," says the right people to -Coach Annie Sawicki Bruce Godzina, 
bring swimming back into his life and rekindle a lifelong dream swimmers in the pool, if one's not going of competing in the Paralympic games. straight, you're going to end up right on "Annie [Sawicki, coach of the Irish top of each other." But the most difficult Aquatic Masters/Paralympic team,] was of the obstacles for a blind swimmer is 
26 f SCHOLASTIC I 11 OCTOBER 2007 
MBA student and experienced tapper. "It's really one ofthe most rewarding things I've ever done, to help out these swimmers [ ... ] but it's trickier than it looks. You have to adjust 
SPORTS 

A GUIDING TOUCH Tappers are crucial for the safety and performance of blind swimmers, but automated tappers would allow the athletes more freedom. 
for the different swimmers' preferences." There are no warm-up tapping sessions, so any time a tapper actually practices his or her job, the speed of competition and thus the risk of injury looms overhead. According to Godzina, not just anyone can do it. "We've had about a 40 percent attrition rate [among tappers]," Sawicki says, "And I think it's because you always have to be on. There's no daydreaming." 
Aside from the rigor of tapping, other difficulties arise when the swimmers practice. Coordination of schedules amongst tappers and swimmers is a daunting task. Considering this, the incentive to create some kind of replacement for the human tapper is quite significant. A mechanical tapper, such as the patented device being developed and tested here at Notre Dame by graduate students Fernando Carvalho and Kyle Walters in conjunction with Sawicki, would be greatly beneficial to blind swimmers everywhere. 
Fetter has ·participated in the testing of the tapping device, known as the ADAPTTAP. "It's at the point now where, with a little refinement, it could be a really nice aid in making the pool more accessible," he says. With such a machine, a blind swimmer could do laps whenever he or she had time. 
But many obstacles hinder the creation and proliferation of the ADAPTTAP. In order to test the device sufficiently, a larger group of blind swimmers would need to be gathered. Also, questions have arisen with regard to having a permanent setup ofa mechanical tapper that would not disturb sighted swimmers using the lanes, as well as to the specifics of the final model. The small swimming program involved needs support that it has not been able to find. 
"We're looking at about 10,000 dollars that we'll need in order to do this," Sawicki says. Hopes for the 2008 Paralympics have effectively been scratched due to the swimmers' inability to train effectively while keeping school or work as the top priority, but assistance could make a 2012 trip to the games a legitimate possibility as Fetter and N asheanas enter prime years of swimming. 
"Notre Dame has great school spirit," Fetter says. "Here are people who are trying to compete at a high level. Ifyou help, they will succeed more quickly, and Notre Dame's name will be attached to that." The ADAPTTAP developed here could help international athletes reach the pinnacle of their sport. 
"It's right here, facing us," Sawicki says. "We're the Fighting Irish. What will we fight for?" 
If you are interested in helping these athletes by volunteering time or money, or simply want more information about the 1Vlastersswimming team, visitwww. eteamz. comlirislmzasters or email Annie Sawicki at Anne.E.Sawicki.5@nd.edu. + 
11 OCTOBER 2007 f SCHOLASTIC f 27 



Could this season actually help football's future prospects? 
Brittany Lash 
We've gone through the five stages of grief. Denial against Georgia Tech -it was just 
the first game. Anger at Penn State. Bargaining with Michigan for a forfeit/win after they used an ineligible player for their first four games. (Oh, it's only a Big Ten rules violation? At least we tried.) Depression when thinking about defending our field against the flag-planters of Michigan State. And finally, acceptance of a young team finally showing promise against Purdue and UCLA. 
It's obvious that the season isn't what the fans, coaches and current players wanted, and the Irish faithful have a right to mourn. But there is one group of Irish devotees who may not have grieved at all over this season so far -the recruits. 
Boasting a top five, if not number one, recruiting class for the upcoming year, Notre Dame had set a solid foundation for the future even before this season began. But when the season started off more than rocky, some fans wondered if the top flight recruits might jump ship. After all, the allure of a program wears off after endless rounds of high school locker room taunting by sarcastic teammates, right? 
It's easy to see how that could be true. For top level recruits like quarterback Dayne Crist and tight end Kyle Rudolph, it has to be hard to hear a school to which you've committed your abilities and your future being constantly disparaged. It has to be even harder when you have big-name schools disrespecting your verbal commitment to Notre Dame and pounding on your door telling you there's still time to make a change. And it has to be hardest ofall to stick by your choice in the face ofall that temptation. 
30 f SCHOLASTIC f 11 OCTOBER 2007 
Those trials and tribulations should be enough to cause a recruit much grief. But the Irish would not have recruited them in the first place if it did. 
"You have to pick the guys that you think that could fit the Notre Dame mentality and have everything that comes with that package," Coach Weis explained in a Sept. 11 press conference. "Then you go all out for them." 
A recruit with the Notre Dame mentality would not cut his losses and run at the first signs of trouble with the team, or even a whole season's worth of trouble. A recruit with that mentality honors his commitment and stays focused on why he chose the school in the first place -the chance to make an immediate difference. · 
"They watch the games just the way you do or the way I do," Weis said in a press conference on Sept. 25. "And they make their own evaluations. of how they see where they fit. A lot of times, every one of these guys wants an opportunity where they can see themselves playing relatively early. [ ... ] They're looking at the team and they're saying, 'Okay, there's opportunities for me."' 
If the Irish recruits aren't looking at the season in this light, if they aren't approaching it with the "Notre Dame mentality" and dying to make an immediate impact, then it's a good bet that they're not a right fit for the team anyway. 
Save yourselves the grief, Irish recruits -stick with the Irish, and you'll be the ones making opponents cry sooner than you think. + 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect the views ofScholastic. 







Listening In ... 
b'",f,c::}liit:;-(~Q happy that I could kiss you! I'm a very affectionate guy." -satisfied male professor to male student 
~Jng sweaty and still looking hot is my job."I ~·-overheard student at Rolfs 
r l~~~S~~~~~~:~~;~do~~u even know my name?" -interaction at the Linebacker immediately prior to hook up 

lr;Jp~ecause he made out with two girls doesn't mean he doesn't ······ like you." 
-overheard supportive friend 
','f{"f1}?i$;Anto a name-calling match with another professor at a conference. ',, lt's½i good thing he drinks a lot. It's always good to have enemies who drink." -tenured political science professor 
Twenty-Eight Years Ago 
As a naturally curious person, I have always wondered what Notre Dame students were like back in the olden days. How did they live? What classes were hard? Did they drink a lot? I especially wonder ifstudents in the past were more attractive than they are now. I searched ~hrough the archives of the 1979 issue of Scholastic for an answer. 
"Forget all ofthose visions ofLaurence Olivier and Richard Burton; forget anything you ever heard about tall, stately, dark-haired men with fiery temperaments. Davis is decidedly short. He has a puckish face and a slight build, and his temperament is about as far from fiery as they get. He talks incessantly. In short, he seems pe1fectly suited to play Peter Pan or Lear's Fool but not much else." 
Okay, so, not hot then. Wow, that was pretty harsh. Apparently they weren't into things like "letting people down easy" or "subtlety" back in the seventies. Should we start insulting our interview subjects more? 
-Elisa Suarez 

32 [ SCHOLASTIC [ 11 OCTOBER 2007 

HUMOR 

My little Gipplings! Time to 
jump off the cheese-wagon, stick to 
the buddy system, and get ready for 
a Gipper-led field trip through the 
beer-soaked caverns that hold the 
rotting remains of human dignity. 
Remember that the information to follow is for the purpose of study, education, and enjoyment only -evidence of our good times here under the Dome, lest you already forgot them. While many of the accounts here detail the daring exploits of Notre Dame guys, this next story shows that Notre Dame ladies know how to get what they want, too. Here is evidence that they can go head-to-head with our men, fighting for respect, glory and just for the hell of it. 
One fine Tuesday evening, the ferocious vixen known by her closest friends as "The Bear" tore her way into Corby's searching for adventure (and possibly tasty salmon). Inside, a grizzly bouncer and an old enemy would try to interfere with her plans. Upon entering the bar, The Bear found one of her sleazier friends (who, incidentally, shares the same hometown that is known for its innocence and virginal purity) and started mean-mugging the nearby bouncer, telling her sketchy friend that the bouncer was "really creeping her out." The bouncer then sauntered over to the disreputable duo to see what the problem is. The Bear, sensing danger, immediately dodged behind her man friend, using him as a decoy to avert the bouncer. Yet the bouncer, not so easily fooled, tossed the Bear's Palm Beach Pal out of the way (and seconds later, out of the bar). While he's getting bounced, the Bear escaped downwind. 
Still on the lam, the Bear's eye caught her self-proclaimed arch­nemesis (do bears have arch­nemeses? Cobras? Maybe gorillas?). Anyway, his enemy status stretches three years back to early freshman year when he forgot her name while they were chillaxing in a dark sweaty corner of Alumni Hall. Without a second. thought, she strolled up to her arch-nemesis and dumped a beer over the chump's head, soiling his precious Lacoste polo and further lowering his credibility among his sweet Ultimate Frisbee friends. Yet the bouncer was back and he was not about to be outsmarted twice. This time he caught the Bear and demanded to know if she was guilty of the draught downpour on her nemesis' noggin. Casually, the Bear replied, "Yeah I did, and it was worth it." (At least, that's all ofwhat she said that we can print.) Though the Bear soon met the same forceful removal as her Florida friend, she still managed to find a piece of meat to drag back to her cave for the night. 
Alas, we come to our conclusion of our excursion. Here's the Gipper Law to remember from this field trip: Never forget names ... and never piss off a bear. When in doubt, just play dead. 
In love, The Gipper + 




1fP1H88~PP 
0 0 ® @ o @ at gipper@nd.edu 11 OCTOBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 33 

Add a side salad and make it a meal! 
Sbarro now featuring




fresh salads. 
,_-_­
•·-·• ---_­


HUMOR 
The Wednesday Night Sickness 
Television that's too tempting to resist 
Doug Schlarman 
Ihave an illness. It is an addiction that needs ~o be addressed before it spirals out of control and I am no longer able to function as a human being. My ..A sickness interferes with my day-to­day activities. I'm taking advantage of this public forum to rid myself of the shame and humiliation I feel from my obsession, and I hope that you don't ·I judge me too harshly. I'm addicted to ~ trashy television on the CW Network
1-. 
i -specifically, "America's Next Top Model" and "Gossip Girl." 

It may seem ungainly for a man on Notre Dame's campus to express such feelings out loud. I'm sure that it would be more socially acceptable for me to confess to alcoholism, drug use or even a gambling addiction. I could aiways crush a beer can against my skull while watching Tyra Banks address the alleged "hoochiness" of the models that stand before her. Would that make you like me more? I could toss a football around while I watch the ladies on "Gossip Girl" sleep with each other's boyfriends. Would that make me seem more masculine? I can scratch myself and belch all I want, but it won't cure what ails me. 
The problem is that these shows are just so satisfying. I mean, I would step on a crying infant to get to the TV on Wednesday nights. I might even bump my grandma down a flight of stairs if it got me there a little bit faster (sorry Nana, I love you!). I mean, these shows are just like real life, only better. Blair just found out that her boyfriend slept with her best friend right before she left for boarding school to cope with her little brother's suicide attempt after their parents' divorce! Tyra just made 12 girls go to an actual insane asylum and practice their signature model walks while bound in straitjackets in front of a 6-foot-tall black man dressed as a female nurse! If only this would happen to me on my daily jaunt to Burger King (P.S. How good are those cheesy tot things at Burger King? So good!) 
I wouldn't consider this an illness if it wasn't affecting my daily routine so drastically. I'm up all night wondering about the social life of Serena Van der Woodsen. I sit in a cold sweat in class pondering whether Heather can impress Tyra in spite of her Asperger's Syndrome. She takes such great pictures, 

WARNING: "America's Next Top Model" is a 
highly addictive substance. 
but sometimes her face isn't fierce enough in person! I'm not going to say that the CW's Wednesday night lineup has brought me to tears, but I have had a couple of sit-down talks with my French professo~ about not writing "XOXO Gossip Girl" on my tests where it says "Name." 
Everyone deals with his or her own personal burdens. Everyone has a cross to bear. I'm pleading that you, reader, understand my suffering and refrain from mocking my pain. And be extra understanding on Thursday mornings, because I'm still recovering from Blair Waldorf from "Gossip Girl" blowing my damn mind every Wednesday night. + 
11 OCTOBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
,l J. 
······ ······ ······· ········ 

!The Truth s~h~ 
.................................................~'!d the Victor ...............
Notre Dame's t . .... . .. . .... .. .. . . 'JI' s ude t b ...... score of 20-6. N n ody was shocked ... .. ... ... . . . . .. .. . . . . . .. .. . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . .......,,~7/..-1 


catalyst of this ast~~:~rngs~spicious, the :t:f:;~~~r!.night When the Fightin' I .··h"•····· .... ... . . pset. The f II . o astic put h . ns defeat d 
o owing letter was f on t e1r sleuthin' h e the UCLA 8 . 
ound stuffed . s oes and went rums by a 
m each mailbox of searching for the :1 . r"""-'.;.··~ ···----·•·""----...~. . ·, .. ::--. ";";:.,_,,,.,._{, .. !•,-··-~ every_ :"'9,al~-~S-do(m. l1 /"--"'"--~·~:::•··· "·-··---..._j·'··-J.c:-~· ••..;,.;;; • .. ·, .., ,c:··, _,,..,..,. ...-..,,.-" .. ,j
.z/ Dear Ladies,of N,°-tre paifif~rc-;:-;y•,,;, -~:;,-:;;,,""·-1;:··. .. ..·· ,,. , ) 
( As you p1·0~:~~;-know, the good ol' Fighting Irish football team is Q.c..5. Actually, the only way you 
i
t 
J: couldn't know this is ifyou were an illiterate, blind, deaf, mute Russian exchange student who couldn't pick ;· ·" up the extraordinarily bad vibes th~t float off this campus, just like the smell of aftershave that wafts off -­)· -..·alLthe cocky short guys with huge Napoleon complexes. So basically the only way you wouldn't know our f 
( . 'record is if you had the observation capacities ofyour average rock. How did our football team find itself ' \ -in such an unfortunate plight? I could probably present you wit~. a nlJ_mber of well thought-out theories \ ~ and complex sports analyses but then this article would turn info every Observer sports editorial I've never ·:/ ( actually read. I don't _bother with problems, only solutions. (r Before I blow your mind with the answer to all Charlie Weis' problems, let me lay the ground work. l I You've all heard the hype ~bout-how the student body affects-the team. So you attended the pep rallies, and / \. ,,._ . maybe you even wore the shirt that one Friday. Well, I only ~ear tie'-dye shirts, and I don't want to hear· _\ . 
31 
) ·-:r,~"»· _Regis Philbiii-blab. It's time we, the ladies of the greater Notre Dame area, flex our musdes and hit 'em , where it really hurts. I propose this: No one hook up with any football players until we get a win. That's / ( right, you heard me ... no win,. no skin. Missel t.hgr_!)Jpck? Take a walk! I hope you guys get it, because I've ( 
)'-run out ~~1:;i;::~ight see~ as radical as jihad, but :hink:bou.t,it.-As fa£s;\t1ie~-t~~ foam.gets int6 the red ( 
/\, zone, we expee,:t a score>When that score doesn't happen, we feel totally'~rushed. Probably how Paula Abdul,,.. ( _ -~''» j''-ir.cmld feel ifshe ever came ,down from h~r perma-drunk. I think, in order to encourage a.higher level ()fplay,' ·--~~~!:.;,,w:'.,,,:,:,tf"1' .·, • football players need to experience what it's: like when theydon't score .~ ·: offth~ field. Because frankly, I get · l / the imp~ession that i:h~y don't give a ~mall ~odent~s,J]i~dquarters about. what happens when the game clock is __ j 
( on. It's time to turn t}1,e.ta,bles. Imagine this scene, ladies: They've enticedyou out of the dorm party, you're -· ,.., / watching "Family Guy":'6~·.th~itfutcin,they're about to make the move and ... BA!vf! They get shut down (I"-. by the brick wail that is you with your duLac in hand and3our chastity belt locked In pl~ce. .. ~-) } . Girls, let's not becoy. I know that sometimes after a few beers you like to1etthe Catholic school girl \ 
1·__. _ si..d.. •e.. ofyou call (or ta.ke).'~e'.shots... But th.i·nkal;>out it, why are .. fo.ot_b.a.11.. play~[S,§onsid~red prfriie c.ut meadn /·1 \ the first place? Jimrp,y--Clausen's about as hot as gazpacho. For all you people wlio· don't know Spanish culture · 
I .(your loss) let me put it this way ... he's about'as hot as the'.·uglies't Desperate House~ife. Wliereare the )( >rippling musdes? Where's 0,e'srtrfer boylooks mixed with the charisma ofa used car salesman? I don't mind. · ,. ~.,.~ 
Zf'lt ,-';"-, in~u!!~~g;~Qlir quarter9a~kin15wzmderkind because let's get rea~,-he has no problem picking up a lady or five 1 anfday of the week. Even the d~ys whenJ:is fac~_ Jo~ks extra. scrunched.It\like that episode~of ''.Sharmed" ,. -·(
! 
that was on at.Rolfs'where.the witches con3ure up this man who has a lot ofpheromones or s0methmg. Okay, . "..,,. 
.. ~~~,~,t?~£Ji:~~:;t,::;!!io~:r::1;:~~:s~;;:c: !~::;:e~i,thh~ld.~heicf6~i~rid.,s&1{2e~~-iciu won;;·just ) 

} .~:t:t;,::;:c:i~:Jtr/:::,;;;~;;;::~t,~~~:h~~,;~::~~1=::r,~1::c:::;.;:;:~::'~:;~:~:; . ) 
\ w~rl<l"''f~~r<:... ~r·e. conse.qu.·~:1.~:s·.·. L~s_t tim'e'"l c.hecked, t~.~.y.•·.Ji.a~. to·shoo_··t·.. Old. }"yJler.. I,_mean, they took a~ay .··· ·.../)
,.i Britney s kid.s for SO!l}.eili,_u1g as!1~iculous as-"bad pare~tmg"! Do we 'Y:ant_our football team to end up like ~,.,:;; ! \ over-privileged burnouts? No! So it's about time that we, the ladie.8-9fN6tre.~aIJ1e, too~matters into OUT;. 
I '\ own hands. And:p'ywe, I mean .'.:..the·hot ones. --· · . · ···· ......~<, . . _ 
. . So, please, refrain from bestowing "favors" upon any football players untj.l,w;e.get a_~tal1y in the
l-. 
· started playmg.hard to get.Ifeveryone.does tlie1r part,I thmkth.afbyth~ USC game o-gr boysw1ll al1'15e hitting just a little bit har,der. · ..: · ·-__.,,.,. · 
I SCHOL sire-/ 11 0 . ,;c:)-. .-~ ',-· YouEl:ti;a}ez 
\ ..r CTOBER 2007. .._ 










