THE NETKE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame,
Indiana
Vol. 83, No. 2
meat.
(See story on Page 7)
Captain Walter S. Gabel; welcoming Lt.-Commander i Clarke Olney, who re-'; places him as Executive! Officer of the V-12 detach-.
November 24, 1944■;
Scholastic
Honored With
Press Award
Fulton J. Sheet Speaks Tonigh

5
s

f NAVAL OFFICERS-Thank the U.S. Navy 1
for pushing prices down and quality up
THAT'S the U. S. Navy for you... everything they've tackled, from officers' gold braid to officers' raincoats, has been stepped up in quality and stepped down in price. We doubt if you can get finer ones at any price.
QUALITY AND PRICES ESTABLISHED
BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
SERVICE
BLUE
UNIFORM "40
(Extra Trousers SI 0.00)
990-2% Star and
NAVY RAINCOAT
With Removable All-Wool Lining FOR COMMISSIONED OFFICERS
$3S50
With Lining
Fine Quality, 16-ounce 2-ply, pure worsted serge. Meets all government specifications as to wool stock, weight, dye shrinkage and tensile strength.
990-2% LACE
Sterling silver base with 2 per cent gold content.
Finely woven, long wearing. $5.40 (full sleeve)
Of fine 16-ounce 2-ply, pure worsted serge, Cravenetted and. rain resistant. The "button-in" Warmer is of pure wool flannel, providing excellent insulation against cold.
TAXI FREE!
—in South Bend Hail any cab— we pay on arrival.
Tf/f MODERM
GILBERTS
TjjUi AwthuL
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
OPEN
HOUSE
Saturday afternoon and Evening — and Sunday, 9 to 4 ■
IN SOUTH
BEND TAXI
83®
Home of HICKEY - FREEMAN Navy Officers' Uniforms
Indiana’s Largest
Naval Officers’ Uniform House Is NOT DOWNTOWN!
GILBERT’S Naval Tailors, Indiana’s Largest — is located eight blocks South on Michigan Street in South Bend — NOT DOWN TOWN! Everything you need UNDER ONE ROOF — 88 courteous Gilbertarians to serve you.
The Dobbs
Sea-Master
DOBBS Naval Officer’s Cap —100% lighter to wear — 100% easier to change! Dobbs quality, styling and workmanship, of course.
TAXI FREE!
in South Bend —to Gilbert’s
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
OPEN HOUSE
Sat. Afternoon and Evening —and Sunday
J
3
^he SNotre Qame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
College Parade
. ..By Harry Walters
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chiei
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	-	-	- Navy Associate Editor
ROBERT RIORDAN ----- Managing Editor BILL WADDINGTON ------ Sports Editor BOB O'TOOLE ----- Circulation Manager
COLUMN I STS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY ----- Observations JOHN POWER ------ The Green Banner BLAIR NATTKEMPER -	-	- Man About the Campus
HARRY WALTERS -	-	-	- The College Parade
PETE BROWN -	-	- -Splinters from the Press Box
ART WAGNER ------ Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
GEORGE DESPOT FRANK GRIMALDI HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR CHARLEY LAPP
BOB COCHRAN
JIM FOY GREG HALPIN ENRIQUE LULLI
RON BYERSMITH MICHAEL MORANG JOE BRESLAW BOB CLEARY NEIL BROSCHA
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD
DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
In glancing- through the scores of exchanges • which pour into the Scholastic office every week, one thing is becoming increasingly apparent. The college campus is once again becoming an active social center. Traditions are being revised, student elections being held and student government reorganized, large dances and social functions planned, and campus orgaizations re-established once again on an active level.
In an editorial entitled “Campus Taking a New Slant,” we think the Minnesota Daily hits the nail right on the head in describing the change that is taking place:
“Homecoming festivities planned for this week-end are indicative of a new trend on campus, that is, adjustment to war.
“Take the Homecoming bonfire and pep-fest, for example. Last year we had no bonfire because we were thinking in terms of what we could not do—what we could not burn— what we could not waste. This year we are thinking in terms of what we can do—what we can bum without being wasteful.
“We have become conscious, of the war in a new way. We are not regarding it as a wet blanket. Instead we’re letting it teach us to be resourceful.”
SEMPER FIDELIS
The departure of Notre Dame’s Marines left many a broken heart in the Service Men’s Center, but the detachment at Miami University at Oxford, Ohio, set a new style for sentimental leave-takings. They burned the obstacle course.
The Miami Student in describing the tender scene reports, “With pajama-clad occupants of nearby fraternity houses as fascinated spectators the Marines, assisted by a very appreciable number of civilians, ran the course for the last time, armed with lighter fluid and matches.”
The Student concludes that three stakes are all that remain of the course.	(Continued on page 22)
eep up on Notre Dame News—subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC for yourself or your friends in the service,
$ 1.00 for November-February semester
Name-
Address.
CLIP BLANK AND MAIL TO PUBLICATIONS OFFICE —NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 83
NOVEMBER 24, 1944
No. 2
Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen Speaks Tonight
Campus Mourns Death of Father Leonard Carrico
Catholic Church's Leading Oratorto Address Navy Drill Hall Gathering.
A large number of students and faculty members, this morning, attended funeral services for Rev. J. Leonard
Rev. J. L. Carrico
Carrico, C.S.C., for 15 years director of studies at the University, who died Tuesday evening following several weeks’ illness.
Born in Kentucky, December 27, 188 1, Father Carrico was graduated from Saint
Mary’s College, Kentucky, in 1902 with a Bachelor of Arts degree. Following his graduation, he entered Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame to prepare for the. priesthood, and in 1908 he was ordained.
In 1908, after receiving his doctorate at Catholic University of America, he returned to Notre Dame where he remained until his death except for a short time when he did administrative work at St. Edward’s University, Texas. His first position on the faculty was as a teacher in the English department, and in 1913 he was appointed dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
From 1923 to 1930, Father Carrico was head of the Department of English, and in 1930 he was selected as Director of Studies, in which capacity he served until his death.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, issued the following statement upon the death of Father Carrico:
“In the history of any University there are certain men who by their brilliance in the classroom or by distinction in administration contribute to its greatness. Singularly, the beloved Father Carrico served Notre Dame in both capacities and served her long and well. To the eld-(Continued on page 7)
By ROBERT RIORDAN
“The Bulwark of a Nation” will be the subject of an address to be delivered by the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen of Catholic Hour fame at 8:15 tonight in the Navy Drill hall.
Monsignor Sheen’s abilities as a speaker and a thinker are well borne out by his popularity as a speaker on the Catholic Hour where he was able to demonstrate clearly his keen ability to strike to the heart of a problem, exhaust it without being tedious, and yet keep his terms within the reach of the thousands who listened to his popular radio talks.
He has a fan-mail of some three to six thousand letters a week, some 200 of which require his personal attention in answering. His’ writing, which now includes well over 20 books and many magazine articles, add to his work and audience. Even so, he still finds ten hours a week to give instructions to prospective converts to the faith.
Prominent converts by Monsignor Sheen include such well known names as Col. Horace A Mann, Heywood Broun, and Henry Ford II, but he is just as proud of the conversion of his own Negro cook.
With a brilliant background and a knowledge of how to bring his audience into sympathy with his beliefs, Monsignor Sheen will develop this pertinent problem.
Monsignor Sheen, one of the Catholic Church’s leading orators of today, last spoke on the campus in September, 1943, when he delivered a series of lectures in the Drill Hall to all men on the campus. Prior to that he had delivered the Centenary sermon at the Solemn Pontifical Mass marking the 100th anniversary of the Founding of the University. This address was broadcast on a nation-wide radio hookup. He also delivered the 1941
Baccalaureate address, and was awarded an honorary LL.D, at that time. He has also received degrees from many other
Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen
universities and colleges both in this country and in Europe.
In addition to his other works, he is a member of the philosophy department of Catholic University of America. His brother, Dr. Thomas Sheen, was a graduate of Notre Dame in the class of 1921.
NOTICE
, SCHOLASTIC'S 48-page Gala Football edition — dramatizing the 1944 Grid Exploits of the Irish — will come out December. 7. It comes with the regular semester subscription — but extra copies will be available at 25c the copy.
5
New Student Council Begins Term
Many "Old Timers" Returned to Office in Third
For the third war-time semester, the civilians have elected a student activity council to represent them. In a meeting held Wednesday night, the various hall winners along with the representatives from the accredited clubs and organizations on campus met in the first session of the Council this semester.
The meeting was for the purpose of organization, choosing of officers, and discussing the general work ahead. There was expected to be a heated election for the presidency, but because of limitations of time caused by the Thanksgiving vacation, it was impossible to cover the meeting in time for this issue.
The history of this war-time student council, up to the present elections of council officers has been an interesting one. In March of this year, the first wartime student council was organized. From each duly organized campus club and from each residence hall, one member was chosen as representative.
■ Only two qualifications for membership were made: the representative must be a civilian student and must have a general average of not less than 80%.
Election Highlights
Sorin hall, for years the center of political activity on the campus, selected John Power, as its representative on the council.
Monday evening, Frank Linehan was the representative of the second floor in the hall election. Opposing him were John Bresnehan on the third floor, John Power on the first floor, and Johnny O’Rourke in the “Sub.”
An interesting incident occurred the first night in the third floor election, when after counting the votes, Joe Walker was announced the floor winner. Then it was noticed that all of the third floor votes were not in. When the remaining votes had been counted, Bresnehan emerged the victor.
In St. Edward’s, John Castelli was elected as hall representative. The floor representatives were Chris Cochrane on the first floor, J. Castelli on the second floor, Joe De Lia on the third floor, and William Bender on the fourth floor.
One rather unscrupulous politician (although determination and ambition are commendable qualities) attempted to write "VOTE FOB . . . " on the back of the Religious Bulletins which, were being issued on the critical day.
War-Time Election
By GEORGE DESPOT
"Scholastic" News Writer
Breen-Phillips elected a political darkhorse in John Germain, the fourth floor representative. Others chosen were Alfredo Nieto, Bob Sincavich, and John Harrington from the first, second, and third floors, respectively.
Within the freshmen hall, dissension was the password. With so many of the candidates completely unknown, favorites were impossible.
In Zahm, Phil Luppi was chosen as
He's trying to get 3:27 a. m. permissions for Sorin hall
the hall representative. From the very first, it loomed as a battle between Luppi and Mark Butirich, who represented the fourth floor. The other two floor representatives were William Murtagh and F. J. Guido from the second and third floors.
In Cavanaugh the floor representatives were Tom McNally, M. Dalvin, Bob Tufawo, and Tom Guthrie of the first, second, third, and fourth floors. At the finish line, which resembled Notre Dame politics more so than any of the other freshman elections, Mike Dalvin was chosen to represent the hall.
Carroll hall, the smallest of the civilian halls, had three candidates emerge from the preliminaries: George Schroeder, Girard Hekker, and Dan Rosenback.
6
Commander Olney Begins Term As Executive Officer
With the detachment of Captain Walter S. Gabel for transport duty on the West coast, Lt. Commander Clarke Olney has assumed the duties of executive officer in charge of the V-12 unit. Commander Olney comes directly from Franklin and Marshall college where he served in charge of the 560 men in their V-12 unit. In assuming control of the Notre Dame unit., he becomes the executive officer for 837 men.
Commander Olney was educated at Denison university and has been a member of the Naval Reserve for 11 years. He returned to active duty in 1941 and spent the following two years on the staff at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. After leaving the Naval Academy, Commander Olney was in charge of the Naval Air Navigation School at Hollywood, Fla. From Florida, he moved on to Lancaster, Pa., to assume control of the V-12 unit at Franklin and Marshall.
Commander Olney will be assisted by Lt. S. L. Beatty, Lt. Lamson, Lt. Northrup, Lt. Brewbaker, and Lt. Stamfield. See cover page.
Not To Be Opened 'til...
“Shop Now! Mail in November!” is the slogan of a campaign of the Post Office department in an effort to facili-
tate the handling of the expected voluminous Christmas mail.
Postmaster General Frank C. Walker said, “Extraordinary wartime conditions face us. Unless more people buy and mail this month, the Postal service cannot do its job of delivering all Christmas gifts on time.”
With ten million men and women in the armed forces, and millions more warworkers away from their homes this Christmas, it is more important than ever that a “touch of home” be received at Yuletide. So, buy now; mail in November, and mark all gifts, “Do Not Open Until Christmas.”
University Lay Trustees Discuss Post-War Plans; Thos. A. Beacom, Jr., is New Member
The autumn meeting of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame was held Friday and Saturday on the campus. Almost the entire membership was present, as 16 men met with the president, Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., to consider investments of University funds, and to dis-
Thomas A. Beacom. Jr.
cuss measures for increasing endowment, and post-war problems of the University.
The sessions began on Friday afternoon at 2:30 in the Rockne Memorial Lounge, at which time Father O’Donnell spoke to the board, outlining certain post-war plans, as recommended by Notre Dame’s Committee of Post-War Problems. Resolutions pertaining to investments and the increase in endowments were drawn up, and presented to Mr. J. Arthur Haley, director of public relations at the University. The meeting was marked by a sympathetic understanding of, and consideration for the particular problems facing the University at the present time.
After the discussions, the board elected a new member to replace the late George O’Brien; choosing Thomas A. Beacom, Jr., vice-president of the First National Bank of Chicago. Mr. Beacom graduated from Notre Dame in 1920, and from the Harvard School of Law in 1923. He has been active in the Chicago community fund for many years, and is a former president of the Economic Club of Chicago. He and his wife, and two children, live in Winnetka.
The board re-elected Byron V. Kan-
aley, of Chicago, as its president; Peter C. Reilly, of Indianapolis, vice-president; and Roy C. McCanna, Burlington, Wis., treasurer. Mr. Kanaley appointed Mr. E. M. Morris, of South Bend, as chairman of the finance committee. Mr. McCanna is a member of the committee by virtue of his office as board treasurer. Other members appointed were John C. Tully, Lagrange, HL, William J. Corbett, Chicago, and Bernard J. Voll, of South Bend.
A luncheon in the trustees’ dining hall preceded the meeting. In the evening, a dinner was served. On Saturday afternoon, board members and their wives were the guests of Father O’Donnell at the Northwestern-Notre Dame game on the campus.
Among those who attended the meeting was Postmaster General Frank Walker, Mr. George Strake of Houston, Texas and Mr. J. A. O’Shaughnessy of St. Paul, Minn, also attended. This was their first meeting of the board. Other members who were present included: Mr. Edward Doyle, Chicago, HL; Mr. John O’Brien, South Bend; Mr. P. C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mr. Bernard Voll, South Bend; Mr. Joseph LaFortune, Tulsa, Okla.; Mr. William Corbett, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Walter Duncan, LaSalle, 111.; Mr. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis.; Mr. Byron Kanaley, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Terrence Cosgrove, Los Angeles, Calif.; Mr. John Tully, LaGrange, Ill.; Mr. Charles T. Fisher, Detroit, Mich.; Mr. John J. Neeson, Philadelphia, Pa., and Mr. E. M. Morris, South Bend.
MOURN FATHER CARRICO (Continued from page 5) er generation of Notre Dame men, he was the esteemed professor of English and philosophy, while to alumni and students of more recent years he was the faithful Director of Studies, shaping academic policy with a firmness and wisdom that aided the University in becoming an outstanding institution of learning. And all through his long, fruitful life, he was always the good priest and cultured gentleman whose nobility of purpose and honesty endeared him to all members of the Notre Dame family. Truly, this old school is richer for his having been a part of it, and those of us who had the good fortune of coming under his influence shall always remember him at the altar of God, where remembrance counts most.”	,
7
Professor in Aerodynamics Added to Staff
Newest instructor in the department of Aeronautical Engineering at the University is An-huh Shieh, of Kiangsu Province, China.
Mr. Shieh, who is now teaching En-
gine Vibrations and Aerodynamics at Notre Dame, came to the University from the Chinese Air Force, U.S.A. Office in Washington, D. C.
Graduate of Chiao Tung University, Shanghai, he entered the Chinese Air Force Technical School at the outbreak of the war against Japan, and there obtained an aeronautical background. Selected by the Sino-British Indemnity Funds Board in 1939 for advance work, he was assigned to England for further study. However, because of the European war, this was changed to Canada, and he entered the University of Toronto in 1940. Here he received his M.S.
In the United States he has studied at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the California Institute of Technology. Previous to joining the Chinese Air Force, he was employed by Lockheed Aircraft Corporation as an aerodynamicist.
NOTICE
There will be an organization meeting of the Aero club on Wednesday, November 29th, at 7:00, in room 309 of the Engineering building, for the purpose of planning the semester's work.
Various committees and offices will have to be filled, and important problems discussed, but the meeting is not expected to take more than half an hour. Be on time.
All Aeronautical engineering students are encouraged to attend; freshmen are especially invited.
Navy Solves the Laundry Mystery in USS Dillon
BY JOE BRESLAW
There are certain things that give us pleasure. We have a wonderful feeling when the sentry, whom we are supposed to relieve, comes in at 0200 and yells in our ear that it’s time to hit the deck. We feel so happy when we walk past the duty office and see the words “All hands are invited to drill Saturday. Please bring your own boots.”
But there is no pleasure that can equal the one that comes over us tvhen we open the locker door and are buried by the avalanche of dirty clothes that falls out. We know that the moment has come when we must catch up with a month’s laundry.
The thing to do, we tell ourselves, is to find the roommate and put him to work. We discover him sleeping underneath the bunk to avoid getting his demerit card taken, and so we must do the job ourselves.
The first thing we always do is turn the hot water faucet on, and let it run
WSPCCVON/f
for a few minutes. We then stick our hand in the water; we get burned by just the right amount and we know that the water is hot enough. We then tip in half a box of Rinso in the hope that we’ll have enough suds. The result is that we have so much suds that they begin pouring out over the sink. Since the roommate’s feet are sticking out from under the bed we try to guide the suds onto them; this keeps the deck clean.
At this time we begin throwing the dirty clothes into the wash basin. We
wait several minutes expecting the dirt to disappear. We are disappointed and find that it is necessary to do some rubbing. We tell ourselves that the whole thing will be finished in a matter of minutes. We continue to use up our horsepower until, to our dismay, we find that we’ll have to go to chow within a short time.
Those clothes look dirtier than when we started; what will we do now! We look around the room. A-ha! we’ll just pour in a bit of Clorox and let the clothes soak while we go to chow. We pour in a few drops. Nothing happens. This stuff is weak, we tell ourselves. We’d better put in some more. We keep pouring the liquid until we have enough—about a glassful! That ought to do a good job.
We then reach under the bunk and pull out the roommate. He is a little aggravated when he finds that his feet are soaked. He is a good sport however, and throws only one book at us. Everyone feels happy now and so we fall out for chow formation.
And then we eat.
And then we come back to the room.
We wear a pleased smile on our face as we walk into the room. We know that our clothes will be snowy white so we won’t have to bother rubbing any more. We look into the bowl, but can’t see anything. No doubt the suds are concealing the clothes. We put our hand in and feel around. Queer, can’t find anything. What’s this? We do down to the bottom of the sink and pull out a handful of buttons.
By now the roommate has come in. He stands there and gives us the horselaugh. There’s nothing we can do about it so we have to take it calmly. We decide right now that the laundry will get all our business in the future.
Brother Edmund Speaks
Brother Edmund, C.S.C., of the Department of History, gave a talk on Tuesday evening at the Aquinas club on the Catholic historical novel, based on Thomas Mann’s Joseph the Provider and Father Murphy’s The Scarlet Lily.
The talk contrasted the methods of expanding given historical data as used by non-Catholics and those methods which should be used; it was a continuation of a lecture earlier in the year on Sophia Kossak’s Blessed are the Meek.
8
Lieut. Collins Leaves
For Post at Princeton
Lieut. J. J. Collins, discipline and recreation and welfare officer of the V-12 naval training program here, left this week for Princeton university, where he will attend the school of military government. Lieut. Collins has been at Notre Dame 17 months. He is a native of White Plains, N. Y.
Among the many activities for which Lieut. Collins was responsible were the four local V-12 Balls. He was head of the Scholastic navy staff, barracks officer, and was in charge of all furniture, equipment, and material repairs. In addition to these duties he was in liaison with all the social agencies in South Bend. Lieut. Collins also made several public addresses to various social groups.
At Princeton, Lieut. Collins will train specially chosen officers for assuming active participation in the governing of the captured islands in the Pacific. A few of the courses to be taught are ones concerning the policing of the islands, the laws, the peoples, history, customs, and the sanitary conditions existing on the islands.
Also included in the course will be engineering and physical education. These are but eight of the 13 courses to be taught. The course will be three months long and then the officers will be sent to “govern” an island. As Lieut. Collins puts it, “It will be the job of these men to make two trees grow where only one-half is left.”—Robert Molnar
Scholastic Wins "All American-Superior" Award in Associated Collegiate Contest
BY B. F. RAMEN
The Notre Dame Scholastic, campus news-weekly, has just been awarded the honor rating of “All American-Superior”
in the 31st critical service of the Associated Collegiate Press, according to word received from them by the Uni versity. The Associated Collegiate Press are the editors and distributors of Collegiate Di
gest, and other collegiate publications.
This honor rating was determined after all the newspapers and news-magazines having approximately the same circulation as the Scholastic’s 5,000 had been judged by standards set by the papers themselves. The score the Scholastic received for the different departments such as “news coverage,” “features,” “editorials,” “make-up,” etc. placed it in position for consideration and comparison with the others in its group.
No attempt was made to compare Scholastic’s efforts with a mythical perfect paper, for as the Associated Collegiate Press judges stated: “We do not
think in terms of a perfect periodical, but rather in terms of group accomplishment.” The rating, therefore, depends entirely on the quality of the other publications entered.
In awarding this honor rating, the judges stated: “Student newspapers of today are far superior to those of a short while ago. Each year improvements are noted and as a result standards are much higher. This constant improvement means that no matter how good a paper may have been yesterday, it is surpassed today, unless it too has progressed.”
Special mention was made in awarding this high rating in the form of penciled notations by the judges noting that: “... the Scholastic has excellent feature coverage”; ________“the editorial ‘Post-War Jobs’ is an excellent commentary on an important problem” .... “Jim Casey’s The Green Banner maintains a consistently high batting average in readerinterest.”_____'
The rating “All American-Superior” is a distinction given to those newspapers or magazines which are outstanding in their all around quality and whose ability makes them leaders in the college journalism field.”
A certificate of award for this honor rating is being printed and lettered, and will be mailed to the Scholastic during the week.
Glee Club Forms; Few Openings Are Still Lett
Mr. D. H. Pedtke, director of the Notre Dame Glee club, has announced that a well-balanced unit of 86 voices has been selected for the winter semester. Thirty-six men from the navy plus 50 from the civilian student body are rapidly acquiring the traditional proficiency required in the Notre Dame Glee club.
There are still a few possible openings for civilian members, particularly first tenors. However, Monday, Nov. 27, is the latest date for the acceptance of new men. Those interested should contact Mr. Pedtke in room one of Music hall.
The first campus concert by the Glee club will be presented shortly before Christmas. The date and the program will be announced in the Scholastic within a short time. On Dec. 17, the Glee club will present a concert in the Lane Tech high school auditorium, Chicago, Ill.	■
"Coming In On a Prayer and a Prayer1* Saves Meltzer
“It was all prayer and practically no wing,” said George Meltzer, former lieutenant in the Army Air Force when he gave an account of some of his experiences in bombings over Germany.
Mr. Meltzer, now a civilian graduate student at the University, was a navigator on a B-17 and participated in 23 missions before sustaining injuries which led to a medical discharge from service. He is the possessor of the Air Medal with three clusters, the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Purple Heart, which he earned in the European theatre of war during the months between January and December, 1943.
“Our most harrowing experience,” he explained, “was ironically enough on our thirteenth mission.” On this occasion the two right wing motors quit en route to Germany from England. All ammunition and equipment except an emergency supply was dumped and the pilot turned back to the home field flying low, about 50 feet above the North Sea. The fortress was caught between crossfire
from two islands and an enemy ship. By zigzagging through the ack-ack, we finally made it back to the field with two . dead motors, and a third which had been failing all the way.” He added, “That time I said two rosaries instead of my usual one after completing a mission. I was never so glad to feel the ground beneath my feet!”
On completion of his 23rd mission, Mr. Meltzer jumped from the plane to extinguish a fire in one of the motors. While doing this he stepped too close to one of the propellors and suffered such severe head injuries that he was not expected to recover. While convalescing he was attended by Major John W. Kane of Binghamton, N. Y., member of the 1926 class of the University. After spending four months in English hospitals, he was sent to this country and hospitalized for an additional five months.
Member of the Notre Dame 1941 graduating class, Mr. Meltzer, a philosophy major, is at present studying for the degree of doctor of philosophy.
a
Crowley Crosses Equator — Writes of Initiation
Ensign Frank P. Crowley, formerly of the U.S.S. Walsh’s ROTC, and now of the U.S.S. Black, recently, to his chagrin, crossed the line, and therefore became a fit subject for the ceremonies peculiar to one making the initial, crossing, according to the Royal Order of Neptune’s ritual. In describing parts of the ordeal, Ensign Crowley good-naturedly wrote:
“I don’t guess you’d recognize (or care to) old F. P. right now. Quite a while back we crossed the line, and old King Neptune, with the assistance of the boys, really extended themselves in doing the polliwogs up brown. In the morning, I was assigned as mess cook and scullery mutt in the crew’s mess. Following that, Bob Wehrung and I had a race in swabbing down our respective sides of the forecastle with toothbrushes! The uniform for all this (and all day) was longhandled johns!
“At the end of all the other regular foolishness, I came before not one but three “Royal Barbers”—sadistic Seamen 2/c, armed with some really murderous shears, who whacked away all at once, each determined to outdo the others. As they neared raw bone, one of them rushed up with a big brush, to hit what remained of my scalp with a big blob of paint! I suppose all this is a pretty long-winded way of telling you to “just call me hairless.” Yes, after having myself re-clipped — professionally—there’s just the littlest old bit of struggling fuzz on top of my pate, and that’s no mallarkey. That day I decided that, purely for the sake of my pride, I’d let the third eyebrow grow out; and don’t think it isn’t humiliating! Now the moustache is in full bloom, and I’ve more hair on my lip than on my shining skull. Oh brother! But to be perfectly truthful, I’m sorta beginning to like it this way.
“Last week I might well have seen a large-scale reunion had I been able to hit the beach more often, for the clans were gathered for sure. I’m certain that nine of the boys were here (Lawler among them) but I ran into only three on my one day ashore. Charley Urruel-la was one of them, and with him (or right nearby) was Mr. Howell, now a full commander. You might give ’em the word in the R.O. office, and tell them he looked just as good as ever....”
Ensign “Tex” Crowley was a member of the first R.O.T.C. group to receive commissions here at the University last February. He made no mention of Ur-
ruella’s having been wounded in a recent action in the Pacific, though rumors to that effect had preceded the reception of the Crowley letter. Ensign Crowley paid'
Crowley as an NROTC Member
a brief visit to the campus during the summer.
Editor’s Note: For this information regarding En'.ign Ciozvley and his former classmates, the Scholastic is indebted to Yeoman 2/c E. J. Ludwig, U.S.N.R., of the local Ship’s Co.
Nothing Like Pay Day ... Nothing On Pay Day
Once each month, the Naval supply officer condescends to end the unit-wide poverty which exists for three out of
Now you have it .
. Now you don't
every four weeks, and dispatches a Silas Marner with gold stripes to Dillon and Alumni halls to rescue the seamen from the depths of despair.
The procedure is simple. About three “show-cn-base” weekends after each payday, an innocuous-looking notice appears on the bulletin board. Seamen abandon their assaults on the coke machine coin boxes and saunter over to
discover the latest requirements for dental treatment. Instead, the notice reads “All hands will line up in alphabetical order before the hall, this date, for the purpose of getting paid.” The reader rushes back to his room to confirm the dictionary definition of “paid” and then dashes to procure a pay chit.
The pay receipt must be filled out properly and according to specifications as promulgated by the pay officer. The rules are simple, just remember to put “x’s” above, below and between all your “O’s” and to sign your name just as it appears on the E.P.D. lists. A sample copy will appear on all bulletin boards. The sample is very helpful if your name is John Henry Smith. (Last month fifty John Henry Smiths were not paid.)
At 1100, you line up behind nine other companies who are also in alphabetical order. On payday, there are always more Abbots and Andersons than on any other day.
Once inside the hall, the seaman must not talk, blink, or wrinkle his brow. No one is allowed to stray farther than eight centimeters away from the bulkhead at any time. At the end of the line, after being fingerprinted, cussed and confirmed the pauper receives the filmy stuff which is to be the difference between Luckies and Bull Durham for at least a week.
The day after payday another line forms—for the laundry bill.- At strategic points about the campus are placed
You need a bag to haul it away.
the Huddle, Ship’s Service, and the Caf. Mabel writes and coyly mentions a new found interest in the Great Lakes game. Christmas presents—the re-discovery of food at Rosie’s—snake-eyes, four aces— and there you are again. Rolling your own and reclaiming shaving soap and waiting out the cycle. Just another month. . . .
Dr. Nathan Marsh Pusey, former professor of classics at Wesleyan University, Conn., was recently formally inaugurated as eleventh president of Lawrence college, Appleton, Wis., carrying on a tradition now nearly 100 years old, of close association between the two institutions.	-
10
Christmas Concert and Preparations for Home Game Formations Keep Band Busy
Not many students are aware that there are three military bands which are in operation on the campus at present. The first of these is the Midshipman band which is directed by Ensign Taint-er with the assistance of drum-major Fersil. The second is the 66 piece V-12 Regimental band under Specialist John Pomianek who succeeded Chief Barbs at the end of last semester.
The V-12 Regimental band is under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope assisted by co-drum majors Ray Kopituk and Bob Lee, both from Dillon hall. The third is the 100 piece Notre Dame band directed by Mr. Hope. The Notre Dame band is composed of the V-12 Regimental Band plus civilian students from the University.
The University Band
The Notre Dame Band made its first public appearance of the semester last Saturday afternoon with a creditable half-time performance before the 48,000 people who watched the “Fighting Irish” skin, the “Wildcats” from Northwestern.
Stepping out smartly behind Sailor Bob Le'e^the band maneuvered skillfully into WILD-CATS for Northwestern, a large dollar-.sign for the Sixth War Loan
The Forward Pass Is Born; Football Sees Big Change
By TOM McNALLY
On a sun-drenched football field, November, 1913, a small, unknown, but valiant college was being thunderstruck by the gray-clad Cadets from West Point. At halftime, the bewildered underdogs were a sorely beaten lot, their cause seemingly hopeless; at the finish, that same team left the field laughing— grinning in victory. They had done the impossible!
That second half is history now, for it was there that one Gus Dorais teamed up with a chunky end named Knute Rockne to stun the entire Army defense with an almost unknown weapon, an amazing stratagem—the forward pass! On that day, due to the use of the forward pass, began the meteoric rise of Notre Dame.
But yet, conclusive though it was, this was not the first instance of the potency of the forward pass. For, 18 years before, in 1895, occurred the first record of its use, and—its first triumph!
Drive, and ROCK for Notre Dame. Seaman Lee, who was the band’s twirler last semester, has succeeded the talented Jim Kress, USMCR, as co-drum major with Ray Kopituk.
Rehearsals For Concert
During the past week, the band has been developing its repertoire in preparation for the forthcoming series of concerts. The Special Christmas Concert, as mentioned last week, is to be the highlight in this series. The program for this concert is developing according to schedule and will be announced shortly. Next week the band will be drilled in the formations for the Great Lakes game. According to Mr. Hope, an elaborate set of maneuvers has been formulated featuring a Christmas motif.
Plans are under way for the organization of a flute trio, a horn quartet, a woodwind quintet, a brass sextet, and a larger brass ensemble from the members of the Notre Dame band. These groups will participate in a special concert to be held later in the semester. There are still a few openings for new men in the Notre Dame Band. If you are interested, contact Mr. Hope at his office, room eight in Music Hall.
As posterity records the event, the place was Atlanta, Ga., where Pop Warmer’s University of Georgia squad was waging a furious battle against the gridiron - warriors of the University of North Carolina, coached by a gentleman known as “Doggie” Trenchard.
From the first whistle that football game had been a melodramatic, nip-and-tuck battle royal. The gridiron warriors of both teams were bloody, weary, and spent. And now, there were only five minutes left to play and the score was still deadlocked, at a nothing-to-nothing count.
North Carolina had the ball on its own 40-yard line. Signals were called and the ball was snapped back to the North Carolina left halfback who started to sweep his right end. Quickly Georgia linemen, sensing the play, hurtled the interference and streamed through to trap the ball-carrier. It looked like just another loss, but one player had a different plan. George Butler, captain and quarterback of the team, who had been leading the interference, screamed shrilly for the ball. Instinctively the left halfback StoppecKand lobbed''the pigskin deftly over the heads of the onrushing linemen
into the arms of his captain. Before the startled Georgia eleven could regain their composure Butler had wheeled and sprinted across the goal, 60 yards away.
For a moment, the spectators sat stupefied at the sight of that sensational play . . . while the Georgia players stood on the field, dumbstruck at what had happened. Then pandemonium broke loose.
Wildly, angrily, the Georgia players rushed at the referee demanding that the touchdown run be completely nullified and that the North Carolina team be penalized for using that play. But the referee, as much confused and bewildered by that first forward pass which he had seen happen before his very eyes, began to hum and haw about the legality of that new-fangled play. A careful gentleman and conscious of his well-being, that referee first told the hot-headed Georgia players that he had been away on the other side of the field—then, still unable to convince the fuming Georgia eleven, the referee patiently tried to ex- . plain to the angry players milling around him that since so many players had intervened between him and the ball, that it was impossible for him to state clearly whether or not it was a forward pass.
Well, there was an awful lot of wrangling and arguing, but all to no avail. For despite all protests the referee boldly stated that not having seen the forward pass, he guessed he would have to let the play stand, as well as the score. And there it stocd to the end of the game—six to nothing in favor of the University of North Carolina. Thus was boirn the forward pass in football.
In the beginning, it wasn’t easy and smooth sailing for the new-fangled forward pass to become part and parcel of the game of football. But finally, in 1905, the Football Rules Committee adopted it as legal play in football and consented to permit college teams to use the forward pass. When that was finally done, the forward pass took football out of the Stone Age and dressed it up in modern clothes.
It completely revolutionized the game of football—for it eliminated the dull, dangerous mass play which used to be the attack-formation of £9 percent of all the football teams in the country, and introduced to football a new legion of gridiron stars.
Perhaps, except for that one play which led to the Dorais-to-Rockne combination years later, we today would not know the hallowed names of Ber-tellh“Baugh, Luckman, O’Brien, Dobbs, (Continued on page 18)
11
Yellow-Jackets Are Host to Irish in 15th Renewal; Locals Lead Series With 12 Wins
SPC
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Sports Editor, "The Scholastic"
Down South, they're going to have a big time for themselves tomorrow. Grant Field’s capacity of 30,000 will be taxed every bit of that measure and then some. For a month, it’s been a sellout. Notre Dame puts its show on the road for the last time this year and a more worthy opponent could hardly be singled out. Tech has run up a string of eight wins as against a single loss.
The first Irish conqueror of this season is among the list of Tech's vanquished. Yes, the great Navy team lost to them, 17-15. Also in the Engineers’ wake is Clemson, North Carolina, Auburn, Georgia Pre-Flight, Tulane by a 34-7 margin, and L.S.U. Duke’s 19-14 victory is the only mark that mars a would-be perfect record.
Underdogs Without Doubt
Despite a 21-0 win over Northwestern last week, the Irish still assume the role of underdogs in their quest for victory tomorrow. Tech, a team that is bolstered by the presence of 12 lettermen from last year, looms the favorite on merely a single advantage such as this.
Tech’s razzle dazzle technique, so familiar to South and Southwestern styles, will be at its best. The pass plays emanate from a veteran fullback named Frank Broyles while the frequent receivers are Tinsley and Murdock, the ends. It was the Yellow jackets’ rendition
Bertelli Getting Ready to Fire One in Last Year's Georgia Tech Game
of the “statue of liberty” in ’42 that caused the Irish to adopt the play permanently in its own repertoire.
McKeever will have to throw just about everything but the kitchen sink at the Ramblin’ Wrecks if the jaunt to Atlanta is to prove fruitful.
Kelly Ready
But with the return of Bob Kelly, after a week’s absence in which he nursed a sore leg, the Blue and Gold chances surge upward for the club’s top ground-gainer is ready to march again. The rest of the backfield artillery, ready to shoot the works, includes Jim Brennan, last Saturday’s fleet-footed freshman who scooted to a pair of TD’s against Northwestern; Frank Dance-wicz at quarter; and Joe Gasparella at full, the latter having negotiated at that position for the first time last week-end.
Still on the ailing list are Capt. Pat Filley, Fred Rovai and Elmer Angsman; so Coach McKeever will stick to the entry that started against Northwestern which includes Doug Waybright and George Benigni at ends, Art Mergenthal and George Sullivan at tackles, George Martz and Joe Westenkirchner at guards, and Frank Szymanski at center. The backfield is unaltered with the exception of the re-insertion of Kelly.
Approaching the finale, the Irish (Continued on page 18)
Chairman McGann presents Rockne Bal ;il
The football auctioned for $151,000 in 11 war bonds and presented between the halves of the Notre Dame-Northwestern .■ game was contributed by a Chicago man i who prefers to remain anonymous and j donated the ball in memory of his son, a • co-pilot of a flying fortress who was lost I in action over Germany last May. The	j
ball was autographed by the 1930 Na-	’
tional Championship team and their im- ; mortal coach, Knute Rockne.
NOTRE DAME
Tomorro
Benigni ..........................
Sullivan ..........................
Martz ............................
Szymanski ........................
Westenkirchner ...................
Mergenthal ........................
Waybright .........................
Dancewicz ........................
Brennan___________________________
Kelly ____________________________
Gasparella _______________________
Coach: Ed. McKeever
12
Coach Bill Alexander Stresses Power Play Over Razzle-Dazzle; Has Fear of Irish "T"
■)VETED FOOTBALLS
lai
in
le
■n
Mr. Kirkpatrick, as Mr. Welber looks on.
Mr. Charles S. Kirkpatrick of Bloomington, Ill. was the recipient of the ball after his last minute bid nosed out Mr.
.n ,d
a st le i-i-
i Sig Welber of South Bend who bid j 8150,000 and was awarded a ball auto-; graphed b\- the members of the present 1 Notre Dame team. .
j In addition there were 50 side-line ' scats provided for purchasers of $10,000 ; in War Bonds in the contest between
Indiana and Illinois football enthusiasts.
By EARL HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor, ‘'Technique"
Atlanta, Nov. 24 — The once beaten Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech will be after their third straight bowl bid tomorrow afternoon when they take on the always dangerous Irish of Notre Dame. A homecoming capacity crowd of -33,000 fans are expected to watch the kick-off at 2:30 (C.W.T.)
After getting by last week’s game with the L.S.U. with touchdown passes from Frank Broyles to George Mathews in the last minute of both halves, Coach Bill Alexander has been spending most of the time this week developing his defense for the Irish “T.” This game will be the first of the season for the Jackets against this formation.
The Engineers came out of the game last Saturday without any major injuries and should enter today’s game at full strength. Leg injuries are still slowing down Captain Phil Tinsley, who made the first team of Oscar Fraley’s all-American selection last week, Charlie Helzer, 185 pound blocking back, and Tex Ritter, sensational passing star, but all of these are expected to play tomorrow afternoon.
Georgia Tech’s probable lineup for tomorrow’s game is expecting to spot the Irish several pounds, as the starting forward wall averages under 188 pounds per man, and the backfield is under 175. Only one man, Jack Glenn, who
from Greenville, Miss., who was the leading scorer in the nation last year for high schoolers, has been improving with every game. He had been thrilling the crowds all season with his punt returns, passing, and place kicking. Now this 17-year-old veteran has turned up as the favorite of the crowds over the array of publicized Naval trainees.
Other men to keep an eye on in the Yellow Jacket’s backfield are Frank Broyles, who has completed six of his passes in the last two tilts for touchdowns; George Mathews, another freshman who has earned a starting post by his ability to catch passes and for his
broken field running; Billy Williams, a hard driving fullback who can average over 40 yai ds per punt; and Tex Ritter, another of the Tech passers.
Watch This Broyles
Broyles acts as the field captain and signal caller while he is playing, and he does most of the team’s kicking, especially when the ball is not too far from the opposition’s goal. During the season he has made kicking out of bounds inside the ten one of his specialties. Broyles usually starts at the fullback post, but switches to tailback when Bowen leaves the game.
s Lineups
GEORGIA TECH
......-...-.........     Tinsley
-	-.-.....-........... Glenn
—	-	-.....      Furchgott
-...-	_.................   Duke
----	-------------____Bowen, 1.
---.........____________ Phillips ----------—....-____-- Murdock
-..-	-...-....-....... McIntosh
---------   Mathews —---------------------- Bowen, A.
—-.......---------------- Broyles
Coach: Bill Alexander
became a starter in the Duke game after Tech’s all-American tackle candidate Bill Chambers was transferred by the Navy, tips the scales over 200 pounds.
Change to Power Play
Throughout the first part of the season, however, stress has been laid on speed and deception instead of power. Alexander is noted throughout the country for the tricks that he can produce from the single-wing formation.
After the razzle-dazzle failed to produce the punch to down the Blue Devils of Duke, more emphasis has been placed on straight football. During the latter part of the schedule the power driving of Allan (Dinky) Bowen, freshman star-
On the defensive side of play, two regulars from last season’s team have been leading the line play in every game of the season. Roland Phillips, who tips the scales at 187, has been playing at either- left guard or tackle during the season, depending on which was short of reserves for a game. Little Maurice Furchgott, five feet, eight inches, 165 pound right guard, has been the sensation of the forward wall all season. Most of the time he is able to diagnose a play, and many times spots it before it gets started.
One of the weak spots of the Tech defense at the beginning of the season was in the line backing. Paul Duke, the reg-(Continued on page 18)
13
Irish Get Back On "Win" Column Against Wildcats
BY GEORGE KRAUSER “Scholastic" Sports Writer
A new star shone in Irish football heaven last week in the person of little 155-pound Jim Brennan as Notre Dame bounced back into the win column with a 21-0 success against the hard-trying but hapless Wildcats from Northwestern. Some 48,000 spectators watched the Blue and Gold amass a two-touchdown lead in the first six minutes of the contest and then keep the Wildcats on the defensive for the greater' part of the afternoon.
On the other hand the Ramblers churned up the turf for 324 yards and added 47 by the aerial route. To top this off the long punts of Frank Dancewicz and Steve Nemeth kept the Wildcats bottled up all day.
Brennan Scores
After Captain Pat Filley had won the opening flip of the coin, the Irish received and Benigni took the opening kickoff back to the Blue and Gold 35. With the Irish backs alternating in advancing the pigskin, the ball was worked to the Northwestern 41. At this point Brennan left the Wildcat defenders in a state of confusion as he raced 41 yards to payoff dirt. Steve Nemeth added the conversion attempt to bring the count to 7-0. Shortly afterward George Sullivan pounded on a Purple fumble on the Northwestern 45 to start the Irish going again.
Brennan Tallies Again
Gasparella, Marino and Brennan toted the leather to the 29 and then Brennan tore through the broken Wildcat ranks to cross the double stripe for the second time. Nemeth again converted to build up a 14-0 margin. Late in the first period the Wildcats made their most serious threat of the day when Conners returned an intercepted Dancewicz pass to the Irish 30.
After advancing to the 16, Yungwirth was nailed on the 30 by Doug Waybright who turned in a whale of a defensive game for Notre Dame. But pass interference gave the Wildcats a first down on the 9 and Funderburg smashed to the 2 on the next play. It was here the Irish made a magnificent goal-line stand to take over on the one-foot line. The Irish threatened late in the second quarter and throughout the third canto, but were unable to score until the last period.
With the ball on the Wildcat 15 in Irish possession, the Golden Domers moved for their final tally.
Excerpts from the Experts...
BY JOHN FEENEY
After taking two consecutive setbacks from the Service Academies, both of which are blessed with players of “unusual’’ experience, Notre Dame’s defeated but not demoralized eleven rebounded last Saturday to whitewash Northwestern’s outclassed Purple, 21-0, on the local gridiron.
The Irish revival called forth more favorable comment from the gentlemen of the press. It was generally conceded that Ed McKeever and his proteges, now back in competition with collegiate teams, performed a magnificent feat in rising from the doldrums of the Army and Navy debacles.
Here presented are the accounts of the N.U.-U.N.D. tilt as written by the nation’s top football journalists:
Irving Vaughan, Chicago Tribune:
“Notre Dame’s football power plant, although minus Bob Kelly, its No. 1 dynamo, had no trouble turning on enough juice today to hang a defeat on Northwestern’s hapless but willing Wildcats, before a stadium crowd of 48,000. The Irish bounced back from their decisive trimmings at the hands of Navy and Army to register a 21-0 success that unveiled another squirming, fancy stepping ball carrier in the person of Jim Brennan, 155 pound freshman from Milwaukee.”
Associated Press:
“Jim Brennan, 155 pounds of backfield dynamite, gave 48,000 fans cause to forget the loss of Bob Kelly, Notre Dame’s
X-Counfry Boys Get 2nd In State; NC44 Next
Notre Dame’s young cross-country team journeyed to Bloomington, Ind., the home of Indiana University, Saturday, Nov. 18, and came home with a second place in the Big-State Championships. Scoring 41 points, they finished second behind Indiana’s Hoosiers, 55, but ahead of Purdue’s Boilermakers who registered 28 for a third place.
Ken Muening of the Irish finished second to Indiana’s Muchem for the individual crown. Billy Tully, Bob Prosche, Jack McGuire and Gene Slattery were the other contributors to the Blue and
ace half-back, as he exploded twice in the first seven minutes of play to lead the Ramblers to a 21-0 victory over Northwestern today.”
Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune:
“Two quick touchdowns in the first six and a half minutes of play, and another in the fourth quarter to climax a 50-yard drive, gave Notre Dame’s youthful football team a 21-0 victory over Northwestern’s just-as-youthful squad yesterday afternoon in the Notre Dame stadium before 48,000.”
Leo Fischer,
Chicago Herald-American
“It took the smallest man on Notre Dame’s big football squad to put the Irish back on the Victory road this afternoon. Jimmy Brennan, who stands all of 5 feet, 7 inches in height and weighs 155 pounds in his heavier moments, scampered across the goal line on long-runs twice within the first ten minutes of action against Northwestern this afternoon, and sparked his team to a 21-0 victory before some 48,000 well-chilled customers in the Notre Dame stadium.”
Dick MacMillan, Chicago Sun:
“Eighteen-year-old Jimmy Brennan of Milwaukee, a freshman left halfback, whose program weight is 155 pounds, today escorted Notre Dame back into the path of victory, if not football glory, with two darting first quarter touchdown runs that sparked the Irish to a 21-0 verdict over hapless Northwestern.”
Gold total. Coach Handy was particularly pleased with the showing made by the latter trio, all having made splendid improvement in recent weeks.
The team will compete tomorrow in the N.C.A.A. championships at East Lansing, Mich. This meet has been resumed after a one-year lapse and the run over Michigan • State’s- four-mile course has attracted the cream of the midwestern collegiate crop.
—Jack McGrane
❖ Watch for an All-Campus Table ❖ ❖ Tennis tournament to be announced ❖ ❖ soon.	❖
14
Student Poll Shows Conservatism of Score;
Irish Still Favored Against Georgia Tech
BY CHUCK SARTORE
If the results of this week’s game are as the student poll decided, Notre Dame will beat Georgia Tech by not more than one touchdown, and one or two extra points. This was the opinion of all except one middie.
The decisions of the students are based on the results of last Saturday’s game which was spectacular in view of the fact that several men from our first team failed to play because of injuries. With the help of a few new powerful players discovered in the game, and the return of our recuperated men, Notre Dame should be able to win this tough struggle with Georgia Tech tomorrow, the students believe.
For the first time in the history of the student poll, we are honored to have three guest interviewees. All three of these men, Joe Brady, Al Manion, and Bob Morrissey, gave both teams one more touchdown than they made, and underestimated our ability to convert all of the extra points. As our guest interviewees, they state:
Joe Brady, civilian law student from Joliet, HL: “I think Notre Dame will beat Georgia Tech. We have improved greatly, and I think we have the power to take Tech: Notre Dame 14, Georgia Tech 12.”
Bob Morrissey, civilian senior from Bockford, HL: “Notre Dame 14, Georgia Tech 6. After having proved again her strong and speedy attack, Notre Dame is due to outcharge Georgia Tech in what promises to be .a close, hard-fought game.”
Al Manion, V-12 junior from Chicago, Ill.: “Tech beat Navy and a good Tulane team, but I think the boys might take them if they are ‘up’ Saturday. The score should be N.D. 21, Ga. Tech 13.”	'
❖
William Meehan, civilian freshman from Philadelphia, Pa.: “Notre Dame will win the game 13-7 because Coach McKeever has been successful in restoring the team’s spirit. I wouldn’t be surprised if the spirit overflowed and the Irish roll it up.”
R. E. Maggard, midshipman from Vancouver, Wash.: “Ga. Tech will win. Tech has a stronger team than it has had before, and unless N. D. plays a better game they will be beaten 20-7.”
Louis Barsotti, civilian junior from Memphis, Tenn.: “The return of Kelly and Rovai to spark a revivified Irish team will put us on the long end of a 14-13 score.”
❖
Arthur Andersen, N.R.O.T.C. senior from Ault, Colorado: “Notre Dame will be the winner Saturday. The score will be 7-6. We lost two games this year, and the boys are out to finish up the season in good shape.”
Jim Simon, civilian sophomore from Toledo, Ohio: “N.D. will win, of course. Tech pulled a fast one on Navy before they were organized. Notre Dame has the "team and the comeback spirit. The score will be 21-13.”	- -
Thomas Scheitlin, V-12 junior from Evansville, Ind.: “Notre Dame will win 13-7. The team clicked Saturday, and that victory is the start of their comeback. They will go on and win the rest of their games.”
❖
Roy Laughlin, civilian freshman from Orlando, Fla.: “I believe Notre Dame wjU win by a score of 20-14. Notre Dame discovered a new half-back in the North-w.estern game. Brennan played a good game, and was the outstanding player on the field. He will make a good show tomorrow.”
Robert Luetzow, midshipman from Berwyn, Ill.: “I believe that the Notre Dame team will come forth with enough power and deception to finish out ahead of Georgia Tech. The score: Notre Dame 26, Georgia Tech 20.”
❖
John O’Neill, civilian sophomore from Tulsa, Okla.: “Notre Dame will be on the winning end of a 14-7 score. Added power to this week’s lineup will spell the difference.”
❖
Edward Ball, NROTC senior from Winnetka, HL: “Notre Dame looked much better last Saturday, and with the discovery of several new players, I think we’ll take Georgia Tech 14-7.”
❖
John Prawdzik, civilian junior from Grand Rapids, Mich.: “With the marked improvement shown Saturday, and the school spirit at its peak, the Irish will win 27-26.”
All Acclaim "Scrappy1* Team, Even V-7 Sailers
Shadows of the 1944 Notre Dame football season are fast lengthening, and before Dame Opportunity discontinues her unreliable knocking, the Notre Dame Naval Unit wishes to add praise to the richly deserved acclaim already tendered this year’s edition of the Fighting Irish by the outstanding sports writers the nation over.
In as much as the Navy appreciates the value of such a real football power in the midst of its trainees, it has continued to grant its athletes in uniform the permission to engage in competitive sports, a truth for which both the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame Naval Training Station are duly grateful.
It is indeed superfluous to mention that the trainees of limited athletic ability are extremely proud of their mates who are helping to make this a year which again finds “Notre Dame tops in the game”; yet sometimes even the superfluous must be stated in order that credit may go where it is undeniably due. Among the naval trainees who will drive through the orange of Georgia Tech tomorrow and then through the blue and white of that fair institution whose tea represents, among others, many of our “departed” brothers, bless ’em all!, are. in rapid succession:
Ends — Skoglund (ROTC), Benigni, O’Connor, Limont; Tackle — Sullivan; Guards — Westernkirchner, D’Alonzo, Archer; Centers — Satuto, Stewart; Quarterback — Ratterman; Fullbacks — McGurk, Wendell; Halfbacks— Chandler, Marino, Brennan, and let’s settle for one-half of that sure All-American choice, Bob Kelly. Chick Maggioli, Marine, and Duke Terlep, Navy V-12, each of whom has performed in brilliant fashion while stationed here, and who have left for advanced training.
—Bob Cochran
15
The Green Banner
... By John Power
Political Parade
The elections are over and the mudslinging has ceased for another four months as the Student Council swings into action.
“A COKE MACHINE IN EVERY HALL.”
“TWO O’CLOCK PERMISSIONS—STUDENT TRIPS.”
The time-worn platform continues to be the only platform. It is a shame the way so many people can run on the same platform year after year, term after term. Sorin hall, the center of political deals (and just plain deals) was at it again.
One enterprising senior, entered the council after joining the Ancient Order of Egyptian Hieroglyphics and coercing the other two members, under threat of mandatory suspension, to cast their ballots his way. Porky Miller was the nominee of the Arcadia, followed closely by Phil Martin, the Republican candidate. Richard’s vote-getting ability was due to his able ■ performance as master of ceremonies, with his margin of victory due to his Saturday night specialty of a ballet dance between a bottle of beer and a hot fudge Sundae atop the soda fountain. Johnny went for Phil, Gus for Porky, but George. Ah, it took the tap dance to convince him.
The “man who couldn't lose” was Jim Clynes, as it is said he was campaign manager for three Sorin candidates.— P.S. He sells flowers too. Speaking of flowers, Shamrocks to the Irish—Posies to the middies—Orchids to St. Mary’s for their stirring, shall we say, Cheer to the Middies?	-
Memo to the Anny Mule
You licked the Irish and licked them good but the day of reckoning will come and when it does, dear shavetails, the Irish will lay the Cadets so low, they’ll look like a Manhattan subway-extension going up the Hudson.
❖
Anything For Charity
St. Mary’s Charity Ball was a howling success; the boys sure were howling. John Vaughan was staggering from the effects of the punch. It took Tom Cuyler two hours to shower, shave, and shine for the affair. Talk about the well-dressed man, his evening would have
been spoiled if anyone had mussed his hair.
Jack “Did I ever do you wrong” Allen blossomed forth as usual. Jack was originally an understudy to Bill McNeil, who is in the School of Architecture, because he has lots of “plans.” Anyway, Sorin has hung the “Beware” sign on Jack the “Fixer” and rightly so. Isn’t that right, Frank Linehan? Clynes calls him a “Beast” but I don’t know why. Hay, what!
Treat of the Week
The campus went wild Thursday night as the Ionian Singers made a guest appearance for the select circle on campus. Notre Dame’s elite “400” turned out to fill the “Diamond Horseshoe” of Washington hall. Brother Meinrad and Brother Conan counted the cash from the bookstore in record time in order to attend. Father Kelly aroused the music lovers of St. Ed’s with the by-now famous “Cowbell Serenade.” Rumor had it that refreshments would be served which induced Phil Martin to pass up George’s. Liberal Frank Kent loaned Harry Berliner his opera glasses so that Harry could give him a first-hand report. The
Some of the student candidates haven't given up hope yet—they're waiting for the returns on the soldier vote.
singers closed with the ever-popular “When Ionian Eyes Are Smiling.” ’
SIGNAL DISTRESS
Dear Dad: No Mon, No Fun, Your Son.
Dear Son:
Too Bad;
So Sad.
Your Dad.
❖ ‘
Rivet of the Week
“Boom Boom” Vande boom. of Cavanaugh fame, made a colorful return to Notre Dame by stopping at Walgreen’s long enough to turn on the B T.O. act. He took the Bendix Belle home only to find out her parents were linguists of the first water. Since they came over the water, they haven’t learned any other tongue. His buddy, “Yock” Sebastian, whistled at a Ball Band bouncer and got hit with a rivet.
Miscellaneous
Last week the campus football poll listed Bob Morrissey as living in Rockford, Ill. That was a fatal error for Bob’s home town is Pecatonica, located somewhere in Midwestern United States.
Whittier College, Calif., is the recipient of an annuity gift of a business building worth $100,000.
16
The Shillelagh
The boys looked pretty good against the Wildcats!
Marino is going to get away one of these times. I hope it’s tomorrow.
ber ’42 when Castleberry ran away with the ball game. That same Clint Castleberry is missing in action now — but wherever he went, he went down fighting, in fact, the whole Tech team never gives up. I like Notre Dame.
I was looking for some good blocking on offense. No see!
Frank Szymanski doesn’t need much help to go all the way. I hope he saved a couple for Atlanta.
Doug Waybright plays that end job about like it should be played. Give the boy a big hand.
Joe Gasparella looks at home in the fullback spot. He goes after that yardage and doesn’t waste any time.
Boley was in the contest all the way. Good punt, pretty good pass, good run. Good ball player.
Mergenthal looked all right against the Wildcats. There isn’t any reason why he can’t play a great game in Atlanta.
George Sullivan looks better every week. He’s a great tackle in my book.
Skoglund and Benigni are getting there.
Georgia Tech beat Navy, I see by the papers. Even at that, I think the Notre Dame boys can handle Bill Alexander’s boys if they get up for the game and stay up all during it. Don’t ever stop for it will be too bad. The boys from the South want to give the Irish a good beating. I don’t think they’re good enough if Notre Dame is as good as it can be.	•
George Martz and Joe Westenkirchner didn’t hurt the cause.
That goal line stand was appreciated by anybody who knows football.
Waldorf had some gocd football players. They should have won a few ball games.
Frank Endress is coming fast. Marty Wendell can go both ways—on offense and defense.
Three for three for- Nemeth. That’s keeping your eye on the ball, Steve!
Kenny Schuster has come a long way.
Mastrangelo and Dailer are going to be two good guards. They seem to like the game. Somebody was saying that Keke O’Connor is about to start playing the way he can.
Everything considered, I guess everybody is satisfied. The kids are doing their best which should be good enough for us. It is for me.
Lt. Bernie Crimmins looks ready for a few good games at guard.
That Bill Blake handles a game about as well as any official I’ve watched. He’s just enough ahead of the play to control the action. Football needs more Bill Blakes.
Dan Hanley ought to put Mike over the hurdles. He had too many quarterbacks last Saturday.
The boys have a tough one coming up tomorrow. Alexander will be out there with a good tough ball team. If the Irish keep improving all week, they’ll be ready for the engineers. Tech remembers last year. I hope the Notre Darners remem-
Dear Midshipman:
Within a few days you will be planning your future officer's uniform and accessories.
It will be our pleasure to have you call and inspect our complete line, all of which are TAILORED to your measure, whites and greys included. There will be no obligation on your part to buy, until you are fully satisfied.
An early visit to our store and shop will be greatly appreciated.
Sincerely,
PAPEEP-WINTEEPOWD South Bend’s Oldest Established Tailors
115%-117% N. MAIN - UPSTAIRS	SOUTH BEND, IND.
PHONE 3-6318 FOR APPOINTMENTS
STUDENT ELECTION (Continued from page 6) In a close vote, Don Rosenback became the Carroll representative.
Dick Martin, secretary of the Wranglers was appointed as their representative for the semester, Frank Fitzgibbons will represent the Bookmen, Al Lesmez, the Scholastic, Enrique Lulli, Amistad, George Despot, the Inter-American Affairs Club, Jim Clynes, the Economic Roundtable, Jim Donnelly, the Commerce Forum, Bob Snyder, the Aero club, Chuck Sartore, the Mechanical Engineers, Jose Cardenas, the La Raza club, Gene Walhorn, the Law club. The Glee club, the band, the Knights of Columbus, the Electrical Engineers had not as yet announced their official representatives in the student Council at the deadline set for this publication.
The University Veterans association at Louisiana State University has begun a tutoring project to help one another in their studies.
17
/laud Skop.
Custom Tailored Officers' Uniforms
There is no substitute for fine custom tailored uniforms—they fit and look better.
Custom tailored uniforms are a tradition which has held through die decades with Naval Officers.
The Service knows the importance
of impeccable appearance. All uniforms — blue, white and greys — are measured, cut and tailored to your individual proportions
Ye Jolly Little Tailor
by expert craftsmen in our own
work rooms.
Officially appointed Ship’s Tailor for U. S. N. R.
Midshipmen School, Notre Dame.
117 West LaSalle Ave.
Phone 4-0220
Across from Hoffman and LaSalle Hotels
BIRTH OF FORWARD PASS (Continued from page 11) and a host of others; men who have made the football a darting, dancing, death-dealing demon, which leaves destruction and wrecks of floundered football fleets in its wake.
And it all started one October afternoon in 1895 when a North Carolina football team defeated the gridiron warriors of Georgia, by using a four-yard forward pass ... a play, that in the years to come, was to revolutionize the game of football.
—Midwest News Service
YELLOW JACKETS ARE HOSTS (Continued from page 12) would be ever so happy if . they could attach another win onto their season’s total of six. In the 15th meeting of the two teams tomorrow, there will be an undernourished Yellowjacket squad, starving with a meagre two wins as against the gluttonous 14 triumphs of the Irish, trying to stave off the pangs of further gridiron hunger.
It’ll be peaches and cream for the Peach State boys if they can make McKeever and company say “uncle,” but try and tell that to a bunch of Northern Indiana skeptics—they know better.
COACH ALEXANDER STRESSES (Continued from page 13) ular center, was handling one side of the line, but the other post needed help. The Tech coaches finally found a solution by shifting Johnny McIntosh, a Naval transfer from Carnegie Tech, from wingback to blocking back. Since that time McIntosh has been in on at least half of all tackles made by the engineers.
Nix on Comparisons
Comparisons can be made between the two squads for today’s battle, but Tech isn’t paying any attention to them. Both teams have played two common opponents, Navy and Tulane. While Tech took the Middies by a 17-15 count in one of the wildest games ever played on Grant Field and Notre Dame lost to the same squad, 32-13, most of the country agrees that Navy hadn’t hit its stride when it appeared in Atlanta.
Against Tulane, the Irish ran up a 26-0 score, and Tech made theirs 34-7. If you believe in figures, this makes the Jackets one point better than the Irish, but this is the first time since the Tech-Notre Dame game of last year that the Engineers have faced the “T” formation. At that time Bertelli, Miller, and company had little trouble in demonstrating how that type of football should be played, as they ran the score up to 55-13.
18
MANY THANKS
The new column-head, for the “SWAB-bies’ log” which brightens up the situation is an example of the dexterity of Bill Bevington, aeronautical engineer in the Notre Dame V-12 program. To him we extend our sincere thanks for a swell job on a real improvement to this column and to the Scholastic.
THE "SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME"
SHOWS AGAIN
The highly-hailed “Spirit of Notre Dame” must surely and quickly impress even anti-Notre Dame men and the indifferent public.
It is not uncommon for the followers of any team to cheer wildly their returning conquering heroes; but willingly and joyfully to rob themselves of a couple of hours of good “sack duty” and then patiently wait for a couple of more hours at a train station for a battered and badly beaten football squad—well, that takes a true spirit of good sportsmanship, and more than “fair weather” loyalty.
The “Spirit of Notre Dame” has been repeatedly praised in both voice and writing; the South Bend Tribune carried a story and a four-column picture of the entire civilian enrollment, exemplifying this spirit when the team returned from the humiliating and depressing Army game. The “Spirit of Notre Dame” is very much alive; and surely the Notre Dame Fighting Irish are deserving of it.
WIT BY (NIT) WITS FOR THE
V-12s' MORALE
This was found written on the blackboard in room 213 of the Chemistry building: “We were here for 0800 class. Where the devil were you, prof?”
The following notice appeared on the bulletin board outside the Dillon Hall duty office, after someone had replaced the key word “t-a-p-e” with “and soda”. “The party taking scotch and soda from duty office return same at once. This is
just a warning. If it is not returned, means will be taken to discipline the whole barracks.” How about that, Chief? . . . Hie!
PICKED UP IN CLASS:
Choice tid-bits employed by our professors to keep us awake.)
Mr. Brennan—1000 tts English: “I’ve heard many pronunciations of the word ‘g-h-o-t-i’ but I still say it should be pronounced fish:
Take the gh in rough—F The o in women—I The ti in nation—SH
And you have nothing else but f-i-s-h, fish.”
Dr. Hennion—1000 mwf Organic
You remember the law or physics that two objects cannot occupy the same space at the same time. Just so with war materials urgently needed at the fronts and personal packages. For that reason our Government has requested that all civilian Christmas packages be sent before Dec. 1st.
So we of Railway Express ask you to help us (and yourselves too) by doing these three simple things, in addition to shopping early:
1. Send your gifts before Dec. 1st. Laundry can
keep to its regular schedule. When packages are
ready to go, phone the Railway Express agent.
2. Wrap your packages carefully and securely.
3. Address them clearly, with your own and their recipient’s name, street number, city and state.
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661 702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING -
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.
M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2874
WRAP SECURELY
ADDRESS CLEARLY
SEND BEFORE
DEC. 1*
19
Chemistry: “The reason that Conant, author of The Chemistry of Organic Compounds, deviated from the usual procedure, used by all other authors, by writing the first chapter, in a text on elementary organic chemistry, about alcohol is that he wanted to begin his book with a subject which all the students would be interested in. We’ll get to alcohol in due time.”
Fr. Molter—0£00 MW Biology: “And now let us bow our heads for a moment in silence for those of my class of last semester who did not impress me sufficiently well enough to receive a passinggrade.”
THINGS WE ARE THANKFUL FOR (?)
That the Navy doesn’t interfere with our private lives;
That the girl back home is still true to our singular part of the Notre Dame Navy;	'
That we get such perpetually good chow;
That Christmas leave is so near;
That St. Mary’s college is so conveniently close;
That the roommate always has plenty of money, and frequently gets boxes from home that do not contain laundry;
That we have such a “no strain” schedule of classes;
That we did’nt get the “plague,” or “turkey trot” from our Thanksgiving dinner;
That the Navy gives us fifty bucks a month;
That we are what and where we are, and have what we have where we have it — If you can understand this, it is something really to be thankful for.

What they did in 69 mips you every day
&isha Gr^	M. Barto*
When Professor Elisha Gray and young Enos M. Barton, not long out of college, organized in 1869 the partnership later to become Western Electric, they paved the way for many developments which have enriched your life.
For many years, the Company has been manufacturer, purchasing agent, and distributor for the Bell Telephone System, whose service you have known all your life.
Through telephone work, college trained men and women at Western Electric helped find other ways to make your life fuller and safer. For example, radio broadcasting—talking pictures—marine, aviation and police radio—train dispatching equipment—all were pioneered by Western Electric.
Today, Western Electric is doing its greatest job—turning out huge quantities of electronic ind communications equipment to help our fighting men and to speed the day of Victory.
When that day comes, Western Electric will resume its 75-year-old job of making communications equipment to further enrich your life.
Buy all the War Bonds you can—and heep them!
1869	1944
IF Western Electric
■ IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM. IN WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
20
New Booklet on
"How to Fly"
With the modern trend toward air travel and air transport of freight, there remains little room for doubt as to the almost limitless future of aviation. Today almost everyone is interested in some phase of flying and in a greater knowledge of flight terms, phrases, and practices.
A new booklet, “How To Fly,” being published by MacGregor-Goldsmith, Inc., the sports equipment company of Cincinnati, Ohio, is authored by Rex Cleveland, noted aviation authority. The publishers realize, as is stated in the foreword to the book, the vital connection between athletics and aviation—the importance of having a healthy, well-trained, well-coordinated body and of keeping physically fit.
This booklet is complete and comprehensive enough to give a basic knowledge of flying. It is composed of two distinct parts, the first of which is an 18-lesson course in the fundamentals of flying.	’
Each lesson, prepared by Rex Cleveland, author of Aviation Manual for 1944, Young America’s Aviation Annual, and other books, former aviation editor
of the New York Times, is clearly and concisely written with an eye to being easily understood by readers of all ages. The lessons are illustrated by Leon Winik, well-known Air Forces artist.
The second part of the book is of general interest to all. It is composed of additional aviation data, including such interesting features as—jet propulsion, helicopters, identification of aviation’s insignia and of plane insignia, identification of the various types of planes, and a glossary of flying terms and phrases. Each of these subjects is thoroughly covered and will prove of great interest to those interested in flying.
Free copies can be acquired by writing to Sports Products, Inc., John and Findlay Streets, Cincinnati 14, Ohio.
Hasley Addresses Nurses
Louis Hasley, assistant dean and professor of English in the College of Arts and Letters at the University, spoke to members of the Catholic Nurses Association, Wednesday evening, Nov. 15.
Mr. Hasley, who talked at the St. Joseph’s Hospital Nurses Home, spoke on the subject of “Modern Catholic Short Stories.”
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINK!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS SI.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Have a“Coke”=iAdelante con la musical
(GET IN THE GROOVE!)
.., or getting along in Guatemala
Music and Coca-Cola spell friendship among our Latin-American neighbors just as they do here at home. Have a “Coke” is an invitation of welcome as quickly understood in Guatemala as in Georgia. In many lands around the globe, Coca-Cola has become the same symbol of friendliness that it is in your own living room.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
21
Table-Tennis Contest
An interhall table-tennis tonrnament between Zahm and Cavanaugh halls is being sponsored by the Catholic Action students to give the freshmen a better chance to participate in the activities during the coming semester.
Four representatives from each hall are chosen by competitive tournaments. These contestants will meet in the finals and will be pitted against each other. The winning hall will be the one whose representatives have won three out of four final matches consisting of three out of five games each.
Thus far only the Cavanaugh players have been chosen. The finals are being played this week and results will be published in next week’s Scholastic.
—Ron Byersmith
COLLEGE PARADE (Continued from page 4)
ST. MARY'S, TAKE NOTE:
From the Ohio State Lantern comes the sad news that female football is out at the Columbus institution of higher learning. The dean of women put a stop to the pulchritudinous pigskin parade after a bruising battle between two campus sororities had resulted in bruised knees, broken fingernails, and ruffled dispositions.
B-X, TAKE NOTE:
New Rochelle’s Ta,tier tells us that: “Supennen comics are to become textbooks for young students. They are already in use in Massachusetts and are under consideration in other states. Promoters of the plan and the publisher of Superman comics, as well as school heads, seem to think Superman will facilitate reading for the child and enlarge his vocabulary.” (Harry Berliner, proprietor of the B-X, on hearing the news, hopped on the bus and bought out Walgreen’s stock of comic books to be prepared for the anticipated demand.)
SORIN SUB, TAKE NOTE:
The students at the University of Kansas took the rodent problem into their own hands with a drive against rats and mice. Commenting on the success of the campaign, the Daily Kansan said: “Reports from the University show that there are relatively fewer rats and mice in the buildings, as it is harder for them to find places to hide.”
♦ .
CAMPUS BRIEFS—
At the University of Detroit, two girls were admitted to a dental fraternity—in a purely honorary position, of course... At Minnesota, some poor co-ed is all broken up because she lost an alligator .... Holy Cross reports that Lieut. Vin-
cent Dollard, N.D., ’39, is doing an excellent job as officer in charge of physical training. . . .Kansas University co-eds refuse to take credit for originating the pipe-smoking fad as a substitute for cigarettes.
53S?SBS2S3S3SeSES3S3S2S3S3S3S3S3S3S3Sl
S Glasses Correctly Fitted K
Est.
1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
How to beat a sailor at tying knots
That’s easy! Just blow yourself to some swell-looking new Arrow Ties and you’ll be a neat-knotter in no time. Arrow’s, you know, have a special resilient lining that has only one aim in life— to help you make better looking knots.
ARROW TIES (all of them beauties!) $1 and $1.50
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
22
-------------------------------------M Mcm Adieu Oa.-------------------------------------------------—
----—--------------------------------South Bend’s Qualify Store since 1913---------------------------
Open Saturday Evening and All Day Sunday
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers' Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $38.50 NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP ‘
WHITE DRESS UNIFORMS —$13.50 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers $^050
it rHoeAsi't fat we won't Jtet keep Ul
ON THE COANEA... MICHIGAN $ WASHINGTON
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
23
Copyright 1944. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.