May 29, 1931
911
Q""......................  <■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.....■■■............................................................................        oil.....millllllimmimHI
COMMENT
First mention this week goes un-disputedly to the Notre Dame golf team. Since the team was organized officially only last year, the members have swept aside the best opponents the Middle West has had to offer, and have done so with ease. Last year they made a remarkable record being defeated only in the national tournament. During the current season they have almost toyed with their opponents, piling up one sided scores. So far the competition has been little more than a workout for the team, and they have met some mighty good golfers. The national matches remain for Notre Dame and we feel confident that Captain Beaupre and his mates will win. But whether they do or not, we want them to know that the student body is proud of them and appreciate the efforts to raise Notre Dame to the pinnacle of the golfing world.
What may seem a comparatively trivial matter to seniors, now that the exams have gone their way for the last time, is the payment of bills at the office. Notices have been posted regarding the matter but we wish to remind you again. It has happened before: the gushing senior receives his diploma (?) and when he unrolls it before his proud parents finds a blank piece of paper readingsomething like this, “Your account at the University Book Store is yet unsettled. There is a bill against you for your two English pads. Please see that this matter is settled at once.” Seniors, take heed!
The exodus of happy seniors, some of them in new cars, makes one feel like it isn’t such a bad world after all. The general public has been singing the blues for so long and have done their utmost to discourage the embroyo leaders of industry and what not, that we thought graduation would come as a severe shock to each and every senior. However, the satisfaction which comes after passing the finals overshadow everything else; for the next few weeks, at least, work will not enter the minds of our newest alumni. ________
Classes are over . . . the books are in the furnace . . . everybody’s happy . . . but the Scholastic must go on. Well, last night I was walking down Michigan avenue . . . hey, don’t throw that! So long.	—W. V. B.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-In-Chief	
.4ss*sta?it Managing Editor	Managing Editor	Assistant Managing Editor	
Neil C. Hurley	John E. Bergan	■ John A. Kiener
'Associate Editors	
Edward E. Brennan	James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan
Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan
John Pick	William W. Corr	Lloyd Teske
The Week	Make-up Editor	College Parade
Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams
Music and Drama	Feature Ed'tor	Campus Clubs
Frank E. Seward	Walter Johnson	W. Leslie Raddatz
News Staff	
William C. Karl, News Editor	
Edmund Stephan, Assistant News Editor	
John Conley	Anthony R. Schreiner	Joseph Degnan
Myron Crawford	F. Granger Weil	Lawrence Dunda
Richard Molique	James Colvin	Lawrence Prybylski
William Knox	John Rusnak	William Blind
Walter Kennedy	J. Don Sullivan
Sports Staff	
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor	
Cleve Carey	James Kearns	T. Edward Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr.	Joseph Kurth	Irving B. Halper
Edmund Moriarty	Harry Burchell
Business Staff	
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan,	, Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer	Raymond J. Naber	John P. Hess
J. Albert Smith	Daniel E. Brennan	
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager	
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications	
Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager	
Vol. LXIV	MAY 29, 1931	No. 29
The Week—Richard J. O'Donnell			913
“Merchant of Venice” Presented Sunday—William	Blind	914
New Engineering Hall Started			915
Book Reviews—John Pick			1	918
Man About the Campus			920
A Man You Know—Edmund A. Stephan			921
Editor’s Page				 923
College Parade—John Pick			924
Holy Cross Seminary—Walter Johnson			925
The Wink			— 926
Golfers Sweep State Tourney—T. Edward Carey—		927
Notre Dame Pushed to Win C. I. C.—Edmund Moriarty	928	
N. D. Plays Poorly at Iowa—James McFeely			929
Splinters From the Press Box—Henry B. Asman—		— 936
On Down the Line—James S. Kearns			940
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of	Notre Dame. Manuscripts
may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office,	Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 191", authorized June 25, 1918.	
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
S12
The Scholastic
Eighty-Seventh Annual Commencement
University of Notre Dame
(Tentative Program) Central Standard Time
FRIDAY, JUNE 5
Alumni Registration, All Day, Alumni Office, Administration Building.
12:30P. M.
6:30 P. M.
8:00 P. M.
President’s Address to the Class of 1931.
Reunion Dinners (by individual arrangement).
University Theatre Presentation, “The Merchant of Venice”—Washington Hall.
The University Golf Course will be open to Alumni all day.
The University Band will give a Concert at 6:30 p. m. on the Campus.
SATURDAY, JUNE 6
Alumni Registration, Alumni Office.
8:00 A. M.
9:30 A. M.
10:00 A. M.
12:00 M.
1:30 P. M.
3:00 P. M.
6:00 P. M.
8:00 P. M.
Solemn Requiem Mass for Knute K. Rockne.
Last Visit of the Class of ’31, Sacred Heart Church (private).
Class Day Exercises and Award of Honors, Gymnasium.
Luncheon of Law Alumni, Faculty Dining Room.
Col. William J. Hoynes, Honorary Chairman.
Hon. Thomas F. Konop, Honorary Chairman.
Prof. Clarence Manion, Executive Chairman.
Council of Local Alumni Club Representatives.
Baseball, Michigan State vs. Notre Dame.
Annual Alumni Banquet, East Dining Hall.
Musical Club’s Presentation, Washington Hall.
The Studebaker Band will give a Concert at 6:30 p. m., on the Campus.
The University Golf Course will be open all day.
8:30 A. M.
9:00 A. M.
11:00 A. M. 12:00M.
2:00 P. M.
5:00 P. M.
SUNDAY JUNE 7
Academic Procession, Main Building to Sacred Heart Church.
Solemn Pontifical Mass, Sacred Heart Church.
Celebrant, Rt Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne.
Baccalaureate, Rt. Rev. John M. Gannon, D.D., D.C.L., LL.D., Bishop of Erie.
Music, Moreau Seminary Choir.
(Mass will be followed by the blessing of the Senior flag.)
Senior Flag Raising Exercises, Main Quadrangle. Monogram Luncheon, Lay Faculty Dining Room. Annual Alumni Meeting, Washington Hall.
Awarding of Degrees, University Gymnasium. Commencement Address, Angus D. McDonald, ’00.
imiimuHHiiiiiiiiiifil
May 29, 1931
913
♦ THE WEEK
URN to the index, dear reader, and find contentment. Yes; it is true: the prodigal has returned. The Week is once again in the hands that have so lovingly cared for it during the trials and tribulations of the past year. The rude transgressors who occupied this space in the past two issues have been warned to lay off. No vitriol shall be mixed with the ink on this hallowed page! No dear old traditions, no quaint local customs, no leaders of campus activities will ever again be mentioned here with even the suggestion of disrespect. We apologize. We beg your pardon for disappointing you. Perhaps, even shocking you. What a disappointment, what a shock it must have been! The conservative old Week turned into a bombastic, iconoclastic, vituperative instrument in the hands of that infamous crew of wreckers under the leadership of that old tyrant, Telfel. Some day that gentleman is going to accidentally touch the end of his pen to his lips, and we predict a fatality. No human could stand the acid that drips from it. “Etched in acid,” said the Dome of his writings. How true, how true! But Mr. Telfel may take a long needed rest. And so may next year’s editor of the Scholastic, and Mr. Hallinan, and next year’s head of the Dome, and the rest of the Dome staff, and the rest of the Scholastic staff. They need no longer trouble themselves about writing a community Week. Its regular author, realizing the duty he owes to his public: . namely, that of shielding them from the insidious influence of the knaves who have acted as substitutes, has turned over a new leaf. From now on his copy will be turned in one month before it’s time to go to press. Is that satisfactory, Mr. Hearst?
R. EMIL (not Eeemil—Aaamil) Telfel is a firm believer in frankness. In all probability the next little Telfel that comes into the world will be named after this questionable virtue. Emil is so religiously loyal an exponent of frankness that he even questions the ethics of that old reliable weapon of the diplomat, mental reservation. Mr. Telfel’s friends are all acquainted with that little preface so characteristic of himself that he often uses, “Well, to be brutally frank . . . .” The S. A. C. is acquainted with it; the Blue Circle can hardly forget it; and readers of the official University weekly (fifteen cents at any news stand on the campus) probably hear it in their nightmares. Emil is no hypocrite. If he doesn’t like you, he’ll let you know. Unless he owes you money. Which all leads up to an incident that occurred on Sorin porch the other evening. Was it Tuesday, Emil? Emil was on the porch. And so were the rest of the hall’s scholars. Worrying about the examinations, and wondering if it would do any good to study. When a freshman passed by. He was old for a freshman. Probably had several years’ experience in being fresh at other schools about the country. That’s the way he impressed you. That’s the way, apparently, that he impressed Emil, too.
The frosh gave the gentlemen on the porch a flash of his most winning smile, and hearty “Hello fellows.” As usual there was no response. Not even a birdie. Then the youth spotted the familiar features and forehead of Mr. Telfel. Nothing daunted, he let go an even more he.arty, “Hi pal.” Emil’s disgusted reply was brief and brutally frank. “Mister Pal to you,” he exploded. And the freshman crawled away. Was he rude, dear readers, or was he right? (Answers will be printed in the special Fourth of July issue.)
1' HE capacity of the collegiate mind for worry is amazing. Some might even say that it is astounding. Others have been known to refer to it as startling. We have a whole page to fill here. Can you suggest some more adjectives, Mr. Webster? In the meantime, let us look over the worry situation. Men have been on record as having spent so much of their four years at college in worrying that their other activities were negligible. Some would say that they were infinitesimal. Conservatives would say that they were few. Take the situation in Sorin hall, for instance. Senioi- exams are at present being inflicted upon the intimidated residents of that stately old building. Though they started only this week, the gentlemen in Sorin have been worrying ever since the beginning of May. You could find them gathered on the front porch, morning, noon, and evening, sitting in groups and worrying to the best of their ability. They exhibited marvelous powers of concentration. They passed up breakfast to lie in bed and worry. They forsook their work that they might continue their more important occupation. And now it has come to a point where they must both work and worry simultaneously. There will be a lot of dual personalities hatched before the last blue book is turned in.
TT HIS column recently advocated that the excellent opportunities for water sports offered by the lakes, be utilized more. We remain of the same opinion. In fact the opinion was even more srengthened by late developments. A wealth of material that could be used in the . establishing of a canoe club has been unearthed. It has been brought to light that there are men on the campus as expert at handling a paddle as Mr. Telfel is at handling a pen. Their talents in this respect will be testified to by all those meek and humble young men who were recently initiated into the sanctified ranks of the Monogram club. These lads will not only give testimony, but will also offer evidence of the proficiency with which some of our more muscular students wield a paddle. Therefore, why not a canoe club? (How about an editorial, Emil?) Shall we allow all this brawn and ability to go to waste? And all the Monogram pledges shriek in chorus, “What do you mean—go to waste?”
914
The Scholastic
MERCHANT OF VENICE WILL BE
PRESENTED HERE ON SUNDAY
Excellent Cast Will Portray Roles In New Production of University Theatre
“The Merchant of Venice,” which will be presented by the University theatre on the evenings of May 31 and June 5 will represent a distinct step in the advance of dramatic activity at Notre Dame. For the first time in the history of the drama here, there will be effected a fusion of the allied arts in conjunction with the efforts of the University players. Under the combined supervision of Professor Frank Kelly, director of the University theatre, and Professor Kervick of the ai'chitectural department, students of that department are designing and constructing the scenery which will represent historically, as well as architecturally, Venice of the Middle Ages.
The method of conducting rehearsals, as well as the new system of cataloguing the players in the show, has been evolved by Professor Frank Kelly after much concentration. These also represent an advance in the dramatic activity at Notre Dame. A keynote of informality pervades the rehearsals under this new plan and pet none of the educational advantages of learning the lines of Shakespeare have been sacrificed in the process. Under the new registration system, the members of the University theatre are catalogued according to their experience, physical attributes, and capabilities.
The cast of characters includes some newly discovered, but very promising talent. Joseph McCabe has shown excellent talent in character parts. William Walsh shows great promise in the role of Antonio. Another new man who displays fine possibilities is William C, Blind who is cast for the role of Lorenzo. J. Edward Phelan, a veteran of former shows, is expected to be up to his usual fine standard, as is Harry matic. interpretation at St. Mary’s . college, has had much experience as an actress, and, it is expected, will handle the role of Portia well. Miss Huff and Miss Mourer will be remem-
Merdzinski, who handles capably the difficult role of Shylock.
The female roles in the play have been given to Mrs. Rosemary Hay, Miss Julia Huff, and Miss Charlotte Mourer. Mrs. Hay, teacher of dra-
Mrs. Rosemary Hay
Teacher of Dramatic Interpretation
bered for their fine performance in .former presentations of the University theatre.
Other parts in the show will be played by James O’Shaughnessy, Frank Denny, Roger- Beirne, Thomas McKevitt, Phillip Airey, John Ryan, and Joseph Carroll.
The men working- on the scenery under Mr. Kervick and Mr. Kelly are Clifford Hyland, John Davis, Peter Trolio, Leonard Blommaert, William Cerri, Howard Hinkle, Frank Kelly, Paul Flanigan, and Thomas Feely, Jr. The painting of the scenery is being done by Joseph Lopker, Arthur Kane, and other students of the Fine Arts department under the direction of Professor Sessler.
Wranglers Finish Year
The Wranglers, honorary forensic society at the University, have discontinued their meetings until next September, according to an announcement by Neil C. Hurley, president of the organization.
ROCKNE MEMORIAL COLLECTION MADE
About $300 Is Collected From Entire Student Body.
Contributions for the Rockne Memorial altar to be erected in Dillon hall is falling short of what had been expected, although they total a fair amount. The leaders of the movement had planned on $1500, allowing fifty cents to each man, but for some reason or other, only twenty per-cent of the students contributed, and only a little over $300 was realized.
The showing of the halls was very poor compared to that of the clubs. Five of the campus organizations, the Monogram, the Wheeling, the Managers’, the Law, and the Cincin-ni clubs, each contributed 100% to the fund. Other- clubs were high. The Engineers contributed 93% and the Commerce Forum gave 80%. The Pre-Laws’ total was 65% and that of the Chicago club, 50%.
The contributions of the majority of the halls were conspicuous in their meagerness. Sorin, which trailed at the start of the drive, soon opened up and came into its own, leading at the finish with an 85% average.
PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL ELECTS HITZELBERGER
Charles A. Hitzelberger, a juniorin the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Presidents’ Council for next year at the last meeting of the organization Tuesday evening in the south room of the library.
The new president, who is also president-elect of the Utica club, succeeds Joseph Deeb in the council; the latter is also the retiring executive of the Grand Rapids club. Hitzelberger had a plurality of fourteen over his nearest competitor, Phil Conboy, president-elect of the Rochester club. Janies Yoch was the third nominee.
In his short speech of acceptance Hitzelberger stated that he was con-fideiit that the club would progress rapidly. He also expressed the desire that in the coming year there will be the < proper cooperation between the President’s Council and the S. A. C.
The remaining officers of the organization will be elected at the first meeting next fall.
May 29, 1931
915
The New Engineering Hall Under Construction
The architect’s elevation of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, construction of which began this Tuesday, is shown below. The hall was designed by Francis Kervick, professor of architecture at Notre Dame, and will be built of brick and Indiana limestone.
This addition to the University campus will be located east of the new Law building, and in style will conform to that of the Law school which is modem Gothic. The rear portion of the building is to be two stories in height and will house various laboratories and machine shops. The third section, a court, will be only one story and will include more laboratories and an assembly room seating five hundred and fifty.
A high tension laboratory will be one of the newest and most advantageous features of this building. According to specifications it will be about forty feet square and forty feet high. On the exterior of the building there will be carved pannel-ings depicting eminent Catholic scientists. Ampere, Volta, Ohm, and Roentgen are a few of the men who will be represented in these sculptures.
John F. Cushing was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1906 with a degree in Civil Engi-
Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C. Dean of Engineering
neering. He is now president of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company, Chicago. His gift of $300,000 is the first large benefaction to the University from one of her alumni.
In 1897 the College of Engineering at Notre Dame was established. In the thirty-four years since it was organized it has grown, in enrollment, from seventy-nine students to four hundred and thirty-nine in 1930.
The erection of this new Engineering building at the University of Notre Dame makes possible the extension of the expansion policy adopted by University officials six
years ago. At that time^three new dormitories were built—Lyons, Howard, and Morrissey halls, designed by Kervick and Fagan, professors of architecture at Notre Dame. Early in 1927 the Dining hall was started and completed in time to be used when school opened the following fall. It is said to be the largest building of its kind in America. Cram and Ferguson of Boston, with Kervick and Fagan of Notre Dame, , associate architects, designed the Dining hall.
In 1929 plans were made for the erection of a Law school at a cost of $400,000. In the Spring of 1930 foundations were laid for the Notre Dame stadium. Both of these buildings were completed last summer. Last fall the plans for the erection of the Edward N. Hurley Commerce school were announced and at the present time the foundations of this building are being laid. About two months ago the erection of two new dormitories, Dillon and Alumni halls, was announced. These buildings will be located west of the new Engineering building, and will be built at an approximate cost of $850,000. The super-structure of these residence halls is at present well under way. Like the other buildings they will be constructed of brick and Indiana limestone.
916
The Scholastic
WALSH’S DRAWINGS
FEATURE “JUGGLER”
Art Section of Commencement Number Is Well Done.
The Commencement Number of the Juggler will appear on the campus tonight. This is the last issue of the year and the Funny Fellow’s cast have put on a good farewell performance.
The cover for this issue was drawn by one of the latest additions to the staff, William Walsh. This clever artist also has drawn a two-page center spread which should capture the fancy of the student body. It is a parody of the famous short story by Daudet entitled The Last Class. The other full page drawings in the issue are by Joe Lopker, who has the frontispiece in his usual style, Art Kane, and two by Frank Conboy. One of Conboy’s pages is the pictur-ization of an idea sent in by Walter Hugh Layne, editor of the Juggler in 1927-28.
There are several other drawings by Becvar, O’Brien, Conboy, Kane and the others of the art staff.
The plays reviewed in this issue are “Fine and Dandy,” starring Joe Cook and the Pulitzer prize play, “Alison’s House.” The issue seems to run to parody as evidenced by the clever piece done in imitation of the valedictory address.
The issue will appear during the interval between senior examinations and the tests of undergraduates and will afford pleasant relief for both groups.
Tear Down Old Plant
After thirty years of service to the University the Notre Dame slaughter house, located in the woods north of the campus, has been tom down. The building was erected in 1900 under the supervision of Brother Leo, C.S.C., and consisted of a sheltering pen and a two room building in which the cattle were killed and quartered. For two years the plant was run in connection with the University dining halls, but more convenient arrangements were found necessary. The remains of the slaughter house are now in use as hog shelters on the Notre Dame stock farm.
FATHER CARROLL LAUDED FOR FINE SKETCH OF ROCKNE
Reverend Patrick Carroll, C.S.C., professor in the English department, recently received a letter of congratulation from the editors of a series of boys books on the acceptance of his study of Knute Rockne. This sketch will be used as the introduction to one of the volumes.
The books will compose a series of readers, each volume of which is to be dedicated to some great Catholic for the purpose of extolling his high achievements either in ecclesiastical or lay work. Men who have already been selected for this signal honor are Cardinal Gibbons, Gregor Mendel, Father McKenna, and Knute Rockne.
Just recently he submitted the manuscript and received a letter of acceptance from Dr. Nagle, editor, from which these paragraphs are quoted:
“I offer you our congratulations and think we were fortunate in securing your assistance; for one who did not know Mr. Rockne intimately could never have written so convincingly of him.”
FR. MULCAIRE SPEAKS
ON ITALIAN CULTURE
Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, was the speaker at the final meeting of the Italian club for the semester. He encouraged the club in their Italian Culture Center movement, and said that due to its ideal location, Notre Dame ought to become the art center of the nation.
Anthony Pugliese was appointed student manager of the cultural movement for the coming year, in an address to the club by Mr. Pasquale Pirchio, and John Papera was announced as manager of the European tour of next year. Mr. Pirchio also summarized the accomplishments of the club for the past year.
REQUIESCAT IN PACE
The SCHOLASTIC expresses the sentiment of the entire student body and faculty in offering condolences to Mr. and Mrs.
F. P. Burke and family on the sudden death of their son, Francis Patrick, Jr.
N.D.MEN ATTEND OXFORD
Profs. Phillips and Ronay Will Study There.
Every year the University of Notre Dame is more and more represented at Oxford. Last September Reverend James McDonald, C.S.C. now head of the Department of English, returned after two years of special study at the English university. This year Reverend Leo Ward, C.S.C. is enrolled there. During the coming summer two members of the lay fac-uulty, Professors Charles Phillips and Stephen H. Ronay, will attend the Oxford summer session.
Messrs. Phillips and Ronay will leave Notre Dame Monday, June 8, to sail for England via Montreal. Their trip will include a tour of Ireland, England and Scotland, where they will visit famous shrines of English literature gathering material for their courses. At Dublin they will be the guests of the Irish dramatic critic, John Hayes, who is secretary of the Abbey theatre. The Wordsworth country, the Scott country and the Bums country will also be visited. At Stratford they will attend the annual Shakespearean festival, and while taking the Oxford lectures they will attend the Malvern festival, where a series of dramatic productions covering the history of English drama is to be given.
During their trip to England Messrs. Phillips and Ronay will visit G. K. Chesterton at his home in Buckinghamshire.
NOTRE DAME LAWYERS WILL HOLD REUNION
The first general reunion of the Notre Dame lawyers will be held Saturday, June 16th, in the faculty dining room. Col. William J. Hoynes, founder of the Law school, together with Hon. Thomas F. Konop, dean of the Law school, will be honorary cochairmen of the occasion. Prof. Clarence Manion will be the executive chairman.
The number of guests to be at this - reunion will be very great. South Bend alone has over fifty Notre Dame men among its lawyers and with many others throughout the middle west convening, the number of guests will be exceedingly high. The seniors and the law faculty are cooperating with Prof. Manion to make the first general reunion a success.
. e
May 29, 1931
917
ARTISTS TO HOLD EXHIBIT
Library To Display Work of Students at University.
The largest student art exhibit ever on display at the University was inaugurated today in the lobby of the University library. Professor Emil Jacques of the Department of Fine Arts and his students have been .	• working steadily to make this year’s
exhibit possible. Over fifty oil paintings, together with design problems and life drawings, comprises the array of student art work.
The theses of two seniors in the department, George O’Connor and t	William Davis, are of especially fine
quality.
Perhaps the most distinctive of the exhibit as a whole is the tread toward religious subjects. One picture, portraying a crippled student praying to the Blessed Virgin, is perhaps the »	prototype of this trend.
Some of Joe Lopker’s best works are also on display. Students who have followed his work so avidly in . campus publications this year will find Lopker’s pictures of special interest.
*	If the interest shown by the stu-
dent body today is sustained, the library will be well occupied for the remaining days.
K. OF C. HOLDS LAST MEETING OF YEAR
Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, held their final meeting of the year Monday night in their Walsh hall chambers. Voting on amendments to the constitution of the council was the principal business of the evening. '
It was also decided by the council to present funds to the University sufficient to cover the cost of a stained glass window in the chapel of Dillon hall, which is one of the halls now under construction.
Arrangements were completed providing for the delegation of the council which is to take part in the Memorial day parade being held tomorrow.
Grand Knight Louis Buckley and the other officers who have been in charge of the Notre Dame council during the past year, conducted this meeting, and on closing they were given a rising vote of thanks by the council. '
EXAMINATION SCHEDULE ISSUED BY OFFICE THIS WEEK '
The Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, has recently issued a bulletin concerning semester examinations, which will be held in all colleges of the University on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of next week. The schedule is as follows:
Classes taught at
8:00 on Monday
9:00 on Monday
10:00 on Monday 11 :00 on Monday
1:15 on Monday 2:15 on Monday 3:15 on Monday
8:00 on Tuesday
9:00 on Tuesday
10:00 on Tuesday
11:00 on Tuesday
1:15 on Tuesday
2:15 on Tuesday
3:15 on Tuesday
Examined at
8:00 on Monday . 8:00 on Wednesday 10:00 on Monday 10:00 on Wednesday
1:15 on Monday 3:15 on Monday 1:15 on Wednesday
8:00 on Tuesday
8:00 on Thursday
10:00 on Tuesday 10:00 on Thursday
1:15 on Tuesday 3:15 on Tuesday 3:15 on Wednesday
Classes taught any day at 4:15 will be examined at 7:00 p. m. on Monday, and classes taught any evening will be examined at 7:00 p. m. on Tuesday.
The time of the examination in any course not provided for in the schedule will be fixed by the teacher of the course. The period for each of the semester examinations will be one hour and fifty minutes. Any examination taken outside these four days assigned in the University calendar will not be valid.
Calumet Club Meets
At a meeting of the Calumet club held Monday night in the gymnasium, the financial standing of the club was discussed by President Schreiner and Treasurer Boyle and officers for 193132 w’ere elected. Tom Tobin of East Chicago was selected to head the club next year, with Steve Banas chosen as vice-president; Leo Dilling, secretary; and Dave Paskwietz, treasurer. Bob Davis of Gary was named as activities chairman to take charge of events sponsored by the club next year.
Baldinger Writes Article
Professor Lawrence Baldinger of the department of pharmacy is the author of an article entitled “Why A Pharmacist?,” appearing in the May issue of The Indiana Pharmacist, the official organ of the Indiana Pharmaceutical association.
BOOK WRITTEN BY FACULTY MEMBERS
Smithberger and McCole Write “On Poetry.”
Last "week Doubleday, Doran & Company announced the publication of On Poetry by Professors Smithberger and McCole. This volume is the result of the revision and expansion of their book which appeared in lithographed form last year. It is handsomely bound, printed in large type, and altogether of excellent format. The purpose of the authors is to present what might be used “either as a textbook in a course in poetry or as a supplementary text in any survey or special course in English literature.” Their aim in studying poetry by emphasizing most of all the poetry itself is achieved by their use of illustrative selections.
From the profusion of quotations and examples illustrating various points to be made, and from the ease and aptness of this rich use, the reader will realize how widely and well acquainted the authors are with English and American poetry. Rather than expounding innumerable rules to befuddle the brain, they read poetry and then help draw conclusions concerning the philosophy and nature of the poetic art.
The opening chapter is an essay on poetry, verse, and prose; imagination, emotion, thought, and inspiration in poetry; and finally the divisions of poetry. Following this are chapters on rhythm and meter, rhyme, the types of poetry, the stanza forms, a most complete chapter on the sonnet, another on the fascinating intricacies of the French forms, a timely treatment of free verse, and finally a symposium of definitions and comments of poets from Shakespeare to Sandburg. Those quotations from contemporary poets are for the most part taken from personal letters and make this final chapter extremely interesting and instructive because of its originality and completeness.
The style of both authors is flowing and lucid, and they have imbued the book “with their own deep appreciation of poetry. Because of its general excellence, On Poetry must rank with the best books of its kind, and it is heartily recommended to all students of literature.
918
The Scholastic
Book Reviews
PETTIT TO READ PAPER BEFORE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
It seems appropriate at this time to list the more significant hooks that have been reviewed in this column during the past year. Most of them have been not only best sellers but have also justified their popularity.
Education of a Princess, by Marie, Grand Duchess of Russia.
. The Ring of the Lowenskolds, by Selma Lagerlof.
Swift: A Biography, by Carl Van Doren.
The Last Days of Shylock, by Ludwig Lewishon.
The Limestone Tree, by Joseph Hergesheimer.
Festival, by Struthers Burt.
Together Again, by Helen Grace.
Dreamy Rivers, by Henry Baerlein.
The Raspberry Tree, by Stoddard King.
The Mysterious Universe, by Sir James Jeans.
Portrait by Caroline, by Sylvia Thompson.
Two Thieves, by Manuel Komroff.
River Girl, by Homer Croy.
Puritan’s Progress, by Arthur Train.
The Barretts of Wimpole Street, by Rudolf Besier.
Reader, I Married Him, by Anne Green.
Bird Life at the Pole, by Wolcott Gibbs.
The Man With the Scarred Hand, by Henry Kitchell Webster.
Grand Hotel, by Vicki Baum.
Jonathan Gentry, by Mark' Van-Doren.
The Wanderer of Liverpool,John Masefield.
The Virgin and the Gipsy, by D. H. Lawrence.
The Orchid, by Robert Nathan.
Fatal Intervieiv, by Edna St. Vincent Millay.
Above the Tumult, by Hugh Walpole.
John Misteltoe, by Christopher Morley.
Son of Woman: The Story of D. H. Lawrence, by John Middleton Murray.
“Bitter Wine.” “On Wings of Song.” By Francis Beauchesne Thornton. Wanderer Press, St. Paul. SI.50 each.
In these two volumes Father Thornton combines, extraordinarily, a charming quiet grace of manner and an affectionate nature with a ruthlessly sardonic intelligence and an impish delight in exposing artificiality. At one time he writes deftly a genuinely beautiful and moving lyric and again, twists the ironies of life and love into brilliant, courageous darts that go singing to the mark. Few of our modern poets have written But here the born poet usually ousts the devilishly clever commentator.
Father Thornton’s workmanship is always thorough and is never at the mercy of the intensity of emotion patent in his best verse; neither does the working of his lines into finality of phrasing destroy that intensity. Some of his poems are more in the nature of decoration but many of them alternate a peculiar play of fancy with a direct riposting attack on whatever engages his mind. Whether he writes starkly or gently, with a lingering music, or with curling lip, he writes with a clenched restraint, and, at the same time, with a sturdy independence. There is astonishingly little limping expression in these two books, but there is always a remarkable exactness, fresh lyricism, and much insight.
In several of these poems Father Thornton becomes an aesthete, a painter in words, a subtle melodist. But art for art’s sake merely does not satisfy this writer; art for life’s sake is his creed. No matter how obliquely or lightly, he always touches human interests and emotions, never losing his wit and sophistication. Father Thornton is the poet of sensitive intricacy, of still magic. His verse makes no sensational appeal, and it opens up no new ways of speculation, but the anthologist of a century hence, coming upon these unassuming volumes, may well experience the delight of finding here and there a treasure that time has been unable to tarnish.
Professor Maurice L. Pettit, a member of the probation staff of St. Joseph County Juvenile court and assistant professor of sociology at Notre Dame, has been invited to read a paper at the annual conference of the National Probation association to be held in Minneapolis next month. The topic of the paper will be “An Experiment in the Use of Recreation in Treating Delinquents.” He will describe the new and successful experiments in preventing delinquency through supervised recreation, such as have been carried on in South Bend for the last five years. •
Others who will read papers are: Sanford Bates, a member of the United States Department of Justice; Katherine Lenroot, a member of the United States Children’s Bureau; Justin Miller, Dean of the Duke University Law school; Professor Clifford F. Shaw, Harrison A. Dobbs, of the University of Chicago; Harry Hill, chief probation officer of the Chicago Juvenile court. Last year the conference met in Boston where Professor Pettit described the new course for training probation workers at Notre Dame. This is the second successive year that he has been invited to speak before the association.
LAW CLUB BANQUET TO BE HELD WEDNESDAY, JUNE 3
John Mahoney, senior in the College of Law, is the general chairman of the committee in charge of the farewell banquet to be given by seniors in the University Law School, according to announcement made by Joseph Yoch, President of the Law club. The banquet will be held Wednesday night, June 3rd. Tentative plans have been made to have it at the Oliver hotel, but nothing definite has been announced. The only guests at the banquet, which will be part of the preliminary activities during commencement week, will be members of the faculty. Starting Monday, an indoor baseball series will be held between Freshmen and Seniors in the Law school. The winners of this series will be guests at a steak dinner to be served Thursday night, June 4th.
May 29, 1931
PRESIDENT IS HONORED
King of Italy Bestows Insignia on Father O’Donnell.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, recently received official notification that King Victor Emmanuel III of . Italy has conferred on him the insignia of “Chevalier of the Order of the Crown of Italy.” The announcement of the bestowal sent from the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Rome stated:
“I am pleased to announce to you that His Majesty, the King, has deigned to confer upon you, on pro-
*	posal of their Excellencies the Head
of the Government and the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, the distinction of Chevalier of the Order of the Crown of Italy.
“In congratulating you on this forthcoming honor, I take opportunity ,	to offer to you my sentiments of dis-
tinguished regard.”
At the same time Father O’Donnell received a letter of congratulation from Mr. G. Castruccio, the Royal Italian Consul of Chicago.
In commenting on the award Fa-»	ther O’Donnell stated that it came as
a complete surprise to him. He said that he regards it not as a personal distinction, but rather as a recognition coming to Notre Dame in view of the large number of Italian-American students enrolled here and the »	opportunity given them to study as-
pects of Italian culture.
There are very few men in the United States who share this mark of distinction. Father O’Donnell is the first college president in this country to be so honored.
Brown To Autograph Books
Warren Brown, sports editor’ of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, and author of the first biography of the late Knute Rockne, will be at Livingston’s campus shop all day next Tuesday to autograph copies of his book, Copies of the book, Rockne, have been on sale at the shop during the week.
Fred Miller Engaged
The engagement of Frederick C. Miller, ’29, captain of the 1928 football team, to Miss Adele Kanaley of Winnetka, Ill., was announced last week. Miss Kanaley is a daughter of Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, trustee of the University.
STRING ENSEMBLE GIVES VARIED SELECTION IN FIRST SHOWING
Before a small but appreciative audience the Notre Dame string ensemble made its initial appearance of the year last Tuesday evening in Washington hall. The musicians, organized this spring under the supervision of Richard Seidel, have been in practice but a short time, yet in spite of this their performance was excellent, and gave indication of many successful seasons in the future.
Of the selections, Haydn’s Andante from the Surprise Symphony was the most familiar, and therefore most popular. Kriens’ Suite Miniature, however, was the outstanding selection of the program.
The personnel of the string ensemble includes: Messrs. Seidel, instructor, Walter Philipp, William Karl, Joseph Petritz, Manuel Alvaniz, Wilbur Bernard, Thomas Paradise, Michael Yreberry, Peter Bossert, Joseph Bean, and Leonard Kenkel, piano.
ADMIT SEVEN MEMBERS TO SPECTATORS’ CLUB
Last Wednesday evening the Spectators held their final formal meeting of the year in the north room of the library. Seven new members, elected from a group of 35 applicants, were welcomed into the club by Alfred C. Stepan, the retiring president. They included Daniel Rolfs, James Shea, William Dreux, Frank Fallon, all sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters; William Blind and Paul Hallinan, juniors in the same College; and James Danehy, a sophomore in the College of Science.
Following the introduction of the new men the chair was handed over to Edmund A. Stepan, the newly elected president, who called upon Daniel Williams, the speaker of the evening.	.
Williams’ talk covered rather generally the development of the modem drama, wherein lies its appeal, and what qualities really make a drama what it is. A play, according to Mr. Williams, may be judged either good or bad in proportion to the manner in which it can be presented. Maintaining such a point of view, it is possible, he stated, to compare favorably the work of some modem dramatists with that of Shakespeare.
_______________________________919
“DOME” IS STILL ON SALE
Joe Wilk Announces That Several Are Left.
Joseph A. Wilk, circulation manager of the 1931 Dome, announces that there are still a few copies of the yearbook available for those who wish to procure them.
“However, I wish to warn the customers,” said Wilk, “that haste is of the greatest necessity if they do not wish to be turned away empty-handed. Due to the large demand for this year’s annual we have just a few copies left.”
For the benefit of those students who have paid for copies of the Dame ' and have not yet received them Wilk said that they may be procured by presenting their receipt cards at the Publications office any time between the hours 9:00 to 12:00.
There will be no increase in price for additional copies. This is a noticeable factor because of the scarcity of the volumes. The mailing list of the Dome is becoming larger and larger, due to the number of alumni who desire copies. Mi’. Wilk, however, is giving students first chance to get the annual.
FRANK BURKE KILLED IN AUTOMOBILE CRASH
Frank Patrick Burke, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, died in St. Anthony’s hospital, Michigan City, Monday morning, from injuries received in an automobile accident late Sunday night. At the time of the accident, Burke and five other Notre Dame men were returning to the University from a class prom which they had attended Friday evening at Rosary college.
The car in which the men were travelling skidded on the wet pavement about fifteen miles west of Michigan City. Burke was knocked unconscious from the impact which followed, w’hen the car hit another vehicle going in the opposite direction. He "was taken to the hospital in a private car, but never regained consciousness. He died at nine o’clock Monday morning. His two sisters from St. Mary’s and Father Mutch were at the bedside when he passed away.
920
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
PRESS CLUB ELECTS A. L. HIMBERT PRESIDENT FOR NEXT YEAR
Walter V. Beesley, a Eureka, Utah, boy who made good in the city. To the lads from O’Brien’s Crossing, South Dakota, who spend their days scoffing at the size of South Bend, this may mean little, but to Walt Beesley it does. He is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in journalism, and will graduate in June with a cum laude degree. And if that’s not enough, he’s make-up editor of the Scholastic, a member of the Blue Circle, Spanish club, and Senior Ball committee, secretary and treasurer of the Press club, although, he says, not many members seem aware of the latter office, and last but not least, he is a confirmed baseball player.
He came here at the instigation of Father George--O’Connor, a Notre Dame graduate, and one-time pastor in Utah. His first impression of Notre Dame was not very favorable, for it was made while he stood in line for two days trying to register. No one, Walt claims, ever got into the wrong line as much as he did.
He has lived off-campus for three years, spending his second year in Sophomore hall, and is at present living on South St. Louis boulevard. His residence for the first year was at St. Joseph farm, nine miles from Notre Dame, which is just about as far off-campus as one can get without going to correspondence school. Freshman year memories consist mainly of experiences as a member of Father Farley’s day-dog baseball team, which was runner-up for the interhall championship.
With the sophomore year came his only residence on the campus, and an interhall baseball championship with the Sophomore hall team. In his third year he received the biggest thrill of his life: Sophomore hall and Off-Campus played a tie game for the interhall football championship; a second game was played. With the score tied, and only a minute left to play, Walt scored a touchdown on a thirty yard pass to give Off-Campus their first interhall football championship. At present he is trying out for the varsity baseball team.
Although he says that -he would rather play baseball than eat, he likes to read, short stories mostly, and enjoys criticizing them. Among the novelists he prefers Dickens and
Scott, and would relegate to the waste basket everything by Sinclair Lewis.
He can generally be seen in the company of Joe O’Rourke, with whom
Walter V. Beesley
he has gone around for the past two years. One of their ambitions is to make a trip around the world, “Which,” says Walt, “seems to be the ambition of nearly every college man.”
His duties on the Scholastic in case you don’t know what a makeup editor does including the making-up of the pages of the magazine, and the conducting of the Comment column. He claims that Comment is really the editor’s column, but he has been doing it ever since the first week, when he consented to “help out.”
After graduation Walt is taking a position with his home town newspaper, and after his experience warrants it, intends to move to California. He has an offer to play baseball with the Salt Lake city team in the newly organized state league, which he will take up along with his journalism.
Students Publish “Features”
Seventy-eight feature stories have been published by journalism students during the past four months, according to announcement by John M. Cooney, head of the department. The stories, written about Notre Dame life, have received recognition in newspapers and magazines throughout the country.
The Press club elected officers for the year 1931-32 at a meeting last Monday evening in the journalism room of the library.
Arthur L. Himbert of Rock Island, Ill., was unanimously elected to succeed Robert Balfe as President. Edmund G. Britz of Chicago received the office of Vice-President. William W. Corr of New York City was named Secretary-Treasurer, and William J. Gorman of Whiting, Ind., was given the office of Press Representative.
After the elections were over the meeting was turned over by Vice-President John Sheehan to the newly elected president. Plans for increasing the club activities were discussed and the members are cooperating with the officers in securing for the club recognition in the Rockne Memorial Fund drive.
PRE-LAW CLUB ELECTS
FRANK FALLON HEAD
Frank Fallon, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Pre-law club, one of the new campus organizations, at a meeting of the club Friday night • in the Law building. William Kenefick, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was also a candidate for the office and was defeated by only a narrow margin of votes.
Other officers elected were: George Meyers, vice-president; Edward Riley, secretary, and Don Martin, treasurer. Meyers and Martin were elected unanimously and Edward Sarlus was the second candidate for the office of secretary.
Joseph Yoch, president of the Law club, introduced to the pre-lawyers Edward England, president-elect of the Law club. England in his speech outlined a program of cooperation between the two clubs for the coming year.
Business at the meeting was concerned with the collection of money for the Rockne memorial altar. Frank Fallon, president elect, had charge of this procedure.
The officer of the club for the past year were: Thomas Tobin, president; Robert Lee, vice-president; Frank McGee, secretary, and William New-bold, treasurer.


May 29, 1931
921
PRINCETON STUDENT IS WINNER OF LEAGUE ESSAY CONTEST
A Man You Know
Special to the Scholastic.
Howard C. Anderson Jr., a senior at Princeton university, was awarded the coveted first prize, a trip to Europe, in the first National Contest for College Students, according to the announcement made today by the Educational Committee of the League of Nations association under whose auspices the contest was held. His prize winning thesis, the only paper submitted from Princeton, was entitled “Hungary and the League of Nations.” Anderson will be given a trip to Europe this summer, spending some time at Geneva to study the League of Nations at first hand.
The second prize of $100 was won by Charles J. Smukler, 21 year old senior at the College of the City of New York, for his thesis on “Disarmament.”
Winner of the third prize of $50 is William A. Platz, a senior at Marquette university, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The subject of his paper was “An Economic Program for the League of Nations Designed to Prevent World-Wide Economic Depression.”
Honorable mention was awarded to the following: Frederick W. D. S. Channer, a junior at the University of Chicago; Hyman M. Greenstein of Chicago, a sophomore at Crane Junior College in Chicago; William M., Laas, a junior at Columbia university; Paul E. Fox, a senior at Ohio Wesleyan university; and Laura . T. Bultman of Lakewood, Ohio, a senior at Flora Stone Mather college, Western Reserve university.
The committee on award consisted of Harry J. Carman, of Columbia university, chairman; Dean Marshall Stewart Brown of New York university; Herbert Feis of the Council on Foreign Relations; Maude A. Hutt-man of Barnard college; and Philip .C. Jessup of Columbia university.
This is the first time that a contest for college students has been held by the League of Nations Association; there were 772 registrations from 46 states and the District of Columbia, representing 288 colleges. x
One could interview a number of people on our campus before he came upon a person whose life has been as varied and as eventful as that of the reserved, energetic man we came
Reverend Paul D. Doherty, C.S.C.
upon in Badin hall one night this week. We refer to the Reverend Paul D. Doherty, C.S.C., well known to anybody who has studied apologetics during the past three of four years at Notre Dame — anybody, we should have said, who has been one of the thousand students who have come in contact with this genial individual while he has been patiently driving religion into the heads of our sophomores.
Father Doherty was bom in Louisville, Kentucky, in 1892. He accordingly likes his horse-racing, and enjoys recalling to memory the days when his grandfather was one of the original members of the old Jockey club. After spending the year 1908-09 at Georgetown university, Father Doherty spent five years at the University of Michigan, where he received his bachelor of law degree in 1914. Returning to Louisville, he then proceeded to practice law, specializing in the legal aspects of insurance and corporations.
When the war broke out Father Doherty was sent to Camp Custer, Michigan, and later to Camp Meade, Maryland, after having received a first lieutenant’s commission. When the war was over he was sent across with a group of exceedingly young-soldiers whom he had trained to replace some of the badly battered troops in Germany and France. Those days in the war regions, during which he made a study of conditions for the
government, were, accordingly to Father Doherty, “the three most wonderful months of my life.” Returning to the United States in 1919 he again took up his law practice in Louisville for another year. He then started on a year of travel throughout the country, during which period he devoted the greater part of his time to the study of music. It was during this time that he decided definitely on his life calling, and the year 1921 found him in the seminary at Notre Dame. Here he studied philosophy for a year and a half and then journeyed to Washington for four years of theology and graduate work at Holy Cross college and Catholic University of America. He was then ordained in June, 1928, and came to Notre Dame to teach.
A varied life ? Yes, but it has likewise been a happy one for this man. Anybody who converses with Father Doherty for a few minutes will find that he is very much wrapped up in his work, so much so in fact that he hasn’t had the time to do much work towards his master’s and doctor’s degrees, both of which he intends to obtain before many years have passed. Besides his classes in religion, he also teaches a course in legal ethics to the lawyers. We dare say that he knows his subject. Father Doherty has many hobbies, not the least of which are tennis, swimming, hiking, and the study of music. This was the first time we ever chatted with this man, but we look forward to our friendship with him.
BROWN AUTOGRAPHS
COPIES OF. “ROCKNE”
Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, and author of the life of Knute K. Rockne, entitled Rockne, was in South Bend last Wednesday to autograph copies of the book for those who have purchased them.
Mr. Brown was at Livingston’s South Bend store, where hundreds of townspeople as well as students requested his autograph.
Rockne has been enthusiastically received by the public everywhere and has enjoyed an enormous sale.
922
The Scholastic
COMING EVENTS
Dates subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, May 29—Metropolitan club meeting, 6:30 p. m., old Law building.
SATURDAY, May 30 — Memorial Day, no classes.—Memorial exercises. — Baseball game, Michigan State vs. Notre Dame at East Lansing.
SUNDAY, May 31—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.
MONDAY, June 1 — Examinations, classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, and 2:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10: CO, 1:15, and 3:15 respectively. Classes taught at 4:15 any day will be examined at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, and 3:15 respectively. Classes taught at 4:15 any day will be examined at 7:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, June 2 — Examinations, classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, and 2:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, and 3:15 respectively. Classes taught at 7:00 p. m. any day will be examined at 7:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, June 3 —Examinations, ciasses taught at 9:00, 11:00, and 2:15 on Wednesdays and classes taught at 2:15 on Thursdays will be examined at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, and 3:15 respectively.
THURSDAY, June 4—Examinations, classes taught at 9:00 and 11:00 will be examined at 8:00 and 10:00 respectively. School for underclassmen will be dismissed for the summer recess at 12:00 noon.
Pharmacy Club Elects
Stanley Czapalski was elected president of the Pharmacy club for next year at a meeting of the club held last Tuesday. Other officers are: Henry Gajkoski, vice-president; Casimir Vaikasas, secretary; Ned Bickford, treasurer.
The new officers were installed at a banquet at the Oldenburg inn. Edward Draves was toastmaster.
PHILLIPS RE-ELECTED AS PRESIDENT OF NOTRE DAME BAND
Virgilius Phillips, who for the past year has held the position of president of the University band, was reelected to the post for the coming year at a meeting held recently. Due to failing health Phillips was forced to leave school during the first semester, but will return to Notre Dame when activities are resumed in the fall.
The office of vice-president of this branch of musical activity will be held by George Stenger, a member of the band and the Glee club for the past three years. Robert Filson and James McFeely were named as junior officer and publicity director respectively.
With the commencement day exercises drawing near, members of the band are practicing nightly in preparation for the numerous appearances which that organization will make throughout the next week. Those musicians comprising the concert band will remain at the University in order to take part in the program arranged for graduation, according to Prof. Joseph Casasanta, director of the organization.
CONTROVERSY HINGES UPON PHILLIPS’ BOOK
A literary controversy of international dimensions and of special interest to Notre Dame is now going on in the New York Times. The dispute is between Sir Philip Gibbs, noted British writer, author of a recent book, Since Then, and Rom Landau, Polish author, whose Pilsudski and Poland, a biography of the Polish “dictator” was published in 1929. Landau has accused Gibbs of “lifting” material for his book from Landau’s work. Notre Dame is drawn into the controversy by Sir Philip Gibbs, who retorts to Landau’s charge by not only acknowledging The New Poland, by Professor Charles Phillips, as the source of his material, but by virtually charging Landau with plagiarizing from the Phillips book. Wednesday of last week the New York Tinies devoted two columns to the dispute, quoting a number of passages from Professor Phillips’ volume. Professor Phillips’ book was published in London in 1923.
Campus Opinions
Question: What do you intend doing after graduation?
Edward J. Flynn, Sorin hall, senior—“Thanks to my ‘profs,’ the University at large, and myself, I’ll be just another individual upon Commencement day. That individuality plus incessant initiative will do the pushing. My eyes, plus the body of their impressions, will lead the way. Who says I’m an engineer?”
Ramon G. Smith, Sorin hall, senior—“After graduation I’ll be embarking on what I believe to be an honorable and notable career in the Texas oil fields. I’ll count myself a success if I’m able to send each one of the men in this column a rattlesnake ‘button.’ ”
“Because I’ll be back at Notre Dame in a year or so for a little more work, I’ll not say good-bye—just ‘so long.’
“Otherwise, I’ll try to do my best at the good job I have, and try to give others some of what Notre Dame has taught me about decency and clean living.”
Francis M. Loney, Sorin hall, senior—“My first intention after graduation is to obtain a position with a reliable concern where I may, by faithful and constant fulfillment of duties, attain success, success in both material and moral phase.
“I sincerely hope to be able to put into practice all the maxims I have learned at Notre Dame, thereby proving myself worthy of all that ‘Notre Dame’ implies. The world may be adverse to many of those principles, but a ‘Fighting Irishman’ cannot quit.”
Thomas F. Golden, off-campus, senior—“Graduation—. My! what the word connotes. The ultimatum, the consummation, the end of four years of more or less hard work, coupled with the greatest happiness, the most perfect contentment that I have ever known. No matter how perfect my future life, no matter how complete my success, nothing I do from now on can ever measure up to the four years of attendance at Notre Dame. I am sure I shall never spend four years in more perfect and beautiful surroundings, both human and natural.”
May 29, 1931
923
EDITOK’J PACE
HAIL AND FAREWELL!
As far as the student body in general is concerned, this is the last issue of the Scholastic for this school year that they will see. There will be one more for the embryo alumni, dedicated to them. There will be absolutely nothing in this issue, on the editorial page or anywhere else in the weekly, which might cause a final storm of protest of the nature of other storms that have assailed the staff during the year. Perhaps it is just as well that we go out quietly, with nothing left of criticism but a memory.
The year has been a good one, an outstanding one as far as the Scholastic is concerned. When the present staff took over the management of the periodical it set a standard for itself which it has subsequently held to rigidly and at times frantically in the face of caustic comments from student and faculty. That standard involved the assertion that a campus publication should be concerned vitally with goings-on on the campus, and that the paper should attempt to point out and to correct, when possible, things which took on the nature of abuses. The Scholastic claimed a right to condemn any practices which it thought were injurious to the reputation of the University or to the much-discussed privileges of the students, and followed that right in its editorial policy. The result was that the students balked at being defended; other interests balked at this defense ; organizations cried “libel”; and the paper even got letters from anonymous critics. •
In spite of the hue and cry the weekly has continued its policy, considering it the only one which is not hypocritical. It has refused to be ordinary and mediocre, or in any way tepid, and it holds that where it has been outspoken, it has had reason.
In this last issue we want to use all the space permissible to thank those men who have made possible the weekly output of the Scholastic, and those whose constructive criticism has helped keep up a policy that was almost downed in particularly bad times. Mention of our thanks for their fine work is at best a feeble reward, but it is backed up by appreciation. They must not forget that they got, too, a pretty good banquet, and that they will get a Scholastic key sometime this summer.
First of all we want to thank Mr. Rauch, who sat over the paper every week and who gave extremely valuable hints as to the conduct of a college weekly. To the amiable and pleasantly caustic John Stoeckley, many thanks for his help. We’ll not soon forget the knockout speech he delivered at the publications banquet. Neil Hurley’s work has been splendid, and besides gratitude for that, we want to wish him all sorts of luck with the Scholastic next year. We hope he is long suffering and has a sense of humor. John Kiener’s diligence and skill have been invaluable, and the Scholastic is lucky to have him back next year.
We think the Week this year has never had an equal for genuine wit and discernment, or for coming in so close to the absolute deadline. Dick O’Donnell is the cause of both, and our thanks must include gratitude to him for not getting his column in too late. Thanks to Danny Williams for a College Parade that the students, for once, really read; to Austy Boyle (the quitter!) and Eddie Brennan for a corking Wink; to Walt Beesley for a sane column of comment; and to John Bergan for his good work.
The associate editors were the chief reasons why the paper got out on time each week, and we are indebted to them more than they know. Bill Karl and Ed. Stephan did good work with their news staff, and Henry Asman with his band of sports writers. We want to thank Jim Carmody for everything except a couple of editorials that brought the already hot water to a boil; Paul Hallinan for the time he gave us away from the Dome; Les Raddatz for the first club section that ever was read past the first two lines; Bill Corr for his faithfulness and ability; and Jim Collins for some well-written features; John Blanda, Drew McGuan, and Jim Rorke for selling the weekly; all those who ever wrote a line for or gave a good word to a much-maligned publication.
And with these thanks we go out of the picture. Let these few words suffice to show an appreciation that we really have and is really active. The best to those who are coming up; may they have as fine a staff as we have had, and may their copy come in hours before the deadline.
924
The Scholastic
COLLEGE LAE AI) I
CAESAR AND YALE
Ivy-covered Yale recently wiped some of the cob-webs from its aged brow and proceeded to shock the educational world by dropping Latin. Almost as aged educators shook their bald pates in disapproval.
“Tsk, tsk—what will our younger generation do without the knowledge of the old world?” questioned they.
To them Yale dropping Latin was like Atlas dropping the sky.
Yale university, long regarded as the fortress of classicism, has abolished the classics—Latin and Greek— as a requirement for the bachelor of arts degree.
The president and fellows of the university decided upon that action upon the recommendation of the dean and faculty of Yale college, according to the announcement by Provost Charles Seymour. The bachelor of philosophy degree, for which neither Latin nor Greek was required, is, of consequence, abolished. Beginning with the class which graduates in 1932 all students in the college will become candidates for the A.B. degree.
“As far back as 1924 the faculty recognized the absurdity of awarding academic honors on the presumption that the classics were without peer in the development of the intellect, but a corporation dominated by dyed-in-the-wool classicists tabled the proposal,” said the Yale Daily Neivs.
* * *
A NOTE ON CULTURE
The reaction against “five-foot bookshelf” culture seems to have reached the middle west, for the Minnesota Daily prints the following comment:
“For the sum of $249.42, it seems, a person may acquire a general culture in all fields. Thus saith the faculty committee of the College of Science, Literature and the Arts, and, suiting the action to the word, submits a list of 67 volumes by means of which one may become cultured. Outside of the obvious impossibility of setting down, in a set system of specific works, a plan by means of which one may take unto himself the habiliments of ‘culture,’ the faculty committee seems to have erred grievously in compiling this list.”
In the scanning the list of 67 books one notes that in most instances the works listed have as part of their titles “Outline’ ’or “History.” Plato is there, to be sure, as well as The Trail and Death of Socrates. But where is Dante? Shakespeare? Moliere? Voltaire? Milton? Where are Bergson, Santayana and Bertrand Russell? The faculty which compiled this list seems not to know.
It is folly to maintain that one may gain “culture” by an assiduous study of quasi-textbooks dealing with certain subjects in the various fields of knowledge. It is said that culture itself is indefinable. It seems the very height of nonsense to state that one may become “cultured” by the laborious process of study.
The faculty committee which compiled this list of books might rather have said: “for $248.42 one may become a walking index of historical and scientific information.”
PARODY
In summary of a long list of activities that may attract the interest of students, the Daily Illini of the University of Illinois set down what it considers six advantages of participating in extra-curricular work. They are:
1.	Gives rating privileges.
2.	Acts as an incentive to grades.
3.	Forms lasting friendships.
4.	Develops personality.
5.	Trains for professional and practical work.
6.	Shows way to live with the world.
Completing its editorial, the Daily Illini says, “For the student who has ability to keep up both his studies and work in activities, we believe that he is neglecting a vital part of his university life when he says out of extracurricular participation.”
An Oregon senior after reading the Illinois editorial found it a subject for rather cynical comment. After four years in extra-curricular work, he was impressed more with its disadvantages than its advantages. He revised the six points to read in this manner: .
1.	Sets up false standards.
2.	Acts as a preventive to grades.
3.	Forms surface friendships.
4.	Perverts personality.
5.	Trains for petty racketeering.
6.	Shows way to appear to live without really knowing the score.
While these points may seem wholly factitious, there is something to be said about the disadvantages that may come from participation in extra-curricular work. Often a student shows more real strength of character when he stays out of student activities. Many times the leaders in student affairs find that their class work is suffering because of lack of time to devote to studies. For the campus “politicians” the friendships formed are often only surface friendships; perhaps there is even a degree of “petty racketeering.”
But for the student who can indulge in extra-curricular work without neglecting his class work, and who is working with the thought of acquiring practical experience for later life work, there is, much to be gained.
AN EXPLANATION
In an interview explaining his writing of verses, Ogden Nash said, “How did I come to write Hard Lines? Ignorance and laziness mostly, and lack of anything to say; I’ll explain. One year at Harvard destroyed my mind, which up to that time had been a source of pride to my parents, though not much use to me. So I left. . . and . . . never got an education.”
May 29, 1931
A	------------
925
A Short Description of Holy Cross Seminary
By WALTER JOHNSON
c
t
This is a piece with, if not a moral, at least an objective. The wit who made that rather well known statement about America lying behind the signboards could, with equal justification, have remarked that many an important phase of Notre Dame is obscured by the smokescreen of publicity which is the inevitable result of a National Championship football team.
And not the least of these phases is Holy Cross Seminary! There are, perhaps, a majority of the students right here at Notre Dame who, if asked about Holy Cross, could tell one little more than that it is one of the buildings “across the lake.” Their knowledge of the matter is then exhausted. Now this is not vocational propaganda—but a realization and knowledge of the history and purpose of this institution
Where Young Seminarians Are Trained
might not be entirely useless information. Directly across St. Mary’s lake from the Gold Coast of the Notre Dame campus is the Seminary. It is a building that the student cannot help seeing and admiring on his walk around the lakes.
Holy Cross Seminary is the preparatory Seminary of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States. A glance through the catalog also tells us that it was opened in 1886, to fill a need which the founder of Notre Dame, the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., considered urgent. Each religious community comes into existence tc fill some special purpose, and consequently has its own distinct spirit and traditions. Thus it was desired that candidates be received in their youth, boys still in their “teens” who would grow up in the true atmosphere of , Holy Cross.
That handsome brick structure, with its apparently off-center cupola and its spacious shaded lawn, is obviously not the original seminary. Although it still remains as a part of the group, the latter has been practically surrounded by additions necessary to meet the growth of the institution. In the spring of 1922 two large portions were added, front and rear faces. These included dormitories, study halls, a chapel, refectory, auditorium and recreation rooms, in keeping with religious simplicity, but modern and homelike. Plans for the immediate future include the replacing of the original building with a third section of the new type.
Probably the first question which arises in one’s mind concerns the life of the youngsters who must be, so we imagine, much different from the ordinary boy of the same age. Admittedly, a certain difference is inevitable,
but after talking to them one realizes that boys . . . will be boys. Naturally the religious side of life predominates; spiritual exercises common to most seminaries constitute the routine of Holy Cross. Meditation, mass, communion in the morning, spiritual reading and visits to the chapel through the day, and night prayer are daily exercises made in common. A monthly retreat beginning Saturday night and ending Sunday noon is a time given over to religious conferences and meditation.
A healthy body, however, is no small asset to the future priest, and therefore the seminary routine includes not only hard prayer and study, but also great amounts of hard play. At recreation time all must engage in some form of sport. Thus in proper season the football, basketball and baseball come into
use. Almost any time during the fall or spring one can see and hear the seminarians forgetting whatever dignity may have resulted from their surroundings and indulging heartily and lustily in the various sports. Handball is played at all times of the year, and in summer swimming is permitted every day. During the vacation periods, at Christmas and Easter, the candidates are permitted to read approved works of fiction. Thus, without being over-emphasized, recreation has its full share in the curriculum of the seminary.
Another perfectly natural question that arises concerns discipline. If we, you say, with our relative freedom, are under so many restrictions, what about the chap in a seminary? Now training necessitates discipline; but the discipline at Holy Cross trains without subjecting. The candidate is taught to obey, not to please superiors or to avoid punishment, but because it is the rule, and consequently the right thing to do.
And vacations? Oh, yes; the candidate has his holidays, too. There are three vacations during the school year, Christmas, Easter and summer. During the first two of these the students are not allowed to leave the seminary, but classes are discontinued and recreation takes the foremost place. Preparatory seminarians at Holy Cross return to their homes each summer for a period of about six weeks. There, as in the seminary, certain regulations must be regarded. Mass and daily communion, visits to pastors and a number of letters to the Superior of the seminary are essential under the set of rules which also forbid companionship and association not in keeping with the ideals of the congregation.
926
The Scholastic
THE WINE
Shed a tear For Joe McBlow, He paid to see The Boxing show.
Because the Weary Bumpephecame too weary, the task
of turning out this page falls gently upon the shoulders of
the Hopeless Hobo.
L’ENVOI!
Have you ever stopped to wonder, As you sit alone at night, Where zve will have wandered Just a year from tonight.
As scattered leaves in autumn skies, We’ll drift far, you and I, And some will fall and some will arise, And some will soar on high.
But some of us zvill meet again, As the tide of years roll on And zvill dzink a toast to all Azid give a yell for thirty-one.
—Quiffy.
Thanks to you, Quiffy, and we’ll be among the jobhunters mentioned above when you little boys are still enjoying (?) Wednesday afternoon dates and ten o’clock check-ups.
And now comes a contribution, which the Wink passes on to you, quite dumbly and without comment.
THE SUN AND MOON (An Episode In Jealousy) The SUN speaks proudly:
I zvas a carnival, ringing zvith a haunting tune, Splashes of colored rhythm that came azid zvent too soon. Do you reznember?
The MOON ansivers:
I remember that the silver singing of my heart, ■
Held thrice more poignant joy than a bird’s song could impart.
The SUN cries exzdtingly:
But I inspired men when my banners had unfurled, To zise azid seek a nezvei' and fairez' zvorld.
Do you remember?
The MOON replies softly:
I remember some clustered stars azid a pallid pool
Where countless lovers znet and kissed zvith their lips so cool;
I remember a nightingale that trilled zvith delight, Then broke its heart zvhen you came with a harsh blast of light.
The SUN speaks proudly:
I was a radiance! Smoky znauve and drifting gold, Cz-ying zvith beauty that pagan gods alone behold! Do you remember?
The MOON whispers:
I remember that the dawn was a gray mist of pain, I remember a night that will never come again.
—Canaras.
A mean letter from a meanie:
“Dear Sir:
“Knight Mare wishes to acknowledge your gracious acceptance of his contributions to your section, The Wink. Apparently the society of your “steadfast contributors’ is most exclusive. Your correspondent should appreciate knowing just what, if anything, is the basis of admittance to your restricted group of literati.
“Sincerely yours,
“Knight Mare.”
The work of conducting this column is surely thankless. The contributors kick when we don’t print the poems they wrote in first year high school classes, “ye Ed” constantly berates us for not getting copy in two weeks before the issue. Friends, we thank our lucky stars we graduate (“what’s the third, Joe?”), soon, we hope.
QUICK WINKS
Ye Ed hitting the books quite ably . . . while ye new Ed and ye little Eds turn out the “favourite weekly” . . . Ye Wink Ed for next year wondering where he will get stuff for his column . . . and this column smiling because we know how to fill it . . . just write drivel like this . . . and stick in more dots . . . like these . . . The surly greetings heard around the campus . . . The army of after-dinner golfers . . . The new use for dining-hall cards ... to get into the dining hall . . . The sophomore who asked George Spalding ... a “very personal question” . . . The griping heard on the campus . . . because so-and-so has to wait twenty-four hours for one exam . . . The canine connivings in Walsh . . . The fight over the authorship of The Week . . . see how we solved the difficulty . . . The Presidents’ council to eliminate politics . . . and then holding elections with all the trappings . . . The S. A. C. boxing show blurb sign . . . still facing the dining hall walk . . . nobody willing to move it . . . Where’s the Blue Circle? . . .
We are unable to continue any farther with our own meager thoughts so we’ll let Bishop M. finish the show.
MEMORY ROSE
She gave me a beautiful rose of red, As we stood beneath a whispering yezv, She smiled a wistful smile and said: “This is a token of zny love for you!” But alas! she sped azvazj from me, . And death left her in a slumbering doze, But o’er zvizidy land and raging sea I have always borne my memory rose.
And now I ask for a parting boon: Whenever I die, wherever it may be, (Under native sun or foreign moon) I want, mzj memory rose placed o’er me!
—Bishop M.
This will be the last Wink to be seen by my friends and particularly those who were kind enough to contribute to this column. The one who turned out this column all year would like to thank all of them and to ask them to aid his successor, “????????” Contribute! Adieu, friends, —The Hopeless Hobo.
May 29, 1931
927
< SPORTS <
Golfers Sweep State Tournament
Moller Wins Individual Title, O’Shea	NOTRE DAME NINE WINS
Second; Team Scores Easy Victory FROM PURDUE, 10-7
Detroit Beaten Monday in Last Dual Meet on Season’s Card; Nationals Only Barrier.
0

Notre Dame’s great golf team, undefeated in two years, successfully defended its Indiana collegiate golf title last Friday in the annual state golf tournament held at Rea Park course, Terre Haute. The quartet of Fran Beaupre, Bill Redmond, Russ Beaupre, and Louis O’Shea turned in the lowest aggregated score of the seven teams in competition, a 616. On Saturday, Larry Moller, long-driving Notre Dame star, won the individual title with a brilliant 305, defeating his team mate O’Shea by a single point.
The tournament was a Notre Dame affair all the way through. Their card of 616 in the team play was 26 strokes better than that of Purdue the runners-up, and 48 strokes better than that of Indiana, who finished third. Other ranking were: Valparaiso, fourth; DePauw, fifth; Wabash, sixth, and Indiana State, seventh.
In the championship foursome the scores were: O’Shea, 150; Redmond, 153; Fran Beaupre, 155, and Russ Beaupre, 158. Moller did not compete in the team play, but shot a 149 to cop low medalist honors; the 36 holes of team play were considered as the qualifying round for the individual tournament. The play Friday was over a wet muddy course, which greatly handicapped low scoring.
One bad hole, the 17th on the last round, cost O’Shea the individual title. A hooked drive into the rough followed by three putts gave him a seven for the par five hole, and cost him two strokes, including his one stroke lead over Moller. Louie had a
one stroke advantage at the end of 54 holes, but after the completion of the first nine holes of the afternoon round Moller tied it up with a 38, O’Shea getting a 39. Honors were even from that point on to the 213 yard 16th, when O’Shea was down in par three and Moller got a four. On the 17th O’Shea lost the match when he gave Moller a one stroke advantage; they halved the 18th with fours; O’Shea was on the green in two but rimmed his long putt and took a 305 for the seventy-two holes.
Fran Beaupre was tied with Talbot of Indiana for third place; Bill Redmond, the defending champion, added another for Notre Dame with fourth, and Russ Beaupre took fifth.
With this brilliant exhibition Notre Dame demonstrated their fine, well balanced team. It was their greatest success in two years of competition, and the most amazing victory ever achieved in the state golf tournament. By so easily winning the team title, and by placing five men among the first six in the individual competition, Notre Dame proved that they have a team worthy of national recognition —and that will be their goal in the national intercollegiate tournament next month.
NOTRE DAME 13%, DETROIT 4% May 25, 1931
Notre Dame’s undefeated golf team closed the season Monday with a 13% to 4% victory over Detroit university on the local links. Led by Larry Moller and Louie O’Shea, the Blue and Gold quartet was out in front all of the way. Detroit, with Art McFawn playing the best game, made an early threat to avenge the previous defeat at the hands of the Notre Dame contingent, but their hopes wilted in the singles matches.
(Continued on Page 937)
Keoganites Hammer Purdue For Thirteen Safeties.
Two big rallies in the fourth and eighth innings netted the Notre Dame ball tossers a 10 to 7 victory over Purdue Tuesday at Lafayette. The game was featured by heavy hitting by both teams and by fielding that was a bit ragged in spots. Each team collected thirteen hits but Notre Dame included two triples and one circuit blow in their total to outscore the Boilermakers.
Lefty Lisicki started on the mound for the Keoganites but was nicked freely during the first three frames. Purdue picked up one tally in the opening round and two more in the third. At this point the Blue and Gold nine opened fire on Palo of the home club and drove him to the showers with a barrage of base hits. Schupp relieved him but fared no better and left the game quickly under the hammering of the Notre Dame batsmen. Hoopengarder appeared next in the parade of twirlers and stayed in the ball game till the finish. Before he retired the side in the fourth, though, two more runs had flashed across the plate and Notre Dame held a 6 to 3 lead.
In the Purdue half of the fourth, Coach Keogan sent Charley Mannix into the box for Lisicki and the downstaters greeted him with a pair of runs. They tied the score in the sixth but Notre Dame pulled away to a safe lead in the eighth with three markers.
In this inning a walk, an error and a single that went for a home run drove the three scores across and put the game on ice for the Keoganites. Purdue countered in the ninth with a threatening rally but the Notre Dame mentor withdrew Mannix in
(Continued on Page 931)

The Scholastic
928____________________________________
NOTRE DAME IS PUSHED TO RETAIN C. I. C. TRACK CROWN AT MILWAUKEE
Men of Nicholson Forced to Win Three of Last Four Events on Evening’s Card
Notre Dame’s track team most fittingly climaxed a more or less off and on outdoor season, by retaining her Central Intercollegiate Confer- . ence championship at Marquette stadium, in Milwaukee, last Friday night. The winners received the beautiful Rockne trophy, emblematic of the championship, which was offered to the victors of the meet this year in memory of the late coach. Coach Nicholson’s men, with defeat staring them in the face, were forced to come from behind, and won three out of the last four events on the program to clinch their title. The well balanced strength of the Blue and Gold squad enabled them to run up 48 points, as compared to 37% by Marquette. Michigan State was a close third with 32% points while Butler drew up in fourth place with 27 points. Seven other middle-western institutions were represented in the field, but only three of them figured in the scoring.
Six old records went by the boards as a result of the onslaught by the assembled athletes, four of these being in the track events and two in the field. Jack Tierney, lithe Marquette speedster, cracked the existing records in both the 100- and 220-yard dashes, but was forced to relinquish his grip on the high scoring honors for the evening to Gerboth of Milwaukee Teachers, who personally accounted for eleven points.
Clark Chamberlain, diminutive Michigan State distance man and national cross country champion, ran the two miles in 9:18.7, less than a second behind the intercollegiate record established by Berna of Cornell in 1912. Joe Sivak and Bert Nelson, Butler’s “Big Guns,” along with Gerboth were the other record breakers for the evening. Sivak, whose specialty is the mile, shunned this event to compete in the half mile run and obliged with a performance of 1:55.2, to shatter the old record established by Brant Little of Notre Dame, in 1930. Nelson set up a new mark of 6 feet one-and-a-half inches in the
high jump, and Gerboth surpassed “Nordy” Hoffman’s old record in the discus with a heave of 137 feet two inches.
Roy Bailie
Low Hurdle Champion
Alex Wilson ran true to form in the 440-yard run and won the event in the good time of :49.4 Jack Scanlon of Notre Dame finished second. Roy Bailie had little trouble in winning the 220-yard low hurdles in the fine time of :24.6. In the qualifying heat Bailie tied the old mark of :24.5, but was not pressed in the finals. Gough was the only other Blue and Gold performer to win a first place, his coming in the broad jump with a (Continued on Page 932)
NORTHWESTERN HANDS NETMEN FIRST SHUTOUT
Notre Dame Is Blanked By 9-0 In Match At Evanston.	‘
Captain Matt. O’Brien and his company of scrappy Notre Dame racquet-men were badly beaten by a score of 9-0 last Friday, by Captain Bert Reil and his Northwestern Wildcats. • The Blue and Gold men were , unable to check the barrage of fast and clever shots sent over the net by the Wildcats, who played steady and consistent tennis throughout the meet.
Captain Bert Reil, who will be remembered for the sparkling brand of basketball he exhibited here last win- , ter, defeated Captain Matt O’Brien, of the Fighting Irish, forcing Matt out of the play aftei- two sets which ended 6-0, 6-2. Bill Reaume, who has been playing fairly good ball all season, fell in defeat to Dodge, Northwestern’s No. 2 man, but stayed a bit ( longer than did Matt. He took the second set, and lost the first and third, 6-4, 2-6, 6-2. Bob Kendall was badly beaten by Sheldon of the Wildcat team, being taken by a 6-4, 6-1 count. Mike O’Brien, Joe Borda, and Frank Sullivan also lost their singles matches to , Fuller, Evans, and Hails respectively.
The doubles matches seemed to prove the real brand of tennis played at Northwestern. The best match of the day was the doubles match between Matt O’Brien and Kendall opposing Reil and Dodge. The local ( netmen were overpowered, however, and nipped in straight sets, 6-1, 7-5. Joe Borda and Bill Reaume tried gallantly to stop the 6-1, 6-2 onslaught of Sheldon and Fuller, but the breaks would just not side with them. In the third doubles match Mike O’Brien and Sullivan started well by taking the first set 2-6, but lost out in the following two, 10-8, 6-4.
Tennis Teams to Meet
Michigan State’s tennis team will be the first team to test the strength of Notre Dame’s racquet-men on the new asphalt courts recently installed just north of the baseball stands.
The Blue and Gold team has won two matches on the Leeper park asphalt courts, winning decisively over Armour Tech and Loyola, both of Chicago. Michigan State has two fine players in Olsen and Mott. These two men played some good tennis in the C.I.C. meets recently held in Chicago.
May 29, 1931
929
N. D. PLAYS POORLY TO DROP IOWA GAME
Hawkeyes Sock Blue Hurlers Freely To Win 8-1.
a late date
Taking advantage of four Notre Dame bobbles and garnering eight safeties, Iowa university last Saturday recorded their first win in nine starts this season, by a score of 8-1. Johnny Ingraham, Hawkeye portsider, let the Notre Dame lads down with five hits in the game that was played on the Iowa home lot in Iowa City. In an earlier game on Cartier field, the locals easily defeated the Big Ten team.
Mannix, Palt, and Lisicki were the three Notre Dame hurlers to face the lowans. The first two were knocked from the box, Lisicki finishing the game, though Mannix received credit for the loss. The opposing twirler, Ingraham, had things his own way throughout the contest since Notre Dame did not seriously threaten at any time. Their only marker was scored in the ninth inning.
Starting the mad scramble around the bases in the second inning, Iowa counted three runs after two hits and a pair of walks had set the stage. From that point on they were never headed. In four turns at bat, Reed-quist, Hawkeye first baseman, turned in a record of four bingles, making it a perfect day at the plate. Sullivan, Notre Dame first sacker, was the only player on the losing squad to solve Ingraham’s benders more than once. Mahoney, Palt, and O’Connor registered with a hit apiece to bring the Notre Dame total to five.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in American colleges are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALLBRAN, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaf-fee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
Nelson, c....................1
Reedquist, lb ...............4
Riegert, ss .................4
Friego, rf ..................0
Fiala, rf ...................3
Ingraham, p .................4
WHAT better treat is there late in the evening than a heaping bowl of the peppy cereal— Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes!
They do not interfere with sleep, for they are light and easily digested. Yet you get the nourishment of whole wheat, just a healthful amount of bran, and the famous flavor of PEP.
Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. In the red-and-green package.
BRAN FLAKES
3 0 1 3 4 10
111 10	0
0	2	4
0	0	2
Totals .......................31	8	8	27
NOTRE DAME
B R H O
This loss evens the season with three of Notre Dame’s Big Ten foes. Earlier in the year the home guards bested Wisconsin and Iowa on Cartier field, losing to Northwestern at Evanston. In the return engagements the tables were turned, Northwestern losing here, and Wisconsin and Iowa taking the measure of Coach George Keogan’s boys on foreign fields.
The box score and summary:
Askew, 2b ..................3
O’Keefe, 3b.................3
Bosco, ss ................  2
' Lomasney, If ...............4
Sullivan, lb ...............4
Russo, rf ..................3
Kolski. c ..................2
Dolan, c ...................1
O’Connor, cf ...............3
Mannix, p ..................0
Palt, p ....................2
Lisicki, p .................0
Mahoney ....................1
0	0
0	0
0 . 0
1	0
0	2
0	0
0	0
0	0
0	1
0	0
0	1
0	0
0	1
1
2
3 0
8
1
6 0
3
0
0 0
0
Totals .......................28	1	5	24
Score by innings:
Iowa ..........0	31 030 01 0—8 8 1
Notre Dame ....0 00 000 00 1—1 5 4
IOWA Prange, 3b ................. Kenny, 2b .................. Koser, If .................. Mowery, cf .................
B	R
4	0
2	0
5	0
4	0
it	o
0	1
1	4
0	1
0	3
Mahoney batted for Palt in eighth.
Errors—Kenny, O’Keefe, Bosco, Kolski 2. Bases on balls—off Ingraham, 5; off Mannix, 3 : off Palt, 3. Left on bases—Iowa, 7; Notre Dame, 6. Earned runs—Iowa, 4. Wild pitch— Palt. Struck out—by Mannix, 2; by Palt, 2. Losing pitcher—Mannix.
Howard Hall Loses By 3-2
Howard hall’s string of victories was snapped by the Moreau Seminary nine last Sunday when the seminarians took the second game of the campus championship series by a 3-2 score. The game was hard fought from the first inning till the last man was put out, and the close score gives but little indication of the bitterness of the battle.
Carey, port-side hurler of the winners, hooked up in a brilliant duel with Butler, of the Howardites, each man allowing a meager amount of safe hits, with strike-outs coming in almost monotonous regularity. Butler also was the shining star of the game with the willow, connecting for a long triple in the fourth, and being robbed of a sure homer when the seminarians’ center fielder made a circus catch of his line drive in the early part of the game. The third and deciding game of the series will be played on Sunday.
930
The- Scholastic
NOTRE DAME NINE TO MEET SPARTANS AT MICHIGAN STATE
While the racing cars are roaring around the two-mile oval in the 500 mile speed classic at Indianapolis on Memorial Day the Notre Dame varsity ball team will engage the Michigan State nine. The game is called for Saturday afternoon at two-thirty on the East Lansing campus.
The Michigan State team has been playing consistent ball during the past few weeks. They have been
adept with the bat and have proved themselves above par afield. The pitching has been on an equal with their hitting and their work in the field. The Spartan team does not boast of any outstanding hitters, but the burden of producing base hits is well distributed over the line-up.
Notre Dame with its impressive 10 to 7 victory over the Boilermakers at Purdue, has shown that the players have at last found their batting eye and are ready to meet all competition. The pitching remains at its high level of excellence, as does the
good defensive play. Members of the team have improved their hitting and may be considered a threat to any pitcher. The team has rounded into mid-season form and should make a good showing in their remaining games. The pitching burden in the Michigan State game will fall on the shoulders of either Palt, or Lisicki.
Since Notre Dame has a home and home agreement with the East Lansing college, the Blue and Gold nine will engage the Michigan State team in a Commencement Week game on Saturday, June 6.
eorae'
'er'
WALK-OVER Vacation Shoes
J'ni/iana
Play id Idling
Check “Sport Shoes” (V) on your list of sport necessities. Indispensable for vacation . . . comforting for everyday wear ... cool in warm weather.
<ov
S-HO-ES -FOR. N1-EN
ONE - ONE - ONE SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Suits, tailored by Oxford the World's Finest Clothing $65 values $43.3^
Netv Bachrach Neckwear $2 Ties $1.3 b
Trimble Hats $10 values $6.67
Columbus Shirts $4 values $2.67
Imported and Domestic Mens-Wear
MsnHHKana
(
May 29, 1931
931
EIGHT GOLFERS REACH QUARTER-FINALS OF SCHOOL TOURNEY
Many upsets, eighteenth hole victories, and otherwise hectic golf matches marked the third round of the University Golf tournament. Eight players go into the fourth round of the tournament this week, Russ Beaupre, Larry Moller, Fran Beaupre, John Gosticham, Vin Feh-lig, Al O’Brien, John Banks and Johnny Montedonico.
The surprise of the week came with the defeat of Art Bradley, defending champion, to Russ Beaupre, two up. The Livingston cup champion battled evenly all the way, and it was not until the last three holes that the varsity star was able to gain an advantage.
Another hard fought match was the Al O’Brien-Joe Sweitzer contest. The advantage seesawed back and forth between the two freshman team golfers, with O’Brien finally winning on the eighteenth green. John Gosticha marked up his third victory of the tournament when he defeated Bill Burke one up. This match was also close with Gosticha gaining his advantage on the seventeenth.
Larry Moller won another arm chair victory when Bill Veeneman defaulted. The boys appear to be in no wise anxious to tangle with the Indiana state champion, and Larry has advanced to the fourth round
Lowest Cost Home!
DURING these last hectic days, some of us are badly in need of a good dollar - stretcher. What with “farewell” parties and “home-coming” parties, a rigorous economy must be practiced someplace in between.
You can save a sizeable sum by going home the Greyhound way. Best of all you’ll havrt more fun.
Campus Agent Albert Horace Monacelli
117 Brownson Hall
Phone 3-0138
UNION BUS DEPOT
133 S. Lafayette Blvd.
Phone 3-8283
GREYHOUND
without playing a single hole. The news of Lewis O’Shea’s default to Vin Fehlig came as a disappointment to many who had picked the runner-up in the state contest to win the Notre Dame tourney.
The third default of this round was registered when Bill Redmond failed to appear for his match with John Banks.
Johnny Montedonico, freshman star who recently tied the course record set by Larry Moller, defeated Bob Powell three and two. Fran Beaupre had little trouble with Paul Fehlig, winning six and five.
Memorial Alumnus Sold Out
Despite the fact that a great number of extra copies were printed, James Armstrong, alumni secretary, announces that the supply of the “Rockne Memorial” issue of the Alumnus is completely exhausted.
something
tprowBrn
blends with lively spirits . . . ''	to the best of
CLICQUOT has it!
Even a man who's being penalized for holding can summon a long, long cheer for the mellower, smoother flavor of this fine old ginger ale. It
adds gaiety
Clicquot Club
GINGER AGES Qhy ~ §olden ~ dec Qkree favorite flavors on any Campus
FARRELL SPEAKS OF LEGAL EXPERIENCES
His experiences as a prosecuting attorney in New York formed the background for a talk on court procedure by Professor Farrell in the assembly room of the Law building. Taking two cases as concrete examples, Mr. Farrell noted step by step the procedure to be followed in a court of law. Throughout his lecture he cited instances, illustrating the points involved, from cases with which he had had personal contact while state’s attorney. Following the lecture an open forum was held during which the speaker answered questions put to him by the audience.
Arrangements for the talks were completed by Paul C. Bartholomew, instructor of Politics, whose classes in American Government were in attendance.
The Scholastic
---------------- ft
932
N. D. PUSHED TO WIN C.I.C.
(Continued from Page 928)
leap of 21 feet 10 finches. The mile relay team composed of Kelly, Kuhn, Tuohy, and Wilson, came out of their slump to win this event in the time of 3:23.2.
Other Notre Dame point winners were Bill McCormick, who finished second in the 100 and fourth in the 220; O’Brien who garnered a third
WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAIBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
in the 120 high hurdles; Little, Darling, Howrey, and Hoffman with seconds in the 880, high jump, two mile and discus respectively; Kelly, and Hoffman placed in the 220 and shot put; while Christianson and MacBeth finished fourth in the javelin and 220 yard low hurdles.
The meet marked the closing of the current season, with the exception of
Eddie Gough
Sophomore Point-Winner
the national intercollegiate, in which Coach Nicholson plans to enter a few men in the individual events and possibly a relay team. Last Friday night’s competition also marked the last appearance of Captain Johnnie O’Brien, Roy Bailie, Johnson, Brill, Hoffman, Shaeffer, Fishleigh, and Tuohy, who wore the colors of the Blue and Gold for the last time. Joe Quigley and Carl Cronin,. both of whom were dismissed from the team early in the outdoor season, have also taken part in their last event for Notre Dame. These men will be sorely missed when Coach Nicholson calls the roll next year, and the Scholastic extends to them the very best wishes for success in whatever
career they should choose to undertake.
The summary follows:
100-YARD DASH—Won by Tierney (Marquette) ; McCormick (Notre Dame), second; O’Neil (Detroit), third; Burns (Butler), fourth. Time—:09.8. (New meet record. Old record, :09.9, made by Jack Elder, Notre Dame, 1929.)
ONE-MILE RUN—Won by Jack Walter (Marquette) ; Urbain (Butler), second; Yeager (Detroit), third; O’Neil (Loyola), fourth. Time—4:20.3.
440-YARD RUN—Won by Wilson (Notre Dame) ; Scanlon (Notre Dame), second ; Hames (Marquette), third; Sweeney (Marquette), fourth. Time—:49.4.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Yar-ger (Michigan State) ; Bath (Michigan State), second ; O’Brien (Notre Dame), third ; Liberty (Michigan State), fourth. Time—:15.2.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Sivak (Butler) ; Little (Notre Dame), second; P. Walter (Marquette), third ; Wright (Detroit). fourth. Time—1:55.2. (New meet record. Old record, 1:57, by Little, Notre Dame, 1930.)
220-YARD DASH—Won by Tierney (Marquette) ; Burns (Butler), second; Kelly (Notre Dame), third; McCormick (Notre Dame), fourth. Time—:21.2. (New meet record. Old record, 21.7, made by Jack Elder, Notre Dame, 1929.)
DISCUS THROW—Won by Gerboth (Milwaukee State Teachers) ; Hoffman (Notre Dame), second ; Pflug (Michigan State), third; Mecum (Butler), fourth. Distance—137 feet, 2 inches. (New meet record. Old record, 134 feet, 4 inches, made by Hoffman, Notre Dame, 1930.)
HIGH JUMP—Won by Nelson (Butler) ; Darling (Notre Dame), second; Windau (Marquette), third; Nevin (Marquette) and Kleinheksel (Michigan State), tied for fourth. Height—6 feet, 1 3-4 inches. (New meet record. Old record, 5 feet, 11 inches, made by Diehl, Lombard.)
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Chamberlain (Michigan State) ; Howery (Notre Dame), second; Rowan (Marquette), third; Jones (Butler), fourth. Time—9:18.7. (New meet record. Old record, 9:32, by himself in 1930.)
JAVELIN THROW—WonbyRonzani (Marquette) ; Gerboth (Milwaukee State Teachers), second; Hochhaus (Marquette), third; Christman (Notre Dame), fourth. Distance—173 feet, 5 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Mecum (Butler) ; Gerboth (Milwaukee State Teachers), second; Hoffman (Notre Dame), third; Ronzani (Marquette), fourth. Distance—44 feet, 3 inches.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Bailie (Notre Dame),; Liberty (Michigan State), second; Russell (Michigan State), third; Mac-Beth (Notre Dame), fourth. Time—:24.6.
MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Kelly, Kuhn, Touhy, Wilson) ; Butler, second; Marquette, third; Michigan State, fourth. Time— 3:23.2.
POLE VAULT—Tie between Olsen (Michigan State), Erbogast (Michigan State), Holcomb (Michigan State), and Schram (Marquette) . Height—12 feet.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Gough (Notre Dame) ; Kull (Detroit). ' second; Liberty (Michigan State), third; ' Vejar (Notre Dame), fourth. Distance—21 feet, 10^4 inches.

<■
<
4
I
i
t
I

May 29, 1931
933
Adler Brothers SPRING A SENSATION
Entire Stock of New Spring Suits and Top Coats
Society Brand and others -- none reserved
This Big Sale Presents the Most Remarkable Opportunity For Real Saving That This City Has Known In Years.
$25	$30	$40	$50
SUITS	SUITS	SUITS	SUITS
$19.90	$22.50	$32.50	$42.50
To $30
TOP COATS
$17.50
To $40
TOP COATS
$27.50
To $50
TOP COATS
$37.50
$65
CAMEL HAIR COATS
$75
CAMEL HAIR COATS
$37.50	$47.50
ADLER BROTHERS
934	'	* The Scholastic
MORRISSEY HALL ADDS ARTISTIC PANELS
During the past week twelve more decorative panels have been completed and hung in the reception room of Morrissey hall. These latest designs are the arms of the major universities of Europe, and are the artistic efforts of the students of elementary design in the school of Fine Arts. The work has been done under the supervision of Professor Stanley Sessler.
The following list includes the designs of the universities and the work done by each artist: Edinburgh, Scotland, by John Banks; Heidelburg, Germany, by William Cannon; Dublin, Ireland, by Frank Conboy; England and Scotland, by William Busch; United States and Canada, by Leo Beaulaurier; Amsterdam, Holland, by Charles O’Connor; Geneva, Switzerland, by Joel Ostrander, and designs of the emblems of two American universities, Pennsylvania and Brown, by William Cannon.

I	NOTICE!	|
| For your convenience the | i barber shop will be open all | = day Saturday, May 30, and the = B following Monday, Tuesday, and = = Wednesday until 8:30 p. m. = E We wish you all a happy va- = | cation and thank the students = I who have patronized us during | E the past year.	=
|	'	“Bill.” |
0 ■	..iiiniiiiiiitiiiiiiiiimiinmiPl
PROF. ENGELS BRINGS
RARE BLIND FISH HERE
A blind fish was on exhibit in the museum at Science hall Monday, May 25. The fish, from the caves of southern Indiana, was brought to Notre Dame by Professor William Engels of the department of biology, who attended a meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science at Bedford, Ind.
Professor Engels tells a story of the dark subterranean caves in which the fish spawns and is born colorless, with eyes that cannot see and deteriorate as the fish grows. It has
been proven that even if the fish were born with eyes, they revert to the sightlessness of their species when raised in the sunlight.
The fish at Science hall is four inches long, the longest the party could find. It resembles a pickerel. It will be kept alive as long as possible, and after it dies will be preserved for the museum. ’
Grand Rapids Club Dance
Maitland Strong, chairman of the Grand Rapids club’s postponed Easter dance, announced this week that the dance will be held at the Highlands Country club in Grand Rapids on June 13. The affair will be a dinner dance with music by Duane Yates' and his orchestra of Kalamazoo. The dance, according to Chairman Strong, is open to members, their friends, and alumni.
Beg Your Pardon
In last week’s Scholastic the name of Austin Boyle was omitted from the names of the newly elected officers in the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus. Mr. Boyle was elected chancellor.

Meyer’s Fountain Luncheonette
SPECIAL
Fresh Fruit Pineapple Sundae With Whipped Cream
20c
Corner Michigan and Colfax	|
--------------------------------£
*———————————+
!	I
| EXPERT |
|	SHOE REBUILDING	|
1	j	!
|	ana	I
|	HAT RENOVATING	|
?	I
I	I
| CALLED FOR AND i 1	DELIVERED	I
Phone 2-2228
| Washington Shoe Repair Co. I I	116 W. Washington Street	|
1	South Bend, Ind.	■
May 29, 1931
935
NEW LITERARY CLUB IS FORMED ON CAMPUS
Plans for a new campus organization to be known as the “Bookmen” were formulated on the campus last week. The club officially got under way when a group of students gathered in Morrissey hall last Sunday evening to discuss the various phases of organization. The purpose of the group will be to facilitate the reading and the discussion of selected works of contemporary literature.
At the meeting the prospects of the - club were reviewed, a rough constitution was drawn up, and temporary officers were elected. James T. Meehan was chosen general chairman; Kenneth Kreps, secretary; and John Driscoll was appointed chairman of the committee on membership.
Mr. Camille McCole, of the department of English, has consented to act as faculty advisor for the new organization.
The club at the present time is considering a project for next year which should be of interest to the student body as a whole. Early next fall, applications for membership will be received by Mr. Driscoll.
Akron Club Elects Walsh
John C. Walsh was elected president of the Akron club at the final meeting held Wednesday night. John Doran was elected vice-president of the organization; Arthur Dutt, treasurer; and Robert Streb, secretary.
Plans were discussed at the meeting for the two summer dances which the club proposes to conduct.
Villagers Dance, June 4
The fifth annual dinner dance of the Villagers’ club will be held at the Whitcomb hotel, St. Joseph, Mich. Dinner will be served in the main dining room, and dancing will be in the new sunken pavilion of the hotel, which overlooks Lake Michigan.
Immediately following the dinner, according to the custom of the club, the officers for the coming year elected at the previous meeting, will be announced, and will be inducted into their positions.
Norman Hartzer, president of the club, is in charge of the affair, assisted by Forrest Hazen, Gerard Hodges, Jack Shively, and Kenneth Konop.
Reservations must be made before Monday, June 1, with Kenneth Konop at his residence, or at the Law school.
W. D. WALTZ IS ELECTED TO HEAD GLEE CLUB
William D. Waltz, of Massillon, Ohio, a junior in the College of Commerce, was elected president of the Glee club for the coming year at an election held last week. Mr. Waltz has been a member of the organization for the past three years, singing as a first basso.
S. Jerome Roach, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected vicepresident. Mr. Roach, a member of two year’s standing, will be remembered as the outstanding soloist of the campus organization.
Appointed by Mr. Casasanta, director of the club, to fill the capacity of business manager left vacant by the graduation of J. Edward Phelan is James K. Collins of Great Falls, Montana.
LAST TIMES TO-DAY ON THE STAGE Ross Wyse, Jr., Jack Usher, 3 Shades of Brown, The Shuberts. George Mack. ON THE SCREEN “Dude Ranch” with Jack Oakie
STARTS SUNDAY!
5 BIG ACTS RKO VQDVIL
Featuring VAUDEVILLE’S MASTER COMIC jim McWilliams “THE PIANUTISTS”
A Musical Skit EARL DEWEY & CO. in “The New Partner”
CHEVALIER BROS.
Ace Athletes
Also Other RKO Acts
-------ON THE SCREEN--- KISS BUT DON’T TELL! It’s been going on since Eve said to Adam: “Don’t be a Party Husband.” DOROTHY
M ACKAILL
In
“PARTY HUSBAND”
'	With
DONALD COOK .
Sundays—1,500 Seats—35c
EVES. AND SUNDAY, Balcony and Mezzanine 25c: Main 50c.
STARTS SATURDAY!
JEAN HARLOW
The Platinum Blonde Star of “Hell’s Angels”
In
"The
Public Enemy”
With
JAMES CAGNEY-^JOAN BLONDELL
THE ONLY WAY TO REACH HIS HEART WAS BY A BULLET!
Here is a picture so startling in its reality, so devastating in its truth—it will leave you breathless! Its vital message flashes a warning to all humanity*
A spawn of lust and greed—he hates all men—he loves no woman! Be sure to see it!
PAT PATTERSON I ‘Toby the Pup’ cartoon Organ Solo | Pathe Sound News
936
The Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box
tinued success to all connected with Notre Dame athletics and, in particular, to those seniors who conclude their collegiate careers with graduation next week.
AUF WIEDERSEHEN
For most of you, this issue of the Scholastic is the last of the present school year. There is another, the Commencement Number, but a comparatively small number of students will be on the campus when it appears. And so it is that we must bid
Speedee
Used Car
Market
Invites the confidence of N. Ds students in purchasing cars to drive home.
Special mechanical examination and adjustment will be made on any car sold to one of the students to insure them a safe and enjoyable trip.
Any student of Notre Dame purchasing a car from Speedee for $100 or more will be furnished license plates without additional cost.
Come to Speedee For real bargains in used cars
520-528 So. Mich St. Louis Cohen, Prop.
adieu at this time. Which brings us to the realization that our heading to this paragraph is not quite correct. No, not “till we meet again,” for it must be “good-bye” to this section at least.
The “powers that be” have seen fit to give us a promotion for next year and we turn the sports section and this column over to the capable hands of Eddie Moriarty, who has been a big help to our efforts of the past months. The time spent as sports editor of the Scholastic has been the most enjoyable period of our years at Notre Dame. Our associations with athletic authorities and athletes, as sports editor, have been most interesting and agreeable.
Sometimes during the year it may have seemed that we spoke rather harshly of an athlete, a team, or an organization. It is unnecessary for us to say that, whatever was said in “Splinters,” was merely the expression of the thoughts of one on the sidelines, spoken with the hope of accomplishing some good which, at that time, seemed pertinent enough to warrant mention. Nothing ever written in our column was in a personal vein and we now take this opportunity to offer best wishes for con-
The South Bend Clearing House Banks Invite Your Patronage
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK FIRST NATIONAL BANK INDIANA TRUST COMPANY ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS BANK ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY UNION TRUST COMPANY
We relinquish this job to Eddie almost sorrowfully, but we must sincerely thank the willing, hard-working, and efficient staff which made this sport section possible each week.
WHAT, NO COURTS!
For fear that the column would not seem like its old self, we must pick something to find fault with. This time it is our friends, the managers. The fact that there were no courts reserved at the park for the dual tennis meet between Notre Dame and Loyola last week, made us wonder who slipped up — for it must have been only a slip. The Blue and Gold netmen were forced to scout around for a considerable length of time in search of available courts and then, when some were finally obtained on which to start the matches, the players were forced to yield them to grade and high school “stars” at the end of the hour.
It is unfortunate because of the impression it must have left with the visiting athletes but even more unfortunate is the necessity of depending upon South Bend courts at all for the playing of varsity matches. Well-conditioned courts on the campus could and should be available at all times for such engagements.

May 29, 1931
937
moms
GOLFERS SWEEP STATE TOURNEY
(Continued from Page 927)
Teaming with Jack.’Mooney, Mc-Fawn led the way to a 2 to 1 victory over Capt. Fran Beaupre and O’Shea in the first of the best ball matches in the morning. O’Shea had a brilliant 72 for this round but Mooney and McFawn teamed well to overcome the Notre Dame margin. Moller and Russ Beaupre countered with a 3 to 0 victory over the Detroit combination of Whiting and Jim Britt. The Blue and Gold pair carded a 70 to clip two strokes from par.
In the first of the afternoon matches, McFawn added the last of the invaders’ points by defeating Captain Beaupre, 2H to Three down at the end of the fourteenth hole, the Notre Dame leader made a great battle to square the match by shooting a brace of birdies on the next two holes. A short putt on the 17th green that missed by less than an inch cost him the match. He won the final hole to halve the second nine and garner half a point.
O’Shea had no difficulty in downing Mooney in his singles match. Winning by the top-heavy margin of eight and six, he annexed all three points. The winner scored a 78 for the round while his opponent totaled 86.
Moller and Russ Beaupre duplicated O’Shea’s eight and six victory over Whiting and Britt respectively. Moller’s 74 for this round was the lowest of the afternoon scores. Opening with a five on the first hole, the new Indiana collegiate champ manufactured ten fours and a three in succession to clinch his victory.
Russ Beaupre closed the day with a win from Britt of Detroit. The Notre Dame player was in the lead from the first green and reached the turn five up. Twelve fours and a pair of threes
FORDHAM UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW NEW YORK
Case System—Three-Year Course
CO-EDUCATIONAL
College Degree or Two Years of College Work with Good Grades Required Transcript of Record Necessary in All Cases.
aided him in scoring a fine 75 for the match. Britt’s medal score showed an 84 total.
In leading the Detroit golfers, McFawn shot a 78 in the best ball competition and a 79 in the afternoon match with Beaupre.
Summaries:
Singles
McFawn (D) beat Fran Beaupre (ND), 2%-%; Moller (ND) beat Whiting (D), 3-0; Russ Beaupre (ND) beat Britt (D), 3-0; O’Shea (ND) beat Mooney (D), 3-0.
LUXURY with BUS ECONOMY")
the country as you "RIDE with PREMIER"
Go Premier once and you’ll go Premier always. It’s the last word in enjoyable travel, combining friendliness, fascination, and economy with train comfort and luxury. Every Premier coach has a washroom and toilet, furnished with soap and linen towels. A porter is on hand at all times to look after your luggage, to see that your journey is comfortable and agreeable.
Campus Representative, Jack Lambert 234 Walsh Hall
Best Ball
McFawn and Mooney (D) beat F. Beaupre and O’Shea (ND), 2-1; Moller and R. Beaupre (ND) beat Whiting and Britt (D), 3-0.
Outstanding cards of the day:
Moller’s Singles Card
Out:
Par ----------------444	543	445-37
Moller '____________544	444	444-37
In:
Par-----------------543	443	535-36-73
Moller 443	544	544-37-74
Morning. Early Afternoon and Evening Classes.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar 23b Broadway, New York
PREMIER COACH LINES
CENTRAL BUS STATION 230 W. Jefferson St. ... Phone 3-6755
938
The- Scholastic
Interhall Sports
Two interhall championships were decided last . Sunday when St. Edward’s hall won the baseball championship in the morning, and after dinner Howard successfully defended their golf crown. This concludes interhall activities for the present year.
BASEBALL
St. Edward’s, led by the short and stocky slugger, Laurie Vejar, were pressed by a hard fighting nine from Freshman, but were finally victorious by a score of 7 to 4. Larkin twirled well for Freshman considering that it was the first game in which he has worked this spring. DuPuy, who generally does the pitching for Freshman, was not on hand. Tobin, Bice, Goldstein, and Addonizio of St. Edward’s deserve a word of praise for the work they did, not only in the Freshman fray, but throughout the entire season.
GOLF
Howard, led by Johnny Monte-
donico, won the interhall golf championship from Morrissey, 11 to 7. Montedonico shot an 80, the best score of the match, and together with Cagney beat O’Brien and Bansbach of Morrissey, 7%-l%. O’Brien had an 81 while Cagney shot enough pars to gather an 82.
In the second foursome of the championship match Powell and Veen-neman of Howard lost to Sullivan and Melchione of Morrissey but managed to do well enough to cinch the victory, winning by a score of 5% to 3%.
Lyons won third place in the final standings by nosing out Walsh, 9% to 8%. Pugliese and O’Conner, of Lyons, aided by the former’s 81, trounced Powell and Tarasovic of Walsh, 7% to 1%. Powers and Nelmes of Walsh came into the clubhouse soon after and announced that they had won from Webster and Slater but even with their contributions the final score was one point less than the Lyons’ total.
St. Edward’s, by virtue of a 15 to
3 victory over Freshman, went into fourth place ahead of Walsh. Sporl and Huot of St. Edward’s started the ball rolling when they beat Fehlig and Devine of Freshman, 6% to 2%. Sporl and Huot’s victory was followed by another St. Edward’s nine, this time Meade and Biscedia getting credit for trimming Beacco and O’Conner of Freshman, 8% to %.
Two roommates in Badin stopped all roommate spats long enough to win their foursome for their hall. Larry Kral and Joe Gavin won from two Carroll men and paved the way for a Badin landslide, 14 to 4. Gavin and Kral won from Landers and Moscow by a score of 6 to 3. Mahoney and Nash of Badin made it two straight for Badin by winning from Galbraith and Bonkamp of Carroll, 8 to 1.
.Final standings:

Howard_____________1.000
Morrissey___________.730
Lyons_______________.667
St. Edward’s________.583
Walsh .500
Badin_______________.500
Freshman.250
Carroll i-165
Off-Campus ___________-000
YOUR EYES
Have them examined every year
OCCASIONALLY we hear someone boast of the extreme long life of his glasses—as though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
102 W. Washington St.	■
2221-2 S. Michigan St.	|
(■Jianitiiaiaaaaaiiiaaaaaaaaiiaaaaiaiataiaiiaaiiaaiiiiiaiaaaiiiaiiiaiisaaaaaaaiiiiiiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaatitiaiiaaitaiai^^ I NEW YORK JOBBER I | CLEANSUP | I Men's $6 Golf Shoes I I $2.99 I
f Built in the good looking, practical styles we = f know real golfers like best. ..Moccasin types and in | | blacks and whites, with grocord rubber or rivited I f leather soles.	E
I GIL-BRO’S I
i	Formerly—U. S. ARMY STORE	|
|	330 South Michigan Street	|	;
4----------
May 29, 1931
939
QiiaaaumiiiMtiimaiittiiiimiitiMiiiiitiiiittiMiiiitiiiiitSMMMitiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiaiMiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiisiiiimaMHiiiiiiitMiiiiiiiiiiiiQ											
|	HOW		THE SLUGGERS ARE					BATTING			Z	
		(Including game			of May 26)						z
		AB	R	H	2b	3b	HR	SH	SB	AVE.	
	Lisicki			 9	2	5	0	2	0	0	1	.556	
	Sheeketski			 5	2	2	0	1	0	0	0	.400	
	Sullivan 			36	4	14	1	0	0	0	5	.388	s
	Cummings			12	2	4	0	0	0	0	0	.333	2
	Bosco			 6	2	2	0	0	0	0	1	.333	z
	Mannix			 3	0	1	0	0	0	0	1	.333	z
	Mahoney			28	5	9	0	0	0	1	2	.321	z
	Palt			10	2	3	0	0	0	1	0	.300	z
	Lomasney			37	5	9	2	1	0	1	1	.243	
	Kolski			39	5	9	1	0	1	0	2	.231	-
	O’Connor 			31	5	7	0	0	0	0	3	.226	z
	Askew			37	5	8	1	1	0	2	2	.216	z
	O’Keefe			35	5	7	0	2	0	2	2	.200	•
	Russo 			16	3	3	0	1	0	0	1	.188	Z
	McGrath			11	2	2	0	0	0	0	' 0	.182	
	Romanin			 5	1	0	0	0	0	0	0	.000	
	Harrison			 2	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	.000	z
		322	50	85	5	8	1	7	21	.264	
											□
N.	D. WINS FROM PURDUE				Score by innings:						
				Notre Dame				..000	600 031—	-10 13	5
	(Continued from Page 927)			Purdue				..102	201 001—	7 13	4
favor of diminutive Charley Palt and the tiny left-hander worked his way out of the tight spot with only one run crossing the plate.
The Notre Dame team found new
batting strength in Joe Sheeketski who made his bow as a fly chaser in right field and collected a triple and a single in five trips to the plate. Bill Sullivan and Lomasney also picked up a pair of hits apiece to swell their averages for the season.
NOTRE DAME	ab
Askew, 2b .........5
O’Keefe, 3b.......3
Russo, cf.........5
O’Connor, cf .....0
Lomasney, If .....4
Sullivan, lb ......5
Mahoney, ss .......2
Bosco, ss .........0
Sheeketski, rf ___5
Kolski, c .........4
Lisicki, p ........1
Mannix, p.........2
Palt, p ...........0
36
PURDUE	ab
Kessinger, cf.....5
Williams, rf.....5
Fleming, lb ......5
Weaver, 3b.......5
Moss, 2b .........3
Huskamp, If......4
Hogland, If......0
Mills, x .........1
Rudaville, c .....1
Duff, c..........1
Huffman, ss ......2
Kales, xx........1
Palo, p..........1
Schupp, p........2
Hoopengardner, p.l
R H PO A E 0 13 7 0 11110 112 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 2 1 2 10 2 0 1110 1 2 0 10 1 2 2 10 0 115 10 1113 1 oiooo-0 0 0 0 0
10	13	27	14	5
R	H	PO	A	E
2	3	2	0	0
0	0	4	0	0
1	2	9	0	1
12	2	11
0	12	3	0
0	0 2	1	0
0	0 0	0	0
0	10	0	0
113	0	1
1	0	3	0	1
1	2	0	5	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	0	0	1	0
0	10	10
0	0	0	0	0
I
37	7	13	27	12	4
x Mills batted for Hogland in ninth.
xx Kales batted for Huffman in ninth.
The box score and summary:
Three-base hits—Hessinger, Sheeketski, Lomasney. Home runs—Kolski. Sacrifice hits—-Mahoney, Huffman (2). . Stolen bases— O’Keefe (2). Russo, Mahoney, Lisicki, Mannix, Weaver. Double play—Askew to Sulliyan. Bases on balls—off Palo, 3 : off Schupp, 3: off Lisicki, 3 ; off Mannix, 1; off Hoopengardner. 1. Struck out—by Palo, 1; by Schupp, 2: by Lisicki, 1 : by Mannix, 2. Passed balls—Duff, Rudaville. Wild pitch—Hoopengardner. Hit by pitcher—by Hoopengardner (Bosco). Winning pitchei- — Mannix. Losing pitcher — Schupp. Umpires—Rife and Jensen.
Library Receives Gift
The Irish section of the University of Notre Dame library has been presented with two volumes of unique value for the study of different phases of Irish history. The history was kept by John J. Hayes, and has been in his possession until a few days ago when he presented it to the archives of the University library.
At the same time, Mr. Hayes presented to the library an exceedingly valuable collection of cartoons which represent the complete series of cartoons that appeared in the Weekly Freeman of Dublin in 1882 and 1883 during the Land League agitation.
Sullivan Is Honored
College Humor’s July edition sees another prominent Notre Dame man appear in the section entitled “Interesting Collegians.” This time it is William J. Sullivan, varsity first baseman and general chairman of this year’s junior prom. Last month a similar distinction was conferred upon Jack Dempsey, editor of the Juggler.
Why Not Make Your Trip HOME a Pleasure
w
RIDE Colonial Stages Enjoy the most modern means of safe travel at the lowest cost.
	One Way	-Round Trip
Pittsburgh		38.75	§15.75
Cleveland		6.50	11.70
Youngstown 		. 7.40	13.30
Buffalo 		10.25	18.45
Detroit 		. 3.75	6.75
Toledo		.. 3.75	6.75
Cincinnati 		5.95	810.70
Louisville 		6.00	10.80
St. Louis 		6.00	10.80
Chicago 		2.25	4.05
Columbus 		7.00	12.60
Dayton 		6.00	10.80
For Tickets and Information
Bob Chenal
410 St. Ed’s.
940
The- Scholastic
In every college town there is one outstanding
At Illinois it’s^
ALONG Green Street, where xx campus leaders stroll ... in the great slate-roofed fraternity houses of Champaign . . . there is one pipe tobacco which always rolls up the biggest vote. At Illinois it’s Edgeworth, every time.
A pipe—Edgeworth. That is the smoking combination which has won the college man. Harvard, Cornell, Michigan, Stanford, Dartmouth — all agree with Illinois. Natural merit has made Edgeworth the favorite tobacco in America’s leading colleges and universities.
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes—packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their verdict: try Edgeworth yourself. Find it at your nearest tobacco shop—15^ the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address: Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S, 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blendoffineoldbur-leys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive "eleventh process.” Buy Edgeworth anywhere in twoforms—"Ready-Rubbed” and"Plug Slice.”All sizes, 15* pocket padcage to
On Down the Line
. . . TOD MORGAN, junior lightweight champ, plays his tee shots in golf right-handed, and his irons LEFT-HANDED . . . HORNSBY, the king of the batters, has made 2,737 base hits in his career . . . SAM RICE has 2,643 . . . RUTH, MARANVILLE, JUDGE, and FRISCH are others with over 2,000 hits . . . Old CHARLIE JAMIESON, now a pinch hitter, needs 22 more to join the group . . . The other night in Newark, ZELES-NIAK burned his wrestling opponent, CASEY BERGER, with a cigarette butt thrown in the ring by a fan . . .
. . . HOGAN of the Giants lost $50 at the start of the season by weighing 226 ... He bet that he would be UNDER 225 . . . MIKE RYBA, Springfield, Mo. catcher, started baseball two years ago as a pitcher . . . GEORGE EARNSHAW is a fine billiard player . . . TENNIS STARS of twenty-four nations played in the French Championships last week . . . SYLVESTER JOHNSON, Cardinal pitcher, is one of baseball’s best golfers . . .
. . . BURLEIGH GRIMES says that the 1930 World Series game that FOXX broke up was the toughest he has ever lost. . . WILMER ALLISON . threatens to retire from Davis Cup tennis unless the U.S.L.T.A. helps foot his expense account . . . Including bills for MRS. ALLISON! . . . Four years ago, CHUCK KLEIN was given the gate at Evansville . . . ART SHIRES is making a fine comeback attempt by leading the American Association batters in the latest averages . . .
. . . YALE has produced GARDNER and SWEETSER, both national amateur champs, and four U.S.G.A. presidents ... A MIAMI high school pitcher hurled five consecutive victories in a single week . . . GEORGE SIMPSON says that he will not compete in the OLYMPICS . . . HE also warns that JAPAN has a powerful track and field team . . . CHARLES LEGGETT, 15- year old English fighter, retired recently after 117 fights . . . He is now an appren-, > tice jockey ...	'
Freshman Golfer Wins
John Banks, Brownson hall freshman of LaGrange, Illinois, won the annual “Blow Out” tournament sponsored by the Coquillard Golf club last Saturday afternoon on the Coquillard course. Banks shot a 77 for the eighteen holes to win by one stroke in a field of 163 mashie-wielders. He was a semi-finalist in the junior western open tourney last year.
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
TeU them von saw it in the SCHOLASTIC.